

i
m
i w
,V \
.
; > : :•
V
A
J
i
>JI
■■■ *■':■ V
Ml
■
:.
■ . :; ■: • ■ :• '
7
m
i
1
%
IS
-
■
‘ i
m
m
m:
I
I
\I
...K
■• vX -
:■.:■■■
?*■
0»
P plD
•Vhe
«■%&*
M'
09°
A**
r ett® s
or©
de
hot«
V\r9' n ' a
\oo^°
t«o
pore
Tobacco-
* oT
V-
Mso
ROO« d
3V
The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2881.
Can the League Last?
Wednesday, May 1, 1935*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The directing of a
newspaper
like the directing of a
ship, is not merely a
matter of day-to-day
control. A course must
be charted before it
can be sailed. The
course that
“THE EVENING POST”
is sailing was chartered
not yesterday or last
week, but over three
score years ago.
That also is why 95% of
the families in Wellington
city and suburbs read
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington's only Evening Paper
Particulars and rates from any
accredited advertising agency.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent nost free to anv address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
DAILY IN
“The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), §2
years’ service.
"The Examiner” is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NQRTH.
d !nformatlon > Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
Proriri'P Ltd -> 71 ~ 75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne,
w. G-. Dougan, Kemibla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
QlliiiiM
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 335
<€
THE AGE ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
‘THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
Boost and
Literary
Values
In their out-
look on a local
literature Aus-
tralians can be
roughly divided
into two classes.
One is comprised
of those who believe there is no such
animal. They used to believe the same
about jam, pickles and tinned corn, and
they still believe it about cloth and pre-
pared wool. They pretend that they act
from experience, but they don’t; they
simply believe nothing Australian is any
good—an influence inherited from the
day when it was true.
The 'other class believes so strongly in
the existence of a local literature that it
divides its time between collecting a mass
of literary rubbish called Australiana,
mostly shabby volumes of about the
same intrinsic value as stamps, and col-
lecting the scalps of any who dare to
cast doubts on the importance of their
joss. They believe, these simple patriots,
most fervently in what they call “en-
couragement,” which, being reduced
from the romance language of the liter-
ary societies to plain statement, means
boost.
There is no question about, which of
these is likely to do local literature most
good. However uncritical—and it is
possible to get signed rhapsodies for the
jacket of any Australian book published
—the rabid enthusiasts do help to create
an atmosphere of appreciative expect-
ancy which is all to the good, because
into it something really vital has a
chance of being born. They are like the
members of an orchestra with, at the
moment, a rather weak score in front of
them, but doing their best to make it
sound like a masterpiece.
If only they wouldn’t get so con-
foundedly shirty when they are told the
score is weak! If only they would be
content to play it for what it is, take
down a few of their overcolored hoard-
ings, and go easy on the big drum! To
drop the music, if only they could ad-
just their sense of values, cut their silly
cackle about this, that and the other
being superior to anything produced in
its line overseas and, appreciating what
they have for what it is worth, try to
raise the standard by just comparison!
That might be asking too much ; a
measure of fanaticism must go with all
effectual gospelling; but if they could
do it, and at the same time have the
courage to retain their belief in the little
good that has been done, they would not
only look less foolish than they do, but
they would strike strongly at the only
thing from which Australian literature
is in any real danger --that smug near-
enough, self-satisfied state of mind
which paints SWAN on every goose-
egg that is laid.
A Novel
for
Comparison
It is not neces-
sary to do any
steeplejacking in
a search for such
comparative
values. We can
be most modest;
there is plenty for our purpose on the
ground floor. For example, we might
spend one of our thousand and one
Literary Nights in considering a little
novel called The Huge Shipwreck, by
Kathleen Freeman.
Neither the novel nor the author
would be set in the front rank overseas ;
and where would our boosters have
found sufficient superlatives for both if
they had happened here? Read the kind
of signed eulogy which adorns the jacket
of an Australian novel recently reviewed
here—Winifred Birkett’s Earth’s Quality.
Then read Earth’s Quality —fear nothing ;
unless your tastes are ultra-sophisti-
cated, sexually-obsessed or otherwise
irrational, you will enjoy it. Then
read The Huge Shipwreck, which is
a work of similar simplicity, and
consider the question posed above,
keeping in mind that neither this novel
nor its author is a first-flighter overseas.
This line of approach, this attempt to
find values through just comparison,
seems much healthier in the present stage
of our literary development than that
evidenced in the flowery overstatement of
our boosting enthusiasts.
Earth’s Quality— and very sunny and
pleasant light fiction it is—is brought in
here only because it is recent and handy.
Not only it and its author but all Aus-
tralian writers and their work can be
considered in the same comparison, and
The Huge Shipwreck, though a minor-
performance, will come out of it
moderately well. For one thing, Kath-
leen Freeman’s novel has a toned literary
finish which must help us to see the
rawness, the lack of literary beauty, in so
much of our own. We can excuse that
rawness as environmental or anything
else we like, so long as we do not over-
look it or accept it as a virtue. It is not
to be confused with rawness of subject
matter, though it almost always is, as we
see when the circulating-library intel-
ligence of most of our critics is brought
to bear on the work of such writers as
Katharine Prichard or Brian Penton.
Both these writers have both sorts of
rawness, but it is only the rawness of
their subject matter which gets notice.
The literary rawness of almost all Aus-
tralian writing is what really distinguishes
it in the sort of comparison we are mak-
ing, and that is hardly a valuable distinc-
tion.
A Novel
on a Raw
Subject
How rawness
of subject matter
can be reconciled
with toned liter-
ary finish is for-
cibly demon-
strated in another
recent novel that might also serve a com-
parative purpose in our Literary Nights
search for simple values.
This novel. Sailor Town, by Paul
Hervey Fox, is raw in subject matter to
a degree which no Australian writer
would dare to approach, subdued and
oppressed as our writers are by a censor-
ship so gross and ignorant that it bans
Brave New World as immoral. Nothing
could be more certain than that if an
Australian author tried to handle the
Sailor Town subject his book would be
bahned. What is more to the point is
that it would probably deserve banning,
because it would not be, what Fox’s
novel is, raw in subject matter only;
its writing would be, what Fox’s writing
is not, raw in itself.
Since Moll Flanders —another of our
priceless bannings—no author has taken
a subject matter more naturally raw than
that used by Fox, and not many have
found such literary beauty in far more
promising fields. The novel, a very
brief one, tells in detail the story of a
sailor’s night out in a port of crossbreeds
and vice. The man goes ashore with a
pouch full of money and a heart full of
good resolutions. He spends the one and
empties the other on drink and women.
He goes down into depths of bestiality
that make the word a libel on the lowest
of beasts. It is, in this subject matter,
as foul and filthy a night as could be
painted. Yet the book is not a degrading
experience. It leaves
the sensation that one
has passed through
a blackness redeemed,
cleansed of contamina-
nations and illuminated
by a light flashed on to
a splendid peak. There
is only the one flash—a
moment when the sailor
and a woman see Be-
yond their vile surround-
ings to a sudden glori-
ous to-morrow. All the
rest, relentless realism, is
rendered important by
that single flash. So the
writer,’ through an en-
vironment of coarseness
and evil, makes bis way
to a peak of literary
beauty above the wrack
of ordinary human ex-
perience, and beyond the
attainment of people con-
ventionally blameless.
Keith C. McKeown, author
of “Insect Wonders of
Australia.”
And So
Back to
the Boosters
In our Literary
Nights discussion
we might con-
sider such a book
as this, and see
that what the
circulating - lib-
rary-minded critics call rawness in
Australian books is as potentially beauti-
ful as any other subject matter at hand,
and that what really is objectionable is
rawness of another order altogether—that
which results when writers fail to face
themselves and their art honestly as artists.
The novels that have been mentioned
here are utterly different in everything
but their brevity and their artistic
honesty. The Huge Shipwreck has
nothing to do with ships, and there is
no violence whatever in it. It is set
chiefly in a girls’ school in England, and,
though there is a suggestion of what
might be described as innocent or pla-
tonic Lesbianism, there is nothing that
could not be read aloud in a girls’ school.
The term artistic honesty, however, can
cover a wide range in comparisons, and
in both novels, in addition to toned
literary finish, thene is such a searching
of characters that we not only know
them as living persons but have the
feeling that we know all that is know-
able about them.
For the rest, The Huge Shipwreck is
exquisite in expression and strongly
beautiful in its quiet serenity. Sailor
Town is magnificent in its violence,
illuminated, as has been said, by that
one momentary flash of light. " Our
boosters could do worse for corrective
comparisons—that is, if we can imagine
them as having a thought for literary
values above their provincial patriotism.
Those who merely ask of a reviewer
that he should put them in the way of
reading that is a bit above the ordinary,
and be hanged to literary abstractions,
can be advised to sample both.
CECIL MENN.
[The Huge Shipwreck, by Kathleen Freeman
(Dent; 7s. 6d.); Sailor Town, by Paul Hervey
Fox (Gollancz; per Moore’s Bookshop; 75.).]
Australians
Astonishing
Insects
Keith C. Mc-
Keown has been
wise in his Insect
Wonders of Aus-
tralia (Angus and
Robertson; 65.)
in confining his
effort to material of special appeal to
philosophers and human-
ists. He shows the Com-
monwealth’s six-legged
denizens in their ener-
getic phases, but most of
them do not seem to
have any others. No
doubt, the green tree-ant
gets as much pleasure
out of biting the back of
a human neck as an
M.P. does out of remark-
ing that his opponent has
the morals of a billy-
goat ; but, though this
genus appears to have
been the first to nip Cap-
tain Cook on his arrival,
Mr. McKeown does not
overemphasise this fact.
He lays more stress on
the manner in which
these small creatures
form themselves into
chains to haul leaves for
their houses, and on how
they carry out larvas in their arms and
make the larvas give up their protective
silk to weave corners together and patch
up vents.
He shows us ants breeding, ants rais-
ing herds of honeydew cows, erecting
cowhouses for them, acting as herdsmen
to them and milking them. And he has a
lot to say about the protective habits of
insects, of their natural light attractions
which lead some of them at birth to the
highest branches where their food is, of
their chemotfopic instinct which induces
them to breed on the right plants and of
their enormous labors and devastating
wars. But in the whole of his book he
does not show us one insect putting
money on a horse or applying the leg
theory or in a state in which he cannot
say “British Constitution.” There seem
to be no insect divorce courts. Life
is too short in insectdom for anything
but essentials.
The life history of the white-ant—
the termite —is as good as any to illus-
trate the war of small creatures for
existence. Bred in mounds which may
hang from the branch of a tree or sit
20ft. high on the ground, they are re-
leased in thousands of winged pairs when
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—the highest ideal “THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
r
FROM THESE QUALITY
m
IW
SHR
mmmm
.'■*
J'::f ;
&WJ
..., a
1 ;
H
sSI
I m
gf*Sl:li
m
m * -
%rnmm*
in
> I
mm
m
V
.;
mm
/
**
You can secure in these soft Merino-
finish Travel Bugs the best possible
value obtainable at the price. Of
medium weight.. .they are costly
warm and comfortable for the
traveller. Shades of Pawn, Grey and
Brown. Size. 60 x 80 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 35/-.
£S m
m
r.
I i
m
ROM
'A
m
/
Mk
' i m
m
m
m
m
■
m
4
H
*
mss
&
This Pure Merino Wool Travelling Rug will
meet your every requirement; good quality
. . .it is in beautiful overcheck designs
on one side and self colours on the reverse
side. Size, 60 x 80 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 42/-
This handsome Travelling Rug will answer
the need of a great number of people who
desire a quality Rug. We have a large and
varied stock of the famous Kaiapoi New
Zealand Rugs.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices: 55/-, 63/-, 70/-,
95/-, 100/-, 126/-.
Quantity buying has made it possible for us
to offer such a Travel Rug at this low price.
A heavyweight in a range of pleasing colours
and designs. Soft fleecy finish. Size,
72 x 60 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 18/6
as
m.
mmmm
A\^ ! '
*\ *
%
ws^m
PIPi
k> m
*
H& 'H* TSsk- kV i
■Tir i
iV^mw*
. mv
W£
ir*^
m.
& Jam
sm
St
%
£
m
■>>:::■
i
This Rug is delightfully soft and warm, heavyweight
...there are dozens of attractive designs, and the
tonings include Brown, Fawn, Blue and Grey. Size,
60 x 72 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 22/6
A Rug we can confidently recommend. It is made of
pure Merino Wool and is reversible. Fleecy finish
. . .there is a large range of wanted shades. Size,
60 x 80 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 45/-
These will stand the test of long usage!
MIMWII
mm
m
m
Solid Leather Stilt Cases made from
genuine smooth surface Cowhide. Complete
with eight capped corners, covered iron
frame, two good locks and is nicely lined.
Sizes, ins.: 20 22 24 26 2S
Anthony Horderns’ Prices —
30/- 33/- 36/- 39/- 42/-
Fibre Cabin Trunks made of strong Dark
Tan Fibre. Two good locks, leather-capped
corners, lift-out tray, three strong wooden
bands round 30in. and 33in. sizes. Size 36iu.
has four bands.
Sizes, inches 30 33 36
Anthony Horderns’ Prices: 60/- 65/- 70/-.
Vulcanised Fibre Suit Case, light in
weight, yet very durable. Made with two
good locks, metal frame round body and
lid of case, also eight capped corners.
Sizes, inches: 22 24 26 28
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-14- 15/6 17/- 18/6
# Travel
Goods Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George Street. Freight paid on Rugs only to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
50'-
This heavyweight Rug is numbered among
the most popular of our great variety.
Made in beautiful designs of Pure W 001...
there are many to choose from. The size
is 60 x 80 inches. The kind of Rug that
can be depended upon to give the best
kind of satisfaction.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 50/-
ANTHONY HORDERN
& Sons, Ltd., Sydney
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Nigjit.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


fdf
ERVIGE
Since 1899 the Rural Bank has assisted 54,728
persons to establish iarms and 33.823 families
to acquire homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has played an
important part in providing employment and
increasing rural production. Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that by so doing
they are enabling it to increase its useful
services. Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all sections of the
community.
rhe RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
Two Outstanding Australian Novels.
Both books have met with remarkable success. Pageant wgj selected as the
Book of the Month by the Literary Societies of London and America, and is
now in its Third Australian Edition. Landtakers is also in its Third Edition,
and was selected by the London Daily Mail as the Book of the Month in
England early this year.
df
d
PAGEANT
By G. B. Lancaster.
PRICE, 6/6.
Postage 4d.
LANDTAKERS
By Brian Penton.
PRICE, 7/6.
Postage 6d.
fd
f
ENDEAVOUR PRESS, BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
mating season arrives. Every ant-eating
animal in the bush hurries to the feast
as if it had received a radio call to
dinner. Few of the thousands escape,
but each pair that does settles imme-
diately on a suitable spot and begins to
make a home, which starts as a hole in
the ground. By the time the honeymoon
is over the lady partner has settled down
to producing families in earnest, and her
husband has become non-essential. For
several years she lives in the centre of
a growing community turning out thou-
sands of citizens a week. She breeds
soldier-ants with a variety of faces for
a variety of purposes and worker-ants
with jaws like vyces which build round
her galleries of nurseries, living-rooms,
lavatories, cemeteries and storage barns
full of grass and dry wood cut into
proper lengths. They do all this in dark-
ness. Soldier-ants guard against intru-
sion through breakages in the outer shell
of the termitaria and invasions by com-
mon ants and other enemies. They also
superintend the annual flight of king and
queen ants leaving to start new homes.
The termite seems to have no troubles
except invasion. Dry wood is plentiful,
and if there is no dry wood, as any
northerner will tell you, a termite will
eat old bottles, pig-iron or human whis-
kers. He hasn’t any digestion of his
own, but keeps inside him a captive
flagellate which does the job for him. Mc-
Keown and others have occasionally sub-
jected a termite to a heat of 36deg. Cen-
tigrade, which kills his flagellate. Where-
upon, after becoming dyspeptic and
abusive, the termite shows signs of ex-
piring. The R.S.P.C.A., however, should
note that by merely feeding him another
flagellate he is made to regain his zest
for stealing pieces out of the local table-
cloth and chewing the varnish off the
piano.
One matter in which McKeown seems
to fall into slight error is about “mag-
netic” termite nests, which, he says, have
“narrow ends pointing always north and
south it is believed.... to enable
the sides of the mound to receive the
maximum sunshine.” There have been
more friendships broken over this sub-
ject in the North than over the obstetrics
of kangaroodom. Having studied dozens
of them with the compass, however, I
have found that they do not always lie
directly north and south. Their stream-
lined shape and direction seem to be
determined by the prevailing Territorian
winter wind, which howls up from the
Antarctic for several months in the year.
Where there is a slight variation in the
direction of the nests there is often a
corresponding reorientation in weather
marks on the local timber. However, no
termite is likely to care what any human
thinks about his reasons. An animal
which can consume 600 pages of a Fed-
eral Public Works report, as his kind
once did in one of my camps, can scoff
at scientific opinion.
McKeown’s book differs from a lot of
naturalist books in that it is not dull.
It can be given to a schoolboy without
prejudicing his writing style. It has a
touch of humor here and there. It is
free of boring displays of erudition, and
yet full of simple and astonishing know-
ledge of the kind more likely to be of
use to young Australians than, for in-
stance, the strings of inaccurate dates
which pass for elementary history. The
Education Departments should have a
good look at it next time they are build-
ing book syllabuses. The one drawback
to it as a schoolbook lies in the preda-
tory nature of a hard-working human ant
of the species paterfamilias, who will be
apt to purloin it from his young when
he discovers the fascination of its con-
tents.
EL V.
Shakspeare
Still Pirated
When Thomas
laggard, tongue
in cheek, pub-
lished in 1599 his
notorious antho-
logy of verse
entitled The Passionate Pilgrim, by “Wil-
liam Shakspeare,” he put over a leg-
pulling exploit which was destined to last
well over three centuries and to reach the
adolescent youth of a far-away and then
undiscovered country.
Sidney Lee, in his monumental Life
of Shakspeare, informs us that TJ. was
“a none too scrupulous publisher,” and
that, of the 20 pieces included in the
anthology, only five are definitely by
Shakspeare, the balance being mostly the
work of sundry contemporary writers,
while a few were old songs extant, prob-
ably, before the dramatist was born.
Before me lies a modern volume en-
titled The Complete Works of William
Shakspeare, given as a prize to a youth-
ful member of the family, and typical,
no doubt, of dozens, perhaps hundreds,
of similar volumes similarly presented. At
the end of the volume are two groups of
minor poems, one entitled “The. Passion-
ate Pilgrim,” containing 13 pieces, more
than half of which are in sonnet form;
the other entitled “Sonnets to Sundry
Notes of Music,” containing six pieces,
not one of which in any way resembles a
sonnet. Taken together, we have lag-
gard’s anthology, excluding two sonnets
—in short, 16 piracies are noted on the
authority of Sidney Lee.
Much could be said in defence of lag-
gard : Most of the defrauded authors
were alive at the time, and, had they so
desired, could have taken some action,
such as Heywood actually did take;
piracy was a common practice in Eliza-
bethan days, especially in dramatic
material; authorship in a period when
manuscripts were the only copy, and were
frequently recopied, must have presented
some difficulty in determination, and
laggard made splendid reparation, to
Shakspeare, anyhow, by placing his ex-
perience, printing house, staff and finan-
cial backing at the service of Heming and
Condell for the publication of the first
folio.
What adequate defence can a publisher
of the twentieth century present for re-
peating a transgression always heinous
but now so futile? He might plead that
he had never heard of Sidney Lee, whose
biography was first published, by the way,
in 1898 ; that the selling value of the
book was not increased an iota, or that
the bamboozled students themselves
would neither know nor care. Whatever
the plea, he cannot surely escape the im-
putation of incompetence.
J. W. R.
Authors
and the
Libraries
“Lacon” (R.P.
16V 2/’35), “Solv-
ing the Author’s
Problem,” blames
the circulating
library for the
poor remuneration, received by Austra-
lian writers. He says: “A big library
will put as many as 25 copies of a new
novel on its shelves. It has been esti-
mated that these 25 copies are issued at
least 10,000 times,” and his solution is a
surcharge on each issue of the book.
“Lacon” has been ab-
surdly misinformed. Ac-
cording to his figures the
minimum life of a book is
400 issues. This far ex-
ceeds the wildest hopes of
the most optimistic libra-
rian. In actual fact, the
average life of a library
book is between 40 and 60
issues. So rarely is it that
a book exceeds these
figures that a publishing
house with offices in Mel-
bourne gives a free copy
in exchange for one of its
books which bears 100 or
more issue stamps and is
still in readable condition.
I agree it is unfortunate
that the financial rewards
for Australian writers are
not greater, but I believe
the average librarian is
doing all in his power to
pop u 1 a rise Australian
literature.
Winston H. Burchett,
A Satchel of Books
POPULAR SCIENCE.—It
would be a little wide of the
truth to describe New Path-
ways in Science, by Sir Arthur
Eddington (Cambridge Uni-
versity Press; 16s.), and The
Philosophy of a Biologist, by
J. S. Haldane (Clarendon
Press, Oxford; 9s.), as books
the layman cannot stop read-
ing, though that description
has been applied to one of
them. They are not to be
taken in with a blaring wireless
for background; but they are
not really very difficult, either.
Sir Arthur Eddington’s book contains the lectures
he delivered at Cornell University, dealing with
the advances made in science over the last six
years, with, of course, comparative reference
to earlier theories and ideas. A column ot
paraphrase could easily be produced to indi-
cate with more detail the aspects of science
Sir Arthur Eddington.
dealt with, but it
might be mislead-
ing, because it
could,’at the best,
be only para-
phrase, and could
not convey the
worth of the
author’s inquiries
and arguments;
that can only be
had from this im-
portant book it-
self. Sir Arthur
Eddington may be
said to take for
his general basis
the simple ground
that all present-
day developments
in science have
their roots in the
past, and that the
destruction of ideas
and theories hitherto held sacred is not to be
taken as a mere negative act, but as an approach
nearer to truth. On that he builds a solid
and beautiful structure that has only to be
entered into to be appreciated. Professor
Haldane’s work is a brief, clearly stated sur-
vey of philosophical inquiry from Descartes
onwards, leading up to the influence of natural
science on modern thought, and finally to a
reconciliation of science and religion. It
amounts, really, to a searching inquiry by a
biologist into his own religion, and what he
finds has, in this present day, a meaning and
significance for more than biologists.
* * * *
MIXED FICTION.—In his latest novel.
Ripeness Is All (Cape; Angus and Robertson;
7s. 6d.), Eric Linklater takes for his disturbing
dement one of the oldest varieties of yeast in
fiction-brewing—that of the troublesome will.
The fortune is to go to that member of the
testator’s progeny who has fathered or
mothered the greatest number of children
before a given date. As anyone who has
sampled Linklater would expect, a notable brew
is concocted out of those obstetric ingredients.
It is gurgling, ribald stuff; healthy broad
comedy, strongly spiced by the fact that the
testator, though he stipulates for children born
in holy wedlock, was not so particular in his
own performance, and had, in fact, left possible
claimants all over the country.
Another worth reading for its comedy,
though maybe not so much so, is Guy Gil-
patrick’s Mr. Glencannon (Bodley Head;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Having the gentleman
of the title name for leading character —he
has been met with before —and set chiefly
aboard ship, with brisk, open-air action from
start to finish, it is capital light entertainment.
Gilpatrick has none of Linklater’s scruples
about how he gets his laughs; slapstick, farce
and broad comedy are all one to him. Still,
he gets laughs, and that’s his mission on earth,
and not such a bad one.
Much more delicate tasting is the humor of
Lion Feuchtwanger’s Little Tales (Seeker;
Angus and Robertson; 55.). They are neat
things; minor achievements for their author,
but varied enough to make good continuous
reading, and of possible interest to the prac-
tising writer who feels himself potbbund by
the so-called requirements of the short-story
form. As happens in many a book of stories,
the first of Feuchtwanger’s is easily the least,
though it does tell the oft-told tale of Warren
Hastings and the baron’s wife better than this
reviewer had seen it told hitherto. Feucht-
wanger’s quiet humor prizes it out of the senti-
mental rut in which it is usually encountered.
The other tales are of firmer quality, some of
them edged to the point of tragic sharpness.
Basil Collier’s tritely titled Jam To-morrow
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) also has touches of
humor. They are, however, somewhat forced.
The blurb statement that the leading character
is direct in the tradition of Pendennis and
Tom Jones omits to add the number of literary
generations removed. He is, as a matter of
fact, a very ordinary mediocrity.
Marjorie Bowen’s The Veil’d Delight
(Collins; 7s. 6d.) is a shallow period romance,
eked out with magical mirror-gazing and such-
like marvels, and containing shockingly written
passages, in this elegant manner: “He stood by
the large window of the single room he rented
in the house which had once been someone’s
home but which was now a refuge for the
homeless.”
A Choice of Verse:-
VITA OPTIMA.
O thou who in voidest dreams, beware !
lest the dream shall betray thee,
and burst into bitterest air
that shall slay thee!
/Ind thou who lovest deeply, beware!
for thy love shall defy thee,
and, holding thee bac\ by the hair,
shall dewy thee
(and smile not).
And thou who believest in some god, beware!
for thyself shall then fail thee,
and there is no god who will care
to bewail thee.
Take heed, O thou lover of beauty, beware!
lest thy senses forsake thee
and leave thee alone till despair
overtake thee.
But do not thou, who lovest Death, beware :
Death shall not disappoint thee,
but shall seize thee and ma\e thee more fair,
and anoint thee.
Thou shalt leave all then, and be not aware
that the worm feasteth on thee
(not \nowing more excellent fare);
nor that Death, with a loverlike care,
hath undone thee.
N.S.W.
M.


n ,
mm
appeal toyou J
Wm
■
The Stevens-Bruxner Govern-
ment secies re-election on a go-
ahead policy for the future,
backed by a record of achievement
never before equalled in the history
of the State.
■
Make, no mistake, a return to
Langism would mean another in-
dustrial collapse—with all the
attendant misery, unrest and fear
that prevailed under the last
Socialist regime.
In his policy speech last Wednesday, the
Premier outlined the magnificent progress
made possible by the sound (administration
of the Stevens-Bruxner Government. Re-
member these points on election day:—
THE UPWARD LIFT
During the Lang Government’s career
registered unemployed exceeded 200,000.
This figure has now been reduced to 67,000,
of whom 42,000 are receiving cash payment
on emergency relief work and the balance
food relief at increased rates.
Since the Lang Government was dismissed
wages in factories have increased by
£6, 000,000 a year; Savings Bank deposits
by £7,000,000; new building construction
by over £5,000,000; Public Works by
£17,000,000.
The Stevens-Bruxner Government has re-
duced taxation and other charges (including
freights and fares) by £12,400,000, the
main benefits of which have gone to those
on lower gmdes of income. Primary Pro-
ducers have specially benefited.
In its concluding year the Lang Govern-
ment’s deficit reached the colossal figure of
£14,000,000. The Stevens-Bruxner Govern-
ment has reduced the deficit to approxi-
mately £2,500,000, and has paid its way
without default.
Public Service Salaries, reduced by the
Socialist Government, have been restored to
the extent of £1,250,000.
In striking contrast to the Lang Government,
the Stevens-Bruxner administration, by its
series of legislative enactments designed to
help the man on the land, has earned the
title of “the most country-minded Govern-
ment the State has ever had.”
THE WORST IS OVER-
BETTER TIMES AHEAD
... if yon vote for Gov-
ernment candidates on elect-
ion day.
“Three years ago we promised to re-
build where the previous adminis-
tration had destroyed; to drive despair
from the hearts of the people; and to
restore hope for better and brighter
times. That promise has been abund-
antly fulfilled. ”
“Three years ago conditions were
going from bad to worse; but immedi-
ately the new Government entered on
its task industry began to revive;
credit was restored; and unemploy-
ment began to fall off —the patient
had recovered from its fever and
New South Waled lived again.”
—The Premier (Hon. B. S. B. Stevens) in his
policy speech at Croydon last Wednesday.
The return of the Government to carry on
its good work will bring further recovery
and will be of untold benefit to the people
of the State.
POLICY GUARANTEES
Further remissions of taxation and other
charges will be made at an early date.
The Wages and Special Income Taxes will
be substantially reduced, particularly on the
lower grades of income.
Salary reductions in the Public Service will
be further restored as finances permit.
The Public Works policy will be continued
and working conditions for the men will be
improved as the programme develops.
Now that the number of unemployed has
been reduced to manageable proportions the
Government will consider further methods
to secure greater stability of employment,
together with an appropriate measure of
unemployment insurance.
Thousands of men will be employed in the
scheme of country development already be-
gun by the present Government. Silo con-
struction will be carried steadily on; further
water and sewerage services provided; af-
forestation extended; large irrigation projects
completed; aerodromes constructed; and the
power resources of the State developed.
The Government will continue its policy of
particular concern for the primary producer,
upon whom the nation’s prosperity rests.
The Government will give early considera-
tion to proposals for the reduction of the
number of members of the Legislative
Assembly.
LISTEN IN EVERY NIGHT
AT 7.15 p.m.
Every night at 7.15 (except Sundays)
the Premier talks for five minutps
through the following stations: 2GB,
2UW, 2UE, 2CH, 2SM, 2GN, 2KO,
2WL and 2HD.
VOTING IS COMPULSORY
Vote U.A.R
H. W. HORSFIELD, 15 Bligh St., Sydney.


X S
wm
■r:&>
■ 7 /
‘V
«■..
A ’
■ v
mm
E
mm
i
- .
I
K
»j
*
#
r
m
iy
i
H
in
;
■^J
V-
an
WWI
*
:
I
■
i-'
HP
■
I
I ■
■
K '■: i
.
I
■V-... .
m
h
:■!%
■
.
WmS9
vvSr
- • ■ ••
N ’&c, •%£&.
’■: i
Sr*
c 'the decietofa/iealf/uffr/fla^ef


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —-No. 2881.
May 1, 1935.
ANOTHER FOR THE DICTATORS’ UNION.
“Here I am, comrades, in full control of funds, policy and Caucus—able to kick’em all out if I want to, and the blighters can do nothing to me. Silly old sooperstition,
democracy, isn’t it?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
IF LANG CAME BACK.
A remark heard with unpleasant frequency in N. S.
Wales when the State election, is talked of is that it
wouldn’t matter if Lang won the “smashing victory”
he prophesies, since he could do no great harm.
This is very far from being the case.
Certainly the Savings Bank is now beyond The
Smasher’s reach. And in the face of a hostile Legis-
lative Council it would be difficult, though not impos-
sible, to impose the 10 p.c. tax on mortgages that was
to have been payable within 14 days, the penalty
being another 10 p.c. and then forfeiture to the
Crown ; or to pass another Arbitration Act placing
every man’s business under the dictatorship of a
Piddington and every man’s house under liability to
be entered at any time by a Trades Hall walking
delegate. Difficult also to enact the plans for fixing
£5OO a year as the highest service salary, and for
collecting a special tax of ss. in the £ of income,
superimposed on the ordinary State income tax, which
reaches 4s. 3d. in the £, and on the Commonwealth
taxes, which go up to Bs. 9d. —but again not impos-
sible, since there is provision for a referendum in the
case of a deadlock. In these directions and others the
Lord of Misrule, placed in office for the third time,
would have tremendous opportunities for causing
mischief.
It would once more be within his power to with-
hold interest on State debts taken over by the Com-
monwealth, as he did early in 1931, and again when he
repudiated his signature to the Premiers’ Plan. The
Commonwealth Government would doubtless apply
the Financial Agreements Enforcement Acts, but
these measures could be challenged again, with at
least a remote prospect of success, especially if a High
Court Justice fell ill or died. Their Honors were
four to two last time ; had they been three to three
the judgment of the Chief Justice, which pronounced
the Acts invalid, would have prevailed. At all events
there would be delay, and the Constitution would be
subjected to another terrific strain, and civil war in
some form or other would again loom up as a possi-
bility. The movement towards recovery, now felt so
strongly, would be arrested. Confidence would wither
and capital go on the wing.
Again, default might so disorganise the finances
of the Commonwealth and the loyal States that they
would be forced to acquiesce in it. Then the English,
concerned for their agriculture and nervous about
their overseas investments, without the proceeds of
which they could not possibly maintain a population
of 45,000,000 in their small island, might retaliate
with a punitive tax on Australian goods, such as they
have imposed on Irish Free State produce, or with a
trade boycott. We escaped both calamities in 1931
because our chief overseas creditor trusted the Aus-
tralian people and was confident that they would send
the boss-defaulter about his business —as they did.
But his recall to power would be taken to mean that
the electors of the State with two-fifths of the Aus-
tralian population had come round to Lang’s way of
thinking and were willing to let him have his head.
And our overseas trade position is very vulnerable.
The English could get along without the butter, wine,
wheat, apples and dried fruits they buy from us, but
we couldn’t do without their market for these things.
Of course, a punitive tax or a trade boycott would
be a disaster to family relations ; but such considera-
tions rarely restrain an injured party to a contract
when he feels that he has been cheated. The fiercest
of all wars are civil wars. In Europe at the moment
there are no bitterer enemies than the predominant
parties among the Germans and Austrians, though
they are neighbors and brothers, racially more
akin than are the English and the Welsh. And many
a man has gone through life feeling that his only
enemies were members of his own family. Iterated
default would be felt by the English as a felon blow
from an ungrateful child, endangering all their over-
seas investments, and they would feel themselves
obliged to resort to reprisals.
But none of these grim possibilities would have
any restraining influence on Lang. He would return
to office vainer, bitterer and clumsier than ever,
and with the same propensity for losing his head and
cutting crazy capers in emergencies. For all his big
frame and massive jaw, he is really a political weak-
ling, a creature of wild impulses, given to shouting to
the mob to keep his courage up. When trouble comes
or when he has to encounter unaided a man who
doesn’t care two straws for him—-bluff old De Chair,
for instance —down goes his tail. He hates opponents
and former friends—particularly former friends —but
to hate is not to be strong. Strong men have clear heads.
You don’t find them suggesting such irreconcilable
operations as “writing down mortgage debts,” largely
at the expense of life-assurance cos. (six Australian
life offices have £40,784,000 out on mortgage), and
demanding support from the injured cos. (they have
£113,860,000 invested in Government securities) for
£22,500,000 of new Government loans p.a.—which
is what this priceless ass proposes in his latest “policy
speech.” Strong men tell the truth and shame the
devil. Multitudes of citizens —farmers who were
promised seven and six a bushel for their wheat,
unemployed, taxpaying wage-earners, fellow-Premiers,
investors, Savings Bank depositors and Commonwealth
Bank directors —can testify from their own experience
of him that truth and Lang the politician are not even
distant acquaintances, and that his pledges are not
worth a row of pins.
This rich house-agent who calls his followers “my
people” has been invested with powers such as no
other Labor leader has had in any English-speaking
country. In 1930 Caucus elected his Ministry and put
in two men whom he had expelled from his first
Administration in 1927. If returned with another
majority, he is to choose the Ministers himself, and
the deputy-leader as well. He already controls the
party funds, and may expel any member of his Par-
liamentary Caucus for any offence whatever or for
anything he may please to regard as an offence. But
for J. T. Lang Labor would become united again,
and a united Labor party, with a constitutional-reform
programme designed to make the Commonwealth Par-
liament supreme, is necessary to Australia. Only J. T.
Lang stands in the way.
CAN THE LEAGUE LAST?
It seems to be on its deathbed, though 57 nations are
still paying into the estate, Italy, a member, has had
great difficulty in keeping its hands off Abyssinia,
another member. Paraguay and Bolivia, two other
members, are hammering one another, aided by
Argentina, a member, and Brazil, an ex-member.
Germany resigned in 1933, and is swinging the sabre.
Japan has gone out and the U.S.S.R. has come in.
The U.S.A. has never joined.
Germany’s resignation does not become effective
till October 21, 1935 ; but the Germans can scarcely
return to Geneva without guarantees that other
sections of the Treaty of Versailles will be scrapped.
Hitler told the British Ambassador and the French
Foreign Minister when they presented the London
Security Pact to him early in February that Germany
was “now strong enough to reject proposals put by
other countries.” He followed this with a wholesale
arming programme, and when the League protested
in a resolution he gruffly and “resolutely” rejected
its views. His financial organ, the “Borsen Zeitung,”
has made some rude remarks about the “coarse
manners of Versailles.”
Herr Hitler’s birthday is the right moment to tell
this clique of politicians that their Versailles methods
are merely ridiculous attempts to destroy the armor-
plating of Germany’s national sentiment with pins.
Another semi-official organ, the “Frankfurter
Zeitung,” sneers at Litvinoff’s insincerities, calls
Ramsay MacDonald a tragic figure and England a
nation without a leader, and prophesies a League
break-up.
A document handed to a French politician for
publication, allegedly by the Soviet, asserts that on
February 25, just prior to the Reich’s re-armament,
Germany entered into a secret defensive alliance with
Poland, another member of the League. It is styled
a “mutual agreement on all questions involving inter-
national pledges” and for “the pursuit of permanent
active collaboration and the pooling of military,
economic and financial forces to repel unprovoked
attacks.” German troops, under its provisions, could
freely pass through Poland to tackle the Russians.
It is hard to believe the story about this new
brotherhood, since Hitler has had two women and
two men beheaded for selling War Office secrets to
“an enemy”—Poland. Still, the Poles hate the
Russians, and they are not pleased with the tortuous
diplomacy of the French.
Meanwhile, Britain and France are involving
themselves in international police and defensive
leagues with Russia and Italy. Stalin and his friends
are encouraging the Turks to re-fortify the Dar-
danelles. Mussolini is adding 6000 to his air-force
personnel and packing a six-year development pro-
gramme into three years. And every single nation
in Europe is increasing its armaments.
Australia is one of the non-permanent members
of the League Council. That body when it surveys
world affairs must feel very much like the North
Queensland hen which hatched out a clutch of
crocodile eggs.
GIPPSLAND’S WOODEN WALLS.
For the second time within a few months a vast area
of Gippsland is under water. Tremendous losses have
been caused, and permanent injury may have been
done to hundreds of agricultural and pastoral proper-
ties. Cabinet has called for reports from the Water
Commission, the Forests Commission, the Public
Works and the Railways, and public opinion in
Gippsland is so thoroughly aroused that their recom-
mendations may not be consigned to pigeonholes, as
is usually the case.
Investigations made since the earlier flood strongly
indicate that these inundations are traceable to the
intense desire to chop down trees. Country must, of
course, be cleared to enable crops to be grown and
stock pastured, but the clearing in many instances
did not pause when these objectives were reached.
Just as the Englishman says “It’s a fine day ; let’s
kill something,” the Australian has been saying for
50 years “It’s a fine day ; let’s fall a tree.” He did
not act with malice or even without thought, but in
earlier times the value of forests as a means of
preventing floods was not properly understood.
Victorian experts are now agreed that had a
scientifically devised system been in operation there
would have been no floods over Gippsland and scores
of thousands of pounds’ worth of destruction would
have been averted. The presence of trees intercepts
the falling water and permits it to drip down softly
instead of beating at an angle that disturbs the surface
soil. Boles and roots help to hold back the accumu-
lated water, enabling it to sink into the highlands ;
the roots absorb quantities unbelievable to those who
have not studied the question. The existence of tree-
belts on the higher lands would, incidentally, be of
additional value in breaking the strong winds which
contribute to the soil erosion now becoming a problem
in Victoria.
It is certain that there will be strong recommen-
dations for a vigorous policy of reafforestation, not
merely for timber purposes but for flood protection.
But years must elapse before the trees are sufficiently
grown to afford the protection needed; so in the
meantime, wherever necessary, rivers must be
straightened and dikes raised.
The experience of the past year is exceptional.
The history of Gippsland shows no two floods in such
close proximity. Yet it is necessary to provide for
these remote contingencies, otherwise a great part of
Gippsland’s value to the State will be reduced. As
a producer of butter this is probably the most
important district in Victoria. As the eastern areas
are developed, it will be a great provider of maize.
Some of the stretches now deep under water comprise
the most fertile spots in all Australia, Gippsland is
worth saving.
WOMEN IN INDUSTRY.
.“Mr. Oliver Stanley, the British Minister of Labor, says
the number of women in industry should be reduced in order
to create jobs for men with family responsibilities. It is
tentatively proposed by his Government that percentage
limits should be placed on the number of women to be
employed in certain occupations more suitable to male labor.”
It is the first official recognition of the leading part
woman is playing in the unemployment tragedy.
Quarter of a century ago there were jobs
enough for “men with family responsibilities,” and
any reasonably willing and intelligent youth could
rely on getting work of some kind as soon as he left
school. Before the war the “Servants Wanted” sections
of newspapers like the “S. M. Herald” and Melbourne
“Argus” were as remunerative as the “To Let” sec-
tions are now. In recent years large houses have
been pulled down by the dozen in every Australian
city to make way for bungalows or flats with labor-
saving devices. The chief reason is explained in a
current news item:
Notwithstanding unemployment, the local supply
of domestic help is not equal to the demand, according
to the Church of England Migration Council. “We
can place as many as we can get,” said Major Coulter,
the organising director.
In the result, the rich and near-rich have, in
many cases, been forced to transfer their families
from houses with spacious gardens to over-mechanised
city and suburban barracks ; but they must share the
blame. The snobbish class joke, so popular in
London “Punch” and similar organs of the prosperous
classes, has been digested by the literate workers of
to-day. Films, American and British, which usually
show servants in a ridiculous light, have done even
more to spread the notion that domestic service is
derogatory to dignity. There is an ominous resem-
blance between conditions now and in the fourth
century, which saw the abolition of a form of domes-
tic service without which there might have been no
Platonic dialogues or Ciceronian orations.
Even if we are not laying ourselves open to
invasion by barbarians, as the Roman Empire did
after the dislocation of its social system, we seem to
be heading for another form of barbarism. In
1928-29 the factories of the Commonwealth employed
338,110 males and 117,372 females —about three males
to one female. In the last period for which figures
are available (1932-33) the factories employed 261,515
males and 109,212 females —about 2\ males to one
female. In shops and offices there were at the
beginning of the depression about three females to
one male ; there are now about 4\ females to one
male.
An effect of the films has been “to make the
modern girl more clothes-conscious than the girl
of 10 years ago.” This has caused thousands of girls
who don’t need work, inasmuch as their parents can
keep them, to enter shops, offices and tea-rooms, thus
intensifying the struggle for female jobs and driving
more and more women into competition with men
elsewhere. Simultaneously more and more women
are entering the professions, with the result that not
a few of those on relief works are former dentists,
solicitors, architects, and the like.
Year by year increasing numbers of males who
can never hope to be permanently employed are
reaching the employable age, while fathers of fami-
lies are joining the unemployed or partly employed.
It is an unnatural state of affairs which is unpre-
cedented in the history of mankind.
J. D.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Change of Plans.
It is reported from Canberra that, as a result of a
Belgian embargo on meat and of the proposals of the
British Government for regulating imports, the Com-
monwealth Government may change its plans regard-
ing North Australia.
It is likely that the Ministry will seek to depend
more on mining development as an immediate policy.
And it is hoped that this will “give a natural stimulus
to pastoral and agricultural development, as it did
in Victoria 80 years ago.”
Who makes these northern policies? A year or
two ago it was almost impossible to walk down a
Canberra street without falling over somebody with
an option for a few million acres of “rich Territory
land” just waiting for Government assistance to be
developed into another Argentina, Then the Govern-
ment was all for chartered companies and millions of
beef cattle. Now there is something of a mining
boom —that is to say, mining “experts” have developed
a sublime confidence in Territory mining. But they
have discovered no new fields. Thousands of white
miners and 60,000 Chinamen who scoured the country-
side long ago saw to that. There were so many
mines and shows in the N.T. in the ’nineties that the
S.A. Government issued a special annual book of
detailed reports on 230 of them.
When Australia can produce chilled meat in large
quantities, Britain and other countries will buy it. But
the other day, when the British agreed to take all the
chilled meat which could be sent this quarter, only
26,000 cwt. more than had already been contracted for
could be produced, bringing the quota for the quarter
up to a whole 56,000 cwt.
Mining should, of course, be encouraged within
reason —there is plenty of room for small shows at
the Tennant and Pine Creek, and perhaps at Tanami.
But on the Barkly there is an area of Mitchell-grass
country as big as Belgium, and on the Victoria River
another about the same size, both suitable for more
intensive development for beef production. With
water and fences they are capable of carrying 20 head
per square mile. Adjoining areas, not so good but
five times as extensive, could carry 15 to the square
mile. In other words, another million cattle could
be held in these districts alone.
The Territory should be carrying 5,000,000 cattle
instead of 700,000. Stocked to capacity, with scrub-
bers replaced by good beasts and sour coastal pastures
replaced gradually by more suitable grasses, the
capital value of the incubus could be increased in a
decade permanently by £40,000,000. And Darwin
meatworks in full swing would add 50 p.c. to the
population. No mining in sight has a chance of pro-
ducing an equal result,
«
The Stevens Programme.
The election programme of the Stevens Government
is free from the stupidities which mar that of the
Opposition in Queensland. It contains no fanciful
and unworkable schemes of profit-sharing or mother-
hood endowment at the expense of childless workers.
This Government cut taxes and service charges,
and it undertakes to continue the good work.
Wages and special income taxes will be substantially
reduced, especially on the lower grades of income.
It is committed also to simplification and co-ordina-
tion of taxes, a thing which will also help to
promote “the revival of private employment at award
rates,” of which there have been such encouraging
signs. Arbitration is to be maintained, but an attempt
will be made “within the ambit of the State’s powers”
to wipe out overlapping with the Commonwealth.
Road-construction and -maintenance subsidies
are to be increased 100 p.c. —from £ for £ to £2 for
£l, Special roads which have hitherto been built
on a £2-per-£l subsidy will now be financed at £3
per £l. Railway users are to receive freight conces-
sions on wheat, meat, dairy produce and fruit. About
£1,000,000 is to be spent in the metropolitan area
on new buses and trolley cars, which may replace
trams in some main city streets. The city railway
is to be completed. For the rest.
Careful consideration will be given to proposals for
new railways to determine whether the public interest
may be better and more economically served by the
construction of a good road.
It should not need over-hard thinking about. In
the Riverina alone there are 12 railway sections which
have been losing an average of £20,000 p.a.. Wagga-
Tumbarumba, 80 miles, cost £740,000. The interest
bill last year was £38,000, and working expenses ate
up £16,864; earnings were £11,062. Total loss to
June, 1934, £51,325. Uranquinty-Kywong, 33 miles,
cost £239,000 to build. Interest charges are £ 12,300-
odd, annual working expenses £4500, annual earnings
£3150.
The Government needs to liberalise its transport
policy—it has left far too much power in the hands of
commissioners and their staffs. But it is fairly entitled
to claim some credit for the improved position of
N. S. Wales, which was reflected at the Show, at
Randwick and in the demeanor of soldier-settlers
down for the Anzac Day march, and of which every-
one but Mr. Lang is conscious. And it remains the
only alternative to Lang misrule.
:
Maoriland’s Way.
Like Australia, Maoriland has Government railways
that don’t pay, and has set up authorities to regulate
motor transport. But in this latter respect it is some-
what different. Competition with the Government
railways is not expressly forbidden in the Act, and
the proceedings of the bodies that attend to the issuing
of licenses are subject to review by a Transport
Co-ordination Board which takes a very liberal view
of its powers and duties.
In a recent case permits for goods services were
refused by No. 2 Licensing Authority to persons in
the trade. They appealed to the Transport Co-ordina-
tion Board, which reversed the decisions and caused
the licenses to be issued. In giving its reasons, it said
that there was “nothing in the legislation giving the
Government railways any claim to special protection
or consideration,” and that it had been called into
existence to see that the public was “provided with
the cheapest and most efficient form of transport.”
No form of transport can have a vested right which
will stand in the way of progress towards a more
economical and convenient form of transport for the
general public.
In short, the people come first. In at least two other
States, N. S. Wales and Westralia, the people come last.
♦
Forgan Smith’s Harbor.
Dear Bulletin, —The artificial harbor now com-
menced at Mackay (N.Q.) is a magnificent example of
the futile waste of public money. Estimated to cost
£750,000 (probable cost, a million), it is to be formed
by dumping enough of Mt. Bassett, two miles north
of Mackay, to enclose 140 acres off an open beach.
Bowen, 116 miles north, has one of the finest deep-
water harbors in Australia. Two hundred miles south
is Port Alma, another deepwater wharfage ; 68 miles
south of Port Alma, Gladstone has a first-rate natural
harbor. The main northern line of railway connects
all three.
Where the new Mackay works will fetch up after
another cyclone like that of a few years ago, which
landed the fairway buoy from Flat Top Island in
Mackay’s main street, and hove a steamer on to the
city’s bridge, is interesting matter whereon to ponder.
But little things like that, or the asininity of building
ports to compete with railways and roads to compete
with both, don’t worry politicians.—Yours etc.,
Dungeness.
4
The New Japan.
Editor Ken Sato, who acts as spokesman for the
Japanese goodwill mission now in Australia, has
been telling of the industrial revolution effected in
his country in 30 years. Melbourne “Argus” is especi-
ally interested in Mr. Sato’s story, and has given it
big publicity, with double-column headlines, one of
which was “Abandoning Dying Rural Pursuits.”
But the “Argus” has not mentioned how Japan
accomplished the transformation, even to the extent
of selling textile machinery to Lancashire. One
outstanding reason is the Japanese tariff. Japan had
the sense to impose duties on goods which it was
necessary for the country to have. With that it had
technical skill and genius of management sufficient
to make essential industries a success. The people
bought the goods, and there was no constant drain of
gold overseas to restore the balance of trade. The
diehard Freetrader may assert that the wages of
Japanese factory workers are low, and that their
standard of living is not such as would win the
admiration of the Australian worker. But it seems
to suit the Japanese factory hand, and it is obviously
well above that of the Japanese agriculturist, other-
wise the people could not be persuaded to relinquish
farm life for factory life.
The revelations of Mr. Sato are of value to
Australia. Japan early realised that modern science
has enabled a population to obtain its primary needs
with an amount of man-power and land-power which
would have seemed fantastic two generations back.
Primary production to-day is still the first necessity
of mankind, but other occupations must be found
for the people whom science has pushed off the land.
In other words, Japan saw years ago what
numbers of people and organs of public opinion in this
country fail to see yet: that a twentieth-century nation
cannot live by producing foodstuffs and raw materials
alone.
♦
A Death a Day.
During a recent week-end in Sydney and suburbs two
people were killed and 20-odd seriously injured in
car and cycle accidents. In N. S. Wales since the
beginning of the year approximately one person has
been killed outright and about 10 times as many
have been taken to hospitals every day as an outcome
of car accidents, and those roughly are the relative
figures for other States. Newspaper accounts of the
accidents reveal what caused them. Two men “met
instantaneous death” when their cycle hit a tram.
One “was found 40 yards away,” the other “finished
inside the driving-cabin of the tram.” Other cars
“skidded and overturned,” “skidded and crashed into
a telegraph pole,” “collided with a motor-cycle at an
intersection,” and so on.
A country coroner at an inquest on a small boy
talked recently of “the necessity for a campaign by
parents and teachers to educate children on the danger
of using streets and roads for playgrounds.” He also
urged motor-drivers to “exercise the greatest care
when driving in localities where children assemble.”
But no campaign will stop children playing in streets
and roads, which are the only playgrounds thousands
of children have, and no amount of urging will induce
some motorists and motor-cyclists to drive at a
reasonable pace. Says the editor of London “Truth”:
As a driver of 20 years’ experience in pretty nearly
every country in Europe—under war and peace con-
ditions—the present writer has no hesitation in saying
that a speed of more than 30 miles an hour in built-up
areas is not consistent with safety. Beyond that speed
no car can be controlled sufficiently to pull up suddenly;
for instance, when a child runs into the road.
It is fashionable in local motoring circles to deplore
England’s new Road Traffic Act, which imposes speed
limits in crowded areas, and renders motorists who
transgress liable first to heavy fines and next to dis-
qualification. Actually the incorporation of similar
regulations in our Motor Traffic Acts would help the
trade. Practically all the damage to life and limb
and to the reputation of motorists as a whole is being
done by a small fraction of the car-driving public.
It is the presence of these pests on the roads that keeps
thousands from being owner-drivers.
—i *
The Hospital Addict.
Dr. Paul Dane, of Melbourne, made what appeared
at first sight to be an astounding and fantastic
statement. He asserted that, no matter how much
hospital accommodation was provided, the hospitals
would still be overcrowded. This applied to every
city in the world; but if the hospitals of Melbourne
were doubled to-morrow the position as regards con-
gestion would be as bad as it is to-day.
Dr. Dane explains that one of the features of
modern civilisation is that certain people acquire the
“hospital habit”; become “hospitalised.” Firmly
believing that their days are numbered unless they
have speedy treatment, they get their greatest joy in
life in waiting-rooms of out-patients’ departments.
With others of their kind, they form a sort of
unofficial club.
The public-dispensaries habit is as great a
nuisance. No small proportion of the attendants at
friendly-society dispensaries are “regulars”; they have
been turning up regularly for their coveted medicine,
some of them for 20 years. The medicine does not
cure them of their terrible ailments, they explain, if
questioned, but it “keeps them straight” ; and, though
it may be colored water or water rendered super-
nauseous by harmless drugs, they swallow it with every
evidence of joy.
Such people are not scrimshankers and impostors.
They are simply hospital and medicine addicts —
addicts just as truly as the Chinaman who has
acquired the half-crown opium habit. Not healthy,
but neurotic. The sufferings which, they imagine, come
from the many diseases whose names they have heard
really come from their nerves and their brains, and
the colored water they swallow three times daily
relieves them of their sufferings because they believe it
will. They are standing proofs of the effect of mind,
not upon matter, but upon other departments of mind.
The proper place for them is not a general hospital
but a psychopathic institution. As it is, they are a
permanent charge on the community and an obstruc-
tion which stands in the way of the adequate treatment
of people genuinely suffering physical ills.
*
In Longsiana and Thereabouts.
“G. Trotter” : According to Huey Long, “Louisiana
will refuse to pay Federal faxes if Washington with-
holds relief and public-works funds from our State.”
Any snarl at Washington is sure-fire stuff for a
loud cheer in Huey’s section of the U.S.A. In 1926 I
searched Atlanta, Montgomery and New Orleans in
vain for the “southern chivalry,” the aged colonel with
his mint julep, the faithful Rastus and all the other
theatrical properties of the “old South.” But one
thing I did find. People were apologetic over their
lack of progress compared with other States ; and
well they might be, for I don’t think a fence had been
repaired, a hinge restored or a weed pulled up since
1865.
Trying to be polite, I remarked that they were
far from the markets of the world. “It isn’t that,”
replied an Atlanta man. “The Yankees devastated us
60 years ago.” I got the same sentence in precisely
the same circumstances in Montgomery. When it
was repeated word for word in New Orleans I grew
impolite. “I went through the Somme area in 1920,”
I said ; “and the French were sowing wheat between
the wire. The Germans had churned up the whole
country six feet deep ; all the Yankees could have
done in those days was to burn ybur crops, fences and
houses. Yet you people have been sitting down for
60 years waiting for God to help you! ”
My theory about the hopelessness of the old South
is that it was founded by aristocrats —English, French
and Spanish. They had never learned to work;
thought it beneath them ; and when they lost their
slaves they were past learning. The only active thing
about them is their hatred of the Yankee, and, as
Huey Long has contrived to drag that in, he will
have a solid South behind him. The weak point is
that it comprises the strangest of bedfellows.
The black will be a Long man because the black
nowadays is largely a Red. It is natural enough, for
he is rottenly treated ; it was boom time when I was
there, yet any black laborer could be got for a dollar
a day. The Southern white is naturally conservative,
and is antagonistic to the nigger anyhow. But, above
all, he is a Yankee-hater, and, to use James Edmond’s
phrase, would “burn down Paradise without insurance
if he could injure the Yankees thereby.” But as he
has no money his conservatism takes the form of
snobbishness. To him the Redness of the nigger isn’t
half as hateful as his blackness. Huey Long will have
a hard job keeping both sections in harmony.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dick Tafone”: Kaleidoscopic changes
of secretaries are nothing new in W. M.
Hughes’s young life. Many stories, true
and otherwise, are told in the depart-
ments of Billy and his clerical punch-
balls, only one of whom ever really mas-
tered him—Malcolm Shepherd, now
Australia’s best-paid military official as
Secretary of the Defence Department.
It is told that, when Billy was once burn-
ing up the telephone wires of Shepherd’s
office, a thunderstorm broke and put the
line out of action for some minutes.
When the little man came on again he
demanded to know the precise stage
which his monologue had reached when
the jealous elements intervened. A
bland, unperturbed voice replied, “You
had just said blankety-blank blankard.”
* * r[: 3*c
“Green Tape”: A female plaintiff re-
covered £lOO in Sydney District Court
on unusual grounds. She was given a lift
in a lorry and was injured in a collision.
Evidence for the defence showed that the
lady boarded the lugger carrying three
separate cats in as many bags. The
driver said it was the sudden and unnerv-
ing escape of a cat from one of the bags
which caused him to swerve the lorry and
led to the accident. It was also alleged
that the lady, while being removed in
the ambulance, asked that the remaining
cats should go with her. The story is
silent from that on, and the fate of the
bagged cats remains wranoed in mystery.
* * $
“Boarder”: A dominie who wielded
the tawse in York (W.A.) in 1840 or
thereabouts, when trouble with the
natives was still a very live question, ad-
vertised that his school was eminently
suitable for the sons of military officers
serving in India. No doubt, like others
who have dared to think ahead of their
time, he was ridiculed for his pains. But
nowadays children from India, Burma,
Straits Settlements and China are all
found attending Perth schools.; one of the
first passengers from overseas by the air-
mail service was a father with two small
scholars in Perth. York’s turn will
come if the old pedagogue’s ghost has
any say in the matter.
v i* v
“Philm”: The male dress-reformer
who lacks a sense of humor treads a
slippery path. Smith has been a pioneer
of the Oxford movement in wide trouser-
cuffs. From 20in. at the outset he rose
with the fashions to 24in. ; then, deter-
mined to rout all other disciples of the
cult, he ordered 32in. cuffs —a foot wider
than the average, Sin. wider than the
Happiest bags. The making presented
some difficulty, but the finished effect
was startling: with the trousers wider at
the cuffs than at the waist and their skirt-
like appearance accentuated by his tight-
fitting coat. Smith tapered upwards like
a pyramid. Three days later he returned
to inquire whether the cuffs could be
reduced six inches. He was in a taciturn
mood, but it didn't matter ; a black eye
told the whole story.
* 'l*
“Findy”: A red setter bought from a
dogs’ home for a few bob was awarded
first prize at Sydney Show in competition
with animals valued at hundreds of
pounds. It reminds me of a small stray
which frequented our local beach all the
summer. Of nondescript breed but of a
friendly nature, he swam and frolicked on
the beach every day, took his meals where
he found them, was well known to the
regulars and a great favorite with the
children. Either by native cunning or
natural charm he even managed to escape
molestation at the hands of beach in-
spectors. A show of pets being announced
in the neighborhood, some of the young-
sters bathed and groomed Ginger and
took him along. Result, two prizes: one
for best-behaved pet (Ginger went to
sleep on his temporary owner’s shoulder),
and the other for coming in at the head
of the field in the hurdle race.
sjc %
“J. Ketch”: Cabled that a Kentucky
gentleman about to be publicly hanged
kept the audience waiting for 45 minutes
while he addressed them on things in
general. 1 had a similar experience at
“Well, what is it to be? Will you marry me, or must I join the
Foreign Legion?”
Boggo-road gaol years ago while officiat-
ing for a Brisbane newspaper which
spread itself on hangings. The principal
actor was a Javanese who had committed
a sticky murder at Mackay. When the
sheriff asked the usual question about
having anything to say, the trembling
wretch burst into a jumbled torrent of
speech—he spoke English fairly well —
and kept it up with the evident intention
of putting off the evil moment as long
as possible. There seemed to be no stop-
ping him until the unwilling sheriff
signalled the topsman. He acted swiftly,
and the meaningless flow of words ended
in a smothered squeal which, in its turn,
was checked even more suddenly when
the poor devil was brought up at the
end of the rope.
* * * *
“D.”: General Booth struck me as hav-
ing more movie-star characteristics than
any other religious leader on record. The
winsome way with reporters. The bally-
hoo about her riding and swimming. The
coquettish business with a handkerchief
in the presence of her public. The toothy
smile. What clinched the impression in
my mind was the moth-eaten yarn she
told in Sydney, with Voltaire as central
figure—the one about the atheist who
tore up the Bible in public and defied the
Creator to strike him dead. American
fundamentalists attribute the deed to
Tom Paine, British Methodists to Brad-
laugh, nigger revivalists to a black un-
believer named Simpson—with the
characteristic difference that in Simpson’s
case the Lord is alleged to have re-
sponded by reducing the mocker to a
heap of ashes. In order to believe such
silly stories it is necessary to have a com-
pletely unanalytical mind. Stage and
movie stars invariably possess such
minds.
“Wodgil”: I get my hock and Chablis
from a citizen who has a wine bar oppo-
site a “people’s palace,” bed-and-break-
fast at bedrock rates. “Things have been
a bit better this Easter,” I said to him.
“More people at the Show and more
money about.” “I haven’t found it so,”
he grumbled. “How’s that?” I asked.
“It’s that General Booth,” he said. “Soon
as they heard she was coming Army
blokes and lasses started packing the joint
over the road. By the time she arrived
they had booked up the whole place.
The whole place,” he added morosely ;
“and they drove out all the good
people.”
* * * *
“Senex”: The surest way to become a
failure at a profession is to become a
champion or even a prominent performer
at some kind of sport. For 30 years I
have been watching bright lads go into
the discard for no other reason than
that they kept getting into the sport-
ing news. One of Sydney’s lead-
ing ear-nose-throat specialists was a
near-champion at billiards 20 years
ago. For his skill to have got out would
have been as much as his practice was
worth, so he played in Tatt.’s Club tour-
naments and the like under an assumed
name. In business, contrariwise, it is an
advantage to figure regularly in the sport-
ing sections. This doesn’t apply merely
to proprietors of shops that sell sporting
requisites. Tolley’s golf publicity is said
to be worth thousands a year to his
London Stock Exchange firm. Every
first-class amateur rider in England makes
an income on the side out of hunters,
and most prominent polo-players deal in
ponies. But a barrister with any prac-
tice to speak of hardly dares to ride in
the Bar’s annual point-to-point race. If
he won solicitors would argue that he
was no lawyer.
❖ ❖ * %
“Second Divvy” reviews the troops:
A Sydney pub-crawl after an Anzac Day
march answers some interesting questions. Are
our abos. a credit to their country? There
were none in my unit, but I noticed a couple
foregathering with members of their former
battalion, and the manner of the whites showed
unmistakably that the abos. had measured up
to A.I.F. standards. Anybody know of an
abo. quitter? I don’t. And I never knew an
Australian-Italian who wasn’t a fighting man*.
One of the first friends of other days whom
I struck on Anzac Day was an A.-I. with a
D.C.M.
How do they turn out? There was no more
radiant figure in our brigade than Captain
Smasher; on leave, he used to be taken for a
millionaire squatter. Encountered on Thursday,
he proved to be a bookie’s offsider and far
from radiant. Ex-Corporal Bill Glumme, con-
trariwise, was a standing menace to parade-
ground peace —boots neglected, tunic undone,
hair long both on head and face: the com-
plete “dirty soldier.” Now his clothes suggest
Savile-row, his car a ducoed battleship. 1
wish I could say he had made the money him-
self ; it’s his father’s. I usually meet on
Anzac Day, and on that day alone, one whose
awful language evoked stern rebukes in T 5 from
the balloonist Taylor—small, religious, one of
the oldest men in the A.I.F. There would be no
protests from poor Taylor now; the one-time
blasphemer has joined the Salvation Army.
“Collins St.”: Encouraged, perhaps,
by that Sydney Judge who elevated
policemen above doctors, a Melbourne
P.M. convicted and fined a motorist
heavily for being drunk while in charge
of a car. Defendant said he had been
for years in New Guinea, and was suffer-
ing from malaria, for which he had taken
30 grains of quinine that morning. One
doctor found him to be “under the in-
fluence” when examined at the police
station at 8.30 p.m. A Collins-street
specialist saw him two hours later, and
said he showed all the symptoms of
malaria and was not drunk. A severe
attack of malaria is hard to distinguish
from a skinful of hops—l write with the
experience of one who has been exposed
to both. A man who was later Gover-
nor of British N.G. for a period was one
day going to a levee at Brisbane Govern-
ment House when an attack of malaria
came on. He was in full warpaint, silk
hat, morning coat and all, and when he
sat in the George-street gutter and began
to vomit a policeman rolled up. The
sufferer was quite unable to speak coher-
ently, and John Hop was escorting him
to the lock-up when D. T. Seymour, then
Commissioner of Police, was encoun-
tered. He knew the malaria-stricken one,
and rescued him from the bobby.
“Newmoon”: ' Another case of mis-
applied ingenuity. A man employed in
my uncle’s stone quarry was suspected
of being a confirmed loafer, yet every
time the foreman came round he was
always hard at work. Quite by accident
the boss discovered his dodge, and out
he went. Horses were used in the quarry,
and Bill used to sift loose grain from their
chaff and throw it on a bank above the
only road in. Birds would gather on the
bank. While they fed undisturbed his
little world was safe for a loaf. Imme-
diately they rose from the ground the
bird-lover would fall to energetically.
“Scribe”: In most fights the innocent
bystander is generally the one who gets
hit, but in the present newspaper war
between Melbourne “Sun” and Mel-
bourne “Star” the out-
side newspaper, the
“Age/’ is reaping the
harvest. The “Sun”
started the fight by mak-
ing a book offer to the
public—a library for
four and six or some-
thing of the sort. The
“Star” countered with
a book offer of its own,
whereupon the “Sun”
came back with an-
other. Both journals
are going at it hammer
and tongs, trying to per-
suade the public that
theirs is the better bar-
gain ; meanwhile both
are taking huge advts.
in the “Age.” Possibly
the most audacious
thing of the sort ever
accomplished was when Sydney “Sun,”
then fighting its way on the map, bought
the complete back page of the rival
“Evening News” and printed a replica of
its own front page. All Sydney went
home on the trams and ferries that night
under the impression that the whole city
was reading nothing but the “Sun.”
“Lytton Fort”: That tale of the chap
swept into the Brisbane River by a tree
branch (B. 24/4/’35) leaves me cold. I
knew the Emu, the “ship” mentioned,
well in her old age ; she was a small
paddle tug, about 30ft. long, that added
to her earnings by taking snappering par-
ties down the bay. She could go along-
side the bank anywhere, and was prob-
ably calling at the foot of some garden
for worms or something when a dahlia
or sunflower plant swept off the party
referred to. It is true that Brassey hit
the mud at that corner ; but he did it
with the Sunbeam, not in person.
* * * *
“Sartor”: In N. S. Wales as soon as a
member of the National Club becomes
Premier he buys a walking-stick. If
Stevens had remained in the civil service
he would never have invested in a stick ;
now he is rarely without one. Bavin in-
variably wore a stick when he was
Stevens’s boss; as a private member he
goes stickless. Similarly George Fuller
has parked the stick which was once his
badge of office. N. S. Wales Labor Pre-
miers, contrariwise, never brandish sticks,
except in a metaphorical sense. A few
years ago every member of the Supreme
Court Bench wore a top-hat out of doors.
Suddenly they all took to bowlers. Mem-
bers of the High Court, on the other
hand, have been anarchists in the matter
of headgear since their tribunal was es-
tablished. I have seen Griffith, C.J., in a
battered slouch walking with Barton, J.,
in a radiant topper. Anybody know the
origin of these unwritten sumptuary laws?,
THE COLLECTOR.
“The bugle on which the charge was sounded that
sent the Light Brigade ‘into the jaws of death’ has
been sold in Loudon for £300.”
Oh, where is the bone that Samson used for
cracking the Philistine,
And where are the scissors Delilah took to
alter his locks’ design?
Oh, where is the tail of Jonah’s whale, and
where is the club of Cain?
And O for the sword that poked the ribs of the
melancholy Dane!
And what of the dulcet dinner-bell Ann Hatha-
way used to shake
To call the Swan of Avon home to the pies
she used to bake?
And where is that solid rolling-pin of red-
headed Xanthippe’s
With which she battered the ancient pate of
her henpecked Socrates?
Oh, where is the horn of Robin Hood, and
what of the cups of Burns
That flooded his soul with song and put him
to sleep among the ferns?
Oh, where is the beaker they brought to Keats,
and who has Beau Brummel’s hat,
Or even a whisker white from the cheek of
Mayor Dick Whittington’s cat?
Oh, give me a feather from off the goose
whose cackling saved old Rome,
Or a straw from the broom with which Canute
swept back the ocean’s foam!
Oh, save me a seed from the apple famed
that fell upon Newton’s nose,
And fetch me scraps of Elizabeth’s ruffs and
the Queen of Sheba’s hose!
For I’m a Collector of curios, no matter what
they may be.
From Kidd’s old shoes to Joseph’s coat, I’ll
purchase them C.0.D.;
From David’s sling to Napoleon’s boots or
old King Solomon’s bunk —
To place in my marvellous catalogue of noted
historical junk.
NEW GUINEA.
DONVAB.


“Have you any collar-studs, my man ?”
“Yes.”
“Yes WHAT?”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It has been
suggested from London that a cavalry
guard for Mr. Lyons and the State Pre-
miers be formed from A.I.F. men now in
England. Years ago 1 tried to secure
better and cheaper publicity for Australia
House. Instead of arriving at his office
in a prosaic car, the High Commissioner
should gallop up the Strand, clad in
proper Ned Kelly garb, red shirt and all,
cracking a stockwhip and followed by all
his male subordinates, similarly mounted
and attired. After garaging a mob of bul-
locks to the usual accompaniment of dog-
barking and bush language, they would
line up and sing “Australia Will Be
There,” accompanied by the clerks and
typists on concertinas and gum-leaves.
Dan Hassett would wind up the function
with a whip-cracking performance. It
fell through because George Reid, then
H.C., objected for some silly reason or
other.
* * * *
“Hamer”: That par. about the dis-
inclination of drivers to run over animals
(B. 17/4/’35) reminds me of an incident
that happened on the Tamworth-Manilla
(N.S.W.) line in the days when timetables
didn’t matter. There was a train stop-
page, and all hands turned out to throw
pieces of landscape at the cow which was
blocking the traffic. When the animal
decided that the fusillade was really in-
tended for itself, it moved off at a furious
gallop, and the journey was resumed.
Half an hour later there was another
stoppage, and the well-trained passengers
alighted to look for more stones. “An-
other cow?” inquired a stranger as he
followed their example. “No,” replied
the conductor calmly—“same old cow.”
* * * $
“M.G.”: A chance to contrast the
advance of hotel accommodation and
magnificence will shortly be provided by
the demolition of the Esplanade Hotel in
St. Kilda, Melbourne, and the re-erection
of another up-to-date hostelry to take
its place. The existing Esplanade, which
has housed tens of thousands of inter-
state visitors since its erection, went up
over 50 years ago, and was then regarded
as the very last word in luxury hotels.
The world was scoured for devices for
the comfort of guests, and when the
Esplanade opened its proprietor rested
satisfied that there was nothing better
anywhere. It was here that Sydney Ure
Smith spent his childhood; the artist-
writer’s father was manager of the
Esplanade before he took charge of the
Australia in Sydney.
■*' $
“Verri”: Our family doctor received a
telephone call to an urgent case, and found
the “case,” well advanced in the horrors,
established on the fifth-floor balcony-
room of a new hotel. After a chatty
introduction the patient genially an-
nounced his intention of chucking his
medical adviser over- the . balcony. The
doctor, a smallish man, quailed inwardly,
but pretended to be really amused, and,
playing for time, suggested a concert.
He sang, recited, danced, shadow-boxed
and watched his opportunity ; then,
edging to the balcony, he sang so dis-
cordantly and so lustily that the manage-
ment sent up a messenger with a demand
for silence. The patient rushed the mes-
senger. His yells brought the staff up-
stairs in a hurry. Sawbones assisted in
the capture, but a week in bed was the
penalty of his afternoon call.
* & *
“Hist’s” tale of two societies;
The Japanese visitor who compared Sydney
and Melbourne missed an interesting point of
distinction between them. In Melbourne fami-
lies of importance go on from generation to
generation; in Sydney they fade into insignifi-
cance by the score, giving way in the society
reports to dynasties that were unknown as
recently as the Armistice. Look through a
Melbourne list of those present at an expensive
function and you will find scores of Melbourne
Club members; at a similar function in Sydney
90 per cent, of the males are liable to belong
to no social club of standing. In both cities
the test is almost exclusively financial; if a
family can afford to inhabit a big house in the
right neighborhood it automatically enters
society. But Sydneyites, taken in the mass,
lack the capacity to hold on to their money:
most of the names which figured regularly in
the “S. M. Herald” (the only true gauge of
social merit) before the war are unknown to
outer Suburbia to-day. Melbournites, perhaps
because they are predominantly Scuitch, remain
affluent long enough to establish themselves
socially; also (another Scuitch trait) they are
tolerant of old friends who become financial
failures—a result being that members of Vic.
families which were once wealthy continue to
be entertained for as long as they can afford
fairly presentable clothes.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Nobody sees the romance—
or the danger—of his own calling. Every-
body remembers that drawing of the two
laborers perched on the top of a 20-storey
girder looking at a passing aeroplane and
remarking “It’s terrible to see men risk-
ing their lives like that!” Now Chauvel
confesses to having been really scared on
one occasion daring the war. It wasn’t
under shellfire or when the Turks were
pouring bullets into his column or when
German poison gas was about. It was
when he was crossing the Mediterranean
and submarines were shooting torpedoes
at every passing vessel. “Yet,” he added,
“the seamen working on those ships
went through that ordeal every day.” The
same seamen would probably have felt
thoroughly uncomfortable had they been
on the sands of Palestine, and had a
German shell burst half a mile away.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: Before the movies
reached the backblocks the Australian
country girl was reckoned about the
dowdiest of her sex. Now it is hard to
distinguish a country from a city girl.
Same frock, same shoes, same distract-
ingly idiotic hat, set at the same lunatic
angle. Our country lasses used to be
weak on country clothes; they looked
particularly awful in riding-kit. The
late Sydney Show demonstrated that
most of them have little to learn
from the ’Shires nowadays. Ameri-
can film actresses, who have an unerring
iress instinct both for town and city
clothes, are responsible. They have had
a beneficial influence in practically every
part of the civilised world except Rotten
Row, where sartorial fantastics on a par
with those who infest Sydney’s Centen-
nial Park continue to bump about on
hirelings.
* * * *
“Old Tom”: “Ex-Subaltern” (B.
17/4/’35) may be right as to Macßlank’s
various ranks—major, lieut.-col., private,
temp, corp., private, lieut. —but he is not
correct in saying that Mac was unknown.
Macßlank did not drop his stripes at
Etaples; shortly after his arrival the
n.c.o. in charge received a note from the
adjutant: “Sgt. Macßlank will retain
the privileges of the sgts.’ mess while in
Etaples.” Also he was blocked going up
the line with his reinforcement owing to
his having been wounded in the knee. He
had to wait at the camp until the colonel
came back from Blighty ; he was then
sent up to Birdwood. In spite of
moustache and side-whiskers he was re-
cognised by many of the Ist Brigade ser-
geants. Had he retained his rank he
could not have been treated with greater
respect and consideration by those
n.c.os. It touched him deeply. I know
because he told me ; I was the n.c.o. in
charge of battalion details.
* * =i= *
“Kwakprak”: A man at Theodore
(Q.) died of heart failure shortly after
being stung on the ear by a hornet. He
was the unlucky victim of that curious
condition which, for want of a better-
name, we term sensitisation. He had
been stung several times during the
previous 12 months, and had always
suffered. Apparently the successive doses
of poison had created a subtle change
in the body mechanism, weakening the
processes which normally operate to
neutralise the venom, so the extra final
dose, acting on an unprotected body,
was sufficient to produce enough shock
to stop the heart. Luckily, a very rare
condition. Cases have been known of
death within 20 minutes after a bee-
sting. One individual who was stung on
the scalp nearly died when stung on a
finger six years later, so the effect is
apparently a.lasting one in persons pre-
disposed to it.
* * . * *
“Wandana”; I’m one of those ancients
who still use the blade for shaving; but
I’ve just discovered that' all these years I
haven’t been treating it properly. A
friend who is also a blade devotee tells
me that after I use it the razor should be
stropped and carefully laid away with
its edge facing the magnetic north. He is
qdite serious about it, and assures me it
is his own invariable custom, helping to
preserve the weapon’s best working
qualities. As I travel a lot and can’t
always carry a compass with me, finding
the right position is going to be a worry.
Anyway, is there any scientific basis for
the thing or is it just superstition?
sf* Sfs ♦
“Lach-na-Keale”: That Dopper who
objected to kilts as reminding him of the
Kaffir kaross (B. 24/4/’35) is forsaking
the tradition of his race, which always has
had a special weakness for the Scottish.
Is not the head of Clan Mackay a Dutch-
man, and have I not drunk the gin of the
country with Hollanders named McLeod,
Mcßae and McLean? But perhaps a
special venom lingers around the Cape,
for the Dutchman who was in com-
mand of the hireling Wiirttemberg regi-
ment when Elphinstone took the Colony
was a Gordon, who, though he had never
been in his ain land, sometimes affected
the kilt and could sing songs in Gaelic.
He was the only piece of the landscape
which really caught the eye of young
Macquarie when he passed through there
the year Australia was founded, though
Bligh was on the spot en route to the
Pacific in the Bounty.
❖ Jfc ;J;
“Counterjumper”: Our mail-order
branch treasures it:
I notice you are selling packets of note-
paper and envelopes for 3d. If 1 was to
send three Id. stamps would that do?
Also could you tell me size of envelopes
and if paper is thick, because I don’t like
thick paper.
A twopenny stamp for the letter of in-
quiry, one more for the actual order and
a third one on the firm’s letter of advice
—all for an article valued at 3d.! I’ll
take a wager that chap has some civil-
servant blood in his veins.
* * * *
“Thrune“; “Liang” (B. 17/4/35) men-
tions that four V.Cs. were awarded to
the 2nd Battalion South Wales Borderers
for the defence of Rorke’s Drift. I have
an old Rorke’s Drift lithograph, issued
by S. T. Leighs, Sydney ; under it are five
names of V.Cs.—Major Bromhead, Surg.-
Major Reynolds, Assist.-Com. Dalton,
Corporal Scheiss and Major Chard.
There is also mention of the Rev. George
Smith, who didn’t get a decoration.
‘Wot bait are y' usin'?”
“Meat”
“FISH don't eat MEAT.”
“No; but sharks do”
APPLE HARVEST.
It is the time of harvest now
Along the Huon River,
Where apples load the leaning bough,
And spent leaves fall and shiver.
The weighted vans sway down the road
That autumn’s beauty dapples—
Was ever such a lovely load
As bright and painted apples!
And all along the Derwent side
The gatherers, late and early,
Go toiling on through noonday’s pride
And mornings fresh and pearly.
The cows come to the milking shed,
The shadows veil the hill;
But sunset, robed in flames of red.
Shall find them toiling still.
It’s autumn now in Apple Isle,
Gay autumn robed in glory,
Down quiet valleys, mile on mile.
And hillsides grey and hoary.
A brown and busy Eden, where
Her wealth the bent bough dapples,
And harvesters this time of year
Go gathering the apples.
VICTORIA.
K. D.


★ Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
10 for 9 d *—20 for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
ness.
J1845M/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me”
m
POLITICAL POINTS
Maoriland does things differently. Re-
viewing the session that lasted 113 days,
Christchurch “Times” remarks that “very
important measures were passed” and
they “received prolonged consideration.”
Important measures were passed at Can-
berra during the same period, but, because
Parliament sits seldom and invariably
rushes its job when holidays are in pros-
pect, they received little or no considera-
tion. Yet these Australians who scamp
their work get more than twice the pay
of the Maorilanders who do their job
properly.
Ben Chifley, Scullin’s Defence Minister
and Lang’s opponent in Auburn, has a
forward-looking policy. He advocates
the handing over to the Commonwealth
control of marketing, arbitration, edu-
cation, insurance, company laws and
divorce. Transport is the only note-
worthy omission.
Lang says he will abolish the dole
ticket and pay the unemployed in cash.
Simultaneously he promises them bigger
and brighter Government lotteries (“a
£25,000 lottery is no more immoral than
a £5OOO one”) and licensed starting-price
bookmakers all over the place. He is
“Labor’s great leader,” and this is his
way of building more stately mansions
for Labor souls.
The Interior Department has appointed
a professor, the Chief Protector of Abo-
rigines and the secretary of the “Abo-
rigines’ Friends’ Society” to inquire into
“specific charges of maltreatment of
natives in the N.T.” If there is ill-
treatment the Chief Protector should
know about it without sitting on com-
missions. The whole thing is sheer waste
of money.
“Mr. Forgan Smith,”' says a Brisbane
paper, “has a way of pointing an arm
straight out in accusing fashion when
making a particularly strong point
against an opponent.” Hitler, Mussolini
and Lang have the same odd habit. There
may not be a distinctive shirt for Foggy
should he follow the trio into dictator-
ship, but it seems that “his measured
tones are rich in the accent of the Gael.”
This will entitle him to wear his garment
below the waistline, after the Highland
fashion.
According to Dr. Streeter, leader of the
Douglas Credit party in Queensland, and
himself a candidate for Baroona, “a
country lives by producing what it
needs.” It would be a poor lookout for
this country if Australia did only that.
Alberta, towards which Douglas is
making, grows meat, wool and dairy
produce, and mines coal, natural gas and
bituminous sand. Heaven help the
Major if he tells the Albertans they will
have to produce just enough for their
local requirements!
Whoever told Lang he was a good man
at a microphone was an abject flatterer or
a legpuller. John Thomas’s rasping voice
and sneering tones make a most un-
pleasant impression on all but devotees.
On a platform, carefully stage-managed,
he does produce some effect, however
fleeting, but invisibility merely emphasises
his weaknesses and fault's. Yet these
radio stunts have cost the machine more
than the money it borrowed from the
coalminers and hasn’t repaid.
The strike of slaughtermen at Brisbane
abattoirs, which held up chilled-meat ex-
ports at a critical time for the new in-
dustry, is over, so it seems safe for the
Queensland Labor Premier co praise the
Act at which the men mocked. A legisla-
tive child of his own, he pronounces it
“the most up-to-date and far-reach-
ing democratic arbitration law in the
Empire.” Yet when unionists are dis-
satisfied it is about as effective in pre-
venting strikes as a law of Hammurabi
would be.
Vic. Premier Dunstan must be thrilled
at the part for which Lang has cast him.
With his vote and influence on the Loan
Council he is to get N. S. Wales
£9,000,000 a year for “works” —any old
“works” —and then stand and watch
Lang slug institutions like the A.M.P. in
the name of farm-relief;
There will be a suspension of portion
of the principal of the mortgage and the
interest due on it, to be followed with a
writing-do\yn of the principal according to
a plan judicially decided upon.
No doubt Lang and Garden will be the
judges. The scheme is aimed at the
banks, but it wouldn’t touch their over-
drafts, though it would sock the A.M.P.
That great office,
which has taken
the lead in in-
terest - reduction,
has £21,740,000
out on mortgage.
Maurice Black-
burn, M.H.R. for
Bourke, has come
across the Murray
to speak for Lang.
Though elected
as a supporter of
Federal Labor,,
which stands for
Caucus election
of Ministries and
democratic con-
trol of the party,
he thinks it an
impertinence for
“t h e so-called
Federal Labor
party” to come
out against the
Lang dictatorship,
and asserts that
“emphatic resent-
ment” is felt in
Victoria at “the
intrusion of Mr.
Chifley in
Auburn,” Maurice
will have to do
some expert
tumbling when
the Langsters put
up a man for the
Fed. Labor elec-
torate of New-
castle, rendered
vacant by the
death of his col-
league Watkins.
But perhaps he
will take care not to be in N.S.W. then.
Unlike Agrarian parties in other
States, the Westralian have
never had any use for pre-selection or
for restricting the party nomination to
sitting members ; so five C.P. candidates
are out for the Avon by-election. One
is the widow of Griffiths, the late
member ; another is Boyle, president of
the Wheatgrowers’ Union, which has evi-
dently composed its quarrel with the
P.P.A. Labor is trying to regain the seat.
T. H. Bath, one of its early leaders, held
it before the war, beating Colebatch,
who was to become Premier, Agent-
General, Senator and Agent-General
again ; but those days are gone.
N. S. Wales Assembly has two medical
members —J. E. Webb (Hurstville) and
C. C. Fleck (Granville). Lang Labor
boisterously predicts that the electors
will send them back to their consulting-
rooms. Both ousted Langsters last time,
Dr. Webb having an absolute majority
of 824 over three opponents, while Dr.
Fleck defeated Ely, Lang’s Health Minis-
ter, by 853 on the fourth count, Ely had
a lot to do with setting up the Milk
Board, as a result of which the retail
price was raised to 7d. and Bd. a quart.
That won’t help him in an electorate of
consumers, even though electors have
short memories.
Queensland Labor would love to dish
A. W. Fadden, whose criticisms of its
taxes and finances have annoyed it.
Member for Kennedy in the last Parlia-
ment, Fadden is standing for Mirani,
and Labor is putting up E. J. Walsh, a
Sarina cane-farmer, against him. Forgan
Smith, speaking for Walsh, modestly
commended Mackay’s example to Mirani.
I have represented Mackay for 20 years,
and in that time the district has gone ahead
by leaps and bounds, due entirely to
Labor’s policy.
“Entirely” is good, considering what
Mackay owes to the Commonwealth’s
sugar policy. Since Foggy became a
politician, his party has controlled the
“Germany has broken up the road to peace. Its military
expansion must inevitably force the sound pacific idea of general
collective security into the dangerous form of military alliances.
—Ramsay MacDonald.
“This is trying my pacifeest soul too far. If it winna
respond tae conceeliaiory expressions. I'll — I'll
shake a slick at it."
Commonwealth’s sugar policy for two
whole years.
Short of a party triumph, of which
there is no prospect, nothing would please
T antT mnrp than tn see Peter Louahlin
Lang more t n ®, •
beaten in Goulburn. Loughhn was
nearly-successful rival for the leadership
in 1926, and as a U.A.P. man three years
ago Loughlin ousted one of Lang’s
favorites Tully Minister of Lands,
l,r.v,:r,rr o’ murmn Qtn vntoc in a noli
havmg a m g P
of 12,068. Lang has never had the
courage to face up to the former school-
master in the House, but is now barking
at him over the radio. As a rule the Goul-
burn and Bungendore boxes give the
ATP mqn whoever it mav be a good
A.L.P. nian whoever it may oe a goou
start, and the contest will be close.
Opinion in Parliament is that W. M.
Hughes is easier to get on with since
his return to office after 121 years, but
his personal staff has not found it so.
In five months or so the Little Digger
has had as many secretaries; and some
of them were big Diggers.
U.A.P. Federal members are looking
askance at Acting-Treasurer Casey since
he announced —prematurely—that his
Government would not return money un-
lawfully collected in sales tax on second-
hand goods, and, unwarned by the clamor
then aroused, suggested that the Commis-
sioner of Taxation would exercise “cer-
tain arbitrary powers” in taxing oil com-
panies. Casey spent some years learning
to be a diplomat. He obviously needs in-
struction on how to become a democrat.
N.S.W. Justice Halse Rogers started a
useful controversy when he pointed out
that a motorist going at a great speed “is
not entitled to put his finger on the horn
and say it is the duty of the pedestrian to
get out of the way.” People with some
regard for the public’s nerves have re-
marked that in other countries the hog in
the car is not allowed to have horns or
hooters. These instruments of torture are
prohibited in Paris between 10 p.m. and
7 a.m. In Helsingfors, Rome and a
growing number of German cities they
are forbidden altogether.
Vic. public-service organisations have a
solitary scalp to show for their restora-
tion-of-salaries campaign, that of Pen-
nington, Argyle’s Minister of Education ;
and Government school-teachers are
making the most of it. Pennington has
been succeeded by Dr. Harris, and the
“Teachers’ Journal” proclaims that the
doctor is “a man of culture and intelli-
gence” with a “keen and inquiring mind”
and “courage”—not like old Pennington,
who “starved the education system and
took money from the teachers’ pockets.”
Of course, the “Journal” reserves the
right to alter these opinions if the doctor
doesn’t come down with the dust.
At the Melbourne Town Hall meeting
to protest against, the book censorship
there will be no intrusion of the Red ele-
ment. MacMahon Bell, the university lec-
turer, will preside, and the speakers and
subjects are Furnley Maurice (“Brave New
World”), Rev. Selwyn Evans (Palme
Dutt’s “Fascism and the Social Revolu-
tion”), Prof. G. W. Paton (Stalin’s
“Leninism”), Tristan Buesst (Boccaccio’s
“Decameron”), Scott Bennett (Hutt’s
“Condition of the Working Classes of
Great Britain”) and Brian Fitzpatrick
(John Dos Passos’s “1919”). Customs
Minister White should have something
to reply to by the time that team has
finished.
When Roumania was overrun by the
Germans in 1916-17, 12 millions in gold
and tons of State papers were removed
to Russia, presently to be commandeered
by the Bolshies. As a sign of its sudden
spasm of friendship for capitalist coun-
tries, the Red push recently communi-
cated with the Roumanian Government
regarding the transported property. The
gold, of course, has faded into thin air,
but Roumania is welcome to the
documents.
Protest from an accountant:
Queensland Opposition-leader Moore’s pro-
posal that profits should not go to share-
holders without limit is not as silly as it may
seem (B. 24/4/’35). The objection that em-
ployees do not share losses in bad years could
be answered by the suggestion that the 5 per
cent, to shareholders should be cumulative.
When all is said and done, the difference
between company A, successful, and company B,
on the rocks, is in the capabilities of employees,
from managing director down to office-boy;
not in any virtue of shareholders. Logically
Moore might go a step farther and suggest
that, when shareholders have received a limited
cumulative rate on capital, they have been
fully paid for the use of their wealth, and
that the whole of any surplus should go to
employment, including management. Inciden-
tally, the Companies Act of Maoriland and
the new N.S.W. bill contain provisions for
labor or workers’ shares.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


BACK FROM THE SHOW.


XttP er
XSHEtI
The Best Thing SHELL Has Done!
fd
Shell has achieved what engineers
have sought for years a crystal-
clear straight motor spirit so high
in anti-knock qualities that it is far
in advance of the needs of the most
modern high compression engines
on the road today!
SHELL
FOR MILEAGE AND POWER
PERSONAL ITEMS
Angus McLeod (79), of Werribee,
marched in Melbourne on Anzac Day.
A Scot, he fought in the Boxer affair 34
years ago. He was on the Australford
during the World War. Patrick McCaf-
ferty (86) has an even more astonishing
record. He saw service in Afghanistan,
Egypt and S’Africa, joined the A.I.F. at
65 and was wounded in France at 68. He
married after his discharge, and has an
infant son.
“ROSEY.”
“Trix”: In 1907 Laurie Marshall, of
Collingwood, built and flew Victoria’s
first biplane. He first started work
on it in 1902. A photograph of the
machine is preserved at Collingwood
Town Hall, where Marshall is a coun-
cillor.
McGregor Reid, who has succeeded
A. A. Simpson as president of S.A.
Chamber of Commerce, is already chair-
man of the Abattoirs and Export Board,
Onkaparinka Woollen Co. and Walker-
ville Brewery, and a director of other cos.
Mrs. C. Pickthall, who arrived in Mel-
bourne the other day from England, is
a sister of the late Katherine Mansfield
and a daughter of knight Harold Beau-
champ. Mrs. Pickthall sits on the public
assistance committee for the district of
Poplar, one of London’s worst slum
areas.
From “Also R.A.N.”;
The empty saddle bringing up the rear of
the Anzac Day march belonged to Col, Hector
Osman Caddy, who died in Melbourne at
53 before he could complete the assembly _
arrangements. He joined one of the original
A.F.A. batteries under the then Major George
Johnston, and rose to command No. 5 Battery
at Gallipoli and No. 13 F.A. Brigade by 1916.
He finished with a C.M.G., D. 5.0., five “men-
tions” (including a special one from Haig)
and the command of the 4th Artillery Division.
One-time singlestick champion of Victoria, a
keen rifle-shot and horseman, “Os” was the
finest type of gunner officer. His friends
sometimes accused him of cutting them when
his twin-brother failed to recognise them. He
will be most missed by the subalterns. When
he returned from a trip to England last year
he was met by a telegram signed by 40 of
them.
G. S. Reed, the new acting-judge in
S.A., follows Judges Parsons, Piper and
Richards in being the son of a cleric.
The fathers of the other two, Murray
and Napier, were respectively a squatter
and a doctor.
“Jimmy” Loynes, who passed through
Sydney last week on his way to Britain,
is a Q. building contractor who was his
State’s first Deputy-War Service Homes
Commissioner. He was a sar’-major in the
Q. militia M.I. at the end of last cen-
tury, and he went to the Boer War as a
company sergeant-major of the Ist
Q.M.L. Service in the sth Q. 1.8. as a
subaltern followed. In 1914 Loynes went
with the 11th L.H, as a squadron leader,
served on Gallipoli and in Sinai and
Palestine, and finished up a major.
This is Charles Rosenthal, G.O.C. the
2nd Div. A.M.F., and one of the
bravest and best soldiers in
the A.I.F. He holds almost
every decoration available to
one of his rank, the Mont
St. Quentin victory was
largely his, and Diggers’
yarns about his indifference
to danger and concern for
their welfare would fill a
fair-sized book. So after a
brief term as M.L.A. for
Bathurst, he disappeared
from Parliament. Great sol-
diers are not rushed by any
of the N. S. Wales parties.
“Mont”: Dead at Lilydale
(Vic.), John F. Youl, well
known to Melbourne as an
insurance broker and better
known as the son of the cele-
brated coroner. Old Dr.
Youl’s finish was character-
istic of the breezy cynicism
he revealed at his inquests.
Surgeon Mollison was in
attendance, and Youl asked
for a glass of champagne.
The doctor hesitated, and the
patient cried: “Hurry up,
Mollison, or you’ll be too
late.” Mollison handed Youl the glass,
which he tossed off and then sank back
on his pillow, dead.
“D.’s” analysis;
A. W. Carr, whose autobiography is being
syndicated in Australia, says he was sacked
from school and (after two terms) from
Oxford for “not working.” The trouble at
Oxford must have been something else: Mods,
or Law Prelim, (as the case may be) give
the authorities their first chance to find out if
an undergrad, has been loafing, and these
exams, don’t come on for a year. Carr doesn’t
seem to have worked since he came down.
Proud of getting what lie calls “plastered,”
he has something spiteful to say about many
of the cricketers he has played with, English
as well as Australian. He is a skilled exponent
of what the French call “British brag”;
ostensibly modest, he retails all the compli-
mentary things others have said of him. “Not
much of a reader,” he has “never sat out a
Shakspeare play,” never seen “Mane Tempest,
Cedric Hardwicke or any of the leading actors
or actresses,” and the films he likes best are
gangsters. The complete hearty. He is destined
to bore friends and relations stiff about his
sporting feats till he dies. His most agreeable
trait is an apparently genuine love of horses.
“Historicus”: Australia owns a family
that will seethe with indignation the first
time a member of it sees “Clive of
India.” The film ignores Lawrence, who
did as much for India {and Clive) as
Clive himself. Sir Ramsay Couper, Bart,,
who has lived in Victoria for half a cen-
tury, and whose son Guy served in the
A.1.F., is a son of the man who
fought during the Mutiny as John I aw-
rence’s A.D.C. Two branches of the
original Clive family also have Aus-
tralian affiliations by the way. General
Clive was part-owner of Collaroy station
(N.S.W.) —one of his sons married a
daughter of manager Maher and went on
the land here —and a female descendant
of that Earl of Powis who changed his
surname from Clive to Herbert in 1807
married into the Jenkins family of N. S.
Wales, and lived at Herbert Park, Armi-
dale. Two sons were wounded in the
A.I.F.
Some May birthdays:
Vic. Crown Prosecutor Book, 40, on Ist;
N.S.W. Senator Charles Cox, 72, and Prof.
J. R. Wilton (Adel.), 51, on 2nd; Justice Rich
(High Court), 72, Prof. T. H. Laby (Melb.), 55,
knight Colin Stephen (Syd.), 63, ex-Lord Mayor
Chas. Glover (Adel.), 65,. and Gerald Lightfoot
(sec., C.5.1.R.), 58, on 3rd; C. L. A. Abbott.
M.H.R. (Gwydir), 49, Chas. Earle (“Dominion,”
M. 64, David Gordon, M.L.C. (Adel.), 70,
and Prof. McKellar Stewart (Adel.), 57 on
4th; former N.S.W. Premier Bavin, 61, and
Douglas Mawson, 53, on sth; fprmer Vic.
Premier Prendergast, 81, and Bishop Fox
(Wilcannia-Forbes), 42, on 6th; J. T. Heather-
shaw (Commonwealth Pensions Dept.), 64, and
Harold Clapp (Vic. Railways Commissioner),
60, on 7th; J. C. V. Behan, M.A. (Trinity
Coll., Melb.), 54, Col. Lord (Tas. police chief),
65, and James Ashton (Syd.), 71, on Bth; Dr.
George Mackaness, 53, Sidney Kidman, 78,
T. H. Scholfield, M.H.R. (Wannon), 41, and
Bishop Burgmann (Goulbum), 50, on 9th;
knight Claude H. Reading, 61, and N. F.
Spielvogel (Vic.), 61, on 10th; marine painter
Charles Bryant, 52, and S. A. Director of
Agric. A. J. Perkins, 64, on 11th; Dean John-
son (Newcastle), 46, Canon Hughes (Melb.),
75, and Prof. R. W. Hawken (Q.), 57, on
12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 58, on 13th;
former S. Aus. Premier Lionel Hill, 54, ex-
N. Senator P. P. Abbott, 66, and Prof.
J. J. Stable (Q.), 52, on 14th; Q. Chief Justice
Blair, 64, and C. A. S. Hawker, M.H.R.
(Wakefield), 41, on 16th; Newton Moore
(sometime Premier, W.A.), 65, and poet Leon
Gellert, 43, on 17th; Major-General Harold
Grimwade (Vic.), 66, Dr. P. R. Cole (Syd.
Teachers’ Coll.), 56, artist W. B. Mclnnes, 46,
J. A. Perkins, M.H.R. (Eden-Monaro), 57, and
authoress Zora Cross, on 18th; A. H. Stuart
(gen. manager “S. M. Herald”), 42, on 19th;
former P.M.G. W. G. Gibson, 66, F. J. Rae
(Director Melb. Botanical Gardens), 52, and
H. E. Boote (editor “Aust. Worker”), 67, on
20th; Q. Railways Commissioner Davidson,
63, on 21st; knight Alexander Gordon (Syd.),
77, on 22nd; Justice Parsons (S.A.), 63, Judge
Becby, 66, and N.S.W. Min. for Lands Butten-
shaw, 59, on 23rd; Q. ex-Gov. Goodwin, 64,
and William Vicars (Syd.), 76, on 24th; Justice
Pike (N.S.W.), 69, on 25th; Arthur Cocks (Syd.),
73, Brig.-Gen. McNicoll (Administrator of New
Guinea), 58, S.A. Director of Educ. W. J.
Adey, 61, and Prof. A. L. Campbell (Adel.),
46, on 27th; ex-Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 84,
and Prof. M. S. Fletcher (Q.), 67, on 28th; Prof.
R. J. A. Berry (Melb.), 68, on 30th; Q. Senator
Foil, 45. Capt. Bracegirdle (G.-G.’s staff), 54,
and C. W. Peterson (War Service Homes), 45,
on 31st. Also s.s. Edina, of Melbourne and
Geelong, oldest screw steamer in commission,
81, on May 4.
Gilbert Nobbs has been with Hol-
brooks all his working life; and to-day he
is managing director of the Australasian
branch. As a youngster he had been in
the London Rifle Brigade. Happening to
be in London when the war began he
went overseas with his old brigade, was
shot through the head on the Somme in
1916 and blinded. He lay in a shell-
hole for three days before being captured
A Blind Business Magnate.
by the Germans. He is a vice-president
and founder of the Legacy Club, presi-
dent of the Manly amateur swimming
club and a golfer.
R. R. SKEAT, the
Vic. U.C.P.’s new
president.
Since most of
Dunstan’s Minis-
ters come from
the Murray or
thereabouts it was
fitting that R. R.
Skeat, of Red
Cliffs, should
have succeeded
Hocking the
King - maker as
president of the
Vic. Country
party. He was
senior vice-presi-
dent in Hocking’s
time. His troubles
are only begin-
ning.
“Melb.”: Efforts
to unravel the
mystery sur-
rounding Walter
Kirby’s will re-
veal one charac-
teristic touch.
Lady Wantage,
who lent Walter
£BOO to pursue
his musical
studies, asked to
be repaid, much
to Walter’s sur-
prise. He ex-
plained to friends
that he “thought
it was a gift, not
a 1o a n.” She
didn’t get the
money, but to
make up for it
Walter left her
over £lO,OOO to
pass to the town that bears her name
should she predecease him. She did,
and now a Berkshire town that had
never previously heard of our stout little
tenor is rubbing its eyes and wondering
if it can all be true.
“Chelsea”; Stanley Spencer and
Homerville Hague, who declared war
simultaneously on the Royal Academy
last week, are as different as any two
artists could be. Spencer (who has re-
signed his A.R.A. because two of his pic-
tures have been turned down) is young,
tall, dressy, anything but arty in appear-
ance, and a super-modernist. His ideal
men and women suffer from elephantiasis
or malnutrition, and sometimes, start-
lingly, from both. Hague (who is asking
the King to withdraw the R.A.’s charter)
is a fussy little man who has been exhibit-
ing since the mid-Victorian era, and hates
all the modernists from Gauguin to Bell
like poison. He claims to have painted
more British royalties, peers and peers-
men than anybody since Holbein. He
has plenty of money and a combative
nature, so he may carry out his
threat of taking the Academy to the
Privy Council.
J “Jeames” looks up from his Debrett:
To do justice to the Victorian policeman
whose title to the Tweedmouth barony has
been repudiated by the late peer’s sister, the
Marchioness of Aberdeen, he never made the
claim. A newspaper ballyhoo specialist started
the story on finding that the J. Hop’s name
was Marchbanks, which is how Marjori-
banks, the Tweedmouth family name, is pro-
nounced. This is one of those peerages that
have died out for lack of a male heir. The
third baron had two daughters and no sons,
and his collaterals only produced one son
between them. The son fathered a daughter
and died. The Vic. policeman’s sensible atti-
tude (to an interviewer he said that he was
interested in his job and not in the Marjori-
banks family) is rare. In Australia and Ml.
Grahams usually say they belong to the Mont-
rose family, Leslies are mostly descendants of
the Earl of Rothes who was killed at Flodden,
Howards have remote claims on the dukedom
of Norfolk, and so on. I met some people
named Harewood once who said they were
“related by marriage to Princess Mary”!


Johnnie
N
k
7C&
Born 1820 . . .
still going strong .
*
555
MOS
BY APPOINTMENT*!© H.M.THEcKINJ®
Only from Scotland can True Scotch
Whisky Come!
And the best of all is Johnnie Walker. 115 years
experience guarantees its quality. It is distilled and
matured in Scotland. It comes to Australia in sealed
casks and is bottled by our own staff in our own
warehouse under the supervision of the Common-
wealth Customs. Call for Johnnie Walker always—
it’s the whisky of maturity . . . flavour . . . smoothness
.. fragrance—the finest of all Scotch whiskies.
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW—2I—F.P.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
‘lncludes divs. to shareholders; 1918, £458;
1923, £3708 ; 1926, £5208; 1929, £8333; 1930,
£3958; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375; 1933, £4375;
1934, £6OOO.
tlndudes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,465 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,506
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund. £2OOO „. 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 >52,203 77,083 83,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
‘lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £1480; 1924, £1966 ; 1925, £3473 ;
1926-34, £7500 ; 1934, £7500 p.a.
flncludes sundry reserves.
Bonuses to policy-holders and dividends
to shareholders are now regular features
of this 39-year-old, whose business is
spread over the three eastern States and
S. Aus. Progress, which became more
marked last year, continues along sound
lines. Combining the figures of the two
departments, an extra £106,066 of new
business (£856,668) was put on the
books. The improvement in total income
(£297,763) was £29,282—£20,595 was on
account of net premiums, etc. (£234,283),
and £8687 interest and rent, etc.
(£63,480). After meeting all legitimate
claims and exes., and sending £12,500 to
shareholders’ account and £3OOO to the
interim bonus reserve for policy-holders,
£95,373 (£26,604 more than in the pre-
vious year) was added to the Assurance
funds, raising them to £1,269,874, which
was more than ample for actuarial re-
quirements. In addition, policy-holders
have the protection and assistance of
£ 104,000-odd of special reserves, etc.,
plus the share capital (£50,000).
_ The surpluses available for distribu-
tion at the last two triennial valuations
compare as follows;
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 .. 28,543 19,747 48,290
During the three years the basis of
valuation in the Industrial section was
strengthened at an extra cost of £8765.
Of the £19,747 now available, £9976 is
to be used to still further strengthen the
basis of valuation (the idea is to benefit
policy-holders in the future), and £2271
for bonuses of 10 p.c, on the sura
assured on contracts 15 years in force,
plus 1 p.c. for each additional year; the
other £7500 belongs to shareholders. In
the Ordinary department £20,664 goes
to policy-holders, £5166 to shareholders
and £2713 is carried forward. The
£20,664 provides bonuses on whole-life
and endowment assurances ranging from
30s. p.c. to 40s. p.c.
The co. assumes that its Assurance
funds will earn 3 p.c. in the Ordinary
and 3y p.c. in the Industrial section.
Actually the net return on average funds
was 4.8 p.c. in the Ordinary and a shade
over 5 p.c. in the Industrial department
as against 3.6 p.c. and 4.1 p.c. respec-
tively in 1933. The improvement was
due mainly to a lighter tax bill (£3OBl,
down £7374, in the two sections com-
bined).
Of the net premiums exes, took 23.1
p.c. of Ordinary and 46.4 p.c. of Indus-
trial, compared with 22.2 p.c. and 47 p.c.
respectively in 1933.
Most of the £95,373 added to funds
went into Government securities, up
£92,383:
1933. 1934.
Freeholds, etc. £259,564 19.7 p.c. £259,259 18.3 p.c.
Govt, securities 595,767 45.2 „ 688,150 48.5 „
Shares other cos. 19,151 1.4 „ 21,302 1.5 „
Mortgages .. 284,609 21.6 „ 283,476 19.9 „
Loans on policies 97,405 7.4 „ 99,199 7.0 „
Book debts . . 41,425 3.1 „ 42,863 3.0 „
Cash .. .. 21,815 1.6 „ 25,685 1.8 „
In 1929 Government securities amounted
to 36.4 p.c. and mortgages to 30.9 p.c.
of the total assets.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
Ord. Pref. Total Re-
Jan., Profit. Div. Div. Div. serves.
£ £ £
1925.. 150,260 I'Op.c. 6&7p.c. 100.162 150,318
1926.. 190,078 10 „6&7„ 104,823 235,573
1927.. 217,261 10 „6&7„ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6&7„ 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 ~ 6& 7 „ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 „6&7„ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226.265 9 ~6 &7„ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „6&7„ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „6&7„ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 „6&7„ 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 6$ „6& 7 ~ 91,410 893,502
The £1,398,226 of capital is in 20,000
6 p.c. and 125,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,253,226 ords. The prefs. are preferen-
tial as to dividends only ; for capital they
rank equally with the ords. after deduct-
ing reserved profits. The 6 per cents,
seldom appear on ’Change ; the sevens
are fairly steady around 28s. 6d., at which
figure the return is 4.9 p.c. The ords.
have tumbled from 325. lOd. to 255. 9d.
over the last 12 months, due to legislative
interference. At 255. 9d. the return is
5 p.c. on a 6\ p.c. div. basis.
In future, the chairman says, the
undertaking will be allowed to earn only
7 p.c. p.a. on the actual capital invested
in assets used for the purpose of electric
supply (the actual capital is the depre-
ciated value of the assets), and out of
the 7 p.c. the co. has to pay income tax
—the amount of last year’s tax is not
disclosed.
The position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows:
1921. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,398,226 £1,398,226
Liabilities.. .. 42,200 43,595 61,532
Properly, plant, mains,
etc. .. . . 769,184 1,846,926 1,839,521
ytoek . . . . 22,131 30,879
Cash, public securities,
etc 27,629 486,415 484,308
Book debts, etc. . . 47,869 40,620 35,859
When the books closed stock and
debtors’ balances, etc., more than covered
outside liabilities. The £484,308 of cash
and public securities (the latter figure at
£59,994, or £750 less than their face
value) was enough to return the whole
of the pref. capital, and still, leave the
co. with £339,308 (= ss. sd. per ord.
share) in the till. Fixed assets, down
£7405, figure at cost. How much of the
£691,293 set aside for renewals, replace-
ments and contingencies is intended as
cover for depreciation is not clear from
the published accounts. A 7 p.c. div. may
not prove to be out of reach.
After providing for renewals, replace-
ments and other contingencies, the board
wrote last year’s net profit £13,895 short
of its immediate predecessor at £96,315,
or £4905 more than the pref. divs. and
6i p.c. to the ords. called for. The dif-
ference between the profit claimed and
that shown in the table represents un-
explained movements in reserves, down
£9575 net last year. Reserves are now
segregated in the sheet, and include a
provident fund of £50,000 and £85,000
labelled “taxation account.” Franchises,
in at £62,723, have not been treated as
an asset herein.
Apart from a few 10-year agreements
for bulk supply of electricity to the Bris-
bane City Council, the co.’s franchises
are perpetual, subject to the council’s
statutory powers to purchase at various
dates. Last year the co. extended supply
to eight new centres south of Brisbane,
and its sales are on the up grade.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net r~ Dividends N Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 13,749 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £3OO .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,866
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,591 9*p.e. Nil 6,525 2066 6,706
■‘lncludes special payment of £725.
When the books closed, there was £26,100
in accrued divs. to come on £72,500 of
8 p.c. pref. capital. The slate has been
cleaned since by first paying a year’s
div. (£5800) at the old rate ; after that
the rate was reduced to 6 p.c. cumula-
tive, leaving £15,225 still to come, of
which £14,500 was capitalised by the
issue of new pref. shares, one for five ;
the other £725 was paid in cash. The
gift, however, makes 6 p.c. worth 7.2 p.c.
on old holdings, and the prefs. have been
given the right to advance with the ords.
after the latter have had 6 p.c.
Paid capital is now £191,250 in 87,000
6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 104,250 ords. The
prefs. will call for £5220 p.a., which was
more than li times covered by last year’s
net earnings. The net tangible backing
is £2 ss. 6d. prefs. and 21s. 3d. ords. Not
attracted by the participating rights at
the moment, the market prices the prefs.
at 21s. 4d., at which figure the return is
5.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. At 7s. 6d.
the ords, would return 6.6 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. After allowing for the
pref. div., the balance of last year’s net
earnings was 3.2 p.c. on ord. capital.
The co. owns half a dozen factories,
which turn out dairy utensils, builders’
requisites, wire fencing and agricultural
implements, etc. The goods are retailed
mostly through its own stores at
Flinders-lane (Melbourne), Fitzroy and
five country centres in Vic., and through
a subsidiary, W. Hart and Son, at Laun-
ceston (Tas.). About 30 p.c. of the
goods retailed are the co.’s own products.
Last year there was a marked improve-
ment in turnover, and the factories are
now working almost to capacity. The im-
provement in gross earnings (£59,732) was
£5437, while exes. (£51,141) were £2BBO
fighter, making the net improvement
£8317. The chairman forecasts gradual
improvement in earnings, which depend
largely upon agricultural incomes.
The financial position improved:
1924. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £125,600 £176,750 £176,750 £176,750
Liabilities . . 15,741 73,190 70,074 64,903
Freeholds . . 25,933 43,312 43,625 43,000
Plant, etc. . . 13,313 25,293 22,086 22,123
Stocks.. .. 73,628 141,404 142,466 148,554
Book debts . . 24,302 30,197 26,476 25,761
Cash, etc. . . 8,824 1,460 1,361 825
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000
Stocks, up £6OBB, is the item which
catches the eye ; they appear at a con-
servative figure, the chairman says. Plant
is reported in first-class order, and is
claimed to be worth more than its book
value. The growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£110,237, including stocks)
was £lO,OOB.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1925. .25,291 12* p.c. = 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926.. 25,347 12$ „ „ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926.-28,446 15 „ „ 18,900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 12$ „ „ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927..28,378 12$ „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on saie of property, £52,671 . . 179,457
Feb., 1928..28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 12$ „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb., 1929..28,503 12$ p.c. = 15,750 U „ JO(1
Staff fund, £2OOO .. .. |10,753 207,490
July, 1929. .24,071 22$ p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930..29,016 15 „ „ 18,900 1 Q 0 Q „ 7
Staff fund, £lOOO . 9,116 212,327
July, 1930. .22,285 12$ p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931..21,437 12$ „ „ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
July, 1931.. 16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
Jan., 1932..19,491 9 „ „ 11,340 8,151 239,914
July, 1932..18,490 10 „ „ 12,600 5,890 245,804
Jan., 1933. .20,873 10 „ ~12,600 8,273 254,077
July. 1933..19,281 10 „ „ 12,600 6,681 260,758
Jan., 1934..24,326 12$ „ „ 15,750 1
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..$ 7,576 268,334
July, 1934.. 25,230 12$ p.c. = 15,750 1 R Rl ,
Staff fund, £lOOO .. _ J- 8,480 276,8X4
Reserves capitalised, £63,000 .. 213,814
Jan., 1935..26,235 12$ p.c. = 19,688 6,547 220,361
This co., which runs a chain of drug
stores' in Sydney, occupies an unusually
strong position; the manufacture of
much of its own requirements, large-scale
buying, general efficiency and the hoard-
ing of surplus earnings and other moneys
have combined to set it there. During
the last five years, surplus earnings and
the sale of freeholds (some of them were
picked up cheap early in this century and
sold before the boom burst) have left the
co. with more money than it could find
employment for in the business, notwith-
standing that several new stores were
opened and two new subsidiaries —-Soul-
Pattinson (Newcastle), Ltd., and Soul-
Pattinson (Laboratories), Ltd. —were
formed.
The next table shows how stoutly
ribbed the co. is financially:—-
Jan.,’3o. Jan.,’32. Jan.,’34. Jan.,’3s.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £252,000 £315,000
S*undry creditors,
etc 50,253 46,914 65,842 72,797
Premises, stock,
plant, etc.. . 181,157 141,832 126,984 124,618
Book debts . . 166,741 149,275 125,922 88,615
Public securities 175,170 203,921 275,511 258,085
Cash, etc. .. 20,782 47,906 46,986* 51,064
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 3,63)0 21,234 41,522 121,465
Last year £63,000 of bonus scrip was
issued, raising paid capital to £315,000,
of which £165,000 has come from re-
serves. Yet Consols and cash together
were only £5851 short of paid capital at
the end of January, while debtors’ bal-
ances more than covered the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. —what
the etcetera is the published accounts
don’t disclose. A growth of £79,943 in
shares and advances to other cos.,, chiefly
the subsidiaries already referred to, was
accompanied by a contraction of £37,307
in debtors’ balances and of £17,426 in
public securities, some of which were
bought at a discount.
Declared net earnings for the twelve-
month sprang £7858, reaching 16.3 p.c. on
capital as it now stands. The div. was
kept at p.c., equal to 15.6 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the beginning of the
term.
In a market hungry for sound securi-
ties investors note the strong financial
position and wide margin between earn-
ings and distributions, and price the fully-
paid pound shares at 695. The return at
that figure is 3.6 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div.
basis.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
/ Dividends. Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Peb., Profit. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
60,000
1924.. 23,513 6000 7$ p.c. = 7500 10,013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 7* „ 7500 10,161 28,395
1926.. 23,686 6000 7* „ „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 7} ~ ~ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up £25.000 .. .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 p.c. = 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000 22,649
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9,041
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil 1,128
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil 19,372
Insurance reserve ( £5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7.353 Nil Nil 21,725
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil 23,298
‘Half-year’s div.
This drapery offshoot of Marcus Clark
and Co. trades largely on a t.-p. basis, and
the store is in the centre of one of the
city’s industrial areas. Although trade-
union unemployment steadily decreased
from 33 p.c. for the third quarter of 1932
to 23.5 p.c. for the last quarter of 1934,
competition became more aggressive, and
isn’t likely to lose its keenness. To re-
vive turnover the co. launched an exten-
sive advertising campaign in 1933, which
has been continued with success since,
the board says. Still, prices had to be
cut so fine that the management was
unable to squeeze any profit out of the
larger trading.
After providing for bad debts, taxes
and other contingencies, the balance was
£1573 on the wrong side for the last
term, making total losses over the last
five years £44,572, and raising the
amount of ord. capital unrepresented by
tangibles at Feb. 2 to £23,298 —goodwill,
not treated as an asset herein, figures at
£60,000. Payments to the prefs. have
dropped 4Jr years behind; the ords.,
mostly held by the parent, have gone
without since 1930.
Exactly when the prefs.—there are
100,000 of them, p.c. cumulative less
22i p.c. statutory cut, calling for £5812
p.a. —are likely to come into the picture
again it is difficult to say ; much depends
upon the extent to which overhead can
be reduced without interfering with turn-
over. In the market the scrip is steady
at 15s. 9d. On the basis of a 5.8 p.c.
div. the return would be 7.3 p.c. plus
arrears, when paid. The book value of
the cover is 355. 4d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as the pub-
• fished figures show it: —-
1921. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £lBO,OOO- £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 13,515 82,098 95,399 103,996
Freeholds .. 124,205 122,762 122,350
Plant, etc. . . 3,449 18,144 15,332 15,568
Stock.. .. 34,618 40,856 26,360 25,799
Book debts . . 99,519 126,350 108,735 116,305
I n v e strnents,
cash, etc. . . 11,088 9,943 484 677
To carry a further £7570 of debtors’ bal-
ances the co. went outside for an extra
£8597. The shrinkage of £1395 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£38,785, in-
cluding stocks) further reflects the year’s
trading loss.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Be- Re-
Mar., Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £
1924.. 22,821 14$ p.c. = 18,750 4071 41,667
Reserves capitalised, £18,750 .. ~ 22,917
Bonus from holding's, £9646 .. .. 32,563
1925.. 15.082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
1926.. 20,835 12$ „ „ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 124 „ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47,989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,172
Loss.
1931.. 1,858 2$ „ „ 3,750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 If „ „ 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,061
1935.. 14,398 8f „ „ 13,125 1273 43,334
Profits depend chiefly upon building
activity and delivery costs. During the
10 fat years to the close of accounts in
1930, when money from overseas was
being scattered, shareholders averaged
10.9 p.c., sweetened with a small capi-
talisation (2s. 6d. a share) in 1924. Also
£30,576 of bonus scrip was received on
holdings in kindred organisations. Then
activity in the trade came almost to
a standstill, and earnings and divs. col-
lapsed. Still, the co. had traded well within
its own resources; the amount coming
to outsiders was fight, it had a good
wad of cash in the bank, and the debtors’
ledger was not bulky. It was thus in a
position to take immediate advantage of
any revival in trading conditions. The
extent to which it has been able to do so
is illustrated by the recovery in earnings.
Last year’s gross earnings (£17,565)
were £6816 better. Exes. (£3167) took
only £347 of the increase, leaving the net
result at 9.5 p.c. on capital as against
5.8 p.c. and 2.1 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was lifted from 5
p.c. to 8i p.c. The board anticipates
further improvement in turnover ; but it
is by no means certain that industrial
activity will not mark time for a while
in the near future.
The market expresses its opinion by
paying 28s. 9d. for the pound shares. At
that figure the return is 6.1 p.c. on an


The Latest Development in Mining, the McRICHPALS GOLD and TIN
SAVING MACHINE, for Alluvial, Beach and River Sands. Also Sole
Manufacturers and Patentees of the “Curvilinear” Patent Concentrating Table.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS (hand and power operated).
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISOH, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
SI.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * ♦ *
METALS.—If y OU want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T. LEM-
PBIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (l.ate Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.-— Advt.
♦ % * $
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAV” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. —Advt.
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.5.
Formerly Commissioner for Western Lands and eight
years State Secretary N.S.W. Branch Returned
Soldiers’ League.
General Representative and Broker.
Sound advice on all matters of Land, Real Estate,
Finance, Insurance (all kinds).
W. J. STAGG, A. 0.1.5., A.1.1.5’.,
36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Phone: 83731; JX2946 (Private).
Box 3050NN, G.P.0., Sydney.
S LIKE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
Don't face the future
BLINDFOLD
MAKE up your mind to be financially independ-
ent. Let the Society prepare for you a
financial plan that will build up your assets and
give you peace of mind!
The man who has not investigated what A.MP.
membership can do for him is blindfolding himself
as to the possibilities of his future. The peace of
mind that comes with A.M.P. assurance is within reach of
every man in work, and the cost of it need never be
more than a very small part of a man’s income.
Through his membership in the A.M.P. a man can ensure
his family against the risk of his death. He can ensure
the comfort of his own old age; build up a fund with
which to buy a business, or build a house; obtain loans
to help him in his business. He can ensure that there
will be money for his children’s education, or for
charitable bequests. He can do all the things that wise
men want to do.
Every man should have a periodical talk with an A.M.P.
counsellor. • Even though he have some life assurance, he should
discuss how he can add further to his security and his peace of
mind.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay,
WELLINGTON.
8i p.c. div, basis. The cover is 255. 9d.
in net tangibles, chiefly plant, worth
what it can earn.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1923. 1927. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £131,250 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities ~ 2,949 4,823 1,082 1,975
Freeholds .. 101,981 88,230 89,666 90,021
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 35,922 35,918
Stocks .. 4,047 2,447 1,162 1,450
Book debts .. 3,884 11,861 3,932 4,777
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. .. 15,196 33,060 25,639 28,821
Excluding shares in other cos., the im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£33,073) was £3422. Plant is
reported in first-class order.
Silver
The sharp rise in the price of Barrier
stocks reflects the advance in the sterling
price of silver, which in turn is the out-
come of President Roosevelt’s plan to
boost the white metal. Last week the
Washington Government fixed the price
of newly-mined domestic silver at 77.575
cents an ounce, or 6.465 cents more than
the figure fixed at April 10. The Lon-
don spot quote rose from an average of
21.8 d. for 1934 to 27.4 d. for March ; last
week-end it was 36.25 d.
Under its Silver Purchase Act the Gov-
ernment of the U.S.A. has undertaken to
buy the metal, with a price limit of 1.29
dollars an ounce, until the metallic base
for the currency reaches 25 p.c. silver and
75 p.c. gold. This is a fixed ratio of
quantity, not of value, for the two metals.
However, at the end of June last it was
figured that the Government would need
to buy about 1,300,000,000 ounces of
silver before the required ratio was estab-
lished. The declared intention at the
time was to buy about 24,000,000 ounces
annually. World production for 1934 has
been estimated, at 179,000,000 ounces.
Under international agreement India
has restricted her sales of silver to
an average of 35,000,0000 z. for the
four years following 1933, and over the
same period the five chief producing
countries have agreed to keep off the
market 8,750,0000 z. of their aggregate
annual output. Last year Australia with-
held 652,3550 z. All this, the Chinese
demand and the prospect of Washington
continuing to bid up for the metal
abroad have led to speculative buying
on the London market. Whether the
Government of the U.S.A. will force the
price of silver in the open market to the
limit fixed for domestic production,
and whether it will be able to hold the
world price at or near that level, remain
to be seen. So far the rise in the price
of the metal has had no visible effect
upon other commodities, notwithstanding
that it has made it easier for China to
buy, but more difficult for her to sell,
abroad.
Producers and the Indian Government
have derived most of the benefits to
date. Australian production is around
10,000,0000 z. per annum. Allowing for
the quantity withheld under agreement,
each rise of Id. in the price is thus worth
nearly £40,000 p.a. to local producers.
Oriomo Explorations
Oriomo Explorations, a prospecting
concern with interests in New Guinea,
Dutch West Borneo and Queensland, is
offering 224,922 new ss. shares at par,
three for one, to those on the register at
May 8. When all the money on this lot
is in, paid capital will be £74,974. The
old shares, fully paid to 55., are at 11s.
6d. in the market, which makes the rights
to the new issue worth approximately
Is. 7d.
The co.’s Consolidated claims, New
Guinea, include 140 acres of terraces,
gravels and alluvial flats, extending for
62 chains on both sides of the Bulolo.
Preliminary test pits sunk by Captain
McLean on the terraces failed to bottom
at 41ft. ; values exceed ss. a yard, and
the gold is 75 p.c. fine. Here the co. has
a six months’ free option, with the right
to renewal for another six months, with-
out cash consideration. A water route
from the Anamapi is being surveyed.
The co. also holds a free option for 18
months over 1200 acres of adjacent
ground, on which three old river beds
have been located by pitting. Deep bor-
ing will be necessary to test this area ;
bottom is expected to vary from 50ft.
to 150 ft.
In Queensland the co. has secured a
three years’ option for £2OOO over 290
acres on the Gympie field. The area
embraces the old Scottish, which is to
be unwatered (the deepest workings were
2350 ft.), and some 12,000 ft. of the Ingle-
wood reef.
The co. is interested in the Alluvia
claims, Dutch West Borneo, through
Melawi Gold Syndicate, which has de-
cided to offer its prospect in London.
Commonwealth Mining and Finance,
one of the De Bernales group, formed
in May, 1934, to take over a number of
properties from the Australian Machin-
ery and Investment Co. and others, pro-
poses to spend more than half a million
on unwatering, equipping and developing
its various prospects. Estimates for each
are as follows:
Unwatering’ Treatment
Development. Plant.
Aladdin, Nanninc (W.A.) .. £30,000 £120,000
Atlas Wnbm (W.A.) .. 20,000 50,000
Hercules (N. A us.) .. .. 20,000 (50,000
Pnoenix, Coolgardie (W.A.) .. 27,000 80,000
Sand Queen Gladsome, Comet
Vale (W.A.) 17,500 30,000
Vellowdine (W.A.) .. ~ 45,000 40,000
In each case the proposed outlay on
treatment plant depends on the lodes
maintaining their present compositions,
values and widths.
* * * $
The average assay value of all samples
taken by T. R. Victor and the mine
manager at Loloma, on the Tavua field,
Fiji, is 28oz. 6dwt. a ton. From 15ft.
to 20ft. in Nos. 1 and 2 shafts the stone
averaged 16oz, 12dwt. and 6oz. respec-
tively. Tellurides are showing freely in
the ore, which is almost wholly sulphide.
Last week-end the contribs. fetched 375.
in the market.
* * *
Norseman (W.A.) has deferred con-
sideration of another div. until May 13.
The reasons are loss of profit due to the
stoppage in January and February, and
the fact that ore-haulage, water-bailing,
etc., have been hampered by the work
of enlarging the shaft. Shareholders
have received three quarterly divs. of Is.
each since June last. The co. is spending
£45,000 on plant, development and a
bigger shaft.
* * * *
Wiluna received £2109 from the sale
of arsenic for the year to the end of
March last. What was once thought to be
a troublesome liability has thus proved
to be an asset. Victor Leggo operates
the arsenic-recovery plant, and pays
Wiluna a royalty.
* * * *
Pomme d’Or (W.A.) recently an-
nounced (1) an unimpressive crushing,
(2) that all faces were producing payable
ore, and (3) that one ore-body was carry-
ing ounce values. The market, which
has been down in the dumps lately, was
not impressed.
* * * *
Dr. Wade has gone bush again to com-
plete his survey of the Freney Kimber-
ley oil areas. This time he will inten-
sively examine country already inspected,
as well as break new ground. Freney’s
territory is believed to have been oil-
bearing at one time ; Dr. Wade’s task
is to find an unbroken structure hold-
ing oil.
sfc * *
About 8000 gallons of water an hour
is being pumped from Roma Block’s
mine, the Devon, at Linden (W.A.). The
mine makes about 4000 gallons an hour
above the 90ft. level. Here there is a
gold-bearing shoot 453 ft. long, and a
winze, sunk to 47ft., has given a sample
assaying 30dwt. The plant is to be re-
conditioned.
* * * *
Westralian goldmining continues to
attract capital from the U.S.A. A syn-
dicate represented by Morton Webber,
lately of Mexico, is putting money into
ground at Widgiemooltha, between Cool-
gardie and Norseman. The area being
tested was once owned by a London co.,
which, after pottering about for a time,
packed up and left.
» * * *
White Hope Central, late of Cracow
(Q.), has gone to Parker’s Range, near
Marvel Loch (W.A.), in search of the
yellow metal. An option has been
taken over a 70-acre block.
* * * *
Renown, Morgans (W.A.), crushed 40
tons for 320 z. On the 95ft. level in the
north drive on the west lode at 64ft. the
ore assays 12}dwt. over sft.
* * * *
Rosterman Gold, a Kenya Colony
venture sponsored by Sons of Gwalia,
Zinc Corp., Tanami Syndicate and
others, reports good values at a depth
of 270 ft. on the dip of the reef, and
returns from the pilot mill are averaging
over an ounce. The co. aims at the
latest in plant and equipment.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Nell Gwyn”
Most historical films have been mines
of misinformation, and this is no excep-
tion. The villainess is the Duchess of
Portsmouth (Jeanne de Casalis). Actu-
ally, the Duchess was the only one of
Charles’s mistresses to attend his death-
bed ; in the picture she gathers up her
valuables and bolts back to France on
learning that he is dying. There are other
discrepancies, and the story is thin; but
the acting is good and, best of all, there
are no American voices. Some Ameri-
can voices are beautiful, but when the
possessors exploit them in European
pieces, period or otherwise, illusion falls
very dead.
Sir Cedric Hardwicke is a marvellously
lifelike Charles 11. in appearance, and
Charles probably had much the same
voice and manner. Anna Neagle bawd-
lerises sweet Nell in a fashion that would
have appalled pre-war producers of frag-
rancies about a British sovereign’s most
celebrated liaison, but she is as satisfying
in her way as Hardwicke. The others
are stagy, but then they have hopelessly
stagy parts.
“Reunion”
Chiefly about a post-war gathering at
a London restaurant under a beloved
C.O. The sentimental beginning is rather
trying, the major (Stewart Rome) being
a chicken farmer who has done so badly
that he is hard put to it to pay his fare
to the metropolis and get his dress clothes
out of pawn. The dinner and sing-song
afterwards, with the wags of the unit to
the fore, provide a faithful representation
of the kind of social evening the de-
mobbed have been treating themselves to
for the past 17 years. It was a stroke of
something like genius on the part of
director Herbert Wilcox to cast Mr, Rome
as the major. This actor not only looks
and talks like a good type of British tem-
porary officer; he also, in some indefin-
able way, looks and talks like a pre-
destined peace-time failure. One of those
essentially weak men who are sometimes
strong and resolute in war. The theme
is the virtue of keeping up appearances.
The major sacrifices his last ten shillings
rather than admit to the unforgivable
crime of being poor.
“Life Begins at Forty”
This little sketch of small-town news-
paper life was tailored for Will Rogers,
who plays his one part in it as the pro-
prietor and editor of a twice-a-week
journal. He devotes his energies to get-
Warner Baxter laughs in “Broadway
Bill,” at Sydney Regent.
ting Slim Summerville elected as chair-
man of the school board and clearing
the name of Richard Cromwell, wrongly
convicted of embezzlement, so that
Richard may marry the schoolmarm,
Rochelle Hudson. In these activities he
is aided by an army of pig-farmers, rela-
tives of Slim and specialists in the art of
“hawg-callin’.” The Rogers brand of
humor fits comfortably into the picture.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Bordertown”
Opens interestingly. Mexican graduate
from California law night school (Paul
Muni) makes his debut in court, is re-
proved by the Judge for ignorance of the
law and then disbarred for assaulting his
learned friend on the other side. So he
decides to prey upon society. As pro-
prietor of a night club in a town on the
Mexican border he falls in love with a
member of the Californian aristocracy,
Margaret Lindsay. From now on the
mixture is as in previous films. Bette
Davis, a woman scorned, commences to
exercise hell’s fury, but goes insane. Miss
Lindsay is run over by a truck. Mr.
Muni—a cross between George Raft and
Fredric March’s Mr. Hyde in appear-
ance—resolves to lead a better life. At
Sydney Capitol.
“The Firebird”
At Melb. State, To save her daughter’s
reputation, a mother falsely confesses to
a homicide and permits both the police
and the husband she really loves believe
that she had been an adulteress. It makes
fine drama; also an excellent mystery
film. Weak points are the dialogue and
casting. Veree Teasdale plays the mother
in an undistinguished way. Ricardo
Cortez is the victim of the shooting—a
Raymond Walburn, broke but hopeful,
in “Broadway Bill.”
beauty actor in his hours of work, a
competent and unscrupulous seducer in
his hours of ease. He shares acting
honors with Marion Louise as the school-
girl whom he lures to his apartment, and
who accidentally kills him in a fight for a
gun. Aubrey Smith supplies a new and
interesting type of detective inspector.
“By Your Leave”
A comedy of U.S. suburban life such
as is commonly condensed into a short.
Gene Lockhart gives an admirable study
of a drunk. Not a repulsive drunk: just
a cheerful souT “with a few in,” sufficient
to make him love the whole world,
identify utter strangers as friends of his
youth and denounce them as impostors
the moment they disprove his statement.
Some First Nights
Yehudi Menuhin, who introduced him-
self to Australia at Sydney Town Hall'on
Saturday night, lived up to his press-
agenting. The young violinist is one of
those phenomenons who are born
equipped with more musical knowledge
and digital aptitude than are attained by
less favored souls in a lifetime of study.
Technique is something he simply doesn’t
have to worry about. He concentrates
on interpretation; but his, problems in
that regard are solved long before he
comes to the platform, so that he plays
with the cocksureness of youth and makes
the most complicated passages appear not
only facile but graceful. He established
himself as a great interpretative artist in
the Bach Chaconne, which under less
gifted hands so often sounds uncouth and
tortured. The young man positively
revelled in the contrapuntal intricacies,
and found equal joy in the broad melodic
phrases of the Paganini D Major Con-
certo, the delicacies of Hartmann’s violin
dress for Debussy’s platinum blonde and
the dashing rhythms of Sarasate’s glori-
fied Spanish folk-dances.
The impression made by Menuhin’s
complete mastery of his instrument is
so profound that it is not till afterwards
that one commences to make mental
comparisons and realises that his tone
Myrna Loy makes friends with
Broadway Bill.
is small. He is a veritable Chopin of
the fiddle. He gets the same effect in
fortissimo climaxes as a Szigeti or a
Heifetz with half the volume, having
built them up from mere whispers of
sound. One result of this low scale of
tonal volume is that Menuhin’s har-
monics sparkle with enhanced brilliance,
and he maintains balance between the
strings even when skipping from the E to
the G, as in the Chaconne.
The youngster has an engaging
platform presence—tall and broad-
shouldered, with level, serious brows. He
sucks in his lower lip, shuts his eyes,
tucks his fiddle tight under his ample
jaw, marks time with an insubordinate
topknot of fair hair and forgets his audi-
ence. His solo over, he bestows a benign
smile on the general audience and fishes
out a genial grin for the pretty girls who
crowd round the Steinway at every recital.
Marcel Gazelle, the accompanist, de-
serves a paragraph to himself. He is
the prince of pianissimists.
* * *
The writer hadn’t been to a vaudeville
show for donkey’s years when he was
urged to see “The Scandals of Sydney”
at the Civic, and yielded. How dead it
made the films appear! Here were mum-
mers in tune with the audience; in-
stantly responsive to every sign of
approval or otherwise. Lawman and
Valli are true comedians. Or did they
only seem funnier than most film comics
because those present howled at their
japes, in sharp contrast to the genteel
tittering that passes for laughter in movie
palaces? Lois Wilson and Stella Lamond
have delightful voices which don’t sound
as if they were being projected through
foghorns. A fine show. At least one
Sydneyite means to investigate these
Scandals again.
y
Mordaunt Shairp’s “The Green Bay
Tree,” in which a professional repertory
co., under the direction of Phillip Lewis,
made its debut at Sydney Savoy last
week, deals with the conflict between a
determined young woman (Bonita Apple-
ton) and a rich old man (Harvey Adams)
for ownership of, an attractive but weak-
willed youth (Phillip Lewis), who has a
drunken father (Carleton Smith). Father
shoots the wealthy old party. In the
Walter Connolly as the Hitler of the
Higginses in “Broadway Bill.”
final scene it is revealed that his sacrifice
—he goes to gaol—and the girl’s devo-
tion have been in vain. Harvey Adams
was excellent in a part which had to be
delicately handled. Phillip Lewis, Leslie
Victor (as an understanding valet) and
Carleton Stuart were all well cast. But
Bonita Appleton was not determined
enough. George D, Parker was the
producer.
* * *
There are eight fully-developed
feminine part's in John Van Druten’s “The
Distaff Side,” staged by the Independent
Theatre at Sydney Savoy, and the author
has succeeded in making each indi-
vidual and convincing. Everyone has
met grandmothers like Mrs. Ven-
ables (Gertrude Johns), who occupies the
throne in a daughter’s St. John’s Wood
home. Her three daughters, Evie (Hope
Suttor), Liz (Florentine Danciger) and
Nellie (Ailsa Sutherland), are also recog-
nisable types. Theresa (Kathleen Mc-
Garry), a cousin, is a social-reformer,
while Alex (Eva Kuraz), Evie’s daughter,
blends sophistication and simplicity. The
other two. Miss Spicer (Kitty Horne)
and Rose (Helen Lupton), are typical
domestics. The menfolk are less well-
drawn. The playwright was obviously
so engrossed with his characters that he
almost forgot the story, which has to do
with the acceptance and rejection of
suitors by some of the ladies. Gertrude
Johns, Hope Suttor, Eva Kuraz and Kitty
Horne were the pick of the feminine
mummers, and the men all gave a good
account of themselves, especially Peter
Osborn and John Wyndham. Doris Fitton
produced the play.
The decorous entertainment provided
by the Waiata Maori Choir attracted
good houses to Melb. Town Hall. As
popular pabulum the programmes fell
between two stools. The mission origin
of the choir restrained it in the European
songs, and the native music had the usual
characteristic of the primitive—a lack of
variety which gave an effect of melan-
choly ; if a Mozartian item or a Schubert
song had found its way in the effect
would have been electrical. Nevertheless,
these handsome, unself-conscious chor-
isters in their picturesque robes have a
genuine musical sense and a love of
agreeable sound for its own sake.
“Waiata Poi” was sung as no Euro-
pean singer ever sings it, but even
so it sounded less Polynesian than poly-
phonic, and the hakas were not half so
ferocious as the Apache dances at the
Tivoli. There were poi dances and
“Stone Age” games; they left the
same impression as the music—that
primitivism is just primitivism even
in the gymnastic world. Everything
there is in a native hut or a Maori air
is in a Gothic cathedral or a Bach fugue
—but in the cathedral and the fugue,
how much more!
A reproduction of Norman Lindsay’s
Anzac Day drawing, appearing in the last
issue, will be sent to any Digger forward-
ing 3d. in stamps.


INTRODUCE
A NEW
STANDARD OF VALUES
9?
hrcurmurt
SMOOTH AND DULL . . . BEAUTIFULLY
FINE and definitely LADDERPROOF
This new range supplements the well-known beautiful Prestige range and
Is cut and fitted with the same infinite care. It gives that unobtrusive
moulded daintiness so essential with modern frocking.
And PARAMOUNT underwear is not expensive, beautiful Nicks
at 4/11, 5/11, 6/11; Vests from 5/ll and Princess Slips from .10/6.
NOW SHOWING AT YOUR FAVOURITE STORE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The jackeroo was a day’s
solid ride from the station when his horse
pulled away. It was sandhill and porcu-
pine country, north of the track from
Euston to Moonlight (N.S.W.). He had
little bush experience, but struck what
he thought was a line, and began a
weary, thirsty trudge up one sand ridge
and down the next. That night he slept,
waterless, by the dry Minduk tank, 15
miles from the station. He wandered
about in the heat all next day, without
a drink, dust-caked and sweating, and
somehow struck familiar ground near
sundown. By dusk he was coming down
to the homestead, a bit staggery, and
feeling in need of a little sympathy. It
was Paddy, the cook, who spotted him.
Paddy stared as he approached, waited
until he reached the verandah of the
men’s hut, then —“Gor blime,” he
roared, “ ’ere’s Leichhardt back at last! ”
* * *
“The 0.D.”: Have often seen “Fitz-
william’s” “jackie-Jamps” in the west of
N. S. Wales (B. 17/4/’35), along with
other things. The explanation in my
case was simple: Not enough water
with it.
* * * *
“Annan”: “Williami” (B. 3/4/’35) is a
bit astray in his information, or else
northern and southern blacks have dif-
ferent ideas about what constitutes good
tucker. In the Cooktown (Q.) district and
northwards the goat is much esteemed.
I’ve asked local blacks, and they say that
“goat always been good tucker.” Torres
Strait island boys are particularly fond
of this substitute for mutton.
*** ' $
“A.C.”: We were dragging whole
trees down with our stumpjack and
cables, plus a chain at one end. It took
four men to work the lever of the jack.
Back and forward we went. Cables grew
tauter. The tree began to creak and
bend. It became harder and harder to
work the lever. Then the chain snapped.
We were thrown to the ground. The
chain lashed back, but no one was hit.
The tree, released from strain, could not
have had all its roots properly severed.
It sprang back in an arc, tore itself out
of the ground at the other end of the
swing, and knocked into a second tree
whose roots had been partly excavated.
Both trees ended up beautifully up-
rooted !
* =!: *
“Bala Hissar”: Someone introduced an
Afghan sheep-dog to Australia the other
day, and already the outcry which was
raised against the Alsatians is rising
again. The dog is a big fellow, and in
his native land is taught not so much to
work sheep and goats, as we know it, but
to see that none outside the family is
allowed to come near them. He is natu-
rally a fierce brute, but is easily civilised,
and is a favorite with Britons who have
need of a four-legged friend on the
N.-W. Frontier. As a sample of the
poppycock being served up, someone has
asserted that the dog is used to pull down
leopards. No dog in existence could try
that and live 30 seconds.
“Ibn el Issar”: Sydney Show exhibited
to Australia its first Salukis, the famous
hunting hounds whose origin is buried
in the mists of history. Found all over
Asia and to-day in some parts of North
Africa —they were with the Moors in
Spain—the Salukis were known to Marco
Polo when that worthy went with Kubla
Khan to “the dogs.” But they are
claimed as their peculiar possession by
the Arabs, the Bedouin in particular,
being used for coursing gazelles in con-
junction with hunting eagles or hawks.
* * * *
“Rindy” : Though various Abo.-writers
have mentioned the fact that our euca-
lyptus-trees are spreading around the
world, there is one thing they appear to
have missed. Here eucalypts are slow
growers and have a hard wood. Every-
where else, whether grown from seed or
seedlings brought from Australia, the
timber loses all pretension to hardness,
and becomes quite a softwood. Is it poor
country and hard times that make our
tree the hard, tough customer it is?
* * * *
“Munchausen 11.”: Goanna-haulage
(B. 3/4/’35)? When Flogging Fred, of
Pine Tree Gully (N.Q.), wanted to get
rid of an aching tooth, he took a couple
of half-hitches round the torturing molar
with a “snigging” chain, and attached an
old man go. to the other end. Then
he whistled his dog. The go. got off
the mark so slickly that Fred was half-
way to the nearest tree, for which the
scavenger was making, before he woke
“Know anything of a ’plane that’s come down near here, boy ?”
“N-n-no, mister — I've on'y been shootin' at sparrers.”
up to what was happening. We were
just in time to grab him by the legs ; he
would have died of old age in the
branches before we could have got him
down again. But he lost that tooth. The
jerk when we grabbed him by the legs
did the trick.
* * * *
“Oollarinna”; “Airline” (B. 10/4/’35)
wonders where the blue kingfisher finds a
drink in the Everard, Ranges (S.A.), when
it is between 200 and 300 miles from
water. The solution is probably that, like
most inland birds, it rarely drinks. The
succulent leaves of the munyeroo and
parakylia, which the birds feed upon, pro-
vide sufficient moisture for their needs
even on hottest summer days. One is
prone to forget the time in Centralia —
the land of heaps-o’-time—but at our
home beyond Oodnadatta we always
knew the second week in October, for
year after year, without fail, the king-
fishers returned at that time to burrow a
home in the mud walls of an abandoned
cellar beside the house, leaving again at
the end of March with their families.
They are the most friendly birds 1 know,
and would sit on a post close beside the
children’s playhouse, mingling
monotonous yet fascinating one-note call
with the shouting childish voices. Nor
were they afraid of the dogs ; but puss
was given a wide berth. They share with
the crow the distinction of being the
only bird the abos. do not eat. “Crow,
’im too much dirty-one. Kingfisher, ’im
pretty-one, ’im big taboo, no good for
tucker.”
* * * *
“Wodao”: Small birds often fly into
the house through the window, but the
other day was the first time a mistletoe-
bird had a look at our furniture. The
fowl—a female —kept flying around the
room until her feet got caught in some
cobweb in the corner. With her legs
hobbled she fell lightly to the floor,
and did not object to my handling her.
The pale scarlet under her tail showed
the small flower-pecker off, while the
reddish color inside her mouth also
added to her attraction. When she was
given her liberty she joined her mate —
a steel-blue and scarlet fellow with a
beautiful song—in a pepperina-tree.
* # * *
\“Seenitall”: I have noticed the cross-
ing of bush-trees (B. 3/ 4/ ’35) myself,
particularly between wild apples and
white-box, and am convinced that bees
are the Burbanks. They pollinate other
plants, so why not trees? Wind could
also do the job, and ants or other insects.
sf: * *
“Como”: That Illawarra sea serpent
wasn’t half the ophidian that was ex-
hibited in Bourke-street, Melbourne,
when I was a small boy. I paid six-
pence to see it, and it was worth the
money, seeing the joy I got later describ-
ing my visit to acquaintances. The ex-
hibit was something like the sea snakes
you read about. It had a long, sinuous
body, fins with claws at the ends and a
spiky tail. Its head was enough to
frighten rhinos. —a broad pug nose with
fierce eyebrows and projecting teeth. The
catch was that, a few days after my visit,
some unromantic naturalist paid his six-
pence and blew out the whole horror ;
it was a composite beast assembled by a
clever taxidermist out of the spare parts
of half a dozen other animals, terrestrial
and aqueous.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The most unnerving bush
experience I ever had occurred in
the Vic. Mallee. With a mate I was
clearing and burning off. Walking out
from Cowangie alone one night—it was
very dark, heat having dimmed the stars,
and the track was just a dim opening in
the scrub—on the rise of a hill I sud-
denly became aware of what I took to
be the red cigarette ends of a number
of men walking down the hill towards
me. They got no closer. I listened, but
could hear nothing ; no voices, no shuffle
of the feet in the sand. Walked on. Still
the little red lights bobbed about, appar-
ently just out of reach. Halted and
thought —hard. Hadn’t had a drink for
months. Tried shutting the eyes and
opening them quickly; lay down and
peered along the ground—no good ; the
little lights still bobbed about. Began to
feel queer ; had a sense of impending evil.
Ever felt that way—alone in the bush?
Then you’ll know why I stopped, tried
to be firm, and finally bolted down the
hill. I pulled myself together at the bot-
tom, looked up; no lights. “Goat!”
Started up again, reached same spot, saw
same lights. Nerved myself, sweated
once, and rushed forward with a yell —
then sat down and laughed. The lights
were our clearing fires, on another hill
two miles away ; the bobbing was caused
by the swaying leaves of malice just
ahead of me, and the illusion of nearness
by the sultry darkness.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: “I see you’re adding a
bit to your house,” he said, eyeing my
efforts in that direction quizzically. “You
put me* in mind, of my old man. When
we first went up the bush to live he built
one room with a chimney at the end,
and every time we had an addition to
the family he put an extra room on the
other end. By the time she was finished,
if you went up the mountain and looked
down she looked like a railway train
cornin’ in!”
“Ex-’Rooer” : The brolga’s nest near the
water (B. 20/3/’35) reminds me. While
in Kimberley (W.A.) I noticed a nest
with eggs in on the edge of the Fitzroy
River. Shortly afterwards the water com-
menced to rise ; so did the nest. Day by
day the bird added more pigweed to the
construction, and placed the eggs on top.
At last the nursery was about 3ft. high,
but only a few inches above the water,
and the fowl used to wade to and fro.
Before the chickens were hatched the
flood receded, and the nest was left high
and dry.
* *
“Mat’s Mate”: Have a fellow feeling
for that selector who benefited by the
cyclone (B. 17/4/’35). Mat and I had
just started on a contract to knock down
100 acres of mallee and pine out from
Cowangie (Vic.) when a localised cyclone,
accompanied by a cloudburst, sent us
flying for home. Our tent was smashed
down by an uprooted pine and there was
a foot of muddy water everywhere.
Later we found that it had knocked down
or uprooted all but a few trees right along
our 100-acre strip. The cocky paid like
a sport, and Mat, who was having his
first mallee experience, reckoned that
cyclones at 15 bob an acre would do
him.
* * * *
“Varanus”: The crocodile is a great
fool. Take his methods of attacking
horses and cattle. Always he waits till
the horse has had his drink and turns to
leave the water ; then he attacks from
behind, rearing and clawing across the
loins. Cattle he grabs by the snout
while they’re drinking. Neither a
man nor a croc, needs to take a
course of lessons by post to learn which
is the most dangerous end of either a
horse or a bullock. They are different
in either case, and the croc, goes for the
wrong end with each.
* * * *
“Tiki” : Maoriland’s craze for acclima-
tising birds, beasts and fishes from other
lands has had so many awkward conse-
quences that it would seem Mother
Nature knows best. Almost every estab-
lished importation—sparrows, starlings,
rabbits, opossums, deer —has in course of
time become a curse to farmers and
orchardists or to graziers, and more
money was spent on the organised de-
struction of feathered and four-footed
immigrants last year than was spent on
importing them by all the acclimatisation
societies in the last 70 years. Even trout
have their enemies, the Maoris, who de-
clare they destroy far more useful abo-
riginal denizens of the streams and lakes.
About the worst blunder of the lot was
the importation of deer. Imagine a mob
of them packed into a road a chain wide
and extending for four miles. That’s a
graphic idea of the number—loo,ooo —
deer destroyed as nuisances in the
last four years. Malcolm Fraser, per-
manent head of the Internal Affairs De-
partment (he used to be Government
Statistician), in whose report the state-
ment occurs, says these deer were capable
of eating as much fodder as the sheep
of a hundred stations. Probably
opossums (first imported from Australia
in the ’eighties) will be next declared
nuisances. In 1931-32 44,715 were shot;
1932-33 was a close season ; in 1933-34
178,605 were taken.
FISHING.
Cloud in glowing splendor piled upon the range,
Limp leaves pitiful and still,
Evening waiting, breathless, till,
Like a lover, round the hill
Sweeps the long-pent change.
Cleft between the hillsides, shadowy and cool,
Where the creek frets out its way,
Rock, and pool, and sandbar grey;
Here is peace—here let us stay
Fishing pool.
Droning of mosquitoes, whirring clouds a-whecl,
Murmur as the waters fall;
Homing wings, a bittern’s call,
Scent of dogwood over all,
Magpies’ last rich peal;
Gum and hillside mirrored in the sun-stained
stream;
Widening ripples to and fro
Where the water-beetles go;
Someone feeding calves below,
Far warm lights a-gleam.
Fragrance of tobacco, blue haze wreathed
about;
Gentle rustling in the reeds
Where a blue wren flits and feeds;
Bubbles in the water-weeds,
Splash of leaping trout.
Sudden gentle tugging. Thrill from head to
heel!
Now he’s at the bait again;
Now he’s got it. Feel him strain!
Hope, elation and disdain.
Just another eel!
VIC.
A. G. BURNET.


“Runa”: Cats and their trophies (B.
1 0/ 4 / ’35) ? We once possessed an ancient
feline who specialised in rats instead of
snakes. The object of her attentions was
the grown-up son of the house, who had
no particular liking for cats. We ac-
quired Emmeline during his absence, but
on his return home it was evident that
he met with her entire approval. His
first intimation of his conquest was the
discovery of a large rat under his feet
one lunch-time, followed by the gift of
a mouse just before dinner. Emmeline
always placed the spoils under his chair,
and no alertness on our part could baulk
her. The youth changed his place one
day, and the move was presently fol-
lowed by a commotion under the table:
it was Emmeline, dragging the rat she had
deposited over to the rightful recipient.
Finding that rats in the dining-room were
definitely unpopular Emmeline began
placing them on her favorite’s bed. When
he became engaged to a cat-loving
damsel she (the girl) was so deeply
moved by the spectacle of poor Emmeline
standing humbly before them with her
usual unappreciated offering in her mouth
that she arranged to solve the problem
by taking the faithful creature to live
with them in a city flat where rats were
unknown.
* * * #
“Eureka”: A party of abos. was
gathered round a grave, “Who’s dead,
Jacky?” I asked the station abo., who
was standing off watching the proceed-
ings. “The bloke that’s gettin’ buried,”
Jacky informed me.
* * * $
“Sixbeight”: Can any Aboliar solve
the riddle of the rapid reappearance of
frogs and even small fish in tanks
filled by the rains after a long period of
dryness? There was one 10,000-yarder
way out beyond the Paroo which was
dry for over five months in a pitiless,
burning summer sun after the bottom
and “batters” had been re-excavated
several feet. Every square inch of sur-
face was as dry as any soil in the Paroo
can possibly be. Yet, less than a fort-
night after the rains, a first-class orches-
tral concert, basso-profundo bullfrogs
and all complete, was in progress. The
transition from egg to frog is a business
of weeks, so where had those deep-
throated, well-developed bassos hailed
from?
* -|; *
“Spring”: The 17 grazing horses saw
the hare at the same time as I did. They
immediately gave chase, rounded it up
and stamped it to death. Cannot
imagine why they took such a sudden
dislike to the hare ; I have never noticed
them worrying about hares since.
* * $ *
“Kwa”: Touching on Jacky’s sense of
values, I am reminded of a game of
poker witnessed recently between four
abos. on the beach at Bathurst Island
(N.T.). The first player opened the bet-
ting with half-a-bag of flour. The next
raised the bid with seven sticks of
tobacco. The third nonchalantly tossed
in an old cracked mirror and a dirty
singlet. The last to bet solemnly crowned
the lot with an old left boot minus a sole.
“W, le R.”: These crow-catching pars,
remind me of the fun we used to have
with baboons in S’Africa. A small cir-
“Do you find your troompet satisfact’ry, Richard?”
Splendid, cap’n, splendid. I couldn't hear a word of the sermon!”
cular hole was cut in the tops of several
pumpkins, the insides were scooped out
and a handful of maize was poured into
each. The hungry baboon, grabbing the
corn, would find that the closed fist
was too big to be withdrawn, and,
being too obstinate to relax the fingers,
would stagger away, dragging the
pumpkin with him, only to repeat the
performance with his free hand on meet-
ing the next pumpkin. It is hard to
imagine a more ludicrous sight than a
wretched baboon shuffling along with
both hands securely encased in enormous
pumpkins.
* * ♦ *
“Como”; The Church of Christ in Vic-
toria has brought to Melbourne a band
of 20 educated abos. from Cummera-
gunja, 15 miles from Echuca on the
N.S.W. side of the Murray, where that
body has a mission station. The dusky
ones had the hard luck to strike icy
weather in Melbourne, and, owing to pre-
vious arrangements, their offer to meet
one of the League football teams in a
friendly Christian tussle unfortunately
couldn’t eventuate. The Cums have a
good record in football. Doug Nicholls,
the snappy little abo. who plays with
Fitzroy, hails originally from that mis-
sion station.
jJ» *!• 4-
“Sambo”: An ad. appeared in the
local paper: “Wanted, a dog-lover to
take care of dingo. Someone without
fowls preferred.” Found out that the
young dingo, the property of a poultry-
farmer, had learned to place his chewed
bones near the mouth of his kennel and
lie in wait. The only evidence of what
happened from then onwards would be
a few feathers.
“S.G.”: Even that unwholesome fowl the
crow has its good points. Camped for a
few weeks at a dam at which several
thousand sheep were watering, I was
visited daily by a flock of crows. After
they had cleaned up the scraps, they
would adjourn to a patch of scrub near-
by, a favorite camp of the sheep during
the heat. They spent most of the day-
walking about on reclining woollies, not
making the slightest attempt to injure
them, but obviously busily occupied
with the maggots, flies and other
vermin which the wool harbored. The
sheep showed no fear of them whatever,
evidently appreciating their attentions.
* * * *
“Bustard”: So Queensland has at last
made an effort to preserve the fast-
vanishing plain turkey by total protection
all the year round, instead of close
seasons, as hitherto. The Government
seems to have been scared into action by
the recent grasshopper threat on the
southern border of the State, since the
proclamation refers gratefully to the bird
as a champion ’hopper devourer. The
big bird is a noble fowl to look at, and
mighty good to eat. Also, it is one of
the few game birds, apart from some of
the ducks and geese, which Australia
shares with Asia, Europe and Africa. Of
the big land divisions only the Americas
know him not.
* * * *
“Verri”: It’s not only horses that de-
votedly follow their owners into the
house (B. 27/3/’35). I was visiting a
M.L. homestead, and joined the family at
afternoon-tea on an, upstairs balcony.
Half-way through there was a strange
clattering on the stairs; presently the
door was pushed open and a shaggy
little donkey appeared, was introduced
as “Gloaming” and presented with a
large piece of cake. An apple followed,
and then “Gloaming” was requested to
withdraw. I followed to see how he
managed the stairs. He negotiated them
as neatly as any dog. The family ex-
plained that coming upstairs was entirely
his own idea, and originated in his de-
votion to one of the kiddies. The act
was so successful that he was encouraged
to keep it up for the edification of
visitors.
* * * *
“Stegar”: We had a town-bred Aussie
in our Queensland culling camp. He
was culling nearly every sheep he caught.
At last he remarked: “Gee, a lot
of these sheep are old! Some of ’em
haven’t any top teeth at all.”
* * * *
“Wodao”; If “G.M.” (B. 3/4/’35) had
ever observed jewfish in clear water he
wouldn’t say that trout kill every fish
within reach. The female jewey keeps
a vigil over her spawn, and attacks any
“Come from Nottingham, eh? Well, you just get a bucket and broom
and clean out Don Bradman's sty.”
creature that ventures near the nursery.
Even turtles make a hurried departure
when Mrs. J. brings her treacherous
spines into action. Let “G.M.” handle
a baby jewfish. It will soon convince him
that its three needle-like “lances”—one on
the back and one on each side —are
capable of defeating trout.
* * $ *
“Rokko”: I can’t say how far an octo-
pus can travel on land, but he is any-
thing but helpless on short stretches. We
were walking round the rocks at
Maroubra, Sydney, one morning when a
leggy creature suddenly left a rock pool
and with a sidelong motion crossed the
flat, dry rocks to a much larger pool
some distance away. It was a young octo-
pus. Although his gait looked peculiar
there was nothing the matter with his
speed, and he had disappeared in the
second pool long before we were able
to reach him.
* * * *
“Mulga Mick”; Perhaps the hares of
Patagonia, mentioned by “Cam” (B.
27/3/’35), are a different type from Aus-
tralia’s, which are never known to use
burrows. In the Speck they sleep with
one eye open, and are the only animals
which, when doing their 100 yards in five
seconds, are able to keep their bodies at
an angle of nearly 45 degrees to a pur-
suing dog. Australian hares are open-
air campers, and rear their families in the
shelter of long grass tufts. They also
have the knack of concealing the leverets
from enemies, both on the land and in
the air. They have been a benefit to
Tasmania rather than otherwise, both
from a culinary and sporting point of
view. And it’s a well-known fact that
they were more plentiful 40 years ago
than they are to-day.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: Is there such an animal as
a shark without a morose temper (B.
27/3/’35)? In a 12ft. specimen the liver
is Bft. in length and weighs something
like 601 b. Is it any wonder he’s morose?
t * $ *
“Freshwater Bay”; Scarecrows on
boats (B. 20/2/’35) are not a rare occur-
rence over here in Westralia ; our local
yachtsmen are quite enthusiastic about
their use. On the Swan River some of
the anchorages remind one of garden
plots, so numerous are the scares for
shags. There are all types, ranging from
the well-dressed ones on fast launches to
x-agged sticks on rowing-boats and small
launches.
* * * *
“Elac ”; George and I were sleeping
in the house of a western N.S.W. farmer
for whom we were tank-sinking, and
shared a small room off the back ver-
andah. The night was oppressively hot,
but I couldn’t help attributing my sleep-
lessness to the murmur of conversation
which came from the detached slab
kitchen, where Selina, our employer’s
small elderly sister, was entertaining
Watty, her equally small and elderly boy
friend. They were a cheerfully religious
little couple, and it may be that they
felt themselves alone in a big world;
anyway, about midnight their high-
pitched vpices rose suddenly and not un-
pleasantly to the strains of “One More
River.” Immediately George, who
hitherto had snored blissfully in spite of
the heat and vocal murmurs, shot up in
his bed. By the moonlight which streamed
through the window I saw that he was in
a panic. “It’s only Selina and Watty!”
I explained. It was some time before
George’s mind fully grasped the situa-
tion. At last he sank back with a sigh of
relief. “ ’Struth! They gave me bit of a
turn,” he gasped shakily as he mopped
his brow. “I thought I was dead and
hearing the angels singing.”
THE BLOKE WHO DIDN’T CARE.
“The path of life,” old Dan remarked, “for
most of us is pretty rough,
But yet I’ve found it never pays to chew the
rag when things are tough.
For if you strike a hungry track where ev ry
station cook’s a snag,
Not all the worry in the world will ever fill
your tucker-bag.
Of course, you can’t expect a man to hump
his cross and never swear;
A feller always wants to strike a happy meejum,
as it were.
Some blokes don’t care what comes or goes;
an’ that reminds me, when you speak
Of careless _ coves, my thoughts go back to
Long Bill Jones from Dingo Creek.
“Bill took life as it came along. Thougu
things might go from bad to worse
An’ bankers greet him with a scowl, he never
gave a tinker’s curse.
When all his stacks went up in flame Bill
rolled a smoke an’ watched ’em burn:
The hay was only half insured, but Bill showed
not the least concern.
His missus used to nag a treat an’ make his
home a little hell;
She always did her share, an’ thought her
husband oughter work as well.
Her hopes were vain, an’ in the end she cleared
out with some bagman bloke.
Some husbands would have chased ’em up, but
Bill just took it as a joke.
“An’ even to his final day he never lost his
careless poise.
Yet that’s the way his finish came. He’d spent
? an evenin’ with the boys,
An’ when he reached his lonely home, a rather
sick an’ sorry man,
He tried to light the kitchen fire to cook him-
self a bit of scran.
The wood was green, an’ careless Bill, he
thought he’d try an’ expedite
The flickerin’ flame by feedin’ it with just a
stick of dynamite.
The neighbors came—with rev’rent hands they
scooped him up from here an’ there;
The house was wrecked beyond recall, but
William didn’t seem to care.”
VIC.
ELLENVALE.


HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists andjheir
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral.
SYDNEY.
A RISK
Too (i rave to
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you—or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director* Chairman of Directors:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Sydney Show.
Sydney Show was easily a record in
most features, but it showed particular
development in beef cattle, despite the
gloom- which has been cast over the in-
dustry by ill-advised Government propa-
ganda. Over 1700 head of beef and dairy
animals were shown, of a general quality
50 p.c. in advance of that of a decade
ago.
The young beef classes were extra-
ordinarily good, but sale prices cannot
compare with those before the depression,
when prospects were not half so bright
—461 guineas for a Coonong Shorthorn
was the best figure against the thousands
which used to be paid. Splendid
youngsters of the best Hordern blood,
some of which will be goldmines to their
purchasers, went for under 100 guineas.
Both Shorthorns and Herefords in-
creased in numbers, and the novice class
showed improvement in both strength and
quality. The advent of American polled
animals in both breeds introduced a new
era. The Aberdeens, however, showed
the greatest advance. A few years ago
enthusiasts —Norman Foster in particu-
lar—kept the breed exhibition going.
But organisation counts, and the work
which has been done by the Aberdeen
Angus Society is showing the way to
other cattle sections. The black poll
sources of importation have, however,
been varied, and types have not yet had
a chance to synthesise into uniformity.
The dairy breeds notably advanced in
the Jersey classes, which made up about
a third of the whole exhibit. It is doubt-
ful if any country in the world could
produce such an exhibition.
The horse exhibit was easily the finest
seen in Sydney. The Clydesdales, for the
first time for many years, were worthy to
rank with the displays at big overseas
fairs, and other classes had a general
strengthening.
The pig entries increased 40 p.c., but
they have a long way to go to reach a
general export standard of perfection.
Six district exhibits represented the
whole of agricultural N.S.W. and the
. Moreton district (Q.). The rich North
Coast and Tablelands won with 858
points, and the West (825 points) ad-
vanced from fourth place last year to
second, with the West Moreton only two
points behind and the Central Coast and
Tableland in third place with 821 f points.
There was nothing at Moore Park
to suggest that there was a big
drought in Queensland or that wool had
fallen 40 p.c, this season, or that there
was any disturbed feeling about the poli-
tical or the financial situation. Time was
when there were a few overseas shows
which could compare with Sydney—
Toronto, for instance. Now it is without
challenge as the world’s greatest annual
fair.
Drought Feeds.
“Molecule”: Yes, there’s a drought in
Queensland all right (B. 3/4/’35), and I
have been quoted £l4 a ton for a lick,
notwithstanding that the bags bore the
information (compulsory under our Stock
Foods Act) that it contained 77 p.c. salt.
Even if the other 23 p.c. comprised the
most expensive ingredients, it would still
be too dear when butcher’s quality coarse
salt costs £4 15s. and excellent sterilised
bonemeal £ll a ton.
The primary function of a lick is to
supply phosphates. In drought time I
should put the maximum of salt at 50 p.c.,
the other half consisting largely of bone-
meal, dicalcic phosphate or bone-char.
There is no objection to a little Epsom
salt, iron sulphate and sulphur, and a
small quantity of oilmeal or molasses to
give palatability, so long as one always
keeps in mind that phosphates come first.
Just as phosphates are all-important in
a lick, so is protein the thing in feed.
Linseed, cottonseed, peanut and cocoanut
meals are high in both protein and fat,
and form excellent supplements to the
scrub or other drought-time roughage
available. The main function of molasses
is to render the roughages palatable by
spraying with a dilute mixture. The
protein-rich concentrate is indispensable,
because the protein content of the
molasses itself is nil.
Such meals have to be labelled with
the seller’s guaranteed analysis, so the
buyer is fully protected, and can com-
pare analyses with prices. When pur-
chasing cereals like maize, however, he
receives no such warranty.
Maize contains some 10 p.c. of pro-
tein, but it is of such poor quality that
it is essential to draw protein from some
other source. Lucerne hay is excellent,
but oilmeals, often as cheap or cheaper,
give a more concentrated supply.
Freight is a big factor in drought
feeding. Another vital point is that
mineral deficiency curtails feed consump-
tion, so that even an abundance of fodder
is of no use unless phosphates and other
minerals are available.
Twinning in Sheep.
“Back Swallow”: If “Corriedale” (B.
17 /4/ ’35) will try my method he will
minimise loss from twin-lamb disease.
Two medicoes interested in stock pro-
nounced the trouble for me to be
eclampsia, adding that could the ewe
speak she would probably complain of
violent headache and epigastric pain.
They recommended a purgative drench
of two or three packets of Epsom salt in
about a beer-bottle full of water. I tried
this with eminent success where the
trouble had advanced too far. I now
ride lambing paddocks with two or three
bottles of drench, and after administer-
ing it place a bag on the sheep to keep
crows off. Though the treatment is not
infallible, it works in most cases.
“Jass”: Two groups of 20 merino ewes
at Minnesota University (U.S.A.) were
differently fed for 18 days before mating,
Group 1 receiving lucerne hay, grain
and daily grazing on good pasture, while
Group 2 received poorer quality hay,
with no grain or grazing. The aver-
age daily weight-gain in Group 1 was
.2281 b. and in Group 2 .0221 b. All the
ewes were slaughtered after mating.
There were eight double ovulations in
Group 1 and none in Group 2.
In a second experiment with Shrop-
shire ewes the same differences in the
ration were observed, and, whilst like
variations in weight-gain were recorded,
the number of double ovulations remained
unaffected, being 10 in the flushed group
and 12 in the unflushed.
Flushing prior to mating has been
tried here with varying results. There
is little doubt that it really has the effect
of increasing the number of twins
dropped, though great care is needed to
see the treatment is not overdone. An
overfat ewe will not produce even one
lamb.
Footrot Treatment.
“Cooroolyup”; I had footrot here in
W.A. in a bad form for eight years, but
the following mixture, used three times
on affected sheep, cleared it up. I have
not had the disease on the place for five
years.
The most necessary requirements are,
in my opinion, quarantine of every lame
sheep and careful cutting away of all
affected shell of the foot before applying
the following dressing with a stiff brush:
To one gallon of brine, strong enough
to float a potato, add l£lb. of dissolved
bluestone. Dissolve loz. of corrosive
sublimate, and add to the brine and blue-
stone. Add 2oz. turpentine. Cork the
mixture in bottles until required.
One gallon will treat 300 sheep at a
cost of 3s.
“Jumbuck”: If “Winfield” (B. 3/4/’35)
has had no success with popular specifics
for his footrot, he might try out an old
Scotch remedy. Pare the hooves well
and apply a dressing of eight parts of oil
of turpentine with one part of dilute sul-
phuric acid. The dressing, though severe,
has great penetrating properties, and if
used judiciously neither harm to nor
shrinkage of the sound hooves will take
place.
Allowing the sheep to remain in a foot-
bath —10 per cent, copper sulphate—for
half an hour before paring and dressing
helps.
Export Lambs.
“B-gar”: “Grasshopper” (B. 3/4/’35)
misunderstands me. I wrote that “fat-
lamb competitions are no guide as to the
most payable cross-types” (B. 13/3/’35).
I should have added that these tests have
district value only. No cross-type of
lamb will prove adaptable to all dis-
tricts.
The greatest fault, independent of
breed, in fat lambs is the variance due
to failure to cull the ewes. With first-
and second-cross breeders in use, the
laws of breeding clearly show up in the
progeny if intensive culling is not rigor-
ously practised. Crossbred ewes are apt
to produce lambs throwing in any direc-
tion. Where non-classed ewes are mated
with rams, pure-bred or otherwise, the
progeny must be irregular in conforma-
tion, quality and weight, and the crop
will reach maturity at different ages.
Popular breeds must give way to
commonsense. Fat-lamb growers must
concentrate on developing a type adapt-
able for their own district, and place
little faith in cross-types that may have
won competitions in another district.
There are plenty of first-class English-
bred ewes and rams available of all
breeds suitable for fat-lamb breeding.
Returns per head count more than
any other consideration, so experiment
with your own conditions.
Stomach Worms.
“Liss”: “Jay” (B. 27/3/’35) hardly
goes far enough in his remarks regarding
stomach worms in sheep.
This is the period when the effect
of these parasites on sheep is most
marked, because generally at this time the
pastures are drying off and sheep have
not the vitality to resist their onslaught.
However, one should not wait until
there is a falling-off in condition before
treating. Failing microscopic examina-
tions of the droppings of sheep suspected
of being infested, it would pay to kill and
post-mortem one of the “roughies” early
in the season. Treatment may then be
commenced in time to do some good.
If the sheep are left until the effect of
the infestation is obvious their recovery
at this time of the year will be slow, par-
ticularly in southern N.S.W. highland
country.
It is a mistake to say that carbon tetra-
chloride is “perfectly safe with sheep.”
Impurity, extreme falls in temperature
subsequent to dosing and lack of calcium
in the ration may render the drug toxic.
Sheep on a ration of fatty concentrates
are particularly susceptible.
Building Dips.
“Albarmount”: How can owners with
flocks up to 2500 afford to build 1950ga1.
dips at a cost of £lOO, as suggested
by “W.D.McC.” (B. 10/4/’35)? By doing
the yard-building and excavating them-
selves most small sheep-cockies get their
dips built for about £3O ; others, handy
with bricks and cement, for the cost of
the material only. I agree about having
the draining-pens and entrance-pen or
forcing-race paved, but not “all the
yards,” as W.D.McC.” advised.
Having to hold sheep in a 25ft. to 30ft.
bath is little, if any, slower than waiting
for them to wade through “W.D.McC.’s”
60ft. dip. The former is ample for
flocks up to 4000. Small properties are
usually well subdivided. We dip the
sheep from one paddock (about 600)
each morning, the bath being well stirred
beforehand, and, with three men em-
ployed, the job is finished by 11 a.m.
I repeat that until I experienced it
myself, as “W.D.McC.” is now doing, I
had ridiculed the idea that catching
jumbucks in a narrow pen built around
the basin was easier work than pushing
them through a forcing-race.
Contrary to “W.D.McC.’s” idea there
is little struggling. Seeing that the bath
is unavoidable, sheep offer much less re-
sistance than when in the forcing-race.
Dipping and Fly.
“G.F.D.”: “Dead Finish’s” scheme to
“dip sheep with the idea of putting a
‘crust’ on the wool staple as a protec-
tion against fly” (B. 10/4/’35) would
be useless.
The sheep—or wool —is made “palat-
able” to the fly by the presence of bac-
teria, and it is only by devising a means
of destroying these bacteria —of which
there are many—that fly can be dealt
with effectively.
“Water-rot” bacteria are probably the
worst offenders, and they are carried from
infected sheep to clean sheep by means
of shearers’ clothes, combs and cutters.
Superfine Wools.
“Square”: “Liss” (B. 17/4/’35) states
that at Geelong sales comeback wool
“licked the hide off fine wool” ; but this
is not at all rare. In well-bred comeback
wool one will sometimes find the fleece
giving bright, lustrous, dense, full-stapled
wool of very high counts. It has not
only pronounced crimp and correspond-
ing serrations, but it takes the place
of superfine combing by reason of its
peculiar adaptability for tops-making,
and consequent low percentage of noils.
Noils, by the way, due to process im-
provements, command a higher price
than some years ago.
Irregularity in the price of comeback
wool is accounted for by varying counts.
A yardful of comeback wethers will
often produce wool counts ranging from
50’s upwards, but the majority might
go 58’s-60’s —equivalent to strong merino,
but with the disadvantage over the latter
of lacking the pure-bred characteristics.
A first-cross ewe of high wool count
and quality, put to a high-grade merino
ram of the same wool count or slightly
stronger, often produces progeny with
ideal comeback wool, but no one is
advised to try to breed back again to the
pure merino in this way. The throw-
back to the longwool ram will persist
for years.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


aid
to spurklintf
HEALTH and FITNESS
*•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
NEW
Pep 9 In a Few Minutes
m
m
%■
*BB
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick- i
me-up! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty 1 ” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves ; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
4 lt has
done me
a lot of
good 9
h
m
■am
E
■m
M
ONE
User says-*
“I find great
k relief in Cream
Sof Yeast; it has
w .'one me good
yin several
ways. Had
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
(rain Weight
ami Stamina
NOW!
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-upknown.”
g pps
GAIN
NEW 'PEP'
TO-DAY—
m
y .- \
m
m y
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in “pep"
when thousands, once run-down and ill > tell how they
gained 3lhs. to 15lhs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—hy simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and "Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes.. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Golds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and! Erup-
tions usually icithin 2 days.
Famous
Athlctes
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


TTuTfSi tlldx/iL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
m,
IMi
m
$
m y >*m
I; :
u
PM
H
m
A riding boot with
lightness and strength
This supple, lightweight, elastic-
sided Abbey Riding Boot, with its
upper of soft leather, offers perfect
comfort. Its light, tough sole is
made from first-grade Australian
sole leather. For its lightness,
strength and comfort, this Abbey
Boot is the horseman’s favorite
throughout Australia.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing, specify width as well as size,
and order a large tin of Dale s
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 357-
write FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 435.
Entirely made inEnyland
nr Australian Conditions
i
The New
Fordsoxv
Tractor
The new English Fordson has the power, stamina,
dependability and economy required for Australian
conditions. Important features include. New
cooling, lubrication and ignition systems. New
air cleaning system. "Hot-spot” vaporiser. New
governor control. Easy steering. New heavy-duty
transmission. Crankcase ventilation. Optional
gear ratios. Optional wheel equipment. The new
English Fordson is available for immediate delivery.
Easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS :
New South Wales;
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Cornet Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St,, Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., W illiamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia: ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western Australia; LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
E.T.3
29 Years'
Stomach Pains
Ended!
i
r
MR. H. P. MARTIN of KELVEOON, ESSEX,
SAYS: I WRITE AS
‘A SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC 1
"I have suffered with gastritis (indi-
gestion, etc ) for the last 29 years. I
was none too well last April and could
hardly eat anything without pain. Seeing
your advertisement for * Bisurated ’
Magnesia I bought abottleand am pleased
to tell you that I got free from pain almost
at once. I can now eat my food without
fear of pain and lam in better health. I
send this letter with the object of being a
service to the public. I am truly very
grateful for the benefit I have had from
it .... I am keeping quite fit thanks to
‘Bisurated' Magnesia.”
For indigestion, gastritis and other
painful stomach troubles there is no
more effective remedy than * Bisurated '
Magnesia which has been used and
recommended by doctors and hospitals
for over 20 years. This remarkable
remedy has brought instant and perma-
nent relief to thousands who had almost
given up hope.
'BISURATED'
MAGNESIA
POWDER TABLETS
‘ Bisurated * Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package bears the
oval ‘ Bismag ’ Trade Mark-+*
fd
An Immigrant Makes Good.
This week’s Success Story is from
the pen of “T.A.P.,” Toowoomba
( Q •)•
Bill H. was a London wharf-lumper.
His wife had worked in a cotton factory.
Enfeebled in childhood by poor and in-
sufficient food, she contracted tuber-
culosis. Her health, instead of improv-
ing, grew worse, and, following a doc-
tor’s advice, Bill took her to Australia.
The pair arrived in Australia with 19s.
in their purse.
Bill earned his first half-crown by
carrying a passenger’s luggage off the
boat. Then he tramped Brisbane looking
for work.
Eventually he was sent as a laborer to
Toowoomba Gardens. He was set to
mow the lawns, though he had never seen
a scythe before.
In 1893, floods, followed by bank
smashes, resulted in his being thrown out
of work. However, he soon found
another job, and began putting money
by.
He was granted a land order for £5O.
He chose a block of scrub land at the
foot of a stony hill below the Range
about eight miles from town. On seeing
the property a friend exclaimed: “Good
God, man ; you’ve got a stone quarry! ”
Unaided, Bill cleared three acres for
the home-site and split slabs and palings
for the hut. Half a ton of iron, carted
part of the way, had to be carried along
the rough scrub track which he had
cleared. His wife helped.
The dimensions of the hut which they
built were 22ft. by 6ft. The sides and
roof were iron andi the ends slabbed.
Strips of newspaper were pasted over the
cracks. This hut was enlarged as the
family increased, and they lived there
for 12 years.
For a time their food consisted mainly
of bread, treacle and tea. They seldom
had meat. They had no fruit or vege-
tables till they could grow their own,
and no milk till they had fenced in a
paddock for a cow.
But all the while solid improvements
were being put into the farm, and pros-
pects looked brighter till a drought
devastated the district and Bill lost all
but two cows. He sold these, and took a
job at £6 a month, coming home each
week-end. Every Saturday for two
months he attended a cattle sale and
bought a cow, which he drove home on
foot.
Soon they had a small herd, and again
success seemed assured, till a second
drought overtook them and they lost
everything. Borrowing from the bank,
Bill made another start. This time he
built up a good Jersey herd. Pigs were
a profitable sideline, and grass seed,
carefully prepared and well graded,
added to the income.
The property, subdivided into 19
paddocks, was at last sown with fodder
grasses. Each paddock was stocked in
rotation, and there was always good
green feed coming on. When war broke
out prices for dairy produce soared, and
the farm was ultimately sold for £3OOO.
The unimproved value of the land was
originally 2s, 6d. an acre.
Mr. and Mrs. H. now live in a com-
fortable cottage in town, unspoiled by
success.
Four years of Australian sunshine
freed Mrs. H. of all trace of tuberculosis,
and her nine children are healthy and a
credit to their parents.
A director of a dairying company,
Mr. H. is frequently chosen as its repre-
sentative in the southern capitals, and
has twice visited the Old Country on the
company’s business.
Male or Female in Breeding?
“Corriedale”: No sane man would
contradict “Right Angle” (B. 17/4/’35)
that the ewe does exert a big influence
on her lamb, but he partly misses my
point. A purchaser rarely asks to see the
ewes bought rams come from.
A first-class stud ewe may drop a ram
lamb not classy enough to get into the
breeder’s top draff. The wool is usually
above fault, but anatomical weaknesses
put him out. Yet this ram may throw an
excellent line of ewe lambs.
A good-looking ram suggests a line of
good male ancestors. Female influence
is small.
The opposite holds for the good ewe.
She represents a preponderance of good
female blood. A ram out of the class
of ewe fancied has a far greater chance
of securing a line of that type of ewe
than a ram merely showing that type.
Twenty-five years ago the dairy sire
was picked largely on his own appear-
ance. To-day the shrewd breeder founds
his line of cows on one particular cow,
and doubles back to her blood as often
as possible. Some of the greatest dairy
sires would never secure a place in the
showring, being mostly links to hand
down the female line.
Hints for the Farm.
“Tockilly”: To keep weevils out of
corn in the husk pull the corn before it
is quite dry, throw a few handfuls of
coarse salt and sulphur on the floor of
the barn, and pack a layer of cobs about
Ift. deep, sprinkling with sulphur and
salt. Treat each layer in the same way.
“Lion”: Bluestone-and-mustard drench
for worms has been found by N.S.W.
Government research officers to be better
without the mustard, which irritates the
stomach and does not help- to kill the
worm. Bluestone gets stronger exposed to
air. To dose correctly it should be kept
in airtight containers. Crushed and in air-
tight cartons of 12oz. each it can be pur-
chased for 4s. lid. per six cartons, plus
post. This is enough to drench nearly
2000 sheep.
“Tric-trac”; Cheap and effective trac-
tor grips can be made from -fin. x 3in.
flat iron, such as old waggon tyres. A
section long enough to cover two bolt-
holes in the tractor tyre is shaped accord-
ing to the tyre curve, and sin. (or more)
bent to right angles at each end and
sharpened. Two boltholes are then
drilled and the double grip completed.
“Kyabra”: Mark out a triangle or
diamond-shape fence to guard your tank.
Run your troughing out from one of
the corners. If water gets low, and only
trickles out of the outlet pipe, the cattle
when working up to the valve will have
no corner to jamb in. Few valve-guards
are effective with a thirsty mob.
“Doitnow”; Don’t feed large quantities
of raw meat to pigs that have been used
to cooked vegetable and grain diet. It
will kill them. If a beast dies, get the
meat fresh (remove all the fat for
tallow), and well boil it. For the first
two days mix it with the other usual
food, and increase until feeding on meat
or soup alone. Pigs should always have
some vegetable matter.
“Grasshopper”: To tether out cows
or calves without danger of their tang-
ling up the halter, place two short stakes
in the ground joined by a piece of wire
or rope on which is placed a ring.
Fasten the halter to the ring and the
animal can graze up and down on both
sides of the wire quite safely. It’s an old
Danish custom.
“Ryte”: To mend leaking tanks, gut-
tering, etc., boil an old motor tube in
about four gallons tar until the rubber
is melted. It takes about 36 hours.
Applied hot, this will stop most leaks.
“32 x 40”: Stock may just as well die
from impaction as be poisoned by an
overdose of salt. Salt-poisoning may
result if “Spring’s” (B. 27/3/’35) recom-
mendation to feed with salt and molasses
is followed. Once stock become accus-
tomed to the taste of molasses they will
eat anything at all that the sticky mess
adheres to, and this craving for sweets
may prompt them to take a great more
salt than they need. Feed salt and
molasses separately.


m n
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘For twenty years now grandfather has
declined to drink tea,’ said the young woman,
smiling.”— “Sun.”
The old pot calling the kettle black.
4 4 4 4
“The appeal of creed is a strong one.”
—Sydney parson.
Sects appeal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The U.C.P. will remain in office only as
long as Labor permits.”— Melb. “Herald.”
Until Labor’s love’s lost.
4 4 4 4
Misapprehension.
We had not seen our new neighbors,
but when one of the most raucous voices
imaginable made the calm of twilight
hideous we decided something would
have to be done about their wireless.
We bore it as long as we could ; then,
“Can’t you do something to that blasted
radio of yours?” we demanded over the
hedge. “Can’t you turn it down or off?”
After a pause the new neighbors’ win-
dow was raised and a harassed-looking
little man looked out. “No,” he said,
“I can’t turn it any way. It goes on like
this all the time I’m at home. And I’d
like you to know that we haven’t got a
wireless.”
Selma.
4* *4 4* 4*
“Where can one get pears or peaches the
size and quality of those that go in the tins?”
Why, out of the tins, of course.
4* 4- 4 4*
Western American Farmer.
As the clouds banked up, black and
threatening, old Jake Sorghum gazed
aloft with anxious eyes. How often over
the long years that he had been battling
with nature had he thus searched the
heavens!
On how many tragic occasions had
he seen the clouds mass overhead, heard
the rumbling of distant thunder, only to
watch the false harbingers roll treacher-
ously away without having shed a single
drop of life-giving rain on his withering
crops! And so he stood, eyes riveted on
the flying rack that was at once the
arbiter of all his hopes and despairs.
As the first drops splashed on his
whiskers and swiftly set in to a steady,
soaking downpour, old Jake turned into
the homestead, cursing horribly.
Almost ruined by two bounteous
seasons, he had been depending on a
good long drought to put him once more
on the high road to prosperity.
No wonder he cursed the life-giving
rain. His bankruptcy was now assured!
S. W. K.
Glimpses at the Globe.
IX.— Beyond the Bay of Whales.
The Antarctic wouldn’t be such a bad
place if only it were not so. cold. It has
all the attributes of a good week-end
resort.
It is quiet, restful and remote from
noisy thoroughfares, and there are
thousands of square miles of unspoilt
scenery. Ice looks much better in huge
chunks than it does in the ice-chest, and
snow is, at any rate, clean. But why
on earth the authorities allow it to be
so ridiculously cold down there has got
me completely baffled. There’s not a
footwarmer or a radiator between the
South Pole and the Bay of Whales, while
it is impossible to procure a hot-dog in
the whole of the Great White Continent.
The absence of aot-dogs betokens a
strange lack of organisation somewhere.
These hardy creatures are sold through-
out the length and breadth of the civil-
ised world. They have become acclimat-
ised from Cairns to Capetown, from the
Kattegat to Kiaou Chow, yet down in
the Frozen South, where they would be
most likely to gladden the heart of man,
they are non-existent.
The establishment of hot-dog colonies
at selected points throughout Antarctica
would do much to bring home comforts
to semi-rigid explorers.
Of course, they’d still have the bliz-
zards to contend with. It can be very
windy in a blizzard. I remember one
rather bad specimen that struck our
party once. On we kept, right in the
teeth of it. The flying sleet made it as
dark as night, and the only way we could
gauge our direction was by leaning on
the blizzard and stepping through it.
All day it raged. All day we kept stead-
fastly on. Towards night there vvas ?■
lull, and we found we’d lost 20 miles.
“Y' say y've been in every hospital in the city? Betcha haven't been
in the Wimmin's Hospital."
“Boy, I Was born there!"
It will be rather difficult to do away
with the blizzards, but it may be pos-
sible to get them to blow the other way
round for at least a part of the year.
I was once caught alone in one of
these blizzards. I kept walking, and
when the show was over and the wind
had died down to its normal 90 m.p.h.
again, I was hopelessly lost. To make
matters worse, 1 was half blinded. After
walking a few miles I fancied I could
see my companions some distance ahead.
As I drew nigh I hailed them. No reply.
. . . I came up with them.
“Nice pals, you are!” I complained.
“Couldn’t you hear me calling?”
They took no notice of me.
“Thanks for
worrying about me,”
I remarked sarcas-
tically.
Still no reply. I
became desperate.
Was I going mad?
“What’s the matter
with you all?” I
shouted. “Have you
gone dumb?”
One of them
stepped towards me,
and the others, still
not saying a word,
closed around me in
a rough circle.
Deciding that
either they or I must
certainly be mad, I
broke through a gap
in the closing circle
and ran for ray
life. I hadn’t gone
far when I stumbled
into the arms of
our geologist.
“What’s the idea
of playing kiss-in-
the-ring with the
penguins?” said he.
It took a lot of
explaining.
So be careful if
you ever go down south of 78. Those
blizzards can get you into all sorts of
fixes.
Jasby.
“He was sentenced to gaol on forty-one
charges of housebreaking.”— “Labor Daily.”
At least they might have allowed him
to complete his half-century.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Right Treatment.
“It is useless going to a doctor unless you
are prepared to follow his advice.”
—Brisbane paper.
“Now, go easy on smoking, and take
only three beers a day—one after each
meal,” said the doctor.
“But” began Brown.
“No buts, old man,” insisted the
doctor as he beckoned the nurse to bring
in the next patient. “Call and see me
again in a fortnight’s time.”
When Brown called again the doctor
asked him how he felt. “Never felt
better,” said Brown; “but what I can’t
understand is why you started me drinking
beer when I’ve been a strict teetotaller
for 40 vears.”
P.
-2* -I* 4* 4-
“A professor of tropical medicine reports
that 25 per cent, of the opium consumed in
India is used to tranquilise babies.”
In Darlinghurst cocktails are used for
the same purpose, but with little success.
The “babies” seldom remain quiet for
long.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Poetic Vengeance.
As Biggies and I drove along the bush
road a man came around the next bend,
walking towards us and waving a stick.
He was clad in shorts and carried a knap-
sack—obviously a hiker in distress.
Biggies stopped the car as we came
abreast of him. The pedestrian’s face lit
up as he recognised my companion.
After introductions the hiking one ex-
plained his reason for stopping us,
“You see,” he said, “I am making for
the next town, but if it’s more than a
mile or so I’ll not be able to make it
before dark, and I was going to ask for
a lift back to the last town. I hate hiking
in the dark.”
Biggies’s voice took on quite a genial
note. He almost beamed.
“Reggie's getting as proud as a turkey-cock .”
“Yes, he'll be growing spurs next!"
“No need for any qualms on that
score, old man,” he said cheerfully. “It’s
certainly no more than a mile along the
road—probably a bit less. Keep straight
on and you can’t miss it. You’ll do it
in 20 minutes easily. So long!” And
he slipped into gear and moved off before
I could correct his misleading informa-
tion.
“You’re pretty tough, Bill, telling him
that; why, Slugsville is five miles from
here if it’s a yard. He’ll have an hour
and a half’s solid walking in front of
him,”
“True! True!” Biggies exulted, “It’s
a God-given opportunity which it would
be sheer blasphemy to disregard. That
cow is the estate agent that sold me a
house ‘a stqne’s-throw from the
station.”’
Keo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Married men who are so good that
they can afford to talk in their sleep
shouldn’t do so, because it is absolute
cruelty to keep a woman listening half
the night and then disappoint her,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He often wondered how married people
divorced each other.”
—“John o’ London” short story.
Well, it’s much easier for them than
for single ones.
4* 4* 4* 4*
All for Humanity.
Passing the public bar of the Blotto
Arms, women shivered as a torrent of
blasphemy assailed their ears. Two
resonant voices were hurling abuse with
uncommon vitality.
Presently there was the sound of a
scuffle within; then a man in a white
shirt, angry and flushed, came flying out
of the door.
He was followed by a man in a blue
shirt. For a moment they faced each
other, fists clenched ; then they rushed
together with a rally of wild swings.
A crowd gathered rapidly around
them. Such a battle was worthy of a main
event at the Stadium. Now they were
slugging wildly at short range, now locked
in a fighting clinch, until at last they
rolled together to the pavement, punch-
ing, swearing and gasping.
A newcomer approached the barman,
who was watching from the hotel steps.
“What’s it all about?” he queried.
“Aw, they quarrelled because both
wanted to speak at the same time,” ex-
plained the barman. “Bloke in the white
shirt was maggin’ about passive resist-
ance and the other bloke started on
pacifism.”
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The demand in the south for sealskin
coats is going to be so great this winter
that the rabbits in Queensland are threat-
ened with extinction.
Judgment Deferred.
That damsels of the present day
Are reckless, brainless, vain, unchaste
And impudent I’ll never say,
Nor at their faults a pebble cast.
I won’t allege, in bitter terms,
That modern girls lack charm and
grace,
Nor liken to anaemic worms
The youthful stalwarts of the race.
1 shan’t uphold the tiresome creed
That youth’s neurotic, lax and bold,
Nor advocate the crying need
For strict reform — until I’m old!
P. O. M. C.
Revulsion.
Take away that whisky-bottle:
Hide it from my aching sight!
Nothing in the world shall make me
Drink from it again to-night!
Cast it out, the lure of Satan ;
Hide it where Twill ne'er he seen !
Break it, if you will, to fragments,
For it’s just a dead marine!
T. W. N.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
l.nncb from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the Lading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the. fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mother, with son (12), Vic., seeks position
with nice people, station or seaside, N.S.W.;
refs.—6s6l.
Titles of books, English or foreign, in which
the principal character is a school-teacher.
Required for purpose of essay on “The School-
teacher in Literature.” —6541.
To buy complete edition of The Talmud,
Wreck of the Stirling Castle and Queensland
Criminal Code, by Graham. —6544.
To buy Henry Gyles Turner’s Our Own
Little Rebellion and books and pamphlets deal-
ing with the Eureka Stockade affair. —6545.
To buy Vol. 2, History of New South Wales
(1862), by Roderick Flanagan.—6ss4.
Will exchange native orchids (rock-lilies,
slipper orchids, etc.) for settings of eggs, a
chinchilla male rabbit, or anything useful of
like value. —6588.
Words of poem “The Coachman’s Talc,”
beginning— '
As lie flicked the flies from Marigold
And flattered and fondled Pharaoh.
—6580.
Words of poem “The Outlaw of Glen Idol.”
—6589.
Information Sought.
(1) When and where was the last fight under
London prize-ring rules fought in Australia ?
(2) Who were the contestants ? (3) How long
did it last? (4) Who won? —6601.
(1) At Sans Souci, N.S.W., in October, 1896.
(2) Chiddy Ryan and Ginger Toohey. (3)
Twenty-eight rounds, occupying approximately
two hours. (4) Police stopped the fight, and
no winner was declared.
* * * *
(1) On what date did the Burke and Wills
expedition leave Melbourne ? Three reference-
books which I consulted differ. (2) What is
the date of Burke’s death ? Same reference-
books differ again. —6345.
(1) There appears to be no doubt that the
Burke and Wills expedition left Melbourne
on August 20, 1860. This date appears on
the obelisk in Royal Park, Melbourne, erected
at the point of departure, on the grave of
the explorers in Melbourne General Cemetery
and in the official Parliamentary papers con-
taining the dispatches of the Governor of Vic-
toria, Sir Henry Barkly, to the Imperial
authorities. The expedition camped for some
days at Sandhurst (now Bendigo), moving on
and reaching Swan Hill on September 6.
(2) There is a conflict of evidence regarding
the date of Burke’s death, which is only
natural, seeing that the rescue-party did not
pick up King, the survivor of the -expedition,
until September 15, 1861. King was suffering
from exhaustion and extreme starvation and
not in a fit state to give a coherent account of
what had happened. He had, however, kept
his diary until after the deaths of both Burke
and Wills, but the official papers explain that
his dates are wrong. The last entry in Wills’s
own diary is dated June 28, and states that
Burke and King would start “to-morrow.”
King’s diary tells that he and Burke left
Wills, and that on June 30 Burke was very
weak, adding “All was over next morning,”
which would make the date of the death of
Burke July 1. King tells that, on returning,
he found Wills also dead. On the other hand,
the Australian Encyclopaedia states that Wills
died two days before Burke, which, of
course, might have been possible, though there
is no evidence to prove it. Finally, Mr. Archer,
who prepared the diaries for the Parliamentary
papers, adds a footnote,to his work referring
to the condition of melancholy into which King
had been plunged, and stating that the last
four dates in his diary are obviously wrong.
* * * *
(1) Customs duty, primage duty and sales
tax on books (general reading) imported from
U.S.A. ? (2) What classes of books are pro-
hibited by the Customs Department ? —6578.
(1) No duties or tax. (2) Blasphemous,
indecent or obscene works or articles are pro-
hibited from importation under Section 52 (c)
of the Customs Act 1901-1935. Also literature
wherein is advocated the overthrow by force
or violence of the established Government of
the Commonwealth or of any State or of any
other civilised country; the overthrow by force
or violence of all forms of law; the abolition
of organised government; the assassination of
public officials; or the unlawful destruction of
property. Also prohibited is literature wherein
a seditious intention (as defined by Section
24A of the Crimes Act 1914-1932) is expressed
or a seditious enterprise advocated.
* * * *
(1) When was the National Airways ’plane
Southern Cloud lost ? (2) Where was it last
seen ? (3) Gross weight of ’plane ? (4) Maxi-
mum speed ? (5) Was it a high-wing mono-
plane ? (6) Number of engines, and make ?
(1) What time did it leave Sydney ?; (8) How
many persons on board ? (9) Is there a Govt,
reward offering for authentic news of the miss-
ing machine ? —6425.
(1) March 21, 1931. (2) Many reports were
received to the effect that the aircraft was
either seen or heard in numerous localities in
New South Wales and Victoria. These reports
were most conflicting and contradictory, and
it is not possible to state which can be accepted
as definite evidence of the last view of the
aircraft. (3) 10,2251 b. (4) 107 m.p.h. (5) Yes.
(6) The aircraft was fitted with three Armstrong-
Siddeley Lynx engines. (7) About 8 a.ra.
(8) Two pilots and six passengers. (9) No.
Are Polynesian half-castes (British subjects)
permitted to enter and remain in Australia ?
If so, for how long ? —6466.
A case of this kind is dealt with on its
merits. Application should be made to the
Secretary, Department of the Interior, Can-
berra, stating object of visit, proposed dura-
tion of stay, and who would be responsible in
Australia for the maintenance of the person
concerned.
* * * *
Placing the index figure of the wholesale
prices of merino wool, wheat, cotton, lead
(soft pig), copper (wire bars) and zinc (ingots)
at 1000 in 1928, what would be their respective
index figures in 1934 ? —6281.
Merino wool, 676; wheat, 514; cotton, 831;
lead, 660; copper, 617; and zinc, 747.
* * * *
(1) Composition of calcium carbide ? (2)
How is it manufactured ? (3) Its specific
gravity ? (4) Principal uses ? —6309.
(1) Calcium carbide is composed of one
atom of calcium to two of carbon, its chemi-
cal formula being CaC2. (2) It is manufac-
tured by heating lime and carbon (coke) in an
electric furnace. (3) 2.2. (4) Principally
in the production of acetylene gas and in the
manufacture of calcium cyanamide, used as a
fertiliser, and in the manufacture of cyanides.
* * * *
Who invented playing-cards, and when ?
6475.
As in the case of all ancient pastimes, the
origin is obscure; the widely taken view is
that they come from Asia. In the Chinese
dictionary Ching-tsze-tung (1678), it is said
that cards were invented in the reign of Seun-
ho, a.d. 1120, for the amusement of his con-
cubines. Tradition says that cards have existed
in India from time immemorial, and their
invention has been assigned to the Egyptians
and the Arabs. Their introduction into Europe
is also a matter of dispute, but they appear
to have been known in England in the thirteenth
century.
* t- * *
Is it correct to say that electricity is generated
from the atmosphere, or should it be assumed
that it has always existed and that it is merely
harnessed for power ? —6482.
Electricity should be regarded as being a
part of all matter, and therefore has always
existed, but in a normal molecule of matter
the positive and negative charges of electricity
are equal and there is no resultant charge. A
current of electricity is produced as a result
of upsetting this equilibrium. It is not, there-
fore, correct to say that electricity is “gene-
rated” ; it should be considered, rather, as exist-
ing in all matter, and manifesting itself under
suitable conditions. The subject is an exceed-
ingly complex one, and a textbook on the
electron theory should be consulted.
* * * *
Two reliable recipes for poisoning rats ?
6398.
One and a half to two grains of barium
carbonate is sufficient to kill a rat. The pro-
portions recommended are one part of barium
to four parts by weight of oatmeal or other
substance used. The following is a formula:
Barium carbonate, 3|oz.; salt, \ teaspoon;
grated cheese, ioz. ; and oatmeal to make lib.
The British Agricultural Dept, recommends the
following: Barium carbonate, 1 part by weight;
rolled oats, 2 parts by weight; and dripping,
1 part by weight. Directions: Melt the fat
and mix it thoroughly with the dry ingredients
to form a thick paste.
I live in a wattle-growing area in the Gosford
(N.S.W.) district. (1) Is there a good market
for wattle-bark at the present time in Sydney ?
(2) How much per ton ? (3) Which variety
of acacia contains the highest percentage of
tannin ?— 6372.
(1) Tin's is the height of the season, and
stocks are reasonably plentiful. (2) Wattle-
bark, chopped and in bags, is valued at any-
thing from £6 to £9 per ton Sydney, depending
on its condition and quality. (3) Acacia
mollissima is the best variety, followed closely
by Acacia decurrens. It is doubtful if either
of these two varieties grows in the Gosford
district, and, generally speaking, bark from
that area has a poor commercial value. ■ Mr.
Welsh, the State Economic Botanist at the
Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo, is the
best man to go to for advice of this nature.
* * * *
1 understand the voice on the long-distance
telephone is “boosted” at intervals on its way.
(1) Please explain principle. (2) How many
“boosts” are there between Sydney and Mel-
bourne ?— 6339.
The telephone system between Sydney and
Melbourne is operated generally on what is
termed the carrier principle. By means of
this system it is possible to superimpose at
least three telephone channels on a pair of
telephone wires, so that four separate tele-
phone conversations can take place simul-
taneously over one pair of wires. The terminal
equipment necessary is installed at Ashfield and
Melbourne respectively for the Sydney-to-
Melbourne telephone route. In order to make
the speech volume sufficient it is necessary to
provide amplifiers .at Goulburn, Wagga and
Wangaratta, analogous to the audio amplifier
used in a radio set.
* * * *
My hair is falling out and has lost all signs
of its natural gloss. Either dandruff or some
other scalp irritant is present. Treatment ?
6491.
Symptoms indicate impoverished scalp con-
dition. This may be contributed to by health
debility; in all cases dandruff accumulation
demands attention. For local application, add
a little glycerine to bay-rum lotion as retailed,
and rub into the hair roots daily after massag-
ing the scalp with the fingertips. Shampoo
once a week with coal-tar soap and hot water.
If the hair-fall persists, the following lotion
may be substituted for bay rum as above;
Tincture of cantharidin, 3 drachms; dilute
acetic acid, 2 drachms; spirit of rosemary, 2
drachms; glycerine, 4 drachms; bay rum to
6oz. An occasional singe benefits.
* * * *
Recipe for embrocation for application to
aching legs and ai-ms ? —6461.
Add to equal parts camphorated oil and
methylated spirit 10 per cent, eucalyptus oil
or methyl salicylate (oil of wintergreen). Shake
well before applying to affected parts.
* * * *
How did the word “tourniquet” get into the
English language, and what are the uses of
this appliance in surgery ? —6579.
Comes from the French word, and is used
in surgery for the apparatus employed in
arresting the circulation in a limb, and thereby
preventing bleeding. This need may arise in
connection with an accidental injury, or when
blood-vessels have to be divided in the course
of an operation. At first a tourniquet con-
sisted merely of a band which was tied round
the limb and then tightened by twisting with
a stick or rod. Sometimes a pad was placed
over the main artery, and beneath the band;
this apparatus is still used in emergency. At
the beginning of the eighteenth century the
French surgeon Petit invented the screw-
tourniquet, which is now generally used. It
consists of a pad to go over the main artery,
a band with a buckle to go round the
limb, and a metal screw by which the pad is
tightened down on the artery. This tourniquet
does not slip, but it has the disadvantage that
it: compresses the whole limb. Various modi-
fications, including the elastic tourniquet, have
been exploited.
* * * *
What is thrombosis, its cause, effect, symp-
toms, cure and duration of curative treatment ?
—6183.
Abnormal coagulation of blood within heart
or blood-vessels during life. Effects differ widely
according to the area involved. Lesions that
slow the blood-flow obviously favor the
development—prolonged fevers, enforced rest
with operation, etc., are factors to be con-
sidered. Although a beneficial effect is recog-
nised in certain cases, in general the results of
thrombosis are harmful: immediate medical
attention is required. The main treatment is
twofold. Measures must be taken for relief or
removal of •the cause that initiates the throm-
bosis. Blood infection, anaemia, gout or arterio-
sclerosis may be found. In the second place,
it is necessary to encourage absorption of the
thrombus —separation of portion of the latter
may result in embolism or blockage of a vein.
Rest is essential; pending examination, an
elastic support or crepe bandage may be
applied for relief.
H*
What is iodine made from, and process of
manufacture ? —6259.
lodine may be obtained by a similar chemi-
cal reaction to that by which both bromine
and chlorine are produced. Mix potassium
iodide with manganese dioxide and sulphuric
acid; heated gently in a retort, the iodine dis-
tils over and condenses in the form of greyish-
black crystals. On an industrial scale iodine
is obtained from two sources —namely, (1) sea-
weed (kelp) and (2) Chile saltpetre (caliche).
The latter medium constitutes the most abun-
dant source of this element. Although the
amount of iodine in caliche (crude sodium
nitrate) is small, averaging about 0.2 p.c.,
the enormous quantity of nitrate that is turned
out' assures a large production of iodine. The
process is based upon the fact that, when a
solution of hydrogen sodium sulphite (sodium
bisulphite) is added to a solution of an iodate,
iodine is precipitated. Further purification is
necessary.
* * * *
I want to construct a pit to get rid of garden
refuse ( cuttings, grass, leaves, etc.) which will
turn intg mould. How can I construct one, and
what refuse will turn into mould? —639o.
To turn the garden refuse mentioned into
mould build a box-frame and pack into it alter-
nate layers (about 6in. high) of loam, refuse
and well-rotted manure (add a sprinkling of
bone-dust fertiliser with each layer), and let it
rot for at least three months. In dry weather
water the heap occasionally to prevent drying-
out. Should the mould show signs of sourness
(sometimes caused by using too many green
cuttings, etc.) give a light dressing of lime.
Before applying it to the open garden thor-
oughly mix the heap and then dig it in while
fresh. A fresh heap should, be started every
three months, and the residue will be ready
for use in alternate seasons.
* * * *
(1) To whom should I apply in Maoriland
for a fob deer-shooting, or to get country to
shoot on, to make a living out of the skins ?
(2) What is the cheapest fare to M.L. ? —6581.
(1) Under-Secretary, Department of Internal
Affairs, Wellington, M.L. The department
employs experienced men as deer-shooters and
-trappers, but only in the summer months.
Possibly municipal authorities in deer-infested
districts, such as the Westland County Council,
Hokitika, or the Selwyn County Council,
Hororata, could put you in touch with land-
owners who need assistance. (2) Third-class
single, £7 10s.
* * * *
How to blue gun-barrels? —6463.
Dissolve two parts crystal iron chloride, two
parts antimony chloride and one part gallic
acid in four or five parts distilled water.
Apply the liquid with a small sponge, and let
dry. Repeat process two or three times, then
Wash with water and dry. Rub with boiled
linseed oil to deepen the shade.
* * * *
Speed of sound ? —6327.
It varies with the temperature of the air,
being greatest when the air is warmest. At
60deg. Fahr. it is about 1110 ft. per second.
In water sound travels at a speed of 4708 ft.
per second.
Brief Answers.
E.A.G.: Arrangements have been made
by the Hairdressers and Wigmakers’ Em-
ployees’ Union for the opening of a hairdress-
ing class at the Sydney Technical College.
Secretary of the union will be pleased to
furnish full details Navigation
Dept., Brisbane, which keeps such records,
is unable to furnish details.'.. .J. 8.: Globite
is so cheap that it will not pay to spend much
on renovations. Clean the case with a damp
cloth, then take an old toothbrush and clean
it well with tan boot-polish, rubbing well into
comers and cracks. Polish with a woollen
cloth. Extra preservation can be secured by
then adding a coat of duco clear brushing
lacquer, but this is not necessary if you give
the case an occasional cleaning with a wax
polish G.V.C.: Rev. T. Aitken, The Manse,
Raglan-street, King William’s Town, Cape
Colony, South Africa R.S.: N.S.W. Rural
Employment Scheme for «Boys, 92b Pitt-street,
Sydney W.N.S.: (1) The average cost to
secure an “A” flying license is £45 or £5O.
Actual cost depends upon the aptitude of the
pupil. (2) Aero Club of N.S.W., Aerodrome,
Mascot A.A.: Too long to print here. The
Registrar, Sydney Diocesan Registry, Diocesan
Church House, George-street, Sydney, will fur-
nish particulars on request... .D.T.: Winch-
combe Carson, Ltd., Winchcombe House,
Bridge-street, Sydney, will be pleased to give
you tallow prices for the years mentioned....
A.F.M.C.: A should deduct from C wages
tax amounting to 9d. per week, based on
wages, 255., plus value of board and lodging
(calculated at the rate of £1 per week)
A.D.T.: (1) The principle is not accepted as
a teaching in Australia. (2) Write the Theo-
sophical Society, 29 Bligh-street, Sydney.
(3) Health and Education Through Self-mastery,
from Dymock’s, Sydney W.T.C.: The only
remedy is to line the roof. This prevents
condensation and subsequent dripping
G. : (1) From Rowley, 219 George-street,
Sydney. (2) 7s. 6d., post free J.D.: (1)
Concise Radio Handbook, by R. C. V. Hum-
phery. The Radio page of The Bulletin pub-
lishes details of the most modern circuits.
(2) Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-
street, Sydney. (3) 3s. 9d., post free....
F.E.8.: No exact figures available for com-
parison... .S.C.S.: Compilation of list would
involve a prolonged search. Your request has
been inserted in the “Wants” section....
A.A.: V.R.C. betting rules provide that, “In
the event of a race being ordered to be run
over again, bets in favor of any horses which
started on the first but did not go to the
post on the second occasion are 105 t”....
W.N.: There is no Australian-born member
of the Order of the Garter J.F.; Ex-
Senator Albert Gardiner was born at Orange
(N.S.W.) in 1867. He was M.L.A. (N.S.W.)
for Forbes, 1891-94; for Ashburnham, 1894-
95; for Orange, 1904-07; Senator for N.S.W.,
1910-26 and 1928.... J.P.: See Tillyard’s
\“Studies in Australian Mecoptera” in the
Proceedings of the Linncan Society of N.S.W.,
1917-18 K.F.: The Endeavour, an Aus-
tralian Fisheries Investigation vessel, left Mel-
bourne for Macquarie Island, South Pacific,
with the Director of Fisheries and his staff.
She left Macquarie Island on her return voyage
on December 3, 1914, and no trace of her
has since been found; 24 lives were 105 t....
H. : The Torrens system derives its
name from its originator, Robert Torrens,
who first outlined his proposals in an address
to the electors of Adelaide in January, 1857.
. ...S.A.: The fig-parrots, or lorilets (Opop-
sittidce), are small birds characteristic of the
Papuan region. Two species are found in
Queensland, but they frequent jungles and are
very little known K.H. and W.A.: There
is no legislation in force in N.S.W. requiring
registration as a stock and station agent. If,
however, you desire to sell by auction, it will
be necessary to obtain a license under the
Auctioneers’ Licensing Act, particulars of
which will be given by the local Clerk of Petty
Sessions... .E.J.E.; (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Yes.
(4) December 24, 1861. (5) The Victorian
Cricketers’ Guide for 1861-62, published in
Melbourne, 1862, by W. J. Flammersley
C.8.C.: The railway jetty at Darwin is 528 ft.
long. There is a depth of 45ft. at high water
Ordinary • springs, and 22ft. at extreme low
water C.M.P.: The 19 cricket matches
played between Australia and South Africa
have resulted as follows: 14 won by Australia,
one won by South Africa and four drawn
H.A.P.: The tubs may be repaired by apply-
ing a new lining to the inside, consisting of
one part of cement to two parts of fine sand,
and applying this mixture to a thickness of
about £in C.W.8.; On the facts stated
A appears to have ground for an action for
compensation. The pertinent Act provides that
a worker who receives personal injury, whether
at or away from his place of employment, is
entitled to compensation from his employer.
Persons employed —otherwise than by way of
manual labor —whose remuneration exceeds
£750 per annum are excluded. No doubt the
Court would take into consideration what B
has already done for A M.M.: The plant
commonly known as liquorice or wild liquorice
(Glycyrrhiza glabra ) has been found in a semi-
wild state near Hillston (N.S.W.). It was
probably introduced for cultivation, but the
homestead was burnt out and the plant has
continued to spread. There is a native species,
Glycyrrhiza psoraleoides, but the roots of the
native species are of no commercial importance.
... .V.G.: The effect of the milky sap of
the black apple (Sideroxylon australe) —the
“wycaulie” of the Richmond River natives—
on the human system has not been ascertained.
. ...F.8.; The Graf Zeppelin has a cruis-
ing speed of 68 m.p.h. and a maximum speed
of 80 m.p.h. Its gross lift is 107 tons, and
its pay lift 15 tons. It has five Mayback
engines, each developing 550 h.p. at 1600
r.p.rn M.J.L.: Chances are not bright.
Write Dept, of External Affairs, Canberra,
F.C.T V.A.K.: He cannot compel you to
sell. A joint tenancy may be severed by parti-
tion, as where one joint tenant conveys his
estate to a third person and so creates a
tenancy in common, or, in rare instances, by
an accession of interest, as in a case of
inheritance... .C.K.: There are no vacancies,
and the waiting list is extensive (Many
others mailed.)


mm
r
vim
v m
ll
§
It
ll
&S 3
-X
M,. V ll
M
Vi
Ml*
11 >
I, 1 1 1;
nr.
iiZ'l'.'.
»
i
■cSQ
R.M.S. MOOLTAN leaves Sydney July 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 18 and 11 guineas respectively.
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Aug. 23
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER leaves Sydney Nov. 15
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Dec. 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents, J'onrist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ud.
5 Bent Street, Sydney.
A MIXED GRILL.
Melbourne City Council is establishing
a dental clinic at Kensington. It aims
at looking after the teeth of all the chil-
dren born there, about 250 a year,
from birth until they leave school —and
it expects the work to be done by a pro-
fessional man for £lOO a year!
H 4 % %
A travelling scholarship founded in
Vic. by the late Robert and Ada Haddon
provides £3OO for a year’s study of archi-
tecture on the part of an architect not
more than 30 years of age. This year’s
winner is Alan Ralton, for a communal
housing scheme. Fellow-architects say
Ralton’s scheme surpasses anything yet
carried out in Austria, Germany or
Russia.
* * * *
“Anvil”: I nominate R. C. Stephensen,
of Nikenbah (Q.), as the oldest working
blacksmith on earth. He runs his own
smithy at 92, and he has been at it since
1883, when he came to Queensland from
Denmark. Father of five, he has 23
grandchildren, 16 great-grandchildren and
five great-great-grandchildren.
sj«
“Bundalmga”: T, R, Young, pilot of
New England Airways, claims a world’s
record for the number of hours flown in
one machine. His total is over 3000
hours, and the machine is the co.’s City
of Sydney, which he has piloted between
Sydney and Brisbane on nearly 700 trips.
* % H 4 %
“Tatler”: E. E. Sneyd, who lately
retired after half a century in the postal
department, had at least one claim to
fame. In ’92, when Glenloth won the
Cup, the Tatt’s ticket was worth £30,000
(the biggest on record), and Sneyd held
it in safe keeping for the owner, Scotty
Leighton, Scotty was opal-mining at
Pinkilla, near Eromanga (Q.), when he
had his stroke of luck. He treated his old
mates well—£soo here, £lOO there—and
then packed up for Scotland,
* * jJ:
“G- Trotter”; The Rockefellers’ proud
position is threatened by the Willses of
England. Since 1899 11 members of the
great tobacco dynasty have died, each
leaving over a million. The last, Arthur,
left three and a half, millions. Writer
travelled on a mailboat from Colombo to
Toulon with one branch of the family in
1920, and a less-ostentatious lot it would
be difficult to find. The shipboard
climbers looked askance at the retiring
parents and girls, who were outshone in
dress by most of the other passengers.
Not till too late did the climbers discover
that they had been snubbing billionaires
unawares.
* *l' * s|:
“M.G.”: Ballarat recently vetoed the
planting of a tree in its gardens in
memory of Ted Dyson because the
curator had accepted the tree without
asking the council’s consent. Now the
arrangement for laying the foundation-
stone of the Shakspeare statue has been
indefinitely postponed because some
carper objected to the name of the Mayor
appearing on the stone as well as that
of Shakspeare. Which recalls the statues
of Simon Bolivar which Blanco, the
dictator, caused to be erected in every
town in Venezuela, each bearing the in-
scription “To the Liberator, Bolivar,
erected by”—then, in letters five times
as large as the foregoing, the words
“the illustrious American, Guzman
Blanco.”
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: The large finger-
ring with four rough nobs known
as a knuckle-duster (B. 10/4/’35) can
inflict nasty gashes, especially upon a
victim’s forehead, but there are crueller
weapons, among them the common beer-
bottle. I know one man who, struck on
the head by a bottle in a racecourse
brawl, has never been normal since ;
half-blinded, he is never quite free from
headaches, and is at times driven half
crazy by pain. Blackthorns and knobby
ash-sticks, bits of rubber hose or engine
packing, bike chains and other weapons
used as clubs are not in the same class
for savagery with the skull-fracturing,
brain-contusing bottle.
* * * %
“Grasspan”: A Melbourne sporting
writer, discussing the vagaries of ama-
teurism and the ridiculous lengths to
which disqualifications may be stretched,
asks why there should not be a Consort-
ing Act for athletes. In some sports
the man who is rubbed down by a pro-
fessional trainer or who occupies the
same dressing-room as a professional
player is liable to be struck off the roll.
Why, then, should he not be passed into
the outer if he is seen to .speak to the
professional in the street or have one with
him at a convenient bar? There is an-
other phase, now that women have en-
tered the realm of sport. What may
happen to a lilywhite amateur found
guilty of dancing with a girl professional
at a club dance?
“Coif”: The House of Lords has de-
livered itself of a staggering decision
which must have important repercussions.
Reversing a judgment of the Appeal
Court, the Judiciary Committee found
that an unborn child was not legally
alive. Putting aside many other ques-
tions arising out of the judgment, won’t
it knock the stuffing out of the laws mak-
ing abortion a criminal offence?
“Lug-Biter”: Poland has long been
rated pre-eminent for the quantity and
persistency of its beggars. All sorts of
methods have been tried to get rid of
them—in a more forthright age, periodi-
cal round-ups, with hangings or the salt-
mines to follow, were tried. Recently
the city of Warsaw had a brainwave
which promises success. Seven thousand
beggars were rounded up and subjected
to two days of steam baths, being then
shaved and vetted. The strongest of
them have been sent to penal farms and
the remainder kicked out of Warsaw,
with the threat of more washing if they
try to return.
* * * $
“Spadassin”; For once in a way a
Parisian duel has been laughed out of
court, so to speak. Both the principals,
Julian Duvivier and Bertrand de Jouve-
nel, are noted writers on religious mat-
ters, and are leaders in the Clerical party,
which plays such an important part in
French politics. When it was found that
the quarrel arose over a Life of Christ
written by one of the parties, Paris
refused to take the pair seriously.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.W.H.: “Honeymoon in the Castle of
Arcadia” is not nearly so alluring as its title.
A.B.: Pass-out chit issued for “The
Authors’ Ball” A.L.McC.: Too late, but
not impressed by it, anyway... .A.W.M.:
Several good points, but not up D.C.W.:
You’ll need to let your Muse move more freely
than that. She seems to have hobbles 0n....
W.W.A.: Can say nothing in its favor, except
that it’s brightly done L.T.: “Words”
describes it G.S.: All competently done,
but none with the true spark in it L.H.;
As you yourself describe it “Poetry??”
M. de V.G.: “The Rover” is in the usual
“wanderlust” verse list. Other does the trick
L.G.: Phrases such as “ring from life’s pages”
are fatal N.K.: Our pick is “Bush Fire.”
Try others elsewhere H.P.C.: Have the
sound of sonnets, but they don’t say enough.
Hoplite: “Surprising that The Bulletin
has not marked the lesson of history that mili-
tary genius is the province of youth.” Oh, yes,
it has —it has read all about those brilliant
young warriors Foch and Hindenburg
T.C.McC.: How poignant, how true!: —
Oh once I loved a maiden.
The fairest ever seen.
She was a dancer in the bally
And was called the fairy Queen.
She swore she loved me dearly
And I believed it true
For she made love so devinely
And she could cuddle, too.
I thought I was in heaven
Till all my cash was spent,
Then she told me get to blazes
And you bet your soul I went.
. ...D.H.W.: Too many stories have been
hung on similar pegs already... .E.D.: As a
rule your characters are people from real life,
but in your present yarn they are as uncon-
vincing as the plot S.E.M.: The latter part
of the previous criticism applies in your case
also Eddie R.: Your touch is only a trifle
lighter than a sledge-hammer... .L.A.H.; The
postman is looking after all three... .R.D.8.:
“The liker tat,” instead of adding humor to
the yarn, as was apparently intended, is in-
tensely monotonous and irritating Q.C.8.;
Quite so, but that doesn’t make a newly-
bought title any more-worth while C.L.:
Not sufficiently entertaining G.H.S.: Not
suitable J.E.H.: Finished well down the
lane E.M.: Doesn’t quite make , the grade.
... .A.R : Has its bright spots, but is rather
jerky and forced... .E.O’H.: Cannot trace....
R.D.; It all worked out very prettily, but
could just as easily have happened at Bondi as
Rabaul E.W.C.: So that dud two-shilling
piece has reached your district now Marcus:
Your “very short story” got very short shrift
Womp: Might make a par. of it J’burra:
Beer bowsers would probably be a very popu-
lar innovation, but we require a more humorous
yarn than yours before we consent to bring
the idea before the public V. 8.: Too much
unnatural history and not enough story....
RAJ.: We laughed twice—once at the
sausage and once at the second throw of the
boomerang. We suspect that you meant us
to laugh more often than that E. 0.: Not
suitable... .J.N.: No space for deformed im-
beciles with a genius for the violin K.E J.:
In real life coincidence plays amazing tricks.
A writer has to be more wary A.S.: Quite
well done, but scarcely suitable.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.C.: You wasted more paper than any
other inartistic contributor for the week
PJ.R.: An ugly lot of harsh lines W.M.:
Drawing preferable to gag, though it is nothing
out of the box A.DJ.: Boy is not much
smaller than elephant K.C.: Jest pensioned
off years ago; sketch hopeless S.H.G.:
Nothing laughable about the drawing, except
the mistakes... .W.C.S.: Not a winner in the
10t....T.8.: Yes, there is hope for you. Pay
more attention to composition... .L.D.E.: No
use sending ’em colored C.M.K.: The
stummick is pretty right, but not his face
E.N.: Pointless... .A. 8.: A poor effort.


“SILVER
EDGE”
ißfiuAcbfitt,
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—tut tte
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
. ... in Good Condition.
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life,
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING
re-lining is necessary.
specify
when
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND,
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
i* easiest and speediest
tyre inflation ....
The “RENRUT” pump oilers remarkable service, ease ana
efficiency in tyre inflation. . . . .
It is the pump with a quadruple compression—a double-
acting cylinder, drawing in air both with the up and
down stroke, so providing a volume usually
obtained only with a barrel twice the size.
Manipulation of this large volume is ren-
dered very easy by the inner high-
pressure cylinder.
Strongly built and handsomely
finished, the “Renrut” Quadruple
is the pump for speed and
service, to make inflation
easier than ever before
c==r
n
Jhe
RENRIJT
PUMP
Sole Manufacturers: —
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, 1, ENGLAND.
Representative : —
JOHN ARNOLD, 386 Post Office Place. Melbourne.
PRICE...
60/-
With gauge,
5/~ extra.
The Steering Column.
ALCOHOL-BENZINE FUEL.
SUCCESSFUL MIXTURE YET TO BE EVOLVED.
By FRED BERRY.
OINCE the inception of motoring, engineers and chemists have
been seeking some cheaper or more efficient fuel them that
commonly known as petrol, with the result that to-day a number
of alternatives, both liquid and gaseous, can be adapted as
power supply for the internal-combustion motor.
During the war petroleum products
were (by reason of transport hazards)
at a premium, and motoring for pleasure
alone was out of favor. To keep the
wheels of industry moving heavy trans-
port had to enlist benzol, coal gas, pro-
ducer gas and alcohol as auxiliary sources
of fuel supply. Thousands of commer-
cial lorries laden with merchandise
housed huge rubber bags filled with coal
gas above the canopy, and private motor-
ists installed various types of producer-
gas plants.
Benzol, a product of the distillation of
coal, has been and always will be an
excellent substitute for petrol, but the
supply is inadequate to the demand.
Coal gas has value as a fuel, but it needs
more storage space than is available on
motor vehicles to be economically
acceptable.
There remains alcohol, which has been
the subject of much experiment. While
it is established that alcohol can be used
as a fuel for internal-combustion motors,
there are many complex problems to be
solved before its use can become general.
These problems are of interest to the
Australian motoring public by reason of
the fact that in Queensland motorists
are required to use a fuel containing
a percentage of alcohol, Whether they
actually do so is a matter best known to
the marketing companies trading in the
State, but the fact remains that quantities
of alcohol must be purchased by these
organisations.
There are certain circumstances in
connection with the Queensland ordi-
nance that deserve study:
(1) The available supplies of alcohol
suitable for mixing with petrol are hope-
lessly inadequate; Queensland uses approxi-
mately 28,000,000 gallons of petrol p.a.
(2) Alcohol-and-petrol mixtures are ex-
tremely difficult to market, handle and use.
(3) Alcohol-benzine fuels cannot function
successfully unless blended with some other
agent.
Among the problems that must be faced
before alcohol can become a universally
acceptable motor fuel are the following:
(1) Alcohol fuel must be produced in a
form more volatile and having a
lower specific gravity than is at present
possible in order to secure easy starting
and smooth running.
(2) Unless compression pressures are
raised more heat units must be supplied
in order to produce equivalent power.
(3) Alcohol when mixed with petrol has
a detrimental effect on the oil film within
the motor, and as a result, when starting
from cold with high concentrations, there
is always a possibility of seizure, and
general lubrication failures are frequent.
(4) When using alcohol fuels it is inevit-
able that the motorist will experience
troubles in operation owing to choked filters
and jets by reason of the scouring action
of alcohol picking up scale and carrying it
along the fuel line to filters and carburet-
tor. Also, alcohol, being a solvent of
varnish, will rapidly remove the protecting
film from cork floats and render them in-
efficient. Furthermore, the exterior finish of
any car suffers from contact with alcohol.
(5) Kerbside pumps are similarly affected,
quantities of scale • being introduced into
the liquid, and, even though air purifiers
and drying equipment are installed at con-
siderable cost, the motorist can never be
sure of filling his tank with a fuel in per-
fect condition.
With regard to the performance of
cars using fuel containing alcohol, so
long as the solution contains 10 p.c. or
less of alcohol no serious immediate
operating difficulties are encountered, the
power output apparently remaining sub-
stantially the same. But even using a
10 p.c. mixture lubrication problems are
introduced, while, unless compression
pressures are correspondingly raised,
every 10 p.c. of added alcohol to petrol
reduces the potential mileage per gallon
by from 3 p.c. to 4 p.c.
With particular regard to compres-
sion, competition motorists have known
for some considerable time that they can
MOTORIMPRESSIONS.
“After spending two hours in getting the auto, tent up.”
secure far better performance with alcohol
fuels than they can with straight petrol,
but only when they use a motor designed
expressly for this purpose, having a com-
pression ratio of from 12 to 16 to 1.
As the average car used in Australia
to-day has a compression ratio of
approximately 5 to 1, the highest touring
ratio being 7.5 to 1, it is manifestly im-
possible to reap the benefits of alcohol
fuels.
Furthermore, as almost every special
high-compression stock model car sup-
plied to the public to-day is equipped
with a specially designed head constructed
of aluminium, together with aluminium
pistons, a further difficulty is introduced.
Any fuel with an alcohol content has a
corrosive effect on aluminium. The speed-
way driver using an alcohol fuel can,
between racing engagements, remove
cylinder head and clean pistons and com-
bustion chamber. The ordinary touring
motorist must of necessity carry on. As
a result the products of combustion enter
into combination with the metal of pis-
ton and cylinder head, forming a floury
deposit which ultimately absorbs the
metal and causes pitting.
It is obvious, therefore, that in using
petrol in which alcohol is mixed in stock
cars motorists must lose efficiency unless
certain radical alterations in design are
made, and in order to achieve identical
performance it is abundantly clear that
as the percentage of alcohol is increased
so relatively provision must be made for
local heating, raising of the compression
pressure, alteration of the level in the
float chamber and drastic alteration of
carburettor settings.
As every internal-combustion engine
depends—other things being equal—on
the heat value of a given fuel for power
output, it should be of interest to
motorists to study the values of standard
petrol and an alcohol mixture.
Petrol. Alcohol Mixture.
Specific-gravity .. -.735 .780.
Calorific value .. 18,900 B.T.Us. 13,000 B.T.Us.
per pound. per pound.
Heat analysis . . 139,000 B.T.Us., 110,000 B.T.Us.
per gallon. per gallon.
Apart from the aspect of power per-
formance when using petrol mixed with
alcohol there are many other technical
difficulties involved, the most serious
from the user’s point of view being the
tendency of the mixture in the presence
of even a small amount of water to
separate at low temperature, with the
result that two parts are formed having
widely different characteristics. In such a
case the unfortunate motorist, on making
a cold morning start, is quite likely to
draw through his fuel line almost pure
alcohol, with consequent difficulty in
effecting a start and a strong risk of
lubrication failure.
Commercially it is impossible to manu-
facture alcohol completely free from
water ; and, although by modern methods
anhydrous alcohol can be produced, the
cost is exceedingly high. It is sold to
marketing organisations at a price in
excess of the retail price of petrol.
Even when anhydrous alcohol is used
in blending, separation problems still
exist, a 5 p.c. mixture separating at
33deg. Fahr. and a 25 p.c. mixture at
24deg. Even though 99 p.c. pure alcohol
is used, small quantities of water, corn-
monly due to condensation in the fuel
tank and in bowsers, rapidly upset the
equilibrium.
As an illustration, a 10 p.c. mixture of
93.3 p.c. pure alcohol requires only one
gallon of added water to each one
thousand gallons of the mixture to cause
separation at 60deg. Fahr., and this con-
dition of affairs almost invariably obtains
in humid weather.
The more alcohol that can be added to
petrol the more suitable the mixture be-
comes, due to the fact that petrol is more
soluble in alcohol than alcohol is in
petrol. Long before this ideal mixture
is reached, however, performance features
are so adversely affected that it becomes
essential to alter compression ratios and
carburettor settings ; so that the motorist
who has gone through the trials and tribu-
lations of discovering an ideal mixture of
alcohol and petrol, who has thoroughly
cleaned his fuel lines, raised the com-
pression ratio and altered his carburettor
settings, would be in sore straits were he
by chance forced to refill his fuel tank
with straight petrol. Under these con-
ditions he would immediately find the
motor overheating owing to the increased
compression, the engine would pink on
the slightest grade and top-gear perform-
ance would be practically destroyed.
Furthermore, the motorist using
alcohol-petrol mixtures pays more per
mile for fuel than he would otherwise
do, for using a 50-50 mixture his petrol
consumption would drop from 20 down
to 16 miles to the gallon without any
compensating benefit.
Safety Glass in Cars.
The announcement that an Australian
company has acquired the patent rights
for the manufacture of non-
splintering “safety” glass in this
country is of special interest to
motorists.
' This glass is of a unique char-
acter, inasmuch as it is quite
different from the laminated
type of safety glass, for when
it is broken under the force of
a direct blow it disintegrates
into a mass of tiny pieces, re-
sembling somewhat ordinary
bath salts in appearance. What
is more, these particles are as
harmless as bath salts, for they
can be handled with indiffer-
ence, and even rubbed between
the fingers or palms of hands without
cutting or piercing the skin.
The advantages of such a product over
ordinary plate-glass windscreens are too
obvious to need stressing to motorists,
for there is no fear of the occupants of
a motor vehicle being cut or injured in
any way by flying fragments of glass in
the event of an accident.
Another advantage of this new glass,
which is to be marketed in the Common-
wealth as “Tarzan” safety glass, is that
it does not discolor with age ; in fact,
it is normal plate-glass, specially electri-
cally heat-treated, and there is nothing
in the product to discolor.
“Tarzan” glass is more flexible and
stronger than plate-glass. An interesting
test is related in the “Dunlop Bulletin”
in connection with this product when
first marketed in England in 1933. Dur-
ing experiments to ascertain the degree
of toughness of the new product, a steel
ball, weighing nearly 21b., when dropped
from 9in., broke an ordinary sheet of
plate-glass, whereas it was found neces-
sary to increase the drop to 156 in. before


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
v. , *
MW
,u wM?*®#* '
F*‘ i I M
>»Wi:' -
■«S''&?s('
m
in FORD History
Entirely New Design Truck-type Clutch (action supplemented by centrifugal force)
... New Front-end with longer, heavier front spring ... New Crankcase Ventilation
... New Oil Bath type Air Cleaner ...New Improved Cooling... Redesigned Brakes
... New Load Distribution .. . New Smart Appearance with New Cab .. .
Heavy-Duty Transmission .. . Full Floating Rear Axle .. . Truck-type V-8 Engine
Designed and built for the punishing work demanded by modern commercial
conditions—the 1935 Ford V-8 Double-Duty Trucks. “Double-Duty” because they
combine power for heaviest haulage with speed and flexibility for agile performance
in traffic and more trips per day. Only aV- 8 engined truck can give this wide
range of service with economy.
Typical Double - Duty features are the Truck-type Clutch and the Redesigned Front-end
Spring assembly. The new clutch which utilises centrifugal force added to a fixed spring
pressure makes disengagement easier at idling speeds and provides increase in pressure as
the engine speed increases. The front-end is of new design and construction with improved
spring mounting. A longer, wider, heavier front spring gives reserve strength for hardest
road and load conditions with greatly improved riding and steering qualities. Your Ford
dealer is now showing the new Double - Duty Trucks and will gladly demonstrate. He will
explain too, the easy and convenient Ford purchase plan.
193 S
FORD V* TRUCKS
HASTINGS DEERING LTD. Metropolitan Distributors Sales : Cr. Bridge Rd. and Wattle Cres. PYRMONT
Phone : MA 6511 (8 lines)
in association with A.E.C. (Aust.) LTD. Sales and Service: Cr, Parramatta and Missenden Roads, CAMPERDOWN
Phone ; L 2787 (6 lines)
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICT
T2/48
ORI A )
ABRI T I S H
EMPIRE PRODUCT
the sheet of “Tarzan” type of tough-
ened glass broke, and then it simply dis-
integrated into innumerable small par-
ticles. It is reported that the retail price
in this country of an average-size wind-
screen made of this safety glass will be
slightly more than £2. In the interests
of safety, there is little doubt that this
new product will appeal greatly to Aus-
tralian owners of cars and commercial
motor vehicles fitted with ordinary glass
windscreens, for there are few motorists
who do not appreciate the dangers of
plate-glass splintering in the event of
an accident.
The Trouble Lamp.
C.R.W. (Sea Lake, Vic.). —The accumulator
in my car will not hold its charge, going down
in a fortnight if not used. When another bat-
tery is wired in parallel to start the engine a
small spark is thrown across the terminals,
Have tested, and can’t locate a short. Can
you assist ?
Symptoms point to high internal resistance,
probably due to sediment reaching lower edge
of plates. Points of cut-out (if fitted) remain-
ing closed would produce similar trouble.
Sparking from terminal of new battery is of
no assistance in diagnosis, as this will always
happen where capacities vary.
* « * *
R.K.S. (Narromine, N.S.W.). —(1) I have an
11 -h.p. 1927 model car, and desire to change
it for something newer. I am informed that
value is now only £5O. Will you confirm ?
(2) Can you suggest a suitable car, nearly new,
for my old machine and, say, £l5O extra ?
(1) Present value approximately £4O. (2)
Cannot advise purchase of specific makes.
Consult advertising columns in daily news-
papers.
* * * *
D.E.L. (Bourke, N.S.W.). —Which of the two
cars [named) represents better value for money ?
Both have been tested over the Bulletin
course, and specifications and performance
data have been published in detail.
4- $ * *
J.H.C. (Ballan, Vic.). —I understand special
springs can be fitted behind piston rings to
seal against excessive oil consumption. What
kinds are made, and where can they be obtained
in Melbourne ?
“Crinkled” spring steel of different widths
can be purchased in rolls, the correct length
being cut off to lay behind each ring. Alterna-
tive “expanders” to be fitted inside the piston
skirt are claimed to fulfil a similar object.
Neither type is recommended. Available
from E. A. Machin, Elizabeth-street, or A. G.
Healing, Franklin-street—both Melbourne.
* * #
WJ.P. (Seymour, Vic.). —My ’27 six-cylinder
car has done 3000 miles since reboring, and
the engine now heats up rapidly, causing a
jerky drive through tailshaft and differential.
Have fitted new plugs and distributor points
without curing trouble. What can be done ?
Common trouble after reconditioning an old
motor, and almost invariably attributable to
overheating due to defective cooling system.
Clean out radiator and water-passages and
check water-pump.
W.J. (Weethalle, N.S.W.). —Saw a new car
in Sydney with S.S. on radiator. Who are
makers ? What models are supplied ?
S.S. Cars, Ltd., Foleshill, Coventry, England.
Ten-h.p. and 12-h.p. four-cyl.; 16-h.p. and
20-h.p. six-cyl.
* * * *
J.N.G. (Queenscliffe, Vic.). —Is it possible
to replace the front main bearing of my 1927
10 -h.p. car without removing the crankshaft ?■
No. In replacing crankshaft bearing, shaft
must be dismantled and carefully lined up and
fitted, in order to ensure equal pressures on all
surfaces.
* * * *
M.S. (Moama, N.S.W.). —The black hood
of my ’27 tower leaks. How can I make it
waterproof ?
If hood is cracked, patches must be sewn
on and then treated with a mixture of shellac,
methylated spirit and either spirit nigrosine dye
or lampblack.
Jji 5jC %
R.T.B. (Bairnsdale, Vic.). —Through backing
into a stump, my petrol tank is badly dinted,
leaving me almost a gallon short each fill. Is
there any method of repairing without dis-
mantling ?
If side seams are sound, the dint can be
lessened, if not completely removed, by first
[Continued on page 30.)


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
In removing a stud from
cylinder block or manifold, the
nut may move on the thread.
Illustration shows how another
nut with similar thread and
pitch can be locked on, making
extraction of stud certain.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences' have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
Interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
million
0 i ihvvvV
More Willard automobile bat-
teries are sold year after year
than any other make.
If your horn sounds like a
bull frog headlights dim
and your motor’s hard to turn
over _ BUY A WILLARD.
Over 30 million Willards
have given satisfaction.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
ODE R N
PANEL
BEATING
It is wonderful what a
modernly-equipped plant,
plus expert artisanship,
can make of your car.
Our plant and personnel
can transform even a veri-
table motoring “Scrap-
heap” into a car of sym-
metrical form and beauty.
Our Panel Beating and
Radiator Departments will
render you an unsurpassed
service.
Try us!
Xtd
XcH
At
ITY
SIN
05
ItUpkom 13201 (3 LINES)
HAWKINS P. 4.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
4 QOA (SECOND
IvOT EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At ali Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin,”
252 George Street. Sydney. 3d. extra.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com"
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion’ 1 Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 84038.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: P. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street,
Dust and Rain Dull any Car....
Wiping a SIMONIZED car quickly restores its lustre
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
scraping metal surface around the damaged
portion perfectly clean. Then, using a
soldering-iron, tin the centre of the
depression and sweat on a stout piece of wire.
A steady pull will then usually draw the tank
back to its normal shape.
* * * *
Rusty (Benalla, Vic.). —Taking into account
prime cost, fuel consumption, repair cost and
resale value, but not comfort or appearance,
would you advise me on the three cars sub-
mitted? Annual mileage, 12,000; roads fair
to good.
Little to choose, except that No. 3 gives
better fuel consumption than either No. 1 or
No. 2.
* * * *
P.McC. (Maxwelton, N.Q.).— My ’29 tourer
has taken to boiling every few miles. Only
done 20,000 miles, and have ground valves,
cleaned out radiator and inspected hose con-
nections without result. Cause and cure ?
Carefully check ignition point and valve
timing, and make sure choke control is wide
open in normal running position.
* * * *
A.E.G. (Bankstown, N.S.W.). —Motor of my
1-h.p. Austin roadster is gradually becoming
rougher. There are no air-leaks in the induc-
tion, carburettor is all right, and engine runs
reasonably cool and is not difficult to start.
7 notice spark in two
plugs slightly stronger
than others. Would
this have any effect on
running ?
Yes. Probably that
is the whole trouble.
Only two cams are
fitted in the contact-
breaker, so Nos. 1 and
4 and 2 and 3 should
be of equal value. If
cam is worn unevenly
one pair of cylinders
will have a stronger
spark, and the distri-
butor requires adjust-
ment
* *
J.M.F. (Port Kembla,
N.S.W.). —Is there any
advantage in advancing
the ignition point when using “super” fuels ?
If so, why ?
Yes. Owing to higher knock rating of these
fuels, the spark can be advanced sometimes as
far as 10 degrees, with consequent improve-
ment in road performance.
•fc % * *
P.C. (Granville, N.S.W.). —The rear wheel
of my 1927 Morris-Cowley fell off recently,
both nuts and cap stripping. Although new
nuts were purchased, they work loose and have
to be watched carefully. What is wrong, and
how can the trouble be rectified ?
Due to wear in bearing support. This is
held by a ring-nut on the axle tubing, and when
weakened by continual tightening the side
thrust due to cornering ultimately causes a
fracture. Only remedy is to fit a new flange.
Motor Oddities.
“J.”: Met an old-timer t’other day in
South Brisbane with a car 25 years old.
He claimed it had a fuel mileage of 17-£
miles to the gallon, and said he hoped
for a long further life of usefulness from
‘ the veteran. He drives seven days a
week, and reckons he has covered over
500,000 miles. Is this a record?
* * * *
“Bullocky Bill”: In far-western Queens-
land I saw the owner of a three-ton
Republic lorry loaded with starving sheep
use a tin of benzine in place of water
for the radiator. The spirit boiled like
mad, but there seemed to be no immedi-
ate damage, save a squeak in the pump
when the lubrication was washed out.
# ❖ #
“Valve Lifter”: He drifted in com-
plaining of trouble with his self-starter.
He had run out of petrol in an out-of-
the-way place, he said, and got some
from a small garage. The only container
the place had was a jar that had been
used to hold acid for batteries, and it
was his opinion that some of the acid
had been left in the jar and had been con-
veyed by the petrol through the feed
system to the flywheel, from which it
had eaten several teeth! He drifted out
minus 12s. —two bob for the job and
half a quid to keep green the memory
of the man who said there’s one born
every minute.
“Spring”: Men engaged on a sand-
carting contract on Burrinjuck dam
broke a big-end bearing in their launch
engine miles from the wall and help. It
was repaired by fashioning one out of
a piece of hardwood from the bush with
knife and file. The 40-mile journey was
successfully completed, and the wooden
bearing stood up well, though the engine
had to work hard towing 100 tons of
sand.
* * * *
“Bullswool”: Three men were seated
in the cabin of a truck when the floor
boards fell out, and the starting handle
dropped through. It caught in the uni-
versal and, thrown out centrifugally,
struck one of the men and broke his
shinbone,
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: I was with a friend in
a baby Austin. We picked up a nail
with a front tyre, and found the repair
outfit had been left at home. We
waited for an hour, but nobody came
along the road to enable us to borrow
a patch. I suddenly recollected a dodge
of my cycling days, took out my pocket-
book, and found that I had six postage
stamps. My friend had two. We stuck
them, one at a time, over the nail-hole,
put just enough wind into the tyre to
hold it firm, and started off again.
Those stamps kept the wind in the tyre
until we were home.
s's # #
“A.G.8.”: Recently the Birdsville mail
driver purchased a new car. On his
first trip he encountered a severe dust-
storm, and arrived in Marree minus his
number. The raging sand, beating con-
tinuously, had wiped off every vestige of
white paint, leaving nothing but a black
piece of metal. Even the duco on the
mudguards had holes worn in it, whilst
the windscreen glass was badly scored
all over with the flying grit. Some years
ago on the same track (Marree-Birdsville)
a duststorm frosted a car windscreen
to such an extent as to make it useless.
* * * *
“Spark”: During T 5 C. J. Brabazon
was returning from a trip of inspection
to Austral Downs (N.T.). He had a 15
Talbot. When crossing the Templeton
the magneto timing-wheel was stripped.
Old R. D. Barton, then wheeling the lead
at Headingly, had the car towed to the
homestead. Along came J. T. (“Black
Jack”) Campbell, on his way up river
to take the management of Rocklands.
He knew nothing about cars, but a lot
about other sorts of machinery. He got
a hacksaw and a few files, robbed a bail
valve from a 4\ deep-well pump and
sliced the centrepiece out of the valve
with the hacksaw. He put the fragments
of the broken wheel together and took
a tracing. He turned again to his bit
of valve. The result of his labor went
into that car, and it ran there for months
until, as a curiosity and a model of what
could be done, the Longreach garage gave
a new wheel in its place and hung Camp-
bell’s in the showroom.
* * * *
“Ukulok”; For 30 bob we bought a
Ford, model T, of about 1918 vintage,
which had stood out in the weather for
about three years. The hood we dis-
carded as useless. After fitting new tyres
and grinding valves we toured the South
Island (M.L.), covering about 1400 miles.
Lizzie pulled a heavy sedan out of a bog.
In one load she carried 11 people home
from a dance. The only engine replace-
ment was one flat-headed nail, to serve
when the commutator roller sheared the
pin. Expenses, apart from petrol and
oil, were nil. She finished the last few
miles on three lungs, not because we
grudged her a new plug, but because we
didn’t wish to spoil an excellent record.
* *
“Kotuku”: A car travelling at high
speed not far from Dunedin (M.L.) ran
into a swarm of bees. As well as ob-
scuring the driver’s vision, the bees
swarmed in through the open windows,
with the result that the car left the road
and somersaulted twice. The accident
ended fatally.


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
"—— S. V. Colville, N.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
TeUgrams,Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 821 C ,/
lient, age 19 J, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
„ 21 „ 5 „ in 5 mths.
„ „ 20, „ 3$ „in 16 days.
„ 30, 2. „ in 4 weeks,
f, 40, .. U..in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM I
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3Sins. NEVER FAILS I
Hundreds of Testimonials from dll over the toorld. I
Fee £2 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now :—I
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
Scarborough, Eng. iP.O. Uox 15 . J
ROSS/*” HEIGHT/
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
•THOUSANDS OF REAL
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
EYE LOTIO
InElamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H, A. RO S E &. Co, Ltd. King St. Sydney
B.B.C. Tests
for
Announcers
RADIO NEWS.
Given the first
essential, a good
microphone voice,
anybody reason-
ably well edu-
cated should be
able to pass the
8.8. C. tests for announcers ; yet, accord-
ing to A. Lloyd James, honorary secre-
tary to the 8.8. C. English committee,
very few do. In his recent book, The
Spoken Word, he outlines the process of
announcer-finding.
In a test before the microphone the
applicant, has to read a short news
bulletin, an SOS in French, and a pro-
gramme of music in French, German and
Italian, all of which he is allowed to see
for some time beforehand ; also, with-
out preparation, he
has to read a piece
of prose. This test is
listened to in another
part of the building by
a board which includes
a phonetician, who re-
ports to the board
whether (1) the voice is
suitable; (2) there are
speech defects, however
small; (3) the dialect of
English is suitable; (4)
the standard of pronun-
ciation of the foreign
languages is moderately
Take a gun...
good ; (5) the candidate can read aloud
intelligently.
Most candidates fail in this test. Many
are rejected because their English accent
is unsuitable. Usually, says Lloyd James,
it is too aggressively modern, “too much
like what is sometimes called ‘haw-haw’
—the sort of speech certain comedians
like to play with.”
The standard of performance in
foreign languages, he adds, is usually ex-
ceedingly low, evens in the case of many
university men with degrees in modern
languages. Yet the standard of French
pronunciation expected is not high. That
expected in German and Italian is lower
still; all that is required here is that the
candidate shall be aware of the relation
between spelling and pronunciation ; he
is not expected to pronounce these lan-
guages well; he is simply expected to
know how average intelligent people pro-
nounce the names of the German and
Italian composers, authors and politicians.
He is expected to be able to read, only
passably Well, the title of a song or the
name of an opera in German and Italian.
Of 50 candidates heard in a period of
three years all but one were floored by
Gianni Schicchi; and the number of can-
didates who revealed any evidence of
scientific teaching in French phonetics is
always negligible. “Evidently,” says
Lloyd James, “public schools and univer-
sities attach little importance to this
aspect of language teaching.”
Candidates who pass this first test are
taken on probation when vacancies
occur, probation including a solid school-
ing in technique and the smoothing out
of such things as saying “Yawrup” or
“Yearup” when the place referred to is
probably Europe.
The 8.8. C. employs only nine an-
nouncers for official speaking—six on the
home service and three on the Empire
service. With the exception of a brief
experimental interlude, when one woman
was tried, none but men have held these
posts since the beginning of broadcasting.
In addition to its fund of suchlike
general information, Lloyd James’s book
(published by Kegan Paul, Trench, Trub-
ner and Co., at 7s. 6d. net) is an admir-
able handbook on microphone speaking
and something more than an introduc-
tion to the study of phonetics with radio
talking in view.
L. L. L.
Talk: “How to
Cook the
Cormorant”
Good-day.
Time, midnight.
Station OIC.
You’re going to
hear our Special
Session for
Country Women,
conducted by Cecilia LeCocq. Right,
Jess, you’re through.
Good-evening, my dear people. This
is Cecil-ia Le-Cocq speaking. Entre
nous, sisters, because, in the words of
the po-et, we are sisters under the skin,
and so forth—T mean to say, aren’t we,
now? Oh, dear, that sounds like “Aren’t
We All,” doesn’t it? Naughty play!
Well now, dears, for
this even-ing’s cook-
ing lesson I am tak-
in g the ab-,yorZ>-ing
subject, “The Cor-mor-
ant and How to Cap-ture
and Cook It.”
Well, I am sure you
will agree that perhaps it
would be best, as it were,
to beg-in at —well, at the
beginn-ing. Now as you
all, of course, know, the
beginn-ing is, naturall-y,
the cormorant it-self, or,
rather, I should say, the
egg from which the cor-
morant is hatched. I
think, perhaps, that will be as far as —
well, er, as I was saying—er, the cor-
morant.
The cormorant, I need not remind
you, is really—well, er, it is a bird. As
the po-et has written . . . Bother it! Er,
um, hem, ah . . . Oh, yes, oh, yes—-
...shoot..
yes, here it is. As I was about to say,
as the po-et has written:
“Hail to thee, blithe spirit!
, Bird thou never wert” ....
No. No, no. Oh, no. Er —that must
belong to the gin session. Er, um —ah,
yes, I have it this time. As the po-et
has writen:
“High on some island crag,
There sits the shag.
...and clean it...
But in the absence
of some craggy
isle.
The bird is happy
on a harbor
pile.
In fact he exer-
cises all his wit
To find a handy
place on which
to sit.
To recognise the shag a child may learn
Its little legs are placed so far astern.
And please remember that, despite the
name,
The cor-mor-ant and shag are fust the
same.”
Well, well, well now! Isn’t that just
too beaut-iful! lam sure you are all
chuckling heart-i-ly as you draw up
clos-er beside your radi-ators, enjoy-
ing a well-earned rest after an ard-uous
day’s shopp-ing. And while I think of
it—have you seen the perfectly gorgeous
display of Winter Woollies in Woofles
“The cormor-
ant and shag
are just the
same.”
Wonderful Windows?
My dears, I was just
pass-ing there to-day
with a friend and I was
simp-ly staggered.
Really, chic is the on-ly
word for it! And on-ly
ninepence a nip—l mean
to say nine shillings a
pair, and you simp-ly
won’t know you have
them on, and nei-ther
will anybody else. Now,
isn’t that just won-derful
news? But, mind you,
the stock is ex-tre-m-ely
lim-it-ed, so I ad-vise you
strongly to take the very
first tram into town in
themorn-ing. Remember
the name, Woof-les. But
you’ll all be there, I know you will, the
very first thing after breakfast.
Speak-ing of breakfast. Oh, yes—er,
um. Oh, yes, I remember now —the cor-
morant. Well, now, to cap-ture the cor-
mor-ant, the best plan, I am informed by
a lead-ing ornith-01-o-gist, is to take
a large bream, which is a var-i-ety of
fish, and, attach-ing same to a cord of
con-sider-able length, go out to some
place where there al-ready is a cor-
morant, throw the fish in the gener-al
direction of the bird, and—er, await
results. Fail-ing a bream, you may use
a mul-let, which also is a fish, and of
which the cormorant is in-ordin-ately
fond. The bream, however, is to be pre-
ferred, because, ow-ing to its pec-uliar
shape, it is most difficult for the cor-
morant to —er dis-gorge when you com-
mence to —er, pull.
Another method, which how-ever,
seems consid-erably less hum -ane, is to
take a gun, and, point-ing that weapon
at the—er, bird, pull the, er, trigger,
and . . . shoot it.
Well now, hav-ing thus, so to speak,
secured the cor-mor-ant, what is the next
step? Well, I shall tell you. Hav-ing
shot the cormorant, you take it home,
and clean it. Next, you must soak it
over-night in vine-gar. Then you must
wrap it up care-fully in grease-proof
pap-er, and take it out-side some-where,
and bury it. That is what is called —er,
the first stage.
Now note this ver-y care-fully. After
three days, or longer according to taste,
you must dig it up a-gain, and imm-erse
it for approx-imately thir-teen and a
quar-ter hours in one quart of burgundy.
Now, while you have the cor-mor-ant
soak-ing, you can make a light, inexpen-
sive sauce, by mix-ing togeth-er several
spoon-fuls of but-ter, a dash of anchov-
y, and the whites of five eggs, sett-ing
the mix-ture for several minutes in an
elec-tric stove. Re-move, and set aside
to cool in the refrig-er-ator. Finall-y,
remove cormorant from burgundy, dry
thorough-ly, tie in a silk cloth, and broil
ov-er a low gas-jet for sever-al days.
That, dear listen-ers, concludes the
Cecil-ia Le-Cocq session sponsored by
Woofles for this even-ing. There are,
I might add, twenty-one oth-er different
ways of cooking the cor-mor-ant. Of
course, know-ing that there are not the
same conven-iences
and access-ories in
all country homes
that we have here
in the cit-y, I have
been at pains to
give you the most
simplif-ied method
in my exclus-ive
reci-pe book.
Good-night, good-
night, every-body.
Hullo. Station
OIC. You’ve been
... and bury it.
listening to a session for country women,
conducted by Cecilia LeCocq. We’re
now going off the air. I say, Jess, what
do they do with the damn thing when
they’ve cooked it?
They can please themselves, Harry,
but I’d throw it in the river.
SIZZLE AND A.
All Round
the Dial
“G.J.H.”: Two
contributions
from Melbourne
in the best effort
in unintentional
broadcasts. The
announcer of a B-class station was lift-
ing a stack of records from a shelf when
they slipped and crashed to the floor. His
impromptu comment was sufficiently
forceful to bring in a shoal of indignant
letters. The best I personally know of,
however, was that of the cockatoo which
an amateur induced to speak from his
station every Sunday. Cocky performed
like a gentleman for some time ; then let
loose a choice string of expletives.
Frantic efforts were made to shut either
the bird or the microphone off, but the
damage was done. The newspapers made
a feature of the incident next day.
“5.1.”; Like many another in the
broadcasting game John Dunne, 2SM’s
ace announcer, graduated from Poverty
Point. His star debut was in “My Lady
Frayle” in 1918, and he followed it up
... and...
with leading roles
in 150 shows. He
played with Mos-
covitch and oppo-
site Gladys Mon-
crieff, Josie Mel-
ville and Renee
Kelly, and he was
deputy for Gus
Bluett, Alfred
Frith, George Gee
and Cecil Kella-
way on many occa-
sio n s. Versatile
enough to play
every male role in
“Sally” and “The
Lilac Domino” —
not all at once —he
has been equally
varied in his broadcasting performances.
Before joining 2SM he broadcast from
every A station in Australia and Maori-
land.
For its second competition for original
plays and sketches the A.B.C. is offering
prizes of £5O (first), £25 (second) £lO
(third) and three other prizes of £5 each.
The competition is restricted to writers
who were born in Australia and who have
resided in Australia at any time since
June 30, 1933, and to British subjects
(natural-born or naturalised) not born in
Australia who have resided in Australia
continuously for not less than seven years
prior to the closing date of the competi-
tion —August 31, 1935. For purposes of
the competition,
“Australia” includes
all territories admin-
istered by the Com-
monwealth of Aus-
tralia. Each play or
sketch when pro-
duced must occupy
between 20 and 40
minutes.
“L. 0.”: Baritone Norman Menzies,
lately on the 8.8. C. air, is another who
won a pat on the back from Melba, with
whom he sang in his native town, Gee-
long. He broadcast here before going to
England.
“Braeburn”: When vaudeville died, I
thought we’d seen the last of the good
instrumentalist who suffered the delusion
that he was also a good patter artist; but
the breed remains, and the A.B.C. is a
notorious nourisher of it, especially on
community singing nights. A fair ex-
ample was a bagpiper recently heard
from 2NC. He had about as poor a line
of patter as could
be imagined. It
came through as
just dull, heavy
talk. Yet his pip-
ing was good
vaudeville enter-
tainm e n t. He
could even play
tunes. Surely it
would be a better
thing if the con-
ductor of these
happily rowdy
evenings, who is a first-rate patter artist,
were to say a word or two for such per-
formers, and let them perform.


The RATON “Neon Type” VALVE TESTER
m
The ideal instrument for Australian conditions, in that it is supplied with a calibrated
chart in booklet form, in which is listed practically every Valve sold in Australia, both
American and English (including Catkin).
Modern Multi-Element Valves positively require a Valve Tester to register any high
resistance leakages which may be present in a Valve, as more often than not this is
the cause of noisy and intermittent reception and distortion, and can only he detected
with a Valve Tester of this type.
A turn of a rotary switch will pick out and test each individual element of a HEATED
Valve, and record leakages even as high as 500,000 ohms.
Additional features are: Percentage readings in conjunction with coloured GOOt)-BA!>
sections on scale. Line voltage regulation with Meter check. Ability to handle future
releases.
Complete with heavy English Ebonite Panel in Polished Oak Case.
Price to Trade, £ll/0/-, plus tax.
Obtainable from all Leading Distributors.
Write for particulars of Analysers, Output Meters, Oscillators, Meters, 1 per cent. Wire-
wound Resistors, Switches, etc., and all Test Equipment requirements, to
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO., 90 Victoria Street, Ashfield, Sydney.
Tel.: UA1960. Send for free booklet, “Twelve Uses for an R.F. Oscillator.”
abasia
ELECTRIC HAND LAMP
Consists of the new Block Plateless
Accumulator fitted with a powerful
bull’s-eye attachment, In moulded
bakelite with chromium fittings.
No plates to buckle.
No sulphation.
No dissipation of charge.
A brilliant, powerful beam of light
when and where required.
Ideal for Campers, Fishermen,
Motorists; in fact, all outdoor re-
quirements.
PRICE 39/6
Advt. of
AMPLION (A sia) LTD.
70 Clarence Street, Sydney
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
TELEVISION—TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW.
The whole radio world is at present keenly interested in the prospect of the
introduction of television in the near future. Attempts to commercialise
experimental systems in America a few years ago resulted in failure and
heavy financial loss to concerns involved. Latterly, great improvement has
been achieved, notably in Europe, and the establishment of regular high-
definition television services in England and Germany appears to be now
only a matter of months. If the services are successful —and there seems to
be no reason why they should not be—the commencement of similar under-
takings in Australia should not be far distant.
It would take too long to outline the
hopes and disappointments that make up
the history of television. It is sufficient
to consider it from the stage where, after
many years of hard work
on the part of the pioneers,
particularly John L. Baird,
in England, the British Gov-
ernment appointed a com-
mittee to examine the pros
and cons, accepted that
committee’s report, and an-
nounced that it had decided
on the immediate establish-
ment of a regular television
service.
To those who have fol-
lowed technically the recent
developments in England
the decision comes as no
surprise. The British public,
accustomed to seeing the
nightly experimental tele-
vision schedule of the
8.8. C. published with the
radio broadcast pro-
grammes daily for a year
or so, accepts the news as
an inevitable sequel.
Throughout the British
Isles large numbers of ex-
perimenters have for some
time enjoyed the thrill of
“looking in” at these ex-
perimental “30-line” transmissions ; and
after midnight scanning discs have been
whirring and neon lamps glowing, with
crude and somewhat flickery images of
persons and objects showing on the
screens.
Fig. 2. —A Baird high-definition tele-
vision receiver. A large cathode-ray
tube is mounted vertically, and the
images are watched as reflections on
the mirror in the lid.
(From “Television and Short-wave World.”)
When radio broadcasting first com-
menced, reception and reproduction were,
compared with the 1935 standard, ineffi-
cient and inarticulate, but the science was
Fig. 1. — “Shooting” a horse-jumping scene in the
Crystal Palace grounds by means of the intermediate
film high-definition television process.
(From “Television and Short-wave World.”)
a novelty. . The lay mind found it won-
derful and a bit uncanny to extract in-
telligent speech and music from space
with the aid of a mystifying box of
gadgets. The innovation captured the
public imagination, and radio broadcast-
ing prospered and developed. To-day
radio in all its forms of communication
is accepted as part of everyday life, and,
so far as broadcast technique is con-
cerned, is little short of perfection.
The possibility of seeing actual occur-
rences some distance away from the view-
ing position makes an even stronger
appeal to the imagination than radio
telephony did on its introduction. The
addition of the actual sound made up, to
a great extent, the deficiency of crude
vision with the early 8.8. C. experiments,
and increasing numbers of experimenters
were attracted. That there has been
worth-while interest in the 8.8. C. “low-
definition” television is evidenced by the
advertisements appearing in British radio
journals. Several manufacturers rose to
the occasion, and there is in England no
lack of parts or complete kits for ex-
perimental television receivers. One
manufacturer in the north even runs his
own regular transmissions to give cus-
tomers tne benefit of an alternative to
the 8.8. C.
With something to be actually seen in
the air—crude, it is true, but nevertheless
television—it followed that such a science
could not stagnate. The onward march
of progress could not be retarded. Baird
turned his attention to the ultra-short
waves, following on the success of ama-
teur transmitters in covering fair com-
munication distances, and applied his
developments to this medium for radio
propagation. Germany had also done
likewise, and an immediate solution was
found to the vexed question of the
greediness of television transmissions,
which took up too much frequency ter-
ritory on the longer waves (160 metres).
The Berlin Post Office erected a tele-
vision transmitter in an elevated position,
working on nine metres, and Baird used
one of the Crystal Palace towers in South
London for the installation of a seven-
metre transmitter. Since television turned
to the ultra-short waves, progress has
been- swift and
convincing, and
Baird last year
gave to the press
and others demon-
strations which left
no shadow of
doubt that tele-
vision had at last
turned the corner,
and confounded
the sceptics who
said it would never
arrive.
Ultra-short Waves
Provide Ideal
Medium.
The altered out-
look in the world
of television is un-
doubtedly due to
the use as a trans-
mission medium of
Fig. 3. —Illustrating the intermediate film process.
(From “Practical Television.”)
radio frequencies which a few short
years ago were looked upon as being
practically useless. In this respect amateur
radio organisations can lay claim to hav-
ing shown that the limitation of distance
of these higher frequencies is no disad-
vantage but, in fact, a decided asset for
many phases of communication. Post-
office landlines in many parts of the
world now use ultra-short-wave tele-
phony links where water intervenes and
submarine cables are costly or imprac-
ticable. The Hawaiian Islands have been
so linked for some time, and there is at
least one such link across a water channel
in England. The restricted signal service
area of these systems is their very pro-
tection where com-
parative secrecy is
desirable. Tel e-
vision has not
turned to the
ultra-short waves
because of distance
limitation, but
because the fre-
quencies available
are so much more
applicable. Much
work has been
done in extending
the range covered
by ull r a-short
waves during the
last 12 months, and
such work has
again been mainly
amateur. By suit-
able aerial design
it is possible to ex-
tend the range
considerably. For
Fig. 4. —Baird 10kw. seven-metre transmitter for radiating
television over London and the home comities.
(From “Television and Short-wave World.”)
instance, in N.S.W. it has been demon-
strated that a five-metre signal, radiated
from a directive aerial in Sydney with an
input power at the transmitter of only 10
watts, gives the equivalent at 50 miles to
a five-kilowatt non-directional 200-600-
metre broadcast signal! With two bi-
directional aerials placed at right-angles
at a high elevation, this 50-mile radius
can be made uniform. Therefore, a 10-
kilowatt high-definition television trans-
mitter operating under such conditions
could provide ample service for the Syd-
ney metropolitan area and many out-
lying districts.
The British television committee’s re-
port recently issued came as a surprise to
radio engineers in U.S.A., and the fact
that Britain is taking up the matter
seriously is acting as a fillip to other
countries. U.S.A. is by no means lag-
ging in television technique. The differ-
ence is merely that Baird, in the face of
years of adverse criticism, stuck to his
guns and compelled increasing public
attention. The use of ultra-short waves
was the removal of the last obstacle,
establishing television as a success in the
eyes of the critics.
American engineers have many out-
standing television developments to their
credit, and by no means least of these is
Dr. Zworykin’s photocell adaptation of
the cathode-ray tube, named the Icono-
scope. It is anticipated that big advances
will now be made in the development of
television in U.S.A.
Baird Ready for Action.
Perhaps the biggest surprise in con-
nection with the Baird co. is the an-
nouncement in English radio journals
that at the Crystal Palace there is ready
for immediate action a complete lOkw.
television station with studios, trans-
mitters, laboratories and workshops.
Every phase of modern high-definition
television is represented. Of special in-
terest is the intermediate film process. In
this method a motion-picture camera
records in the usual way, the film being
immediately developed, and then passed
before a photocell and scanning drum.
The time between the “shooting” of the


£
Manufactured by
THE EVER-READY CO. (AUST.) LTD.
Sydney and London
Now we've got the
POWER our
Radio Set needs
It’s a happy day, the day
you first instal an EVER-
READY Superdyne or
EVER-READY Heavy
Duty Radio Battery, but
it is only the forerunner
of the many happy days
and months of complete
battery satisfaction either
of these two world-
famous products wil
give you.
Your experience with
EVER-READY will co-
incide with that of the
millions of users who
have accorded EVER-
READY absolute world
supremacy.
aP2C
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BATTERIES
EYER-READY
[ver Ready
JIERe^
TORCHES REFILLS
RADIO BATTER IE S
scene and the actual television transmis-
sion (and reception) is 30 seconds.
An outline of the progress made in this
business of seeing by radio is not com-
plete without proof from the lips of those
who have witnessed demonstrations. The
editor of one English radio journal
writes: “The images were watched on
two models of home receivers, the screen
sizes being 12in. by 9in., in black and
white, and Sin. by 6in., in sepia and cream.
The programme opened with a lucid
description of the processes used for
transmission, and it was most impressive
to witness the rapidity and flexibility of
the change-over from film to real artist.
Exterior scenes of horses racing and
jumping on a terrace 200 yards away
from the camera were shown, in addition
to an interior scene of a boxing match
in a studio. Selections from sound films
were also transmitted. In every case the
images were bright and clear, with con-
siderable detail, and at no time did they
"hunt’ or go out of synchronism. No
one could deny there was ample enter-
tainment value to ensure sustained public
interest, while the absence of any form
of interference was remarkable.” Such
is the unbiased opinion of a leading radio
authority, and his testimony to the effec-
tiveness of the modern television demon-
stration is only one of many.
The facts are these: Television is avail-
able in presentable form, and its enter-
tainment value with accompanying sound
is obvious. Another two years or less
should see the establishment of at least
one television station in each capital city
of Australia. There appear to be no
obstacles in the way other than financial
ones. It seems certain that once such
stations are in action the home con-
structor will score. For a long time, the
home-assembled equivalent to any fac-
tory television outfit will cost far less,
and, being experimental, will be easy to
rebuild in accordance with latest develop-
ments. The home constructor will, as in
the earlier days of broadcasting, play an
important part in building up an indus-
try, and in this case he will be recruited
primarily from the ranks of amateur
transmitters with a working knowledge of
ultra-short waves.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The 10-metre band appears to have re-
sumed its stubborn characteristics after
excelling in trans-Pacific DX. Sunday,
20/4/’35, a tour of the receiver dial pro-
duced silence except for locals. In con-
trast was the 20-metre band in the after-
noon, W6CIN reaching QSAS R 9 on
telephony at intervals. Several Cali-
fornians were heard strongly on speech,
and old-timer Don Wallace, of W6AM,
was key-punching. At 10 p.m., S.M.T.,
on 19/4/ ’35, fifth and ninth district
U.S.S.R. amateurs could be heard work-
ing Europeans.
Five metres is still graced by the usual
Sydney stations, and VK’s 2XK, 2WJ,
2WD, 2UG, 2ND, 2MW and 2UC were
active during Easter, A special DX test
was run on Good Friday, but no signals
were heard other than locally. VK2UG
has completed the superhet described
B. 24/4/’35, and results are promising.
With a few of these receivers in action
the 24-metre band will receive long-due
attention.
On 7mc. DX is patchy, and week-end
local travesties of telephony transmis-
sions are a seemingly eternal infliction.
Good telephony is tolerable on a DX
band, but so few are good, and most are
an insult to the ears. The public using
dual and all-wave receivers must surely
imagine that most amateur telephonists
suffer from chronic asthma! A clean-up
of this decadent state of affairs is inevit-
able. The amateur organisations should
take the matter in hand before authority
is compelled to act.
The 80-metre band shows signs of de-
creasing static, and on the evening of
20/4/’35 many of the regulars were
heard, with VK2HC, of Quirindi, as out-
standing as ever. The writer is using the
Reinartz controlled radiation three-feeder
aerial for 80, 40, 20 and 10 metres, and
finds it to be a most useful and flexible
“all-wave” radiating system.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
Both Britain and Germany are said to
be interested in television, not only from
the viewpoint of affording a new medium
of public attraction, but also in connec-
tion with defensive and offensive activi-
ties in case of war.
* * * *
Every encouragement is being given to
the development of television in Canada,
and the first high-definition station is to
spen in Montreal in a few weeks. The
Canadian station should act as a spur to
American television interests, and the site
near the American border has been
chosen for a definite reason. The tie-up
of the power companies with a common
frequency master control enables the use
of a synchronous motor by thousands of
residents in the north-eastern part of
U.S.A., who will be able to receive tele-
vision through the Canadian activities. It
is reported that the Canadian station will
be in operation before the Baird and
E.M.I. stations in England.
* * # *
“Dipolar”: Marconi is still, in the
seclusion of his ideal floating radio
laboratory, investigating the behavior of
micro-waves, and is now trying to estab-
lish reliable communication over long
distances. Friends of the man who was
the first in the world to put radio com-
munication on the map have revealed that
his hope is to establish a micro-wave sys-
tem to enable the sending of television
signals across the Atlantic. Such a pro-
ject may appear fantastic, but the ultra-
ultra-short waves abound with possibili-
ties. Marconi has already covered 200 or
more miles with frequencies which a few
years ago were looked upon as of no
commercial value.
* * ij;
A principal New York railway terminus
was recently fitted with a clock which is
entirely controlled by radio from the
Arlington station. All the clocks on the
railway system are timed from this con-
trol.
Latest in the Trade.
Manufacturers are considering the ex-
perimenter more in certain cases, and the
A.W.A. Valve Co. is to be commended
for circularising amateur transmitters
with appropriate monthly material. Fol-
lowing on the issue of the Radiotron
transmitting-valve chart, it has been de-
cided to send out a series of articles on
low-power transmitters for experimental
purposes. The first of these articles is
to hand. It deals with a transmitter hav-
ing an output of 18 watts unmodulated
carrier power. Circuit diagrams, with
constructional details and component
values, are given. If this service is found
useful to experimenters the co. proposes
to extend it to embrace power ratings,
but before doing so would appreciate
comments from experimenters regarding
its value. The co.’s address is 47 York-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
F. H. Paton, formerly of the well-
known Slade-Paton combination, has
now commenced business on his own
account, and is manufacturing a wide
range of radio and electrical test equip-
ment. The trading name is Paton Elec-
trical Instrument Co. A new factory
has been completed and equipped with
modern plant, and production of the
various lines is in full swing. The co.
will be pleased to hear from old cus-
tomers, attention and service being given
promptly to all inquiries.
The Q. and A. Column,
/ have a portable Airzone four-valve battery
receiver and wish to rebuild it. In a recent
answer to a similar inquiry it was stated that
a technical description was to appear on these
lines. Has it yet appeared ? —258.
Not yet, but the matter is under considera-
tion. It is intended to redesign the old port-
able for five valves, using the latest series,
but the question of special R.F. coils is the
reason for the delay. It would be easy to
obtain a special kit of iron-cored coils from
overseas, but unless similar kits are available
for the benefit of interested readers the receiver
would be the only one of its kind. If iron-
cored coils do not appear on the Australian
market the receiver will be designed with the
best possible type of air coils.
H* H* H 5
Having seen the description of the Wide-
World Two ( B . 15/8/’34), I intend building a
similar receiver, but using the 6D6 and 42
valves with the 80 rectifier. (1) Would these
valves be suitable ? (2) How would the circuit
diagram be affected ? —259.
(1) The 6C6 would be more suitable as the
detector. The 6C6 and 6D6 are improved
versions of the 77 and 78 respectively. (2) The
42 would be indicated in a diagram exactly as
the 38, but with a cathode bias resistor of
400 ohms instead of 1500 ohms. Fundamen-
tally, the circuit arrangement is the same as
the Wide-World Two receiver.


Hospital Expenses
and
Disability
Benefits
are special features of "with profit”
Whole Life, Probate, Family Income
and Endowment Assurance Policies
issued by the Company, in addition
to the usual benefits granted by
other offices.
All classes of insurances and assurances
transacted.
The Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Coy. Ltd.
Incorporating the businesses of The Equitable
Life Ass. Co. of A/sia, Ltd., and The
Queensland Probate Ins. Co., Ltd.
Equitable Lifeßuilding, Queen Street, Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins' House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
C. DARVALL,
■ ' General Manager.
f
f KIDNEY
TROUBLE)
in FASTEST TIME
Feel Better and Stronger in a Few Hours
If worn out by nagging back pains, you
want to end the trouble quickly! For over
ten years sufferers in your own district —
people whose pains started like yours—
have thrown off their trouble by taking Dr.
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy strengthens
the weak bladder, tones the Kidneys, ends
Lumbago, Groin Pains, Stiff, Aching Joints
and Muscles, Dizzy, Nervy Spells, Nightly
Urination Worry, Scalding, Itching Irrita-
tion, Acidity, etc.—by driving out the
CAUSE. Harrison’s Pills have no equal for
soothing inflamed Kidneys, bladder and
urinary tract. Relief comes swiftly, surely.
Guaranteed faster, better relief than any-
thing else—complete satisfaction from very
first bottle or money back! All good
chemists sell Harrison’s Pills in three in-
expensive sizes. Try them to-day and see
your vigour return —silly to suffer when
♦ here’s no need! And there is no need!
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Liquor Hours
The London system is a good one.
Public-houses there do not open till 11
a.m. —11.30 in some localities—and they
keep open till after lunch. They close
until 5.30 p.m. and then remain open
till 10 or 10.30 p.m., an extension over
those hours being allowed under special
permit.
Our 6-to-6 N. S. Wales system differ-
entiates against the workingman, who
is as much entitled to his refreshment
as anybody. It is useless to attempt to
secure abstinence by legislation. The
more restriction the more illegality there
is, as Uncle Sam has learnt to his cost. —
V. E. (N.S.W.).
Maternal Mortality
As a first step towards lowering it I
would suggest uniform legislation by all
States requiring a sworn statement from
the doctor or other person in principal
attendance as fo whether, and at what
stage, instrumental measures were used.
Also, it should not be permitted to grant
a medical certificate of death in respect of
any woman who dies within four weeks
after childbirth, thus necessitating formal
investigation into the precise cause of
death.
Even if such an Act applied, at the
outset, only to cities and large towns
where skilled pathological investigation is
immediately available, it is safe to say
that the results would lead to an early
demand from women for its extension. —
Kwakprak (Q.).
The Fitzwilliam Plan
I am tired of all this talk about “sec-
tional taxation” of public servants. Here
is my suggestion for dealing with the
problem:
(1) Give every civil servant a month’s
notice.
(2) Advertise all positions
as vacant at the end of the
month, at salaries 33 1-3 p.c.
less than those paid at
present; working days, 5 \
per week ; holidays, a fort-
night each year.
These conditions are much
better than most of us out-
side the “service” have had
to put up with since the depression com-
menced : but 1 venture to predict that so
many would break their necks in the rush
back to their jobs that the resultant clear-
ance would be worth while. — Fitz-
william (N.S.W.).
Dancing
Revs. W. F. Betts and H. E. Wallis
have been conducting a “forward move-
ment” against it in Fitzroy (Vic.). They
fitted their offensive with tanks, flame-
throwers and all modern appliances, and
roused up 1200 supporters, many of them
brands snatched from the burning fox-
trot, to demonstrate its horror by sitting
continuously from 7.30 one evening
to 6 a.m. next day, with an adjournment
at 1 a.m. —not for cocktails, but for
strictly temperance refreshment.
Unfortunately, there was nothing new
about the crimes saddled on dancing.
They were the same old crimes in which
men and women have co-operated- f rom
the time of Adam, the same old crimes
which are encouraged by any form of
amusement or entertainment or study or
worship which brings two sexes together.
Wherever you put men and women
into proximity, you run the risk of their
violating the conventions. The world’s
real morals would be considerably im-
proved by recognising that fact and evolv-
ing a system under which men and
women would regard themselves,-not as
what the French Judge called “love
dolls,” but as fellow human beings.—•
G. M. (Vic.).
Transport Articles
At a general meeting of members of
the Commercial Motor-vehicle Pro-
prietors’ Transport Association, N.S.W.,
ii was resolved that The Bulletin be
thanked for its articles on the transport
“Oh! stop growling, George! I remember the day when you said you'd
like to carry me in your arms to the ends of the earth."
question, the truth of which can be
vouched for by hundreds of motor oper-
ators. I, as secretary, enthusiastically con-
cur in the resolution. —R. I. Fitzgerald
(N.S.W.). . ■
Must No Australians Apply?
For five years, Isaac Isaacs has filled
the office of Governor-General as no
previous occupant has done. A man with
a distinguished career as lawyer and poli-
tician, a‘man of deep culture and many
parts, he has not given one decision
which has been disputed, or has involved
the Commonwealth or the States or the
two Houses in any Constitutional ques-
tion. In a period exceptionally trying, in
which trouble seemed almost; inevitable,
he has kept the machinery running
smoothly and without a suggestion of
friction.. •’ . .
Not one of the pleas for an imported
Governor-General holds water. The link
with the Crown is maintained just as
tightly by an Australian as by a Briton.
The intellectual calibre of your imported
Governor-General is not automatically
higher than that of an Australian; in
actual practice, it has proved lower.
And, of course, he has no understanding
of Australian, sentiment or. Australian
■conditions. The whole, reason for the
pressure brought in favor of an importa-
tion is just snobbery. —St. K. R. (Vic.).
“Rattler-jumpers” ;
The suggestion that carriages on goods
trains should, be placed at the disposal of
the travelling unemployed (B. 10/4/’35)
is not new, and there are points against
such, a . measure. As one who has been
“jumping rattlers” for five years I realise
that a carriageful of unemployed could be
a menace to small towns at which goods
trains must stop.- Many such towns have
one policeman ; some have none.
I don’t mean to say, that. unemployed
are more criminal than any other section
of the community—they are not. But
circumstances make criminals. I have
seen 50 men aboard a “rattler,” and no
appreciable amount of pillaging went on ;
but the, fact that they had no right there
prevented them from organising.
“W. 8.” is mistaken if he thinks that
most' ‘Tattler-jumpers?’ are men going to
jobs. They are not.- Some .think they
are ; some deceive themselves-into vaguely
hoping they are; others “jump the
rattler” out of sheer boredom —rainbow-
chasing. Since every town, whether in
sheep, sugar, fruit or cotton country, has
an unemployed population of its own
there is little chance of work for the
“rattler-jumper” or the stranger; and
those who have been on the track long
know it. If Governments want to help
the unemployed they will have to do
something other than provide free trans-
port. They could start by providing
shelters. — Horrible Hobo (N.S.W.).
Let Them Be Policemen!
Vic. Police Chief Blarney contemplates
adding 200 to the personnel of the force
with the revolutionary objective of mak-
ing policemen do police duties. At
present a large proportion of his con-
stables are occupied the greater part of
their time in acting as clerks, accoun-
tants, inspectors of civil enterprises and,
worse than all, process-servers. During
the depression the last duty has proved
extremely objectionable to the police
themselves, and has had a bad influence
on the poorer sections of the community.
It is difficult for many to recognise
that a policeman is only doing his duty
when he helps to evict some poor devil
and seize his furniture, and, later, when
the dispossessed one sees the cop at-
tacked by a band of larrikins he is apt
to sympathise with the push. Instead of
regarding the policeman as a friend and
one to turn to in time of need, children
are growing up to look upon him as a.
foreign oppressor. . Blarney’s idea is to
have outside duties carried out by out-
side men, and the police confined to their
legitimate occupation of maintaining
order and preventing crime.— Grasspan
(Vic.).
Butter, Wheat and Meat
Delegates to the recent N. S. Wales
Graziers’ Conference pronounced the
introduction by Britain of restriction on
imports less injurious to our producers
than a duty. The conference was
thoroughly representative ; the vote was
all the more remarkable because it was
opposed to the view expressed, in season
and out, by our political representatives
and executives, namely, “There must be
no restriction on exports.”
In any circumstances primary pro-
ducers must have suffered severely dur-
ing the depression. It is unfortunate that
their troubles should have been accen-
tuated by ill-considered advice from, or
mistaken action by, their leaders. The
British Government suggested to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland that if they would
limit their exports of butter to Britain
by 6 p.c. on the previous year’s total it
would compel the Danes to reduce theirs
by 12 p.c. It was a good offer; our
previous year’s export had been a record
one. Sound business heads recommended
acceptance, but immediately the political
cry “No limit on production” was raised,
and the offer was turned down. A seri-
ous mistake.
Last year, when wheat seemed to be
recovering, the N.S.W. Minister of Agri-
culture, with the full support from the
heads of the principal organisation of
wheatgrowers, made the extraordinarily
ill-timed announcement that the many
millions of bushels of wheat stored in
Government grain elevators would have
to be cleared within a month or so. The
immediate result was the collapse of the
market. The fact that no wheat then in
the elevators has been compulsorily sold
shows how unnecessarily drastic this
announcement was.
It is sincerely to be hoped that wiser
counsels will prevail in connection with
meat, though so far the action taken does
not inspire confidence.—Arthur G.
Manning (N.S.W.).
A reproduction of Norman Lindsay’s
Anzac Day drawing, appearing in the last
issue, will be sent to any Digger forward-
ing 3d. in stamps.


FOR WARWICK ON SATURDAY.
Royal Stakes: Archmel; next,
Turbulent.
Sandringham Handicap: First
Son ; next, Foxhunter.
Edensor Park Handicap: High
Boy ; next, Cid.
FOR RANDWICK ON MONDAY.
Buckingham Palace Handicap:
Cid ; next, Turbine.
Jubilee Cup: Peter Pan; next,
Sarcherie.
Windsor Castle Handicap: The
Raider; next, Gothlin.
Balmoral Handicap: Braeburn;
next, Vice Royal.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Secretary G. 'T. Rowe and his com-
mittee were naturally delighted with the
attendances at Randwick on Easter Satur-
day and the three ensuing days ; . alto-
gether they were the best since 1929. And
the racing was very enjoyable, considered
from the sporting standpoint alone. But
some very bad riding was witnessed, the
illogical decision of the stewards on the
Doncaster protest was in no way justi-
fied by the subsequent running of Hall
Mark and High, and most backers fared
badly. So there were no great regrets
when the curtain went down.
Cercello was voted a good thing for
the Rous Handicap on Saturday, and he
went out favorite. But the Newcastle
chestnut was kicked at the post, and in
the circumstances he did well to run third
to Pat Osborne’s improving three-year-
old The Raider (7 to 1), a natty son of
Night Raid and Valicare. Golden Gate
looked a winner when she singled out at
the distance; however. The Raider fin-
ished gamely for Jim Munro, and
snatched victory in the last stride. He
has now won three races, and may be
one of the early favorites for the Epsom.
Archmel, a member of J. J. Leahy’s team,
was fourth, and is worth keeping in mind.
Bsrt: * For-r-r-e ''
G*ep?t Eight, Bert v '
Bert " Why eight ? "
, //
GiERT. Make them move twice
AvS QUICK,
as is Cabalist, who showed pace while
his condition lasted.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt landed
the Cropper Plate with his Heroic filly
Cereza (7 to 1). With only 6st. 91b.
the two-year-old was able to trail the
pacemaker, Tom Pinch, into the straight,
and when he shifted out she scooted
away and set up a lead that Silver King
could not bridge. He tried hard, but
failed by a head. Dark Sky, slowly away,
was third. Arachne looked nice and
bright, but showed no dash, and finished
last.
Satmoth (10 to 1) outstayed the opposi-
tion in the Dangar Handicap, but had
Voitre shown better judgment on Con-
tact (6 to 1) that three-year-old would
have scored. To the half-mile the Maori-
land lad rode a perfect race, and when he
took Contact to the outside his mount
was hailed as the winner. To the sur-
prise of his backers Contact was pulled
over to the rails, where he was hemmed
in. He made another run, but had to
go round his field, and Satmoth scored
by a length, with Journal, who came
from the clouds, a good third. Fourth
was Limyris, who was rushed from last
to first at the mile pole, with the evident
intention of making the pace solid for
stable-mate Miss Nottava ; that little mare
was galloped on, and may not race again.
Senior was doing his best work at the
finish.
Two-year-olds had their first race of
the season over a mile. The Victorian
colt Don Miguel, alleged to be “as good
as Garrio,” was sent out favorite, with
Allunga and Wykeham, at 6 to 1, but
was never sighted. Not so the other
two, who fought out an exciting finish,
Allunga, carrying the colors of M. Mulli-
gan and J. T. Williamson, beating Wyke-
ham in the last stride. Young Crusader
was third. Carry On’s sister, Urunalong,
rattling along at ‘the end, ran fifth, just
behind Osculum,
Frank McGrath has a good substitute
for Peter Pan in the low-set and plain-
looking Master Brierly, who has devel-
oped into a real weight-for-age horse.
Difficult to train, Master Brierly has
gone wrong more than once, but is
decidedly all right now. Seven to two for
the AJ.C. Plate, 2\ miles, he fairly out-
stayed his four opponents; last into the
straight, he came with a conquering run
as he had done in the Cumberland Plate,
defeating Hall Mark by a couple of
lengths in the capital time of 3min.
52sec. Rogilla should have been second,
but right on the post Darby Munro lost
a rein and could not use his whip.
Dromos, one of the unlucky horses
of the round, was favorite for the Final
Handicap. He was sore when doing his
preliminary, and raced that way, being
tailed off with Care Free for six fur-
longs. Gordon’s Leap (15 to 1) made
a dash for the lead in the first furlong,
got it and held it; with his head on
his chest, he won by three lengths from
Blixten and Break Up, Braeburn being
a noticeable fourth. The price suggests
that followers of Holt’s stable neglected
Gordon’s Leap, who was ridden by
Voitre. They had a very profitable meet-
ing all the same, being thrice fortunate to
collect on Hall Mark in the Doncaster.
❖ * * ❖
Since he won the V.R.C. Cantala
Stakes, L’Elite (Gay Lothario —Sweet
Marguerite) had, until Saturday, raced
disappointingly. Produced for the Men-
tone Plate, the very handsome chestnut
was backed from 4 to 1 to 3 to 1, and
went out next in demand to the Black-
adder gelding Ticklish, who had romped
home in the Epsom Plate on April 17.
Ticklish shaped a long way below expec-
tations, and was one of the last to finish.
Leading all the way, L’Elite defeated the
fast-finishing Bardinet by half a length.
Djedda, who is engaged in the S.A.J.C.
Goodwood Handicap, was a neck behind
Bardinet; she tired in the effort to over-
haul L’Elite. Bardinet, a filly by Tippler—
Three Chord, is coming to hand rapidly,
and R. D. O’Donnell should win with her
before long.
Earlier in the afternoon O’Donnell,
most of whose riding is done by Demp-
sey, landed the Two-year-old Handicap
with Arran Chief, a colt by Eastern
Monarch from Scarlet, winner of the 1924
Sydney Cup. Arran Chief belongs to G,
L. Scott, and enabled that sportsman to
square accounts over his trip to Rand-
wick with La Trobe. Incidentally, Scott
declares that La Trobe got hopelessly
boxed up in the Sydney Cup field , and
was unable to stretch out for the greater
part of the journey, Arran Chief is
a youngster of high promise. He was a
hot favorite.
Brave Boy, who resembles Heroic
more than any other of the progeny of
the Valais stallion, staged a comeback in
the Mentone Handicap. A wager of
£SOO to £SO was laid, and the price firmed
to 8 to 1. Running past Barren Corn,
the pacemaker, at the straight entrance.
Brave Boy scored by half a length from
Kitty O’Shea, the early favorite, Kitty
O’Shea may have been unlucky to lose,
as she was nearly last at the back of the
course. Sordino, backed from 7 to 1 to
3 to 1, was in one of his sour moods and
never threatened danger.
Divisions of the Welter Handicap were
annexed by Taiyuan and Silveroak re-
spectively. The victory of Taiyuan was
sensational, Barrawom, the favorite, ex-
hausted himself in shaking off the opposi-
tion of Nagpur, a stable-companion of
Kitty O’Shea. At the distance Chief
Light shot past Barraworn. His jockey
apparently regarded the race as all over,
but Taiyuan came from the clouds and
triumphed by half a length.
Silveroak, who is by Silvius, seldom
comes down from the country with-
out winning. He opened at a very
short price, but ultimately Skram and
Rondeletia shared favoritism. Skidmore
rode a nicely-judged race to bring Silver-
oak home a head in advance of Ron-
deletia. Skidmore is still at the head of
the winning jockeys’ list in Melbourne.
There may be the makings of a Grand
National horse in Full Charge, who justi-
fied his position as 5-to-4 favorite for the
Open Hurdle, This gelding carries the
colors of his breeder, A. T. Creswick,
who owns Garrio ; he is by Thracian.
Jumping in dashing style, Golden Swan
led to the final flight of battens, but Full
Charge scored attractively.
* * $ #
Like the Randwick crowds, the Sydney
yearling sales were the best since 1929 ;
in all 446 youngsters were sold for
81,070 guineas. Twenty-two offspring of
Heroic realised 14,455 guineas—an aver-
age of 657. A Silvius colt changed
hands at 1300 guineas. But a Pantheon
brought the top price, 1700 guineas, a
colt by Peter Pan’s sire out of Athenais,
also imported, being knocked down at
that figure to William Kelso, acting for
“P, Fairie.” Except in this instance Vic-
torians paid all the big prices. Generous
prize-money is largely the explanation.
Apart from the A.J.C., Sydney clubs are
niggardly compared with Melbourne’s
amateur organisations.
$ * * *
“W.J.”: Sylvandale is a son of
Silvius, with the possible exception
of Magpie the best English racehorse
brought to Australia for many a
year. Imported by Sidney Kidman and
raced in Adelaide \vhen a three-
year-old, though four years by Australian
reckoning, Silvius cleaned up everything
in sight in the autumn and winter ,; of
1927, and it was; given out , that he would
be put by for the Melbourne Cup. But
with the briefest of spells the ill-managed
animal, not yet properly acclimatised,
was raced at the Caulfield Cup meeting ;
then fin the Moonee Valley Cup, which he
won with Bst. 51b., and then in the Mel-
bourne Stakes; in which he beat Amounis
at weight-for-age—a thing which Phar
Lap in later years twice failed to do.
After the Melbourne Stakes, Silvius was a
greatly distressed horse. Nevertheless, he
was brought out again in the Melbourne
Cup, in which he defeated everything but
Trivalve.' Kept for that particular race,
he would have been a racecourse cer-
tainty, for he had only 7st. 51b., and Tri-
valve, though a good colt, was far from
being great. On the last day of the meet-
ing Silvius again trounced Amounis at
w.f.a. —by four lengths in the C. B. Fisher
Plate. He must have been an iron horse
to stand what he did. No wonder he
imparts stamina to his offspring.
* * * *
It is high time St. Legers were struck
off racing-club programmes. Every main-
land State has them, and they are nearly
always inflictions. Who wants to see
Phar Laps show up Carradales, or Peter
Pans donkey-lick Oros, or Sylvandales
make hacks of Contacts and Verberrys?
Rarely is the sport afforded worth a tithe
of the purse provided; and the club
loses in another way, for the little betting
done is generally confined to the straight-
out tote. In the W.A.T.C. St'. Leger,
Hyperion had one opponent, Mollify. It
was 20 to 1 on Hyperion, 10 to 1 against
Mollify. An inglorious farce, and these
absurdities come expensive to clubs which
have a struggle to make ends meet.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Melbourne saw some grand matches
when the V.F.L. season opened on
Saturday. Victoria Park staged the best,
Collingwood v. South Melbourne; 214
points scored and only two between
them at the thrilling finish —’Wood, 15
goals 18 behinds; South, 15 goals 16
behinds. A game to be remembered.
Geelong v. Carlton at Prince’s Park
almost equalled it for heavy scoring and
excitement: Geelong ended a goal to the
good—15-18 to 14-18. Footscray, on its
own ground, held Richmond for a good
part of the match; but Richmond was
more accurate and systematic: 14-12 to
7-19. In the other matches Fitzroy,
Essendon and Hawthorn beat St. Kilda,
Melbourne and North Melbourne respec-
tively. Colin Watson led out the St.
Kilda team with 20,000 cheering. But
during those long pourparlers with the
club he had done no training, and he
played like an old or slow worker under
the Factories Act.
* * * $
“Rover”: Ambrose Palmer, who signed
up last football season with Footscray
(Vic.), has applied for a permit to play
with the adjoining Association team,
Yarraville. He will probably get his trans-
fer, for Palmer, like so many good
athletes, does not shine out of his own
element. Nearly all the Victorian pugs
have played football at one time or other.
Few have proved front-rank men. One
of the few was Mick Mclnerney, for-
merly middleweight champion, who was
a fine follower for North Melbourne.
*** • *
By defeating Western Suburbs 23 to
14, University has gone to the top of
the Sydney Rugby Union list. Manly,
with “Tarzan” Hodgson in wonderful
form, trounced St. George, 34-11, but
Northern Suburbs was hard pressed by
Eastern Suburbs, and was glad to hear
the final bell: 19-14, Randwick
accounted for Drummoyne, 13-5.
* '* * *
Rugby League began its 10-year lease
of Sydney Cricket Ground on Anzac Day
with a solid, if somewhat muddling, en-
counter between last years’ premiers,
Western Suburbs, and St. George, West
won by 16 to 8. The crowd, given out
as 16,000-odd, dropped to 4639 for the
League’s next Cricket Ground fixture,
West v. North Sydney, on Saturday.
West’s 14 to 9 victory included four tries
by Ridley, three of them good and one
brilliant.
* t * *
In “f Coop” final at Wembley Shef-
field Wednesday beat West Bromwich
Albion by four goals to two, scoring twice
in the last three minutes.


TRADE MARK
MODEL S3.—LEVER-ACTION 7-SHOT REPEATING RIFLE.
In calibres .25/20 and .32, Model 92 action with 22 -inch round tapered barrel,
walnut shotgun-type stock with scored steel butt plate and straight grip.
Lyman gold bead front sight and adjustable rear sight with sliding elevator,
solid frame, half magazine. Weight, about 6
PRICE
rHjC*.
£9/5/-
CARRIAGE PAID.
MODEL 65, SIMILAR TO ABOVE, but with PISTOL-GRIP
STOCK
MODELS 53 and 65 adapted for Super-speed Cartridges.
£9/10/-
CARRIAGE PAID.
25/20 AND .32 BLACK OR SUPER-SPEED STAYNLESS.
25/20 and .32 Centre-fire Super-speed Staynless Cartridges. Per 100, 21/
25/20 and .32 Black Powder Cartridges. Per 100 . 17/
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’DI Tt/r 6000
CC
mA
re c
STC£
"TOP-ELITE”-* The
Greatest Championship Ball
Identically the same ball that Jimmy
Thomson, winner of the Centenary Open,
used in making his world record of 283.
Multi-dot, in Mesh and Dimple *3/
markings each VJ' *
df
SPALDING "PAR”- The
Longest Durable Championship
Ball made
This year gives greater distance than ever.
Many Australian National Championships
have been won with Spalding Par. Multi-
dot, in Mesh and Dimple Mark-
ings each m
r:>r?
ncnn
Wc
no
Kpp-mre
o
on
/-r-
Under the Whip
Peter Pan and Hall Mark at a
difference of a pound; the distance,
a mile ; place and time, Randwick on
the third day of the Easter meeting.
It seemed a tasty dish, and the crowd
was all excitement before the barrier
released the four starters, but the
race proved scarcely worthy of the fuss.
When Peter Pan ran up to the pace-
maker, Silver King, at the home turn and
led into the straight full of running it
was seen that he must win. Hall Mark,
nearly always three lengths in the rear,
could make no impression on Peter Pan
from the distance ; it was all he could do
to head Silver King, who was eased to
a collision with Peter Pan. Pan-
theon’s son cut the Australian record for
a mile to Imin. Now anyone of
the opinion that he doesn’t rank with
Phar Lap can buy into an argument
cheap.
Raised 101 b. for his second in the Don-
caster, High (10 to 1) had a well-deserved
victory in the Coogee Handicap, in
which, although it had been thought that
the last furlong of the nine might bother
him, he finished too strongly for Bachian
and the favorite, Dromos. Coming im-
mediately after the All-Aged Plate, his
performance strengthened the impression
that he should have been placed first in
the Doncaster when his party protested
and interference was proved.
The superiority of the Victorian two-
year-olds was emphasised in the Cham-
pagne Stakes, in which Young Idea (4 to
1) and Bimilla (evens), each carrying a
101 b. penalty, had the finish to them-
selves. Fourth into the straight—there
were five starters —the big son of Con-
stant Son—Persuasion cut down Bimilla
like a good colt, and when Imin. 12£sec.
was shown on the board everyone was
convinced of his class. Grand Mogul
was a poor third.
Then came a surprise, the defeat of
Rogilla (2 to 1 on) by Master Brierly (5
to 1) in the Cumberland Plate; and
another, Rivalli’s victory (at 12 to 1) in
the City Handicap. The Queensland
horse’s jockey, Maxwell, stole the race —
a thing that has happened more than
once of recent years in this particular
handicap.
* * * *
“Cantilever”: That reference to Cook
did not tell the whole tale of misfortune
(B. 24/4/’35). Riding Dark Chief in the
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup, Cook lost
his whip, with the result that his mount
was beaten a neck by Milantheon, an
inferior animal at the weights. It was
on the following Saturday that Cook rode
High in the Doncaster, and two days
later he was on Dark Chief in the Sydney
Cup. In one race his mount finished a
neck behind the winner, after having
been interfered with, and in the other
half a head behind. “And I made sure
it was a dead-heat,” the unhappy youth
groaned after he had weighed in.
Footbrawl
Colin Watson, the best all-rounder the
Australian game has known during the
past 10 years, has been the storm-centre
of Vic. football for a few weeks. Watson
has been St. Kilda’s captain and coach
for two seasons, but this year he decided
to devote all his time to the dairy farm
he has at Warrnambool. St. Kilda de-
clined to pay the wages of a man to look
after the cows during Watson’s absence
on the playing field, though it was willing
to pay his fares to and from the city.
After much backing and filling and ap-
pearances and disappearances of Watson,
the matter was finalised by Watson agree-
ing to play and by the team as a whole
electing him captain. St. Kilda enters
the competition with a fine individual
team, as it has done for a generation.
Whether the men can master the secret
of playing as a whole —which they have
never succeeded in doing—match results
alone will tell.
* * * *
“Tiger 7 ’: Following on the threat of
the Victorian C.A. to leave the Melbourne
C.G., Richmond footballers have notified
their cricket opposite numbers that they
will end the agreement under which they
hold the Richmond C.G. for the foot-
ball season. Richmond F.C. has been
playing on this ground ever since it was
founded 70 years ago. It has been
negotiating with Melbourne Carnivals for
the use of Olympic Park.
*'s * $
“Prahran”: The ingenuity of Victorian
League football clubs in finding loop-
holes in the Coulter law, designed to pre-
vent trafficking in players, among other
things, has just been pleasantly exempli-
fied in Melbourne. Essendon League
club greatly desired a Tassie player
named Sproule, and imported him. The
law says he cannot play League football
until he has lived 12 months in Victoria.
That trouble has been surmounted by
“lending” Sproule to Brunswick, a club
in the Association, where the anti-traf-
ficking laws do not run. Sproule will thus
be kept in form playing with Brunswick
instead of standing about and develop-
ing inside fat, and next season will trans-
fer to Essendon and the League.
* * * *
“Bowen Park” : The Maoris will have
a full week in Queensland if the present
programme holds. They are to play at
Warwick on July 10, and after two games
in Brisbane will tackle Toowoomba,
always a stiff proposition at home. The
Victorians have managed to get only one
date against the tourists, whom they will
play on August 3 on the Carlton ground.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Poacher” : Sydney golf panjandrums,
after sifting for some hours- in solemn
conclave, have decided that the charge
against a club of haying offered free
membership to first-class players in order
to build up its grade team was not
proven. There had been applications by
members of clubs who had played grade
golf with one club last season to play
with another club this year, but every-
thing was “open and aboveboard.” In
other sports a really good player can
write his own ticket in the matter of
club fees and subscriptions. Golf, it
seems, is different.
* * * *
“Ainslie”; The Canberra champion-
ships at Easter yearly attract stronger
contingents of golfers, N.S.W. cracks not
disdaining to do a Tittle pot-hunting in
Federal territory. The open title went
to the local professional, J. Petterson,
who downed the redoubtable M. L. Kelly
by a stroke with 144 for the two rounds.
As Petterson also bagged the £SO pro-
fessional purse, he had a good meeting.
Hattersley won the amateur champion-
ship from Waferson by the wide margin
of six strokes —146 to 152.
“Sandringham”: Marking the score-
card in a four-baller is often a source of
confusion and profanity. The principle of
scoring is to show which of the four
players wins or halves a hole, and with
the old cards things often got horribly
mixed. Melbourne Metropolitan has
been trying anew card, which has given
general satisfaction. In between the two
columns for each pair of players is
another reserved for marking the win,
half or loss. The card is a bit bigger
than the ordinary ones, but only golfers
exceptionally sensitive about their figures
should bother about this.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Some details of the
pedigrees and performances of the women
golfers who are to visit Australia
would be welcomed by golferettes who
are not in a position to get the in-
formation by being on the inner
councils of the L.G.U. So far, all that
has leaked out is that Mrs. Greenless is
a Scottish representative and has held
the West of Scotland and Ayrshire cham-
pionships, and that Mrs. Walker hails
from Ireland and won the championship
of the Green isle in 1930.
;J*
“Southport”: Something new in golf
invasions comes off shortly, when eight
Canadians will figure in the big British
events; they are all entered for the ama-
teur championship, to be played on St.
Anne’s and Lytham courses in Lanca-
shire. The band is headed by Ross Somer-
ville, winner of the American amateur
title in 1932 and four times champion
of Canada. Athletic visits from Canada
to Britain are rare, though the two coun-
tries have many sports in common. 1
recall a Canadian cricket team going
over in the ’eighties, and one or two la-
crosse sides have tourned the North of
England, where the game is well sup-
ported, especially in Lancashire.
Racquet and Bawl
Two more sporting titles were col-
lected for this country last week. At
Scarborough Miss Hartigan became
hard-courts champion of the North of
England ; at Rome Crawford and
McGrath, just off the boat, won the
doubles championship of Italy, beating
Borotra and Brugnon. Very encourag-
ing to Australian hopes for Wimbledon
and the Davis Cup.
* * * *
C. Brumley, who is 78, and his middle-
aged son reached the semi-finals of
the men’s doubles handicap at Gee-
long. The Brumleys hail from Leongatha,
Gippsland, where dad started to play the
game at the early age of 37.
* * * *
“Guiseppe”: Roderick Menzel, who
achieved some unpopularity in Australia
by referring to Queensland barrackers as
“cannibals,” has been falling foul of
the crowd again. Rod likes to stop in
the middle of a game and comb his hair
if it is disturbed, and it was while thus
engaged in the championships at Rome
that the crowd gave him the, Italian
equivalent of the raspberry. The Czech
regarded his persecutors for a minute as
a lion in other days might have regarded
a crowd of yelping Christians, and stalked
off the court, abandoning the match. The
dear creature has since improved on the
“cannibals” complaint in an interview
recorded by a fellow-Czech.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Perry has emerged
from the valley of temptation at Holly-
wood and continued his pilgrim’s progress
to Britain, still a blameless amateur.
He says 100,000-dollar contracts were
flaunted before him, but, though sorely
tempted, he turned them down for Eng-
land’s sake. If the young man flops at
Wimbledon and in the Davis Cup games
as he did in Australia, there will be no
hordes of slavering entrepreneurs praying
him to sign on the line for 100,000 cents
even. On the other hand, if he comes
out triumphant against Crawford and co.
and helps England to keep the Cup, he
can write his own ticket with the Ameri-
can professional tennis promoters.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Though it now enjoys a
comparatively lonely old age —it was first
run in 1874 and is the last of the old-time
professional handicaps—the Stawell (Vic.)
Gift continues to draw big entries and
attendances every Easter. This year first
and second prizes went to South Austra-
lians, M. M. Bishop and G. F. Sullivan.
Bishop, with a start of yards,
ran 122| yards in 12sec. — 2\ yards inside
evens. A strong following wind will pre-
vent the time being considered seriously.
Only once (in 1899) has the race been
won by a foreigner—E. Skinner, an
American, prominent in the old Botany
and Carrington Sheffields. Two abos.,
Dancey (1910) and Lynch Cooper (1928),
have also taken the £3OO purse.
* * * #
“Fitzcray”; A long-distance runner
named Allan Morgan has been getting
more notice in Victoria than Bishop. As
an amateur in, Sydney Morgan, was
known as “The Flying Pieman,” and he
caused South Sydney officials great agony
of mind by running barefooted in gar-
ments that would have disgraced a scare-
crow. After winning many events he dis-
appeared from his Sydney haunts, and
was next heard of at Stawell. There,
again in derelict costume, he won the
two-mile Grampian Stakes off 160 yards
by about twice that distance, the time
being 9min. 5 4-ssec. Going on to Ben-
digo, and shoeless again, Morgan won
another two-miler, from 136 yards, almost
as easily. Because of a steward’s mis-
take, the distance was actually a lap short
of two miles ; Morgan’s time was 7min.
58sec.
“R.G.”: Morgan’s stunt at Stawell re-
minds me of the jokes that used to be
worked in N.Q. in the palmy days of the
peds. One was to have a chap got up as
a frowsy swaggie to roll in from nowhere,
apparently half-drunk, and enter at the
last minute. On the mark he would be
obviously suffering from the horrors,
while the condition of his few rags and
his bare feet made it appear that he
hadn’t had a bath for a decade. Other
runners would object to being on the
same mark with the odoriferous object,
and he was usually put out by himself.
The rest was easy, though tact had to
be used in drawing the money and getting
him out of the road until the next town.
* * * *
The woodchopping championship at
the Back-to-Alexandra (Vic.) sports was
won by a Methodist parson from one of
the Melbourne suburbs. Asa lad in
Alexandra he had mastered the art, but
for many years now his training has been
restricted to the household woodpile. If
woodcliopping were a spectacular sport
with big gates there would be speculators'
waiting on the manse doorstep endeavor-
ing to sign him up as a public entertainer.
* * * *
“Burnett”: Queensland rowing selec-
tors have, as usual, saved themselves a
headache by letting the rowers them-
selves decide the State representatives in
the King’s Cup tussle on the Nepean on
May 11. By winning the Bananaland
championship on its own river, Bunda-
berg has gained the distinction. This sys-
tem was followed in other States until
recently, but this time Queensland will
have the only club crew in the race.


1
II years
ago
*wviiXSnv
m*& S3IfcSITOfBTO3Q3i
AS maw'■» * <«m :*.«>»
fi
**:*S
I
i
1;
p
li
«$!
ill
m
m
m
U 1
■
m
I
OLD COURT
whisky
THE /WORLD'S PUREST AND THE NATION’S FAVOURITE
i
*
■
-
li
ill iiii i
•:.
It is easily possible for most of us to remember
when Old Court came into the market . . .
Australia’s first move towards the pro-
duction of a whisky of which we could be
proud ... one which would capture Australia’s
favour because of its quality, its consistency,
its value.
That Old Court has succeeded is, eleven
years after, strikingly apparent. Its sup-
porters become more numerous year by year
. . satisfied by its purity, its flavour, its age
. its ever increasing mellowness.


THE AGE OF MIRACLES
may be past, but nevertheless
THE STEVENS-BROXNER GOVERNMENT
in the past three years did these things:—
(1) It reduced a £14,000,000 deficit to under three millions
without taxing the people one additional penny.
(2) It reduced freights and fares by £900,000 and yet brought
a railway and tramway deficit of over millions to I 4
millions.
(3) It put 130,000 of Lang’s 200,000 unemployed back into
work, and virtually doubled the allowances to those remain-
ing on relief work.
(4) It abolished altogether the Endowment Tax (£1,630,000
per year) and reduced the Wages and Special Income Tax
(£2,100,000 per year), but nevertheless spent over
£14,000,000 on relief works of a permanent character.
(5) It spent £1,500,000 in
giving new water supplies
and sewerage systems (or
adding to those already
existing in country towns),
thus enhancing substantially
the standard of living in
many rural centres of the
State.
COL. M. F. BRUXNER,
Leader of the United Country Party.
(6) Without retrenching, rationing or denying
one public servant, it restored 60 per cent, (in
of salary cuts of the public service.
increments to
the aggregate)
If this, succeeding the near-revolution of 1931-32, is not a miracle, it certainly is
SOUND, PROGRESSIVE, WELL-BALANCED GOVERNMENT.
On its record every man and woman —magnate and unionist, farmei and civil iservant, professional
and domestic help-must vote for the return of the Adm.mstrat.on that saved Australia.
man
IN COUNTRY PARTY ELECTORATES VOTE [l] FOR THESE CANDIDATES
Ashburnham
Bathurst
Barwon
Byron
Castlereagh
Casino . . .
Clarence .
ELLIOTT, H. O.
WILKINS, GEO.
WADE, B. M.
BUDD, A. E.
YEO, A.
REID, J. T.
5 HENRY, A. S., or
I EGGINS, B. C.
Cootamundra .. .
Dubbo
Lachlan . ...
Liverpool Plains . .
Mudgee ........
Murray
Murrumbidgee . . .
ROSS, W. F. M.
WILSON, G. A. L.
BUTTENSHAW, E. A.
CARTER, H. C.
SPRING, D. H.
LAWSON, J. A.
HANKINSON, R. H.
Monaro
Namoi
Raleigh
T emora
Upper Hunter
Wagga Wagga
Young
HEDGES, W. W.
SINCLAIR, C. A.
VINCENT, R. S.
MAIN, HUGH
BROWN, M.
KILPATRICK, M.
REID, A. D.
Voting is compulsory, anti all preferences must be completed.
(Authorised by E. J. Munro, Secretary, United Country Party, Sydney.)
PROSPECTUS OF
FILM PLAYERS CORPORATION, LIMITED.
(Registered under the Companies Act, N.S.W., 1899-1918, 4th April, 1935.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £50,000, divided into 100,000 Shares of 10/- each.
60,000 Shares of 10/- each are offered for subscription, payable 5/- per share, covering application and allotment, the
balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than two months . • • • •.• • ; ' • ' ’
5,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each to be issued as fully paid to the Vendor and Promoters in consideration of their rights
held in reserve for future issue as may be required 17,500
and services
35,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each eo be
£50,000
100,000
DIRECTORS:
C.M.G., M.lnst.C.E., M.I.E.
(Aust.), Consulting Engineer and
SIR JOHN BUTTERS,
W. J C °BRADLE C E° q., K.C., Barrister-at-Law, Phillip Street, Sydney
GEORGE H RAYNER, Esq., Gentleman, New South Head Road, Double Bay.
H. RICHARD DIAMOND, Esq., Company Director, 8 Cast Jereagh Street Sydney.
D M EVANS, Esq., Loss Assessor and Consulting Accountant, 12-14 O Connell St., Sydney.
DOUGLAS B. RIBBANDS-BROWN, Retired, Kurraba Road, Neutral Bay.
(One >other may be appointed.)
DIRECTOR OF PRODUCTIONS;
HARRY SOUTHWELL.
PRODUCER:
B. N. LEWIN.
FILM AND DIALOGUE EDITOR:
DENZIL BATCHELOR.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES (HEAD OFFICE), SYDNEY.
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. McLACHLAN, WESTGARTH & CO., 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. STINSON, BECK & PORTER, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Messrs. R. A. BIRRELL & CO., Public Accountants,
Manufacturers’ House, 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS:
To produce Sound and Talking Pictures in Australia applicable to feature films and
shorts as the demand may require.
GENERAL.
The Australian Film Industry now has the opportunity of becoming one of great
nati Tudged P S t thc e profits already made from Australian-produced pictures, few other invest-
ments offer such a large prospective return both as mrame and capital.
“MR. KEN HALL MENTIONED THAT THE FOUR TALKIES WHICH_HE HAD
MADE AT CINESOUND HAD EARNED £5O 000 E™AN
EIGHT AMERICAN TALKIES, FOUR OF WHICH WERE SPECIAL PRODUCJIONS.
(“Sun,” 10/12/’34.)
RELEASES AND COMPANY’S PROSPECTS.
Arrangements have already been made and contracts^r?? te^D r°rit atoniiiled
OF THE FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA AND GREAT BRITAIN, entitled
U 2s°oSon”has been formed with an. Overseas Organisation which will afford this
Company every facility in respect of ireuses in rv thf DIRECTORS
PORTION OF THE RESERVED SHARES WILL BE HELD BY THE OIRECiOKS
FOR APPLICATION BY AN OVERSEAS FILM COMPANY. t lf . . + . t
In this respect the Company will have widespread and powerful interests allied to it,
which will ensure successful productions and assured markets. « A * r
The association mentioned above will place this Company in the forefront of Australian
Ffim-produang been carefu lly chosen, and their proven ability and
experience will undoubtedly make the first production an outstanding success
P The scenario has been approved by experts and passed as merit for
both AUSTRALIAN AND BRITISH RELEASES. IT IS COMPLETE AND READ!
P OR Evfdencc^ ) before theFiCommission as to the cost and returns of films produced
during the.past two years; nnn ',
8 1-Cost £B,OOO Revenue £26,000^
2- £6,000 Revenue £20,000 I { date
3 Cost £7,500 Revenue £46,000
4 c ost £]o 000 Revenue £22,000 J
The Company is fortunate in obtaining the services of such a highly-qualified Director of
Production asMr Harry Southwell, who has already, made many films meeting with immediate
success on their initial presentation. Productmn is m the hands of Mr. B. N. Lewm, who
has had wide experience in England and America. Arrangements have been made for th
use of studios, together with camera and sound experts, using apparatus capable of producing
films of a quality equivalent to that of any country in the world.
ALLOTMENT.
The Comnanv will not proceed to allotment until 5000 shares of 10s. each have been
applied for. Should the Company not go to allotment, all application moneys will be
U a f oresa ;d quota of shares has already been applied for, the Company
will proceed to immediate allotment.
POINTS FOR THE INVESTOR.
1. The Company will be in production within one month.
2. The first production should be released within six months
3. No expensive buildings or equipment are being purchased; the whole of the capital is
to be used for the production of Films only. ~ ; f rnmn , nJ
4. British as well as Australian releases have already been provided for (the Company
releasing in Great Britain controls 400 theatres). t . i r _
5. An assured market for the Company’s productions which cannot be oversupphed for
6. ApproxfmaVly will be required during the first year of the “Quota Act s
operation.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
To the Directors, Film Players Corporation, Limited,
12-14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
fherebTapply for Shares of 10/- each in the capital
of Film Players Corporation, Limited, and enclose my cheque for
/£ ) being 5/- per share, covering application and allotment moneys,
and agree to accept that number of shares or any less number that may be allotted
to me I agree to pay the balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less
than two months, and I authorise the Directors to enter my name on the Company s
register for the Shares allotted to me and undertake to accept and hold such Shares
in terms of the Company’s Memorandum and Articles.
SIGNATURE . .
NAME IN FULL
(Mr.. Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
Date
°i C CheqneTslimi’ld lie made payable to the Company and crossed “Bank—Not Negotiable.”


Where Are We
Heading?
London opinion in some
quarters is apprehensive.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
MAY, 1935,
ON SALE SATURDAY NEXT,
analyses the position.
It also discusses the gold and
exchange questions and share-
market prospects.
Australia’s leading financial journal.
COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
BRILLIANT FUTURE
FOR YOUNG BARRISTER
When he was admitted to the Bar this year it was
the culmination of an outstanding Scholastic career;
and authorities predict that this young man will
attain the highest honors in his profession.
Many years ago this young man’s father took out
an Assurance Policy providing a guaranteed sum
for the education of his son, and as a result of
this, the boy was enabled to have the best education
obtainable to fit him for his position in life.
Si
Particulars of the terms of such a contract may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Principal Office —Melbourne. C. B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary
BRANCHES IN SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON. C 242
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
£
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and 5
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at I
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A Review
In another two months taxation assess-
ments will have to be compiled. There is
one redeeming feature about this per-
formance, one little thoughtfulness for
which the commissioners deserve a word
of thanks. It is that the fiscal (and taxa-
tion) year overlaps the calendar year
half-way. If both periods coincided,
what a pleasant Christmas and New
Year season most of us would have!
June 30 will also see the close of the
wool season. Many of us will pay tax
on a larger income for 1934-35, but most
land men won’t. At the moment there
is an air of sluggishness in “the city,”
too —it applies to every capital in Aus-
tralia. The Stock Exchanges are dull.
But, after all, to what extent do Ex-
change dealings indicate prosperity? In
so far as greater industrial activity
attracts investors with hopes of gaining
a larger return on their investments later
on, heavy share dealings may reflect im-
provement in the general welfare. But
the acknowledgment that lower interest
returns were to be the rule for some
years has sent investment prices up auto-
matically. That they have now stopped
rising, and have in many cases receded,
may not mean a great deal to anyone
except those who are actually buying or
selling.
Wool came down with a big bump
when world statistics said it should be a
product much in demand by European
countries. Statistics didn’t take possible
trade barriers into account. Still, follow-
ing a drop of 79 p.c. in our direct sales to
Germany and Italy, and a relapse in the
price of the staple to 1932 levels, the
wool market has taken its first sustained
upward movement since January, 1934.
At the end of the last wool season all
Australian sales were cancelled, and
200,000 bales were carried forward. In
order to dispose of this and the new
season’s wool the selling programme was
spread over the full year. Though offer-
ings were purposely limited, up to Christ-
mas not one centre was able to get rid of
its quota.
But since the beginning of 1935 there
has been a much better demand ; it seems
that a clearance of last year’s carry-over
and the present season’s wool is now
assured. Authorities say that manufac-
turing centres will start the new season
with comparatively small supplies on
hand. This position, it is hoped, will
produce a firmness in the market for
some months at least.
Wheat at 3s. 6d. in eastern capitals is
at its best price for a long while. Build-
ing activity in nearly every State con-
tinues to increase. Employment grows.
Quarterly banking statistics to March
31 have just been issued. For the three
months they show further improvement,
and emphasise the easier conditions of
the past year. This time in 1930 Aus-
tralian borrowers and businesses had
availed themselves of bank credit to the
extent of 267 millions. Within two years
this form of accommodation shrank by
millions. It wasn’t only that the
banks saw security margins disappearing ;
business people couldn’t see profitable
avenues of employment for bank assist-
ance. For the two years from 1932,
recovery was so slow that the expansion
in advances was only seven millions.
Over the past 12 months the increase
in loans has been no less than 14
millions. The real estate, mortgage and
investment markets have all been better.
True, at March 31 there were 516,000
bales of wool stored in the various selling
centres, as against only 86,000 bales a
year earlier, and no doubt a good deal
of finance has been necessary there. But
it would not amount to more than five
millions at the most.
Between June and September, 1934,
there was a fall of nearly seven millions
in bank deposits. That was a period of
great speculation in gold and other
shares. But over the 12 months deposits
show little alteration at 292 millions —
there was an increase of 3| millions in
current accounts and a drop of nearly
two millions in lodgments at interest.
Germany is tempting Queensland apple-
growers with barter. A firm in Bochum
is interested in a big way, so it says, but
can’t pay cash against documents in the
ordinary way. In return for the fruit,
however, it offers to establish the neces-
sary credits with a German bank. The
bank will then (1) transfer the credit
to a German exporter to Australia,
“Why didn't you dust up here while We Were away?"
“I was scared of the ladder, Mrs. Jones. When y'r 'usband's 'ere 'e
always 'olds it f'r me."
the apple-grower collecting from the Aus-
tralian importer, or (2) the apple-grower
could sell his credit direct to some firm
extensively importing German goods, or
(3) —and this is the course apparently
favored in the Vaterland —the apple-
grower could import as much of his own
personal requirements as possible direct
from Germany. Agricultural machinery
is specifically suggested.
* * *
Exports of Australian wool to the half-
dozen principal buying countries were
down 400,000 bales for the nine months
to March 31. To all countries our ship-
ments were 355,000 bales lower. Japan
(431,000 bales) took 81,000 fewer,
France (205,000) 16,000 fewer, Italy
(49,236) 140,000 fewer, and Germany
(75,191) was down no fewer than 316,000
bales. Partly compensating for these
heavy falls was Britain’s 907,763-bale
purchase, up 159,000 bales. Belgium,
with 322,436 bales, also took 2000 bales
more.
* * * *
Because of the miners’ strike (from
January 6 to February 18) Westralia’s
gold production for the quarter ended
March 31 was down to 92,79 loz. fine,
the smallest yield for many years, com-
paring with 152,8040 z. in the same quar-
ter of 1934 and 140,1430 z. in 1933. The
loss in gold production alone through
this squabble was thus over half a
million.
Gold keeps cropping up in this page
and in the world’s news more than the
importance of the goldmining industry
itself would seem to justify. But gold is
more than a metal; it is a barometer of
currency and commodity values, and a
big factor in world trade. Just as the
satisfactory British Budget had its effect,
so all major international developments
are reflected in the price of the yellow
metal.
* * # *
Gold took an upward turn in London
after Easter, the price rising to £7 4s. 91d.
on April 26, as against £7 3s. two
days earlier.
* * *
Silver is up again in London, reaching
3s. per ounce on April 27. There
is a belief that Roosevelt will raise the
U.S. price above 71 cents an ounce,
“Dollar silver” is predicted in some quar-
ters. Meanwhile strange noises are being
heard from the direction of China, which
has been losing its silver currency hand
over fist.
* * * *
Australia maintained its place as the
world’s second-largest producer of silver-
lead last year, despite a drop of 18,000
tons in output. World production was
150,000 tons higher at 1,325,000 tons, of
which Australia’s share was 190,000
tons. The price during 1934 was very
low —the exchange premium made the
difference between profit and loss to the
Barrier mines. The highest London
quote during 1934 was £ll 16s. 3d. a
ton, in February. Recently the metal has
been a good deal stronger, being at £l2
Bs. 9d. in London on April 26.
* * * *
Following the presentation of the
British Budget there has been a harden-
ing of Consols and War Loans in Lon-
don, and consequently a trend for
lower interest rates on Government
securities generally. This movement
might take some time to influence
private borrowing rates —if it ever did —-
but it has had a distinct effect on the
sterling exchanges and, of course, the
price of gold. Sterling has strength-
ened and the price of the yellow metal
has temporarily weakened.
* * * *
Within the last fortnight the cost of
call money in New York has had two
drops, first to \ p.c. and later to \ p.c.
These are the lowest rates for more than
30 years, and compare with the ruling
rate of 8-10 p.c. during the Wall-street
boom, when as high as 20 p.c. was asked.
The London discount rate in the open
market is below f p.c., with the Bank
of England rate at 2 p.c. In 1931 the
bank rate was 6\ p.c.
* * =:= *
The Stock Exchanges opened after the
holidays with a better tone in both indus-
trial and gold shares. The improved
prices for lead and silver also caused
Barrier mines to rise. Not much busi-
ness was done, however, owing to the
broken week.
* $ $ :J:
“Paying Teller”: A cheque fraud with
some new trimmings turned up in Christ-
church (M.L.) the other day. Two men,
one with a copiously bandaged head,
visited sundry hotels with a story that
the swathed individual had collected acci-
dent insurance, but didn’t know how to
get the money, as the cheque was crossed
and marked “Not Negotiable.” Five
generous-hearted Bungs came to the
rescue. When the cheques got to the
bank the only genuine feature recog-
nised about them was that they were
on an insurance co.’s cheque forms. The
forgers must have pinched them from a
printery. The “Not Negotiable” cross-
ing and the bandaged head had been
taken as such good circumstantial evi-
dence of authenticity that not one of
the hotelkeepers spotted that the cheques
weren’t numbered.
* * *
Factory employment in N. S. Wales
is now the highest for years. Sales of
products are up, both wholesale and
retail. Sydney and suburban building
permits granted mounted to £908,022 in
March, as against £522,481 in February
and £423,908 in March, 1934.
* * * *
The Soviet gold output for 1933, it
has been estimated, rose to 88,500 kilo-
grams (nearly 3,000,000 oz.), as against
51,200 kg. in 1931. Encouragement of
the industry by the Government con-
tinues, and production of the yellow
metal is at present on a greater scale
than that of Australia, U.S.A. or Canada.
* * * *
Commonwealth butter exports between
July 1 and April 6 were 15,188 tons
higher at 102,439 tons, of which Britain
took 96,645 tons. Queensland was still
the biggest exporter, followed by Vic-
toria ; these two States were chiefly
responsible for the increased production.


JUBILEE SOUVENIR NUMBER
ON SALE FRIDAY, MAY 3
This issue of Australia’s most popular magazine for women is absorbingly interesting and one you should
not miss. Although thousands of extra copies have been printed, make sure of getting your copy early
and so avoid disappointment. There are many Jubilee features, including the striking cover by Walter Jardine
and a close-up of Royalties revealing how the Great Ones of
Empire appeared to an Australian.
v" ...
TUESDAY
"mm
till
M/:: >
.f w. *■*
/y, ‘ , ' /
" 'wk. fa', v
KING’S f mmM
JUBILEE ‘ ‘ 'fSHr NUMBER
sou
WONDERFUL VALUE FOR THREEPENCE
LET ME LOOK BACK!
A Woman’s Retrospect and Summing-up of King George’s Reign.
HOW TO MAKE A JUBILEE SANDWICH DOYLEY
COSY OUTFIT FOR SMALL SCHOOLGIRL
Knitted Cardigan, Flared Skirt and Panties to Match
KNITTING FEATURE; Bed-jacket in Bell and Berry Design
A QUARTER-CENTURY OF FASHION
Styles of King George’s Reign—How the Old is Constantly Living
Again in the New.
A JABOT FOR MOTHER ON MOTHER’S DAY
“Mirror” Mother’s Talk About Children
FREE PATTERN OF WINTER CAMI-KNICKERS
SERIAL, SHORT AND REAL-LIFE STORIES WITH AN APPEAL TO YOUNG AND OLD.
3d. A MAGAZINE OF QUALITY A “BULLETIN” PUBLICATION. 3d.


THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions to B. 24/4/’35
they go to:—*
M. N. HOLMES, 28 Riverview-
terrace, Hamilton, Q.;
A. E. KELLY, Boyd-street, Swansea,
N.S.W.;
E. F. FARTCH, Burrungule, via Mt.
Gambier, S.A.; and
F. B. McWHANNELL, Rozel, Ngahine-
pouri, Waikato, M.L.
The prizes, original “Bulletin”
black-and-whit'e drawings, are offered
each week, in addition to the ordinary
rates of payment, for Society pars.,
Aboriginalities, Hints for the Farm
and gags for joke-blocks.
a
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
V
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY Sr Son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
KLEANBORC HI-SPEED .22’®
KLEANBORE
KLEANBORE
KLEANBORE
25% Higher Velocity - - SO% More Power
Such impact, such shattering smashing energy
is almost unbelievable from so small a cartridge.
Such direct, unswerving accuracy—only the won-
derful KLEANBORE formula has ever attained.
Ask Your Dealer for Them
Wholesale Distributing Agents for N.S.W.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., 82-84 Sussex Street, Sydney
unoiisv
UNNM V
i jp?
A ‘
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.”
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Etd.
ADEEAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Etd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
X,td.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
mm
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The N.T. Hollywood
“Parakeelia”: Why don’t these Aus-
tralian film-makers learn something about
Australia? I have just seen the film
which won the Commonwealth prize this
year. I admit that it proves that Aus-
tralia has loads of character actors, if
somebody will give them a story to work
on. And I forgive the historical inaccu-
racies—Phillip without his long nose,
Macquarie (aged 53) looking 35 and
minus Scotch accent, the pioneer outfit
travelling without blackboys, the 12 bul-
locks which haul a spring cart, the two
bullock-drivers whom it takes to propel
one small bullock dray, the blacks who
wade a creek in full kopi and attack the
settler Red Indian fashion, the young
man who sets out to pioneer the unknown
Dawson in the ’sixties when dozens of
other people already had pioneered it, the
Wentworth (in his middle thirties) who
talked about being in the “autumn of his
years” and some of the women’s cos-
tumes, which seem to be a vague reminis-
cence of Charles Laughton’s “Henry
VIII.” But I don’t like the final scenes
on the “furthest outpost in the Terri-
tory” where the sturdy settlers in clean
shirts sit round a nice clean table with a
well-ironed tablecloth and ask their young
hero to go to Canberra and be their
member. The Territory, however, will
like it. I can hear even at this distance
the shouts of laughter which will greet
the spotless stucco walls, the Californian
fireplace, the native weapons gracefully
arranged, and particularly the antique up-
holstered armchair from which the oldest
settler rises when he speaks. However,
it was probably the scene in Canberra
Parliament which won the prize—one
member wears a monocle, and no sound
is heard above the young Territorian’s
periods about the Empire, save respectful
cheering.
“Old Q.”: There’s a mort of the old
Eve about the modern woman. Australian
girl athletes had to elect a president for
the year in Brisbane the other day, and
the voting at the finish of two ballots
was four each for Clarice Kennedy
(N.S.W.) and Mrs. Mulcahy (Vic.). Mrs.
M. is the secretary, and she was the chair-
woman. Without hesitation she de-
cided that the secretary had a deliberative
in addition to a casting vote —and gave
it to herself. This would probably have
started a riot at a male meeting, but
nothing happened.
* * S\:
“Maranboy”: The A.I.M. leads a busy
life these days. It has 10 hospitals
going in the North, and air services and
radio have added to the work of all of
them. The wet season came down like
a lion at Hall’s Creek this season, and
directly afterwards the local sisters had
to leave by air for Derby, with two
patients. Then somebody fractured his
skull, and that meant another journey.
Innamincka lost its only white child—
gastro-enteritis, due to water stagnation
—in spite of a gallant fight at the mission
hospital. Alice Springs has had to send
another small patient 1000 miles to Adel-
aide hospital. Another youngster was
brought in to Beltana, 142 miles, on a
day when the temperature was 122 de-
grees. And K. F. Patridge, .the travel-
ling padre, has just done a 16,000-mile
patrol without writing a book about it.
It’s all in the day’s work, but funds are
always needed, and John Flynn and his
staff are hard at it trying to get them.
* * *
“Ghingindah”: The Central Queens-
land Dividing Range, whose 5000 ft. spurs
shut off Springsure from the Maranoa
and effectually prevented exchange of
stock, has now been conquered with the
opening of the Injune-Rolleston road.
The new route will save a week in taking
Springsure stock to the Brisbane market,
double the importance of Roma as a
railway town and open up the tourist
and mineral districts of the Carnarvon
Ranges, a place of peaks and gaily-
colored sandstones. The Maranoa,
drought-stricken at the moment, will
specially welcome the new link, for
Springsure lands have been well blessed
with rain.
* # * *
“X.T.”; The Minister for the Interior,
who favors a Royal Commission on the
native question, might let it inquire also
into the habits of the N.T. mail. A few
weeks ago delivery of Darwin letters for
Borroloola (Carpentaria) was achieved
by sending them to Fremantle by steamer,
“ Don't throw the dead ’uns away, Joe. They're worth a sprat a dozen."
thence nearly 4500 miles to Cloncurry
by rail, thence overland by air and
waggon to their destination. They tra-
velled about 7000 miles to get to a desti-
nation 700 miles away. Seeing the need
for speeding up, the postmaster sent the
last lot by B.P. steamer to Townsville,
round Cape York and thence back via
Cloncurry. If this improvement goes
on somebody in a few years’ time will
be smitten by a bright idea and drop the
mail off the Darwin-Camooweal aero-
plane at Anthony’s Lagoon, whence it
will have only 120 miles or so to travel
by road, thus reaching its destination a
couple of weeks earlier than by present
methods.
ij; s}; i\i 4-
“Recorder”: Two well-known figures
of n.-w. Queensland passed out recently
within a few days of each other. One
was A. H. Glissan, at Taabinga (S.Q.),
and the other was Adam Wightman, at
Camooweal. Fifty years ago almost to
the month “Gus” Gllssan took the man-
agement of Rocklands, then a huge
northern property with a few thousand
square miles overlapping into the Ter-
ritory. Not long afterwards he appointed
Adam his head stockman. Glissan made
a station out of Rocklands, and was
taken into the partnership. Twenty years
later he resigned the management and
retired to Toowoomba. As a J.P. he
had married people, christened babies,
assisted at their births, set legs, read
burial services and pulled teeth with fine
impartiality. For years he religiously
met every train from the west which
might carry a westerner of the old
school, and the “do you remembers”
were thick while the train stopped.
Adam, an expert cattleman, after his old
boss left took on droving. If there is
any stockwork needed where they have
gone old Gus and Adam can be relied
on to make a clean muster.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Very smart in their evening frocks
and furbelows, 40 army sisters gathered
at the Belle Vue Hotel on Anzac
Eve to eat and exchange reminiscences.
The grim side of war was barred —each
lady had to recount her most amusing
overseas experience. E. M. Paton, J. M.
Hart, Queenie Cave and Sadie Mac-
donald had charge of the arrangements.
Next day, of course, the sisters figured
in ' the annual commemoration, which
was never more impressive.
Mr. and Mrs. Walcott Warner Shand
and daughter Elsie, who have been put-
ting in father’s long leave in Brisbane,
have gone back to Siam. Elsie spent her
schooldays in Brisbane, and was one of
the prettiest debs, a season or two ago.
After a whirl of farewell parties, which
finished up with a dinner for 80, at which
F. Z. Eager was guest of honor, he and
his wife, with Madge Whipple and Dulcie
Reid, left for U.S.A. A huge “mailbag,”
to which every friend and acquaintance
contributed something—mostly ribald—
went with them to cheer them on the
voyage.
Alec Thurecht, L.D.Sc., of Gin Gin,
whose parents live at Tewantin, married
Gwen Lewis, younger daughter of the
H. G. Lewises, at the West End Methodist
Church. Mrs. A. Dorfield, in gold and
blue, was matron of honor. H. Nicholls
was best man. There will be a Tasmanian
honeymoon.
A long-sleeved trained frock of silver
was worn by Laurie Jean Walker, elder
daughter of the Alf Walkers, of Too-
woomba, when she kept her appointment
a t the altar of St. Stephen’s Presbyterian
Church, Toowoomba, with Henry Roy-
ston Howard, son of Mr. and Mrs. James
Howard, of Brisbane. Nancy Walker
and Lorna Hooper, in white, ’maided,
and D. McLeod and Bob Gheeseman lent
their aid to the ’groom.
Many new winter costumes and furs
were displayed at Ascot races, A bunch
of visitors from the West were in—Mrs.
Harry Crothers and Jeanette Devereux
among them. Mr. and Mrs. Staley, from
Malaya (the lady was handsome Eileen
Murphy, of Brisbane), Lucy Spruson, S.
Heuston and Molly O’Neill, three pretty
Sydney girls, also hovered round the
tote.
Mrs. Ivor Lewis, from
London, who has been spend-
ing some weeks in the southern
States, arrived in Brisbane by
the Maloja to stay with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. H.
Frazer, at Nundah. Mrs.
George Bain, of Rangoon,
daughter of the J, K. Cannans,
was a passenger, with her small
son, aged 2 ; and Mrs. J. Walsh
—back from Colombo, where
she spent a holiday with Mrs.
Gordon Duff —emerged with a
battalion of trunks.
Mary Luya wedded Geoffrey Gregory
last week, Kathleen Macgregor, Ray
Moni and Beatrice Hart bridesmaiding
for her. Ray can’t be superstitious—she
is to perform the same office for Peggy
Menzies in June, which brings her up
to the fateful “three times a bridesmaid.”
St. John’s Cathedral bells pealed for the
happy pair, while hundreds of women
milled to catch a glimpse of the bride.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Peel have booked
their passages for London in the
Ormonde, and en route are to pick up
their daughter, Mrs. James Thorburn,
and her husband, who live at Port Sudan,
where James T. is an engineer.
Rev. Dorothy Wilson (this is not a
misprint) arrived last week en route to
Asia, where she will visit Hong Kong,
Canton, Shanghai and various centres in
Japan before returning to the paternal
roof at Liverpool. There her father,
Courthope Wilson, is the hon. Vice-
Chancellor of the University.
Seeing how strenuously some young-
sters resist the urge of their elders to
“go on the land,” something should be
done about Patrick Joseph Cormack,
aged 13, who left home secretly, walked
104 miles to Toowoomba (with an occa-
sional lift from passing motorists), and
got a job for himself in the bush. He
has been returned to his parents, but in
another two years there should be a
sturdy recruit for some farmer.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
The Richardson Chain Hotel
iU*
1 33 M
v ,(*
9Utf
ll.il
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 279 GEORGE, STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government , and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
Lonuon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Dunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 3/.
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
d
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union!
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sixty thousand Diggers marched on
Anzac Day. To the old war tunes played
by the soldier bands they stepped out
gaily, at first. Now and then one of
them waved his hat in greeting to a
cobber looking on —debonairly, as he
might have done on the day he went
away from Dubbo or Goulburn, from
the tree-lined hills of Mittagong, from
the golden beaches of the South Coast
towns. But as the columns swung down
Martin-place eyes became serious, lips
firmed into grave lines; and when, six
abreast, the soldiers passed by the Ceno-
taph, hats, old and new, shapely and
shapeless, were held against hearts that
grieved while they remembered dead
comrades of the Great Adventure.
One hundred and five minutes by the
clock that marks off the long days and
nights for the bronze soldier and sailor
that guard the memorial the marching
cohorts took to pass the Cenotaph, blaz-
ing with flowers, green with laurel
wreaths. The Victoria Cross men led the
parade, and these were headed by the
Governor, himself a V.C. A few paces
behind stepped Major-General Charlie
Rosenthal, as proud as he was at Mont
St. Quentin. Up Macquarie-street, down
Martin-place, into George-street, for
nearly two hours tramp, tramp, tramp
marched the feet (thank heaven the men
of Anzac seem to have left the heart-
breaking sandshoe behind with the de-
pression years!). Here walked two stal-
wart Maoris at the head of the
Enzedders ; there stepped a be-turbaned
Indian ; among the Light Horsemen were
some aborigines. Medals flashed back
the sun dazzlingly, waistlines by the
dozen had simply bounced right out of
control; but heads were high, shoulders
erect. Twenty years after! And the
city turned out in ifs thousands —the
whole route was dense with men, women
and children to watch the survivors of
the immortal epic and of campaigns
victorious.
By half-past eleven the men had been
drafted into their sectors, and the singing
of “O God, Our Help” marked the be-
ginning of the great Anzac Day service
in the Domain. It was estimated that
300,000 took part in this ceremony, and
certainly from the gates in Macquarie-
street to the top gates near St. Mary’s
hardly a blade of grass could be seen. Old
and young, babes in arms, grandfathers,
grandmothers, girls and boys, stood
or sat on camp-stool or sward. Every
second group carried its suitcase. Being
Sydney citizens, mother and father and
the youngsters would eat a picnic lunch
before the long trek back to the suburbs.
“Lead, Kindly Light!” quavered the old,
loudly and clearly sang the young, shrilly
piped the baby voices. The tinkers and
tailors, the butchers and bakers, the
bullock-drivers, the farmers, the police,
the Junior Red Crossers (the symbol of
mercy glowing like a red rose on the
starched and spotless whiteness of their
headdress) raised their voices in sup-
plication. Through the green trees peeped
the towers of St. Mary’s. “Deliver us
from evil!” The green trees lifted their
arms, the towers their spires. “Lest
We Forget,” sang the multitude;
and then a silence dropped, a silence
that was split by a trumpet note
—lonely as the call of a bird blown out
to sea. And then, as the “Last Post”
died away, the “Reveille” was sounded.
For the dawn service 20,000 had gath-
ered around the Cenotaph. Some of the
vigil-keepers arrived before midnight,
and by half-past one the steps of the Post
Office and surrounding buildings were
sprinkled with humans. All through
the night flowers were brought from
suburban gardens, and many were
placed in position while still the
moon shone silver-white. When at last
the dawn came it found Martin-place
thronged with soldiers, with soldiers’
wives, mothers, brothers, sisters and the
women who would have been wives had
not Death proved a swifter bride. The
Governor led the march of the returned
men down Martin-place and placed the
Australian Legion’s wreath on the Ceno-
taph ; Commissioner McKenzie led the
prayers. “There is no death,” sang the
Sydney Male Choir, directed by Howard
Carr. “We will remember them,”
promised Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven,
pronouncing the dedication of purpose.
“We will remember them,” responded
the listening thousands, responded the
nation.
This is Betty, only daughter of the
Oliver Kings, of the Commonwealth
Bank, Rose Bay, Father is the well-
known basso, who was one of the foun-
ders of the Music Club movement in
Sydney, so it is not surprising that Betty
(taught by Edna Burke) has started col-
lecting prizes for musical ability. She
has just won the Steele Memorial Prize
for music and school work at the Con.,
and shared the Winkworth Prize with a
pupil of Laurence Godfrey Smith. A
Desmond. Woolley photograph.
The sun shone on Ladies’ Day, and the
toasts of the town looked pretty hot as
they struggled along, autumn-caped and
Cossack-capped. Both vice-regal ladies
had blue outfits, and both flew capes.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s wore a mourning
edge of black fur, and the wide sleeves
of her frock were of wool lace. William
Morris Hughes and his Dame were in
Lady Isaacs’s lunch party; Dame Mary,
wrapped in brown furs, seemed quite re-
covered from her illness. Sadie Budge
and Sylvia Purves were cheerful brownies
from top to toe. Sapphire blues were Mrs.
Alec Hay’s choice ; black-and-white worn
by Mrs. Dundas Allen was smarter than
ordinary. Mrs. Hans Fay and Mrs. Sam
Hardy, the one in black, the other in
soft-grey woollens, were as hard to beat
as Peter Pan.
With 28 hostesses to foot the bill,
money was no object in planning the
Matrons’ Ball at the Rose Bay Golf Club,
which was the junketing for 500 pairs of
really swish hooves during Race Week.
To begin with, the flower compositions
were lavish ; very effective the red rose
and dahlia panels on the walls. Vases
burned with the flame of red-hot pokers,
and the fireplace and all likely nooks and
crannies were positively lush with
hydrangea, gladioli and the reds and
gold of autumn. Alexander Gordon’s
wife was a pictorial little hostess in flow-
ing black crepes, silvery with a flower
design; the Reading lady handsomely
trailed skyey-blue moires ; Mrs. George
Macarthur Onslow’s black chiffons
sprouted wing sleeves. And at least two
palms go to Mrs. Oliver Osborne in
lagoon-blue satins that wore lilacy orchids
at the shoulder. Mrs. Tony Hordern
glittered in silver sequins ; the McMaster
and Sheldon ladies both wore black
velvet.
The Governor and Lady Hore-Ruth-
ven arrived after 10 with a party from
Government House and a posse of aides.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s raiment was satin
and golden, its neckline outlined in
silver. There were four debs.; three of
them, Joan Wentworth, Anne Green and
Jennifer Maughan (Jennifer wore her
presentation frock), were white-clad, but
Beatrice Gordon’s moires were lobelia-
blue, and her posy was lily-of-the-valley.
The entry of the four bridesmaids of tne
Ashton wedding in their white chiffons
and rose petals caused a little flutter;
and Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, sheathed
in cobalt-blue sequins, was a gaze-
attracter.
The Janet Thatcher-Geoff Ashton wed-
ding was, if anything, even more ornate
than the recent nuptials of ’groom’s
brother Jim and Irene Anderson. St.
Mark’s, of course, blessed the vows by
grace of Canon Lea. Choirboys sang,
deep-red roses in bunches glowed and
languished on the pews, gladioli like
white nre gleamed on the chancel
steps, garden loot trailed around the
pillars. The bride’s frock of white
satin was silvered with butterflies. The
material was imported—a Biancini weave.
Long-fitting sleeves, a cowl neckline and
four yards of train were the garment’s
outstanding features. A blowing mist of
tulle, lily-of-the-valley and orchids were
other highlights. Four dark-haired ’maids
in cascading white chiffons, their locks
wreathed with red roses, walked in the
procession; so did two small white-clad
trainbearers, Juliet Winchcombe and
David Burns.
There were 350 guests, every name on
the list a well-known. They all fitted into
the marquee on the lawn of St. Mervyn’s,
the bride’s home; this was decked out
in primrose silk, dahlias and suchlike
autumn beauty. Bride’s mother, Mrs, F.
W, Thatcher, wore brown velvets woven
through with gold thread; ’groom’s
mother added fox furs to her dahlia-red
outfit. An unusual guest was the A.D.C.
to the Nawab of Bhopal. He had met
and made friends with the four famous
polo-playing brothers during their last
tour. Captain Holford and Commander
Gifford represented Government House.
There were Fairfaxes, Osbornes, Bail-
lieus, Winter-Irvings, the Jimmy Burnses,
Macarthur Onslows —everybody, in short,
including John Pye.
Dorothy Welding’s camera caught
Sylvia Purves, who has been one of the
bright occurrences of the Easter season.
Sylvia is private secretary to the Gover-
nor-General’s lady.
Lots of fashionable Sydney lunched
with genius before going on to the
Thatcher-Ashton knot-tying. All in
their wedding garments, they shook
the hands of Yehudi Menuhin, his
mother, his father and his two
fluffy-haired little sisters. Like Jascha
Heifetz, on his first visit to Sydney,
Yehudi travels with his entire family.
The accompanist, Marcel Gazelle, who
has appropriate melting eyes, was not
overlooked in the presentations. E. J.
Tait chuckled to this Letter that after
hearing the pianist no Sydney flapper
would be able to say faithfully “I never
loved a dear Gazelle.”
Fifty thousand went to the military
tattoo in the Showground. Thirty thou-
sand arrived too late, and had to be
refused admission. At seven o’clock a
message was sent through all wireless
stations advising that there wasn’t a foot-
hold left clear, so please .not to bother
coming. Those who did get in voted it
a wonderful show.
A record for both numbers and dress-
ing was Yehudi Menuhin’s audience on
Saturday night. The 18-year-old with the
dull-gold hair and the brilliant blue eyes
played like a choir of archangels, and
the Town Hall rocked to applause when
a laurel wreath as high as Kosciusko was
handed up from His Master’s Voice Co.
How the family tucked it into the car
with themselves was a bit of a mystery.
The two sisters, Hephzibah and Yaltah,
wore smart long cream cloth coats
with military collars over their pink
satin princess frocks. Mother wore
white satin and black velvet. The
Mayor and his lady were in the
easy chairs, right in front of the row
of little pot-plants that garnished the edge
of the stage. There was no room for
any other decoration, because the rest of
the stage, apart from foothold for the
boy, the piano and the accompanist, was
a mass of eager listeners —the really musi-
cal, these. Mrs. E. J. Tait, small and
exquisite in black, sat in the midst of
the Menuhin family. Mrs. Jimmy Bancks
was near by. The Riddle, Kelso King,
Budge and Bavin ladies were applauders.
Others who wondered were Mrs. Wilfred
Fairfax (whose fur cape struck a luxury
note), the Chopins (whife-frocked and
furred, the music-loving Miss Fairfax,
Lute Drummond (slim in white satin),
the F. J. Davys, the Lashmar couple, Mrs.
Rupert Scammell, organist Lilian Frost.
The dance organised by the Shiplovers’
Society for the benefit of the Rawson
Institute will be held on the Blue Funnel
liner Ulysses on May 7. A novel feature
will be a treasure hunt —the hidden
“treasure” a prize for the lucky finders.
Bridge tables will be available.
Admiral and Mrs. Randle Ford had
the background of the Canberra for their
race-week dance. Pinnace after pinnace
full of dancers ferried across the moonlit
waters to the cruiser, blazing with every
ounce of her candle-power in Farm Cove.
Mrs. Ford’s trained white satin wore a
cape of frilly tulle. Her mother, Mrs.
G. Hurry, also wore a befrilled cape with
her black frock. Marjorie Wilson, Ivie
Price and Priscilla Feilden, from Govern-
ment House, came to this party ; so did
Mrs. Hector Clayton, her frock of sky-
after-rain blue delicately patterned in
silver. Mimi Healy’s frock of tulle and
chiffon suggested a sugar-plum fairy:
Brenda Parkhill arrived with her Minister
for Defence dad. The Australian Navy
turned up smiling everywhere. Mrs. Jim
Dickson swung jade earrings; Susan
Spencer flashed rose-red velvet. The fair
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones was in green.
Now that country visitors have seen the
Show, it is Padre Drummond’s hope that
they will go down and visit the Far West
kiddies in their new home. There’s to be
a playroom with a rubber floor, its chief
ornament a Noah’s Ark with animals
that can move in and out. At latest the
treasurer’s report stated the fund had
reached £7739 ; gifts in cash or kind are
welcomed. ' The Governor and Lady
Hore-Ruthven will between them open
the home on May 18.


• Golfers! The Carubo “Niblick” golf
soles are as flexible as elastic and unbreak-
able. Specially designed to be non-clogging,
it is impossible for the feet to slip.
“Niblick” Golf Shoes will definitely improve
your game. At all better-class stores in
various styles, full and half-sizes.
K
Carubo
Golf Shoe
BRANDALER’A
%
'PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BBANDAHER & CO., Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Missing Friends.
PIDGEON, MATTHEW THOMAS, last heard
of in December, 1931, working on Coolgardie
goldfields. West Australia. Whereabouts is
sought by his mother, MRS. PIDGEON, Hill-
side, Ulverstone, near Sandown, Isle of Wight,
England.
fd
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH”
393 miles in 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches,
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Lnsral Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 53 of 1935.
To ALEXANDER CLIFTON FOLLICK of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
late of West Subiaco in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
the Twentieth day of March 1935 is issued
in this Court citing you to appear and answer
the petition of VIDA KATHLEEN FOLLICK
of 123 Townshend Road Subiaco in the State
of Western Australia praying for a dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within forty-five days from the date of
the last publication hereof to attend in person
or by solicitors at the Supreme Court Perth
and thereto enter an appearance in the books
provided for that purpose.
(Sgd.) T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
5/4/’35.
BOULTBEE, GODFREY & VIRTUE, of
Commercial Union Chambers, 66 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne began its Anzac Day cele-
brations very early. At 4 a.m. there was
a small army of Diggers keeping vigil
around the Shrine, waiting for the dawn
service, and their numbers were added
to every minute. At 6 a.m., when the
Governor arrived and the service com-
menced, the throng numbered 1200. They
saw the red planet sink in the west just
a few moments before the first flush of
sunrise touched the sky. The main cele-
bration, the march of ex-soldiers through
the city, surpassed all its predecessors in
impressiveness. Over 35,000 men took
part —the previous record was 25,000 —
and the spectators along the route were
estimated to number 200,000, nearly
twice as many as had turned out for any
previous Anzac anniversary. Lord Hunt-
ingfield took the salute from a dais 1 on
the steps of Parliament House, in his
entourage Brig.-General Jess (represent-
ing the Governor-General), Vice-Admiral
Hyde (for the Navy), Major-General
Laverack, Chief of the General Staff (for
the Army), Air Vice-Marshal Williams
(for the Air Force), Premier Dunstan,
Speaker Everard, knight William Brun-
ton (representing the City of Melbourne),
a Federal Minister (Mr. Casey) and other
notables.
General Chauvel, mounted, led the
vast column, in which thousands of men
in mufti marched 12 abreast. He paid
homage at the Cenotaph, dismounted
and took his place beside the Governor.
Uniformed soldiers saluted in military
fashion. The ex-soldiers, now civilians,
doffed their hats and turned their heads
towards the dais. After the march there
was a service at the Exhibition Build-
ings, attended by 4000. General Chauvel
was one of the speakers. He qualified
Sir lan Hamilton’s dictum that Gallipoli
was a blunder. The conception of the
campaign was all right, he said ; what'
went wrong was its execution.
All day long and well into the night
relatives and friends of dead soldiers,
mostly women, many of them accom-
panied by children, made pilgrimage to
the Shrine. Some bore magnificent
wreaths ; others pathetic little posies of
sadly wilted flowers—they had to wait
their turn, perhaps for hours. “We will
remember them” was Melbourne’s key-
note for that livelong day.
Many war sisters were the guests of
honor at a Centenary Club tea-drinking
party—an Anzac Day affair. Soldiers
invalided from Gallipoli were full of
fun and nonsense, said Matron-in-Chief
Conyers, who was principal speech-
maker. Tall and short men in hospital
wards would exchange pyjamas just for
the fun of making themselves look ridi-
culous, and then present themselves be-
fore the sister-in-charge complaining
that they wished those women in Aus-
tralia would make garments that fitted
them better.
Manhattans, martinis, midget sausages
and potato fritters were consumed,
gingerly at first and then with relish, by
the Japanese goodwill missionaries
sampling their first cocktail party a few
days after their arrival. Ex-Attorney-
General Latham showed how the
Australian entertains in his own home.
Flete, the Lathams’ villa at Malvern,
a spacious old-fashioned home
with many large rooms, wide corridors
and entrance lounge like a miniature
Town Hall. On the party day the house
was overrun with uni. profs., Consuls and
trade commissioners, all eager to do their
bit toward fostering better international
understanding. Vice-Admiral Hyde,
aided by his wife, upheld the honor of
the navy.
At the reception ceremony one had
just time to notice that Mrs. Latham
had pinned a posy of bright-orange
berries amid dark-brown woollies before
she was passing along a long line of
brown hands and “how-do-you-dos.” In
less than a twinkling each new arrival
had made the acquaintance of newspaper-
men, a uni. graduate who knows all
about the cotton-spinning industry, a
shipping expert, a farmer, exporters deal-
ing in moulds and marble and a few
others whose interests could not be
gleaned in the swift passing. Constance
Duncan, who spent several years in
Japan, took three tiny women in Euro-
pean clothes, wives of Japanese business-
men settled in Melbourne, under her
wing, Mrs. Carlyle Smythe, cutting a
dash in navy-blue satin, brought joy
to the visitors by speaking their own
tongue. D. Y. Syme, Consul for Japan,
was accompanied by his daughters Jean
and Mary, both smartly coated in broad-
tail, The Latham couple brought out all
the treasures which had come their way
on the Japanese tour, including a pair of
ruby-red cloisonne vases dusted with
petals of white plum-blossom, a gift from
the Mikado. A refreshment table sported
a glass case showing off a prancing white
charger with a Nipponese warrior in an-
cient war-harness cast in bronze and lac-
quered. Festival dolls, antique weapons,
masks, screens, cabinets and various
pieces of porcelain, all of Japanese origin,
were scattered about the place.
The last time a royal prince from
Japan was entertained by medical-
knight James Barrett at his Toorak home.
Palmyra, the weather behaved so badly
that a mackintosh and umbrella had to
be found before H.I.H. could be shown
the Barrett show-place—a plantation
smothered with wild grasses, studded
with gum-trees and native shrubs, pro-
viding a sanctuary for kangaroos, koalas,
’possums, wallabies and flocks of native
birds. A rain-soaked paddock somewhat
spoiled the sightseeing for the Princes of
the Japanese Imperial family, who, with
the officers of the visiting naval squadron
and Rear-Admiral K. Nakamura, were
the guests of the Barrett pair on Sunday
afternoon. As it was so damp underfoot
the majority of guests, nearly 200 strong,
stuck to the house, thus adding to the
trials of a hostess who had hoped to have
entertained them in the open. The Bar-
rett link with the land of the cherry-
blossom has been forged through the
surgeon filling the presidential chair of
the Japan Society.
The daughters take themselves off
early in the family of Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur Chenery, of Wentworth, N. S.
Wales. Elder daughter Beatrice, pictured
her by Broothorn, became engaged last
week to Francis Pennifold, of Irymple.
Inside six months the doctor and his
wife have had two marriages and one
engagement in the family. Patricia, who
embarked on a nursing career, but
changed her mind, settled down with
Dr. Harvey Barrett, Beatrice was brides-
maid at their wedding on April 12.
Earlier in the year another sister was
married to Dr. Farmer, of Ballarat.
With so many doctors in the family
there should be no lack of medical atten-
tion. The Chenery girls are all very
pretty, and know what to Wear —and
how to wear it.
With her golden hair and girlish figure
Ethel Keays looked like a figure of
romance in her trailing wedding robe of
ivory satin and tulle as she made her
way to St. John’s Church, East Malvern,
to marry Basil, only. son of Mrs. Elsie
Barlow, widow of a police magistrate.
This picture of Mrs. Basil Barlow is by
Broothorn.
Madame Saint, who presented the City
of Melbourne with a large piece of
statuary that has been dumped outside
a hothouse in the Fitzroy Gardens, an
arrangement that has raised the ire of
Lionel Lindsay, was hostess at one of the
many parties given to Ann Pennington
on the eve of her wedding. Madame
Saint is Australian by birth and French
by marriage. She has often dispensed
hospitality to Australians at her old
chateau in Rouen. With her family,
Madame makes periodic visits to Aus-
tralia.
Pemberley, Toorak, which has been
the scene of so many big weddings,
was placed by the owners, the Rupert
Greenes, at the disposal of Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. Pennington, of Holcombe Park,
for the reception that followed the mar-
riage of their younger daughter and
Wallace Meares, of Bogabigal, Forbes,
N. S. Wales. Betty Bullivant attended
her friend wearing a rustling silk frock
of morning-glory hue, made in the bil-
lowy style with which Lanvin, the famous
French designer, has defied the change
in fashion line for several years. A
wedding relic of the Bullivant family, a
wreath of orange-blossom and white
heather, was brought out for Ann. The
wreath has changed its form slightly
from time to time to keep prevailing
fashions in countenance. This time the
closely-massed blossoms were given a
backward curve. The surface of the
satin robe worn by the bride was so
highly glazed that in certain lights its
whiteness took on a silvery sheen.
Sculptor Paul Montford’s flaxen-haired
daughter Letitia, with her long plaits tied
up, gazes from one of the canvases
decorating the walls at the autumn art
display in the East Melbourne Galleries.
Mother painted the portrait. Gertrude
Johnson, the singer, remarked at the
opening of the exhibition that Letitia
bore a very strong resemblance to a
daughter of the great singer Chaliapin.
Paul, all in the the dark and not knowing
whether he should be pleased or sorry,
retorted with a merry twinkle in his eye:
“I had no idea that Chaliapin had so
nice a daughter.” Gertrude, who had
drunk after-dinner coffee with the Rus-
sian lass at the Strasburg musical festival,
assured him that the basso’s offspring was
considered a beauty.
“The austere elegance of the gum”
—this is one of the pretty phrases used
by Lady Huntingfield in her opening
speech at the autumn exhibition of the
Vic. Artists’ Society on Friday evening.
Personalities who promenaded through
the galleries were as varied as a mixed
grill. Coiffures ran to coronet plaits and
Alexandra fringes. Fashions were a
medley of decorative wraps, informal
evening frocks and day clothes. Some
came in tailor-mades; others aired
the long kid gloves brought out
on formal occasions. Those in charge
of the catering arrangements had
an uneasy moment when the v.-r.
visitor decided to wait until the crowd
had grown less, so that she might
have a good look at the pictures. No
provision had been made for a special
supper-table. However, all was well.
Among the young fry who attracted
attention were Beryl Lee Archer, a
gallery student in billowy-white organdie,
with a tartan check in navy blue, and
a navy-blue taffeta cavalier cape ; Ina
Morris, sheathed in dull-silver figured
tissue and her hair dressed in the style
that was favored when silver lockets and
floral sprays were in fashion; Gretta
Harrison, with her fair hair drawn flat
at the sides and a deep forehead fringe ;
sparkling brunette June Dyson, robed
in black velvet; and Shirley Andrews,
swishing and swirling in pastel-striped
taffetas. Mrs. Orlando Dutton, wife of
an English sculptor who has a studio
in Hawthorn, brightened brown with
amber jewels. Mr. Dutton spied the
model for “The Troubadour,” a piece of
his sculpture on exhibition, singing in a
suburban church. His discerning eye de-
tected that this chorister had a head
rarely seen in Australia —a top-piece
typical of the romantic age when the
poets took to the open road and sang for
their supper like Little Tom Tucker.
Alma Figuerola, in pin-spotted black
net, with a pink rose tucked into an
early-Victorian bodice, wandered round
with an intellectual companion, Miss
Irving Johnson. Lieut.-Col. White,
Herbert Smith and John Leckie repre-
sented politics.
J. A. Malcolm, the newly-appointed
Commissioner for Maoriland, lost no time
in getting into social harness. Three
hours after his arrival he was at the
International Club saying “Kia ora” and
a few other glad words to members of
the Maori Choir, who, in native regalia,
had come to take tea as the guests of
the club. Judge Foster’s wife decked
the room with flowers from her seaside
home, and Mrs. Guy Bakewell, suited
in brown, with a very broad-brimmed
felt hat, aided by Cynthia Wood, saw
that the tea was made properly and that
the sandwiches were passed round.
When the company mingled, a silver-
haired chief, wrapped in an ancient cloak
of hand-woven flax smothered in kiwi
feathers, found himself answering all
kinds of questions, even to supplying
Maori names for suburban homes. The
most picturesque note among the Maori
women was struck by a tall, slender
figure with glossy black hair tumbling
about her shoulders—a teacher in a
native school at Gisborne. A young
chief gave an address in his native tongue,
with his vowel sounds making rippling
rhythm. The club could not bring for-
ward a Maoriland member, but the good-
will of Greece was expressed by the
presence of Madame A. A. Nicolaides;
China had Miss Cheong; Madame Tar-
czynska stood for Poland ; while Mdlle.
Matis upheld the fashion reputation of
France in a black tailored suit, topped
with a black felt hat balancing a scarlet
aeroplane quill. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
voiced the club’s welcome.


i&m
mmm
m
mmm
W:
I
m
mmm
m
m
Wmmm
mm
mzm
111
THERE S
SOMETHING
NEW ,
HERE TOO/
Wm
FT!
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
£
\0
<9
jr Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Reports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures ot
Rural Interest are given in
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Land.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MAKING SEMI-
FINISHED OR FINISHED STEEL
PRODUCTS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
491/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale oi
its rights in the above, or for the granting: or
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia, ra-
ticulars of the invention obtainable trom
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ILLUMINATING
MEANS FOR USE BY DRIVERS OF
VEHICLES IN MANUAL SIGNALLING.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
1747/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable trom
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A host of city and sou’-west folk set
off for Dardanup to attend the wedding
of Reg. Malloch and Katie Venn. Ivy,
Michaelmas daisies and zinnias deco-
ated St. Mary’s as the third of the Frank
Venns’ pretty daughters swept her simply-
cut magnolia satins down the aisle. Her
Limerick lace veil, which fell from a
halo plait of silver lame, wound its way
to the hem of her square-cut train, and
her bouquet of cream gardenias and
roses tapered off to a single trail. Joy
Malloch, Zoe Weir and Jessica Venn
marched at her heels, their shell-blue
crepes rising from the ground to tight-
fitting jumpers with fluted collars. Over
their silver skullcaps were cartwheels of
tulle which drooped in undulating waves
around their heads.
At the Hunt Club members’ dance at
Freshwater Bay Yacht Club the pink of
the huntsmen’s coats and the gay colors
of their partners’ pretty-pretties were re-
flected in the moonlit river. Mrs. Theo
Felloe, with silver lame gleaming ’neath
her platinum lace, extended a welcoming
hand. Molly McEnroe did secretarial
duties in primrose and black floral
crepe ; autumn foliage ran riot on Mrs.
J. P. Durack’s ninons ; Molly Manning
harnessed her white satins with black
trappings, and Doris Colliver popped a
taffeta ruff round the neck of her del-
blue matt crepe.
Dr. Keppell, president of the Car-
negie Corporation of New York, and
Mrs. Keppell made a welter of inspec-
tions, sightseeing and social functions
during their brief stay in Perth. Pro-
ceedings started with a reception given
by the Chancellor and members of the
Senate of the Uni. in Winthrop Hall,
where dahlias and palms did decorative
duty. Knight Walter James and his
black-lace-clad lady received, with Mrs.
Whitfeld’s red Chantillies near by and
a colorful array of academic gowns in
the background.
Grace Nunn and Tom Brown stepped
into double harness at Christ Church,
Claremont, with the Rev. John Bell to
couple the traces. The bride wore ivory
lace with slit sleeves showing a silver
lining. Reins of twisted satin and
lace were caught round her throat
and tied loosely at the back of the
waist, and a similar girdle fell to the
ground in front. Her Brussels net veil,
appliqued with net, was attached with a
pleated frill to a lace cap. The gold
lame collars of Peggy Nunn and Edith
Clark started with deep points in front
and wandered over the shoulders to
form long revers on the low V-shaped
backs of their daffodil self-striped mate-
lasse. Their picture hats were fashioned
with gold lame crowns and wide trans-
parent lacquered net brims.
Hundreds of guests made their way
to Fremantle to inspect the Manoora and
take tea in its blue-green-and-silver
dining-saloon. Captain Irvine received,
with J. H. Downer, W.A. manager of the
Adelaide Steamship Co., and Mrs.
Downer, who wove a floral design into
her soft-brown chiffons.
Lacking a church, Yellowdine’s first
wedding was celebrated ’neath the shade
of two tall gum-trees, with a table as
altar. From a house built of super, bags
and bush timber stepped Lillian Fagence,
her traditional gown of cream satin kept
safe from the dust by a long strip of
carpet which guided her steps to the
waiting William Keitel. The wedding
ring was made of gold won from
Palmer’s Find.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. and Mrs. R. N. Keynes gave a
dance at the Piccadilly to celebrate
the coming of age of Enid Lillecrapp.
The hostess looked well in carmine-
chiffon velvet fitting to the figure, with
a corsage spray of roses. Miss Lille-
crapp chose fine black lace, with a long
trail of pale-pink and pale-blue satin
flowers from shoulder to waistline. Mrs.
Ross Lillecrapp was gowned in black
chiffon velvet, with flowers on the cors-
age. Mrs. Cedric Ferry was in leaf-
green crepe cut on princess lines, with a
cowl neck. Mrs. F. W. Porter wore pale-
green satin moulded to the figure. About
80 guests were present.
Mrs. David Wighton and Mrs. David
Craven were joint hostesses at Med-
indie when Helen Wighton and Heather
Craven made their debut. Dancing
was in a marquee decorated with
small flags, supper being served in the
dining-room. Mrs. Wighton wore fine
leaf-brown silk lace fitting to the figure;
Mrs. Craven chose a wine-toned satin
gown; Heather Craven was in pale ice-
blue romaine, the skirt made with pep-
lum frill. Pink and pale-blue flowers
were worn on the corsage and in the
hair. Helen Wighton’s pale-pink chiffon
skirt had a scallop edge of silk. The
bodice was cut on early-Victorian lines.
The civic reception to Rear-Admiral
Nakamura and the officers of the Jap-
anese squadron was well attended. The
Admiral received with the Mayoral
party, and Princes Asa Akira Kuni and
Hitohide Fushimi were on the dais.
Japanese Consul Lancelot Parsons pre-
sented several of the guests to them.
One is very keen on golf; the other pre-
fers tennis. Mrs. H. Dunstan, acting-
Mayoress, who did the honors with her
father, wore a black cloth tailored suit,
a black velvet hat and a silver fox fur.
Among the guests were Commander S.
R. Symonds, with his wife and daughter ;
Mrs. F. A. Tennant, in leaf-brown chif-
fon velvet and a sable cape, and Miss
Mclnerney, of Melbourne, in a green-
flecked tweed suit and toque to tone.
Everyone enjoyed the at-home on
board the Japanese warship Asama. The
guests were received on board by the
Admiral, introduced by Consul Lancelot
Parsons, and a most entertaining pro-
gramme was presented on the wharf, the
guests watching from the deck of the
Asama. Lud Mayor Cain brought his
daughter, Mrs. H. Dunstan, who sported
a grey squirrel fur coat and a small hat
of black velvet. William Sowden accom-
panied his lady, whose attire was black
velvet. Mrs. Malcolm Mclntosh chose
a wine-toned costume with cape effect
and a velour hat to match. The Japanese
proved most generous hosts; every
woman left the ship laden with graceful
little gifts.
TASMANIA.
The navy departed in blinding rain,
which compelled the cancellation of a
projected at-home aboard the flagship.
Those who braved wind and rain on
the Brown’s River-road enjoyed them-
selves when they arrived at the Kingston
links clubhouse for the club’s at-home.
Huge fires kept the cold out, and deco-
rations, chiefly in red with glorious
autumn foliage, gave additional cheer. A
bevy of younger members, among them
Betty Giblin, Wanda Piesse, Betty Sale,
Sybil Lyons and Ciceley Davies, was
responsible for the cosy arrangements.
The Gibson-Lawrence wedding linked
two of the oldest and best-known north-
ern families. The bride was Barbara,
youngest daughter of the Effingham Law-
rences, of Billopp, Cressy; the bride-
groom Stephen, younger son of the E. V.
Gibsons, The Point, Perth, and Christ
Church, Longford, was crowded. The
bride wore cream needle-run lace over
cream taffetas, her flared skirt cut with a
long train edged with petals of lace. The
bodice sported a fichu of the lace edged
with the same petal design; the veil, a
family heirloom, was of hand-worked
needle-run lace. Mollie Mackinnon and
Nell Edgell ’maided in tunic frocks of
delphinium-blue taffeta, the skirts in
velvet of a deeper shade. Velvet hats of
the darker shade had little stiffened “pet-
ticoat” veils standing out from them.
There was a big muster at Billopp after
the knot-tying.
Another northern wedding was that of
Enid Phyllis, only chick of Dr. and Mrs.
T. H. Postle, to C. R. M. Millen, second
son of Senator and Mrs. J. D. Millen,
Newstead. The bride walked up the aisle
of St. Andrew’s in a picturesque gown
of heavy white satin, cut with a square
train. Her veil of white tulle over a
foundation of green tulle fell from three
flat velvet flowers across the front of
the head. Nell Weetman, Eileen Lattin
(Hobart) and Mary Barclay followed in
green taffeta bustled frocks and green
straw hats with double brims of green-
and-white net.
Dr. and Mrs. G. H. Hogg (Launceston)
are off to London in May. Meantime
Launceston is farewelling them strenu-
ously.


SYDNEY-
Going to Sydney ? Then stay at
Petty’s Hotel... Petty’s is differ-J
ent; there is an air of restful-
quietness. Service is perfect;
cuisine excellent. Tariff, Room
and Breakfast TP6, Inclusive 18 ; -
Hotel
York Street, Sydney
P 5 .
R. J. Langley, Manager
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Heysen' s View
of Things
Being a sea-
farer my tastes
are simple and
my hunt in g-
grounds when
ashore limited to
places where 1 can rest a foot and work
an elbow. But occasionally 1 like to lose
my bearings and go off the usual track.
That is how I found myself inside the
National Gallery and, in due course,
amongst paintings by a hand named
Heysen.
Aria (B. 10/4/’35) has described
them with enthusiasm. I agree with him.
They are nice views, and I like them.
Heysen’s outlook is called fresh, vivid
and direct. Well, here is a point which
requires an explanation.
I like to describe a painting when I
look at it. As I wandered around Hey-
sen’s work I followed my usual practice.
Here the sun setting, the cows, like pil-
grims to Mecca, facing west. Here a
distant prospect with sheep rushing off
to the south. Here a number of sheep
heading east amongst a group of gums,
the artist nicely settled to the westward.
Then I got a hell of a shock. I found
every man, dog, horse, cow and sheep
had his stern towards me. It struck me
as unnatural, and interested me enough
to try to find a reason.
Now there are nigh on 100 paintings
in the exhibition, of which three-quarters
have some sort of figure painted in.
Occasionally, and, it seems to me, with
reluctance, the beast has moved itself
around until it is broadside on to the
artist. In two pictures the horses are
actually facing our way. In No. 37,
called “The Quarry,” a horse and dray
shyly approach us over a mound. In
No. 10 two pals, Polly and Jack, are rest-
ing after ploughing. But even they, poor
beasts, daren’t look the artist in the eye,
and stand with heads abashed.
When I arrived back on board I sum-
moned the mate, who pretends at know-
ing a little about art. • I asked him how
an artist sketched a sheep, and was told
from life in the paddocks. I cogitated on
this point, and can guess difficulties. An
artist would have to approach the beasts
warily. Heysen seems to be careless at
this job, but he is clever to get the view
down so quickly before they disappear
from sight. On occasions he finds an
animal, usually a cow, asleep. He is
cautious then, and settles down to work
behind her, in case she has a weather
eye lifted for squalls.
Of course, it may be that our artist
has a sort of face that frightens animals.
Or else he sings at his work and the
beasts show their disapproval in a quaint
if formal manner.
I summoned the mate again to ask him
why an artist paints in a figure with a
stern view. His reply is not convincing
to me. He says it is a trick or aid to
give an effect of distance. How a cow’s
stern does this I didn’t trouble to ask. It
might embarrass him, and I suffer a little
from blood pressure.
But I did allow my mate to talk to me
on art. I soon realised that an artist is
very like a seaman. Both learn the tech-
nical side of their jobs when young. I
learnt my elements of navigation, my
guides to seamanship and a few profes-
sional tricks. They have stood by me
ever since. Heysen learnt to paint gum-
“Mask,” by Adrian Lawlor, exhibited at Cynthia Reed's Art Studio,
Melbourne.
trees, flowers, sunlight and stern views of
animals. He learnt to do it well, and
they have stood by him ever since. His
30 years, of work is like the record of a
solid skipper. Limited vision, fixity of
purpose, no risks and therefore no mis-
takes. Here to-day, gone to-morrow—
later forgotten.
But in what he has said he has been
sincere, and that must command our
greatest respect. He loves his country.
He has acquired great technical skill, and
has won the admiration of a large num-
ber of artists and people like myself.
But I doubt if he is “the greatest water-
colorist living.” Rather, he could be
called, even if the title sounds dubious,
our greatest painter of Australia’s out-
back.
Capt. P.
Rain in the City.
You’d think uplaboring pyramids of noise
Between the skyscrapers that wall the
street
Would block and spurn the rain like
watersheds of stone.
But on our faces, sweet,
O girl’s memth clean and sweet,
The rich rain beats and thrills us to the
bone.
Oh, look! The people poise
Elate for one miraculous moment of the
mind:
And when they move again with a light
pace.
No wind,
Smooth in young gums, no fallow deer
Has ever moved with half so sure a
grace.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Tribute to
Gregan
McMahon
That Australia
does not always
neglect those who
devote their lives
to cultural activi-
ties is evidenced
in the fact that
Gregan McMahon is to be given a testi-
monial season at Melbourne Comedy
Theatre on May 8, 9 and 10 in recogni-
tion of the work he has done for drama
in Melbourne daring the past few years.
The repertory theatre in the south
under McMahon’s control has been
raised to a strong position. Meanwhile
the repertory movement in Sydney has
slumped disastrously from the day Mc-
Mahon left for the south.
In McMahon are combined qualities
rarely found in one individual. An
excellent actor, he is also a producer with
such organising and teaching ability that,
like the British sergeant-major, he “can
make an army out of mud.” Further, he
is a man of culture whose culture happily
stops short of preciousness and high-
browism. It is not too much to say that
he has given Melbourne the best plays
it has seen in recent years, and the
standard of acting has been generally
close to professional form.
At a meeting to forward the movement
Professor Scott put forward a sugges-
tion that Melbourne should possess a
permanent repertory theatre—presumably
with McMahon at its head. Throughout
the United States cities very much
smaller than Melbourne have their own
municipal repertory theatres, where plays
of the type never seen on the professional
stage are regularly produced.
G. T.
Epstein,
Mona Lisa,
and Others
“J.C.C.” (B.
10/4/’35) takes
up the cudgels on
behalf of Epstein.
We admit the
truth of the quo-
tation from Ep-
stein which he gives us, to the effect that
the entirely ignorant have an untram-
melled scope for the venting of their
ignorance in criticism of the artist. It is
impossible to deny that Epstein is a
great sculptor. But in quoting a social
judgment he brings to our notice one of
the reasons for the strife which is raging
about Epstein’s work.
In addition to being a sculptor, Epstein
is a publicist of the first water, and he
deliberately incites public opinion against
himself. He knows that the man in the
street is unable to understand his work,
and yet he flagrantly labels his works to
annoy him. Sculpture is a plastic art,
and is not more concerned with the re-
production of pure likeness or pure
nature than any other art. His “Ecce
Homo” must be considered as a piece of
sculpture if it is to be criticised aesthetic-
ally. Whether he had in mind a particu-
lar person is beside the point. It is his
labelling of his own work, quite need-
lessly, which is responsible for the tumult,
and not the merely unintelligible work.
“J.C.C.” refers to the Mona Lisa. The
reference to “particular person” above
is illustrated here. The picture is beauti-
ful whether we know who was the origi-
nal or not. If it were called Beatrice it
would still be a beautiful picture. The
famous smile—if “J.C.C.” looks closely
he might find cause to wonder whether
or not it is a sneer —certainly cannot be
described as symbolic. It is indefinite,
but vague conjectures as to what the
artist intended will not help us to ap-
preciate the picture, nor will guesses as to
the reason for the smile. In symbolism
we have shapes and forms standing for
other shapes and forms. The reason for
their use when the objects themselves
can be portrayed may seem a little un-
certain.
Both “J.C.C.” and G. Dillon seem to
have an idea that the artist can portray
in stone or other medium his emotional
impressions. Obviously this is mere non-
sense. The artist may, because of
emotional reactions, see things in a
peculiar way, but what the work of art
consists of in the case under discussion
is certain forms, lines, etc. To insist on
the portrayal of the emotions would be
to compare Epstein with the young lady
from Sydney University who proclaims in
verse (see “Hermes”) that “her mind is
like a sun-parched rock.”
A. M. Ritchie.
One aspect which appears to have been
overlooked in the Epstein controversy is
that the heavy piece of masonry under
discussion is nothing more than a piece
of even heavier satire—satirical not of
Christ, but of the image that man has
made of Him in his own mind.
The ancient Jewish conception of God,
as described in the Old Testament, was
that of a tyrannical war-lord. Have we
in our hearts progressed any further than
the ancient Hebrew? In a world which
still condones mass murder, continues to
crucify its philosophers and ignores its
poets, Epstein has fashioned an idol and
cried “Behold your God!”
Whether the critics describe “Ecce
Homo” as bad art or bad form, it re-
mains a challenge to our emotions,
imagination and our thoughts. In short,
it is a work of genius.
J. R. M.
It might clear up a slight confusion to
remind P. O. MacCabe (who complains
that symbolism is not art), “J.C.C.” (who
maintains that symbol form has given us
most of our masterpieces of imagery) and
Gerald Dillon (who believes that a sym-
bol is not an abbreviation but the thing
itself ) that the uproar consequent on
Epstein’s Christ was fathered by the con-
ception that his craftsmanship is ex-
pressed in perverted symbolism.
P. O. MacCabe’s opinion that sym-
bolism is not art has already been
answered by “J.C.C.” The latter quotes
Beverley Nichols, but omits to mention
the latter’s discovery that Epstein figures
are based, not on the outward appear-
ance of the subject, but on the bone
frame beneath the flesh. If this be true,
it vitiates the theory of symbolism some-
what.
All this may be, but Gerald Dillon
appears to have come closest to the ex-
planation when suggesting that Epstein
has been born out of his time. For in-
stance, nothing but praise has been
showered on Thorwaldsen for his classical
(and orthodox) Christ, while the same re-
ception was probably accorded the crafts-
men responsible for the glyphs represent-
ing the Mayan, Aztec, Buddhist (and
even Easter Island) pantheon.
While not presuming to understand
Epstein’s significance, it can be conceded
that he is possibly the apostle of a new
order of things, or (O bathos!) on a par
with those who swell the raucous chorus
of self-laudatory approval at their per-
spicacity in comprehending his genius.
J. T. McMahon.


"To
UNION
“The scenic route”
Atm
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George St. Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways,
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
Mil
at
( [f'M
r 'i
/
/ .«*
\
How the Ghost Meets Disaster in the Reach:-
BEARDED GHOST
By- A ELLIS EVANS.
He haunted the river between Bell Bay
and Gravelly Beach with no regularity
in his movements. To the younger fisher-
men he was the Ghost —a ghost so old
it had grown a beard —and his boat the
Coffin.
HIS sister wanted him to leave his
fishing-boat and corrie ashore to
die respectably. She offered him
a shack on her husband’s orchard
for the purpose. Being fifteen years his
junior, she could safely decide that he
was an old man liable to die at any
moment.
An old man!
He gave a pull on the oars and
brought his boat into the full sweep of
the tide again, then continued to brood.
His pride was hurt. His sister’s frank-
ness had stirred him strangely. For per-
haps the first time in his life he was
in need of self-confidence. After all, he
repeated obstinately, he had managed to
live on the river through sixty years of
Tasmanian weather ; he could still catch
fish where younger men failed, and he
knew the Tamar as well as his sancti-
monious sister knew her Bible —they had
both learnt exactly which anchorages to
seek and which to avoid ; why give up
to die in a shack?
He gave another push on the oars.
The fishtrap built into the well of the
boat was causing it to swing from its
course. The entrails of a fish, a day old,
and hard from the sun, blocked an air
hole in the trap. He leant forward and
idly poked it clean with his pipe.
“Seventy-two,” she had told him
bluntly, “ain’t no age for a fisherman.
You’ll be taken in the night.”
At which he had become helpless with
rage, his fish-filthy hands trembling and
his big-featured old head bobbing comi-
cally up and down.
“So might you! ”
In his anger he could think of no more
effective answer.
“I’m prepared —you ain’t. I’ll meet me
Maker ready” . . .
So she had lectured on, forcing him
to sit sullenly quiet, uncomfortably
bored. She talked of his soul with a
scornful proprietorship. The familiarity
of the subject had bred in her a mon-
strous contempt. She would tell him,
using language that he could understand,
that he would be among the jellyfish at
the Last Casting,
“I ain’t comm’/’ he had managed }°
say, repeating himself as his rage
mounted again. I amt comm, ana i
(aken ;n nigh( n 0 more , han
yQu Leave me alon e, can’t you!”
she bad conc | ut } e d mildly with: “Well,
the shack’s always there, John.”
And he had mumb i e d: “Thanks,
gj s j £ »
And the sub j e et was dropped until
th should meet
again.
the God she was £o r ever
cpirlom
interpreting that they met very seldom.
.
LIE haunted the river between Bell Bay
and Gravelly Beach with no icgu-
larity in his movements. To the youngei
fishermen he was the Ghost a ghost so
old it had grown a beard—and his boat
the Coffin. The Coffin was his only pos-
session. He held it together obstinately
with a hatchet, a tin of nails ana un
unplaned wood from the bush.
’ . .
The damned boat kept swinging from
its course! He straightened it out peev-
ishly, then sat down and sucked at his
pipe. Each draw caused a quick, uch,
bubbly sound in the stem,
He was supremely lonely. An angry
fire burnt behind his bloodshot, raw-
rimmed eyes the scornful angei o a
hermit. His few teeth were as poor and
rotten as his boat. He was quite filthy.
Figh §cales dried in his beard and shone
silyer Qn hjs dotheS- The muffler looped
about b i s t bi n? stringy throat was sticky
with spdt f ood and firing absorbing all
fiis beard missed. Rheumatic fever had
shrivelled his legs. Whatever pity
strangers felt for him was turned to dis-
gust at his dirtiness and the malevolent
rudeness of his manner.
His distrust for everyone bred dislike,
It seemed to him that there was a con-
spiracy to drive him from the river. His
sister, his age, poor returns for his work,
younger men with motor-boats and more
efficient tackle, fish markets that de-
manded an irri-
t a t i n g standard
of cleanliness and
the disappearance
of large fish from
the river were de-
liberate attacks
upon his exist-
ence. Every day
his life became
less endurable.
Everyone was his
enemy.
There was the
Marine Board,
with its fussy re-
gulations. The
registration of his
boat, which cost
him a day of
black rage and
despair each year. The wash of
the Melbourne mail steamer, which
never failed to set his poor craft see-
sawing madly up and down. And Whirl-
pool Reach, for which his hatred was
almost personal in its bitterness.
THE reach—a narrow, bottle-neck
channel .that joined two of the
largest bays on the river—had been his
lifelong enemy. With each tide the
water was forced through it from one
bay to the other. On calm days oily
whorls broke the surface every now
and then with greedy, sucking sounds.
Sometimes a greasy muscle of cur-
rent oozed over and down and
under, porpoise-like. It controlled the
movements of all the small-fry river
traffic, since only power boats could
make up against it.
He hated its control of his actions.
Sometimes he was forced to hurry to get
through before the tide changed ; and
often he was late, arriving hot and ex-
hausted, to spend restless hours waiting
for the tide to swing back and let him
through.
To-day, fortunately, he was in no
hurry. The sky was grey —heavy with
impending storm. He was cold until he
exercised, and then objectionably hot and
sticky. Ahead, against the grey, there
showed a dark smudge of black; the
smoke from the Melbourne mail steamer.
It gave him a gloomy satisfaction to
realise that she was travelling against the
tide. He filled his pipe, and, leaving
the boat to drift with the current, sat
on the fishtrap to smoke.
He shifted his position restlessly as
though trying to disturb his thoughts
from their groove of self-depreciation. He
had never felt so old before in his life.
Nor so miserable. He stared vacantly
at the passing shore, but when his sister’s
house showed up for a moment between
the hills his eyes regained something of
their old fire.
“The shack’s always there, John” . . .
THE reach was already exercising its
magnetic sway, and he was- sweep-
ing past Bonney Reach. He was
approaching Redwood Island, beyond
which lay the reach itself. He hung
fire for a moment as the tide seemed
to lose its grip in a slight back eddy,
then on.
He was strangely afraid. There was
no danger, but within a moment he would
be between the two narrow, narrowing
banks that he had hated ever since he
had been on the river. To-day his weak-
ness made him dread them. He would
be powerless to return ; though why this
should frighten him he could not under-
stand.
Possibly it was nervous anger rather
than actual fear. He could not bear to
resign his independence, submit himself
to control. He watched the last
headland approach with a childish fas-
cination —a mixture of hate and appre-
hension.
He swung into the reach and glanced
ahead. He sat quite still, not immedi-
ately comprehending what he saw. The
Melbourne mail steamer was ploughing
its way towards him. It seemed to
fill the entrance to the narrow
channel, its wash already swirling on the
rocky banks. They were so narrow
that the waves broke with consider-
able force. His boat would splinter to
matchwood!
THE steamer’s siren shrieked at him.
It startled him from the strange
calm in which he had been considering
his position. An oar jerked from his
hand, and, held securely by the rowlock,
started to saw slowly up and down with
the pressure of the current. The siren
shrieked, stopped, shrieked again—and
the futility of it angered him.
He reached out and gripped the aim-
lessly waving oar. In some way it had
become jambed. He tripped in his efforts
to free it and sat down. The oar jerked
free, the butt striking him on the mouth.
The thudding of turbines seemed to
benumb his senses. He managed to
stand again, but his whole head seemed
to be bruised and bleeding ; his mouth
tasted raw.
The bow of the steamer was above
him —passengers’ faces with very red lips
and white teeth —quick-glinting brass-
work —and a roar somehow confused
with the blackness of the shaking hull.
Now for it! The bulging stern drew
away in a curiously distorted perspective.
There was a white surge of water.
He was spun round in a complete
circle, then off at a tangent. He rose
to the first wave —just a lift upwards, a
splash of spray and racing calm again.
Then another wall of dirty water.
Head-on, and up until the boat seemed
to stand on end before she slithered side-
ways and dropped quickly down. The
next was over her before she had time
to rise from the last . . .
After that she rose sluggishly and met
the fight without spirit. He was drenched


U&e'
iiifinmi
Soap
daily and be convinced of what
it can do for your skin. Through
its use many thousands have
found relief from apparently
hopeless skin troubles.
Cntlcnra Soap contains
the same effective medication
that has made Cuticura
Ointment the first thought
in treating pimples, eczema and
other skin ailments.
Its daily use acts as a protection
to the skin and as a preventive
of skin troubles.
THERE’S MONEY
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Complete coverage of the whole
State is obtained by using, in
your next appropriation,
THE
Perth’s Leading Weekly.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 COiiins Street.
15 MY MOUTH
SO UGLY ?
JACK, STOP r
7N.
ANN MIGHT / / I COULD NT HELP IT,
NOT AT ALL., ANH
BUT here's A HINT-
WHY DONT YOU TRY A
SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE 7
SEE US I / S YOU HAVE THE MOST
/ / BEWITCHING MOUTH
I'VE EVER. SEEN
/M
■&M
%
, :’a i
UX
Vi V -
\ \ v
WHAT DIO YOU
MEAN LAST night
BY " SPECIAL
TOOTH PASTE ?
I MEANT PEPSODENT, the special
FILM-REMOVING TOOTH-PASTE, ANN.
MY DENTIST SAYS YOUVE GOT TO
REMOVE FILM TO GET RID OF THE
FOOD AND SMOKING
STAINS ON YOUR
TEETH.
m.
' -V
f
/
I USED TO THINK RETA
HAD A FASCINATI NG
SMILE BUT IT CAN'T
COMPARE TO YOURS. ANN
OH DARLI NG.THAT MAKES j
ME SO GLORIOUSLY HAPPY J
wm :
t &
mm
Don’t envy the dazzling
smiles of others
when film is removed your own teeth
will delight you with their brilliance
O 9 times out of 10 it’s not the teeth
themselves but a sticky, stubborn coating
that robs teeth of their beauty. When
once removed, teeth gleam again with
undimmed brilliance.
That coating on teeth is film. You can
feel it with your tongue. Film forms
constantly—rapidly.
In film are the acid-producing germs
that cause decay . . . glued by film to
teeth, where they attack enamel and destroy
the part beneath.
This film absorbs the stains from food
—the stains from smoking. That’s what
makes teeth look dingy and unattractive.
Thus removing film accomplishes two
things—keeps teeth gleaming bright and
helps prevent dreaded tooth decay.
The approved way to remove film is
with Pepsodent —urged by dentists and
used by four million people. Pepsodent
contains a special cleansing and polish-
ing material —more effective in removing
film —softer and therefore safer. This
discovery is contained in Pepsodent
exclusively,
the “special
That’s why it is
film-removing” tooth
termed
paste.
FREE —lO-Day Tube
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. 5.8.),
Box 48 BG, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address.. -
>2M Only one tube to a family.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
n
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney
and frightened, but triumphant. The
lack of spirit enraged him. He felt that
the boat had failed him before it was
time to surrender.
THE Coffin grated on the shore before
the next wave broke and filled her
completely. A surprise current dragged
Her into deep water again, but almost
at once she was lifted back, high
on to the rocks, to break her rotten
back. He felt it snap beneath his feet.
A fish wriggled to freedom from
the trap.
He crawled ashore. Twice his feet
were sucked from under him and he was
carried down with the tide, to be reflung
on to the rocks. He was crying and
swearing with pain and weakness. His
left arm was useless. All the thrill
had gone from the fight. It hadn’t
been a fight! He’d caved in at the first
attack.
And Elsie? She’d learn all about it.
He’d never live this down.
“The shack’s always there, John” . . .
Elsie!
«VOU’LL be real comfortable here,
* John. They fetched you along
yesterday. You were in a mess, but
you’ll be all right now if you lie quiet.
You should’ve come before, like I wanted
you to. There’d of been no need for
fetchin’ if you ’ad,”
What was she saying? Was he in this
damned shack? Hadn’t he fought long
enough? Best to be firm with Elsie right
from the jump.
“Elsie, I’ve got thirty quid in the
bank.”
“It’ll come in handy now, John.”
He shut his eyes and spoke with his
mouth half-closed, as though talking
through the teeth that had once been
there:
“I’m buyin’ another boat. The other
was a bit old.”
She smiled and patted his hand sooth-
ingly. He felt deeply humiliated. For
a moment it turned to fanatical hatred.
But after she had left him he fell
asleep.
BILLY WOODS.
Billy Woods, to-night Tm lying underneath the stars alone,
in a bend beside the Lachlan, dreaming of the years long flown.
All around the winds are sighing, and a muffled murmur comes,
Li\e the sound of mocking laughter or the roll of distant drums.
Many years have passed, old comrade, since that far, eventful day
When we watched our shores receding through the darkness and the spray,
As we stood on dec\ together on the transport, outward bound.
With the wheeling gulls above us and the tumbling seas around.
It was pleasant in the tropics fust to sit and smoke at ease
As our boat went plunging onward through the phosphorescent seas,
Or to gather in the moonlight and beguile the hours with song.
Did it matter where we journeyed ? We were young and we were strong !
Sometimes still, when all is quiet and I close my eyes awhile,
Once again I see old Cairo by the mem ry-haunting Nile,
Where our emu-plumes went waving through the tumult and the dm,
And we took ou> °f pleasure and we felt no fear of sin.
But the world was topsy-turvy and we were not all to blame,
And we paid in full and over when the call to battle came.
How we cursed those Moslem gunners, high above and out of reach,
Ere we bade good-bye for ever to that shell-swept Anzac beach ;
Bac\ a S ain we came t° EgypC s tEl together, you and I,
Till the bush brigades marched northward o’er the sands of Sinai,
Out across the hazy ridges where the scorching khamsin blew,
And the never-fading staunchness of our horses pulled us through.
Many a night we lay together underneath the starry dome,
And a hush would fall between us as our thoughts went wandering home.
Vague regrets and hopeless longings, thoughts too deep for words oi speech
But the loneliness and danger bound us closer, each to each.
In a barren, rockjStrewn wadi all day long we watched and cursed,
Standing by our weary horses, caked with sweat and parched with thnst.
Stubbornly the Turks were holding; night was near and things looked black,
With the smoking ridge before us and the desert at our back•
“Mount I” A sharp staccato order, and the squadrons swung in line
On a ridge above Beersheba, and the lead began to whine.
On the hill we paused a moment, and it seemed a slender hope
As we urged our weary horses down that torn and shattered slope.
%
Every gun was turned upon us, and the sand flew up Ifflo spray
As we raced towards the trenches where the foemen stood at bay.
But we swept across their breastworks in a swirl of blood and foam,
And a ringing cheer went skyward as the squadrons thundered home.
Through the blazing town we galloped, and the Moslems broke and fled,
And the heavy night descended on the dying and the dead.
In the dim, grey light we mustered by the shattered railway bridge,
And they told me you were lying out upon that shell-torn ridge.
At the break of day 1 sought you, and 1 found you lying there,
With the red blood on your tunic and the red sand in your hair;
Lying fust as you had fallen, with your rifle in your hand —
Oh ! the hopes, the dreams, the longings buried in that blood-soaked sand!
%. % %
Sev’nteen years ago, or near it! And Tm tramping in the West,
But I sometimes think, old comrade, after all you fared the best.
Better, surely, to be sleeping in a far-off desert grave
Than to battle for a living in the land you fought to save.
But 1 find Tm growing sleepy, and the night will soon be flown,
And the gums are whisp’ring secrets in a muffled undertone.
We may meet again, old comrade, when we hear the final call,
And the bush brigades are mustered for the last parade of all.
VIC.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


RHEUMATISM
Joints Stiff, Swollen and Painful
If your joints are stiff, swollen and filled
with pain, you are so badly handicapped
that you are little better than a prisoner or
a slave. You cannot be a success either
socially or commercially, and you certainly
cannot enjoy life as you should. You will
I*. U 3 i.. I iL.i.
find it hard to believe that
your suffering is unneces-
sary, but surely you will be
willing to make an effort to
get well, and your effort will
not be in vain if you get a
box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and take them as directed.
No doubt you have already tried all sorts
of things—embrocations, liniments, oils,
medicated baths, purgative
salts—and perhaps you are
disappointed, and disgusted
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
m
r ,m
URIC,"ACID
W.
as well, because
they have failed
to give you the
relief you desire,
but, just for one
week, forget your
d i s appointments,
and decide that
you will give
De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills
a fair trial.
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see and
feel and know for certain that they
must do yon good.
Throughout your future life you will be
glad if you do this, because DeWitt’s Pills
never disappoint, and you can take them
with absolute confidence in their ability to
do you good.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of
the limbs, swollen feet or
ankles, foul breath, scalding
pain, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede
attacks of Rheumatism,
Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or serious
Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting
a box of De Witt’s Pills from the- chemist
and taking them as directed.
They cost only 3/6, or the larger size,
containing 2\ times the quantity, 6/6. All
chemists sell them in the blue, white and
gold boxes, so that you will have no diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies. You will derive
certain benefit from the first dose, and as
you continue, the pain and stiffness will
leave your limbs and joints, and in a very
short time you will fully regain your health
and strength. These results have been
obtained by many thousands of men and
women who were tortured by rheumatism
and joint pains. Be persuaded to do as
they did—take
m
%
I
s g %
m
m
m
De Witt’
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
A Pleasant, Lightly-turned Brevity:—
LISSA.
By -GRACE TYERS.
“ ‘Lissa’ll get you in some-
where. ’ said Maclnnes.
“ ‘That I will’ whispered
Lissa against my shoulder.
“I looked up, and again
I felt the thrill of her smile.
Did she feel anything from
mine,. I wondered.”
THE old squatter leant on the haunches
of his fat, roan pony, and there was
a humorous glint in his eye.
“Thinking of women,” he began
slowly, “it’s the one who wakens
romance in a man tha't he never forgets.
She’s the bit of spice through the pud-
ding of life.
“Women,” he continued, looking away
over the station paddocks, “are generally
of two sorts: either the drop-in-your-
mouth-like-a-ripe-plum kind or else it’s
a slap in the face. Neither makes good
stuff for marriage. One’s spongy and
cheap ; the other’s ferret-faced and nasty.
And the ferret-faced is the worst.
Hurr-rrk!
“But, Lissa! Ah, she was different.
I’ve met women since, in silks and satins,
with jewels in plenty, but they weren’t
Lissa. And she was only in print.
Yes, print . . . and looked handsome
in it.
“What was she like? Well, she had a
quiet face, broad down to her little soft
chin, with dark parted hair and slow,
large eyes, and her voice was set deep,
like the ocean in an undertow. I’ve al-
ways liked placid women. I’ve enough
temper for two” ...
The squatter picked up a straw, which
he broke to pieces.
“I never told this yarn in the wife’s
time, believe me! I was too cute. For
one thing, it’s agen myself ; and, besides,
wives like to think they were always
first in your life. It’s best not to disturb
em.
THEN, blowing a vertical cloud of
* smoke, he began.
“Forty years ago, when I was raking
together the deposit for my first land, I
went dealing round the stations in
Queensland. One hot day I drove up to
a group of huts which turned out to be
the station of one Maclnnes, a cattle-
king of the ’eighties.
“It was dinner-time, and as Maclnnes
kept open house I was soon seated at
the long dinner-table in the rambling old
homestead. At one end sat Maclnnes
himself, a jovial chap, the heavy, hairy
sort, roaring at his guests’ jokes and
stories. At the other end, when I had
grown accustomed to the darkened room,
I saw his wife. She was small, and deli-
cate, and was toying with the food be-
fore her. Yet everything was going with
a swing, so I began to study the young
maids waiting on the table—l have al-
ways had an eye to anything young and
feminine —when someone I had not
noticed before moved from beside a
sideboard towards me. Next moment
I heard a voice deep and sweet-sound-
ing at my elbow.
“‘And what will ye be wantin’?’ she
asked.
“Her bosom touched my shoulder, and
I looked up into two large, soft eyes in
a face without a wrinkle. 1 was electri-
fied, hypnotised. Indeed, I forgot to
answer her. She smiled slowly and put
another heaped plate before me. After
that I couldn’t control my eyes—they
just followed her.
“I went up to the squatter afterwards.
“ ‘What’s the name of yon?’ I asked.
“ ‘Aha, now,’ said the squatter with
a chuckle. ‘You’re like all the rest of
them. You keep your eyes off. That’s
Lissa.’
“ ‘Lissa who?’ I asked, for I had got
to know the district pretty well.
“ ‘Lissa Ryan,’ he said; ‘but if all
had their rights she’s Lissa McAinsh, of
Strathpeffer station yonder. It’s like this.
The Almighty doesn’t give all the bless-
ings to marriage. There are no legal
young McAinshes, so Lissa has all the
graces they might have had. You mind
Lissa, now. She’ll stand no triflers.’
“ ‘lf my wedding-day wasn’t fixed’ . . .
I stammered, but the squatter only
chuckled in a sly way.
UK LL that day I drove round the
country, and, although everyone
offered me a night’s lodging, I refused,
and at sundown I was back at Mac-
Innes’s. There was ever* more company
for tea, and Lissa was superintending
things.
“‘Where do you sleep to-night?’ Mac-
Innes asked me as I sat down.
“I felt pretty awkward as I said; T
thought, sir, you might put me up
here’ . . .
“ ‘lmpossible, I’m afraid. All our
spare rooms are taken. Aren’t they,
Lissa?’ he asked as she handed my tea.
“Lissa looked from him to me, con-
sidering a moment; then she smiled her
slow smile as she said: ‘Well, sir, the
old rouseabout, as you know, went after
that other job to-day. There’s his hut
and the big four-poster bed, if the gentle-
man doesn’t mind’
“‘Net at all! Not at all!’ said I,
smartly, interrupting her.
“ ‘Very well. Lissa’ll get you in some-
where,’ said Maclnnes.
“ ‘That I will,’ whispered Lissa against
my shoulder.
“I looked up, and again I felt the
thrill of her smile. Did she feel anything
from mine, I wondered. After all, I
wasn’t bad-looking; my mirror told me
that, not to mention other women’s eyes!
Besides, I was ten years younger than
any other man there. And Lissa didn’t
look like a slap in the face ; neither was
she a ripe plum. There was only her
slow smue . . .
**THAT night I sat outside in the cool-
* ness and yarned, but I was really
listening to Lissa’s voice in the kitchen
and watching her shadow on the curtain.
I couldn’t think of any pretext to go and
talk to her; and, let me tell you, I wasn’t
generally so backward, but somehow I
had suddenly grown shy. Anyway, I de-
termined to be the last to retire, and
when at last all the others had gone, I
went to the kitchen door.
“Good night,” I called, trying to
appear bold.
“Lissa was cleaning knives before a
row of candles. She came towards me.
“ ‘Good night to ye,’ she said, ‘and I
hone ye sleep well. I made your bed my-
self.’
Thank you,’ said I. Then my tongue
clogged.
“ T only hope 1 don’t have to disturb
ye,’ she said, looking knowing. Then she
turned away, and I had to go.
“I lay awake for a long time in the old
four-poster, kicking myself for a fool. If
only I’d offered to help clean those
knives! Did she dismiss me, or what
did she mean about having to disturb
me? I dozed and wondered.
UDDENLY I started. There was a
soft tapping on the door. Was it
morning? I sat up, one ear cocked. The
door wasn’t locked—its fastening was but
the lifting latch of an outhouse.
“Again the tapping sounded, louder
this time.
“ ‘Who’s there?’ I called.
“And back came that deep voice, like
the murmur of the sea, that thrilled me
to the very marrow. It said: ‘Only me —
Lissa.’
“ ‘Who-oo?’ I called again, sitting
bolt upright.
“There was silence; then the latch
lifted and the door opened a crack.
“ ‘Have ye room for one?’ she whis-
pered.
“ ‘Certainly, certainly! ’ said I, flying
out of bed, and I flung the door wide.
‘Yes, indeed!’
“There stood Lissa with an overcoat
over her night attire. She held a bull’s-
eye lantern.
“ ‘lt’s good of ye,’ she said, smiling
and tossing in the towel. ‘The old rouse-
about’s come back.’ ”


ii:
DA'VfiOHl
Peter
Dawson
SPECIAL"
Scotch Wwt
I
* SAME STRENGTH
€ S A M E PMCE
€ SAME MELLOW
SMOOTH NESS
A WHISKY which lives up to its tradi-
tion of excellence, Peter Dawson’s
now conies to you in a new container,
streamlined in the modern manner.
Easier to hold and to pour; wth
attractive coloured drinking cup and
needing no corkscrew, the new bottle
has a decorative grace that is a fitting
accompaniment to this whisky of
good taste.
Should you experience any diffi-
culty in securing your require-
ments of Messrs. Peter Dawson’s
Whisky from your usual suppliers,
kindly communicate with the
Sole Agents,
COOPER NATHAN & CO.,
184-186 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone; 85783.
PETER DAWSON
SPECIAL
SCOTCH WHISKY
Tempered
ends.
M
a
&
m
temper!
Soft-tempered ends to let the blade bend without cracking and
the rest of the blade harder-tempered than was ever possible
before—that’s what Gillette’s new and special electrical-tempering
process has made possible. And this super-hardened steel can be
honed to a keener cutting edge than you’ve ever known an edge,
moreover, that stays keen longer and gives many more shaves per
blade. £ Try the new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades they re worth it.
2/- PER PACKET OF 5
BLUE
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
made ENGLAND ■■■■■■■■■■
My Political
Life
By W. A.HOLMAN
THE 1916
CONFERENCE
I come now to
the annual con-
ference of 1916,
which destroyed
the Labor movement as it had existed
for a quarter of a century.
Issue was joined on the stock question
of abolition of the Upper House. The
arguments of 12 months ago were put
forward by the attackers, and were re-
plied to by me. The Government was
censured by 100 votes to 80.
Graham, Minister for Agriculture, and
Ashford, Minister for Lands, agreed with
me that this decision must mean the end
of our Government. However, it did not
mean the end of our party’s term of
office, or of its right to form the Ministry.
1 saw no difficulty as to our proper
course of action.
I proposed to resign the leadership of
the party, ask the party to appoint a new
leader and advise the Governor to have
the new leader sent for as Premier. A
new Cabinet would have to be elected in
accordance with our rules.
The party was unprepared for changes
of this character. A few of the malcon-
tent section probably saw the altered
state of things with some satisfaction ; the
rest of them, as well as all our faithful
supporters, saw it with consternation.
Jabez Wright, an irreconcilable and can-
tankerous but thoroughly genuine and
sturdy democrat from Broken Hill,
played on this occasion, as he always did
in crises, a highly honorable and gener-
ous part. The deputation of four sent,
on his motion, to the conference to pro-
test met with blank failure.
JOHN STOREY
I therefore
called upon the
party to appoint
a new leader. A ballot was held and
John Storey elected. Storey, though
one of the most prominent and loyal
members of our party, had never been
included in the Ministry. He had, how-
ever, shown marked ability as Chairman
of 'the Public Works Committee, a posi-
tion always regarded as next in im-
portance to the Speakership. Like our
old leader, he had been a working en-
gineer ; like him, he combined strong
personal qualities of rectitude and de-
corum with an undeviating attachment
to the cause of the workers.
He was overwhelmed, by the un-
expected change, and nerved himself for
the ordeal of appearing at the conference
that night as the party’s new leader.
The rapidity and decisions of these
measures brought the plans of the in-
dustrial section into entire .confusion.
They had spread among their supporters
the idea that my assertion that I would
resign if censured was a bluff. They had
now called it, and had discovered, by a
pretty conclusive test, what were our in-
tentions. The party would go to the
election headed by an unknown man,
inexperienced in campaigning, with a
team of novices and with a policy which
I had condemned as ruinous and suicidal.
My condemnation suddenly seemed very
much more important now that it was
found to be backed up by such action.
Further confusion followed. lam not
able to state the precise order of events,
but in them Griffith played a conspicu-
ous part. In crises Griffith always shone
out. The forebodings he uttered as to
the fate awaiting us had a peculiarly
alarming effect. He had the poorest
opinion of our chances under Storey’s
leadership, and did not hesitate to make
it widely known.
The result was that, after a consulta-
tion with Storey, who himself entirely
endorsed Griffith’s views, resolutions
were carried by the conference unani-
mously inviting me to return to the
leadership and withdrawing all sugges-
tion of censure.
Storey resigned his three days’ leader-
ship, and I returned to my accustomed
post at the head of the movement. The
Bulletin depicted the episode in a car-
toon representing my re-entrance of the
Premier’s office. There the “office cat’’
tenders a welcome, and says: “I wish
you’d tell me how you do it, sir. I’ve
only got nine lives.”
But the activities of this conference
by no means ended here. Another and
most portentous step was now taken.
On an evening when I was absent from
the conference (I was, as a matter of fact,
attending an official dinner at Govern-
ment House) a resolution was carried
dealing with conscription. Not only was
the movement opposed to conscription,
but any person in the movement who
supported conscription was to be forth-
with expelled! The evil spirit of 1911,
temporarily driven forth, was now return-
ing with seven others worse than him-
self and finding the house swept and
garnished.
I have always thought had I been there
that night something might have been
done to modify the extreme violence of
this resolution. The industrial section
was,, so far as its majority went, largely
disaffected to the British cause. The
Dublin revolution had infected Irish-
Australian sentiment into practically
avowed hostility, and this element domi-
nated the section. Nevertheless, I believe
that if someone had been there to
emphasise adequately the lunacy of try-
ing to bind men, amidst the gigantic con-
vulsions of the period, to a defiance of
their own clear view of what is essential
to the safety of the country even that
conference would have halted in its
march.
But not a word was spoken. It is an
extraordinary illustration of the state to
which the mentality of the party had
been reduced that this incredible resolu-
tion went through without an effective
protest. There was, it must be under-
stood, a large minority which voted
against it, but which voted almost
silently. It was this resolution which,
within a few months, broke up the Labor
movement, as we had known it, for ever.
HUGHES AND
CONSCRIPTION
With Hughes’s
decision to take
a referendum on
conscription, ex-
citement in Labor circles reached its
height, culminating in disruption and dis-
union in a movement which had never
known disunion since it began.
Hughes addressed a gigantic meeting
at the Town Hall. He explained as much
as he thought judicious of the military
situation, and urged the need for further
reinforcements. He pointed out the
failure of voluntary recruiting and the
necessity of his decision to put the whole
matter to a popular vote. I supported
him, and announced my concurrence in
those views.
A day or so before this meeting steps
had been taken for our expulsion from
the movement. A special meeting of the
Executive was summoned and the neces-
sary resolution proposed. I was present
at this last meeting as a member of the
expelling body. In a final speech I pro-
tested against the injustice which mem-
bers of the Executive were about to com-
mit. Those who took my view were not
merely loyal members of the Labor
movement, but in many instances its
actual founders. In Watson, Hughes,
McGowen and myself were the four men
who had been leaders in Federal and
State matters.
No notice whatever was taken of my
protest. The section members of the
Executive all voted for expulsion, and
with this decision my official connection
with the Labor movement of Australia
ended.
(Continued on next page.)


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
v. >• .... (
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will bo announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the-entrants will retain all property rights, except world booki rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees. . , , t
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person \ born ; in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work' of < the' entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in “book" or - serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true n.ame and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has‘ proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
, a worthy; associate of ‘‘The Courier-Mail” in many
- national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 7-t Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper HouiCj Collins Street.
Condon Representative: A, J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
THE I.L.P.
The twenty-five
members of the
Labor party who
had not been expelled met, apparently
under the instructions of the Executive,
and organised themselves into an Inde-
pendent party. They elected Ernest
Durack, member for Bathurst, as their
leader. Why Storey was passed over I
have never been able to learn. Prob-
ably his personal relations with myself
and other members of the Ministry were
not looked upon as tinged with the right
degree of bitterness. However, Storey
apart, it would have been difficult to have
made a better choice. Durack was a
most presentable spokesman, and one of
the most promising of the younger men
in our party. He was to develop, how-
ever, a strange hesitancy of character,
which led later to his replacement in the
leadership by Storey, and robbed him of
a share in some remarkable experiences.
The new party immediately got to
business, moving a vote of censure. On
the division the entire Opposition came
over to our support, and the new party
found itself a minority of 25 against the
rest of the House. The Ministry was
thus again for the moment saved. It
was obvious, however, that we 22 expul-
ses were left high and dry. We were
without any party organisation or funds,
and the election day was getting uncom-
fortably near.
At the moment the House had under
discussion a bill for securing to our men
in the trenches some participation in the
election. A number of ingenious pro-
posals had been put forward as to the
way in which citizens at the front should
cast their votes. A large proportion of
them would know nothing about the can-
didates nominated in their absence, and
many would not even know what elec-
torates they belonged to. A little before
this crisis we had .decided tentatively
upon a scheme by which, soldier voters
were to fill in a proxy voting form autho-
rising the leader of the party they de-
sired to support to cast , a vote for them
in the electorate in which they were en-
titled. Thus, a Liberal supporter at the
front would have nothing to do but to
nominate Wade as proxy, and Wade
would have seen that the vote was cast
for the Liberal candidate in that soldier’s
electorate. The Labor man would have
appointed me, and I should have had
the same duty. This happy solution,
however, ceased to suit after the expul-
sions.
An alternative proposal that the men
at the front should be asked to in-
dicate with a cross whether they wished
to vote Labor, Liberal or Independent
led to controversy as to whether we
Ministerial 22 were the Independents or
whether the 25 were. The bill was
shelved before the point was settled, in
consequence of other developments
which were in the meanwhile proceed-
ing rapidly in thd background
NATIONALISM
The new factor
in the situation
was the idea that
for the remainder of the war, at least,
the situation demanded a national party
uniting all those who were in agreement
about the war.
When the conscription numbers were
counted, and the disastrous failure of the
campaigning effort was announced, and
particularly when the really extraordi-
nary state of the figures in New South
Wales was discovered, it was recognised
that an election at that moment, with
the reverberations of the conscription
fight echoing in every corner, would
probably bring in a .Government pledged
to outright disaffection. Official Labor
had now definitely declared itself for
aloofness. The war was nothing to it,
or the war’s result. All it wanted was
to be free of the war, of the cost it in-
volved in men and training, and the
excuse which it afforded for delay in
Labor reform.
The element which fathered these sen-
timents had hitherto been compara-
tively modest and retiring. ‘ It noW
grew enormously in courage at the dis-
covery of its own numbers. Every vote’
cast against conscription was claimed by
the extremist faction as a corroboration
of its wildest views. Its belief in the
existence of such support led naturally
enough to a further half-hysterical enun-
ciation of the views—often long enter-
tained and suppressed—with still greater
wildness. For some few months the
change in public opinion, at least as pub-
licly expressed, was appalling.
The necessity for some salvation
against any further disaster was apparent.
What could be done? Well, what could
be done was obvious. It was to postpone
the elections for some months until the
excitement of the referendum day had
died away and, possibly, some change in
the military situation had restored tone
and sanity to the national life of the
State.
But meanwhile the Government must
carry on. No single party had a majority
in the House. A union of the two parties
which were in agreement upon the two
vital issues before us was essential. This
union I now proceeded to bring about.
' I was enor-
THE COALITION mously helped by,
two gen 11 emen
who played a patriotic and determining
part—my friend H. D. Mclntosh, pro-
prietor of the “Sunday Times,” and P. T.
Taylor, a commercial man of command-
ing authority in the financial world of
Sydney. Mclntosh’s paper had for some
years been practically the only publica-
tion of the State which could be regarded
as favorable to our Government. Its
columns had been unreservedly put at
our disposition, and to its own great in-
jury, from the point of view of sheer
finance, it had made itselLmore or less a
Government gazette, at a time when the
Government was fighting it's way through
much unpopularity.
The Liberal members of Parliament
were ready for the new party. Their
backers, however, were not. Behind the
Liberal party, as it was then constituted,
stood all the influences which our organi-
sation had been busy for six years in
attacking. To the controllers of these in-
terests our names were anathema, and the
idea of further maintenance in office of
members of our accursed crew —on
any terms —was revolting. Fortunately,
Taylor’s influence was at it's strongest
among the very persons with whom this
feeling was at its highest, and through
his and H. D. Mclntosh’s unceasing
efforts all barriers were overcome.
The general principle of the union of
parties into a national party was agreed
to, and it was for Wade and me as poli-
tical experts to decide-how it was to be
done. This was the first time that a
■ Coalition had been attempted in New
South Wales, or, I believe, in Australia,
since certain fusions of the old Freetrade
and Protection sections which had fol-
lowed early upon Federation.
On November 15, 1916, Ministers
were sworn in. On that afternoon their
names were announced in Parliament,
and the period of the Nationalist Coali-
tion began. Parliamentary Labor Gov-
ernment, under McGowen and myself,
had lasted in peace and war exactly six
years.
AFTER SIX YEARS
It is a fair
claim that during
our term unem-
ployment was unknown. Few Gov-
ernments have made its abolition a
definite aim, as ours did. We suc-
ceeded so thoroughly that on the
one or two occasions when “unem-
ployed” demonstrations were heard of
the speakers and other leaders were com-
pelled to get leave of absence from the
. various places where they were employed
before they could attend and urge the
plight of the mythical “others” for whom
no employment was available.
[The End.]
Ambition.
I want to. live on'a. hill—
Not on the very top,
For every wind that blows
Battles about the brow;
But somewhere up the side,
Looking out to the east,
To the distant blue .of the bay,
Where the glint of the morning sun
Dances over the waves
And rests on the green treetops
And kisses the river mist—
Just somewhere part way .up,
Nothing magnificent.
But out of the general mass
Where the congregation of men
Huddle together below.
1 want the height, but still
Would wander at .will below,
Safe and' unscathed by.'the storm
And the torrent of many winds.
< .„> . O’.\ ~ • 0 y
I want to be. great among men,
Not at the very top,
Where'all the winds of hate
Beat on the naked head.
Where envy and calumny haunt-
The waking hours, and the night
Is dark with insidious dread
For the man on the peak alone.
I want to rise from the crowd.
Yet not so remotely far
But that I can visit again
The crowded metropolis
Of the . common thoughts and fears
And the little cares and delights
That fall to the portion of man
In the ordinary run of life.
When I have wandered awhile,
I’ll return again to my height
Just under the brow of the hill,
Too'’low for the envious sigh,
Too high to be overlooked
By aught but the lonely souls
Who dwell on the pinnacle’s crest,
The hate, but ambition, of men.
QUEENSLAND
M. DE VISME GIPPS.
Irish Emigrant,
JFz7/ yow never be recalling
(With the great waves splintering, spread
in white jade, falling,
The kelp thrust outward like an old man’s
beard)
All that was yours, but that you were
af eared ?
It was so poor a land . . . the small ass
braying
By homes where once the gentry’s
silver shone . . .
Ah, the blue eyes of shy colleens
a-maying —
And, like a flash of faerie, these are
gone.
Will you never once remember
The great red dog that thrust the
whinns aside,
And on the nut-brown mornings of
September
Brought home his bird, his sleek plume
taut with pride ?
Or tales with Irish names, and maybe
true.
Told oyer little fires whose orange
glow
Was over-canny for the likes of you ? . . .
But you were man. But wealth would
. have you go.
Will you never yet be dreaming
(A ml you half-stranger) of the Irish lad
Whose eyes sought out a grey sea’s
silver gleaming.
And knew that you must sail . . . and
yet were sad ?
Lake in the twilight, Spanish tower, story,
A white-thorn thicket, battles hardly
lost —
These are the sum and earnest of your
glory :
Your home—no matter what the rest
has cost.
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
, . . Memory and Personality.
PELMANISM is the approved system of mental training for adults
throughout the British Empire, and in several foreign countries.
It is a vital force, a most powerful stimulus to success in any walk of life. It
is a real training, a training of the individual’s own capacities. It is based on
natural laws, and develops inherent powers and abilities so that the Pelmanist
can make full use of his own personality in his calling and in his social life. It
gives him confidence in the usual and everyday happenings and self-possession
in exceptional or difficult situations.
In a word, Pelmanism is a system which makes
all other education and experience fruitful.
Amongst the attributes and qualities developed
by Pelmanism are ...
Observation Self-Confidence Decision
Concentration Social Ease Will-Power
Judgment Promptness Presence of Mind
and a Reliable Memory ... for faces, figures, names, appoint-
ments, arguments, prices and useful data of every kind.
These are the qualities on which steadiness, serenity, stability and productive energy rest,
develops them until they become habitual and are exercised in all the affairs of life.
Pelmanism
The headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. Several International Awards have been
granted to the Institute, including Liege 1930, Nancy 1932, Geneva 1933 and Paris 1933, and it has the
approval and recommendation of leaders in all spheres of activity, business, the professions and the arts.
Of greater moment, perhaps, Pelmanism is spoken of very highly by those who are not so great, by the
thousands of practical men and women who have been prepared by Pelmanism for better work and greater
responsibilities that have led to bigger incomes and happier lives. Literally, Pelmanism has helped
thousands in Australia alone to make their previous knowledge and experience fruitful.
There are 650,000 Pelmanists, of whom more than 30,000 have enrolled for the Pelman Course
with the Institute in Melbourne. These Pelmanists live in all parts of Australia and New Zealand and
in the Islands.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. You can write
us fully, or you can make just a bare application by using the form at the bottom of this announcement.
Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have no outside representatives.
Address: The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester l-fyuse, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne. Tel.: C. 11255.
Use this Form...
or write us fully
“Efficient
Mind,”
please.
NAME
ADDRESS
410
« •••*••« O e
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
I Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
X
t *°
v v° (* O*' e
v
*°
*\*v-£sr
0?
6^
e
„
j.


SECURITY
is the watchword of the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Limited.
' •:
s f-
m
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society's New Building, ia
course of erection.
For years and years the
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
has paid LARGER BONUSES to its Policy-holders
than any other Life Assurance Institution in Australia.
The City Mutual Life is the only Old-established
Mutual Millionaire Society which confines its business
ENTIRELY TO AUSTRALIA,
and its funds are invested in unquestionably sound
Australian securities.
A CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY FOR
GREATER SECURITY AND BIGGER RETURNS.
GEO.
of
irman
Directors.
W. BENNETT,
Managing Director.
