

Save for the Future
The LIFE ASSURANCE Way
• FOR EVERY MAN THE
PRICE LEVEL OF NEW LIFE
ASSURANCE IS CON-
STANTLY RISING.
• Every year added to his age
increases the rate of premium.
• Every year’s delay involves
the risk of deteriorated health
which would increase still
further the rate of premium,
and might even make it
prohibitive.
• FOR YOU THE PRICE
LEVEL OF A NEW POLICY
WILL NEVER BE LOWER
THAN IT IS TO-DAY.
• You will never be Younger
than you are NOW.
• You are a healthy life To-day,
but you may not be so
To-morrow.
DO IT NOW!
A NATIONAL MUTUAL
POLICY-HOLDER CAN REST
ASSURED.
CLOSE OF CURRENT
FINANCIAL YEAR,
SEPTEMBER 30, 1935.
• ALL POLICIES ISSUED
UNDER ORDINARY PAR-
TICIPATING TABLES ON
OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 30,
1935, WILL BE ALLOTTED
BONUSES AS AT THAT
DATE.
• Certificates, showing the
amounts of Bonus and when
they will be payable, will be
issued on or about April 1, 1 936.
EFFECT A NEW LIFE
ASSURANCE WITH THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
NOW!
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 1869.
THE MILLIONS OF “THE NATIONAL MUTUAL” BELONG ENTIRELY TO US POLICY-HOLDERS.
Write and ask for any quotation ■ •
Offices: 350 George Street, Sydney Oswald St. Clair, Manager
The Bulletin
Neu) Guinea s Happy Valley
Vol. 56.—N0. 2897.
Wednesday, August 21, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free w lt h full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
StaUon KU ccV vTVC J
P UV at HOMH
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
- - - CUT HERB I AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
ece advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
SB, 385
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition. Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Pnor, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son.
*£• has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted ;
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition
as follows:-
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, cither
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters ■ ising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the Opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
The Synthetic
American
All over the
C o m monwealth
misguided Aus-
tralians are try-
ing to be as like
100 p.c. Arneri-
cans as it is possible for people who are
9° p.c British to be. The tendency is
noticeable in the pyrotechnic clothes of
golfing males, young and old; in the
craze tor sundae shops, chicken inns,
crooning and jungle dances ; in under-
sized skyscrapers and imitations of Holly-
wood homes; above all, in our speech,
where s,an 8 blends discordantly
with the native Cockney. Geographical
influences, American magazines, Ameri-
canised local papers and the talkies arc
i C i lri ui best, but we remain unmis-
tajcable Aussies. H. W. Horwill’s
Modern American Usage (Okford
why 6ll^011 Bress ’ s ‘ helps to explain
The idiosyncrasies of the real as
opposed to the film or fictional Ameri-
can are rooted deep in his national and
social history. Mr. Horwill notes, for
example, that in American usage the
title colonel ’ is “quite commonly be-
stowed without military experience.”
W. C. Goodloe, a Kentucky politician,
was the original “Kentucky Colonel.”
C House—another honorary war-
rior—tried to explain his status to
Falkenhayn at Potsdam in 1914, but
the general couldn’t understand, and
continued to the last to discuss army
technique.” Though the 1934 World
Almanac discloses that there is only one
bona fide general in the U.S.A., practi-
cally anybody can assume the title and
get away with it.
“General Bristow Has Resigned” is the
headline ot a newspaper paragraph which
reports that “Fourth Assistant Postmaster-
OeneraJ Joseph L. Bristow has resigned.”
Mankind has an innate yearning for
titles, and the inhabitants of the greatest
of republics have been starved in this
respect. In England, because the demand
is amply gratified by means of knight-
hoods, baronetcies and peerages, the
assumption of exalted military titles by
non-regulars has always been regarded
as a social offence. Since the Armistice
Australia has shown a tendency to imi-
tate America; we have colonels who
never led battalions in battle, generals
who never led divisions. But they are
few in number, and the un-British phase
will pass with them.
The New
Language
So many words
are used out of
their English
meaning in the
U.S.A. that
American is virtu-
ally a new language. Mr. Horwill quotes
from an American paper: “It often hap-
pens that a man is not suspected of being
dumb until he begins to talk.” “Dumb”
here is the German “dumm,” meaning
stupid. Levee (A ng. assembly of visitors)
is the French “levee” (embankment) in
American. “Chaps” (Am.) derives from
tne Mexican-Spanish “chaparajos.” A
“piedmont” is of course Italian ; it has
a regional significance in American, There
!housands of Yiddish,
Middle European and Scandinavian deri-
vatives ; countless words in common use
which are archaisms in English—gotten,
foreigner (a resident of another town),
rare (raw), goody (charwoman), drouth
(drought), and many words which would
be incomprehensible to the average
Briton without a glossary—“muslin”
meaning “calico,” “pennies” meaning
“half-pence” and so on.
In some respects American is more
Shakspearean than Fowlerian, the
speech of the Pilgrim Fathers having
been perpetuated in isolated communi-
ties ; in others it is more international
than Volapuk. This delightful book
teaches that, in addition to being melodi-
ous and supremely expressive, modern
American is inimitable. If only Aus-
tralia’s post-talkie generation would
digest the lesson and talk accordingly!
Fashionable
America
Lady Mendl,
whose After All
has been pub-
lished by Heine-
mann at 10s. 6d.,
was born in New
York “at the very end of the mid-Vic-
torian era.’’ Her father was an unsuc-
cessful doctor, and she spent part of her
girlhood with a Scottish aunt who pre-
sented her at Court when such brilliant
Americans as Lady Randolph Churchill
and Mrs, Brown Potter were among the
reigning beauties of London. After a
few years on the stage, Elsie dc Forest,
as she was till her marriage to Sir Charles
Mendl in 1926, found her vocation.
She became New York’s first interio
decorator.
Among her triumphs was a bath
room. It had a frieze of mirrors (etching
in black of dolphins, mermaids, etc,, oi
top, a representation of waves below),
mantelpiece of mirrors, with frame deco
rated in “shells, fish and other wate
motifs” all the hooks in the form o: :
dolphins, all the taps made like the head
of swans ; the bath was “set in a niche o :
mirror columns.”
A long, low couch covered in zebra
skin along one side of the room. The
carpet ol white velvet. The electric lights
sh j'j not * iei ’ o^'P ear * * n a design of oyster
Paradoxically, she condemns “L’Ar
Nouveau”—“that first warning of the
avalanche of bad taste which burst on
us in 1900.”
I cannot forget those awful chairs and
tables supported by flowers contrived to
look as it they were growing from the
ground. And the mantelpiece of fleurs-de-
lys and rushes carved and painted in
their natural colors of purple, yellow
and green! Above a mirror on the side
of which she [Lady Anglesey] had her
picture painted in a mauve gown as she
leaned on an um from which water poured
into a pool forming the lower part of the
mirror.
However, this book has little to do with
taste, good or bad. It is primarily the
self-portrait of an attractive woman.
One can easily understand how Miss de
Forest, though not born into the New
York purple, soon became a social figure.
Her vitality escapes from the printed
P a B es - Here is a remarkably lively, like-
able, frankly low-brow companion, and
—most entrancing quality of all—an
emotional hero-worshipper. The names
of power Vanderbilt, Gould, Astor,
Harnman, Morgan—appear over and
over again with their associated European
titles. She reveres these people, and
scorns the climbers who manoeuvre to
meet them. An entire chapter—the only
unkind feature of the book—is devoted
to the climbers’ gaffes. Now and then
she herself weighs in with something that
would set a well-bred Briton’s teeth on
edge.
A woman standing near me asked:
Who that lovely young creature?”
■‘That,” said 1, “is Mrs. George Gould,
the grandmother of the Honorable Aileen,
daughter of Lord and Lady Decies.”
But it is all part of her charm ; the naive
charm of one who worships her fine
triends exuberantly, and who is only what
Hamerton called a despiser because it
seems to her preposterous that the newly-
enriched should think of associating with
such exalted beings.
The interest of the portrait lies in its
universality; there are such loyal souls
in every circle, and only those who don’t
quite understand call them snobs.
A New York
Producer
Naomi Brad-
shaw, heroine of
Young Woman,
by Carman
Barnes (T. Wer-
ner Laurie; 7s.
6d.)» would have become a gold-digger
anyhow, .She is one of those girls who
can face anything but poverty. How-
ever, in her chosen calling (she brings
her youth and beauty from an impover-
ished southern home to New York in
search of a stage or radio job) she has
to gold-dig to avoid starvation. She
arrives in New York when the slump is
at its worst. Girlish loveliness is a drug
on the vice market. After one or two
false starts she meets Morris Fleischer.
Morris Fleischer, the great producer, the
maker of stars, the sexagenarian Jew
whose quixotic generosity is a tradition
on Broadway. Morris makes this novel
worth while; he has been observed with
devastating objectivity. A feature of his
character is rancid sentimentalism. He
is half-deceived himself by the righteous
jargon which he spouts so fluently.
“Any of these guys around here bother
you?”
“Well” ...
He began to get indignant.
‘There are a lot of bums in this towm
Stay away from them! Even if you
never get a job. Stay away from them.
It tsn t worth it, kid.”
He tells her of his worries, “his eyes
eager as a child’s” ; of how he sees every-
body and anybody who comes to him
and pays out “from fifty to a hundred
dollars a day in touches.” Slowly, reluc-
tantly, she learns the truth. It is hell to
be “Morris Fleischer’s girl.” To have
to jump at his word of command, listen
to his senile self-praise, watch him get
drunk and fall into a boozy sleep. And
he doesn’t even pay. It gives him sadistic
pleasure to see her abasing herself when
her rent is overdue ; and then he gives her
half she needs. Apart from being a
born bargainer and price-cutter, he wants
her to remain dependent on him. He
won’t put her in one of his shows,
and he cheats her out of the radio j6b
which she had got on her merits. After
a year he takes a younger, prettier girl,
and Naomi faces the streets with nothing
to show for her experience but an embit-
tering knowledge of the ways of lecher-
ous old men.
There are one or two slips which tend
to discount the authenticity of the story.
At roulette Naomi puts ten dollars on
18, which wins five times running, her
stakes being left to accumulate. There
would have been over 500,000,000 dollars
on the table at the fifth win! But Miss
Barnes makes no slips where Mom’s is
concerned. She has known and studied
him with fascinated attention.
RED PACE.
Live Novel
Out of a
Dead Land
The people of
John Guthrie's
Maoriland novel
The Little Coun-
try (Nelson;
7s. 6d.), fall
broadly into three
sections, with an almost separate fourth ;
each has numerous offshoots. Ernest
Glanders, retired secretary, and his wife
Miriam shepherd together one group ;
George Rogstofl, stolid son of a dairy-
farmer, shuffles in with the second;
Flintern, ambitious newspaper proprietor
drives in the third. The almost distinct
fourth consists of Elizabeth Mary, who.
with rare femininity, cajoles oh to the
canvas her aunts Tilly and Maude, with
their fragrance of days once doubtfully
reputed to be better than the moder
era. Although not the central figure i
the story, Flintern is a connecting lin c
between the different worlds that Guthr e
portrays. Ernest meets George, ant
they help each other in a city that
strange to both of them. A real-estat
deal brings Flintern into contact wit A
Ernest. One of FI intern’s men, Robi
Fan's, is in love with Elizabeth Mary
his friend David, with imagination anc
ideals, also falls undo the “spell of th
girl whose face was ’’candid, fearless
lovely. In a swift fancy, David saw i
her much of his country. There wa
something of snow mountains in he
cool and watchful poise; when she was
grave he saw in her eyes a still lake h
knew in the fastness of the hills; as sh
laughed he remembered suddenly th
sound of a brown mountain stream ; i
the freedom of her body he knew again
the unbroken downs racing to the foot
hills.”
Quite naturally these people introduc
some phase of the national life whil
playing their part in the human
story. Lawyer, parson, politician, bank
clerk, borough councillor, old and new
journalist, the old Maori and the new
Maori who thinks in Maori and talks in
English, all assist Guthrie to show hi
country as it really is and not as the work
sees it from the guide-book fiction tha
has comprised the bulk of Maoriland’
literary endeavors.
Obvious loyalty to the Little Country
and deep affection for its people do
not prevent Guthrie from exposing the
more deplorable aspects of its isolalioi
or from laughing at those descendants
of the First Four Ships who can never
forget their descent. He has a gentle gibe
at farmers’ organisations. He tells how
the merciless lash of business and socia
ambitions turned a man into a fiend, anc
then, with the understanding that impreg-
nates the whole story, pauses to sorrow
with the same man when, after he has
built up a great business for his son, the
boy is killed before his father knew him
as a person or understood his more
humane outlook.
The story leaves an impression that
Guthrie wrote in the belief that his first
novel would be his last. Perhaps because
of that the canvas of his labors is too
broad ; he could have achieved more had
he attempted less. But, at the time
Guthrie was writing The Little Country.
I know he was lying on his back, seeing
through glass the green lawns I am now
sure he himself believed he would not
tread again. Between chapters of the
book he smelled the anaesthetics he applies
to his fictitious David ; like his David, he
was scaling what seemed to his own
clear mind an impossible peak. He did not
fall as David did ; he made his peak at
the expense of one of his legs. All the
time he grinned like David.
“Poor old David!” young Merry-
weather thought when he was waiting
for David to die. “No, that was wrong.
David would not have liked pity . . .
That was how David would like to go
out; with a grin and a bit of a joke.
It could not possibly be worse, young
Merryweather remembered him saying
once, than hitching up one’s flannels and
taking that devilishly long and lonely
walk out to the wicket.”
The Little Country is good. It is the
■ first honest, living thing in the way of
literature that has come of late years
from a land which is being intellectually
choked by its own self-complacency. So
his Elizabeth Mary's interpretation of
David's wish that Robin should write
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the conscience of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Phones: M 2401, Day and Night.
GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Quality and Value in Building Materials
Tools of Trade that
will give long wear
J 1 VICES
from 11/3 each
■Dawn” Engineers’ Bench Vices.
Made in Australia, with parallel
jaws.
Sizes., 2i 24 3 31 4L
Brices: 11/3 13/- 11/6 20/- 21/0
Sizes 4S 44 5 G
Prices 27/0 33/- 44/6 57/fl
X
iiii
bin
Bench and Post
DRILLS 35/6
“Dawn” Combined Bench and
Post Drill. No. 600, Australian
made. Head has radial and
vertical adjustment. Takes Jin.
round-shank drills and will drill
up to Height of pillar,
20in. Price, each 35/6
Adaptor for square-shank drills.
If- extra.
Chain Drills
Yankee Chain Drills, with auto-
matic feed. No. 1500, with 3-
jaw chuck for straight-shank
drills- 0-Jin. Price, each, 27/6.
No. 500, with 2-jaw chuck for
square-shank drills.
Price, each 27/6
v O >
8/-
SET
Socket Wrench Set
‘‘Hercules” Socket Wrench Set, with six
hexagon sockets and plain handle for
American cars. Price, each 4/6
With eight hexagon sockets and ratchet
handle. Price, each 8/-
0
Wrench Kit in case
Eifel Flash Wrench Kit, suit-
able for farmer or mechanic.
Will shift any nuts or hold
any article. Complete with
leatherette case.
Sizes, inches
Prices, each
23/6
7 8
23/6 28/6
Breast
DRILLS
54/6
Yankee Breast Brills,
with right- and left-
hand continuous ratchet
movement. No. 555,
Double-speed ''with . 2-
jaw chuck.
Price 34/6
Also No. 1555, Double-
speed with 3-Jaw chuck
for round-shank drills
up to i inch.
Price, each 54/0
dfgdfg
Tools—Lower Ground Floor, Pin Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
a
REINFORCED
BORrawlCKs
2S'PAINT
HfGHGRADf
house
PAJNTI
For a good and lasting job
use Borthwick’s “A. 8.”
Paint. It is absolutely
dependable, being manu-
factured from genuine
White Lead, Zinc Oxide,
pure Linseed Oil and re-
inforced with Titanium
Oxide. It is mixed ready
for use.
20
GALLON
• v
Capacities. . .
Prices
i Pint. 1 Pint. £ Gal. Gal. I Gal.
1/8 3/1 5/9 10/6 20/-
Paints Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
RISISTOID ROOFING from
Risistoid Roofing is an economical, durable and water-
proof covering. It is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns'.
Average Weight 701 b. I-ply, 36in. wide, 72ft. long per roll.
Price, per roll 31/-. Per yard 1/5
Average Weight, 881 b. 2-ply, 36in. wide, 72ft. long per roll.
Price, per roll 38/-. Per yard 1/9
175I 7 5
Average Weight, 1141 b. 3-ply, 36in. wide, 72ft. long per roll.
Price, per roll 45/3. Per yard 2/1
Cement and Clout Tacks, for laying, furnished Free with Whole Rolls.
Samples supplied on application.
RISISTO ROOFING from
36in. wide—l-ply. Light, per roll, 27/6; per yard, 1/4.
2- Medium, per roll, 34/-; per yard, 1/7.
3- Heavy, per roll, 40/6; per yard, 1/10.
Complete with Tacks and Cement for fixing.
Va
3-ply Dampcourse
5/- roll
Average weight, 141 b; 4Jln. wide.
Trice, per roll 5/-
Average weight, 281 b.: Din. wide.
Price, per roll JO/3
Average weight, 401 b.; 141 u. wide.
Trice, per roll 15/(1
Average weight, 5811),; 181 n. wide.
Price, per roll 20/-
Kolls, 72ft. long.
Will not rot, Is unaffected by contact
with Lime or Cement.
DOUBLE KRAFT
Building Paper
A Waterproof Building Paper of
great strength, designed for the per-
manent lining of Walls, Ceilings,
Floors, etc. It is adaptable for use
in the largest industrial or office
buildings and the modern suburban
home. Covering capa-
city, 1000 square feet.
Width of roll, 36in.
Price, per roll
Asphalt Saturated Felt
No. 45, width 36in., length 108 ft., weight 451 b, Price, roll 20/6
No. 50, width 36in., length 167 ft., weight 501 b. Price, roll 21/6
No. 67, width 36in., length 67ft., weight 671 b. Price, roll 30/-
Coating Paint Black Cement
No. 2—6/6 i Imp. Gal.; 3/6 $ Gal. No. 2 2/- per tin; 6/6 I Imperial
4 Imp. gallon tins 22/- Gallon; 3/6 Gal.; 22/- 4 Gal.
SERVICEABLE STATION SUPPLIES
Anthony Horderns’ are
specialists in Farm and
Station Equipment. Send
us a list of your require-
ments and we will advise
and submit quotations.
m
i'M
m
1/1 I'V '•
CATTLE DRINKING TROUGHS
No. 1 Pattern Galvanised Cattle Trough. 21 x I2in. x2O gauge on 26in.
Stands.
Lengths, feet .... 6 12 18 24 30 36
Prices, each £2/4/- £3/8/- £4/12/- £5/16/- £7 £B/4/-
For each 6ft. extra add 24/-.
These prices include Stands and Bands at 6ft. centres. If
Bands only are required, deduct 3/- for each Stand not
required.
If Stand and Bands are not required, deduct 6/6 per
pair. Extra Stands, 7/- each. Extra Bands, 4/6 each.
Extended Bands to fit on Wood Frames, 7/6 each. Lock-
up Cover for Ball Cock, 22/G extra.
: FROM |
4"
SHEEP DRINKING TROUGHS
Galvanised Sheep
Lengths, feet . . . .
Prices, each....
Trough. I Sin. x 1 Oin. x 22 gauge on Min. Stands.
6 12 IS 24 30 36
£l/15/- £2/12/6 £3/10/6 £4/7/6 £5/5/- £6/2/6
For each 6ft. extra, add 17/6.
These prices include Stands and Bands at 6ft. centres.
If Bands only are required, deduct 2/- for each Stand
not required.
If Stands and Bands are not required, deduct 5/- per
pair. Extra Stands, 4/0 each. Extra Bands, 3/0 each.
Extended Bands to tit on Wood Frames, 6/6 each. Lock-
up Cover for Ball Cock, 20/- extra.
FROM,
£l5|5l
• Builders’ Hardware and Farm Equipment—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street-
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE LIST.
Write for Our Special Station Supplies List. In
find every requirement for a better farm ... at
prices. Sent Post Free on request.
it you will
the lowest
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


o^o
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
Jl NEW SERIAL
AUST.R A L I A N
woman’s mirror
THE FIRST INSTALMENT APPEARS IN THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR” OF AUGUST 27, 1935.
SCARBOROUGH
ILLUSTRAT6D BY
G€OQG€ - HRRTLCY- BROWN
ACCORDING to the old traditions, women are divided into Eves and Liliths: Eves, the mother-women, makers and keepers of homes and
families,; Liliths, the light creatures with whom men play, awhile till, tiring and needing the true peace of life, they return to the Eves again.
This new “Mirror” Serial will be a vivid, compelling story built round this theme. It has poignancy, drama and romance, with a touching
child-subject as one of the central figures. Strong in sentiment, and with a touch of “problem,” this serial will grip the thousands of “Woman s
Mirror” readers and add to the many enjoyable features in this interesting and popular weekly woman’s magazine.
DON’T MISS THE OPENING CHAPTERS. ON SALE FRIDAY. 64 PAGES FOR 3d.
something honest and decent becomes
more than a plea, Guthrie himself has
scaled his peak, and the plea is trans-
formed into a promise. Guthrie, as he
prefers to be called, has done something
good ; he will yet do something better.
LACHIE MCD.
Some
Australians
Ennobled
The Australian
abo. lost a good
friend when Her-
bert Basedow
died. The big,
earnest .South
Australian was
as nearly the antithesis of the primitive
as it was possible to imagine—an M.A.
of Adelaide, a post-graduate student in
half a dozen German and Swiss univer-
sities and a doctor of medicine. He was
for a time assistant S.A. Government
Geologist.
His ordinary interests were those of a
student, and his conversation was
erudite. Yet he loved the aboriginal,
spoke Arunla as much like a native as
any white man could and made many
sacrifices for the sheer pleasure of spend-
ing a few weeks with a tribe that used
water only for drinking purposes. No
trek was too difficult for him if there
was an obscure ceremony to be seen at
the end of it.
The natives reciprocated his regard,
and it was not uncommon to see him in
the centre of a huddled bunch of weei
swapping yarns and improving his myth-
ology and vocabulary while a group of
young and very naked Australians
hovered in the distance, confident that
he carried something desirable in his
pocket which might presently come their
way.
He had already written a fat work on
aboriginal ethnology before he began,
in 1926, the preparation of two books,
one comprehensive and detailed, covet-
ing the whole histoiy of the blacks in
Australia since the beginning of settle-
ment, the other a readable volume for
the public devoid of technicalities.
The larger work is still in manuscript,
the other has been issued under the title
Knights of the Boomerang (Endeavour
Press ; 55., 3d. postage).
Though it exalts Binghi to the titled
classes, there is none of the pretentious
atmosphere of the Order of the British
Empire about it. Its prose is keyed low ;
the descriptions of customs and scenes
which usually move anthropologists of
the popular school to six-syllable adjec-
tives are treated with casual matter-of-
factness and humor. The author’s own
qualities, as evidenced in his admission
to exclusive ceremonies, are kept in the
background. There are two or three
functions described which very few white
men indeed have seen, and which no
white man would be likely to see unless
he were implicitly trusted, but the writer
deals with his admission to them as if
it were due to the influence of his black-
boy rather than himself.
For the expert his book carries the
right hall-marks. Young anthropo-
logists whom the flapper press loves,
having received their university hoods,
repair to the wilds, learn the Ipcal lan-
guage in a few weeks and at once un-
ravel the complex polity of the savage
without difficulty. They almost invari-
ably assure the world at large that they
are the only white men extant who have
witnessed an honest-to-God “initiation"
ceremony. But Basedow points out—
and he is the only man who seems to
have pointed it out in a popular book —
that the series of ceremonies which make
a man a man take months and that prob-
ably no white man has ever sat down
long enough to see them all performed
by any single tribe.
The abo., as pictured by Basedow, is
he whom those of us know, who were
born beside him and learned to prattle
in his local tongue while we began to
lisp our own —an ordinary homo
sapiens with a sense of humor and with
the economic problems of civilisation re-
duced to a minimum. He is probably
far better off than civilised man- —more
resistant to fatigue, hunger and thirst,
less restricted in the material for supply-
ing his small wants because he has no
respect for clothes, and is not fastidious
about rations. He is better disciplined in
mind and body, less responsive to pain
and unafraid of death.
Dr. Basedow’s book is one of the
best things of its kind that have been
done.
His publishers are lucky, however, that
they did not issue it 40 years ago. What
would the tormentors of Dc Rougemont
have done to an authority who says that
he saw a blackfellow dig up a water-
storing toad and have a drink out of it?
Yet in parched Centralia stranger reser-
voirs than the toad exist.
EL V.
Poetry—and
the Sitwells
To call the Sit-
wells, as a Lon-
don writer (R.P.
5/6/’35) does,
“valuable artists”
who “have found
a way of escape among to-day’s toppling
palaces” is about as true as to say that
some versifier of the Wonga-Wonga
Tennyson Society has become a pure
artist by ignoring the problems of our
civilisation. The Sitwells are clique
poets, cult figures, carnival grotesques
run by the popular dailies. They have as
much to do with the main literary stream
as an artificial rose left by the river’s
brim has with the midst ream curren t.
It is not these faience idols of a coterie
that should appeal to Australians.
The falsity of their slick verse shows
up painfully beside the crude but genuine
stuff of an Auden, a Day Lewis, even
an Empson. These latter are not great,
not particularly good, poets ; but they
have something to say. There is no-
thing in the Sitwells’ verse but a parade
of musty images and old poetical fur-
nishings turned inside out to show a
quaint pattern and to conceal the intel-
lectual poverty of the design. It is true
to say that no one here regards their
verse as of any importance. You can
pick it up anywhere second-hand and
generously marked down; but you will
not find those other names on the Char-
ing Cross stalls.
True poetry lives and moves—and
moves us. It may have the crudity of
the pioneering spirit or the strangeness
of the unfamiliar. Empson, Spender,
Auden shock us aesthetically because
they do touch our mental complacencies
and they do actually reach our minds.
But these poems of the Sitwells, these
Tussaud figures, quaintly modish, starkly
bedizened, primly dead—these have no
message for us: unless it is that, if you
have nothing to say, go baroque, go
rococo, quattrocento or early-Victorian ;
go anything or anywhere so long as you
manage not to reveal that you are hope-
lessly out of touch, mentally and spiritu-
ally, with the present.
London.
RICHARD REMINGION.
Paradoxically
Speaking
My objection
to most modern
poetry is that a
man can’t quote
it when he’s
drunk. I have
heard men go riding out of pubs in
remote corners of Australia shouting
Shakspeare to the stars. Not because they
cared two straws for Shakspeare. I doubt
if they had ever read a line of him since
he was rammed into them at school. But
there he was, a glorious part of their
consciousness to let loose upon the night,
when their silly wills could no more
deny him.
Is there a modern who could thus
transmute the swine in man? “Malt”
may “do more than Milton can to jus-
tify God’s ways to man”—but Milton
and malt can also justify man’s ways to
woman. And it is surprising how much of
“Paradise Lost” also is still remembered
by the ordinary man. I know, because
1 have always found the easiest way to
keep a drunken man companionable is
to induce him to recite.
There is this to be said for the modern
poet. He would rather be crucified him-
self than have his work nailed to the
child’s tender mind by the hammers of
the examination fiends. The modern poet
writes for the adult mind. And, since he
refuses to exploit the only memory that
he knows is likely to endure to the end
of life —that is, the memory of the child
—I accord the modern his measure of
nobility, and try to meet him on his own
playground.
CASSANDRA.
A Satchel of Books
Pipe All Hands, by “Sinbad” (Har-
rap ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), is another book
of sea stories by a writer whom com-
petent critics have classed with Conrad.
Many are long (“Ocean Magic” runs to
about 70 pages); a few, such as “The
Knell of the Horn,” are short; all are
grimly dramatic. A passage from “Sal-
vage”:—
She swam slowly, but with the placidity
of a fat old duck on a swarming pond.
She shrieked old age from every seam and
butt, from every spar and stay. Men visible
on her decks seemed as if they had been
built with her, had aged with her, were
part of her.
There are sea-pictures like that on almost
every page.
A. E. W. Mason’s They Wouldn't Be
Chessmen (Hodder and Stoughton:
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) tells how
a well-conceived plan to steal a neck-
lace of priceless pearls, brought to Eng-
land by the youthful, trusting Prince of
Chitipur, failed owing to the human
element. There was neither honor nor
discipline among the thieves. Inspector
Hanaud, of the Surete Generate, appears
at an early stage, and is doggedly comic
as usual.
“He’s balmy.”
“Balmy?” exclaimed Hanaud, and he
turned, mystified to the point of exaspera-
tion, to Ricardo. “What does that type
mean? Balmy! It is an adjective of the
tropics. But I am not a tropic”
The Frenchman’s machine-made imbe-
cilities spoiled an otherwise credible
thriller for the present writer. An un-
fortunate characteristic of detectives in
present-day crime fiction is that, unlike
Holmes, they never die.
Slim, by William Wister Haines
(Cassell; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is the
romance of an American lineman. In
the U.S.A. a number of callings which
in other countries are commonplace (the
policeman’s lot, for example) take on an
active-service flavor. Putting up tele-
graph and telephone wires seems to be
another of them. Slim Kincaid, the
hero of this novel, faces appalling dangers
while in the trenches, so to speak, but
is recompensed when he goes on leave.
The girls greet him and his mate as
heroes, and the young men squander
their pay like soldiers who may be dead
before another leave comes their way.
The gang is very like a war-time unit
under a popular commander, and the vir-
tues demanded of its members are those
of fighting men —valor, resource, physi-
cal strength and loyalty to the cause. The
author remarks in a note that “most of
these linemen are still alive.”
Nine Christian Virtues, by the Bishop
of London (Unicorn Press; 2s. 6d.). This
94-page booklet contains eight brief ser-
mons preached by his Lordship in city
and suburban churches, and one which
was preached before the King and Queen
in Buckingham Palace chapel on May
5. It is entitled “Thankfulness,” the in-
spiration being the impending jubilee
celebrations. This bishop has none of
the doubts and questionings which beset
Bishop Barnes, Dean Inge and othei
Anglican prelates. He believes that the
Creator intervened when the present
King was ill the other day, as He inter-
vened to save Edward VII. in 1902.
It is a Person wc arc thanking, a Person
Who, wc believe, was behind that splendid
team of doctors and surgeons and behind
the nurses with their care and skill, and
Who personally healed him.
During the war,
It was never any difficulty to me that
both sides were praying to the same God.
He believes that the million Britons who
fell died gladly for the King, “and as
they look on to-morrow they will see
of the travail of their soul and be satis-
fied.” Faith of this quality has the in-
terest of a rare period piece. In one form
and another it pervades all the sermons.
The Spy Paramount, by E. Phillips
Oppenheim (Hodder and Stoughton:
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is as topi-
cal as this morning’s paper. Berati sits
in his magnificent official apartment in the
Plaza Margaretta at Rome and schemes
to absorb Northern Africa. To him
comes a mysterious American, Martin
Fawley. A bullet intended for Berati
whistles past Fawley’s ear, but the quick-
witted dictator touches a button on his
desk and vanishes through a trapdoor.
The lovely young Principessa Elida di
Rezco di Asena fired the shot, having
absented herself from a reception given
by Berati’s wife for the purpose. She
doesn’t approve of Berati’s truculent
policies. From Rome Fawley (who, of
course, is the Spy Paramount) proceeds
to Monte Carlo, where he meets Krusl.
the richest man in Germany, and so to
Berlin, where Behrling himself and
Behrling’s bodyguard (“dressed with
singular precision in the fashion of the
day, but there was a small brown ribbon
upon the lapel of their dinner coats”) arc
encountered. Fawley’s aim is to save the
world from another war, and after many
adventures he fixes the matter up to
everybody’s satisfaction and retires to an
island paradise which he owns with his
bride, the Principessa. Australians will
be interested to learn that Behrling was
placated by the return of Germany’s lost
colonies.
Greek Fire, by Dora Barford (Harrap ;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). A love story with
modern Greece, its political and social
chaos, as a background. The heroine is
captured by bandits after the destruction
of Smyrna by the Turks in 1922, and
the story describes her rescue by an
admirer. Full of thrills, and obviously
written with inside knowledge of the
terrain and its people.


I
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the
Native Tribes of Australia
In this book, Dr. Basedow relates facts that are stranger
than fiction. Close association with these remarkable
nomads of the North provided countless opportunities for
the writer to observe their quaint habits and customs.
It is as one of themselves that Dr. Basedow wrote this
fascinating story of the Aborigines’ lore, tribal ceremonies
and customs; pitched battle and duel; bird and animal hunt.
It is a narrative in which broad comedy, touching pathos and
tragedy blend into a living and beautiful pattern. Nobody
will ?ver again see all that is described in “KNIGHTS OF
THE BOOMERANG.”
240 PAGES. PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
17 Pages of Illustrations
NOW ON SALE
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or from the Publishers,
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Sydney and All States, also New Zealand.
oc
» a-:'.
imm
m
1
ft. f
I
W * I *r a
W .i m «r v?
|p.-; JX&vhft*' .<s!'•§*<
1
H
I/j
■ .i
"" \ ? * /
» a
.. . ■
*
, -* jr j
rf, • U
wm.
■
$ '<? • * A
~ .
mm
' r *>
m' w
01.
■
/ '
, PhX>., B.Sc.
by HERBERT B
\.y
x
k\ /
H %
K
5*
m.
■■ if
£ *
v
• *vf
' ,


/ ffA
(L.
im
m
A
%
• "*1
\ r >
.v,;i
/•■
I
«
i> {
#
/
V &*
</
«
/^J
v
•»
#
»♦
i*
F
7Z£2


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2897.
August 21, 1935.
“CIVILISATION MUST GET FOR’ARD.”
“Exploring in New Guinea, Hides and O’Malley came upon a strange and interesting people, evidently very happy, in a wonderful valley, extensively cultivated.”
“Say, Yurrup, we gaht ta civilise these guys.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6 d.; 3 months, 8s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
BEGINNING AT THE WRONG END.
At a recent “tourist development convention” in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Dr. Page complained that France
was earning 20 times more from tourists than Aus-
tralia, despite the dear French franc and the cheap
Australian pound. He promised that “if the National
Travel Association raised £5OOO for the purpose of
advertising the Commonwealth abroad the Federal
Government would contribute a similar amount,”
A paper submitted by a Travel Association writer
made a significant admission:
Any local area which started to organise and adver-
tise its attractions should remember that it must rely on
Australians rather than on overseas visitors.
Visitors, it was pointed out. stuck to the great cities,
which “offered better facilities in hotel and guest-
house accommodation.”
If France depended for its income from tourism
on the capital and a few other great cities the industry
would show poor returns. Visitors to France spend
their money in regions as far apart as the Loire
Valley, where the chateaux are; Brittany, whose
towns offer bathing, golf, gambling casinos and the
like; and the Pyrenees.
Australia doesn’t even cater adequately for
visitors in its capital cities. One-of the speakers at
last week’s annual meeting of the Victorian division
of the Commonwealth Institute of Valuers remarked:
Cafe proprietors should be permitted to serve light
wines with meals and suppers, as is done on the
Continent. Dancing should be permitted. Tourists from
abroad feel that they are entitled to enjoy these privi-
leges, but restrictive legislation prevents proprietors from
providing them.
I hat Australia has plenty to offer tourists goes
without saying. Some of the best racing in the world.
Surfing to match that of Waikiki. Snow sports.
Exhibition tennis, cricket and football equal at
limes to London’s best. Game-fishing along the coast,
trout-fishing up country. A wide diversity of climates ;
it is possible to leave Sydney on what would be
considered a perfect spring day at Nice and reach
Kosciusko a few hours later to find what would be
considered a perfect winter day at St. Moritz.
But these and dozens of other attractions
are vitiated by the fact that our ways are not the
ways of the outside world. When moneyed foreigners
visit London they find the “cocktail hour” in progress
between 5 and 7 p.m. at hotels and restaurants.
Dinner is a movable feast, served at whatever time
the visitor desires. Sounds of revelry may be heard
at all hours of the night, and this is one of the reasons
why London is attracting more visitors with money to
burn just now than Paris, Berlin and Rome combined.
In London, moreover, there is no censorship of
books as Australian cities understand the term.
Artistically meritorious films, such as “Man of Arran,”
which are cut down by half an hour or so for our
moral protection, are shown in their entirety to
London audiences. Whereas an English visitor to an
Australian city is virtually met on the wharf by tax-
gatherers, Federal and State, an Australian visitor to
England is allowed six months before he is required
to put in an income return. In short, the visitor is
made to feel that he is wanted and, within reasonable
limits, free.
Ten or 15 years ago country hotels in England
and in many parts of the Continent were almost as
primitive as those in many parts of Australia. Now
in all the tourist countries the traveller finds clean
rooms, well-cooked meals, willing service at any
hour of the day or night, and—in many if not most
cases—modern sanitation. Such is the standard that
has been created by the fierce struggle for the invisible
exports represented by the tourist trade, and Australia
may as well give up the struggle if it isn’t prepared
to recognise the position and act accordingly.
The States will have to begin by revising the
sections of their Liquor Acts which forbid trading
after 6 p.m. or thereabouts by hotels and clubs.
Restaurants must be encouraged to serve meals at
later hours —perhaps, as in England and elsewhere, by
working several shifts. Country hotels must be
encouraged, or forced, to offer more attractions to
visitors; to pay at least as much attention to the
tourist as to the bar trade. After the campaign has
been in progress for a year or so—it took the best
part of five years’ propaganda and other work by
the British analogues of our Travel Association and
N.R.M.A. to induce British tourists to begin “seeing
Britain” in large numbers—wealthy Australians may
begin to spend Jong holidays at home instead of
abroad. The next phase will be the arrival in large
numbers of wealthy foreigners. By that time it won’t
be necessary to advertise the attractions of our tourist
resorts ; members of the tourist classes, foreign and
Australian, will be doing it far more effectively than
any professional publicity agents could.
At present these people are condemning us and
our puritanical restrictions on liberty. "Whether
restrictionists or latitudinarians have a better ethical
case is arguable, but immaterial. What is certain,
and to the business point, is that until the Common-
wealth and States abandon many of their restrictive
policies it will be wasting money to advertise our
tourist attractions.
OFFICIALS AS JUDGES.
The little band of .South Australians who fired the
first shot in the campaign against the monstrous
growth of government hy regulation laid stress on
the excessive powers exercised by local governing
bodies, commissions and boards. There is another
threat to democracy, no less real, and coming from
the same source. This is the taking away of judicial
power from the Courts in order to give it to public
officials.
Dicey found the British system resting on two
pillars—the sovereignty of Parliament and the rule
of law. By (he rule of law he meant the right of
the subject to do anything which the law did not
expressly forbid, and the expounding of that law
by Judges who had nothing to hope or fear from
the Government—independent Judges, in short.
The sovereignty of Parliament is fast giving place
to (he regulation-making powers of officials in
Government offices. In (he same way the power of
deciding rights of individuals is being taken away
from the Courts and given to officers of the Crown.
Australian legislation bristles with examples of
this. Perhaps the worst instance of all is the taxation
system. The basis of the whole scheme is to make
“the Commissioner” the judge of the taxpayer’s rights.
Income is taxable “if it appears to the Commis-
sioner” that certain facts exist. Deductions will be
allowed when, “in the opinion of the Commissioner,”
they can be claimed. A pastoralist may subtract
wire-netting costs if he proves certain matters “to
the satisfaction of the Commissioner.” He may also
deduct for wear and tear “such sums as the Commis-
sioner thinks just.” “The Commissioner” in question is
the Commonwealth man ; (here are six State Commis-
sioners, each with corresponding powers, besides.
One of the main things about a Judge is that
everyone knows who he is and on what principles
he acts. No one knows who “the Commissioner” is.
It is obvious that in every ordinary case the decision
is made, not by the head of the department, but by one
of the hundreds of anonymous officials who work under
him. This may be necessary ; it is also deplorable.
Personal responsibility for decisions is a great
public safeguard. Every Judge has to stand up to
what he does. He has heard the evidence and has
applied his mind to it. The eyes of the community
are on him when he passes judgment. He cannot,
for example, shelter behind the name of the Depart-
ment of Justice.
But what taxpayer has ever found the actual
human mind that disallowed his deductions for him?
He is officially informed that the decision has been
made by “the Commissioner.” The probabilities are
that “the Commissioner” never heard of him.
The question is not whether the departments do
their work well or badly. In this country they appear
to do it as well as anyone could expect
of them when there are so many departments
and such a multitude of officials with arbitrary
powers. The question is whether it is wise to give
anonymous public servants the function of Judges.
“It may well be,” wrote Lord Hewart in The New
Despotism, “that in a particular case a perfectly
correct opinion might be obtained from some person,
incapable of identification, who heard none of the
parties to the controversy, but who brought his indi-
vidual reason to bear in private upon a miscellaneous
bundle of correspondence. But it is manifest that
an opinion so arrived at differs by the whole width
of the heavens from the decision of a Court,”
LEAVE THEM ALONE!
The Hides expedition, returning from interior New
Guinea, has stirred Australia with its adventures.
But in the life of New Guinea patrol officers such
adventures are common. Eighteen months ago, taking
a parallel route, Deputy-D.O. Taylor, of the Man-
dated Territory service, went to Mt, Hagen. In
1914 Chinnery attempted something almost equally
dangerous. And Australia heard next to nothing
of the 1924 expedition of Austen up the Fly River,
though he penetrated 150 miles further into the interior
than Hides. Neither was there much stir about the
later Karius-Champion trek across the island.
These expeditions have been followed by little
white settlement. The difference between most of
them and the passage of Hides from the upper reaches
of the Strickland River to the Kikori has been in the
type of country traversed. Hides and O’Malley dis-
covered, not merely rough limestone land, drained
by turbulent rivers, but areas calculated to tempt
any pioneer:
Green and gold, stretching as far as the eye could
reach, lay rolling timbered slopes and grasslands, with
cultivated squares of such exactness that one thought
of wheatfields.
Traces of gold were found in creeks. This alone
is enough to set prospectors on the track if they are
allowed to go.
After Taylor delivered his report, the Adminis-
tration, following the League policy of putting
as many wild natives into trousers as possible, allowed
both prospectors and missionaries to join in a scramble
to increase the world’s gold reserve and to “civilise”
a people who engaged in agriculture, planted the sides
of their roads with trees and surrounded their villages
with lawns. On the Papuan side of the border there were
other rushes. Each aftermath was one of disaster.
In four months to the end of February, 1934.
40 lives were lost as a result of attacks on white
men and police. In the Mandate, Bernard McGrath,
a prospector, was killed on the Upper Ramu; lan
Mack, a patrol officer, had been killed in the same
region a few months before. A little to the south
P.O. McCarthy was severely wounded, and a cadet
was on the defensive for weeks with a handful of
native police. Missionaries who followed were slain
in the Mt. Hagen region. The punitive expedition
which succeeded the killing of McGrath cost 20
natives their lives.
On the Papuan side C. F. Cowley, a patrol officer,
was early last year sent to the Tinai Valley, where
natives are “not under complete control,” to protect
prospecting parties. A body of his carriers, taking
a short cut against his orders and getting among the
Givena villages, where they had no right to be, were
attacked. Two were killed. The native sergeant in
charge retaliated, and four villagers lost their lives.
Later during the tour a young policeman accidentally
discharged his rifle. His friends, thinking he had been
attacked, killed four of the Kagave tribe —a stolid
people who realised the mistake and took no revenge.
It was Hides who was sent to. deal with the
situation. He found a heavily-stockaded village and
a chief who told him to “come and take me if you
can.” He was taken “after a sharp fight.”
William MacGregor laid it down (hat “one of
our first duties is to deal justly and righteously with
the natives,” and this policy, has been followed by
Hubert Murray, Hides went on this earlier expedi-
tion in the MacGregor-Murray spirit. The captured
chief was brought to Port Moresby, and suffered no
terrors worse than those of civilised hospitality before
he was returned to his tribe.
On the more recent expedition, even the passage
of the exploring party led to many deaths —the leader
does not know how many. They were just as inevit-
able as if a strange, armed people were to arrive on
the outskirts of Port Moresby and proceed uninvited
into plantation-houses momentarily deserted by the
occupants. Hides and his men, desperately short of
food, felt compelled to do this in villages inhabited
by an interesting people—industrious, humorous and
advanced in agriculture, but doubtless with second-
hand knowledge of the results of descents of other
white strangers on other parts of their island.
It is to be hoped that they now will be left alone,
and that the newly-explored region will be closed to
whites except for purposes of scientific inquiry.
A DANGEROUS GAME.
If I were an Italian, as I am an Australian, I would
be dead against my country, however unpleasant its
internal situation, plunging into an African war.
African wars, as Britons, Germans, French, Spaniards
and Italians themselves could testify, are apt to drag
on for years and to become dreadful consumers of
manhood and money. Only rich Powers too strong
to be attacked in their homelands —whether because of
their own strength or of that added to the strength
derived from trustworthy alliances —can indulge in
African wars with any measure of security.
Italy is poor, and has no friends that would help
it for its own sake if African defeats endangered its
position in Europe. By its African policy and the
threats of its Chauvinists it is alienating Britain,
hitherto its one firm friend. It can expect no assist-
ance from America, whose President it assailed bitterly
in 1919, and which has abandoned Europe to its own
devices. The attitude of France is correct, but, before
the war and since, it has never been cordial; during
the Fiume business French garrison troops that sym-
pathised with the Yugoslavs were slain by d’Annun-
zio’s warriors. The Yugoslavs have never forgotten or
forgiven what they regard as the theft of Fiume, and
they could put a million men in the field, besides
letting submarines and destroyers loose in the Adriatic.
The peace treaty with Austria gave the Italians
a defensible north-eastern frontier ; but in the territory
handed over there were 250,000 Tyrolese, who are
fiercely-patriotic Austro-Germans, and in what is left
of Austria, a republic for 16 years and since “a
Christian, German Federal State on a [shaky] cor-
porative foundation,” there are nearly 7,000,000 more
Germans—predominantly Catholic, but, then, so were
the people of the Saar. And north of the Austro-
Germans are the Germans of the Reich, 67,000,000 of
them, with an army, a navy and an air force resusci-
tated and rapidly expanding in spite of Versailles
prohibitions, and an Austrian-born Leader who has
in Austria myriads of followers clamorous for union
with Germany. There are not 43,000,000 Italians.
Preservation of the integrity of Austria is a
cardinal point of Italy’s foreign policy. It will be
difficult in any circumstances to prevent the union
of Austria with Germany; it may be impossible if
Italy is weakened materially by defeat or stalemate
in Africa, and morally by the loss of prestige, by the
sacrifice of Britain’s friendship and by the ill-will of
Japan. A German thrust at Italy might conceivably
begin with a revolt in the Italianised Tyrol. Napoleon
found the Tyrolese very intractable subjects ; it seems
unlikely that the descendants of the peasants who
rose against the Emperor at the height of his power
would neglect an opportunity of freeing themselves
from Italian dominion when the tide of fortune turned
against it.
Ferocious was the contempt of the Germans for
the Italians during the war. When Italy became a
combatant, this is how a Berlin newspaper reported it:
Germany has another enemy. An army of mandolin-
players is on the march against us.
And this feeling was not allayed by Caporetto. Ol
course, the Italians fought heroically before Caporetto,
and pulled themselves together splendidly after it;
and in Mussolini they have the best of the dictators.
But, perhaps because circumstances have become too
strong for him —it is a weakness of dictatorships
he is playing a very dangerous game. Tuart.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
And This Is Government!
Just like old times was the seamen’s strike which
"the militant minority movement” engineered, by
typical “militant minority” methods, nearly a fortnight
ago. A trumpery dispute over the payment of overtime
to men awaiting the deferred sailing of the Murada, an
A.U.S.N. freighter, was the cause or pretext.
Summonses were issued against the company, but
the militants did not wait for the verdict. Neither
were they restrained by the representations of Sea-
men’s Union officials that the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court was about to issue a wages award,
nor by any consideration for shippers of perishables
or the necessities of settlers in remote parts of Aus-
tralia or the interests of other unionists. They
demanded a strike, and were obeyed with sheeplike
meekness.
While the thing was developing, and vessels were
being laid up every day, the overtime case was heard.
The claims, which were made in the Sydney Sum-
mons Court, were for amounts totalling 235. 4d, One
man asked Bs. 3d. for three hours’ overtime between
4 a.m. and 7 a.m. on June 22, a day on which he
had been paid for eight hours at ordinary rates, in-
cluding the hours for which he made the extra claim.
Another man, who had been paid for eight hours,
having worked six, claimed ss. 6d. overtime for two
of the hours. Another demanded three hours’ over-
time.
The company pleaded that it was not liable in
case of delay when the cause was beyond its control,
and the magistrate dismissed the cases.
Nevertheless, the strike went on. All Steamship
Federation vessels were declared “black,” and non-
Federation companies were included in the ban. Mr,
Jacob Johnson, Federal secretary of the union, who
has been connected with a strike or two in his time,
was greeted with “roars of derision” when he warned
Sydney seamen of the dangers of the upheaval. The
owners offered not to discriminate against the Murada
men, but to “regard them as at once eligible with
other men for employment,” but the offer was bois-
terously rejected.
According to the “Workers’ Weekly,” a “general
shipping strike is vital to all workers”; but the
Stewards’ Union has repudiated “the manufactured
strike,” and other unions are unsympathetic, if not
hostile, A “compulsory conference” has now been
summoned by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
which, as is grimly recalled, was set up for “the
prevention and settlement of industrial disputes
extending beyond the limits of any one State,”
From the shadow Government at Canberra has
come only a series of feeble messages to the effect
that it is “watching the position closely,” and that it
“does not wish to prejudice the promising prospects
of an early settlement,” and that it hesitates “to
utter one word which might embitter relations which
are already bitter enough.” All this while 30 ships
have been tied up, and growers have suffered cruel
losses, and the business world has been subjected to
vast expense and delay, and factories and workshops
dependent on the free movement of shipping are in
an increasingly serious plight.
No wonder the organisers of disorder look on
this Government and its laws with contempt.
♦
Dunstan Whispers “Secesh.”
Premier Dunstan is the latest to join the chorus
of the secessionists. He does not howl raucously
for dismemberment, as did the protagonists in West-
ralia; he does not murmur audibly, like his comrades
in Tasmania. He just whispers it in the ear of the
Victorian public, while denouncing “Federal tyranny”
with all the amplification he can command.
In point of fact, “Federal tyranny” has little to
do with Premier Dunstan’s troubles. His troubles
are of his own making, or, rather, of his own inability
to solve a simple sum in arithmetic. When he
assumed office he scattered promises which any
12-year-old child with an average command of arith-
metic could see at a glance were impossible. All
politicians do this, but Mr. Dunstan’s inexperience
was such that he made short-time promises dealing
with almost definite amounts of expenditure.
Those promissory notes have now fallen due,
and, having to find a scapegoat, Mr. Dunstan delivers
loud denunciations of the Commonwealth, implying
that the time is ripe for somebody else to raise the
banner of secession for Victoria. He won’t raise it
himself, for he is not quite sure how Victoria, with
its fine national traditions, will respond, but meanwhile
the cursed Commonwealth will serve as the villain
of the piece responsible for all the trouble.
When things go wrong in Germany, Hitler can
always blame the Jews, When Italy sees bankruptcy
before it, Mussolini can tell people that it is all due
to the brutality of the Abyssinians. Having insufficient
Jews to blame and no Abyssinians, Mr. Dunstan is
driven to point out the Commonwealth as the
Oppressor. It has become a favorite pastime of
parish-pump politicians, but Westralians, staring at
the prodigious bills sent home by their secesh dele-
gation, are beginning to think that it has been over-
done.
♦
More Good-time Missions.
“They are known as goodwill missions,” said Forde,
M.H.R. —“they ought to be known as good-time
missions.” The words were scarcely out of his mouth
before more jaunts at the expense of the people of
Australia were announced. Possibly the most ingenu-
ous excuse ever offered was in the inspired report from
Canberra, published in Melbourne “Herald,” in which
it was put forth that Dr. Earle Page was likely to. be
sent somewhere —at the public cost —“because he
had never had a trip yet.”
The present suggestion is that Dr. Page and
Acting Treasurer Casey should represent Australia
at the Imperial Conference next year, while Treaty
Minister Gullett will lead a goodwill mission to
America and Canada. The word “lead” has some
significance, for it implies that Mr. Gullett will just
be the big shot of the concern, and following him
will be the usual serried ranks of secretaries, advisers,
experts and typists. As Mr. Gullett is still in Europe
goodwilling with somebody, it would seem merely
a waste of passage-money to bring him back. He
will simply come to Australia, and, in the words of
the song, turn right round and go right back again.
These missions it is planned to dispatch “late
this year or early in 1936,” so that the continuity
of missionary work so well established in foreign
lands may not be broken. Regarding missions gener-
ally, it is remarkable that the Prime Minister of
Canada performed all the work he had to do at
London in 10 days, while the Prime Minister of
South Africa returned satisfied after spending less
than a month in England. If there were any howls
of indignation from Canada or South Africa at their
lack of thoroughness, none of them reached Australia.
*
P.D. Car* Are Deaf.
Upwards of 40 Police Department cars patrol Sydney
suburbs, forming a mobile force of great value in
the suppression of crime and the upholding of law
and order.
In one respect, however, they might just as well
be in that their only means of
communicating with headquarters is by pulling up
at a telephone. Headquarters has no means of
getting in touch with them. Accordingly, when a
hold-up or burglary is reported much valuable time is
wasted before the police can get to the spot, although
a P.D. car may actually be in the next street when
the alarm is given.
In these days, with radio in every home, it seems
incredible that receiving sets tuned in to headquarters
have not been placed in all P.D. cars, instead of in
only a few special patrol cars. The cost would not
exceed £lOOO, including a year’s upkeep.
It cannot be that the Police Department does not
realise the necessity for this expenditure, but appa-
rently politicians prefer to spend the money on 50
yards of suburban roadway or for ornamentation on
new Government buildings,
♦
Australia’s Court of Jamshyd.
From an Anglo-Australian journalist;
It is true that Australia House is now in a backwater
(B. 31/7/’35), but even The Bulletin could not have foreseen
how the business centre of London was going to shift right
away from the lower Strand, or how traffic problems were
going to make it necessary for the L.G.O. authorities to cut
Australia House out as a regular stopping-place.
I agree that another site will have to be secured. A
difficulty is that sites for Dominion G.H.Q. in the West End
cost money; moreover, it will be no easy matter to find a
buyer for the present structure. The Bush House people might
consider it, but it is doubtful whether they would go as
high as the million which must be our rock-bottom price
if we are to recover the money originally spent. When I
was last in London the cable-wireless combine was vainly
seeking a purchaser for its magnificent new eight-storey build-
ing at the bottom of Savoy Hill, a stone’s-throw from Aus-
tralia House, another “million-popnd” affair, and never occu-
pied; but the best offer was £650,000. Values have risen since
then.
I am glad The Bulletin confines its criticism to the
unsuitability of the site, and does not include the staff in its
condemnation. Australia House, particularly its commercial
department, has first-class men, all Australians, who have
done splendid work for inadequate pay. Two, Plunkett and
Faraker, have secured millions of pounds’ worth of business
for Australian exporters, yet Government after Government
passes them over when big trade jobs are going.
Australia House will have to be sold, but the suggestion
of an office in the City will not commend itself to those
of us who have seen the new Africa House in Trafalgar-
square and Canada’s fine building on the opposite side of the
square. High Commissioners have other duties to perform
besides finance, and Australia should have something more
than a counting-house for its official home in the world’s
greatest capital.
♦-
The First Essential.
The U.S.A. stands to lose 80,000 square miles —not
acres —of its arable land unless “something is done”
to restrict erosion by wind and water. It is suffering,
as Australia is, through the wild energy of the early
settlers in cutting down every tree within sight, instead
of realising that the tree is part and parcel of success-
ful agriculture.
Diggers remember well the long lines of poplars
which divided the Somme valley into a chessboard.
Possibly some thought at the time that their existence
was due to the artistic temperament of the French.
It was not; it was merely the expression of the fru-
gality of the French peasant, who knows not waste,
even waste of soil. Had it not been for those poplars,
Nature would have wreaked far more lasting destruc-
tion on the Somme valley than the Germans did. It
was the poplars which broke the wind and kept
excessive rainfall from carrying the surface soil into
the bed of the river.
If America and our own Mallee can remedy the
errors of the past, the dust evil may some day prove
a blessing in disguise. The thick coating should be
good, well-nitrogenised surface soil, and prove as fer-
tile as desert areas always do when they are irrigated.
The accumulations of years of sunlight and frost
return big dividends with the flux of water. But trees
are the first essential.
*
Playing the Reds’ Game.
The British Committee of Academic Freedom, which
has 600 professor and lecturer members, has been
applauding Auckland University for refusing to let
the Government browbeat it into making a martyr of
a lecturer, one Dickinson, who had been expressing
original ideas about the Great War, in which he
fought.
It is a pity more has not been heard of this
association in Australia. It should offer affiliation to
the Academy of Freedom which functions in the
Australian Customs.
Mr. Dickinson was on exchange from Leeds
University. Left to himself and his students, he would
not have been taken very seriously. Left to the Gov-
ernment, he would have become as important as did
Kisch and Griffin in Australia.
Just now there is a spate of homing delegates
who have had free trips to Russia at the expense of
their unions or of the Soviet Government. Naturally,
the pundits of Mr. White’s department have raided
them. In Melbourne one was deprived of books
which contained selections from the works of Lenin,
A count of selections from the works of Lenin
exposed for sale in a Sydney bookshop which
specialises in such things shows 58 varieties —one
more than Heinz’s.
In Adelaide searchers took from H. J. Harris, of
Broken Hill, a book by Annie Louise Strong dealing
with her experiences during a trip through Siberia.
Annie is assistant editor of the “Moscow News.” Her
name appears on every issue—and quantities of every
issue are imported and sold even by conservative
bookstalls in Australia. A Bulletin man has a dozen
of her pamphlets, all bought openly in Sydney shops.
Another pilgrim was deprived of “a verbatim
report of the proceedings against Vickers.” These
reports are scarce in Australia —there were four
varieties of them on sale after the trial, apart from
the versions published in Communist newspapers, but
most people found them so dull that they were used
as firelighters. They were about as comprehensible
to the ordinary reader as the report of a Privy Council
appeal about a Chinese-Malay divorce case.
*
The Moral Factor.
“S.D.”: Nothing caused so much mutinous language
in England during the war as the extravagance of
senior officers at bases. While I was in charge of some
Diggers at an R.F.A. camp on Salisbury Plain the
C.O. got orders to transfer to another area a couple
of hundred miles away. For the duration of our
stay (about a month) he had kept five Tommies, who
should have been training, at work in his house and
garden: he now ordered half a dozen more to load
his furniture on lorries. Petrol was rigidly rationed
at the time (July, T 7), yet the old boy had his
possessions, which could well have gone by train,
shifted by road, and he and his family followed in
cars. This kind of thing went on everywhere.
I got a very different impression in Paris at the
end of 1926, when Poincard was waging his “Save
the Franc” campaign. Poincard used to arrive
at his office in the Tuileries on foot, having walked
from a near-by Metro station; and he went home in
the same frugal manner at night. 1 used to see one
of his Ministers in the old bus that took me across
the Seine and along the Rue des Saintes Pdres to my
hotel, and the spectacle of generals in second-class
railway carriages was not unknown.
Say what you like about the French, they’re not
snobs. Neither are Australians, for the most part;
but many of their politicians are.
Jim Brown, M.L.A., may have walked to save
tram fares before he got into Parliament; the spend-
thrift spirit invades him immediately afterwards.
Created Minister, Jim goes everywhere in Government
cars, like his colleagues, their wives, children and
hangers-on. A convention has been established that
politicians have a right to live luxuriously in Australia,
and that it is the business of the electors to pay up.
Ministerial display costs more than money. It is
a chronic irritant to the overtaxed, and it supplies
critics of the democratic system with some of their
best arguments.
An Australian Prime Minister could raise himself
and his party to great heights in the public esteem by
saying something like this before a visit to London;
I don’t mean to take a costly retinue of secretaries,
typists and so on with me; the country can’t afford
it. and I can get all the help I want on the other side.
I won’t stay at the Savoy; I would feel out of place
there: the Norfolk will be quite good enough for
me, and it is handier to Australia House. I refuse
to accept the vulgar notion that a politician does his
country honor by behaving like a profiteer.
A State Premier might win prestige by talking
this way:
My Ministers and I have decided to come down
to the level of High Court and State Judges as regards
transport. We will travel to and from our homes in
trains, trams or buses, and members of the party
who can afford it (notably Ministers and possessors of
private incomes) will pay their fares. My Ministers and
I will get about Ihe city on foot or in our own cars
like other citizens. In short, members of Parliament
who belong to my party mean in all respects to show
the community how patriotic public men should behave
when thousands are on relief work or the dole.
How inspiring such a gesture would be! But/l
doubt if we have one politician big enough to make it.


SOCIETY
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS
"Stonewalls”; A Californian Judge
now visiting Australia told the Sydney
papeis that life was being made altogether
too pleasant for convicts in the USA
what with baseball games, the radio
and moving pictures. “I am anxious,”
he added, to see under what conditions
gaol life operates in this State.” Barring
the baseball, he probably won’t find
much difference. Indeed, only a day
or two before the visitor’s remarks
appeared one of the
papers featured a story
about a “lifer” who had
developed such a capa-
city for music and musi-
cal composition that he
was allowed the use of
a piano for an hour a
day to make further pro-
gress in his art. No-
body will grudge con-
victs a certain amount of
wholesome recreation,
but if American humani-
tarianism can beat this it will be sur-
prising.
* * * *
“Whangamomona”: Mead and pern
are both made in Maoriland, the latter
being brewed commercially at Nelson.
In that district I have found that country
people utilise no end of things for the
compounding of alcoholic drinks, from
blackberries down to parsnips. For a
really deadly tipple, tasting like metho.
and sugar. I recommend the world-weary
to pumpkin rum.
* * * *
“Eighteenpenny Side”: A delightful
s.-p. romance was unfolded during an
appeal to the Queensland Full Court by
a gentleman convicted “down below” of
s.-p. betting. The police said he was
standing on the hotel steps making some
staccato remarks to a crowd round him
and taking small sums of money. In-
vestigation showed that in the wall beside
him was a funnel, and from this a tube
led to a telephone inside. Defendant
said he was merely taking money from a
lew friends to put on horses at his club
later on. The telephone gadget was hard
to explain away, however, and the Court
upheld the conviction without calling on
the prosecuting wig to speak his piece.
* ❖ sjj
“L.J.H.”; Those patriotic souls who
have been condemning the project of in-
viting Zane Grey to tell the world about
the Barrier Reef per medium of a novel
mistake the object of the plan when they
contend that an Australian writer should
be given the job. No Australian writer
has a fraction of the public overseas that
Zane Grey has. It is not a matter of
producing literature, but of producing
advertising copy—of inducing the over-
seas globe-trotter to come hither instead
of going yon. Zane Grey has the ears of
the world, and it is into those ears that
we want to pour our tale of Barrier
Reef attractions. An Australian writer
might produce a literary masterpiece;
but it would never reach the people the
Queensland Government aims at reach-
ing.
♦ * # *
"Grasspan”; Brunswick (Vic.) has
placed a municipal ban on scooters;
hereafter, any youngster who whirls
along any footpath on one will render
himself liable to prosecution. The Bruns-
wick by-law will force the kiddies on to
the roadway. From the standpoint of
public policy, it is questionable whether
it isn’t better to have a few adults with
barked shins than a few children in the
morgue.
* * * ♦
"Alpha”: The shindy Sydney Uni.
undergrads. kicked up when addressed
by an evangelist was discounted by the
sturdy commonsense of the gentleman
himself, who went so far as to say that he
enjoyed the chipping. The trouble with
most speakers who wander up to the
Union in search of a stamping-ground
for free speech is that they fail to realise
it is tree speech lor the audience, 100.
Anyone with a sense of humor gets along
all right, but nervous people and serious
ism advocates are apt to become
“Now I know what it feels like to he intoxicated by a woman.”
rattled and to give up their mission in
disgust. I recall Jock Garden becoming
riled after quite a good hearing. The
“Labor Daily” featured a mass conver-
sion in the halls of privilege, accompanied
by the singing of “The Red Flag” by all
present, but Jock knew better.
* * * *
“J.E.L.”: Militiamen, whose sartorial
troubles have been dwelt upon of late,
are comfortably dressed compared with
naval ratings. Our small, round hat
does not protect even one side of the
face. The tight-fitting jumper does not
permit a warm sweater to be worn un-
derneath in winter, and there are no
convenient buttons for use in summer-
time. Lastly, no soldier ever hears a
child remark: “Look at his pants,
mummy; there’s room for both of us
in one leg!”
* * * *
“N.7.Y.”: A Kidman story that I have
never seen in print. In a pre-war year
the S. Aus. pastoralist with some friends
paid a visit to his properties on the
Georgina (W.Q.), The Walgra camp
(Kidman’s) was then attending a joint
muster on Roxborough (Q.N. Co.). Kid-
man went to the Roxborough camp, at
which a shrewd half-caste was cooking.
Passing himself off as a stranger, he poked
about, asking silly questions and demand-
ing this, that and the other darned im-
possible thing. The twinkle in Jack
the cook’s eye might have warned him,
but it didn’t. At last, pretending to be
disgusted, Kidman muttered: “You
don’t seem to have anything here at all.
My friends and 1 will go to that other
camp, and get a proper feed.” Swift as
a flash Jack ripped his thrust home:
"Don’ go over there! Tha’s a Kidman
camp—they’ll starve you!”
* * 4= *
“Visitor”; The sky-line of Adelaide is
being altered rapidly. The old two-
towers vista looks oddly different now
that the Town Hall holes are filled with
a clock to compete with the Post Office
opposite ; but both are dwarfed by the
solid white T. and G. and the new
tapering wedding-cake of the Colonial
Mutual, close to which the A.M.P.
has something enormous half-erected.
Round the corner on North Terrace
Goldsbrough Morts are filling the gap
between the big Shell building and
Liberal Club with a neat tooth, and
further along the great Bonython Hall
of the university is just beginning to
show what it will look like when com-
plete.
* * * ♦
“Kcllick”; The sale of H.M.A.S.
Anzac brings back memories of the vessel
known throughout the fleet as the “rescue
ship.” At Storm Bay (Tas.) in 1930 she
was the first to reach the scene of the
Seagull disaster, in which a telegraphist
lost his life. The other two members
of (he ’plane’s crew recovered, after
the steamer’s record-breaking rush to
Hobart. A year later she picked up a
fishing-boat, occupied by four small
boys, which had drifted many miles from
FrankstonfVic.). Another person who had
cause to be thankful to the “rescue ship”
was the wife of the lighthouse-keeper at
Gabo Islajid. She was stricken down with
appendicitis, and an appeal was made
for medical assistance. The message was
picked up by the fleet at Jervis Bay, and
the Anzac’s dash to Gabo in 10 hours is
part of her fine history.
* * * *
‘“Fiona”: Aunt Jane, who is rich,
elderly and very religious, told us delight-
edly that she had sold a shop left to her
by her late lord at an astonishingly good
price. “I sold it direct,” said she; “no
agents. Such a nice man! I asked him
what he was going to sell, but he told
me he believed in keeping all business
matters secret.” It was our clergyman
who discovered the use to which the nice
man intended to put the shop. He spoke
to Aunt Jane about it “Mrs. Binks,”
he said, “I am both astonished and
grieved. To think that you should have
provided the opportunity for the start-
ing of a betting den in the parish!”
Aunt Jane hasn’t recovered yet.
* * * " *
“D.”; A friend of mine is applying
the chain-letter idea to politics. He has
got six friends to write to their members,
Federal and State, protesting against
expensive overseas jaunts and similar
luxuries for politicians in conjunction
with ever-rising taxation. Each friend
has pledged himself to persuade six
others to do likewise. It might well get
results. The politicians who are bom-
barded with letters —I am assuming that
the electors are attracted by the scheme
m large numbers—will ignore them at
their peril. Four people out of five don't
vote tor but against candidates and poli-
cies. It was only when constituencies
began to get tolerant, and racial sec-
tarian and suchlike tickets disappeared
that compulsory voting had to be intro-
duced. The circulation of tens of thou-
sands of protests against the extrava-
gance and incompetence of
would be bound to have a revivalist in-
fluence. Issues would become personal
again. Any elector who wasn’t soothed
with an assurance that his member would
fight to stop the taxpayers’ money being
wasted might vote for the other side as
a means of registering indignation, it
would be a menacing situation from the
party hack’s standpoint but for (he poli-
tician’s best friend—inertia.
* * * *
Elmoran : I here has been the usual
little annual disturbance among the
Masai, a warrior tribe of Kenya, and
some of (he cables are trying to distort
ii into a “sympathy” demonstration with
Abyssinia—a country which most of the
Masai have probably never heard of.
Ihe Masai were formerly a warrior
people, raiders and fighters, and, like
the Zulus, keepers of great herds of
cattle. Since the British came, fighting
and raiding have been banned. Each year
the young men of the nation who reach
manhood arc traditionally supposed to
blood (heir spears. Now that this is out
of the question, they have a thin time
from the young women. The girls don’t
present (he involuntary pacifists with
white feathers, like their civilised sisters,
but call them by names which my type-
writer would blush to repeat. The result
is a periodical boil-over among the young
Masai entry and a bit of extra work
for harassed district officers and ’the
East African Rifles.
* * >k *
"Como”: A Melbourne shopkeeper of
a generation back had an effective way
of dealing with shop-
lifters. When a woman
thief was caught red-
handed he would give
her the choice of being
handed over to the police
or being well spanked b\
a hard-faced, athletic
Scotchwoman on his
staff. The culprit invari-
ably chose the spanking,
whereupon she was held
face downwards over a
table while a strap was
vigorously wielded for a
full minute. Whether
the punishment effected
a permanent cure or not.
she was unlikely to try
the game again on those
premises. Spanking also
has its place in the phar-
macopoeia ; I remember
a medical man of my
acquaintance opening
and shutting his right
hand one night in a
peculiar way. “Just had
to spank a woman
patient,” he explained.
“Certain forms of hys-
term are only aggravated by sympathy :
they need cave-man methods, in this
case I cured the patient in five minutes.
My hand still hurts a bit.” I wondered
how the victim felt.
* * * ♦
“Weecan”; Many and varied are the
schemes devised to beat the t.p. man.
One case still spoken of is that of the
enterprising person who put the new
player-piano into an unfinished room
and then built the fourth wall thereof.
The only way to get the instrument oui
was to break the walls down. A Sydnex
concern has taken back a piano from an
agriculturist who had met one instalment.
What the carrier charged to take the
instrument from the railway siding to the
farmhouse and back again, a month or
so later, was more than twice the amouni
of the one instalment. You see, the
carrier was the cocky’s son.
* * * * tr
“Ped”: I was recently shown a list
of road-accident cases treated at a big
city hospital in the course of 28 days.
Nearly 30 p.c. were alleged to have been
caused by pushbikes, and, though push-
bikes are far from numerous, I could
well believe in their lethal capabilities.
The average pushbike rider belongs to
the dangerous ages—l 6 to 20. He may
never get past 15 m.p.h., but as he can't
brake his contraption effectively he is
more to be feared when travelling in
traffic at that pace than one in an efficient
modern car who is going twice as fast.
For some inexplicable reason push-
bikists are not compelled to carry lights
fore and aft at night. No vehicle-users
need them more. A pushbike tearing
down a hill in the dark, a pushbike toil-
ing up a hill in the dark —either of these
may cause a fatal smash under all too
common conditions.
THE MAN-WOMAN.
A Melbourne magistrate dismissed a charge of
offensive behavior against a man who had mas-
queraded as a woman, on the ground that his offence
" ;ls >'o worse than that of a woman who dressed
as a man. ‘The defendant,’ added his Worship, ‘is
much more decently attired than many women who
parade in men’s clothes.’ ”
Docs Law look with loathing,
Is decency hurt
By the lady whose clothing
Is pants and a shirt?
Not much. Then why kick up a shindy al a
chap in a blouse and a skirt?
His duds were in season
And dainty and spruce;
And 1 take it (he reason
For turning him loose
Was that sauce for the feminine gander should
be sauce lor the masculine goose.
When the wildest of wowsers
Arc ceasing their snorts
At maidens in trousers
And flappers in shorts
And surf queens more lightly apparelled at
various seaside resorts,
Must a man be a robber
Or crook, I inquire,
If feminine clobber
Provokes his desire,
Habiliments far less revealing, in truth, than
his usual attire?
I he girl who progresses
On tennis-court tracks
From shimmering dresses
To shivering slacks,
I II wager a quid to a quandong, she always
steers clear of the axe. }
Caballeros skirted,
So Melbourne reports,
Arc no more perverted
Than damsels in shorts.
Bl,t 1 %\P ,e . a might be futile with a
woman 1 .M. in the courts.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Well, what's the matter with YOU?”
“My heart's broken. Tommy has left me for another Woman.”
"Kalevala”; I wonder what stories lie
behind the pen-names of some of
the Prior Memorial entries. Among
those whose novels were commended
"Michael Kurn” and “Anthony Preston”
suggest something of the melody and
flavor of pseudonyms of past days, such
as “Owen Meredith” and “Mark Ruther-
ford.” Several on the complete list —
"Dominic Errould,” “Phineas Philaster,”
“Christiaan Wolf” and “Johannes Treg-
askiss”—are not unworthy of a place in
the sonorous succession which includes
"Lemuel Gulliver,” "Diedrich Knicker-
bocker” and “Sebastian Melmoth."
Towards the end a historic pen-name is
repeated, “Currer Bell.” This was first
used for purposes of authorship by Char-
lotte Bronte, in the days when cautious
publishers were sceptical of the selling
qualities of a woman's name on the title-
page. Apparently this “Currer Bell’s"
entry was not another Jane Eyre. Odd-
est of all is “105 deg. Fahrenheit,” coming
after an ideal one of its kind, “Annie
Nigma.”
* * if *
"Lex” on usurers:
The latest drive against moneylenders in
N. S. Wales (attempts to curb moneylending
occur at short intervals all over the Empire)
proves again that certain phobias never die.
The civilised world has always needed money-
lenders and has always persecuted them. Be-
fore the Reformation the church prohibited the
lending of money at interest, so only Jews
went in for it. As- fast as the non-borrowers
(backed by clericals) kicked Jews out of a
country the borrowers (chief among whom,
usually, was the King) got them back again.
It is happening, in a sense, to this day. The
moneylender, even if he lends at what is known
as unconscionable interest (£l, say, for Is., to
be repaid in seven clays by somebody who has
no security and is in desperate need of the
cash), fulfils a public want. So he invariably
bobs up, however hard the lawyer-politicians,
who correspond to the clerical authoritarians
of another age, try to keep him down. It is
significant that the people whom the ruling
classes, ancient and modern, have toiled to
save from moneylenders, betting men and the
like have invariably viewed anti-usury, anti-
gambling and other laws of the kind with
most disfavor. Nobody is ashamed of assert-
ing his legal rights in ordinary contracts,
but a man who pleads a Moneylenders Act
or a Gaming Act is liable to become a social
outcast. Bootleggers met a similar public need
in America under prohibition, but nobody
seems to have had moral objections to bilking
them.
# * * *
“A. de G”: The death of Mdivani,
the alleged Georgian “prince” whom the
Yankee heiress, Barbara Hutton, married
for (among other inducements) a rather
shadowy title, unexpectedly disclosed that
the adventurer had left a lot of money.
Barbara says she allowed her Caucasian
spouse £70,000 a year since the divorce, in
addition to making considerable pre-
nuptial settlements. This rather upsets
the statement of Cornelius Vanderbilt in
his Good-bye to Fifth Avenue that the
people who sell their titles to American
heiresses nowadays get nothing out of it
but board and lodging and a ticket back
home when the divorce papers are filed
* * * *
“John Gilpin”: In some respects
Queenslanders seem to be of frugal
mind. The Limbless Soldiers’ Associa-
tion up that way runs a team of auto-
matic match-selling machines; holding
its annual inventory, it considered a mass
of etceteras which had been put into the
machine instead of good cash. These
consisted of coins of every country
under heaven, large quantities of washers
and lead and brass discs, evidently
specially manufactured, a Brisbane cen-
tenary medal and countless other odds
and ends. The prime curio of the lot
was a cracked spectacle-lens.
* * * *
“Kai”; Butchers have been using
those meat preservatives ever since 1
came to N.S.W. in pre-war days (B.
7/8/’35). Every now and then there is
a twitter in the papers, and some Govern-
ment official hints that drastic measures
are contemplated, but nothing much ever
happens. There is one of their preserva-
tives—the name escapes me for the
moment —which is used as a dip for off-
color steak. The regular customer can
generally smell and taste it, and to even
the casual eye it gives the meat a tender
blue bloom like that on the nose of a
professional rum-drinker on a frosty
morning.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The extent to which men
who have to pay maintenance to their
wives, and the wives themselves, figure
in complications arising out of State
lotteries suggests that they are regular
patrons of this form of Government
enterprise. One of the first-pri2e winners
had to be hunted for; he was dodging a
warrant for unpaid wife-maintenance and
was too afraid of arrest to collect his
cash, which proved barely enough to pay
his arrears. In another instance a man
was alleged to have given away his prize-
money rather than pay what was due to
his wife. A reverse case was that of a
lucky “investor” who said he handed over
the third-prize money to his missus on
the understanding that she would
abandon all further claims upon him ; he
naturally kicked when, having lost the
cash in an unsuccessful business, she
came back at him for a new helping of
maintenance.
* * * *
“Isis”: I lisfened-in to a radio thriller
last week. The murder was committed at
Oxford in Magdalen (pronounced as
spelt) College, and the undergrads, talked
of the “quadrangle” and of their “room-
mates.” So 1 switched to another station,
and I fancy a good many other old
Oxonians did the same. For some reason
little slips of the sort are intensely annoy-
ing. A friend of mine seethed with fury
on finding in an English magazine a
reference to the “surfers of Manly, the
famous Melbourne suburb.” Even if in-
dignation isn’t aroused, such bloomers
completely destroy illusion. Hollywood
discovered this years ago and hired a
corps of expert advisers, with the result
that British films made in the U.S.A. con-
tain fewer social, sporting, military and
legal errors nowadays than films made in
England. A recent British film showed
foxhounds running with elms in full leal.
* * * *
“Snap”: Australia seems to have
established another national industry.
A witness told the Tariff Board that the
market required 1,407,600 rat- and
mouse-traps annually to cope with the
pests. Until recently these had to be
imported, but an Australian article equal
or superior was now being made. Foreign
competitors had cut prices by 33 p.c. in
order to wipe out the home industry, and
an increase in the tariff was aske 1 for.
There is much to be said in favor of the
application. A war would leave us at
the mercy of the rats and mice if local
industry were not ready to step into the
breach, and towns like Sydney and Mel-
bourne would become second editions of
Hamelin without the Pied Piper.
* « * ft
“M.G.”: Failure of recent Melbourne
concerts to attract payable audiences
has resulted in a fierce controversy re-
garding our claims to be considered a
musical city. In point of fact no city in
the world is musical in the sense that
high-class music can stand on its own
merits. Even in Italy, where music is a
religion and where prima donnas are
obtainable for a few lire a week, finan-
cial failure is frequent. Paris opera is
heavily subsidised, yet most of the
seasons finish with an appeal to the Gov-
“I think I'll have a Bath bun instead of
Wainbow cake. It's more manly.”
ernment for more money to balance the
ledger. In London, the depressing ex-
perience of Beecham is proof of the city's
inability to support music of the sort he
provided, and in New York the Metro-
politan Opera House exists only through
the liberality of millionaires. What the
disgruntled have to recognise here is that
the “music money” of the public is a
strictly limited sum; and when it has
been depleted time must be allowed
for the rebuilding of the fund. Menuhin
took all the music money out of Mel-
bourne for some months. The same
thing occurred after that wonderful
season of the Melba Opera Company
some years ago ; for 12 months music
was dead. High-class music appeals to
a very small section, consisting lor the
most part of people who can't gratify
their tastes as often as they would wish.
* * * *
“Centigrade”: I’m glad I don’t live at
Massowah (or Massaua), capital of
Eritrea. This unhealthy spot has a mean
temp, of 85.8 deg., and according to
climatologists is on the average the
hottest place in the world, which fully
explains why several shiploads of Mus-
solini’s men have already been invalided
home. Contrast the climatic conditions
with those of Addis Ababa, Abyssinia’s
capital, which has never had a higher
temperature than 93dcg. or one lowei
than 32deg., the mean for the year being
62,1 deg.—two degrees lower than Syd-
ney’s. Although it is not 701) miles from
the Equator, the altitude of 8000 ft. makes
all the difference. The average rainfall
is 50in., more than half of which falls
in the summer months, and provides the
water for the annual Nile Hood, through
the Blue Nile and Atbara rivers.
* : i* * *
Dignified protest from “Juggins”:
I have no patience with those who criticise
our Prime Minister far spending £25,000-
£30,000 on his recent jaunt to London. Inc
same parsimonious carpers grudged the small
fortune spent by Mr. Parkhill on “(he visit to
the Cairo postal conference” that took him
through Europe, Britain and North America,
and will offer further mean-spirited objections,
no doubt, when Dr. Page or Senator Pearce
(of Perth, Canberra and Washington) or W. M.
Hughes or all three leave with their retainers
next year for the Imperial Conference.
Australia, with the help of these devoted
public servants, is setting the world a new
standard in political expenditure. How petty-
minded English statesmen seem by comparison!
Disraeli brought his country ‘‘peace with honor
at a cost of a few paltry hundreds; the miser-
able man didn’t even insist that his wife should
be stood a holiday to Berlin by the British
taxpayers. Sir John Simon has been known
(o pay his own expenses while in Europe on
diplomatic missions. Mr. Eden doesn’t take so
rrtuch as a typist with him, and his negotia-
tions rarely last more than a day.
But the English arc like that. An ancestor
of the present Duke of Westminster, on being
asked why he travelled third-class on the rail-
ways, answered, “Because there is no fourth. ’
Picture any Australian politician making such a
degrading admission!
The object of our statesmen in facing the
rigors of life in the world’s costliest liners and
hotels for weeks —aye, months —on end is to
show overseas creditors how rich we are. If only
20 or 30 more (with wives and retainers) could
be persuaded to go abroad, and if our High
Commissioner’s private residence were simul-
taneously transferred to, say, Berkeley-square,
with an extra £15,000-£20,000 added to his
salary for upkeep—then, 1 venture to say,
this great land of ours would begin to get
somewhere in the estimation of those we owe
money to. What would the Anglo-Bengalee
Insurance Company have been before its tailurc
if it had done business in the insignificant pre-
mises occupied by such firms as Rothschild
and Co.?
DAFFODILS.
Of all the signs that herald plain,
Of every leaf and bud that spills
The news (hat winter's on the wane.
The season curst with coughs and chills,
Of all the faintly vernal thrills
In glens and glades, in streets and squares,
I value most the “daffodils
That come before the swallow dares.”
Returning violets retain
Their usual seductive frills;
I smell boronia again;
A pleasant premonition tills
A host of hearts that winter's ills
Will soon be booted down the stairs
Now shops are gay wdth “daffodils
That come before the swallow dares.”
A gladder, cheerier refrain
The raucous kookaburra shrills;
The dosser in the bleak Domain
Awakes less blue about the gills;
The chap who runs illicit stills
bor scantier returns prepares.
Warned by the golden “daffodils
That come before the swallow dares.”
Spring lambs (so-called) the butcher kills:
And, if they’re such, as he declares,
He's dating by the “daffodils
That come before the swallow' dares.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


10 for 9 d
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Celloph an e ”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
“Craven“A” have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CRAVEN A
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
BTO2
r\
\
\ a; a
POLITICAL POINTS
H. E. Holt held the Fawkner (Vic.)
seat for the U.A.P. The late Maxwell’s
last majority over two opponents was
14,922, and Holt’s will be 8000 or there-
abouts ; but, as Don Cameron may rue-
fully reflect, another Trades Hall worthy,
Joe Hannan, was the member in two
Parliaments, 1913-14 and 1914-17. Holt
is only 27, and will be the youngest
Representative.
The women’s vote decided the Fawkner
by-election ; there arc 9500 more ladies
than gents. What’s the good of passing
laws (it is seriously proposed in Queens-
land) to prevent women taking office,
shop and factory work?
Said that seed wheat is to be sent to
the New Guinea cultivators discovered
by Hides and O’Malley in their “wonder-
ful valley.” It won’t be nearly enough,
and our politicians had better arrange
right away to give them Government
banks, bounties, sustenance, stay-orders,
reappraisement committees, rural-re-
habilitation and debt-reduction schemes
and a compulsory pool.
The Canberra commentator who writes
for the Melbourne “Herald” group men-
tions that “Parliament has sat' very little
during the last two years, and a great
mass of arrears of work is mounting up.”
A true bill. Since July 1, 1933, the House
of Reps, has had 87 sittings (all-nighters
are counted as one and two-in-one-day
as two) and the Senate 60. These mem-
bers get their money dashed easily.
In Sydney on the same day, the chair-
man of Mercantile Mutual announced
that rates, taxes and compulsory con-
tributions had taken 12.5 p.c. of net pre-
miums, and the chairman of Mort’s
Dock that they had absorbed 83 p.c. of
net earnings. While such exactions con-
tinue industry will never prosper.
J. S. Teasdale, president of the West-
ralian Primary Producers, suggests an-
other secesh referendum ; and it mightn’t
be a bad idea. It could be taken, as the
other was, synchronously with the gen-
eral election, due next year. And, apropos
of the immense savings that the separa-
tists say they would effect, electors would
have the fact before them that, when
the London delegation returns, Watson
alone will have received £56 a week for
his services, whatever they were.
The Australian-born G.-G. is to have a
successor from overseas. He is a gallant
soldier and an amiable man, but when
the addresses of welcome are presented
somebody might hand over a gold-and-
vellum document containing the speech
which Lyons delivered in opposition to
overseas appointments when he was
Premier of Tasmania. It might be hung
side by side with Joe’s actual reception
speech,
“A leading Russian aviation expert,”
one Graballski or some such name, has
discovered that women are admirably
suited for dropping bombs and firing
machine-guns from great heights, and will
be better air-fighters than men in the next
war. The discovery is on a par with
those other great Red contributions to
the Book of Knowledge—that you can
get rid of a national debt by repudiating
it, and of a middle class by butchering it.
Austrian Nazis are now to wear the
Hitler moustache. Hitler is only a
plagiarist in moustache modes; Charlie
Chaplin popularised the nostril-sieve long
before the war. As» Charlie is of Jewish
origin, some 100 per cent. Nordic may
arise to declare Hitler himself heretical
in wearing non-Aryan face fungus.
Sydney aldermen, voting for the
County Council which is to control the
city electricity department, elected Arthur
McElhone and E. C. O'Dea (city), J. H.
Gardiner (Redfern), S. A. Lloyd, M.L.A.
(Enfield), and J, O, Cramer (North Syd-
ney). The city Labor aldermen gave their
first votes to McElhone, who is an Inde-
pendent, and his preferences put O’Dea
in; the “Civic Reform” vote was split
between Parkes and Tresidder, though
one “Reformer” must have supported
McElhone and another didn’t bother.
What "Reform” doesn't know about win-
ing elections would fill a fat volume.
Food control is a grand thing for some
people, though not for consumers. Since
the present Metropolitan Milk Board
was set up in Sydney, with a manager
from Dairy Farmers as chairman, Dairy
Farmers’ gross profits have gone up from
£255,830 in 1932-33 to £379,662 in 1934-
35. Moreover,
Despite heavy capital expenditure during
the year, the company retired £4834 of
its debenture issue, transferred £4521 to
general reserves and declared a 6 p.c. div.,
absorbing £9830, leaving £2126 to be car-
ried forward.
The consumer? Oh, he has to pay
sevenpence a quart.
Transport engineers comment cyni-
cally on the sending of office-trained
Commissioners
abroad, practically
with blank cheques,
saying that without
the best engineer-
ing advice they
may buy things
that won’t suit.
Trolley-buses are a
blesscJ relief from
roaring trams, but
the possibility of a
live-wire breaking
and falling on a
mass of shoppers
must occur to
nearly everyone
who sees them
gliding along busy
city streets. Double-
decker buses are
another doubtful
blessing in a hilly
place like Sydney.
Queensland
Archbishops Duhig
and Wand have
been dealing
severely with Wil-
liams, one of the
Moscow delegates.
He returned with
the news that chil-
dren there are so
advanced that they
object to the ring-
ing of church bells and severely reprove
their parents for being religious. Pesti-
lent little bounders the brats must be,
but the Moscow pilgrim seems to have
the highest admiration for them.
One of the Lazzarini brothers is lead-
ing a revolt of the Marrickville Lang-
Labor League (he is State member for
Marrickville) against the “Red” rules
and Inner Group control. It is really a
threat to Lang’s dictatorship, but Laz.
protests that he has been “36 years in
the Labor movement” and “fears no
one.” Perhaps he is buoyed up by the
thought that Lang’s enmity is a sure
passport to wealth or power. Concen-
trated on Stevens, it drove him out of
his Government job, only to come back
and dish Lang at three elections, winning
two as Premier. Diverted to Theodore,
it put him in the way of becoming a
proper rich uncle from Fiji.
Lyons and co, seem now definitely
committed to the leasing of Govern-
ment pubs at “the legislative and ad-
ministrative capital” whose grandest bit
of scenery, as members view it, is the
road to Sydney. When the Hotel Can-
berra is leased, legislators may lose some
of their cherished privileges. They get
bed and breakfast at the Canberra for
Bs., and a day’s board and lodging for
145.; the general public is charged
10s. 6d. and 18s. Annual loss on the
Government pubs and boarding-houses
was reckoned at £29,000 in 1933-34. Still
if members are driven from home, as it
were, meals can always be got at the
Parliamentary refreshment-rooms, losses
on which have averaged £4838 p.a. in
five years.
Green has become the prevailing color
in the N.S.W. Railway Department:
locos, are painted green, and the
building in which “over 1000 offi-
cers” arc to be housed is faced with green
ceramic. According to Desmoulins, who,
by way of starting the French Revolu-
tion, sported a cockade of green leaves,
“green is the color of hope.” Perhaps
the present eruption is designed to im-
plant in the taxpayer’s breast the hope
that, when all those commercial motor
vehicles have been confiscated and all
their drivers gaoled, Mr. Hartigan’s de-
partment, which has contrived to lose
£28,000,000 in 10 years, will pay its way.
“S. M. Herald” has been publishing
tables of amounts extracted from income
by taxgatherers in the three big States,
“What an unreasonable fellow! Surely he can see I’m watch-
ing the position closely ?”
and has arrived at the conclusion that
Queensland takes most. It might have
pointed out that Queensland has paid for
its rapacity. With a wealth of fuel and
raw materials which only N. S, Wales
rivals, and with a population practically
equal to that of S.A. and W.A. com-
bined, it is the one State where factory
enterprise has been stagnant for 20 years.
Diggers’ associations have been dis-
cussing the defence question, and in
Victoria and Queensland have recorded
strong majorities against restoration of
obligatory training. In vain Queens-
land supporters urged that when train-
ing way obligatory their State always
had 6000 youths in uniform, and nearly
all efficient, whereas it now has only
half that number of volunteers, and not
half of the half efficient. Queer that
people who accept compulsory school-
ing, compulsory unionism and compul-
sory food pools should be so set against
compelling youths to learn how to
defend their country.
A war myth that has persisted—per-
haps because of defective reporting at
the time, the beaten side being anxious
to drop the subject—is the belief that
“the Diggers rejected conscription.” Its
persistence wouldn’t matter if Australia
had retained the system under which so
many young Diggers were trained, but
it is regularly trotted out as an “argu-
ment” against reviving that system, and
so is doing harm. The fact is that there
were Digger majorities for conscription
at both referendums. In 1916 the voting
was 72,399 for and 58,894 against; in
1917, 103,789 for and 93,910 against.
Since December, 1933, the N. S. Wales
Rural Bank, which suffered a regrettable
misfortune in 1931, has designed 15
country branch offices, as well as the
£lBO,OOO palace going up in Martin-place,
Sydney. The latest projected edifice, at
Deniliquin, is obviously inspired by the
Arc de Triomphe. But it has an incom-
plete look. No space has been provided
in which to bury the Unknown Ruined
Taxpayer under the Sacred Flame of
Extravagance.
A sane proposal for putting St. Kilda
(Vic.) in line with adjoining municipalities
by prohibiting hedges and fences more
than three feet high at intersections of
streets was cast out, on the ground that
it would be an “interference with the
rights of property.” The rights of public
safety should be paramount in any con-
flict of the sort. The high fence or the
high hedge infringed the rights of no-
body before the advent of high-speed
traffic. To-day, their existence is a
menace to life and other forms of
property.
In the intervals of learning the truth
about Russia and Ireland and sitting at
Major Douglas’s feet, Premier Ogilvie
made some inspections of Tasmanian
fruit as marketed abroad, and was
driven to admit that it “compared most
unfavorably with fruit from certain other
sources.”
The pack was neither uniform in quality
nor in make-up. To save the fruit industry
from extinction, drastic reorganisation of
production, packing, grading and marketing
methods is necessary.
The Commonwealth which is alleged by
Ogilvies and Dwyer-Grays to be im-
placably hostile to the small States (it is
really a little soft-headed on that subject)
is bounty-feeding the growers of the
fruit that “compares most unfavorably
with fruit from other sources.”
Parkhill and his fellow-Ministers have
chosen £4OOO flying palaces, “as used by
the royal family,” to carry them about
the country. The Archangel Gabriel has a
chariot of pure gold, and it isn’t likely
to be modesty which has made the
gentlemen stop short of emulating him
and merely riding as kings. So they must
be feeling economical.
In one matter Brother Jonathan has
proved shrewder than John Bull. When
he decided to investigate the ramifica-
tions of armament firms, he said no-
thing, but sent along a posse to seize all
documents before the firms concerned
realised what was happening. The result
was a series of dramatic discoveries
which formed the basis of the sub-
sequent inquiry, John gave notice of
his intention to investigate—and found
nothing.
“Cynicus” has his say:
ft is suggested that Wren and Theodore may
be taxed on their huge Australian profits on
their speculations in Fiji goldmines. The
Commonwealth taxation laws are not exactly
clear as to whether fortunes thus made can be
classed as income, but if tax is demanded it
will be at the rate of Bs. 8 2-3 d. in the £ on
“the excess over £3700,” and the State relief-
tax gentry may come in for their cuts —they
have a pleasant habit of taxing on the gross.
But the question of taxation can scarcely arise
if the two lucky speculators distribute their
quarter of a million (or whatever it is) among
the Fiji mine-laborers. It has already been
pointed out that they are good Labor men who
fervently believe that “labor is the source of
all wealth.”


HOME ON THE RATTLE.
“In a race at Folkestone (Eng.), a jockey substituted a rattle for a whip, and won easily.”


THE Meet; SHELL MOTOR OILS
WINTER RECOMMENDATIONS F mode 3 ls s
Armstrong-Siddeley, B uic k,
Cadillac, Chrysler, De Soto,
Dodge, Graham, Hudson,
Hupmobile, Nash, Olds-
mobile, Plymouth, Reo,
Studebaker, Terraplane or
Willys 77.
need
SINGLE
SHELL
Alvis, Auburn, Citroen,
Crossley, Daimler, Fiat,
Ford VB, Ford YB, Hillman,
Humber, Morris, Riley,
Singer, Standard, Triumph,
Vauxhall or Wolseley
HjQjed
DOUBLE
SHELL
Chevrolet or Pontiac needs ZERO SHELL.
Austin needs TRIPLE SHELL.
For full list of recommendations for ALL MODELS OF ALL CARS, see the new Shell Recommendation Chart at your Garage.
PERSONAL ITEMS
If the new Governor-General receives
a. peerage it will merely anticipate a
natural event. He is heir presumptive
to the Ruthven barony which dates back
to 1651. Before that, the family held the
Earldom of Gowrie, but forfeited it by
attainder in 1600 as a result of the
current peer’s leadership of the Gowrie
conspiracy.
This is an impression by Dubois of
Patrol Officer L. James O’Malley, of
the Papuan Armed Constabulary. With
Assistant Resident Magistrate Jack Hides,
he recently explored the unknown coun-
try between the Strickland and the
Patrol Officer O'MALLEY.
Purari Rivers. O’Malley was born at
Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.) 23 years ago, went
first to the Marist Brothers at Hunter’s
Hill and finished at the Patrician
Brothers’ Holy Cross College, Ryde. He
has been in Papua six years, and two
years ago was made a permanent patrol
officer. He is the youngest P.O. in the
service. An uncle, J, T. O’Malley, is
Commissioner for Native Affairs in
Papua.
The death last week of A. V. Hiskens,
of Moonee Valley and V.A.T.C. fame, at
the age of 68, removes one who rose
from the bottom of the Victorian rac-
ing ladder to the top. His mantle as a
live-wire racing organiser looks like fall-
ing on the shoulders of Gilbert Dyett,
who got a knighthood last year as
Federal president of the R. S. and S.
League.
H. Dyson Sales takes over the head-
ship of Anthony Horderns’ from Justly
Rawlings, as acting-g.m. He has been
with Canadian Westinghouse and the
C.P.R., and served with the 51st Sikhs
during the Great War. He was in the
fierce little show in Waziristan in 1919.
When he returned to England, he man-
aged several departments for Selfridges,
and became g.m. of one of their larger
subsidiary companies before coming to
Sydney as assistant-g.m. of Horderns’ in
1928. English by birth, he looks younger
than his 48 years.
G, G. Whiskard, who comes to Aus-
tralia as British High Commissioner, is
one of the two Under-Secretaries of
State to the Dominions Office, his col-
league being Harry Batterbee, who was
in Australia with the Atlantic Fleet in
1924, and again as political adviser to
the Duke of York for the opening of
Canberra in 1927. The new H.C. man-
aged the Australian tour of L. C. Amery
when Secretary to the Dominions, a
few years ago. He is a typical British
civil servant, with a bright if somewhat
starched wit and a knowledge of the
Dominions which would put many
Dominion inhabitants to the blush,
Wiley Post, America’s bravest and
most skilful pilot, had much in common
with his friend, Will Rogers, who died
with him. Both started from scratch ;
both had Indian blood in their veins;
both were elderly, enormously popular
and typically American, and both were
in a sense internationals. Post, like Rogers,
had Australian affiliations. His record
for a round-the-world flight (eight days
15 hours 51 minutes) was shared by the
Tasmanian Catty. He enlisted for the
World War in the American aviation sec-
tion, but was refused an opportunity to
show his fighting abilities in battle. He
lost his eye years after the Armistice
while working as an oil-driller.
About a good American:
The late Will Rogers was more national
figure than movie star. Born on an Indian
reservation, of poor parents, his sympathies were
with the underdog. Many of his wittiest quips
were political, and after the ’29 crash he kept
up a running fire of gibes at the rich in the 20
newspapers that syndicated his comments on
life, which had a considerable effect on the
downfall of Hoover. As a day-by-day humor-
ist he has probably never had a peer. His
store of fun was literally inexhaustible, and, un-
like such masters as J. B. Morton (“Beach-
comber” of London “Express”), he didn’t de-
pend for his laughs on malice. Rogers personi-
fied good temper and humanity.
He arrived in Australia early in the century
from S’Africa, and got a job in Wirths’ Circus.
He had been doing a cowboy act in Africa
after serving in the British Army against the
Boers.
He was an instant success in the movies, and
soon became a star of the talkies. His low,
drawling voice, amiable grin and capacity for
stating the sentiments of inarticulate millions in
tabloid epigrams caused him to be regarded
the world over as the U.S.A.’s most represen-
tative American.
He certainly wasn’t a representative Holly-
woodite, being a devoted husband and the
father of a grown-up family.
Professor H. Brose, here shown by
Lahm in the act of proving that every-
thing goes
round some-
thing else, was
S.A. Rhodes
scholar for 1913.
He was in Ger-
many at the
outbreak of the
war, and was
interned there.
Coming in con-
tact with Ein-
stein during
this period he
became the in-
terpreter of re-
lativity to the
English-speaking
world. Shortly
after the war he
was appointed
P r o f e ssor of
Physics at Not-
tingham Univer-
sity and, with
the exception of
a short period
in Sydney eight
years ago, has been there ever since.
Most unprofessor-like in appearance and
manner, he is a keen musician, an enter-
taining talker and tells a good yarn. His
wife was actress Jean Robertson, leading
lady to Maurice Moscovitch, and also
of South Australia.
A Visiting Scientist.
Chief Engineer Claren Knudsen, of
the Mariposa, is the latest to join the
ranks of record-holders. On the trip that
brought Prime Minister Lyons home
Knudsen’s faithful engines easily beat
the previous best figures for the trans-
Tasman voyage, the distance from Auck-
land to Sydney being covered in 58 hours
47 minutes. Knudsen was presented with
a trophy to commemorate his feat in
Sydney last week.
Sir William Watson, who has died at
77, was one of literature’s shining failures.
He died poor and failed in his chief
ambition—to become Poet Laureate. He
had his best chance in 1896, when his
chief competitors for Tennyson’s wreath
were Swinburne (invalidated on moral
grounds) and Alfred Austin, a good
journalist but a poor poet. Austin won.
Yet Watson was, like Austin, a super-
loyal Yorkshireman, His “Ode on the
Coronation of Edward VII.” is a flawless
laureate piece. His violent opposition to
the foreign policies of various British
Governments are believed to have put
him out of court. He was the author,
among many famous phrases, of “Abdul
the Damned.”
Teddie Garratt, one of the Olympians
of jazz, has descended on Sydney. Ameri-
can by birth, he is as well known in Eng-
land and in S’Africa as in Uncle Sam’s
domain. He is the composer of dozens of
syncopated tunes, and one of his songs in
more orthodox style, “The Air Pilot,” has
been added to Peter Dawson’s repertoire.
Garratt has developed a remarkably com-
prehensive course of instruction in the
theory and practice of jazz playing and
numbers his pupils by hundreds. He
thinks that Beethoven hardly earned
Percy Grainger’s title of a “jazz com-
poser” ; his essays in syncopation were
elementary. Schumann went a lot further.
“S.T.S.”: Frank Downer, the septua-
genarian lawyer, polo-player, S.A.J.C.
committeeman and former M.F.H., was
allowed the privilege of being the last to
ride over Morphettville steeplechase
course. It is more than half a century
since he first performed the feat, Phyllis
Bray was allowed to join him —this being
not only the last but the first time a
woman has ridden over the course.
There was a legend in India that
Edward Lutyens, planner of New Delhi,
seeing Basil
Blackett, just
dead in a motor
accident, and
the even more
immaculate Wrl-
ingdon,the retir-
ing Viceroy, to-
geth e r, exj-
claimed: “Good
Lord! I don’t
remember de-
signing either of
them, but they
must have had
an architect!”
Blackett looked
anything but an
economist.
F a u 1 t 1 e ssly
dressed, strik-
ingly handsome,
he went to the
British Treasury
at 22, fresh
from Oxford.
He spent the
war in a whirl
of international financial commissions,
was Controller of the Treasury at
37, a member of the Indian Executive
Council at 40 and, retiring to enter com-
merce, died at 53 a director of the Bank
of England, Marconis, the Eastern Tele-
graph Co. and De Beers and a dozen
other companies.
The moving parson, Charles Watts, is
making another move—from Victor
Harbor (S.A.) to Port Adelaide Congre-
gational. He previously moved from
Melbourne, Carlton (Vic.) and Clayton
(S.A.); also Gallipoli, Egypt and France,
with the 51st
Here is William John Lormer, Sydney
traffic manager of Howard Smith, Ltd.,
whose fleet is tied up as a result of the
seamen’s strike. Mr. Lormer is also
chairman of the N.S.W. Inter-State
A Shipping-strike Identity.
Steamship Owners’ Federation, which
body is a party to the negotiations being
conducted in connection with the dispute.
A native of Melbourne, he was educated
at Wesley College, and has been 44 years
with Howard Smiths.
Crawford Vaughan is one of the band
aspiring to succeed the late Lionel
Courtenay as N.S.W, Senator. Journalist
and public man, Vaughan edited a bright
little Adelaide paper, “Quiz,” when little
more than a boy. He became a State
Labor member at 30, Minister at 35 and
Premier at 40. He was the one conscrip-
tionist Premier that suffered in the cause ;
afterwards he spoke in the U.S.A. for
the Allies and in Britain for Asquith,
and helped to re-establish cotton-growing
in Queensland. He married Millicent
Preston Stanley, N. S. Wales’s one and
only woman politician.
“S.T.S.”; James Ashton, dead at
Brighton (S.A.) at 76, was a cheery soul,
born in the Isle of Man, who came to
Adelaide, with London and Paris experi-
ence, half a century ago, and worked hard
for the rest of his life at painting. Sea-
and shore-scapes were his strong point,
and at his best his level was high. He
was still better as a teacher. He was
drawing-master at Prince Alfred’s School
for 40 years. His son Will learned from
him all he could teach, and then went
to Europe to learn more; also he guided
the early years of Heysen, Power,
Hayley Lever, Barnes and others.
Note on a dead statesman:
The late Viscount Bridgeman was a son of
the rector of an oddly-named parish—Weston-
under-Lizard —and a grandson of the second
Earl of Bradford, whose title dated from the
year of Waterloo. Hailing from that part of
the country which lies between the western
industrial suburbs of Birmingham and the
Severn, his political future was assured as soon
as Stanley Baldwin, of Bewdley, became Prime
Minister and made him Home Secretary. He
had held minor Ministerial offices previously.
He played in the Eton and Cambridge elevens,
was an open classical scholar of Trinity College,
and took a first in his special subject. It was
at the beginning of his five-year reign as First
Lord that the Admiralty sent the Atlantic
fleet on a world tour, which included Aus-
tralia, in 1924. He was gjven his peerage when
he retired from politics in 1929.


mm
.
I
. .
:
■
■
mm
■ j.i 1.1.1.1.... 11.1 1 ■ ■■■?':
(4vm
•W
:$:•:?
V :ix : ; ; :./;: V.: xx
mfM /, f* s #i
■
■■l g £
5*53^
ft
• ;
m
ill
:**
:^:SSSSSfiS
••••..••••••
iillil
.
■ ■ ;■
iiiiiii
;
p h I wmmm
v>x , x , x*iyx*>>>x*W;*>ttttw^x*ivvWwxwtt:‘SwftK<*KS , w
■ :
Mpf ■
wrnmmm^U^i
v//.v.!-k*x-:v.v«.v.!.:.;....*
XvXvX^
=iW;SS
IvXwvw;.^
: -:S': ; .: V : ' =;<; ; • W"... ' : :‘S ;. V. %
illiiiliiiii
iiiiiliiliiiii
•x*:
ft:##**#**
•’ : ’ : ; : : : : : ; : : : x. : ‘. : : : x
'? i V
: 3 £•: 3;
.'•: - v
s:
:' .■ :::■
CAPSTANS ARE NOW AVAILABLE
IN J STRENGTHS
ill*
■■'M'tP
- ; '
'
/L/MILD, medium ..full


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To De-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deserves.
1925.. 243,331 13.2 p.o. =118,750 124,581 1,205,050
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,056,650
1920.. 208,617 11.0 p.c. =125.000 83,617 1,139.207
1927.. 244,172 12.5 „ ~131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,030 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,160,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130,195
1932.. 156,701 10 p.c. =150,000 6,761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150.000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 '
To staff pension fund, £20,000 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO
1935.. 282,809 10 p.o. = 150,000 fi , nQ , 10n
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO 72,809 M93,12 °
The 6d. bonus sent out with the final
shilling in 1934 to celebrate the co.’s
diamond jubilee was not repeated during
the last term, though it was easily
wilhin reach. Still, £1,200,000 of the
£1,500,000 of paid capital has been trans-
ferred from genuine reserves since 1912 ;
and the auditors say the aggregate
market value of securities exceeded their
book value at the close of last accounts,
notwithstanding that £147,585 of inner
reserves was disclosed in 1934. With a
twinkle in its eye, the market therefore
prices the fully-paid pound shares at
665. 6d. as against 625. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 3 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 3.8 p.c. on his money counts
on the 6d. bonus being restored, and
there are other less near prospects, too.
The board figured the underwriting
surplus for the last term £30,517 short of
the previous year’s at £80,076. But that
was jafter sending an extra £25,000 to
the reserve for unexpired risks (now
£531,000). Actual incomings and out-
goings in connection with the underwrit-
ing section of the business —fish swim
into the co.’s net from all quarters of the
globe—compare as follows:
Loss Rxpema
Net Rate. Date.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900.. £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 67.2 27.9
1906.. 565,149 | t *|g| ,7 * 9 | 129,361 m - 9 22 -°
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.6
1925.. 1,072,761 603,650 342,834 56.2 31.9
1930 .. 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932.. 1,050,351 670,714 849,331 63.8 33.2
1933.. 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 61.7 33.1
1934.. 1,001,328 553,886 336,849 55.3 33.6
1935.. 1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
•General. fSan Francisco disaster.
The spring of £49,464 in net premiums
reflects a general and welcome turn
of the tide; for the four preceding
years there was a steady contraction in
the figures. The saving of approximately
Bs. p.c. in the expense rate was more
than offset by a growth of 28s. p.c. in
the loss ratio, leaving the surplus from
underwriting £5517 lighter than the
previous year’s at £105,076, equal to
7 p.c. on capital. The return from invest-
ments (£117,148) showed little alteration
at 7.8 p.c, on capital. Including unex-
plained additions of £10,583 to reserves,
the net return from all sources was
15.5 p.c. on capital as against 15.2, 11.6
and 10.4 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. On the basis of last year’s figures,
reserves will overtake paid capital again
inside the next couple of years.
Better returns and improved prospects
caused the board to give more attention
to shares than to Government securities
last term;
1914. 1930. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 450,000 1,200,000 1,500,000 1.500,000
Liabilities., 252,929 360,203 241,289 225,940
Public securi-
ties .. 521,979 1,981,827 2,104,593 2,035,631
Mortgages .. 195,409 61,625 52,250 46,250
Shares, etc. 395 122,324 174,441 239,889
Freeholds .. 349,457 425,268 417,559 446,793
Agency bal-
ances and
cash . . 240,249 465,710 475,258 465,497
To reduce liabilities by £15,349 (it was
mainly on account of the allowance
for unadjusted losses, £138,308, down
£12,645), add £65,448 to the book value
of shareholdings and £29,234 to free-
holds, public securities were reduced by
£68,962, mortgages by £6OOO, and cash,
etc., by £9761.
Policy-holders could see net tangibles
equal to 275 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
Millaquin Sugar Co, (Q.)
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1996” 12 p.c. = 00,000 11,026 173,389
1997” 6i’7fi4 in » " 00 H. 656 185,045
1999 * Ko’lfo in ” ” 50.000 1,784 186,829
ioio' no’fio in ”>' 50,000 9,840 196,678
1930* ” ” 50,000 12 > 428 209,106
19"?” ” ” 45,000 17 > 657 226,703
1939 * n ” ” 45 > 000 20,251 247,014
193-.. 6t>,190 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6,, „ 30,000 231,589
Profit. -91,00-
iq!i” s?’iqf 7 » » 35,000 28,168 259,750
1930.. 60,123 8,, „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
The price of raw sugar in Australia,
which varies slightly according to costs
between the mills and consumers of
refined sugar, is maintained at a high
level in order to cover the loss on the
surplus exported. The following table
shows what has happened over the last
four years:
Total
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
P- c - Price. Price.*
1931.. (.00.000 50 £26 jy y n c
1932.. 533,000 37 25 2 3 19 i; 1
1933.. 667,000 48 23 18 6 17 4 3
1934.. 642,000 51 24 o'o 10 10 11
‘Excluding excess sugar.
The drop in the local price since 1931 is
due mainly to the cut of |d. per pound
in the retail price of fines (now 4d.). This
and variations in the quantity exported
and the price realised abroad explain the
movements in the average price. It
fell away by 13s. 4d. last season, when
purchases for local consumption (317,000
tons) were 31,000 tons lighter, and an
extra 6000 tons, making 325,000 tons,
was exported at an average of £7 11s.
3d., down 9s. 3d.
The Government intends to extend the
existing agreement, which runs out on
Sept, 1, 1936, for a further five years.
Until then chief factors influencing re-
turns to millers and growers will be
seasonal conditions, which affect the
quantity and quality of cane put through
the rollers, and the size of the surplus
exported and the price it fetches,
Millaquin’s profits are derived mainly
from milling and from a wad of invest-
ments outside the business. According
to the last Sugar Inquiry Committee, only
moderate returns are won on the book
value of the refinery. For the last term
the co. reports an excellent season. Net
earnings were £1955 better at 13 p.c. on
capital, compared with 12.6,13.2, 13, 12.5,
12.4 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1928. An
extra 1 p.c. was distributed, making 8
p.c. for the year. Of the £25,123 that
remained, £20,000 was added to the de-
preciation and renewals account
(£200,000), which appears to be provision
in excess of current requirements for the
purpose.
The already snug financial position
was further strengthened:
1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. . , £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors .. 95,327 102,864 119,166
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,578 321,091 325,277
Plantation, etc 63,302 65,662 64,422
Railways and tramways 37,654 35,519 83,926
Stocks 86,826 83,136 65,871
Book debts .. .. 12,929 11,669 11,762
Investments .. .. 258,717 386,937 391,837
Cash 46,905 27,710 35,943
Including stocks (down £17,265) and in-
vestments (up £54,900, and believed to
consist largely of Government securities),
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£386,247) was
£29,669.
The immediate outlook for the current
season is for another good crushing. At
38s. 6d. (30s. 6d. a year ago) the return
is 4.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is visibly 31s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net , Dividends Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves, fleit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,006
1927.. 699 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 644 35 8,001
Added intangibles, £7547 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £4OO .. 15,202
1928.. 5,690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 3,647 2043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 „ „ 8,327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 .. .. .. 12,956
Loss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil 51,936
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 37i p.c. Nil 4,660 1135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7J „ 7£ p.c. = 8,522 8277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 „ 12$ „„ 18,129 4917 16,733
*Nine months.
This vendor of credit on the pay-as-
you-earn principle entered an already
crowded field in Sydney at the end of
1926, and for its first seven years it did
no good for itself. But there were
changes in the control, and the dead wood
was pruned out of the accounts —Bs. per
share (£74,289) was lopped off ord. capi-
tal. By the time the outlook began to
brighten again, the co. was thus ready
for a fresh start, and it appears to have
made the most of its opportunities.
During the last couple of years there
has been a marked revival in cash-order
business, due mainly to growth in em-
ployment, and the board has pursued a
vigorous policy of expansion. Toward
the close of accounts in 1934, £15,985
of new pref. capital was gathered, and
another £2o,ooo'of pref. money was got
in in September. This was followed by
a new par issue of 92,861 12s. ords',
which were oversubscribed, in May. When
the books closed at June 30, paid capital
was £176,874 (up £59,023 during the
twelvemonth) in 50,000 fully-paid £1
prefs. and 274,258 12s. ords. paid to
various amounts; there was another
£37,681 to come.
All the new money that came in was
promptly put to work, as the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
n 1929. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £137,875 £171,766 £117,851 £176,874
Liabilities . , 15,127 10,500 49,151 52,248
Equipment .. 2,885 4,240 7,130 11,293
Investments . . 32,408 33,295 19,743 24,743
Book ck-bta .. 100,730 82,563 162,977 216,540
Cash, etc. .. 2,571 1,331 981 . 1,501
Loans to customers, etc., were up
£53,563. Investments (up £5000) con-
sist chiefly of scrip in a furniture sub-
sidiary, Shell and Co., Hurstville, and in
the Brisbane and Melbourne offshoots,
the latter set up in April last. In and
around Sydney the co. has eight
branches.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
(£79,716) was £22,819. Exes. (£56,670)
were up £16,572, leaving the net result
£6247 better at £23,046. The prefs. were
handed 10 p.c., after which enough re-
mained to show 12.8 p.c. on average ord,
capital, and the div. was lifted from 1\
p.c. to 12| p.c. When the remaining
£37,681 of capital is got in, 10 p.c. to
the prefs. and 12| p.c. to the ords. will
call lor £25,569, or £2523 more than was
netted last year.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of satisfactory earnings. Much
depends upon the soundness of debtors’
balances. The market sums up the risks
by pricing the prefs. at 28s. 6d. and the
fully-paid ords. at 235. 3d. The return
at these figures is 7 p.c. and 6.4 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year’s
distributions. The net tangible cover,
mainly book debts, is £4 12s. 6d. prefs,
and 13s. 2d. ords.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
.ten Towards Re-
Apnl, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 15,966 7J p.c. =12,421 8351 194 3,306
Profit on sale of property, £8856 .. 12,163
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. = 14,905 3807 825 12,987
1927.. 26,004 10 „ „ 16,661 8951 5,492 18,479
1928.. 21,625 10 ~ „ 16,561 3703 1,361 19,840
1929.. 17,641 8„ „ 13,250 3683 708 20,54 s
1930.. 15,145 7„ „ 11,694 8290 261 20,809’
1931.. 10,642 4„ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3056 18,198
1933.. 6,304 Nil 3002 8.892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 333 9,225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. = 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
The immediate outlook for this busi-
ness —the co. is Sydney’s biggest vendor
of sporting goods, tobacco and haircuts,
and has strong connections among subur-
ban retailers—-is brighter than at any
time since 1929. The proposed realign-
ment of George-street, Haymarket, stood
in the way of the co. making the best
use of its freehold for several years ; then
price-cutting became endemic, and slump
and the withdrawal of the buses greatly
aggravated the co.’s troubles. A couple
of years ago, however, the premises
adjoining the Haymarket depot were re-
built on the new alignment, the cost
being met out of compensation received
from the City Council, and the Brisbane
branch, which became a drag, was
closed. There were a partial restoration
of bus services and, most important,
a cessation of price-cutting early in the
last term.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
(£121,029) was £21,828. Trading exes.
(£107,524) took £12,838 of the increase.
After allowing for bad debts (£1454 in
’34, nil last term) and depreciation
(shown as written off in the table), the
net result was £10,140 better at 6.3 p.c.
on capital. Shareholders, who had gone
without for the three preceding terms,
got into the picture again with 4 p.c,, the
final being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
Provided the trade sticks to a uniform
price schedule, prospects of a better
showing at next balance are encouraging.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 18s. 7d. as against 12s. 9d. a
year ago and 6s. 6d. 12 months before
that. The return at 18s. 7d. is 4.7 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 21s.
6d. in net tangibles.
The business continues to expand:
1919. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £166,008 £166,008 £166,008
Liabilities .. 37,313 252,133 222,940 243,344
Freeholds .. 216,397 211,891 212,183
Plant, etc. .. 20,277 21,859 19,894 19,486
Stocks . . .. 99,287 144,980 93,486 99,623
Book debts .. 21,861 60,081 71,903 94,598
Cash, etc. .. 6,371 602 1,002 676
To carry another £22,695 of debtors’
balances the board went outside for an
extra £20,404 last year. There was little
change in the mortgage (£131,712);
sundry creditors (£100,735) were up
£12,197, and £B7OB was added to the
overdraft (£10,897). The excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids was £BlO2
lower at £48,447.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
i Toße-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ e
Preliminary e ses., £25,612 25 612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4.949 20’,66i;
1928.. 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1929.. 47,268 8 p.e. = 33,936 18,332 28,535
1930. . 47,872 8„ ~ 34,690* 13,182 41.717
1931.. 39,451 54 „ „ 27,459 11,992 53 709
1932.. 22,257 4„ „ 19,970 2,287 55,990
1933.. 42,810 6 „ ~ 29,955 12,855 68.851
1934.. 56,666 7} „ „ 37,444 19,222 88 073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ ~34,948 17,186 105,259
‘lncludes 1 p.c. on deferreds.
Considering the difficulties of the over-
capitalised cement industry, this co.,
which kicked oft’ nine years ago with a
Government contract and a 100,000-ton
p.a. plant near Kandos (N.S.W.), has
given a good account of itself. Unex-
pectedly heavy outlay on equipment upset
estimates at the beginning, but this and
other difficulties were soon overcome.
Divs. began in 1929, and have continued
to flow since, despite slump, the average
for the last seven years being 6.5 p.c.,
with comfortable margins.
At the end of the last term the co.
lost the Government contract, but the
market doesn’t consider this amounts to
much, and prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 235. as against 18s. 6d. a year
ago. At 235. the return is 6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 245. 2d.
in net tangibles, mainly fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Surplus earnings, together with £25,000
annually set aside for depreciation, have
enabled the co. to work down the debt
and accumulate cash. Thus it is now
well equipped to compete in a crowded
market:
3 927. 1932. 1934. 1983.
Paid capital. . £466,691 £499,257 £499,257 £499,257
Creditors .. 169,248 21,459 36,028 32,315
Freeholds and
plant .. 522,335 451,938 401,006 399,773
Stores in other
cos. . . 35,009 35,009 30,009 35,009
Stores and stocks 35,774 43,986 33,383 32,922
Book debts and
cash .. 22,160 08,267 173,930 186,601
Last year £3713 was clipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes provision for taxation,
and the book value of fixed assets was
reduced by £1233 net, while debtors’
balances (£24,185) were £17,611 lighter,
and the cash holding (£162,416) increased
by £30,282. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£187,208)
was £15,923.
Net earnings last year fell away £4532
to 10.4 p.c. on capital as against 11.3, 8.5,
4.4, 7.9, 9.5 and 9.4 p.c, back to 1929.
The div. dropped back half a point to
7 p.c. p.a.
Total sales of cement in N. S. Wales
during the last term increased by approxi-
mately one-third, reaching 259,000 tons,
and the public works programme and
revival in the building trade suggest
maintenance of satisfactory earnings
during the current term.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.)
To Re-
June. Profit, Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1295.. 37,376 8 p.c. = 26,952 10,424 66,429
1926.. 37,419 8 „ „ 26,952 10,468 75,897
1927.. 37,480 8 „ „ 26,952 10,628 86,425
1928.. 28,286 8 „ „ 26,952 1,334 87,759
1929. . 24,259 7 „ „ 23,583 676 88,485
1930.. 15,831 4 „ „ 13,476 2,355 90,790
1931.. 13,817 4 „ „ 13,476 341 91,131
1932.. 14,130 4 „ „ 13,476 654 91,785
1933.. 14,058 4 ~ „ 13,476 582 92,367
1934.. 18,642 4 ~ „ 33,476 166 92,583
1925. . 8,594 2J „ „ 8,422 172 92,705
Price-cutting, following competition
from Victoria, where manufacturers of
super, enjoy lower railway freight-rates
than the S. Aus. Government charges,
was responsible for the drop of £5048 in
last year’s net earnings. The co. reports a
considerable increase in the volume of
business, notwithstanding that fewer
acres were planted with wheat. Still,
gross profit from manufacture and sales
(£27,291) fell away £5126. There was
little change in administrative charges,
etc. (£18,697), Thus the net result
dropped to a shade over 2.5 p.c, on
capital, compared with 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.1,
4.7, 7.2 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was lowered from 4 p.c. to 2\ p.c.,
and, so far as can be seen at the moment,
it is unlikely that net earnings for the
current term will be enough to repeat
p.c.
The board puts it in this way:
For the coming season the price of
superphosphate has been considerably re-
duced. This has been forced upon the
co. by its competitors, and will further
reduce the profit earned. At the same
time, your directors have confidence that
the selling organisation will be able to
maintain the output of the co.’s products.
Until differences in the trade are patched
up, it is difficult to say what the future
holds for those on the share register.
Certainly the Federal Government has
renewed the bounty of 15s. a ton
on super, used for purposes other
than wheatgrowing, the Farmers’ Assist-
ance Board continues to give much-
{“Wild Cat” continued on page IS.)


Be as’safe from Skids as if
Giant Hands were protecting you
£DUNLOP
FULL-WIDTH HOLD ON THE ROAD
You’re driving through traffic. Then somebody
blunders! A blind back-out from the kerb a cut in
—it could happen in a hundred ways. Then of all
times you can’t afford to skid particularly a side-
skid. A forward-skid needs expert handling enough-
hut in a side-skid well you’re helpless! Don’t run
the risk Dunlop ’"Gold Seal” will make you as safe
as if giant hands were protecting you.
The full-width of Dunlop’s Famous helical-patterned
tread holds on the road, preventing SIDE-SKIDS
and FORWARD-SKIDS —keeping you in a straight
line whether braking or speeding. Have the local
dealer put this dual protection on your wheels. You’ll
K
A
II
pay no more than for ordinary tyres—in fact, Dunlop’s
; it
It’s the
FULL-WIDTH
hold on the
road that
money
I Pi”
111 l ili
I II I
i \
. ill 111
Vi
does it!
iXXt
111
11111
t\ i \
iU
I |i|
. :
’
iiull
Omii,
\3
9
y 'y// U
m
li
///
Pk
y>ys'
•-•*ro^c<s c^
V>;
iw
i
; j
WA
t.< Ai\ Ml
P.i
-■ >
V
sx
ft
M
A ?:•->£
■/A
; I
Uj f
5 U
ff*st
m
in
Tll beS .... Be sure and ask for the new Dunlop Perdriau MK Tubes. Moulded to an exact kinkless
the tyre, they give greater tyre life and safety.
fit for


A SURE FRIEND IN UNC E KTAIN TiM E S
m
■
ay
fflmHmmuu
mm*,' v '■■ ■
m
%
What have you done
FOR YOUR SON?
IF you have a fine son you will want
to give him a fine start in life. You
will want to plan for him. You
will not want Luck to be his guardian.
Planning is the right course. You may
not have much money now, but with
the aid of the A.M.P. you can have a
goodly sum available for his edu-
cation, or for starting him in a pro-
fession when the time comes.
First of all the A.M.P. exists to protect the
family. That is its main purpose. It exists, also,
to make life safer and sweeter for men and
women as they get along in years; to provide
them with security against the risk of poverty;
and to further every worthy financial plan that
they may have for their children.
Wise parents will set aside an. hour to talk this
over with one of the Society’s expert advisers. No
obligation is incurred by asking the nearest A.M.P.
office to send an adviser to your home. Ask to-day.
If you prefer, or live far out from an A.M.P. office,
ask that the Society get in touch with you by mail
and send you its booklets.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, WELLINGTON.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and u.red the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD,
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
10-12 Parramatta Koad, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.B.W.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
X
PUMPMOBIL
Li
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and an
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street ■ SYDNEY.
needed help in its sphere, and increased
interest is being shown in the use of
nitrogenous manures,
Financially the co. is well equipped
for a struggle:—
1925. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £330,900 £336,900 £336,900 £336,900
Liabilities 40,916 24,3*3 21,875 26.506
etc. ’ P^ t ' 215,649 247,034 230,084 233,303
stocks .. 75,642 121,285 104,358 84,106
Debtors .. 34,824 23,669 25,798 27,136
Cash, etc. .. 143,182 76,496 108.543 132 98S
p,., • „ „ u i i c
• ye " I* 16 uP ok . val V e
stocks, the mos vulnerable point in the
h°’ at *1 Tl 1710 ] 11611 ,!’ WaS reduced
by £20,252, and the already strong cash
position was further strengthened by
£24,445. Including stocks, the improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£218,724) was £l9OO.
On the market buyers offer 1 Is. 9d. for
the pound shares, and sellers stand off
at 14s. Id.; a year ago there were sales
at 18s. 9d. The cover is 255. 6d. in net
tangibles.
. . .. ',, _ , .
Australian Gold Development’s engi-
neer, T. R. Victor, on whose report the
Emperor, Fiji, was floated, will presently
run the rule over New Morobe’s Kela
property in New Guinea. Here a land-
slide disclosed a large ironstone and
quartz formation which sampled 12+dwt.
of gold per ton. The ridges where the
formation occurs are about 600 ft. in
height, and the lode has been picked up
on both sides of the hill. New Morobe
has taken an option over Malinar’s
ground, around which it has pegged
areas of its own. If it decides to open
up and work the property, A.G.D. will
have the right to apply for shares, and
will also receive a fee.
* * * *
Mt. Lawson Prospecting and Option
Syndicate’s shares have shot up from
£62 to £l2O in the market since the be-,
ginning of this month. The rise followed
unofficial reports from New Guinea, in-
dicating a bright future for the co.’s
Irowat option. It is expected that a co.
will be formed to work this area (about
250 acres), which has been inspected by
D. J. McClelland, whose report has not
yet been broadcast. Values are believed
to be somewhat similar to those of Upper
Watut, which were 3s. 9d. a cubic yard,
and Is. 3d. was allowed for costs. Inci-
dentally, Upper Watut, the syndicate’s
first offshoot, expects to commence pro-
duction about the beginning of next year.
* * * *
Day Dawn (New Guinea) met with a
disappointing response to its debenture
issue, and New Guinea Goldfields has
abandoned its option over the co.’s pro-
perty. Work at the mine has ceased
pending a decision to sell or reorganise
the venture.
* * * ♦
The geologists of Oil Search have
located a “large, attractive structure” at
Hutton Creek, about 56 miles north of
Warooby Creek, Roma (Q.), where
Drillers, Ltd., bottomed on granite at
3794 ft. without tapping a commercial
well. Drillers, which has the necessary
cash to put down another hole, has con-
tracted with Oil Search to make available
the location, together with the necessary
plant and personnel. The first beds to
be penetrated in the new structure arc
regarded as equivalent to those tapped
at Warooby just before bottom was
reached.
* * * *
Great Boulder Mining and Finance,
recently formed in London, took over
from the Australian Machinery and In-
vestment Co., one of the De Bernales
group, all the issued shares in the fol-
lowing cos. in Westralia: Gladiator,
Laverton, capital £250,000; Lochinvar,
Broad Arrow, capital £125,000; Black
Range, Sandstone, capital £125,000;
Woolgar, Menzies, capital £250,000;
Bindah, capital £25,000. The finance co.
has also taken over from the same vendor
its shareholdings in Jupiter Gold, South-
ern Cross, capital £250,000 ; Fitzgerald
Brown Coal, Nullagine, capital
£120,000 ; Pericles Gold, capital £12,500 ;
Crescent, Coolgardie, capital £125,000.
Capital in each case is nominal capital.
* ♦ * ♦
Notwithstanding nearly two months’
idleness on account of the miners’ strike,
Boulder Perseverance’s profit for the first
seven months of the year is £16,637 more
than for the corresponding period of the
preceding 12 months. The increase is
due to economies and to slightly better-
grade ore. At the yearly roll-up
chairman Bell stated that an inde-
pendent expert estimated that half
a million tons of payable ore was in
sight. On the basis of present output, this
represents between five and six years’
supply, and more can be expected to be
developed during that period. Difficulty
in arriving at reliable estimates where
irregular patches of high-grade rock
occur in zones of poor stone is the reason
given for failure to regularly announce
ore reserves.
* * * *
Permanency of Ora Banda Amalga-
mated (W.A.) hangs in the balance.
Down to and for some distance below
the No. 2 level of the main workings
everything looked all right. Then bears
spread a yarn about uncertainty of values
at depth, and knocked the market back.
Subsequently a break in the country, met
with in winzing to No. 3 level, smote the
market harder still. Believing that values
at the No. 3 level will prove to be satis-
factory, the management professes to be
unafraid of either the big bad wolf or the
big bad bear.
* * * • *
Harry Urquhart, who has had a long
and varied experience of goldmining at
Kalgoorlie and Wiluna and in N.S.W.,
Maoriland and elsewhere, gave up the
chairmanship and general management
of the De Bernales group in Westralia
the other day. He was Claude de
Bernales’s right-hand man for many
years and, like De Bernales, has always
contended that the gold resources of
Westralia are greater than is generally
believed. After a holiday, Urquhart in-
tends to hang out a consulting mining
engineer’s nameplate in Perth.
* * * *
The old Fingall at Day Dawn (W.A.)
is being stabbed by the drill again, this
time on behalf of Gold Exploration, Ltd.
Two bores have so far been put down,
and both have struck payable values be-
tween 800 ft. and 1100 ft. At one time
Fingail ranked among the biggest gold-
producers in the West; and had a dif-
ferent developmental and stoping policy
been carried out at depth it would prob-
ably be working and turning out a lot
of bullion now.
* * ♦ *
On expert advice Lady Shenton will
instal a 4000-ton-a-month fine-grinding
ball mill and treatment plant. Non-ful-
filment of the order, owing to the
foundry employees’ strike, now over,
impeded progress, and the co. has made
another 6d. call. It has £5840 in hand
and £355 in outstanding calls ; it wants a
bigger margin for development. /
* * * «
Ora Banda United, Ora Banda (W.A.),
is designing its main shaft for the mining
of 15,000 to 20,000 tons a month. The
length and width of the ore-channel will
permit of such tonnage if development
proves the continuation of values at
depth,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.H.S.: Don’t know of one. Apparatus used
in laboratories costs many times as much.
Write H. B. Selby and Co., 393 Swanston-
street, Melbourne R.S.: If interest rates
strengthen, the price of Consols will ease. A
fixed deposit, either with a bank or a sound
commercial house which accepts money on de-
posit, is the surest way of preserving the
capital, but the interest is low. Bank rate now
2f p.c. for two-year term... .I’pilly: Yes. but it
may be a few months before treatment difficul-
ties are overcome M.E.M.: No record of
this co D.W.W.; Making inquiries.,. .S.J.:
Ultimately a mine becomes a hole in the ground.
The one you mention looks like a very good
spec C.H.8.: In N. S. Wales 2s. per acre;
there are no State batteries. Write Mines De-
partments other States for crushing tariffs, etc.;
the charges vary A. 8.; Write to the secre-
tary, T. A. Wynne-Lewis, 118 Martin-place,
Sydney L.F.H.: Secretary, Emperor Mines,
Ltd., care Cook, Tomlins and Mirams, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne Moruya: (1) At
Sept. 28, 1934, apparent surplus £307,837,
mainly in frozen assets. Doubtful whether
shareholders likely to get any further dividend.
(2) See B. 8/5/’35... .T.L.G.: (1) and (2) See
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” February, 1934. (3) Yes.
Broadly speaking, ratio of cash, etc., to de-
posits set limit to expansion. Including Trea-
sury bills, Australasian average for 11 trading
banks last quarter 1934, £347,056,906. (4)
Only within very narrow limits; market not
big enough. If attempted on large scale,
resulting price fluctuations likely to do more
harm than good. (5) Not itemised in published
accounts, but mainly Government and local
government securities. (6) Ratio gold to notes
reduced to 15 p.c. in 1931, to be stepped up to
25 p.c. within five years. Board may now hold
sterling securities and/or gold. (7) Net growth
in national debt four years to 30/6/’34,
£121,997,600, as against £86,596,555 for four
preceding years Shareholder: (1) Informa-
tion not available from published accounts. (2)
During five years to June 30, 1930, £3962. It
was not earned. (3) Cannot say; it is purely
an arbitrary matter. (4) None has been
announced. (5) Regular bonuses to policy-
holders and dividends to shareholders not yet
in sight. (6) See B. 13/3/’35. (7) Depends
upon what co.’s articles say. Under table A
of N. S. Wales Companies Act, the office of
director shall be vacated if he holds any other
office or place of profit under the co.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Ccilison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * ♦
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals.—Advt.
* * * ♦
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
♦ * * ♦
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“In My Opinion”
I find great difficulty in reconciling
your vigorous views on the exchange
question with your puerile outlook in
regard to tariffs. In my opinion, your
paper and the “Age” have done their best
to turn out a nation of scroungers, who
can only exist with the aid of tariffs,
bonuses, embargoes and depreciated ex-
change.—W. J. F. C. (Vic.).
Quite Unintentional
It appeared on a Bulletin poster:
Stevens
Proposes
Increased
Taxation.
Read the initial letters downward and it
will tell you what most of us would like
to do at the proposal.— Black Bosun
(N.S.W.).
Australia House
Permit me to compliment you on “Aus-
tralia’s Court of Jamshyd” (B. 31/7/’35).
Having lately returned to Australia from
a long sojourn in England, and having
a familiarity with Australia House, I can
vouch for the accuracy and completeness
of the article.
1 wish you would reproduce a copy of
the group symbolising “The Dying
Pioneer” —undoubtedly the worst adver-
tisement Australia has in London. —
W. G. G. (S.A.).
The Hobart Hospital Rumpus
Hobart Hospital has been a cockpit
of dissension for 18 years. In 1917
honoraries went on strike because
Premier Lee would not exclude
from it any who could pay. Dr.
Ratten volunteered his services.
Recent attempts to dump him
failed. Seven members of the
board resigned, and in the emer-
gency Father O’Donnell was ap-
pointed chairman.
A public meeting asked for an
inquiry. What was really wanted
was a good old go in Parliament
during the absence of Ogilvie. But
the board itself asked for an in-
quiry, and the Government has
granted it. Father O’Donnell reformed
the Devon Hospital a few years ago. He
will reform the Hobart Hospital, too. —
A. B.C. (Tas.).
“Absolute Freetrade”
Followers of Henry George have
emerged from their Melbourne mauso-
leum to demand “absolute freetrade” as
a panacea for Australia’s ills. It would
shut every factory in the Commonwealth,
but perhaps the Georgians think the idle
hands would get jobs at union wages
growing “primary produce” which can’t
be sold at a profit. Australia had “abso-
lute freetrade” in the days of Governor
Phillip, when the whole of the foodstuff
was imported from South Africa, and
the hungry population used to gather at
South Head waiting for the ship, to bring
it its breakfast.— Grasspan (Vic.).
Tax the Tripper?
As a tip to hard-up Treasurers, one
Melbourne altruist suggests a tax on
people leaving Australia for pleasure trips
abroad. Certainly, the number, of out-
ward passengers taking Australian money
out to suffer a discounted 25 per cent,
seems to imply that we still possess a
lot of people with money to burn. The
kick against such a tax is that it would
hit the immigrant who has been saving
for a trip to see his relatives, but this
might be overcome by taxing only first-
class passages. The greatest difficulty
would be to define a “pleasure trip.” To
dodge the tax every flapper would be
appointed official delegate to the Lip-
stick Users’ Conference in Geneva or
something of the sort. —D. N. (Vic.).
These “Historical Films’’
Somebody asked Lasky once why he
did not film Joan of Arc. He replied;
“I’m waiting for somebody to write me
a scenario where the last reel will show
her happily married to an American citi-
zen.” A round of so-called historical
films produced of late made me wonder
why we have waited so long for Lasky’s
masterpiece.
History is supposedly an unreliable
thing in books or even contemporary
documents, but the talkies fly in the face
of both in their-interpretation of charac-
ters we have accepted in the past. I fully
anticipate witnessing a film in which our
old friend Nero is depicted as a model
husband and father, full of human kind-
ness, and another in which Messalina is
revealed as the president of the W.C.T.U.
While the Government is busy with
various censorships, why not add another
compelling films to adhere with tolerable
accuracy to the stories generally accepted
and taught in schools? As it is, the kid-
dies don't know where they arc. In
their classroom they learn that Genghis
Khan was a bloodthirsty monster; then
they go to the local movie and find him
to be a beautiful young man who de-
votes his life to altruistic deeds.—
Bondi-ite (N.S.W.),
“Bled White’’
W. M. Hughes has discovered that the
population of Australia increased by
544,000 in the five years to the end of
1915, and by 240,000 in the past five
years. At the 1911-15 rate of increase
the population would be 17,000,000 in
1984 : at the 1930-34 rate, only 9,000,000.
"Awake, Bill?"
"Yair."
“Well, tell us that yarn about the harem, will y'?“
Mr. Casey, the Acting-Treasurer, has
also been making discoveries. Comparing
the 1881 and 1933 census figures he finds
that natural increase has fallen from 20
in the 1000 to 7 in the 1000, in spite of
the conquest of several major diseases
and the vast life-saving which goes on in
accident cases previously mortal. One
result is that p.c., instead of 2{- p.c.,
is now in the old-age-pension group, a
fact which gives Mr. Casey the cold
shivers.
And, of course, there has been an enor-
mous drift to the cities, with changed
percentages: —
Population
1911. 1921. 1933.
Cities and towns .. 571 p.c. 62J p.c. 64 p.c.
Country 42f p.c. 37f p.c. 36 p.c.
The birthrate began to decline from
the time politicians discovered (in their
own blessed word) the “potentialities” of
redistribution of wealth by taxation. Had
taxes been kept at the 1891 rate per head
the total revenue yielded by taxes
would have amounted to £19,000,000
when the depression arrived, instead of
£92,000,000. If they had in 1929-30
borne the same relation to the value of
production as 45 years ago they would
have worked out at 9.5 P-Q-, instead of
24 p.c. Then we might have been out
of the depression in a year or two, and
the effects on the marriage-rate (down
from 7.73 in 1928 to 5.98 in 1931) and
the natural-increase rate (11.85 in 1928.
9.49 in 1931. 8.24 in 1932 and 7 in 1933)
would not have been so lamentable. —
E.H.M. (Q.).
Deterioration of Export Butter
Last year the Australian-born wife of
a Cambridge professor told me she was
forced to substitute Danish butter for
Australian when entertaining friends. She
did this because Australian butter was
definitely inferior, and she could not
table an inferior article in justice to her
guests. Apologies would only empha-
sise the difference.
My friend’s statement of the position
is reflected in the much higher price com-
manded by Danish No. 1 than that offer-
ing for Australian butter of the same
grade. As one interested in dairying in
Australia, I have to admit that there has
been a striking deterioration in quality,
and attribute it to bureaucratic control.
In 1924-25 60.76 p.c. of the butter ex-
ported from S.A. was choice grade ; in
1934-35 only 0.86 p.c. This deplorable
position was reached notwithstanding big
improvement in factory equipment and
the increased dissemination of knowledge
with regard to dairy hygiene and scien-
tific practices.
The trouble under the present system
of control is that there is no inducement
for factories to lift their output to the
highest quality possible. A butter that
will grade 89 points is accepted as first-
grade. Accordingly factories lower their
higher-grade cream by mixing with it in-
ferior cream so that they will strike an
average grade of 89 points.
The remedy? Skittle “control” and
abolish the boards. Restore the old
spirit of healthy competition which pre-
vailed when marketing of butler was per-
mitted to individual factories, each
jealous of the reputation of its particular
brand and the quality and grade for
which it stood. Then there will be no
need to worry about quotas, and our
butter will command not only the same
price as the Danish article but a readier
sale,- because its vitamins content is
superior.— Yeoman (S.A.).
The Queensland Public Curator
There have been several references in
The Bulletin to the Queensland Public
Curator’s office charging for income-tax
returns prepared for the general public.
The Public Curator is a corporation
sole functioning under a separate Act
of Parliament. His office is not a charge
on general revenue.
The Public Curator owns his office
premises (purchased with his own
money), and pays the salaries of his staff.
He has to present a profit-and-loss
account and balance sheet at the end of
each financial year in the same way as
any other business concern; but his
profits are not appropriated by the Gov-
ernment. Portion is credited to a reserve
fund as against any losses or bad invest-
ments ; the balance goes back into the
common fund, and is invested with other
capital moneys, income from such invest-
ments being credited to estates under
administration by him.
The legal powers of the Public Curator
are very wide, and, as his office must be
made self-supporting, he avails himself
of those powers to the full extent —even
to the preparation of income-tax returns.
The result is that he has not in any one
year since the inception of the office in
1916 shown a loss. His office is a busi-
ness concern governed by no sentiment.
— F. W. Mole, former Public Curator
(Q-).
Propriety and Health
Every Saturday thousands of young
men and women gather in Albert Park,
Melbourne’s largest open area, to take
part in field sports; and in the whole of
that vast playing field there is only one
dressing-shed. Most of the men and all
of the women have to undress, assume
their playing garb and re-dress into their
daily attire in full view of whoever wishes
to look. If rain has fallen in the mean-
time they have to don wet clothes.
A persistent demand for adequate
dressing accommodation has hitherto
met with the retort that, if the players
desire it, they should pay for it. But
modern science has come to realise that
athletics is part of education. And the
boy or girl between 15 and 25 is seldom
earning sufficient to afford a weekly con-
tribution towards the erection of dressing-
sheds.
The authorities go to intense pains to
stamp out the nudists on beaches miles
from anywhere. Yet here they force
nudism or semi-nudism on many people
to whom it is abhorrent.— Scribe (Vic.).
Australian Wine
Until wine is supplied at the same price
as beer it will never compete with beer
in the great market where the wage-
earner drinks when he is thirsty. The
paltry spoonful offered to the man who
says “wine” when his mate calls for
beer —a pint at that —is an insult to an
honest thirst. It lakes at least two pints
of liquid to quench a moderate summer
thirst, whatever (he liquid may be.
The wine as sold in little glasses over
the bar is, of course, much too strong
to be used as a beverage. If it were
watered down 1 to say five or six per cent,
of alcohol while still in bulk, and drawn
from the cask into schooners or pots or
pewter tankards, and sold at the same
price as beer—or a shade less —until the
taste for it had become acquired by the
man who now likes his liquor bitter —
we might see the wine industry as impor-
tant in Australia as it is in southern
European countries. At Fasoli’s in Mel-
bourne wine was served with a two-
shilling lunch of several courses, with
no extra charge for the
wine. The dining-room
was always well filled in
my time, and the pro-
prietress seemed satisfied
with the returns.
Wine really ought to be
as cheap as malt liquor
when barley is from half
a crown to five shillings a
bushel as against about a
penny a bushel for grapes.
—J. Smethurst (N.S.W.).
The Shepherd’s Warning
Until July 10 I was shepherding
drought-stricken sheep on agistment near
Mingela (N.Q.), , For convenience in
handling and watering the mob of 5000
was halved. I was put in charge of one
half some few miles from the main camp-
We asked for £1 a week so that we
could make our own camp and buy
tucker, but were refused.
We entered the new camp to find only
a skimpy, much-worn fly and a pack-
saddle and water canisters. When
we had lived on coal-cooked johnny
cakes, and had been without meat for
two days, we decided that the sheep must
remain in the break until we were sup-
plied with camp gear and tucker. The
boss soon brought a camp-oven, wash-
dish, cooking billycans, bread and meat.
We, of course, had to do our own
cooking and horse-tailing, take horses to
water and pack water for domestic pur-
poses, as well as shepherd sheep all day
and bail their water.
After another few weeks the rain
started. For 10 days we shepherded in
a drizzle, slept in saturated blankets and
ate soaked food. We asked for a tent,
to which we were entitled under the
award, at the same time sending in a list
of stores required. Result, a week’s
notice. This was our reward for bailing
water for the mob from a well 25ft.
deep, doctoring the blind, wigging the
wool-blind, manicuring the long-toed
and not losing sheep.
All this is in reply to “Brebis” 18.
2/7/’35). If £2 17s. 2d. and reasonable
tucker for a seven-day—each of 15 hours
—week is more than the owner can pay
for the care of his flock he has my
deepest sympathy, but may something
drastic happen to me if ever I accept
such a job again.—R.W. (N.Q.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Vamac”; Mike is the most cheerful
soul I’ve met. After he had battled for
months to save his sheep through the
drought, his W.Q. selection got seven
inches of rain in two days, wiping out his
entire flock. “Begorra,” he said, “ ’tis a
hard counthry we’re livin’ in. Aither it’s
droughts or it’s floods we have to con-
tend with.” He looked glum, then bright-
ened up: “But there’s wan thing to be
thankful for. We never get ’em both at
wanst. If we did it’s crazy I’d be with
the worry of it all.”
* * * *
“Alf”; The city man rejects help with
suspicion or offence (B. 24/ 7/ ’35) be-
cause he knows his city is plentifully
supplied with sharp characters; and he
can get help in most things if he cares
to pay for it. The bushman can’t;
therefore he rejects help with a word of
thanks—some day his life might depend
on assistance from the same man.
* * * *
“Duccabrook”: Has “Bogaduck” ever
seen a duck bogged? 1 have—many times.
On Warbreccan station (W.Q.) in my
time there used to be fifty or more ring
tanks. When low, with only an inch or
so of liquid covering a bed of silt, they
were traps for ducks. Those fellows would
go sailing by at night. They’d see the
water below. They’d slant down to it
and take it with a run—the way ducks
will when alighting on water. The sill
would churn up and clog their feathers,
making balls of mud of them, and, un-
able to fly, with nothing in which to
swim, those poor ducks just had to stay
there and wait for the dam to dry—
unless some predatory animal got in first.
* * * *
“Retired Bagman”: Some years ago
when 1 walked into a far-northern coastal
town the local Chinese was the only one
who was seemingly prosperous enough to
give me a job. I scavengered some three
dozen dead marines off a local refuse tip
for him and washed them. He paid me
3d. a dozen, and another sixpence for
filling them with kerosene. I went
away with loud praises on my tongue for
all countrymen of Confucius. As well
I might, too, for I’ve never had a job
since.
* * * *
“Jakmak”: This district (Jandowae, Q.)
is going through the most Arctic winter
since 1918, and a severe depression has
settled on the animals and birds. Our
ringbarking camp on the northern Downs
has become a handout joint for desti-
tute fowls. I had never believed that any
bush bird would eat from the hand, but
here the “apostles” will come right into
the tucker tent and take crumbs from
(he fable or from the floor round our
feet. Peewees and butcher-birds will do
the same, and even scrub magpies,
usually as wild as the man from Borneo,
will venture quite close. Hunger seems
to make them forget their fear of man
altogether. Near by a farmer is plough-
ing, and the first hum of the tractor in
the morning is the breakfast-bell for
dozens of peewees, magpies, jays and
butcher-birds. They follow the plough
all day, and the grubs and seeds they
miss wouldn’t feed a sparrow.
* * • ♦
“Scran”: I found it difficult to get
“the poor, credulous Britisher” (B.
7/8/’35) even to believe the truth. Never
having heard of the Tasmanian tiger or
Tasmanian devil, he refused to believe
in either. 1 wasn’t game to tell him
about the platypus. Similarly, on return-
ing home, I’ve found it impossible to
get local anglers to believe that I actu-
ally saw fish caught on boiled hempseed.
Perhaps I look like a liar.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: “Cachalot” (B.
7/8/’35) is mistaken when he says the
sperm whale is immune from attack.
A thing that will fight it is the
giant deep-sea squid. This cephalopod
is the whale’s favorite food, and when
he finds the squid the fight is on. The
whale’s object is to drag it to the surface
and shear off and devour huge lumps of
the soft, jelly-like flesh. The squid
objects, and centres its attack on the
whale’s tongue. Old-time whalers in the
Pacific witnessed many of these titanic
combats on the surface of the sea. Albert
“ Cripes , who DID I bring home last
night ?”
R. Wetjen also saw one of these
struggles, in which the whale was beaten,
and wrote a magnificent account of it.
*i* * *
“Berry”: The cunning crow. I set 10
rabbit-traps round a carcass, covering
them carefully with soil. Results over
a week were three dozen magpies, nine
kookaburras, five peewees and one crow.
His mistake was very much appreciated
by the rest of his mates, who sat round
in the trees in dozens telling him what
a goat he was. One morning I took up
the traps believing the black fowls had
deserted that part. Passing an hour or
so later I counted 30 of them on and
around the carcass.
* * * *
"Bungee”: The Abo. councillors
championing various crays and yabbies
have missed the choicest of the lot in
the “marrons” of many of the southern
inland Westralian rivers. They are the
dead spit of the sea crays, and have
prickly backs—not smooth, like yabbies
—and grow up to Sin. long. There is a
catch in it: they are hard to capture.
The sporting method is with a wire snare
on the end of a wand.
“Pisces”: Anent this argument about
crayfish and lobsters: What is the real
distinction, anyway? Most people will
answer claws. But it isn’t. The real
distinction lies in that the cray possesses
a crop, or “craw,” as the Scotsman calls
it —he calls them crawfish. Cook your
cray fresh from the sea and you’ll find
him rather unpleasantly full of small
stones and scraps of shell mixed with
what he had for lunch. That is why
fishermen keep good supplies in those
crates underneath the jetty—they want
the crop to be empty and white before
sending the cray to the epicure’s table.
* * * *
“Spare Menzel”: There are such
things as Australian cannibals! It was
noticed that trapped rabbits about
Epping (N.S.VV.) had been partly eaten.
Hoping to catch a fox choker for the
missus, the investigator set special traps,
but landed nothing but ’possums. Their
tummies showed not only rabbit and bird
flesh, with which the traps had been
baited, but ’possum-skin and -fur. Most
bushmen who have camped in ’possum
country know the little chap’s fondness
for cold cooked meat as well as bread or
sugar, but a raw-meat diet is something
new. It is on record, however, that many
years ago in London Zoo Australian
’possums were given dead birds, the
favorite food of the carnivorous
American ’possum, which is no relation,
as an experiment. To the surprise of the
Zoo people, the Australians gratefully
accepted the change of diet, always go-
ing for the brain first.
* * * ♦
“Bimbo”: Workmen engaged in road
construction at Swan Reach (S.A.) are
having an all-in go with wombats. The
men dug out many of the borrowers
from the roadway, but several escaped
and promptly dug their way in again. So
far the Zoo has received 12, with the
promise of more to follow.
* * * *
“Mako”; A rapidly-filling lake, as Lake
George (N.S.W.) is now said to be (B.
7/ 8/ ’35), would be a cause for specula-
tion in the thermal regions of M.L. For
many months before the Tarawera erup-
tion Lake Rotomahana increased in
bulk, and volcanologists asserted after
the disturbance that the weight of the
additional water had caused the weak
lakebed to break and precipitate sufficient
liquid into the chasm beneath to send
the whole district up in smoke. Tara-
wera, the adjacent lake, some years ago
increased in size, and while it remained
full the great attraction of the wonder-
land, Waimangu Geyser, sent its black
water as high as 1600 feet. With the
release of the overflow the geyser ceased
work, and has not played since. Recently
Rotomahana was reported to be increas-
ing in size again, and Maoris viewed the
phenomenon with a very uneasy interest.
* ♦ * *
"Honi Pikau”: “Kuni Kuni” (B.
24/7/’35) is rather dogmatic in his criti-
cism of Maori pidgin as recorded by
paragraphists. There are only 14 letters
in the Maori alphabet, and no matter
how well a Maori speaks English there
always remain the limitations of the
Maori scale of consonants. James Carroll
(“Timi Kara”) retained this lingual pecu-
liarity all his life. And Maggie Papa-
kura, the Rotorua guide, whom I knew
for years, had superb diction, but always
plus the Maori flavor, which, incidentally,
made it the more beautiful. As there is
no “b” or “1” in the Maori language, “py
korry” is a fair interpretation of the
pakeha “by golly.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: A lyrebird can smell a
human. I managed to get quite close to
one the other day, and sat and watched
its performance for ten minutes, but the
wind suddenly changed and blew from
me towards the pretty fowl. I didn’t
move an eyelash, but the bird darted off.
On several occasions I have noticed a
similar thing happen. To prove that the
lyrebird has a very well-developed sense
of smell just touch one of its eggs and
you’ll find the nest deserted. The bird
doesn’t seem to mind how close you
approach the nest provided you don’t
touch it.
* * * ♦
“Psitta”: In spite of the wide vogue of
“Aboriginalities” there are still new
discoveries to be made in Australia’s
fauna. Someone recently wrote from
N.Q. to the Brisbane press giving par-
ticulars of some strange parrots he had
taken from the nest, and asking what
they were. The birds turned out to be
the very rare Cloncurry parrot, which
carries the scientific brand, hideous as
the fowl itself is beautiful, of Barnardius
MacGillivrayi. As far as is known the
nest and eggs of this parrot have never
before been found, and the hunt for
them is now up.
“Cap’n Flint”: A flock of N.T. parrots
took a busman’s holiday recently when
they flew from Darwin to Brisbane—by
’plane. The birds arc known as Golden
Shoulders, and are confined to Perkins's
dominions. They were shipped to a Bris-
bane fancier, who had to get a special
permit for them to enter Bananaland,
since they are seed-eaters and, therefore,
likely to threaten the Queensland agri-
cultural industry unless kept under strict
supervision.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ichthus”: I have caught and eaten
most English fresh-water fish and, after
trout, grayling (small) and char (rare),
the voracious perch, I agree with “S.T.S.”
(B. 7/8/’35), is about the best on the
table. I never found much flavor in the
carp, much as the old monks esteemed
him, and roach and dace deserve the
worst the Angler’s Week-end Book can
say about them. True, Thackeray in-
cludes them among the ingredients of
bouillabaisse in his poem on that
Parisian olla podrida, but I suspect it
was only for the sake of a rhyme. Chub
and tench, if bigger, are little better —
when the latter were introduced into
Westralian waters 30 years ago some-
body aroused merriment in the Assembly
by citing a passage from an English
authority which could find no higher
praise for the fish than that it furnished
“an admirable food for the lower
classes.” Even Labor members grinned
at that testimonial. I have omitted the
pike, which is reasonably edible, with
skilful culinary treatment, only when it
is in the heavyweight class. If the im-
ported perch improves likewise —and it
reaches double the size in Australian and
M.L. waters that it attains in Britain —
I wish some benevolent angler would
send me one.
“Spare Walton”; I persist in my con-
tention tjiat none of the Yorkshire family
which once harbored me would look at
perch as an edible fish. There is no
chance of my confusing perch with
“chub, roach or dace,” for there is no mis-
taking the handsome perch for any other
fish, and, to the best of my recollection, I
never fished for or caught any of the trio.
No one has a greater respect for the
Lady Prioress of Sopeswell, from whose
book “S.T.S.” quotes the opinion that
perch is “passing holsome,” but I join
issue with Juliana here. In the Middle
Ages people would eat almost anything.
There are many of their lineal descend-
ants knocking about to-day.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: At Cairns (N.Q.) Coal
Dust’s high-jumping Australasian record
of 7ft, 11 in. passed into oblivion when no
fewer than three horses leapt over Bft.
Oiin., dividing the £165 prize-money.
Domino, Darkman and Lion are the
names of the champions.
* * *
“Anthro.”: “Ethno’s” “simple” ex-
planation of the light-skinned Papuans
lately discovered by Hides’s expedition
(B. 7/8/’35) is that they are descendants
of Polynesians who were the original
occupants of Papua. It is so simple as
to approach fatuity. There is no evidence
whatever of Polynesian settlement of
Papua. As far as the country’s history-
can be traced the original dwellers have
been Papuans—the “woolly ones” of the
Malays—and, perhaps, the negrito-like
pygmies of the high mountains. The
photographs of the new people which
have arrived in Sydney show them to
be unmistakable Papuans. “Ethno’
refers to the woolly hair of these folk
as “unmistakably Melanesian.” It is
just as unmistakably Papuan. As to
lightness of color, that can be found
among many Papuan peoples, notably
the yellow-browns of the south-eastern
end of the possession.
BILL’S FORMULA.
Old Bill is full of amity for nearly all the
human clan;
He thinks a man should never be too hard
upon his brother-man.
And when you’ve ceased some tale to tell about
the wrong some villain’s done,
His harshest comment is: “Well, well, a feller
oughter pass him one.”
'lwas in the pub at Micky Reid’s; a lot of
blokes had aired their views
On Hitler’s manifold misdeeds and, worst of
all, his set on Jews.
Bill heard them cursing hard enough Ger-
mania’s dictator-son:
"He's tough,” he acquiesced, “darned tough—
a feller oughter dong him one.”
I hey turned to Mussolini’s craze, his jingo
tongue, his scheming brain,
His wild career along the ways to set (he
world at war again.
Bill lit his pipe and drained his pot, then on
the Duce trained his gun:
‘He’s hot,” he growled, “a bit 100 hot —a
feller oughter pass him one.”
To hear his pithy verdict go on anyone, at
any time,
You’d think he holds a hefty blow full punish-
ment for any crime.
When other chaps’ vindictiveness a list of
penalties has spun,
Old Bill chips in a thoughtful “Yes, a feller
oughter dong him one.”
And if upon some summer morn, when all
night long the beer had flowed,
Bill met the Devil, hoof and horn and
pitchfork, 190, upon the road,
I doubt he’d raise a hue and cry; I’m pretty
sure he wouldn’t run; •
I like to think he’d coldly eye the Prince of
Hell —and pass him one!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Oloc”; On a Queensland cattle run
where I was jackerooing, a Jewish holi-
day-maker went out mustering with us. A
poor horseman, he soon lagged behind.
He didn’t get home that night, and next
day’s search was fruitless. On the second
night of his absence we were all worriedly
conferring at the manager’s house when
the 'phone rang. Answering it, 1 was
delighted to hear the lost one hollo-
ing agitatedly, “Why. hullo, Mr. Isaacs."
I said. “We’ve been looking for you all
day,” Then, as there were several
boundary-riders’ huts on the private line,
I added: “Where arc you?” “Verc am
1?” cried the excited Hebrew—l could
almost see his disengaged hand thrash-
ing the air. “Vere am I, you say? Dat’s
vot I vant to know—vere de hell am I?”
* * # *
“F.Y.7”: A touch of spotlight for a
juvenile hero who lives on Brampton
Island, near Mackay (N.Q.). He was in
a dinghy with a woman and his infant
sister when the baby spilled into 1 Oft.
of water. The youngster dived in, found
his sister and held her up until the father,
attracted by the cries of (he woman, got
them both out. Little sister soon recov-
ered, but her rescuer was so done up that
his people wrote apologetically to the
Primary Correspondence School in Bris-
bane, explaining why he was taking a
week off. The youngster’s name was Pat
Busuttin, and six winters had left their
mark on him.
* :!• >!• *
“G.A.L.”: Mention of the pigeon shot
by Rear-Admiral Evans on Bird Island
(B. 31/7/’35) recalls that “Taffy” de-
cided to take the fowl aboard and fywe
it baked for lunch. It took the cook two
days to soften the flesh down to the
consistency of ship's biscuit, so it was
reluctantly lowered over the side and
allowed to give a shark the stomach-
ache.
* * * *
“J.H.F.”; “Western’s” recipe for cook-
ing mullet (B. 31/7/ *35) is a long way
from best. Here’s the way. Gut the fish,
but don’t scale it. Wrap it in a dozen
to twenty folds of newspaper. Bury in
red embers for about 20 minutes. Unwrap
(the skin will come off with the wrappers)
and eat hot.
* * * *
“Rindy”: “Norbo’s” 25-)-lb. jewfish
(B. 3i/7/’35) wasn't a jewey. It was a
tiddler. Rex Asher, of Newcastle, recently
landed one weighing 6311 b. with a rod
and line, and they go to 1001 b. and more.
Jewfish are really “jewel” fish, the name
coming from two bony lobes shaped
somewhat like pear-drops which it carries
in its head.
* * * *
“M 8”: Just so, “El V.,” but isn't it
instinct that makes a bushman subcon-
sciously take notice of the creeks, hills,
sand ridges and other things you men-
tion as direction-finders (B. 31/17/’35)?
And you also make that common error
about the sun. You’d use a wristlet
watch for a compass, setting 12 o’clock
to the sun. Well, if you can do that
when it’s foggy or cloudy or after dark,
which are the most popular times for get-
ting bushed, you’re a better man than I
am. Animals have a direction instinct,
as witness Mac. He was ridden from
a certain spot 15 miles along the Murray,
taken across it by punt and ridden an-
other 20 miles back on the other side.
The gelding disappeared that night and
turned up at the first spot next day.
Tracks showed that he had followed the
river until he came opposite his home,
when he plunged in and swam across,
making a beeline of it.
♦ * ♦ **
“F.Y.7”: A Sydney journal published
photographs of two swagmen, “old
style” and “new style.” The first was
clad from head to foot in a decent-look-
ing suit with a soft collar and tie. He
had a fair-looking swag on his back,
balanced in front by an army sandbag.
Over his left arm he carried a folded
mackintosh, and in his right hand a dirty
black billy—uncovered. His hat was
quite a nobby felt. The “new-style” chap
had dispensed with a coat. Otherwise he
went in waistcoat, breeks, shirt and collar
and a tie, had overcoat over his shoulder
and on his back what looked like the
outfit of a flapper hiker. Two typical
sheep-murdering dogs which would have
“Bonzer 'orse, ain't it, Dave?”
had a brief existence in wool and mutton
country carried small packs, and one a
new billy—which might hold a pint—in
its mouth. Here, again, the hat was a
smart one. and both the pictures shouted
unmistakably that the outer suburbs of
Sydney were the travel limit of these
veterans of the wallaby track.
* * * *
"Ped O'M.”: Strange are the reactions
of bird and animal to music. For two
years 1 have shared a wireless set with a
cockatoo-parrot and a cocker spaniel,
but not till the other day did 1 discover
that the dog was paying his share of the
license fee for nothing. 1 tuned-in to a
station playing a recorded number,
“Whistling Rufus,” and the dog, hitherto
asleep, got up and walked out. The
parrot, however, joined in the whistling
refrain with gusto.
» * * -I!
“Cautious”: Let “Over-plumb” (B.
31/7/’35) beware lest he be ostracised, as
was a certain clergyman (now high in
the councils of his church) when he
dwelt in our district. One sermon on
“Environment and Companionship” did
the damage, and he never knew why. He
merely remarked, "To illustrate my
point, my dear friends, a man who has
“You can't HAVE it, I tell you!”
much to do with cows becomes cowlike,
while he who spends much time with
pigs becomes piggish in his ways.” Nine-
tenths of his “dear friends” came from
dairy farms, where pigs were a sideline.
“Bimbo”: To what age do magpies
generally live? One 'pie owned by Mrs.
Canney, of West Mitcham (S.A.), was
nearly 29 years old when it died recently.
Her father brought the bird home before
it was fully feathered.
j{{ * *
“Shopper”: Little success appears to
be ahead of the new manly sport of
yabbie-angling, initiated the other day by
Melbourne University students. They
turned up 500 strong, each bearing his
piece of string, meat attached, with
intent to despoil the University lake of
the enormous yabbie population it was
reputed to hold. In addition to the
authorised anglers, small boys from all
the neighboring schools cheerfully
wagged it, confident they would have
boiled yabbies for dinner, while spec-
tators poured from the cars drawn
up around the grounds. When the pistol
was fired, the competition started, and
500 lumps of meat plopped into the
water. But nothing happened for half
an hour, except the discovery by the
judges of a salt-water crayfish hidden
under the coat of a competitor. He was
promptly disqualified for life as a yabbie-
angler for an alleged intent to ring-in.
By nightfall only two yabbies had been
caught—though both were of fair size.
The judges awarded the first prize to
the student who landed the bigger, and
gave an honorable mention to the
other.
“Old Q.”: Reference to the late Archie
Meston (B. 7/8/’35) reminds me that he
once infuriated the jackeroo population
of Queensland by giving the alleged
origin of the name in one of his books.
He said the South Queensland blacks
called the magpie “tchaceroo” because of
its incessant yabbering. They first gave the
name to the Moravian missionaries who
settled near Brisbane in the 1830's, be-
cause they were always asking questions.
Later they tacked it on to all overseas
strangers for the same reason —cacoethes
toquendi, as Archie himself, who affected
Latin tans, would probably have called
it.
* >8 * *
“OIoc”; We’ve heard a lot about
honey beer lately, but what about orange
wine? Some Australian citrus orchard-
ists make it. It's really a sort of Curasao,
and should be taken out of a liqueur
glass ; but the lads in the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) district swallow it by the
tumblerful, and never bat an eyelid.
Hawkesbury natives have always been
renowned for toughness.
•*l‘ >I« »Jc
"Jam”: When mentioning plants
which grow after a scrub tire, “J.F.L.”
(B. 17/7/’35) omits Cape gooseberry.
After the first burn in almost any
fiart of Maori land the gooseberry is
(he first crop, heavy and thick. I
have seen the same thing on the
Tweed (N.S.W.), and have followed
it right up (he coast to Atherton
(N.Q.). Where the blazes the seed comes
from, where it's been, why a fire starts
it, and a thousand other things have me
beaten.
* * *
“Como”: Melbourne Zoo has been
the victim of boy bandits of late. The
guinea-pig cottage has been persistently
looted of numbers of its residents, and
the Zoo authorities have become alarmed
that the depredations may extend until
some morning they will discover that
burglars have got away with the con-
tents of (he lion pit or that some evil-
disposed person has despoiled them of
their hippo. Barbed wire and strong
guards have been adopted as protective
measures, but it is still deemed necessary
to count all the boa-constrictors at night-
fall and make sure that nobody gets out
with the giraffe concealed about his
person.
>!•* * sfc #
“Billy See”: The carving of a steak
from a living beast has been attributed
to others besides the Abyssinians (B.
24/7/’35). When a child 40 years ago
I heard the same thing about Australian
overlanders. Maturity, however, rejected
the idea —because loss of blood from
such a gaping wound would probably
bring the animal down right away, be-
cause under a tropical sun gangrene,
not to mention blowflies, would speedily
set in, and because with such a wound
an animal would be too crippled to
march.
* !|< *
“A.N.S.”: 1 have often seen snakes
enter a water-pipe (B. 7/8/’35) as the
quickest means of escape. They came
out backwards, and very quickly, when
water was available.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Won’t moonlight make fish
go bad (B. 31/7/’35)l I hung a fine
M urray cod in a tree one night; an old
hand told me that it would go bad. I
laughed at him, and said I wasn’t
superstitious. “Have it your own way
then, young feller,” he replied. The moon
shone on that fish all night, and next
morning it was flabby, sweaty and most
unattractive in appearance and odor,
though not exactly bad, whereas a fish
caught at the same time and hung inside
a hollow tree was quite fresh and firm.
My fish was really bad on the following
morning, but the other was still good.
1 mentioned the matter to a doctor.
“Well,” he told me, “putrefaction and
decay are caused by the action of bac-
teria, and bacteria grow more rapidly
under polarised light than under ordinary
light. Moonlight is polarised light.”
* * * *
“Mid-Sussex”: Many are the ways of
tricking the Fisheries Inspector on our
part of the George s River (Sydney), but
the best to date was perpetrated by a
flapper. Seeing the inspector’s launch
approaching, she placed the only two
flathead caught in her —yes, you’ve
guessed right. How she managed to keep
perfectly calm while the boat was being
searched still has this member of the
crew wondering.
* * * *
“Laet.”: The human likeness of the
dugong, mentioned by “Curly” (B.
26/6/’35), has been exploited by an
Australian showman. He exhibited a
male and female of the species as “a cap-
tured merman and mermaid.” Beyond
doubt the dugong is the source of the
nautical legend of the mermaid. The
female carries her young under her
flippers or arms, and suckles them.
POTHOLES.
Ah. potholes! Potholes! Day by day
I’m filling potholes, one by one,
And shovelling in, not stone or clay.
But shattered dreams whose day is done.
Once they were dreams of rich success.
Yet now, to make the story brief,
Caught in Depression’s hopeless mess,
I'm filling potholes on “relief.”
Time was 1 owned and drove a car
As good as any on the street;
I'm sealing potholes now with tar,
And making others’ travelling sweet.
Yon motorist who heedless flies,
Whose car a silver bullet gleams.
Does he one moment realise
His road is smoothed with others' dreams?
N.S.W.
PTRIANTELOPE


COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
CLERK EMBARKS ON WORLD TOUR
m
mfit
One of the many thousands of happy Travel-
lers journeying to England for the King’s
Jubilee celebrations is a Colonial Mutual Life
Policy holder, who, after the celebrations will
continue on a world tour.
Employed as a Clerk in a City Office, he had
taken out a policy providing for the payment
of £5OO at the age of 45, which enabled him
to make the trip.
Full information regarding such a policy may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
The Society that is wholly mutual.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE : MELBOURNE, BRANCHES IN: SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON
C. B. Hearn, A.C.I.S. Manager and Secretary 2 ,g5
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night
All meals a la carle.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8VV1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral.'
SYDNEY.
J
dr.tjßftFfc.Mrf>?*
an*.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Pigs and Pigs.
“longala”: In B. 31/7/’35 “Pappaniosca”
writes “first get your pig and then grade him.”
It sounds easy, and therein lies the danger.
Has anybody found the pig? If so, can he
or you tell me its name and what the qualifica-
tions of an export pig arc?
"Pappamosca” replies:
The standard animal in Denmark is
ihe native Landrace, crossed with the
Large White. For the British bacon
trade, pigs dressing 1201 b. to 1601 b. are
needed. They should be of the late-
maturing breeds —you can’t make a
baconer out of a quick-fattening porker
any more than the proverbial silk purse
out of the sow’s ear. Animals should
be line-boned, and the overseas market
has a preference for whites.
The Danes carry on the pig business
in close association with the dairy, and •
milk, almost without exception, is used
as the basic food. Young pigs especially
are entirely carried on milk and grain,
but sugar-beet, swedes and potatoes help
lo make high-quality pork, though sugar-
beets and swedes in excess grow a mushy
carcass.
The main obstacle in the way of
developing an export type in Australia
is that our local-consumption standards
vary from those of overseas buyers,
principally because of climatic differ-
ences. But the trade can be well com-
bined by using medium crossbred sows
with large boars for export and small-
breed boars for the local porker trade.
The tendency in Australia is to standard-
ise with the Berkshire, Tamworth,
Middle White and Large White.
A. white parent bred to a colored pig
will always produce white progeny, but
a lot remains to be done in standardising
an ideal Australian export pig, since
whites are particularly exposed to scald,
respond more quickly to insanitary con-
ditions and are a happy hunting-ground
for parasites.
When a white can be stabilised which
will run true to export type and stand
up to the troubles of life as readily as
other animals, pork and bacon export
should become worth as much to Aus-
tralia as the butter business. But there
is still much to be done with Dennis, not
only here, but the world over. Nobody
has yet been able to endow him even
with a standard number of ribs.
“M.D.D.M.”: “Pappamosca’s” com-
plaint (B. 31/7/ ’35) that Denmark long
ago evolved a standard pig, and that
Australia has not, is true; but the
Queensland Agricultural College (Gatton),
which owns one of the most profitable
piggeries in the State, is doing something.
It uses only two breeds, Berkshire and
Large White, which produce a cross
better than the Tamworth-Berkshire,
probably the most popular with breeders.
For export, the Large White has an
advantage over the Tamworth in its
color.
The Berkshire is roughly of the type
of the Landrace, which, bred with the
Large White, produced the standard
Danish pig.
The new system of grading to be
introduced in Queensland is a step in
ihe right direction, since it takes quality
into account as well as weight. In the
British market all pork and bacon is
rigidly bought on quality.
Swelled Head in Rams.
“J.W.”: This disease develops usually
in early summer or autumn. Mostly it
is fatal; but sheep can be immunised
against it with a special vaccine.
Early symptoms are hardly ever noticed,
since the onslaught is so sudden. A
watery swelling grows between the eyes
or under the chin, gradually extending
until the head doubles in size, sometimes
within 12 hours. The patient stops eating
and drinking, his eyes become closed and
at the first touch the swelling gives him
intense pain. Later, feeling seems to
leave it. Within 48 hours death usually
comes.
The disease can be diagnosed without
doubt in a post-mortem. The tissues
round the head are found to contain a
pale, translucent yellowish fluid which
congeals when exposed to the air. There
is nearly always some of the fluid in the
chest cavity and also round the heart.
Swelled head is due to an infection of
wounds; hence youngsters suffer more
from it. Less trained to combat, they arc
specially susceptible to injury round the
horns. But if during spring foreheads
and horn bases are washed with mercury
perchloride (1 in 1000) solution the rate
of infection can be kept down.
It is not worth while to treat ordinary
flock rams. Kill those infected and burn
the bodies at once. But shear a valuable
animal’s head at the first sign of the
disease. Paint the lumps with iodine and
feed the animal in a quiet shed with
gruel or milk and water. It has a chance
—but nothing to bet evens on.
Piece-picking.
“0.M.”: It isn’t only the picker-up
who needs training in some woolsheds.
Most of the minor arts which ought to
flourish are often neglected by graziers,
and they wonder why they are poor.
Piece-picking, for instance, has a well-
organised technique. 1 see pickers work-
ing under conditions which would blind a
watchmaker and make a saint gnash his
teeth —any sort of table in a dark corner,
bins all over the place and work piling
up at a mile a minute. Yet requirements
are simple—the main one a table sloping
away from the picker with a good, direct
light upon it. First and second bins
should be across the table, giving a
straight throw. A woojbale to the side—
it depends on the man, since some people
are left-handed —with a wire ring to hold
it well open, will take care of stained
pieces.
The main secret of good picking is to
keep up with the wool arrival. Pieces
come in free and well separated. They
can be handled rapidly and easily if
dealt with at once. As soon as a pile
accumulates, they seem to sink together,
and give twice as much trouble as the
fresh wool.
Another rule is to have an ample clear
space on the table to work on and to
deal with one piece at a time.
Locks which go to the floor, in
common with all wool round baling
equipment, should be swept up at reason-
able intervals. 1 have seen small sheds
where it seems to be an axiom that being
trampled on improves the residue of a
clip.
Victoria and Dipping.
“Ghanam”: Victoria as well as N. S.
Wales insists on dipping for lice (B.
14/8/’35). The Department of Agricul-
ture is calling attention to the fact that
lice damage to wool may range from Id.
to 6d. per pound.
Under the Act, every owner must dip
his sheep every year after shearing, direct
from the shearing-board ; or, if that is
not possible, they must be kept in an
enclosed paddock after shearing and
dealt with within 60 days,
A return must be made to the depart-
ment within 30 days of dipping. Travel-
ling sheep which are infested must con-
tinue their journey on wheels or camp,
and must not be left on the roads or on
the land of any sheepowner.
Sale sheep must be dipped before
going to the yards, and buyers who lake
over infested sheep at sales become
liable. An inspector, after September 13
and before April 1, may order a muster
and dipping within 14 days, even if sheep
have been previously dipped.
There is no standardised dip, but what-
ever type and chemical are used must be
effective. The mere fact of having dipped
a flock does not absolve an owner from
the risk of penalty if his sheep remain
lice-ridden.
The first essential in successful dip-
ping is a full muster —even one lamb left
out will reinfest a flock. The dip must
be well stirred at intervals whatever type
is used. Sheep must remain in long
enough to allow them to become soaked
to the skin, and a good notion is to
force them backwards occasionally while
they are in the fluid. This opens the
wool and helps the dip to get to the skin.
And don’t forget heads—push them
under quickly two or three limes with a
crook or forked stick, padded so as not
to risk marking the flesh if they arc
designed for mutton.
Skeleton Weed and Lambs.
“X.N.”: There is no doubt that skele-
ton weed in N. S. Wales is driving many
wheat-farmers out of business, and I
shiver to think what the result may be if
it extends to some Queensland areas
where growth is quick and prolific. On
farms around the Riverina, the growth is
coarse and rank and waist-high.
Many farmers are saving themselves
by turning over to fat lambs. The weed
is not overnutritious and fattening, but
when it is young lambs are not averse
to it, and with an artificial ration or
fodder crops —it works well with oats —
it is fairly satisfactory.
For this class of lamb-raising a
merino ewe is little use. A deep-bodied
comeback or grade Corriedale should be
lambed down in June, unless there is
plenty of lucerne handy. Dorset Horn
and Southdown are good rams for the
job.
Moving Race Dips.
“Z.N.”: I agree with “G.F.D.” (B.
10/7/’35) about the “lift in” in dipping
practice. So far, nothing has been said
of the “moving-race” type of dip, in
which the race floor is composed of a
belt with wooden slats fixed across it.
Engine power is, of course, essential, but
the cost saves men, dogs and tempers,
and is easy on the sheep. Two men can
dip as fast with this type as six on any
other style. It is good so long as they
do not dip too fast.
“W.McD.”: Lifting sheep (more par-
ticularly shorn sheep) is the finest man-
killing job I know of.
I reckon the hardest day’s work I ever
did was hand-drafting 300 shorn wethers
out of a flock of 4000. They had to be
lifted over a three-railed fence on a day
when the glass showed HOdeg. in the
shade. “Albarmount” is welcome to his
methods, and his comparison between
lifting a sheep and a bag of wheat doesn't
go with me.
I have not seen many men in the last
50 years that could juggle a 1901 b, bac
of wheat easily, and most wheat-men
nowadays have an old horse and a hoist
to save the manhandling.
Beef Breeds on Test.
“The 0.D.”: Australian cattlemen
should learn a lesson from competitions
held this year by Bingara (N.S.W.) show
society, which called for entries for pens
of 11 steers of any recognised beef breed,
to be judged on the hoof at Bingara, as
carcasses at Aberdeen (N.S.W.) meat-
works, and for British consumption,
chilled, at Smith field.
Final results from Smithlield show
that Herefords won at Bingara. Angus at
Aberdeen and Angus-Shorthorns at
Smithlield. Eight entries were received,
comprising Aberdeen-Angus, Hereford.
Aberdeen-Angus Shorthorn and Devon
Shorthorn.
Judged on the hoof for conformation,
quality, fleshing and fat distribution and
suitable weight, Herefords from Hays
Bros.’ Bexley station beat all others b>
five points.
The black poll Shorthorn steers of
H. R. Munro, Keera, shared second place
with Whitfield Bros." Gincroi Herefords.
H. Gordon Munro’s Booroomooka
black polls were placed fifth at Bingara.
but topped the score, when killed at Aber-
deen, for commercial value, quality, con-
formation, hide, fat and weight.
At Smithlield, judged purely as suit-
able for the English trade in chilled beef,
the Keera crosses were first and the
Booroomooka pure AAs second.
Changes in placings at the three
judging points were probably caused by
a combination of things some beasts,
for instance, would not kill as well as
they looked.
Some Herefords were below the pre-
scribed Aberdeen weight.
The importance of bloom is shown in
the fact that the hide value of some
Herefords was 275. 5d., while that of
others was only 19s,
Average selling prices for the Smith-
field consignment were 2|d. crops and
4-id. hinds ; Id. and |d. per lb. respec-
tively better than was received for a pre-
vious Aberdeen consignment—but still
well behind Argentine prime values.
The Birdsville Track.
“Bally”: I’m with “Beefo” (B.
24/7/’35) that, bullocks should not lose
weight down the Birdsville-Maree track
in a season when conditions are fairly
good.
The 8.-M. route includes some of the
sweetest feed on the continent.
The things which put the kibosh
on a plains-bred bullock are stones and
hills, which usually mean inferior
country.
Bullocks which are unused to hills get
muscle-sore climbing. It doesn’t matter
what the other conditions may be, or
how good the feed is, nothing loses con-
dition quicker, and in greater quantity,
than a sore and harassed beast.
“Beefo’s” argument about the Monkira
bullock touches the spot. I knew that
bullock when he was young. Unless 1
saw it I would never have believed that
any bullock could carry over 15cwt. and
support himself while foraging. That
Monkira chap did it.
Setting a Beef Standard.
“El V.”: Australia could do with a
few men like W. R. Nelson, who founded
the Kansas City “Star.” His Sni-a-Bar
farms are famous wherever beef cattle
are bred.
Mr. Nelson, a breeding enthusiast, be-
came exasperated, as hundreds of us are
(Continued on page 24.)


mm III
S*:;
.
■ ■' ■;■ '
' :.
.
‘ It’s like a liqueur.
*
7f must he
■■■■■Smssss
' ■■ - . ..'.a
.
■ I
« ■-
S SI » i
. ■
.
f>
WHITE HORSE
■■&*■
SSsSS®gg£ .. *
KwHis
> :■
:
:■*»
:>,. ■ **■■' ■
vitiiiii
.
■
■
■ ■• . ■ ;•■■ ■■ •.. :
m*
m
s?:
‘ -
M
W*:S2«S
£v.\ • ••
>■> '?
'• V : >-
W&A
pV
.. . .
M
m
m
mm
mm
m
mi *!
*■■■••■
“It's equal to a fine liqueur"
There’s no concealing the obvious
good qualities of White Horse.
From the first hint given by its
subtle aroma to the rare heather
and p3at flavor and ripe mellow-
ness, White Horse Whisky leaves
no one in doubt as to its identity.
Men who previously asked just for
“a Whisky,” daily insist on having
this Rea! Old Scotch, Equal
to a Fine Liqueur, There are
millions and millions of gallons
matured and maturing to meet
the demands of particular people.
You can even tell it blindfold
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flash on Sale
V


STOMACH ACIDITY
RESPOHSIBLE FOR
90% OF ILLNESS
Quite apart from the pain and dis-
comfort of indigestion, stomach acidity
is the cause of almost all illness. Excess
acid disturbs the alkaline balance of
the system and reveals itself in such
conditions as HEADACHE, INSOMNIA,
CONSTIPATION and even RHEUMA-
TISM. For perfect health and vitality
it is essential to neutralize excess acid and
stop food fermenting in the stomach.
If you take, immediately after meals, a
little ' Bisurated ’ Magnesia, the stomach
remedy which doctors prescribe and
hospitals use, you will quickly overcome
indigestion and other painful conditions
due to stomach acidity, your health will
improve and you will feel better in
yourself and with the world in general.
Get a bottle of ' Bisurated ’ Magnesia,
powder or tablets, from your chemist
and start your recovery to-day.
BISU RATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Hfs
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
heara_the_J_Biamqg‘ Trade Mark
(di>
Pastoral
Markets in W.A.
Thin wealthy market demands your
attention. letters prove that 6AM
is the only station that the
pastoralists can get. 6AM is their
only regular source of information.
6A.M offers an economical and
efficient way of addressing this big
purchasing community.
SAM
Prince’s Chambers
William Street,
Perl h.
Western Australia.
SEASICK REMEDY
RELIEVES STOMACH
DISTRESS WHEN
TRAVELING s
The riding boot should
be light and strong!
This Abbey Riding Boot meets
the horsemans every need.
Pliant, light and toughly-soled,
it slips on with perfect ease.
Elastic ankle insets preserve
close, comfortable fit. The
upper is smoothly lined with
soft leather.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing, specify width as well as
size, and order a large tin of Dale's
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 451
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. A 1 I,
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
” ALE MITE”
these
parts
FOR quiet ,
quick shift
and easy
start
w
-not
O, Stands for
"ALEMITE”
which means correct lubrica-
tion under high pressure of all
hearings and metal contacts
in a motor vehicle. All dirt,
sand, grit are forced out...
new, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant is forced in to give protec-
tion and increase efficiency.-
YjL flesjr demauds lubrication of
year JJOX highest quality. Alemite
has developed protection for the three types of gear
in general use and for all seasonal conditions .
Never ”grease” the gears in the transmission—in-
sist on "Alemite” Special Gear Lubricant every 3000
to 4000 miles and note the better performance.
Alemite Corporation.
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address : ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACH IN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 123 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—2-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
A New
Small Graziers' Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie,
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
in the Commonwealth, with the man who
seems to prefer to go bankrupt with a
large holding and a mob of scarecrows
to a compact farm with plenty of lucerne
and quick-fattening feeds and early-
maturing stock.
His answer to the struggling propaga-
tor of rubbish who “could not afford
to improve” was to buy—in 1912 —200
ordinary scrub cows, four to five years
old, which were about the standard poor-
farm type. He started to breed with
ordinary farm bulls, culling to establish
uniformity.
At an early stage he died, leaving the
Sni-a-Bar Farm in trust "to promote and
instil a better knowledge of stock-breed-
ing and -raising” among local farmers.
The system since pursued was his own.
The stock is treated as if it were an ordi-
nary commercial proposition. The
heifers are bred to calve at 30 months.
Pastures are chiefly blue grass and clover.
The work of the farm is to take the
low-grade cow and by the use of
first-class bulls to breed up to early-
maturing standard. Every few years a
fresh contingent of common cows comes
in to produce gradually graded-up stock.
Exhibitions are held every year to
educate farmers in what can be achieved
by a good bull.
The first generation from common
cows sired by a purebred bull produced
tops good enough to head markets. Two
crosses bred stock which "in eight cases
out of 10 sold substantially above the
bulk of sales tops.” Increased values up
to 240 dollars (£4B at then current rales)
were obtained on lots of 12 calves from
generation to generation.
Crowds of 10,000 farmers from all
over the world attend the Sni-a-Bar grad-
ing-up demonstrations every year.
Each of the Australian States where
beef-raising is possible might do worse
than establish farms on the Nelson model.
Under proper control they should make
little direct loss. They would be centres
to which local graziers could look for
instruction and see demonstrated the
types of beef beast needed for chilling
and the most practical methods of rais-
ing them. And they also could dissemi-
nate good herd bulls.
Cultivating Lucerne.
“Lion”: Lucerne needs well-aerated
soil. Start in spring to give it with a
cultivator. Cultivating allows every rain
to soak in to full advantage. It also
makes top-dressing afterwards more pro-
fitable. With a proper lucerne renovator,
big crowns are split in half, thus making
two plants and more fodder. Manure
should be evenly distributed. If left in
heaps it often kills a plant under it.
Cultivate as deeply as possible down
to Sin. Work the paddock both ways,
dragging harrows behind the machine
during the cross-working. Eight horses
should be used on an ordinary-sized cul-
tivator for best results. 1 have found
deep lucerne cultivation heavy work for
a 12-h.p. tractor.
The paddock should be always kept
soft, but never boggy, when being
worked. Top-dress with a hundredweight
of super, per acre.
This forces on the barley-grass and
other weeds, which should be kept eaten
down during the spring. The first
lucerne cut will then be clean enough for
profitable stacking.
For best results cultivation with a top-
dressing should be done each year —every
second year at most.
Legume Inoculations.
“Julius Want”: Some may have doubts
about nodule inoculation of legumes, but
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
seems still prepared to take a risk on it.
It announces that cultures may be had
from the departmental biologist in the
following groups —enough to treat 301 b.
small seed or 601 b. of larger seed for
half a crown;
Group 1: Lucerne, white sweet clover,
vellow sweet clover, Hexham scent,
medics, trefoils and all other species of
Medicago or Melilotus. Group 2; Sub-
terranean clover, white Dutch clover,
Egyptian clover, red clover and all other
true clovers (Trifoliuni sp.). Group 3:
Garden-pea, field peas, sweet-pea, all kinds
of vetches and tares, broad bean and lentil.
Group 4; Cow-pea, peanut, Japan clover,
velvet bean, lima bean, partridge pea, wild
jndigo and tick trefoil. Group 5: Garden
bean, held bean, navy bean, kidney bean,
wax bean and scarlet runner. Group 6:
Lupins. Group 7: Soybeans.
As "El V.” (B. 7/8/’35) says, there
is argument about the value of inocula-
tion, and results seem to vary consider-
ably, but experiment is always worth
while.
Fallowing.
"Yeoman”; Fallowing must be re-
garded as important in wheatgrowing.
In fallowing the majority of soils, the
harrows should follow the plough as
soon as possible to break down the clods
and produce a fine surface tilth. If the
harrowing is not enough, then the culti-
vating harrows or the spring-toothed
cultivator should be used.
The importance of a firm, compact and
fine seedbed maintained till seeding-time
cannot be emphasised too strongly. In
some heavy soils double discing with
disc harrows, or cutting up the surface
with a disc cultivator ahead of the
plough, will provide an ideal seedbed.
This should be rolled with a sub-soil
packer.
Light, sandy soil liable to drift should
be handled carefully when under fallow,
if harrowed down level the surface is
likely to drift. The ridging left by the
cultivator is a safeguard.
Fallowing primarily serves a threefold
purpose: It eradicates weeds, conserves
moisture and promotes nitrification and
bacterial activity in the soil.
The Hayshed Pays.
“Hope Vale": It pays to have a hay-
shed for the sake of the hay that is saved
and the improvement in horse feed
quality. The next best thing is to roof
the stack with iron.
When 4ft. of the stack remains to be
built, place strong wooden beams with
6ft. lengths of wire attached along the
edges with the ends projecting slightly,
then finish off with only a slight one-way
slope. On top place another set of beams
along the edges. Place the iron on these
and another lot of beams on (op.
Then wire (he top beams to the bottom
ones at the ends and over every third
sheet.
Do not perforate the sheets to take the
wire.
No wind will blow off a roof fastened
in this way, and the iron is not spoiled
for future use.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.1.A.”: A handy tool for opening
oildrums is a large bridge bolt with the
head bent at right-angles to shank. This
can be fitted into the bung, enabling
you to get good leverage on the shank.
This fits all crudc-oil drums.
“F.D.M.”: A quick way to pull a
line of fence posts out: Attach 6ft. or
Bft. of strong chain with a hook on one
end and a large ring on the other around
the base of post at the hook end. Place
the ring on the spud grip of a tractor-
wheel. Move steadily forward in “first"
and the post is out. Two men can do
hundreds of posts in a day by this
method—one man handling the chain.
“Win”; To save dead wool, throw the
carcass over the low fork of a tree, and
eventually the bones will drop out, leav-
ing the fleece clean.
“Mangaratta”: Adding common salt
to the green silage seems to be a common
practice. There is a belief that it in-
creases palatability and feed value.
Actually, it retards bacterial action.
Lime and phosphorus, however, en-
courage ferment and improve silage
quality. These minerals are necessary to
milking ows. Where the- silage is being
made for them, the addition of 201 b. to
301 b. of ground raw rock phosphate per
ton of forage pays.
Polwarth Breeders at their fifteenth
annual meeting in Melbourne were able
to rejoice at the sustained demand for
the breed’s wool during the past year.
Lariggan clip made a seasonal come-
back record of 19jd. per pound. The
Polwarth is second to the merino in
Victoria in numbers; —235,000 —and. while
the sheep population decreased last year
by 412.000. Polwarths increased by
36,354.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
s{
Jr
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“A medical correspondent says that one
should never hurry after a good meal.”
But a good meal in our boarding-
house is so rare that if you don’t hurry
after it there’s nothing left by the time
you get there.
•I* *I"
Handy.
Bridge was his only love, and for
months he had been trying to improve
Jenny’s game. When she came to him
for the loan of a bridge book he was
delighted. His beam of pleasure grew
as Ihe hours passed and Jenny was
still immersed in bridge problems.
At last she returned the book.
“I’ve picked up a good tip from that
book,” she volunteered. “It tells you.
instead of saying ‘pass.’ to say ‘no bid.’ ”
L.G. B.
•I* »!• 4* *l*
Midnight Oil.
No sound, save the nervous scratching
of a pen in hurried flight, disturbed the
sombre stillness of the big room.
The fire burned low in the grate till
only the ashes remained, but still the
quiet figure at
the table wrote
swiftly on, heed-
less of the swift
passage of time.
Slowly the pile
of manuscript
grew beside him,
till at last, with a
deep sigh, half of
relief and half
triumph at the
completion of his
great work, he
lay back in his
chair and closed
his tired eyes for
a moment.
Rising, he picked up the pile of manu-
script tenderly and placed it in a drawer.
“Thank goodness that's over,” he mur-
mured. “In a few weeks I’ll be a rich
man. I simply had to get those chain
letters finished to-night!
B. L.
* 4* ,
Innocent Deception.
He pulled up at the Hotel Colossus
with a whirr of brakes. The commission-
aire was beside the cab in an instant,
opening the door.
“Good morning, sir,” he mouthed in-
gratiatingly. “Much luggage, sir?”
“Three bags,” replied the young man,
climbing out.
Three short blasts on a whistle brought
three page boys racing through the re-
volving doors, and the luggage was
solemnly carried within.
Dripping self-abasement, the commis-
sionaire piloted the arrival to the door,
where the head porter was bowing
abjectly.
“This way, sir.”
Scurrying footmen paused respectfully
to allow the guest an unimpeded passage
to the booking-office, where a devastating
blonde waited with her dizziest smile,
“Name, please?”
“Stubbs, Timothy Stubbs.”
The lady cocked a roguish eye. “Care
for a balcony room —er —Mr. Stubbs?"
Tim Stubbs scratched his head. “Td
like one, miss, but do you think it’ll be
all right? You see, I’m the new waiter.”
Mr. Stubbs spent the next few months
in a nursing home.
J. McC.
“Nowadays girls learn to smoke as soon
as they leave school.” — Woman’s paper.
In their nicoteens.
‘‘ln the State amateur billiards champion-
ship, Les Hayes, 600, defeated R. Wright, 409.
An unfinished break of 709 by Hayes was the
best of the session.” —“Telegraph
This is the same man who earlier in
the day scored five goals in four kicks
and subsequently ran the mile in 1200
yards.
4* 4* 4*
“In one year, 25 million dollars’ worth of
fertile soil was carried by winds from Texas
to Nebraska.” —News item.
It’s easily seen that Texas and
Nebraska have no Transport Control
Boards.
•b 4* -h •i- "
Conquest of Abyssinia.
When horde after horde of Abys-
sinians came whooping down from the
hills General Macadarone smiled a cold,
sinister smile.
“They getta da beeg shock soon, you
see,” muttered the great general, his
smile becoming colder and more sinister.
How true! When the Abyssinians
swooped into the valley they tumbled
over each other on to an impenetrable
mass of spaghetti entanglements, and it
was during this indescribable mix-up o!
dough and Abyssinian
whiskers that General
Macadarone played his
master stroke.
: Two divisions of Italian
tenors advanced bellowing
“t) Sole Mio,” and five
divisions of Italian grand-
opera companies executed
a flanking movement with
“Rigoletto.” A few
stragglers who had
escaped by stuffing their
whiskers into their cats
were cleaned up by a
barrel-organ division play-
ing popular airs.
| It was when the croon-
ers came into action that
the Abyssinians decided
to choke themselves with
the spaghetti entangle-
ments.
Mussolini has told Gen-
eral Macadarone that he
considers him the second-best man in the
\yorld.
Don ML
q. q. q. q.
1 ‘’When arrested, his pockets were full of
partly-smoked cigarettes which he had gathered
from the street gutters.” —News item.
A real bumper harvest.
-I- -I*
Mentality Test for Prospective Board
of Control Delegates,
1. Special permission has been sought
to allow a certain player, now a sexagen-
arian, to tour privately. When you call
for his dossier you find that he actually
toured with a Test team 12 years before,
though he has not played first-class
cricket since. Give not less than eight
reasons why the request should be flatly
refused.
2. Pursuant to the preceding question,
the player concerned, on being inter-
viewed subsequent to the decision, is re-
ported by the press as having said: “That
bunch of nit-wits can hop to h —11; I’m
going.” Say what the missing letter is,
bearing in mind the possibility of his
having referred to a city in England
which board members may have visited
or a popular portion of the Sydney
Cricket Ground.
3. It is six months since the board
was requested by the various State asso-
ciations to give a ruling on a matter vital
to them. Complaints are being received
about delay. Draft a suitable reply, in
dignified and equivocal terms, to what
you rightly deem unwarranted presump-
tion.
Keo.
+ 4* +
“A railway pay-officer says that it often
happens that workmen, after doing a few
days’ work, disappear without calling for their
pay.”
Casual laborers.
Spanish Content,
. . .. . revolutions Soain is a more
contented “place [ha°„"AuSalfTa> I prefer
to i; ve {here. The burden of taxation is the
cause of discontent in Australia. My case is
typical of others.” —An Englishman*announcing
to the “S. M. Herald his intention of >e-
moving his Australian investments.
“Si, senor,” said the Spaniard—on
accD unt of the limited education of the
g Dan i s j 1 people they all say “Si” instead
“Yes” — “if is because we are so con-
"Stay where y' are, boay, 'N' I'll. go fetch
ladder .”
tented that we revolush. What would
you? A man is well fed ; he has his
family ; he has his wine ; he has his bull-
fight to amuse him. What more can he
want? Why, a revolution!”
“You have your grievances, then?” I
suggested.
“Grievances? Poof!” he retorted. “It
is a supreme content that makes us want
to enjoy a revolution. A Government
comes in ; it refuses to tax us. so out i<
goes. Then another refuses to tax us.
and it goes, too. It is just a sport of a
happy and satisfied people.”
A shade of thought came to his happy
face.
“You are from Australia, is it?” he
asked. “Some day, perhaps, 1 may go
there.”
“There are no revolutions there,” I said
hastily. “The people are too discon-
tented.”
“Si?” he queried. “But, perhaps, if I
win the big lottery I will go there
with it—if 1 can. Better to pay this
taxation that makes so much discontent
than be forced to finance a revolution.”
H. M.
-I* •!* 4* *J*
“A man was challenged to walk 10 miles
on his hands and knees to prove his love for
a woman. He did so, only to find afterwards
that the lady was already married.” —News item.
So he got off very lightly after all.
Not According to Hoyle.
Sweet, after you had left me flat
To start your life anew.
I foolishly imagined that
I'd heard the last of you.
I thought, since we don’t care a cent
Or rap for one another.
That you’d conform to precedent
And skip back home to mother.
But you preferred (ah. here’s the rub
Of your perversity )
To stay at an expensive pub
And send the hills to me!
P.O.M .C.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
VII.
From the cabin-boy of the Pelican to
his father in England, during Drake’s
voyage round the world.
We’ve been sailing west for three
weeks, and to-day 1 heard the Admiral
(Mr. Drake) say that we were within
300 leagues of Hispaniola, wherever that
may be. I suppose he knows what he s
talking about, but the sea all looks the
same to me.
A few days ago we fell in with an
English merchant ship which had been
captured by the Spaniards. The pirate
rogues had given her a severe drubbing,
and had stolen everything of value they
could find. Mr. Drake was furious.
“By my beard,” he said, “this is a
sorry day for honest men when a vessel
cannot ply the seas without being
plaguily treated by robbers and thieves!”
We commandeered in the Queen's
name a small quantity of silver ingots
that the pirates had overlooked lest the
vessel should again be captured, and set
her on her course for England.
(A week later.)
Great doings to-day! We came upon
a vSpanish treasure galleon alone and
practically unarmed, she being a bit out
of her course, Mr. Drake said. She
tried to run for it, but a couple of broad-
sides soon pulled her up. We went along-
side and boarded her. When we asked
for particulars of her cargo, the rogues
tried to tell us she was only a store ship
carrying supplies. It’s amazing how dis-
honest these Spaniards are. Of course,
we soon found them out. Her holds
were simply bursting with gold and silver
bars.
We seized the lot, to teach them to
tell the truth next time. They protested
a bit, and had the cheek to call us pirates.
Pirates, mark you!
Mr. Drake was very annoyed.
“By my beard,” he cried. “To think
that we should be called pirates. We,
who have sworn to put down piracy if
we have to confiscate every cargo on the
"No, Pietro, I didn't say ‘Haili
Selassi.' I said ‘ How's th'
lassie?' ”
.Spanish Main to do so. Pirates , for-
sooth ! ”
[Two years later. Tl~: letters that might
have been written in the meantime might
have been lost.)
We’re somewhere near Timor now,
having crossed the Pacific Ocean, and
are homeward-bound. Some of the
officers wanted Mr. Drake to tarry awhjje
and discover Australia, but he wouldn’t.
This was just another example of the
generosity of -our admiral.
“No,” he said. “I won’t do it. It
wouldn’t be playing the game. I'll leave
that for Captain Cook.”
“And besides,” he added, “if we don’t
get back soon with this bullion the old
Tub will be sinking under us, and we’ll
lose the lot.”*
[* It will be recollected that Drake reached
Plymouth just in time to save England from
going off the gold standard.]
JASBY.
Respite.
Oh, hush! Let silence reign supreme!
My lady sleeps — a lovely sight.
Knowing that scarce a rosy dream
stir her peaceful soul to-night,
Td rather die than make that calm
And childlike slumber rudely cease.
j Q( j s / eeps .. . Oh, gracious halm!
■ n[ P }mye Q //w/ , peace ,
T. W. N.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
2r.n PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/* and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote. or a la Carte.
Single ar.d Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVJE O.r* iNG ». OOM S.
Burch from 1? noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may he reserved hy’l’lione. M 460.1.
p.m.).
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE. BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton. Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMLN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and :)5
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offer; the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy second-hand copy of Outline of
Great Books (Hammerton edition). —8102.
To buy The Gumsucker on the Tramp, by
N. Spielvogcl.—8110.
To buy Collected Poems of Sidney Lanier
(or any volume containing “The Symphony”)
and The Seven Deadly Sins, by Bernard
O’Dowd. —8036.
To buy The Bulletin Reciter. —8063.
To buy Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanack for
1866, 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870, 1875, 1876, 1877
and 1878 —8069.
To buy Projective Geometry, by Milne. Any
condition.—8041.
Information Sought.
How many times have Carroll and Henne-
berry fought one another ? Where and when,
weights and results? —8127.
Three times—at Sydney on February 29,
1932; at Melbourne on August 20, 1932; and
at Sydney on September 18, 1933. Hennebcrry
(list. 21b.) knocked out Carroll (lOst. 9)lb.) in
13 rounds the first time they met, and Carroll
(lOst. 1 lib.) outpointed Hennebcrry (list. 6Jlb.)
in their second fight. No weights were an-
nounced for their third contest, which Carroll
also won on points.
* * * *
(1) How can l work out the number of
different ways it is possible to place one, two,
three the horses in a race ? (2) How can l
work out the number of different doubles in
any two races ? —8107.
(1) Take the number of horses, subtract one,
subtract two, and multiply the three terms to-
gether. For instance, if there are nine horses
in a race, the possible ways in which first
three places can be filled are 9 x 8 x 7- 1 -504.
(2) Multiply the number of horses in one race
by the number in the other. For instance, if
there arc 30 horses in one race and 24 in the
other, the number of possible doubles is 30
x 24—720.
* * * *
(1) What chances of employment are there
in Queensland for house-painters, in private
employ or with the Railways or Public Works
Departments ? (2) How does the Painters
Award for Queensland compare with the N. S.
Wales one ?—8128.
(1) At present, building is brisk, and there
is a fair demand for painters. For employment
on railways or public works, preference
is given to members of unions and to persons
who have been resident in Queensland for at
least six months. (2) The rate under the award
for painters in the Southern Division of
Queensland is £5 9s. 6d. per week of 44 hours.
At present, however, the award limits the
of painters to 40 weekly, and a proportionate
amount of the wage has been deducted.
* * * *
(1) How can a youth of 20 get employment
with a Queensland, country newspaper ? (2)
Is there a cadet system? —7910.
(1) Apply to the general manager of
the Queensland Country Press Association,
Country Press Building, Ed ward-street, Bris-
bane. He will be in a position to advise you
of any vacancies. (2) Yes. Term, four year's,
to be served continuously on one or more
papers. No person can commence his cadetship
unless he has a knowledge of English equiva-
lent to the standard of the intermediate ex-
amination at any Australian uni. A cadet must
be' fully instructed by his employer in the
profession, and must be allowed off four hours
each week to attend shorthand and typewriting
classes, uni. or other lectures, such as are pro-
vided in the uni. course for the Diploma in
Journalism. In country towns, preferences for
cadetships are usually given to local youths,
commencing at the age of 17 or 18.
* * * *
/ have read somewhere portion of an old
rhyme about two noble earls, two lines of which
run: “The one invented half a coat, the other
half a dinner.” The one who invented “half
a dinner” is, I believe, the Earl of Sandwich;
but to whom does the other reference apply ? —
8117.
To the second Earl Spencer (1758-1834), who
while out hunting became entangled in a
thorny hedge and had both his coat-tails torn
off. A new type of tailless coat was intro-
duced to the fashionable world at about the
same time, and was christened the Spencer.
* * * *
(1) Is Norway on the gold standard? (2)
What was the value in Australia of 1000
knoner about the middle of June last ? —7987.
(1) Norway is not on the gold standard at
present. The Norwegian krone follows sterling.
(2) Approximately £62 6s. lOd.
* # *
What is meant by “the greenwood tree” ?
Could that name or "John o’ London ’’ be used
as for a shop? —7862.
‘Greenwood is a name used by our ances-
tors to denote forest —as example, the well-
known ditty sung in the Forest of Arden in
"As You Like It,” and references to “Robin
Hood and his merry men in the greenwood”;
no reason why it shouldn’t be used for a shop.
As “John o’ London” is the name of a publi-
cation, and also of a group of literary socie-
ties, its use might lead to misunderstandings.
At what distance front the mouths of the
chief rivers of N. S. Wales is the stream un-
affected by sea water ? —7842.
The condition is affected by the season of
the year, and the degree of salinity varies over
a considerable distance, the water gradually
becoming usable for various purposes. Follow-
ing figures are approximate: Tweed River, 24
miles; Richmond, 68; Clarence, 67; Bellinger,
16; Nambucca, 9: Maclcay, 39; Hastings, 19;
Manning, 29; Shoalhaven, 22; Hunter, 20
miles.
* * * ♦
(1) Are there any known instances of a
jumart having been born in Australia to a mare
or cow or both ? (2) What are the outstanding
features of a jit marl ? (3) Would telegony be
evident in subsequent natural offspring of a
mare or cow that has borne a jumart ? —7586.
The “jumart,” a supposed hybrid, the off-
spring ol a cross between the horse or the ass
and the cow, is an impossibility, as these animals
do not interbreed. There arc therefore no
records of such hybrids in Australia or any-
where else. The evidence for the phenomenon
of telegony is inconclusive, and it is now gen-
erally believed that it has no real existence.
* * * *
What pilches are used in such pipe organs
as that in Melbourne Town Hall, and in
churches ? —7752.
The pitch of Melbourne Town Hall organ
is C 517 1-3 at 68deg. F. At 74dcg. F. it
stands at 522, now looked on as the standard
pitch. The leading Melbourne builder of
church organs has for years set his instruments
to Diapason Normal C 517 1-3. Old instru-
ments are anything from 535 down. The organ
in Sydney Town Hall is at the old concert
pitch, 540 or 535.
* * * *
How did Dolby ((?.) get its name ? —7688.
Dalby was so named in 1853, after a place
of that name in the Isle of Man.
* * * *
Any information concerning the place-name
and surname Orwell; also of the surname
Gameau, with pronunciation of latter? —7761.
There are a parish and a village of Orwell
situated in Cambridgeshire, the village being a
few miles north of Royston; there are also a
parish in Kinross-shire, on Loch Leven, and
a river of the same name, a seaward reach of
the River Gipping, in Suffolk. No allusion to
the two surnames is traceable in books of
reference on the subject; but in all probability
the surname Orwell is derived from one of the
foregoing place-names; the word itself is given
as from the Anglo-Saxon “oran wella” —well
at the brink or edge. Pronunciation of
Gameau, Gam-o. No clue to origin.
* * * ♦
/ am 14 and am troubled with tartar on my
teeth. What causes this, and how can it be
removed ?— 7814.
Tartar accumulation's indicated by tooth dis-
coloration at the gum margins; mouth cleanli-
ness and attention to gastric faults are essen-
tials that must not be overlooked. As a pre-
liminary to treatment the teeth should be
scaled, further trouble being avoided by use
of chlorate of potash toothpaste after meals.
Milk of magnesia may be alternated with the
latter if tartar persists. Types of food that
prevent the formation of tartar are those which
demand vigorous mastication, with slightly acid
reaction, as salads, apples, etc. Avoid gritty
dentifrices- that tend to injure the surtace
enamel.
* * * *
Doctors say I suffer from hypertrophy of
the heart ventricles. What does hypertrophy
mean, can it be cured, and suitable treatment ?
—7BOB.
Hypertrophy of the heart ventricles signifies
an abnormal increase or enlargement of these
members. The complaint involves some im-
pairment in the cardiac functions. Cure is
possible in the early stages, but senile cases
seldom respond fully to treatment, for the
reason that thickening of the heart walls re-
sults in restricted circulation. Treatment for
relief depends upon cause and extent of the
trouble. In all cases medical supervision is
essential.
* * * *
What is osteitis, and its cause ? —8059.
The term signifies inflammation of bone
substance; the long bones of the limbs are
commonly affected. Since there are special
terms used to denote inflammation of the
outer covering of the bone (periostitis) and
inflammation of the bone together with its
marrow (osteomyelitis), osteitis is used either
to indicate inflammation of bone in a general
way or more particularly an inflammation of
the cancellous tissue of the member. Tuber-
culosis is the commonest cause of such osteitis,
though such other agents as typhoid organisms
or subacute sepsis may be responsible. The in-
fective agent usually reaches the bone by way
of the bloodstream.
* * * *
Medical term and treatment for ‘‘sleeping
sickness” ? —8044.
Medically known as human trypanosomiasis,
it is caused by a blood parasite of which the
carrier is the African tsetse fly. Although
usually found in the blood on microscopic ex-
amination, the organism may at first escape de-
tection owing to limited occurrence in the sur-
face blood. For this reason specimen examina-
tion daily over a period of weeks is essential
before a negative diagnosis can be accepted.
The incubation period is two to three weeks
from the time of being bitten. There is no
exact specific, but research in schools of tropi-
cal medicine has greatly reduced the mortality
rate.
* ♦ * *
A few hints on raising cyclamen seedlings ?
Cyclamens can be brought to flower in about
15 months after sowing the seed, which may
be sown any time from October to early April,
the best time being during late December or
early January. Use a compost of equal parts
of good loam and leaf-mould, with a little
sand added, and sow the seed thinly in sin.
pots, making provision lor drainage by
placing some crocks or broken pieces* of pot in
the bottom. Sterilise both the pot and the
compost by baking in an oven before sowing
the seed, and moisten the soil thoroughly by
standing the pot in a bowl ot water. Allow it
to drain, sow the seeds about lin. apart and
lin. deep and cover with a piece of glass.
Stand the pot in a cool, shaded greenhouse or
glass frame, and do not allow it to get dry.
♦ ♦ ♦ «
Is it possible to multiply £4 19s. by £4 19s. ?
If not, why not ? —8079.
One sum of money cannot be multiplied by
another or by itself; in all computations—such
as those involved in compound interest and
annuities—where multiplication, division, in-
volution and evolution must be resorted to, the
money element is operated upon by factors
representing time and interest rate. You can
multiply feet by feet or yards by yards, be-
cause that process expresses areas in mensura-
tion. There arc no areas in money.
♦ * * *
How is Keene's cement made ? —7899.
The mode of preparation usually followed in
Britain is to burn pure gypsum at a low tem-
perature so as to convert it into the hydrate, to
soak the lumps in a saturated solution of alum
or of aluminium sulphate and to recalcine them
at about 500 deg. C. Instead of alum various
other salts, such as borax, cream of tartar,
potassium carbonate, etc., may be used. The
lumps arc finally reduced to a powder. For use
it is mixed up with water as ordinary plaster of
Haris. Keene’s cement is adaptable where sur-
faces with a hard, polished finish arc required,
but it cannot be used for outdoor work on
account of its solubility in water.
* * * *
Particulars of a khaki waterproof dressing
for car hoods? —8018.
A good light-tan boot polish makes an ex-
cellent dressing; thin it with a little turpentine,
and apply sparingly with a stiff brush, rubbing
well into the fabric. Rub dry with a cloth,
and apply a second dressing. It contains
water-repelling qualities, and acts as a pre-
servative to the material.
* * * *
How is the Epsom-salt bath prepared ?
How used for reduction, etc.? —8116.
The medicinal Epsom-salt bath is prepared
by dissolving a tumbler (Boz. approx.) of the
salt, in a bath (30 gallons) of water at 98 to
100 deg. Fahr. For reduction purposes this
strength may be increased; for local reduction,
where hot foments only are employed, the tem-
perature must be raised and maintained by
occasional heating. If used too strong a sensi-
tive skin tends to peel, so that the test foment
must be made with caution. Treat twice weekly
by fomenting part as above at night; bathe
off with tepid water before drying.
* * * *
How to remove rust from an old-fashioned
iron clothes-hoiler ? —BO3l.
Freely apply turpentine or paraffin oil, leave
on for 12 hours, and then rub with fine emery
cloth. If this is not satisfactory, till the boner
with a strong, hot potash bath, and leave for
half an hour. Empty and wash thoroughly
with a cold muriatic solution, two parts water,
one part acid. This removes rust in a few
minutes, the metal being attacked but very
little. Rinse thoroughly in water. The solu-
tions must not be allowed to come in contact
with the skin.
■it * * *
Date of the wreck of the Golhenberg on
Great Barrier Reef, with particulars of the
occurrence ?—8 111.
The s.s. Gothenberg, 501 tons, of Melbourne,
carrying passengers from Darwin for Adelaide,
was wrecked on the Great Barrier Reef, near
Flinders Passage, February 24, 1875; 102 lives
were lost, 27 were saved.
* Sc sc *
Can you give me a description of the scrub-
hen and tell me something about its habits ?
—7742.
The scrub-hen, or scrub-fowl, inhabits the
tropical scrubs of the coastal districts of
northern Australia, from the Kimberley district
of Westralia to the Byfield district on Keppel
Bay (Q.). It occurs also in the Aru Islands
and New Guinea. The back and wings are
olive-brown, the neck grey, and the under-
parts and crown fuscous. The feathers on the
crown are elongated to form a sort of crest.
The bill is reddish-brown, and the legs orange-
red. The bird is the smallest of the three
Australian megapodes, measuring from Min. to
18in. in length, but it forms the largest mounds.
These are often 10ft. high and 70ft. in circum-
ference. They are composed mainly of soil
and sand. The eggs, which are buff-pink in
color, are deposited irregularly in the mounds
at the ends of tunnels scratched out by the
females and afterwards filled up with vegetable
debris. Occasionally single eggs are placed in
holes in the ground, made by the birds when
searching for food in accumulations of leaf-
mould. The bird is almost completely terres-
trial, generally trusting to its legs to escape
from danger, though occasionally it will fly in
labored fashion into a low branch of a tree.
It is a noisy bird, uttering loud, harsh calls,
especially at night. Its food consists almost
entirely of insects, centipedes, worms, etc.,
obtained by scratching among the debris on
the ground in the scrubs.
* * * *
(1) Names and addresses of Sydney stamp
dealers who buy stamps? (2) Value of the
halfpenny brown. South Australia, with head
of Queen Victoria in profile ? —7679.
(l)-A. C. Campe and Co., 21 Sydney Arcade,
Sydney: J. H. Smyth. Ltd., 121 a Castlereagh-
street, Sydney; C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street,
Sydney. (2) Commoner varieties are worth
Id. or 2d., and the rarer ones Is. There
are numerous shades and varieties of perforation.
Brief Answers.
R.M.: See article on “Sheep and Cattle
Dogs” in The Australian Encyclopedia, available
most public libraries W.W.D.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of Lands, Pretoria, The
Transvaal, South Africa U.H.: In the event
of the death of King George V. the Prince of
Wales would succeed to the throne. The fact
that he is unmarried does not affect the matter.
....J.L.K.: Write B. and C. Dacomb, 120
Park-street, South Yarra, Vic T.W.: From
N. Bookstall Co., corner Market and
Castlereagh streets, Sydney J.R.: Napier,
Gardiner and Co., 79 Pitt-street, Sydney
O. : (1) Lodge sick pay is exempt for pen-
sion purposes. (2) The amount should be stated
in the Income and Property return, but should
be specified as lodge sick pay... .J.M.B.:
In the cases of (1), (2) and (3) wages tax
should be deducted after allowing for ex-
penses such as cost of upkeep of horses and
waggons in respect of (1) and (2). In regard
to (3), expenses for N.S.W. shearers have been
determined at £1 per week (this covers combs
and cutters, inter-shed travelling, etc.)....
E.H.M.L.: (1) Your stake is included in each
dividend. (2) No, one dividend only... .R.P.L.:
See list of wrecks in The Australian Encyclo-
pedia. .. . r.M.C.: Dealers say there is no regu-
lar market for these feathers, which are out of
fashion. Recent attempts to revive their use
have failed. You might dispose of them for
fancy-dress purposes.... R.R.H.: (1) Not worth
attempting. Commercial preparations are better
and cheaper than any you could make at home.
(2) Any of the standard polishes advertised
in The Bulletin or the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror”... .C.M.M.: Not known. The author
may be able to furnish details....H.N.: Prob-
able that appeal fails on other than original claim.
A medical certificate of incapacity (contributory
or otherwise) is required. See a solicitor....
T.H.H.: There is no diploma course (pedicure)
in Australia. Write hon. sec., Chiropodists'
Association, Challis House, Sydney... .C.P.M.:
The difference is in physical and atmospheric
resistance. In the initial attempt without pres-
sure, a dead-weight lift is necessary. When
hands arc removed (after pressure), the sub-
ject naturally inhales and inflates the lungs;
the lift then proceeds as required W.J.G.:
No immediate prospect. Appointment is
usually made at foreign port of registration.
Send application to local agents, stating quali-
fications for position; exchange or transfer is
possible... . Dusty: No appliance on local
market. Overseas journals advertise a nasal
adjustment frame or clamp. Send for particu-
lars. .. .N.S.: Prospectors’ dishes are obtainable
from any hardware store in the mining districts
of N. S. Wales —price, 9in., about 9d.; 18in.,
about 4s. 6d A.B.: E. H. Wells, 34
Martin-place, Sydney, is secretary of the South
African War Veterans’ Association... .M.T.:
Get in touch with A. Carter, Hassall-street,
Parramatta A.G.M.F.: The Chilean Con-
sulate advises that the expedition has returned
from Easter Island, but the result of its in-
vestigations has not yet been made public....
W.F.: It is illegal to sell them under the
N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions Act....
J.T.: Canvass the shipping cos C.S.D.:
Yes. Air photographs show it as throwing
a shadow to a considerable distance... .J.S.M.:
Article appeared in a Sydney daily newspaper;
cannot trace date. See Applied Pharmacology,
by A. J. Clark, chapter on alcohol. Blood test
is made for alcohol percentage; a urine test
is also possible. Drunkenness in former yields
from .15 to .2 p.c. approx., with urine test
.25 to .5 p.c. in similar case. Such results are
indefinite. Owing to alcohol susceptibility and
temperament of individual, extent of drunken-
ness is not always proportionate to amount
of alcohol consumed... .S.S.: If the plant is
placed behind the chamber it will be more
accessible and more easily inspected R.C.K.:
(1) Apply Commonwealth Patents and Trade-
marks Office, Customs House, Queen-Street,
Brisbane. (2) From the Queensland Govern-
ment Printing Office, got a copy of the
Pure Foods Act and a copy of the Factories
Act.... M.T.: Gladioli flower in about 90 days
from the planting of the corms. If the weather
is hot, with ample moisture, the time will be
less; longer if cold and dry W.N.R.H.:
Get in touch with Australian and Overseas
Travel Service, 135 Pitt-street, Sydney; also
read travel books available at public libraries.
. ...A.R.: The song “After the Ball” was
first published in 1892.... R.D.D.: It may be
translated: “Accept these [tributes] full charged
with brotherly weeping, and for ever, brother,
hail and farewell” A.E.K.: Write Mac-
dougalls, Ltd.. 131 Pitt-street, Sydney....
J.J.C.: (1) The German “Big Bertha,” used
for the bombardment of Paris, had a range of
68 miles. (2) The length of the barrel, weight
of the shell, the elevation and the nature and
amount of explosive used are the chief con-
tributing factors H.G'.L.: At a depth of
jin., 0.12gal.; I in., 0.34gal.; 1-Jin., 0.61 gal.:
-in., 0.91ga!.; 2+in., J.25gal.; 3in., 1.6gal.:
and 3-Jin., 1.94gal L.M.L.: Send the articles
to the Royal Mint, Melbourne... .J.P.F.: First
step would be to get in touch with one of the
numerous repertory theatre societies in Sydney.
Full list in The Australian Authors and Artists'
Handbook... .G.T.O.: (1) Inadvisable to go
there without securing a position beforehand.
(2) Write Burns, Philp and Co., Bridge-street.
Sydney A.B.C.: Send name and address and
formula required will be posted J.M.: Write
Will Lawson, hon. sec., Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, Box 3448R, G.P.O., Sydney
D.T.: Arthur O'Keefe, hon. sec., Sydney
Players’ Club, 2 Bond-street, Sydney
A.C.M.: The regulations provide for the col-
lection of pension instalments at post offices,
but in exceptional circumstances the instal-
ments are paid by cheque A.W.: No. If
it had been the testator’s intention that the
children of a deceased son or daughter should
take their father’s or mother’s portion, the will
would have contained words to that effect, such
as: “Should any of my children predecease
me, leaving a child or children, then such child
or children shall, upon attaining the age of
21, take in equal shares the share to which his
or her parent would have been entitled had he
or she not predeceased me” F.L.: Write
Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street.
Sydney (Many others mailed.)


Improved Springing
and Weight Distribution
Typical of the greater sturdiness of the new Ford V-8 Double-Duty Trucks is their im-
proved front-end design. The longer, wider front spring mounted forward of the axle,
allows complete spring action and eliminates the possibility of fracture through restric-
tion of spring flexure. This feature, together with improved distribution of chassis
weight, gives greater front-end stability and exceptional riding quality. Ask your
dealer for details of Ford easy purchase terms. Other V-8 Truck features include:
ENTIRELY NEW DESIGN TRUCK-TYPE
CLUTCH . . NEW FRONT-END ASSEMBLY
WITH HEAVIER FRONT SPRING AND
AXLE . . . IMPROVED WEIGHT DISTRI-
BUTION . . IMPROVED COOLING . . NEW
QUICK-STOPPING BRAKES. .CRANK-
CASE VENTILATION . . OIL-BATH AIR
CLEANER .. FULL-FLOATING REAR AXLE
. . . and a range oj
Efficient, Economical
FORD V-8 UTILITIES
FORD V-8
DOUBLE-DUTY TRUCKS
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY . LTD 11 NCORPO R A TED IN VICTORIA'
F7.30.C.
BRITISH EMPIRE*
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.McE.: Rocky stuff. And the question
whether the thaler should be unpegged doesn’t
seem to hold much interest for Australians....
h.W.: You went down four on “No Trumps.”
C.G.; Not much inspiration in it
T.E.M.: "See if you can’t make something out
of this.” Afraid it’s beyond our powers
C.V.: Reads like a lew copy-book headings cut
into rhyming lengths... .P.D.E.: Can't make
any sense of it Mio: Begins quite brightly,
but ending is weak... .W. 8.: It’s an old theme,
and you haven’t infused any lightness into it.
K.M.: Wc quite anticipated this new
craze would set lyres a-strumming:—
J( Sally, that seductive miss
Whom you are wont so oft to kiss,
SlK>uld offer lips most strangely lined
You’ll drop to it tlutt they’re tattooed.
We won’t chance it....T.A.: Nearly 100 lines,
and after plodding through them we felt in
much the same frame of mind as Tony Weller’s
charity-schoolboy when he had got to the end
of the alphabet M.S.: You’ve pitched the
note too high and failed to sustain it....
A.C.: “Success” had none, and the “smile-
trial, guile-dial” killed your other effort....
H.N.S.: You miss this time D.D.; Quite
good of its kind. It’s a pity you dragged
Ireland into it F.S.F.: Not quite J.E.C.:
You ought to have done better with that re-
frain K.T.: Falls rather flat A.G.H.:
Very unconvincing J.R.S.: There’s nothing
in it; but perhaps it was just as well to gel it
off your chest... .A.J.: Presume that is the
origin of the old saying “Name your poison.”
L.A.S.: Neither story nor verse gets a
place H.McF.: Not up to standard
C. ; Not enough story in it... .A.N.S.:
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) No L.G.: Atmosphere
sound, but story 100 thin Gcel.: One
winner; one loser 0.R.C.: Far too arti-
ficial G.E.C.: Insufficient humor in “Goat’s
Milk” Zeno: Tobacco smugglers * seem out
of place on the Victorian coast J.C.W.:
Similar ideas have been used far more often
than they deserve G.W.: People shoot their
reflections in mirrors every week, and yarns
entitled “Retribution” are almost as frequent.
You are the first to combine the two ideas
F.S.: There’s good stuff in it. but it lakes too
long to get nowhere L.J.H.: Doesn’t ring
the bell R.R.: Not suitable... .W.M.8.:
Its main fault is sentimentality Rex B.;
Treads old tracks CJ.R,: It doesn’t hold
the interest sufficiently H.P.: Both fall
short C.R.W.: Idea weak... .D.W.: Treat-
ment all right; theme isn’t The Ovcrlander:
No story value C. 8.: But if John had mort-
gaged his property the godd seasons you gave
him would have enabled him to pay the debt.
E.K.-S.: The will leaving money to two
persons on condition they marry each other is
a very old friend... .F.D.: Skinny’s escape
should make the reader laugh, whereas it
merely raises a feeble grin... .Bushwhacker;
No meat in it E.M.S.: Story-book stuff.
. ...A.K.: The yarn doesn’t impress....
D. : Yes, we met him when broadcasting
began, and have read about him scores of
times since... .H.J.C.: The subduing of an
outlaw horse has been told so often
V.D.W.: Most of them are of personal interest
only E.R.: It rhymes, and most of it scans.
That’s all we can 5ay....C.8.: “Moon-
light-Junelight”—you are definitely under
the influence of the neo-talkie school of lyri-
cists J.E.; Cannot condone Tim Regan’s
threats of murder M. de V.G.; It is a
subject that so easily becomes banal... .E.D.:
Correct in form and sentiment, but lacks the
spark... .C.C.McN.: That one doesn’t contain
the line you yearn for R.J.H.: We’ve
received enough chain-letter skits to fill the
paper for three months... .8.L.: “Her mourn-
ful visage... .her hideous rear,” You’ve cer-
tainly been unfortunate in your choice of a
soul-mate... .J.T.: Contains some excellent
lines, but also some poor ones... .A.B.McD.:
The theology your verses preach seems pretty
hard on the “Blind Musician” Übct: You
confuse your thoughts too much. Get some-
one who hasn’t seen it before to read the sixth
verse aloud E.R.M.: Came close.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.D.: Joke has barnacles on it, and the
sketch is a washout... .B.B.: Did you ever
see a man standing in that position?... .W.J.:
Met the usual fate of first efforts by aspirants
under 14 M.F.L.: The soapbox orator has
two right hands and no neck.... W.K.: Such
scratching? won’t get you far J. 8.: Shows
some merit—keep on T.M.: The unathletic-
looking boxer was counted out N.P.: It
might attain to the funny page of a parish
magazine G.H.: Labels, labels everywhere
and very little drawing W.H.C.: We have
met that spooning couple before... .F.S.:
Hopeless.,. .E.M.: Too faint for reproduction.
....L.A.: Spend the next three years drawing
fr OTT I R.D.: All the figures look as if
they d been run over by a steam-roller.
“Bramall Lane”; London “Daily Tele-
graph,’ discussing the great Larwood-
Voce mystery, says the pair would be
considered in connection with future
Test matches if they publicly withdrew
press statements made during the body-
line controversy. Both have refused, and
will have to content themselves with
county cricket in future. They may have
reason to be sorry when they are too
old for active cricket and well-paid
umpiring jobs which the M.C.C. dis-
penses to retired professional cricketers
do not come their way.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Musher”: As the 1935 All-Blacks are
to return through Canada they have
been granted permission by the M.L.
Union to play three matches at Van-
couver. Both the 1905 and 1925 All-
Blacks had a gallop or two at Vancouver
on their way home. The little-advertised
1913 team, which took in California as
well, also played there. A match in
New York was part of the 1905 side’s
experiences.
* * * *
Ronald Selkirk Panton, now Berlin
correspondent of London “Daily Ex-
press,” is the perfect news-hound. Syd-
ney-born, he went to Germany to learn
the language, and presently became assis-
tant special correspondent there for the
“Express.” In 1933 he was made
special correspondent at Vienna, and
handled the Red revolution of February,
1934. He was also in Greece during its
last upheaval. Panton was the first jour-
nalist to tell of the Duke of Kent-
Princess Marina romance —they gave
him an exclusive interview at Salzburg—
and he reported the King Alexander
(Yugoslavia) assassination. He is the
youngest son of C. S. Panton, secretary
of the Federal Viticultural Council.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Recent visitors to
Arabia and Mespot. tell that wild
camels are beginning to prove the pest
they threatened to become in Central
Australia a few years ago. They are
wild for the same reason ; the sheik has
no more use for them, as he can cover
10 times the distance in the same time in
the thrice-used cars which find their way
from Europe. The sands of the desert
to-day are growing hot with the friction
of many tyres, for the mandatory Powers
have laid on them hundreds of miles of
wire-netting over which a car may be
driven with no more fear of a skid than
on a dirt road. The only catch is that you
may hit a patch from which the nomadic
tribes have cut a square of netting to
serve as a frying-pan.
* * * ♦
“0.8. E.”: The “Asahi Shimbun,”
often quoted these days in connec-
tion with the Abyssinian situation, is the
largest and most powerful newspaper in
Japan. In Tokio it publishes over two
million copies per day, which include
seven morning and three evening editions,
each edition having a local interest for
the prefecture in which it is sold. The
Osaka offices are larger still and have a
greater turnover. The “Asahi” also pub-
lishes several weekly, fortnightly and
monthly sporting and theatrical periodi-
cals, “Japan in Pictures,” printed in four
European languages and in English, and
the excellent pictorial annual “Nippon.”
Thc co., which was founded 55 years ago,
is largely controlled by two families.
Thcrc is no union like the A.J.A. in
Japan, and newspapermen have no Sun-
day holidays. January 1, March 3 and
September 23 arc the only three days in
the year when the “Asahi” docs not
appear on the bookstalls.
n * * *
“Effendi”: Cabled that a Turk of royal
stock—the grandson of Abdul Hamid
11., Turkey’s last hereditary sultan—
committed suicide in a third-rate New
York hotel through disappointment at
having failed to secure a wealthy Ameri-
can bride. Turks of high degree must be
either more sensitive or less pertinacious
than the Italian counts and other
grandees, real or alleged, from southern
Europe who find Uncle Sam’s country a
happy hunting-ground for sumptuously
dowered helpmates. On the other hand,
the value of the Ottoman aristocrat as a
prospective husband may have been ad-
versely affected by the consideration that
sultans are apt to have such a devil of
a lot of children, and Abdul the Damned,
who lost his throne in 1908, probably
inherited the habit. Moreover, Turkey
is one of the very few countries where
the restoration of the monarchy has
ceased to be a remote possibility.
* * * *
“Eric the Red”: Michurin, “the Rus-
sian Burbank,” died last month in
Michurinsk (named after him) at the
age of 80, He started his plant re-
searches when he was 20, and devoted
the rest of his long life to the work,
evolving new varieties and improving
old ones. He evolved a blight-proof
potato from a cross of the ordi-
nary spud with a wild variety found by
one of his travelling staff in the back-
blocks of Brazil. He also developed a
peach capable of growing and fruiting in
the Arctic Circle by crossing the ordinary
peach of the warm South with a Can-
adian almond and mating the progeny
with the almost fruitless peach of the
Siberian wilds. A grapevine with fruit
having a flavor resembling that of a pine-
apple was another of his achievements.


auj w
tm
• For 100 years, Petty's Hotel has given service
to guests. Visitors to Sydney still , stay at Petty's
you should stay at Petty's. Comfort; service; con-
venience. Tariff: Room and breakfast, 11/ 6*
Inclusive. 18/-.
PETTYS**.
York Street, Sydney * R. J, Langley,. Manager^^jJ]
Use The New SIMONIZ KIEEKER to
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
‘•snvEß
EDGE”
Rmbetifois
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RAYBESTOS-?' LPCO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHV ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, MELBOURNE, VC.
The Steering column.
SELECTING THE NEW CAR.
A GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF “THE BULLETIN’S”
TEST DATA.
By FRED BERRY.
l\/|OTORING to-day is an entirely different proposition from
what it was a decade ago, chiefly by reason of the fact
that mechanical reliability is so extremely high that the possi-
bility of engine failure is remote indeed.
In the past it was a common sight
during week-ends, when all the “junk”
was abroad, to see cars held up every
few miles while, owing to faulty design,
the unlortunate drivers were being
obliged to perform physical contortions
in order to effect adjustments.
Nowadays the few involuntary road-
side stops that do happen are usually
blamable to the human element —a
weakness for speed in the wrong place—
and the fact that telegraph poles and
lamp standards arc not made of rubber.
So far as later types of cars are con-
cerned, it is generally accepted that none
is bad—meaning, of course, that no
inherent mechanical faults are apparent
—but some are better than others, more
particularly in the matter of perform-
ance. Still the general quality is so high
that intending purchasers arc frequently
in a quandary when attempting a final
decision.
There is, of course, the motorist who,
thoroughly satisfied with his old car, de-
cides without any hesitation to obtain a
new one of the same make, and there
is certainly some wisdom in this prac-
lice. Others, lending a ready ear to the
insistent whispering of interested parties,
make changes without any sound reason,
and sometimes have occasion to regret
their haste. Even the ultra-cautious
motorist resident in a large city and
w * dl the various models available in
showrooms a " d demonstration pur-
poses is not free from anxiety when he
has to make a choicc Each salesman>
as is to be expected, selects the high-
lights of his particular product and
demonstrates accordingly, at the same
time, in a good many cases, sowing the
seeds of doubt with regard to some
vigorous competitor,
In order, therefore, to give Australian
motorists an opportunity of studying
both mechanical features and perform-
ance characteristics of available models,
The Bulletin impartially tests lead-
ing makes as they become available,
and publishes a table of performance
data.
The Bulletin’s test course, of approxi-
ltiately 117 miles, includes all classes of
roa dway and one of the steepest main-
road hills in N. S. Wales, and, as shown
in the accompanying table, every essen-
tial performance feature is tested over
surveyed distances and under precise and
constant conditions. Drivers of cars
under test are, as a rule, experts on the
staff of the distributor concerned, and as
a consequence secure better all-round
performance than would be possible with
novice drivers, but, as the standard
of driving skill is uniformly high,
the results obtained serve as an ideal
basis of comparison for potential pur-
chasers.
Furthermore, as standard stock cars
must be used for purposes of the test,
and as the tests cover every phase of
performance, there is no likelihood of
tuning for stunt results. Super-tuning
of any particular feature in a stock car
must inevitably produce a poor result in
some other section. As an illustration,
if particular attention has been given to
preparing the car for high maximum
speed, both slow-running and accelera-
tion in top gear will almost certainly be
adversely affected.
Should any driver elect to rush round
the lest course in an endeavor to obtain
a high average speed, petrol-consumption
results must suffer; and in this connec-
tion it is interesting to note comments
from correspondents who have studied
the performance chart in a superficial
manner, and who have failed to take
every other essential feature into con-
sideration. “P.E.O'G.,” hailing front
Warrnambool (Vic.), among other ques-
lions, asks what good the test results can
be when the Baby Ford has, according
to table, a higher average speed than the
V 8 Ford, and the Gloria Triumph (which
is only 9 h.p.) is m.p.h. better than
both, whereas all intermediate speeds and
the maximum speed of the V 8 are
“miles” ahead of either.
Incidentally, this correspondent admits
that he has spent the last 10 years in
searching for an opportunity of stir-
ring up a fair argument with The Bulle-
T,N ’
Apparently he must still continue to
hunt, for so far as average speeds over
the test course are concerned the whole
matter lies in the hands of the driver of
the car. For instance, the Gloria Triumph
is essentially a sports-type car, ftnd as a
consequence fuel consumption, while
economical under any conditions, is, and
must be, subservient to speed. When
comparing the V 8 with the Baby Ford
similar considerations arise, for the
smaller car can with impunity drive on
a generous throttle opening without
seriously affecting petrol mileage, while
the larger car, owing to the enormous
power developed, must be somewhat
cautious in this respect.
It is, of course, possible to make in-
vidious comparative references to any
particular performance feature, but a
careful perusal of all data supplied will
invariably show some sound reason for
this apparent anomaly.
Particularly does this apply to the re-
lationship between acceleration in gears
and maximum speed. Take, for pur-
poses of argument, two cars of different
make, one with a maximum speed of
75 m.p.h. and the other with 60 m.p.h.
It is possible that the slower car will,
owing to particularly favorable gear ratios.
give far belter figures so far as accclera-
tion in gears is concerned. On the other
hand, owing to lower gear ratios and rela-
lively high engine revs, for any given
road speed, this car would not suit the
average motorist, for the motor would
be decidedly fussy under normal con-
ditions of operation,
Numerous illustrations of a similar
character, involving other performance
features, could be given in order to prove
i us l w hy some cars give better results
than others, but at this juncture it is
h^ the* chart V^rform-
ance data of cars tested is authentic.
anc i as a consequence prospective
purchasers of new cars can, with confi-
dence, make their own selection without
accepting biased and perhaps inaccurate
advice.


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
QUA (SECOND
EuITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROVI “THE BULLETIN,” O/O PO T
252 George St., Sydney W/U FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors —80,000-word
gazetteer—l2o,ooo-word story of the eartli.
42/- value for 7/fl! Available only to readers ot
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See I his week's issue—Now on Sale —Price fid.
Since its inception
The
tSttne*
Perth’s leading weekly
newspaper,
has had the largest net
circulation of any weekly
paper printed in Western
Australia, and it still
maintains its supremacy.
Rate Cards and Full Particulars from
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MSRVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
This is more than
a NAME
This medallion on a battery is more
than a mark of identification —more
than a guarantee of old-fashioned
honesty. It stands so definitely for
quality that to millions of motorists
it is a guarantee of dependability!
Over 30,000,000 Willard Batteries
have given satisfaction. Quality
materials and workmanship have al-
ways maintained this standard. En-
list in the vast army of satisfied Wil-
la p d users —you can enroll with your
nearest Willard dealer.
Willard
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton. Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide.
Westcott Haiell & Co. Ltd., Sydney. Newcastle and Lismocs.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd.. Hobart.
Renewing Opaque Side Curtains.
Although motorists seldom wilfully
drive with their cars in a dangerous con-
dition it must be admitted that a great
number sail close to the wind through
misdirected efforts at securing economy.
Particularly does this apply to those
operating open tourers and roadsters
during the winter, who persist in
erecting scratched or damaged side
curtains after they have been care-
lessly stowed for six months in the tool-
locker.
Driving in rain or mist over a greasy
highway is a, trying ordeal even when
the car is thoroughly equipped, but when
side curtains are for all practical pur-
poses opaque, and the motorist’s vision
is hampered, there must always be a
grave risk of accident.
Some motorists, eager to save a few
shillings, have in the past attempted to
restore celluloid panels in side cur-
tains by applying solvents or by polish-
ing with abrasive liquids, but in practice
neither method has proved effec-
tive, the only safe course being to fit
new celluloid.
This job is not, as usually supposed, a
difficult one, nor is any great skill neces-
sary. Instead of picking out the original
stitching holding the celluloid in the
side curtain the panel can be cut with a
sharp knife, leaving about an inch margin
all round, as shown in sketch. Simply
cut new celluloid to full size and cement
to the old margin, using a solution of
celluloid and amyl acetate. The finished
job will not be unsightly, and has the
advantage of being more rigid than the
original.
Dangerous Pedestrians.
Statistics from an authoritative source
recently published show that, as the
result of a careful analysis of the circum-
stances of highway accidents over a
period, pedestrians were, either directly
or indirectly, at fault in more than half
the cases.
In the past it has been the custom
to assume the motorist guilty whenever
a mishap occurs, and those fortunate
enough to hear evi-
dence given in such
cases are fully aware
that vital issues, par-
ticularly those involv-
ing speed and dis-
tance, are frequently
grossly exaggerated or
distorted.
This is no doubt
due to the fact that
since the inception of
motoring the automo-
bile has been regarded
as the hall-mark of the
wealthy class and as
a consequence motor-
ists have become fair
game both for taxa-
tion and issuers of
writs for damages.
Until recently cus-
tom has demanded
that the rights of
pedestrians in using
the highways must
not be disturbed.
Students of transport
problems now say
that, if highway acci-
dents are to be re-
duced to any con-
siderable extent, the pedestrian must be
educated in road lore. Motor vehicles
have proved their value, and are essen-
tial to the economic welfare of any coun-
try, but so long as pedestrians are allowed
to wander aimlessly over the highways,
regardless of the consequences and with-
out fear of penalty, it will be impossible
to secure maximum efficiency for motor
transport.
As a rule, the driver of a motor
vehicle is cautious to a degree, for two
very sound reasons. Firstly, even a
mYnor accident will involve delay, whilst
a major accident will, in addition, involve
damage to a valuable asset.
Pedestrians should by now realise that
they must give close attention to their
movements when entering a public high-
wav and that such practices as crossing
a dark street at night and walking care-
lessly from behind vehicles are fraught
with considerable risk. The pedestrian
must be forced to exercise common-
MOTORIMPRESSIONS.
Teaching the wife to drive.
sense, and, once having left the pave-
ment, to use his utmost endeavors to see
that he does not inconvenience other
road-users.
The Trouble Lamp.
RMN rmthurst NSW) Can best tyre
left: rear right to front left. The spare or
spares should be alternated with each change.
It is also advisable to reverse the direction ol
rotation on each change.
* * * *
TP D (Bega, N.S.W.).— Is the idea of giving
way to the man on the right merely a matter
of courtesy, and does the principle apply to
those motorists coming into main roads from
S %clion S i7 of the N.S.W. Traffic Regula-
tions provides; “When two motor vehicles
are approaching each other at an intersection
so that if both continue the vehicles would
arrive at the same point together and collide,
the driver of the vehicle which has the othei
vehicle on his right-hand side shall slow up
and allow such other
vehicle to pass in front
of his vehicle.” This
regulation applies equally
to all streets, whether
main or side, but appa-
rently does not take into
consideration bicycles or
horse-drawn vehicles.
* *
M.A.K. (Beechworth,
Vic.). —(1) Last January
/ purchased a well-known
make of car. and up
to the present have driven
3100 miles. Petrol con-
sumption is 15 m.p.g.
Should I not yet better
than 20 ? (2) / am at
present using a lubricat-
ing oil (named). Is there
any occasion to change
the grade ? (3) I have
changed the oil every
1000 miles. Must I con-
tinue to do so ? (4)
There is a free-wheeling
device in the transmission,
but I am afraid to use
it, having been told the
gearbox may be wrecked
if reverse gear is used. Is
this so ?
(1) Everything depends
upon the pace at which
you drive and the work
the car is used for. Con-
sumption may be as low
as 14 m.p.g. and as high
as 25 m.p.g. using the
same car. (2) No occasion to change grade of
oil. (3) With air-cleaner and oil-purifier fitted
a change every 1500/2000 miles should do.
(4) Free-wheeling unit should automatically
“lock out” when gear lever is placed in
reverse; consequently no damage can he
done.
* * * *
D.S. (Narrabri, N.S.W.). —As I do a number
of short trips the churning rule of my generator
is most important. Until some months ago this
rate was 15 amps., but recently, in spite of
advancing the third brush, the rale has been
only nine amps., and when warm as low us
( Continued on page JO.)


Mvj
V-jJ
•<*
jftrseS
m
•if&iii
Vvt.!
SW2S S
SSKAkmb*»*>»V..?'
•v. v V;i
•M*. ; >;
life.
SMI
&y
O?vW
itm
£
*
SiSs
£3B
SSVS&!
Mp
PI
Wi
isi
as®
fSKjS
•V«\
WSWfr
frM
$$
■pi
te
X,
r:»;l
BH
iV&
iVfi’i
,; S
$
sSv»v
»:J?N
m
m
*fX»J
cpci joi iimuAiun
3 Cp DI mi 3 ILJ QA3 n iJ
ipdaodduq UHHllins
9 tL JL V-JL kJLJ VJLX JLLM M. SL • " KJ
6 CYLINDERS ... CAST IRON PISTONS ...LOW REVOLUTIONS
Power Increased to 70 h.p. .. . Pressure Stream Lubrication
... Sturdy easily accessible Back Axle... Improved Heavy Duty
Clutch ... Powerful Enclosed Brakes ~. Smoother, Stronger
Steering ... 4 Semhelliptic Springs . . . Massive Frames
to Chevrolet’s time-honoured policy, these brilliant new trucks for 1935
introduce features and improvements designed for even greater dependability and
economy Engine power has been increased at low revolutions, continuing the
Chevrolet characteristic of maximum pulling power at normal running speeds —
Yet fuel costs are lower, and the adoption of a new system of Pressure Stream
Lubrication ensures long life for the engine and a definite saving in maintenance
and repairs ... It will pay you to see these 1935 Chevrolet Trucks at your
Local Authorised Chevrolet Dealers to compare them, feature by feature, with
other trucks. You’ll soon see the extra value which Chevrolet offers.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
Y Design
* Proved Right
by More Than
2 Million
Owners A
Chevrolet Trucks are avail -
ab e in 30 cwt , U. ton and
‘ 4 Maple _eaf " 21 ton capa-
c iti s.
Also a full range of utility
vehicles on Standard and
Ma • or Chasses in addit.on
to the new 18 cwt ch ssis.
CHEVROLET TRUCKS lor 1935
Consult your Local Authorised Chevrolet Truck Dealer
Cl 32-44
four amps. How can this be adjusted ?
First check the tension’ of the rubber belt
driving the generator. If adjustment of this
does not cure the trouble, examine the brushes
of the commutator and make sure they arc
smooth and making perfect contact. Finally,
dismantle the brush gear and note whether the
commutator ring is worn unevenly, in which
case it will be necessary to withdraw armature
and have the commutator trued up in a lathe.
* * * *
J.A.C. (Crookwell, N.S.W.). —My car is a
'34 Plymouth, 5000 miles. There is a continual
smell as of burning rubber. I thought at first
this might be due to newness, but it has con-
tinued too long. I never use the automatic
dutch, and seldom the free-wheel. What is
likely to be the trouble ?
Probably an insulated wire is resting on some
portion of the motor. Inspect all rubber wiring,
and at the same time examine all contacts
behind the instrument panel.
* * * *
S.C.A. (Torrens Park, S.A.). —What is your
opinion of the two cars (named), and which
would you advise me to purchase ? I am par-
ticularly anxious with regard to engine relia-
bility.
Both appear in use to give equal service and
reliability. Whichever one you buy, it should
give every satisfaction.
* * * *
P.A.H. (Winton, N.Q.). —(1) What is the con-
struction and function of a condenser ? (2)
Two have failed on my VS Ford within the
last two months. Would a fault anywhere else
affect it ? (3) Is there any repair that will get
one home in the case of breakdown 7 (4) Are
they made in A astralia ? (5) Can you help me
in any way ?
(1) Construction (as illustrated), whether rect-
angular or in cartridge form, is by interleaved
metal electrodes between mica or paper dielec-
trics. This serves to prevent heavy sparking
and burning or pitting of contact breaker-
points. (2) No. The condensers used are
apparently of lower voltage rating than neces-
Ahove is shown how the sheets of foil
and dielectric are interleaved.
sary. (3) Not normally. (4) Yes. Ducon
Condenser Pty., Ltd., 73 Bourke-strect, Water-
loo, N.S.W., makes an article equal, if not
superior, to those imported. (5) Ascertain the
capacity of the condenser before replacing.
Capacity and working voltage should be
stamped on casing.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“E.C.D.”: A few weeks ago I bought
a new steel-bodied saloon. Going to
Geelong a few nights after I was forced
off the road by someone without lights
and, hitting a culvert, turned a complete
somersault. There were three of us in
the car, but none of us got even a
scratch. The bus landed on her wheels
with the engine blazing. We put out the
fire with mud, pressed the starter and
over ticked the engine. Crawling out of
the ditch we made our way to Geelong,
and later returned to Ballarat without
making a single adjustment.
* * * *
“Neutral”: Three years ago I motored
from Melbourne to London in an Eng-
lish open light car, covering 12,000 miles
by land, and, although the only lock-
able item in my equipment was a suit-
case, the only articles I lost during the
entire six months’ journey were a spanner
and a screwdriver. This speaks well for
the honesty of Australians, Malays,
Chinese, Indians, Arabs, Gyppos and the
rest —or perhaps it was just my luck.
* * * #
“Howzat”; Motorists travelling on
bush roads in wet weather should carry
a length of fencing-wire and an ordinary
fence-wire strainer. In the event of bog-
ging, a strong tree or fence post is gener-
ally handy, and by attaching the wire
and working the strainer in the usual
manner it is possible to extricate a car
from the stickiest bog.
* * * *
“E. D. Creek”: The Madura Pass on
the overland track from Adelaide to
Perth has been responsible for many
breakdowns. Prior to 1934 it was nego-
tiable if one took the trouble to unload
at the bottom and carry the stuff to the
top to reload there. ’ With the 1935
models it’s going to be different. The
long, low tails would have a sorry appear-
ance after a bout with the pass. The
Westralian Automobile Club has realised
this, with the result that the Govern-
ment will assist the local road board to
put the track in order. It should be O.K.
by Christmas and the Western Highway
safe for anything with Sin. clearance
when loaded.
* * « ♦
“Trebor”: One of the lowest-geared
lorries in the world was a Leyland that
used to carry timber between Jimna and
Kilcoy (S.Q.). The low gear, which was
specially made for the job, was at the
extraordinary ratio of 1 in 78, which,
with the engine flat out, drove the war-
rior forward at about 2 m.p.h. It gives
some idea of the grades that had to be
tackled, and the awful condition of the
unmade roads on the Jimna range.


RADIO NEWS.
Humor
and Radio
Radio is an in-
expensive form
of continuous en-
tertainment. Un-
fortunately it is
not very well
balanced. To-day there is, in plays and
talks, a preponderance of the dramatic
over the humorous, of (he serious in
subject over the lighter side.
The world wants to laugh, especially
m these days when alarms and fears and
gloomy forebodings saturate the world’s
press. Yet an analysis of programmes
reveals a lamentable paucity of wit and
humor. Occasionally a musical comedy
is broadcast from a theatre, but this is
poor radio entertainment. The music
is the only listenable part of it. Dialogue
and gags arc invariably distorted or
rendered completely inaudible either by
being drowned in roars of laughter or
through the comedian being too far away
from the microphone.
But there is no lack of other material.
There arc hundreds of plays and stories
which arc adaptable. Fast-moving stuff
with snappy, clever dialogue is what
pleases the average listener. Works by
playwrights such as Pinero and Lons-
dale would lend themselves admirably to
the radio—though doubtless the final line
in Lonsdale’s “Aren’t We All?” would be
killed by the A.B.C. censor.
For the radio comedian, however, there
appears to be a very limited scope—at
any rate, until television comes. Com-
edians of, say, (he Alfred Frith and
George Robey type lose half their effec-
tiveness when the mobile face and comic
expression arc divorced from the voice.
Only the latter is left them for the radio,
and it is difficult to make (he voice, no
matter how varied its inflexions, carry
the w'hole burden.
Most of the alleged humor we get
over the air in Australia is canned and
delivered either in American or in one
of those English county dialects. There
is plenty of scope for better stuff than
this if put up properly and put across
well. It is lime Australian stations be-
came “humor-conscious,”
QUAYEAU.
Gardening
Session
....and the
story of Sturt’s
return from the
exploration of the
Murray consti-
tutes an epic in
the annals of early Australia. His eventual
arrival at the depot, to find it deserted ;
the battle against the current of the
swollen Murrumbidgee ; the gallant fight
against starvation and weakness; and
the final surmounting of every obstacle
until, footsore and weary, they struggled
back to Sydney, Now it is certain that
if the expedition had been equipped with
Dr. Trilby’s Patent Springrite Self-
balancing Arch-support Anti-bunion
Boots, Sturt and his intrepid band would
have arrived back not only at a (dipping
pace, but would have finished the gruel-
ling journey without showing the slightest
signs of fatigue. Dr. Trilby has specially
designed these boots for those who are
cursed with tender feet. And now here
is a special concession for gardeners.
You can trade in your old gardening
boots for a pair of these elegant foot
coverings, and a liberal allowance will
be made on your old ones. The name
is easy to remember —Dr, Trilby’s Patent
Springrite Self-balancing Arch-support
Anti-bunion Boots
Station EOE, and now we have much
pleasure in introducing Mr. Basil Boll-
weevil in his weekly gardening talk. This
session is sponsored by the manufac-
turers of the famous McSporran garden-
ing requisites. When you see the name
McSporran on a gardening tool, remem-
ber that it is made of the best magnet
steel. To those who have lost coins at
some time or other in the garden (and
who has not?) the value of a highly-
magnetised steel implement is obvious.
Get a genuine McSporran spade to-day
and watch it pay for itself; and don’t
forget to mention Station EOE. Ladies
and gentlemen, Mr. Bollweevil....
Good evening, listeners. Now to-
night I want to talk to you about some
of the trials that beset the beginner, and
the methods of circumventing them.
Quite a common mistake made by
many amateurs about to dig up virgin
ground or ground which has not been
cultivated for years is to wait until after
heavy rain, when the ground is soft.
Nothing is more againsf what I would
call the real spirit of gardening than this.
Your true gardener, observing the un-
written code of the craft, will wait until
a six-month drought has rendered the
ground flint-like, and then lash into it
with the mattock, so that he can have
real exercise. Regarding mattock work,
don’t make the error of straightening up
every few minutes —keep bent to your
labor of love until you have completed a
fair-sized patch, breaking up the sods
turned up with a reverberating whack
as you go. When eventually you do
attempt to straighten up and you find
that your spinal column has developed a
marcel wave, don’t let the resultant de-
licious agony show on your face —the
fellow next door might happen to be
looking on and he’ll think you’re weak
in the back. Just whistle blithely,
turn a few handsprings and then re-
sume. If you happen to spend the fol-
lowing day in bed with hot-water bottles
against the protesting muscles —well,
wasn’t it worth it?
A word on gardening pests. In the
order of persistence and pestiferousness
they are: (1) Woolly aphis. (2) Cut-
worms. (3) Next-door’s children.
For the first two, arsenate of lead.
For the last, subtlety must be employed.
When the football comes over and lands
on your seed-bed, slide a darning-needle
into it, sing out a cheery “Righto! Com-
ing back!” and put it over. Keep this
“And, as I always say, what WOULD one do without one's morning
cup of tea ?”
up and you’ll defeat this pest in the end
—perhaps.
Now as to advice on rose-pruning. Get
your secateurs, which you would, of
course, have oiled and put away care-
fully after their previous use. Having
found them, after a lurid search, half-
buried and wholly rusty in the rockery
where you dropped them months ago,
don suitable garments, say four old suits
(if sufficient old ones unavailable, put
your evening-suit on underneath), two
pairs of boots, your wife’s elbow-length
gloves and a baseballer’s helmet. Thus
adequately equipped, snip bits off the
long canes at random. As your blunt
secateurs will not cut but merely chew
them, it will be necessary to dip the
hacked ends in a weak solution of stink-
wort and desiccated cocoanut juice to
save them from the ravages of the mealy
bug, which will be attracted to them by
the swearing.
Now I’ll just have time to run through
one or two letters.
Here is one from “1.0. U.,” Of Rose-
hurst, who writes: “I am troubled by the
depredations of birds and flying-foxes,
which play havoc with my ripening fruit.
How can I check them?”
Well, “1.0. U.,” a scarecrow is the most
effective thing. Stuff a bag with straw,
tie in middle, paint a face on it (the more
hideous the better) and put the image
into cast-off clothes. It will be found a
very effective substitute when your wife
and yourself don’t happen to be in the
garden.
Now, here is another, evidently from a
lady. I must congratulate her on the de-
lightful turquoise notepaper she uses. She
writes: “Dear Sir, —Unless” Now,
how the . . . that’s not it. Oh! here we
are. This one is from “Hopeful,” of
Surry Hills, who wants to know if mush-
room-raising is difficult.
Mot at ail. Musnroom-growing is as
simple as A B C. All you want is a
section of disused railway tunnel in which
is a 3ft, layer of rich loamy soil, which
must be heavily rolled. A light steam-
roller is the best for this purpose, though
you might have some difficulty in getting
one down into the tunnel. The tempera-
ture of the soil should be kept at 117 deg.
Fahrenheit. Over that the mushrooms
will boil, and under it they may freeze to
death. You will thus need to instal a
clinical thermometer every two feet. Also,
a heating system must be installed. Chop
bricks of spawn into octagonals and
push them two feet deep into the soil
with a pile-driver. Water regularly for
two years, and a fine crop should result.
For the actual raising of the mushrooms
(as you ask) erect shear legs and block
and tackle immediately over mushroom,
and hoist. Unless the ground is—or you
are —stiff, they will come out quite easily.
I haven’t time to answer the other
letters to-night, so, if those correspon-
dents who didn’t receive answers write
to me again, I’ll answer them next week.
Cheerio, listeners.
S. W. K.
All Round
the Dial
“H. Hardupp”:
Quite a lot of
people, in buying
a wireless set,
imagine that they
are putting money
into an asset which can bear the
weight of a loan in case of emerg-
ency. Actually it would be easier
to sell hot coals in Hades than it
is to pawn or mortgage a radio ; it is
worth just as much as the buyer can get
out of it in use. At one time a con-
siderable business was done in loans on
the sets; but the moneylenders—except
in financing the sales of new sets —have
closed down completely. One reason is
the easily shiftable nature of the aver-
age set; a greater one is the large quan-
tity that have found their way into
auction rooms. Moreover, there is the
prospect of television sets becoming all
the rage.
“Ande” (B. 24/7/’35) is re-
joicing vainly about there being no tele-
phone questionnaires on radio advertis-
ing in Australia. Last year at least two
Sydney commercial broadcasting stations
conducted household telephone inves-
tigations, inquiring into listeners’ habits
and preferences. Contrary to “Ande’s”
belief, most of the people questioned
were only too willing to give all the in-
formation asked.
“Tiki” | Maorilander Ernest Empson,
whose pianoforte recitals have of late
been a feature of the entertainment
broadcast by 2FC, spent three years at
the Hoch Conservatorium in Frankfort.
He studied the pianoforte with Uziella,
the Italian maestro, and composition with
Iwan Knorr, the Russian master, who also
taught Percy Grainger and Cyril Scott.
He finished off in Berlin under Leopold
Godowski. It was Godowski’s custom
to take promising pupils with him on
vacation, and Mr. Empson often accom-
panied him on these trips. One of Mr.
Empson’s earliest professional engage-
ments was as accompanist to Paul
Dufault, the tenor, on a tour of the
Orient. On his return to Maoriland he
settled in Christchurch, since when he
has distinguished himself as a concert
and broadcast artist and teacher.
“Eosis”: The clerical lecturer couldn't
have meant it, but this is how it came
over the air: “We will wander along
aimlessly like a sheep, nibbling at every
dainty mortal.”
"H.J.K.”: I have just returned to the
land of my birth after 35 years’ residence
in S. Africa, and have been listening
to broadcast programmes, both A and B.
f hough the whole of S. Africa has only
a lew hundred thousand more while in-
habitants than Sydney, the quality of
Australian broadcasts is not in the same
street as the S. African. Cape Town,
Johannesburg and Durban give orches-
tral programmes of an excellence un-
known to Australia, Here the jumble
of sporting news, gramophone records
and weird and wonderful examples of
local talent is enough to give one a
stomach ache. News summaries, too,
are done in S. Africa in a manner miles
ahead of anything I’ve heard out here.
“A. Sambo”: Rex Rienits (B.
24/7/’35) evidently does not appreciate
the difficulties of the country radio lis-
tener, or he would be inclined to agree
with “Alkali Ike” (B. 10/7/’35), who
says that radio will probably run itself
to death. It is doing so in the country
already. What makes the country folk
particularly sore is the fact that city
programmes are punctuated with city
advertisements which have no interest
for rural listeners. Further, it is soon
discovered that, while a close-at-hand
country station can be heard much more
comfortably than city stations, pro-
grammes of country stations consist
mainly of a few records and a reading
of the news from some local newspaper
that can be bought for tuppence.
“G.M.”: Prof. Laby, who directs
physical science at Melb. Uni., is scepti-
cal regarding the success claimed for both
British and German military scientists
in transmitting power by wireless. Prob-
ably De Graaf, the Dutch-American
scientist, who expects, according to the
cable, to be able to send a voltage of
15,000,000 by simple electro-static
methods, may be a trifle optimistic. But,
when sound is already freely utilised and
light is well under control and experi-
ments have proved the possibility of
transmitting sufficient power to explode
a detonator, it must be only a matter of
time before higher power will be within
the grasp of science. When that day
comes, all motor traffic will be driven
electrically, and there will be no need to
pull up at the bowser when we run out
of juice. We will just touch a button on
the dashboard and, if we are in credit
at the central station, we will receive a
charge sufficient to carry us another 100
miles. Probably we will pay as we do
for a water supply—a fixed sum for ser-
vice, with excess charges over a certain
amount. Anyhow, I’m going to sell out
all my holdings in Standard Oil before
it goes into liquidation.
“C.H.F.”: Calling of birthdays over
the air has always seemed to me inane,
but lately the thing seems to have taken
a turn for the worse which may result
in its death. A girl was cheerfully ad-
vised that it shouldn’t take her half an
hour to do a five minutes’ walk from the
bus, even if with a certain young man.
A man was told he wasn’t to get as
drunk this year, another that he had
to keep a fire on while his wife and sister
were at church and not put it on just as
they were coming in, and another was
asked how the socks he was knitting
were getting on.
“Showman”: Is this the queerest
broadcast? Radio Luxemburg recently
broadcast a commentary on Testo’s Inter-
national Flea Circus. A description of the
same event was later broadcast by the
8.8. C., and the performance was filmed
by the Gaumont British Newsreel Co.
“C.H.F.”: We were enjoying a night’s
broadcast when suddenly reception was
ruined by unusual static. Investigated
everything ; even followed the temporary
aeriaL fastened to the wire fence running
round the section. Everything seemed in
order, and there was no wind to cause
vibration of aerial. The static continued,
and even the most-near-home station was
horribly distorted. Nothing for it but to
shut the set off in disgust. We went out
to study weather conditions, and then
the moon coming over the hill revealed
the trouble. A cow had sauntered down-
hill and rested itself comfortably against
our fence, where it was quietly chewing
the cud. The rhythmical vibration of
the cow had communicated itself to our
wire fence, with disastrous results.


Wide r World Two
BUILD IT YOURSELF
Our kit parts are all of the very best
quality. Special variable condensers,
I.R.C. resistors, T.C.C. fixed condensers,
Special short-wave dial, Special R.F.
choke, Philips valves. Chassis is drilled
ready for assembly, and every screw, lug
and piece of wire is included.
Complete kit as above .... £6/8/3
Or completely assembled and -CQ/C/
tested, with license plate .. "
Battery equipment £3/12/6
Headphones from 15/6
Price’s Radio Service
5 &
D. G McINTYR Prop.
(Lute of Murdoch’s, Ltd.)
6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
'T HOUSANDS OF REAL Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices,
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
STORES ,
MA4357.
- S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aast.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin’' Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 822H1
X
o
BUY
TELA-VERTA
\ \ RADIO J
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADSO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
■-3
CD
□
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
u
1/
a /UPS©.
s • co
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
AN IMPROVED WIDE-WORLD TWO.
Possibly no home-constructor-type short-wave receiver has achieved more
popularity than the arrangement of valves and components in the electron-
coupled detector circuit of the Wide-World Two. It was described in
B. 15/81*34, and lately one or two improvements have been effected. This
description, embodying these modifications, is published in response to
numerous requests.
There are several arguments in favor
of a really good oscillating-detector head-
phone short-wave receiver, and many
against a poorly-designed and -con-
structed “blooper.” The latter name
aptly fits the unstable, scratchy kind of
affair with which many, in blissful ignor-
ance of what is being missed, serve a
penance in trying to get any sort of
short-wave performance. Given a well-
engineered commonsense receiver in
which the oscillating detector can be
Fig. I- The circuit of the Improved Wide-World Two, showing the modifications. A doublet aerial may be used
by providing a separate aerial coupling coil in place of the aerial condenser and earth connection.
made to do its work properly within
fine limits, and a tuning condenser which
varies the L/C ratio without audible
failings, the
story is very
different. The
main reason
why .Ihe
small head-
phone re-
ceiver is al-
ways popular
is obvious —
tuning is list-
ened to only
by the opera-
tor, without
the protests
of the loud-
speaker (and
the family).
Late night
searching for
stations can
be done in
comfor t—
and short-
wave recep-
tion is very
often a matter
of listening
at unusual
hours. Another sound reason for the
popularity of the small receiver (of any
kind) is that it is within the compass of
the younger generation. Schoolboys will
Fig. 2. —The projecting bakelite spindle at the lower left of the
panel is for altering the setting of the aerial-coupling condenser.
Underneath the tuning control is the regeneration potentiometer.
The mottled finish on the aluminium panel is obtained by rotating
a cork, lubricated with oil and emery powder, in a drilling machine.
make their thousand and one little
gadgets, and so the constructor interest
in radio is maintained.
The original Wide-World Two was the
first receiver of the kind in Australia, and
introduced the advantages of the electron-
coupled detector. It is sufficient here to
say that this form of regenerative
detector excels in overcoming inherent
instability or “wobbulation,” with result-
ant creeping of signals. Properly ad-
justed, the e.-c. detector is also practically
immune from the annoyance of “de-
tuning” when using the regeneration
control, even at the highest frequencies.
The Circuit.
This is shown in Fig. 1, and from it
the simplicity of the receiver is apparent.
Indirectly-heated 6.3-volt valves are used
in the writer’s case, and these valves are
recommended, but a variety of combina-
tions can be employed, as mentioned
later. Improvement No. 1 is the use of
the 6C6 valve
as detector.
This valve had
not been intro-
duced when the
receiver was ori-
ginally designed,
and a 77 was
used as detector.
The 77 is good,
but the 6C6 is
better, being a
more ready
oscillator at the
highest frequen-
cies. In fact, it
is quite possible,
by making
special coils, to
tune to (he 7m.
region with this
receiver. Instead
of the 38 pen-
tode, the type
76 triode is used
in the audio
stage. There is
no appreciable
difference in Headphone volume, but the
plate current is saved considerably, and
that is important where batteries are
used.
The most important improvement is
in the regeneration control. A 50,000-
ohm potentiometer is still used, but now
it is decoupled. The result is a gain on
the audio side of the detector and a
much more gradual and detuning-free
action. A large capacity, 2mfd., is used
across the potentiometer arm to earth,
and in series with the screen grid is a
10,000-ohm resistor.
Directly at the valve socket, a further
by-pass is used, this being a .Imfd. con-
denser. The plate circuit uses the now
familiar high-impedance audio coupling,
decoupled, and the advantages of this
over resistance coupling are emphasised.
The same results will not be obtained
with resistance.
The choke used is a Lekmek 53-B ; alter-
natively the A.W.A. audio choke is suit-
able, and, as a good makeshift, a Philips
audio transformer, secondary and primary
in series. In the latter case, bridge the
choke by a 200,000-ohm resistor if
“fringe howl” is prevalent. A D.P.S.T.
toggle switch breaks both A and B
supplies, and on the B side can be con-
nected in the detector screen supply if a
separate voltage tap is used to prevent
drain through the potentiometer when
the receiver is not in use.
An important point in this (or any
similar receiver), is the tuning condenser.
A good make should be used. Some
manufacturers are now supplying small
single condensers in the standard frame
and ball-bearing rotor type. For those
who may have the kind of condenser
Fig. 3. —Back view, showing the toggle switch at the rear
top of the chassis, next to the audio valve, and the headphone
jack and battery cable at the hack.
specified originally a tip is worth while.
K was found that the rotor had end
movement, no back stop to the shaft
being fitted. The shaft projects a little
past the back bearing, and a stop is
easily made from stiff sheet brass,
countersunk to fit over the end of the
shaft and boiled to the condenser frame.
The result is the conversion of an in-
different condenser to a really good one.
Constructional Points.
The chassis design in general is shown
clearly in the illustrations ; the fitting of
the front panel depends on the kind of
dial used. The more modern Aero dial
can be just as readily fitted as the one
illustrated. The most important feature
of the layout is the arrangement of the
valve socket for the plug-in coils to keep
grid circuit connections as short and
rigid as possible. Note that the socket
is supported above the chassis on bakelite
stand-off pillars. It is poor practice to
mount the coil socket in a hole in the
chassis, as by so doing the coil is too
close to the mass of metal. In making
earth, returns, a heavy copper bus-bar is
fixed along the top of the chassis. This
is best earthed at one end, and such
practice eliminates a great deal of trouble
encountered in receivers with earths
made to chassis at the nearest point.
Coif Data.
No alterations have been made here,
but details are given of two coils to over-
lap the broadcast range, many requests
having been received for these details.
Space be-
Band Grid Cathode tween
(Metres). Turns. Turns. Coils. Gauge.
50-90 24 5 I in. 26 D.S.C.
30-55 12 4 |in. 26 D.S.C.
15-32 5 4 jin. 26 D.S.C.
Broadcast
Band.
Lower .. 150 5 sin. 30 enamelled
Upper .. 255 5 fin. 30 enamelled
Valve Combinations.
Because of flexibility, the 6.3-volt type
valves are recommended primarily, and
the most suitable are the 6C6 and 76.
Alternatively in the 6.3 types, the
77 and 37 can be used. Although
not quite such efficient detectors, the
6D6 or 78 can be used in this position.
With all these valves, a 6-volt transformer
and power-pack or 6-volt accumulator


FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio*
THE NEW
Lekmek Chassikits!
Write (enclosing 3d. in stamps) for
the 30 x 20 inch Lavishly Illustrated
Constructional Tableau.
LEKMEK RADIO LABORATORIES,
75 William Street, Sydney.
AS
0
EVERY note
AS THE Jfatisbt PLAYS IT.
Stiombera
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
Carter
Geimemotor
A NEW AUTO
"B" ELIMINATOR
MC
I!
Input. Output. Inter-Tap
6v. 2.2 amp. 180 v. 30ma. 90 volts.
Price, £5/10/-
Xhe smallest ami most efficient
Eliminator marie.
Height 3iip., Width siin., Depth 4in.,
Weight 61b.
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
No. 42C.
Dimensions:
Telcohone ■
86694
<3 lines).
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
i* _ _
Telegrams:
"Amplion.**
70 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
'Amplion
Sydney.
and B batteries may be used. The Philips
eliminator, once so popular, makes an
ideal plate-supply unit for this receiver.
If 2-volt valves are contemplated the 15
can be used as both detector and audio,
but must be connected as a triode for
audio use. Obviously any 2-volt battery
triode could be used in the audio with
the necessary bias provision. The Philips
KFI- or KF2-type valves are specially
worthy of consideration, but, not being
indirectly heated, as in the case of the
Sylvania 15, would call for further modi-
fication in the coil
arrangements. See the
Electronic Battery
Four (B. 15/5/*35)
for this appl i c a-
lion.
In the 2.5-volt series
for A.C. operation
the 57 or 58 can be
used as detector with
a 56 or 27 audio, and
a standard power unit
with 2.5-volt heater
winding. As many
readers possess 4-
volt battery valves,
the Philips A 442
could be used as e.-c.
detector in the Elec-
tronic Battery Four
scheme, with a suit-
able audio triode.
The possible valve
combinations for a
receiver of this kind
arc almost unlimited.
Improved Wide-Worle
Two Parts List.
One aluminium chassis, 7in. x 6in. x 2|in.
One aluminium panel, 81 in. x 7Jin.
One tuning dial.
Three knobs.
One .00015-175mfd. tuning condenser.
One six-pin valve socket (detector).
One five-pin valve socket (audio).
One four-pin valve socket (coil mount).
Ihrce four-pin short-wave plug-in coil formers
(Urn. diam.).
One high-impedance audio choke.
Two .OOOlmfd. mica condensers (grid and plate
filter).
One 2-meg. grid leak.
I wo valve screens.
l our bakclite pillars for coil mount.
One three-section honeycomb R.F. choke.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer. .
Iwo 10,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
One .5-meg. resistor.
One 2000-ohm resistor.
One D.P.S.T. toggle switch.
One .Oltnfd. mica condenser.
One lOmfd. Ducon electrolytic condenser.
Two 2mfd. by-pass condensers.
One Imfd. by-pass condenser.
One .Imfd. Chanex tubular condenser.
One single-circuit headphone jack and plug.
One three-plate midget condenser (aerial coup-
ling).
Battery leads, wiring flex, screws, nuts, solder,
etc.
Valves —6C6 detector, 76 audio.
Batteries —Six-volt accumulator and three 45-
volt super-duty B blocks; or six-volt 2-amp.
transformer and Philips B eliminator.
One pair of 2000-ohm headphones (1/1 ratio
coupling transformer suggested).
Two terminals (aerial-earth).
Small reels 26 D.S.C. and 30 enamelled copper
wire. &
Fig. 4. —A side view, giving a good indication of the
layout. The tuning-condenser shaft stop fitted to the
particular condenser used can he seen at the hack of the
frame. (See. text.) The aerial condenser and terminal
are seen underneath the chassis on the near side.
The full list of parts for this receiver
can be obtained from Price’s Radio
.Service, Angel-place, Sydney, and if
made up in exact duplication of the
model illustrated the receiver can be relied
upon to obtain the utmost possible from
the two valves. Two valves used properly
in a simple short-wave receiver will tune
in just as many stations as the big super-
het, with the advantage of restriction to
the one listener if desired. It should be
unnecessary to stress that, with such a
receiver, the picture-rail kind of aerial
is practically useless. The aerial must be
external, properly insulated, and approxi-
mately 50ft. in length.
D. B. KNOCK.
Short-wave Diallings.
After an absence of several weeks due
to illness the writer finds 8.8. C. stations
on a later schedule —from 3.15 to 5.15.
After 5 p.m. strength has been dropping
considerably. Recently GSD has not
been very strong, but GSB has been
excellent. The midday 8.8. C. transmis-
sion from I to 2 p.m. has been weak, but
FYA has still been excellent until clos-
ing down at 3 p.m. ; in the early morn-
ing this station has been only fair until
8 a.m.
A slight improvement in the 49m.
band has been noted about 7 a.m., when
both GSL and DJC have been fair, with
a number of others too weak to identify.
Three of these are foreigners and not
Americans. Except for Tokio on 27m.
the early night has been very poor on
any band.
For a short period at 11 p.m., weak
reception from GSF and FYA on the
J9m. band has occurred ; also GSG on
I6m. has been heard on several nights,
just audible with ’phones.
Between 6 and 8 a.m. all stations have
been weak. The best lately has been
RNE in the 25m. band, with the new
German station on 28m. a close second.
This latter station is apparently DJQ,
although the call has not been heard in
English. It has been heard signing DJQ
in code after the broadcast ends.
The Japanese station on 21m. has con-
tinued excellent after 2 p.m. The Eng-
lish news session, lasting about 15
minutes, has been delivered by a very
American-sounding announcer.
Both DJA and DJN have been fair
strength after 4 p.m. on the 31m. band,
closing at 5, but neither has been
speaker strength here yet.
During the passage of the recent
cyclone static was severe right down to
20m., and above 31m. reception was im-
possible. Signal strength was also below
normal for some days, and on the Sun-
daV the 20m - a mateur band was poor,
ve ry few Americans audible,
Reception from U.S.A. has been very
P°°’' ei p» WBXK in the 19m. band
T.'" 8 “T'/ a m HBL
was missing at the usual hour on a
recent Sunday, and EAQ (30m.) was not
up to usual strength.
Nothing has been heard of 2RO either
fa the 31m. or 25m. bands, nor has PCI
been audible in the 19m. band.
Another station which has been very
a]) lhc winter is 7LO Nairob f
Kcnya . This station used t 0 bc excellent
two years ago until closing about 6>30
a.m. It is now only just audible in the
49m. band.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
In Sydney the sm. band is a hive of
activity, and no doubt other Australian
cities will follow suit. Approximately
35 stations are heard, some at intervals,
many together, and all at some time or
other. Among the newcomers are VKs
20Q, 2HZ, 2EH, 2WW, 2CY, 2FG,
2QF and 2ZX. 2ZD went to Goulburn,
N.S.W., and heard two modulated carriers,
unidentified, on a portable. The distance
is about 100 miles, and well screened
from Sydney. Pioneer 2BP has gone to
Wyong, N.S.W., and linked up with 2TX.
Results between Wyong and Sydney are
now hoped for in earnest.
Reference is made in another column
to an attempt on the Tasman on sm. The
project may appear formidable, but when
it is recalled that the 7m. VK2ME has
been reported in Auckland, M.L., there
is a chance for sm. and beams. “Night-
owl” at Bombala, N.S.W., on the Vic.
border, has also heard the A.W.A. 7m.
station. The increasing congestion on
sm. in Sydney means stable transmitters
and receivers before long.
VK2NO.
Philips Dutch Short-wave
Programmes.
Philips Netherlands short-wave station
PHI (also relayed by station PCJ on
19.71 metres). Wave-length 16.88 m.;
17,775kc./sec. Opens 10.30 p.m., E.S.T.
September 1: 11.45 p.m., news from Holland;
midnight, microphone debutants; 12.10 a.m.,
broadcast from the Roman Catholic Broadcast-
ing Association; 1.10 a.m., dance music.
September 2: 10.40 p.m., meeting of the
Phohi Club; 11.5 p.m., music; 11.25 p.m.,
violin recital by Loe Cohen; 11.45 p.m., news
from Holland.
September 3: 10.40 p.m., music; 11 p.m.,
station orchestra; 11.20 p.m., Tito Schipa sings;
11.45 p.m., news from Holland.
September 6: 10.40 p.m., excerpts from “La
Bohfcme”; 11.45 p.m., news from Holland:
12 a.m., music; 12.20 a.m., Dajos Bela and
orchestra.
September 7: 10.40 p.m., music; 11 p.m,,
station orchestra; 11.25 p.m., piano recital by
Trude Stein; 11.45 p.m., news from Holland;
12.30 a.m., station orchestra; 12.50 a.m.,
broadcast from Carlton Hotel, Amsterdam.
September 8: 10.40 p.m., music; 11 p.m.,
Slavonic Dance (Dvorak); Lilly Pons sings
“Ardon GPlncensi” (Donizetti); 11.45 p.m.,
news from Holland; midnight, microphone
debutants; 12.10 a.m., broadcast from the
Roman Catholic Broadcasting Association;
I. a.m., music.
September 9: 10.40 p.m., meeting of the
Phohi Club; 11.5 p.m., station orchestra; 11.40
p.m., music; 11.45 p.m., news from Holland;
12 a.m., station orchestra; 12.20 a.m., dance
music.
September 12: 10.40 p.m., music; 11.10 p.m.,
“Short Waves —Long Distances,” talk by
W. P, L, Spruit; 11.45 p.m., news from Hol-
land; 12.15 a.m., dance music.
September 13: 10.40 p.m., French cabaret
programme; 11.30 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m.,
news from Holland; 12.10 a.m., Mepawafana
cocktail.
September 14: 10.40 p.m., organ music;
11. p.m., station orchestra; 11.45 p.m., news
from Holland; 12.25 a.m., music; 12.40 a.m.,
station orchestra; 1.20 a.m., accordion band.
Trans-Tasman 5-metre Tests.
With the intense wave of amateur
activity on 5m., no less in this part of
the world than in U.S.A. and Europe, a
serious attempt to transmit ultra-short-
wave signals from Australia to M.L. is
contemplated. A Sydney jeweller will
offer cups to the first Australian and the
first Maorilander to do the trick. The
co-operation of N.Z.A.R.T. is to be
sought at once in planning operating
schedules.
The writer sug-
gests to M.L. that
more likelihood of
success lies in C.W.
reception of keyed
transmitters than in
super - regenerative
reception of modu-
lated signals. Either
autodynes or super-
hets with beat oscil-
lator would be pre-
ferable, but these
conditions call for
more than average
stability in trans-
mitters. These arc
not insurmountable technical problems.
Directive aerials are, of course, almost
imperative.
Unusual ultra-short-wave DX condi-
tions appear to prevail at present all
over the world, and sm. contact between
Australia and M.L. is not too much to
hope for. It certainly will not be done
unless tackled seriously at both ends.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
A copy of the much-looked-forward-to
“Radio” handbook has been received
from the publishers of “Radio,” Pacific
Buildings, San Francisco. The Ameri-
can price of this outstanding publication
is one dollar, and at whatever price it
eventually reaches the Australian book-
stalls it will be worth it. There are 296
pages of closely-printed valuable ma-
terial, replete with literally hundreds of
diagrams and texts on everything that
matters technically in radio to-day. To
the amateur transmitter this handbook
is indispensable, and particularly to those
who may have missed a few copies of
the monthly “Radio.” All the technical
articles that have appeared in “Radio”
are here, and not in any condensed form,
anil they are augmented by a wealth of
hitherto unpublished articles on every
conceivable form of transmitter, modu-
lator, antenna or receiver dealing with
short and ultra-short waves. It is by far
the best of all handbooks yet produced
anywhere in the world, and the progres-
sive radio engineer and experimenter
should not miss securing a copy.
* * * *
Even in 1935 there are people un-
acquainted with the results obtainable
•with modern receivers and who write to
radio editors asking if it is really pos-
sible to listen to overseas short-wave
programmes. The following station list
is from a Tasma model 250 log in
Queensland, and speaks for itself:
Broadcast: 79, including eight Japs,
KFI Los Angeles, four Maorilanders, and
all Australians but 6BY, 6ML, 3YB, 6KG.
Amateurs (200 to 250 metres): 19. Short-
wave Stations: JTO Tokio, FYA Paris,
PCJ Eindhoven, DJB Zeesen, GSF Davcn-
try, DJD Berlin, VPD Suva, WBXKE Pitts-
burg, GSH Davcntry, RNE Moscow, GSE
Daventry, PHI Huizen, JVN Tokio, 3ME
Melbourne, GSC Daventry, ZEK Hong
Kong, 2RO Rome, 2ME Sydney, VUB
Bombay, 3LR Lyndhurst, DJA Zeesen,
HBL Geneva, WIXAZ Springfield,
W3XAU Philadelphia, W2XAF New York,
CTIAA Lisbon, GSB Daventry, CNR
Rabaul, JIAA Tokio, JVT Tokio, ZHI
Singapore, Bandoeng, WBXAL Cincin-
nati, RVIS Khabarovsk, YDA Tandjoeng.
Phone Stations: Sydney, Wellington,
tokio, Manila, Bandoeng. Amateurs
(s.w.): 88 Australian, five Maoriland and
17 American, including three K 6, nine
W 6, two W 5, two W 7 and XYK Mexico
City.
* ♦ * *
In the days before the Australian radio
trade assumed big proportions, several
overseas makes of dry-cell B batteries
were extensively used. Very popular
among these were those of Winchester
brand. After a period of a few years,
during which B-battery manufacture has
progressed enormously, Winchester bat-
teries are again available in Australia.
The two blocks illustrated are the Win-
chester types 6918 and 6818. They are
respectively of the medium- and heavy-
duty kind. The latter is particularly note-
worthy, being designed for large receivers
taking heavy current. The cells have a
very large capacity, and give long life
(Continued on next page.)


Lender among cars
of its class —the new
SUPER QUALITY
Humber “Twelve
aiii*iP I Mi
c
V
■>m mk
m, m ’
im
WiM Tim
/ 4 I'i : Ml m
fl !■■■■■■
■ifjji; . a/: if;.
■ ■WiMoioim /m
in/• fa I r af~ •rU -! ii!lrJ IU
""■—- -LI I
To build the performance, comfort
and luxury of the more expensive
Humbers into a car of moderate
rating is to offer quality and value
which has never been equalled by
a car of this class. May we have
the pleasure of demonstrating?
* * * **** **
HUMBER
TWELVE . . . SNIPE 80 . . . PULLMAN
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERIES
Jalm MQ*A
155 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
and at 234-44 Hunter St. West, Newcastle
'll*
m
>ln,
f i
°
-2 _
5 £ £T ar*c* -
Ml
■?£? *11°;
■g* 1 ~.csrll
to
S_ n> S’ a2s, -
Si- 1? *?'.&>£ o o^
M»
5:
ON
N V T 7 « £ *• c n> fry
2 < * £, tr S’ 2
C .Co *r flj O <T) &Q sL 1
3 N *?• S*- ° o. sS 7 Oi^^cto
f*“*« Z. Z.&*£
-5 >i 5, «, 5,2 s' <i
o rs X,a ’Oo^S~ a,fl> x c ' !J S’
2 n c> a> „, /V O <; 2
I
9 £
.3 c
-i Q- irr ■so®'
m
owing to low rate of discharge per unit
area. Connected to a comprehensive
battery receiver for test, these 45-volt
units showed the full voltage under con-
siderable load —ample proof of the
freshness. Types and prices arc: No.
3516, 44v., C battery, 3s. 6d.; No. 6518,
45v., B upright, 18s.; No. 6818, 45v., B
heavy duty, 225. 6d.; No. 6918, 45v., B
super duty, 255. Stocks are carried by
Cowles and Dunn, 71 King-street,
Sydney.
* * * ♦
Mullard Radio Co., 35 Clarence-street,
Sydney, announces altered valve connec-
tions and thimble tops for Mullard bat-
tery valves, types VP2, SP2 and TDD 2.
The Mullard battery duo-diode-triode,
TDD 2, was originally equipped with an
insulated screw-top connection for the
grid, but all valves of this type now sup-
plied have a metal thimble at the top,
replacing the terminal. The dimensions
of the top cap are the same as those of
American-type valves. A standard clip
connector should now terminate the lead
to the top instead of a flat lug. The
thimble top is now being used also on
the type VP2 variable-Mu H.F. pentode
as standard fitting, and the SP2 H.F.
pentode will shortly be changed to
thimble top also. It is important to note
that the thimble top of the VP2 and
SP2 is the plate connection, not the grid,
as in American-type valves and the
TDD 2. As the plate connects with the
B battery, care should be taken to avoid
possible contact between the top connec-
tion and any metal parts. An insulated
clip connector is advisable.
Casual Comment.
“P.K.”: Latest news of 56mc. activity
comes from Brisbane, where the
presence of an active pilot in the Wire-
less Institute has led to the development
of apparatus capable of doing its share
aloft. In the latest effort two beams were
pointed due west and two-way equip-
ment was mounted in a Puss Moth.
Since the vibration and general noise of
the ’plane play havoc with the intelli-
gibility from a carbon mike, a crystal
type with a three-stage rig was used.
No difficulty was experienced in working
duplex with R 8 and R 9 signals from
both ends for 103 miles, when a detour
north had to be made for more petrol.
An interesting incident occurred when
one of the ground stations requested the
’plane to ask the head station to send
someone over with a component which
had been overlooked. The missing part
arrived a little later. Results of this
nature are of great importance, as they
indicate that with sharply-tuned beams
the Brisbane-Sydney air route could be
flown at night or in fog with, at the
most, two repeater stations situated, at
strategic points on the way. The beams
are very simple structures, and require
neither expensive construction nor much
space! Furthermore,;, they can easily be
made rotatable. Power is of minor im-
portance, as in the test'described a power
of only three watts was used. A moun-
tain range some 2OOoft. high was passed
over 70 miles out, and the signals were
copied for 30 miles „further on. Alti-
tude of the ’plane was 4000 ft., well below
the ceiling of the passenger ’planes at
present in use, and future ’planes will be
flying, in the stratosphere. It is interest-
ing to. note that no spark suppressors or
shielded cables were used, and not even
a flying helmet was worn over the head-
phones. Also, at 70 miles, the signal
could be copied on a foot of wire inside
the cabin, despite the fact that the ribs
of the ’plane were of metal.
The Q. and A. Column.
Being interested in ultra-short-wave possibili-
ties, I hove been wondering if it would be
possible to make an ordinary regenerative re-
ceiver into a super-regenerator. I have a two-
valve detector and audio receiver using Philips
/1415 and /4409’5. (1) Please give a diagram
showing how this receiver could he adapted
as a super-regenerator. (2) Are there many
stations working on the amateur five-metre
band in the Sydney area ? —305.
(1) The diagram shows how this is done.
The extn* valve, which can be another four-
volt triode, is the “quencher” or interrupter,
and is connected in the plate circuit of the
detector. C oils LI and L 2 can be 1400 and
800 turns respectively of fine enamelled copper
wire on a Jin. dowel, with supporting discs
spaced about jin. apart. The coils must be
connected in the correct direction for oscilla-
tion, and this can be easily determined by trial.
Although the detector circuit shown, with the
usual “throttle” regeneration control, will work
at five metres if the coil-and-condenser com-
bination is correct, the regeneration control
is not strictly necessary. It can be left in for
fine.adjustment of sensitivity. The tuning con-
denser should be a five-plate midget, and the
grid coil six turns of heavy wire lin. in
diameter. The feedback coil should be four
or five turns similarly. (2) The following
Sydney experimenters are to be heard more or
less frequently at nights and week-ends: VKs
2CG, 2WD, 2NO, 2NU, 2UG, 2ZD, 2XK,
2WJ, 2LZ, 2JU, 2AL, 2UC, 2SN, 2AZ.
20D, 2HZ, 2JE. Many more are constructing
apparatus for the five-metre band.
* * * *
How to make an “earth" under the follow-
ing conditions: Electric set, no water supply,
sandy loam about Sin. deep, then solid sand-
stone. Sandstone contains a percentage of
lime and ironstone. / think. —306.
Drive a galvanised-iron pipe as far as pos-
sible into sandstone. Drill holes in pipe, and
pour water in. Otherwise, forget the earth,
and use a counterpoise—one or two wires
about 6ft. above earth.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Caulfield form was borne out at Flem-
ington on Saturday, in two races at least.
In the affair over the sticks, as in the
Arkaringa Hurdle, Heroic Prince (5 to 1)
and The Mirror (6 to 1) were again first
and second, and again half a length sepa-
rated them; Fulham, who surely de-
serves a spell, was third. Sixteen Annas
was favorite, but he galloped on Ran-
clea’s heels before they reached the first
hurdle and came down. Half the field
seemed to strike the prostrate Hynes, and
one of his boots was actually torn off,
but he escaped serious injury, and the
horse was so little hurt that he went in
pursuit of the distant field until he de-
cided it was a mug’s game. Sixteen
Annas seems fated to furnish sensations
in Melbourne.
Metro, beaten by the narrowest of
margins in the Balaclava Stakes at Caul-
field, went one better in the Nerrin
Nerrin Handicap, a furlong shorter. He
is not much good, and his supporters are
largely indebted to Voitre’s riding for
landing the wagers that they had taken at
5 to 1 and 9 to 2. The greatly-improved
Cardo, one of John Wren’s, was second,
only a “short” head away; and Panto,
finishing well, broke even with Cape
Morn for third, a length astern. Holt
Bert: * late a.qai>4 "
GeRT Hai_p- AM hour'.
• v ' ' >
Bert. Domt yknow its the early
BIRD that catches the. worm ?"
1/ >
G,ERT yes, Blit \ wc.he3.nn Vcxjo \Nait
Poe me
did not fancy him greatly, and the West-
ralian horse’s showing must have satisfied
his trainer.
Holt had another reason for being
pleased. Carnarvon, making his first
appearance since March, and supported
only to the extent of a few pounds, ran
a sterling race in the Three-year-old
Handicap, going under by a head only
to J. S. Feehan’s colt Bustard (3 to 1),
to whom he was conceding 151 b. Bustard,
a good sort, is a son of The Buzzard,
whose stock sold so well at the Brisbane
and Sydney yearling sales, Carnarvon
made the home turn badly, but Skidmore
was nevertheless obliged to exert all his
skill and strength to get Bustard home.
He had a much easier task in the High-
weight Handicap on Windmar (3 to 1),
a six-year-old daughter of Windbag—
Maragny’s Daughter, who ran right away
from Radiant Boy, ridden by Voitre,
over the last furlong of nine, run —on a
slow track —in Imin. 54|sec.
A plunge on Valiant Chief for the
Apprentices’ Handicap sent that son of
Heroic —Cohesion to 7 to 4. An early
collision with the rails wrecked his
chance, and Double Bard (7 to 1) got
the best of an interesting finish with
L’Elite (50 to 1) and Gay Mary (33 to 1).
Synagogue and Break Up, who during
the week had been ■ backed for the
Epsom-Metrop. double—Synagogue is
now favorite for the Epsom—were run-
ners, and, for unbacked horses far from
ready, both ran.pretty well; Break Up
wound up fourth. Voitre has been en-
gaged to ride Synagogue and Break Up
at Randwick.
There were 15 starters in the steeple-
chase, won by Harmonic (10 to 1), and
nine finished. The exhibition convinced
everyone that the doom of the old sod
and stone walls and post-and-rails has
been justly pronounced. In future there
will be brush fences at Flemington, as
at Caulfield.
After an inquiry which extended into
the second day, the Q.T.C. stewards im-
posed a twelvemonth’s disqualification on
Pamelus, his owner-trainer (Dukes) and
the jockey. (Tebb), who rode him in the
Doomben Stakes, in which he galloped
so erratically. Dukes and Tebb have
appealed, but the Q.T.C. committee will
not meet till after the King’s Cup, so the
Bullhead gelding will not keep that en-
gagement, If the appeal is upheld he
will, of course, be able to start in the
Epsom, in which he has Bst. 71b. Many
Queenslanders reckon he is one of the
speediest nags they have ever seen,
* * * «
The enforced withdrawal of Pamelus
enabled backers of Lough Neagh to col-
lect again after the Q.T.C. National Plate
at Eagle Farm, though it shortened the
price to a shade of odds on. As in the
Doomben Stakes, Hill took (he chestnut
to the front, and then slowed the field
down ; and, though Scrlodi (3 to 1) chal-
lenged strongly, he managed to keep
a “short” head clear. Glen’s Spear was
third ; apparently the pace was too slow
for Brown Force’s liking. Regular
Bachelor, a 9-to-4 favorite for the Ascot
Handicap, won it brilliantly, at the rate
.of “12 to the furlong,” from Taragoola
and Strange Idea. The son of Bachelor’s
Persse thrives on racing—he has had a
heap of it in two States. But he was
only third in the Flying Handicap at
Doomben, run in 2}sec. slower time, and
was 10 to 1 withal; so the stewards came
to light with one of their “please ex-
plains.”
The King’s Cup is to be run on Satur-
day. This Page’s fancy is Brown Force,
with Serlodi nen best.
* * * *
Moorefield is a tricky course. Some
horses show their best form there;
others dislike going down the hill for
the home run. These temperamental ned-
dies were plentiful on Saturday, and
bookmakers had a beautiful day. They
was helped by the anxiety of jockeys
to win all the way ; nags kept for the last
run won six of the nine events.
Both divisions of the Flying Welter
were bookies’ benefits. In the first divi-
sion Double Dutch (20 to 1), a plain
old cuddy, touched in the wind, beat the
favorite, King’s Head, by half a neck,
with Rosaban, who had made the pace
with Porcia, third. There was a scrim-
mage in this race, and Pike, the rider of
King’s Head, was reprimanded. Bull-
dozer, carrying a big weight, was fourth.
The second division went to Dazzle (20
to 1), owned by Mrs. D. Clayton, who
patted the gelding as if he were Peter
Pan when he returned to his stall after
defeating the favorite, Winball, and
Roley’s Choice. Heroina, fourth, showed
a lot of pace, but Roley’s Choice would
have been the winner had he got a clear
run at the turn. He was disappointed
more than once.
Sarsign, owned by a Tumut sportsman,
R. Barton, is a consistent customer. He
was third at Canterbury, first at Ascot
and first again in the Moorefield Handi-
cap, leading throughout. Segovia made a
determined effort to run Sarsign down,
but the plain-looking Sardis gelding held
him off; Volwood was third. Sarsign
went out at 5 to 4, but a shade better
could be got.
Yerrapie (2 to 1), a Derby candidate
owned by F. P. McCabe, for whom
Jamieson trains him, beat a poor lot in
the Three-year-old, but will win in better
company. Fernacre, who looks the real
welter type, led all the way in the first
division of the Kogarah Stakes, starting
at fives. Mananui, raced by city mer-
chant W. C. Douglas, who owned Claro,
scored convincingly in the second heat at
tens. A nice son of Limond, Mananui
has 7st. in the Epsom. High Jinks (4 to
1) took the third division. He was drawn
wide and covered a lot of extra ground,
but got a lucky run on the rails when the
favorite, Beaupre, moved out at the
Leger.
High Cross is decidedly one of the
steeds that don’t care for Moorefield.
Backed for the Rockdale Mile, he was
tailed off most of the way, though he
made up a lot of ground over the last
half-mile. Bill Wedgewood, Celebrate
and Legislator were also supported, the
last-named at 9 to 2. Bill Wedgewood
had had enough at the turn, where Legis-
lator and Celebrate were on terms. It
then looked any odds on Celebrate, but
condition failed him, and Legislator, who
was strung right up, scored by nearly a
length, with Broccoli third.
* * * *
Progeny of Heroic continue to be very
successful, and the chestnut son of Valais
—Chersonese has equalled the achieve-
ment of Malster, also Australian-bred,
by leading the sires’ list for the third year
in succession. Forty of his offspring won
91 races, worth '£26,540 in stake-money.
Pantheon, thanks very largely to Peter
Pan, was seednd with 22 winners (50L
races and £24,166). Limond (14, 25J,
£17,825) was third, Windbag, second in
1932-33 and 1933-34, having been rele-
gated to*fourth place (36, 74, £14,149). Of
course Windbag has been unlucky in that
one of his best sons, Liberal, had to be
retired from the turf when a three-year-
old, and another, Winooka, lost a couple
of seasons owing to that unfortunate ex-
pedition to America, and failed to strike
his best form when he returned. Twelfth
was Spearfelt (32, 76, £10,005) —a very
creditable showing considering that prac-
tically all his stock are racing in Queens-
land, where prizes are comparatively
small.
It is highly probable that the Wind-
bags will put their progenitor higher up
this season. Among them are The
Chanter, who will have to be reckoned
with in the classics and one or other of
the Cups, and Beamish Boy, who won
the Adelaide Guineas in a canter on
Saturday in Imin. 40sec., a record for
the race. Beamish Boy was sent to
Sydney for the rich two-year-old events
in the autumn, and made a good impres-
sion on shrewd judges, though he did not
quite get into the money. He is by
Windbag—Roseglow,
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s four League matches on
Saturday resulted as followers of form
expected. South Melbourne, head of the
list, was pitted against North Melbourne,
which hasn’t won a match since the
blacks were bad. North battled with
such determination and such skill that it
contrived to make South play its best;
the redoubtable southerners just con-
trived to keep a shade ahead: South
16-13, North 15-10. Essendon made an
even better showing against Collingwood,
second on the list. In the first quarter
’Don led, and in the third it got in
front again, but the bell sounded when
’Wood was 16-17 to Essendon’s 16-10,
the veteran Coventry kicking eight goals
for the winners. Richmond hadn’t much
to spare in its defeat of Melbourne,
though it led at the end of each quar-
ter: Richmond 10-15, Melbourne 10-8.
St. Kilda had the most comfortable win
of the day, kicking 13-8 to Geelong’s
9-14. Interest now centres in the team
to complete “the four.” Richmond and
St. Kilda are running head to head, only
a trifling percentage in aggregate scores
putting Richmond in front. The defeat
of one when the other wins will about
settle the respective positions, and bar-
rackers for all clubs are watching Rich-
mond and St. Kilda with especial care.
* * * *
"Fitzcray”; Interesting tales were told
at the last meeting of the V.L.F. One re-
turned tourist told how seriously shop
betting had cut into the attendances at
S. Aus, football matches. At Port
Augusta this had got so bad that foot-
ball had now to be played on Sundays,
when the s.-p. joints were shut. In his
report on the St. Kilda club’s trip" to
Tasmania a delegate said Tasmanian
officials were “greatly alarmed” at the
growth of the Rugby code, and were
talking about assistance from Victoria to
stem the invasion.
* * * *
In Adelaide League games the most
interesting feature at present is the rapid
rise of Sturt. Half-way through the
season Sturt was next to bottom on the
list. A run of six successive wins has
now placed it fourth, and its last three
victories have been at the expense of the
three teams above it. Port, South and
Norwood arc now level in the premier-
ship table with 20 points each ; Sturt has
16 points. With only three rounds of
matches to go it seems certain that these
teams will comprise the final four.
Under the S.A. system first and second
teams have “two chances.”/
A real loss to the Australian code of
football is Frank Marlow, dead (of a
chill caught at the inter-Stale match in
Melbourne) in Adelaide at 66. He was
a club official for over, 40 years, and
secretary to the S.A. League since 1912
he had made it a whole-time job from
1926 on. He was a life member of the
Australian Football Council, and the sec-
retaries of the eight leading Adelaide
clubs were pall-bearers at his funeral.
With one round of Sydney’s Rugby
Union competition still to be played
“the four” appear to be Manly, Drum-
moyne, Randwick and North, though
Parramatta has an outside chance if
fourth place has to be decided on per-
centages. Against Manly Parramatta’s
hard rucking early put it in front, 5-0,
and at lemons it led 10-8, but after that
the Manly three-quarters were too good.
It was 19-10. Drummoyne, with the bye
in the final round, made sure of its place
by obliterating St. George 28-13. West
surprised North in a ragged game, hold-
ing it to 14-10 ; the speed of the Northern
wing men proved the deciding factor.
East, giving its best display of the season,
trounced University, which early had
premiership hopes, 43-5; nine tries to
one. A combined G.P.S. team just got
home, 28-27, against a strong team from
the Royal Military College, though the
school backs, with fewer opportunities,
were definitely superior.
♦ * * *
The pronounced superiority of Eastern
Suburbs and the poor form shown by
Canterbury-Bankstown and University
have made Sydney’s Rugby League com-
petition somewhat farcical. East ran up
a cricket score against North, 53-15;
Brown brought his points for the season
up to 194. In Queensland the League
position is no better. A South Queens-
land touring team opened with a 50-2
win over North Queensland, and a few
days later trounced Far North 62-4. The
trouble seems to be that youngsters are
showing a greater liking for Union.
♦ * * *
“N.U.”: It is settled that the North of
England League football team is to
arrive in Sydney on May 26, 1936, and
will play N.S.W. four days later on
Sydney C.G. —quick work. To give the
tourists a chance of getting into condi-
tion the Australian heads are arranging
for training facilities at Perth, Adelaide
and Melbourne on the way over.
(Continued on next page.)


The Prontac
(Pateniea
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
» Concise and BeflaW.ftW« r
Federal and
.V'
SMCnt&i t/NfiS
id
iriprrTvtß^”'
P«(6is-
W*t •--
pK^tnCorr**
FuQffaJ
H*** 6
P*" v
lacr«t
By H. RAWSON STT.VENSON. FAA. **-•>
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of ;
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus.),
just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
vajuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St., Sydney
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE; ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .
Reserve Fund .. •• •• •• 1.000.00'
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Reserv'TLiabiiity of Shareholders .. £1,250,00.'
Also 106 Branches and in South AurtraL.i
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET E.C..J.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. , _ ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted*
Under the Whip
“Thormanby”: The Tetrarch, dead at
the Mt. Juliet stud in Ireland, where he
had stood for 20 years, was a great sire
and a greater racehorse. By Roi Herode,
he was a grey with astonishing mark-
ings that earned him nicknames such as
The Spotted Wonder and The Rocking
Horse. As a two-year-old he cleaned
up all the events for which he was en-
tered. He went wrong during his Derby
preparation, and the Ring held high holi-
day the night he was scratched, for he
had been backed to bedrock. He got
many great gallopers, including Tetra-
tema, winner of the 1920 Two Thousand,
but none of his stock was fond of dis-
tances over a mile.
* * * *
So little rain has fallen in Sydney this
winter that tracks are almost brick-hard,
and the worry of handling horses with
unsound legs is furrowing their trainers’
foreheads. Peter Pan’s pins are all right,
but he gets muscle-sore in a shoulder,
and the trouble became so pronounced
that McGrath thought he would have to
scratch him immediately. His condition
has improved since, but it is far from
certain that the champion will stand a
preparation for a third Melbourne Cup.
No risk will be taken with him; he is
too valuable a stud proposition. Even if
he were useless for stud purposes, R. R.
Dangar is not the man to condemn him
to the danger of premature and per-
manent breakdown.
* * * *
“Knavesmire”: English racing officials
arc an easy-going lot. The trainer of a
horse called Speed On has been in the
habit of giving his jockey a wooden
rattle. Sounded at the finish this stimu-
lates the prad to unheard-of efforts, and
he has won several races. Students of
Mickey Mouse will recall how that hero
used to urge his sprinter Sausage Meat
to better things by buzzing like a hornet,
a creature to which S.M. had a marked
aversion. One day some felons stuffed
the horse’s ears with cotton-wool and the
signal sounded in vain.
“G.M.”: Science puts up a continuous
succession of problems for horseracing
authorities. First came dope ; then the
battery; now the use of rattles is liable
to be declared bogus. With the
rattle barred, the scientific trainer will
probably turn to the loudspeaker; and.
when the stewards contrive to control
this, some method of suppressing the
aeroplane which will hover over the
competitors and barrack the favored one
towards the winning-post will have to be
devised. And when means have been
found to compass all these adventitious
aids there will still remain unscathed the
shrill whistle from human lips, such as
George Wallace utilised in “A Ticket
in Tatt’s.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was £lOOO in the house and at
least £2OO was turned away when Leo
Kelly, a 12st. 51b. black —he is said to
be fifth on the American ranking list —
boxed Ambrose Palmer (same weight) 15
two-minute rounds at Leichhardt. With
a ripping right uppercut he made the
Australian’s mouth bleed badly inside the
first minute, but after that he could not
get away from Palmer’s busy left. It
landed on head and body with monoto-
nous regularity, and, except for the open-
ing punch, it was all Palmer for nine
rounds. A couple of right swings made
the local champion look serious in the
tenth, but he pulled himself together and
went on to secure a very decisive points
victory. Two-minute rounds don’t suit
the coon.
It transpires that the negro cracked a
couple of Palmer’s ribs midway through
the mill, and the Footscray lad will be
out of action for several weeks. He had
been guaranteed £l5O for another bout
with Georgi at Brisbane, and had other
easy and remunerative scraps in prospect.
Louis and Baer are to meet in New
York and Chicago next month-lhat’s if
£. S' t,’i 8 ™ nd a B ai .“-
By ,, Braddc S k he P os,u , vely
an "°“"“ d , Bat he would never P ut °“
* 8 0 e again.
Norwood : Of late years there has
° een a growing feeling that the Austra-
! ian . fi? 0 ? 6 ot football needs overhaul-
in S is to maintain its old supremacy
? ve r international codes. One drawback
1S £e unwieldy 18 team. To the Aus-
*ralian Amateur Council meeting m Mel-
bourne this week went an S.A delegation
charged to move that teams be reduced
£ * s * de - Som f means of settling
the hold-the-man rule and alteration of
the present out-of-bounds procedure are
also loudly called for.
‘,, ’ * , ’
Forward : Once more the
N.S.W. Australian-rulers are to rally their
&>«** and attempt to establish the game
" ,on f. securely in the Ma State. Their
handicap has been the indiflerence ot
Ihe V.FX, which talks a lot about ex-
tenAngfte code m other States and cioes
hul f; This parochialism was well enough
he past, but it is setting the game
hack all over Australia and helping to
nval Codes ev “ ,n
yc * * *
“Fitzcray”: A curious, feature of Aus-
tralian football, especially in Melbourne,
“Trying to beat the curse record,'majah?"
is the public indifference to inter-State
matches. The players—though Rugby
and Soccer chaps are always eager to
gain inter-State and international distinc-
tion —seem as indifferent as their
followers. The matter has been much
discussed in Victoria lately, and one
proposal which is finding favor is that
inter-State games be confined in future to
the triennial tournaments. This hope-
lessly parochial attitude will do the game
no good. It leaves young players quit-
ting school only club football to look
forward to, while Rugby and Soccer offer
overseas tours and international fame.
“Stand Off”: This last Maori tour may
be counted the most successful of all. Of
11 matches played, only two were lost:
one against Queensland and one against
N.S.W. immediately after returning from
Melbourne. The 1922 and 1923 teams
played only in N.S.W.; the first-named
won two of its three matches against Ma,
as the 1935 side has done. The 1910
team played, perhaps, the most varied
programme. Its eleven matches included
games in N.S.W., Queensland and
Victoria and two against the Combined
American Universities, then visiting us.
The two N.S.W. games were lost and
two others were drawn.
* * * *
St. Joseph’s, the Sydney G.P.S. pre-
miers, completed a brilliant season by
beating The Rest, 33-16. “Joeys” have
a wonderful football record, thanks
chiefly to Brother Henry, a coach of
genius, and (as Frank Gaffney) a Queens-
land representative in his time. Since
Brother Henry arrived in 1922 the school
has won nine premierships (two were
shared); of its last 42 competition
games it has won all but two. The 1935
side is believed to be the best of the lot;
Whelan, a winger, beat Jack Beaton’s
G.P.S. record with 131 points in seven
games, 16 tries among them, and out-
side-centre Crippin, a 19-year-old and a
14-stoner, is reckoned at least the equal
of any Ma State senior. The G.P.S,
standard is very high—Kelaher went
almost straight from St. Joseph’s to South
Africa, and McKinnon (High), Wansey
(Shore), Hodgson (Newington) and
Beaton (Joeys) were reps, in their first
grade season. The N.S.W. Union could
do worse than arrange an annual match
between a combined school team and a
first-grade side.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: “’Wick” (B. 14/8/’35)
persists in decrying the drop-kick. The
attitude is only to be expected from a
generation believing that the proper way
to play Rugby Union is to imitate Rugby
League. Also it is due to an inferiority
complex, the average modern being un-
able to accomplish a drop-kick and,
therefore, affecting to despise the art.
“ ’Wick’s” claim that the try is the “acme
of achievement” and distinguishes Rugby
from other codes is flapdoodle. A try is
incomplete until a goal has been
attempted from if, and tries are included
in the American game, in which, I am
glad to say, the drop kick for goal is
still valued as it should be. Having thus
snuffed “ ’Wick” I am of the opinion that
this controversy should now close.
* * * ♦
“Tiens!”: A letter received by the
N.S.W. Rugby League from France,
where an attempt is being made to estab-
lish the professional game, shows that the
new body has taken to itself the attrac-
tive title of La Ligue Fran<;aise de Rugby
a Treize, the last word referring, of course,
to the 13 players on a side. There are
now 16 senior clubs, in addition to
schoolboy formations. .Sixteen clubs
doesn’t seem much of a collection after
two years’ hard propaganda and much
expensive help from the English Northern
Union.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Lakeside”: It is probable that Aus-
tralian golfers will sec Sarazen in action
again next season. When he was here
last year he made no secret of his inten-
tion to return and have another shy at
the Australian open title. This time his
parting partner will probably be Tommy
Armour, one of the Scottish golfers who
have helped to put American golf on its
present high pinnacle. Armour has won
most of the world’s big titles, including
the British open, and is a wonder with
the irons,
* * * *
“Fanny Bay”: .Someone told The
Bulletin recently of the hawks, bandi-
coots, wallabies and other Australian
fauna which make the life of the Darwin
golfer a misery. To these afflictions must
be added crabs. At first they were con-
tent to dig holes in the fairway which
would just admit a golf ball. Now they
have taken to rolling the balls into their
holes, one which was dug up revealing
three new pills. A local rule allows a
player whose ball lodges in a crabhole
to take it out. There is no penalty, un-
less, of course, the crab gets hold of his
Angers.
❖ * * ♦
“Woogaroo”: Queensland is going to
have another shy at getting the Austra-
lian championships. At least two or three
of the Brisbane courses are undoubtedly
up to championship requirements, but
the southern golfing panjandrums dodge
sending an expert to report on them, as
they have been asked a dozen times to
do. As a matter of fact, Sydney and
Melbourne are doing their best to con-
fine the championship meetings to their
own middens. There is a move afoot to
cut out South Australia, which has been
in the ring since 1923, so Bananaland’s
chance doesn’t look pretty.
* * ♦ *
“Marino”; Fired by sister Kath’s suc-
cess in the tourney for the women. W. S.
Rymill retained his title of amateur
champion of South Australia by beating
Ross Sawyers, 3 and 2, over 36 holes at
Kooyonga. This is the fourth time
W.S. has taken the State championship.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Footscray (Vic.), which
once ran Cologne close as a perfume dis-
seminator, has broken out with an up-
to-date golf course of 18 holes—3o63
yards out and 3080 home. Laid out by
the Morcoms, of Royal Melbourne and
Kingston Heath, the course is to be
known as the Medway links, and will be
open to the general public. It will be
three or four months before the grass on
the fairways is fit for play.
♦ * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: A lot of nonsense
has been talked about the selfishness of
the Ma State professional golfers in re-
quiring players who want to become


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO BOILER GRATES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
21006/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonweatlh of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN TRUSSES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24579/25 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonweatlh of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
FOREIGN STAMPS. Join Empire Stamp
Club Junior and Senior Approval Books sent.
References.—l49b Liverpool Road, Burwood,
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
Rush
the
COUPON
Along
NOW!
Become an ARTIST
Quickly I
Brodie Mack’s Amazing Free
Book Offer to Young Talent!
* a time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black
and white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of
ne . w 1 ?, ook - “, How T< > B « An Artist,” to all readers of
Ihe Sun who have an inclination to draw.
Let BRODIE MACK teach
You at Home
fpHIS Book will amaze you with
its possibilities and the vast
field it opens up to you. At last
you will be able to learn all
branches of the black and white
art under the supervision of
Brodic Mack. This amazing short-
cut method simplifies art. You
leam at home. If you have an in-
clination for drawing, an inclina-
tion that many of us possess, then
why compete with the crowd in
ordinary occupations? Brodie Mack can
develop your ability for this fascinating
accomplishment. Thousands of pounds
are paid every year for drawings, fashion
illustrations, advertising, catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips, cartoons,
etc. Many have developed this fascin-
ating hobby into a highly remunerative
profession, embracing magnificent op-
portunities to those people possessed
of the enterprise to lift themselves out
of the bundy-punching ruck of medi-
ocrity, and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop, or office routine; in addi-
tion to its lucrative achievements, it will
lift you from comparative obscurity to a
position of importance in the public life
of the community.
This Free Book
is for YOU!
“How To Be An Artist”
is FREE!
Make Money in Your
Spare Time
Brodie Mack has made It possible by
means of this remarkable course for
you to earn money in your spare
hours. He shows you how to “cash
in on his experience. He teaches
you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to
produce striking illustrations and art
work. The fact of you reading this
announcement points to you having
a desire to be an artist—then send
for this amazing book and let us
prove that we can make you a
skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds 01
women how to draw by easy, natural
stages from the simple outline to the
finished drawing—the drawings thal
will bring in good £ s d. Brodie
Mack can teach you to draw by post
successfully; the letters Mr. Mack re-
ceives daily are ample proof of this
Many famous illustrators learnt this
way—they were not born famous
This is your opportunity to become
a real artist, capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise
your friends, delight yourself, and
take you out of the small-pay.
drudgery job. This is YOUR oppor-
tunity—are you going to pass it by?
Then get that coupon into the mail
—this moment. NOW!
Tear Coupon POST NOW!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence
Art School, Desk 45 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me FREE, and
without obligation, my copy of your
famous book, “How to be An Artist.” 1
enclose sixpence in stamps to defray
postage.
WAME
ADDRESS
2X/8/’3o.
Never before has a book of
this nature been offered free;
that is why you should send
for your copv now. This brand
new book shows you how to
draw—develon your talent—
how to cartoon, the secret of
illustrating, and how money
can be made even while
learning. Fill in your coupon
and get it into the post now—
at once, before you forget.
THE BRODIE MACK
CORRESPONDENCE
ART SCHOOL
DESK 45
107 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
N.S.W.
UCEIIMACK
CORRESPONDENCE
ART
SCRCCI
How to bcui Artist
Gxphftntag in DrtsU
u* Vhofe* Brad)*
Hack CoirapotAiMi
System of An
members to serve two years’ apprentice-
ship (B. 14/8/’35). The idea is chiefly to
prevent the association being rushed by
half-baked caddies, for the P.G.A. prac-
tically guarantees its members as finished
golfers and club-makers. There have
been many cases where high-class ama-
teurs have been admitted without ques-
tion. Sinclair, winner of two Australian
championships, Gazzard (Q.), Fowler
(Vic.), Connors (Vic.) and Harris (Vic.)
are only a few instances.
♦ * ♦ *
“Carnoustie”; St. Andra’s axe has
fallen on the golfer who sells golf goods.
It has rejected the entry of J. B. Steven-
son, a member of Troon club and a Scot-
tish representative against England, Ire-
land and Wales. The Englishwomen took
similar action over a year ago, when
Joyce Wethered found herself passed
into outer darkness for the same reason.
* * * *
“Hoylakc”; Britain has achieved one
Ryder Cup record. The team to tackle
the American professionals contains the
three brothers Whitcombe, C.A. being
captain ; the others are Alliss, Burton,
Busson, Cox, Jarman, Padgham and
Perry. Barring Cotton, who is ineligible
since he doesn’t reside in Britain, the
team is Britain’s strongest on this year’s
form.
* * * *
“Apollo Bund”; The British women
golfers now with us had a* pipe-opening
gallop at Bombay on the way out, taking
on a team of men at the Willingdon
club, and receiving a handicap of six
strokes. The Indians cast chivalry to
the winds, and defeated the visitors in
lour out of five matches. The only
woman winner was the juvenile Scot,
Jessie Anderson, who finished one up on
Captain Pakenham-Walsh.
“Rottnest”: The British golferettes
made a good start against a team of
Westralian girls at Royal Fremantle, win-
ning all five matches. The star turn of
the day was pul up by Phyllis Wade,
who tied the scratch score of the course
with 76 off the stick.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”; Perry’s programme in
Australia has been altered. He was to
have played in the Queensland cham-
pionships first, but, arriving from
America earlier than originally planned,
will open in the Ma State tourney begin-
ning on November 9. Then he will show
in Queensland and Victoria, rounding
off with the Australian championships at
Adelaide in January, after which he de-
parts for South Africa.
* ♦ • *
“Top Spin”: How much Australian
tennis depends on visits by overseas
teams was disclosed by committeeman
Kelly at a meeting of the N.S.W. coun-
cil. If these cannot be managed the
associations in general and that of
N.S.W. in particular will be “absolutely
up a tree.” The cricket and football
heads are all singing the same threnody.
It has actually been suggested that with
the South African and Indian teams away
it would be better to cancel the Shef-
field matches and save the heavy ex-
pense.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”; Qualified approval hav-
ing been gained for the institution of a
new Davis Cup tennis zone, the Pacific,
the next thing will be to get it working.
First of all, the zone has to be finally
approved by the International Federa-
tion, which will chew over its sub-com-
mittee’s recommendation next March.
Then will come the organising, and the
earliest possible date by which the new
scheme can be set in working order will
be a year later —just in time for the
entrants to hop in. There is a strong
feeling that the zone must be a major one,
with the winner having the right to pro-
ceed to Europe for the zone finals with-
out having to go to America for a sort of
qualifying round against the winner in
that zone.
* * * ♦
"Forest Hills”: The American tennis
championships begin this week with the
doubles, played at Boston on the Long-
wood cricket ground. Brookes and Pat-
terson are the only Australians to win
the title—that was in 1919—though Pat-
terson was in three finals in 1922, 1924
and 1925, his partners being O’Hara
Wood and Hawkes. In view of the
emphatic supremacy of the Australian
doubles pair in Europe this year it seems
a pity they were not given a run in the
Yankee fixture.
Miscellaneous
To Gloucestershire, very low on the
list of counties this year, goes the credit
of being the first English side to lower
the South Africans’ colors, Hammond
and Sinfield being mainly responsible.
Which recalls that the same county went
very near to defeating the Australians in
1930 ; only a lucky snick or two by Hor-
nibrook at the end of the visitors’ second
innings foiled it. As it was, the match
ended in a tie, a rare happening in first-
class cricket. And now Essex has beaten
the Africans by seven wickets.
* * * *
“Rajemdra”: The mean squabble over
Tarrant’s team for India ended at last,
though the fractious tone taken by the
Indian board raised eleventh-hour diffi-
culties. The team, according to Tarrant’s
original programme, sails early in
October, and starts its first match against
Colombo on October 25. Twenty-one
matches will be played in 15 weeks, and
the side leaves Colombo for home on
February 15. In a geographical sense, no
more representative side has left Australia
than Ryder (captain), Macartney, Hendry,
Love, Morrisby, Ironmonger, Leather,
Allsopp, Nagel, Alexander, Bryant,
Oxenham, Bill and Mair.
* * * *
Tenth Slip ’: The Ma State’s attempt
to grab control of Sheffield cricket has
received an early check from Victoria,
which spotted the nigger in the woodpile
at once. Ma proposed to the V.C.A
that N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. should each
have three voting members, and Queens-
land two ; Westralia and Tassie were to
be like Mother Hubbard’s Alsatian.
Profits were to be divided in the same
ratio, save that Tassie and W.A. were
graciously allotted one-thirteenth each.
No definite action was taken by Victoria,
but there is no doubt Ma’s joke will get
the boot at the annual meeting on
August 26.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”; The Australian team for
South Africa will soon be on its way in
the Ulysses—she leaves Sydney on
October 15. Melbourne will be the
rallying point, the team embarking there
on October 21. The tourists should
arrive at Durban on November 14 and
will start there against Natal. One Syd-
ney journal asserts that the Board of
Control will decide whether any matches
be played en route. The only team likely
to be encountered between Australia
and Durban would be one selected by
Davy Jones, and the board would cer-
tainly not allow that without a financial
guarantee and an undertaking not to call
it a Test match.
* * * *
“Third Base”: S.A. kept the Austra-
lian baseball championship at the Mel-
bourne tourney. Defeat of S.A. by Vic-
toria would have given N.S.W, a percen-
tage win, but the game became a mara-
thon, neither side scoring a point in 15
innings. S.A. finished with a .625 per-
centage, N.S.W. with .500 and Vic.
with .375.
“Pitcher”; Australia may send a base-
ball team to Japan in the near future.
A. N, Pryor, a Sydney baseball enthu-
siast who recently returned from Nippon,
was struck by the tremendous vogue of
the game there and the elaborate base-
ball parks. The standard is very high,
teams from America paying frequent
visits, and the game is strictly amateur.
The traveller is returning to Japan
shortly, and has offered to open up the
question of an Australian visit. He tells
of one pleasing barracking custom which
might be adopted here for football
matches. All enthusiasts carry a big,
wooden ratchet rattle and express their
feelings with this instead of in regret-
table language.
* * ♦ *
Chocolate and Blue”; McGrath and
Metcalfe went to Sydney “High” j now
Ihe school has unearthed another top-
notcher in Wall. Wall cleared 6ft. Olin.
at its recent field day, eclipsing by 2in.
Metcalfe’s figures at the same age (18),
and he annexed five other senior titles!
He is a son of L. Wall, once an inter-
state cricketer and footballer.
* * * «
“Hawthorn”; With the King’s Cup
being rowed for at Perth this year, Vic-
torians are shaking their heads gloomily
over the matter of raising the cost of
the expensive trip. It is on the cards
that Tasmania will have to drop out, and
since Queensland is excused there may
be only three States to tackle the re-
doubtable Westerners on their own water.
A special committee suggested the im-
position of a levy of Is. per club mem-
ber. Experience has shown that levies
have roused club members to fury, so
the V.R.A. sidestepped. Curious that a
request for a trifling poll tax should have
this effect on the average rowing man ;
but other States besides Victoria have
found the attempt dangerous.


RUSSIA
?lvrm U
fegnSi
TOOh EYS
PILSENER
*»y
.
-r;i
/HI
1*5 :>r-i*Hzx
» k * %**»■,*
isfe&ir
L> % '
MODC l\N
R€fR€WM€NT
IN A
MODCriN
ST
v
»
ts
<\4 *> A
*V» - *>r»
3$
■ f
•V i?''
5
c
N
Ah',,-; 5
■■Aif
or;.
O
■>v»
iSfSi
wirac
'
v>-
c*
sHKiii
illteSfi
>A*v
m-im
-i
!
■
....
o
v. iv'*'*4 * *.,
*’•' - -w-S.f'W ♦<>'.' V* - •.
£ W<fW'^ /, w '* > »
s
ltoliaiiiLii; | M-,,r| ii ii| ;i M..||i l ji'-:'
ah
SI
uu-H-en
orxD^mnG
-7^
p i LS-en-en*
am
5flV
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
II
m
a «
■E?’£r5T2E52E
ISSS 'I
a
; •:•
s. u --“
TOo
.TO
V S
m
•J<WS»3!
■«* w»?*w *•■ -• ~u~ - 1
■ ■ -*-**•
,^f% :
‘,-• -
• *”
•*»&
ur
%A,
il
«5t«
*
r.\
S&js-s
f*U -* <
H>Aj
.-£?>.-. .. - ■:■■
H
£
IX
£
1
S
T
O
*
£
£


\
L
PENNY,
AN HOUR
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.**
(Extract from “R-an-D" Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
' - MADE i:< QUEEWSL A<ND ' BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
.--VALLEY •; -y BRISBANE
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office; Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
. E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and :
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, 1
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Emperor Float
Every Australian interested in gold-
mining is discussing it. The vendors are
the shareholders (E. G. Theodore, John
Wren, F. Packer and P. F. Cody) in
Emperor Gold Mining Co., which owns
the Fiji mine ; for control of the 100,000
shares in this co. —in other words, for
control of the mine—the new float pays
£300,000 in cash and £300,000 in 10s.
fully-paid shares, in addition, the
vendors have a par option for 18 months,
from September 15, 1936, over 350,000
more shares.
The vendors, subject to preliminary
costs incidental to bringing the property
to its present (unproved) state, sit on
£300,000 cash—win or lose. They get
at no extra cost to themselves 600,000
10s. shares for which speculators 2000
miles from the Tavua field are paying
255. They have a par option over 350,000
additional shares, which they may exer-
cise at (heir leisure some time during the
next 2\ years, and the market premium
on which at present quotes would be
worth £262,500. It already has been a
goldmine as far as (he vendors are con-
cerned.
But the prospects of subscribers aren’t
as clear as crystal, nor so easily
definable as that £300,000 in cash or
those 600,000 fully-paids. The property
has been well spoken of on nearly every
side. It has been in the public eye for
months, and there have been all sorts of
stories about the gold already taken out
of it. But T. R. Victor, the consulting
engineer, and on the board of the present
float, says that “up to date of my visit
[the mill] had treated 1663 tons for
12950 z. fine, an average of 15.5dwt. per
ton.” That is not conclusive evidence as
to the grade likely to be met with as
operations advance, nor does it prove
that Mr, Theodore —up to the time of
flotation, at any rate —has been “sitting
on a mountain of gold,” as some liked
to put it. But Mr. Victor’s report is
dated May 1, at Melbourne, so that a
good deal may have happened in the 3£
months since.
Mr. Theodore and his friends are not
asking punters to pay 255. in the market
for Emperor lOs.-paids ; punters are doing
it just the same. Doing it in spite of
the fact that of the £750,000 of sub-
scribed capital with which the co. will
kick off, less than £150,000 will be in
the till in cash after the vendors are
paid. The market puts a price of
£1,875,000 on the show as against
£1,680,000 for Mt, Morgan, a low-grade
proposition admittedly, but a proved
mine which has ore reserves valued at
over £10,000,000 gross and is paying
steady dividends.
Mr. Victor, in his report on the
Emperor mine, mentions 211,000 tons of
ore, not “actually measured” (not ex-
posed on three sides), going an average
of 13.4dwt., containing 141,500 fine
ounces. At £8 10s, (Aust.) per ounce
that would be worth a bit more than
£1,200,000 gross in Australian currency,
from which exes, (not more than 20s. a
ton, the engineer thinks, when the show
is going on a large scale) must be de-
ducted ; taxes, too. “The tax on all gold
produced in Fiji is 5 p.c.” ; but there is
no guarantee that it will remain at that
figure. The S’African experience sug-
gests that it won’t.
Mr. Victor is optimistic of further
large tonnages being developed. Never-
theless, speculators should remember
that the money they put up is
now largely represented by the mine
property and plant alone, worth only
what it eventually proves itself to be
worth. The flotation could have been
capitalised on a smaller scale, and greater
confidence would have been inspired had
cash consideration (however large the
share consideration) been kept down to
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses.
Natural Gas and Oil shares are having
a speculative run on Sydney ’Change.
The 2s, denominations have sold from
2s. 3d. up to 7s. within a week, the reason
being reports of a 161 b. pressure of gas
having been encountered in the Balmain
borehole at 4177 ft. Tests of quality
arc said to be highly favorable. The
drill, after encountering hard rock, sud-
denly drove into soft material (appar-
ently a coal seam) and went several feet
within a short period. Then the flow
commenced. If a large quantity of gas
is made available it should be a great
thing for Sydney, as it has been for Pitts-
burg and other American and European
cities. All indications are favorable,
except a doubt as to whether the strata
overlying the coal form a dome or a
basin —gas naturally rises until it en-
“I'm sorry, but I can't recommend you as a first-class life."
“ Surely, doctor, you are not suggesting that a Smythe-Puffingham is
SECOND class?"
counters impervious shales, etc., and a
dome structure is likely to hold the
greater quantity of gas.
* * * *
Rumors of an amalgamation between
Broken Hill Prop, and Australian Iron
and Steel have been intriguing Melbourne
and Sydney investors. Pref. shares in
A.I.S. ran up to a premium of 65., and
Howard Smith scrip—this co. is largely
interested in A.I.S. —strengthened confi-
dently, too. Towards the week-end there
were signs of reaction. The Hoskins steel
interests were handed over to A.I.S. just
before the depression, and Dorman, Long
and Baldwins came into the float. The
works were established at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.), and ironstone was to be
brought from Yampi Sound (W.A.). But
of recent years the ore has been obtained
from B.H.P.’s mine at Iron Knob (S.A.).
The co. has had a thin time up to date,
though appearances are that it is now
doing considerably better. A galvanised-
iron plant was recently put into produc-
tion.
* * ♦ *
The goldmining industry in Australia
is still far below expectations. Certainly,
activity is such that there is an acute
shortage of experienced men—a shift-boss
might become manager overnight—but
there has been no corresponding spurt in
production. Shareholders in many com-
panies have been disappointed, and West-
ralia has provided its full quota of
tears. A fraction of the flotations of
the past three years has struggled
through to the producing stage, but even
at that the weeping and gnashing
of teeth aren't done with. Ore treat-
ment varies with the different types of
ore, and not infrequently plant has been
bought at considerable cost and then
found to be more or less unsuitable.
Many investors will excuse, and others in
the game will be excused, on the ground
that goldmining is a gamble, and 100 p.c.
efficiency isn’t to be expected. But
authorities have been very lax in their
control of promotions.
♦ * ♦ *
Gold remains around £7 (sterling) per
fine ounce. It seems that the industry
can take that figure practically for granted
as a minimum for some time to come.
The French, Belgian and Dutch monetary
panics have done their worst in the way
of pushing sterling up and the sterling
price of the metal down, yet the figure
has not dropped below £7 since it
rocketed to around £7 9s. an ounce early
in the year. One factor calculated to
appreciate sterling is the continued ex-
pansion of British exports at the expense
of “on-gold” countries. It is likely, how-
ever, that the exchange equalisation fund
will be used to check any sensational up-
ward movement.
♦ * * #
The coal trade still doesn’t treat in-
vestors kindly. Last year Hetton Bell-
bird took the Australian Gas Light Co.’s
contract away from J. and A. Brown-
Abermain Seaham. It represents about
370,000 tons p.a., and Hetton began to fill
the new order as from January 1. But
profits haven’t benefited ; the loss for the
year to June 30 was £18,747, as against
£4857 in the preceding year. Certainly
the expense of opening and developing
No. 1 pit to meet the additional output
necessary must have been considerable,
but shareholders are disappointed. The
shares went to 10s, following the landing
of the contract, but sellers are now pre-
pared to take 6s. 9d., with no buyers
about.
* » * ♦ *
The base-metal market has been
more interesting than gold lately. In
addition to tin’s erratic behavior, lead
and zinc have been in the spotlight. The
average London price of lead in June,
1934, was £ll 3s. Id., as against £l3
15s. lOd. in June, 1935. On August 15
the quote was steady at £l5 15s. Spelter
was £l4 7s. Id. in June, 1934, and weak-
ened considerably afterwards, but was
up to £l3 16s. 4d. in June, 1935. Last
Thursday’s spot quote was £l4 Bs. 9d.
Barrier mining shares have recovered
confidently as a result—present prices
are the highest for 10 years at least.
Every increase in the price of lead above
£ll (stg.) a ton should mean that much
extra profit to the North and South Bar-
rier mines compared with 1934, provided
costs can be kept at their present record
low levels. Zinc shows little or no im-
provement on the prices ruling for the
twelvemonth to June, 1934, though up
considerably on the average to June 30
last.
4> 4>
S’Africa having raised its tariff on
Japanese goods, it faces the possibility of
retaliatory action by Japan—there have
already been murmurs from that corner
of (he Pacific. It has also been suggested
that Japan will buy 1,000,000 bales of
wool from Australia this season, as
against about 700,000 (a record) for the
year now closing. If Japan switches its
S’African orders to Australia a million
bales may not be a fantastic estimate of
its custom. It would mean, probably,
that trade relations would be more lop-
sided than ever; but if Japan doesn’t
press for tariff concessions everyone
—except the Afrikanders —should be
comparatively happy.
* * * *
The International Tin Committee,
which controls the plan whereby output
of the metal is restricted, has fixed the
production quota of the principal coun-
tries concerned at 65 p.c. of “standard
tonnages”—which means 1929 output.
The new quota is to cover the period
July 1 to September 30. Known world
tin supplies are limited in a commercial
sense, and that is the principal reason
why the restriction scheme has worked.
Indicated production under the new limit
should practically keep step with con-
sumption ; nevertheless, the market for
the metal is uncertain, and there have
been wide fluctuations since the begin-
ning of 1935. There was a substantial
fall following the announcement of the
new quota, but prices of shares in
F.M.S. tin cos. have been fairly steady,
as increased production will perhaps
more than compensate for lower prices.
* * * *
“C.R.W.”: The air services in New
Guinea last year put up a world's
record for freight cargo, carrying 7679
tons, an increase on 1933 of 27 p.c. The
aeroplane is the only practicable method
of reaching the rich mineral areas from
the coast. Deep-dredging is now being
considered by the Bulolo Co., for which
special machinery would be required. In
all probability special aeroplanes will be
needed to transport it. Twelve of the
21 ’planes used in New Guinea are
British.
* * * *
Production of artificial wool has in-
creased greatly in Japan, Italy, Germany
and France. In six months world output
has been 28,540 tons —the rate of increase
in manufacture has been greater than that
of artificial silk. The fibre has been said
to be more in the nature of synthetic
cotton than wool, and in that there is
some reassurance for Australian wool-
growers.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Brown on Resolution”
The weakness of this elaborate British
naval drama at Sydney Embassy is its
scorn of the Aristotelian rule ; improb-
abilities, even impossibilities, abound.
A young naval officer meets a nice
girl and thinks so much of her that he
gives her a family heirloom —an in-
scribed watch presented to an ancestor
by Nelson. He thinks so little of her
that after their five-day romance he never
bothers about her or the watch again.
The watch enables him to identify their
son, who, when the World War begins,
21 years later, is a rating on H.M.S. Rut-
land. The old cruiser is outranged, out-
gunned and sunk by the Zeithen, and young
Albert Brown is rescued and installed in
a luxurious sick bay (though perfectly fit)
while the Germans shelter at Resolution
Island for repairs. So careless are the
sentries that Brown is able to steal a
ship’s rifle and a large quantity of am-
munition.
Aided by a lifebuoy which he drops
overboard without being heard, he
reaches the shore without being seen.
His object is to stop the Germans plug-
ging up the hole in the Zeithen before
H.M.S. Leopard arrives. As the Zeithen
lies broadside on to the island with the
hole in view, he is able to shoot the
German sailors in the back as they work
on a staging.
The captain sends a landing-party
after him. When several of its members
have been picked off, the hidden sniper is
bombarded with the Zeithen’s big guns.
By turning the ship round and dropping
a stern anchor, which German warships
carried in 1914, or by moving her a few
hundred yards (there is ample sea-room)
many German lives and much ammuni-
tion might have been saved, and the noise
of the gunfire wouldn’t have brought the
Leopard on the scene.
In short, the plot is nonsensical.
The casting and acting are beyond
reproach. The lower deck might have
been a little puzzled by Brown’s public-
school voice, but in all other respects
John Mills makes the hero a British
seaman of the best type. Betty Balfour
is charming as Brown’s mother (though
not in the least like the daughter of a
Cockney greengrocer), and Barry Mac-
kay is a credit to the R.N. as Somerville.
The battle sequences are as convincing
as they are grim.
“Roadhouse”
An engaging characteristic of the Eng-
lish is their loyalty to old friends. Twenty
years ago Londoners were cheering
Violet Lorraine in “The Bing Boys.” No
doubt they are just as enthusiastic over
her performance in “Roadhouse,” which
consists of much the same turns done
against a slightly different background
and with Cordon Harker getting the
laughs instead of George Robey, But
she isn’t the girl she was during the war
as regards looks, and her technique—the
rolling eye, the coyly bitten underlip—
also belongs to another era. One thing
anyhow stands to her credit; she hasn’t
taken to crooning.
The plot is an involved affair about
aristocratic jewel thieves who buy Gor-
don Harker’s little country pub and
make it look like a palatial London night
club. Anne Grey, Marie Lohr and
Emlyn Williams are in it. Also at the
Embassy,
“Brewster’s Millions”
Everything about this film at Sydney
Mayfair is new except the name and the
basic idea. Jack Buchanan, as the young
man who has to spend a fortune within
a given period, is unusually acrobatic,
likeable and funny. At Monte Carlo
he saves a mayor from suicide by under-
taking to replace the funds of a village
fiesta which have been lost by the dis-
tracted functionary at roulette. Some
comic and artistically satisfying sequences
follow. The huge crowds are handled
as crowds should be ; they never look
like ballets. Jack Buchanan’s prolonged
flight from three murderous bandits is
also realistic in its farcical way; it in-
spired howls of merriment on the first
night, Nancy O’Neil and Lili Damita
are the principal girls.
“The Green Pack”
Superbly acted rubbish on the same
bill as “Brewster’s Millions.” A sinister,
poker-faced capitalist sends three needy
young men to Africa in search of a gold-
mine. The capitalist (Hugh Millar) is
after Aileen Marson, whom the absent
hero (John Stuart) loves. The maiden -
being virtually half-witted —doesn’t sus-
pect the villain till she loses £1001) in a
gambling hell and is required to sacrifice
her virtue as an alternative to pleading
the Gaming Act. Her persecutor meets
his deserts in Africa. Who, as a radio
announcer might put it, killed Martin
Greet? The trick ending which supplies
Noel Coward and Julie Haydon in “The Scoundrel,”
at Sydney Prince Edward.
the answer is sensational —also prepos-
terous.
Garry Marsh is good again—this
time as a manly whisky-bibber whose
feet go stone cold the moment danger
threatens, J. H. Roberts is a lifelike
London doctor, though it is hard to be-
lieve that he would have had to wait till
he reached Africa to suspect the relations
between his daughter and the villain.
The best of a splendid cast is perhaps
the man (name unknown to the writer)
who plays a foreign police official.
“The Informer”
Liam O’Flaherty’s book transferred to
the screen. Dublin in the days of “the
Tans” is the stage; the theme is Judas.
Victor MacLaglen finds the part of
“Gypo” Nolan, the informer, a stupid
soul fond of brawling and drink, well
within his capacity. His position is
tragic, but a man in a tragic position
may be comic in liquor. There are few
emotional frills ; nothing has been spared
to attain realism, and the effort has been
made intelligently. There is no element
of the unexpected. The sordid story
marches on to its catastrophic ending
with the inevitability that Euripides in-
sisted on. But there is action a-plenty,
and interest is not allowed to drag. Cast-
ing is masterly, and the scenes of slum
revelry are done to the life. Women
play but a small part in the business, but
Heather Angel, Margot Graham and
Una O’Connor share in the credit for
one of the best bits of drama that have
come out of Hollywood. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Nitwits”
Also at the Capitol. Wheeler and
Woolsey get mixed up with blackmail
and murder, but crimes assume a Pick-
wickian flavor in their company. First
part is mostly croonery, scenes being laid
in a song factory, but robust farce, with
crashes of broken crockery and people
being felled with bottles every two or
three seconds, brings the affair to its con-
clusion. Wheeler has moments when
he reaches weird pinnacles of asininity,
and some of Woolsey’s wisecracks are
worth a chuckle.
“Charlie Chan in Egypt”
At Sydney Regent. Warner Oland as
Chan, as polite and as prolific of proverbs
as ever, investigates the disappearance of
a savant who unearthed a Fifth Dynasty
high priest’s tomb and found a clue to
hidden treasure. Suggestions of occult
vengeance arc played up for all they are
worth, but throughout a sequence of
murders and attempted murders Chan
concentrates on motive and opportunity
of a more mundane sort, and after con-
fessing complete failure and departing
returns to catch the culprit red-handed
in yet another attempt at assassination.
Rather better constructed than most film
detective-thrillers, and the Egyptian color-
ing, though high, is most effective.
“David Copperfield”
Hugh Walpole was given the task of
arranging “David Copperfield” for
screen purposes, and he has stuck to
the text with rigid exactitude. In
fact, one of the faults of the film
at Melbourne Metro (it comes to
Sydney St, James to-day) is that an en-
deavor has been made to crowd in all
the phases of David’s life. The result is
a production which Dickens-lovers
should rave over and which those
who care nothing for Dickens will de-
light in, if only for the superb acting.
Outstanding is the work of that finished
comedian W. C. Fields. He never makes
a mistake. His Micawber is a more
sympathethic character than he could
have appeared 20 years ago. To-day
everybody sees in himself and his masters
and his pastors another Micawber—liv-
ing on hope. Edna May Oliver provides
another fine piece of acting as Aunty
Betsy, the masterful, impulsive spinster
who is a sentimentalist at heart. A
number of actors of star grade content
themselves with comparatively small
parts. Lionel Barrymore assumes bushy
whiskers as Peggotty, Herbert Mundin
is at home as the Cockney Barkis, Lewis
Stone is bibulously dignified as Mr.
Wickfield, Roland Young is efficiently
crawlsome as Uriah Heep, and Lennox
Pawle is an amusing Mr. Dick. The
straight characters are satisfactory, but
inevitably colorless. Freddie Bartholo-
mew is David as a boy ; Frank Lawton
shows him as a man.
Some First Nights
“La Revue d’Amour,” the latest revue
at Sydney New Tivoli, is as good as other
Frank O’Brian shows. Among the new-
comers are Moroni and Coralcc, a pair
of acrobatic dancers from America,
whose vigorous whirlings, bouncings and
tangled poses keep the audience expec-
tant. Another attraction is Flo Mayo,
a graceful trapezist. Dave Monohan, a
xylophone player, holds an extra pair
of sticks in his hands and has another
pair fitted to the toe of each shoe, play-
ing with feet and hands. The music is
pleasing. Creighton is a capable juggler,
and the Three Valescos, a Roumanian trio
of acrobatic violinists, scrape their fiddles
while in extraordinary positions. The
song-and-dance purveyors and the
patter merchants (Frank O’Brian, Peggy
Waddington, Margaret Grimshaw and
Robert Nicholson among them) and the
ballet are well up to the mark.
* * H-
A bunch of acrobats and acrobatic
dancers of ability and agility has joined
Melb. Tivoli. The Four Florays are
sturdy girls who accomplish dexterous
feats of somersaulting and balancing
without a fault and, what is even more
important, without a jarring note in the
harmony of movement, Maidie and Ray
are acrobats just as interesting but of a
totally different type. A man and
woman, they dance, perform weird
bodily evolutions and make the art of
lariat-spinning something more than
merely a cause for wonder. Still on the
programme, but with new stuff, are
Amando and Lita, Ruth Craven, Ted
Leary, Porter, Pleon and the rest.
We’ve all had moments
when we should have welcomed an earth-
quake. Singer Gertrude Johnson has a
tale or two to tell from over the foot-
lights. At a Covent Garden season of
“The Perfect Fool,” Miss Johnson as the
princess had to wander across the stage
in a trance. Her golden gown of royalty,
heavy with jewels and metal ornaments,
began to slip off her shoulders. Should
she spoil the trance and ruin her Big
Moment, or should she lose the gown, on
the principle that Art is All? Playing
in “II Seraglio,” also at Covent Garden
(Fred Collier was the Pasha), Miss John-
son had an adventure with an elastic.
During a soulful love duet with the tenor
she felt the band break around the ankle
of her wide Turkish trousers. A few
steps across the harem garden and she’d
have tripped among yards and yards of
material let loose upon the carpet. But
the wit of a slave girl saved a ludicrous
situation. The maiden, who wasn’t sup-
posed to hear the lovers’ promises, tip-
toed across the stage and tucked the
volumes of silk into the singer’s sandal.
“Third Base”: A great supporter of
the true spirit of sportsmanship is Frank
D. Whipp, governor of Illinois (U.S.A.)
prison. Recently he suspended two
members of the prison baseball team for
swearing at the umpire. Said Frank;
“No hoodlums can play in this team —
only gentlemen.” Quite a flavor of dear
old Eton about that.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Movements —
and Figments
Kathleen Pitt’s
assertion (B.
24 /7 / ’35) that
Walt Disney “has
actually bridged
the time-lag bc-
tween sight and sound in his Mickey
Mouse and Silly Symphony cartoons”
and has thus “given a practical demon-
stration of the possibility of the fusion
of sound with movement in a rhythmic
unity” means, if it means anything, no
more than that Disney has succeeded in
synchronising sound with his cartoons.
Similarly interpreted, her earlier dis-
course on “the new immobility of the
screen” merely means that a producer
desiring one of his screen characters to
say something must give him time to say
it. Just how these portentous truths fore-
shadow the early doom of talkies must
remain obscure pending further revela-
tion from Miss Pitt, or possibly from
Solsky, of the Moscow Sovkino.
In my opinion, the whole argument
about the importance of dialogue is
absurd. Dialogue is all-important or
utterly superfluous, according to the
ideas the producer wishes to express.
Charles Chaplin confines himself to
pantomime, and expresses himself per-
fectly ; Bernard Shaw would find it im-
possible to do anything of the sort. The
average capable producer uses a judi-
cious mixture of pantomime, dialogue,
sound accompaniment and silence, also
of motion and immobility. The notion
that a movie must be all movement and
a talkie all talk is as hollow as the idea
that a plum-pudding must be all plum.
However, your true devotee of art
loves Movements, so Kathleen Pitt
assures us that “such outstanding box-
office successes as ‘Tell Me To-night,’
‘Viennese Nights’ and ‘One Night of
Love’ all formed part of a movement in
the direction of minimising dialogue,”
In short, they contained singing as well
as talking. That movement has been
going on for quite a long time ; it started,
in fact, with “Broadway Melody.”
STAN MORRISON.
A Censorship
of Bad Art
Max Meldrum
has voiced a
reform long over-
due by declaring
that Victoria
needs urgently the appointment of a
Ministry of Fine Arts. It is possibly too
optimistic to expect politicians to regard
aesthetics as worthy of a portfolio,
but with adequate publicity it might
be possible to secure the appointment
of a sub-department. This might
really be more effective, for the sub-
department would probably be placed in
the hands of somebody with artistic
appreciation, whereas the Ministry would
almost certainly be allotted for political
purposes.
The important thing is that there
should be some control over the criminals
who mutilate the beauty of the city and
the countryside to further their own ends.
In France such criminals do not exist.
They are policed out of existence.
Their crimes are not punished, because
they are not permitted to commit the
crimes which they may feel tempted to
commit. Everything which is exposed to
pubbe gaze in France is required to be
so fashioned that it does not horrify the
public gaze, whether it be permanent
architecture or transient advertisement.
Nobody can paste a poster on a hoarding
in Paris unless that poster has first passed
an artistic censorship which guarantees
that it does not offend public taste.
Within the limits of his own premises, the
citizen is free to commit all the crimes of
the artistic calendar. But before he can
exhibit these to the public he must secure
the imprimatur of the Department of
Fine Arts—and this he does not obtain.
In Australia, municipalities exercise a
censorship over the hygienic conditions of
buildings and a particularly lax censor-
ship over the advertising signs and devices
placed on those buildings. But, in so far
as the facades of the buildings themselves
are concerned, it is a case of Rafferty’s •
rules. The man who chooses to erect an
architectural monstrosity is free to hurt
the susceptibilities of every onlooker and
make his city a byword to the traveller,
so long as he does not infringe the pro-
tection of public health and safety. He
is permitted to destroy the whole har-
mony of a block of well-designed build-
ings by raising in their midst a discordant
mass of brick and stone. He may plaster
garish colors on a facade Hanked on
each side by tints of delicacy and har-
mony.
It is in this connection that the greatest
evil is wrought. In a street of well-
designed Gothic buildings, the placing of
such an example of architectural per-
fection as the Parthenon would kill the
whole vista. A Moorish palace, excellent
in its proper surroundings, would make
its admirer throw a fit if put in juxta-
position with an early-English cathedral,
while the admirer of the cathedral would
A characteristic Norman Lindsay water-color in the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
long for the days when the church could
order the offender to the rack. The
height of buildings is another factor for
discord. St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New
York, was an ornament to the city 20
years ago, as old-time photographs prove.
To-day, skyscrapers have risen round
to destroy it and make it something ludi-
crous. To a lesser degree, similar effects
are to be found in Australian cities.
Not only in Paris, but in Edinburgh,
is there such jurisdiction over the aesthetic
side of proposed buildings to prevent the
appearance of the city being sacrificed to
individual cupidity. Australia need not
go outside the British Empire for its
precedent; it needs only to study the
results of Scottish canniness—a canniness
which is not limited by the pocket-book,
but which extends into the realm of
beauty and culture.
MONIAGUE GROVER.
In Defence of
the Stage
Montague
Grover proves
(B. 10/7/’35) that
drama on the
stage is approach-
ing the end of its
chequered career. But he to con-
sider the moribundity of the stage when
compared with its past life. He is princi-
pally concerned with the commercial
question, and the stage has never been
a great medium for the acquisition of
wealth in large quantities, even when it
possessed a virtual monopoly.
If the “Thespians Leaving Desolated
Greece” refers to that type of stage pre-
sentation which has pretentions to artis-
tic or literary merit, then the struggles
to continue of amateur and professional
companies in the past give no startling
revelation of Olympian, or Thespian,
goldmines. Like Parnassus, they are
devoid of precious metals. The screen
productions do this, but in general they
outdo vaudeville and the like rather than
defeat drama. The great difficulty of the
talkie is precisely the pretentiousness of
the presentations, the “King Kongs,”
“Frankensteins,” the battles, animals and
crowds —all of which take large quan-
tities of cash, which then replaces art
as the main consideration. The public
must give whole-pocketed support to
the box-offices, or the mission of the pro-
ducer is defeated. Consequently the
spectacular, the “colossal,” the “im-
mense,” the half-million and the million-
dollar reconstructions of history fill the
bill. The background, unessential
to the dramatic work, becomes the main
entertainment —the pictorial transcends
the dramatic, as the leading lady’s abbre-
viated dress and moist underlip tran-
scend (he acting so completely.
The prime necessity of the more
domestic form of the drama at Holly-
wood is feminine, and seems to be ade-
quately in supply. Heavily-insured and
attractive legs, concentrated sex-appeal
with titillation of the emotions of the
audience, delicately-adorned scanties and
the gracefully-cut gown which reveals a
shapely form and a large expanse of
bosom, with the more basic desires the
central and slightly
disguised perpetual
theme, are the
stock-in-trade of
the new art. In
(he reconstruction
—better, construc-
tion—of history, a
tissue of propa-
ganda lies can
create “the greatest
picture ever made.”
Every man of the
nation which pro-
d u c e s—or t h e
nearest nation akin
—is handsome and
brave, while the
enemy is far from
handsome, always
a fool, and always
devoid of courage.
All of which
indicates the funda-
mental error of
Montague Grover.
The serious drama
never could com-
pete with the music
hall, with the
variety show and
its comic songs
and the comedian
of the porno-
graphic jest. And
the talkies can far
exceed the bril-
liance of the music-
hall display. The
stage, which has
pretensions to the
production of intel-
lectual and beauti-
ful work, depended
always for its
support and con-
tinuance upon those interested in
such work, and the numbers were
always few. The majority, the com-
pact or diffuse majority, prefers a
soporific, a display which acts as a drug,
not which provokes thought. Always, as
in the past, there will be the few to
patronise the stage, or who will even
patronise the better talkies which show
no great profits to the producers.
There is no appeal to the masses which
provide the cash in serious drama, and
there never has been. Even when the
screen has its three dimensions and color
processes which are useful for cartoons,
it is still only equal to the stage, apart
from the ability to show postcard close-
ups of unessentials and to transfer the
audience to many places in one short
hour—a doubtful artistic advantage.
When the musician and actor need no
advertising to draw an audience which
will listen silently, when the public real-
ises that a foreign name and the price of
seats are not the only guarantees of satis-
faction. when there is sufficient of a
following to enable the talkies to con-
centrate on worth-while drama, there will
be a possibility of the attainment of the
state claimed by Mr. Grover. There will,
at the same time, be a revival of the
perennially moribund stage. Likewise
there may be the hope of first-class
companies visiting Australia, even if they
are not forced to “leave London at the
height of a successful season."
BOBD.EON.
A “Modernist”
Art Show
“In Australia,”
mourns a fore-
word to the cata-
logue of the Con-
temporary
Group’s exhibi-
tion at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney, “the work of the new movement
has not met with acceptance by the estab-
lished authorities in art.” The show pro-
vides some reason for this sad state of
affairs. Courageous venture and daring
experiment are what the modernists of
pictorial art invite the world to expect
from them. They have turned their
backs on the Old Masters to pioneer
new paths; unfold new beauties; per-
chance to hold the mirror more closely
to the lip of Nature’s pretty nose. It is
a worthy aspiration and deserves en-
couragement, One reason why it gets so
little in Australia is that so many of the
local practitioners of the New Art seem
merely to have exchanged good old
masters for bad old masters. Few of
them originated the style in which they
paint; most of them follow the 40-year-
old school of French impressionists,
with preference for the woolly technique
of the Pissarros, while a few dabble
timorously with cubism and vorticism.
The best work in the show under re-
view is that which shows the least sign
of these influences. Kenneth Mac Queen
paints wide land- and seascapes in a
fashion of his own. He delights in
beautiful curves, finds them in Nature
and gets joy in transcribing them. John
Moore delights in the quiet color of the
Australian bushlands; finds it more
sombre than do most of us, but never-
theless tells the truth as he sees it. Joseph
Connor uses color pleasantly and natur-
ally, and is not afraid of it. His Tas-
manian sketches appeal. Harold Hunt-
ley has a still-life in which the decorative
qualities of japonica are allowed to speak
for themselves without the handicap of
exotic stylism. Chun Gwan contributes
a still-life with luminosity, grace, deli-
cacy and a splendid color sense. Its one
blemish is due to stern conscience. A
drawing-pin which held the background
drapery in position is included —but it is
beautifully painted.
In portraiture these modernists have a
hard row to hoe. Nobody would blame
Rah Fizelle’s lady sitter if she protested
that even though her nose be insig-
nificant he needn’t have ignored it.
Mr. Justice Evatt may commend the
rugged fidelity with which his features
have been delineated by Arnold Shore,
but may not exactly relish the battered
appearance of his clothes. Helen Stewart’s
primitive outlines filled with primitive
colors can scarcely be deemed flattering
to the subjects of her art.
Roland Wakelin, Grace Cossington
Smith, Bertha Foott, Dorrit Black and
Treania Smith are the most out-and-out
modernists of the assortment. Their
work passes the comprehension of this
commentator. W. Frater has a pair of
portraits—“Memoria de Valencia” is
one —which look as if they might be
good likenesses, but the coloring is pecu-
liarly chalky. Among the lino-cuts one
by Margaret Preston caught the eye of
the N.S.W. Gallery trustees —a nice
example of the craft —and a study of
bathers by Margaret Richardson has grace.
The Melbourne
Group
A patchy ex-
hibition at the
Athenaeum is that
of the Melbourne
Group another
of the organisations of younger painters
who band themselves together. The
reason for this group is not perceptible,
for it comprises every shade of artistic
faith, and presents no evidence of the
wild fanaticism which is the strength of
so many. There are some good pictures
and some bad ones, notable among the
latter being synthetic modernist pictures
calculated to make a real modernist weep
tears of crimson-lake. The show in-
cludes oil-paintings, water-colors, pencil
drawings, *woodcuts and lino-cuts, with
two excellent pieces of sculpture by
Moya Carey. Out of the mass of flower
pieces—some naturalistic, some flat as
pastel colored paper—the works of
Peggy Crombie stand out for design and
color, though the artificial flower collec-
tion under the glass vase by Sybil Craig
is one of the most dexterous bits of paint-
ing in the hall. Edward Heffernan con-
tributes a delicate water-color, “St. Kilda
Beach,” and some sound nude drawings ;
and Harry Hudson’s mining water-colors
vary from excellence in “Opencut,
8.H.P.,” to weakness in “Deserted Fly-
ing Fox.” A delightful piece of color and
sunlight is Jessie Mackintosh’s “Sunlit
Cottage,” and Anne Montgomery’s “Roof
Garden” is a good example of modernist
work —almost an architectural elevation.
Constance Parkin reveals good drawing
and sense of form in “Churchyard,” but
the symbolism is carried a trifle far in
giving a live man the color of a corpse.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, a la carte, from 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manaoer for full particular*.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven can never
say that merit isn’t recognised in this
country; he is to be promoted to
Governor-General. There’s talk of Ad-
miralty House at Kirribilli being once
more a vice-regal residence. How will it
like getting into court shoes after its slip-
pered ease?
The Men Pioneers polished up the
frames that hold their ancestors, placed
their historic whatnots in the best light
and were all ready for their jubilee party.
This filled the quiet club in Phillip-street
with poppies, pioneers and pleasantry.
The women with Australian forebears
left their memory storehouse in Mac-
quarie-street to congratulate the males’
organisation on being 25 years old. The
club's president (Sir Kelso King) and his
lady received the guests.
There were heaps of poppies but no-
thing drowsy about the R.A.S. party last
week. Music, instead of being the star
item, was but the accompaniment of the
night, and the long galleries of the Educa-
tion Department held spirited move-
ment and quickly-changing color com-
positions as the guests moved from
group to group. John Longstaff was
over from Melbourne, and made much
of Hanke and his work. Hanke was
quite the lion of the swarry, everyone
asking to meet him. Henry Braddon
kept him quite a long time in converse.
Maybe Mr. Hanke is a philosopher as
well as an artist; if so, he will, no doubt,
one day produce an allegorical canvas,
“The Touchstone of Success.”
The Erik Langkers were there, and
potter A. H Finlay, but Watty’s smile
was missed ; Ailsa and Helen Souter were
with their popular father. Alice Byrant,
in camellia-pink chiffons, was much con-
gratulated on brother Charlie’s jubilee
procession picture, and, indeed, in spite of
tall buildings, Charlie has managed to
convey the jocund spirit of a nation at
play, Mrs. Mick Dalton, in delphinium-
blue chiffons wrapped about with ivory-
crushed velvet, was among the extremely
w'ell dressed; Olive Clifford wedded the
wattle- and the coral-tree in her gold
satin frock and her red velvet coat;
orange-gold was Lilias Carling’s coat.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and Carrie Lancely
were among the handsome; Estelle
Oxnard-Smith’s head shone bronze above
hyacinth pinks, Rubery Bennett, to the
muted or vibrant strings of the orchestra,
stuck on red discs. And the Axt Gallery’s
Jimmie MacDonalds were, of course,
there.
The transport sister of the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme skims over a
bit of Australia; 2334 miles was her
total in a recent week. She had been
taking convalescent kiddies back home
and collecting others due for treatment
in Sydney. Never resting in his good work
to the young citizens of the north-west,
padre Drummond has been away making
arrangements for the survey of cripples.
Two specialists from Sydney are now
examining patients over an area that
ranges from Tenterfield to Kandos.
There are no world-scientist airs about
Henry Brose, professor of physics at
Nottingham University. He’d rather talk
about music. But, then, he’s rather a don
at that. Away from electrons and
relativity, he, Einstein and Sommer-
feld indulge whenever fate or con-
ferences throw them together in
orgies of Beethoven and Bach. Ber-
nard Shaw, E. V. Lucas and Lady
Asfor are among his friends. The South
Australian has now the round, rosy
cheeks of the northern countries where
most of his life has been lived since he
went as Rhodes scholar from Adelaide
to Oxford. He’s a brilliant talker and
laughs enormously. The other afternoon
he dropped into a party and started off
by congratulating those present on the
beautiful climate. After the bitter cold
of other worlds, the sun here was so
warm. His neighbor, in a lightweight
spring suit and fur, pointed out that, in
spite of his finding our air so silken soft,
he was wearing a topcoat that Hubert
Wilkins might have worn to the Pole.
Prof. Brose said his wife (they have
been spending a lot of time in Munich)
finds the German clothes among the
world’s smartest. The fabrics and color-
ings are original and delicate. The Ger-
mans, too, have had their scientists busy,
and now their food supplies, real and sub-
stitute, would quite take the edge off any
blockade. From what he has heard from
people very close to Hitler, the great
Adolf is an ascetic, and as devoted to a
vegetable diet as Bernard Shaw.
The laboratories at Nottingham Uni.
are the final word in equipment. In the
day’s work Professor Brose takes many
things in his stride, among them helping
in the detection of crime. He’s become
so expert with finger-prints that he can
almost obtain a complete record from the
imprint of a hand on the passing breeze.
It was after his series of lectures to the
police of his county on methods of ob-
taining prints from objects that previously
had given negative results that the Police
Commissioner of Nottingham presented
the University with a set of his own
prints. Henry Brose declares that it should
soon be possible to read the thoughts of
others. Already cranium experts can
guess at quite a bit by watching the
bumps and depressions of the thought
centres.
One of Professor Brose’s loves was the
drama, and he annexed for himself one
of the most graceful and delightful
actresses Australia has produced. Mrs.
Brose was Jean Robertson, who toured
this country with Moscovitch, playing
Portia in that actor’s much-discussed pro-
duction of “The Merchant.” Later among
ber successes was a tour as leading lady
with George Arliss.
When artist Dora Jarrett gave a sherry
party to bid Dick Parry good luck and
happy voyage the electrics went off. But
as the studio was lit with a roaring fire
nobody minded. Dick Parry, it will be
remembered, graduated from acting with
the Independents to the professional
stage. Dame Sybil Thorndike first recog-
nised his merits, and took him off to
tour the North with her. After that
Dick worked with the J.C.W. companies.
Now he sails in the Maloja to London.
Artist Jo Collins and pretty daughter
Kathleen were among the farewellers ; so
was artist John Wyndham, who tried on
his Richard of Bordeaux crown for the
company.
Mrs. John Moore, whose husband has
some of its most charming exhibits,
opened the show of contemporary art in
the Blaxland Galleries last week. Dur-
ing the week the show has continued to
attract a stream of visitors, and the
National Gallery was not above buying
one gem, “Twin Hills,” a lovely thing
by Queenslander Kenneth Mac Queen.
This was secured for posterity at the
rate of fifteen guineas. Also snapped up
for the Gallery was a woodcut of banksia
by Margaret Preston.
There were oranges and lemons, and,
of course, belles, at the Medicals’ Ball.
The oranges and lemons were on the
official table in cerise baskets tied up
with silver ribbons; the belles were
everywhere, for there were more than
800 dancers at this jubilee rejoicing of
Sydney University’s Medical Society.
Quite a gory aura emanated from the
decorations. Red bonbons, red bows
and red songbooks were a shuddersome
reminder to at least one that in the midst
of life a major operation may lurk
around any corner. A three-tiered jubi-
lee cake encased in roseate icing and
topped by a stork just about to pass on
the baby was among the night’s gaze-
arrestors. So were Mrs. Harold Dew’s
slinky black-and-white-satin raiment and
the McKelvey lady’s pearly satins. With
the Hugh Poates came Dr. and Mrs. R.
A. Gardner, of Cairo, here to attend the
B. conference in Melbourne.
Noreen Dangar was handsome in
dahlia-red patterned in gold; sister Patsy’s
frock gleamed silver. Gwen Stevens
swished orchid taffetas. Black tulle was
the right thing on Mrs. Garnet Halloran ;
cerise camellias added the festive note.
Aubrey Halloran brought his Enid. Mrs.
Bouverie Anderson-Stuart’s velvets were
violet, and Mrs. F. A. Maguire’s black
laces were silver-splashed. Students
rushed about doing humorous sketches,
and David Jones’s ballroom with it's tall
bamboo decorations was the happy back-
ground for the whole.
Dymphna Cusack, whose novel Jung-
frau in the S. H. Prior Memorial com-
petition was a runner-up to the prize-
winner, is on the staff of the Sydney
Girls’ High School. A B.A. of Sydney
University, the .brilliant girl has won
many prizes for one-act plays. In poetry,
too, her pen gets the right swing. Her
“Spirit of Anzac” last year won the
Anzac Fellowship prize ; her play “Anni-
versary” also won its drama competi-
tion. A Dorothy Welding photograph.
On Saturday the grounds of St. John’s
College within the University will be a
melde of youth. Two thousand children
will take part in the grand march, which
will be one of the star items of the floral
festina in aid of the Rev. Dr. Cregan
memorial in the Cerretti chapel. There
are over'4oo entrants for the dancing
events, and there’s to be a cooking com-
petition.
This afternoon the auditorium of
David Jones’s will be busy with bridge-
players in the interests of the Journal-
ists’ Ball fund. The party promises to be
jolly as well as successful, as everybody
will know everybody else. The ball this
year will be up to its predecessors in
every way. Tickets are selling with
a rush, and the night will be as gay as a
balloon.
Enid Baumberg, one of Sydney’s clever
publicity girls, was married last week in
South Africa. The Melbourne centenary
can be blamed for this loss to Australia.
Morris Alexander, one of Cape Town’s
leading K.Cs. and a member of the
Union Parliament, came over to pay his
respects. The girl from Elizabeth Bay
met him in Melbourne. They clicked ;
and on its last outward voyage the
Themistocles bore Enid to Cape Town
and matrimony.
All the knitteds and embroideries that
this Letter would have liked to buy at
the Home Mission sale of work were
severely marked “Not for Sale.” And
no wonder! What woman could bear
to purl and plain those fluffy designs, to
work those intricate stitches and then
let some drone in the hive carry them off
for a few shillings. St. Andrew’s Chap-
ter House buzzed with activity last Fri-
day when stalls were covered with pret-
ties and usefuls, cakes and preserves
made by the H.M. members. Everything
for the home seemed to be there, except
chutney. One inexhaustible female pur-
sued chutney vainly from stall to stall,
and then decided bath towels would have
to do.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener sat at the door
taking the silver coins in a round dish.
It’s her last job for a long time with the
guild, for which she has worked for nearly
two decades. Mrs. Scrivener leaves on
Friday in the Maloja, and will make her
home in England for some time. Mayor-
ess Parker, introduced by Canon Charl-
ton. opened the friendly money-raiser,
her voice coining over a little Eden of
spring flowers that bloomed along the
front of the stage.
Last Friday members of the Institute
of Journalists ate the dinner preceding
the yearly election of office-bearers with
meditative brows. This business of
voting, when every man and woman
facing the poll is an equally good sort,
takes a bit of thinking over. The genial
Elliott Napier, president for two years,
retired from the lists, nominating Lance
Fallaw as his successor. Mr, Fallaw was
elected without a dissenting voice.
J. E. Davenport entered into his four-
teenth year of secretaryship, and W.
Leighton Bailey his eleventh as treasurer.
Mrs. Liddell, back from Melbourne, was
voted to the committee.
Annette Kellerman finds herself
remembered:
After an absence of six years I returned to
find the U.S.A. had not forgotten me. In
Allantic City 1 was received witlv open arms.
I received the keys of the city from Mayor
Bakarach, and was greeted by over 20,000
people on the beach when 1 acted as Mistress
of Ceremonies at the big opening pageant.
1 was thrilled and proud that an Australian
should be chosen to head what is said to have
been the biggest pageant they have had for
years at one of the most famous beach resorts
in the world. (Not the most beautiful, how-
ever.) I have only been back a few weeks,
and I have presented the “Evolution of the
Bathing Suit” pageant in 10 cities. Next week
1 appear over a national hook-up on the Colum-
bia broadcasting station, one of the first three
airlines in the U.S.A. The broadcasting people-
say I should have a wealth of material after
travelling the world over for the last six years.
I did hope to get back by Christmas, but I am
afraid that is not to be. Saw Australia’s
Judith Anderson in “The Old Maid” (Pulitzer
Prize play); she was magnificent. It is leading
the town for popularity. I have met and liked
Kate Smith, America’s champion radio crooner.
She is a simple soul, even though she does pull
down 3000 dollars every Saturday night. Kate
weighs well over 2001 b., and does not watch
her calories. Her heart, however, accounts for
a lot of poundage. It is as big as herself.
Mrs, Sterling Levis has just finished
another of her poetic one-act plays, and
is now busy designing a set of tableaux
for the Kindergarten Union’s benefit in
September. Next week she and her
doctor husband will turn the key of their
Vaucluse home and go down to Mel-
bourne for the medical conference.
Miss Nellie Veitch, for many years a
leading exponent of public speaking and
dramatic art in Melbourne, confided to
this Letter that she had never heard
better delivery from any group of women
than from the speakers at the U.A.P.
party. Sydney’s women public speakers
are good in that they speak clearly in
pleasant voices, but is manner every-
thing? At least one listener to many
speeches would like the matter to be
more sparkling. How seldom does a
woman speaking in public crack a joke,
flash a witticism! That is why (feminists,
please note) men still beat us as after-
dinner speakers. The Girl in the Flat
Opposite has just contradicted the last
bit. She says that if women drank as
good dinners as men do, their after-
dinner listeners would think their
speeches just as hilarious. Have it which-
ever way you like.
Ladies who live in glass dresses will be
able to throw as many stones as they
desire without any fear that the brick of
retaliation will crack their attire. The
new glass fabric shown by Sydney’s lead-
ing stores is soft and pliable—very like a
tender silver lamd. That’s what it looks
like at a little distance. A glass tunic
worn with a green crepe suggests a
smooth wave under moonlight. Sun-
shades and hats of the fabric gleam from
special vantage points at the fashion
shows, but Sydney women smile, rub a
finger delicately along the surface, and
pass on to buy the materials they are more
at home with. A whole evening frock
of glass is causing a shiver of excited
interest among the bright young things.


The Kit'hardNoii Chain Hotel
fl
It!
m
i#
3'
31
i ?
HI
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Kailway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day;
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4 I 4 I (10 lines).
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
Miss Efiie Ball and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell ran a big effort last week in aid
of Brother Bill’s Dinners. Brother Bill
(Rev. R. G. Nichols) is the push and
drive and mouthpiece of the movement,
Mrs. Nichols and her band of capable
helpers provide the hands which turn
into good hot meals every day seven
sheep (or, if it’s rabbit day, 120 bunnies),
ihrce bags of potatoes and the ingredients
for 50 large steamed puddings. Over
700 children attending schools in Fitz-
roy, Collingwood, Port Melbourne,
North Melbourne, Carlton and Williams-
town arc given three-course meals every
day through the head organisation of
St. Mark's, Fitzroy. The youngsters are
not encouraged to believe in something
for nothing. Those whose parents can
afford it bring Id. per day ; those with
no pennies are told that someone else
must pay for them.
The cafd chanlanl was held in the
dining-room of the Oriental, but those
who preferred bridge played upstairs in
private sitting-rooms. Flowers and gifts
were sold in the winter garden, and a
fortune-teller produced dark young men,
letters from over the sea and other
romantic episodes for folk who can
never resist the lure of the future. Mrs.
Tom Murdoch, Mrs. Harry Jenkins, Mrs.
Norman Spry and Louise Lovely were
noticed in the hopeful queue. Miss Ball
wore cedar-bark velvet and orchids, and
Mrs. Mitchell chose a check suit. Marea
Lucas was in black, with white camellias
pinned to her jacket and a perky little-
postboy cap. Lurline Urwin’s turquoise
headgear belonged to quite a different
school of thought; turned up all round,
it was shaped like the sailor straw worn
by little Bobby at Blackpool. Mrs. J.
Dunslan pinned a pink carnation to her
black coat, and Mrs. Curven Collier
was all in black. Mrs. Russell Gabb had
a stiffened veil on the brim of her coal-
scuttle hat. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann wore
brown, of a shade which suits her ad-
mirably, and Mrs. Hector Kendall, also
in brown, chose a knitted suit in a soft
Angora wool.
All the worries of “swot vac.” with the
prickly feeling of exams, just over the
horizon were forgotten when Ormond
College Students’ Club held an at-home
last week at Earl’s Court. The master
of Ormond brought Mrs. Picken, whose
black velvets were fastened with dia-
mentc clips. Principals, vice-principals,
wardens, deans, professors, senior stu-
dents and secretaries of students’ clubs
came as guests of honor to represent the
various colleges. Ruth Williams attended
in the capacity of senior student of Janet
Clarke Hall, and Noreen Rice, president
of St. Mary’s Hall, had the added respon-
sibility of a long sbimmery train of silver
lame. Jon Deravin wore rust-tinted
georgette with a bunch of meadow
flowers at her waist. Lesley Williams
had large bows on the shoulders of her
cherry velvet, and Joan Reid’s brown
satin carried white camellias. Brunette
Freda Lloyd wore flowers across the
front of her pink moire corsage, and
blonde Margery Reddler tucked violets
into her mist-blue Grecian draperies.
Peggy English was all a-flutter with white
organdie collar and bouffant skirts of
gingham-patterned taffeta. Billie King
added a posy of boronia to clouds of net
in two shades of lilac, and Lyle Rossin
looked like a mermaid in her shimmer-
ing gown of navy cellophane.
Mrs. John Dye has thought out some-
thing different in table decorations—clus-
ters of white coral arranged round a white
bowl of all-white flowers. One rare
specimen is shaped like hydrangea
blossom in full bloom ; another has flat
petals like a Christmas rose, but much
larger, and there’s a hint of green in the
centre. Perfect pieces of rare coral are
difficult to get; even the more common
“bunchy” varieties break very easily. Mr.
and Mrs. Dye did not personally go coral-
hunting—the job takes time and patience
and low tides are necessary —but pro-
cured their corals while on their holiday
to Daydream Island in Whitsunday Pas-
sage. Mrs. Dye supervised the packing
and saw that the box was treated gently
all the way from North Queensland to
Melbourne.
Wilbur Reed takes his responsibilities
seriously in this Athol Shmith picture.
Next week (26th), in “The Door Opens”
at the Garrick, he will play Shane Raf-
ferty, an Irish rebel transported to Tas-
mania. Opposite Shane is Alice, the
principal character of the play, in the
hands of Mrs. R. Hcarder, who before
her marriage last April was Billy Wischcr.
Producer Norman Wister and author
Mrs. Frank Andrew are delighted at Mr.
Reed’s capture of an Irish accent. “The
Door Opens” is in four acts, with a pro-
logue and an epilogue. A boudoir and
a ballroom scene are laid*in Dublin ; the
other settings are at Port Arthur.
For the spring mannequin parade at
the Embassy in aid of St. Vincent’s so
many tickets were sold for the afternoon
session that back-seat people had only a
glimpse over other folks’ shoulders. At
the dinner-dance things were better, but
by some mischance nobody seemed to
realise that singers are human, and must
eat and drink like other people. The
artists lent by J. C. Williamson felt so
hungry and neglected at their table, laid
with only a bowl of flowers and a jug of
water, that they finally went home to
their respective domiciles to cook bacon
and eggs.
Among the mannequins Mrs. S.
Brearley walked with most savoir faire.
Celia Fogarty was striking in her white
coat with its large safety-pin catch. A pair
confusingly alike were Betty Fogarty
and Betty Moore; the former Betty
always looked serious until her particular
allotment of applause made her smile :
the latter Betty, while wearing a striking
black and green ensemble at the evening
function, shared her applause with Mrs.
Lyons, who chose that moment to arrive
with her Joseph. Bunty Govett intro-
duced something defiant in Hungarian
bonnets ; stiffened wings sprouting from
the crown added inches to her height.
Peg Finkelstein looked charming in her
quaker-grey afternoon-dress with its
bouffant skirt. Mary Sheehan dared her
shiny black halo hat to fall off—it was
round as a full moon, and secured to the
back of her head purely by will-power.
The bunch of cherries heaped on the
brim of the cartwheel straw displayed j?y
Ruth Rogers would not be much help to
old Gravity if a puff of wind got under
the brim. Whoever buys the quaint navy
straw worn by Mrs. Len Buxton will
need to make up only half of her face,
and the right eye can have a good
rest. Mrs. lan Macdonald also had one
eye obliterated, and a tartan pussy-cat
bow was the back-of-the-neck trimming
to her black suit. Few people can follow
the very new notion of flowers right on
the top of the head, and get away with
it —but Maisie Cowper introduced the
fashion with the first such coiffure we
have seen in Melbourne, With it went
a black velvet gown with a Gainsborough
neck and a wreath of flowers round the
shoulders.
Mrs. Lyons wore white satin for her
brief appearance at the Embassy dinner-
dance. Wearing black with intricate slips
across the shoulders was Mrs. Gordon
Coulter, one of the graceful people
who waltzed between courses. All in
violet was Mrs. Harry Donaldson, and
hiding among pale-green ospreys was
Dr. Molly Newbold. Mrs. Simon. Fraser
kept out the chill air with a cloak of
white velvet and white fox, but Mrs.
G. D. Bowcher’s only protective layers
were clouds of black tulle.
Mrs. R. S. Helby gave her youngest
daughter, Paddy Wilkinson, a cheery
coming-of-age party (held, incidentally,
on the eve of the Fawkner election).
Miss Wilkinson, who made her debut
on the boards last week with a small part
in “Sheppey,” removed her make-up and
her manicurist’s green overall (she ap-
peared only in the first act), and was ready
in a twinkling garment of silver lace over
blush-pink chiffon, with a chain of bril-
liants wound round her waist, to receive
her guests at her own home. Mrs. Helby
did (he, honors in black and gold. The
Hon. Lewis Clifford brought his wife,
who wore an elegant gown of black matt
crepe woven with an elusive gold thread.
Mrs, Ken Cox was in white satin and a
Pierrette ruffle of tulle. Another guest
to follow an inclination for fluffy tulle
ruffles was Mrs. Hal Watt; her dress
was of lily-green satin. Lula Collins
wrapped herself in rainbow lace ; Lor-
raine Gumming chose the joyous note of
nasturtium tonings; Valerie Palmer was
in deep amethyst; Joyce Gardiner wore
green and silver, and Mrs. Angus Gibbs
(he warm, glowing tones of deep-ruby
velvet. Dancing took place in the pale-
gold candlelight, of the ballroom, and
supper was served at midnight in a
marquee lit and decorated in more flam-
boyant golden tonings.
The Western District went dancing last
week-end at the invitation of 11 well-
known matrons. The Hexham Hall was
turned into a cottage garden for the occa-
sion. Hedges of greenery and tall, heavy-
headed hollyhocks enclosed the dancing
space, plum-blossom and daffodils made
a flowering plot of the stage, and a low
bank of flowers placed in narrow bowls
ran the length of the long supper-tables.
The 11 who were sought out for greet-
ings early in the evening and good-byes
much later were Mrs. Keith Urquhart,
Mrs. John de Little, Mrs. Charles Kelly,
Mrs. Arthur Gubbins, Mrs. Hector
Bastin, Mrs. Colin Whitehead, Mrs. Youl
Bartlam, Mrs. C. Gordon, Mrs. Neil Cal-
vert, Mrs. G. Courtney and Mrs. Neil
McCulloch.
Here is a Jack Cato portrait of Joan,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. C.
Cornforth. Joan was one of the manne-
quins who paraded last week in the cause
of charity at the Embassy. One of the
most attractive models she displayed was
a diaphanous creation of mushroom-pink
lace.
In July 30 debs, spread their downy
wings at P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Ball ;
last week there was a complete rally of
them to the Commodore for the
debutantes’ return dance. Mavis Thiel,
in taffeta with a rustling cape scattered
with silver stars, and Shirley Duncan,
whose gown with its square neck, puffed
sleeves, slim bodice and bouffant skirt
was suggestive of the Tudor influence,
represented the debs, on the dance com-
mittee. Jean Markman, with frilly
shoulder wings upon her cloque crepe,
and Molly Lamb, a diminutive figure in
brocaded satin, were of the threescore
white-clad maidens, and Alan Crawford,
Alan Randall and Eddie Moore were
among the young things’ partners. Mrs.
Gilbert Crawford, who when she was
Bonnie Kellett secretaried so many P.L.C.
frivols, wore blue and a border of hand-
made flowers along the neck. Coralie
Gardiner was also in blue, with a cloak
the color of old and tawny port
Doris Moore (who spent the latter part
of the week playing golf at Geelong)
added a velvet wrap to a chiffon frock.
Beth Davidson, also a golfer (she has a
low handicap to give her confidence in
the championships commencing on
August 26), was in honey-colored georg-
ette with frills upon the sleeves and a
draped cowl corsage. Jean McNabb was
in green with frilly ripples round the
hem. Eveline Duncan also focussed
attention upon her hemline ; it was of
padded turquoise moire and the dress was
of black taffeta. Alison Cook was in
scarab-green, and Verna Christiansen
chose to be frilly and floral in pastel
chiffons. Dorothy Anderson tied a tartan
sash round a black taffeta dress. Tall, fair
Enid Hartswell had square-cut stiffened
shoulders protruding from her swamp-
green gown. Doris Tootell was in twig-
green with a black cloak, and her sister
Marion displayed something cosy in
capes, quilted velvet of a golden-brown
toning to match her gown.
Whether John Latham was suddenly
bitten by an imp of mischief or whether
the genial cloud of tobacco smoke at
the Commonwealth Institute of Valuers’
meeting made him talkative has not been
divulged—but his speech about brighten-
ing up Melbourne has become the sub-
ject of many a breakfast-tabic wrangle.
He blithely suggested that Victoria
should do its bit about the unification
of railway gauges, “or else we’ll get left
out in the cold with trains running
straight from Sydney to Adelaide, across
country.” (But Mr. Clapp couldn't bear
this to happen now that he’s got his big
engines and “Sydney to Melbourne in 15
hours.”) Dealing with the National Gal-
leries, the Latham idea is that we should
have a larger and finer Museum. (That
would be splendid, but the present
Museum is retreating inch by inch from
the wolf at the door, and its highly-
qualified employees arc wondering if they
are to be jobless.) A further suggestion
was that the growing Felton Bequest col-
lection should have a worth-while home
near the Shrine (perhaps some of our
wealthy citizens will remember this in
their wills), and that an added attraction
of this building of the future should be
an orchestra by day and dancing by
night.
Our ex-Altorney-General thinks Mel-
bourne’s night life is grim, and he sug-
gests that there should be more places
where one can eat, drink and be merry.
But not only the night life —overseas and
inter-State visitors who don’t hanker par-
ticularly after hectic gaiety discover how
inhospitable is the feeling of no trams or
trains on Sunday mornings, no Sunday
newspapers, the difficulty of finding
somewhere to buy cigarettes after 6 p.m.,
and the impossibility of getting a drink
before his dinner —for a man who doesn’t
know the ropes. Our bright young
people can always, as a last resource, go
from house to house with a portable
gramophone, creating parties at each
stopping place. But the visitor, be he
ever so bright, will have a thin time
unless he has letters of introduction.
The committee of the Collingwood
creche has decided that it’s not yet too
early to discuss activities for 1936, which
will be the creche’s golden jubilee year.
At the annual meeting held last week
W. H. Edgar took the chair and Dr.
Vera Scantlebury gave an address. Dr.
Charles Strong was present, as always.
He founded, almost 50 years ago, this
institution, which is the oldest creche in
\he British Empire. His enthusiasm has
never flagged. Everybody present had
a thought for Mrs. Alfred Deakin, who
worked hard for the Collingwood creche
since its inauguration ; her daughters arc
carrying on her activities. Other mothers
who have influenced their daughters
along the same lines are Mrs. I. H. Moss
and Mrs. W. Hogarth, who were present
with the next generation, respectively
Mrs. Harris and Mrs. Eric Edwards.
Mrs. Hogarth, who has been a Colling-
wood committee worker for 40 years,
had the good example of her mother, the
late Mrs, J. W. Don —so that Mrs.
Edwards is the third generation of her
family to do her bit for the third genera-
tion of the babies of Collingwood’s poor.


Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is desired as to the present
address of AUBREY EVANS (son of Francis
Evans, late of Launceston, in Tasmania), who
was last heard of in Grafton, New South Wales.
If he is dead, information is desired as to the
date and place of his death, and as to the
names and addresses of any descendants of
his, or of his legal representative. Please reply
to MESSRS. RITCHIE & PARKER, ALFRED
GREEN & CO., Solicitors, 81 St. John Street,
Launceston.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
e
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, In
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones; F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Jo EUROPE
Mdt/re
Canadian
4xXvROCKfI
4T
\
g2j
Through the Canadian Rockies—
Luxurious express trains See
Banff and Lake Louise—Glorious
scenery .... travel comfort
superb cuisine . . . personal service
—veritable hotels on wheels. Rates
moderate. Write for details and
literature.
Any Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
17/35
BRANDAUER'S
0*
t*'*
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BBANDAUER & CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Legal Notice.
TO HARRY BUNKUM and to his son
LEONARD HARRY BUNKUM whose
present whereabouts are unknown and to
anyone knowing their present whereabouts.
PURSUANT to an order of a Judge of the
Supreme Court ol Queensland made at Bris-
bane on the Ninth day of August 1935 in the
matter of “The Trustees and Executors Act
1897 to 1924” AND in the matter of the
estate of EVA DAVIS late of Zillmerc Road
Zillmere near Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land Spinster deceased intestate HARRY
BUNKUM and his son LEONARD HARRY
BUNKUM who were last heard of at Asplcy
and Kedron both neat Brisbane in the State
of Queensland in August 1927 or anyone know-
ing the whereabouts of the said Harry Bunkum
and Leonard Harry Bunkum or cither of them
are requested to communicate with MARY
ANN DAVIS of Zillmerc Road Zillmerc near
Brisbane aforesaid Widow the administratrix
of the estate of the said Eva Davis deceased.
BY the abovementioned order, this adver-
tisement was directed to be inserted once in the
Sydney Bulletin and once in the London
“Times," and it was ordered that in the event of
no reply being received to this advertisement
from the said Harry Bunkum or Leonard Harry
Bunkum within six months from the date of
(he publication of the last of such advertise-
ments, then the said Mary Ann Davis as such
administratrix as aforesaid shall be at liberty,
subject to the approval of the Registrar of the
said Supreme Court of Queensland, to dis-
tribute the balance of the moneys in the estate
of the said Eva Davis deceased among the
other next-of-kin of the said deceased.
DATED the Fifteenth day of August, 1935.
CHARLES HARRIES,
Solicitor for ,the said Mary Ann Davis,
No. 2 Inns of Court, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Queensland
Tell S.A. your
Sales Story when it’s
got the time to read
“THE NEWS”
(Afternoon Daily)
and
“THE MAIL”
(Midnight Saturday and deli-
vered Sunday all over the State)
Both offer this very dis-
tinct advantage . , . .
Adelaide is too busy to
read by day.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEY P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—P A Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
SERVICE IN ADVERTISING
Advert? sing
service in “The
Examine r,”
Launceston,
Tasmania, for
93 years.
Supplying New* for NEARLY A
CENTURY is the strength of the service
offered to Advertisers in “The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), the only daily paper pub-
lished in Launceston, and the oldest
newspaper in Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
KYLIE TENNANT’S
PRIZE STORY
TIBURON
will grip you from first to
last chapters.
NORMAN LINDSAY will
illustrate this remarkable
serial—the best published
by “The Bulletin” for many
years.
FIRST INSTALMENT
SEPTEMBER 4
Xv>Xy>X ; :
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Perth Golf Club was agog with excite-
ment and masses of wildflowers for the
visit of the English women golfers. The
sun’s warm rays caught the red-gold
glints of Pam Barton’s uncovered curls
as she drove the first ball, her sturdy
young pins emerging from a natty purple
outfit. Jessie Anderson followed, her
green split skirt topped with beige jumper
and black beret. Phyllis Wade was neat
and sweet in grey skirt and hat and navy
cardigan. Mrs. J. B. Walker wove the
green of the Emerald Isle into her
Donegal tweed skirt, and mixed it with
red in her striped silk shirt, Mrs. Green-
lees’s misty blue rig swung over a ban-
daged ankle which emerged from brown
suede shoes, a departure from the team’s
uniform black - and - white footwear.
Players sported the regulation striped tie,
and each handed to her caddie a leather
swing bag in bright red, blue or green.
Shrouds were removed from the seats
of His Majesty’s Theatre, and dusters
were flicked around in readiness for the
influx at “Roberta,” the first musi-
comedy heard in Perth for more than a
year. The six local belles who signed-on
as the mannequins acquitted themselves
creditably, and a special hand was given
to cx-Perthite Dorothy Dunkley, who
played the part of Mrs. Teale. All the
regulars were there—the R. A. Camerons,
a flock of Ambroses, Mr. and Mrs. Jack
Beaton, Mr. and Mrs, J. Durack, Mr.
and Mrs, R. J. Cox and Mrs. A. L.
Parker.
With the bursting of a huge balloon
suspended from the ceiling of Anzac
House ballroom hundreds of its baby
sisters and brothers floated over the
dancers at the Air Force Ball. Mrs.
Burgess-Lloyd’s pastel-patterned georg-
ettes were ranged by her president hus-
band to receive the v.-r. party, with
Captain Tregillis and his lady’s black
chiffon velvets near by. Rita McGibbon’s
pink flat crepes glistened with diamente,
Mrs. Percy Cannot fluttered black-and-
gold cellophane organdie, and June Irvine
covered her white satins with a film of
net.
The University Boat Club went
nautical in mural decorations for its
dance in the refectory. Mermaids flirted
with marines, pirates rode slashing sea-
horses and monsters of the deep cavorted
on the crests of curling waves. Rene
Esler trained the sailors’ ballet and gave
an exhibition dance with Jimmy Mc-
Morrow. Kay Kinnane knotted a silver
rope around her schooner-blue satins,
Amorelle Howard-Bath hoisted a silver
ensign on her black velvets and Thea
Proctor’s while sails were self-corded.
Mrs. Walter Saw was at the head of
the committee for the Cottesloe Golf
Club dance, a cheery affair at the club-
house, tuned to the crackling of a wel-
come log fire. The C. H. Merrys were
there, and the J. C. Murrays, the Ken
Camerons, the A. W. Jacobys (her black
satin and georgette caused many a sigh
of envy), the Cam Milnes, the Gordon
Darcys (top marks for her soft-pink
embossed velvets), Betty Hayward,
Margot Law, Shirley Deshon, Mary
Balston and a host of others.
Two hundred diners celebrated the
City of Perth’s birthday at tables
arranged forkwise in the Town Hall.
Lud Mayor Poynton was in the box seat,
and knight Walter James proposed the
toast of the evening.
To welcome Dorothy Dunkley Mary
Meares rallied forty old friends for tea
at the Pleiades Club. The hostess pinned
fragrant daphne on the lapel of her
tailored navy tweeds, and the guest of
honor carried presentation violets before
a beige kasha cloth ensemble.
Dorothy Mary, the A. J. Bakers’ ewe
lamb, has promised to nibble her grass
with Cecil Durack at Behm Ord, Wagin.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
For our golf tourney visitors came
from all States, and the English women
golfers from overseas. The weather was
wet for their arrival, but the visitors didn’t
seem to mind. Rita Andrews, who had
just won her fourth championship at
Glenelg, was tendered a dinner at the
Oriental by her golfing friends, organised
by Dorothy Cater, her opponent in the
final.
Despite the rain there was a good roll-
up at the Presbyterian Girls’ College
when the Old Collegians held their ball.
The profs, who are members of the
council, with their wives, all put in an
appearance, so it was a well-chaperoned
affair. Decorations were in two shades
of pink blossom. The headmistress, Miss
L. Shaw, received the guests gowned in
pale-pink crepe.
Patsy Giles, bound for London with
her mother in the Moreton Bay, was
given a farewell party by Margaret
Perry at the latter’s home. College Park.
Bowls of roses decorated the rooms
where bridge was played, and tea was
served in the sun porch.
The plays presented by the College
Wranglers’ Club of St. Mark’s College
in the Lady Symon Hall at the uni., drew
a large audience of admiring friends.
The Henry Newlands were among those
enjoying the fun. Two of Noel Coward’s
short plays figured on the bill.
The Palais Royal housed the United
Service Ball. The Governor and his wife
were there. Lady Dugan smartly frocked
in apple-green chiffon cut on princess
lines, the low-cut back outlined with
silver lame. The vice-regals were wel-
comed by Colonel and Mrs. H. J. Copley,
Commander and Mrs. S. R. Symonds
and Brig. P. M. McFarlane. Mrs. Copley
wore a black georgette toilette with a
black velvet coat, collared with white
fox fur. Mrs. Symonds’s black chiffon
frock had diamente on the bodice. Act-
ing Premier Ritchie brought daughter
Isabel, in pale-pink satin. The acting
Mayoress, Mrs. Dunstan, who came with
her father, Lud-Mayor Cain, looked well
in scarlet chiffon.
William Mitchell, Vice-Chancellor of
our uni., gave a luncheon at the Rich-
mond for a party that included Prof.
F. Clarke, adviser to foreign students at
London Uni.
The Dominican Convent old scholars'
ball struck an original note with the
decorations, which were lacquered arum
lilies. The stage was laid out as a garden
with real grass turf and gravel path.
There were eight debutantes.
TASMANIA.
President’s Day at the Royal Hobart
Golf Club fell on a wintry afternoon,
but members and guests rolled up
in force. Lady Clark, with her Mrs.
I. G. Mitchell and A.D.C. Col.
Worthington-Wilmer, was received by
president Mervyn Henry and Mrs.
Henry. The clubhouse was warm and
cosy with a huge fire. The Thorold Finks
(Melb.) were among the guests.
Nancy Swan and Geoff Minton-Taylor
were made one at the cathedral, the
bride’s father giving her away, and sister
Molly, Mary Ritchie and Eleanor Ivey
(Syd.) following as three little ’maids.
The wedding garment was of magnolia
satin cut in long straight lines; the sleeves
were puffed at the top, and the net veil
fell from a lattice halo of gold- and
orange-blossoms. The ’maids’ frocks of
cream net over satin were fussy and
frilly. The Lavender Garden Tearooms
held about 90 guests for the following
festivities.
It’s an ill snowstorm that blows no-
body good, and, though travellers on the
West Coast road had some thrilling
experience in the big fall, skiers
had the time of their lives, both
in the north and the south. Several
parties in their cars were benighted on
the West Coast highway; others aban-
doned their cars and made for the nearest
shelter.
Mr. and Mrs. B. E. Saunders (Mrs.
Saunders is one of Hobart’s well-known
pianists) gave a silver-wedding party to
old friends at Hadley’s. A wedding-
cake figured on the tea-table, and music
was given by Mrs. Stanley Burbury,
Marie Gillon, Jean Hibbard, James
Marsh, A. Rutland and Fred Heraud.
The Tom Murdochs gave a party for
the Thorold Finks at their home, St.
Andrew’s, Montpelier-road. About 40
guests strolled and chatted in the draw-
ing-room, where irises and pink japonica
made a delicate contrast to the very
modern decorative touch given by
lacquered pumpkins. Mrs. Fink wore
a Russian tunic frock and small
turned-up hat. Mrs. Murdoch hostessed
in black georgette with spots of green
and yellow, and daughter Kier was in
navy-and-grey crepe.
Hutchins Old Boys engineered a dance
at the end of Celebration Week,
running a bridge party at the same
time for non-dancers. R. Vincent
did the dance-secretary’s job, and Nora
Perkins was in charge of the bridge-
room. The Head was in the official
party, but Mrs. Harris was laid low by
’flu. Flags and school colors made a
good decorative scheme.
Airman Harold Gatty’s arrival in the
Speck caused quite a flutter, especially
when he came to rest at his own village,
Campbell Town. Receptions, many and
various, were tendered him everywhere.
His father and mother, himself and
young son represented three generations
* n w S
Mrs. W. Brownell, with her daughters
Mrs. A. Bayley and Marmie Brownell,
fetched up in London in time to see Mrs.
Ray Brownell presented at Court. Capt.
Ray Brownell is at the R.A.F. training
station at Grantham, Lines. Mrs. Rav
Brownell was Phyllis Birchall; both she
and her husband first saw the light in
Tasmania.
Errol Flynn, who has married film
star Lili Damita, is remembered as
a naughty but likeable little boy in
Hobart. His father. Prof. Flynn, occu-
pied a chair at Tas. Uni. for some years.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE; Australia House,
Wynyard Square* Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate.
Non-Proflt, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES 7
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write far full ’particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
i Cat
A VALUABLE JOURNAL FOR INVESTORS.
August issue Now on Sale.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED;
Aust. Glass Manufacturers Co.,
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd.
Vic. Butter Factories Co.-op Co., Ltd.
Bank of New Zealand.
Malley’s, Ltd.
Marchant’s, Ltd.
Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
N. Coast Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £ll2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
*1
Sheet
r , metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
■) m
i o.yveip
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £-' Son Ltd • SYDNEY
MePHERSONS PTy. LTD.. Melbourne., Adelaide,. Pertlg
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: In the Darwin Supreme
Court the usual quota of natives
has been found not guilty of murder-
ing fellow-tribesmen. These cases in-
volve the bringing to the capital of a
quota of naked rustics, who are hur-
riedly squeezed into trousers before they
are fit to appear in a civilised court and
agree to tell the truth and nothing but
ihe truth, which they do with a great
show of willingness. Since southern
newspapers have begun to take an in-
terest in them, they have been treated
with great courtesy and hospitality—in
contrast to the ancient but salutary habit
of keeping them aloof from metropolitan
pleasures and leaving them to infer that
civilisation is a drab affair. The last batch
were vastly intrigued with the “talkies.”
They will go back to the tribes, along
with the vindicated accused, full of tales
of a land fairly rolling with good food,
tumbak and amusements. And presently
somebody official will be pained to learn,
perhaps, that one of the weaker brethren
among them has polished off an uncle
or other convenient person in order once
more to taste the well-remembered joys
and excitements which the last killing
brought him. There is a strong case for
trying all tribesmen on their native heath.
* * *
“Marree”: One more link between
North and South was forged on August
19 —the Adelaide-Darwin air service (via
Alice .Springs) was opened with the late
Charles Ulm’s Fokker, Faith in Aus-
tralia. Later, German Junkers, paid for
with Australian wool, will be used. The
fare will be £25 to Darwin and £l6 to
Alice Springs; so that it will be possible
for passengers to reach Sydney from the
northern city in three days by air and
train for £35, which is £lO cheaper than
the combined air and rail fare via Bris-
bane at present.
* * * *
“Kiefa”: Early next month the New
Guinea Mandated Territory will celebrate
its twenty-first birthday under Australian
control. In the early days after expro-
priation, it did not look as if it was going
to be much of a success, and the adminis-
tration has a long way to go yet to be
perfect. Nevertheless, since gold was dis-
covered there has been something like a
boom, in spite of the low price of copra.
The Mandate is the only ex-German
colony paying its way, and it boasts that
it has no income tax. Gold is now worth
about £1,750,000 a year average, and
when some of the bigger companies with
overseas capital are fully operating this
should be increased, provided the price
keeps up.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Two members of the Tarifl
Board, Messrs. Guy and Kelly, have
been in Broome and other pearling
towns inquiring into a proposal to give
a pearling bounty on shell gathered by
boats operating from Australian ports.
The Broome Pearlers’ Association is
against a shell bounty, which might en-
courage the collection of inferior shell.
It suggests £lOO p.a. assistance to each
hand-pump boat and £2OO to engine-pump
boats. E. de B. Norman, who repre-
sented the pearlers, pointed .out that the
limit of production from Broome beds,
having regard both to the future supply
and to market requirements, was about
1000 tons p.a., which, with a Japanese
poaching fleet, 25 strong, operating in
the north, did not leave much margin.
It was suggested that a bonus was a
better defence than a patrol against
poachers; but it is no defence at all. If
an absence of poachers would make the
industry payable and their presence is
likely to wipe it out, penalties should be
made real deterrents. The poacher who
breaks half a dozen laws and evades
all taxation would be less ready to carry
on his trade if he knew that discovery
meant inevitable confiscation of his
vessel and five years’ penal servitude.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Storekeepers who have
pioneered the n.-w. of Queensland, and
who have to pay three income taxes,
arc complaining of a new type of socialis-
tic enterprise on the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry-
Duchess railway. There is a buffet car
on the mechanical caterpillar which they
call the “mail,” and it has turned itself
into a store. As no freight is paid on
the goods which it sells and no taxation,
it has it all over the local traders, who
arc organising to have a word with their
rivals. Probably the ghosts of all (he
butchers who were put out of business
“Here, Jacky , have a beer.”
“What you link I am —a piccaninny ?”
in Ryan’s day when the .State meatshops
started on the road to ruin will rise to
support the petitioners.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: Population figures jus-
tify the effort which has been made to
build up the North Queensland sugar in-
dustry with white labor. Tully district
showed a population increase of 1092.4
p.c. between 1921 and 1933—from 370
to 4412; and in only one sugar area—
Mirani Shire, in which the increase was
28.1 p.c.—did numbers grow less than 58
p.c. In the whole 12 districts, the ad-
vance in the 12 years was from 51,612
to 96,798, or 87.5 p.c., which compares
very favorably with the increase for
Queensland of 25.06 p.c. and the 18.85
p.c. with which Victoria —in the coolest
part of the mainland—had to be content.
* * * *
“Malaguna”: When the Germans first
occupied New Britain, the outstation
missionaries who lived on the Herbert-
hohe road and on the edges of the Earn-
ing had a special dread of the season
which precedes the spring. Then the duk-
cluk dance flourished and the untutored
savage was apt to play any naughty trick
with anybody else’s head. But civilisa-
tion is now upon us. This year’s age-old
corroborees at Rabaul were held on the
Lukunai racecourse, and alongside the
duk-duk and the spear dance and the
once-wild seragumbe a lot of sedate
coons with holy expressions let them-
selves go, for the entertainment of
flappers off an Orient boat, in the “native
choir and war dance.” The “honorary
organiser,” as recorded in the local press,
was a Mr. Edwards, with a major and a
doctor to help him. How some of the
lapoon-pieWets who predated “Doktor
Haber - im - ee-sterong-pfeller-too-much”
must have grinned as they looked down
from Valhalla!
“Vic”: Brisbane is approaching the
level of freedom prevalent in Sydney,
where fines for motor offences number
over 25,000 every year. In Brisbane,
convictions are still within limits which
allow the publication of the names and
addresses of persons who speed across
intersections, commit breaches of the
parking regulations, fail to keep on the
correct side of the road when turning,
or turn incorrectly. Last week’s tally
was 90. It would be cheaper to provide
better parking facilities and more super-
vision at dangerous intersections than to
drag citizens from their work for hours
to answer for “crimes” which are rarely
judged to be worth more than 10s. and
costs.
“Australia Jane’s" Budget
Sussex, Canberra, Vendetta, Voyager
and Stuart are tied at various wharves
between Hamilton and Bridge Reach.
Rumors of war? No, the Show is on.
Everybody who belongs to an asso-
ciation seems determined that annual
meetings shall be held in Show Week or
thereabouts. The Teachers’ Conference
was declared open by the Governor-
General The Council of Agriculture and
the local authorities are at it hammer and
tongs; and the Masons also are busy.
Two garden parties are listed at Gov-
ernment House this week, and our vice-
regals will attend Yehudi Menuhin’s con-
cert and the Anzac Ball.
The third annual conference of the
Commonwealth Council of the Austra-
lian Institute of International Affairs
(long breath here) is being held in Bris-
bane, and Dr. and Mrs. P. A. Micklcm,
Dr. J. Clunies Ross, Messrs. G. Martin
and P. R. Heydon (Sydney) and Miss C.
Duncan (Melbourne) are among the
visitors.
Nora Halford, daughter of Dr. Hal-
ford, an energetic worker in charitable
causes, is wearing a new ring—Dr.
Harold Love’s. Molly Story, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Story, has an altar
date with N. R. Johnston, from Mel-
bourne.
Betty de Burgh Persse, of Wyamben,
lately in England, has gone over to India
to stay with friends. Her brother and
sister, Robert and Mary, remain in
London.
The ballet pageant and fashion parade,
proceeds of which go to the Children’s
Playgrounds Association and the Metro-
politan branch of the C.W.A., drew large
crowds to the City Hall both for the
matinee and at night. All the dance
studios helped with the programme, and
the Fruit and Marketing Committee spon-
sored a ballet which was arranged by
Edith Barry, with Sylvia Samuel as
premiere. It was colorful with blossoms
and butterflies and fruit-pickers.
To help stock their refreshment stall
at the Exhibition ground during Show
Week, the Catholic Daughters of Aus-
tralia gave a packet tea, each guest bring-
ing along something which would be
useful at the stall. Mrs. J. P. Master-
son received the guests.
As the City Fathers have a strong dis-
like to anyone knocking nails in their
new and unpaid-for City Hall, ball com-
mittees are hard put to it to discover
some way of decorating the place. The
Girl Guides have decided on mirrors, and
the alcoves are to be done with peach-
blossom.
Jean Elwing, the talented Rockhamp-
ton girl actress, may get a lift from the
C.W.A. to take her overseas. She de-
serves a chance.
As the Royal National Association
celebrates its diamond jubilee this year,
a luncheon party was given on Tues-
day, the day before the official luncheon,
to all those who have been members of
the association for 40 years or more.
English marigolds and Iceland poppies
decked the tables, and there were posies
of violets for all the ladies. Mesdames
Fred Woodroffe, Benjamin Cribb, W.
Ewart, A. V. Perrett and M. P. Campbell
were in charge of the table decorations
and the making of the posies. Mrs. M. A.
McMahon, who attended the first Show
in 1886, was among the guests.
Seventy guests attended Jan McDowall’s
cocktail party for Catherine Ramsay and
Phemie Childe. Masses of sweet-peas
made the reception rooms gay and
fragrant.


MILLIONS WHO WERE DEAF— can no* hear I
They hear because they use a “Sonotone”
Before 1932 there was nothing in the world to help these people. Millions of others the
hearing—could be helped only up to a certain point. But, in 1932, Dr. Hugo L.eber perfected the Sonotone
g Smallest, Lightest, Least Conspicuous and Most Amazing Hearing Aid ever devised.
DEAF PEOPLE CAN TELL YOU MORE CONVINCINGLY
THAN ANYONE ELSE WHAT THE “SONOTONE” CAN DO>
W=t
back that ‘half of life’ which I have missed for years.
altered my whole outlook.”
“I can hear the telephone now over any distance with a
‘Sonotone,’” states a N.S.W. grazier.
“The ‘Sonotone’ is delightful. I’m going to the Notary
Convention now,” writes a N.S.W. doctor.
“The ‘Sonotone’ is an unqualified success. I never
remember hearing so well in my life. It is going to i*e
a tremendous help to me in my well as
socially.” This is the testimony of A. Goyder, Esq.,
Director of the Bank of Adelaide, Perth, W.A.
WOMEN ARE ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT THE “SONOTONE” TOO!
a ks, f? ss susaASi a-ssutf & ssars
m| ready Inswlrs” Thus writes a well-known lady in Mackay. Queensland. T 1 •
“The ‘Sonotone’ is the only hearing aid I have ever been able to wear all day. All sounds are so soft and clear,
from a grateful lady in Yalleroi, Central Queensland.
“I never heard wireless until the ‘Sonotone’ brought it to me,” says a girl from North Manly, N. S. >' ales.
-No matter what caused the deafness-
-No matter what else you’ve tried-
No matter how deaf you are —
TRY THE “SONOTONE”
aats=stt -JstSi
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA:
B. Nathan, 115 Collins Street,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Laubman & Pank, 62 Gawler
AVEST AUSTRALIA:
Lanbnian & Pank, 64 Barraek
Melbourne.
Place, Adelaide.
Street, Perth.
OTTFENSLAND:
The Optical House of Sankey Fraser, 229 Edwaril
Street, Brisbane; and at Margaret Street,
Toowoomba.
NEWCASTLE DISTRICT:
Gibb & Beeman, 74 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
CALL ON THE AGENT IN YOUR OWN STATE AND HAVE A FREE TRIAL, OR WRITE TO HIM FOR PARTICULARS
ANGUS & COOTE,
Solo Australasian Agents for tho
"SO *OTONE.” HEARING AID,
SOO GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
.
%
f.
m\ \ &
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Another Well-laid Scheme Goes Astray:—
THE KERBSTONE
CARICAURIST
By J.B.BLAIR.
IHAD completed one of those corre-
spondence courses. You know the sort
of thing.
Know yourself! Learn to develop the
dynamic power that attracts others to
you! Can you sum up your fellow-men
at a glance and never be wrong?.... Full
course £5 ss. in easy instalments.
I took it on, and I mastered the course
all right. I’ve got a diploma to prove it.
But it didn’t seem to make much differ-
ence when it came to applying for a job.
Or perhaps it did. I’d be ushered into
a manager’s office and I’d give him a
bright Personality Smile as instructed in
the course, and fix him with my Dynamic
Gaze. After a very short time I’d be
outside again, with my lines only half
spoken.
The trouble, I think, was that I was
able to sum them up too well. I would
realise in an instant that I was in the
presence of an intelligence inferior to my
own, and perhaps I used to show it in
my speech. The manager, of course,
would realise my superior intellectual
ability and would, not unnaturally,
prefer not to have me in his employ.
It happened time after time.
I wrote to the school. They told me
that with my ability and dynamic drive
I would obviously be wasted working for
a master. My best plan, they said, was
to find some independent means of
livelihood.
I walked along the street pondering
this advice, and wondering what line to
try, when a card was thrust into my
hand. You’ve had it happen to you, I
suppose.
It read something like this:
You have just been photographed. Call
at 17 Wombat-street after 5 p.m. to-
morrow to collect photograph. Two
copies Is.
That gave me my idea.
An ordinary person would probably
have gained nothing from the experience,
but my training had so developed my
thinking capacity that a plan occurred
to me immediately, A plan whereby I
could use my new-found knowledge to
earn a comfortable living.
I hastened round to the room of my
friend Skiff to put my proposition to
him.
SKIFF, as you are probably aware, is
an artist of sorts. His strong point is
caricature. Although attached to no
paper he is probably the equal of any
caricaturist in Australia —that is to say,
purely from the point of view of drawing
his victims. But in addition to being able
to draw people, a successful caricaturist
must also be able to catch them —to beard
them in their dens, as it were. In other
words, he must catch ’em before he can
sketch ’em. I do not know whether this
has been said before. If not, then you
must admit there’s something in a course
that inspires a chap to invent a phrase
like that.
Well, Skiff is such a timid, gentle chap
that unless a big gun walks right into his
studio and says “Here I am, Mr. Skiff,
Draw me,” he never catches them at
all.
Consequently, he’s always on his
uppers. I’ve tried to get him to take the
Dynamic Course, but he won’t.
I explained my plan to him, and had
no difficulty —my superior mind prevail-
ing over his—in persuading him to come
in on the scheme.
The procedure was simple. We stood
at a convenient corner in a busy street.
Skiff held a pad of drawing paper and a
pencil. I held a bundle of printed cards.
When I said “Right,” Skiff made a
hasty sketch on his pad and I handed the
next passer-by a card which read thus:
You have just been
CARICATURED
by the World-famous Artist
SKIFF.
Call at 26 Polly-street after 2 p.m. to-
morrow for a genuine, original, signed
caricature of yourself. Price 2/6
Remember. NOT A PHOTOGRAPH,
but a real work of art
by SKIFF,
THE KERBSIDE CARICATURIST.
The idea took on immediately. We’d
spend the mornings in the streets and the
afternoons at 26 Polly-street handing out
the drawings and raking in the half-
crowns. The evenings Skiff wou!d spend
replenishing his stocks-making finished
caricatures from the small sketches he d
made in_ the street. ,
For the first few days we got along
pretty well. Every afternoon a steady
trickle of clients would be calling at 26
Polly-street. Quite a number of persons
to whom I’d given cards didnt come
along though. 1 put that down to the
fact that they d lost their cards the
average man is very careless of such
things or that they had mistaken us lor
pavement photographers and had thrown
them away.
STJS
snorted o A dame as we handed her
h’ e Trtehl tiSouaVrre'allytokSkTfly
l -e:
sfflEßaP 8 ® 18
remarked, “you realise that it isn’t
meant to be a portrait. It’s a caricature.”
“I don’t care what it is. It isn t me,
she stormed.
“Of course not, madam, but it s the
artist’s impression of you. Thats how
he sees you.” .
“Oh, is it? Let me get hold of him.
I’ll teach him to go round insulting
people.” .
By this time Skiff had vanished into
a back room. Baulked of her prey, she
looked at me threateningly. My training
came to my aid.
“One moment,” I said. “Perhaps there
has been a mistake.”
I rummaged among the unclaimed
masterpieces until I found a fairly pre-
sentable female face, not too young, but
still about 20 years less than the angry
woman. It had the normal number of
chins and a pert tiptilted nose,
“Ah Here we are!” I said. “Very
foolish of me. I must have got the
numbers mixed. Yes, of course, 245
instead of 254. How can I apologise to
you, madam?”
She glanced at it, and her face became
wreathed in smiles.
“Why,” she cooed, “it’s a speaking
likeness.”
“Well, not exactly that,” said I. “Skiff
is usually a bit hard on fo’k, but after
making allowances for that it’s certainly
very like you.”
She departed more than satisfied.
My brain began to simmer with an
idea. 1 went carefully through the un-
claimed heap, and picked out all the
better-looking victims.
That afternoon we had three or four
more dissatisfied customers, and in each
case I was able to fix them up with a
caricature out of stock. It was easy
enough, and I decided that if the real
owners called Skiff could do them again,
and no harm done.
Then came the really big idea. Skiff,
to give him his due, was partly respon-
sible. At a slack moment we were dis-
cussing the game.
“Seems to me,” remarked Skiff, “that
the only really satisfied ones are the ones
you palm off the fakes on. They always
go out beaming—the rest just look
sheepish.”
“Skiffy!” said I. “Close the door for
to-day. In future we’ll have ’em all
beaming.”
I mentioned before how timid .Skill
was. How he was always scared to inter-
view folk. Well, p’raps you wondered
where he got his practice. It was like
this. He’d go to the talkies two or three
nights a week and sketch every actor
that cam e ° n the screen. He had sheafs
and sheafs of drawings of them. He
could draw every film star in Hollywood
and Elstree, and he made a hobby of
catching ’em in every conceivable pose
and attitude.
His stock was large enough to keep
a film magazine going for years. Now 1
saw a chance to capitalise it.
WE went right through the lot and
picked out all the good-looking ones
—beautiful blondes, seductive-looking
brunettes, tall, husky he-men, matinee
idols, sleek-haired screen lovers and so
on.
Then I put Skiffy to work. He’d take
Greta Garbo’s eyes, Joan Crawford’s lips
and Mona Barrie’s nose and produce a
wonderful effect. Soon he had a whole
range of attractive women, to suit all
types. It was the same with the men.
We had 14 variations of Clark Gable, a
dozen of John Barrymore and countless
combinations of other stars. When the
range was complete, and we had decided
that it was impossible to add another
handsome type to it, Skiff made a dozen
copies of each model.
I card-indexed the lot, starting with the
Garbo-Crawford-Barrie cross at AAI
and finishing with a subtle mixture of
Wallace Beery and Adolphe Menjou at
ZZ99.


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
No Mattery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The Ideal Instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
43 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 88100.
DEAF
Kidney
Breakdown
Backache, Rheumatism,
Bladder Weakness These
Serious Troubles Demand Best
Medicine Obtainable.
Kidney, Bladder, Uric Acid and Urinary Disorder?
cause misery, and can age you by ten years or more.
To end them means new, youthful vigour—new
comfort —new peace at night—new happiness each
day. Your Kidney filters must be kept in order.
If they fall, ill health results. If everyone knew
the importance of keeping the Kidneys well, neglect
of the signs of Kidney Disorder would be unknown.
Uric Acid alone, if not filtered out, forms crystal
deposits that, lodging in joints, muscles and 1 bladder,
cause intense agony—perhaps gravel, stone—the dread
of an operation. Neglect carries a heavy penalty.
WATCH THESE SIGNS—If you get pufilne® m
dark rings under the eyes; back, leg, groin, or side
pains; dizzy spells; headaches; disturbed nights;
burning, smarting, or difficult urination—ACT
QUICKLY! Take Harrison’s Pills and get the best
Proprietary treatment. Harrison’s Pills succeed
where other tilings fail, because they remove the
cause, strengthening the Kidneys, toning the Bladder,
ending the Urio Acid Menace, and healing raw,
inflamed spots. Benefit begins at once. You feel
better “in next to no time.” The cost ,is less than
for other remedies that give no such real, proven
results. All chemists sell Harrison's Pills—3 incx
pensive sizes. Benefit from the first bottle, or money
back I No diets; no dyes; no danger. Just
Harrison’s Pills; and sweet ease comes to your
weakened Kidneys and Bladder —new energy through
cut your reinvigorated body. You OUGHT to give
yourself this chance for bolter health. No time
like the present.
i
as
%
1
SB
*8
81
n
w*
wm
tWi
P RUIT
THERE’S something inspiring about an orchard
. . . the uniform, sheltered rows of trees,
pruned and sprayed . . . which bud and blos-
som and bear, their production in the aggregate
being worth £2,000,000 a year in New South Wales
alone. There is so much allied to the orchard . . .
co-operative packing sheds, jam factories, an export
trade developed since the advent of refrigeration.
A trade is developing in dried and preserved fruits
also. Truly a big potential field . . . and one being
assisted by the Rural Bank, which depends on its
own resources and upon the support and co-operation
of the public for the funds that make the credit
possible.
The Bank accepts Fixed Deposits, opens cheque
accounts for all reputable persons, companies, firms
and societies, and affords most sympathetic treatment
to all its borrowers.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Commissioners;
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
[
This is the fourth of six advertisements illustrated
by Quinton Davis. An attractive brochure con-
taining the complete series may be obtained on
application to the nearest branch of the Bank.
]
This all took a few days, but we were
soon ready to face the world again. From
now on Skiffy’s job was simplicity itself.
All he had to do was stand on the corner
and pretend to draw. I did all the real
work. As I handed out each numbered
card I’d classify the client at a single
glance and jot down in a book opposite
The number his type according to my
index.
When he called, it was the work of a
moment to hand him the corresponding
caricature.
1 could have dispensed with the book,
but I was looking ahead to the time
when we’d need to employ assistants to
hand out the drawings.
Well, for the next week things went
wonderfully. Practically every client
went out beaming, and lots of them
ordered extra copies. With the men wc
had almost a hundred per cent, successes,
but some of the women were still a bit
hard to please. Wc worked the “wrong
card” stunt on these, and usually got
away with it.
One day, though, I struck one who was
particularly hard to please, so I tried a
new plan. Placing our five star exhibits
on the counter, 1 told her that Skiff had
made five drawings of her and she was
entitled to take her pick. She plumped
for No. AAI.
After she’d gone, the next idea came
naturally. Why not let them all take
their pick? No sooner said than done!
Skiffy, whose job of replenishing the
stock would be much simpler if fewer
varieties were disposed of, jumped at it.
Trade began to boom. We engaged a
couple of lads to hand out cards in differ-
ent parts of (he city, and two girls to
assist in dealing with orders. Most of
my time was now taken up with super-
vision, checking the takings and seeing
that everything ran smoothly. Skiff
wanted to get another artist to help him
with the copies, but 1 was firm on that
point.
“Look here,” I said ; “you’re signing
these sketches as a guarantee that they're
your own work. Arc you dishonest
enough to suggest that we foist upon the
public something that is not what it
purports to be? I'm ashamed of you.”
He said he hadn’t looked at it that
way.
Well, as I said, customers simply
Hocked to us. Naturally certain types
were more popular than others. With
the men a fairly wide range of choice
was shown, but the women nearly all
went for the same few.
AAI, the Garbo-Crawford-Barrie com-
bination, was far and hway the favorite.
I suppose we sold five of it to
one of any other. “Alice,” we called her.
Skiff declared he drew her all night in his
sleep, and that he’d know her if she came
to him feet first through a mangle.
All day long happy, beaming females
walked away from our premises with
Alice’s portrait tucked under their arms,
and her features must have been getting
as widely known as Princess Marina’s.
It looked as if the depression was
over for good and all as far as we were
concerned.
ABOUT this time Skiff began to get a
bit temperamental. He said that draw-
ing Alice was driving him mad, and
wanted to scrap her altogether and switch
over to a Shirley Temple-Zasu Pitts
hybrid. He was very sore about it when
I turned the suggestion down. Most un-
grateful, considering that Td been giving
him 20 per cent, of the profits all along.
I said that Alice had been the making
of us, and that all we had to do was
stick to her and she’d put us on top of
the world. I had plans, as a matter of
fact, for extending the show and starting
a mail-order business. Skiff said after
all an artist had a soul. He wasn't a
blessed printing machine. His individu-
ality craved expression. I pointed out
that it would be craving a square meal if
I hadn’t picked him up and put him on
a good thing.
Well, anyhow, we patched things up,
and I told him about the mail-order
scheme. I also told him I intended to
slip down to Melbourne for a week to
make arrangements for opening a branch
there. He was quite agreeable, and said
he’d look after things while I was away.
“Well, don’t forget to keep the stocks
up,” I told him on parting. “We’ll want
all you can manage before long.”
I was away a week, and got back on
a Monday morning. I went straight to
the office, of course. The assistants were
in a peculiar state of excitement.
“Mr. Skiff left for New Zealand on
Saturday,” said one. “He left a letter for
you.”
I read it. The fool had walked out on
me. The letter was full of rot about
selling his soul, degrading his talents,
and so on.
“I’ve left you enough stock to carry on
awhile, and I’ve taken my share of the
bank balance. I’ll never draw another
Alice as long as I live. I’m through.”
His share of the bank balance! He’d
taken nearly all mine, too. Reckoned it
was his share of the goodwill, I suppose.
I looked at the stock. He’d certainly
worked all right. Couldn’t have slept the
whole week, unless he actually did draw
Alice in his sleep. Every pigeonhole
was full.
“Carry on!” 1 said to the staff. It
was no good letting them see I was hard
hit. Dynamic drive was called for.
“But,” asked one girl, “what’ll we do
if they want something else?”
“What d’you mean?”
“They’re all the same,”
I crossed to the files and pulled out
JX4. It should have had Ronald
Colman’s face with the addition of Jack
Hulbert’s chin. Instead, it was Alice.
I tried FL6 —Laurel-Hardy . . . Alice!
YB2 —Marie Dressler-Janet Gaynor . . .
Alice! Right through the pigeonholes
I went. Alice, Alice everywhere. Even
in ZZ99.
Why he’d done it I don’t know. 1
really don’t think he had enough initiative
to think it out. It must have been that
the hated features had impressed them-
selves so vividly upon his mind that he
could draw nothing else.
“Take the day off. I’ll manage,” I
said to the staff. I wanted time to think.
They left.
QUICKLY I thought things over. Very
soon my plans were complete. My
training would not allow me to be at
a loss for long.
I would close down for a few days,
get another artist, and start again. I’d
show Skiff he wasn’t indispensable.
“Do you run this show?” an aggressive
voice broke in on my musings.
I admitted the responsibility. The
owner of the voice was of the ZZ99
type—the Beery-Menjou cross.
“Did you sell anyone this?” He
thrust a sketch of Alice under my nose.
I admitted that it emanated from my
firm.
“Hooja sell it to?”
I explained that it was impossible for
me to remember individual transactions,
but that I presumed it was sold to the
young lady whose caricature it claimed
to be.
“We handle thousands,” I began.
“So’ve I,” he burst in, “and most of
’em have been bigger and heavier than
you. Didja sell this?”
It was another portrait of Alice.
“Yes.”
“And. this, and this.” . . . Alice again.
I couldn’t deny responsibility.
“Well, wot d’you mean by sellin’ my
girl’s pitcher to all the blokes in Leich-
hardt? Wot d’you mean, eh? Tryin’ t’
get ’er in wrong with me, was yer?”
It was getting a bit beyond me, but I
strove to stem the tide. It wasn’t his
girl I told him, but probably just a
chance resemblance.
“Oh, it ain’t, ain’t it? We’ll see
about that. Come in, Kitty,” he shouted.
We both watched the doorway. In
walked Alice. No, I’m not kidding you.
She was the identical Garbo-Crawford-
Barrie blend that we’d labelled AAI and
christened Alice.
“Wot’vc y’ got to say to that?”
I had nothing to say. My training
hadn't provided for anything like this.
“Wot’re y’ goin’ t’ do about it? I’ve
punched a dozen blokes’ ’eads already. I
can’t go round punchin’ all of ’em, can
I?”
Considering the thousands of swains
who probably had Alice hanging over
their beds I agreed this hardly seemed
feasible.
“But I can punch yours, you little
squirt,” he continued rudely. He said
it as though it was an afterthought, but
I felt sure he’d come there for that very
purpose.
“Don’t get rough, Bill,” put in Alice —
I mean Kitty. “Remember what
happened when you hit that poor chap
down at Bondi.”
I tried to explain.
“Cut that out!” he growled. “I ain’t
goin’ t’ punch yer. That is, not as long
as you come across.”
“Come across?”
“Yes. I want £5OO outer you fer libel.”
“Libel?”
“That’s wot I said. ’Ere you’ve been
tryin’ t’ make out my girl’s an easy thing
for all the guys in Leichhardt.”
“And Bondi,” put in Kitty.
“And Bondi, an’ Gawd knows where
else. Ain’t that libel?”
I felt that it wasn’t, and commenced
to say so.
He shook his fist under my nose.
“ Ain’t it?”
“Well, I don’t really” . . .
(Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM
PAIN IN THE JOINTS
Decide that you must and you will get rid of
that pain in your joints and you have taken the
first big step along the road to recovery.
The remainder of the way is easy. No pur-
gative salts, no harmful drugs, no embrocations
or rubbing oils. Just an inexpensive box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from your
chemist. Two pills taken with a drink of water
at night, and then, freedom from pain.
When you think of all you have suffered you
may find it hard to believe that such a simple
method of treatment can accomplish so much in
such a short space of time. Here is the reason.
Oe Witt’s Pills Cleanse, Heal
and Strengthen your Kidneys
and thus rid your body of the harmful uric acid
that has been causing the pain in your joints.
You cannot obtain results like this by any other
means, and you cannot get rid of the pain in your
joints whilst that harmful uric acid remains.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC, ACI D
That is why De Witt’s Pills
are recommended to you. If you
will give them a fair trial pain
will quickly
disappear and
your health
will improvQtin
many ways.
The most
convincing
proof of the
efficacy of De
Witt’s Pills is
that afforded
by the un-
solicited testi-
monials of men
and women
who have actually used the remedy and by so
doing have banisned the joint pains which tor-
tured them.
You, too, can be freed from your pain. Your
nearest chemist sells and recommends De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and if only you will
take them as directed you will quickly get rid of
the swelling, the stiffness and the pains that
make walking difficult and torture you every
time you move. Your health will benefit in many
ways when you get rid of the uric acid from
your system.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
Dc Witt’s Pills, discolouration of the urine will
prove that they have commenced their good work.
You will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients have passed
through your kidneys and bladder. No other
medicine furnishes proof like this, and when once
you have tried De Witt’s Pills, your one regret
will be that you did not do so before.
Take them for Scalding Pains, Gravel,
Stone, Painful Joints, Stiffness, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica. Give them
to children subject to Bed-wetting and to aged
persons afflicted by Urinary Disorders, and in
every case they will give prompt relief and
lasting benefit.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold
by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger,
more economical size, 6/6. Sold only in the
blue, white and gold boxes.
Beware of imitations. Be sure you ask for,
and see you obtain, the genuine De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
w
\
Writing from C/o. Birchup P. 0., Victoria.
Mrs. W. Sinclair says :
“ Owing to a very bad attack of rheu-
matism I had to stay in bed for over three
months. During that time I completely
lost the use of my limbs. I tried all sorts
of remedies, without result, until I was
recommended to try De IVitfs Pills.
Then to my surprise and joy 1 found I
could move my limbs after taking the
first bottle of pills. Continuing with the
treatment I completely regained my
health."
gdf
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
His left hand grabbed me by the collar.
His ugly face was close to mine. And
that huge fist.
1 thought things over. I’ve never been
strong on libel law. It occurred to me
he might be right. Certainly we’d acted
in good faith, but would a Court believe
that? We couldn’t dispute the likeness
between Alice and Kitty. Lawyer's costs
were high. I decided not to take the
risk.
“All right,” I said. “A hundred
pounds I think you said?”
“Five, and if you’re not quick I’ll
make it a thousand. Roonin’ a girl’s
reputation.”
With a sinking heart I wrote out a
cheque.
“Make it open,” he ordered. “Kitty
Brown’ll do.”
I handed it over. Kitty was dis-
patched to the bank. Bill and I waited in
silence till she returned with the money.
“Now look ’ere,” warned Bill as they
took their departure ; “don't you send
out any more of them pitchers.” I
agreed.
“That’ll teach ’im,” I heard as they
went down the stairs. “Sendin' your
pitcher to all the stiffs in Leichhardt.”
“And Bondi,” said Kitty.
A Simple Story of a Horse Deal:-
NORAH
EDNA DAVIES.
I HAD heard of Mr. Alec Brown and
his “deals.” They were notorious in
the district. “Dealin’ ” was his creed.
He would deal anything from a team of
horses to a “sepyrater,” though he pre-
ferred to deal in livestock, and ’orses
were his joy.
“Gimme anythin’ that’s been foaled,”
he would say, “an’ 1 guarantee I’ll get a
price for it.”
He had started dealing while he was
still at school, swapping his overcoat
for a pair of ducks, which, besides pro-
ducing a number of potential Christmas
dinners, laid the foundation of a flourish-
ing business and earned for Mr. Alec
Brown the nickname of “Swap.” If any-
one had anything to get rid of he was
always advised to see Swap Brown.
Gambling he would have nothing to
do with. Risking good money on a
game of cards or the toss of a penny
was a mug’s game. But he’d take all the
chances in the world on a deal, though
it must be admitted the chances weren’t
always even. The lesser risk was usually
on the side of Mr. Alec Brown.
I didn’t know who he was when he
first walked into the kitchen with Bill,
and even when Bill had introduced us
the significance of his visit did not strike
me right away.
Somehow he
didn’t look like a
horsy man. They
should be short,
wiry and bow-
legged. He was
tall and straight,
though loosely
knit, and with a
habit, I noticed
later, of lean-
ing against
things with various parts of his body
that gave you the impression he could
be taken apart and used in sections.
Then he started talking, and I knew
why he had copie. He was after Norah!
Norah was mine, eight years old, well
bred, and a glorious grey.
SEVERAL months before Bill had asked
if I would mind terribly if Norah were
sold. He felt sure he could get a good
price for her, and she was the only con-
vertible asset we possessed. With the
money she would bring, we could get
another couple of cows, and so keep free
of debt until harvest came round.
More cows! I felt bitterly rebellious
at the thought of them and all the extra
work they would mean, and no Norah
to give occasional relief. But it wasn’t
Bill’s fault that cows were the only way
out. He’d done his best to make ends
meet.
As the time passed and he said nothing
more about it I began to hope that per-
haps we would be able to manage after
all. Eggs were rising and the fowls still
laying well. The cows had come on with
the grass, and I had started a vegetable
garden.
And now here was Mr. Alec Brown,
talking horses and horse deals to a
worried-looking Bill, and drinking pints
of tea. Bill. I noticed, had only two
cups.
“It was a great sale,” Swap was saying
in his harsh voice. “Sixty yarded, and the
men on the rails as thick as flies on a
dung ’eap. An’ Scotty was in great
goin’ order. Ole Blair ’ad that wall-eyed
bay of ’is in, an’ 'e went into the yard
with it, walkin’ on its blind side an’
jollyin’ it along, an’ Scotty calls out, “It’s
all right. Bandy, ole man ; get the other
side. We all know ’e’s blind on that
one!’ Bandy was ’oppin’ mad, but
Scotty worked the ole bay up t’ £5. It
was a good price, for all the ole ’orse is
a worker, but, then, some men ain’t got
no judgment.” Bill fidgeted, and 1 began
to think that Mr. Alec Brown might have
too much.
“Y’ know that noo chap up at Ken-
nedy's,” he went on. “’E ’ad a coupler
crocks in, A knock-kneed black an’ a
bay. That bay, Bill, b’lieve me, was the
worst-lookin’ ’orse 1 ever seen in a sale-
yard. It might've done t’ saw wood on.
B’lieve me, Bill, that ’orse was no wider
acrorss the shoulders than a louse is
between the eyes.”
“Wonder if I could ’ave just one more
cup o’ tea, missus?” he said, turning to
me —I thought he had forgotten my
existence —“1 seem t’ be yapping a bit,
an’ it’s a dry job.”
Finally they went out, Mr. Alec Brown
still yapping, and Bill listening, worriedly.
He was holding up the cowyard gate
when I went out to milk, and I heard
him say:
“ ‘Course, Bill, greys is all right if y’
can place ’em, but that’s not always easy.
There’s the police, o’ course, but their
’orses ’ave t’ measure up t’ their blanky
regulations, same as everythin’ else, an’
this mare o’ yours isn’t quite the right
stamp.” ’
Bill said something, and they moved
away, and presently I heard Mr. Brown’s
departure.
NEXT day he came again, and when I
went out looking for little Bill he was
in the sulky beside Mr. Brown, who was
calmly talking to Bill while the horse he
was holding tried to sit down in the
sulky.
I rushed forward to rescue my son,
but Mr. Brown put up a long, hairy
hand.
“It’s all right now, missus, all right;
don’t worry. ’E’s as safe ’ere as if ’e
was in God’s pocket!”
This peculiar pacification didn’t have
the desired effect, and I insisted on taking
young Bill inside. As I went I heard
Mr. Brown telling Bill that “Women
were queer cattle ; they never reely put
their ’ole faith inter anythin’, not even
a good ’orse!”
When Bill came in Norah was sold
for £2O, the price of two cows, and my
heart was heavier than the cream cans
they would fill.
Bill was upset, too.
“He’s not taking her till to-morrow,
old girl,” he said. “It’s a great afternoon,
so if you’d like to spend it with her I’ll
look after the youngster.”
“What’s he going to do with her?” 1
wanted to know.
“Breed,” answered Bill shortly. “He
reckons he can breed police requirements
from her.”
Norah and I had a long afternoon to-
gether, and in spite of my heavy heart 1
thought she had never carried me better.
We kept away from the main roads so
that no one intruded on us. The sun, the
birds, the trees and the air all seemed to
combine to make the occasion a memor-
able one. I unsaddled and fed her my-
self, and went in to find tea ready and
the milking and separating done.
I was coming away from the stable
next morning when Mr. Alec Brown
arrived, earlier than was decent, I thought
angrily, and could not help another
thought that perhaps he had changed his
mind about paying Bill cash, and had
come early to try to swap something
instead.
“ ’Op in, young ’un,” he called to young
Bill, “an’ I’ll give y’ a ride. You can
drive. It’s all right, missus, all right,” he
stopped my protest. “Time ’e started t’
learn about ’orses. ’E'll ’ave t’ manage
them when ’e gets older, y’ know.”
“But not horses like that,” I said
bitterly, thinking that now Norah had
gone we'd only draughts.
“Why missus, this is a good ’orse!”
He sounded quite hurt. “An’ she won’t
’urt ’im, honest; an’ I’ll look after ’im.
She’s just young an’ a bit skittish, like all
the females, but she don’t mean no ’arm.
Not like all the females,” he added,
chuckling.
Half an hour later he brought young
Bill to the house.
“ ’Ere ’e is, missus, still in one piece,”
he called. “We’ll make an ’orseman of
’im. ’E’s got ’is mother’s way with an
’orse. We’ll go for another ride some


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines); 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA. LTD.
%
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Clk mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
"THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury/’ Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5170.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: P. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 8348.
T-
>V
m
\
;
i fl
“The scenic route”
UNION I
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
day, son,” he promised as he slouched
off, and when Bill came in to dinner
Norah had gone.
THE two new cows were the best we’d
ever had, quiet and easy to milk, and
yet I hated them. I never went to the
cowyard without they reminded me of
Norah, and set me longing for her. The
extra work left me no time for outings ;
yet 1 knew that if I had still had
Norah somehow 1 would have found
time for an occasional ride, and the
thought made my work-filled days the
harder.
Occasionally Mr. Alec Brown called,
and then he would take young Bill for
a ride and let him drive. For days after-
wards the boy would talk of the horses
he was going to have when he grew up,
"Just like Mr, Swap,” until I felt that
Mr. Alec Brown was going to get my son
as well as my horse.
The months dragged on, until one day
Bill came in to tell me that Norah had
twins.
"Twins?” I gasped. “That’s just the
sort of luck Mr. Alec Brown would
have!”
“Two line little beggars he says they
arc,” said Bill —“both beautifully dappled
like their mother.”
I took a sore heart into the garden that
afternoon. How was it that some people
had all the luck? Was it the “judgment”
that Mr, Brown made so much of?
Whatever it was he had more than his
fair share. If we had tried to breed with
Norah, to make a little money, we would
never have got twins. Might even not
have got one, or lost Norah, or some-
thing unlucky. We were always unlucky,
I thought, and jabbed so viciously at the
weeds round the turnips that I cut right
into one and loosened the head of the
hoe.
“There,” J thought angrily, “that’s
luck again! That was the best turnip in
the row. The hoe would never have
slipped like that for Mr, Alec Brown,
and if it had he would promptly have
swapped it for a new one.
We did not see Mr. Brown for some
time.
‘This runnin’ a nurs ry’s just about a
full-time job, missus,’ he said as he
helped young Bill into the sulky on his
next visit-
" But them foals is cornin’ on a treat!’
“Time ’e ’ad a pony, missus,” he said
when he brought him back—“’e’s an
’orseman”; and I found it hard not to
retort that we had nothing to swap for
cne -
THEN one morning—it was the anni-
-1 versary of the birth of Norah’s twins
~ 8111 ca ™e in and said that Mr. Alec
Brown was outside and wanted to sec
P ie ; not want to go out, but Bill
Jr >sistcd.
As 1 rounded the corner of the wash-
house I saw him a-sprawl in his sulky,
a . nd a of dis, * e 1 « ver ™ a j
..°£ this uncouth man who yet had
the judgment to make a success of the
husiness of li ™'8. and so had hat l the
l’»wer to deprive me of Norah and the
opportunity of teaching young Bill to
"‘"Good day, missus,” he called, and
sprawled further along the seat; T jus,
got a little somethin’ ’ere I thought you
might like.”
“I might like,” I repeated stupidly.
What had this man that could possibly
interest me? And then I was through the
gate and saw her! The loveliest minia-
ture of Norah!
Mr. Alec Brown held out a lead. “Just
’old this for me, missus,” he said. Still
dumb, I took it, and before I could pro-
test Mr. Alec Brown was moving off,
calling out as he went:
“Thought you might like ’er, missus,
I know young Bill will. Let me know
when you want ’er broke an’ I’ll see to
it. She’ll grow up quicker’n a flea can
’op, an’ travel as light,” and, laughing at
his own wit, he disappeared down the
track.
Portrait of a Plain Woman:-
HER MAN
By J.H.SCHMEIDER.
BY no stretch of imagination could
she have been called good-looking.
Even her friends would have told
you that Jenny Brown was plain, pitiably
plain. Good looks had never been hers,
could never be hers, and she was fast
growing into an ugly old woman. But
Jenny Brown saw neither ugliness nor
the imprints left by the passing years on
the small, thin, deeply-lined, sun-tanned
face that looked out at her from the
small wall mirror in her bedroom.
Each day she took down the little red-
framed mirror from its supporting nail,
and gazed into it long and earnestly,
studying the features reflected. Instead
of ugliness Jenny saw much that was
attractive, much to be thankful for; and
wondered wistfully that no man had ever
come her way. She still had most of her
teeth, not very regular or very white
teeth, to be sure; but they were
her own and they were sound. She
could still see to read without glasses,
and the small, bright, hopeful dark-
blue eyes, deeply set and peering out
from beneath sagging, almost hair-
less brows, were to her as diamonds
in a midnight sky.
It was Jenny Brown’s birthday. Forty-
six, and she looked it, every day of it.
The day was Saturday, and she was
dressed in her Sunday best —a one-piece
garment of brown material that she had
made herself. On her shapeless bosom
was pinned an unfolding red rosebud
which gave off a mild perfume, clinging
to the wearer and the drapery of the
bedroom in which she sat. Jenny had
made it a practice to dress up on her
birthday, regardless of the day of the
v/eek. It distinguished the day from the
others, lending to it a certain glamor
and importance. Her birthday was
sometimes her only diversion in twelve
months. Callers, until the railway had
come along two years ago, had been few
and far between. Sometimes a strange
face was not seen once in twelve months.
But though the situation as regards
opportunity for mate-meeting had im-
proved, “her man,” the man she had
watched for, dreamed of and waited for
all these years, had not come along. Still,
she continued to hope, to watch and to
wait. He’d come along some day ; she
knew it. He’d come along some day and
shower on her the love she was craving,
ihc love she had been wanting all her
life.
JENNY BROWN had never known
man’s love. All her experience of love
had been the experience born of her
imaginings and of the love that had
come to her in her dreams. But it was
in her daydreaming that she had been
loved most, thrilled most to love’s warm
embrace. She had dreamed of love, and
romantic and fantastic were some of the
episodes in which she had figured. She
had been carried off by buhrangers; had
been stolen and fought over by wild
black men. She had borne babies, nursed
and loved them; wept bitter tears over
their little graves. Always her dream-
children had died in infancy. The re-
cesses of her heart were stored with
memories of lender, loving little arms
entwined about her neck ; of soft, warm,
hungry little mouths feeding from her
virgin breasts.
A vivid imagination had lightened the
long and lonely road she had travelled,
and hope burnt as brightly in her shrink-
ing bosom as ever. Her man would come
some day. She knew it! She knew it!
Jenny Brown hung away the mirror
into which she had been gazing for the
last half hour, and with scented skirts
rustling hurried to the front door. The
dog had barked, and old Bluey rarely
barked at nothing. Looking towards the
road, sixty yards back from which the
unpainted, weatherboard cottage stood
on high stumps, Jenny saw a grey-
bearded man coming through the gate,
leading a roan horse. Jenny had seen
the man, a stranger, passing up the road
a few days previously, and had wondered
vaguely as to his identity.
His patriarchal beard, reaching half-
way to his waist, gave him a distinguished
appearance, commanding more than a
passing glance. He might have been a
travelling clergyman, or some well-to-do
squatter from beyond the railway
terminus. Or he might have been a
retired city merchant taking a holiday
jaunt in the bush. Jenny studied the man
as he slowly advanced to the front steps
of the house, half dragging the
hollow-flanked and dust-caked.
(Continued on next page.)


“THE AGE ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You : will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price 1 Id. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising S'ervice Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to; be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
- national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper Hon se, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
Best by
est
Read what one of New
Zealand’s leading advertising
agencies has to say.
“We. have recently completed an
analysis of the relative pulling
power of a group of New Zea-
land Newspapers. Of the many
interesting facts which have
emerged from the analysis, the
following is outstanding:
“ ‘THE DOMINION’ not only
PULLED BETTER than any
other daily newspaper, but it
pulled TWICE AS MANY RE-
PLIES as any other newspaper
WITH AN EQUAL CIRCU-
LATION.”
Make certain to include in
your campaign.
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Buildings,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrow*
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
She noted his gentleness with the horse,
which was apparently completely ex-
hausted ; his stately gait and his well-
fitting brown tweed coat and grey riding
breeches, protected by leggings, and that
ns giey felt hat was quite new. She
guessed his purpose even before he
sp 2«- . , . , , .
My horse is dead knocked up,
missus. I’m afraid I can’t go no
further this evening. If you can give me
a shakedown for the night and a pad-
dock for old Bob here,” indicating the
»? r . s . e ’ ‘ 1 1 11 be ™ ost thankfuL rm Wall V
Walker, from Pigeon Creek, ’bout thirty
Wiles down the line. I dare say you’ve
heard o me.’
i *l r . ( ? v T. n tt c f rtainl y heard of
old Wally Walker. He had a small sheep
farm on Pigeon Creek, which he worked
single-handed, and he was said to be
something of a crank. He lived all alone
since his son and two daughters had left
home to strike out for themselves. His
according to rumor either died
° r .^?. r ‘f d hH "- T ny y , ea u r ? t l etore - H< i
pei nutted no visitors at his home, and
larely visited a neighbor. The disallec-
on of his children following the loss ot
fm wile, it was said, had embittered his
Ic, making ot him a recluse.
JENNY hesitated before answering,
Something about the man thrilled her
strangely, and her imagination, always
active when a strange man came about,
began to work overtime. It may have
been, the way he looked up at her from
the foot of the stairs out of meek, kindly
brown eyes, shaded by long grey brows,
or it may have been his long beard,
straight-haired and carefully groomed,
that played on her maidenly suscepti-
bililies.
“Oh, I think we can put you up,”
she stammered, blushing beneath her
wrinkles. “I don’t think John will
mind, and we have a spare bed in the
kitchen. You can leave your horse in
the paddock there. I’ll go and see
Martha.”
Leaving him. to unsaddle and paddock
his horse, she ran lightly through the
four-roomed cottage to the kitchen, where
her married sister, as lean and wrinkled
almost as herself, was busy preparing the
evening meal.
“Quick, go and tidy yourself, Martha,”
giggled Jenny, squeezing her sister’s arm
and pushing her towards her bedroom,
“A man, a lovely old man with a long
white beard, wants to stay here to-night,
and I said he could. His poor horse is
knocked up, and he can’t go no further,
There’s plenty of grass in the little pad-
dock, and there’s plenty to eat. How
lucky I made that batch of scones this
morning!”
Martha March, childless, and still
young enough to be interested in men,
nearly as excited as her sister, hurried
away to tidy herself, leaving Jenny to set
the table. She enjoyed a change of
society quite as much as Jenny did.
Apart from breaking the monotony, a
visitor meant news from outside parts,
and none was more news-hungry than
the March household.
I T was a cheerful quartet that sat down
* to supper in the kitchen that evening.
John March, hospitable and good-natured
and as glad for a change of society
as the womenfolk, had made their
visitor welcome, and soon all were feel-
ing at their ease.
Walker, not a man of many words,
told them he was a widower, his wife
having died in Brisbane fifteen years
before. He was returning home after
visiting his son, who had a grazing
property beyond the railway terminus.
He did not pay much attention to the
women, directing his conversation chiefly
to John, who maintained a steady flow
of questions. From her place at the foot
of the table Jenny watched every move-
ment of their visitor out of the corner of
her eye, blushing deeply when he chanced
to look her way.
She noted his well-kept, straight-haired
beard, and thought how nice it would be
to have to groom it for him. It was so
silky-looking and clean, not dust- and
spittle-stained like the beards of some
old men she had known. She took note
of the replaced buttons on his striped
cotton shirt, and marvelled that a man.
and an old man at that, could sew buttons
on so neatly. And when he praised her
scones and wished her many happy
returns of the day on learning it was her
birthday, Jenny was so confused that she
scarcely knew what she did.
“I wish I had some one to bake scones
like this for me,” Wally Walker had said
after helping himself to his fourth scone.
Jenny lay awake in her bed till a late
hour that night, the strange thoughts run-
ning through her mind chasing away
steep. In the kitchen bedroom she could
bear their visitor’s bed creak every time
he changed position. Jenny marvelled
that he could sleep so soundly in a
strange bed.
Jenny was disappointed that Wally
Walker had not taken more notice of her
than he did. She wondered whether he
had noticed her dress and the fresh
rosebud she had pinned on her bosom
before sitting down to supper. Anyway,
he had praised her cooking, and that'was
more than any other man had ever done.
John never praised her cooking. He
took everything for granted. Her senti-
mental mind dwelling on the romantic,
she finally fell asleep to dream of nursing
bearded babies, and of a bevy of small
boys with long, grey beards chasing one
another through the house and turning
the place topsy-turvy.
Jenny wore her brown dress and a
rosebud again next morning, and blushed
up to her angular ears when their visitor
came into the kitchen to bid her good-bye.
Jenny had purposely separated herself
from the rest of the household, cherish-
ing a hope that their guest of the previous
night might have something more to say
to her than a bare good-bye. He had
praised her scones again at breakfast,
saying, as he had said at supper, that he
wished he had someone to bake scones
like them for him.
But Wally Walker was disappointingly
brief in his leave-taking.
“Good-bye, Miss Brown,” he said in
his slow, quiet way, running his eyes
over Jenny and pressing her trembling
hand ever so slightly. “Good-bye, Miss
Brown; maybe we’ll meet again some
day.”
Five minutes later he was riding down
the road at a brisk trot, his beard pressed
firmly against his chest by the action of
the wind.
ON Saturday afternoons, for several
weeks afterwards, Jenny, dressed in
her Sunday best and wearing a red rose-
bud on her bosopi, stood till late in the
evening at the front steps, looking hope-
fully down the road, Pigeon Creek way.
But the grey-bearded horseman she was
hoping to sec come trotting up the road
failed to put in an appearance. Jenny
continued to hope against hope, run-
ning expectantly to the door every
time the dog barked; but finally she
was compelled to realise that all her
dreaming, all her fond hopes, . had
been in vain. Life was ' very dull for
her in the weeks that followed, and no
longer in idle moments did her thoughts
run to romantic love episodes in which
she was one of (he principals. The frame
of the little wall mirror in her bedroom
grew dusty.
Then, one afternoon, three months
to the day from her last birthday,
John arrived home from the railway
station with a letter. It was addressed
to Miss Jenny Brown in the large,
uncultured writing of a small schoolboy.
The envelope bore a city postmark, and
Jenny, all of a tremble, wondered from
whom the letter could be. She knew of
no one who might write to her from
town. In her bedroom she plucked up
sufficient courage to open it. Her eyes
operied wider and wider and her breath-
ing, almost.stopped as she read:
Dear Miss Brown, —I ain't much of
a scholar, but you’ll understand when I
say I’ve been thinking of you a lot since
I come back home. It’s them scones. 1
want .someone here to bake some for me.
Will you take on the job ? I’m 70, but
I’m still good for a few years. If you’re
willing to marry me, just drop me a line
an’ I’ll come up for you with the spring-
cart. We can drive to town and be
married. —Yours truly, Wally Walker,
Pigeon Creek.
With a half-frightened glance round,
Jenny pinched herself sharply to see if
she were really awake and not dreaming
it all. Then, throwing herself down on
her bed, she surrendered herself to a fit
of hysterical sobbing and laughing which
brought Martha hurrying to the bed-
room door. Jenny held out the letter,
laughing and crying in turns.
“He wants to marry me, Martha; he
wants to marry me,” she said brokenly.
“The old darling! He wants to marry
me!”
Later, when she had calmed down and
the good news had been assimilated by
Martha and John, Jenny dressed herself
in her Sunday best, pinned a freshly-cut
rosebud on her breast, and took down
the little mirror from the wall. Then,
sitting on her bed, she gazed long and
earnestly at the flushed, tear-stained,
wrinkled, happy face reflected.
“Oh, you darling, you poor old dear,'’
she whispered fondly, kissing her reflec-
tion ; “your man, my man, has come!
Didn’t I always say he’d come, some
day?”
Then, kissing herself in the mirror once
more, she folded the mirror to her breast
and lay back with closed eyes.
Imagination.
He said:
“There’s snow upon the far-off hills
to-day !
The smell of snow hangs in the air !” . ..
And !, who had not seen the snow,
Saw as he spoke, high-lifted there
Against a rose and purple glow.
White, fragile peaks like frosted glass
With faery pinnacles of strange device
That took
The golden sun, and shook
Splinters of amber ice
Down every pass.
Beauty I saw beyond all striving words !
Beauty that human gaze could never
know !
Oh, ecstasy! I had a sharper joy
Than those whose eyes had seen the
shining snow!
victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.
Forerunners.
This is a time of waiting, hut between
The berry-time and days of sun and
sheen
They come—the first outriders of the
spring.
With ruthlessness they hurl the berries
down
To waste w heaps—the chestnuts’ pol-
ished brown
Is tarnished, and their hasty galloping
Leaves all along the hills a freshening
trail
The misty spring will tread.
Flow’r-eyed and frail,
She follows where her lusty hands have
led.
■These riders of the spring, warm, wild
and grand,
Obliterate the work of August’s hand . . .
Still-watered marshes, lying glossily,
They streak with ruffled silver, wind-
embossed,
And leave the red-brown miles of rushes
tossed
Where rooted pools were still and
shadowy . . .
They leave strange little bursting puffs of
scent,
From height and hilltop fanned,
Like incense spent
From sweet explosives flung from fairy-
land.
Oh, wild outriders of the fragrant
spring.
We wait, the earth waits — watching,
listening . . .
TASMANLA.PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


THE EDITOR’S
DILEMMA.
The editor would like to publish the manu-
script. The subject is interesting and the
thought good, but the paragraphing is poor,
giving the effect of lack of unity; there arc
some obvious grammatical errors, and the em-
phasis is wrongly distributed. The writer
apparently has been at pains to enlarge his
vocabulary, but has not learned how to con-
struct sentences; he is involved and redundant,
and he misses the qjimaxes that would make
what he has to say sparkle.
The editor hesitates. By rejecting the MS.
forthwith he would save time, but he would
lose an article his readers want. Can he
blue-pencil the offences out, and put some
strength in? He reads the first two pages
again and finds that he cannot. His dilemma
is solved. ' He rejects the MS.
“WRITING FOR THE
NEWSPAPERS.”
“Writing foi the Newspapers” is a Course
of training prepared and conducted conjointly
by Bernard Cronin and E. H. Welford. It
concerns itself with the difficulties of inex-
perienced writers us indicated in the pre-
ceding paragraphs.
The Course consists of eight lessons. It
covers all the requirements, general and par-
ticular, of newspaper paragraphs and articles.
It is a complete training, including not only
the writing of articles and paragraphs, but
also selection of subjects and methods of treat-
ment for different kinds of publications.
The chapter headings of the eight lessons
arc: General Requirements, Subjects and the
Source of Ideas; Paragraphing an Article;
Unity and Examples; Punctuation; Distribu-
tion of Emphasis and Brevity; Hints and
Errors; She Range of Consciousness; Conden-
sation and Expansion; the Effective Vocabulary
and the Business Side of Writing.
Throughout the Course the pupil is re-
quired to conform to newspaper practice and
to write articles and paragraphs under strict
newspaper conditions. The lessons themselves
deal with the many common faults which may
spoil an otherwise acceptable article. The
exercises are searching and the standard of
work demanded of the pupil high. Each para-
graph arid article written by the pupil is
criticised in detail from the editorial stand-
point and as a piece of writing, with the
object of bringing it, if possible, up to publica-
tion standard.
The Course gives just the help and stimulus
which the inexperienced but ambitious writer
needs.
If you are interested and will communicate
with E. H. Welford at 398 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, he will send you further particulars of
this Course of training, and will be pleased to
discuss with you your writing experience and
aspirations.
E. H. WELFORD PTV.. LTD..
“Good English and Good Writing,”
Managers of
The WKIFOKD COURSE IN
ENGLISH, by E. 11. Welford and
A. w. B. Welford, M.A. (Cantab.),
The BERNARD CRONIN STORY -
WKITING COURSE, by Bernard
Cronin,
WRITING I'OH THE NEWS-
PAPERS—a course in the writing
of paragraphs and articles for
Australian newspapers and
periodicals,
CRITICAL S K R V I C E TO
WRITERS. < rltidsm of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion by Bernard Cronin.
Particulars of any, or ail, of those
courses will be sent post free on
application to
E. H. WELFORD PTV., LTD.,
3UB Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
fdfi
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut-General
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout."
%
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
■Ovwwjßi Q
The Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas,
Setretary of State for
the Dominions.
“ Pelmanism smooths away all
difficulties” /
K/tj/llsf Y /LfStu,
(Dame Sybil Thorndike)
The Signatures
The signatures in this announce*
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelman Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
when wc meet them by their un-
Ukeness to our conception of them.
We aro sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will bo interested iu these
signatures of well-knowji V'eluian-
isls.
DR. I. W. NORWOOD, D.D.,.
of the City Temple, London,
Who describes Pelmanlsm as
■‘The Key to n Man’s Career."
INTERNATIONAL AtVAKDS
to the Pelmun Institute;
Liege .... 1030 Nancy .... 1033
Geneva .... 1933 Paris 1033
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Courage
and a Reliable Memory,
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The I*el man Institute is a worid-wldc
organisation of 30 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
306 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to the needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early in the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to Concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and!
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitutes a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear on tbe
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone! Cent. 11255.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, poet free. You can
write us fully, or you can mate
just a bare application by using
or cbpyihg the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion; wc have no outside repre -
sentatives.
To the Polman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
"The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
418
CLujju^.
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
A/' / %
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dfg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send SO/-.)
X
v
*r
0,6 9 /»«V/7 . Ip
>* * e f<* V,<^/ao^
?*>
c*>° e *
~e t '° O''"’
;,*»»" % .* y" ,■■■',&s■•
‘ aji- ..•• ..•• o*; »« -c^VV'
>w-’ ..••■■’ y'"’'.
y V-
.\P
o t


Motorists are
pleased to use
Mi|
Papular
[ Guaranteed Ist Grade Petrol sold at Standard Grade Price ]
ASK THE PUMP-MANS
OPINION OF POPULAR PLUS
It’s the BEST
General Purpose
Petrol sold say
Drivers
\
*
i
“ Companion Spirit to C'O'R
800 to I Mixture **
C-O-R QUALITY PETROLS
C7/BP
rm COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT & ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO. LTD.)
SYDNEY - ADELAIDE - BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
