

N
>
%
<
/
I
/%
wz
t/t
)
J
/
y
/r
z#.
/
t
H
sS
£
oc
<«
Z
/
y
/'
STIRLING CASTLE
(Stirlingshire)
*'Commanding all the vale tvhere
Forth’s pure waves
Sea-ward, in sinuous stripes of
silver pass.”
In response to many requests, Dewar s have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
in a size suitable for framing, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Melbourne
or Sydney. Please mention this paper, date,
and title of illustration required.
D E W A R’ S
SCOTCH WHISKY
THE SPIRIT OF OLD SCOTLAND
H IGH on the Castle yilJ, from which twelve battle-
fields are seen, 4 the ancient Castle of Stirling domin-
ates the valley of the Forth. Here is the theatre of Scot-
land’s pageant of history, the scene of her most tragic and
romantic dramas . . . here Scots fought with Scots, with
Romans, Danes, and English ... and Mary, unhappy
Queen, resigned her kingdom. But still stands Stirling
... proud bulwark of a nation ... typifying, like Dewar s,
the unchanging and unchangeable spirit of Scotland.
The Bulletin
“Tiburon” Has Caught On
Vol. 56.—N0. 2903.
Wednesday, October 2, 1935*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Story Writjmj
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bull firm.
My Name .
My Address
S,B. 136
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
PRIZE
STORIES
Most inconsid-
erately, the judges
for the O. Henry
Memorial Award
Prize Stories give
no hint in the
volume of any reasons for their choos-
ings. That leaves no choice but to read
the book. This, therefore, has been
done.
The volume opens with the first-prize
winner, which, but for being badly over-
written and possibly not a short story
at all, has merit as a fragment of prose.
The overwriting pervades the thing
generally, but is most obvious in the
author’s muscular efforts to make the
reader feel that the story’s action takes
place on a hot day. He insists upon this
so often and with such straining after
different ways of saying it that he might
have been writing for a public of deep-
sea fish, hard to convince that any day
could be hot.
Thus, on the first page “Jedwick’s
clothes were saturated with sweat” and
“The flaming orb of the sun shone down
remorselessly.” On the second page
“The midday silence was oppressive, like
the sun,” “He wrapped a long red hand-
kerchief around his shoulders to keep
his neck from frying,” “He wanted after
an hour to crawl under the shade of
some green, leafy trees,” “Waves of
hypnotic steel-grey heat shimmered up,”
qnd “His eyes began to burn.” On the
third page “A breath of wind floated
lazily over the treetops, but died itself
of the heat,” “Jedwick’s ’cello-like bass
rose through the dazzling, brain-sizzling
heat,” “He hummed the rest of the
melody: it was too hot to think of the
words,” and “A little garter snake, sun-
ning itself under the vast ceiling of broil-
ing light, was startled.” One other page:
“It seemed hotter in the sun than ever” ;
“the oily tropical sun’s glare” ; “ ‘lf it’s
hotter down in Africa,’ he joked to him-
self, T’m glad my folks done been
slaves. Yassuh’ ” ; “At least it wasn’t too
hot to whistle” ; and “he saw the shacks
of Alexandria’s outskirts loom glaringly
jn the terrific blaze of afternoon.”
Of course, theme could excuse even
that, but it could only excuse, it would
not justify: the writing would still be
overdone. In this instance, however,
there is not that excuse. The day could
have been raining frozen cats without
affecting the story. The outline of the
narrative is this: A negro escaped from
a chain-gang meets a negro woman who
is drawing water from a well. He has a
drink of water, assaults the woman and
heads onward for New York. At a rail-
road worker’s hut he learns of an empty
train on which he can steal a ride. As
he moves off, he hears the man tele-
phoning the police, and returns and kills
him. On the train he is worried by a
“bull,” but a kick in the waistcoat
hurtles that menace from the speeding
train, making, apparently, one rape and
two murders within a few hours. Later
he drops from the train, is given a lift
by a negro truck-driver, and we leave
him, escaped and in New York.
If it could be inferred that the writer
blamed the heat of the day for his hero’s
actions, those variations on the theme of
sizzle would pass. The fact, however, is
that the heat has nothing to do with the
action, and in plain language is only
padding. The writer’s purpose is to
convey his conception of a primitive
human being’s naive determination,
escaping and smashing through any
obstacle that comes in the way, and this
is finely realised. The episode of the
woman is excellent in establishing the
character of the man ; and in this charac-
ter construction, and the fidelity to it
throughout, the writer’s performance is
admirable.
Regarded as a piece of prose fiction
this prize-winner could, of course, still be
literature even though it did not, as it
does not, comply with a restricting defi-
nition of what a short story is. Like any
other literary matter that admits ques-
tioning, such a definition could be argued
with great profit at so much a line, but
little other profit. Clearly some com-
petent readers can accept a plotless prose
narrative as a short story, else this one
could never have won the important
award. The award makes worth saying
a little more about the story.
The Revolt
Against Form
The story can
be taken as an
illustration of in-
teresting trends
in short story
writing and in
current writing as a whole. In the
short story field it represents a
widespread tendency to have done with
that architectural formation within
the bounds of which most past
masters, including, and especially, O.
Henry himself, forced themselves to
work, but which has suffered deep de-
generation in the mechanised produc-
tions of the magazine-story writers.
Doubtless an impressive argument could
be put up for encouraging the revolt
against the too neatly-turned, polished
and rounded short story, the plans for
constructing which can be learned by
correspondence. But to accept the indi-
vidual protests as themselves works of
literature is another thing. It is to choose
between the two evils, the fetish worship
of form and formlessness. The popular,
or, at any rate, the writers’, choice of the
moment, as in the story which wins this
prize, is for the second evil.
Thus it is no longer necessary for a
piece of narrative prose to convey a com-
pleted experience, physical or psycholo-
gical, or a blending of both, to win
the name of a short story. The word
“completed” is the steadier in that rough
and hazardous definition. Admit in-
completion, and any narrative sketch,
even the first chapter of a novel, can be
called a short story, indifferently with
the piece of short prose fiction which
has unity and finality. It is loosening up
a classification with a vengeance. What
makes it suspect, what makes suspect
the prevailing formlessness in every
literary field, is the grinning plain fact
that it is easier to write without form
than with it. It is easier to launch out
in a narrative veim and follow a charac-
ter to a dramatically inconclusive end-
ing than it is to construct a piece of
prose with dramatic unity and finality.
It may be said for the story under notice
that there is finality in the negro’s hav-
ing reached New York. That was his
objective, and he got there. Then it has
become high drama for you to get from
here to there, leaping a pansy-bed and
stepping through a couple of puddles!
At any rate, it would have been help-
ful of the judges, making their award
in the shade of O. Henry, to have hinted
at the reasons for this preference. Their
failure forces a resort to guesswork.
Perhaps, as has been suggested, their
award is a concession to the general
revolt against the evil of form for form’s
sake. An alternative suggestion might be
that the award expresses admiration for
another widespread tendency among fic-
tion writers, especially in America,
whence hail its most flourishing practi-
tioners, including, high among them, Mr.
Hemingway. This is the tendency to
accept violent physical action as a sub-
stitute for dramatic action, and a literary
quality in itself. An even baser sugges-
tion could be that the award represents
expression of feeling peculiarly Ameri-
can, the prize-winner being an unques-
tionably telling piece of anti-negro propa-
ganda.
Without going into detail over the
second-prize winner, there seems to be
less reason for exalting if than the other.
It, too, centres upon an admirably de-
picted character, an old man surrounding
himself with a garrulous lot of dull
reminiscences.
No guess will be made here as to why
the third-prize winner, by William
Saroyan, was relegated to its position.
Its delicate excellence surprised after the
violence motif of the first and the tor-
pidity of the second. It is as complete
and as rare to look upon as a minted
sovereign. Even its freakish-sounding
title, “The Daring Young Man on the
Flying Trapeze,” turns out to be an in-
evitable part of it, and when it ends that
is all there could be of it. The reader
who wishes to taste more of its author’s
blood, which in this company is the most
worth bottling, will find it in his volume
of the same title published early this
year by Faber.
Among the also-rans, of which there
are 16, making up the rest of the inter-
esting volume, there is a good represen-
tative lot of America’s most sincere
writers of the day. The volume repre-
sents a choice of the year’s stories, in-
cluding a surprisingly good one by
Thomas Wolfe—surprisingly, because
that beautiful full-flowing English of his
seems too great a flood to try to pour
into the short-story form, and yet is
poured in, and does its work admirably.
Red Page.
. [O. Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories
(Heinemann; from Moore’s Bookshop;
7s. 6d.).]
LITERARY
ENGLAND
TODAY
It is just on 30
years since I first
came to London.
In those days
London was con-
sidered the door
at which all
young, writers had to knock: if it opened,
fame and fortune lay inside. I was posi-
tively raw with inexperience, but what
of that? There were a few pounds in
my pocket, a good supply of manuscripts
in my trunk, and my head was full of
the counsels of other men—Bedford,
Abbott, Albert Dorrington—who had
gone before me.
Within limits inexperience is a very
useful asset. It prevents you from avoid-
ing the experiments all old hands avoid
—experiments which are therefore some-
times successful. I think the first article
I wrote was one for the “Nineteenth Cen-
tury and After,” and' I was not surprised,
as I would be now, when proofs came
back within a few days. Similarly with
other papers and magazines. Within a
year I found that I could make, if not a
good living, at least enough to keep me,
with a little over for travel. There were
so many papers that almost any literate
article or story could find a home if it
were sent round often enough.
Lately I have been remembering the
literary world of those days and mar-
velling at the change. It was a very
settled world then, an ordered hierarchy.
Meredith, Hardy, Henry James were
alive, and an atmosphere of the cloister
surrounded them. Shaw and Wells were
beginning to get the ear of the young
people who thought that literature ought
to be more concerned with the problems
of the day. Conrad was unknown to all
but the cognoscenti. There was a bright
young man, Arnold Bennett, asserting
himself in the more advanced reviews;
Belloc and Chesterton were hearty,
youths trying to attract the attention of
a preoccupied world by talking about
one another in loud voices.
But the significant things were the
number and variety of periodicals and
the dignity with which they were run.
Writing was considered important.
Solemn editors sat in their offices sur-
rounded by large staffs of readers, who
carefully considered the manuscripts sub-
mitted to them. Book-reviewing was
paid badly, but was a very responsible
business. An editor I knew was out-
raged when a publishing agent offered
him a large advertisement provided it
was placed opposite his usual causerie
on books. He drove the offending
creature with insults from his office.
It is quite a different world to-day.
The leisurely reviews have gone one by
one: the fiction magazines are quickly
following them. Nearly all the news-
papers with a literary touch —the “West-
minster Gazette,” “Globe,” “Pall Mall
Gazette,” “Daily News” “Morning
Leader”—have died or been swallowed
up by snippety picture papers. I fancy
there is hardly more than a third of
the journals there used to be, and these
have changed their character. What one
sees on the bookstalls are mainly women’s
papers of the cheaper kinds and glossy
little monthlies filled with nudist photo-
graphs.
The army of freelances which used to
throng the clubs and pubs around Fleet-
street has fallen away. Following the
careers of those I used to know, I find
that the ones still alive have mostly gone
into publicity, regular journalism or busi-
ness. As for the bright young men com-
ing down from Oxford or Cambridge,
they do not think of getting a place on
the literary staff of a review nowadays.
Instead, they go to Elstree, where they
learn to write scenarios : or they join the
enormous staff of the 8.8. C., where they
are soon to be found assuring people
who come to them with ideas for talks:
“What we try to avoid heah is the
literary attitude, the literary approach
to a subject. Talk as if you were inter-
ested, yet not too a
story to your neighbor at dinner.”
When you look at the bookstalls here
you wonder if the English have ceased
to read. When you look at the libraries
in every side street you wonder if they
ever do anything else. It is the enor-
mous spread of the cheap libraries that
partly explains the decay of papers and
magazines. Or perhaps the libraries are
a product of this very decay. A popular
novel may be borrowed for twopence,
without deposit, and who, looking for
light reading, would pay sixpence for a
magazine? Some years ago a man
started one of these libraries as an ex-
periment, and the idea spread like a bush-
fire. They are now one of the most
striking phenomena of England. Curi-
ously enough, there is very little loss
through stolen books. Either the Eng-
lish are an honest people or they con-
sider current literature is not worth
stealing.
The effect, anyhow, is a boom in the
publication of novels. Few of them sell
widely, but they are a marketable com-
modity, guaranteed, if they are literate,
to provide a small profit on the costs of
production. Thrillers are, of course,
always in demand. Edgar Wallace has
left a heroic tradition behind him. The
only real literary memorial jin Fleet-
street is the bronze plaque of him at the
Ludgate Circus entrance, with noble and
inspiring words on if that are enough to
(I Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 271 2C, G.P.O.
LET US HELP YOU LAND THE BIG FELLOWS!
English Split Cane Rods
Alcock’s “Imperial” Split Cane Rods
tf)5
£10/10/-
Alcock’s “Imperial” Split Cane Rod, lift., 3 joints, lock
ferrules, cork grip, extra top, closely whipped, superior
finish.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £10/10/-
Alcock’s Split Cane Rod, 9ft., 3 joints, cork grip.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 55/-
Hardy’s “De Luxe” Split Cane Rod, 9Jft., cork grip,
suction ferrules, bridge rings, 2 tops. Weight, 6oz.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £15/17/6
Bartleet’s “De Luxe” Split Cane Rod, 9^ft., cork grip,
2 tops, suction ferrules.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £6/17/6
Bartleet’s Split Cane Rod, 3 joints, raised grip,
suction ferrules.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/-
Bartleet’s Split Cane Rod, 9jjft., 3 joints, cork grip,
suction ferrules, extra top.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 45/-
STEEL ROD
ocaaaaeCl-. ■■■■ n . t-i YW .. n ■■■ rfV..,.—, , /
-—; ....ir.l:... r; t r i ■ , i ; - » - - - .. . — —
r - " ~ 7
tJ-ggsMS?- _ iiil „ l ;;.SlCa
Steel Rods, 9ft., 3 joints, with cork grip.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 14/6
We have a fine display of English Split Cane Rod Timber,
single and double built; also single with steel centre, in
various sizes. Suitable for game fishing.
Above:
Game Fish Rod Butts. Nickel locking reel fitting, with
counter ferrule. Agate and metal rod rings.
Lines That Hold the Biggest and
Most Determined Trout !
6t »QNci:i t .
uble
ped
f?
QM
“KINGFISHER” DOUBLE-TAPERED TROUT LINES.
Made of pure silk, carefully plaited, waterproof with a
permanent line dressing, improving with use.
Numbers 1 2 3
Prices, per 30 yards 24/- 27/- 30/-
# Fishing Requisites—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.
» FISHERMAN’S POCKET GUIDE
ivery fisherman should possess a copy of this compact
ind useful guide. It will be posted free of charge at
your request.
TROUT AND PERCH
SEASON OPENED
Ist OCTOBER
K
'VC
f.'
A •
'am
■■
mm
m
“SALINE”
Braided Silk Enamelled Line,
23 yards.
Gauge . . H G F
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-6/6 7/6 8/6
Alaska Enamelled Silk Fly Line.
Gauge H G F
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
5/- 5/6 6/6
DEVON BAITS
fd
Devon Baits.
Sizes, ins... 1 1J 14 1| 2
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each —
1/6 1/9 2/- 2/- 2/3
Best English-made Trout Files.
Wet—Price, dozen 4/6
Dry-—Price, dozen 5/6
Spoon Flashes.
Sizes, inches 4 f 1
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
6d. 9d. lOd.
English Trout Reels
English Trout Reels, 3£in.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-27/6 45/- 65/-
Steelite Trout Reels, inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 9/6
Hardy’s Perfection Trout Reels, 3J inches,
with Agate guide and regulator.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £5/17/6
English Trout Reels, 2J inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 13/6
“ATLAS” REEL
“Atlas” Double Multiplying Brass Nickelled
Reel, with optional check.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 6/6
FRENCH CREELS
Very strongly-made French Creels.
Prices, each 22/6 and 32/6
Also All-cane Creels, with strap. Very
strongly made.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 33/-
Fishing Bags.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices: 8/6, 10/6, 22/6.
COLLAPSIBLE LANDING
NET
Vv
Very
Collapsible Trout Landing Nets,
strongly made.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices; 15/-, 22/6, 28/6.
Aluminium Fly Cases
Aluminium Fly Cases, with clips.
Sizes, inches x2\
Prices 5/6
With compartments 11/6
5 x 3i
9/6
16/-
Aluminium Cast Cases
Aluminium Cast Cases, with felt pad.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 2/9 and 4/6
Combination Aluminium Cast and Fly Case.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . . 11/6
GUT CASTS
Red Toop Tapered Casts, 3yd.
Gauges ito lx. lx to 4x.
Prices 3/3 3/3
Fallow Tapered Casts.
Sizes 2 yards. 3 yards.
Prices 2/9 3/6
Birds’ Tapered Casts, 3 yards.
Price 2/-
Hercules Level Casts.
Sizes Iyd. 2yd. 3yd.
Prices 1/- 2/- 2/9
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
ANTHONY
HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
- 0
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


G** tS
i /
H.
It i
77 PAGES OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
“KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG”
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the Native Tribes of Australia.
By HERBERT BASEDOW, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
OUTSTANDING SUCCESS OF THIS REMARKABLE BOOK
In less than two months the First and Second Editions of this interesting book have been disposed
of and the Third Edition is now available.
In this book Dr. Basedow relates facts that are stranger fhan fiction. Close association with these
remarkable nomads of the North provided countless opportunities for the writer to observe theii
quaint habits and customs.
It is as one of themselves that Dr. Basedow wrote this fascinating story of the Aborigines lore,
tribal ceremonies and customs; pitched battle and duel; bird and animal hunt. It is a narrative
in which broad comedy, touching pathos and tragedy blend into a living and beautiful pattern.
Nobody will ever again see all that is described in ‘ KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG,
240 PAGES. PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
NOW ON SALE.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or from the Publishers, BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., Sydney and All
States, also New Zealand.
fire any young man with a desire to
thrill his countrymen to the marrow
and keep on doing it.
Apart from the steady trade in library
novels, most publishers look to launch-
ing best-sellers occasionally, and this has
led to a competition in advertising that
has already become a racket. Reviewers
vie with one another in discovering
geniuses: the language of hyperbole has
been worn to threads ; nearly every paper
has its “Book of the Month.” Publishers
surveying their mounting overhead —ad-
vertising, honorariums to “readers,”
cocktail parties to authors —sometimes
wonder if the game is worth the candle.
Their principal fear is that if the jazzed-
up excitement about new works of
genius died down the demand would fall
away to mere library-level.
And they say that the enthusiasm for
masterpieces has produced a higher level
of writing. Perhaps it has. The mere
average novel, is better written than it
was 30 years ago. There is apparently
an inexhaustible supply of writers who
can produce a neat, sophisticated story
that looks like a genuine object of art.
The literary palates of library-readers
have become more sensitive. They would
turn up their eyebrows now at Hardy’s
awkward prose, his preoccupation with
rustics.
But there is growing up a younger
generation that suspects the tendencies
of English writing at the present moment.
They are cynical about all this “boudoir”
literature that is so highly advertised.
They are chiefly interested in foreigners
—Andre Gide, Malraux, Faulkner: men
who have a closer contact with life than
any Englishman since Lawrence died.
And, in general, they turn to poetry
rather than fiction for this nourishment.
That is the reason for the popularity of
Spender, Auden, Day Lewis.
VANCE PALMER.
Again the
Professors
Each year the
Australian Insti-
tute of Political
Science conducts
a summer school
at which the
members professors, university lec-
turers and school-teachers for the greater
part—discuss questions of importance (to
the professors). For 1935 the discussions
were held at Healesville (Vic.) and given
official recognition as part of the Mel-
bourne centenary celebrations; Trends
in A ustralian Politics (Angus and Robert-
son ; 55.) is the result.
So far as political tendencies are con-
cerned, Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R.,
deals briefly with the development of the
Labor party, D. R. Hall does the same
by the U.A.P., Country party, Douglas
people. All for Australia League and
broadcasting as it affects election cam-
paigns, and J. A. McCallum inspects at
greater length the economic bases of
Australian politics and finds that “poli-
cies, which may or may not benefit the
community, are ingeminated by the con-
scious determination of powerful groups
to secure material advantage.” Also, E.
L. Piesse gives his opinions on the feel-
ing for secession in Westralia and the
smaller States, reviews the “Case for
Secession,” which he likes, the “Case
for Union,” which he doesn’t like, and
the report of the Grants Commission on
disabilities, with which he is thoroughly
in accord. But all this is but a gather-
ing together of what is already known by
the average man in the street, who gets
his politics from his daily paper; the
professors look to replanning the system.
Professor Bland, as does the village
debater, sees the Cabinet system as
“liable to subordinate public well-being
to party advantage,” and, deploring the
evils which spring from “the apathy of
the mass of the people,” “the impotence
of Parliament,” “Ministerial dilatoriness
and ineptitude,” “the decay of impeach-
ment” and “party regimentation,” he—
like the village debater once again—pro-
poses an elaborate system for reforming
the machinery of government. The life
of Parliaments is to be increased ; Stand-
ing Committees are to be extended to
cover education, transport, finance,
social services, justice and anything else
at all; Cabinet is to have a special non-
political “economic division,” located at
the university so that university staffs
might be drawn upon to increase its per-
sonnel. These he terms “Political Re-
forms.” On the administrative side there
are to be “a Supreme Administrative
Council of State,” sectionalised in its
several jurisdictions, but sitting as a Full
Council to hear appeals “either by the
political executive or the public against
decisions of public or private corpora-
tions” ; and a Bureau of General Ad-
ministration, which, among other duties,
would “police the Budget.” Another
university man, F. R. E. Mauldon, com-
plains at length that “the terminology we
[Victorians] employ in naming many of
bur administrative agencies betrays an
unconcern for consistency.” Practical
suggestions there are none.
J. C. B.
Conrad as a
Past Fashion
Mrs. Conrad
has published a
book with the
natural and
praiseworthy ob-
ject of rehabilitat-
ing her husband’s reputation. Conrad’s
rise to fame was very gradual. His early
books, which later became his most
popular appeals to his public, were
known only to literary specialists. Then,
with the publication of Chance, he sud-
denly became famous, and, much to the
astonishment of the experts, it was over
a book which made difficult reading even
to the most enthusiastic Conradian. In
this work Conrad went to great pains to
elucidate his theme from as great a
variety of angles as possible, and in
places we read what somebody said about
what somebody said about what some-
body said, to as many as eight removes
from the original experience of the indi-
vidual. But from then on the Conrad
boom developed to immense proportions.
People spoke of his deep insight into
human nature, his 'magnificent capacity
for conjuring up images, his profound
philosophy, his astounding facility in the
English language.
Conrad seems almost to be forgotten
now, and the critics, if they bother about
him, approach him with tempered
caution. They are ready to ascribe to
him a certain poetic quality, which is a
vague term that covers a multitude of
imponderables; but otherwise they are
inclined to regard him of little signifi-
cance in the tradition of English literature.
Few would compare him with Hardy,
or even Galsworthy. His supposed com-
mand of English, once regarded as extra-
ordinary in a writer who knew nothing
but Polish till he embarked on a British
vessel, is now found to be subject to
qualifications. His tricks of grammar
gave his style an impressiveness like the
language of the Bible, but in another man
they would have been regarded as eccen-
tricities. His talent for description,
which found expression in immensely
long accounts of sunrises, sunsets, sea-
scapes and the phenomena of the jungle,
was founded on that most popular fallacy
of writers, the idea of word-painting,
which ignores the fact that words are
symbols for associations and that for
every individual the associations of any
given word are bound to vary according
to personal experience.
As for Conrad’s insight into human
nature, it cannot be compared even with
the simple psychology of a Henry Law-
son. It resembles nothing so much as a
shipmaster shyly watching his passengers
from the bridge and speculating on their
behavior because he lacks the faculty of
getting into conversation with them. His
philosophy of life can be summed up in
the one word “honor.” He had the
English public-school boy’s mystical idea
of this virtue, as exemplified in that
amazing monologue Lord Jim, in which
a young ship’s officer, having abandoned
a sinking ship full of Mecca pilgrims,
spends the rest of his life expiating his
sin, eventually voluntarily paying the
supreme sacrifice.
George Bernard Shaw is not easily
taken in by contemporary reputations,
and when he first met Conrad he re-
marked to the astonished novelist: “Your
books won’t do, Mr. Conrad your
books won’t do! ” Posterity seems to
have endorsed that distinguished verdict.
Nevertheless, the verdict of posterity
is not necessarily of any significance.
The literature of the past is constantly
being reviewed, but the value of the
reviewing depends on the capacity of the
reviewer. He may not have any other
criterion but that of a new fashion. Con-
rad was the fashion in his time, and now
he is no longer the fashion, having been
replaced by new fashions. The criterion
to judge Conrad must be a real criterion
—the valuer must have more knowledge
than Conrad. Shaw had a real criterion
inasmuch as he knew more about human
nature than did Conrad. Professors think
they have a criterion, not only to judge
contemporary literature, but also Shak-
speare, but, as Shakspeare dealt with life,
about which professors know little, their
judgment is merely reverence for an
established reputation. If Conrad is ever
rehabilitated it will be because there is
real merit in his work and there are
writers capable of perceiving it.
CAUBOY.
“Tiburon,”
So Far
If the portion
of Tiburon so
far published is a
fair sample, the
weekly arrival of
The Bulletin
will arouse extra enthusiasm for some
time. But novels such as this serve an-
other purpose besides that of amusing
the contemporary generation. Historical
novelists of the future must glean every-
thing except the bare official facts from
three sources —the newspapers, the ad-
vertisements and the character portrayals
of to-day. In The Bulletin, as has been
remarked by others before this, they will
find many characteristics of a large sec-
tion of the Australian people. And even
at this stage I venture to predict that,
for local color of its place and for that
essentially Australian figure the bagman,
Kylie Tennant will earn the gratitude of
more than one of them. Her detail is
excellent, including even a beer strike.
In this, isn’t she the first of our scribes
to mention what is rapidly becoming a
quaint old Australian custom?
CYCLOPS.
A Satchel of Books
The White Priory Murders, by Carter
Dickson (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). The
addict will find this not up to the author’s
The Bowstring Murders, but, with a
shadowy old house in Surrey for setting,
a beautiful film star for principal victim,
the usual half-dozen who could have
murdered the lady and the ponderous
vulgarian Sir Henry Merrivale bending
his great brain on the matter, there s
plenty entertainment. About fair aver-
age quality thriller class.
The Transients, by Mark Van Doren
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Pretty little fan-
tasy of embodied spirits walking the
earth, a young man and a young woman
who have mortal love affairs before they
find each other and embark upon their
idealistic honeymoon. Anyone who can
enjoy a fairy-story heroine who goes
about the countryside asking all and
sundry if they have seen a man in a
green shirt should find pleasure in it.
Men and Gods in Mongolia, by Hen-
ning Haslund (Kegan Paul; 15s. net).
The author of that admirable book of
unusual travel, Tents in Mongolia, tells
of his adventures with the Sven Hedin
scientific expedition across Mongolia and
the Gobi desert to the Far West of China
in 1927. Written for general reading, it
is a sound, sober account of what must
have been often a difficult and altogether
a wonderful experience. Haslund’s sec-
tion of the immense caravan penetrated
the Black Gobi desert to become familiar
with the scarcely-known Mongolian
tribe, the Torguts. Not an exciting, but
an evenly interesting narrative, with
capital descriptions in which strange
monastery festivals, the people and the
desert life are made real and visible to
the armchair reader.
Full House, by M. J. Farrell (Collins :
7s. 6d,). One of those graceful pieces of
fiction that stir no deep feelings, hold
the reader with gentle ties of charm, con-
vey a complete acquaintanceship with a
number of people of minor personality,
but in all leave the negative impression
of something excellently done if it had
been worth the doing. The author has
that sparkling, faintly malicious touch of
humor which seems to belong to all
really good women writers. She writes
of a family house set near the sea in
some quiet part of Ireland, and makes
house and family, the garden and the
dogs, little futile love-affairs and feminine
acts and emotions all very clear and
charming. She has the rather common
feminine liking for helpless male charac-
ters, but makes them, for what they are
worth, real and true enough.
Machines and Men, by W. F. Watson
(Allen and Unwin ; 55,). The dictum that
everyone has it in him to write at least
one book could have no better illustra-
tion. Watson, who,- was working in 1896
as errand boy in an engineering “shop,”
tells about himself, about the jobs he’s
had, the “shops” he’s worked in, the men
he’s worked with and about his ideas on
machinery and unemployment, trade-
unionism (he had a reputation as an
agitator), war and the like. He was an
engineer for more than thirty years, and
he loves his machines as old friends. It
is all extremely interesting, even to one
who understands nothing of the machines
he mentions, and it is illuminating. This,
for instance. One of his employers (“one
of the best men I ever worked for”)
asked his opinion of him—the em-
ployer :
“Well, Mr. Mepsted!” 1 said slowly.
“As Ernie Mepsted I like you very much
indeed, you’re a friend and a sport, but
as my employer you are my hereditary
enemy.”... .My conviction that antagon-
ism exists between employers and workers
remains unshaken.
Murder of a Bad Man, by Hulbert
Footner (Collins ; 7s. 6d.). A couple of
uninspired murders, crude illicit liquor
dealing in post-prohibition America and
cruder love. Poor stuff, in local color,
conception and execution.


*1
w
\
V
X
ff
X
e*e<f
/
%
OATMEAL
STOUT


GIFT
CASES
One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2903.
October 2, 1935.
UNITED FOR “SANCTIONS.”
“There she goes, the old capitalistic witch!”
“H’sh, comrade—she’s one of US!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper Home, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.-
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
Lnited Kingdom via "All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
MR. CASEY’S BUDGET.
Mr. Casey’s first Budget has few good points and
many bad ones. The new Treasurer, like his predeces-
sor, has been moved by the clamor of discontented
sections, and has done his best to satisfy the insatiable.
But the measure of relief provided for the taxpayer
is trifling, almost insulting.
Last year Mr. Lyons budgeted for a revenue of
£57,150,000, business undertakings excluded. Com-
monwealth revenue estimates are nearly always
exceeded, and actual receipts were £61,702,000.
Customs-and-excise was . up £3,269,000, sales tax
£554,000 and income tax £262,000, and postal earnings
were underestimated by £565,000.
Out of this abounding revenue the Government
was able to provide £3,268,000 for wheatgrowers’
relief —£798,000 was added from the proceeds of the
flour tax, introduced after presentation of the Budget
—and other increases in expenditure left a surplus
of £711,200, instead of the £14,000 anticipated. Half
a million of the £711,200 is to go in “further assist-
ance to the States” ; the balance is to be applied “in
part reduction of the accumulated deficit of
£17,216,300.”
Mr. Casey calls this “adherence to a policy of
sound finance which encourages private enterprise
to expand and absorb numbers of unemployed.”
For this year revenue from taxes is reckoned
at £61,850,000, and it will be a miracle if it isn’t a
great deal more. The Post Office is expected to yield an
additional £14,700,000; its expenditure on “ordinary
services” is set down at £12,572,000. There is obvious
room here for reduction of the exorbitant letter-charge
of twopence (Maoriland and Canada have penny
postage), but Mr. Brown of the Post Office won’t
have it; so £1,650,000 is to be collared for “new
works from revenue.” If the price of wheat settles at
a remunerative level, which now seems probable,
there will be no need for a bounty ; in any case, a
revenue of £61,850,000 (and the rest) admits of sub-
stantial tax-cuts. But all that is to be done in that
line amounts to reduction of the special tax on
property income from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c, (calculated at
£200,000), a small addition to the list of sales-
tax exemptions (£150,000) and bits off primage
(£45,000), excise on Australian-grown tobacco
(£90,000) and excise on cigarettes (£25,000); £510,000
altogether.
On the expenditure side, invalid and old-age
pensions are expected to cost another million or so,
making the outlay £12,770,000. The 6d.-a-week cost-
of-living «rise accounts for £350,000. It would be
better to take more off primage and sales tax, and
then the whole community would benefit; but that is
not the Lyons Government’s way,
Speaking for the State which is third in order
of importance, and may be first some day, Mr. Forgan
Smith has said, very forcibly, that “the Common-
wealth will have to take over some of the functions
of the States or vacate certain fields of financial
activity.” But the Lyons Government’s way with the
States, instead of going for a redistribution of functions
and taxes that would enable them to make ends meet
without becoming chronic mendicants, is to give
them more to spend without the slightest responsibility
to those from whom the money is taken. So in special
grants there are to be £1,500,000 for S.A., £BOO.OOO
for Westralia and £450,000 for Tasmania: £2.750,000
altogether—£3so,ooo more than in 1934-35, £620,000
more than in 1933-34. For all the States £14,225,000
is to be provided out of this year’s revenue, as against
£13,781,800 out of last year’s—last year an additional
£2,000,000 was distributed “out of excess receipts
of previous years,” and this is not reckoned in, nor
is the £500,000 to be divided in the current twelve-
month.
And, of course, “Crown employees” have not
been forgotten. They are to have another £70.000 to
the end of June and £90,000 in a full year: “24 p.c.
of the salaries which would have been paid on the 1930
standard” ; Ministers and members too. Ministers
and members are “Crown employees” when good
things are being distributed, though not on other
occasions.
Some provision is at last to be made for
ex-servicemen not covered by the Repatriation Act.
Many distressing cases have come to light, and no
one will begrudge the £175,000 proposed to be spent
in this neglected field during the remainder of the
financial year. Nor will anyone but hopeless cranks
object to increased provision for Defence (though only
£571,000 of the expenditure on the second year of
the programme, £7,352,000 is to come out of 1935-36
revenue). But the British Government has made this
provision and been mindful of taxpayers as well.
Last year it took £22,000,000 off income tax and
£13,000,000 off excise. And in the April Budget, in
spite of the need to add greatly to Defence estimates,
small incomes were relieved of another £10,000,000.
In Britain debt-reduction has gone hand in hand
with reduction of taxes. During the year to March
31, the internal debt was reduced from £7,822,330,000
to £7,800,436,800. During the year to June 30, the
Australian debt. Commonwealth and States, rose from
£1,222,559,000 to £1,242,115,000; the increase for
three years was approximately £54,300,000. Mr.
Casey evidently thinks it doesn’t matter: “in 1921-22,”
he says, “the aggregate interest bill represented £7 9s.
4d. per head of population ; for 1935-36, the corre-
sponding figure is £7 Bs. Id.” But in the intervening
13 years the population has grown from 5,600,000 to
6,700,000, a national-debt sinking fund has been
established, £558,000,000 of internal debt has been
converted (“annual savings were calculated to be about
£6,500,000”), and the overseas interest-and-exchange
bill has been reduced £2,935,000 p.a. by the conver-
sion of £160,000,000 in London. Nearly all the new
borrowing has been done for the States, and the
effect is that the national-debt sinking fund has been
shorn of half its value, and the benefits of the conver-
sions are being fooled away.
MUSSOLINI.
There is one Mussolini with whom everybody is
familiar. This is Mussolini the Outdoor Man, the
brusque fellow in shirtsleeves or uniform, with his jaw
sticking out —every inch an actor. It is no more the
whole Mussolini than a dog’s bark is a dog. It is not
even a fair revelation of his histrionic ability.
Mussiolini plays another character before the
Senate, touched with gravity and sober concern. Yet
another before the Chamber —vociferous, emphatic,
with some humor. The other, the Outdoor Man, is
the role he affects when he seeks to impress peasants,
the ignorant and the young. Thus it is perfectly
adapted to the nature, the scope and the appeal of the
talkies and pictorial press, from which mediums of in-
telligence and information we have it.
There can be no doubt about its local effect. The
performer can always be seen surrounded by an open-
air audience which is enjoying him thoroughly. The
admiration is spontaneous and unqualified. As propa-
ganda for world-wide consumption it is not so good.
Its weakness is that the virtues it emphasises are not
everywhere regarded as such. There are places where
all this boisterous goodfellowship, mingling with sol-
diers and singing their songs, baby-hugging, wheat-
harvesting, pick-swinging, posing for cameras and
striking attitudes up and down the country are not
regarded as infallible signs of greatness or even of
goodness. / Instead, they may be regarded as a parade
of absurdities in the manner of Malvolio.
It is sheer acting ; but to call it that does not
absolve the actor, as it would with a stage clown. The
role is Mussolini’s own invention, and to that extent
it is Mussolini himself. He is an actor not by pro-
fession but by nature. It is in the fabric of his dreams.
It is a translation into action of his conception of
Fascism, which, in his own words, “brings back ‘style’
to the life of the people: that is, a line of conduct,
color, force, the picturesque, the unexpected, the
mystic ; in other words, all that counts in the mind of
the multitude.” Simply, in something like the phrase
of C. J. Dennis, he acts because he damn’ well has to
act. He can’t help it.
In his own theatre Mussolini is the greatest actor
of them all. But nobody ever becomes a great actor
without a pretty thorough experience of life, and to
fail to see past the posturing Mussolini of the
theatrettes to what this monstrous myth grew out of is
to miss a prime slice of raw-meat history and a plain
signpost to the real Mussolini as well.
No earthquake or heavenly illuminations cele-
brated his entry into the world (1883), but the horo-
scope industry should make capital of the fact that
the sun at the time was in the constellation of the
Lion. His people were poor peasant stock ; the home,
in the tiny village of Predappio, about as wretched a
place as ever saw the birth of a great man. If not
actually on the verge of starvation, the family was not
so very far off it. The father, a blacksmith, was a
political agitator,- which was remembered when the
son tried for his first job, a municipal clerkship. He
turned to school-teaching, and began the spare-time
self-tuition which those who know him well say he
pursues still, so that his acquaintance with Mark
Twain, aired in the cables the other day, would be
authentic: he would be just as likely to have read all,
of Mark Twain as all of Nietzsche, whose philosophy,
of the Superman he swallowed young, with visible
results.
He left school-teaching, sacrificing fifteen shillings
a week, to go, at nineteen, to Switzerland, where,
according to his own account, he earned a living as a
bricklayer and as general help in a wineshop. Another
account has it that he lived on his friends. At any
rate, he had trouble with the police for being without
visible means of support, and eventually he was
expelled from the country for his political activities, or,
as another account has it, for falsifying his passport.
A little more school-teaching, and then political jour-
nalism, and the beginning of things.
In 1911 he was sentenced to five years’ imprison-
ment, and served five months of it, for opposing public
authority, damaging the State telegraphic line, placing
a telegraph pole on the railway line and other like
pleasantries—manifestations, in so far as he was guilty
of them, of his opposition to the very sort of thing
with which he is now troubling the world, the colonis-
ing adventure of the Libyan war. A year later he
was a national figure, and the subject of a prophecy
that would earn its maker renown as the greatest of
modern tipsters if it did not brand him as an extra-
ordinarily farseeing and acute judge of men and events.
That year, 1912, Sorel the philosopher said of
him: “Our Mussolini is not an ordinary Socialist.
Believe me, you will one day see him at the head of
a sacred battalion, saluting the flag of Italy with his
sword. No one yet knows it; but he is the only man
of energy capable of repairing the weakness of the
Government.”
Since then he has remade Italy with methods that
recall the best and the worst of the Roman Empire ;
four attempts have been made on his life, one by a
crazy Englishwoman ; and idolaters have compared
him with Caesar, Napoleon and St. Francis. The
prophecy has literally come true; but just as literally
Mussolini had a devil of a time before it did. The
forty wounds he received at the war, two more than
the days he spent there, were nothing to the political
wounds he suffered soon afterwards. Typical of this
period of black despair was his humiliation in the
1919 elections, the first held since 1913. The “national
figure” of that earlier date stood as an Independent
and secured fewer than 5000 votes out of 346,000.
Three years later, the war’s aftermath of riot,
disorder and opposing political ineptitude helping him,
he met Parliament as its Prime Minister and the leader
of 300,000 Fascists. There and then he put into the
mouth of the future Arliss who will act him the perfect
line: “1 could have made this hall, dark and grey,
a bivouac for my squads.”
They are the words of an actor, but scarcely of
a comedian.
“PIONEER HOMES.”
Certain N. S. Wales politicians are captivated by the
claim that the founder of the Hammondville Pioneer
Home Settlement has discovered “a practical solu-
tion of the problem of idle men, connecting them
with idle lands.” A study of the scheme shows that
the admirable Canon Hammond has done nothing so
desirable. At best he is giving a handful of unem-
ployed family men, laborers and tradesmen, an incen-
tive to dig half an acre and to plant potatoes and
sweet-peas by enabling them to look forward to
ownership of a cottage while still relying mainly on
the Government for sustenance.
However, since November, 1932, benevolent
citizens have made it possible for the settlement to
grow from 13 to 210 acres, from 13 to 71 families
averaging five. The local council has accepted respon-
sibility for the roads, the State Government has
assisted materially, one U.A.P. knight has lent his
name to Walder-road and another his to Stewart-
avenue.
A relief worker in this singular community, 2£
miles from Sydney, knows that in seven years from
his first weekly payment of 6s. sd. or thereabouts,
principal and interest included, he will own, if he
sticks there, an acre of land and a cottage (bedrock
price £lOO ; water laid on ; school, dance hall, river
swimming, bus, post office and ten-acre park reserve ;
fencing wire, half a dozen fowls, a rooster and seeds
thrown in). And his only deposit need be the furnish-
ing of proofs of unemployment, of a threat of eviction,
of a wife and paternity of three children at least and
of good character. It is not surprising that -here is
a waiting list hundreds of names long. Cottages are
going up and families moving in at the rate of one
every 10 days. When the last family settles in the
minimum population will be 1000. An appeal to the
public is being made for all the help that can be
afforded, and there is in the circular a resounding line
about “the dreams of Sovietisation” fading “into
oblivion in the face of glorious possibilities of inde-
pendent home-ownership.”
Yet it is as odd a mixture of sentimental socialism
and half-digested economics as could be imagined.
No family, when admitted, may be in receipt of more
than £2 7s. a week, made up of child-endowment and
relief-work money. The land is not much good, and
no one pretends that the tilled portion of the acre
will sustain a family. Still, the inhabitants are becom-
ing property-owners, liable to pay rates out of pay-
ments received from the Government and collected
by the Government from other property-owners, who
have been smitten with special taxes by State and
Commonwealth alike.
Inevitably as the settlement grows political con-
sciousness will appear. Demands for services will
claim attention because it will be stressed justifiably
that, since the majority of inhabitants count on the
city yielding them work, they regard Hammondville
as an outer suburb only. In any case, what has been
achieved but the creation of a select community of
“fortunate” poor, who must be pointed to enviously
by thousands of others not a whit less deserving? If
the thing is not probed with critical questions in
Parliament, and if, as has been suggested there, it
is extended, it will become all sail and no anchor.
Plainly the Government could consider adoption of
a scheme on the Hammondville model only if it were
prepared to become landlord of cheap, clean dwell-
ings, which would, of course, negate the bit about
the dreams of Sovietisation fading into oblivion.
In the last analysis the experiment is purely a
psychological one, the result of which could have
been guessed. Anyone knows that a family will sleep
sounder under its own watertight roof than under
either a rented leaky one or rotten hessian. And
practically no cerebral activity is required to appre-
ciate that to turn down the chance of owning a house
simply by paying for a definitely limited period half
of what one is expected to pay indefinitely to a land-
lord, even when unemployed (and to have part of the
weekly instalment given by the State), is at once to
slam the door savagely in Opportunity’s face and to
hack off the noses of the entire family with the blunt
knife of stupidity.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Right Up to the Hilt.”
The Prime Minister has had the unusual experience
of being rebuked by Great Dailies which support
his Government. His account of its attitude at
Geneva proved to be merely a cautious recapitulation
of events, as non-committal as a Royal Commission’s
report; and the Great Dailies tartly informed him
that he would have to explain his explanation. One
or two hinted, not obscurely, that a national leader
was expected to lead.
Thus admonished, the P.M. made another speech
on Friday. This time he said he had given the British
Government an assurance that, “so long as its atti-
tude towards peace continued, the Government and
people of Australia would stand behind Britain right
up to the hilt.” «“Right up to the hilt” seems out of
place in a guarantee of support for a peace policy;
but, then, Mr. Lyons is no lord of language.
Meanwhile, Mr. Forde had come out with a plea
for neutrality in which, adapting Bismarck, he
argued that an Abyssinian wrangle wasn’t worth the
bones of an Australian soldier ; and Mr. Beasley had
supplemented it with some anti-British rant. But if
the Labor factions in Parliament were united (except,
perhaps, for exuberant pacifists like Mr. Blackburn),
it was far from being the case with their followers.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council declared for “non-
participation” ; Tas. Labor for “sanctions.” The
leaders of the Miners’ - Federation and the A.R.U.
were likewise for “sanctions.” “S. M. Herald” con-
gratulated the A.R.U. bosses on their “well-justified
rebuff to Labor’s inept leadership.” At the end of
the week these bosses were championing “the united
front” demanded by the Communists —“united action
against the capitalist offensive on workers’ standards
and against Fascism and war” —but the “Herald”
didn’t enlarge on that.
In the Mediterranean zone a better feeling
prevails since John Bull moved warships and troops
to vital points, and sent his Ambassador at Rome to
tell Mussolini that he had to do it because of the
language—now hectoring, now contemptuous —of the
Italian press. This was the old John Bull and the
old diplomacy; and in times like these the old
diplomacy has advantages over the new, as exem-
plified by the elegant Mr. Eden and the platoon of
reporters that surrounds him. On Saturday Musso-
lini was saying that “Italian policy” had “no im-
mediate or remote aims likely to injure British
interests,” and was “ready” for “an agreement har-
monising with our legitimate interests in East Africa” ;
also that Italy would not leave the League “until the
League assumes full responsibility for measures
against Italy.” But he has continued his preparations
for what he calls “the Abyssinian conflict,” and the
League Council, on which Mr. Bruce represents Aus-
tralia, has invoked Article XV of the Covenant.
This is nothing more than an attempt to gain
time. Under Article XV the Council is bound “to
endeavor to effect a settlement of the dispute,” and,
if its efforts fail, to “make and publish a report con-
taining a statement of the facts and the recommen-
dations deemed just and proper.” It “may in any
case refer the dispute to the Assembly,” the sittings
of which have been adjourned. It is positively stated
that “the recommendations deemed just and proper”
will “have no relation to sanctions.” There has
been “no disregard of covenants” yet, so the position
has not been reached where Italy may be “deemed
to have committed an act of war against all other
members of the League.” Its best friends and the
friends of peace throughout the world may still hope,
if not confidently, that the position never will be
reached.
*
New Sickbays for Melbourne.
The Dunstan Government is tackling a problem which
other Victorian Ministries shelved. It proposes to
substitute a new modern hospital for the great
cramped institution between the National Gallery
and Lonsdale-street, Melbourne. Previous endeavors
were frustrated by a multitude of counsellors, one
wanting the site in one place and another elsewhere.
The existing structure is so hopelessly inadequate
that a major epidemic or a great civic catastrophe
would mean a breakdown of the system.
The new hospital is to be erected on the Pig-
Market site, which is quieter and more accessible in
city rush hours ; the cost is to be three-quarters of
a million, and part of it will be covered by the sale
of the present property. The Dunstans are handling
the problem in no half-hearted manner. There are
to be extensions and improvements to St. Vincent’s,
the Alfred, the Prince Henry and the Dental, bring-
ing the total expenditure up to £1,025,000; and
£lOO,OOO is to be spent on country hospitals.
There is a sad lack of facilities for training
students at the University. This will be remedied by
the provision of a modern hospital with 500 beds,
pathological and other departments; also that excel-
lent institution the Walter and Eliza Hall will go
to the new site and be put under the aegis of the
Public Hospital authorities. There is general jubila-
tion amongst the committees which struggle with
auxiliaries and bazaars and other social devices to
maintain Melbourne’s healing facilities on a civilised
basis ; but more details are asked for.
If the Government were not so hard up a proposal
of Arthur Streeton’s would merit consideration. The
painter suggests that the site of the present building
be cleared, and that the Applied Arts Training College
in Latrobe-street be transferred to it, as well as other
cultural institutions. These would be linked up with
the neighboring National Gallery, Library and
Museum, making a worthy focal centre to the city.
But the Dunstans will probably feel that they have
dug deep enough into the community’s pockets when
they have raised the £480,000 loan which is to be
the Government’s contribution.
*
“Use More Milk!”
Immediately after the N. S. Wales Government had
been baited by discontented followers into promis-
ing an inquiry into the administration of the Milk
Act, and also an amendment of that measure, the
Lang-Stevens board staged the annual pantomime it
calls its “Use More Milk” campaign. One of the
features was “a fairy play entitled ‘The Milky Way,’
interpreted by 25 dancers.” The fairy play was “fol-
lowed by a series of films depicting the progress of
the commodity from the cow to the consumer.” Both
fairy play and films could have been improved.
For example, no politician in the cow-fluid busi-
ness dashed on the stage and asked the audience
whether it believed in fairies. Picture a well-nourished
M.L.C. advancing to the footlights, arms outstretched,
and ingeminating the words “Say, say you believe
in fairies and then poor Fairy Control won’t get it
where the chicken got the axe.” It would have brought
down the house. Then a striking effect could have
been created by the ballerinas twisting themselves into
the figures 7 and 8, symbolising the retail prices
charged since the board was inflicted on the public.
And the “films depicting the progress of the com-
modity from the cow to the consumer” should have
closed with a scene showing the consumer being
skinned. But nobody seems to have thought of these
embellishments.
Melbourne has a milk-control system also, but
it is somewhat different. While this mummery was
going on in Sydney the Melbourne board announced
a reduction of 2d. a gallon in wholesale rates for
treated and untreated milk, and put it to the retailers
that it expected the reduction to be passed on. The
retailers took only two days to think it over. Then
the executive committee of the Dairymen’s Association
decided that after October 1 the present official retail
prices of 6d. a quart for milk in bulk and 7d. a quart
for bottled milk shall be reduced to sjd. and 6£d.
respectively. In many districts vendors have already
lowered the price of their milk by Id. a quart.
While Melbourne gets a reduction Sydney is
fobbed off with fairy plays and fairy tales.
♦
The New Sybarites.
Commonwealth estimates show the usual luxurious
provision for members, of whom Ms.H.R. had 39
sittings in a twelvemonth and Senators 19. They
are to have their salaries increased £25 on top of
what they voted themselves at that all-night sitting
in 1933 (Ministers are also to get a rise, and there
is to be another Minister); and there are bright hopes
that the Parliamentary Public Works Committee will
be restored. That means “perks.”
For “conveyance of members and others” £27,75(1
is to be voted this year, last year’s vote, £26,750,
having been exceeded by £869. “Conveyance of
Senators and their luggage in Canberra” is to cost
£l6O (it was £l4l last year), and conveyance of
Representatives £450. And there are to be £5BOO
for postage and telegrams, plus stationery, £BBOO
for “maintenance of members’ rooms in capital cities”
(£6700 was voted last year, but that also wasn’t nearly
enough) and £114,690 for general expenses of Parlia-
ment —upkeep of the two Houses, library, reporting,
printing and so forth. The £114,690 is, of course,
exclusive of salaries of Ministers (£12,545, exclusive
of the rise and the additional salary) and of members
(£92,500).
When the Hotel Canberra was leased, Mr.
Lazzarini, the Labor member for Werriwa, and others
were aghast at the prospect of the tariff being put
up against them —members get cut rates. Bull! last
month had 1088 men on emergency-relief work, and
Wollongong had 276, and both are in Werriwa; but,
forgetting them for the moment, Mr. Lazzarini sug-
gested that he might be forced to put up a tent in
the Parliamentary gardens. Before he does it he
should remember Seneca’s story of the Sybarite who
could not sleep for the rosebush crumpled in his
couch. However, Minister Paterson gave the assur-
ance that “members would be satisfied with the new
tariff,” and all was immediately calm.
Mr. E. F. Harrison (Bendigo) had a twinge of
conscience about the special luxuries which members
enjoy. It seems that the Parliamentary library (cost
last year, £7613) includes “frivolous books like The
Parson’s Daughter and The Autobiography of a
Modern Sinbad” —probably written by an Australian
taxpayer. Mr. Harrison also mentioned a book on
etiquette, but he did not say whether Thomson’s
Castle of Indolence was on the shelves.
The objector thinks that only books useful to
members in their deliberations and calculated to
broaden their minds should be bought. As every
Australian author is compelled to make the National
Library—housed for the present in Parliament House
—a gift of one of his works, he is certainly right.
That is, if any works other than those on invective
could help, and if minds which concern themselves
with things like board and lodging at cut rates and
fees for sitting on an unnecessary committee —this
at a moment of world crisis, and when the country
is groaning under an unexampled load of taxation—
could be broadened except by being sat on.
♦
The Barley Bree.
Australia is one of 27 countries which drank more
beer in 1934 than in 1933. High on the list stands
S. Africa, where there is a goldmining boom, and the
U.S.A. still celebrating the fall of prohibition. France
drank less beer; so did Belgium, the Netherlands,
Yugoslavia and Turkey. In Turkey, however, they
prefer douziko, one nip of which has sent many
an inquiring foreigner under the table ; and the Yugo-
slavs’ national beverage is slivovitza, somewhat
like douziko, only fiercer.
Australian consumption went up from 49,000,000
gallons to 53,400,000 gallons. Before the depression
it was 71,000,000 gallons; and there are hundreds of
thousands more adults now. Unemployment is not
the sole cause of the decline. Excise is Is, 9d. a
gallon, and has been 2s.
A reduction to Is. a gallon, or, at most, Is. 4d. —
2d, a pint—would lead to increased consumption
without loss of revenue—this has been the British
experience—and make a good export trade possible.
Asia is badly served with beers. India finds British
brands unsuitable for the climate. Africa is another
possible market. We were told the other day that
the Italian Government was shipping huge quantities
of beer to the army in Eritrea, wine having been
found unsuitable.
An increased output of beer in cask and bottle
would furnish a better home market for farmers
and contribute in some parts to a much-needed diver-
sification of crops. As to that, Bavaria, which is a
trifle larger than Tasmania, and has about a million
more people than Australia, produces every year about
11,000 tons of hops. Britain last year produced 13,000
tons, valued at £lBO per ton. Australia’s hop industry
has declined by 50 p.c. in half a century—the cropped
area runs to about 1000 acres ; value of production is
only £130,000. So there is plenty of room for expan-
sion. Every 1000 gallons of ale and stout brewed
involves the use of 33.22 bushels of malt, 30.431 b.
of hops and 3.47 cwt. of sugar. Under the combined
influences of unemployment and sky-high taxes,
brewers’ purchases of Queensland sugar have declined.
With the right brews for export, less taxation
and a cheaper pint for local consumption, the
£5,000,000-odd at which beer- and ale-production is
valued could be doubled without much difficulty and
without injuring the national reputation for sobriety.
« _
Making New Rivers.
V ilhjalmur Stefansson, the Arctic explorer whom a
Commonwealth Government hired to tell it something
about Central Australia, reported that the north of
S. Australia and the southern N.T. were “exactly like the
country between the Mississippi and the Missouri.”
Somebody retorted that it was true, except for the
bit about the Mississippi and the Missouri.
The gentleman from Manitoba would have been
nearer the mark had he said that parts of Australia
now almost empty for lack of water are better than
Indian and Persian tracts which carry large popu-
lations. In Persia, wide, high, arid regions with scanty
rainfall survive because water is carried for miles
in diverted subterranean watercourses — kdnats. One
city, Ispahan, maintains 60,000 people. The country
about it recalls the Oodnadatta district; yet'it is full
of perfumed gardens and waving poppies.
Apart from Westralia’s goldfields water supply,
which serves farming districts as well, and is being
extended, Australia hasn’t done much in the way of
water conservation for dry areas. With that fine
exception, efforts have been limited to fruit areas
contiguous to big streams. Even though the continent
has no big permanent rivers, it is possible for some-
thing substantial to be done. India has 30,000,000
irrigated acres. Its rivers certainly help, but canals
like the Montgomery are as big as rivers in them-
selves. The Montgomery is 300 miles long, and its
banks are turned into one-way motor roads, sheltered
by commercial timber belts which help to prevent
evaporation and pay upkeep. Works not fully in
operation included, the Indian water systems pay
nearly 7 p.c. p.a., and when not loaded with partially
unproductive works they returned more.
A third of the Punjab cropped area—mostly grey
sand plain that carried a low and dreary jv«ngle—is
artificially watered ; so is 86 p.c. of Sind. Charges
are on a crop basis, and run from 3s. to 12s. per
acre p.a. The rule is “No crop, no charge; or less
crop, less charge.” Irrigated lands are being doubled
every 20 years, and populations in certain districts
with them.
Almost every season in normal years western
Queenslanders see rivers like the Thompson come
down miles wide and the water run to waste in the
central salt lakes. In N. S. Wales there are many
streams to which the same applies in a lesser degree.
And there are endless possibilities for intensive water-
ing in the Burdekin, Burnett and Mary systems, if
properly utilised,
A water survey is needed.
♦
Books and the League.
“J.C.”: Almost in the same breath High Commis-
sioner Bruce moved at Geneva that members of the
League should be urged to consume more foodstuffs,
which would be good for farmers and for the people’s
health, and spoke against a proposal to make the
League into a publishing-house for historical works
and European classics. I am in favor of both.
Never has there been so much international
activity in the field of literature. In Moscow there
are Jiuge publishing-houses employing translators and
writers in as many languages as there are tongues
into which the Bible has been translated. From these
houses works are poured forth over Europe, Asia,
Africa and America. In China Moscow has become
the chief purveyor of intellectual pabulum, and there
is scarcely a walled town that has not its bookstall,
of revolutionary literature. It is the same in countries
like Java and India, despite the efforts of the censor.
In Australian cities you find big and little bookshops
stocking such matter exclusively.
The Fascist and Nazi Governments have come
into the business. Though their efforts fail to awaken
the same interest, they bombard newspaper offices
with propaganda.
Whatever we may think of the League as a settler
of international differences, there is a clear case for
making it a disseminator of the best in international
literature. In fact, if, in the course of years, this was
the only function that remained to it, it would have
justified Woodrow Wilson’s optimism about it. And
if Mr. Bruce wants to improve the finances of the
League Moscow will tell him that international book-
publishing is a profitable business.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBULS INKS"
“Teopina”; Ruri, a village on the
north coast of Bougainville (N.G.), pro-
duced a new Messiah recently. One of
the local lads preached that he had had
a vision which proclaimed to him that
the day of the white masters was over,
and that in the near future the native
would be the ruler. Fleets of ships would
arrive bringing “tabac,” “biskit” and
“tin bullamacow.” Rice, calico and
“wheel-wheels” would abound, and white
men would be reduced to cutting grass
on natives’ plantations. Meanwhile no
“boy” was to “make paper” (engage to
work) or pay tax to the Government.
He collected quite a few adherents until
the “Kiap” collected him.
* * * *
“Pedant”: In a recent Westralian
murder case a medical witness stated that
“the deceased was lying prone.” “In
exactly what position? Was he on his
face?” inquired the Judge. “He was
lying prone,” the doctor repeated. “But
wouldn’t he be prone if he was on his
back?” “No,” the medical expert cor-
rected ; “in that case his position would
be supine. Prone means lying on the
face without any further qualification.”
How many outside the medical profes-
sion were aware of the nice distinction?
* * * *
“Ming” ; The bishop’s tale. He walked
out to call, in full regalia, on an ac-
quaintance sojourning in a suburb where
the chief industry was making pictures
in a large tin studio. Bushed for the
moment, the bishop called at a small
cottage, where a youngster of about three
gazed at the visitor and began to cry
lustily. Mother appeared from the
nether regions, directed the caller, and
then apologised for her offspring. “Don’t
mind her, mister,” said she kindly. “She’s
not used to seeing the pitcher people
walking about in their fancy dress.”
* * ¥ . >;c
“Oxmead”: Two recent crimes of
violence in Sydney, by no means the first
of their kind, show that the taxi-man is
at the mercy of any criminal he may have
picked up as a fare. In one case the
victim was stabbed almost to death from
behind ; in the other he was shot, and
died within a few days. The hansom
cabby was in none of the dangers that
beset his successors in this mechanical
age ; he sat behind and above his pas-
sengers. The Jehu who drove the four-
wheeler or “growler” of other days cer-
tainly had his back to potential hold-up
men, but nobody could stick a revolver-
barrel or a knife into it; there was too
much wood and glass between. Human
progress has certainly made the cab-
driver’s job more dangerous in one re-
spect than ever before. Probably it will
continue so until somebody puts on the
market a taxi on the hansom model.
* * * *
“Sailor”; Judging from my own experi-
ence “Nakhoda” (B. 18/9/’35) couldn’t
have tried very hard to learn Japanese.
Within five months I had quite a reason-
able conversational vocabulary, and, my
instructor being a lady hairdresser in
Manila, my tuition was limited to three
or four hours a week. I found no diffi-
culty in using the back of my tongue to
speak with. As regards the written word,
Japanese and Chinese are worlds apart.
The Chinese alphabet reaches into the
thousands, even for everyday purposes,
whereas the Japanese is a pleasantly
concise one. Japanese flappers find no
difficulty in tickling the keys of type-
writers that whack up Jap. characters.
* * * :K
“Lao-dah”; Robert Capron, the
American comedian imported about 18
months ago and lately appearing in “So
This Is Hollywood” in Melbourne, was
picnicking at Warrandyte when a puppy
belonging to a girl in the party fell
into the Yarra. Capron stepped into the
water to rescue it, and instantly rescuer
“Do I look barmy ?”
“No — why ?”
“Some silly cow took me for one of the guests .”
and dog were swept out of sight of
their companions underneath the hill-
side. They reappeared 200 yards down-
stream, the comedian swimming feebly,
with the dog perched on his head ; but
Capron sank and was drowned before
he could be reached. The puppy
struggled ashore with the last of its life
spark. The cause of the fatality was
a tunnel, driven through the hill when
the Yarra was supposed to hide great
quantities of the precious metal and it
was hoped to divert it. The current
runs at 30 miles an hour through the
tunnel, which is floored with huge
boulders and has sides as jagged as a
chaffcutter.
ij> jji ifc Jfl
“Stylus”; Adelaide dance promoters
have replaced the forbidden “Monte
Carlo” (B. 28/8/’35) with the “Cinderella
Foxtrot.” Every lady places one of her
shoes on the centre of the floor, and at
a signal the gents, grab a shoe apiece
and seek to find the foot it belongs to.
The first to do so and reach the M.C.
with the lucky lady lands the chocolates.
* * * sf
“Hamelin”: Hordes of rats tumbled
and scrambled out of the blazing Golds-
brough Mort premises in Sydney on
Wednesday, causing a police constable,
according to one newspaper account, to
recall the legendary fate of Bishop
Hatto, of Bingen-on-the-Rhine, who is
supposed to have been devoured by
these voracious creatures. A big fire in
almost any big city may generally be
relied upon to show something similar.
I recall standing by the Thames, many
years ago, when a huge factory on the
other side of the water was going-up in
smoke. The rats were apparently cut
off from escape on the shore side, and
they swam the river, literally in thou-
sands, creating a commotion when they
landed among the crowds that lined the
opposite bank, especially the feminine
section. It is little things like these that
bring home to people how vast the rat
population of a city must be. Some
expert recently estimated that there were
no more rats than human beings in
Sydney, but that is pure guesswork.
* * * *
“Double Disc”; Regarding Australian
authors’ mistakes (B. 25/9/’35), “Mulga”
is certainly a bit out when he denies
scales to kingfish. David Stead says of
these in his Fishes of Australia: “The
skin has a uniformly-smooth feeling, the
scales being very small and numerous.”
Most fishermen who have caught—and
prepared for the pan—this great sport-
ing fish will corroborate him. As for
the kookaburra not being heard off the
“coastal fall,” I’ve heard and seen them
as far west in N.S.W. as Lake Cargelligo,
near the Lachlan,
“Myall”: “Mulga” himself falls in
when he says the curlew—presumably
the stone plover, never called by any
other name in Australia —is not found
in western Queensland, and that kooka-
burras are unknown “off the coastal
fall.” I was born on the Barcoo, and
can testify that many a night I shivered
myself to sleep to the weird wailings of
the “curlews.” In the same country
kookas. were plentiful.
* * y *
“N.Q.”: A damsel travelled half-fare
between Melbourne and Ripponlea.
Somehow or other, the department
discovered that she was 14 years old.
It immediately notified the girl’s’parents
of its discovery, with a demand for
full fare. The parents found that
their child had travelled in the morn-
ing, looked up the records of the
time of her arrival on earth, and satisfied
themselves that, though the day of her
birth was as stated by Mr. Clapp, the
hour was four in the afternoon. Arguing,
reasonably enough, that the child was not
14 until 4 p.m., they defied the depart-
ment, despite a visit from the inspector
and a vigorous discharge of ultimatums
through the post. The file threatened to
grow a foot high when the department
climbed down and decided that the girl
was under 14 until 4 p.m. Threepence
was the difference in fare.
* * * *
“Albert Edward”: Commentators on
the New Guinea Munchausen who wrote
under the name of “Captain Lawson” (B.
25/9/’35) have missed the two most strik-
ing items in his now-forgotten book.
One described the carrying-off of a vast
buffalo which the traveller had shot by
an even vaster bird which swooped down
from the skies. The other was the loca-
tion of an 18,000 ft. mountain in the
middle of the island. Lawson gave lati-
tude and longitude for this ; it was not
until the day of his proposed lecture
before the Royal Geographical Society,
which has had its leg pulled by more
descendants of Ananias than any insti-
tution of its kind, that a horrid suspicion
impelled a scientific member to check
the position of the. mountain as given
by Lawson. This check located it some-
where between Queensland and the Solo-
mons.
* * * *
“Vavau”: Blackall Gaol may have
been the easy-going establishment that
“Broad Arrow” paints it (B. 25/9/’35),
but the ancient gaol at Suva had a re-
putation of its own. In the days I refer
to there was only one prisoner, a docile
and elderly native, who .was given charge
of the gaol key and told to lock himself
in each night at 5 p.m. He turned a
few pence selling guavas to travellers,
and so conscientious was he that if
five o’clock came in the midst of a
transaction he would never complete it,
but leave his goods and dash for the
gaol, trusting to kindly friends to collect
his stock and any cash due. The only
time he was ever late in returning was
the day he lost the key, but he stayed
in an hour longer next morning to even
things up.
* * * *
“Babel”: James First and Saxth made
a valiant effort to discover the original
language of humanity (B. 25/9/’35). He
shut two infant children up on a lonely
isle in a Scottish loch under the care of a
deaf and dumb woman, with two goats to
feed the kids. Those carrying supplies were
forbidden under heavy penalty to go near
the woman and her charges. At the end
of two years one of the children was
heard by a committee of investigation to
cry “Bek, Bek.” This being a Hebrew
word, J. First and Saxth at once con-
cluded Hebrew was the mother of all
tongues, and gave a royal ruling to that
effect. I forget what happened to the
wight who suggested the cry was an imi-
tation of the goat’s bleat, but it was
something unpleasant.
* * * #
“Exdig”; A Digger mate of mine
struck trouble for telling off a tem-
porary C.O. The T.C.O. sent for me
and explained that, realising my pal had
been much the worse for liquor, he was
prepared to say no more about the
matter if Bill apologised. Armed with a
pass I saw Bill in the clink. He per-
sisted that there was nothing to apolo-
gise for, so I asked what he actually
said. “Nothin’,” replied the culprit—
“nothin’ at all. list said he wasn’t a sol-
dier’s bootlace, and all he knoo about
commandin’ a battalion was salutin’ be
numbers. Jist told him he had about as
many brains as a rifle butt and it
was blanks like him that kept the war
from finishin’. But,” added Bill, “I didn’t
say anything insultin’.” In the end, how-
ever, he decided to apologise, and got off.
* * * *
“92nd”: After taking part in the Tirah
(1897) and South African campaigns, in
which the Highlanders wore the kilt in
all circumstances, the only merit I can
see in the costume is that it affords the
maximum of protection and warmth
amidship. Lower down it gives none.
It is true that Greek hillmen and
Balkan banditti wear a dress resembling
the kilt, but it is superimposed on a
trouserlike contraption which keeps the
thighs and legs snug. The Highlander,
however, is forbidden nether garments of
the shorts brand. The kilt, as an active-
service dress, is nothing but a pic-
turesque anachronism.
* * * *
“Shep”: I don’t know who was the
youngest Digger to stow away on a
transport (B. 11/9/’35), but Whiskers,
whom we took away with us from Fre-
mantle in 1915, must have, been quite
the eldest. A big crowd of us broke
leave, getting ashore in the collier that
had filled the ship’s bunkers. We
fraternised with Whiskers in a Perth
pub, and he went the whole hog in cele-
brating our departure. There was a
vague impression that we wouldn’t leave
the following day, but late at night we
crept out of the harbor. How the old
chap got aboard nobody knew, least of
all himself; but, instead of being rowed
ashore next morning, he found himself
miles out on the ocean, with nothing but
the clothes he stood up in. His age
prevented his being given a job to work
his passage, so he was invited to live as
one of the troops as far as Egypt. He
found it so congenial that he wanted to
continue as a Digger, and tried to enlist
in Cairo, but his age blocked him. The
ship was coming back for another
human cargo, and the officers, who had
taken a liking to him, invited him to
journey back to Fremantle as the sole
passenger. The only advice his family
received of his mishap was a radio from
mid-ocean.
A GREAT IDEA.
“Sir Henry Coward, the composer, urged that the
Band of Hope Union should offer a prize of £5OOO
for anyone who could invent a teetotal drink with a
‘kick’.... Dr. Saleehy suggested a mixture of
carbon-dioxide and oxygen.”— Cable.
There’s undeniably a certain virtue
In what hard topers stigmatise as “slops”;
There’s little that can definitely hurt you
In humming horehound or in maltless hops,
Or cause your equilibrium to desert you
Or render you less mindful of your stops.
The only real drawback that they’ve got
Is incapacity to hit the spot.
No Bacchanalian praises I’m bestowing
Upon the drinks that temp’rance preachers
damn;
But where’s the heart’ning kick, the gentle
glowing
About the region of the diaphragm,
That’s found in bowls that bards describe as
“flowing,”
That puts the ginger in the Scotchman’s
dram,
In any non-intoxicating fare?
And Echo impotently answers —where?
Can sparkling ginger-ale promote endurance
To face Fate’s buffets with a cheerful grin?
Can lemonade, with all its light allurance,
Compare with (say) an inch or two of gin
For filling one with absolute assurance
This is the best of worlds to wander in?
Ah, no! They’re somewhat gaseous at the
worst,
And at the best they merely slake your thirst.
Still, wine, ajbeit it should leave you gladder,
Taking a little for the stomach’s sake,
t May blind you to the holes that dot a ladder
And make your head, the morning after,
ache.
The Bible notes it stingeth like an adder,
The Psalmist held it biteth like a snake.
How thoroughly desirable a thing
If we could get the snap without the sting!
Luck to your quest, my estimable Coward!
I looks towards you ’cross the hemisphere.
And when some chemist, by your foresight
dowered,
Produces some innocuous liquid cheer
To make one feel as beer or grog, high-
powered,
Would make you, without being grog or beer,
How fine to breast the bar and order, then,
“Dioxide, with a dash of oxygen”!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“J.W.”; The forerunners of the locally-
made fibrolite water-pipes were imported
from Italy at the time when Mussolini
was first prominent in the news. In-
spectors, overseers and men using these
pipes immediately christened
them “Mussolini” pipes, later
shortening this to “Musso-
linis.” The name has per-
sisted ; many use and know
no other to this day. If the
Italian dictator should man-
age to set the world ablaze
again it will be interesting to
see how the nickname fares.
In the Great War “German”
sausage became “Sydney” or
“Devon” sausage. We may
yet hear of these fibrolite-
pipes being affectionately
spoken of as “Haile Silassies.”
❖ *
“Sea Speck”: If the scar-
city of John Batman portraits
was really due to a facial
disfigurement, it must have
been sustained late in his life.
Certainly up to the time
when he brought in the last
remnants of the ill-fated Tas-
manian abos. he suffered no
such misadventure. My
grandfather was a personal
friend of Batman, and ac-
companied him upon that ex-
pedition ; he always spoke of
him as a powerfully built,
handsome man, with regular
features and steady eyes. Moreover, he
possessed a sketch which fully bore out
that description.
* # * *
“Coif”: The death of Roosevelt’s
N.R.A. quashed what promised to be one
of the most interesting lawsuits in history.
N.R.A. had instituted a suit “The
People v. The Invisible Panties Co.” The
latter was accused of violating the
Women’s Underwear Code by resorting
to false advertising. It was alleged that
if the panties it put on the market were
invisible they were indecent, while if they
were not invisible they were falsely de-
scribed. A strong Bar was engaged, and
the defendant co. had proposed to bring
a host of mannequins into court as
demonstrators of the garments on their
behalf when the matter lapsed.
* * * *
“Mr. Chucks”: Langsters who insist
on the return of the Australia and her
complement from the Mediterranean
rather than that one seaman should lose his
life, as Mr. Beasley so poetically puts it,
are doubtless earning the heartfelt curses
of their compatriots on the cruiser. Any-
one with a slight knowledge of life in
the Navy will have a shrewd suspicion
that, when shore leave is on, British
ratings are giving the Aussies an
unhappy time with polite inquiries as to
when they are to be wrapped in cotton
waste and packed home to mother out
of danger, and that many black eyes and
bloody noses have already come out of
the affair. We have never had a mutiny
in the Australian Navy, but there
will be a number one topside row if
any attempt is made to translate Beas-
ley’s altruistic bleatings into fact.
* * * *
“Kerys”: I can quite understand
people getting away from the scene of
an accident at express speed (B.
18/9/’35). An acquaintance retains a
vivid remembrance of what a moment
of youthful inquisitiveness cost her. She
was just leaving school in her M.L.
town when she noticed the local baker
advancing menacingly towards the family
butcher. She paused and awaited de-
velopments. They came with such speed
and thoroughness that in about four
minutes the butcher was a casualty, the
police had arrived, and the unhappy
damsel was pounced on by the Law as
the only actual witness of the assault.
The case, held in abeyance by the slow
recovery of the victim, hung over her
head for months, and it was long before
the family forgave her unfortunate
moment of morbid curiosity.
* * * *
“Somnus”; “Mr. Chucks” tells us
(B. 18/9/’35) that the wide-brimmed
straw hats of naval gunners disappeared
“long since.” Not so very long, I suggest.
Official photographs of the Sydney-
Emden scrap show the Aussie gunners
wearing straw lids which look like surplus
naval stores from the days of Rodney
and Hood.
* * * *
“Shabash Wallah”: Many of the
Indian newspapers printed in English
contain even more startling matter than
the matrimonial advertisements quoted
by “Tuart” (B. 25/9/’35). For some
time after the war an Indian friend used
to send me “Forwards,” an imposing
daily, in make-up a cross between “S. M.
Herald” and the “Times.” In addition
to the matrimonial stuff, the journal car-
ries columns of advertisements of count-
less patent medicines and sovran reme-
dies, some of them with magical preten-
sions. Seventy-five per cent, of them tell
“Want to come in? Indeed you Wont —not with all that gear and
those muddy boots!”
of their infinite capacity for restoring
male virility or reinforcing it. In a
country where boys/and girls live to-
gether at 10 there should be a ready sale
for this stuff, as, indeed, everyone who
has lived in India knows there is.
* * * *
“Wagga”: Parsons can probably show
a more comprehensive record in spare-
time hobbies than even doctors (B.
18/9/’35). In my own experience I’ve
come across the following list of clerical
hobbies: Cabinet-making, watch-repair-
ing and clockmaking (one padre I know
has built a couple of “grandfathers”),
concrete work, bricklaying, carving, rug-
making, engineering, photography, bee-
keeping, entomology, conchology, astro-
nomy and anthropology. One cleric of
my acquaintance fancies tailoring, and
makes all his own suits; yet another
keeps a racehorse.
* $ $
“Sizzle”: The cable news that Haile
Silassie offers free pardon to 50,000
prisoners and fugitives from justice on
condition that they join the army doesn’t
mean that the Lion of Judah rules the
most crime-addicted country in the
world. Abyssinia’s most popular sport is
litigation. A tshiki-tshik occurs in the
street with a sum of money—say tup-
pence—involved. The nearest policeman
at once becomes judge, takes a seat and
hears the action, mostly abuse and gesti-
culation. If he finds for the plaintiff,
defendant forthwith becomes plaintiff’s
prisoner—that is, they are chained to-
gether by the wrists, and stay chained
until the debt is paid or worked off.
Hundreds of these judgments are
delivered throughout the land daily.
There are also regular judges always sit-
ting in zinc huts waiting for cases to be
brought to them. Only the very worst
offenders, usually tried by the King of
Kings himself, go to gaol. Most of those
not involved in civil actions are lightly
hobbled and turned loose, their “impris-
onment” carrying about as much stigma
as a fortnight’s C.B. in the A.I.F. used
to do.
* * *
“H.A.L.”: I can’t understand why the
autogyro is not more popular for general
flying. Its first cost is the same as that
of the average light ’plane, it is admitted
to be the easiest of all aircraft to con-
trol, and there is no fear of stalling or
getting into a spin. There have been
few crashes in autogyros, all due to some
mishap to the rotor ; the rotor on the
latest direct-control models is claimed to
be unbreakable. A “flying windmill”
landed to refuel on the Bordertown (S.A.)
golf links not long since, coming to earth
as gently as a bird alighting, with no run
at all. Having taken in a fresh supply of
fuel, it hopped off in the same fashion
as a grasshopper. Everything about
Cierva’s brain-child points to its being
the ideal type of aircraft for the private
owner, yet there is only one ’gyro in
Australia.
# Jk ♦
“Inaha”; In future Maoriland’s
coroners and its magistrates who may
have to hold inquests are to be given
expert advice when they are investigating
fatalities that have resulted from aviation,
electrocution or mountain-climbing. Air
Force officers, Government engineers
and other experts will sup-
ply the needful. Up to re-
cent years the function of
the Coroner’s Court was
one purely of inquiry.
Nowadays it is recognised
that it can also do valuable
work —in lessening the possibility of a
repetition of the mischances that lead to
loss of life.
% jjc s>c
“Croweater”: Jimmy Melrose pro-
poses to fly home from England to estab-
lish an aerial service between Adelaide
and Melbourne, and perhaps a flying-boat
ferry service between Glenelg (his home
town), Kangaroo Island and Port Lin-
coln. Melrose is as enterprising as he is
plucky. Though only 22 he has estab-
lished himself in the front rank of Aus-
tralian birdmen.
❖ * * H*
“S.T.S.”; A fresh entry for the price-
less-line competition:
Your navel, like a bubble in stirred
cream.
It can be found, in all its simple beauty,
in a poem by Laurence Whistler, pub-
lished in the London “Mercury” for July.
* * * *
“J.C.” (London): There has been some
talk of airmen experiencing ill-effects if
they rise about 16,000 feet or so, but
South American experiences in no way
bear it out. Pilots on the last leg of the
Pan-American Airways route from
Miami to Buenos Ayres, or Santiago to
Buenos Ayres, pass Aconcagua on a level
with its crest often enough, and I have
talked with those who had been forced
up to 25,000 feet to “jump the hump” in
bad weather. They never reported any-
thing hurtful to health. On this stretch
oxygen is provided for both pilots and
passengers, but only the nervous make
use of it. The Faucett Co., when its
machines were commandeered during the
Pem-Columbia scrap, flew its ’planes
from Lima to San Ramon by getting an
altitude above Lima of 22,000 feet, and
then making a beeline. None of those
pilots suffered.
sK :J! * *
“Fifty - fourth”: “Centurion” (B.
25/9/’35) assures us that beyond a
few orderlies with Sudanese officers he
never saw any Sudanese troops in Egypt.
I can certify that I spent a most uncom-
fortable night doing sentry-go round
Sudanese “barracks” at Abbassia. Ball
cartridge was issued (my first introduc-
tion to it other than on a range), and I
can still recall the look on our platoon
commander’s face as he instructed us
how to deal with any attempt to escape
on the part of the mutineers. That was
in the early months of 1916. Also, during
our route-marches from Heliopolis, we
frequently saw troops training that we
had no reason to doubt were Sudanese.
“Fugaces”: Some 20 years ago, when
the Central Powers had succeeded in
overrunning Serbia, they celebrated their
prowess by a banquet at Nish, the old
capital of that stormy realm. The festi-
vity was duly chronicled, with photo-
graphs, in the English press, the leading
figures, with triumph in every line of
them, being Kaiser Wilhelm, the All-
Highest, and the Czar Ferdinand of
Bulgaria, “with the hooked nose and the
curious ducklike waddle.” The pair
were again associated in an article I read
the other day, but in a very different
galley. Their photos, appeared side by
side as the two oldest ex-sovereigns living
in exile, 76 and 74 respectively. But
Ferdinand has had a better time than
Wilhelm. The throne he was forced to
quit went to his son, and he himself can
live pretty well where he likes, except in
Bulgaria. Since he lost his job he has
travelled widely, and had a better chance
of indulging in his hobbies than ever
before. He has been on hunting trips to
Africa and botanical jaunts to South
America. The ex-Kaiser, on the other
hand, has never been out of Holland
since he crossed the border, and seldom
out of Doom, where his recreations are
limited to felling trees and growing tulips.
“Tarry Rope”: What has
become of that stirring old
ditty “Rule, Britannia!”? I
watched three different sound
pictures of Britain’s big naval
review, and, whilst there was
plenty of “God Save,” not once
did the overworked but inspir-
ing melody of other days
crash into the proceedings. The
fact that all navies have be-
come mere masses of iron-
mongery may have rendered
the old song out of date, or
there may be something about
its boastful supremacy that
jars in these days when every
nation dislikes the appearance
of treading on any other
nation’s coat. Even the
National Anthem has been
revised a little; “Rule,
Britannia! ” seems to have gone definitely
to the pack.
* * * *
“O. I. Saye”; Among the spoils of war
brought from Magdala by Lord Napier
in 1868 was a number of Ethiopian
manuscripts, including two copies of the
“Kebra Negast,” or “Glory of the
Kings.” This book is regarded by the
Abyssinians as sacred because, according
to them, it contains proof that their rulers
are descended from Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba. One copy was returned
to King John IV. a few years later ; the
other is in the British Museum. It dates
from about a.d. 1300, but is obviously
an Ethiopian rendering of a much earlier
work.
* * * *
“Laetitia” (Thursday Island): For
quick acquisition of dialects and accents
(B. 7/8/’35) I nominate the island
native; like the parrot, he mostly adopts
the exact vocal inflexion of the European
from whom he has acquired his English.
On one island in these parts the natives
greet the visitor with a series of belli-
gerent and staccato ejaculations, remini-
scent of an English drill-sergeant; on
another I have encountered a burr
redolent of haggis. Both, of course, are
relics of the long-departed officials from
whom they learned their English.
On a third island, a strangely soft and
musical accent coming from rather trucu-
lent-looking natives suggests that the pro-
nunciation was acquired from a lady
school-teacher. On a fourth island, in
the same group and in more primitive
surroundings, a pronounced nasal twang
and an embarrassing tendency to inter-
lard conversation with expressions
generally regarded as indelicate struck
me as proof positive that neither Gov-
ernment officials nor missionaries fur-
nished the inhabitants with their
vocabulary.
CRICKET GREASES.
“At a meeting of cricket umpires called to pro-
test against the reduction of their fees by the
N.S.W.C.A., a speaker pointed out that an umpire
‘has to dress the part, with white coat, white boots,
a nice quiet tie and well-creased pants.’ ”
He must be firm, no weaknesses disclosing;
From his decisions he should never budge.
And, please observe, he’s got to look imposing,
The same as any other sort of judge.
His coat should set you thinking of the lily,
Likewise the boots that on the ground he
plants;
His necktie should be neat but not too frilly,
And creases be a feature of his pants.
’Tis not enough, with absolute precision.
He has the rules from A to Z by heart;
’Tis not enough his hearing and his vision
Are perfect—he must also dress the part.
Some bowlers go off pop, there’s no denying,
Whene’er no-balled or debited with wides;
The noisiest may pause before defying
A chap with faultless creases in his strides.
“Howzats!” will be more furiously aggressive
From ’keepers ultra-keen to catch or stump
Before an ump. whose duds are unimpressive
Than an immaculately-tailored ump.
The hand that rises skyward from the shoulder
For “Out!” admits of no appeal, one grants,
But ’twill be more conclusive if the holder
Has freshly-ironed creases in his pants.
And when I take another turn at cricket,
And find myself, as all too oft before,
Reluctantly retiring from the wicket
For the delinquency of leg-before.
Twill lighten half my pain—l’ll merely whistle
To show no grievance in my soul abides —
If only he who’s ukased my dismissal
Wears fashionable creases in his strides!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


"A" Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
10 for 9 d — 20 for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me'
J1945M/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
•
v,v ...
POLITICAL POINTS
New loans amounting to £66,564,000
have been raised since the forced con-
version of 1931. If this goes on —and
Treasurers .like Dunstan and Dwyer-Gray
would accelerate the process if they could
—the benefits of the conversion will be
wholly lost.
Since Bruce set his hand to the task,
£160,300,000 of Australian securities held
in the U.K. has been converted, with a
reduction in average rate of interest from
£5 2s. 7d. per cent, to £3 13s. sd. per
cent, and a saving of £2,341,000 in in-
terest and £594,000 in exchange. And
it is a real saving, since no additional
loans have been floated. If this achieve-
ment had been repeated in Australia
worth-while tax-reduction could not have
been avoided and recovery would be
much nearer.
It transpires that the preparation of
Canberra’s reply to Westralia’s secesh
petition—it was, of course, handed over
to outsiders —will cost £19,100. The
secesh embassy’s bills, £5300, also came
out of the Commonwealth grant, and in
allowances and expenses the Common-
wealth is finding £4500 p.a. for an un-
necessary Grants Commission. It is all
part of the price Australia has to pay
for shiftless and irresponsible govern-
ment.
Stevens and co. are taking a bit off
their wages and “special” income taxes.
But the beneficiaries are limited to those
earning between £2 and £5 a week
and the equivalents in business incomes,
and in the case of wage- and salary-
earners getting £4 16s. to £4 17s. lid.
and £4 18s. to £4 19s. lid. the
reduction is only a penny a week. Reci-
pients of small business incomes fare a
little better.
P. J. Lynch’s reappointment as Presi-
dent of the Senate was a facer for the
Government, which supported Foil.
Millen, the Tasmanian, was its first fancy,
but he gave offence by being too out-
spoken ; and, of course, Lynch has never
been taken into favor. There have been
seven Presidents, and four failed of re-
election at the end of the third year.
Chaffey Baker held the office from May
9, 1901, to December 31, 1906, and
Givens from July 9, 1913, to June 30,
1926.
W. G. Gibson has been told not to
come along to any more Agrarian party
meetings at Canberra. A year ago Gib-
son left Corangamite (Vic.) for a nomi-
nation on the U.A.P. Senate ticket,
although there was a retiring Cocky
Senator (Bob Elliott) in the field. In
effect, he was the means of losing the
Cockies two seats. They were perfectly
right in excluding him.
Since December 25, 1932, “the forces
opposed to socialism,” as Mr, Sydney
Snow calls them, have put on Sydney roads
Government buses employing 581 per-
sons, and the number of vehicles and
hands is increasing every week. For
1934-35 a net profit of £9746 is claimed.
What was sacrificed in motor-taxes, in-
come faxes, dole payments to busmen
thrown out of work by “the forces
opposed to socialism” and superannua-
tion charges (the 581 Government em-
ployees are all qualifying for superannua-
tion benefits) can only be estimated ; but
£lOO,OOO will be a very low estimate.
Making a virtue of necessity, Stevens
asserts that “the process of easing off
loan expenditure has commenced.” By
“easing off” he evidently means that
£9.000.000 will be spent this year com-
pared with £10,607,000 last year. At
£9,000,000 the outlay will amount to £3
9s. per head. If the U.K. were spending
at the same rate it would be going
£157,000,000 to the bad in a twelve-
month.
According to Vic. Auditor-General
Norris, his State’s railways showed “a net
deficit .of £558,300” last year. Calculated
on the same basis (advances from con-
solidated revenue being excluded), the
net deficit on the N.S.W. railways
amounted to £2,192,500. Though far
less commercial motor competition is
allowed in N.S.W. than in Victoria,
Stevens considers this an “extraordinary”
achievement. He is easily satisfied.
The late N.S.W. Senator Courtenay is
to be succeeded by J. G. D. Arkins, who
came over with him from Labor during
the conscription business—he was M.L.A.
for Castlereagh—and saw A.I.F. service.
There were six candidates, and the three
left in after the third count were re-
turned soldiers; the other two were
Gordon Wilkins, M.L.A. for Bathurst in
the last Parliament, and ex-Senator
Dunn. The election coincided with the
R.S.L. congress in Orange, and the result
was clearly influenced by the delegates’
strong stand in favor of soldier prefer-
ence.
“Campaigning in Abyssinia will begin when the rains have ceased.”
"Message from Abyssinia, Duce. Eet has stopped rainin’.”
“A most onseasonable interruption. Ees eet not so, Mista Baldvin?”
This time last year Earle Page was
addressing Australia as follows:
One of the greatest factors in keeping
interest-rates and production costs high is
the high taxation.... Recovery cannot take
place until a greater proportion of receipts
from industry is left in the hands of private
enterprise, the great employer.
Dr. Page has since joined a Government
which, with tax-revenue estimated at
nearly five millions more than when
he issued his protest, is granting “remis-
sions” amounting to a whole £510,000.
But on the subject of reduced taxation
he has become as dumb as a drum with
a hole in it.
The excise on beer yielded £5,093,800
in 1934-35, compared with £4,770,400 in
1933-34. In the latter year 3d. a gallon
was taken off, and Minister White made
much of the “sacrifice of revenue” en-
tailed. The duty is still Is. 9d. a gallon
—“it amounts to 51 p.c. of what we get
for a hogshead,” the chairman of
Tooheys said at their annual meeting—
and if the Government had gumption
enough to reduce it to a figure that would
enable workingmen to get a cheaper pint
the advance in revenue would be more
than £323,400 in a year.
Restoration of pay-cuts, amounting to
£lOl,OOO for a full year, was promised
by Collier in his Budget, but no tax-cuts.
However, there is still time for him to
announce tax-cuts before the general
election, as the special grant from the
Commonwealth is to go up from £600,000
to £BOO,OOO ; and when it was a mere
£400,000 he applied it to pre-poll tax-
cuts. It suits Collier to rail at the Com-
monwealth Government occasionally, but
he has found it an easy mark.
By a queer coincidence, Lionel Hill,
Labor Premier of S.A. for three years
to February, 1933, bobbed up at the
U.A.P. convention in Sydney (he was
introduced as one of our saviors) just
when R. S. Richards, his deputy for the
three years and successor for three
months, became president of the S.A.
A.L.P. organisation. Richards, like Hill,
was “declared ‘black’ ” for having sup-
ported the Premiers’ Plan. He may
become leader of the reunited party,
which split info three factions, and Pre-
mier again. For Hill there is no poli-
tical future, though the tin gods of
Bligh-street, Sydney, extol him till they
are purple in the face.
A whole 1 p.c. is to be taken off the
Commonwealth special tax on income
from property, leaving it at Is. in the £.
Even before it was brought in, income
from property was taxed at higher rates
than income from personal exertion, so
there will be great disparities still.
Nobody has ever tried to explain why
old people past earning should be pun-
ished for having been thrifty enough to
dispense with the necessity of asking the
Commonwealth for pensions ; but it is
clear that their vote is not worth culti-
vating.
Maoriland’s Budget contains no sur-
prises. There is a surplus of £1,626,000,
but the profits on gold commandeered
from the trading banks and some heavy
death-duty windfalls account for that,
as Coates cheerfully admits. Civil-service
wage-cuts are to be partially, and old-
age pensions wholly, restored, and some
other pensions are to be slightly in-
creased. And twopence is to come off
wages tax for unemployed-relief, which
was lOd. in the
Despite the fact that last year’s tax-
revenue was extra-heavy, owing to the
death of several of Maoriland’s wealthi-
est citizens, Coates is budgeting for half
a million more. Railways are still lean-
ing heavily on the taxpayer, but it is
proposed to spend another half-million
of loan money on them this year. The
general election is only a couple of
months off.
Westralia’s worsted and woollen mills,
the State’s sole enterprise of the kind,
report another annual loss —£4098 this
time. It is just on double the profits
made in the five years showing profits,
£2076 altogether, and over 11 years
losses exceeded profits by £25,217. The
materials manufactured are quite good,
but the separatists prefer products from
other parts of the cursed Common-
wealth,
Vic. Leg. Assembly passed almost
without comment a bill providing that
Supreme Court Judges should retire at
70; but a similar measure has been
dumped in Westralia. Had it gone
through only Dwyer, J., who is 55, would
have been left on the Bench (Northmore,
C.J., is 70, and Draper, J., 71); so the
Leg. Council would have none of it.
Some well-judged remarks by Bruce as
to over-budgeting and “bad pays” have
led to the League graciously consenting
to accept 7 per cent, less from Australia
this year. Last year’s contribution
amounted to £54,000 ; costs of represen-
tation (at Assembly, Council and Labor
Office) were additional. The difference
will come in handy for the Public Works
Committee which politicians are bent on
reviving.
Professor Bland, of Sydney University,
recently criticised the method of select-
ing N.S.W. public servants (he used to
be one himself), and suggested that it
led to departments being saddled with
persons deficient in intelligence. Indig-
nant denials came from the public-ser-
•vice organisations. It transpires that one
was struggling with a claim for an in-
creased basic wage, and this it pre-
sented to the Industrial Commission last
week ; it calmly asked for an addition
of £2 12s. sd. a week to the current
£3 Bs. 6d. “I suppose the commission
is to take this as intelligent, serious and
reasonable,” said Cantor, J., dryly.
Assured that it was, he retorted that he
had “expected something better from
the Public Service Association —there
wouldn’t be enough money in Australia
to pay such a basic wage, let alone
margins.”
Vic. Auditor-General Norris is justly
critical of the financial side of unem-
ployed-relief. Last financial year
£3,350,500 was spent, £1,599,200 coming
from loans ; a deficit of £296,300 was met
by. “an advance from public account.”
It is clear to the financial watchdog that
Parliament has practically no control
over the allocation of moneys available
for unemployed-relief, nor does it regulate
the maximum expenditure.' Neither is the
expenditure subject to the restrictions pre-
scribed by the Audit Act.
Bad as this looks, it can be paralleled
in other places. Australia has seven
Parliaments, and there isn’t one that
doesn’t surrender control of the public
purse to boards, commissions or com-
mittees.
From Canberra:
The widow of Senator Kingsmill, the last
President of the Senate, is to receive an annuity
of £l5O p.a. The thing is being done by enact-
ment, and was preceded by cautious inquiries
as to whether Kingsmill had left property.
There is a reason for this departure from pre-
cedent. An easygoing Government had a com-
passionate allowance voted, after retirement,
to an old Parliamentary hand who was con-
cluded to be on the rocks. He took it till
his death. Then it transpired that he had
been possessed of large means.


" T.me
<5e=NT1_EIV\EM
Please 1 u
II \\
Put h'M throu&h the tes\s>,
v
' S>AsV, British Comstitutiom
" Brism cosisuciosi ( Hie
n nv
T/XKE HISA MuRPH y,
ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS—SOMETIMES,
“In England recently a man stood on his head and drank a glass of water to prove he was sober.’'


SHELL
shell
DOUBLE SHELL motor OIL
is the
recommendation
for:
i
07
Summer
to
dfg
1934 AND 1935
MODELS
oravs
&
4>
Wm
*
iT
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some October birthdays:
Federal Assistant-Minister H. V. C. Thorby,
47, and Prof. Theo Osborn (Syd.), 48, on 2nd;
R. D. Boys (formerly Chief Librarian of Melb.
Public Library), 69, Chas. P. Smith (“West
Australian’’), 56, and Justice Richards (S.A.),
66, on 3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic.), 55, Justice
Gore (Papua), 47, and R. L. Curthoys (formerly
editor of Melb. “Argus”), 43, ex-Justice
Ferguson (N.S.W.), 74, on 7th; painter Hans
Heysen, 58, Harold Burston, 46, Brig.-Gen.
Herring (Syd.), 54, and knight Sam Walder
(former Lord Mayor of Syd.), 56, on Bth;
Bishop Crotty (Bathurst), 49, and C’wealth
Statistician McPhee, 66, on 9th; Dr. D. A.
Burnard (Elder Con. of Music, Adel.), 35, on
10th; poet Dr. C. H. Souter (Adel.), 71, and
Lieut.-Col. A. C. Blacklow (formerly M.H.R.
for Franklin), 56, on 11th; knight Harry Budge
(Ma State Governor’s official sec.), 62, Bishop
Dwyer (Wagga Wagga), 66, Ted Grayndler
(gen. sec., A.W.U.), 68, and Rev. P. J. Harti-
gan (author of Around the Boree Log), 56,
on 12th; novelist Jack McLaren, 48, on 13th;
Prof. Henry Alcock (Q.), 49, Stanley Addison
(Melb. Uni.), 55, and Rev. J. Green (war
chaplain), 68, on 14th; Langdon Bonython
(Adel. “Advertiser”), 87, Dr. Darnell-Smith
(formerly Director of Syd. Botanic Gardens),
67, Cecil Madigan (Adel. Uni.), 46, and J. G.
McLaren (official sec. Australia House, Lond.),
64, on 15th; former C’wealth Statistician
Wickens, 63, on 16th; W.A. Chief Sec. J. M.
Drew, 70, F. W. Eggleston (Melb.), 60, and
Vic. Closer Settlement Commissioner Aird, 43,
on 17th; former N.S.W. geologist E. C.
Andrews, 65, and Lionel Lindsay, 61, on 18th;
A. W. Lacey (ex-M.H.R., now M.H.A., S.A.),
48, and Nina Murdoch, on 19th; A. H. Gaze
(British Phosphate Commissioner, Melb.), 50,
on 22nd; Q’land Meteorologist Geo. Bond, 61,
on 23rd; Bishop Thomas (Willochra), 54, Lance
Fallaw (associate-editor “S. M. Herald”), 59,
and Major-Gen. G. J. Johnston (Melb.), 66,
on 24th; W.A. Agricultural Bank Commis-
sioner McCallum, 57, and H. S. Dettman (Syd.
Grammar School), 60, on 25th; Archbishop
Killian (Adel.), 63, and H. K. Nock, M.H.R.
(Riverina), 56, on 26th; ex-Vic. Senator Bob
Elliott, 49, and Lieut.-Col. J. T. H. Goodwin
(Canberra), 70, on 28th; N.S.W. Min. for
Social Services Hawkins, 59, Roland Green,
M.H.R. (Richmond), 50, and Prof. Edwin
Pitman (Tas.), 38, on 29th; knight Hubert
Wilkins, 47, Prof. Wadham (Melb. Uni.), 44,
and W. R. Carpenter (Syd.), 58, on 31st.
A little, gentle, bearded man. Canon
Sam Tomlinson, who has been in Sydney
on holiday, does not look much the worse
for his 44 years in Papua. When he
reached the beach at Wedau in 1891
the hill tribes gathered in force, lured by
the news of the living kai kai which had
arrived, but the canon and his friends
bought their lives with a mob of pigs.
Time has its revenges—the descendants
of the local tribes that tried to eat the
canon are to-day engaged, on the spot
where the anticipated dinner landed, in
building Papua’s first cathedral.
LLOYD ROSS, new secretary of the
N.S. Wales A.R.U.
When the Swedish motor ship Parra-
koola leaves this week, Australia will
see the last of one of its most constant
visitors during the past generation.
Hjalmar Carlson, the master, brought the
Kratos, first of the Swedish line to come
here, to Australian ports in 1904. And
he has been on the route ever since. He
retires at the end of the present voyage.
Adelaide has an infrequent visitor in
Alec Ross, who is the sole surviving
member of the Giles-Tietyens expedition.
Ross is annoyed at the necessity of tak-
ing a holiday—mainly with himself. He
feels that anybody who has been riding
camels for 65 years in Centralia, and
who is only 78, has no business to fall
off one of the beasts and dislocate his
shoulder. That sort of thing isn’t done
by experienced youngsters where he
comes from, north of Alice Springs.
Roger Pocock’s life has been like a
Hollywood movie. He was trained on
the Wellesley training ship, graduated
into the Canadian North-West Mounted
Police and fought with them through
the second Riel
rebellion until he
was frozen and
invalided. He
jumped to New
Caledonia to be-
come a missionary
there, went to sea,
rode from Canada
to Mexico City
along the Rockies,
was a field scout
in the S. African
war, had a “holi-
day” in Greenland,
founded the Legion
of Frontiersmen (it
has sent him to
Australia), tried his
hand at scientific
deep-sea fishing
and accompanied
the Oxford Expedi-
tion to Spitzbergen.
But since 1928 he
has settled down in
the Charterhouse
in London, and his
greatest adventures
since, short of his
present journey,
have been his
frequent visits to
the Savage Club.
In spite of all the
battering. Pocock
retains the air of a
venerable and very
gentle cherub. He
has written a
A Bayard of the Charterhouse.
number of books ; he paints and has a
great love for the stage —Lena Ashwell
is his sister.
The mother of Sir Donald Makgill,
whose wife has been acquitted in London
on a charge of passing valueless cheques
for large amounts, was a Maorilander,
daughter of A. I. Grant, of Merchiston,
Otago. She married the 11th baronet —
the title was one of the earliest granted
by Charles I. The accused lady was the
daughter of one of Joe Chamberlain’s
private secretaries, a baronet of a later
vintage than her husband.
J. G. Latham, who is regarded as cer-
tain to succeed Frank Gavan Duffy as
Chief Justice of the High Court, was
educated at Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University. When war broke
out, he had a modest junior prac-
tice at the Bar and was a lecturer in
logic and philosophy at his old univer-
sity. His knowledge of languages took
him to the Naval Intelligence staff, and
he was on the Commonwealth Peace
delegation at Versailles. After he re-
turned, his practice grew. Leaders liked
him because he was a first-class research
man, and had a sound basic knowledge
of the law. In 1922 he won Kooyong ;
in 1925 he became Bruce’s Attorney-
General ; in 1926 he led the Australian
delegation to Geneva. That year was
a busy one at the Imperial Conference —
Neville Howse fell ill, and Latham took
everybody’s work on to his shoulders till
he broke down. When the Bruce debacle
came in 1929, he led the Opposition, but
in 1931 he stood down for Lyons. He
went to the League meeting again in
1932. Later, he was sent to Japan as
Australia’s first ambassador, and did his
job well.
W. Shoyer, purser of the Tanda, who
has been given the Japanese Order of
Merit for his work in promoting Aus-
tralian-Japanese friendship, is a lean,
lively Australian with an abounding
sense of humor only matched by his
tact. In former years, he was in charge
of the business affairs of the St. Albans,
which Northcliffe proclaimed “one of
the pleasantest and best-fed ships in the
world.”
George (“Mulga”) Taylor, dead in
Perth at 73, was a rebel who mellowed
noticeably with the years. A N.S.W.
native, he got his first taste of publicity
—with a term of imprisonment—during
the shearers’ strike of the early ’nineties.
There was no
better passport to
a seat in Parlia-
ment, and after
“Mulga” had ex-
changed the shear-
blades for the pros-
pector’s pick, and
Queensland for
Westralia, he was
elected M.L.A. for
Mt. Margaret, a
brand-new gol d-
fields constituency,
in 1901. He was,
perhaps, the most
robust and asser-
tive of the half-
dozen tribunes who
constituted the
State’s first Parlia-
mentary Labor
squad, and with his
waving whiskers
quite the most pic-
turesque. He held
a portfolio in the
first Labor Minis-
try (1904-05), but
he was jettisoned
by Daglish. Pro-
motion only came
his way again
when he was
elected Speaker by
his old opponents,
a job he held
creditably and im-
partially enough
for seven years,
the Viking beard having long before
this been pruned to a Vandyck one.
Mt. Margaret, however, stuck to its
member till the seat was abolished in
1929 ; “Mulga,” by this time “Father of
the Assembly,” went with it. Later on
the Mitchell Government found him a
job as a licensing magistrate.
Thirty-one years ago George Taylor
and Paddy Lynch were State Labor
members for neighboring electorates,
Mt. Margaret and Mt. Leonora. They
became also members of Westralia’s first
Labor Ministry (Daglish’s), though not
at the same time —Paddy went in when
George came out. Taylor remained in
the Assembly till Mt. Margaret was
wiped off the electoral map in 1929;
Lynch left for the Senate at the end of
1906, and there he has remained. Each
took the conscription side when the
party split in 1916, and the Nationalists
made Taylor Speaker in 1917. Lynch
had to wait till 1932 before he was
named President of the Senate. He was
reappointed the day after his old asso-
ciate died.
Nobody can bring better standards of
comparison to bear on Melbourne’s
Agricultural Show than its president,
Charles Merrett. He has surveyed the
Shorthorns and Clydesdales as member
of the council for 30 years, and as its
head for 20. Over the seventy mark —he
was a citizen soldier 55 years ago —he
CHARLES MERRETT, twenty years
president of Melbourne R.A.S.
is as active as many a young man. He
has done as much to improve the marks-
manship of Australian citizen soldiers as
of the breed of Australian cattle and
sheep, for he has nursed rifle-club affairs
for half a century. He was one of Vic-
toria’s best shots as a young man, and
would have gone to Bisley if an injured
elbow had not got in the way.
“Mac F.” says good-bye to a friend:
Tom Richards, who died the other day in
Brisbane —at only 53 —was a fine footballer
and a splendid type of Australian, handsome
and debonair, but quiet and self-contained,
with a flashing smile. I can see him in the
golden days before the war when we lived, a
happy band, in a boarding-house in Manly.
Far into the night after a strenuous day in
the city and an evening in the carefree atmo-
sphere of the Village, Tom would write for
the sporting columns of the papers stories
about the Wallabies, incidents from his own
career as a triple international, and criticism and
advice for the rising generation of footballers.
He gained a commission in the Ist Battalion
A.I.F. Once when acting as bombing instruc-
tor to a squad on Perham Downs, he threw
himself on a live bomb carelessly dropped by
one of his squad. He saved the lives of his
men, but was severely wounded. That was
typical of him.
The day of Dave Souter’s funeral
was the day of Fred Brown’s death.
The two had been friends since
the late ’nineties, and it was one
of Fred’s last regrets that he was
too ill to attend Souter’s funeral.
Fred, a tall, handsome and amiable
fellow, was born at Bexley Heath, Kent,
and came to Australia as a child. He
studied art under Julian Ashton, and his
early work attracted the attention of
J. F. Archibald, who induced him to
become a regular contributor to The
Bulletin. His “In Tophet” series, which
amusingly depicted appropriate pun-
ishments in the lower regions for
nuisances on this earth, had a great
vogue in the pre-war years. In those
days he was also a staff artist on Jack
Haynes’s “Newsletter” and a contributor
to the “Australian Worker.” Enlisting
in 1916, he served with the 18th Bat-
talion, and was invalided home. After
the war he was connected for a time
with a returned soldiers’ toy-making
venture, followed the life of a freelance
artist and was cartoonist for the “Labor
Daily” for six years. Latterly ill-health
had dogged him, but he was always a
cheerful Bohemian.


IOO^PURf
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO,
Capstans are
now obtainable
in Full Strength,
Medium, and
Special Mild.
*mJ
■ ■ ■
im
■
■ a
m
i
its a
CAPSTAN
FULL* M EDI U M


The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
/ Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ * £ £ £
62 398
1928.. 52,030 2,250 12 i p.c. = 34,792 14,988 4?,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,420.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996 6,193 12* p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 12* p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „ „ 47,69'0 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,635 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,650 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO . . . . . . . . 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12£ p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
The first store was opened in Colling-
wood (Vic.) in 1914 ; the organisation at
present is celebrating its twenty-first
birthday. It was not, however, until the
Coleses returned from the war in 1919
that any notable expansion took place.
Thereafter the chain of stores whose top
price was 2s. 6d. spread to every State
in the Commonwealth. The greatest
activity has followed the introduction
of public money into the concern in
1927. In 1926 there were six stores es-
tablished. Now there are 34, and turn-
over, not disclosed for the last two
terms but keeping well up with the spread
of the business, forged ahead in this
manner:—
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 1931.. 20 £1,917,250
1926.. 6 563,466 1932.. 25 2,130,542
1928.. 10 1,052,882 1933.. 27 2,715,699
1929.. 14 1,592,890 1934.. 31 ?
1930.. 17 1,838,414 1935.. 34 ?
The permanent staff totals 2450; em-
ployees receive a bonus in addition to
award wages.
Shareholders have done very well, as
the introductory table shows. During the
four depression years to 1934 the ord.
distribution was a steady 10 p.c. that
never looked like being disturbed, and
the growth of the business meant further
participation in the profits by old share-
holders who took up new issues on satis-
factory terms.
Last year three new stores were
opened, and gross earnings (£940,139)
expanded £138,757 —an amount almost
equal to the total sales of 11 years ago.
Exes. (£808,695, including £45,000 for
taxation) were up £105,640 ; thus, includ-
ing £15,000 dropped into freehold proper-
ties depreciation reserve (as against
£11,450 in the previous year) the net
result (£146,445) mounted £36,668, being
equal to 18.7 p.c. on ord. capital (allow-
ing for pref. requirements) as against
13.8, 16.3, 14.1, 11.5 and 16.8 p.c. in
the five preceding years. To the cus-
tomary 10 p.c. ord. distribution a six-
penny bonus was added, making
p.c. for the year. Even so, reserves bene-
fited by £44,745, as against £26,917 in
1934, raising them, with share pre-
miums, to £248,111.
Balance-sheet figures continue to show
expansion:
1928. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Ord. capital. £288,165 £480,009 £708,600 £723,600
Pref. capital 75,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 11,679 .
Sundry creditors 30,613 37,146* 122,708* 103,727*
Freeholds . . 86,300 331,817* 466,999* 483 205*
Leaseholds . . 25,205 61,214 135,775 143,163
Fittings, etc. 31,857 94,087 228,386 231 917
Stock . . 237,914 224,345 337,596 373,139
Debtors .. 1,356 1,448 2,826 2,190
Cash, etc. .. 1,773 40,489 43,171 65.303
*Not including balance of unpaid purchase money
on freeholds: 1931-34, £130,000 ; 1935, £149,904.
The staff was offered 15,000 ords. at
50s, a share during the term ; the pre-
mium (£22,500) went to reserves. The
freehold of the co.’s Geelong store was
bought during the year ; total expendi-
ture under this head amounts to
£633,109, on which £149,904 is owing,
mainly in respect of the Bourke-street,
Melbourne, head office. The net value
of the properties moved up £16,206.
Leasehold premises, less depreciation, in-
creased £7388 during the year, and plant,
etc. (£231,917), by £3531.
The outside debt (£103,727, excluding
property liabilities but including staff
funds) is light, being reduced £18,981
during the term. Including stocks
(£373,139, up £35,543) and the amount
owing on freeholds, the more or less
liquid surplus (£187,001) was £56,116
stronger.
At 635. the ords. return 3.9 p.c. on a
12| p.c. div. basis, and the prefs. at
325. show 5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is 265. lOd. ords., £7 9s. 6d. prefs. The
intangible assets, such as organisation,
control and goodwill, which don’t appear
in the accounts, are obviously of great
value also.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
I Dividends—,
Pref. Towards
June, Loss. 9 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 934 6,111
Capital written off, £322.104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19.308 t 18.000 1308 1,308
1927.. 36.041 36,000 41 1.349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 _ _ 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 1184 922
1930.. 39,943 40,000 865
1931.. 35.607 J 36,000 472
1932.. 38,668 36,000 2668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 5496 8,636
8J p.c.
J 934.. 50,472 36,000 6710 7762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6710 4905 21,303
fSix months. Jlneludes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries
from reserves.
After taking stocks into account at
£41,956 lower —wool prices were rather
tricky during the term, though the old
season closed and the new one opened on
a firm note —net profit was written at
£2857 less than in the previous year.
But it still allowed a fair margin over
the prefs.’ 9 p.c. requirements, and the
8 1-3 p.c. distribution to the ords. was
repeated. That left £4905 for reserves,
now £21,303 in the parent co.’s books.
After a 12-year wait and the loss of
four-fifths of their capital—l6s. per share
was chopped off in 1925 to cover fire and
other losses and to eliminate £BO,OOO of
goodwill—the ords. came into the picture
for the first time in 1934 with an 8 1-3
p.c. dividend. Of the £480,527 of
capital, £400,000 carries a cumulative
9 p.c., which, though deferred on several
occasions early in the piece, has never
been otherwise interfered with.
The introductory table is compiled
from the parent’s accounts ; it owns all
or most of the shares in the two manu-
facturing subsidiaries, Lincoln Spinning
Mills and Lincoln Knitting Mills. Up to
1931 the parent was purely a holding co.;
in 1932 it undertook distribution of the
pups’ products. Here are the net trading
figures of the three cos. combined:
Gross Net Divs. Paid by
June, Profit. Exes. Profit. Subsidiaries.
1928.. £116,393 £81,109 £35,289 Nil
1929.. 135,341 81,032 54,309 £55,000
1930.. 131,037 85,054 45,983 40,500
1931.. 80,084 73,853 6,231 36,000
1932.. 103,621 66,167 37,454
1933.. 127,705 70,737 56,968
1934.. 115,693 66,021 49,672
1935. . 109,936 62,771 47,165
The 1932 rearrangement of functions was
satisfactory, though competition has been
keen most of the time since, and profit-
expansion has been curbed. Last term-
gross earnings fell a further £5757, of
which £3250 was offset by savings in
exes., leaving enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 14.4 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 16.9 p.c. and 26 p.c. in the two
preceding terms.
The combined balance-sheet figures of
the three cos. compare as follows:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities* . . 197,242 41,248 98,582 35,211
Freeholds .. 93,269 89,161 88,047 85,975
Plant . . 205,724 176,275 161,559 144,162
Stocks . . 310,171 215,483 314,408 272,452
Book debts, etc. 138,850 99,279 91,164 92,277
*The ’3O figures include an unspecified provision for
taxation.
Plant, which cost £352,662, has been
written down £208,500, last year’s profit
bearing £24,359 of this, about the same
as in the previous term. Freeholds
(£85,975) show a reduction of £2072;
these downward movements in fixed
assets and the lightening in stocks already
mentioned are reflected in a drop of
£63,371 in the outside debt (now down
to £35,211). Finances are obviously very
comfortable. Improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£329,518, including
slocks) was £22,528 during the year.
At 30s. 3d. the prefs. return 5.9 p.c.
The more speculative ords. show 4.6 p.c.
at 7s. 3d. Net tangible cover is 255. Id.
prefs., ss. ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 65,396 10 p.c. = 55,000 10,396 51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ „ 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ „ 55,000 ( ? 7
Taxation reserve, £15,236.. 5 8)479 74)999
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95.000
1929. . 75,000 10 „ „ 55,006 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65,000 10 „ „ 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 6i „ „ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 „ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss. '
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 „ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 41 „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
Business has shown good recovery,
despite many obstacles, including “lack
of adequate facilities” at the Valley rail-
way station. The co. also declares that
the absence in the Brunswick-street end
of the city of a postal service capable
of dealing with its mail-order business,
etc., puts it to additional expense run l
ning into £lOOO a year.
A steady 10 p.c. was paid for many
years prior to the slump. The store
rapidly grew to be the largest in Bris-
bane, and the Valley became the popular
shopping centre. In 1931 reductions in
the div. commenced, but, though a loss
of £4OOO showed up in 1933, in no year
have shareholders gone entirely without,
as the introductory table testifies.
A flood of Japanese competition in
1933 —silks, rayons, cotton goods, etc.,
were chiefly in the picture—accentuated
trouble brought about by unemployment
and the pull of the chain stores and other
drapers in Queen-street. But, despite this
keener competition and other adverse
circumstances, McWhorters’ management
quickly cut any losses on stocks, and
soon had earnings heading the right way
again.
This table tells the story in gross and
net;
1928. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Gross profit. . £261,380 £148,303 £168,615 £173,252
Exes 186,379 146,356 142,217 140,052
Net profit.. £75,001 £1,947 £26,398 £33,200
Employment in Queensland has been
improving, though during last year trade,
especially country orders, reflected the
effects of the drought in the back-country,
now much less acute than it was. Mc-
Whorters’ turnover showed an encouraging
increase, and, after “closely examining”
stock, taking it into account at cost or
replacement value, and making provi-
sion for “all known contingencies,” gross
profit showed an improvement of £4637.
Exes, were actually £2165 lighter. Trans-
fers (£7000) to the taxation and book-
debts reserve reconcile the £33,200 of
profit shown in the foregoing compari-
son of p. and 1. figures with the £26,200
in the introductory table.
Net, £4052 higher, was equal to a
shade under 4.7 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 4 p.c., a loss, 5, 6.5, 11.8 and
13.6 p.c. in the six preceding years. The
div. was lifted from 4 p.c. to 4| p.c.
Reserves stood at £111,598 when the
books closed.
Finances are in good shape:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 7,817 109,395 58,626 50,827
Creditors , . 50,153 37,917 54,249 52,291
Freehold and
plant . . 324,500 453,000 448,100 446,150
Stocks . . 296,908 262,092 240,525* 242,502*
Book debts.. 109,710 115,484 100,331 92,803
Cash invest-
ments, etc. 40,665 5,772 6,067 2,161
a'oods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
Despite small recent visible additions to
reserves by way of undistributed profits,
the co. has done good work with its
debt (£103,118, down £9757 last year).
The more or less liquid surplus
(£234,348) is practically unchanged, and
stocks (£242,502, including £19,347 of
goods in transit) show little movement.
At 18s. the scrip should be well worth
holding. The return is 5 p.c. on a 4} p.c.
div. basis, and the backing 245. in net
tangibles.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
Nominal
Net , Dividends——,, To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 9,919 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 9,651 268 1,219
1926.. 15,136 10 „ 6 „ „ 12,645 2491 3,710
1927.. 16,627 10 ~ 6 „ „ 13,494 3131 6,841
British rights sold; net additions to
general reserve, £47,956 .. .. 54,797
1928.. 20,724 10 p.c. 324 p.c.=67,202 8,319
1929.. 17,230 10 „ 6 „,, 16,509 721 9,040
1930.. 9,936 10 „ (Nil) = 5,000 4936 13,976
1931.. 4,260 10 „ (Nil) = 4,906 13,330
1932.. 9,550 7£ „ 3 p.c. = 9,630 13,250
1933.. 14,312 7| „ 5 ~,,13,466 846 14,096
1934.. 16,472 7-| „ 6 „ ~15,385 1087 15,183
June,
1935*. 13,638 7f „ 7i „„ 13,466 172 15,355
*Eight months.
Sometimes it pays good divs. and some-
times it doesn’t, but it has been more
satisfactory than the horses. Assets are
largely intangible patent rights and other
tote investments—chiefly Automatic
Totes (France). Capital is £241,825,
£50,000 of it in 10 p.c. prefs (paying 1\
p.c. under the I.R. Act); assets that, so
far as the eye can see (plant and totalisa-
tors being covered up with patents), are
tangible total £96,232 —after deducting a
property mortgage—subject to £7789 of
other liabilities.
Here is the position as the balance
sheet shows it:
1925. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £196,200 £241,825 £241,825
Liabilities . . . . 14,666 4,255 7,789
Patent rights, plant,
models, etc 189,980 202,888 201,327
Freehold, etc 6,788 3,442 14,670
Shares other cos. . . 114,260 113,791
Stock 5.871 12,767 9,235
Book debts . . . . 30,881 38,957 33,665
Cash 7,178 22,259 24,871
Finances are comfortable, the debt (ex-
cluding a mortgage deducted from free-
holds) being covered more than three
times by cash alone. Of the book debts
an amount due from Automatic Totes
(France) represents the largest item. It
is at present treated as a contingent lia-
bility by the pup, but the parent expects
full recovery.
In the last term (it covered only eight
months, to June 30) the £13,638 of profit
(at the rate of £20,457 a year) came
£5562 from Australian sources and
£8076 from outside the Commonwealth.
Improvement in Westralian revenue and
slightly better returns from Vic. and
N. S. Wales resulted in a definite
strengthening of Australian earnings.
South Aus. is still a poor contributor,
owing partly to the licensing of betting
shops.
The period covered is the more profit-
able part of the year. Improvement,
however, was definite. But unless it con-
tinues the 1\ p.c. ord. div. is not secure,
as, after paying the prefs., it absorbed
all but a handful of the disclosed earn-
ings for the eight months. In addition
to the reserves shown in the table there
is £126,816 to offset the £lOO,OOO at
which the ord. shares in the French pup
appear and the plant, etc., items.
Depreciation, the board says, is not
provided against patents ; but from time
to time fresh letters are taken out in
respect of improvements. The ramifica-
tions of the co. are world-wide —as shown
before, the greater part of its income is
derived from overseas —and there are
periodic developments in respect of new
fields. With the sale of the British rights
(for a cash consideration and a commis-
sion on turnover) shareholders received
a 25 p.c. cash bonus.
The French offshoot has £200,400 of
capital, half 10 p.c. cum. prefs. (now
less p.c. statutory cut) and the other
half ords., the latter taken by the parent
in part payment for rights, etc. The
parent has been called upon for over
£25,000 in pref. div. guarantees, but the
subsidiary is now covering pref. require-
ments from its own profits and repay-
ing something to the parent. Divs. on
the ord. holding, however, are yet to
eventuate.
The market prices the parent’s ords.
at 195., giving a yield of 7.9 p.c. if the
p.c. distribution is maintained, or
6.3 p.c. if it falls back to 6 p.c. At
245. 6d. the prefs. return 6.4 p.c. on a
7| p.c. distribution.
James Stedman Henderson’s Sweets
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 33,379 10,000 p.c. = 13,267 10,112 33,644
Deficit.
Transferred to specific reserves, £35,874.. 2,330
Nora. Res.
1926.. 40,035 10,000 4 p.c. = 21,228 8,807 6,477
1927.. 47,118 10,000 6 „ „ 31,841 5,277 11,754
1928.. 50,024 10,000 6 „ „ 31,841 8,183 19,937
1929.. 52,912 10,000 6 „ „ 31,841 11,071 31,008
1930.. 26,072 10,000 3 „ „ 15,921 151 31,159
1931.. 13,011 10,000 Nil 3,011 34,170
1932. . 17,124 '*8,031 1} p.c. = 7,960 1,133 35,303
1933.. 24,430 *7,750 3 „ „ 15,921 759 36,062
Written off, £3964 32,098
1934.. 26,891 *7,750 3J p.c. = 18,574 567 32,665
1935.. 36,261 *7,750 5 „ „ 26,534 1,977 34,642
*22£ p.c. statutory cut from Oct. 1, 1931.
Sweets are luxuries easily dispensed
with. In view of this and the keen com-
petition in the business, the co. has pulled
through the last half-dozen years sur-
prisingly well. Over the two years to
the close of accounts in 1931, net earn-
ings fell away £39,901 (= 75 p.c.), of
which £23,250 has since been regained,
due to the improvement in conditions
generally, extension of the business to
Maoriland, a cut in the price of sugar
and other savings to the benefit of
costs.
The declared net result for the last
term was £9370 better at £36,261, which
was enough to pay the pref. divs. and
then show 5.3 p.c. on the £530,690 of
ord. capital as against a shade over 3.6
p.c. and 3.1 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. That was after dropping £15,956
net into specific reserves (£211,551) as
against £11,795 in 1934. These specific
reserves are not included with the lay-by
in the table, which is labelled nominal
because it is subject to £48,250 of patent
rights.
The div. was lifted from 3y p.c. to
5 p.c., and it is doubtful if better need be
expected—for a while, at any rate. Dur-
ing the height of the boom, the ords.
(after a five years’ dry spell, they came
into the picture with 2\ p.c. in 1925) got
6 p.c., with reasonable margins.
The financial position improved;
1928. 1931. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. '. . 030,690 630,69'0 630,690 630,690
Mortgage . . .. 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000
Overdraft . . . . 57,803 37,855 30,763 28,436
Sundry creditors . . 62,886 33,109 29,309 29,404
Freeholds . . . . 167,070 167,106 167,106 167,106
Plant, etc 454,273 475,696 496,370 511,094
Stocks . . • • 114,280 106,975 110,373 103,576
Debtors . . . . 129,280 81,481 105,974 119,915
investments & cash 72,299 62,543 58,398 60,192
Nothing was visibly written off the book
value of freeholds. The growth of
£14,724 in the plant item was accom-
panied by an expansion of £13,941 in
debtors’ balances and a contraction of
£6797 in stocks ; they are encouraging
movements. The growth in the more
or less liquid surplus (£180,843, including
stocks) was £11,170.
At 305.-3 d. and 295. 6d. the first and
second prefs.—there are 50,000 of each,
10 p.c. cumulative, less 22\ p.c. statu-
tory cut —return 5.1 p.c. and 5.2 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 18s. 3d. (15s.
a year ago) yield 5.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. Excluding specific reserves, the
net tangible cover is £l2 6s. lOd. firsts,
£ll 6s. lOd. seconds and 19s. sd. ords.
{“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.) .


, /:••••••
<s*
y^f.
v-.;>
h
O
iV-’iV
C
Vr>
4
’•■v <■
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph services are indispensable
to a country’s progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has anticipated, rather than
followed, the needs of the Australian public for modern wireless
telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day operates the Beam Wireless
Telegraph Service, Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the Beam
Picturegram Service between Australia and overseas. A.W.A. also
operates the Australian Coastal Radio Service and the Pacific Island
Services in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on ships at sea for the safety
of life and for the interchange of public wireless telegrams between
ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-important factors that
have resulted in giving the public satisfactory service. To this end
every new phase of wireless has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
The Company invites enquiries in respect to any of its wireless
communication services. An illustrated booklet, setting out the
Company’s activities and services, will be sent post free on written
application to the Company’s Offices at 47 York Street, Sydney, or
167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
( l / ?j^JuxrrLcj2


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
mm
mm
m
mi
MB
S
m
ssaa
Her Guardian was in
the SAFE
HAT’S in that box, Mum-
l/V mie?” asked the inquisitive
imp, when she had run into
her father’s room at bath-time.
“Ah! That’s where your Guardian is
kept,’’ answered her mother.
It was an A.M.P. policy for £2,000
that was the baby’s guardian, and the
mother little dreamed that, within a
few short weeks, an accident would
make that A.M.P. policy not only her baby s
guardian, BUT HER OWN guardian as well.
The young husband had become a member of
the A.M.P. in 1930, when he had thought to
take out a policy for £3OO, but had been per-
suaded to make it one for £2,000 because his
income permitted it. That £2,000, plus six
bonuses, were paid to the widow on his death.
Does the moral need to be stressed?
Men and women, who have not thought it neces-
sary to have such guardian for their babes, should
remember that this baby’s father didn’t think that
his days were numbered. They should send to
the nearest A.M.P. office for an experienced adviser
to help them to a wise decision.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W.‘ SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. fMelb.). —Anv'r.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particular;;
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfleld
“TENS’OMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS —Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
m
mm
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
Sales of this wireless-, motor-car-
accessory- and bicycle-manufacturing
concern are now back to well above 1929
figures, and net earnings for the term
to June 30 were a record at £27,328 —up
£3309 on the previous year, and equal
to 12.6 p.c, on ordinary capital, after
allowing for pref. requirements.
Expansion in turnover has meant large
increases in sundry debtors (£161,784, up
£46,964 in two years) and stocks
(£209,700, up £57,375); also additional
factory space is to be acquired on a 39-
year lease. Room for an electrical work-
shop for motor-car servicing and much-
needed space for turning out steel-tube
furniture and refrigerators will thus be-
come available. As the outside debt is
now £245,183, and earnings on last year's
scale quite capable of paying dividends
on additional capital, shareholders are
to be offered an as yet unspecified
number of new ords. and prefs. in the
near future. With the prefs. (present
issue) at 285., and the 15s, ords., on
which 1% p.c. was distributed last year,
at 19s. 9d., little difficulty should be ex-
perienced in raising it.
Sulphide Gold (Junction Reefs), Ltd.
This concern, whose show is near
Mandurama (N.S.W.), treated 7121 tons
for 17960 z. during the 12 months to
June 30 last, an average of slightly more
than sdwt. per ton. Net profit, however,
was only £621.
Proceeds of gold won, etc. (£15,626),
had to bear, in addition to mining and
normal treatment costs, a charge of no
less than £1827 for repairs to plant, con-
stant breakdowns to this item being the
most noteworthy feature of the year's
operations. In addition to the extra ex-
pense, profit-earning was interfered with
by the inability of the plant to keep step
with mining and development.
Until ore production is balanced with
ore treatment, remunerative profits on
a sdwt.-grade basis are out of the ques-
tion. The old plant will have to go—a
breakdown in any one unit at present
means a complete hold-up. So share-
holders are to be asked to increase the
nominal capital from £50,000 (£45,500 at
present paid up) to £75,000, and to agree
to the issue of £22,750 of 20 p.c. partici-
pating pref. capital in 2s, shares, to be
offered in the proportion of one for two
ords., the whole of the issue having
been underwritten by Mount Morgan
Developments. The prefs. are to have
the right of participation with the ords.
after the latter get 20 p.c. The under-
writers are to be given the option of
taking £4OOO of ord. shares within 12
months from September 23, 1935.
With a new plant assured (provided
present shareholders are agreeable) the
2s. ords. have recovered from Bd. to
Is. 9d. or thereabouts. The board,
especially since it will have the co-opera-
tion of the Development Co., should
make no mistake about plant this time,
and the proposed issue should easily
provide for a 1400-tons-a-month unit. In
the past the management has been slow
to seize its opportunities of obtaining
necessary finance, etc., when the time
was opportune.
The mine manager speaks with assur-
ance of 53,000 tons of ore exceeding
6dwt. and very large ore-bodies of at
present indeterminate values. “On a
4dwt. basis one could practically rely on
250,000 tons. Mining costs should not
exceed 9s. per ton, and, on an increased-
capacity plant, milling and treatment
costs should be under this. On £8 gold,
4dwt. ore could be mined and treated.”
South Kalgurli’s pockets continue well
lined. Cash assets on March 31 com-
prised investments at cost, £45,026, and
bank deposits, £88,877. In addition there
were unrealised bars of bullion in the
safe valued at £8603. Plant and
machinery, the original cost of which
ran into six figures, is shown at £761, and
buildings which cost several thousands
at £l.
4 * * *
A London crowd represented in Perth
has taken a sampling option on Ingliston
Consols at Meekatharra (W.A.). Sydney
had one a little while ago, but pulled out
after doing some prospecting at depth.
It was said at the time that far too much
was being asked for the property.
* * * *
Resurrected Edna May (W.A.) has
£47,559 left out of the proceeds of last
year’s flotation, a completed power and
pumping plant, a mill in the last stages
of erection and some holes in the ground
filled with water. The first attempt to
drain the main hole proved a failure
owing to a breakdown of the pump, but
it is hoped that the second, now proceed-
ing, will be successful. Below there is
a pillar of ore containing £lOO,OOO at the
present price of gold which for safety the
Mines DepartmeAt compelled the old co.
to leave behind. Apart from this the
prospects of the venture are not con-
sidered alluring by mining men in the
West who claim to know its past.
* * * jJ;
Commonwealth Prospecting, Ltd., one
of the latest of the De Bernales West-
ralian organisations, has gone into the
desert beyond Laverton with one auto-
gyro, three big motor-trucks and a wire-
less set. A party of five, headed by
aviator Spargo,- expects to be away from
home some months in search of gold over
600 square miles of comparatively un-
explored territory.
* * * *
Some Westralian holders of Kimberley
Options complain about the dearth of
information. They want to know why
balance sheets for the last two years have
riot reached them, and why, despite
regular and apparently good crushings,
the shares are worth only a few pence on
the market. Co.’s mine is at Patricia,
about 100 miles north of Kalgoorlie, and
has been worked by tributors during the
past two years.
4 4 * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, whose prop-
erties on the Golden Mile are being
managed by Western Mining Corp., has
started business as a gold producer. Ore
broken from development work is being
crushed at the rate of 60 tons a day at
the old Associated mill.
* * * *
Gold Exploration’s recent London
float, the Phoenix, at Norseman (W.A.), is
being prepared for gold production.
Development Involving large expenditure
is proposed, and the installation of a
plant with a treatment capacity of 100
tons a day has been decided on.
* * * *
North Enterprise and Ora Banda
North, which have combined forces —
after unsuccessful mining operations in
other parts of Westralia —to work a show
at Bardoc, north-east of Kalgoorlie, are
meeting with no better results. Develop-
ment from underhand sloping has been
disappointing, and work is now being
carried out on the east wall of the ore-
body.
Lancefield South, N.L., a Melbourne
float, has granted an option to the Aus-
tralian Mining Trust over the Himalaya
mine, east of Laverton (W.A.). The
A.M.T. is interested in several places in
Westralia, including the Meekatharra dis-
trict and Hampton Plains.
* * * *
Locally-owned Waldeck Co., which
has a show near Wiluna (W.A.), recently
cleaned up 244 tons for loz. Bdwt. 2gr. a
ton. This property has during the past
few months been a small but consistent
producer.
* * * *
The Empress Gold Mines, N.L., has
extended to Jan. 1, 1936, its option to
English interests over the Empress of
Coolgardie lease near Coolgardie (W.A.).
The option over the Yellowdine prop-
erty has been abandoned.
* * * *
Rand’s principal mines (S. Africa) have
lately been treating’ ore ranging from
2.9odwt. to 7.3odwt. per ton. Five of
the largest have re-estimated their ore
reserves. They are: Consolidated Main
Reef, 7,130,300 tons, averaging 4.74dwt.,
estimated sloping width 56i-in.; Modder-
fontein East, 5,142,300 tons, average
4.7dwt., estimated sloping width 44in. ;
New Modderfontein, 9,305,300 tons,
average 5.3dwt., estimated sloping width
47-2-in. Nourse, 4,007,199 tons, average
4.7dwt., estimated sloping width 44in.
There is a lot more ore in shafts and
safety pillars not at present available for
sloping.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co., after trying for nearly
14 years to pick a winner, is still hope-
ful. A report received from Dr. Wade
the other day stated that he had exam-
ined a closed structure which was better
than any yet drilled by the co. He pro-
mised to say more after he had examined
it from the air. The co. now has about
£B5OO in the bank, which is sufficient to
enable Dr. Wade to complete his investi-
gations.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The Pope on War
A Political Point (B. 4/9/’35), while
quoting appreciatively the Pope’s declara-
tion against war, suggests that it broke
a silence. Not so. As far back as April
last the Pope at an important consistory
said “If there should be anyone—which
we trust will not be the case —who
makes preparation for such a scourge,
then we cannot withhold from our heart
this prayer to the all-powerful God,
Domine dissipa gentes quce bella volunt"
(O Lord, scatter the people who wish
for war). Hardly silence. — Iconoblast
,CTas.).
Back to Duntroon
I do not agree with that Duntroon
par. (B. 11/9/’35). Our greatest A.I.F.
leaders were citizen soldiers. Our best
staff officers were citizen soldiers. I have
seen C.Os. in despair with Duntrooners.
Sandhurst trains youngsters for a
regular army. Ours is a citizen army.
The last war proved the worth of the
competitive exam, for staff jobs among
the best of the citizen and “permanent”
soldiers.
I say, get back to the pre-war system
for permanent officers, and get the A.I.F.
generals’ recommendation for national
defence training. Did White go to Dun-
troon? Or through it's equivalent? Did
Blarney, Jess, Monash, Foster, Laverack?
—Yours etc., SOP (Q.).
Storage of Explosives
Tightening-up of the regulations re-
garding storage of explosives is indicated
by the Williamstown (Vic.) explosion, in
which two youngsters lost their lives, and
by accidents in other places. Chemicals
sufficiently powerful to blow up part of
a city lie in many places behind rickety
doors fastened by eighteenpenny pad-
locks. The ease with which explosives
can be stolen is proved by the number of
safe-breaking jobs which take place.
There are stringent regulations governing
the storage of petrol; gelignite is equally
dangerous, and is far easier to steal and
carry off. All dangerous explosives
should be guarded as gold is guarded in
a bank. — Magers (Vic.).
Why They Leave Maoriland
“I cannot understand why so many
of your brilliant young people leave their
beautiful land. Why don’t they stay?”
Thus Miss Sheila MacDonald, daughter
of ex-Prime Minister Ramsay Mac-
Donald, speaking at a reception. The
answer is that in Maoriland scope for
the profitable exercise of artistic and
scientific talent is very definitely limited.
What would the value of a Low car-
toon be to-day had the Rangiora boy
elected to remain? Probably a fiver a
week drawing Forbes or Gordon Coates.
G. B. Lancaster and Katherine Mans-
field made for London and won a world
public. “Young Rutherford,” born in
Nelson, went to the laboratories of Eng-
land —to gain a Nobel Prize and a title.
Bob Johnson has for years been hold-
ing one-man shows in Sydney. Ask him
about art in Maoriland. Unk White,
Noel Cook, Guy Lynch all crossed the
Tasman to find a more lucrative field in
Aussie. What has Goldie got for his
long residence in Maoriland? The joy
of work (he would have got that any-
where) and a minor Birthday “honor”—
certainly not earnings commensurate
with his splendid talent. G. H. Clutsam,
the composer and arranger of music,
was obscure enough in his native land.
London gave him fame and royalties.
And for Dr. Peter Buck, foremost
Maori scholar, a job was found at the
Bishop Institute, Honolulu.
Some people, even distinguished visi-
tors, ask silly questions. Arthur
O’Halloran (M.L.).
Put ’Em on the Land!
Some of the land being opened up for
settlement in N. S. Wales would scarcely
keep the flesh on the bones of a scrub
wallaby.
Sixteen blocks in the Gosford district,
County of Northumberland, were
balloted for. As described in the “Gov- -
eminent Gazette,” the land would have
made Adam’s mouth water. It didn’t in
the case of the “lucky” ones when they
arrived to take possession. Rock converges
into swamp and swamp into gravelly,
hungry sand that has its work cut out
to keep a few miserable apple-gums
alive. Gnarled white-gums comprise the
heavy timber, and it would be hard to
find 50 trees on the whole 16 blocks that
would break up for fencing. I’d feel
insulted if I were given the whole 16.
COOLIBAH (N.S.W.).
“At Dictatorships in General’ ?
It is surprising to find you mocking at
the League of Nations.
The British Parliament, after over two
centuries of development, is still far from
perfection, and it is hardly fair to expect
the League, after less than two decades,
to function perfectly in a far more diffi-
cult field. Further, the League, like
Parliament, aspires to rule by consent of
the governed, and, if it fails, the blame
attaches to those who withhold such con-
sent, among whom you are no doubt
proud to number yourself.
If the League were united and resolute
to go to any lengths to enforce its de-
"Would that track suit us?”
“Too right — it's a goat track.”
crees, it is inconceivabe that Italy would
defy it. Should the inconceivable
happen, as it sometimes does, there would
be war, but probably a short, one-sided
and decisive conflict, greatly enhancing
the prestige of the League and striking
a shrewd blow at dictatorships in
general.
As for Australia having no interest in
the present dispute, no one has so far
suggested that an Italian campaign in
Abyssinia could be other than long and
costly. A weakened Italy might easily
provoke another European war, from
which, perhaps, you would still advise us
to stand aloof. If, later on, an invading
army came this way, we could just carry
on as though it didn’t exist. But, of
course, such a thing could never happen.
No nation would have the temerity to
face the cold shoulder of a united Aus-
tralia, under the banner of the Red Rag.
—Heresone (N.S.W.).
The Married Women’s Property Act
I note that the N.S.W. measure is to
be amended again. The best possible
amendment would be to wipe it off the
statute book altogether. It is only an-
other proof of a favorite theory of mine
—that the common law, cheated and
polished by generations of hard experi-
ence, is far better, left: alone, and cannot
be improved by politicians.'
I have practised as a solicitor for over
30 years,' and have never met a married
woman 'who was capable of managing
her ovvn business, ~ affairs, or who
would- hot have been happier if the
M.W.P. Act had never been passed. I
do not suppose that only the fools
marry, but there seems to be some
psychological reason for a married
woman sinking her identity in that of
her husband, and it was this tendency
that the common law, quite rightly,
recognised. A married woman, in my
experience, relies blindly upon her hus-
band, or, failing him, the last male that
she has had the opportunity of talking
to —provided, of course, that such male
is about the last person that one would
expect to know anything about the busi-
ness in hand. — Fitzwilliam (N.S.W.).
Corporal Punishment
While sharing the view of “C.Q.,” re-
cently expressed, that the tendency to
“spare the rod” indicates a welcome ad-
vancement in teaching methods, I would
not favor total abolition of the cane.
Grammar- and public-school teachers
know that discipline is largely a matter
of bluff. This is simple enough where
younger children are concerned, but
much more difficult when a large class of
middle- or upper-school lads has to be
tackled, especially for a new teacher,
whose first and most important job is to
prove that the kids can’t “put one over
him.”
In a “classy” school parents encourage
disrespect for the schoolmaster in far
too many cases, with the result that the
young gentlemen consider themselves a
cut above a mere paid employee of their
parents. I have known too many
instances of the failure of “kindness,”
“winning the boy’s confidence” and the
like to believe that as a final “sanction”
(to adopt League of Nations jargon) cor-
poral punishment is no longer required.
Sometimes it is the only means of en-
suring obedience. But I agree that the
infliction of physical pain should always
be used as a last resort only.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Tourism in Australia
To foster it you must offer the tourist
something which will induce him to come
again, as well as to pass the good word
on to others. Our greatest field
is undoubtedly U.S.A., barely three
weeks distant from these shores, even
if you take parts of New York, Chicago
and the Atlantic coast into consideration.
Floating palaces provide the best of
food and accommodation, private baths
and telephone communication cabin to
cabin, an open bar, amusements —every-
thing the most fastidious person can
wish. What do tourists find on arri-
val? Cities with restaurants which
cannot serve wines and beers with
meals, hotels closed at six o’clock
in the afternoon but open at the
unearthly hour of six in the morning, no
cabarets and amusement halls at which
alcoholic beverages can be bought (they
are brought in and consumed surrepti-
tiously) ; in fact, cities like morgues at
night.
In U.S.A. cities there are music and
dancing, cabarets and entertainment
galore. Since repeal of prohibition
licenses are practically run on unre-
stricted hours, yet a greater sobriety
exists, with honest, clean amusement,
than where partial prohibition exists, as
with us.
Let us have tourist licenses, granted to
individuals or companies willing to
build hotels offering good accommo-
dation, private bathrooms, good food,
reasonably-priced alcoholic beverages,
music and entertainment, dancing and
cabarets. Licenses which will remain the
property of the Government and may be
cancelled if the regulations covering
good conduct are not adhered to. Again,
special licenses should be issued to
restaurants to enable light wines and
beers to be consumed with meals to mid-
night, and cabaret licenses where also
light wines and beers can be served.
In four States we have Government
assisting settlers by advice and finance
to grow good wine ; in every State the
legislation is such as to curtail the con-
sumption of beverage wines. The situa-
tion would be ridiculous were it not so
pathetic.— Leo Buring (N.S.W.).
The Real Australia
It has remained for a schoolgirl in
Alberta to discover it, and the Common-
wealth Government is so pleased about
it that it is paying her fare to the Com-
monwealth and back. The young lady
sees in Australia the “sleeping continent
left to the caressings of mild winds mur-
muring together in quiet glee.”
Australia’s “Damon and Pythias,” it
appears, are exploration and develop-
ment. Moreover,
A riot of wonderful wildflowers and
shrubs with rare ferns and trees combine
to make this continent a vast and varied
garden... .Even the rocky wastes abound
in colorful wattle or are scarlet-carpeted
by Sturt’s desert-pea.
Ninety per cent, of Australians have
never seen Sturt’s desert pea, which
grows mainly on limited areas of sand.
It further seems that “the small yellow
wattle is regarded as Australia’s floral
symbol, but the kangaroo was at last
chosen as her official emblem” —the
kanga. was used officially and semi-
officially at least 130 years ago, before
the spread of the acacias had attracted
attention. And “the graceful lyrebird”—
which is restricted to south-east Aus-
tralia—-“mimics the sounds of our
northern forests.”
As to Australia’s trade with Canada,
there are ever-widening possibilities.
Judging by the most recent figures
available, the essayist speaks the truth
here. The progress of several years of
effort to build up our commerce with
Canada shows in these figures, which
look even worse in dollars, since Cana-
dian exchange had a lower relation to
ours in 1932-33 :
1932-33. 1933-34. Increase.
Exports to
Canada .. £1,209,237 £1,336,023 £126,786
Imports—Cana-
dian origin
only .. .. 2,315,462 2,918,095 602,633
Balance against
Australia .. 1,106,225 1,582,072 475,847
Still, the reference to “ever-widening pos-
sibilities” should please Dr. Page and
his Commerce Department. Politicians
and officials like to be agreed with. —
Omana. (N.S.W.),
The Birth-rate Question
Anyone who has studied history to
any purpose must be flabbergasted at the
contention that the Empire’s diminishing
birth-rate is producing a crisis. At the
end of the eighteenth century, to plant
trees and bring forth children were the
first duties of the patriotic Briton. The
old Poor Law was seriously defended on
the ground that the subsidy it gave to
the laborer helped him to marry early
and breed quickly.
At the end of the Napoleonic wars
opinion swung to the opposite pole, and
the country fell into a panic lest popu-
lation should outgrow subsistence.
When the census of 1821 showed the
population of England and Wales to be
14,000,000, an increase of 5,000,000 in
20 years, there was consternation. For
the next 50 years Britons remained under
the influence of Malthus and his theory,
and as late as 1874 Liberal opinion was
inclined to the belief that the only way
to save the country was somehow to
reduce its population.
Then opinion swung back to the oppo-
site pole, and from 1890 onwards most
of the newspapers and all the preachers
were in a state of despair about the
slightest check in the percentage of
growth. In 1800 they wanted popula-
tion regardless of comfort; about 1850,
comfort regardless of population; in
1890, both comfort and population.
What is necessary here in Australia is
first to make up our minds what we actu-
ally do want and then set out to achieve
it. If we want population we can have
it right now; but we shall have to foot
the bill. The cost of that new Sydney
Parliament House, of new abodes for
the Governor-General, of royal commis-
sions and what not would produce legions
of babies —if we really want them. But
we really cannot have, peripatetic poli-
ticians and babies at the same time, —
Father of None (N.S.W.).


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Keegan and Barney the
Bull, making into St. Arnaud (Vic.)
towards nightfall, were in a hurry and
took a short cut through
the cemetery. It had been
raining all day, and they
were pretty wet and miser-
able. The dusk deepened
as they passed through the
place of the dead, and then
Keegan stopped short and
peered ahead. Barney also
peered. Then they looked
at each other. They could
see no moving thing abom
them, but from the ground
almost at their feet came
strange gurgling sounds and
a horrible grunting. Their
eyes popped and they began
to shake. Then a sepulchral
voice said, “I’ll get up out
of this, or” Keegan
and Barney covered the
two miles into St. Arnaud
in record time, staggered
into O’Kane’s pub and
called for revivers. They told the
story to a doubtful crowd, who jeered
at them until a mud-stained appari-
tion appeared in the bar and demanded
spirits. “You been seem’ ’em, too?”
was the chorus. “Seem’ ’em, be jiggered,”
said the apparition. “Some silly cow
left an open grave in the cemetery and
I fell into the blanky thing!”
i\; * ♦ ■ 4 *
“Baa”: Anyone who has been familiar
in his youth with the malignant ferocity
of the pet lamb grown up will agree
that the sheep is far from being the
gentle creature of Arcadian literature.
One at least of the woolly ruffians has
been blamed by the Young (N.S.W.)
coroner for the death of a farmer.
He had gone to catch a sheep for kill-
ing, and circumstantial evidence showed
clearly that suffocation had followed on
his being butted in the chest by one of
the flock which he was trying to catch.
Moral: Go shepherding, not with a be-
ribboned crook, but with a big-game
rifle.
* * * *
“Macropus”: The gazelle-eyed kan-
garoo has put up another record for
dirty work. A Yass (N.S.W.) station-
hand interfered in a dust-up between
one of his sheep-dogs and an old man
’roo. The ’roo went for him, ripped the
oilskin off his back and chased him
round some rocks, where he had sought
shelter. The fugitive ducked and grabbed
his enemy by the tail, but was grabbed
himself in the Too’s powerful forepaws.
Just as the kanga. was going to admin-
ister the coup de grace with a hind-foot
slash, the human got in first with a
sheath-knife. In an open go with no
weapons a big kangaroo is a match for
any man.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: This big-game fishing
seems to need capital. We took a visiting
chap out in the launch to try for a sail-
fish round the Sisters (Torres Strait). He
had some wonderful-looking gear, and
we were anxious to see it in action. Un-
fortunately, nothing took hold—not, at
least, until he laid his rod down along-
side the cockpit to light his pipe. Then
there was a wild screech from the reel,
and the whole lot dived overboard in a
split second. During a few sympathetic
spots afterwards the mourner assessed
the loss at £l2 10s. for the rod, £34 for
the reel, £5 10s. for 880 yards of line, and
another £1 for trace, swivels and hook.
We took out a couple of swimboys and
grapnels next day to try to earn the
tenner he offered as a reward, but to no
avail. All we did was to catch a 1501 b.
sail fish on a towline worth, at its newest,
7s. 6d. That towline was firmly attached
to a ringbolt, and if I ever went in for
the sort of gear that chap lost I’d include
a ringbolt for mooring it to. But —I had
a Scotch aunt!
* * =h *
“Bray Rock”: It’s all very well for the
League of Nations to interest itself in the
protection of whales from extinction, but
up our way (S.Q.) it is the offshore fisher-
man who needs the protection. About
September the humpbacks come larking
up the coast, full of Antarctic delicacies
and the joy of life, and averaging from
50ft. to 60ft. We average about half that,
and a fraction of the tonnage. When one
rose under the boat last week it nearly
capsized us, and pushed the rudder off
the pintles, so that we barely got home
in the ensuing s.-e. blow. About April
they come back, less larky, but accom-
panied by 25ft. babies who like back-
THE POLICEMAN RETIRES FOR THE NIGHT.
scratching on boats’ keels. Their affec-
tionate mothers are always willing to
teach them how. If I could only get a
Federal politician out with me in the
humpback season I’d show him enough
about whales to guarantee a Whale Ex-
termination Act as soon as he could get
back to Canberra. People don’t realise
what a whale is when they see it only
from a floating hotel such as politicians
go to sea in.
* * * *
“Ornis”: Thanks to “Sa Tiko” (B.
18/9/’35) for the information that
kookas. will come to be fed by un-
feathered friends only in winter. The
birds I wrote of first crossed my hawse
last November, and they have been cadg-
ing tucker ever since. They don’t get
meat either—sweet cakes and other after-
noon-tea flummery.
“O. Plumb”; Add to the list of easily-
tamed bush birds the little grey honey-
eater. A couple come regularly to a
friend’s verandah near Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.) to partake of honey from a
saucer placed there for them.
“Dian”; Speeding at 30 m.p.h. over
a narrow and precipitous road in a
heavily-loaded lorry, the New Guinea
native driver had to decide whether to
run down a Kanaka gyrating on a bicycle
or to risk a 100 ft. plunge over the cliff
into the sea. He chose the Kanaka,
whom he knocked flying. Pulling up
some 50yds. round the bend, the driver
alighted to pick up what remained of
the victim ; but when nearing the scene
he was amazed to see the skittled darkie
extricate himself from the mangled re-
mains of the bicycle and bolt for the
village.
“Ikey”: The simple explanation of the
variation of color in “Bill Boredrain's”
butterflies (B. 28/8/’35) is that they are
different species. Many butterflies make
seasonal appearances in large numbers,
as their life-history must synchronise with
that of their food-plant. Most Queens-
land whites, in the larval stage, feed on
varieties of the native caper. Others,
notably brown species, are seen in mod-
erate numbers and over a much longer
period of the year. Male and female
of the same species differ to some extent
in color, and females of the same species
show slight variation of spots, but com-
plete change of color scheme in any
single variety is unknown.
* * * *
“Sea Grape”; The “queer fowl” de-
scribed by “King T.” (B. 4/9/’35) is the
lattice fungus. In the scrublands of the
Speck, particularly in the vicinity of the
Western Tiers, it is too common to excite
comment.
H= * ={= M=
“Doggie”: I can recall the day, and
that none so far off, when there were as
many bearded men in the R.N. as baldies.
This because it was the fashion, and not
because of the tropic cruise regulations
mentioned by “Kellick” (B. 18/9/”35).
The torpedo was then a new weapon, and
torpedo officers wore the pointed beard
which later became generally known out-
side the service as the “torpedo” as a
special badge of their calling. Their
men, of course, imitated them. Senior
officers were especially given to ziffs.
One recalls Admirals Tryon and
Beauchamp Seymour, while King George
took his face adornment from the
quarter-deck to Buckingham Palace. In
quite late days, Louis of Battenberg,
First Lord when the Great War broke
out, affected the beard, and so did
“Black” Oliver, head of the Admiralty
intelligence in London. Australia, too,
will recall bluff Harry Rawson.
* * * *
“Billy See?’; Kelly the Crow possesses
quite an epicurean taste for sea food.
Whilst enjoying the seascape effects of a
60 m.p.h. wind during a recent terrific
blow on the western rim of this con-
tinent, 1 had for company hundreds of
the black-coated gentlemen, all breasting
the breeze and waiting hopefully for
the surging waves to bring up something
edible. , Nothing much arrived while 1
was there, but Kelly kept on waiting, and
probably reaped a harvest when the re-
ceding tide left bare immense heaps of
kelp.
♦ ‘ ♦ * *
“Western”: “Marra” (B. 14/9/”35) is
quite in order in differing from me
regarding the tastiness of jewfish liver
—we are referring to different fish.
His jewfish of Pacific waters is known
here in Westralia as the river king-
fish, while my jewfish of the Indian
Ocean is really a large sea perch—and
epicurean eating. I can quite under-
stand him bucking at the liver of a
river kingy, the flesh of which, although
edible enough, usually carries the aroma
of a William goat in mild bloom. Similar
East-West differences in nomenclature
occur with other fish. Thus the W.A.
pilchard is really a mullet, while the fish
nearest to the Gornish pilchard 1 , the only
real herring in our watets, is known as
the scaly mackerel. The herring of Perth
fishshops is really the South Aus.
tommy-rough, a dry fish, totally unlike
a genuine herring. Again, the W.A. sea
kingfish differs entirely from the river
variety, being really the scientist’s Sam-
son-fish and the nor’-wester’s barred
Spanish mackerel. In W.A. the treyally
of Bass Strait has become the skipjack,
the estuary catfish the western cobbler,
the morwong the queenfish or pile
snapper, the hardyhead the W.A. smelt,
while half a dozen species of eastern
parrot-fish enter Perth markets as rock
cod. Similarly the tunny, which has
smashed nets in Albany waters ever since
the advent of the white man, was long
known as the chunk —it was only when
someone identified it as one of Zane
Grey’s pets that it got into the papers.
* * * *
“Caller ’Ou”: The quaintest bush mis-
pronunciation (B. 18/9/’35) I ever struck
was the sudden substitution of the word
“yowe”—good North Country, by the
way—for ewe in a part of Queensland 1
used to honor with my occasional pres-
ence. The word descended suddenly on
the community and was used by many
who ought to have known better, includ-
ing two of my brothers. When I re-
visited the countryside a year later the
old name had come back and the other
had, apparently, been entirely forgotten.
“M 8”: Mispronunciation of words is
as common in the city as in the bush,
but here are a few more from a bush-
man. Britchin’ for breeching (harness);
Stockhollum for Stockholm (tar); billa-
bung for billabong ; galoon for lagoon ;
drowned for drown ; telegraft for tele-
graph ; and —Bullateen for Bulletin.
* * * *
“0.P.”: I’d believe anything about
frogs (B. 11 /9/’35) after witnessing the
pertinacity displayed by one old green
fellow. My siesta was disturbed one day
by shrieks from the wife and the
rattle of a falling can on the
cement path. Request for an ex-
planation was met by a demand
that 1 remove the fat occupant of
the whitewash can. I complied,
carrying the croaker to the patch
of arums at the bottom of the
garden. Next day he was back in
the can. I carried him to the
swamp, a couple of hundred yards
away. He was back with the
morn, so I looked up a lid for the
can. On this he camped
(having, no doubt, ex-
perience of feminine
ways), and when in the
course of a few days
the lid went astray he
took up his old quar-
ters. 1 moved the can
from washhouse to
toolshed, and thence to
the kitchen cupboard,
but the old chap
always found it. Even-
tually we let him have it and took to
cement-paint for the fireplace.
* * *
“Double Express”: No need to use a
.303 rifle to expose the myth of
the crocodile’s invulnerable hide (B.
18/9/’35). Writer has shot dozens of
them with a .44 Winchester, throwing a
soft lead bullet, and more than one with
a Paradox smoothbore gun which has
the barrels rifled for about six inches
from the muzzle. This threw a soft,
round lead ball with a black-powder
charge, and up to 50 yards was as deadly
as any rifle.
* * * *
“Porky”; Having been stung by the
sea-hedgehog (B. 14/8/’35), I don’t agree
with “J.E.M.” that it carries an irritant
poison. The worst I would ascribe to it
is a tickling sensation. A point “J.E.M.”
misses is the sharpness of the quills.
These things, black with lighter shadings,
may be anything up to 2ft. long. And
they’re so indefinably sharp that they can
go right through a man’s hand (through
mine, at any rate) between finger
and thumb and protrude a few inches
the other side.without the victim being
immediately conscious of even a prick.
* * * *
“Kali”: Out croc.-shooting up the
East Alligator River (N.T.), we were
trying to keep still and quiet despite the
attacks of “Scotch Greys” and sandflies
when attention was attracted by a loud
croaking in the mangroves behind us. A
large green tree-frog was caught in a
spider’s web, and Hairy-legs was busily
engaged in spinning extra strands to
make his captive secure. The spider was
a hideous-looking monster with a body
as large as a man’s fist, and had legs
that were long and strong in proportion
to his body. A stick soon settled him
and released the terrified captive. Jacky,
with me, averred that these spiders
frequently catch large birds in their
webs, but though the species was fairly
common they were rarely seen, as they
were nocturnal in habit and hid below
the bark of the paperbark-tree during
daylight.
THE FIRST FORD NORTH O'
QUORN.
They pointed out to me a cove —
’Twas in the pub the other morn-
’Oo had some claim to fame, be Jove,
’is story bein’ that ’e drove
The first Ford north o’ Quoin.
It roused me cooriosity,
An’, though me coat’s a trifle worn,
Me pants a-baggin’. at the knee,
I thought I’d take a spell and see
This first Ford north o’ Quoin.
I ’urns a lift from mailman Jack,
An’, as along our way we’re borne,
I sez ’e oughtcr know the track.
“I drove,” sez ’e—an’ knocks me back—
“ The first Ford north o’ Quorn.”
There’s squatter Wiles, of Wilson's Well,
’Oo looks on modern things with scorn,
An’ yet his shearin’ plant, they tell,
Is driven by—now ’erc’s a sell!
The first Ford north o’, Quorn.
It cuts the chaff that Riley marts;
Be use of it Smith’s logs is sorn;
A bloke sez “See them rummy carts?
They’re all,” ’e winks, “containin’ parts
Of first Fords north o’ Quorn.”
I’ve changed me mind; I give it best;
Me bright idear is badly torn.
To find the cove is now me quest
’Oo didn’t drive (among the rest)
The first Ford north o’ Quorn.
s.a.
JOHN L. COWAN


“Dick the Fossicker”; In the early
days of the W.A. goldfields nearly all
the carting work was done by camel
teams, and old ABsop the Afghan was
the big man amongst the Asiatic camel-
men. He imported one lot of 200 and
turned them loose on the country around
Blevin’s Find to recover from the effects
of the voyage. Every oont wore a bell
with a different note. The jingle-jangle
never ceased for a moment, and kept
the prospectors around the Find awake
night after night. We begged and we
threatened, but old ABsop refused to shift
his camels elsewhere. Then a hard-case
prospector bought a side of bacon, cut
off all the rind and got to work that
night. Next morning there was a terrible
uproar from the Asiatic camp; every
bell had been rubbed with bacon-fat and
strips of rind had been tied to all the
hobbles. Loud and long did they curse ;
but the upshot was that they drove their
mob to other pasturage.
* * * *
“T.P.W.”: The platypus can live quite
a while in salt water. Often it has been
seen in the lower reaches of the Pam-
ela River (N.S.W.). And a lad fishing
for shrimps in the Maribyrnong River
(Vic.), where the water is also very salin?,
caught one in his net.
* * * *
“Alga”; “Bill R.” asks a devil of a
lot of questions about the silver gull (B.
14/8/’35). Of course the mirror effect
of the under wing is lost when the bird
dives at its prey. It isn’t needed then.
As “Bill” is so strong on questions, let
me ask him a couple. Why does the blue
crane (white-fronted heron) stalk its prey
among surroundings which harmonise
with its own coloring? Why does the
coot, with its piebald patches, favor
hunting among the black-and-white
shadows of trees and shrubs rather than
out in the drab open where the blue crane
does his bit? In case he can’t give the
answer, it’s the same as I would give
to his questions in reference to the silver
gull. The predatory stalk under cover
as much as possible to allow them to get
within striking distance of their prev
* * * *
“Stultus”: “C. Cove’s” (B. 31/7/’35)
peregrinating plumber’s financial coup
runs a bad second to that of a travelling
dentist in the Torres Strait islands. The
first few patients needed some forcible
persuasion, but after they emerged with
their heads still on their shoulders the
Binghi trait of wanting to try any novelty
at least once was too strong, and that
dentist got customers for quite 2000
extractions. The incident, by the way,
explodes the popular notion that
Binghi in his native surroundings is pos-
sessed of uniformly good teeth. The
chewing of betel-nut and cocoanut fibre
works havoc with abo. dentures.
* * * *
“4-Mile”: A recent par. about Cook-
town (N.Q.) awakes memories of the
most lovely place in Queensland —un-
dulating residential sites, Grassy Hill, Mt.
Cook, surfing beaches and rivers close
by. Three years ago I revisited the port
after an absence of 50 years. No trace
remained of Chinatown, with its. joss-
houses and gardens. The local medico
knew of one or two Chinese dving of
old age. Of the “4-mile” and “8-mile”
hostels, only mango-trees growing in the
bush betray the whereabouts of those
former centres of teamster activity. Hur-
ricanes had destroyed some of the old
landmarks in the town, yet my old home
on a hill—still defies storms and white-
ants. A launch runs from Cairns once
a week, and, although the train to Laura
and the two hotels are within half a mile
of the wharf, several motor-cars com-
pete for the custpm of the one or two
visitors who may arrive. I found the
“ It's always the same wherever I take you! You make me sick!"
same cars awaiting the return of the
train, but no passengers arrived to trans-
fer to the hotel 100 yards away! For
one who had lived there in the goldrush
days, when the population was some
30,000, with dozens of hotels, boats land-
ing thousands of Chinese and domestics,
it was sad to see the empty shops and
houses. Even the goats seem to have
disappeared. Some old-timers or their
descendants were still there three years
ago—Patching, Stuckey, Meldrum, Mar-
tin, Oliver, Mrs. Wallace and Mrs. Webb
—and, I trust, they are still. I fancy
many old residents would like to wander
back.
* * * *
“Oruncha”: The Malayan believes
that during sleep the soul is absent
from the body. To wake a cobber
would mean that he would come to with-
out his soul and run amok. The approved
Malayan method is to sit beside the
sleeping one, and waken him by sugges-
tion, so that he may recall his soul gently.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Tell “Bill Boredrain”
fB. 28/8/’35) I was not “stretching his
credulity” when I wrote of horses
swimming across a flooded creek
to drink at mill troughs. The prads
"Cosh, it's cold, doctor! Cant a bloke cough without gettin undressed?"
in question crossed the creek three and
four times a week for the same purpose,
even though surface water was available
near where they were grazing. At present
the creek is a chain of drying-up water-
holes, and if the incredulous “Bill Bore-
drain” would hasten out here (n.-w. Q.)
he’d see those horses passing within 20
yards of the waterhole en route to the
troughs. Now, if “Bill Boredrain” still
is doubtful I’ll get an attested statement.
The bloke who owns the property is a
J.P.
* * * *
“Pelorus”: Only newchums and their
kin use ironstone conglomerate in the
vicinity of direct heat. Owing to its
rapid expansion properties the rock be-
comes explosive to an alarming degree.
The billy-boiler of a Gosford (N.S.W.)
relief-work gang built a fireplace out of
several pieces. In the middle of lunch
the workers were sent flying by a loud
explosion and shrapnel-like fragments.
Intending builders should consider other
materials for chimney and fireplace con-
struction. It is said to be safe enough
when covered with a couple of inches
of cement, but / wouldn’t risk it.
* * * *
“R. 8.”: Cutting scrub on a small hold-
ing out Charleville (Q.) way, I went one
night to the boss’s house for some meat.
The old chap and his wife were out —
the daughter was in. She and I were
friendly—anyway, the upshot was that
we were sitting on the same chair in
close holds when in walked father, I
was hard at work next day when he
came along. He flabbergasted me by
asking me “my intentions.” Scared, I
stammered out, “What—what do you
mean?” “Mean?” he said. “Well, are
you intending to stay around here or go-
ing to move on at the end of the job?”
I assured him I intended to move on.
“Ned Kelly”: Tell “Pedagogue” (B.
11/9/’35) that his colony of bees clinging
to wax beneath a ledge was a travelling
swarm. When they leave the old nest
the workers are provided with the where-
withal to set up housekeeping, and their
queen is about to lay. Delayed by rain,
the bees settle temporarily, and, as nature
has ordained that they commence opera-
tions immediately they alight, a few
cones are usually drawn. If “Ped.” could
have inspected the wax he would prob-
ably have found eggs deposited in un-
sealed cells.
“A.H.J.”: Tell “E.S.S.” (B. 4/9/’35)
there is no lottery about a bee-tree. An
experienced robber can always estimate
the quantity of honey in a tree by the
way the bees work. If they bustle in
and out of the aperture in crowds there
is no honey there ; but if a worker leaves
the tree at fairly lengthy intervals, and
a straggler returns leisurely, the tree is
full. Bees seem to know when to get
their heads down to the job and when
to take time off.
* ♦ aje
“L.G.P.”: “Cam Cove’s” reference to
curlews (B. 11/9/’35) reminds me. Acci-
dentally killing one with a stone as it
squatted to avoid detection, I thought of
taking it to the cook, but it was in such
poor condition that I concluded it to be
worthless. A reliable bushman informed
me that they are only fat when the moon
is waning, as they feed on the ground at
night, and glow-worms aren’t sufficiently
plentiful to satisfy their appetites on the
dark nights. Unfortunately mine was
captured shortly after the new moon. Is
this condition true of other night-feeding
fowls?
“Fisho”; Let me up on the soapbox
in defence of the noble mullet. “Homo”
(B. 18/9/’35) says his method of cooking
makes the fish “taste a little less like
something out of the paintshop.” He is
only half right, and that’s as regard
grilling ; it is the only way to cook mullet.
But it must be deep-sea fish, preferably
about one-pound size. Grilled over an
open fire, not too fierce, the sea-mullet
is superb, and I’ll wager that nine out of
ten true fishermen will prefer it this
way to snapper, John Dory, bream or
any of the more expensive breeds. The
sand-mullet can be eaten if nothing else
is about; but the river and estuary
varieties are muddy poor relations. By
the way, always keep the gut of a sea-
mullet if black bream are handy—it is a
most excellent bait.
“H.A.L.”: Sea-mullet are often only
second-class fish, but those which live
in salt-water lagoons like those of the
Coorong (§.A.) are in a class of their
own —fresh or smoked, boiled or grilled.
Since pioneer times these Coorong fish
have been famous; Tolmer described
them as being equal to anything in the '
world, and his description is as true to-
day as when he wrote it in 1845. People
who have studied the subject reckon the
rich fish-food supply of the Coorong and
the fact that the water is far salter than
the sea are the reasons.
“W.E.F.”; As one who is fond of
oysters, I was moved almost to tears by
reading of the dangers the bivalve runs in
his native element. Despite the strong
protective shell his chief enemy is the
mudworm. This fellow waits until the
oyster is having a snack and then creeps
into the shell, carrying with him a deposit
of mud. The unwilling host is compelled
to build a layer of nacre (mother-of-
pearl) over the intruder. When mother
and the younger mudworms follow dad’s
example and move in, the oyster, too, is
liable to give up the ghost, the strain of
building protective coatings being too
great. The boring whelk attacks baby
oysters, drilling small holes in the shell
and eating the flesh. Another pest is a
worm known as the wafer. Apart from
these there are always hordes of fish-
mullet, black bream and others—hover-
ing around ready to snap up the eggs and
free-swimming larvae.
* $ $ *
“Bluegum”: Karridale, starting-point
of that handcart feat (B. 7/8/’25), har-
bored many a hardy spirit besides the
Scandinavian ex-sailor concerned. The
sawn timber used to be run down to
Hamelin Bay per rail. On one occasion
a vessel lying in the bay was caught by
a bad blow, and, dragging her anchor,
piled up on an off-shore reef. She was
breaking-up rapidly, and the crew, un-
able to launch a boat, were in a danger-
ous plight. Amongst those watching
from the shore was a 16-year-old Rus-
sian lad—a runaway cabin-boy—who
volunteered to swim out with a line. So
rough was the sea that, from the moment
he hit the surf till he appeared going
up a rope thrown from the ship, those
paying out the line did not sight him
again. All hands were soon on dry land.
MILKY WAY MATES.
Ho! mate of mine, moon man, in sun-borrowed
clobber,
Over the star tracks still singing you blow,
Just as you used to when I was your cobber,
Humping Matilda, lad, ages ago.
Those were the days when the cooks we were
“biting”
At star cattle-stations for tucker and rum,
And drinking at star pubs and singing and
fighting
With comets and meteor blokes on the bum!
And barmaids, flash starmaids, with peroxide
ceilings,
Who fell for you, cobber, and tanked us
with beer
Because of your scaramouch, daredevil dealings
In contraband stories and flush-raising cheer?
And once when we lobbed at old Taurus’s
station
The boss had the croc.-hide to tip us a
job!
Remember? You laughed and you told him
“Damnation!
Milky Way rovers to work with the mob!”
Say, moon man, I wish I were with you, old
cobber,
Up there on the starry, blue wallaby track.
But here —I must rhyme for my tucker and
clobber,
And navvy whenever my verses come back.
QUEENSLAND.
FREEMAN SANDOM.


mw
THE “ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Patented).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer does not
stock the Gun, write for full particulars
WINGATE & GO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
Manufacturers and Distributing Agents.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6.
Double Rooms from 9/- per night
All meals ala carte. ,
Delghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,’’
SYDNEY.
&J A A
m
cr
tyb
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from, any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers,
MADE 1A QUEENSIAAID BV
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALIEV ■ BRISBANE ««
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Through Other Eyes.
“El V.”: Homer Thieman, one of the
best known of Missouri cattle-producers
—Missouri is one of the best-organised
cattle States in U.S.A.—seems fully to
agree with The Bulletin about Aus-
tralian meat requirements.
Back in the U.S.A. after a visit to the
Commonwealth, he has told the breed
newspapers that “frozen meat does not
meet with the aproval of English buyers,
even of high quality, but with chill-
ing now in vogue Australia can find a
new place on the British market,” and
“quality will be paid for, and, in fact, is
demanded.”
He says that this means that the Aus-
tralian meat-producer, with newly-
changed conditions of feeding through
all sorts of seasons, must change his
cattle type to that approved in U.S.A. —
a “short-legged, quick-maturing type”
artificially fed.
Also, he criticises our railway carriage
of stock—Australian freight cars are
half the size of the American brand ;
hence horn and other bruises which mar
export meat.
Meanwhile, the Commerce Depart-
ment also has had its doleful say. A
few days ago it issued a report which
showed that the margin between Aus-
tralian and Argentine beef varied on the
wrong side from l|d. to Ifd. per pound,
and that for the whole of July—the
report is dated Sept. 12, but Govern-
ment departments are deliberate in their
movements—“only S. Rhodesian beef
was lower than Australian” among the
imports into Britain from seven coun-
tries.
The department adds:
It is true' that Australian shipments for
some time now have included beef of
secondary quality—and, according to some,
beef of even lower grades—but there has
been some splendid beef in good condition,
and condition and quality by no means
entirely account for the difference.
It would be interesting to hear the reason
for this deduction.
A writer in a leading trade publication
is quoted as saying that during the
quarter deliveries included
some of the best hindquarters that I have
yet seen....and several were actually up to
Argentine standard.
Britain is being importuned to give
preference to Australian meat in which
only “several hindquarters” in a three
months’ supply corne up to the standards
of a competitor whose meat export is
worth £30,000,000 p.a.! And even on
that mean level we are as yet unable to
fill a trifling quota which all the might
of the Commonwealth has succeeded in
squeezing out of our customer.
The Commonwealth vet. in London
says that our chilled beef is showing a
steady and marked improvement—the
dressing leaves little to be desired, and
the age of cattle slaughtered for chilling
is easily a year less than the rule some
years ago.
It needs to show a lot of improvement
—so much that it will leave its competi-
tors standing. It also needs to show a
vast expansion in, quantity or prospective
quantity. British buyers want the best,
and they don’t want it in dribs and drabs
but in large bulk.
Shearing Technique.
“Warramulla”: Tell “Byrimine” (B.
18/9/’35) that the primary cause of
shearers ripping a fleece up the back
with the foot, when coming up from the
long blow, must be charged to the
growers.
It was customary years ago for a
shearer coming from the long blow to
lift his foot clear of the fleece and place
it on the shorn wool from the first
shoulder lying on the board. When
finishing off he again lifted his foot clear
of the fleece and placed it behind the
britching. This did the fleece no harm
to speak of.
At the instigation of the Queensland
Graziers’ Association a clause was in-
serted in the award by the Arbitration
Court restraining shearers from standing
on a fleece. The trouble, started then, has
continued, although the clause was re-
moved from a later award.
All the later generation of shearers
learnt to slide the foot along the board,
and find it hard to lose the technique
which they were taught. It is a full-
time job for a boss of the board to
teach them new tricks.
The fleece is left on the board in a
jumbled heap, half-torn apart, and it
takes a good picker-up to throw it out
properly.
A lot of pin-pricking restrictions have
been introduced into Arbitration Court
awards by half-baked people on both
sides in the shearing-shed and camp
The only result of these is to help keep
employer and employee at variance.
Sold in the Shed.
“Upilio”: Last season’s wool clip
(N.S.W.) averaged lOd. per pound. The
opening sales this season averaged I2jd.
My clip, coming off breeding ewes,
both merinos and crossbreds, is
per pound below average. This year
I sold it in the shed for Is. per
pound net (all in), which is equal
to 13d. in Sydney, as it costs me Id.
per pound for cartage, freight and Syd-
ney broker’s charges. My shed price,
plus I+d. (bringing it to average), plus Id.
freight, etc., means that average wool in
Sydney should be bringing 14jd. (all in).
Consider the prices 1 received for
my clip after waiting five months for the
sale last March: Merinos, per pound,
AAA, E, lid.; AA, E, 9*d.; A, E, B*d.;
first pieces, l\d. ; second pieces, sd. ;
bellies, sd. ;■ locks and stains, Cross-
bred, AAA, E, 7d.; A, E, 6d. ; first
pieces, sd. ; second pieces, stains and
locks, 3d. First comeback, l\d. ; second,
sd. (averaging 7d. per pound net). The
gamble in wool prices is too evident to
permit a refusal of a bid in the shed
equal in Sydney to 13d. per pound (all
in).
I am now able to budget accurately
for the coming year, as against waiting
five months in uncertainty.
Classing Small Clips.
“Sambo”: A neighbor complains that
he received only 9d. for the bulk of
his last season’s clip—a near-by station
got that for bellies. And he contends
that buyers will not bid for small lots.
An overseas buyer will require more
wool than can be supplied by any one
man, and consequently does not demand
it in large quantities ; but he does demand
uniformity. That stands to reason.
Manufacturers invariably confine them-
selves to one class of article ; and, since
a combing wool is not a clothing wool,
or a clothing wool suitable for making
hosiery, makers of those articles are all
out of the competition for mixed lots,
which are bought only by sorting re-
sellers.
The smallest farmer can do this much
towards classing. First draft each lot into
as many sub-lots as there are. There may
be a merino flock of distinctly different
types purchased from different sellers
(an amateur can judge wool better when
he can see the sheep it is on), or the lots
may have been shorn at different times.
Next, class each lot for length—uni-
formity in this is very important. Then
try for soundness. If it will “thrum”
when taut it is sound. Unsound wool
has its uses, and commands fair prices,
but should be sold separately.
The unqualified man must perforce
disregard crimp, elasticity, color or spin-
ning counts, but rough-and-ready classing
is much better than nothing.
Sheep Lice.
“Jumbuck”: Why should “Murra-
wong” (B. 4/9/’35) specially “commend
the N.S.W. authorities for the firm stand
they have taken to stop the spread of
sheep lice”? Everyone is expected to pre-
vent bushfires. Those who should pre-
vent the spread of lice in Queensland
haven’t the right to earn commendation
yet —not by a long chalk, for there no
restriction applies.
Sheep literally crawling with lice can
travel the whole length and breadth of
the State without dipping.
Fortunately, lice-affected districts are
limited, but there’s no knowing how long
it will be before infestation extends.
Legislation is urgently needed to make
dipping compulsory in known lice areas,
and sheep leaving such districts should
get a clean bill of health before a travel-
ling permit is granted.
Scrub-feeding Points.
“Cutter”: As one who has saved thou-
sands of sheep on scrub-—in ’O2 and
again during ’26 —let me put my axe in
this scrub-feeding debate. I don’t know
how many calories any tree contains —1
only know what will save sheep and
how it is done.
First, in good scrub country, mulga
for choice, one man to 700 sheep is good
cutting. Sheep must be shepherded on
scrub—to do it the other way means
fully 50 p.c. wastage.
Next, take the scrub in a face. Per-
haps 99 trees out of 100 will be mulga.
The other odd ones will be supple-jack,
leopard wood, gooya, white-wood and an
occasional beef-wood. They’re all good.
Boree alone, though a good fodder, is
too stringy to keep sheep long on it.
It forms balls in the stomach which a
man couldn’t split with a butcher’s knife.
White-wood, though good for variety,
isn’t a staple diet. It also forms balls.
It is sudden death to camels ; a slow and
lingering torture, ending in death, for
horses; and after about 20 points of
rain I reckon it would kill anything.
The rule in drought feeding is: “Give
'em variety, or give ’em licks.”
Having cut the scrub, the best way to
feed it is to let it lie for about 24 hours.
Feed to-day on yesterday’s cutting.
Lastly gidya. It must have nutritive
properties or else camels wouldn’t do so
well on it, but it has its peculiarities. A
gidya-fed camel is like unto a stable-
ditto horse. Sheep and cattle won’t take
it on until it has been cut a week or
more. Then they tackle it only half-
heartedly.
Drought Insurance.
“San Luis Rey”: The Queensland
Minister of Agriculture’s scheme of
drought insurance is stillborn, as well it
might be. But the Graziers’ Association’s
reply, which sounded very much like
“What was good enough for grandpa is
good enough for me,” isn’t very reassur-
ing. They would have done better to be
constructive. About £7OOO is to be ex-
pended in improving stock routes, but
why not a quarter of a million? Main
routes need water every 15 miles. They
also need fencing, and the route
“squatters” should be chased off.
Any grazier who lays down 100 acres
of saltbush for every 1000 sheep he
carries or plants an equivalent number
of fodder trees should have his rent cut.
The starving-stock rates on fodder should
apply all the time, so that a grazier could
lay in a store at any time.
A survey of the Thompson-Barcoo
watershed should be made to ascertain
if there are any storage sites where
a dam could be placed to keep the river
running all the year round. There might
be.
Not so many graziers are as broke per-
haps as is often stated, but a lot are
badly bent. And they’ll be more bent
next drought if some drastic preparation
for it is not made.
Is There a Way?
“Sheepo”: For years I was optimistic
of the possibilities of fodder conserva-
tion against drought.
Results from artificial feeding in
Queensland during the droughts of
’25-26, ’3l-32 and ’33-35 seem to point
to the pessimists being right. Scores of
graziers expended double and treble their
sheep’s value in feed, only to see mobs
die with the onset of the rains.
1 know of one instance where it cost
30s. per head to feed 9000 mixed sheep.
Rain, coming before shearing, knocked
the sheep over like ninepins. Three
thousand turned up for shearing, cut-
ting wool worth less than 4s. net per
head, with the sheep- off shears valued
at 2s. 6d. That wasn’t isolated by any
means.
Another drought in Queensland before
the recent millions of losses can be even
partially replaced can only mean
annihilation for hundreds of battling
graziers.
Past experiences show that inadequate
watering facilities were barriers to mini-
mising losses, not only on stock routes,
but on the holdings. Belting weak sheep
long distances to water accounted for a
big proportion of losses.
Where there is ample good water
sheep will have some chance of weather-
ing through on the roughest of scrub or
the most coarse of grass stalks. They
haven’t a hope without water.
So it seems to me that water conser-
vation is the more vital step.
Where Denmark Scores.
“Silky Bag”; A Dane whom I met in
Colac (Vic.) recently gave me a lot of
reasons why his country scores heavily
in bacon-breeding.
The Landrace sow —pure —is always
used.
To get rid of daylight under the belly,
the Large York was imported, and the
boars alone used. The two breeds are
raised separately and joined to secure the
standard pig—a first cross. This is the
only reasonable method in crossing two
breeds for an early profit.
Both these pigs are white. Colored
pigs are penalised up to 10s. a head at
bacon size, which is strictly 1951 b. to
2001 b. live weight. The use of the lean
York has made this size possible, and
sides are rejected from the best class if
the shoulder or ham fat exceeds Uin.
Milking cows do not produce as much
profit to the Dane as his pigs. Even
so, the volumes of milk fed to pigs in
Australia are regarded in Denmark as a
sinful waste. Usually a gallon per day
in two feeds, with grain (mainly ground
barley), is a ration for a 1501 b. animal.
The pigs are kept in sheds, to the clean-
liness of which the Dane attributes quick
and profitable maturing qualities, as
well as freedom from disease. Sheds are
disinfected and scrubbed daily so that
no odor comes from them.
Where the Dane shines, however, is in
his breeding and sow-testing stations.


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free,
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
+-
- D
e.
XLMirzz
W
I '
Great for comfort!
And for long wear as well. This
easy-fitting, pliant Abbey Boot
has a double sole of top-quality
leather. It is shapely and smart.
The upper is an exclusive Abbey
design, of fine, supple calf.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete),
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . . 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 457.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
How I
ended my
stomach
trouble
T£
|
“ I can eat what I please
and digest it with ease.”
If you suffer from indigestion, if you
cannot enjoy a meal without pain, wind,
distension, and a feeling of weakness and
low spirits, let nothing deter you from
trying * Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It is the
supreme remedy for stomach trouble,
with over 20 years’ proof of its unfailing
efficacy. Perhaps you are even now
dreading your next meal. Then why
not make it the occasion for putting
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia to the test ? Get
a bottle of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder
or tablets, from your chemist and take a
little after your meal. Eat whatever you
fancy. The result will be a revelation to
you. The contents of your stomach will
be made as bland and soothing as milk,
instead of turning acid as before. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISU RATED'
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the "Bismag’ Trade Mark
rtybj
tf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling liist Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
RELIEVES STOMACH
DISTRESS WHEN
TRAVELING 5
BOOKS & PAPERS
OBIT€
SuHneM Caie
LTe
, ■ ■■
Nothing smarter or more con-
venient than this neat, new-
shaped Globite Business Case!
It is light and strong, with
a glossy, grained finish, like
leather. It measures I6£ x 12
x 4 ins. Ask for Globite No.
4195.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
ICHUTE
BtEUUCSi,
V2S
fm
fi
A
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
There is an intensive recording system,
and sows are often sent to an experi-
mental station to be tested for size and
evenness of litter, rate of growth on stan-
dard feeds, udder efficiency and general
health. An unprofitable line is quickly
eliminated.
Pig recording is only in its infancy in
Australia, let alone the rest.
Legume Inoculation.
“Bluegum”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department is working on sound lines
with bacteria-fixing cultures (B. 21/8/’35).
One fair trial will convince anyone that
it pays.
Ordinarily, in most districts three years
is needed to get sub. clover fully estab-
lished on average soils. Working from
inoculated seed, an equally good stand
can be had in two years. Treated peas
and beans have yielded almost 100 per
cent, heavier crop than untreated sown
under similar conditions.
Practically every inoculation failure
can be traced to the fact that cultures
have not had fair treatment.
Seed should be treated as soon as
possible after the cultures are received.
Fresh separated milk is the best spreader,
and seed should be dried off in a cool,
shaded place before planting. Exposure
to strong sunlight is fatal to the bacteria ;
so, also, is direct contact with artificial
fertilisers.
Where possible, fertiliser should be
sown several days before the intended
date of seeding. Should there be a pene-
trating rain in the meantime, so much
the better. Inoculated seed does best
under moist conditions.
To protect the bacteria from sunlight
the seed must be covered by harrowing
or otherwise immediately after sowing.
But inoculation is not a cure-all; seed-
-1 ertility, suitability of sub-soil, drainage
and the judicious use of artificial ferti-
lisers need to be considered in cultivating
legumes.
Hints for the Farm.
“Karaway”: To keep water cool in a
billycan, put the lid on upside down and
fill it with water.
“5.8.”: A good rubbing-in oil can be
made of 1 pint of olive oil, cam-
phor dissolved in methylated spirit and
i-pint of eucalyptus oil. This is an
emulsion, and needs shaking. Equal
quantities of olive oil and kerosene work
in emergency.
“A.J.F.”: Pull the hide off a bullock’s
tail whole and pull it over your whip-
handle. Shave off the hair, and you
have a good grip and almost eternal job.
‘A.J.F.”: Always use gidgee in prefer-
ence to other timbers for the headpieces
of bush gates. White-ants don’t like it.
“R.L.”; In the Callide Valley (C.Q.)
last month a commercial type of flame-
thrower was used to clean up 15 acres
of tangled, fallen scrub which had been
half-burned the previous year, and had
become interlaced with thick tropical
weed-growth. L. Major, of Kooingal,
Biloela, the experimenter, says the cost
was four hours’ labor of one man with
six gallons of crude oil at 9d. per gallon.
This machine may be of great benefit in
tropical and sub-tropical areas. During
wet seasons it is always very difficult to
burn felled scrub, the fire mostly only
burning leaves and small branches and
leaving a tangle of timber which pre-
vents the planting of a crop and is too
costly to stack. Weeds and suckers
quickly take possession. The flame-
thrower has also been successfully used
on lantana.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) Where can I obtain pure phalaris tube-
rosa seeds, and at what cost per pound ? (2)
What is the rate of growth under ideal con-
ditions ? (3) Effect of frost on the plant ? (4)
Soils on which it does best ? (5) Cultivation
necessary to plant ? (6) Pounds of seed pet-
acre ? (7) Is it affected by floodwaters; if so,
to what extent? (8) Effect of summer heat? —
7890.
(1) Phalaris tuberosa seed is obtainable from
Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Syd-
ney. (2) The rate of growth depends on climate
and rainfall. The grass thrives best in cool
localities where the average rainfall is over
30in. per annum. (3) Frost does not affect
this species. (4) Rich alluvial soil suits this
grass best. (5) The ordinary methods of cul-
tivation necessary to establish a crop of oats
for green feed or hay will be suitable for
phalaris tuberosa. (6) 31b. or 41b. of seed per
acre. (7) Yes, stagnant water left by floods
will kill the grass. Flowing water covering
the grass for four to five days will not hurt.
(8) On fertile soil, with a well-distributed
summer rainfall, the effect of summer heat is
not very great. It must be remembered, how-
ever, that this species is primarily a winter
grower. Phalaris tuberosa withstands the
heat of the Far North Coast of N.S.W. very
well.
$ $ $ *
What varieties of maize produce the best
fowl feed on Yarra Flats (Vic.)? Give hints
as to sowing, cultivation and harvesting ?
8090.
Hickory King or Red Hogan should suit.
These are grown for this purpose at the Burn-
ley Horticultural School, where the practice
is (o seed heavily (over one bushel per acre)
during October. The land is worked into a
fair tilth prior to sowing, and liberal quanti-
ties of fowl manure are used. A fine-stemmed,
leafy growth is aimed at, and, if summer rain-
fall is insufficient, irrigation is resorted to. The
crop is cut when it is about 30in. high, chaffed
up, and fed as greenstuff.
* * * *
I am experimenting with a weedicide which
has an abominable smell. Upon application
during the winter blackberry bushes treated
withered, and after two months still appear life-
less. The preparation is cheap. (1) Would
the smell be a handicap ? (2) Would the
winter lest point to the success of the prepara-
tion, or would it have to be tested till
summer? (3) If successful, would there be a
fortune in it ? —8648.
(1) Possibly, but if the treatment is effective
and economical it could not detract greatly |
from its value. (2) The destruction of the
lop growth of the plants would not be satis-
factory unless the roots were also destroyed. I
It will be necessary to wait until the summer
months, when the blackberry vines make active j
growth, before the treatment can be regarded |
as successful. (3) If blackberries can be de- \
stroyed at very low cost the preparation would j
also be useful in killing other weeds, and if the
specific could be patented there would be a
great demand for it. There is a Government
reward of £5OOO for economically destroying
skeleton weed.
•i* •!■ *l»
(1) Would celery-growing near Sydney be
profitable for a man with £2OO or £3OO capi-
tal ? (2) What area is payable? (3) Where is
suitable land available ? (4) Approximate
price ? (5) A suitable agent to deal through ?
(6) Where could information about celery-
growing be obtained ? —8638.
(1) No. The amount mentioned would not
provide enough capital. (2) Four acres would
provide a living, if correctly cultivated. (3)
No suitable land is known to be available within
30 miles of Sydney. There is good land along
the Myall Lakes, north of Newcastle (N.S.W.).
(5) Cannot recommend any particular agent.
(6) Information will be found in a N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture leaflet.
* * * *
(1) Where can I buy seed of the following
saltbushes: (a) Cottonbush ( Kochia ) and (b)
bluebush (Chenopodium ) ? (2) Are the follow-
ing herbage plants indigenous to A ustralia : j
(a) Trefoil, (b) crowfoot and (c) lamb’s-,
tongue ? —8034.
(1) Seed of cottonbush and blue grass is
not handled commercially, but it is suggested
that you communicate with A. C. Addison,
Womboin, Girilambone, N.S.W. (2) Crowfoot
is indigenous to Australia, but trefoil and
lamb's-tongue ( Planlago lanceolata ) are natural-
ised species.
* * * *
Can you tell me how to propagate chestnuts
in Tasmania ? —8179.
The Spanish chestnut (Caslanea) is generally
propagated from selected nuts of the previous
year’s crop, the plump, well-formed specimens
being retained and all shrivelled or diseased
nuts rejected. If planted in the open during
autumn, the nuts may be raided by rodents
or insects, and it is advisable to stratify
them during May and sow in prepared beds
before spring. Stratification is carried out
by placing the nuts in layers mixed with
coarse sand in well-drained boxes or crocks,
and lightly banking with loose, sandy soil. Pro-
tection from rodents can be obtained by cover-
ing apertures with fine wire-netting. Under
these conditions, germination will take place,
and the nuts can be raised and separated from
the sand for sowing in prepared beds during
the spring. Trees are generally raised from
seed, though several choice kinds are now)
propagated by spring-grafting on to common
stocks, the tongue method being usually
adopted. .
# * # ❖
When wheat is sent to a flour mill to be
ground, what is the proportion of the various
elements separated ? —8177.
Milling wheat varies in moisture content,
and also in germ, dirt, etc. Some samples
have more bran than others, and bran in some
cases' is more easily freed from flour. The
milling system is not uniform. So the fol-
lowing is oply a rough approximation of the
results: Moisture, 10 p.c.; germ, dirt, etc;,
3 p.c.; flour, 67 p.c.; bran, 11 p.c.,;, and
pollard, 9 p.c.
*** * • i
(1 ) Is there any truth in the - hushman’s be-
lief that fencing-posts last longer if a tree
is felled and split when the sap is “up” in
the spring than if it is felled and split in the
winter months ? . (2) Why do some posts last
much longer than others when used under
identical conditions and obtained from trees of
apparently equal soundness? —8461.
(1) There is nothing in the belief. (2) No
definite explanation can be given, but rooting
systems vary, and one tree may strike better
soil or have less competition than another
from other trees.


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRAUA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Sydney Sampson William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Vft, e f
MM&MS
I
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
It is estimated that the Italo-Abyssinian
war will be the longest in history—by
the time it starts.
4* *l* *l* •!•
A Milestone.
“The drinks are on me. boys,” an-
nounced Bloggs. “To-day is one of the
most important days of my life. 1 am
freed from something that has long been
like a chain round my limbs. No longer
will I have to do things I do not want
to do.”
“What is it, old sport? Getting
divorced or something?”
“Divorce be hlowed. To-day 1 got
the last coupon for the ‘BlithererV
book offer. I need buy the ‘Blitherer’
. no longer.”
Ced.
'l* *S- -I- *l*
Heart Trouble.
Mr. Nicholas Nortiman, the celebrated
diamond magnate, looked anxiously
across his private office. Without a word
of warning, Fifi had rushed in.
“Nicki! ” she cried excitedly. “Why
haven’t you been to see me? I’ve been
eating my heart out.”
“Hush, hush,” he said nervously. “The
, staff will hear you.”
,■ “I don’t care about the staff!” she
exclaimed.- “Don’t you understand —I
love you! When’re you coming back
to me?”
She began to sob.
“But, my dear girl,” gasped Mr.
Nortiman, “you know we —we didn’t
arrange anything permanent. 1 didn’t
say I’d marry you, or”
“Then you don’t love me?” she
screamed. Hysteria seemed imminent.
She sank into a chair, overcome with
emotion. “You have broken my heart!”
she sobbed.
“Hush,” he pleaded again. Agitatedly
he bit his lips. Suddenly he caught sight
of his cheque-book.
“I’ll give you twenty pounds to forget
it,” he suggested.
“What!” she exclaimed. “Do you think
my love can be bought? Do you think
you can mend my heart with your dirty
cash? Oh, monster!”
He trembled. “What can I do?” he
muttered.
Gradually her sobbing became less
violent.
“Make if fifty,” she said. •
T. W. N.
•I* -!- -I*
“Bootmakers are busy fitting boots to cattle,
to deaden the noise of hoofs as the cattle are
smuggled into Northern Ireland.”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
, There’s nothing remarkable in that.
For years we’ve been used to dog-collars
and foxgloves, and, more recently, ants’
pants and cats’ pyjamas, so why not
cows’ boots?
*1- *1- 4 1 *>
The Work-giver.
i “ ‘Of what use is the man who thinks of
> nothing but drinking, who spends all his
money upon it?’ asks a prohibition lecturer.”
“Well, of all the ’ides! ” said my friend
Ted Bentelbow. “ ’lm a perfessional
aggertator for prohibition, too! Where’d
’e be if there wasn’t nothing to pro’ibit?
t “The ingratitood of man t’ men makes
thousands more embittered than
they ought to was. ‘What use?’ ’e says ;
an’ ’im livin’ on me jest as much as the
’otelkeeper, ’oo not only gets me cash
but the cash of the blokes 1 cadge drinks
°ff- And what of the p’l icemen the
Gov’mint ’as to employ to—keep blokes
like us from goin’ t’ sleep on doorsteps,
and for lumbering us if we get over the
odds? What about the employment we
give to them?
“An’ ’oo empties the bottles that the
bottle-ohs collect in the morning?
“What about the employment we give
in the printing trade, printin’ all the stuff
against drink, besides the labels on the
bottles and all that. And then there’s
the printin’ of the pledge forms we signs
to get off a fine when the Johns and the
beak don’t reckernise us.
“I ain’t goin’ t’ talk about the ’ors-
pitals, because I ain’t been there yet
meself, but I’ve sent a bloke or so there
when I’ve been fightin’ drunk.
“Good citizens, blokes like me are! We
’elp the commoonity all round, spreading
employment. An’ when a bloke like this
’ere prohibitionist, ’oo might be on the
dole but f’r us, talks that way, it gives
me a taste in me mouth that only beer
“When mum and dad were engaged they used to
stand here for hours and hours."
will remove. I say, ‘that only beer will
remove.’ ”
As he seemed to think it up to me, I
assisted him in his work of spreading
employment.
'H. M.
•!• -!• -I* -!*
“Melbourne ‘Argus’ announces publication
of a new serial, ‘Dead Man’s Rock,’ by ‘Q.’ ”
It is splendid to find these new authors
coming to the front. Possibly we shall
have next that island story young Defoe
is working on and a new series of travel
notes by that rising globe-trotter Marco
Polo.
“Woman claims a man as her husband, but
is proved wrong.” —News item.
We understand that had-she married
him first her claim would probably have
succeeded.
'I- 'l* *b *b
“Rather than go to work he pawned his
watch.” — Sydney paper.
Idled his time away.
►j. a *b
“ The law is elastic,’ says a Sydney Judge.”
That is why some criminals get longer
stretches than others.
•b *b *b *s*
Barbarities.
“Horrors of Prison... .After a meal of dry
bread and fruit he asked for beer, but was
refused.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Although this note concerns an alleged
spy in Abyssinia,
such horrors are
to be experienced
even in Australia.
When at Long Bay,
after my early-
morning meal of
hominy, I asked
for beer, the re-
quest was re-
fused in a way
that was almost
insulting.
The warder,
however, suggested
that I might be
given some cham-
pagne with the
evening meal.
When I learned
that it would nor
be iced, I told him
1 would not accept
the stuff. In fact,
passing the word
to other prisoners,
1 organised a
champagne strike
at Long Bay.
Such barbarities
as these appear to
be associated with the prison system all
over the world.
P. P.
-I* -I* v *
Truth in Advertising.
“It’s quite a sound used car,” the advert,
read,
Though vilify the agent I’ve refused to :
For, after all, he’s right in what he said.
It’s quite a sound ! that’s what I’m get-
ting used to.
K.
Making Our Railways Pay.
(This is the first of a series of authori-
tative articles which will be continued in
succeeding issues, and which will lay
down a comprehensive programme for
putting the Australian railways on a
paying basis,)
The problem “What to do with our
railways” has been worrying our poli-
ticians, newspapers and debating societies
for more years than we care to remem-
ber. More than that, it has been worry-
ing me.
As I crack my matutinal egg I say to
myself, “What shall we do with the rail-
ways?” As I shave my shining morning
face I put to myself the question, “How
can we make the railways pay?” and as
I sink my evening mug of beer the prob-
lem again obtrudes itself, “How can we
get rid of those deficits?”
But I’m not like the politicians, news-
papers and debating societies. I don’t
just ponder. I solve.
As the egg, or the lather, or the foam-
ing beer goes about its appointed task,
my grey matter is working hard, ever
busy and ever alert for a way out of
the difficulty.
Recently the solution suddenly came to
me.
Dipping my finger in my beer, I
mapped out the whole scheme on the bar
counter. A moment later Phoebe, the
barmaid, efficiently wiped it out, but
she couldn’t wipe it out of the old brain-
box. No, there it was, and here it is.
Don’t worry about unifying your
gauges, unify your control. Put all your
railways under one man!
Of course, such a man would ordi-
narily be difficult to find. He must be
a man of the greatest possible ability
combined with absolute integrity. Cool-
headed, far-seeing and alert. Courage-
ous, imaginative and indomitable. A
man who can be relied upon to act
swiftly in a crisis, yet can knuckle down
to the humdrum task of making the
trains run smoothly, silently and
economically. In brief, what is gener-
ally known as a superman.
Admittedly his job will be a hard one,
but I am not the man to let odds daunt
me. It’s my idea, and I’m prepared to
see it through.
I’ll make those railways pay if I have
to sack every man in the service, tear
up every yard of track and wreck every
train in the Commonwealth.
Of course, I shall insist on an abso-
lutely free hand. I won’t be hampered
by Railway Acts, Standing Committees,
Royal Commissions, Letters to the News-
papers, Questions in the House or
Answers to Correspondents.
The old policy of “What we lose on
the swings we make on the roundabouts”
is f no good to me. Under my regime, if
we lose on the swings we shall do away
with the swings and buy more round-
abouts. “Less swings and more round-
abouts” will be my slogan.
I use the word “roundabout” purely
in a metaphorical sense, and I do not
intend to instal merry-go-rounds at all
wayside stations, though it has often
occurred to me that the railway turn-
tables, which are eating their heads off
most of the day, might well be made to
earn a little revenue in this way. Nor
do I refer to those roundabout trains
with no fixed abode that wander about
the country picking up milkcans and
putting down bundles of papers.
Nor do I. . . Hang it all! Why
should I explain what I mean? That’s
my slogan, and a jolly good one, too,
and if anyone thinks he knows a better
one, let him speak up. Meantime—
“ Less Swings and More Roundabouts.”
, Jasby.
•J* 4* 4*
“Man. is the only living creature foolish
enough to get intoxicated.”
Yes; but then he’s the only living
creature clever enough to make intoxi-
cants.
III-starred Romance.
“Sweetheart, if you wished,” I cried,
“I’d give you Jupiter or Mars.”
“I don’t like planets,” she replied ;
“I’d much prefer that group of stars.”
She swept the sky with wave and look
Betokening her choice; so I
Climbed up a moonbeam pale and took
The Seven Sisters from the sky.
But when / proudly spilled my prize
Into her lap, to my dismay
A flash of anger lit her eyes ;
She snapped, “I meant the Milky
Way I”
P.O.M.C.
Mallee-able Property.
“Terrific duststorms in the Victorian Mallee
country have rendered many holdings unten-
able.”--f‘Sun.”
/ was the most unfortunate settler that
was ever settled through settling in the
Mallee country.
I had taken up a big holding there,
proposing to concentrate on a new type
of seedless mangel-wurzel for which, the
agent who sold me the land said, there
was sure to be a rapidly-expanding
market, as the old seeded type was
giving farmers trouble through the seeds
getting between the cattle’s teeth.
Unfortunately my bucolic venture
coincided with the beginning of a seven-
year drought. The duststorms were
awful. In clearing the scrub I had to
grope about under four feet of dust
to get to the stumps to grub them out.
By the time {..was -ready-for ploughing
the dust was so deep that the horses sank
down to their withers in it, and had to
crane their necks straight, up. to prevent
being smothered. Just as I had com-
pleted ploughing, gales came from the
opposite direction and whisked 14ft. of
surface earth and dust away against the
surrounding mountains.
I was far from beaten, however. 1
had a true cocky’s grit—and no wonder,
for I’d had practically nothing else be-
tween my teeth for a year—and I stuck
to it. But, as 1 ploughed, the gales would
whirl the loosened soil, dried by the
drought into dust, into the void. By the
end of the drought I had ploughed from
what was once hilly country a huge
valley. When the drought broke my
property became a dam half as big as
Burrinjuck. It was only after taking
many soundings that I eventually located
the homestead chimney at 10 fathoms.
Deep cogitation convinced me that
the property would be —temporarily, at
least —useless for agricultural purposes,
and, as every other holding within 50
miles of me had been abandoned, the
water was useless for irrigation pur-
poses. I tried for a while to work the
property with a submarine plough, dress-
ing myself and the horses in diving-suits.
1 would probably have made a success
of it, but the banks got me before I
finished putting my first crop in.
S. W. K.


1 m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY tr you Ltd. SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne., Adelaide.. Perth,
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. __
•'SILVER
EDGE* 0
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
There is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have.
maintained a name for quality, building up ra reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm; It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.-’
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.; JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71,
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
( lon?oN)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis . , . . Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
' What to do-and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St, Sydney,
O/O
w/ U
POST
FREE
and at all newsagents.
WORLD’S LAND-SPEED RECORD.
TRIUMPH OF BRITISH BRAINS, PLUCK
AND ENGINEERING.
BY FORED BERRY.
RESEARCH and experiment have been responsible for the
high standard of performance and efficiency common to
the modern automobile, but the motorist who believes this
remarkable progress to be due solely to laboratory work is
astray. In fact, our present satisfactory position is mainly due
to the efforts of a select band of individuals from all nations
who have, since the inception of motoring, risked their lives in
international racing and in the making of speed records.
Safe high-speed transport is one of
the essentials to the economic welfare
of any country, and to make it possible
lives have been sacrificed and enormous
cost involved in efforts to drive automo-
biles to destruction so that the racing
car of one period shall be the touring
car of a few years later.
Clever engineers design automobiles
for some specific purpose, but unless
someone possessing a high degree of skill
volunteers to drive these machines to
destruction at great personal risk the
data necessary to prove the new theories
embodied in their construction cannot be
obtained.
When recently. Sir Malcolm Campbell,
in a car of British manufacture, attained
a speed of oyer 300 m.p.h., he not only
lifted the world’s land-speed record, to a
higher notch, but Obtained further valu-
able information in regard to mechani-
cal details and the behavior of tyres under
high-speed conditions.
Early Attempts.
First officially created in 1898, the
world’s land-speed record then stood at
39.24 m.p.h., the car used being a Jean-
taud. By 1903, Henry Ford, driving a
car of his own make, had driven in one
direction at 91,37 m.p.h. In 1904 100
m.p.h. was exceeded by Rigally in a G.
Brailli, his speed being 103.56 m.p.h.
Next in the chronicle such famous names
as those of De Palma and Barney Old-
field (afterwards killed in a racing acci-
dent) appear, the speed being lifted to
149.87 m.p.h. in 1919. About this period
Milton, driving a Duesenberg, was
credited with 156.04 m.p.h., but these
records had been made in one direction
only, and the authorities controlling such
attempts came to the decision that the in-
fluence of wind and grade could so affect
maximum speed that in future all attempts
must be made out and back, no longer
than half an hour elapsing between any
two selected times.
This edict placed an entirely different
complexion on the record list, for the
following year, 1922, K. Le Guinness,
How the wind flaps act as an air brake.
driving a Sunbeam, was granted the
world’s land-speed record at 129.17 m.p.h.
—more than 20 miles slower than the
“one-way” record of three years before,
From this period, almost without ex-
ception, British or Continental drivers
and cars have played the leading role, and
in 1924 J. Perry Thomas held the record
with the narrow margin of a half-mile
per hour ahead of Le Guinness.
Campbell-Segrave Duel.
Then, with the advent of Campbell and
Segrave, speeds- began )o bound up.
The list thereonwards reads: Campbell,
150; Segrave, 152; Campbell, 174;
Segrave, 203 ; Campbell, 206; Keech,
The fastest car on earth. A “Motor” impression of Malcolm Campbell’s Blue
Bird II. at speed on Daytona Beach (U.S.A.).
207 ; Segrave, 231 ; Campbell, 246, 253,
272, 276 and 301’m.p.h.
The record certificate shows that the
Blue Bird driven by. Campbell on the
dry salt-lake bed at Bonnerville (Utah,
U.S.A.) covered' the measured mile on
the first run in a north-easterly direction
in 11.835ec., equivalent to 304.311 m.p.h.
In the opposite direction, against a slight
breeze, he was clocked in 12.085ec., equal
to 298.013 m.p.h. The mean of the times
for the two attempts was 11.955ec., or a
mean speed of 301.129 m.p.h.
During the last 10 years Campbell has
succeeded in doubling the record, a re-
markable achievement, in the process of
which he is credited with an expenditure
of about £lOO,OOO, and has explored
many countries in search of a suitable
speedway.
Actually, speed limitation during the
last few years has been almost entirely
governed by tyres and track. Huge ex-
penditure has been incurred by the Dun-
lop Co. in experimenting with the manu-
facture of tyres capable of withstanding
the enormous heat and centrifugal forces
generated when a car is driven at 300
m.p.h., and the fact that these experi-
ments have been successful is not only a
triumph for British craftsmen but a boon
to every motorist in making still better
tyre equipment available.
Suitable Speedways.
With regard to the track upon which
such terrific speeds are attained, two vital
factors are involved —a perfectly straight
runway, of from 15 to 20 miles, and a
level surface of an extremely hard and
regular nature,,entirely free from stones
or obstructions, however small.
Records around the ,120 m.p.h. mark
were established on Pendine Sands (Eng.)
by British aspirants, and on Daytona
Beach (U.S.A.) by American drivers, but
as speeds increased to the 200 mark
Pendine Sands, owing to the short run-up,
was eliminated, while Daytona, although
long enough to hold 250 to 270 m.p.h.,
seldom provided a smooth regular sur-
face. Both Keech and Lockhart were
killed in record attempts owing to losing
;control at high speed after striking a
bump on the timed section.
Realising the: need of. a safer track,
Campbell, after months of exploration,
took his machine to South Africa, trac-
tors and a huge army of natives being
employed in transporting equipment to
Verneuk Pan. While these efforts re-
sulted in the attainment of very high
speed, Segrave a short week earlier had
again lifted the record at Daytona to a
figure beyond the capacity of Campbell’s
machine.
The dry salt-lake beds of Utah (U.S.A.)
have apparently solved the speedway
problem, and during the last few months
records of almost every description have
been made and broken there in rapid
succession by drivers and machines from
One of the air brakes on the Blue Bird
in a fully-raised position. Note the
heavily-armored windscreen in front of
the drivers cockpit.
various countries. At least two new
super-speed cars are now being built with
the object of breaking Campbell’s record.
The Record-breaker.
The car used by Campbell in the recent
record run is a triumph of British en-
gineering. With an overall length of
28ft. 3in., it is powered with a super-
charged Rolls-Royce Aero engine of
. 36,582c.c. and rated at 173.28 h.p. The
approximate maximum brake-horsepower
is said to be 2500. The engine is 7ft. 7in.
long and weighs 16301 b per
b.h.p. Some idea of the enormous effi-
ciency of this engine can be gathered
when its weight-power factor is com-
pared with modern touring practice,
wherein motors weigh from 101 b. to 151 b.
b.h.p. Compression ratio is extremely
high, special Ethyl fuel being used.
Transmission is by multiple disc clutch
to an indirect drive gearbox, giving three
forward speeds and reverse, enclosed
propeller shaft, double final drive with
a reduction ratio of 1.19 to 1. Engine
speed is 3200 revs, at 300 m.p.h., so that
during the run up to the timed sec-
tion Campbell changed from second to
top at possibly 200 or 220 m.p.h.
Brakes are internal-expanding shoes
on all four wheels, operated in conjunc-
tion with air flaps by a series of vacuum-
servo motors. 1 Both systems are con-
trolled by" a single pedal.
Novel Brakes.
The air flaps are let into recesses in
the streamlined body in line with each
rear wheel, and as they hinge upwards
like the elevators of an aeroplane they not
only serve as an air brake in retarding
forward progress, but give a downward
thrust to the rear wheels, and so assist
road stability.
The cooling system is of novel design.
An air ‘slot provided with a balanced flap
extends across the nose of the machine,
the flap being connected to a lever
'beside the driver. On entering the
measured-mile the slot is closed in order
' to provide more perfect streamlining, and
for the few seconds on full throttle no
air passes through the radiator proper,
which is located ahead of the front
wheels.
In order to secure maximum grip on
the road the rear wheels are each fitted
with twin tyres.-’' 1 Tyres are Dunlops,


SSSSkSSSSSISSZ
-f
z y
......" ...A '*
I I
il
'i m.
11
j»«w9
□
A
1
•*: . . 'SSg
% \ !
f 'Ws'%- . • ,
*s
m
,i.v" f iii
r J
D
P
U l5
,-:>■■>■■■
¥ ■ 3
mm
0m
a
, j;aMest doubt
«** V K * 9eß#i co 68 "
cV '° n9e a.bod,ed
_M A I
AIIpOA
. -.i this V «U\C*
foloMforbo^
Hove^V
. , uj(6cV®^i
VeattWV ** ** *%££*** '
, *, n?W P'^al-^Vp s%*** ~*Z*~
]nV»*» V° u j'fJj q»P “P on V ffic,enl c al ' nt ° °,. . fcee-flo«‘"' 9 d
as»-;:; s- • ~»- —.
J ~ * » ,*■» -r.,
1 Slond mpless'on otot - . t ly” token ? e
uo toß
specially constructed to withstand 300
m.p.h. Each cover weighs only 501 b.
and inner-tube 7*lb. As the weight of a
standard truck tyre of equal size is 701 b.
Front-axle floats in bearings on spring
archorages, but, is limited in movement
by radius rods. Steering stabilisers are
secured to the axle, and one is coupled
to the track rod.
and tube it will be appreciated
how weight has been reduced in order
to obviate the danger of terrific centri-
fugal force disintegrating'the tyres.
Bodywork is perfectly streamlined as
a result of experiments carried out , with
numerous scale models in wind tunnels,
and a high stabilising tail-fin assists in
keeping the car on a true course and pre-
vents yawing at high speed.
The total weight of the car, including
lead ballast, is five tons, and, although
designed only to run approximately 20
miles between halts, it is fitted with a 40-
gallon fuel tank.
“Coventry”; Forty miles from the
nearest town a broken spring caused a
halt. With a petrol-case, a spare inner-
tube, some fence-wire and a little in-
genuity a temporary shock-absorber was
soon constructed. The petrol-case pro-
vided 6in. by 4in. slats around which was
threaded the tube. The wire held the
contraption to the axle.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.O’D. (Castlemaine, Vic.).— When over-
hauling the engine of my \A-h.p. car 1 invari-
ably experience great difficulty in inserting the
split pins in the eight nuts on the sump. Is
there any way you could suggest to simplify
this difficult job ?
If you replace the original distance washers
there should be no difficulty in fitting split
pins to the castellated head nuts, but, as a
simple means, before dismantling use a file
or hacksaw to make a mark across the bolt
end in line with the split pin.
* * * *
R.E.P. (Toowoomba, Q.). —My ’26 model
six-cylinder car at 46,000 miles is still giving
good service, but on any run of more than
half-hour duration the inside of the car is
filled with oil fumes. Is there any way in
which this trouble can be prevented ?
Obviously the motor requires reboring or re-
fining, wear between piston and cylinder per-
mitting gas to enter the crankcase and so fill
the driving compartment with fumes. Only per-
manent remedy would be to have the motor
overhauled, but, as a temporary expedient,
attach a length of hose to the cap on the crank-
case breather and direct the fumes below the
engine tray.
N.J. (Launceston, Tas.). —Since having new
liners and, rings fitted to my ’25 model car
(46,000 miles ) oil pressure has dropped from'iOlb.
to 10 lb. On long hills the motor now becomes
hot and appears stiff and sluggish. Will damage
be done by running like this, and, if so, what
is the remedy ?
Liners and rings should not affect oil pres-
sure, and if bearings have been taken up
during the overhaul pressure should be higher
rather than lower. Has any alteration been
made in adjustment of oil-pressure release
valve? This would account for the drop.
* * * *
F.E.P. (Glenelg, S.A.). —Although oil con-
sumption is normal, the plugs of my ’33
model light-six H-h.p. car will oil up occasion-
ally, owing to surplus from o.h.v. gear running
down valve stems. Can this be prevented ?
The supply to o.h.v. gear passes through
hollow rocker shafts. There is a notch in each
which is located opposite an oil hole. Slack
off rocker clamps and turn end of shafts
left or right until only sufficient oil passes to
lubricate bushes.
(The Steering Column continued on
page 28.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics
LIGHT
(%/SPRING
K
When gnnding-in valves a light
spring under the head, as illus-
trated, will save time and ensure
a regular and gaslight seating.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
mmmm
m
m
m.
mrH'm
> Mcm\
* H *•> 3
OF CAR RUNS
fyjLttVu oru
VALVOUNE
Well, frankly. Valvoline is a better oil!
Tests, both practical and theoretical
prove this.
Secondly, Valvoline is not handled
like other oil-it is Refinery sealed.
It comes to you in “tamper-proof" tins
and is sealed as a protection against
substitution, adulteration, dirt ana
short measure.
Ask your garagemanl
hnjyu
VarislmjiE
UNAVAILABLE IN BULK
J CARRIGAN
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
cml thteugW fc fenunomwalLli
HAWKINS V 7.
§PurhJs
National Service
For three-quarters of a century the resources and
experience of the National Bank have helped the develop-
ment of the primary and secondary industries of Australia.
As settlement extended and industry enlarged its
operations the Bank s establishment was increased until
it now operates 429 offices and branches in the towns
and country districts of Australia. Overseas it has two
offices in London and a world-wide chain of banking
agents.
Through this extensive organisation the Bank pro-
vides financial facilities for Australian and Overseas
trade, and covers the varied needs of customers in all ,
branches of production, trade and commerce.
To-day its services are fully available to assist in
the further development of the Commonwealth. Its
officers are at all times ready to answer enquiries and
help customers to make full use of the many services
provided by the Bank.
The National Bank
of Australasia Limited
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
.... “ALWAYS
Simoniz a New Car”
The New Kieener maes SIMONIZIKG easier than ever.
H.S.B. (Gilliat, N.Q.). —My Velie model 60
misses when travelling at any fixed speed up
to 35 m.p.h. It accelerates and pulls 0.K.,
and does not miss when doing so. When idling
it also and when using the engine as a
brake 'there are explosions in the silencer.
Engine was rebored 3000 miles ago. Cause and
cure ? ,
Symptoms indicate a serious air leak m the
induction system or badly-worn inlet valve
guides. Check inlet manifold joints for gas-
tight fit. If guides are worn they will need
reaming out, and oversize valves must be fitted.
* * * *
L.D.E. (Boonah, Q.). —I have a ’35 model
Pontiac Six which has done 4000 miles. At
1000 miles it began to pink on hills, and con-
tinues to do so. I use Ethyl petrol, good oil
and colloidal graphite. Pinking is most notice-
able when climbing hills at 20 m.p.h. to 30
m.p.h. Timing is O.K. lam advised to grind
valves and remove carbon, but I prefer to
leave cylinder head undisturbed as long as pos-
sible. Any suggestions ?
On almost every high-efficiency model engine
pinking will be observed after carbon has
formed in the combustion chamber, particularly
when driven in the manner indicated. No
serious results will follow, but a perfectly clean
combustion chamber or a slightly retarded spark
is the only permanent remedy. Your idea
of keeping the head on as long as possible
without disturbing is wrong, as every new car
should have the head off and be given a “once-
over” at between 4000 to 6000 miles.
* * * *
E.H. (Stroud, N.S.W.). —With a model T
Ford I propose towing a loaded caravan
10//. x 6 ft. bin. on two wheels, and would like
to know: (1) Would petrol consumption be
increased, and by how much ? (2) Would
chassis be strong enough ? (3) Would brakes
be safe when towing in mountainous country ?
(1) Petrol consumption would be increased
from 20 p.c. to 33 1-3 p.c. owing to extra
power required and the more frequent use of
low gear. (2) Unless the trailer attachment is
properly designed, the chassis may not prove
strong enough for heavy loading. (3) No, the
margin of safety would not be sufficient unless
auxiliary brakes were fitted to the trailer wheels.
* * * *
G.D. (Kew, Vic.), L.W. (Arncliffe, N.S.W.)
and A.R.D. (Southport, Q.). —Would colloidal
graphite be any advantage to a car that has
run several thousand miles ?
Yes, there is some advantage irrespective of
age, but it is most effective in the running-in
period.
:I: * H= *
B.K. (Ballan, Vic.). —What is the approxi-
mate annual cost of running a Ford V 8 ’35
model ?
Impossible to say without knowing exact
annual mileage. Charges such as registration,
insurance, depreciation and interest on invested
capital are constant irrespective of mileage
covered, but naturally fuel, oil, tyres and main-
tenance costs depend wholly upon the dis-
tance covered. The car mentioned averages
from 18 m.p.g. to 20 m.p.g., and 15,000 to
20,000 miles per set of tyres. Repairs and
maintenance charges on the new model should
be negligible during the first year of opera-
tion.
* * * *
S.R.G. (Temora, N.S.W.). —The Solex car-
burettor on my ’23 Buick has no model number.
How can I obtain information as to tuning and
correct jets ?
Write Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue,
Sydney.
$ * * *
W.L.G. (Proserpine, Q.) and H.S.S. (Laura,
S.A.). —Best method of disposing of an old
model De Dion ?
Write direct to De Dion Bouton, Paris,
France.
% h= $ *
J. (Urandangie, N.Q.). —(1) In reference
to the reported Melbourne-Darwin trip of a
Diesel-engined truck for a fuel cost of £3 10. v., is
the journey possible at the stated cost with a
full load of tons? (2) Where can a Dorman
Ricardo engine be obtained, and at what price ?
(3) Is the method of transport a reliable pro-
position for a country carrier ?
(1) Net payload carried was three tons, cost
for fuel £3 17s. 9d. (2) Agents are Alt' Snash-
all, Ltd., 471 Kent-street, Sydney. Cost for
unit suitable for Bedford chassis, £445 in-
stalled. (3) Yes; but uncertainty of sup-
plies of suitable fuel is a present drawback.
* * * *
K. (Auckland, M.L.). —Please give me
the following particulars with regard to the 1927
Vauxhall tourer 14/40 type: (1) Bore and
stroke. (2) R.A.C. rating. (3) Weight un-
laden. (4) Gear ratio. (5) Can handbook be
obtained ?
(1) 75 x 130 mm. (2) 13.9-h.p. R.A.C. rating.
(3) 24icwt. (4) 4.5 to 1. (5) None available.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Coventry”; In Adelaide streets is to
be seen a model T Ford five-seater, sawn
off at the dashboard, fitted with a pair
of shafts and drawn by Dobbin. Fifty
miles to the bag!
* * * *
“1910”; Tell “Roberto” (B. 7/8/ J 35)
his windscreen must have been made of
cellophane. I was trundling along at 50
m.p.h. the other day when a Ford V 8
passed as if I had been doing five m.p.h.
As it drew ahead there was a terrific
crash on the windscreen in front of my
passenger’s face. A piece of slag weigh-
ing about half a pound had bruised the
screen but not even cracked it, and was
reposing on the running-board. My
windscreen is made of good glass,
* * * »
“Coventry”; During the final stages of
a 100-mile motor-cycle race at Sellick’s
Beach (S.A.) recently, a competitor’s
machine, while travelling at 80 m.p.h.,
conked out. Examination revealed a
hole burned through the crown of the
piston by the over-hot explosions of
wrongly “doped” petrol. The fact that
the piston showed no sign of a. seizure
provides a great testimony of the lubri-
cating properties of the oil used.
Heat control of carburettor, actuated by
thermostat unit on exhaust manifold.
Travelling between Blackall
and Isisford (C.Q.) when cars were rare,
we were held up with the breaking of a
small spring in the maggie. A substi-
tute or a long, long march for all were
the alternatives. Ladies in those days
were strongly corseted, and an appeal to
the two feminine members of the party
was successful. When the ladies returned
from the nearest coolibah they produced
a slender piece of steel. It was heated.
punched and fitted, and the maggie per-
formed O.K. until a spare part was re-
ceived from Sydney.
* H= * H*
“Taxisir”: Taxis never sleep. On the
road 24 hours a day, with drivers work-
ing in shifts, they amass huge mileages.
Three thousand a month is common, and
old-timers that have passed the half-
million mark still run. Cruising boosts
mileage, and confirmed “non-cruising”
taxi-men have been converted by the
experience of a driver cruising down
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, who casually
picked up an American tourist for a trip
to Barron Falls (N.Q.). That driver re-
turned to Sydney six weeks later £2OO
better off.
* * * *
“Howzis”: Better than wire and wire-
strainer to get a car out of a bog is a
length of light wire rope, an iron peg
about 2ft. 6in. long and a Spanish wind-
lass similar to that used by teamsters
when roping on a load of wool. In
country of the nature of that between
Deniliquin and Mossgiel (N.S.W.), whilst
trees and fence posts are rarely available,
a solid patch of ground always is. Drive
the anchor peg in firmly with a slant for-
ward, the necessary distance ahead of
the bogged car, attach rope as close to
the ground as possible, and use the wind-
lass. I’ve pulled down trees by this
means, using a tree or stump for anchor
peg-


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available'
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lurch xrom 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5,45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
tlirough the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Sana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., qualified and experi-
enced, open for engagement middle of October.
—8595.
Would Herbert A. Thompson, who in 1905
was on Wilga Downs station, N.S.W., write
to old Victorian friend at Newbay-crescent,
Brighton, S.5, Victoria?
To buy second-hand copy of Traitors Within,
by Fitch.—8655.
To buy copy of The Secret War for Oil, by
Hanighan and Zischka, new or second-hand.
—8598.
Information Sought.
. (I) Where can I obtain an up-to-date hand-
book on the laws of cricket, with notes and
definitions ? Price ? (2) What is the law re-
lating to bodyline bowling ? (3) A bowler
bowling round the wicket delivers the ball from
directly over the return crease. How close to
the batsman’s wicket must it pitch to obtain
a l.b.w. decision, not allowing for break or
swerve ? —8585.
(1) N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George-
street, Sydney; 9d. posted. (2) There is no
M.C.C. law regarding bodyline bowling, but
the M.C.C. has isssued the following instruc-
tion to umpires: “If, in the opinion of the
umpire at the bowler’s end, unfair bowling
of this type takes place, he shall, as soon as
he decides that such bowling is becoming per-
sistent, caution the bowler. If this caution is
ineffective, he shall inform the captain of the
fielding side and the other umpire of what has
occurred. Should this*prove ineffective, he
shall, at the first repetition, call ‘dead ball,’
and the over shall be regarded as completed.
Also, he shall request the captain of the field-
ing side to take the bowler off. He shall re-
port the occurrence to the captain of the bat-
ting side as soon as an interval of play takes
place, and at the end of the day shall make
a report to the secretary of the M.C.C. and
also to the secretary of the county club to
which the offending bowler belongs. A bowler
who has been taken off as above shall not
bowl again during the same innings.” (3)
There is no definite distance from the bats-
man’s wicket that a ball must pitch in order
to get a l.b.w. decision. The law on l.b.w.
(24) is as follows: “Or, if with part of his
person he stops the ball, which, in the opinion
of the umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall
have been pitched in a straight line from it to
the striker’s wicket, and would have hit it.”
Notes on Law 24: “A batsman may be out
1.b.w., although the bowler is bowling round
the wicket, if the case comes within this law.
There are three considerations which an umpire
must bear in mind: Did it pitch in a straight
line between wicket and wicket? Was it part
of the batsman’s person, other than the hand,
which intercepted the ball? Would the ball
have hit the. wicket? If these questions are
answered in the affirmative, the batsman would
be out. It is immaterial whether the ball
breaks or not. It is sometimes only possible
for a bowler bowling round the wicket to
obtain a l.b.w. with a breaking ball.”
* * * *
(1) Qualifications for boys who desire to he
apprenticed as mechanics in civil aviation in
Queensland ? (2) Age at which they are appren-
ticed ? (3) Educational standard ? (4) Fee
payable for tuition at Brisbane Technical Col-
lege ? (5) Is there a demand for apprentices ?
(6) Where can I get full information ? (7)
Names of engineering houses that take appren-
tices ? (8) What are the prospects of boys
being able to get into the locomotive branch
ofajtate railway, Queensland for preference ?
(1) Intelligence; manipulative skill; keen
interest in mechanical work. (2) Commonly
16, but varies from 14 to 20. (3) At least
scholarship standard, preferably Junior Public
Examination standard. (4) The fees for appren-
tices are 10s. per term, there being four terms
in the year. (5) Not many openings. The
practice is to take skilled mechanics and
give them a special course of training. (6)
Apprenticeship Office, Taxation Building,
George Street, Brisbane. (7) Refer to Appren-
ticeship Office. (8) Refer to the chief mechani-
cal engineers of the various State railways.
For Queensland, reference should be made to
the chief mechanical engineer, Ipswich railway
workshops.
* * * *
I have recently been appointed one of the
trustees for a building in a small Q’land country
town which has been gazetted as a literary in-
stitute. (1) What are the trustees’ duties, and
how should we go about converting the build-
ing to the purpose for which it was gazetted ?
(2) Can we allow it to be used as a public
hall for such purposes as dancing, picture
shows and public meetings ? (3) What is the
difference between a public hall and a literary
institute ? —7585.
(1) Duties not specifically defined, but trustees
are charged generally with the care and manage-
ment of the land under their control for the
purposes of its reservation, subject to the pro-
visions of the Q. Trustees of Schools of Arts
Enabling Act, 1902. (2) Yes, provided the hall
is licensed under the Theatres and Public Halls
Act. (3) A literary institute (School of Arts) is
intended for use as a public hall, plus a lend-
ing library and reading-room. Further infor-
mation from the Q. Education Department.
If A bought a N.S.W. grazing property, C.P.
and C.L. of equal proportions, for, say, £3OOO,
and sold it to B within six months, making a
profit of about £l2OO, what taxes would the
profit be subject to ? —8385.
Depends on the size of the vendor’s other
income. A profit of £l2OO, after allowing for
improvements and transfer expenses, would be
subject to Federal income tax (at personal-exer-
tion rates), State income tax and State special
income-tax. The rates on £l2OO personal-exer-
tion income, where there is no other income,
would be: Federal income tax, £44 12s. 6d.;
State income tax, £42 12s. 9d.; special income
tax, £47 10s.; total, £134 15s. 3d. The above
amounts are based on the assumption that the
property was purchased with a view to resale.
If such is not the case the taxpayer will not
be liable to Federal income tax, but will be
liable to State income tax on property rates
(viz., £5B ss. Bd.), as well as special income tax.
The taxes have been based on the 1934 rates,
as the 1935 rates have not yet been passed
by Parliament.
* * * *
Name of writer of Latin quotation ‘‘ln
secundis rebus nihil in quemquam superbe ac
violenter consulere decet; nec prcesenli credere
fortunce, quam, quid vesper ferat, incertum
sit,” and translation in English ? —8476.
Livy: “In prosperity it is proper to resolve
nothing arrogantly or vindictively against any-
one, nor is it wise to trust to present good
fortune when it is uncertain what the evening
may bring.” v
* * * *
What causes wavy grain in timber, and has
it any effect on the strength of the timber ?
8484.
Wavy grain is usually caused by the tissues
undulating so that when the wood is split
radially the surface is corrugated. Occasionally
wavy grain may be produced at right-angles
to this direction ; i.e., the tangential plane is
corrugated under large branches. It appears to
be the result of the tree desiring greater
strength in the wood to resist longitudinal
shear. When sawn, wavy grain gives rise to
the figure known as fiddleback or fiddle mottle.
There is usually little effect on strength except
to increase the resistance to shear in certain
planes.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of toe-joint enlarge-
ment ? —8695.
Simple bunion in primary formation accounts
for the toe-joint enlargement; both feet are
usually involved in the trouble. The condition
is due to partial deformity of the great toe,
the susceptibility to which is possibly inherited.
Treatment involves the adoption of normal,
straight-edged footwear, direct pressure with
bunion plasters over the affected joints and
the application of equal parts liniment and tinc-
ture of iodine for relief of pain. Operation is
seldom required.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of asthma ? —B6OB.
It may be due to neurosis of the respiratory
apparatus; inheritance and certain nervous re-
flexes also predispose. The attack seldom
occurs spontaneously; there is usually an excit-
ing cause to which the victim is susceptible.
From this the simple bronchial asthma differs
in many ways. Treatment must be adopted
according to type or nature of the disease.
Where the subject is sensitive to definite in-
fluences, the avoidance of these is imperative.
There is a vaccine treatment (allergic) associ-
ated with such influences.
* * * sic
Is basilican ointment related in any way to
resin ointment ? How did the name originate ?
—8691.
Basilicon and resin ointments are identical;
resin is the official name. The ointment was at
one time reputed to have “royal virtues,” and
the term basilicon was applied, but is now
seldom used. The antiseptic, drawing ointment
is composed of a mixture of resin, yellow
beeswax, olive oil and lard. As an application
for slow-healing ulcers, sores and wounds, a
combination with zinc and boracic ointment
is preferred. There should be no grittiness;
the resin is dissolved in the oils.
* * * *
I am troubled with indefinite body pain
( rheumatism ) and flatulence. What can be
done ? Would enclosed prescription benefit ?
—8591.
The prescription submitted is that of an
alkaline stomachic and nerve sedative. This
should relieve the rheumatic pain through
medium of the nervous system; it obviously is
not intended as a uric-acid solvent. The phos-
phate referred to is possibly that of sodium
phosphate, the dose of which is one teaspoon
in a tumbler of water first thing each morning.
Sulphate of soda (Glauber’s salt) is more fre-
quently prescribed as an aperient in rheumatic
cases, but your doctor may suspect a liver
fault; hence the phosphate salt. Best keep to
the routine advised, with aspirin mixture and
passive massage and foments for relief of
pain. Two tablets of soda mint may be taken
after meals when flatulence is pronounced.
* * * *
A good diet for sufferers from blood-
pressure, stating what specially to avoid and
what foods are helpful? —Bsl7.
High blood-pressure demands moderation in
all things, frequent morning salines and a
simple diet, with no condiments or heating
foods. White meats (poultry, brains, tripe and
fish) are permissible; alcohol, coffee and meat
extracts are best avoided. The elimination of
stomach and bowel toxins by the treatment of
constipation, dilatation of the skin vessels
by the use of warm baths and hot packs, and
sweating by exercise or hydropathic treatment
are measures that may be adopted when the
condition develops. Although exercise 'in
moderation otherwise benefits to some extent,
it is generally accepted that diet is the main
essential to be considered. Medical super-
vision is required.
* * * *
What is a tensor muscle ? Where and how
does it junction in the human ? —B5OB.
A muscle to which the name tensor is
applied performs the specific action of putting
on stretch or rendering tense the part to which
it is attached. Several muscles are so described.
Thus the tensor muscle of the eyelid stretches
the tarsal plate or muscle layer of upper and
lower lids. This contracts when the eye is
shut, and the tensor, at the inner side of the
eye, compresses the upper end of the tear duct,
to relax again when the eye is opened. When
we blink rapidly the tensor muscle exercises
a pumping action. The tympanic tensor is a
minute muscle in the middle ear. Its action
is to pull the drum of the ear inwards, thus
rendering it tense and more sensitive to sound
impulses. Another tensor is the muscle at the
side of the hip, one of the agents that assist
in maintaining the erect body posture.
♦ * * *
(1) In what vegetables and foods is vitamin
E contained ? (2) Is it destroyed by cooking ?
—8289.
(1) With regard to supply and physiological
effect, vitamin E is still in the experimental
stage. It has been isolated and identified as
the “fertility” vitamin in specified foods —
whole wheat and oats; also cottonseed and
various green vegetables. In other foods it
occurs in close association with vitamin A.
The average person possibly obtains a suffi-
ciency of vitamin E from an ordinary mixed
diet. (2) It is recognised that vitamins are un-
stable to heat, and so may be destroyed or
reduced in value by cooking. This is especi-
ally noted when food is heated while exposed
to the air, as in frying, etc. The closed vessel
to some extent retains the vitamin content —
its efficiency is not seriously impaired.
* * * *
What should be done to chrysanthemum
clumps to get them ready for autumn flower-
ing ? —8360.
Break the clumps apart and place young
strong runners in well-dug soil to force them
to _ make strong roots. Label each for future
guidance. Remove shoots which come from the
base of the plants. Set the established plants
in the open garden in late October, stake
firmly and water regularly. Mulch with well-
rotted manure in December and again when
the flower-buds show.
* * * *
When the flowering is over what is the best
thing to do with bulbs ? I want to use the
plots for spring flowers. —8338.
Lift them with the leaf-growth intact and
lay them in a box of sand. Generally they
dry out well ; but those which remain soft
should be planted in a warm corner of the
garden. Be careful not to injure the bulbs when
digging.
* * * *
(1) How is poppy seed saved to retain the
color shades ? (2) By what method are new
shades raised ? —8409.
(1) Tie pieces of calico or tissue paper over
the flower-buds before they burst and thereby
protect them from interference by bees and
insects. When the seed-pods dry out store them
in a tobacco-tin—an excellent disinfectant. (2)
New shades are obtained by transferring pollen
with a fine camel-hair brush from chosen colors
to others. After treatment cover the blooms
with tissue paper to protect them, and store as
mentioned.
* * * *
Meaning of the word “baroque” as applied
to the arts ? —8689.
It is a German and English critical term
transferred from precious stones to sculpture,
poetry and architecture, barocco being an
Italian word meaning a pearl of irregular
shape. “Baroque” in the fine arts was used
to indicate a style which flouted conventional
rules of harmony and symmetry and depended
on surprise for its effects. “Bizarre” and “gro-
tesque” have somewhat similar meanings, but
in art “baroque” is more accurately used to de-
scribe a period and a style.
* * * *
(1) Will you reprint Charles Darwin’s poem
“Loves of Plants” ? (2) Did he write any other
poems ? —8237.
(1) No. It runs to 4000 lines. But the
author was Erasmus Darwin (1731-1802),
grandfather of Charles. (2) Erasmus wrote
“The Temple of Nature,” a poem of 2000 lines,
on organic life. Short extracts from both
poems are published in John Drinkwater’s A
Book for Bookmen, and also in The Oxford
Book of 18th Century Verse.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about the Nankeen
night heron ? —8344.
The bird is fairly plentiful throughout Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, and occurs also in the
Malay Archipelago and New Caledonia. The
adults are of a beautiful cinnamon color, with
a black patch on the head and two long,
narrow, pure white plumes on the back of the
neck. The young birds retain their immature
plumage (mottled brown and dirty white) for
two years. These birds are mainly nocturnal
in their habits, and spend the day roosting in
trees, so that they often escape observation.
* * * *
(1) Pronunciation of “runic” ? (2) What is
"runic rhyme” ? (3) Meaning of “feet” in
poetry ? —8304.
(1) Roonic. (2) Verse written by or after the
manner of those peoples who invented and
used runes, that is, the ancient Germanic and
Scandinavian races; the word rune is
applied as well to the poetry of such place and
period. (3) A measure of time into which a line
of verse is divided, corresponding to the beat
in music ; such metrical units consisting of a
stressed or accented syllable accompanied by
one or two unaccented syllables, and occurring
in regular and rhythmic sequence.
Brief Answers.
N.J.J.: The by-laws of the Metropolitan Fire
Brigades Board (N.S.W.) provide that “No
brigade officer or fireman when on duty thereat
shall attend any theatre or other place of amuse-
ment in uniform”... .J.G.: Write A. E. Smith,
68 Hunter-street, Sydney, for small pamphlet
giving hints on the care of violins P.C.:
After the skins are tanned they are washed
well in clean water and allowed to drain. A
very light coat of oil is applied to the flesh side
and then the skins are hung up to dry. The dry
skins are sometimes rubbed on the flesh side
with sandpaper or pumice stone. This removes
roueh pieces of flesh and produces a softer
s£m 4 ... .F.D.: Write District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, Syd-
ney 8.R.: “The Quartermaster” appeared as
a serial in The Bulletin from May 22 to July
31, 1929. It was the abridged form of A
House Is Built (by Flora Eldershaw and Mar-
jorie Barnard), which won the £5OO first prize
in the 1928 Bulletin prize novel competition.
A.E.W.: There is no exact remedy for
deafness —the cause must be determined and
treated by a specialist. Simple loss of hear-
ing is nearly always partial, whether it affects
one ear or both; it generally stops short of
complete insensibility to sound. In senile
cases so-called nerve deafness may be at
fault. Catarrhal congestion and blood ten-
sion, also nerve lesions involving the middle
ear, are factors that demand attention
T.P.: Frederic Manning wrote The Vigil of
Brunhild (1907), Scenes and Portraits (1909),
Poems (1910), Eidola (1917), and Her Privates
We (1930) G.W.: Cannot recommend any
particular firm. The usual practice is to place
the case in the hands of a local solicitor, who
will prepare it for submission to his London
agent A.T.J.: George Collins Levey, born
Devonshire, 1835, died England, 1919, was for
years a well-known Victorian public man and
journalist. He edited Hutchinson’s Australa-
sian Encyclopcedia (London, 1892)... .D.F.S.:
Candidates for the Alexander Prize of a silver
medal designed by A. Wyon may choose their
own subject for an essay, but they must sub-
mit their choice for approval to the Literary
Director, Royal Historical Society, 22 Russell-
square, London, W.C.I P. 8.; The Trees of
New South Wales, by R. H. Anderson (ss. 6d.,
posted), obtainable from the Govt. Printer,
Sydney... .A.F.: “Organ,” 13 Chichester Rents,
Chancery-lane, London, W.C.2.; quarterly,
2s C.G.: See Val Gielgud’s How to
Write Broadcast Plays RJ.: Bringen Brong
is a Vic. abo. place-name meaning “a bottom-
less waterhole” T.R.K.: The Wiluna
“Miner” is published every Saturday at Wiluna
(W.A.) 0.C.1.: Not aware of any reliable
published list. Information with regard to any
particular case may be sought by letter ad-
dressed to the Paymaster-General, Whitehall,
5.W.1., London...-.W.M.W.; £l3OO was
spent in connection with the Commonwealth
Literary Fund during 1933-34; £l5OO was
placed on the 1934-35 estimates L.A.: In
pronunciation “casket” follows the usage in
regard to “cask”—the “a” as in “mask.”
“Basic” is “baysik” A.G.L.T.: See article
by W. G. Brown in the “Queensland Agri-
cultural Journal” for August, 1922 C.E.8.:
The collector value of a half sovereign of the
date and type described is about 12s. 6d. Its
intrinsic value is greater R.M.L: Write O.
Shaw, 122 Bathurst-street, Sydney 0.R.0.:
Write Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street,
Sydney E.L.: Write secretary, Taxpayers’
Assoc, of Victoria, Collins House, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne L.H.: The Australian
Encyclopcedia says that the Endeavour was
probably rated as a barque on account of her
cat build (straight stem and no figurehead), in
which she differed greatly from the ordinary
naval vessels of the day....R.D.: From New
England Airways, Ltd., 14 Martin-place,
Sydney... .P.C.: “The matter is in train” is
correct. Other versions are not in order
D.W.: In both cases you would be liable to
prosecution....W.R.W.: Nothing in it. An
optical illusion due to light refraction from
mirror G.T.R.: H. A. Hanke, Reiby-place,
Sydney M.M.W.; Yes J.A.C.: The
Teachers’ Central Registry, Kembla Building,
Margaret-street, Sydney, under the manage-
ment of a committee appointed by the
Teachers’ Guild of N. S. Wales, has as one of
its objects the finding of suitable employment
for masters and tutors C.L.0.; (1) It is
a proper name. (2) Term is an Americanism,
and refers to both practices A.A.: Cut
out the cracks with a cold chisel. Hammer to
depth of crack, about £in. wide at surface,
and wider at bottom, so as to give a key.
Mix thoroughly 1 part cement, 2 parts fine
sand, and sufficient water so that when
squeezed in the hand it will just retain its
shape. Force this into the space which has
been cut, as tightly as possible. Smooth off
with trowel and keep wet bags over it for
seven days... .J.M.R.: (1) (a) Apply to
Registrar, Nurses and Masseurs’ Registration
Board, Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, 33 Queen-
street, Brisbane. ( b ) Regulations 10 and 11
under the provisions of the N.S.W. Nurses’
Registration Act, 1924-32, set out the
standard of education required in order to
commence training as a nurse in N.S.W. (2)
Depends on size of hospital and facilities for
experience and training available. Copies of
the Nurses’ Registration Act and Regulations
are obtainable from the Government Printing
Office, Phillip-street, Sydney; Is. each, plus
postage... .R.M.8.: Yes. The current rate
of interest on a sound security ranges from
4| to 5 per cent. A leading insurance co. in
Sydney, which may be taken as a standard,
will advance up to 60 per cent, on its own
valuation on house property (brick) for a term
of three years at 4£ per cent., first mortgage.
The trading banks also make such advances,
with variations according to circumstances.
In every case costs must be met by the mort-
gagor G.S.J.: Legality very improbable.
Divorces obtained in foreign countries are valid
in the Australian States only where they have-
been obtained under conditions and on grounds
recognised by each respective State; for ex-
ample, in New Mexico incompatibility is a
ground for divorce, but not in Australia....
(Many others mailed.)


THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
She lives with the Dwyers.
The White family — Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tiburon s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill. Paul White works for the
Dwyers,
Others of the colony are the Willoughbys,
the Mulvers, Gran Staines and Mad Peter.
Blue, Big Dutch, Okker Slade and
Denny the Magsman are “travellers” camped
at the unemployed shelter.
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tiburon of its undesirables.
In this it is supported by Sergeant Moore
( half-heartedly ) and Constable Scorby (abso-
lutely).
“Jingo” Barnes, a former teacher at Warn-
ing Hill, has lately returned to Tiburon.
At the end of last week’s instalment Jessica
was riding home from a meeting of the
Dramatic Society when she was alarmed by
screams from a shack on Warning Hill.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tihuron is not an existing town, but a composite of many Australian
places. All characters in the story are fictitious, and hear no relation to any living person .]
Chapter VI. ( Continued ).
THE horse stumbled towards the glint of light, the
only one at this late hour, except for some embers
of fires that presumably warmed the “horrible
rough men” who she knew made the place their
haunt. She almost fell from the horse and battered
on the door, regardless of the dogs that barked around
her. To her astonishment, it was Paul White who
opened it.. At the sight of him she recovered her self-
possession somewhat.
“I came to tell you that there’s someone lower
down the track who appears to be hurt or sick,” she
said, trying to hide her terror. “As I came past I
heard a terrible screaming, and I thought they might
need help.”
Paul merely held the door open, obviously expect-
ing her to come in. “I’ll be going along in a minute,”
he suggested, “and you might as well wait for me.
I was just goin’ when you knocked.”
“But the screaming”—— She noticed that the
room was full of people and that one, an ugly little
man, had risen from a soapbox, which he was offer-
ing to her. “I’m sorry to trouble you —but that
screaming! ”
“Don’t worry about that,” a big man who was
obviously one of Paul’s brothers assured her. “T hat’d
be Mad Peter. Got a touch of the d.ts., poor fellow.
You don’t need to be afraid, miss; he’s perfectly
harmless. Just an old-age pensioner ’oo lives in a
little shelter made of bushes. ’E wouldn’t ’urt a fly.
But it’s just as well you didn’t go any closer. ’E’s
got one of them big dogs, and it’d fly at y’ soon as
look if it thought y’ was going to touch th’ old man.”
A big, fat man with a grey moustache and his
hat on pointed towards the fire.
“Tea!” he said huskily. “Give ’er some tea,
Emma.”
Jessica hesitated. She was not eager to stay, but
she did not see how she was going to get away.
“Thank you,” she said to the plump girl who brought
her the tea. She sat silently sipping it while the others
watched her. Presently they took up their conversa-
tion.
“Well, that’s settled, Denny,” the big dark man
addressed the little ugly one. “No trouble unless he
starts it himself. Meek an’ mild an’ soft as silk. Let
'im make the trouble.”
“An’ mind, Jim,” the small man advised, “you
can’t do anything till you’ve got the license. Then
you can show it to him if necessary, an’ well wait for
the next move. The biggest problem of the worker
among the peasantry is t’ fight these evictions. We ve
’ad to do it in the past, an’ well ’ave to do it in the
futufe. We’ve got to ’old every inch uv ground an'
hang on to the principle that a man’s got a right
to live where ’e wants an’ not be driven by the boss
class where they think ’e can be turned to the best
advantage for the least money.”
There was something in this speech that struck
a familiar note in Jessica’s memory.
“Do you know Will Henderson?” she asked
suddenly.
The little man turned to her, and the surprise
in his face was comical. Then he looked suspicious,
“ ’E’s in Queensland,” he said slowly.
“Yes, I know. He came out of gaol the other
week. I used to know him.”
Jessica hoped she had made a good impression.
If she had, she would not have been bored in vain
by Will and his stupid politics. The little man beamed
upon her. The rest of the party looked a little more
cordial, only the women continuing to regard her with
hard, bright eyes. Jessica followed up her first
success.
“I saw a lot of him when he was at the Teachers’
College,” she said. “That was before he gave up
teaching to become an agrarian organiser. You knew
he was once a teacher, didn’t you?”
“Well, what do y’ know about that?” Denny
turned to the rest of the gathering. “I see’s this
young lady walkin’ in an’ I says, ‘There’s one of the
bourgeoisie, if y’ like. One of the real middle-class
cuff-an’-collar team.’ An’ then she turns out to be a
“I heard a terrible screaming.”
friend of Will. Will, who taught me all the finer
points about workin’-class politics. Well, what d y
know about that?”
He looked as though he would almost hug her.
She turned from his enthusiasm almost in alarm
to the dark woman in the corner,
“Excuse me, but aren’t you Mrs. Willoughby,
she said, smiling her sweetest, for she wanted to make
a good impression on the women, perhaps because
of the manner in which she had been almost ignoied
by the dramatic society. “I’m sure I teach your little
boy. Wilfred, isn’t it?”
“Yes, miss,” the woman answered timidly, after
a glance at her husband, who sat staring at her fixed y.
“Well, he’s a clever boy. One of the cleverest
in the school.” Then she saw she had made a ba
mistake in praising Wilfred. The other weie
stiffening visibly. “They’re all sweet children, she
said, attempting to win them back. They thawed a
little, but she could see from the manner ot the stout,
grey-haired Mrs. Mulver that they disappioved o
her.
“Them soft, silky ways uv ’ers!” as Mrs. Mulver
said after. “Smilin’ at all the men till the silly tools
think she’s ’Eaven! Joost because sh’ cooms up all
of a shake an’ tremble an’ sits there talkin with
that haw-haw voice uv ’ers. She thinks ersell
arright! Condescendin’ to the lower classes, that s
’er, if I make no bones. Oh, no, me fine lady, y
don’t take me in, ’owever nice y’ speak about the
kids.”
All this was in Mrs. Mulver’s eye, but Mrs.
Willoughby flushed and shot a glance of gratitude in
the school-teacher’s direction. Denny was anxious
to pounce on her again. . ,
“I don’t suppose y’ve ever taken part in workm.-
class activities y’self, seein’ as ’ow y’re situated ? he
Bskcd
“I’m afraid not,” she admitted ; “but, ol course,
everyone realises that a change in this economic
system must come sooner or later.”
“Just so,” Denny said magisterially, but in a
rather patronising way. “But, of course, not bein
born of the workin’-class, y’ ain’t ’ad the same advan-
tage as us, so t’ speak. The middle-class intellectooal
is always a bit at sea.” He turned to the gathering.
“This young lady, knowin’ what she does of the
movement, ought t’ be real useful later when the
fight gets a bit hotter. Y’ll help, won’t y’, miss?”
“Of course,” Jessica agreed ; “anything that I
can do.” She spoke much as she would have answered
a request for an accompanist or the context of a
piece of verse. “I hope,” she thought, “that he
doesn’t mean anything compromising.”
“Good. We’ll remember that.” Denny rose.
“I’d like t’ ’ave a talk with y’ sometime, if y’ don't
mind. Good night, all. Come on, Okker. Come on,
Dutch. An’ remember, Jim, don’t put y’self in the
wrong. Let Scorby make all the trouble.”
He went to the door, and two large, slouching
men rose and followed him out. Jessica heard his
demand on the doorstep:
“Where’s Blue?”
“Off somewhere with Ella.”
“Well, damn him! When I call a meeting I
expects all the inner group t’ be present.”
They went off, grumbling, in the darkness. Paul
also rose and beckoned to Jessica. They bid the
gathering good-bye and departed, Jessica riding the
horse, Paul walking beside her. For a few minutes
they followed the track in silence; then Paul said
slowly:
“Y’ don’t know anything about this ’ere workin’-
class movement that Denny talks of, do y’? I mean,
y’ve never been actual close up t’ it, ’ave y’?”
“No,” she said frankly. “But, you see, I knew a
lot of people in Sydney who talked a lot of wild
revolutionary stuff —much more wild than Will, who
never talked about it at all. They’d have little
parties in each other’s studios and talk about the
proletariat and drink coffee and eat brown bread
and chillies and listen to lectures and generally
behave in a way that made poor Will hate them. It
was all very amusing. But, Paul,” she said sincerely,
“if your family is in any trouble I’ll be only too
glad to do what I can.”
“You’d do best,” he said slowly, “to keep out
of it. My gang ain’t worth it.”
“Nobody’s worth it, when it comes to that. But
it’s the principle of the thing.”
Paul chuckled. “Reminds me of what Denny
told me of the time ’e put up at the Salvation Army
Hostel,” he said, and she realised with a certain
amount of pleasure that he was talking to her on a
much more equal footing without the stumbling shy-
ness that had distinguished his manner to that time.
“There’s a text on the door full of ’igh an’ mighty
principles, and it says ‘He is with us.’ There was
a lot of others with Denny in the bed, armies of them,
and Denny caught about a dozen on a hairpin 'e
found an’ takes them down to the corporal in the
little box by the door. The bird just looks at them
an’ smiles sweetly. ‘The bed’s lousy,’ Denny says.
‘Brother,’ the bird says, ‘if it comes to that, ain’t we
all lousy in ’ls sight?’ ”
Jessica was perplexed. “I don’t see the point,”
she said.
“Oh, it’s just in the way you look at it,” said
Paul.
They went on in silence, Paul
swinging open the iron gate at
the entrance to the Dwyers’
property and the next gate as
they came to the house.
“I’ll stable the horse for y\”
he volunteered. “Can you get
down by y’self?” He knew what
a novice Jessica was on horse-
back.
“Thank you,” she said in a
dignified tone, and fell out of the stirrup into his
arms.
“There, you see,” Paul said. “You know a lot,
but it’s mostly book-learning, after all. The stirrup's
too short.”
Jessica laughed and bid him good night. In the
cold light of the next morning, when she awoke to
voices in the yard and the clank of pails, it all seemed
utterly fantastic. She had surely dreamt of those
horrible screams, and the silent gathering in the stuffy
hut, and the man with the broken nose who patronised
her’ and the friendliness of Paul White, which had
verged, surely, on familiarity. If she had not dreamt
it, she must keep him in his place as student and
protege.


She passed Paul in the yard with a stiff little
inclination of her head. “Good morning,” she said.
He only mumbled and touched his hat as he
slouched by.
Chapter Vil.
I.
IN the Saturday morning sunlight, when Tiburon
was only just gathering momentum for the busiest
day of the week, there lumbered down the main
street a tremendous motor-van painted a faded red
and inscribed in letters two feet high: “Johnny Sulli-
van’s Boxing Outfit.”
The van circled the town once or twice for effect
and advertisement, the gentlemen members of the
outfit hanging out the back and waving to chaps they
knew, for Johnny Sullivan was an old friend to
Tiburon. Finally the van came to rest in the paddock
at the corner of the main street, where a swarm of
small boys gathered to watch the team of fighters
get together and wrestle with the canvas marquee.
They dwelt in wonder on a broken-nosed little Jew
who was driving in stakes with a mallet, and they
speculated whether Mrs. Sullivan, who was cheerfully
contemplating the scene as she nursed the baby, could
possibly be a lady wrestler.
There was one big marquee for the performance,
with a banner outside it reputed to have cost Mr.
Sullivan two hundred pounds. The banner was in the
form of a decorative backdrop to the platform on
which the boxers would stand for inspection when the
show was about to begin. It showed other boxers of
bygone days with enormous muscles and clenched
fists, all posed in attitudes of battle.
There was another smaller tent for Mr. and Mrs.
Sullivan and the baby, and a very small one, indeed,
lor the troupe. These stood a little apart, but not
far enough to prevent the small boys hanging over
the fence and watching in awed wonder while the
supermen cooked sausages for their dinner in a quite
ordinary frying-pan over a quite ordinary fire.
Meanwhile, Johnny Sullivan, the great Johnny
Sullivan who had once fought twelve rounds against
Bill Bourke for the middleweight championship of
the west, was bustling round the town, being hail
fellow well met with everyone. When he went into
Peter’s office to arrange for the rent of the paddock,
he ascertained just who there was in Tiburon who
could fight and who could not. On the strength
of this information he had decided which bouts he
would put on, and had gone to seek one Andy
Forbes, a promising middleweight whom he had
known of yore when Andy was with McDonald’s
troupe. He had a little arrangement to make with
Andy whereby Andy should come down and match
himself against Mr. Sullivan’s best man, with a
gentlemen’s agreement that, should Andy win, he was
not to demand any more of the takings than Mr.
Sullivan could pay him on the side.
“And who do you think is likely to be on the
take, Andy?” Mr. Sullivan inquired as he buttoned
his coat when their little business was satisfactorily
concluded. A man “on the take,” as Andy knew,
was one who set out to defraud the honest boxing
promoter of the few pounds prize-money offered for
a fight. Mr. Sullivan had to look to these things, for
he had two children at school who absorbed a lot
of his profits, and a local fighter is sometimes to be
reckoned with. If there was anybody in Tiburon on
the take, Mr. Sullivan would have to reorganise his
arrangements and transfer the broken-nosed Jewish
lad Kahn from Andy to the man after the money.
Kahn was Sullivan’s star, his “take man,” whose duty
was to protect the pound or so prize-money from
“takers.” He often had to go all out to prevent con-
testants from lasting the four rounds that would
entitle them to the money.
“Well, there’s young Bill White,” Andy said, “but
I don’t think y’ need worry about him much, Johnny.
He’s only fit for picking on Johns and taking all-day
suckers from kids. Still, he may have a go at it.
Mind y’, I’m only sayin’ ‘may’.”
“Well, let him,” said Mr. Sullivan cheerily.
“Kahn’s a good man. He stood up to Nosey Biggs
for five rounds at the Fitzroy Stadium before he got
knocked out. See y’ to-night, Andy.”
Saturday was the day on which Tiburon woke to
find itself a metropolis. Its main streets surged with
crowds and cars and sulkies, and its footpaths were
clogged with groups who had stopped to talk with
other groups about crops or machinery or the skirt
of the girl who had just gone past. Mr. Jenkins, the
Greek proprietor of the Garden of Desire refreshment-
rooms, was so overworked he dripped perspiration
into the ice-cream, while he flung out orders and
milkshakes like a windmill. The hotels put on
sausage rolls with the counter lunch, and each an
extra barmaid. At night there was the crowning
excitement of listening to the Salvation Army band
or Constance Bennett in “Wrecked Women,” with
a “Mickey the Mouse” thrown in. Saturday after-
noon and night were something to look forward to
all the week, even if you only came into Tiburon and
gazed in the shop windows and jostled the other
people or stood on the street corner and watched
the crowd go by.
The excitement soon spread to Warning Hill,
where Larry and Blue and the lads were all for Bill
having “a crack at it.” Bill had no dignity. He had
no morals, and all his brains were in his fists. At the
age of fifteen he had decided that he would like to
learn to fight, and his three elder brothers had con-
sidered this a tremendous joke. They even encouraged
him in the idea, and promised to teach him to box.
It was agreed that Jim and Larry and Paul were to
have ago at him in succession every night. It was
explained that in this way Bill would get quite a
lot of practice. The “practice” developed into three
nightly beatings for him. There was no pretence of
teaching. They hammered him until he was a mass
of black bruises. It was wonderful the amount of
beating Bill would stand and come back for more.
He came again and again, and, astonishingly, he
improved. He had no science—he slogged ; but where
the blow fell the man fell also. The brothers began
to shirk the evening practice. Bill had developed a
face like a slab of rock, and there was no sense in
breaking their knuckles against it. But Bill insisted
on his practice, and the girls jeered at them for back-
ing out. Inside a year Bill could beat the three of
them. The brothers began to bring in local sloggers
to save wear and tear on the family. They found
that Bill was rather a good proposition to bet on, and
the visit of Johnny Sullivan’s outfit was hailed with
enthusiasm.
But Bill would not do any more than go into
town in the afternoon and stand at the street corner
opposite with a group of sports, looking at that
grand marquee with its flaring banners of large and
efficient men in inadequate shorts. They made him
feel inferior. He was sure he could not hold out for
even one round against such as these in a real ring.
Johnny Sullivan, noting the group, came over con-
versationally.
‘’Well, boys,” he said, “coming in to-night to help
us with the show?”
Bill mumbled something, and turned and slunk
away. His pals, however, enlightened Mr. Sullivan
as to Bill White’s prowess, and Johnny Sullivan looked
thoughtfully after the retreating slouching figure. So
that was the “taker.” He went back - to the tent.
“Joe,” he said to his “take man,” “forget about
fighting Andy. I may be wrong, but I’ve seen too
many chaps to take any chances with this White
joker.”
He rounded up one of the raw recruits, who paled
visibly when told he was to fight the notorious Andy
Forbes.
“They like to see the local man win, see?”
Johnny explained. “You can last about three rounds ;
then hit the mat.”
The raw recruit, one Sweeney, nodded hopelessly.
He knew it was a case in which he was the leg of
horse thrown to the lion.
By half-past seven all the troupe were out on
the platform in green, purple and scarlet tights,
shouting “Roll up! Ro-o-1-1-1 up!”
Joe Kahn, wearing a scarlet-and-gold-shot dress-
ing gown, had the megaphone, through which he
bawled to such effect that there presently gathered a
sizable crowd, which, as was the Tiburon custom,
stood furtively on the opposite footpath or as far
away as it could without getting out of hearing.
“Come along, come along!” shouted the united
troupe. They broke into a hoarse roaring sound that
was positively startling in Tiburon. Even the women
and children came running. Shopkeepers came to
the door of their shops, and the picture theatre pro-
prietor abandoned hope of “Wretched Women” draw-
ing more than the women and a few children. He
wanted to go to the fight himself.
“Allah! . . . Allah! . . . Allah! . . . Allah!” . . .
howled the vivid group on the platform. They had
all done a solid day’s work getting the tent up and
boosting the show, and now, for a pound or so a
week, they were prepared to shout themselves hoarse
to encourage someone to come and knock them out.
“Come on,” Kahn murmured to Johnny as the
crowd increased. “Give it a burl!”
One of the troupe was out in the middle of the
street with a brass gong, and the noise was terrific.
“Ladies and gentlemen!” roared Johnny, snatch-
ing the megaphone from Kahn.
“Tumble up, tumble up, roll up, tumble up!”
yelled the group on the platform.
“Shut up!” hissed Mr. Sullivan, and, as the row
ceased except for the wrestler, a tired-looking thin
chap, who had strayed far up the street with the
gong, he began his speech, gradually drawing the
crowd closer and closer round the platform.
“And now, gentlemen,” Johnny announced, “1
think I can promise you to-night the finest boxing
show ever seen in the west. My men are all cham-
pions—good boys, every one of them—and we want to
see what this fine town can bring forward to put
against them. Now then, sports, come on! What’ll
you say if I tell you that Andy Forbes—Andy Forbes
who beat Bill Mahoney in three rounds —has agreed
to fight in this tent to-night? Put your hands together
for the local boy! Put your hands together for the
local lad! Is Andy Forbes there? Is Andy Forbes
anywhere in the crowd? Ah, there you are, Andy.
Come up on the stage, Andy. Come and say a few
words to the sports. They’ve come to see you put
up your best. Put your hands together, boys! Put
your hands together, sports!”
He actually got them to clap. His enthusiasm
was infectious. Johnny was a good showman.
“Oompa! . . . Oompa! . . . Oompa!” roared the
troupe, and the tired-looking wrestler thundered on
the gong frenziedly. There had not been so much
excitement in Tiburon since the day when the fire
brigade had to stand and watch the garage burn down
because no one could catch the fire horse.
“Tumble up, tumble up! Come and see your
local hero!” roared the outfit, including the hero’s
opponent.
“Now. then! On my right is Bluey Wilks, look-
ing for a fight. Bluey Wilks, who fought six rounds
in the Leichhardt Stadium against Tiger Brown, the
lightweight champion. Who’s going to give Bluey
four rounds? Come on, sports.”
A tow-headed youngster from the shadows
showed a certain willingness to bargain himself into
a fight with Bluey Wilks.
“Come on, sport. What’s the name, please? Jack ■
Phillips? Right. Mr. Phillips, will you please step
up here? Come on, give him a hand. Put your
hands together, sports, for Jack Phillips, your local
lad.”
Half the town had assembled by this time, and
was standing round the corner with its mouth open
watching Johnny do his stuff. The crowd was so
thick that cars could not get through except by
pushing people out of the way with the bumper bars.
“Now, then ; all together,” Johnny admonished
his troupe, and again they broke into a din of roars
and gong-beating. Johnny’s experience told him that
most of the crowd would melt away as soon as asked
for admission money. They were just enjoying the
ballyhoo outside. It was up to him to talk the two
shillings out of their pockets. This he proceeded to
do against the handicap of the Salvation Army band,
which had shifted its pitch from in front of the
Western Farmers’ Store to a point immediately oppo-
site Johnny’s corner.
“Come on,” Larry was urging Bill. “It’s as easy
as sitting on eggs. The bloke in the middle is about
your weight.”
He pointed to the raw recruit Sweeney. With
three sports pushing him from the rear, Bill came
sheepishly forward to the foot of the platform.
“Want a fight?” Johnny asked. “Just a minute,
just a minute. What’s this? Whafs the matter
here?”
Pushing through the crowd came a large dark
lad who shouted as he came a determination to knock
out the whole or any of the troupe. A stir of excite-
ment caught the crowd.
“See here, mister,” shouted the big chap, climb-
ing uninvited on to the platform. “I’m a wrestler, 1
am. ’Ave y’ any wrestlers thafd ’ave a bloke on?”
“Why, I think we can manage to arrange it for
you,” Johnny roared at the top of his voice. “But
you can’t come here busting up the show like this,
son. Who d’ y’ think you are?”
“See ’ere,” the big chap continued truculently ;
“I can tear any of y’r men apart. I’m ’ere to get a
light, see? 1 don’t care ’oo it’s with. I eat ’em alive.”
The crowd was interested.
“Well, we’ll see,” Johnny promised loudly.
“What’s y’r name?”
“Costello’s my name. See ’ere, Mr. Sullivan, I’m
on the track, an’ I’m down an’ out”
“Can’t be worried with your troubles,” Johnny
retorted. “Can you beat my man here? That's the
point. I’ll give you three pounds if you do.”
He pointed to the weary thin man with the gong.
The crowd was still increasing. Scorby and Sergeant
Moore, on the outskirts, were working their way
through.
“’Course I can beat your man!” roared the
challenger. “But, sec ’ere, I don’t want y’r money ;
I want a job. If I beat two of y’r men, will y’ give
me a job?”
The crowd roared its approval. Johnny grinned.
He winked on the sly at the challenger.
“Well, we’ll see, we’ll see. All depends what
you're worth. You’re game, anyway. Give him a
pair of shorts, someone. And put your hands together
for the traveller, sports.”
For a traveller the stranger was very well dressed
in a mauve Milanese shirt with a zipper fastener, a
pair of grey trousers and dainty buckskin shoes.
“I don’t know his face,” said Scorby to the
sergeant. “He’s never received dole in Tiburon.”
The sergeant grinned. “It’s a ramp,” he said.
“They always do it like this because there are no
wrestlers in the country towns.”
“And now, sport,” Mr. Sullivan shouted down to
the subdued Bill, “what was it you were saying?”
“He wants a fight,” Larry shouted back.
“You’re his manager, eh? Righto! Who’re you
going to fight?”
A roar from Tiburon.
“The bloke in the blue pants.” Another roar.
“Not on your life. He’s got a bout already.
I’ll give you two pounds to fight Joey Kahn here.
Come on. You’re about the same weight. What d’
you say?”
Larry wanted to haggle.
“Come on. Take it or leave it.”
“Right,” said Larry sullenly.
“Good. Step up. What name? White? Bill
White? Here you are, sports. Bill White, a local
lad, is going four rounds with Joey Kahn, of Fitzroy.
Put your hands together, boys. Put your hands
together, sports.”
Larry had arranged about Bill’s shorts. They
were a truly vivid pair in Irish green, with a yellow
stripe down the sides, an old pair which had formerly
belonged to Andy Forbes. Their only fault was that
the elastic was loose.
The thought of the horrible moment when he
had to take his trousers and fight in them made
Bill’s hands go clammy. He stood on the platform
deadly conscious of the grinning rows of faces. There
was dad with Sam Jordan and Souter and Orry Smith ;
Larry and Jim ; Olgy, from the billiard saloon. Stand-
forth Roman and Paul were standing on the hotel
steps opposite, Standforth keeping a watchful eye on
Scorby while Mrs. O’Brien satisfied thirsty souls
within.
The crowd began to pour into the tent, where
Mrs. Sullivan, with a bodyguard of pugs, was effi-
ciently taking tickets at two shillings, while the tired-
looking wrestler nursed the baby. It was a wise baby,
and watched the crowd with knowing and approving
eyes. For a minute there was promise of trouble
when old Dave insisted that he was getting in free
as Bill’s second. Not till Orry Smith lent him the
two shillings did he cease to protest over the iniquity
of not letting a second in buckshee.
“Never ’card uv it in me life,” he puffed. “Come
to see fairplay f the kid, an’ they expect me t’ pay
t’ see me own son. ’Tain’ as it was in the ole days.
Four rounds! I kin remember when they’d fight till
their eyes was that full of sweat an’ tobacco juice they
couldn’t see.”
“Now, then! Right back against the wall of
the tent, please, gents.! Give ’em a fair go! ” The
stocky little pug in purple tights had changed from
ballyhoo artist and bodyguard to usher and keeper of
the peace. “Right back, gents.! Give ’em a fair go! ”
He had trouble shifting the small boys, who were
determined to be right where they would get squashed
flat by falling bodies. To earn this honor they
(Continued on page 50.)


□ o □
O
THIS
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Mullard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLARD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch’’
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function
1
Milliard
MEi S TER
♦ o i • 4 u s i kAi)A‘s * c o u n u*Hoim
35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write in stiim|>s) for tlio 30 x 20
inch JlavMily Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Badio Accessories at give-away prices. Aii
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO NEWS
WHY COILS ARE SCREENED.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The amateur constructor and the listener new to radio often misunder-
stand the why and wherefore of screening, as applied to the modern
radio receiver. The subject is dealt with in explanatory form in this article.
It is approximately eight years since
screening in radio-receiver design made
its appearance, and it started, in Aus-
tralia at any rate, when a neutralised R.F.
type of receiver known as the Solodyne
became popular. This receiver was, to
the writer’s knowledge, the first to make
use of R.F. coils enclosed in metal
screens, and was the result of experi-
ments carried out in an English labora-
tory. The introduction of screened coils
was the natural outcome of the need for
selectivity, and the Solodyne was really
Fig. 1—Illustrating electrostatic screening.
the old familiar neutrodyne kind of
receiver with less interaction between the
R.F. portions of the circuit. It was good
in those days, when broadcasting stations
were not wedged into every available
kilocycle over the broadcast range, but
in the light of present-day requirements
a.receiver built on a wooden baseboard
and bakelite panel basis, with only the
R.F. coils screened, would not be suitable
unless it were hundreds of miles distant
from stations. Under such conditions it
would probably deal with the more power-
ful regional stations fairly well, but would
still be quite inselective. If the same
receiver were to be redesigned, still with
the screened coils, but on a metal chassis,
and with wiring and other important
portions treated similarly, the story would
be different, and a high degree of selecti-
vity could be obtained. Apart from this
primary consideration of selectivity there
is the more important point of stability.
The valve to-day is a very efficient
Fig. 2 —Magnetic leakage from A to B.
development compared with earlier valves,
and because of the high possible gain,
both as R.F. or audio amplifier, needs
due precaution in the circuit arrange-
ments to prevent unwanted oscillation.
Effective screening must be used to
avoid any undesirable interaction be-
tween various parts of the circuit. Inter-
action may be said to occur when energy
is transferred from one circuit or com-
ponent to another, and variations in the
first are impressed as spurious signals
upon the second. Such spurious signals
may be considerably amplified in the suc-
ceeding stages of the receiver, and will
result in poor loudspeaker reproduction.
Furthermore, if feedback takes place to
the signal input portion of the receiver
its presence is known by instability, with
severe oscillation and howling.
Interaction takes place in one of two
ways: by magnetic or electrostatic coup-
ling. When a magnetic field of one circuit
embraces part of another circuit the
arrangement acts as a transformer, and
alternating voltages are induced in the
coupled circuit. With electrostatic coup-
ling, conductors forming parts of two
separate circuits are close enough to-
gether to form the plates of a small con-
denser, and thus alternating energy is
transferred from one to the other. To
eliminate unwanted magnetic or electro-
static coupling it is essential in the first
place to plan a receiver with the various
parts assembled in such a manner as to
reduce interaction. Wiring and corn-
Fig. 3—The metal screen protects B from
magnetic leakage from A.
ponents which might affect each other are
spaced well apart, and are so disposed
that magnetic fields are not likely to
mingle. Before the advent of screening
such precautions were the only aid to
good design. They were effective be-
cause the apparatus used was compara-
tively insensitive, and any losses due to
interaction were unnoticeable because of
still greater losses in the crude compon-
ents.
Fig. 1 shows the effect of electrostatic
screening ; (a) and ( b ) represent two wires
side by side and carrying R.F. They
thus form a small condenser and give
rise to unwanted feedback. If a metallic
screen is placed between the two and
earthed (to chassis is sufficient) the wires
are isolated and energy cannot pass be-
tween them. In order to reduce eddy
current losses between the wires and the
earth screen, the design of the screening
must be combined with adequate spacing,
particularly where high frequencies are
considered, as in the case of short-wave
circuits. Magnetic interaction can be
cured only by using a screen of iron or
steel, and this is applied to power or
audio transformers. Aluminium screen-
ing would, in the case of a power trans-
former, be little better than useless. Figs.
2 and 3 illustrate the effect of magnetic
leakage and the effect of a screen to pro-
tect B. Aluminium screening is quite
effective for R.F. so screens of this
metal are usually employed for R.F, coils
and any circuits where wandering R.F.
must be kept in place.
The practice in earlier days was to
build a receiver up with a metal base
and boxlike partitions, and there is much
to be said for this method for certain
requirements, but with modern receiver
design compactness is essential. The R.F.
coil of to-day is admittedly not the best
as an efficient inductance, but its small
size makes for relatively small screening.
Better still from both points of view
are the iron-dust-core coils used over-
seas, these being extremely small but
remarkably efficient. In addition to coils,
variable condensers are designed in
screened form, with each section of a
gang unit screened from the other. Asso-
ciated with the question of screened coils
is that of screened valves. Valves are
enclosed in screens, except where they
are of the “metallised” variety, and in
this respect the recent development of
the metal valve is important. No external
screening is needed with the new
American metal valves, as with the well-
established “metallised” glass valves, but
whether the new metal development is
outweighed by other disadvantages is at
present the subject of hot argument
among overseas valve manufacturers.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Five-metre experiments carried out by
three mobile stations, callsigns VK2NO.
VK2JU, VK2QB, on Saturday, Sep-
tember 14, 1935: —
Reception by VK2WJ and VK2XK at
La Perouse and Maroubra.
Time, Station. Remarks,
p.m.
2.50 .. 2JU .. R7/8 at Mt. Piddington,
near Mt. Victoria.
2.55 .. 2QB .. R8/9 at Tom Ugly’s Point.
2.59 .. 2QB .. R7/8 speeding along near
Sutherland.
3.03 .. 2JU .. R7/8 at Mt. Piddington,
working VK2ZD at
Camperdown.
3.15 .. 2QB .. R5/6 speeding along be-
tween Sutherland and
Waterfall.
3.21 .. 2JU .. R6/7; frequency now
higher.
3.30 .. 2QB .. R7/8 top of some hills;
very good signal as
moving along.
3.31 .. 2JU .. R6; calls CQ.
3.40 .. 2QB .. R3/4 at Waterfall.
3.41 .. 2JU .. R8; receives 2QB at
Waterfall R4/5.
3.45 .. 2JU .. R8; calls 2ZD and CQ.
3.48 .. 2JU .. R8; says will leave for
Lithgow at 4 p.m., will
call from 5 p.m. to
5.30 p.m.
3.55 .. 2NU .. Mosman calls 2QB; says
nil heard of you lately.
3.56 .. 2QB .. R4/5 at Sublime Point.
4.02 .. 2QB R6/7 at Sublime Point.
4.06 .. 2QB .. R7/8 at Sublime Point;
tightened coupling; now
very good signal.
5 to 10 — .. Nil heard of VK2QB or
VK2JU.
Reception at Maroubra, 15/9/’35.
Time, Station. Remarks,
a.m.
11.00 .. 2JU .. R4/5 now back at Mt.
Victoria; calls CQ.
11.05 .. 2JU .. R7/8; very good signal.
11.11 .. 2JU .. R7/8; like local station.
11.20 .. 2JU .. R7/8; works 2ZD at
Camperdown.
11.23 .. 2ZD .. Replies to 2JU; says was
listening to 2JU being
relayed by VK2WJ.
11.35 .. 2JU .. R7/8; works 2WJ and
gives R4 report.
11.40 .. 2JU .. R7/8; works 2NO
Waverley; gives R7
report.
Reception at La Perouse, 15/9/’35.
Time, Station. Remarks,
p.m.
2.15 .. 2XK .. At Maroubra receives
2NO at Tom Ugly’s
Point R7.
2.25 .. 2NO .. At Tom Ugly’s Point
R7/8; works VK2WN
at Coogee.
2.45 .. 2XK .. At Maroubra receives
2NO at National Park
R7.
2.50 .. 2NO .. R8/9 near National
Park; works VK2WJ
portable at La Perouse.
3.25 .. 2JU .. R9 to R max. at Kurra-
jong Heights.
3.30 .. 2JU .. R9 at Kurrajong; works
2NO at Waterfall; nil
heard of 2NO here or
by 2XK at Maroubra.
3.50 .. 2JU R9 at Kurrajong; works
2XK at Maroubra;
gives R8 report.
4.10 .. 2NO .. R4/5 at Sublime Point.
4.45 .. 2JU .. R8/9; calls CQ.
4.55 .. 2NW .. Hears 2NO R2/3.
5.40 .. 2JU .. At Kurrajong; works
2NO at Razorback;
cannot hear 2NQ here.
Reception at Maroubra, 15/9/’35.
Time, Station. Remarks,
p.m.
7.05 .. 2XK .. Hears 2NO at some hill
near Liverpool R6.
7.20 .. 2NO .. Near Liverpool R3/4.
8.00 .. 2NO .. Calls 2WJ and 2XM.
8.10 .. 2JU .. At Kurrajong R9; works
2CY at Lakemba.
8.15 .. 2NO .. Moves on about 300yds.,
now R2/3.
9.20 .. 2NO .. R2/3.
9.30 .. 2NO .. R3/4 at North Banks-
town; works 2WJ;
gives R7.
10.35 .. 2QB .. R7/8 near Sutherland;
calls 2EH
10.40 .. 2EH .. Gives 2QB details of
week-end happenings.
10.50 .. 2QB .. Replies to 2EH; gives
details of trip to Point
Perpendicular.
11.18 .. 2QB .. R7/8; works 2WJ; gives
R6 report.
11.23 .. 2QB .. Works 2NW; gives R7
report.
11.30 .. 2QB .. Packs up for the night.
Note. —Nil heard of 2QB from time he left
Sublime Point on Saturday afternoon till he
arrived back near Sutherland on Sunday night
at 10.35 p.m.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Signal strength lately has shown a big
variation, and during a recent week-end
results were distinctly poor.
A feature of interest is the return of
PHI to the 25m. band. This station has
been heard several nights at 10.30 p.m.
at all its former strength, and even better
quality than last summer.
The B.B.C. No. 1 transmission has con-
tinued excellent, with still a considerable
drop in strength after about 5.45 —more
on GSB than on GSD. Radio Coloniale
has been showing slightly stronger on the
6 p.m. transmission for about an hour,
when it has soon faded out.
The 19m. band is now full of stations
after 10.30 p.m., though as yet only
’phone strength.
Several nights Radio Coloniale, two
Germans, PCJ, W8XK and GSF were all
going at once, and it required careful
tuning to separate them. A station which
Jack Pa ton, of Lekmek Radio Labs.,
scans the distance toward Sydney at
Point Perpendicular (N.S.W.) lighthouse.
was thought to be DIQ was heard several
limes, but the writer is very doubtful if
it is a German. It uses an interval call
quite different, and closed at 8.30 a.m. on
a recent Sunday with a national anthem
that could not be identified. Strength
was gpod. 2RO has continued excellent
when on the 25m. band, but on 31m. has
been spoilt by code.
Apparently the transmission heard from
DJA before 11 p.m. several nights was
experimental, as it has not been heard
there since at that hour ; only on the two
19m. stations, which are very weak in
comparison.
The 49m. band has been quite dead
after 6 a.m., and almost the same at
night, but the higher bands have been
quite good, the Russians on 70m, and
90m. coming through at fine strength,
with only a moderate amount of static.
The amateurs in M.L. have been at
great strength on 80m.
The 20m. band has been very weak,
and few Americans have been heard
except on code. It seems as if they are
The aerial system of VK2QB on the
nose of the Pontiac.
gone till next winter, except for a short
period in the early hours of the morning.
RNE has not been as good as usual,
but has attained fair speaker strength in
the morning session after 7 a.m. Neither
of the evening sessions has been audible.
NIGHTOWL.


h
BUY A JELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
CNA
RADIO
Q/xcV
%
Stromberg
-Carlson
■ Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
'r, 7/7/// 7 f/f/ff/nn IT IIin /Tf!'i i]n''m '" v>\\\
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Cl
P.H.I. Short-wave Programmes.
Philips Radio Station, P.H.1., Eind-
hoven, Holland (also relayed by PCJ
on 19.71 metres), wave-length 16.88 m.,
17,775kc/sec., issues the following pro-
grammes. Hours expressed in E.S.T.
Save where otherwise stated, session
opens 10.30 p.m,, closes 12.30 a.m,
October 3: 10.40 p.m., piano recital; 11.5
p.m., station orchestra; 11.40 p.m., records;
11.45 p.m., latest news from Holland; 12.20
a.m., opera music.
October 4: 10.40 p.m., music; 10.45 p.m.,
talk by Old Colonial; 11 p.m., piano recital
by J. H. De Graaf; 11.30 p.m., classical music;
11.45 p.m., latest news from Holland; 12.15
a.m., dance music.
October 5: 10.40 p.m., light music; 11.15
p.m., Renova quintet; 11.35 p.m., light music;
11.45 p.m., latest news from Holland; 12.30
a.m., Mepawdfana cocktail; 1.5 a.m., dance
music; 1.30 a.m., close.
Mail ’Planes.
Radio Equipment Must Be Compulsory.
The Civil Aviation Department is to
be asked by the Federal Government to
“investigate the practicability of com-
pelling air-transport firms to instal wire-
less on all machines used for carrying
passengers and mail for long distances.”
That this question should only just be
coming up for serious attention in 1935
is deplorable. Australia is, and has been
for years, lagging sadly behind the rest
of the world in making good use in the
air of the finest safeguard ever offered
to mankind. There have been tragic in-
stances where at least something would
have been known of the fate of missing
'planes had they been radio-equipped,
and machines without such equipment are
in as bad a position as deep-sea vessels
that lack wireless. Passengers would
think twice about embarking upon a
vessel bound for distant, or even inter-
state, parts if that vessel were literally
deaf and dumb. Radio is of even greater
importance in the air, and particularly
in a country like Australia, where a man
can be dumped into the bush only a few
miles from civilisation and disappear for
ever. Whilst this business of radio for
mail ’planes is “under consideration,”
due attention should be paid also to the
intelligent application of ultra-short-
wave channels of communication for
directive work.
Radio-controlled ’Planes.
The addition of a new radio-controlled
aeroplane, the Queen Bee, to the strength
of the R.A.F. gives Britain the claim to
possess the first entirely “robot” aero-
plane in the world. The Queen Bee flies
at over 100 miles an hour, rises to more
than 10,000 ft., and performs difficult
evolutions at virtually the touch of the
radio-control board. The radius of
flight extends to not more than 10 miles
from the operating station.
Several ’planes of this type have been
in use by the R.A.F. for months, but it
was only recently that Britain’s posses-
sion of them was made known.
The machines have been built by the
De Havilland Aircraft Co., and have
been regularly used for targets for gun-
nery practice on land and sea.
They can be controlled so finely that
without anybody inside they will take off
from the land, perform a flight limited
only by the fuel and the distance from
the radio station, and descend again with
complete accuracy. They can also be
catapulted from ships at sea and brought
down to the water after completing their
flight.
German Experimenters Lose
Five-metre Band.
It is reported in “R 9” (U.S.A.) that
early this year the five-metre band in
Germany was closed to amateurs, who
were informed that “the territory
between one and ten metres is well
enough known, so that no further reason
for amateur experimentation in this
region exists.” The editor of the Ger-
man amateur journal “CQ-MB” cour-
ageously published a full-page editorial
questioning the fairness of the ban on
ultra-short waves. This suppression of
amateur activity is shortsighted to the
nth degree. The reason stated —that “the
territory between one and ten metres is
well enough known”—is little short of
ridiculous. In actual fact, almost the
reverse is the case, as amateurs in other
countries, and not the least Australia,
are proving.
Amateurs under Hitlerism are thus
little better off than those ruled by Mus-
solini. Fascism delicensed all amateur
radio a year or so ago, and no Italian
“ham shack” dare so much as tap a key
—officially! In a world seething with
racial madness, one of the most potent
factors for goodwill between young men
of widely different nations is thus with-
drawn. Amateur radio is one of the
most important aids to future world
peace ever offered to mankind, and, in
their far-seeing policies in this respect,
the British Empire, U.S.A. and one or
two other democratic nations will reap
the benefit. The I.A.R.U. should put
the case to the German and Italian
authorities in this light.
All Round the Dial.
“Bore”: In my region (West Darling,
N.S.W.) before the change of broadcast-
ing wave-lengths it was fairly easy to get
A 13,000-volt 10-ampere mercury vapor rectifier in use
at the 50kw. Argentine broadcasting station LR6.
clear selection from 2CO, SCK, SCL,
2FC and 3AR. Since the change selec-
tivity has been reduced, and SCK
and SCL, one on each side, make 2CO
pretty well out of the question, while
the B-class stations are an absolute bed-
lam of noise. Any further addition to
the number of stations on the air will
mean that those with old-fashioned (but
cheap and reliable) T.R.F. sets will either
have to replace them with more modern
superhets or resign themselves to very
poor fare.
* * * *
“Crysto”: DX enthusiasts who make
a hobby of picking up station callsigns,
logging them and informing the station
of the time and item logged are making
2UW Sydney a regular port of call each
night in order to keep in touch with
details concerning the five-metre band
competition which Marius Reilly, an-
nouncer in charge of 2UW’s midnight-
to-dawn session, is organising. Approxi-
mately at 4 a.m. daily he sends out calls
of greeting to M.L. listeners, and he gets
reports in hundreds from DX listeners as
a result. About a month ago it occurred
to him that it would be interesting to
see who would be the first Australian
to get in touch with a Maoriland experi-
menter on the five-metre band. The tech-
nical editor of this page, D. B. Knock, is
interesting himself in the competition,
and is arranging for tests with his own
transmitter and encouraging others to do
likewise. The competition may run for
months, or some lucky young trans-Tas-
man experimenters may find each other
on the five-metre band within a few days.
* * * *
“Alkali Ike”: The most cheering fea-
ture of the announcement that the A.B.C.
has decided on a series of studio broad-
casts of opera is that there have been
“several weeks of preparation” for the
task. As rehearsals had hot com-
menced when the announcement was
made, it is nice to be able to think that
the preparations were of a tech-
nical nature and that the more ter-
rible phases of some of the Fuller season
broadcasts will be avoided. Certainly it
should be possible to broadcast more
efficiently from the A.B.C.’s own
premises than from somebody else’s
theatre. There is a promise that several
operas not previously heard in Australia
will be.produced—Strauss’s “Rosenkava-
lier,” Verdi’s “Falstaff,” Weinberger’s
“Schwanda,” Holst’s “Savitri,” Bough-
ton’s “Immortal Hour,” Wolf-Ferrari’s
“Jewels of the Madonna,” Smetana’s
“Bartered Bride,” Vaughan Williams’s
“Hugh the Drover” and Beethoven’s
“Fidelio” are mentioned as possibilities,
together with such much-ridden old war-
horses as “Aida,” “Tosca” and Rossini’s
“Barber.” It is
charitable to sup-<
pose that no at-
tempt will be made
to cram this galaxy
into 13 weeks (two
broadcasts a week,
each opera pre-
sented twice). There
would be so very
little time left for
rehearsal, and
though one may
believe everything
that has been
printed about con-
ductor De Abra-
vanel it isn’t fair
to him to expect
impossibilities.
* *
“Brassbounder”;
In anticipation of
navigation regula-
tions which came
into force yester-
day, eight more
steamers on the
Australian coast
were equipped with
radio by A.W.A.
The Kakariki and
Kowhai, of the
Union line, trad-
ing from Tasmania
to Sydney and
Melbourne respec-
tively, were pro-
vided with auto-
matic and manual
transmitters which
will be operated by
the ships’ officers. The other six vessels
belong to the William Holyman line.
The Laranah, the Wareatea and the
Tambar now carry automatic and
manual equipment, and the Woniora has
a 250-watt telegraph-telephone with
automatic transmitting apparatus. These
three will be operated by the ships’
officers. The Lutana and Lanena are
equipped with 250-watt quenched spark
sets, and will carry wireless opera-
tors. The Holyman liners are in the
trade between Tasmania, Melbourne and
the islands of Bass Strait; the Lutana
trades between Adelaide and Hobart.
* * * *
“Struggle”: Those who criticise the
A.B.C. on the ground that its huge
revenue from licenses should result in
better programmes do not realise that
the amount received before the net profit
is returned to the Federal Government
is small in comparison with the gross
revenue. The sums paid as rent of
premises,,payment of staffs, administra-
tive costs, royalties on records and
artists’ fees all come out of the portion
of the license fees retained by the com-
mission, but do not make up a large
proportion. The greater part goes to
the interests from which the commission
has leased stations and to those who con-
trol and regulate the transmission of
programmes. The commission has no
plant or property of its own. The Post
Office is not noted for generosity, and
public companies are in business to make
dividends.
Latest in the Trade.
A.W.A. technical bulletins have taken
on an attractive form with the issue of
No. 53. Under the heading “Radio-
tronics,” the information is presented
with clear diagrams and graphs and
printed on stout paper. No. 53 deals
with the application of the new 185, a
two-volt battery D-D triode, economical
battery drain with the IC6, getting best
results from the 6A7, and keeping I.F.
out of the audio system. The special
bulletins issued to experimenters con-
taining useful data on transmission are
also to be printed in similar form.
* * * *
“Radio,” the monthly experimental
radio magazine published in ’Frisco, has
achieved immense popularity with Aus-
tralian amateurs during the last two
years. The technical information is of
a high standard and of a keenly progres-
sive nature. The issue for August, 1935,
now available, has articles on “Interlock
Crystal Control,” by Frank Jones, “A
Portable V.T. Voltmeter,” “W6HYB,” a
Ikw.-controlled carrier ’phone station,
“Half KW. C.W. Transmitter with 211
Tubes in Push-Pull,” “A High-efficiency
2i-metre Transmitter,” “50-watt 2-band
C.W. Transmitter,” “The Triple-link
Driver” and “A 2\- or 5-metre Super-
regenerator,” by “W2AMJ.” Subscriptions
to “Radio” and the other indispensable
monthly, “R 9,” 225. 6d. p.a. in each case,
are accepted at The Bulletin office.
Casual Comment.
“Querex": Class-B audio systems for
battery sets need careful consideration,
and study of the principle and action
demonstrates that only the largest size of
B batteries should be used. With a Class-
B valve two sections are in double
harness, and the circuit is such that only
one is in action at any given instant.
The dual valve draws only the amount
of plate current necessary for it to deal
with any degree of impulses. Remark-
able volume can be obtained, and aver-
age plate current consumed is less than
that of an ordinary Class-A power valve,
even of the small variety. With these
points outstanding, many people jump to
the conclusions that Class B has solved
one of the biggest problems of the bat-
tery set and that good quality with extra
volume can be obtained from a small-
size B battery. It can, but not for long.
The average current of a Class-B valve
is made up of peaks running up to any-
where around 40 milliamperes and dips
where two or three milliamperes only are
taken. The peaks overload the small
battery, and life is shortened. Class B is
a splendid proposition so long as the
B battery is of the largest possible capa-
city, but it is mistaken economy to use
the small light-duty types.
$ * $ «
“Beamspray”: It seems that time is
showing the ultra-shorts to be likely long-
distance radio-communication channels.
The borderline of the ultra-short region
is 10 metres, and signals have been re-
ceived in England from Buenos Aires,
7000 miles distant. If 10 metres is dis-
putable as ultra-short, seven metres isn’t,
and on this wave-length English research
laboratories are overhearing two-way
telephonic working between Rome and
Sardinia. It isn’t done at all hours of
the day, but when the condition of a
theoretic layer up above the earth is
favorable. It has been found that dates
when long-distance ultra-short-wave re-
ception is possible can be predicted with
certainty. In view of the fact that ultra-
shorts have at times the properties of very
long ranges, all is not so lovely in the
European television garden as was at first
(Continued on next page.)


*
%
\
v.\HSS
L/
/CHAMPIONS of the
Turf are the product
of selection and breeding,
resulting in inherent qual-
ities of speed, stamina and
vitality. So do EVER-
READ Y torch and radio
batteries have their inherent
qualities which make them
reliable and long-living.
• 90
Put an EVER-READY
refill in your torch, or
equip your Radio with an
EVER-READY
Superdyne, a heavy duty
battery, and you will have
bought the best the world
can offer.
Nr Ready
P P. 4
Ready
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD.. SYDNEY AND LONDON
thought, and there may some day be
occasions when scenes from a Bier-
garten may suddenly be mingled with
Covent Garden.
What’s What in Radio.
Turkey has announced the construc-
tion of a 150-kilowatt station near the
capital, Angora. The Government is not
concerned with “multi-studio systems,”
for the skw. Istambul station accommo-
dated in the main post office in the Rue
Meydancik comprises but one studio.
This is a large chamber, decorated with
the colors of the Republic and with
photographs of Mustapha Kemal. By
means of a heavy curtain it can be
divided into two studios. The control-
room, which is under the care of a Russian
engineer, is next to this studio. The
transmitter, of French design, is at
Osmanie, some 15 miles distant, in a
military zone.
* * * *
The 8.8. C. is storing up history for
future generations by making a sound
gallery of famous voices in the form of
disc and Blattnerphone recordings. Old
gramophone cylinders of the pre-disc*
kind have been subjected to electrical
transposition, with the result that the col-
lection includes records of famous men
of the past. Here are to be found the
voices of Caruso, the first Lord Tenny-
son, Mr. Asquith explaining his Budget
of 1908, and so on. Future schoolboys
will be able to get first-hand knowledge
of historic events with greatly added in about too cycles.
terest.
The Q. and A. Column.
Diagram showing how to fit A.V.C. to a
model 56 S.T.C. receiver using 58, 57 and
2A5 valves? —317.
Circuit essentials of this receiver are not
available. No doubt if you write to the manu-
facturer he will oblige.
1 wish to build an R.F. and audio service
oscillator for A.C. operation, and would appreci-
ate a circuit. A type AKI octode is on hand ,
and if : this could be used - for - both R.F.
and audio oscillation it would, conserve space.
—319.
The diagram of such an oscillator is illus-
trated. The first grid
is used as the control
grid of the R.F. oscil-
lator, the next grid is
the positive or plate
of the oscillator, con-
nected to the screen
with capacity coupling
to the plate of the
audio oscillator for
audio feedback. This
is done principally by
the electron action of
the valve. The coil
combination LI will
determine the fre-
quency, and may
also be used for har-
monic calibration, and
the coil L 2, although
air-cored, generates
audio impulses at
Can you recommend a textbook on wireless?
I have a good knowledge of magnetism and
electricity, with allied subjects, having had a
Uni. science course. The transmitting side inter-
ests me particularly. —3lB.
The new Radio Handbook, by the publishers
of “Radio,” U.S.A., is the most progressive and
up-to-date textbook of its kind. If it cannot
be obtained locally, the publisher’s address
is Pacific Building, ’Frisco, Cal. Try McGill’s
Newsagency, Melbourne, first.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be' returned unless stamps accompany•
F.W.: The two fire-eaters almost did the
distance..A.A.: We Jet the timid burglar
off with a caution... .H.P.: Too sentimental
—try a woman’s paper C.L.: An old
friend, that confidence-trickster story... .A.G.:
The plucky newchum will not crash into these
columns... .A.T.G.: Clams in fiction seem to
have a habit of grabbing legs of wife-stealers.
J.R.: Same old tale about lottery win
which arrived too late... .A.H.L.; Frankly,
we lost interest after the first page... .M.A.S.:
Too thin... .L.D.: A sad little misfit....
E.V.W.: No room for sketches of that kind
N.A.A.: It didn’t raise a laugh....
W.M.:
The clouds of Peace are shadowed
Py threats of cruel War;
The League is in the balance
As it never was before.
Maybe, but you don’t make anything resem-
bling poetry out of the situation... .S.E.R.:
‘‘The Thousandth Woman” made less appeal
to us than any of the other 999....F.J.: You
drag it out as long as the street-cry you seek
to satirise H.A.P.: One verse, as a handy
illustration of the; sort of stuff we don’t want:
A moon crescent and soft, with silver rays softer
still,
Touched the water’s swelling bosom with glisten-
ing sheen,
And tire billows, shining and crested with snowy-
white , foam,
Kissed the sand with soft caress, Oh! so serene.
Even as racing jingle it falls short.
G.P.: Stick to opal-gouging; you’re very
weak at gouging out passable rhymes....
R. de C.:—
Let me write a poem freely
To sing a song of life.
Let me word a stanza gaily,
The flute be mute to fife.
Now, what on earth does the last line mean?
L.M.: Compared with Ginger Mick, it’s
like water unto wine... .C.M.: Cannot do any-
thing with it.... .A.T.A.: We’ve seen worse
verse in ladies’ albums... .W.E.: Our interest
in your pocket-epic faded after you had tried
to rhyme ‘‘grog” with "bogged” E.D.8.;
Attempt to deal with a steeplechase on Pil-
grim’s Progress lines failed to catch the judge’s
eye... .A.G.M.: The couplet which is said to
have cost William Watson the Laureate’s bays
was dealt with weeks ago V.C.: Both
sketches have a very strong American flavor.
Rainbow: Regret we cannot find a
home for any of your efforts E.C.D.: Outed
after much consideration... .8.5.: Strings of
rhyming, meaningless, rhythmless platitudes
S. : Your "Australian Ode” is not an ode,
and there is hardly a line in it that wouldn’t
apply equally well to any other country....
A.K.: It harks back to the day of “Conceits.”
Del: Correct in form; too slight in con-
tent E.V.8.; Think not. Mahaffey’s words
shouldn’t be taken literally... .J.G.: None
suitable 1.G.A.: Tell Anne to try us again
in a few years... .M.G.8.; Didn’t someone
say something about example being better than
precept? ... .A.L.McI.: Expresses lofty senti-
ments, but lacks the breath of sincerity
R.J.E.: Your hatred of the saxophone must
be very deep-rooted indeed.... Rip: Doesn’t
quite get by Epsilom Daw: Don’t like the
continued repetition; and the “Baob” line is
rather banal A.M.: The “fleeing swallow”
has had all that said about him before, quite
often M.G.V.: No kennel-space here for
the “little doggie”... .H.J.S.: Didn’t raise a
grin Wigwag: An accurate but not very
interesting sketch of a boy leaving for board-
ing-school H.H.: Somewhat ridiculous, even
for a love-story... .8.W.: We knew it was
bound to happen. If the boy had escaped the
motor accident he would probably have been
shot by a stray bullet from his father’s rifle
while gathering mushrooms... .J.W.O’K.:
Abbott has made those preserves his 0wn....
R.C.A.: “Too Right?”—too wrong D.L.:
Too sentimental H.C.: For the first few
pages we were inclined to take your “Mother-
craft” article seriously... .L.0.J.: An interesting
slice of history, but of no value to us. Try it
elsewhere... .L.R.: Dogs’ diaries are seldom
entertaining... .J.W.: Still don’t like it. There
have been too many yarns of the same sort.
D.M.: Reminiscent of the old-time melo-
dramas in which the missing heir used to
be identified by the strawberry mark on his
left elbow.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.C.: Jest has whiskers on it, and drawing
is no credit to you A.L.T e Your sleeping
beauty looks like , a shapeless 10g....P.H.
Sorry, lad, but you’re not an artist’s bootlace.
J.J.R.: It’s not practice you need, but a
friend to tell you firmly to take up some other
pastime... .F.D.L.: Looks as if you had dipped
a cactus bush into a tank of tar and hurled
it at the drawing paper.. . .H.D.E.: Off the
map R.E.: Cow-stripping gag is one of the
oldest in captivity T. 5.8.: Chestnut
H.O’C.: It reveals some aptitude, but lessons
will be necessary... .F.M.N.: No croaking
space for your frogs R.E.P. • Not enough
punch for a political cartoon A.M.L.;
Might do as a feature for a daily... .J.E.S.:
You don’t improve,.. .G.M.; Both lack polish.
... .H.R.: They seem to have been just slapped
down J.R.: Ugly G.C.: All are on their
way home R. 8.: Neat little studies, but
gags are not funny M.P.: So they are still
selling the sundial in the Sydney Botanic
Gardens? A.W.: Send a magnifying-glass
with the next lot of miniatures R.F.: Try
again when you are a bit older 8.L.C.: A
hopeless collection.


FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Trial Stakes: Gladswood; next,
Lord Sun.
Derby: Feldspar, 1 ; Young Idea,
2 ; The Chanter, 3.
Epsom: Barak, 1 ; Sir John, 2;
Synagogue, 3.
Spring Stakes; Peter Pan ; next,
Berestoi.
Kensington Handicap; Dampier ;
next, Lororua.
Metropolitan: High Cross, 1 ;
Pandion, 2 ; Curator, 3.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Oxbro s spring meeting at Clarendon
drew a fine crowd. The track was in
good order, backers had a successful
day, and secretary Brinsley Hall got his
programme of eight events through with-
out a hitch. The starter, Bill Lamrock,
had to deal with many outlaws; in the
circumstances, his efforts pleased every-
body.
Veteran trainer Ike Foulsham is in the
ha PPY position of having two horses,
Barak and Curator, who look like win-
ning good races at Randwick. Curator,
always favorite for the Hawkesbury
-Spring Handicap (he started at 5 to 2),
was taken to the front in the first fur-
long ; Maxwell slowed down the field,
and his mount won easily from High
Cross and Lancaster King. Ramrod,
Braeburn and Foxhunter followed the
placed horses. Curator has 7st. 31b. in
the Metrop., and he is such a fit horse
that he looks like being prominent for
a long way. But High Cross will im-
prove on his showing ; he was all at sea
at Clarendon.
Grand Mogul, who is to be an Epsom
runner, won the Three-year-old Handi-
cap in fast time for the track—“six” in
Imin. 13sec. Jim Pike nursed him for
a final run., and he looked like winning
GiERT ; " How IS THAT ? "
Bert: you RE improving,''
\w\ QOIHG, ROUND IH
LESS EVERy -mviEr"
Bert Suee vou wout catch coudI
easily at the Leger, but Mrs. Pat
Osborne’s representative, Salamander, a
nice chestnut, made him put his best
foot foremost at the finish. The favor-
ite, Gymkana, was third, just ahead of
the good-looking Gibson and Heroina.
Grand Mogul carried 9st., but drops to
7st. 51b. in the mile. He was backed
from fives to threes.
Porcia had an all-the-way victory in
the Flying Handicap. Favorite at threes,
with Sarcherie, the Heroic filly bounced
out of the barrier like a flash, and Max-
well made the most of his opportunities.
Some Boy almost joined her turning for
home, but she responded gamely, and was
half a length to the good at the finish ;
Leahy’s pair, Sarcherie and Sine Cera,
made a dead-heat for third. Both had
been badly away. A protest was quickly
dismissed.
Prowler likes the Hawkesbury track ;
his first success was recorded there. In
the Highweight Handicap, Darby Munro
drove him along from barrier-rise to
judge, and Prowler won easily from
Repere (33 to 1) and Cherry King. Cid
was expected to extend Prowler in the
early stages, but was left 10 lengths.
Prowler’s price was 5 to 2, but better was
got.
With fatter wool and wheat cheques
in prospect and a good lot of horses,
headed by Peter Pan, engaged, the A.J.C.
committee should have no reason for dis-
satisfaction with the material results of the
round of meetings beginning next Satur-
day, if rain doesn’t drown them. Peter
Pan has become almost as great an attrac-
tion as Phar Lap was, and the opinion
grows that he is as great a horse—less
brilliant, perhaps, but a sounder stayer.
Victory for him in the weight-for-age
races seems merely a matter of the chest-
nut’s retaining his health. There are
some who believe that Sylvandale will
test him in the Spring Stakes. Sylvandale
has proved himself a good horse, but not
in the Peter Pan-Phar Lap class, nor yet
in that of Heroic, Windbag and Man-
fred.
The Epsom looks very open—so much
so that there has been no established
favorite. Silver Ring (9st. 71b.) is to make
another attempt to score, but he doesn’t
seem to be quite in last year’s form, and
he has lib. more. Dermid, second to
Silver Ring with Bst. 81b., is down 51b.,
and looks the better proposition. He was
unluckily beaten a year ago, and his
Rosehill success demonstrated that he is
in racing condition. Synagogue has Bst.
111 b.—no great burden for a high-class
four-year-old, but that he has to show
himself to be. His Randwick and Rose-
hill running was not impressive. Lough
Neagh has done excellently in Brisbane
and Sydney this season, and has a decided
chance with Bst. 91b., though he has had
no luck in big races.
If a four-year-old is to win, it may be
Sir John or Dark Sky. Sir John has Bst.
lib., Dark Sky Bst. 71b. Sir John was
this Page’s outright fancy till he failed at
Rosehill. There was an excuse for him,
but he seems to be an uncertain customer,
handsome as he is. A horse that never
runs a bad race is preferable, and this is
the case with Barak (7st. 101 b.- His
second to Dermid at Rosehill was full
of merit, and he will meet Dermid on
91b. better terms. Unless the going is
altogether against him (he is an unknown
quantity on a really heavy track), his
prospects are excellent.
Sporting Blood and Sarcherie are in
the Epsom and the Metropolitan, Sport-
ing Blood with Bst, 71b. and Bst. 61b.,
Sarcherie with Bst. 31b. and Bst. lib. ; and
they have figured in the betting on both
races. Sarcherie is a good mare, and
Sporting Blood won the Spring Handi-
cap at Randwick with Bst, 91b., and was
a close second to Oro at Rosehill with
9st. 21b. Unfortunately he was badly
kicked by a stable-mate, had to be
thrown out of work and'is an unlikely
starter. Oro has Bst. 91b., and is one
with a chance. He was fifth with Bst.
61b. last year and third with 9st. in 1933.
Contact (Bst. 31b.) is favorite on his
second to Sylvandale in the Chelmsford
Stakes. The value of that form remains
to be demonstrated; still, Contact has a
nice weight for a staying, four-year-old.
Pandion (7st. 111 b.) is 'a : likely-looking
fellow. He won the Queensland Guineas
and St. Leger, and was third Jn t the Bris r
bane Cup ; and Queensland form is good.
Nor can Curator be overlooked bh' recent
running.
Two interesting candidates are Befestoi
(9st.) and Theo (Bst. 101b.).‘ Befestoi was
a good winner in England, and horses
he beat (notably in the:Kirig:Edward‘ VII.
Stakes, 12 furlongs, ah Ascot) are now
reckoned almost first-class. Perhaps he
has scarcely been long enough in Aus-
tralia for the Metrop. After his hard
race in the Melbourne Cup, Theo lost
all his form. His Rosehill run indicated
that he might be regaining it. A nicely-
handicapped horse with good credentials
is High Cross (7st. 61b.). He is as game
as they make them and thoroughly
seasoned.
On form, Young Idea stands out from
the other three-year-olds in the A.J.C.
Derby, and he is superior in looks be-
sides. -In the Sir Herbert Maitland Stakes
at Victoria Park he beat Silver Ring and
Rogilla handsomely in fast time (Imin.
25sec.), and with Peter Pan away he
would have brought off a good double
in the Hill Stakes at Rosehill. He is
brilliant enough; the only question is
whether he will stay—his dam, Persua-
sion, was just a sprinter. If Young Idea
fails, Victoria has other representatives
that may be worthier—The Chanter, Feld-
spar and Gay Lover. The Chanter should
not be dismissed because he disappointed
in the Rosehill Guineas. Only a super-
horse could have overcome the conditions
described by the stewards in their report
—“squeezed out at the start and disap-
pointed when going for a run on the in-
side.” But the Windbag colt has not done
very well since. Feldspar has been twice
placed in weight-for-age races in Mel-
bourne, and impressed as a likely stayer.
Sydney’s best may be Loud Applause,
brother to Gladswood, who had been
racing pretty well in open company
(certainly not of high class) before his
fast-finishing third in the Guineas.
Third in the Guineas and first in the
Derby was_Theo’s achievement last year,
and possibly Loud Applause, who races
in the same colors, will equal it. Allunga
is also worthy of respect.
If High Cross misses the Metrop. he
may be worth following in minor handi-
1 caps. Others that should appeal to rote
punters are Dromos, Dampier, Mag-
; nitas and Prittle Prattle.
; * * * *
Hadrian, who has been sent to Mel-
bourne, will be thoroughly tested by
Valiant Chief in the Caulfield Guineas,
and so will Young Idea, if it is decided
to go on with his Guineas engagement.
Valiant Chiefs first serious trial this
season was in the Underwood Stakes at
Williamstown. He was no match that
day for Young Idea and Hall Mark, and,
failing to see out the distance, one mile
55 yards, was dismissed as a squib. He
has proved himself more than that by
winning three races, two of them very
severe, in grand style.
Seldom is a three-year-old asked to
race on a Thursday and again on a Satur-
day, except at a big meeting ; but this
was Valiant Chief’s programme last
week. In the Superior Handicap at Ascot
he was required to meet Heros over six
furlongs at a difference of 141 b., Heros
carrying all Holt’s polish and confi-
dence. Naturally the older horse was
favorite, and he had the run of the race.
Not so the three-year-old, who was the
last to move ; but, coming through splen-
didly, he beat Heros by half a length,
running the distance in Imin. 12|sec.
L’Elite was third.
Voitre rode Valiant Chief at Ascot;
Skidmore had the mount in the Quality
Handicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday,
Voitre having been engaged for Garrio.
The chestnut son of Heroic —Cohesion
had to carry a 51b. penalty, and it was
thought that this and the effects of the
race at Ascot would settle him, especially
as Garrio had 41b. less and had seemed
unlucky when Valiant Chief, with Voitre
up, beat him at level weights at the Valley
on September 14. So Garrio was favorite
at 7 to 4 and Heros (51b, better off than
at Ascot) next at sto 2, fours and then
7 to 2 being offered Valiant Chief.
Double Bard, nicely weighted for a five-
year-old—he had 41b. less than Valiant
Chief, who carried 7st, 121 b also
in request at 8 to 1.
A big crowd witnessed a wonderful
tussle, all the way along the straight,
between two game colts, with Skidmore
and Voitre riding all they knew. Valiant
Chief began it with a lead of a«neck, and,
although Garrio reduced it inch by inch,
the chestnut still had half his head in
front at the finish, registered in Imin.
12|sec. again. Double Bard just pipped
Heros for third. The owner of Valiant
Chief was so delighted that he called for
three cheers for Skidmore,
W. R. Kemball’s team has provided
“skinners” for bookmakers and big tote
dividends for speckers this season. His
North Cape (Cape Horn —Lilock) had
given no indication of being a staying
three-year-old, so he was friendless for
the Tullamarine Handicap, 11£ furlongs,
25 to 1 being vainly offered. But he
hit the front in the first furlong, and
after that nothing could pass him. North
to 1) were place-getters. On his fourth
to Marabou in the Heatherlie Handicap
at Caulfield, Croscon was favorite at 9
to 4, but he ran horribly. North Cape
dividends were £ll 11s, straightout and
£2 14s. place—each for ss.
Favorite after favorite went down with
sickening regularity until Sunraysia (5
to 2) scraped home in the eighth (and
last) race, a division of the Ailsa Handi-
cap, Apart from North Cape, Spokes-
man (12 to 1), Calfly (20 to 1) and Your
Honor (10 to 1) lacerated the feelings
and the pockets of backers.
**■ * *
Regal Star continues in winning vein.
At Newcastle on Saturday he enabled
George Morrow to collect £2OO in stake-
money, “a canteen of cutlery” and some
more handsome wagers by capturing the
Great Northern Cup, for which he was
favorite at threes. However strange the
track, this adaptable fellow seems at
home on it, and whatever the going it
suits him. It was a bit heavy on Satur-
day, but Regal Star carried his Bst. 101 b.
like a racehorse, and conceded lumps of
weight to Sir Joe (8 to 1) and Tapestry
(4 to 1), Tapestry is himself a horse of
the cut-and-come-again kind, and will
have earned his oats before the spring is
over.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
South Melbourne will play Colling-
wood for the V.F.L. premiership. On
Saturday Collingwood came from
behind at the end of the second quarter
to gain a 16-point lead over Richmond
at the end of the third. Missing none of
its opportunities ’Wood increased its ad-
vantage to 28 points: 14-10 to 9-12. The
Tigers tired.
* * * *
After South Adelaide’s unconvincing
display against Port, Sturt was a strong
favorite for the “final,” but South re-
turned to form and finished 14 points to
the good—l 3 goals 15 behinds to 11 goals
13. South will meet Port next Saturday
in the “grand final” ; a win would mean
its first premiership since 1899.
* * * *
The All-Blacks easily accounted for
Abertillery, 30-6, but went down 3-11
against Swansea. It was their first defeat
of the tour, and the first of a Maoriland
team in England since the 1905 team lost
3-0 to Wales. They had rearranged their
back line, and it wasn’t a success.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby League team got
a shock in the first match against M.L.
in Auckland. Thicknesse was rattled by
quickly-breaking forwards, and Brown
had an “off” day. M.L. led 16-5 at half-
time, and was 22-14 at the finish.
((Continued on next page.)


MARLOW & CO.,
8a Casllereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers' Service
Station ,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
Inexpensive Health
—through Correct Food & Exercise
Write for details of the
CUP AIN SCIENTIFIC HEALTH
POSTAL SERVICE
Founded 1900. George Z. Dupain, Principal.
449 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
VI
I
~Heat -to-
B.V.D .Mt'
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
IHE
fO»
(A* 0 }
'RfcO 1
Rtl*' 1
fits'
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
The Prontac
(Patemtu
tennis racket
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation ...
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string: it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Joe Eouis has earned a lot more easy
money by knocking out Max Baer at
New York. Baer scarcely landed a
punch, was down twice in the third
round and “out” in the fourth. Ninety-
five thousand persons, mostly colored,
saw the downfall of Baer. He has a
younger anS heavier brother in the busi-
ness, and possibly the brother will avenge
him some day ; but the indications are
that Louis will now take the champion-
ship from Braddock.
;J;
Claude Nichol, Westralia’s young
heavyweight champion, won another
fight at Leichhardt on Wednesday, but
Jock McDonald gave him more trouble
than Rainsford had done. The New-
castle Scot nearly knocked him over
with a right swing in the third round,
and Nichol’s nose was a sight after the
sixth. But he kept going, and out-
pointed his man in the last nine rounds.
The Perth man came in at 13st. 51b., and
was the heavier by a stone or so.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Old-time pugilist Charlie
Dunn died in Sydney last week. In the
late ’eighties and early ’nineties he
fought some of the best middleweights
and heavyweights of his time, and gave
and took some terrible thumpings. In
a tremendous scrap with Jim Fogarty
Dunn’s jaw was broken —Fogarty was
thenceforward “the Jawbreaker” —and
when the jowl was patched up they met
again. Like most of the big fighters of that
period —Dooley, Doherty, Ryan, O’Toole,
Mclnerney and “Bull” Williams among
them —Dunn went to Westralia in the
roaring days of the goldfields. At one
camp he got into a scrape,-and the tale
was told for years that an attempt had
been made to lynch him. As I heard the
story, he offered to light the whole camp,
one up and one down, and his resolute
bearing got him out of trouble.
Footbrawl
“Preston”: The old V.F.A. is feeling
a bit better this year, thank you. Count-
ing up the season’s profits has been a
brief business for some years past, but
last season was more hopeful. Receipts
have improved so much that each club
can expect a dividend of £52. There is a
string to it, though, for a levy of £lB per
club is to be taken out of this. That
leaves £34 per club. That was a long
way ahead of last season’s handout of
£4 10s.
* * * *
“Everton”: How dreadfully Britain
groans under unemployment and the
depresh is seen in the parlous state of
the market for Soccer footballers. When
Arsenal desired the services of Watson,
of the Heart of Midlothian club, all it
could scrape together for the proposed
transfer was £12,000. This was indig-
nantly rejected by the owners, and
Watson is still in the shop window. All
over England we have the same story.
Clubs like Liverpool have been insulted
by the offer of £13,000 for two for-
wards, while Fulham has scouted a
tender of £IB,OOO for three. Even old
Blackburn Rovers, which knows the
value of brass as well as any, has in-
dignantly spurned £BOOO for a centre
forward.
* * * ♦
“Stand Off”: With its usual short-
sightedness, the N.S.W. Rugby Union
has refused the request of the S.A. and
Westralian Unions for a few pounds
towards expenses of the meetings
of the two” States in Adelaide, the
first Rugby tourney of the kind held
there. Yet it has made a huge profit
this season and has a solid sock stowed
away. A couple of “ponies” would have
helped the younger Rugby Unions, and
the recognition and encouragement
would have helped even more. This
sort of attitude on the N.S.W. Union’s
part years ago chased clubs and players
by the dozen into the arms of the pro-
fessional League, With the latter now
well on the defensive, and the amateur
code being played in every State, this
is the wrong time for snubbing the
young Unions. Once more, that All-
Australian Union is overdue.
;-c * * *
The Australian League footballers
played an exhibition match against a
“combined N.Z. side” in Wellington, and
won 47-31, a score that suggests the
tourists took it easy in defence. Brown
was again the highlight, scoring four
tries. The attendance was poor. .
Ins and Outs
-“Whitecoat”: As expected, Sydney
grade umpires have protested against the
cutting of their wage to Bs. It is the
more exasperating since the association
has asked the umps., in addition to their
normal duties, to note the make of ball
used, the number of runs scored from
each make in an innings, the time lost
through injuries, etc., on the first day of
play under the new rule, and the condi-
tion of the various grounds. All this :s
a one-man job in itself. It looks as if pay
ought to be doubled instead of docked.
■* * , * *
“Fitzcray”: Tarrant’s team leaves for
India on October 8, so there is not much
time for the boys to pack their bags and
bid their girls good-bye. The team will
be away 15 weeks, and will play 21
matches in that time—the first begins
“I tell you hell WALK home.”
“Well, if he don't I will.”
against Ceylon at Colombo on October
25. As the tour takes place during what
India likes to call “the cold weather” it
should not prove too trying. The last
game is against an India eleven at
Madras, beginning February 7.
* * sis =:i
“Aigburth”: The Marylebone team for
Maoriland, which is to play in Sydney
for four days from November 22, is a
much stronger side than either of its
predecessors, led by MacLaren and Gilli-
gan, though those included Chapman
and Duleepsinhji. There are eight ama-
teurs and four pros., and eight of the
side were given a try against the South
Africans in last season’s Tests, A dark
horse is Baxter, the Scot, who was
allowed by Woodfull to play for Lanca-
shire, for which county he was qualify-
ing. Baxter clean-bowled Woodfull,
Brown and Darling, and greatly im-
pressed the Australians. Others expected
to do things are young amateurs Human
and Mitchell-Innes, with Read, the new
fast bowler who impressed in the last
Test against South Africa. Among the
professionals, Hardstaff and Smith, of
Derbyshire, will be worth watching.
Sims, of Middlesex, who played against
South Africa, is a leg-break bowler of
some note.
* * * *
“Headingley”: Yorkshire followed up
the capture of the county championship
by downing the Rest of England by 149
runs at the Oval. Leyland, who carried
England on his shoulders in the South
African Tests, scored 133, and, as Verity
took six for 60 in the Rest’s second
innings, the pitch must have been talking
back.
* $ * *
“Tenth Slip”: Maoriland has paid a
nice little compliment to T. H. Howard,
formerly treasurer of the Board of
Control; he has been asked to meet
Holmes’s Englishmen at Perth and
shepherd them on their tour through
Australia. He will arrive at Perth when
the Westralians are playing our team for
South Africa. The Marylebone side will
play its last Australian match in Bris-
bane from November 29 to December 3,
and begins a match against Wellington
(M.L.) on December 13.
-♦♦ * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland is pleased
with its allotment of matches against
the next English team in 1936-37.
Brisbane will have the first Test of the
tour, and this will avoid the usual date
in February with its heat and thunder-
storms. There will be a match with the
State side, also at Brisbane, and a third
with a country eleven at Ipswich.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English cricket has
stopped another one in the eye with the
resignation of Walters from the secretary-
ship of Worcestershire. Walters did well
against the Australians ; but his health is
understood to have prevented more fre-
quent appearances against South Africa.
He is a stylish and forcing batsman, and
England had high hopes of him for the
next Australian tour.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Susie Swattit”: The British women
golfers, after a brief visit to Brisbane,
left for M.L. In addition to playing
golf a cut above anything yet seen among
Australian associates they proved im-
mensely popular. In a parting word,
Mrs. Hodson, manager of the side, urged
the Australian women to send a team to
Britain as soon as possible. In reply
to the suggestion that watching the visi-
tors might uplift our game, the lady said
emphatically that a trip through Britain
would do that 100 per cent, and a bit
over. The lady hails from Lancashire,
so she was evidently none arguin’—just
tell in’ us.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”; British papers report
something like a hole-in-one shot by
Archie Compston. He was playing at
Strathspeffer, which is somewhere in
Scotland, and sank his ball from the
lee at the 300-yard eighth hole. Good as
the record is, it has been bettered. Kirby,
of Southampton, has a 340-yard hole in
one to his credit. Three other English-
men, Burton, Ladd and Comber, have
done the trick on holes measuring 330,
330, and 325 yards respectively. Melius,
a Californian, is credited with a 374-yard
hole in one. He had a strong wind be-
hind him.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : About the only draw-
back connected with the British golfer-
ettes’ visit —they themselves made no
complaint—is the speed with which they
were rushed through the country. Most
of the time allotted to them at various
places was spent in golf, with the result
that they have seen less, of the big cities
even, than the average American excur-
sionist seeing Australia on a 24-hour
schedule. Australian methods of con-
trolling galleries and displaying scores
won the admiration of the visitors.
These were among the few items they
had time to notice as they rushed by.
❖ * * *
“Carnoustie”; St. Andrews is getting
quite human. Some years ago the old
club decided to abolish the rule under
which a player losing his ball lost the
hole. A new rule provided that the
player must go back as near as possible
to where the lost ball was played from
and add a penalty stroke to the score for
the hole (Rule 22). Overseas represen-
tatives were sound for the amended rule,
and an attempt to return to the Dark
Ages has been defeated.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Golfers will rejoice
at the news that Hagen and Kirkwood
will do an exhibition tour of Australia
this year, leaving the U.S.A. in Novem-
ber and spending six weeks in Australia
after a short stay in M.L. Fishing is as
much the object of the trip as golf, and
shark-catching contests for stakes are
sure to figure on the programme, as they
did last time the pair were here. There
is some talk also of Joyce Wethered join-
ing Sarazen in a tour.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Yet another tennis rank-
ing list, this time by the English expert,
Wallis Myers, who knows as much
about it as most of them. He strikes a
new line this season by putting Craw-


uil
,oi
m
w
m
/,d>
6
&S-VXC
&
uc
3
Sift
ss«?y
PJMSS
PSP
»
e*
UC
fjra
n
$
#p
p
o
fflK
'•mics
1
&
as
sw
»« v
ipMs
(M
lip
»
m
wm?
mtM
\/f.wm
m
RED.WHITE AND BLUE
Red, White, and Blue Gaelic Special
Reserve Highland Whisky — the
famous blend of distinctive quality
—— is now available in the new
bottle.
m
SUPREME
IN BEAUTY AND
PERFORMANCE
HONOURED BY
ROYALTY’S PREFERENCE.
Choice of distinguished owners . . , famous for its traditional reliability
and magnificent performance, Humber is the finest of England’s fine
cars. English coach work expresses the artistry of the true craftsman.
Silence, comfort, roominess and finish combine to provide a degree of
luxury that is incomparable. Three models... THE TWELVE, THE
SNIPE 80, THE PULLMAN. Immediate delivery can be arranged.
JOHN McGRATH LTD., 155 Elizabeth St,Sydney
HUMBER
ford second to Perry, and he includes
McGrath and Joan Hartigan in his
ratings. According to Myers, the method
of taking Wimbledon as a criterion is a
mistake. He places Crawford above Von
Cramm on general play, including the
beating of Perry on grass three times
out of four.
* * * *
Milton”: The Queensland tennis
heads are trying to make a star show of
their championships, which begin in
Brisbane on November 25. If matri-
mony hasn’t interfered, Perry will be
playing, and every other crack available
has been invited to make the trip. The
question of expenses is giving trouble.
The match between Ma and Queensland
at Brisbane was a washout, not a single
N.S.W. player being willing to pay for
himself. The tourney promises to draw
a very big gate with Perry present, and
the Bananalanders would be well advised
to bite on the bullet and chance getting
fine weather and a thumping profit
therewith.
* * # *
“Top Spin”: N.S.W. opens the tennis
season with the State championships,
which begin at Rushcutter Bay on
November 9. The title events are the
men’s and women’s singles, the mixed
doubles and the men’s and women’s
doubles. The tourney has now reached
the respectable age of 50.
# * * *
“Centre Court”: Norman Brookes
told a London interviewer as he left
for home that he was bent on getting
Allison, Budge and Helen Jacobs to
come this way at Christmas. It is ob-
jected that one girl will not draw gates.
All I can say is that if tennis addicts
won’t pay to see the world’s second-best
woman player matched against our own
stars they are a pretty poor lot.
8 • • • . 4
“Kooyong”: Brookes is emphatic on
cutting out the Davis Cup challenge next
year. He gives as his reason that he
wants to see our players have a winter’s
rest in Australia; but, with hardcourt
tourneys all over the country, this seems
unlikely.
♦ * * *
“Nark”: The A.L.T.A. will not have
the backing of Australian tennis addicts in
its requests to the State governing bodies
that they should deny the use of their
courts to Cochet in the event of his com-
ing from Japan and trying to arrange
matches with local professionals. One
can understand its refusal to permit
amateurs to engage in matches with the
Gaul, but to prevent the visitor and our
own leading professionals—some of them,
like Anderson, Willard and O’Hara Wood,
once among the most distinguished of
our amateurs —making a few pounds
from exhibition matches among them-
selves seems dog-mean.
* * * *
“Hotham”: An unusual request came
before the N.S.W. tennis heads when
Miss Sadie Berryman asked to be allowed
to play for Victoria, though she is a
N.S.W. girl and resides in Sydney. She
learned all her tennis in Melbourne, and
there is no club within convenient reach
of her N.S.W. home. It has been decided
to let the damsel play for Victoria this
year, but the case is not to be regarded
as a precedent.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Paavo Nurmi, greatest of
distance runners, has retired to take up
coaching, leaving nine world’s records
behind him. Paavo, who is deaf, invented
the idea of running with a wrist-watch
and himself timing his laps, since he
could not hear what his coaches were
shouting. For some time he has been
a technical professional, but all the heads
of Finland turned out to give him a spin
in a final race. The spectacle of fat
aldermen, bankers, police magnates and,
fattest of all, operatic prima donnas
pacing him round the track must have
greatly enlivened the natural gloom of
Finland.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The coming Olympiad
has revived the old controversy whether
running times can be cut shorter. To
take the 100 as an example, Donaldson’s
record of 9fsec. has stood for 25 years,
though every great sprinter in the world
has tried to beat it. Possibly there is
room for something to come off the
longer sprints and the distances, but
human achievement is nearing its limit
under present conditions. The latest
Yankee wonder, Jesse Owens, says he is
going to put up 9sec. for the 100 or burst.
By way of a beginning he has returned
to the old standing start favored by
Donaldson, Postle and their contempor-
aries. In this the runner is poised bend-
ing forward on the mark and does not
touch ground with his hands as runners
of to-day do. This crouch start no doubt
tends to unbalance a man when rising
from the crouch in the first couple of
yards, and in many cases loses much
valuable time in the getaway.
*
“Red and White”: Mosman (N.S.W.)
R.C. will stage its jubilee regatta on
October 12 at Lane Cove. Over 60
crews are expected to compete, Mosman,
Sydney and the Police topping the list
with entries of twelve, nine and seven
respectively. It is already impossible to
beg, borrow or steal a racing boat, four
or eight. If N.S.W. had cultivated coun-
try clubs in the past on the scale prac-
tised by Victoria this trouble might have
been got over. As it is, Sydney oarsmen
are experiencing some of the disadvan-
tages of splendid isolation.
* * * *
“Blade”: If we do send a rowing eight
and scullers to the Olympiad they will
need to be good ones. At the last Hen-
ley regatta Zurich (Switzerland) donkey-
licked all and sundry, including our
friends the London R.C., in the Stewards’
Challenge Cup. The Diamond Sculls
final was a struggle between Ruffli, of
Zurich, and Zavrel, a Czecho-Slav, the
first winning in very fast time. Ruffli is
a 10-stoner of the Towns type, and that
will put him at a disadvantage if he
meets a good big ’un like our Herb
Turner.
* ❖
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell says he
has given up attempting to improve the
world’s speed record, unless a foreigner
tops his present figures. The only
people who have shown a desire to go
after a new land speed standard of late
are the Italians, who already hold the
air championship. As they have their
hands full with other matters at present,
it may be some time before they are
heard from. The Americans seem to
have dropped right out of the picture.
* * * *
“C.R.”: At 40 Jack Beattie, doyen of
Australian lacrosse players, has decided
to call it a day. It is doubtful whether
this continent has seen a more skilful
player or tactician than the captain of
the Malvern (Vic.) club, who has led his I
team into the premiership 10 times in I
12 years, and left them runners-up in the |
two years when they weren’t premiers, j
He is one of a family of five brothers,
all of whom played in inter-State
matches—Jack was Victoria’s skipper.
* * * *
“Third Base”: A steady effort is being
made to arouse interest in the proposed
trip of an Australian baseball team to
Japan. Officials are confident that a team
strong enough to hold its own with the
Japanese can be collected here and defi-
nite word from Nippon is now being
awaited. One trouble for our players
will be getting leave for the lone
journey. If the team leaves it will be in
April. Baseball has become the Japan-
ese national game, and draws tremen-
dous gates. The standard is high
& "


JDamw
z
if a
M
«f«c
*0
£ *C
"»(5
m
Jf 8
r
inf
auce
Lea & Perrins Sauce is 'matured like good wine' . . • •
carefully, faithfully brewed under the most modern and
hygienic conditions. There is only ONE Lea & Perrins, only
one Worcestershire Sauce will give that refined relish and
rare digestive stimulation.
It is economical, too, because you need use only a few drops
at a time.
l,
LEA & PERRINS
is an international appetite builder
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
Made in Australia by
LEA & PERRINS (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
96 White Street, Leichhardt,
N.S.W.
3fIVS
mm i
NO IS IS Ml
mm
y
■n
mm
“A i PERRINS
\ SYDNEY
Try
LEA&
PERRIN*
NEW SWEET PICKLE
PIKiNTI
Ideal for savories, hot
and cold meats, fish,
salads, etc.
A delicious blending of fruits, vegetables and spices.
<W
O
X
4i
HP
:.m
SAUCE
(--■■■.
'A'
Si-SC,.
H.P. is a rich, delicious fruit sauce
. . . it retrieves every dish from
dullness.
Use it with all hot and cold meats,
chops, steaks, bacon, sausages, fish,
game, poultry, salads, sandwiches.
A Lea & Perrins Product .
HP
SAUCE


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
£1,250,000
1.000 000
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued ~ ~ 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ~
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and" partly’
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ~ £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET ECS
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Draf Amer n 4 L and rs ei of i* 6 ** issued on London.
coTlerted and nowhere. Bills from abroad
cuueccea ana proceeds remitted. All usual
banking 1 business transacted.
SHARE PRICES
and what to expect :
A Special Survey
Australia s Leading Financial Journal,
October Issue Ready on Saturday.
BALANCE SHEETS
CAREFULLY REVIEWED
—See what happened to
profits in the last war.
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
£//2M P n f r R COPY ’ AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS
r fed direct month -
newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and jjj
Cold Water, ’Phone 1
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates) 1
AT '
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bui fin, Manager. A
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
An Example from France
France has been a happy hunting-
ground lor the share salesman ever since
there were shares to sell. The restricted
ambit of the French Stock Exchange and
the conservatism of its methods have
encouraged this. And the canny readi-
ness of every Frenchman to make his
centimes grow has provided an almost
endless held for the devotees of demar-
chage house-to-house touting.
M. Laval, however, has partially closed
the goldmine with one of the swift
decrees which have characterised his dic-
tatorship. There is much in his measures
which Australia might adopt and embody
m its patchwork of Companies Acts.
Private share-selling in France is now
restricted to recognised promoter banks
and “outside” brokers belonging to
recognised organisations. Such under-
writing houses are made responsible for
the acts and statements of their servants.
Every demarcheur, in future, can
operate for only one concern and one
issue, and his charter is a card issued
by the bank in a form prescribed by
law. This must be surrendered within
24 hours after the salesman leaves his
employ, and if it is not surrendered
the employer must report the fact to the
law authorities, whom it is compulsory
to supply with lists of employees. No
foreigners may be employed as sales-
men, and operations by the house-to*-
house salesman in the shares of foreign
‘ companies not guaranteed by the State
are forbidden.
Every prospectus or other document
soliciting subscriptions must bear the
names of the directors and of the sales-
man, and must state if the share or stock
involved is quoted on an exchange. And
where a concern financed through
share-pushing” goes bankrupt, the direc-
tors may be made bankrupt, too.
. The new law, which came into opera-
tion on September 9, is largely based on
the British Companies Act of 1929, which
L. O. Martin’s N. S. Wales Bill also
follows. But it goes much further in its
control of promoters. The penalties in-
volved are heavy, and powers are given
the law authorities to debar organisa-
tions, directors and salesmen from future
operating if they are not on their best
behavior.
With similar provisions in operation
throughout Australia, there would be a
lot less money lost in wild-cat specula-
tion. It may not be desirable to vest
the right to promote companies solely
with Stock Exchanges and their affilia-
tions ; but there is obviously room for
lestricting share-selling to responsible
persons prepared to be licensed and to
put up some form of security such as
is demanded of assignees in bankruptcy.
Queensland Taxation Methods
Guess Again”: Queensland land-tax
laws provide for objections by taxpayers
against unsatisfactory valuations. That
is to say, a man may make a complaint
to the Commissioner, giving his valuation.
If the Commissioner’s ruling is still un-
satisfactory to him, he may appeal to the
Land Court, but his grounds for objec-
tion and appeal must be identical.
It is provided that in the event of the
dispute reaching the Land Court, and
that body determining a value nearer to
the taxpayer’s than that of the depart-
ment’s, the latter pays all costs. In the
opposite case the taxpayer pays.
Prima facie, this seems fair enough.
But there is a catch in it; while the tax-
payer must stand on his valuation, the
Commissioner may have as many guesses
as he wishes right up to the time the
Court hears his appeal.
A personal experience. On April 29,
1932, my block of land was assessed at
£2872. On July 25 I lodged an objec-
tion, my valuation being £825. On
October 11 the Commissioner reduced
the figure to £2543, and within a month
I had lodged an appeal in the Land
Court, The case was set down for April,
1933. In the meantime, I had solicitors,
barrister, surveyor, accountant and
valuator—all expensive folk —preparing
my case. Then the Commissioner in
March, 1933, reduced his valuation to
£1177—£1695 less than his first guess and
£1366 below his second!
With only a small margin of £352 divid-
ing our valuations, I now decided to with-
draw ; if the Court found for a valuation
exceeding £lOOl 1 would have been liable
for heavy costs. I had no redress against
the Commissioner.
Banks are finding the interest rates
they are offering on fixed deposits
(down to 2\ p.c. for two-year contracts)
do not provide adequate competition
with rates obtainable on Consols. Addi-
"I Wouldn't a stopped y ', mate, on'y y' look so much like me brother
tional money, even in N. S. Wales,
has been going into mortgages,
there has been some revival in the
property market, the Stock Exchange
has been a great attraction recently, and
overseas companies with large deposits
here have despaired of an early fall in
the exchange and have dispatched the
money to their head offices abroad. The
scare of a possible rise in the exchange
earlier in the year accentuated the flight.
As a result, and because of the recovery
in the demands of businesses for bank
accommodation, there has been a rapid
growth in the ratio of advances to
deposits—in N. S. Wales the proportion
has advanced from 86.9 p.c. in June,
1934, to 97.4 p.c. in June, 1935. Various
artificial means, more or less of an in-
flationary nature —such as raising the
exchange, the creation by the Common-
wealth Bank of a Consols Equalisation
Fund to regulate the interest yield, and
the discounting of more Treasury Bills —
have been suggested as an alternative to
raising deposit and overdraft rates. The
banks generally, however, are in favor
of letting the position adjust itself—which
will probably mean higher interest be-
fore long.
* * * *
Sunkissed Bananas (Tweed), Ltd.,
appealed against the verdict of the jury
in its action against the Banana
Growers’ Federation Co-op., Ltd., given
at Sydney in April last. The original
suit (for £20,000 damages) was in three
counts —an alleged slander, an alleged
libel by the republication of a Bulletin
article and an alleged libel by the repub-
lication of a “Smith’s Weekly” article.
The jury -(in April) awarded a farthing
damages on the first count, returned a
verdict for the defendant on the second,
and gave a farthing damages on the third.
The appeal to the Full Court was on the
grounds of wrongful rejection of evi-
dence, of the verdict on the second count
being against the evidence, and inad-
equate damages. The Court dismissed
the appeal with costs, the Chief Justice
saying that
The scheme, whether fegarded from a
legal or economic point of view, pre-
sented some remarkable anomalies. By
it, members of the public were invited
to contribute an enormous sum for the
privilege of taking their chance of getting
a .share for 10 years of any profits that
might be made from a banana-growing
business to be conducted on the Northern
Rivf r s (N.S.W.) by a co. at present con-
trolled by two company directors, both of
whom lived in Sydney. The scheme was
so arranged that the public took all the
risks, was prevented from having any
control, and was provided only with cer-
tain colorable safeguards, which, in practice,
would probably be ineffectual. It was not
to be surprised at that the scheme provoked
criticism, and that, since its legal anomalies
were not likely to be apparent to laymen,
it was the financial prospects and pro-
motion method 1 ' that were attacked
* * * *'
This year’s wool exports will be re-
duced by 30,000 bales as a result of a
fire in Goldsbrough Mort’s No. 1 store
at Pyrmont, Sydney. Total damage is
reckoned at £BOO,OOO or £900,000; it
was fully covered, but Australian offices
carried most of the risks, so the national
wealth must suffer. Still it might have
been worse ; a strong wind was carry-
ing the flames towards two other Golds-
brough Mort stores and Pitt, Son and
Badgery’s, in which there was a still huger
number of bales. This greater disaster
was prevented by the exertions of the fire-
men. Five of the gallant fellows and four
civilians were hurt by falling debris.
“S.G.”: After the Goldsbrough Mort
fire had been got under, little was left
of the wool. If salvaging had been
possible on a large scale the inter-
ested parties would have thought
long before they decided on it. Wool
smoulders for an unconscionable time
and is one of the most difficult of
all combustible substances to retrieve.
When the Pastoral Finance Association’s
store on the North Shore went up iiv
flames 14 years ago, part of the wool
was saved. The job of getting it out
and working it'up into saleable condi-
tion was entered upon. It took six
months and cost £33,000; the wool
realised £35,000. That fire was a blow
to the P.F.A. from which it never re-
covered ; place and contents had been
only partly insured.
* * * *
Investment share prices recovered
strongly towards the end of last week
alter a very uncertain and depressing
period. Broken Hill Props., down to
6ls. 9d. on Monday, were back to 665.
on Friday, and Kandos Cement strength-
ened from 225. 6d.-235. to 235. 9d.
Other stocks to show good recovery
were Lustre Hosiery, the breweries and
most of the soundly established indus-
trials. Banks have weakened again, and
are slow of recovery. Consols, despite a
lew spasms of life, have not regained
anything like their lost ground. The
1938 3 p.c. issue is now around £93. It
went off at a trifle below par in
November, 1934.
* * * «
Somebody is buying a lot of lead in
anticipation of something. The metal
went to over £l7 sterling last week, the
highest figure for several years. North
Broken Hill shares haven’t reflected the
full extent of the rise, though up to above
£7 10s. in Sydney; Souths were still
below £5 at the week-end. The market
is uncertain about the metal, apparently.
All base metals, however, are much
stronger, spelter, tin and copper all being
up. The rise in the red metal is particu-
larly encouraging.
* * * *
Chevron, Ltd., the co. which was
formed early in 1934 to build a private
hotel at St. Kilda (Vic.) with accommo-
dation for 189 guests, has finished its first
year with a net profit of £4350, after
providing for debenture interest and
losses prior to commencement of busi-
ness. Paid capital is £55,000, on which
a 4 p.c. dividend was declared, calling
for little more than half the net profit.
Not a bad showing for a new venture.
# « ♦ *
A new process for obtaining oil from
coal, declared by the British Adviser on
Petroleum to be the only one “which
promises to fill the bill” economically,
has been patented by Dr. Morgan, the
inventor. The basis is pretreatment
of power coal by mixing it (cold)
with hot coke. The coke gives up
its heat to the coal until a common
temperature is obtained ; extremely rapid
distillation of oils and gases is claimed.
The fact that the coal is not subjected to
prolonged contact with hot surfaces, as in
the case of most other methods, results
in purer distillates, undiluted with pitch.
Australians will look with interest for
practical developments. Plans for the
hydrogenation of the rich Maitland
coal measures have been based on some-
thing involving a colossal capital cost, or
have been uncertain of economic practi-
cability, or both.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
and auditorium, has good acoustic pro-
P er ties. A frieze of subdued green light,
knee makes the aisles easy of navi-
when other lights are out
Before the .principal item of the pto-
gramme came on, Phyllis Thompson,
wmner . of Sydney eistedfodd prizes loi
operatic singing exercised a pleasant,
flexible voice in Arditi s II Bacio wa tz
lbeme - w ? s showmanship,
though not quite fan to the local gir .
to make this the pielude to the beau i-
fffily-recorded smgmg. of Grace Moo e.
One Night of Love is trite in co -
turn, but gives remarkably effective back-
stage glimpses of opera. Likes Even-
song’ it goes into vocal technique and
some recognisable character
ske fffies of the people who make opera,
Unlike Evensong which writer Ist-
to
ffiSs* »
“Escape Me Never”
An adaptation of Margaret Kennedy’s
play of the same title, this British-made
film at the Liberty is easily the best of
the week’s Sydney output. The story is
well constructed, the direction intelligent,
the acting of a high order, and the settings
are cleverly devised. As Gemma Jones,
a homeless little wanderer, Elisabeth
Bergner is Puck-like, wayward, appealing,
courageous, according to circumstances.
Sydney picturegoers have not seen such
flawless acting on the screen since Lynn
Fontaine’s remarkable characterisation in
“The Guardsman.” Although Miss Berg-
ner overshadows the rest of the players,
they are well selected. Hugh Sinclair is
masterly as Sebastian Sanger, the cruel
egotist responsible for most of Gemma’s
troubles. Also good is Griffith Jones as
Sebastian’s brother Caryl. Penelope
Dudley-Ward makes an ideal Fenella
McClean, a feckless romantic deficient
in moral courage. Leon Quartermaine
and Irene Vanbrugh as Fenella’s mother
and father also contribute sound char-
acterisations.
“The Burgomeister”
This is the first offering of the Film
Players Corporation, an Australian co.
brought into being as a result of the
film, quota. The story is an adaptation
of “The Bells.” Photography of in-
door scenes is good. Outdoor scenes in
the Alsatian village consist of about 30
yards of street seen in a dim light. For
snow the producers appear to have gone
to Kosciusko. The villagers are a mili-
tarily-drilled squad like a grand-opera
chorus, and it is not surprising to find
them bursting into song. The Irving
part, Mathias, is played by the pro-
ducer, Harry Southwell. The gradual
effect of the remembrance of his crime,
the desire to escape from the ringing of
the sleigh bells, his confident bearing in
the court as the trial appears to favor
him, and then the fear when he learns
the hypnotist is to test him are well
portrayed ; but it is stage stuff, and third-
hand stage stuff at that, punctuated by
wearisomely long soliloquies. Bertie
Wright gives some life to the boasting
Heinrich,; and Ross Vernon as Chris-
tian, Janet Johnson, pretty as Mathias’s
daughter Annette, Harold Meade
(Father Walter) and Leslie Victor (Hans)
are not out of place. Vocal numbers by
Isadore Goodman are tuneful, but melo-
drama and operetta don’t go well in the
same cocktail.
“Girls in Uniform”
•This Sydney Variety attraction is the
screen version of a play by Christa Wins-
loe, depicting conditions in a Prussian
boarding school for girls, which created
unusual interest when staged by amateurs
in Sydney. The German dialogue has
been done into English by the dubbing
process, and the result is far from per-
fect. The speeches are hard to follow,
frequently fail to synchronise and are
often emphatic in the wrong places. But
the acting of the three principals, Doro-
thea Wieck as the kindly mistress,
Hertha Thiele as the unhappy Manuela
and Emila Unda as the autocratic head-
mistress, is exceptionally good, and the
photography is superb.
“One Night of Love”
This talkie ran for close on nine
months at Sydney Liberty, It enter-
tained about 650 audiences in the same
theatre, and when The Bulletin walked
in on Wednesday morning last week
there were only a very few vacant seats
in tHe place. First half of the programme
was only gently interesting. The theatre,
which is long and narrow, and carries
Rayner Hoff mural decorations in foyer
“CHILDREN IN UNIFORM,” AT SYDNEY VARIETY.
(1) Emilia Undo as headmistress, (2) Hertha Thiele as Manuela, (3) Dorothea
Wieck as Fraulein Von Bernberg. Hovering in the rear, one of the uniformed
children.
—a mezzo-soprano flawless throughout
its register. The astonishment and ad-
miration of maestro Carminati, who
trained the singer, when she gloriously
produces the most beautiful arias of
Carmen and Cio Cio San are shared by
the audience. . The film is a musical
achievement of the first magnitude, and
Sydney’s appreciation of it is a tribute to
the city’s good taste.
“West Point of the Air”
There are fine shots of aeros. in this,
at Sydney Cameo, from the launching of
a ’plane that was the last word in 1910 to
a skyful of 1935 army ’planes manoeuv-
ring by moonlight. There are, too, some
tense moments when somebody doub-
ling for Wallace Beery swings from one
’plane to another. Beery is humorous
and sentimental in equal parts as Big
Mike, instructor in flying. There the
interest ends. Propaganda for Uncle
Sam’s Air Force, using the same general
p, Oh has been done so many times
before -
m vim-
One New York Night
Murder-mystery, also at Sydney
Cameo. It follows the new convention
that the macabre must be contrasted
with the ridiculous. Franchot Tone is
a mournful-faced, exhaustingly painstak-
ing gentleman from Wyoming, in New
York to find a bride. Instead, he finds
a corpse occupying the hotel apartment
next door. Thereafter the corpse dis-
appears, to turn up again unexpectedly
and persistently. Conrad Nagel and
Steffi Duna figure in the cast, and incur
suspicion. At last, aided by Una Merkel,
Tone trails the crime to the door of the
Principal Suspect, which seems to be
just a little bit better satisfaction to the
audience than an ending that implicates
the most unlikely bird.
“Death Flies East
Romance on an airliner. A beautiful
young goil (Florence Rice) has been
paroled on a charge of poisoning some-
one. Apparently in the U.S.A. these little
crimes are dealt with by functionaries
as broadminded as W. S. Gilbert’s “Bab
Ballads” padre who turned a lenient eye
on any sort of crime that didn’t involve
disloyalty to the robber band. The goil,
fleeing across the continent to secure
evidence that will prove her innocence,
meets Conrad Nagel, a young professor
of physics who carries secret docu-
ments of vast importance to the Gov-
ernment at Washington, which, for the
purposes of the fantasia, doesn’t trust
its own post office. He demonstrates his
knowledge of physics by making sage
remarks on the subject of meteorology.
Nagel’s secret-service bodyguard is
poisoned on the ’plane. The only reason
why Nagel isn’t poisoned or otherwise
assassinated seems to be that he doesn’t
look well with his hair ruffled. At
Sydney Capitol,
“A Notorious Gentleman”
Charles Bickford is the gentleman. He
turns his hat down both before and
behind, thereby demonstrating that he
belongs to the Four Hundred. He
insane, but as a criminal lawyer he
secures many acquittals. He plans a
“perfect crime” deliberately incriminat-
ing both himself and the woman he loves
(Helen Vinson); employs Dudley Digges
as counsel for his own defence, gets a
“not proven” verdict and finally crashes
irretrievably. Courtroom scenes have
some elements of good drama, but even
here staging is slovenly. In every otnei
respect the film drops below mediocrity.
“Legion of Valor”
At Sydney Plaza. Another bit of G.-
Man propaganda. In the U.S.A. the G.-
Man (agent of the Federal Government)
is, by convention, a sea-green incorrupt-
ible. When he starts hunting, State laws
and State judiciaries are no longer a
protection to wealthy criminals. In this
film Richard Aden, Harvey Stephens
and Gordon Jones are shown being
schooled in the fundamentals of crook-
chasing. Their first job together is a
success; they prevent the kidnapping ot
an heiress (Virginia Bruce) who is piqued
because her chauffeur (Bruce Cabot) is
jugged with the rest of the kidnappers.
Cabot is paroled by Miss Bruce’s influ-
ence, and organises a gang of desperate
bank-robbers. The heiress’s brother
(Eric Linden) joins the G.-Men and is
shot in an encounter with Cabot, who is
raised to the status of Public Enemy.
The G.-Men get him at last.
“Strangers All”
A study of American middle-class
family life. May Robson is head of the
household. Eldest son (Preston Foster)
is a storekeeper, mainstay of the family,
ambitious and intelligent. Eldest daugh-
ter (Florine McKinney) marries a fairly
prosperous businessman. A younger son
(James Bush) is a radical soapbox
orator, and another (William Bakewell)
is a stage-struck unemployable. The
crisis arrives when the political-minded
son is arrested for sedition. The family
rallies under the leadership of its intrepid
matriarch, and the experience benefits
all. Competent characterisation makes
the affair good entertainment. Also at
Sydney Plaza.
“Strange Wives”
This superficial but entertaining film is
from the story Bread upon the Waters,
by Edith Wharton. Roger Pryor, a
“butter-and-eggs” man, has his pulses
stirred by June Clayworth, who, after
he marries her, turns out to be a
Ukrainian princess with a following of
brothers and sisters, plus a princely
father who is proud of being a doorman
at a New York cabaret, enjoying the in-
dependence of an American citizen. The
whole of the family, except the prince,
billet themselves on Pryor, and introduce
color and variety into his business and
domestic life. The strong, silent American
triumphs in the end. At Melb. Hoyts’.
“No More Ladies”
This film, at Melb. Metro, concerns
itself with the love affairs of Joan Craw-
ford and Robert Montgomery. Charles
Ruggles makes an occasional appearance
as an exaggerated drunk. Miss Craw-
ford exhibits what passes for sex appeal,
and Mr. Montgomery plays Don Juan
to a succession of women against a
background of modern furniture. His
triumphs are so sensational that Miss
Crawford is driven to discourse on the
advantages of matrimony. In their next
film it is a safe bet that Joan will be
wrecking the hearts of the men while
Robert will be brooding on the redeem-
ing features of matrimony.
Some First Nights
One of the highlights of James Fagan’s
“Improper Duchess,” latest offering of
the Independent group of players at
Sydney Savoy, is a scene in which a
U.S.A. Senator and a clergyman,
stumbling into the duchess’s hotel bed-
room, Washington (D.C.), surprise the
King of Poldavia (in his pyjamas)
demonstrating the rumba to the duchess,
who is sitting up in bed applauding his


NOW ON SALE
c A CLUSTER of BEES
By TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A,
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
n
J 11
m
rCCCCi
S V? 2
ITqbltom Payment 1
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop of “A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tarlton Payment, for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
P e rfo r m ance . The intruders threaten a
public scandal. Their threat is not ear-
ned out, because the Senator wants con-
cessions in Poldavia, and the cleric also
bas his price. Doris Fitton as the
duchess, Clive Coppard as the king, Wil-
pm ,^ ees as Senator and Arthur
Reardon as the parson give fair charac-
terisations, but it is difficult to muster up
interest in what happens to any of them.
•& 4* *
The circus at Melbourne Olympia is up
to standard. The elephants—as large as
ever were restless on the opening night
owing to the bad weather, and this added
piquancy to the proceedings. Tiger-
tamer Captain Flyger had a passport to
the affections of his audience in a ban-
daged arm, the member having received
attention from a tiger a few nights
earlier. Two dwarf elephants from Siam
provided the comic relief that is so
absent from the business of the clown,
the dummy and the other professional
humorists of the circus arena. Miss El
Star, who ties her beautiful body into
Blackwall hitches, running bowlines and
reef knots; the Nelson troupe, who,
although heavier than the air that sur-
rounds them, stay in it for extraordi-
narily long period ; the two wire-walk-
ing Tatterinos and the human cannon-
ball were some of the other ingredients
of the latest Wirth dish.
-I* HE* v 4*
“Yes, Madam,” which had its first Aus-
tralian showing at Adelaide Royal, has
the advantage of a straight story from
K. R. G. Browne’s novel. An eccentric
will makes Bill’s fortune depend on his
taking a job as butler and keeping it,
while his cousin Tony, who would inherit
on default, naturally tries hard to get
him sacked. Add a girl cousin masquer-
ading as housemaid in the same employ,
and the end is obvious. Chief interest
Landscape, Olinda," from Monte Luke’s show of camera
pictures.
centres in the newcomer leads. Diana
Ducane, brunette and young, is charming
and unstagy —just a jolly girl living her
part. Her soprano is known already,
through the 8.8. C. ; and in panto, she
has been principal-girl—which gives the
idea exactly. Freddie Foss, the unheroic
hero, is in sentiment as adequate as his
five-feet nothing will allow, in humor
bustling and effective, especially where
he is manhandled by Marie La Varre.
She (in the part Vera Pearce had in
London) is tremendously competent and
funny, and holds the stage whenever she
is on it. Frank Leighton, for once the
villain, is so immaculate as to blunt all
the gibes about his fondness for codfish
and other cheap entertaining, and Leo
Franklyn does the best work of his
career as the Yorkshireman. The girls
(trained by Nina Starace) are notably
good where they foretell doom in the
manner of a Greek chorus and the metre
of “The House That Jack Built,” and
when they revive in three-colored mass
formation the beautiful skirt-dancing that
is as old as Marie Tempest.
Current Artbursts
Happy is the man, successful in his
profession, who loves it well enough to
pursue its commercially unprofitable by-
paths in his leisure hours. Sydney’s old-
established portrait photographer Monte
Luke every few years submits the results
of his researches into the possibilities of
photography as a medium of artistic ex-
pression. When the real, or the instan-
taneous glimpse of the real given by the
winking eye of a lens, doesn’t tell the
truth Luke will assist with a little judicious
elimination or accentuation on negative
or bromoil print, but his most cherished
achievements are straight bromide prints
that depend for their effect oh knowledge
of light, pictorial balance, the chemistry
of development and the intuition that
dictates when to push the button. In the
Dark Ages a chap like Luke might have
been burned at the stake for using the
services of a devil with supernal powers
of draughtmanship, but if his portraits,
his landscapes and his other compositions
had been spared the world would have
been richer by a wealth of information
denied it by cartographers, however gifted
in the use of brush and palette.
In a corner of the Monte Luke show
are some portraits by D. O. Hill, one of
the pioneers of photography, and at the
same time a great master of photographic
technique and an artist in the truest sense
of the word. As records of the costume
of a period they are priceless. Since
Hill’s day the resources of the artist-
photographer have been steadily aug-
mented, until now, with lenses of phenom-
enal light-gathering capacity and plates
and films of tremendous sensitivity and
fine discrimination in the interpretation
of color values, the average cameraman
suffers almost from an embarrassment of
technical equipment. Luke revels in the
powers afforded him, and the prints ex-
hibited in his current exhibition in Castle-
reagh-street are an authentic form of art
—a fact recognised by the painters and
connoisseurs of painting who buy his
landscapes and commission his camera
to portray their features.
►l* -I- * *
The art of the poster has at last in-
vaded the N.S.W. National Gallery,
where a capacious basement has been
emptied, swept and garnished to house
the new treasures. Not a bad selection
has been made considering the vastness
of the field. Principal Continental
nations are just barely represented ; the
British Isles fill nearly half the wall space.
In the English contingent are “The
Crowstone” of Charles Pears and the
“Epping Forest” of Epstein, both car-
toons very famous in their sphere. Tun-
stall Small’s lino-cuts of ruined castles
and abbeys are scarcely posters, though
they provide good poster material. A
collection of them
has been “Lent by
Commissioners of
his Majesty’s Office
of Works to the
Orient Steam
Navigation Com-
pany, Limited, for
display overseas.”
The great English
railways and the
Empire Marketing
Board have made
generous contribu-
tions. Among the
board’s exhibits is
a map of Maori-
land in the pictur-
esque Elizabethan
style, indicating
the products of
each locality.
Writer, who hails
from Canterbury
Province, was
pleased to find that Akaroa has rightly
n 6 ! 11 A de u s 'B nated by a pile of cheeses.
But Ashburton, which prides itself on
its wheat and horses, also has cheeses
plastered over if, and so have various
regions in Westland which are more
noted for their inaccessibility and almost
total lack of population than for their
prowess in swelling the exports.
Australian poster art is well repre-
S “ ch names as Trompf, North-
held, Blackwell, Vickery and Sellheim
almost unknown in aesthetic circles, here
rule the roost and give direct and’crisp
expression to forcible ideas about the
Australian scene —urban and rural. A
u° r L ° f Faison officer between these
highly-competent specialists and the pure
merinos of art is Walter Jardine, whose
South Sea drawings make a brave show.
*l* *J* * •••
Dai yl Lindsay s Australian landscapes
at the Fine Arts, Melbourne, are remini-
scent of the Scottish landscapes of D.
O. Cameron ; Lindsay’s horse pictures
recall Mannings; “Judy,” a girl in an
outdoor setting, has hints of Augustus
John, and there is a faintly Constabulary
air about “Corfe Castle.” The still-lifes
mix moderate modernism with photo-
graphic realism. It is hard in all these
styles to find the real Daryl Lindsay,
although an affection for horseflesh is
patent in the attention he lavishes on
this animal. If this- talented painter had
more belief in himself than in other
people he could produce more original
work. Thus, in No. 38, “Barwon Heads,”
although the sky is obviously one of
those ineffably soft ones, the clouds
appear much nearer than the red field
in the foreground, and the one in the
left-hand corner looks like a piece of
canvas stretched across the scene a few
yards in front of the observer ; the same
thing applies to “Smith’s Farm,” where
the sky is like a roof over a landscape
that is a catalogue of such objects as
fences and cattle rather than an im-
pression.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
i
M
n ? f
H
3 3|.
3 s ii
B:ti
Oj
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
133-138 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station),
Rates Per. Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast* from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 CIO lines).
f
RHEUMATISM
Tortured Back
BLADDER WEAKNESS
End Such Troubles Fasf, with-
out dyes, dope or danger. Har-
rison's Pills best Proprietary
Remedy for even Bad Cases.
rth
Cleanse, soothe and heal your raw, inflamed
Kidneys and Bladder—get rid of uric acid,
rheumatic germs and poisons—get peaceful,
healthy sleep at night, with no more dis-
turbances from urinary pressure, by taking
Harrison’s Pills. Best for young or old, either
sex. In a few minutes, Harrison’s Pills start
their beneficial work. In a few hours you feel
better. In a few days you’re a new person.
Get Harrison’s Pills at any Chemists— 3 inex-
pensive sizes. Money back on first bottle if
it isn’t miles better than any other remedy
you’ve ever tried. Get genuine Harrison’s!
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN,
16-20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager jor full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was spring in the crisp white-
ness of the jabot worn by Lady Hore-
Ruthven with her navy-and-white-pat-
terned frock at the Bush Book Club’s
yearly reception. This is a reception in
every sense, as each caller brings a book
or two to furnish the library that travels
to the ends of the State. From Lieu-
tenant-Governor Street’s lady the vice-
reine received a pink posy, and in turn
she handed over a box of novels and
magazines from Government House.
Secretary Ivy Price, in Patou blues,
looked well amid the arum-lilies and
azaleas with which the club was decked.
White apple-blossom in a large blue mug
made the mantelpiece look romantic.
Club secretary Beulah Bolton, capable
and serene, was to the day what the core
is to a sweet apple. The Kelso King
lady, Margaret Windeyer, Helen Stephen,
Sylvia Bedford and Mrs. Roy Buckland
were glimpsed among the book-bringers ;
so were John McDonnell and John Pye.
Altogether 2050 books, plus magazines,
were the day’s taking.. Over 800 came
from the Bathurst branch of the Victoria
League.
Waratahs, very red and martial-look-
ing, even through their screen of gum-
tips, topped two great jars, large enough
to have housed not only Ali Baba but
the 40 thieves as well. These guarded the
entrance to the Bushland Exhibition, and
just around the corner, in the Blaxland
Galleries, boronia and native rose and
the creamy paludosa breathed sweet as
at Taylor Point on a warm spring morn-
ing. Some artist hand had placed a yel-
low rock-lily below a fully-opened wara-
. tah, the tips of its petals faintly empurpled.
Before an abo. tent in the middle of the
floor were grass mats, and Black Brother
was “at home.” What did he think of
the haunting strains of young George
Farrell’s violin that rose to the gallery
from the room below? Here the busi-
ness-girls’ lunch was being served, but
floating high and sweet above the clatter
of the dishes came Schubert’s “Ave
Maria.”
Brighter than the shy bush flowers
were the reds and yellows and emerald-
greens of the rosellas’ wings and heads.
From their cages they watched the world
go by, in rather a subdued fashion, only
showing a polite interest when some
gazer of sensibility whistled softly as
though apologising for his scrutiny. But
even the rosella’s social life is pervaded
by the eternal triangle. Of two picking
happily at the one tin of birdseed it is
told that the lady was once the wife of
the gentleman in Number Nine Bird-
cage Walk. But (probably owing to the
depression) they took in a boarder.
The two males fought, the husband won,
and the intruder had to go. But the wife
loved the rival, and pined ; so did the
lover. There was nothing for if but to
let them share the same parlor, bedroom
and bath. The tale was told by Clifford
Coles, while a macaw shrugged his red
and yellow and bright-blue plumage and
commented raucously.
Only one cloud darkens the return of
Earl Beauchamp to Australia. It is the
death of his old friend D. H. Souter.
“Dave” had, with the Bondi lifesavers,
planned a welcome to him. The party
will go on, and who can say the little
artist will be an absentee though his thick
Scots burr is not heard? In between
greeting old friends, the earl is house-
hunting—water-front preferred, tennis
court essential. He and his secretary
David Smythe loitered in Tahiti on their
way to Australia. The market of Papeete,
where the most colorful fish of the world
(blue, yellow, black and scarlet) are dis-
played, is still the centre of social life at
six o’clock on a Sunday morning;
Moorea still wraps itself in pearly mist,
and the giddy little fish in the coral-
fringed lagoons still pretend they are
some futuristic art society’s exhibits.
Lord Beauchamp says the most im-
portant thing that happened to him on
his journeys was that he became a grand-
father, the very young man’s name being
John Cottrell. He did the fountains of
Rome with Hugh D. Mclntosh, who
has now gone to England and started
milk-bars.
Just before the Viennese choir matinee
on Thursday, conductor Gomboz gave
an audition (at the request of Lady Hore-
Ruthven) to Joan Hammond. Joan lifted
her voice in the artists’ room, and at the
end of the first aria Mrs. Marsi and the
director of the choir slipped into the
room. Joan, sang the “Valkyrie” battle-
cry, “Elsa’s Dream,” “One Fine Day”
and three or four more numbers. The
listeners were delighted. “You must
come to Vienna. We will see that you
are comfortably housed. You will go
to Lotte Lehmann’s teacher. In six
months you will be fit to sing in the
Court Opera House of Vienna.” Joan
is 22 and a champion golfer. The fairies
must have come laden to her christening.
A tiny green flower-stall, terraced up
to its gay red-and-white awning with
red and blue and white blooms —verbena,
native rose, white may and small border
flowers—rightly won a first prize for
Mrs. F. Darsow. Curator Hawkey, of
the Botanic Gardens, who awarded the
places at the Lyceum Club members’
yearly flower show, succumbed to the
charming novelty at first glance. Every
step on the stand had its row of green
buckets, and above these the petals waved
gaily or shyly. From Mrs. G. Pring’s
Narrabeen garden came roses red, roses
golden and giant branches of bougain-
villaea rosea ; and from her eyrie in the
Mountains she had conjured primroses
and daffodils. Giant vases of pink
rhododendrons and white cherry-blossom
gladdened the day, and before 5 o’clock
the exhibits had been bought up by club
members. Ada Newman carried off a
yardstick of bougainvillaea, and president
Mrs. Thomas just managed to get her
slim self and her huge bunch of daffies
through the lift door.
This is Suzanne Crookston, whose
portrait, painted by Arthur Murch, has
been one of the most gazed-on pictures
in the Society of Artists’ show. It won
for the artist the society’s award for
1935. Photograph by Dorothy Welding.
Some years ago, when Jean and Lute
Drummond returned from studies in
Europe, they discovered that Sydney was
poorly provided with operatic literature.
The two did a series of lectures on the
operas, at which Jean illustrated the
soprano arias with her lovely voice. The
money received from the lectures was
put by the committee in the bank, with
the idea that one day it should provide
the nucleus of an opera library to which
all students might have free access. The
idea has materialised, and now there are
50 or 60 operas ready for a home. This,
Lute hopes, will be found in the Muni-
cipal Library. Among the pile are works
by Russian composers. Wagner, Rimsky-
Korsakov, Krenek (the very latest Ger-
man), Ravel, and the old Italian favor-
ites (with up-to-date and very good
translations) are on the list. Many of
these last are the gift of Major Geiger,
of Covent Garden. The library is now
a memorial to Jean, who died, all too
young, at the beginning of the year,
Percy Marks, the little jeweller in
Hunter-street, who was as enamored of
the opal as American poetess Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, is no more. Visiting
royalties and artists whose work caught
Mr. Marks’s attention always left our
shores plus a perfect specimen of the
jewel given to them by its ardent ad-
mirer. That these stones brought any-
thing but a fortune as pretty as them-
selves he would never believe. He will
be a loss to the many sports clubs of
which he was a member. His wife, four
sons and sister Emily Marks, the singer,
are mourning.
Walter Burley Griffin, of Castlecrag, the
man who designed Canberra, has just re-
ceived word that his are the accepted plans
for the University library at Lucknow.
So he sails for India almost immediately.
Here, too, he has been asked to cast an
eye on the foundations of the Buddhist
temple at Benares. One of his latest bits
of craftsmanship for the open-air theatre
was seen on Saturday night. Rising amid
the rocks that form the background of
the stone plateau of stage was a mediaeval
castle, all turrets and towers. It had a
drawbridge and postern and was lit with
flares. Small German children in the
audience sat frozen with fascination as
the Grimm fairy tale “Die Kugel aus
Kristall” unfolded in their own language.
Feeling that Sydney had too much of
a monopoly of art shows, Annette Mc-
Donnell started out to give Goulburn a
yearly one that was all its own. The
venture has proved a success, and painters
from every State are proud to exhibit
in the country town where buyers are not
afraid to back their faith in a new artist
by buying his works. This year the show
opens on November 6, so Mrs. McDon-
nell is one of the busiest women in
Goulburn.
Sydney seems to prefer its horseflesh
at Randwick. At the Horse Show on
Saturday at the R.A.S. grounds, the
stands were almost empty. Perhaps this
had something to do with the stage-
managing of the affair and the prices.
These were so small that they failed to
attract the expensively minded. The sun
shone, the grass flashed green fire under
the spurning hooves of hunters, under
the machine-like precision of trotters.
Stewards in red coats rode in and out of
the arena ; Scots lassies in swinging tar-
tans formed the pipe band. Even the
spanking, sparkling milkcarts behind their
striding steeds were a spirited bit of move-
ment. Never again, when they gallop gaily
along the new metalled road beneath
your window as the dawn turns into day,
can they be- dismissed as a blight on
civilisation.
What will you have, a silver piano or
a silver chair? They’re both to be seen
at the Children’s Loan Exhibition in
Grace Brothers’ building. The silver
chairs are reproductions of the favorite
chairs of Shakspeare, Cromwell, Gold-
smith and Dickens, and belong to Mrs.
Bertie Kelly. This exhibition is better
than Voronoff, because it makes the
right part of you young again. Here are
dolls’ houses and dolls’ clothes—some
from Miss Fairfax, some from Dame
Eadith Walker. They were part of their
wax beauties’ wardrobes. Sixty years ago
at Camden Vale School five-year-olds
hemmed and pintucked tiny garments.
Their handiwork gladdens a glass case
sent by Miss Macarthur Onslow. There’s
a Dangar scrapbook ; Marie Marshall is
responsible for an exhibit; there’s a wine
cart (but what will the W.C.T.U. sav?)
from John D. Moore. The wife of Lieut.-
Governor Street opens the show at 3
o’clock to-day, and at five Lady Hore-
Ruthven arrives. The Boys’ Brigade and
the Day Nurseries benefit.
There’s no instrument that can better
display a pretty hand and elbow than
the harp. Howard Carr showed power,
restraint and true musicianship in his
conducting. The orchestra was big, the
audience medium-sized, the music good,
the book poor. This summed up the
opening performance of “Love Wins
Through,” a musical comedy (the comedy
so thin it’s a wonder it doesn’t slip
through the bars of music) the book of
which is by Adrian Ross and C. B. Fer-
nald, the music by Howard Carr. The
Regal Operatic Society sang and acted
and danced tunefully and robustly from
the first to the final curtain.
The Teachers’ College at Armidale is
being made richer and richer in art
treasures by Howard Hinton. Howard,
who is a trustee of the National Gallery
and one of the most generous patrons of
art in Australia, has already given a
gallery of Hilders and Lindsays and such
famous artists to the college. Now a
stained-glass window facing west, eight
feet by five, ennobles the long entrance
corridor. It represents Solomon on his
throne. The base of the window contains
three coats-of-arms —those of the Educa-
tion Department, the Hinton family and
the Teachers’ College. Another window,
also given by Mr. Hinton, will have a
design expressing the glory of athletics,
and will be completed early next year.
Norman Carter designed the two.
The Scouts gave a ball. Well, it was
given in their name, and it was the flare
that lit up Scout Week as far as social
Sydney was concerned. David Jones’s
was the rallying-point. Poles lashed to-
gether by Sea Scouts and hung with flags
supplied atmosphere for the vice-regal
entry. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s laces had a
purple bloom, with which her sheaf of
purple-and-gold iris toned. Her pearls
were large and long, her sash ribbon was
green. Mayoress Parker presented as
nice a clutch of debs, as the season has
seen. With a glad smile, the Governor
and his lady hatched them from chicks
to social cherubim, and the night was
for them complete.
Philip Street’s wife clothed her presi-
dential activity in gold lame girdled with
sapphire velvet. Turquoise and silver
and a season’s catch in ermine were con-
tributed by Mrs. C. L. Jones. America’s
new Consul-General Moffatts were there.
Miss K. Egan’s velvets were like black-
berries with the sun on them. The
Premier Stevens trio mother and
Gwen) were in the picture, and, of
course, the Kelso Kings.
Ada Newman, Ethel Atkinson and
Miss Margoliouth spread their rooms in
Bristol House with pottery and china in
rose and blue and green and white. A
little of all the colors is prisoned in the
plaque which tells a Persian fairy story.
There are flower troughs, green like an
apple that has been in sun and shade.
A white bowl on which a' native bear
for ever climbs made a great appeal.
Lady Poynter, in a wine-colored frock,
opened the show happily and briefly.
Mrs. Ivy Moore, her black hat wearing
a white gardenia, told her companions
of the pottery of the Balearic Isles.
Summer nights are likely to see an
orgy of organdie. Paris and London
specialise in this fabric. The sleeves of
the frocks will strike the note of em-
phasis, for nobody but a girl in her teens
can be fluffy in an organdie skirt. Stitched
taffeta hats are very fashionable. They
must droop a bit at both front and back
of brim. The beret is still with us. Now
it is large and of velvet. Then there is
the flat-topped velvet lid which rises
above a folded bandeau —not so good
for our sunny days.
“Every Wrinkle Smoothed Away—
Beautiful Blue Porcelain Enamel Body.”
No, girls. Nothing to do with beauty
culture. Merely an advertisement for a
smoothing iron.


Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide for
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy!
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva-
tions day and night ever at your service.
Hotel Mansions
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
drt
Melbourne
Chatter
It’s the same Show every year. Inside
the gate is the same machinery (or it
looks the same) painted pink, blue and
green; the sheep smell the same; the
cows are just as pop-eyed or (according
t 0 e , s text books) “bright, prominent and
active”; the milk pails are as shiny,
the pigs as indifferent and the horses as
important. The fruit is as luscious. This
year marvellous grapes were bottled,
leaves and all. An arbor covered with
creeping vines with raisins strewn about
and bottles filled with tawny sunlight
made one feel that it would be rather
nice to live in a vineyard and lotus-eat.
The dogs never fail to draw the
crowds. From Durg, the Irish wolf-
hound, which belongs to the largest
breed in the world, to the tiniest speck of
miserable Japdog, every animal had ad-
mirers. The doggy people are willing
to spend hours waiting about near their
pets, who get nervous or lonely if left in
strange company.
All the usual things were on view
among the women’s exhibits. Mrs. E. J.
Plant, who won the “One Woman's
Work” prize, didn’t include in her col-
lection everything she could possibly
think of, but she did have snapshots,
chocolates and a neat bowl and lid made
from the polished kernel of a cocoanut.
Among ingenious articles in the “Made-
Irom-Sugarbags” section were Mrs. S.
Ross’s baby’s travelling cosy (constructed
like a filing system of pockets and con-
taining everything from safety-pins to
porridge bowl) and Mrs. Douglas
McLean’s sunshade with bindings and
appliques of chintz upon the hessian.
Among well-known horsewomen in
Melbourne for the Show was Mrs. A,
A. Laidlaw, of Ararat, who exhibited
several horses in the arena. Mrs. Laid-
law is an experienced hand at ring
events, for her steeds have appeared at
every Melbourne Show since 1911.
There’s no point about horses she does
not know. She learnt to ride as soon
as she could walk, and collected her first
trophy at the tender age of six, when she
rode over fences at a Deniliquin show.
Mrs. Laidlaw has won all sorts of
prizes, including one for a record high
jump in Queensland. She enjoyed a
hunting season in Ireland, and got a
great thrill at the Dublin horse show
when her hunter I Will was awarded a
second and only by a whisker missed a
first. This equestrienne comes of a
family of horse-lovers. Her grandfather
was William McCulloch, who during his
lifetime imported the finest stock to
Australia. Well-known stations like
Woodlands, Glenroy and Warbreccan
(which now belongs to the Lindsay
Fields) were at one time his property.
Popular little Kitty Sutherland again
won the Garryowen trophy for the
best equestrienne turnout at the Royal
Show. The trophy is a bronze statuette
of Garryowen, who perished in the
stable fire which caused the death
through injuries of both his owner, Mrs.
Murrell, and her husband. The judges
had a difficult job to pick the Garryowen
trophy winner from a large field of good
horsewomen, all excellently mounted.
No man got away from the Animal
Welfare League Ball without paying for
more than his tickets, for the committee
of girls with raffle-books showed /no
sympathy for slow buyers. Iris Con-
nolly collected £l2 for a china dog (with
spots), and cigarettes, chocolates and the
bar all helped to lighten pockets. Lucius
Conolly and Lionel Grimwade, each
with his wife in a chintz apron as offsider,
worked nobly most of the evening among
bottles, syphons and casks. Mrs. J. G.
Purves and Mrs. Fred Krcrouse guarded
the ticket table, and the smoke stall was
under the care of Mrs. Neil Lawrance,
deputising for her daughter, Mrs. David
Syme, who is jaunting to Singapore with
her husband and the Campbell Guest
couple (Mr. Guest had an appendix re-
moved on the trip, but is progressing
favorably).
Elizabeth Allen wore orchids and a
long train of turquoise satin. Mrs.
Russell Gabb was in black with a
sparkling yoke. Accompanied by hus-
bands were Mrs. Frank Doyle, in fluffy
pastel ninon, and Mrs. Robin Wilkins,
whose cream lace gown was swathed
into a fichu round the neck.
Jean Stewart-Ferguson wrapped her-
self in leaf-green satin, and Barbara
Campbell had twinkly stars upon the
corsage of her dusty-pink moire. Archi-
tect Robert Hamilton, Charlie Forrester,
Jack Cross and John Goodall (who
escorted his lissome Kath) were among
the men present. In the mannequin
parade, which took place just before
supper, Mrs. Horton Lewis was elegant
in ankle-sweeping black chiffon with a
dangerously wind-tempting hat, Bunty
Govett wore pink ninon with a green
sash and nests of pleats growing wider
towards the hem, and Gwen Munro did
her bit in a knee-length and very loose
black coat over an amber-colored dress.
The International Club, which has
dropped a few floors downward in Kur-
rajong House, made its housewarming
an international afternoon with hostesses
from Greece, Switzerland and Lebanon.
A longish address was given by the
Consul for Switzerland, J. A. Pietzcker,
A. A. Nicholaides spoke a short word
about Greece, where everybody eats cur-
rants and rides donkeys, and Michel
Coorey and F. Callil gave humorous
digests on their country, Lebanon.
Tea-time gave scope to original dishes
—strong black coffee, perfectly made ;
Grecian cakes; kark ; kourabiedes with
sugary egg-plant seeds as a decoration ;
chocolate confections from Switzerland,
and from Lebanon a national food called
koobbee, like a very heavy rich pastry,
which takes hours to make (and digest).
Among guests present were Mrs. A. S.
Wilkinson, who crossed an ermine neck-
let over her blue dress; Carmen Winter,
very striking in her tweeds, with neatly
rolled fair curls; Mrs. R. S. Conrow,
all in black; Prof, and Mrs. Gibson;
Mrs. Frank Faulkner, wearing a non-
chalant little black hat; and an Ameri-
can visitor, Mrs. Gertrude Bath.
Here is one of the young people on
the Duntroon Ball committee—Joan,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W.
A. Watt. The new inter-State steamer
Duntroon starts this month. On the
fourteenth, while she is berthed in the
Yarra, there will be dancing on her
spacious decks in aid of the Alfred and
the Mission to Seamen. Broothorn made
the portrait.
When one becomes an octogenarian
there is no longer any necessity for dif-
fidence about birthdays. People who
touch their 80th milestone can sit back
on their laurels while other generations
pay deference to their age, their wisdom
and their good health. Last week Mrs.
William Knox had 80 candles to blow
out round two tiers of pink-and-white
cake, the centrepiece of a party at
Menzies. The hostesses were Mrs. Knox’s
daughter, Mrs. Eric Murray, of Adelaide,
and her four daughters-in-law, Mrs.
G. H. Knox, Mrs. Macgregor Knox,
knight Robert Knox’s lady and Mrs. J. U.
Knox. The four husbands were present;
also the guest of honor’s venerable elder
sister, Mrs. Alex. Lilley. Other genera-
tions were represented by Rosemary
Knox and her cousins Alison and Mar-
garet, and by Mrs. Mac Knox, who was
Deb Hacked before she married. Mrs.
Mac brought baby Jacintha all the way
from Perth to be present at her great-
grandmother’s party. The Rev. Dr. John
Mackenzie proposed the health of the
principal guest, and spoke in glowing
terms of her charity work and good
citizenship. Sprinkled in the gathering of
relatives and old friends were several
props of the Australian Women’s
National League.
One of Australia’s well-known eques-
triennes, Phyllis Bray, of Adelaide, is
pictured here by Broothorn. , Miss Bray
won several trophies at the Melbourne
Royal Show. She hunts, plays polo and
doesn’t mind rising early in the morn-
ing to train her horses. In between times
she travels from State to State to com-
pete in ring events at city and country
shows.
The A.I.F. golf day at Eastern was
a large-scale battle. There were 556
entrants, of whom a couple of hundred
finished up 18 down. The first men
went over the top from the first tee at
5.50 a.m., but Arthur Smith was an ad-
vance scout who arrived at the scene of
operations in evening dress at 12.30 a.m.
Three hundred breakfasts were served
to hungry troops at the canteen; 520
gallons of beer prevented deaths from
thirst, 1000 hot saveloys filled up the
holes before and after lunch, and there
was a merry dinner after the last
stragglers crawled into their dugouts in
the growing dusk. Plenty of distractions
were provided in between and during
shots. Amplifiers from a gramophone
shouted the adventures of Mademoiselle
from Armentieres, the tale of a “Little
Umbrella” and “Good-bye, Ladies,” and
’planes overhead took pot-shots with
bags of flour at the man with his head
down and his eye on the ball. Douglas
Pearse and Arthur Daish, about as
gentle as lion cubs despite their red
capes and nurses’ veils, grabbed anyone
resting by the wayside as a casualty, to
be treated with pommelling for massage
and raspberry lipstick for iodine. V. A.
Colvin somehow or other managed to
concentrate sufficiently to win the cup
2 up.
Dr. Van Keussler’s grand night was on
Saturday, when, after the concert, tre-
mendous applause shook the Town Hall
roof. He was not seen to turn a page
in the score during the hour which it
took for Beethoven’s Ninth. Horace
Stevens, leaning well back in his chair.
Browning Mummery, sitting sideways
with all his attention on the conductor,
Isabel Biddell, gazing straight before her,
and Thea Phillips, concentrating on her
score, occupied soloists’ positions behind
the footlights ; their voices were not re-
quired until half-way through the sym-
phony. The Philharmonic choir of 150
voices was spread over all the seats in
front of the organ. Miss Biddell,
brunette, graceful and very tall as she
stood next to Browning Mummery, wore
white satin and twinkly pendants; Miss
Phillips was also in white, with a black
chiffon drapery which started off as a
scarf with a neck ruffle and finished up
as wide angel sleeves. In the packed
house were all the usual concert habitues
and hundreds of other folk, wearing
everything from boiled shirts, diamonds
and ermine to unpressed trousers, brogues
and chewed oddments of bunny. There
were heads of embroidered Chinese coats,
which are seen at concerts but not at
theatres. Varied, too, were the styles of
hairdressing; one pale-blue sari hid a
feminine head in the stalls.
Among returned travellers with tales
to tell of gay jubilee doings are Mr. and
Mrs. W. H. Lempriere. She was pre-
sented at the first Court, and at the royal
garden party caught a glimpse of Mrs.
G. H. Knox and Diana. Mrs. Lem-
priere was also at the wedding of her
Melbourne friend Betty Bellair, who, as
Mrs. Peter Kenrick, is now settled at
Edgbaston, near Birmingham. A black
cloud sailed across the horizon of home-
ward-bound Ormonde passengers when
Italian troopships were sighted near
Aden. In Italy troops were being mobi-
lised, and there were heart-breaking
farewells at station and steamer.
One does not often get the opportunity
of meeting ladies from Texas. Mrs.
Gertrude Bath, who hails from Marshall
—in her own words, “a little pinprick of
a place”—in Texas, is one of the most
charming and friendly Americans who
have visited Melbourne for a long time.
Her interests are in cotton, and she styles
herself a farmerette. In Texas there are
complicated cotton syndicates, and gal-
lons of ink are used to escape swathings
of Governmental red-tape. Mrs. Bath
has left her son in charge of her affairs,
but he is finding the smothering masses
of papers too much for his young
shoulders, and his mother is hurrying
home by the Mariposa. Texas is no
longer densely populated with cowboys,
but on occasions one sees a bucking
bronco in action. The country is, not all
cactus and desert. Mrs. Bath vouches
for six rivers almost as fine as the Rio
Grande.
Mrs. C. E. Lancaster, eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Dodd, of East
Kew, is preparing a tropical trousseau;
she sails by the Nieuw Holland on the
19th for Singapore, where she will wed
R. P. Broome, of Batang Berjuntai,
Selangor, F.M.S,
A queen carnival competition for the
Lord Mayor’s Fund has just been
launched, and will keep seven girls and
their committees busy as bees from
October 1 until the end of November.
The candidates are Valerie Purves, as
queen of the roses and of the kinder-
gartens and creches; Freda Connolly,
forget-me-nots and deaf and dumb insti-
tutions ; Pat Carnegie, wattle and child-
ren’s charities ; Rosemary Lyon, daffo-
dils and ladies’ benevolent societies;
Edna Carr, daphne and convalescent
homes and orphanages; Phyllis Wilkin-
son, violets and missions; and Barbara
Syme, primroses and blind institutions.
Knight David Orme Masson and his
lady are mourning the sudden death at
Natters, in the Austrian Tyrol, of their
daughter, Mrs. Vronislaw Malinowsky,
wife of the London professor and anthro-
pologist. Mrs. Malinowsky was educated
at Melbourne C. of E. Grammar School,
where she was a brilliant student with a
forte for languages. She won special
honors in French and German and
carried off the Mollison Scholarship for
Italian. She could write also, for after a
visit to the Northern Territory she
published a book. The Untamed Terri-
tory. In 1914 she first met her future
husband, who was here for the con-
gress of the British Association for
the Advancement of Science. The
outbreak of war inspired her to
train as a nurse at the Melbourne
Hospital. Since their marriage in 1919
Dr. and Mrs. Malinowsky lived in
London and at their summer home in
the Italian Tyrol. There are three
daughters, Josepha, Wanda and Heppi.
Sheila Shannon, who went abroad last
year with her mother, Mrs. A. Shannon,
has returned home with a tale of a flight
over a nudist colony at Kingston-on-
Thames. The pilot’s idea was to give his
Australian passenger something really
different in sightseeing. Miss Shannon
said that all the members of the colony
seemed to be sunbathing, and she won-
dered if they used sunburn lotion or if
cosmetics were considered out of tune
with Nature.
Knight Frederick Mann, who took office
as Chief Justice of Victoria on October
1, had an appointment one morning last
week at the Practice Court. This time it
was no culprit with knocking knees and
thumping heart who waited for His
Honor, but a lady who looked distinctly
pleased with life though she admitted to
a twittering feeling round the heart. She
was Mrs. T. I. .Ryan, and her business
was to be sworn in as J.P. Eighteen
months ago she became a J.P. for
Queensland. ,
Another wag was put into the tails of
stray pups when 250 women tramped the
links of Commonwealth in aid of the
Dogs’ Home and Animal Hospital. A
warm day and a strong wind were not
conducive to a perfect game, but
there was a jolly rally of golfers, who
contributed a buzz of cheerful chatter at
luncheon and tea. In addition to prizes
for best scores, there were putting com-
petitions, and people who preferred to
wield cards instead of clubs played in a
lounge filled with arum-lilies, irises and
all the gay colors of ranunculi and
anemones. Mrs. Frank Stogdale and
Mrs. Robin Hood were the organisers,
and Mrs. C. Ferguson and Mrs. W.
Ferguson, Mrs. J. H. Knell and Mrs.
Balfour and Mrs. S. Kneebush and Miss
J. Heap were among prize-winning pairs.


If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
No. 125 of 1935. .
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
BETWEEN STELLA ROSALIE BRIAN Peti-
tioner
And LEO JAMES BRIAN Respondent.
TO LEO JAMES BRIAN late of Lothian
House 30 Semaphore Road Semaphore in
the State of South Australia formerly of
Fremantle in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
11th day of July 1935 has issued out of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia (Divorce
and Matrimonial Causes) citing you to appear
and answer the petition of STELLA ROSALIE
BRIAN of 94 Queen Victoria Street Fremantle
in the State of Western Australia praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
In default of your appearing the Court will
proceed to hear and determine the said charge
and you will not be allowed to address the
Court THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
days from the date of the last advertisement to
attend in person or by your Solicitors at the
Office of the Supreme Court in Perth and
there to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose.
T. F. DAI RES,
Registrar.
To be inserted twice in The Bulletin news-
paper.
HARDWICK, FORMAN & SLATTERY,
the Bank of Adelaide Chambers, Fremantle,
Petitioner’s Solicitors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND —WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 4590 (In Divorce).
TO EDWARD THOMAS DUKE formerly of
Sydney Australia Seaman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AGNES
ELLEN DUKE has filed a petition for divorce
against you in this Court on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards and
that unless you enter an appearance and file
the answer in the said Court at Wellington
within 40 days of the appearance of this adver-
tisement the said petition will be heard and
determined in your absence. A copy of the
said citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this 16th day of
August, 1935.
C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
GEORGE CECIL KENT is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the offices of MESSRS. KENT & WEBB,
Solicitors, Customhouse Quay, Wellington, New
Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Petition No. 13 of 1931.
Mr. Justice Henchman.
Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas.
IN THE MATTER of “The Companies Acts
1863 to 1913”
AND
IN THE MATTER of The Primary pro-
ducers Bank of Australia Limited.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT His
Honor Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas has directed
a Meeting of Creditors of the abovenamed
Company to be summoned pursuant to the
above Statutes for the purpose of their con-
sidering and deciding upon an offer to be
submitted to them by the Liquidators of the
said Company that such Creditors accept in
full satisfaction and discharge of all claims
against the said Company a sum which will be
sufficient to pay slightly less than Twenty Shil-
lings in the Pound upon all admitted claims.
AND THAT such Meeting will be held on
Tuesday, the Twenty-second day of October,
1935, at Eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce Rooms, Com-
merce House, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
in the State of Queensland, at which time and
place all the Creditors of the said Company
are requested to attend.
His Honor Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas has
appointed Neil O’Sullivan, of Colonial Mutual
Life Building, Queen Street, Brisbane aforesaid,
Solicitor of this Honorable Court, to act as
Chairman of such Meeting.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of September,
1935.
R. & F C O U R M D M,NG } Liquidators.
Note : Creditors unable to be present in
person, desiring to vote upon the proposition
to be submitted, may appoint a proxy for such
purpose, provided such proxy is also a Creditor
of the said Company, by completing and post-
ing to the Liquidators, so as to be received
by them before the Meeting, a proxy in the
following form:
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Petition No. 13 of 1931.
Mr. Justice Henchman.
Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas.
IN THE MATTER of “The Companies Acts,
1863 to 1913,”
AND
IN THE MATTER of The Primary pro-
ducers Bank of Australia Limited.
I,
of being
a Creditor- of the abovenamed Company, here-
by appoint of
as my proxy
to vote for me, and on my behalf, at the Meet-
ing of Creditors of the said Company, sum-
moned by direction of His Honor Mr. Justice
E. A. Douglas, to be held on Tuesday, the
Twenty-second day of October, 1935, and at
any adjournment thereof.
AS WITNESS my hand this
day of , 1935.
SIGNED by the said
in the presence of
WORLD'S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in- nine colors—Bo.ooo-word
gazetteer—l2o,ooo-word story of the earth.
43/- value for 7/6! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue—3iow on Sale —Price 6d.
Legal Notices^
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 781 of 1935.
rftwffN WILLIAM CUMMINS Petitioner
And WILMA BUNTEN CUMMINS Re-
TO WILMA BUNTEN CUMMINS formerly
T ° of Melbourne in the State of Victoria
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
CUMMINS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and whhoid
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of December next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free ol charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
CAPE KENT & OSBORNE, Solicitors for
Petitioner, 36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1448 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH READ Petitioner
And WALTER FREDERICK READ Re-
TO WALTER FREDERICK READ late of
Bribie Island, Brisbane, Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
READ has .commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
divorce on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards AND FAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
fourth day of December next, and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on apphca-
lion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of September,
a.d. 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
WALTER B. DONNELLY, Solicitor for
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Public Notices.
I, GUISEPPE BEARZATTI, of Italian
nationality, born at S. Martino al Tagliamento,
Province of Udine, Italy, resident years in
Australia, now residing at. Fuller’s Hotel, Main
Street, Kyogle, in the State, of New South
Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Commonwealth Nationality Act, 1920-30.
Dated this Twenty-sixth day of September,
G. BEARZATTI.
NOTICE IS FIEREBY GIVEN that GEORGE
CHARLES HENRY CULLEY, Solicitor,
having retired from the firm of Baguley and
Tooth, Advocates and Solicitors, at Bangkok,
his interest in the said firm has been acquired
by ARTHUR HERBERT DUKE, Barrister-at-
Law, who will continue to carry on the busi-
ness as Advocates and Solicitors at Bangkok
under the style or firm of Baguley and Tooth
as heretofore.
DATED Ist day of June, 1935.
Bangkok, Siam.
Personal and Missing Friends.
THE estate of AMY CHRISTINE MICHIE.—
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN GORDON MICHIE, son of ALEX-
ANDER GORDON MICHIE and SARAH
SUSANNAH MARY FEVER, who probably
enlisted under the name of JACK GORDON
in the 2nd Battalion, communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney?
COVERS THE “WEST
BEST.
The one vital Medium
for your Sales Message,
the
The most widely-read
journal in the West —
with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MSRVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
WESTRALIA.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
The long arm of the Law roped in
many legal and other luminaries to
attend the Police Ball at the Embassy.
Commissioner Hunter and his lady (her
black satins dripping with filmy lace)
received the v.-r. party. The vice-reine s
schooner-blue crepe was splashed with
red, and Mrs. Terence Anketell’s silver
lace had flecks of green. Magistrate
Moseley’s petite wife pinned scarlet
flowers to her black taffetas; Mabel
Teather’s oyster phantom crepe over pink
satin gave a mother-of-pearl effect; a
green taffeta cape was flung over Mrs.
A. M. Martyn’s black satin, and Maisie
Clydesdale’s white taffetas were flowered
pink and striped with navy.
A barrel roof, concrete floor, walls in
two shades of buff and comfortable seats
greeted members when the Rep. Club
opened its new theatre with a four-night
season of James Bridie’s “The Sleeping
Clergyman.” Behind scenes stage-
manager Bill Trethowan and his off-
siders gloried in vastly-improved equip-
ment, electricians Kirke Hearder and Ron
Miller made good use of the new floods
and spots, and the players relished well-
lit dressing-rooms. Cyril Riley made a
success of production, Betty Campbell,
Tom Tracy and Allen Ballon gave good
character studies, and Marjorie Butler,
Mrs. R. J. Cox and Rex Ennis were stars.
The Aldous-Cohn wedding was cele-
brated the day before the couple left for
England. Jean’s creamy brocaded taf-
fetas fell from a wide boat-shaped neck-
line with a pleated upstanding ruche,
clung sheathlike to her lissome lines, bil-
lowed into full bishop sleeves and rustled
into a long, long train. Her short tulle
veil, which just brushed the sheaf of
arum-lilies, was attached to a halo of
white wood-pulp flowers. Marjorie May,
Mary Burns and Verna Voigt followed
in turquoise laces.
Proceeds from the Molar Ball swelled
the coffers of the Dental Hospital.
Dr. Campbell Wilson escorted his lady’s
rosy-pink crepe, with its silver stripe
and hint of blue; Register Wynn
Needham had his better-half’s gold-
striped black matelasse at elbow ; Mrs.
Blankensee’s flame matt crepes were
wrought with gold thread; Pam Hay-
wood mingled red and white in her pat-
terned georgettes; a silver stripe ran
down Mrs. Norman Bannon’s black matt
crepes, and Jean Weir showed a navy-
blue lattice over her white organdies.
A scene from “Hamlet” was the lone
offering from the Bard’s pen at the
Shakspeare Club’s end-of-term shivoo.
Nancy Berryman gave an excerpt from
Shaw’s “Saint Joan”; Billie Cohen
doubled for two of Sheridan’s characters
in “A School for Scandal” extract;
Drinkwater was represented by Phyllis
Caporn’s production of a scene from
“Mary Stuart”; Fred Burke and Phil
Jackson gave a humorous sketch, and
there were musical numbers by Joy
Whiteley, Roma Prunster and Keith
Devenish.
Phyllis Harnett’s verse recital was
given in an eerie atmosphere created by
the one light of a lamp held by a green-
and-gold figure near a black-and-gold
screen which supported a sinister green-
ish mask. The curtains were black, and
at times nothing could be seen on the
stage other than Miss Harnett’s face.
Her voice ably carried her through the
long programme, which included “The
Departure of the Caravan,” from Elroy
Flecker’s “Hassan.”
Andre Bellanger introduced Arch-
bishop Le Fanu, who opened the W.A.
Society of Arts show in Newspaper
House Art Gallery. Water-colors were
well to the fore, with oils second favor-
ite and a panel for pencil-drawings.
Artists Margaret Saunders, Muriel
Southern, Margaret Johnson and Lionel
Jago were among the viewers.
Latest recruits to the platoon of the
betrothed are Mary Drake-Brockman,
of Northam, and Lloyd Wiesmer, of
Eudunda (S.A.).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Lord Mayor’s Ball was notable
for the decorations, designed by Mrs.
Frank Harcus. An immense curtain of
silver tissue concealed the organ in the
Town Hall, and the organ lofts were
filled with pine-trees, lacquered silver and
pink and arranged in tiers, giving a misty
effect. The rims of. stage and dress
circle were draped with silver tissue and
festooned with pink roses. Lights were
veiled in pink petals. On the ledge round
the hall were huge silver bowls filled with
pink blossoms. Lord Mayor Cain was
assisted by his daughter, Mrs. Dunstan.
Mrs. Cain was an onlooker; her health
precludes her from an active part in
lengthy civic functions. Mrs. Dunstan’s
trained pale-pink satin was patterned in
silver.
The “Song of Australia” _ was much
in evidence. It ushered in Premier
Butler, with his wife and daughter Jean,
and burst out again for acting C.J.
Angas Parsons and his wife. On each
occasion all present rose and stood at
attention.
With a diamond tiara Lady Dugan
w’ore a pale-blue-grounded chiffon, pink-
and - gold - patterned in handkerchief
squares, clinging to the figure and merg-
ing into a train. Mrs. Butler was in dusty-
pink crepe cut on princess lines, with
train heavily beaded and a hip-length
cape in the same material. Jean wore
white clotou crepe, the skirt on diagonal
lines with slight train. Mrs. Angas
Parsons looked well in shimmering silver
lame. Mrs. S. W. Jeffries sported a deep
Lorraine Lee pink romaine. Minister
George Ritchie’s wife was gowned in
black chiffon velvet. Black was the choice
of the Bonython, Goodman and Butler
ladies.
The Corinthian Club held its soiree at
the Apollo on the same night as the
Lord Mayor’s Ball. Two scenes were
given in costume from Act IV of “II
Trovatore.” Lewin Berrick, the Sydney
baritone, sang the “Credo” from Verdins
“Otello,” and local artists assisted. His
Excellency and Lady Dugan looked in
before going on to the civic function.
John Dempster, club president, and his
wife received the vice-regals.
The Unemployed Sales Depot, which
began with a small handful of clever un-
employed workers, men and women, has
become an institution. Lady Hore-
Ruthven was a strong friend at the out-
set, and so was the Bonython lady, who
is president of the committee. Lady
Dugan opened the depot’s sale of
Christmas gifts, and found many articles
she considered worth buying. In pot-
tery and woodwork much originality had
been displayed.
Scotch and Presbyterian girls’ col-
leges joined forces for an old scholars’
dance in the ballroom at Torren’s Park.
The guests were received by Mr. and
Mrs. N. M, G. Gratton, representing
Scotch, and Miss Shaw, headmistress of
P.G.C. Iceland poppies, daffodils and
nasturtiums made gay the old family
home of the Barr-Smiths. Supper was
served in the school dining hall, where
pink roses and sweet-peas shed their
fragrance.
TASMANIA.
The Governor was on deck again for
the opening of the exhibition held by the
North and South of the Equator Mission-
ary Society in the City Hall. Each section
had its lecturer. Mrs. J. G. Mitchell ex-
pounded the ways of Melanesia, and
David Uniapon spoke of Australian abo-
riginal customs.
The Old Hobart Association ran a
charity ball at the Continental, where
delicately-shaded lights and purple-and-
silver decorations gave a charming effect.
About 200 took the floor.
L. Dechaineux, president of the Arts
and Crafts Society, opened the society’s
show in the Town Hall. Rugs, leather-
work and needlecraft made up the bulk
of the exhibits. Friends’ School won the
Alan Walker Memorial Shield for
students’ work. Tapestry and needlework
pictures were much favored by exhibitors.
Mabel Gibson, of Launceston, showed
some nice pieces of pottery.
Mary Balfe gave a cocktail party at
Hadley’s for the Bernard Phelans, here
on holiday, Mrs. Phelan, who chose a
pink ensemble, looked even prettier than
before her marriage. The hostess was in
a beige woollen turnout.
Katherine Pitt, just home after a
sojourn on Nauru Island, and her friend
Sheila Crawford were hostesses of a big
party at All Saints’ rectory. Gold and
brown wallflowers and daffodils in great
bowls decorated the rooms.
Mrs, Breadmore (she was Eld Kay, of
Melbourne) and her mother, Mrs. G.
Kay, have been in Tasmania for a short
visit to relatives. Major Breadmore, who
is stationed at Bombay, has gone back
there after furlough, and his wife will
join him later.


BRANDALERS
m
%
They glide over
the roughest
• . _ . paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
J ' <fe CO., Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
Q>
rP
A
Hi
ncLj on L
Mimes*
an
looks at
wants convenience . .
too . . . nat malli
/jPdtui 'J-Zoiei
Tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R- j. Langley, Manager.
SYDNEY
d
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
"LONDON to EDINBURGH."
393 miles In 7J hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
X’OB LUXURY. SPEED, COMPORT
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches,
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Anthropophagi—his name was something like
that, but not quite—firmly refused to move
from the iron shack owned by my other cobber,
Antonio Fumagusta. de Milleflores. Antonio,
with his family and a heap of stones,
started a night-long bombardment of the
limpet’s tin roof. A neighbor went for the
Force, which was bitten by the limpet’s dog
on arrival, only the limpet swore that it
was his landlord’s dog, and brought 17 multi-
colored witnesses to prove it. Antonio,
not to be outdone, later sent a comely black gin
to frequent Michaelis’s hut during his absence,
and warned the police that she was there.
Charge: Harboring a female native. It was then
discovered why Michaelis was away from home
—he was trying to set fire to his landlord’s own
habitation, which was mainly a medley of
packing-cases and kerosene-tins. In the pro-
cess he had become mixed up with Antonio’s
ox, ass and adherents, other ingredients of
•uu dlscus A sl °n being an axehead and some
gibbers. And while the Law was deciding the
measure of atonement, some enterprising person
stepped in and pinched the casus belli piece-
meal. Both Antonio and Michaelis have been
looking lor him ever since.
* * * *
“Z.N.”; An election which attracted
no attention in Australia was that of a
Councillor in the Cook Islands (mid-
Pacific) last month. Hitherto, there has
been little contention about the choice
of a man —Bert Shearman has simply
nominated and sat; but this year the
view was held that it was a negation of
representative government not to have
opposition, so an old hand, William Me-
Zedo”: Senator Pearce’s announce-
ment that the fast launch which is to
patrol the North will “arrive in Aus-
tralia in October” is an index to our
helplessness. There always seemed to
me to be scads of boatbuilders in Aus-
tralia who could put together a fast
launch—many have been doing it; but
apparently no Jap poacher will respect
an Australian-built craft, so we have to
bring one from 13,000 miles overseas.
* * * *
“X.T.”; The imminence of a fast
aerial mail service with 12 passenger
Monospars between Townsville and the
South is stirring the Queensland Railway
Department to action. The dreary north-
ward train trip from Brisbane is to be
made more comfortable with “up-to-date
coaches,” and wireless may be installed.
Most modern overseas long-distance
trains have had this convenience for
years. The Flying Scotsman (G. 8.) in-
stalled its first set in 1924.
* * * *
“J.W.”: It seems to me time that
somebody gave newspapers a quiet hint
about the significance of large-scale
aerial pictures which they publish. A few
months ago, Sydney was limned from
the sky in a full-page aerograph which
laid bare its every feature and weakness
for a bombing enemy. Brisbane has
been mapped for an invader in the same
way. Wharves, residential centres,
strategic hills, highways, bridges and rail-
way stations are all discernible to any-
body with a casual knowledge of the
city, and the height from which the pic-
ture was taken is stated—highly useful
knowledge. If I were a bomber, I should
love to have a copy of that picture.
* $ *
“Kent-street”: The first step towards
ending the old grammar-school system
of Queensland is to be taken when a
bill comes before the Legislative
Assembly to take over the Maryborough
school, which has got itself into deep
water. Ipswich is the oldest grammar
school—founded in 1864 —with Brisbane
next (1868), and Toowoomba, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton and Townsville
following. Until Labor came into
power, all five schools were limited in
attendance—Brisbane, with an average
of 230, was easily the biggest. They had
a thick sprinkling of scholarship boys,
and they had been fairly well provided
in an earlier age with buildings to cope
with expansion. The craze for higher
education bred a flood of scholarships.
It was said sarcastically in the days of
Ryan and Theodore that it was almost
as hard for a boy to avoid getting a
scholarship as it was before for him to
get one. The schools doubled in size
without adequate financial compensa-
tion, and grazier parents who had been
the mainstay of the institutions often
passed them by for the big public schools
of the South.
* * ♦ *
“Kano”: The Queensland demagogue
who likes to spout about the capitalist
gets little encouragement from the re-
port of the Commonwealth Tax Com-
missioner, which suggests that distribu-
tion of wealth in the North is as even
as anywhere in the world. Only 19 tax-
payers in 1933-34 returned taxable in-
comes of over £5OOO p.a., and there were
834 in a population of 960,000 who
had from £lOOO to £5OOO to pay on.
Another 1973 showed from £5Ol to £750,
knd there were 14,000-odd in the £1 to
£lOO taxed grade.
v *l' *i :
) “Thurulgoona” writes;
Tut! What does “Kieta” (B. 24/9/35)
know about northern methods of eviction?
His Rabaul Chinaman was a mere amateur,
and so was his tenant. My friend, Michaelis
"What name you no more tellum me full dress? Mine bin tinkit only
dinner jacket."
Birney, was put up. The fight was in-
tense ; the oratory was rich and motor-
cars dashed all round the landscape un-
earthing ancients and invalids. With
great effort more than 90 votes were mus-
tered. Shearman won with a safe
majority of 39.
* * >;= *
"Kieta": Civilisation is advancing
apace in New Guinea. The leading citi-
zen of Matupi, a village near Rabaul, is
Vincent Lo Popat, a native laundryman.
Since he discovered that he and his
fellow-coons—who are liable to be fined
if they appear in the Rabaul streets
clothed above the waist—could not get
into town at night “in inclement weather”
without hiring a car, he put forward the
idea of buying one. This has been
accomplished, after reference to a
startled Crown Law Department, at a
cost of £290 cash—the first car to be
owned by natives. It now only remains
for a few villages to buy radio sets and
racehorses and for a few more to set up
bookmakers and civilisation will be
complete. Then Australia will be able
to withdraw from the Mandate and
allow Tommy Luluai to attend Geneva
and have all the worry about sanctions
and Article 15.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Jimbour House took on all the hos-
pitable stir and bustle of old times for
the wedding of Muriel Russell, daughter
of the late W. A. Russell and of Mrs.
Russell. It is one of the loveliest home-
steads in Queensland, and was built in
the long-ago by knight Joshua Peter
Bell, father of a one-time Speaker. Mrs.
Russell, who became Mrs. Theo Cooper
at St. John’s, Dalby, wore white draperies
and a Jong veil caught to the head with
a silver coronet. Limerick lace, the gift
of the bride’s aunt, Mrs. Brittain, draped
the wedding gown. Mrs. Tom Brockhoff
(Sydney) was matron of honor, and
Phyllis Billington, Constance Nelson-
Watson, Eileen Russell (a sister) and a
sister of the bridegroom ’maided. All
five wore frocks of blueish green.
There was a house party at Jimbour for
the week-end.
In Brisbane on the same day Claire
Macrossan, only daughter of our Puisne
Judge, married her flying man, Tom
Curnow. St. Stephen’s Cathedral was
massed with pink and blue blossoms, and
the sanctuary was all white —arums and
white azaleas, Clare wore white chiffon
with a train, and there were orange-
blossoms in her bouquet and in the
coronet which caught her tulle veil.
Dell Martin, Elbe Roberts and Marie
Bergin, wearing mauve frocks and
quaint little toques set with blue flowers,
attended her. Justice Macrossan held a
reception at Lennon’s afterwards, and the
legal fraternity was there in force. Gifts
to the bride included a canteen of cut-
lery from the Bar Association.
Commander J. C. McFarlane, District
Naval Officer, has been transferred to
Perth. He and Mrs. McFarlane will go
in January, and a series of farewells is
being planned for the popular couple
Commander E. C. Rhodes, who has
been attached to the depot ship Penguin
will take Commander McFarlane’s place!
October 9 is the date chosen for the
marriage of Kathleen, the P. B. Mac-
gregors’ younger chick. Lucky man is
Lyn Cameron, and old St. Mary’s
Church, Kangaroo Point, will hear the
Voice. Anms Mathewson and Valen-
tine Marks will be bridesmaids. Everil
Trude, daughter of the J. E. Trudes is
to be another October bride. She is to
wed George Capper, and they are
building a home on part of the Capper
estate.
Ann Douglas, inspectress of women’s
work in the technical branch of the
Department of Public Instruction, told
the members of the Town and Country
Uub that the rural schools have special
cooking classes for lads who expect to
start their career as wage-earners by hold-
ing down a station job. She says they be-
come very proficient, and are much more
accurate in measuring quantities than
girls are.
Japanese envoy Debuchi saw our river
at its loveliest when the Nieuw Zeeland
ofTh? hl r aWay - Jt was the °P enin B
c sailing season, and swallow-swift
r n Th °fc W u e u darting hither and
fhf. p^ h u A i S- Huybers, with a party on
the Bluebird dipped the Japanese flag
and shouted Sayonara” through a
megaphone as the white liner passed.
K.D-V.C. members assembled in large
numbers with their wives and female be-
longings aboard the Radio and Twilight
n., and 1. L. Jones and his wife—he is
the club s commodore—had a big party
on the Cambria. Dr. and Mrs H V.
Foxton, in their yacht, also did a little
entertaining.
Mr? r rh SeCOn l d f ghter 9 f Mr - and
Canelh ten) Maclean ’ . of Magenta,
S as marned to William,
son ol the late Dr. Robinson and Mrs.
Robinson, of Sydney, in the
drawing-room at Magenta
White georgette embossed with
leaves of silver enwrapped the
bnde, and her embroidered tulle
veil had been worn by her
grandmother, A bandeau of
pearls and diamente went with
jT s^e carried freesias.
Manan Maclean and Norma
Griffin, in chiffon frocks that
combined two shades of del-
phinium blue, and wearing
coronets of brilliants, ’maided.
The British women golfers
were entertained lavishly. They
began with a dinner given by
the Q.L.G.A., were driven To
Southport, where they surfed
and drank billy tea, and attended
various formal and informal
functions.
' The Governor opened the Art Society's
£° w Vi 16 °; T - A - bui ! din S- Frankie
Payne (Mrs. A. P. Clinton, of Syd-
ney) has some delightful kiddie studies
on the walls ; and Vida Lahey, who can
transfer the most delicate bloom to
canvas, is well represented. Enid Dick-
son Treuthardt, in spite of the fact that
she has a small son to look after, has
sent along some fine pastel portraits, and
Gladys Powell, who is one of the artistic
Hobday clan, has some fairylike mono-
types and some black-and-white work.
Caroline Barker is represented by minia-
tes portrait, and still-life studies.
Harold Parker shows an immense canvas
which first met the public eye in the
color very fine and modern
Melville Haysom contributes Victorian
and Queensland landscapes. Billy Bus-
tard s water-colors, oils, etchings and
aquatints are all very happy.
When Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. J Hill
greeted the guests at the last monthly
at-home given by the United Service
Club they welcomed Lieut.-Col. and
Mrs. O. V. Hoad. Mrs. Hoad wore blue
with a pink floral design, and Mrs. J.
Hill had a black gown also patterned
with flowers, and with black tulle
shoulder ruffles.
Scott McLeod and daughter Elspeth
are down from Terrica, and are staying
at the National. Elspeth is getting ready
to start off on a world tour. She leaves
tor M.L. early in December, and goes
to England via the Panama Canal. Then
she will join forces with Joan, and will
spend the next two years tripping about
Great Britain and the Continent. Joan
was presented at one of the jubilee
Courts, and has had one London season
so should make a good cicerone.


i?S3
BP
r
JC r
i Si
/
mmw
L / \
THE PASSING OF
THE
CARAVANS
By A. CONNELL.
CARL removed his shirt and set him-
self to work as soon as the caravan
v&eels had stopped turning, for it
was Mathew’s rule that they should
always open on the night of the day
following their entrance into a town. He
worked quickly and keenly with the poles
and canvas of the little tent, unresent-
ful of the difficulties of his task, for he
considered that his act was the least
significant in Mathew’s Miniature Circus,
and he liked to make up for it by accom-
plishing all the labor of erection and
dismantling. .
“Carl,” said Mathew, approaching
from the rear end of a caravan where
he had been sleeping —“Carl, I’m going
across to the town to drop some bills.
Can you manage, my boy?” .
Carl nodded, and did not stop his
work. , . . ,
Mathew adjusted the coat on his little
round figure and started across the pad-
dock. Near the gateway there was a
man leaning on the fence.
It was wSilver, the grocer. Bored with
standing outside his empty store he had
strolled across to watch the preparations
for the circus.
“Beautiful weather,” said Silver.
“Yes,” said Mathew, giving a brief
and uninterested glance at the sky.
“Here, read this. It contains something
to interest everyone.”
■“Thank you,” said Silver, pleased at
the gift of a colored bill.
HUGHIE had seen the caravans pass
before his home and blood had run
swiftly through his head in a way that
left him dizzy. Hughie had had nine
birthdays, none of them celebrated in a
fashion that made them any different
from other days of the year, and outside
picture-books he had never seen a
circus, for Carmen was too hot and too
lost in folds of hillside to attract more
than one in twenty years.
The caravans of Mathew’s Miniature
Circus entranced him, as though they
were things from realms of imagination
made concrete. He went to the gate of
his home and hung his upper body over
it while he watched the last painted
trailer vanish along the road ; then he
ran back.
Presently he detected the sound of foot-
steps on the path outside, and when he
looked up he saw a fat little man with
a bundle of bright papers in his hands.
Hughie sped down the path to seize the
bill that the fat man had dropped. He read
it eagerly, consuming the words like food,
and pressing his nose to the paper when
he came to a badly-printed illustration
of a lion. At the bottom of the page he
hesitated, and his eyes turned up to the
sky as though they were reluctant to read
that final piece.
“Goodness!” he thought, and, though
he had not wanted to, he found suddenly
that there were tears in his eyes. This
paper demanded a price of one shilling
from all who visited Mathew’s Miniature
Circus, and Hughie had never had that
much money in all his life.
He went disconsolately into the house,
feeling that the tragedy of an unhappy
world was vested in him. He placed the
orange bill on a table, smoothed it and
brooded over it. So much was here that
must be denied him! So many fascina-
tions and fantasies that he could never
know or see!
He went and stood before a cupboard.
He knew why he did this, but not very
deep inside him he kept refusing to admit
it, and insisting that he meant nothing
at all. He opened the cupboard and put
his hand on a tin box. Strange that he
had no will-power just now ... He
took the lid off the tin, and a coin fell
into his palm—the shilling that he knew
his mother set aside each month to pay
the fuel-merchant. He looked down at
it, and it shone up at him in turn, as
though it owned a little siren voice of
power . . .
He listened for a sound from the
room where his mother was sleeping, but
none came. He felt enclosed by silence
and frightening shadows. “But I must!
I must!” he said, and he replaced the tin
and closed the cupboard door.
ON the slopes beyond the eastern end
of Carmen, Mr. Griffet’s house clung
at an unnecessary angle, so well planted
and so discolored by weather that it was
as unnoticeable as any other projection
of the hillside. Mr. Griffet himself had
built it, in forgotten days when apathy
had not wholly possessed him, and had
extended it as a wedding offering to
Marthe. Marthe had accepted it in her
unemotional fashion, and had been more
than pleased with the entire matter of
her marriage ; but not many years later
her sense of security ceased to exist, for
Mr. Griffet had been captured by
ineradicable laziness and insisted that he
must recline uselessly throughout each
day. '
Marthe came through the twilight of
the parlor. “You didn’t cut the wood,”
she said, faintly accusing.
“Blast!” said Mr. Griffet, stretching
his spider-like limbs. “I forgot.”
Loathing of him and the necessity to
appeal to him mounted in her. “Max
wants school-books,” she said, ‘ and
Jeff hasn’t any shoes. If you’d cut the
wood and sell it to the people who want
it”
“Blast! I don’t want to hear that.”
“If you’d let me”
“I know what you’re going to say,”
said Mr. Griffet. “You want to do the
Hoffmans’ and the Wests’ washing for a
few miserable pence. Well, I haven t
changed my mind. My wife isn’t going
to work while I’m alive. You can stay
here where you belong.”
“You won’t work yourself ; you won’t
let me work. How can we live?”
“We’re staying alive, aren’t we? Blast!
Don’t harp!”
Mr. Griffet’s youngest child crept into
the parlor and sat at his feet, hugging
them. “Dad,” she said, “a circus come
to-day. There was horses and—and—
and all sorts of things.”
“Well, that’s interesting,” said Mr.
Griffet. “Come up here, honey, and tell
me what you saw. Were there any
animals? A lion, say?”
She pondered with fingers caught m
her mouth. “Yes. I think”
“A lion,” said Mr. Griffet thoughtfully.
“Animals.” A quality of childlike desire
coupled with resignation settled about
him. “I’d go if I could find the money.”
A thought came to Marthe where she
stood invisible in the dusk of the far
wall. The thought underwent an eleva-
tion and expansion, filling her with ela-
tion. She saw achievement, release and,
with the old persistence of things trivial,
boots to cover Jeff’s naked feet. The
sweetness of this moment of imagination
unnerved her, and she pressed her thick
fingers on the base of her throat as
though she expected to find a pulse
trembling there, but instead she felt
unpleasant caress of the fabric ot nei
dress, and her depression returned anew.
She had been silly, she thought, drop-
ping her hands ; for could one conceive a
thought like that and really see it carry
on to fruition? . ,
Out of the ebb and flow of her lynna
it came to her that she must try at leas
once, whatever the cost.
She opened a drawer and drew out a
small jar. She unscrewed the cap, took
out a little heap of loose paper ; then
she inclined the jar, and two silver coins
fell to the table. . ,
“Here is some money I had,” she said.
“You can take it and see the circus and
animals. You like the animals.
Startled from a moment of abstract
reflection on the beasts of jungle and
plain, Mr. Griffet peered across
and said: “You’re giving it to me?”
She advanced to his chair. “Here, she
said, extending her hand. “Take it.
DEMI came down the steps of her
caravan in her swift, fawnlike tashion
and approached the spot where Carl was
working on the erection of the tent. She
stood a few feet from him, poised, child-
like, nymph-bodied, yet withal so secret
and quiescent that she might have been
the shadow-projection of something in a
higher plane. „
She watched the movement ot Carl s
muscles, and the childlike impression
dissolved from her. Her eyes opened
to an intenser scrutiny, and she desired
to place her hands on his naked flesh so
that she might know its smoothness and
warmth, and end the dissatisfaction
that mere observance evoked in her. She
wished, too, that those muscles knew
another owner than Carl, whose stolidity
and lack of emotional enterprise subtly
bored her.
“Carl,” she said, relaxing her body
and lowering her lids so that he would
not notice the glitter in her eyes. “I’m
so very tired. Would you —could you
feed my horses?”
The muscles for one instant seemed to
cease their flow, then they went on again.
“Yes, I’ll see they’re all right, Demi. Go
to bed.”
“Carl! So kind! So very kind!”
He watched her go up the stairs of her
caravan. He heard her movements, then
a hinge creaked, and he knew that the
had gone through the other door and
across the darkening grass and through
the paddock fence.
“I am alone again,” he thought; “she
has gone again. She forgets so easily, she
remembers so little. How many times in
the year has she remembered that I once
asked her to marry me?”
MR. PREECE always haunted the
streets of Carmen on Friday nights.
He walked up and down, in an aimless
manner that was yet tireless, seeking out
the crowds and vaguely trying to unite
with their intimate pleasures. He thought,
too, that sometime a pretty girl might
brush against him, or drop something
that he might pick up, or even speak to
him. None of these things, of course,
had ever happened ; but he was not un-
duly disappointed, for in most things he
knew that life passed him by, and he had
schooled himself never to expect a fulfil-
ment of any of his vain little hopes.


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
IJ Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
DEAF
MKrough tj 1 ®
I rOC^ es
Hl „ on
Canadian Pacific
Luxury Trains
advt
Either going to or
returning from Eur-
ope you should know
the delights of the
Speedy and Comfortable
Train journey across Canada,
including 600 miles of un-
surpassed scenery in Canada’s
Rockies.
Canadian Pacific trains are
like hotels on wheels—ob-
servation cars, dining cars.
White waiters. Get booklets
and details from:
Any Tourist Booking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS — STEAMERS — HOTELS
1?/35
EASE...HAPPINESS..
thrift rewarded.
rtvg
ft
Insurance
makes many
things pos-
sible —things which count in life
. . . education for your children
. . . protection of their future . . .
your wife’s financial security . . .
contentment for the family.
This Company issues all forms of
Assurance Policies : Life, Endow-
ment, Children’s, Family Monthly
Income, Personal Accident, Fire
and Motor Car.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? LT.°
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
" ingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins ’House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
%
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is , m of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
w
■n'==
JSMtr;
/p
V=*
>
sss
"v
This night he pressed his face against
the window of a men’s store and tried to
be interested in a blue shirt that hung
before him. “Horrible,” he said, speak-
ing his thoughts aloud.
A face was turned to him. “What did
you say?”
“Oh,” he said, blushing, “but I didn’t
say anything.”
“I thought you did,” Demi said.
Since she had left Carl working in the
paddock on the outer edge of Carmen,
she had been seeking pleasure for her-
self. She had purchased and eaten sickly
cakes and sweets, studied herself in shop
windows, and responded to the remarks
of the dark-eyed larrikins.
Mr. Preece’s middle-aged baldness and
paleness intrigued her. She stood closer
to him and was amused by the nervous-
ness that overtook him. “So hot,” she
said, "isn’t it? i could drink something,
but I have no money left.”
A kind of heat ran in Mr. Preece’s
brain. That this could be true! That
imagery could so become reality! That
a woman—a pretty girl—could stand at
his side, so close, and speak to him . . .
He must answer, he thought; he must
answer quickly before she left him . . .
He said: “There is a shop here, i
will buy you something.”
Bending over a sweet drink whose
flavor he did not fancy, he said: “Do
you live in Carmen?”
“No,” she said, reluctantly dropping a
straw from her mouth. “No. 1 belong
to the circus that came to-day.”
“Do you?” said Mr. Preece.
“You can come and watch me to-
morrow night.”
“I will!” Mr. Preece exclaimed,
trembling with delight at the invitation.
Her thirst satisfied, Demi’s faint in-
terest in Mr. Preece dissolved. His fragile
body held no sensual pleasure for her ;
and his old suit informed her of his poor-
ness. “I think I’m finished,” she said.
“Oh” he said, but before he could
finish she had gone.
She ran down the road to the outskirts
of Carmen and crept across the grass to
her caravan. She stopped and said in
dismay: “Carl! You’re still here? Oh,
Carl, I did want to buy a few things. 1
had to go. I didn’t mean to lie. Do you
mind?”
He lifted her bodily and put her on
the top step of her caravan. “Get some
sleep,” he said.
“I’ll make up for it in the morning,”
she promised aimlessly. “I’ll make up
for it.”
He touched the sleeve of her dress
with the back of his fingers. “Good
night.”
jyiATHEW’S Circus opened punctually
at its appointed time. Mathew stood
at the entrance, shouting, pleading,
importuning in his powerful but monot-
onous voice until his watch told him that
it was eight o’clock, and within sight
there was only a collection of ragged
children whose sparse pennies he had
refused as inadequate for admission. He
peeped through the entrance with pale,
flat eyes, and was satisfied with the crowd
within.
Mr. Griffet leaned forward in his seat
when Mathew entered the little sawdust
square with two foxes on a leash. The
gelid eyes of the beasts flashed in the
light of the flares as they performed intri-
cate evolutions or ran together and
leaped through a hoop that Mathew held
aloft for them.
“Superb,” Mr. Griffet thought. He had
an odd love for animals; the movement
of their bodies and the sureness of
their intelligence fascinated him. In this
moment he extended subconscious thanks
to Marthe, his wife, for the few shillings
she had found for him—for he knew
nothing of the strange plan that had come
to her or of the tenseness with which she
waited up on the hillside for knowledge
of its progress.
The foxes stood on their hind legs,
balancing with front paws touching. Mr.
Griffet drew in his long-legs and clapped.
Blast!” he thought; “these animals are
just as intelligent as humans, only it’s
their way not to let us properly see it.
Look at them!”
The dogs came; then the old lion,
about whom Mathew’s whip spun un-
necessarily; then the agile, impertinent
monkeys. Mr. Griffet was pleased ; he
wished now that it was his nature to be
as demonstrative as Silver the store-
keeper, whom he recognised further to
the left, or that he was a small boy like
the one who had the seat next to him.
Excellent, wasn’t it?” he said to the
latter.
Oh, y es ’ lhank you. ” said Hughie the
child, and he closed his eyes apologeti-
cally. Hughie was not enjoying this dis-
P u he had ex P ect£ d he would, for
the thought of the money stolen from
his mother tormented him. Money for
fuel Money that was not his. Why
couldn the have resisted? He was so
weak, so small, so tempted . . .
Carl entered the sawdust square, his
arms and legs naked in the uneasy lights,
his silk-clad torso weaving and spinning
as he executed a series of swift revolu-
tions to the music of Mathew’s roaring
drum.
Hughie opened his eyes again and j
watched Carl’s acrobatics. Carl per-
formed a breath-taking balance ; Hughie 1
applauded with the crowd ; then the act
was over and again he was sunk
in depression and terror of the thing he
had done. Money that was not his . . .
His mother’s money . . .
On the other side of the arena Mr.
Preece felt the heat beat again in his
brain. Demi had entered, attired in a
few strips of lustreless satin. She bowed
and postured, the lack of rigidity in her:
body hinting at the nature of her act.
“It is she,” Mr. Preece thought. “I
know her. She knows me. She has I
spoken to me. She will speak to me
again” . . .
A detached state of longing took hold
of him ; a portion of sweetness long with-
held reached him.
On the sawdust Demi twisted her body
into the impossible distortions of the
expert contortionist. She had forgotten i
that Mr. Preece existed.
A hand touched Mr. Preece. He
turned with vague irritation. He was
surprised when he saw Mr. Meldrum
behind him. Meldrum was the wealthiest
and most powerful man in Carmen. i
He said to Mr. Preece: “You seem
to know the girl. What is her name?” |
“I don’t remember,” Mr. Preece pro-:
tested. “But I do know her,” he added
with weak vanity.
“Unimportant,” said Meldrum, touch- !
ing his grey hair. “I like her appearance. *
I intend to know her and” He |
stopped, remembering that he had no |
further cause to address Mr. Preece.
“But you can’t!” Mr. Preece cried, I
recollecting Meldrum’s power and repu-1
tation. “Oh, no! You see”
“Quiet! ”-said Meldrum, looking at Mr.
Preece as though he saw him for the first i
time.
THE crowd was rising. The perform-
* ance was over. Mr. Preece followed, !
stumbled over a small boy in his hurry, [
and went past the side of the tent. The
dim shapes of the animals’ cages rose |
about him, and he became anxious and
upset because he could not find what he |
wanted. A man rose on long legs from i
a pen into which he had been staring like
one entranced. “Fine foxes,” he said.
“Blast, but they are!”
“Yes,” said Mr. Preece, and he hurried
on. Now he found what he sought, it
was a little dressing tent, poorly-lighted,
and in it he saw Demi moving to and
fro with various costumes in her hands.
“What?” she said, puckering her small
mouth.
“1 came” he said.
“For what?”
He had come to warn her that
Meldrum was to be feared and avoided,
but he found himself fast forgetting this,
for Demi was near-naked in this dim
light, and he recalled yet again that last!
night her body had touched his and that
for him there was about her something
of the quality of a dream materialised.
He went forward, his white face damp-
ened by sweat. He tried to touch her j
neck, but she drew away.
Yet was she flattered that Mr. Preece
should have sought her out, and allowed
him to fasten his arms about her and
press his lips on her throat. But only
for a moment.
“Huh,” she said, and caught up a heavy
bottle and beat it on Mr. Preece’s head i
in an access of viciousness. He fell, his |
best suit stained by soil and blood, very :
pitiful in the exhaustion of all conscious-1
ness.
Demi saw that a grey man stood at
the tent’s entrance.
“Cruel,” said Meldrum, Carmen’s
man of power, “but spirited. With me as
witness, a plea of self-defence would get
you nowhere. But if you leave this
circus and stay in Carmen with me, the
injury to this unfortunate man can be
regarded as an accident.”
“Carl! Carl!” Demi called, and he
came out of the darkness and entered
her tent. He saw the prone form of Mr.
Preece and bent over him.
“What is it?” he said. “He’s hurt.”
Demi said: “He came looking for
Mathew. He slipped and struck his head
on the bottle there.”
Meldrum grew faintly amused. “She
lies, of course. She allowed him to
embrace her ; then, evidently changing
her mind, she struck him. The thing
can be forgotten if she agrees to stay in
Carmen.”
Demi looked down at Mr. Preece “I
didn’t touch him. He didn’t touch me
He slipped. Carl believes me.”
Carl stood up. These voices oppressed
him obscurely. The faces of Demi and
o Continued on next page.)


Weak Kidneys
STABBING PAINS IN THE BACK, LUMBAGO
You are justified in regarding
Kidney Trouble as a serious com-
plaint, but you should not let it
make you miserable or spoil your
life. Excepting in very rare cases,
Kidney Trouble yields quickly to
treatment with De Witt’s Pills, and
thus the remedy is within your
easy reach.
Chemists everywhere sell De
Witt’s Pills, and it is a wise plan to
keep a box handy
in the house so that
you can take one or
two the moment you
recognise symptoms
of kidney trouble.
You may awaken with a nasty
taste in your mouth; your tongue
may be coated, your breath foul.
There may be puffiness under your
eyes. Your ankles or your feet may
swell and there may be pain in your
back or your hips or your shoulders.
These are signs by which you may
know that all is not well with your
kidneys. They hre allowing uric
acid to escape in dangerous quan-
tities to poison your blood and
torture your body, but De Witt’s
Pills will quickly put you right,
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see, feel
and know for certain that they are
doing you good.
because they contain ingredients
which act directly upon the kidneys.
They make the kidneys healthy and
active, and so rid your system of
harmful uric acid.
Nature intended that your kidneys should
act as filters to keep your system pure and free
from poisonous waste matters. By taking
De Witt’s Pills you give weak or congested
kidneys just the natural assistance they need,
and the alarming symptoms quickly disappear.
Thus you see that the treatment of kidney
trouble is quite simple.
There is no need for alarm
and no reason why the
ailment should get the
upper hand and make a
slave of you. The only
thing to remember is that
prompt treatment saves
much suffering and prevents the ailment
getting a firm hold on your system. That
is why you should get De Witt’s Pills quickly.
The cost is trifling, and a remedy that has
already relieved thousands cannot fail to do
you good. Don’t stop to think it over. Kidney
trouble gets rapidly worse. Buy a box to-day,
price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen
feet or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains,
gravel or stone. These symptoms usually
precede attacks of Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica or serious Kidney Trouble,
and much suffering and expense may be saved
by quickly getting a box of De Witt’s Pills
from the chemist and taking them as directed.
KIDNEY TROUBLE—
THE CAUSE
Oe WITT'S PILLS—
THE REMEDY .
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales,
writes: —
“yj few years ago I suffered severely
with rheumatism and kidney trouble. A
friend advised me to try De Witt s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful
to say that after taking only three bottles
of this wonderful remedy I found com-
plete relief."
DeWitt
Pills
Kidney &
Bladder
the grey man alternated before him, one
elfin and insistent, the other abstractedly
definite.
He was tormented by the trouble that
enclosed Demi. “I’ll find a doctor.”
“You believe me,” Demi said, closing
her fingers on his arm.
“Yes,” he said ; “of course.” He went
out into the dark.
HUGHIE was cold and terrified. He
dared not return home. He would be
questioned, and he could not lie well.
The absence of the money would be
noted ... He shivered ; the cold stars
looked down at him with no compassion.
In all Carmen there was no help for him.
He saw Carl approaching him, and
with a desire for companionship he ran
to him and turned his heart-shaped face
up to him.
“Captain,” he said, “show me the
animals, please.”
Carl nodded, for he thought the boy
might be able to lead him to a doctor.
They walked on across the paddock, and
presently Hughie began to tremble. Carl
pressed his hand tighter in his, but
Hughie found no comfort. He stopped
and pressed his head against Carl’s arm.
“I feel a bit sick,” he said. “It was bad-
enough about the money, but what I
saw” . . .
“What did you see?”
“In the lady’s tent. I was peeping
through a hole. The little man was with
her. They put their arms round each
other, then she hit him with a bottle.”
“Here,” said Carl. He took a coin
from his pocket and handed it to Hughie.
The boy looked at it incredulously. It
was a shilling. This was the amount he
had needed and prayed for. It was his!
Life awakened again in him with the
purity of morning. He kissed Carl’s hand
and turned and ran to the road.
Carl breathed slowly, inexpressibly
thwarted. Deep in him, of course, he had
known that Demi had lied, that she
always lied to him ; but he had preferred
not to believe until now. “But this is how
worlds end,” he thought;: “as abruptly
and un’warnedly as this. I had a kind of
faith in her, but this is the end that always
comes. Well, she stays with the grey
man, and Igo on with the caravans” .'. .
FROM where Silver stood before his
grocery store he could see the caravans
of Mathew’s Miniature Circus travelling
up the north hillside. He wondered
who was the other man seated next to
Carl the acrobat, in the first caravan. It
was not Mathew, who was fat, and not
the girl (where was she?).
Silver started. “Mr. Griffet,” he said,
recognising even at this distance the loose
draping of insectile limbs. “That’s odd.
Mrs. Griffet will be glad he’s going. I
wonder if she knows. Of course, he
always did like animals, but it’s odd . . .
He seems to have taken the girl’s place.”
The caravans gained the top of the hill,
emerging from the shadow, and taking
on a rim of blinding gold from the after-
noon sun. Then they began to descend,
vanishing ultimately from Silver’s vision.
An Amusing Tragedy:-
RUINED BY RECIPROCITY
BY
E.O. SCHLUNKE.
«T HESE trade agreements,” said the
bar-room politician as he wrapped
his newspaper round a bottle,
“are the things that will beat the depres-
sion. It’s no good one country doing all
the selling and another one all the
buying.”
There was a chorus of approval from
the assembled statesmen, who were
always willing to devise means of sav-
ing the country, provided it did not inter-
fere too much with their efforts to sup-
port the One Great Industry. The hotel-
keeper, however, realising the danger to
him if they applied this principle to their
personal conduct, tried rather hastily to
change the trend of the conversation.
But a determined-looking man, whose
little daily dose had produced a state of
mind that qualified him for the office of
leader of the Opposition, thrust his way
into the centre of the group.
“Don’t talk to me about trade agree-
ments,” he said in a threatening manner ;
“that’s what ruined me. Reciprocal, bi-
lateral and multilateral agreements.” He
rolled the long words off his tongue to
let them see that he was a man of
superior education.
The assembly regarded Tom McShane
with amusement. The cause of his down-
fall was apparent to everybody. They
could not imagine how any Government
enactments, except the Early Closing Act
and the excise duties, could affect him.
“Go on, Tom,” said the first political
expert patronisingly ; “what do you
know about trade agreements?”
“1 know all about them.” Tom was
becoming arrogant. “I’ve arranged dozens
of trade agreements myself.”
“Some of you,” he went on, “might
remember the time when I was in busi-
ness.”
“Aye, I do,” said a centenarian from
his chair in the corner.
“But you don’t remember what ruined
me?”
“1 do that. You couldn’t stay on your
milk waggon.”
“You’re wrong.” McShane was indig-
nant. “You only judge by outward ap-
pearance ; there was a world of compli-
cations behind the scenes.
“My father had given me a good
education, so when he left me a small
milk business I started to build it up with
a big idea.
“I began like this. I went to one of
the bakers in the town —he was only an
intermittent customer of mine—who had
a large family of small children.
“ ‘Look here, Doeman,’ I said, ‘if you
buy all your milk from me I’ll buy my
bread off you. Otherwise I go else-
w'here.’
“He saw the mutual advantage of such
an arrangement, and so I made my first
bilateral trade agreement. It was fairly
simple. So was my agreement with the
butcher and the grocer. It was a bit
harder to rope in the family doctor and
lawyer, but when my mother-in-law died
1 got one of the undertakers for life.
“1 made an agreement with the
chemist, but I needn’t tell you what I
bought from him. If their milk kept
fresh my customers were thankful for it,
and asked no questions. For a time 1
supplied much useful information to the
police, but 1 stopped this when they pre-
vented me from obliging the newsagent
by delivering the morning paper with the
milk.
“But they couldn’t stop me from occa-
sionally delivering a well-saturated hus-
band. The wives of these gentlemen
always became good customers of mine
after such incidents.
“1 next realised the possibilities of giv-
ing service to the agents (in return for
custom) by propaganda while on my milk
round. When Richard’s store was burnt
down (it used to be just opposite this
hotel), it was naturally the topic of con-
versation wherever 1 called. I went to
see the agent of the insurance company
concerned, and we reached a satisfactory
agreement. Thereafter when I talked
about the fire I always ended by saying:
“ The owner won’t lose by it. He was
insured with the Immutable Insurance
Company, a most satisfactory firm.’
“Similarly, I never missed an oppor-
tunity to comment on the beauty and
efficiency of the new Studley cars, for
which my friend Ross was agent.
N this manner 1 built up my busi-
* ness so effectively that in two years
1 had the best run in the town. However,
1 was not content with that. To increase
my business 1 introduced the multi-
lateral agreement.
“There was a teamster in the town
called Dorkins, whose wife had triplets.
‘What a customer to have,’ 1 thought,
but, unfortunately, I had no dealings
with him to use as a basis for an agree-
ment. He was usually hauling chaff for
Henley, the produce merchant. Now,
as a big chaff-buyer, I was Henley’s best
customer, so naturally I had an agree-
ment with him. 1 said to Henley:


SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4.300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
1
hJi
AMD
UNION
ROYAL MAIL LINES
“The scenic route ”
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper Hou >e, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
According to the leading article in
to-day’s “Banner” the only satisfactory
basis* for a reciprocal trade agreement is
equality of trade—unless there is some
compensating factor.’
This was a bit too deep for Henley,
who only grunted, so I continued:
“ ‘You must realise that I have a very
unfavorable trade balance with you.’
“When I had made this clear to him
he said:. ‘l’ll take another half-pint
daily if that’s what you want.’
“ ‘Half-pint!’ I said scornfully. ‘I want
more than that; you’ve got to provide
“some compensating factor.” What I
want you to do is this. You know
Dorkins gets most of his hauling busi-
ness from you ; well, you tell him that if
he buys his milk from me he can be sure
of getting all your hauling.’
“ T hardly like to do that,’ said Dor-
kins,_ who was a rather timid man. Tt
looks like interfering in a man’s private
business.’
‘Speaking generally,’ I said in a suave,
diplomatic manner, T believe Spicer sells
good chaff very reasonably. 1 might call
for a bag or two on my way home.’
“My finesse was successful. I con-
cluded my first multilateral trade agree-
ment, and went on to make more,
“One day I was involved in a street
accident. I put the victim on my cart
and took him round to my doctor. When
the man was patched up the doctor ad-
vised him to go on a milk diet if he
wished to avoid similar accidents in the
future. That was the beginning of an
understanding between the doctor and
myself. Whenever 1 was able to put a
little business in his way he recipro-
cated by putting one of his patients
on a milk diet and recommending my
milk as rich, fresh and free from adul-
teration.
“On my rounds I used to mdet old
John Cashon collecting the rent from the
many houses he owned. Sometimes I
gave him a lift when we were going to
the same houses. An idea struck me. If
all his tenants were customers of mine
it wouldn’t be much extra trouble for
me to collect the rent for him. He was
a hard-headed business man, as landlords
sometimes are ; when we put our heads
together we produced a plan worthy of
both of us. He notified his tenants that,
if they simplified matters for him by be-
coming customers of mine and paying
his rent to me, they would be exempted
from the contemplated rise of 2s. per
week in rent. That proved to be a very
fruitful agreement.
“MY business had now increased to
such an extent that 1 had to put
on two extra men for delivery. In view
of the complicated nature of their duties,
it was hard to get suitable men. Finally
I secured the services of two ex-
commercial travellers of persuasive
manner, impressive bearing and stalwart
physique.
“Most of my customers were still of
the pint or half-pint variety, so delivery
costs were high. The advantage of sell-
ing in bulk appealed to me, so I investi-
gated the possibilities of trade with the
larger institutions of the town. I started
with the boarding-house. At first I
could find no effective lever to use, but
one night I met the proprietress at a
concert. Looking for an opening I
engaged her in conversation about her
business. Like many another woman
she betrayed herself by saying too
much.
“ ‘Why,’ she asked me, ‘do you want
to know so much about my business?
Are you thinking of starting a boarding-
house yourself?’
“She gave me a scornful smile, little
realising that she had placed a weapon
in my hand.
“ ‘Yes,’ I said. ‘l’m thinking of build-
ing a two-storeyed place, big enough for
all the boarders in the town.’
“ T don’t think that's fair,’ she pro-
tested, with a woman’s queer sense of
justice; ‘every man to his own trade,
I say. Mine is boarding-houses and
yours is selling milk.’
“ ‘As you say, Mrs. Crooks,’ I replied,
‘my business is selling milk, but you
hamper my business by never buying
from me, so you can’t blame me if I look
for other avenues of business.’
She took two gallons a dav after
that.
“There were two hospitals in the town
in those days, a small maternity and a
large public. For some years I had had
the maternity in my pocket—my wife
was very dutiful—but the public hospital
insisted on dividing its business between
my only remaining rival and myself.
“To get the entire trade. I realised, I
would need to have a monopoly. This
became my ambition. The other vendor
did most of his trading with the hotels.
There were ten of them, so he had a
fair run.
“My chances of beating him there did
not look bright. The hotelkeepers were
not friends of mine ; in fact, they re-
garded me as a business rival, since in
a ‘Drink More Milk’ advertising cam-
paign I had made a comparison of food
values of milk and beer. Moreover, I
had been an abstainer since the day of
my marriage, and my wife urged me to
keep the promise I had made to her.
However, I was somewhat annoyed with
her for failing me in the agreement with
the maternity hospital, where the activi-
ties of my rival’s wife were endangering
my grip.
“Anyhow, I saw no harm in making
tentative overtures.
“ ‘Sure I’ll make a bargain with you,’
said Puncheon, of the Thistle ; ‘for every
pint of beer you buy I’ll buy a pint of
milk.’
“‘That would be inequitable,’ I said ;
‘milk is so much cheaper than beer.’
“ ‘Well, then,’ he said, ‘l’ll spend as
much on milk as you spend on beer.’
“ ‘Even that wouldn’t be fair,’ 1
pointed out; ‘you make more profit on
a pint of beer than 1 do on a gallon of
milk. Besides, you will use the milk
in your business, while I’ll have to drink
your beastly beer.’ ”
A murmur of shocked disapproval and
astonishment came from the hitherto
spellbound audience.
“It’s true,” said McShane; “that’s
what I thought of beer in those days.
Anyhow, I was so pleased with the way
I had beaten Puncheon down that when
he suggested two drinks of beer to two
gallons of milk per day I agreed.
“At first it was hard on both my con-
science and my stomach, -but after a
while my revulsion wore off and I was
able to extend my business to another
hotel on the same terms. I found that
the more of the stuff I drank the less
distasteful it became. Besides, my ambi-
tion to have a monopoly became an
obsession, so one day I recklessly
made agreements with the rest of the
hotels.
“It was not long before I struck
trouble.
“In a mistaken desire to lessen the
effect of the alcohol, I began varying my
drinks as I proceeded on my round. The
effect was disastrous.”
THE centenarian had awakened and
* listened to the last few sentences. He
chuckled reminiscently.
“I remember that,” he said. “The
sports used to follow you around making
bets about how far you’d get; they
called your outfit the ‘rum-and-milk
cart’.’ ”
“Oh, did they?” For a while it looked
as jf the old fellow had upset McShane’s
train of thought, but he took a long
drink and resumed:
“I admit I got into difficulties, but 1
thought I’d cure that by getting my other
delivery men to serve some of the hotels.
For a while this worked satisfactorily.
I now had a monopoly, and looked like
making a fortune, but the lactic-acid bac-
teria had entered my can of prosperity j
at the moment of my triumph. My deli-
very men, whom I had naturally expected
to be hardened to drink by their com-
mercial-travelling experiences, became
affected and began to lose their efficiency.
They went so far as to forget that the |
success of my diplomacy, like any other, !
depended on secrecy. Their revelations j
put me in a bad light with some of the
townspeople.
“To save the situation, I again took
over all the hotel trade, but not, I am
sorry to say, for business reasons only ;
the drink craving had mastered me. But
my men were just as bad ; they became
sullen and rebellious; then one disas-
trous day they decamped with the week’s
takings and the rent they had collected
from old Cashon’s tenants.
“My affairs began to fall into con-
fusion. Seeing his opportunity, my old
rival started a co-operative-supply scheme
and received much support through his
claim that the more custom he got the
cheaper the milk would be supplied.
“Soon I was struggling to keep even
the hotel business. Finally, realising that
they could depend on my patronage
without the necessity of trading with me.
the hotelkeepers succumbed to popular
pressure and joined in the co-operative
scheme.
“That’s why I say that trade agree-
ments will never save the country. Look
at me. All I have left of the fortune 1
nearly made is a meagre income that
barely keeps me in clothes and food.”
“And drink,” added the bar-room poli-
tician.


“THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Ago” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers tile broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busiscss life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per , copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
the mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
‘‘The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulas adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
• Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Caryington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: E 3345.
The Mail
is the big part
of S.A.’s week-end
leisure . .
reader interest
in Adelaide’s leading
week-end paper for the
whole family. Get the in-
dividual’s attention, and
you’ve got the market for
your goods Advertise in
‘The Mail.”
□
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE-R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEY—P A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON— F A Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E C. 4
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
. The , majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience - that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
:❖
55
The Centre • of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is still the Family Newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
VV. K. KOLPH & SONS
PT¥., LTD.,
71-75 Paterson Street,
LAU N CBS TO N.
M. S. ALLAN,
National Bank Chambers
271 Collins Street,
W. G. DOUGAJJ,
50 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
EVERY CORNER OF
Letters from the
extreme North, East
and South of W.A.
prove the wonder-
ful range of GAM’s
broadcasts. In many
rural areas GAM is
the only station
that can be received.
Over 2000 letters
from all over the
State are available
for the perusal of
advertisers.
THE
STATE
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
encroached narrowly on the patch of sawdust in the
middle of the grassy floor which went by the magni-
ficent title of the ring.
The dressing-rooms were primitive in the extreme.
They consisted of a, circle of the combatant’s pals,
who clasped arms around him in the manner of foot-
ballers enabling a player, to change pants.
Between every round the fighters leant against the
two supporting poles of the tent, with their backers
clustered about them. “The local lad” had the
honor of the bloodstained towel which hung from the
light wire. His opponent was expected between
rounds to warn off small boys, clear the ring, and
generally make himself useful, his colleagues, apart
from Johnny as timekeeper, referee and chief urger,
being engaged in standing outside roaring “Roll up!
Tumble up! The big fight just starting!”
As soon as one finished his bout he rushed out-
side to this duty, only coming inside when his next N
turn arrived. There was no doubt Johnny’s men
earned their money.
The show opened with a demonstration of wrest-
ling between the tired-looking wrestler and the stocky
little pug in purple tights, who, as soon as it was
finished, started clearing the ring for his own fight
with young Phillips. He would still have been able
to give Phillips the father of a hiding if it had not
been arranged'beforehand that Phillips was to win.
The pug therefore retired behind the barricade of his
gloves and stalled, catching everything either on his
elbows or on the comforting leather mitts.
Young Phillips won amid the enthusiastic acclaim
of the crowd, which liked nothing so much as seeing
someone get hurt. The pug staggered to his corner
pretending to be very much hurt indeed, and artisti-
cally spread all over him the splashes of blood from
Phillips’s nose. The slovenly-looking audience breathed
hard and clapped vigorously. The small boys were
loudly excited. Some of the young sports preserved
a nonchalant demeanor and a slouch to show that
it wasn’t much of a fight. They could have done
better themselves if they were in training.
Next came the wrestling match between the
tired-looking gorilla and the “traveller,” who pro-
ceeded to tie the tired-looking one into a succession
of ferocious knots. The other responded in kind,
and the crowd burst into roars of applause as they
rolled off the sawdust among the feet of the small
boys, chewing, clawing, kicking and slapping at each
other.
Johnny Sullivan lost no opportunity to add to the
excitement. He screamed admonishments and made
vain efforts to separate them. “Now, then,” he
shouted, “break, break! Hit him, Jim. That’s it.
Toe-hold ; good boy. Get him in the splits, Jim, the
splits! ”
“Time! Time!” shouted the chap in purple
tights, who had been removing the blood from him-
self, and the crowd roared as Johnny dragged the
wrestlers apart.
“Back to the canvas! Keep back, gentlemen,
please!” pleaded Phillips’s former opponent, now
timekeeper and ringside attendant. “Give ’em room,
please. Keep back there, sonny.” '
The combatants spat out a mouthful of water
each and returned willingly to the fray. The slap-
pings, hair-pulling and gorilla-like charges continued
another two rounds. The artistry with which the
wrestlers worked in all the tricks previously demon-
trated, together with a great many more, did not fail
to stir the crowd. The excitement was top much
for Sam Jordan, who had collapsed on his knees in
his frantic struggles with an invisible opponent.
“That’s if, Willie,” he hoarsely encouraged the
stranger. “Pull the hair off his chest! Wow! Look
at that, will y’!”
The audience was not only looking, it was almost
participating, and it took the frantic efforts of the
boxing troupe to keep the ring clear. The Sullivan
baby alone preserved a grave, approving demeanor
as it watched Mrs. Sullivan busily gather in the two-
shilling pieces from the latecomers who had been
enticed by the roars within the tent. To the great
approval of the crowd, the bout ended with the tired
one vainly threshing the sawdust with his arms while
the stranger triumphantly applied a toehold.
“You heard him ask me to give him a job if
he beat my man?” Johnny announced to the thrilled
audience. “You heard that, sports, and .you heard,
me say I’d see? Well, I’ll keep my word. I’ve seen
and you’ve seen he’s the better man. He joins rhy
outfit from now on.”
“What did. I tell you?” said Sergeant Moore to
the interested Scorby amid the thunder of applause.
“It’s the same old ramp, but it always works.”
11.
Larry was breathing desperate words of encour-
agement into the ears of the pale, sweating Bill, who
stood tremblingly waiting his turn.
“Stall him,” he said. “Get into a clinch if he
tries to rush you. Hold out for the four rounds and
the two quid.”
Bill nodded miserably, his eyes; on that imposing
gold-and-scarlet dressing-gown on the opposite side
of the sawdust. What a; fool he was going to look
put up against a man like that. Standforth Roman
had followed Scorby and the sergeant into the tent
and had edged his way round to Bill. The little group
of supporters made way for Roman, whose opinions
on boxing were respected.
“Listen,” he said. “I don’t trust this man. He
looks mean. When he finds you’re a left-hander watch
for trouble. There’s an old trick they use in a clinch
of catching a man’s left hand under their armpit and
knocking up his elbow with their fist. If he gets
away with that you woq’t be able to use your left.
It’ll be paralysed. So watch out.”
Bill nodded. He was too nervous to comprehend
much of Roman’s advice.
“The next bout, sports,” Johnny Sqllivan. an-
nounced, “will be between Bill White, of Tiburon,
and Joe Kahn, of Fitzroy. Put your hands together,
sports.”
“Now, then, don’t go lettin’ y’.r ole father down,”
Bill heard a husky voice im the rear.. “Go in an’
murder ’im. You show ’em.”
“Stall,” whispered Larry and Roman.
Bill found himself mesmerised into the ring.
“Stall,” h_e repeated to himself. He crossed gloves,
met the other man’s eyes, and then Joe Kahn was
on him like a wild cat. I Joe swarmed all over -him
in a hail of stinging blows, while Bill crouched behind
his gloves refusing to fight back. From the crowd
round the ring came hodts and jeers: “Go on, fight
him. What’re you scared of?” But Bill was thinking
of the two pounds. He meant to have ,them. , He
could hear the groans of his parent urging him on.
“Go on, Bill! Hop into ’im! Fight, I tell you.
Fight!” '
Bill was fighting, as he had never fought belore,
but defensively. He was going to last those ioui
rounds if it killed him. Johnny Sullivan danced
round the pair excitedly as they got into a clinch.
“Now, then,” he shouted, “that’s it. Oh, bonzer!
Left hook. That’s shaken him. No! He’s coming
back for more.” Johnny sounded like a wireless
announcer who had forgotten his audience , but it
was all part of his technique for working up excite-
ment. “Oh, you little beaut., Joe! Got him! One,
two, three, four. No! There’s another. Use your
wallop, Joe. Use your wallop!” But Joe found that
dangerous wallop blocked or grazing harmlessly wheie
Bill had been.
“Time.” roared the bruiser in purple tights at
last.
“He won’t fight back,” Joe hissed as he wiped
himself on the communal towel. “He’s holding out
for the cash. Here, gimme some chewin’ gum. I’ll
make him fight.”
Roman was holding Bill’s green pants away
from his diaphragm as the warrior breathed. “Good
boy,” he said. “That’s it. Don’t let him hustle you.”
Dave, breathing beer fumes and reproach dipwn
Bill’s other ear, was taking quite a different view,
“Why don’t y’ show ’em wot y’ can do?” he mut-
tered. “D’ y’ want them sayin’ y’ was too yeller to
fight? When I think uv a son uv mine that’s been
a good boxer in me day not game t’ stand up t’
“Time!”
“Get in a clinch,” Roman commanded. “Cuddle
him.”
Again Kahn rushed at Bill, fighting all out. His
jaw moved industriously as he chewed, and Bill
thought wistfully that if only Kahn would leave it
uncovered for a minute he would break it for him
Kahn seemed quite as anxious as Bill to clinch, and
they held the infighting savagely. Suddenly there was
a howl from Bill.
“He bit me,” he roared. “He bit me.”
“I did not.”
“Foul,” hooted the crowd.
“Why, there isn’t a mark on him,” shouted
Johnny Sullivan/ searching officiously. “Trying to
get out of it, are you? Look there. There isn’t a
mark. All right, if you want to back down you can.”
“I’ll go on,” Bill said sullenly.
Joe Kahn grinned as he spat out the chewing
gum. It had achieved his object. Bill would fight.
“The ‘bout goes on,” Johnny announced, and
stepped back.
The moment he did so Bill swung on Kahn with
his full weight and sent him to the mat with a left
swing. Kahn was up again and into it willingly, but
he realised that Bill roused was a very different person
from the former slouching, stalling fool. Bill now
looked like his brother Jim as his brows closed down
dangerously bver his eyes and his lip drew back.
;He sailed into Kahn like the British Fleet, and it
.was Kahn who now stalled, got into clinches and hid
behind his gloves. Bill’s left came crashing through
his defence, and drove him staggering into the ring
of shrieking small boys.
“Go on,” Bill sneered at him, “bite me again!”
(To he continued next week.)


Give that COLD
24 Hours
mst
m
&
S\& o , \0 w9 v °V c \ oV, ■<—
Guaranteed to Contain \
Over 70% Eucalyptol,
and to be Free
Front Phellandrene.
i0&&y
W&&T i
m
m
m
D
D
\A
EUCALYPTUS
EXTRACT
WILL. SMASH YOUR COLD IN RECORD TIME
Colds are dangerous and should be given immediate attention.
Here is a new and better way of driving the cold germs from
your system overnight.
□
1
El
TAKE 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of sugar—
being pure, Double “D” is safe to take internally.
RUB Double “D” thoroughly into chest and back—
Double “D” is strong and will quickly penetrate.
INHALE 16 drops of Double “D” in a jug of hoi
water. Double “D” contains no irritants, and
will have a very soothing effect.
In this treatment, the powerful germicidal vapors of Double “D,”
the purest and strongest Eucalyptus sold in Australia, are brought right
in contact with the germs in the nose, mouth, throat and lungs, and
even the most severe Cold or attack of ’Flu will be smashed in record time.
9d. ENORMOUS SALES —1/3
OCTOBER
D° you feel “as fit as a
fiddle” one day, and then
all worn out and depressed the
next day, suffering with Joint
Pains, Rheumatism and Pains
in the Sides?
If you are subject to these attacks, it points to your Kidneys
being out of order, and you should at once begin taking Australia’s
leading Kidney Tonic, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
One of these renowned Pills taken after every meal will have
a very beneficial effect upon the Kidneys, and will remove any
inflammation or soreness, leaving the Kidneys in a strong, healthy
state-
Bad days will disappear, and, with healthy Kidneys keeping
your bloodstreams pure, you will face each
day with renewed health and vigor.
EXCELLENT FOR RHEUMATISM
“l am sending this testimonial to let
you know how wonderfully your Gin Pills
have benefited myself, wife and two
grown-up children. We have found them
excellent for liackache and Rheumatism
and have been free from illness ever since
we had Gin Pills in our Medicine Chest.”
George Christie,
30 Gilbert Street,
Gilberton, South. Australia.
HAVE THE HEALTH THAT CAN
BE YOURS BY BEGINNING A
COURSE OF DR. SHELDON’S
GIN PILLS TO-DAY.
27 Pills 1/9; 60 Pills 2/9.
pr
D. 5 SHILDON’s
mfthod formulated by
n
prepared i»v
THE SHELDON ORUGCO LTD
SUM NIO
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
drtvghd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
0
O
*9
kO> v^ fc •••■' -■■■’
W' ..•■• .-••
.^fi e Uy‘ ..-■ •••...•••-..•••
V C 0 < .•* .* , ?*&
tA<-’ .*** .***


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
ft"
I, I M
/•
I . J
* 7 i
"Ss-,.
RYUNDS!
brand.
r«
min
WARATAH” FENCING WIRE ..
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc.
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ...
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from die ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind ail
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers*
Handbook
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
