

&nm
f 1
■ I
PLATE LC
as
0
and 7r year's
UNCONDITIONAL
GUARANTEE/
VEST
MADE FOR ALL CARS, RADIOS, MOTOR CYCLES, HOME LIGHTING, ETC.
Obtainable from good garages everywhere, or from these Central Distributors
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia .
Tasmania
West Australia . .
AUSTRALIA:
Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne
Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
Airzone (W.A.), Ltd., 886 Hay Street, Perth
NEW ZEALAND:
k
ķ
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa . . . ... . Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows. Ltd.. Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.. Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
V258
The Bulletin
And the Verdict Is ——
Vol. 56.—N0. 2883.
Wednesday, May IS, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post" brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency,
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
(Ml
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street,. Melbourne.
CVT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My A ddress
S.B. 135
SupnqujsiQ
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
Tasmania,
“The Examiner” (Established 1842),
the only daily newspaper now publish-
ed in Launceston, not only goes into
90% of the homes in Launceston, but
is distributed throughout Northern
Tasmania, in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA,
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Ralph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier" and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W, G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Pagr
Activities
of Coddle
and Damn
A great deal of
rubbish is talked
about Australian
literature. As far
as writing is con-
cerned it can do
no harm. No
lasting book will be writteh or not
written because of it. Neither Coddle
nor Damn has any influence in the
matter. The writer who needs the one or
can be snuffed by the other might as well
thifik at once of an original way eft dying
as his last means of arriving at posterity.
That is not to say that any writer
should be able to do without a friendly
audience, though some can, and produce
their sparks only against a flinty hostility.
But there is a difference between a
friendly audience and the spurious sort
that Coddle seeks to create, with her
book weeks and her literary evenings and
her simpering patronage of readers in
general. That is all she or brother Damn
can seriously aff^tt—the reading of Aus-
tralian work: —and that only temporarily.
And in this, though she can never see
it. Coddle is the more hopeless and
dangerous.
She is a dear soul, is Coddle. She
believes Australian criticism discrimi-
nates against every Australian book
published. She believes it is the
business of Australian criticism to
prospect among Australian writings
and bring to light such gold-dust as
may be found there, making no mention
of the dross. She believes a whole
bookful of stuff of that kind. Criticism
may not be at a very high level in this
country ; but the fact, if it is a fact, that
it is harder on an Australian book than
on a book of similar class from over-
seas is just as likely a healthy as an un-
healthy symptom; it may mean that the
critic is exposing that inferiority complex
from which we’re supposed to suffer in
the face of literary imports, but it might
also mean that the critic is more in-
terested in the Australian work, more
hurt by what he conceives to be its de-
fects. What Coddle overlooks in this
matter, too, is that all criticism is an ex-
posure of the critic’s experiences, and the
Australian critic’s experiences may enable
him to see faults in an Australian work
that he would not see in many an im-
ported book. What can be said on
Coddle’s side in this regard is that very
little Australian criticism of Australian
work is literary criticism: it is mostly
moral criticism ; and such expressions of
DSinh are certaiflly deplorable.
The serious trouble of Coddle is that
she does the very disservice of which
she accuses her brother —she prevents
the reading of Australian literature. She
does this to such purpose that it becomes
a necessary duty of criticism to smack
her in the face. She does it through the
crude overemphasis she puts on the value
of the goods in question. She has been
doing it for so long, with such a dis-
regard for decency, that all Australian
writing has become deservedly suspect,
and the only criticism of an Australian
book which is believed is that which says
it is a bad book. In short, Coddle and
all her precious limelighting satellites
blame Australian criticism for the very
state of mind which their activities have
brought about. In the long run even this
will not matter ; books, if they’re worth
it, will be read eventually, Coddle or
Damn notwithstanding ; but for the time
being the Coddle-created suspicion of
Australian readers is a bit hard on the
worth-while makers of Australian litera-
ture, especially if they happen to be alive.
Mixed Sexes
on a Sailing
Voyage
A handy ex-
ample of the
better kind of
Australian work
which that sus-
picion adversely
affects is North-
west by North, an account by Dora
Birtles of a voyage made in 1932 by her-
self, two other women and two men from
Newcastle (N.S.W.) to Singapore in the
Skaga, 34ft., Norwegian-built, with the
crude accommodation and general incon-
veniences common to all such small sea-
worthy craft. As far as Brisbane the
party included another man, but, though
his character, or what the author took
to be his character, is indelibly fixed, like
all the others, including the author’s own,
he is of little importance in the narrative.
The first striking thing about this frank
record of a remarkable, possiby a unique,
voyage is the firm sureness of the writ-
ing. The writer plunges immediately
into her narrative and at once captures
interest, but the writing is sure in a more
satisfying sense than that. It demon-
strates how prose can be both strong and
feminine together. The interest may be
held largely by the exciting nature of the
narrative, by the emotional conflict which
might be expected to occur on such a
voyage and does occur abundantly;
but the prose has the separate interest of
its individual quality. It is prose with a
pulse.
It doubtless will be said, quite unfairly,
that the author writes without restraint.
That is the stock attack of the moral
critic faced with a writer who insults that
sentimental slobberer Convention. But
the writing of the chapter called “The
Row” destroys such criticism in advance.
The chapter describes the explosion of
the emotional volcano on board, and,
though it is dramatically satisfying
enough, it leaves the impression that the
writer could have said a good deal more.
The explosion occurs in the first stage of
the voyage; a matter of hours and hos-
tility is loose : a “substratum of unfriend-
liness, or conflicting self-interest, or
wounded vanity or a conglomerate of all
three” has come to the surface and sees
the voyage out.
It gives a dramatic tenseness to the
whole narrative ; but it does not prevent
the author, after Brisbane is passed, hav-
ing an eye for the waters and islands up
through the Barrier, the Strait and, so
on to Singapore; an impression of a
familiar scene glimpsed through fresh
eyes. It includes an interesting domes-
tic vignette of Vance and Nettie Palmer
on Green Island, where they “cooked
and wrote out of doors, Vance sitting on
an upturned box and typing,” and a
sharp pen-picture of them both so accu-
rate that it alone puts the hall-mark of
accuracy on the account as a whole.
The book could have done without
the author’s experiments in free verse,
which come oddly after her early laugh-
ing over a book of “precious” modern
verse. Nothing could be more precious
than her own, which is merely forced
prose having occasional verse rhythms
in it and about as much poetic quality
as a tin of soup. Still, some people pro-
fess to see beauty in such lines as
‘struggling to stand upright like a child
grasping a chair
only to fall ridiculous bumping its
bottom and not understanding why.
Someday a boisterous book will be
made of such rubbish as that, and this
present day will be the glory of the
ribald anthologist.
A Novel of
High Promise
If the moral
critics assault the
Dora Bi r tie s
book, they will
somersault and
Catherine - wheel
and turn ferocious handsprings over
James Hanley’s novel The Furys. There
are not many words left that fiction-
writers have not brought into their
common currency, but Hanley uses one
or two and puts thin covering over other
of the rarer specimens.
A strange novel, this. It has much of
the vigor and very much of the influ-
ence, though none of the incomprehen-
sibility, of Joyce’s Ulysses. The an-
nouncement on the half-title page of
two works “in preparation,” one of them
to be called Peter Fury, indicates that
the present novel is the first volume of
a huge work, and so it reads. It has
an ending satisfying enough, but is ob-
viously meant for building on to ; and
the author gives the impression that he
is quite competent to go on building in-
definitely. He has a tremendous energy,.
His work, in its abrupt, lightning-like
prose, bursts from him as rapidly as
machine-gun fire. His sentences are uni-
formly short, giving the effect of a mono-
logue— not the elocutionary variety, but
the ordinary talk of life. One result is
that when it comes to dialogue the prose
tempo hasn’t to be altered a fraction
from the author’s own statement, and it
is his singular success that, in spite of
this, and in spite of an absence of dia-
lect or any other such aids, his people,
while all speaking at the same rate, or
near it, all speak in character. And there
are many of them talking, and they do
a lot of talking, too.
The setting is an English shipping
and industrial town, rather like Liver-
pool, which, virtually throughout the
novel, is in a state of general strike and
industrial revolt. This situation gives
the author opportunity he several times
arrestingly exploits of displaying his
mastery over the most difficult of ail
creative problems—that of conveying a
visible impression of city crowds in mass
or in massed conflict. His descriptions
of the sacking and looting of the city
have the sounds of smash and clash in
them—something to put the fear of the
devil into law-abiding people here, and
give them a true sense of reality when
they hear our stupid friends talking
easily of revolution: a picture of mob
surging over authority, including its own
authority, as unsparing as it is unsenti-
mental towards both sides in the con-
flict.
The focus point of the work is the
Fury family, an odd lot whose name
might have been coined for their mental
violence. Fierce in thoughts and words,
living in different parts of the town and
in a state of civil war among themselves,
they are a striking illustration of how
the true creative power can fasten upon
apparently ordinary character and make
it serve the highest purposes of dramatic
and emotional expression.
Cecil MANN.
[North-west by North, by Dora Dirties
(Cape; 125.); The Furys, by James Htinley
(Chatto and Windus; 15s.)—both from Angus
and Robertson.]
Literature
and Politics
in Spain
Literature and
politics are close
conn ections in
Spain, where,
Unamuno says,
they are both
made in cafes. The same relationship is
true, in varying degree, of the other arts.
Not in the obvious propaganda sense of
the Soviets, but in the proper persons of
the poets, painters and novelists con-
cerned.
Painters, poets and novelists are apt to
be political personages in Spain, or at
least politically minded. Seldom does
one find the artist or writer for whom
politics does not exist, and who contrives
to achieve romantic isolation in the tur-
moil of his country’s affairs. Even peda-
gogues and scholars find politics a natural
preoccupation ; poets and professors are
called to the Presidential palace to advise
in times of crisis. In the ranks of
Spanish political parties you will find the
majority of the men whose names count
for much in the world of literature and
thought.
Unamuno, poet, essayist, novelist,
philosopher, dramatist, professor of
Greek and of comparative philology
(Salamanca) and one of the glories of
modern Spain, preached the Republic
during six years of exile in France, and
from Hendaye directed a sheet which,
circulated secretly south of the Pyrenees,
was an important factor in the latest
chapter of Bourbon misfortune. He was
a deputy in the first Cortes of the Re-
public. Jose Ortega y Gasset, with inter-
national renown as a thinker, author of
important critical works and editor of
the leading review in Madrid, besides
being professor of philosophy in the cen-
tral university, is also no academic or
literary recluse. He is a deputy in the
Cortes. With Doctor Maranon and
Ramon Perez de Ayala he formed an
intellectual group dedicated to the ser-
vice of the Republic two months before
that era dawned. Maranon, formerly the
royal doctor, with European fame as a
psychologist, has explored further the
borderline regions exploited by Havelock
Ellis and Krafft-Ebing, and published the
results in books which enjoy literary as
well as scientific esteem. For his out-
spokenness under the dictatorship he was
gaoled by Primo de Rivera. Perez de
Ayala, at present ambassador to the
Court of Saint James, disputes with Pio
Baroja place as the finest stylist writing
Castilian to-day. He has a string of
novels to his credit, and is probably one
of the few Spanish writers who have
(Continued on page 4 .)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our undeviating policy.
THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Phone: M2401, Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712c, G.P.O.
Guarantee and Recommend
5
XBt'Si ' 27Z" "v S'.
« - v
£ C. .
. '-.y ' ■ J ■
r rf.
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
l.
Rcgd. Trade Mark.
Quality Underwear Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
"Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of
winter. Its native warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long
staple Pure Woollen Yarn—the soft down-like surface of the fabric is flaw-
less, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its
winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our Country’s Glorious Sunshine.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Guaranteed Unshrinkable, and the wide range of
sizes stocked enables every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN!
"Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets, in Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style; bound
armholes. Sizes, 34 to 44 inches chest. Each
Men’s "Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 2l/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
Short Sleeves, Long Leg . 20/- 21 /- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/-
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 2l/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/-
braid round neck and
5/9
46
48
50
25/6 27/-
26/6 28/-
27/6 29/-
m
m
■
* ; E.
7
at
m
m
• A
4s i?
3M
if/:'
© Men’s Mercery — Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight Paid to all Seaports in the
Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in New
South Wales.
BUY FLEECY "JUMBUK" UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 220—"Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Light weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/-
No. 330—"Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/— S/— 8/ll
Trunk Drawers — 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/— 8/— 8/ll
Combinations, \ Sleeves .. — 7/6 7/9 8/6 9/3 9/ll 10/6
Long Sleeves — 8 /- 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6 ll/-
No. 15—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Light Weight 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
No. 25X—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves ... 3/9 4/ 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/6 6/3
Combinations 6/3 6/9 7/3 8/~ 8/9
£ Bot/s’ Mercery —Fri'sf Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
Seaports in the Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c C.P.O.


In 1858 as in 1935
or
*
Each of the years since Lysaghts
was founded has meant added ex-
perience. It is this experience
which enables Lysaghts to make
galvanized sheets which are
thoroughly dependable—under all
conditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght’s galvanised-iron
for every job.
FOR ROOFING . , Tlim _
RED
LYSAGHTS GALVANIZED IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Fremantle.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office;
343 George Street, Sydney.
C. DARVALL,
General Manager.
reaped much financial reward from their
literary efforts. In addition to his diplo-
matic post, he also holds that of director
of the Prado, Madrid’s famous museum
of art, necessarily in absentia.
The astonishing proportion of literary
men among those who made the revolu-
tion of April, 1931, has given the Spanish
Republic a richer intellectual and cul-
tural facade than any other State in
Europe. The death of Blasco Ibanez in
exile, following his too fervid advocacy
of a change of regime, has thrown his
part into dramatic relief. But, besides
the illustrious examples already quoted,
other fellows of Ibanez’s craft played
parts less spectacular but no less impor-
tant. Salvador de Madariaga, for in-
stance, who was for some years prior to
1931 a brilliant professor of Spanish at
Oxford. His book, Englishmen, French-
men, Spaniards, is a penetrating compara-
tive study of three national psyches, the
interest of which is heightened by the
fact that the three appropriate versions,
English, French and Spanish, were all
written by the author himself. No
translators need apply.
Alcala Zamora, president of the
Revolutionary Committee, which put the
last touches to the movement from the
model prison in Madrid, is now Presi-
dent of the Republic. He is a publicist
whose speeches reflect a literary care in
preparation. Manuel Azana, the strong
man of the first two years and the bogey-
man of the Conservatives, had a play pro-
duced during his term as Prime Minister
of Spain. One can reject the obvious re-
flections inspired by this fact, as Azana
had already made fame as a writer,
chiefly as a journalist and essayist, but also
as a novelist. The Monk’s Garden, the
story of his life in a church school, is a
serious contribution to modern Spanish
letters. He is also a brilliant translator
of Borrow.
In Anglo-Saxon annals we should have
to go back to Disraeli to scale Azana.
The political memoir writers, like Lloyd
George, will hardly do. Even Churchill
could hardly claim to be a literary figure
in the way that Azana is. And the in-
teresting point is that a literary Prime
Minister was not a monstrosity in Spain
as Disraeli was, after all, in England.
It is difficult to imagine the British or
any Dominions Parliament with the pro-
portion of literary men the Spanish
Cortes has had and still contains. Luis
Araquistain, one of the leading Socialist
deputies, is a brilliant journalist and
publicist, editor of “Leviatan,” the
Madrid monthly, and author of The
Yankee Peril and a magnificent book on
the decay of monarchy in Spain, The
Twilight of a Regime. Araquistain was
the Republic’s first ambassador to Berlin,
one of the first brilliant batch of Repub-
lican ambassadors which included Mada-
riaga and Perez de Ayala. Difficult, too,
to imagine the British diplomatic corps
so staffed.
But there is no need to confine the
observation of Spanish politico-literary
figures to the Left side of the Cortes.
Honorio Maura, one of the leaders of
the Alfonsists, is a dramatist. Ramire de
Maeztu, another Right deputy, is a well-
known publicist. Jose Maria Peman is
one of the most successful of contem-
porary playwrights in the country.
Maura’s brother, the Duke, is a his-
torian. And so on. The benches in the
columned Legislature at the foot of the
Calle San Jeronimo bristles with talent,
and the active ranks behind them are
similarly embellished. In Spain there is
nothing incompatible between art and
politics.
The Anglo-Saxon world has nourished
the idea that there is. The romantic
legend has been fostered to the detri-
ment, I do not doubt, of Parliaments.
Apart from the fact that many artists
and writers one knows would make
better tacticians than the majority of
politicians, their ideas would leaven the
dough of average political enterprise.
One artist in Australia, Hardy Wilson,
has had a desperate sense of the artist’s
mission in the world of practical affairs.
But he should have gone into Parliament,
just as Galsworthy should have done in
Britain. In Spain they would have, as a
matter of course.
Madrid.
BASIL BURDETT.
Authors and
the Libraries
As an author
who has suffered
I am, like Win-
ston H. Burchett
(B. 1/5/’35), for
the circulating
libraries as a means of profit to the
writer. In the poorest literary town I
know of there are at least eight to serve
a population of 8000. If that average
is maintained throughout Australia, and
I could be assured of each library put-
ting one copy of every book I wrote on
its shelf—about 6000 on Australia’s
population—I would chuck my staff job
to-morrow and write two novels a year
with ease and happiness.
My figures, on my last London con-
tract, tell me that I would thus receive
about £450 a year for 160,000 words,
even if the individual buyers completely
ignored my work, which is hardly likely
on my past record. At present I receive
slightly less than £450 a year for about
600,000 words annually, and nobody
cares a hoot, because no signature
appears under staff newspaper work.
My literary agent in London assures
me that practically all new novelists
owe their sales almost entirely to the
libraries, and Michael Joseph, in his book
The Commercial Side of Literature, says
that but for the libraries in Britain
there would be no market at all for 75
per cent, of the books published.
A. E. Y.
A Novel of
Gippsland
It is refreshing
to come across an
Australian novel
whose author
does not find it
necessary to
cover the whole period of the country’s
known history.
Fire on the Wind, by John K. Ewers
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.) is the story of a few months in
the lives of a small Gippsland community
during the late ’nineties. The plot is
simple, and the treatment direct; the
narrative is not overcrowded with char-
acters, and those used smack of life.
The gift of characterisation was re-
vealed in the author’s earlier novel,
Motley Street, but his latest work is a
more serious attempt at pursuing a defi-
nite theme, concerned chiefly with David
Colliver, Devon-born, deeply religious
and with a .Hern sense of duty, who has
carved a home and a living out of the
Gippsland forest, but through his strict
adherence to the patriarchal system, com-
mon enough on Australian farms, has
stifled the initiative of his children.
Hanging over the scene throughout is
the fear of bushfire, and this atmosphere
of expectancy and dread of something
near and inevitable in which the inhabi-
tants of Gippsland lived during the dry
summer of 1897, and which was only
too thoroughly justified, is very well con-
veyed.
The only unconvincing piece of writ-
ing (apart from a bush cricket match,
which reads rather like a schoolboy’s day-
dream) is a reconciliation of wife and
husband after the fire —a sort of redemp-
tion-through-fire motive. For the most
part a good book, and a creditable addi-
tion to the Australian-novel shelf. The
jacket could be improved by replacing
the pine-trees with something more in-
digenous to Gippsland.
J. B. B.
A Satchel of Books
A BOOK OF THE KING.—A happy
change from the exaggerated, sickly nonsense
that the press and wireless and Jingo gener-
ally are thickly spewing forth at the moment
Buchan.
is the picture of the
King and his reign
presented by John
Buchan in The
K i n g’s G r a c e
(Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s;
6s.). It is a sane,
sensible, sober sur-
vey of the reign,
using the Throne as
background to the
pageantry of events
that have counted in
the Empire’s de-
velopment during
the 25 years. The
character of the
King is admirably
suggested; little-
known occasions of
the use of the pre-
rogative are re-
vealed. The King
moves in this
pageant of Empire like a king; therefore, the
book is strongly recommended as a corrective
to the spate of slobbering. Buchan has a good
story to tell, and he tells it like a gentleman.
* * * *
MIXED FICTION. —London Book Society
is having an inglorious year in its monthly
choice of fiction, though that for March, The
Shipbuilders, by George Blake (Faber and
Faber; 7s. 6d.) is an improvement on the
This Was Ivor Trent brand of twaddle. The
Shipbuilders is awkwardly constructed. The
writer tries to plait together a length of
the lives of the head of a failing Clydeside
shipbuilding firm and a riveter who had been
the head’s batman on service and is thrown
out of work when the firm shuts down. In-
stead of an even plait, however, he produces a
string of knots, the reader bumping from ship-
builder to riveter in alternate chapters, and
feeling at the end that it has been pretty lumpy
going. Either because he dislikes women
altogether or, what seems more probable, be-
cause he has little sense of proportion, the
author makes both the opposite women and
one or two others shallow and shrewish. On
the other hand, the worst of the men seem
to have his sympathy—a bias which does not
make the novel’s balance any better. What
saves it from the ordinary commonplace run
of fiction is the presentation of Glasgow low
life, which is thorough and convincing, in spite
of the author’s somewhat humorless resentment
of it all. Copy from Angus and Robertson.
A liner the honest old Clydesdale firm would
never have built is the leading figure in Out-
ward Bound from Liverpool, by Edouard
Peisson, which has been translated from the
French by C. R. Benstead for Methuen to pub-
lish (Moore’s Bookshop; 7s. 6d.). It is a good
but mighty familiar tale—the great liner being
driven at record speed through a fogbound
iceberg area to enhance the reputation of a
big shipping firm, regardless of the lives of the
hundreds on board. Much better constructed
than Blake’s novel, it opens at a quiet pace
with the beginning of the couple of days’ voyage,
carefully displaying the characters of the cap-
tain and his fellow-officer principals, then
quickens with the threat of danger, and races
into the dramatic climax of disaster. Read-
able work, with some excellent characterisa-
tion, though the writer slurred over the job
of making the passengers really alive.
The sea-scene shifts to the Pacific with
Maonlander Will Lawson’s novel The Laugh-
ing Buccaneer (Angus and Robertson; 4s. 6d.).
Its title role is filled by Bully Hayes, but the
hero is a red-headed Irishman named Gallon,
who made himself king of an island up near
the Solomons. There was scope for all sorts
of queer adventure in the Pacific in the ’seven-
ties, and Lawson, who knows his Polynesia,
sets down in crisp, straightforward style a most
readable yarn. The picture of Hayes probably
gets nearer the truth than most other fictional
attempts to put him on paper, and m Nan y
MacPherson —a young lady who could sau
schooner and swear like a trooper, and ra
off with Bully Hayes out of pure spite -mere is
something new and refreshing in heroines.
* * * *
GALSWORTHY’S LAST.— Completing the
uniform issue of the vast story of the roi-
sytes in the three green volumes, Hememann
has gathered Maid in Waiting, Flowering
Wilderness and Over the River into one book,
published under the title End of the Chapter,
at the gift price of 7s. 6d. net. In a preface,
Mrs. Galsworthy gives some interesting history
of the writing of this last work. Maid in
Waiting was begun at Bury House, Sussex,
in March, 1928. Laid aside for a time, “owing
to more urgent work,” it was continued at
Palma (Majorca), Biarritz, Hampstead, Mont
Dore (Auvergne), and finished at Bury m
October, 1930. Flowering Wilderness was also
done at mixed addresses —Bury, Arizona,
Hampstead, Bury again, Ischl (Austria), and
finished at Merana (Italy). It was begun in
November, 1930, and finished in September
of the following year. Over the River was
written between November, 1931, and August,
1932, at Bury, Biarritz, Hampstead and then
Bury again. Original titles considered for the
complete trilogy were The Old Order and Of
an Old Family, but were discarded, because
“it was felt that either might lead to the
assumption that a study of class distinction or
class conflict was in contemplation.” “Noth-
ing,” Mrs. Galsworthy adds, “could be further
from the writer’s intention. His desire was
to show a group of people of gentle birth
(quaint expression!) who have survived into
this brave young world, and are not finding
themselves too happy in that environment.”
* * * *
POMES AND SOME POEMS—Three
recent slim volumes, two from the Hassell
Press, Adelaide, and the third from the Uni-
corn Press, Auckland, represent the two ex-
tremes and the mean of less important poetry.
H. J. Byrne, whose work is called Songs of a
Southerner, is the negative extreme —remark-
able for formality, doggedness and a sturdy
lack of any true inspiration. The book is pub-
lished in the interests of Adelaide Children’s
Hospital.
House to House is the positive extreme.
While Mr. Byrne sacrifices humor on the altar
of an unconvincing soulfulness, Harry Harker
has little time for soulfulness at all. But
of the two he is to be preferred ; and he de-
serves to be congratulated upon the startling
get-up of his paper booklet, in which the anti-
myopic dollops of monstrous black type roar
like the cycles of his broadsiding riders, suffi-
ciently to make even the most case-hardened
advertising printer turn pale with desire. Mr.
Harker may not pretend to be a poet at all;
but at least he has a pleasing vitality. Had
he encouraged that self which produced “The
Eighth Wonder,” his booklet would have made
good reading.
The third slim volume, unhappily named
Gumtops, but nevertheless promisingly written,
by Rex Ingamells, brings us back to South
Australia. A young man’s work, Gumtops
holds one or two long lyrics (in particular
“In the Bush” and “By the Fire”) which are
definite achievements, even though they are
immature in imagery and sometimes careless
of cadence.
$ A' ;!: :Jc
RECIPES FOR COCKTAILS.— I7OO Cock-
tails, by R. de Fleury (Heineraann; ss. net),
is hereby earnestly recommended out of a
heartful of long-suffering, plus the experience
of having sampled enough of the contents to
know that they are good. It gives recipes for
the number of cocktails mentioned, and,
though it may not deter the genius who likes
to add a dash of Queensland rum to a Bronx
to pep it up a bit, it may reduce the pre-
vailing severity of morning-after headaches.
Mosh splendid lil’ book ever—hie —come
acrosh.
“Ned Kelly”: The real trouble with the
local book industry is the poor material our
authors have at their disposal. Perusal of
my favorite American thriller convinces me that
Australians are as nothing compared with the
men of peraries and canyons. What, for in-
stance, would the average Australian stock-
rider do if a sloe-eyed girl forced him at the
point of a shotgun to sit in a rocking-chair
while she handcuffed his hands behind him
through the chairback? The hero of my yarn
- —Boss of the Badlands, by Claude Rister —
escaped by turning a back somersault while
still attached to the chair, and dashing said
chair to pieces against a wall; apparently
jumping through his own arms and perform-
ing a double dislocation of the shoulders in
order to get the chair in a favorable position
to do so. After that he mounted a horse (with
his hands still ’cuffed behind his back), and,
taking the reins in his teeth, rode away
through the mesquite at a hard gallop. Even
if an Australian writer could find a man
like that for copy, disbelieving editors would
turn the story down.


r V. *V. v
■
X ■ ■ ■,
-•V
x ■:.
•v -•
\/^
x^
«:*»
■■
V--*-
mmm
.
</ XI xs
vf-
ir>Xi
MiH
•xv-
HS
-V,- '''/■,
IvX ........
;a ■ >:
The A IVA Radio-Electric
■ IVorks at Ash fie Id, Syaney
—floor space, 114,000 sq. feet .
AN AUSTRALIAN FACTORY
IN AN AUSTRALIAN GARDEN
m
WIRELESS MANUFACTURING
PROGRESS IN AUSTRALIA
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained a
very high degree of efficiency. Every type of apparatus for use at sea,
on land and in the air is now produced at the A.W.A. Radio-Electric
Works.
During the past year the Company broke many production records, not
the least being that in respect of Radiola broadcast receivers, the
manufacture of which exceeded previous records by 33%.
Powerful 10,000 watt high-fidelity transmitters were manufactured for
the New Zealand Broadcasting Board’s Station IYA Auckland and
3YA Christchurch; as well as a high-fidelity transmitter and studio
equipment for Station 2UW Sydney. The A.W.A. Works also manu-
factured several other powerful high-fidelity broadcast transmitters.
A large number of ships of the Australasian Mercantile Marne were
equipped with marine wireless transmitters, and several ships fitted with
direction finding apparatus.
Twenty-five transmitters were produced for use in the interior of New
Guinea, Fiji and Australia.
A number of transmitters and receivers, specially designed for aircraft
working, were manufactured by A.W.A. during the year.
With its highly qualified and experienced staff of radio engineers,
coupled with its modern manufacturing resources, A.W.A. manu-
factures every type of wireless equipment for use in its Overseas Com-
munication Services, Australian Coastal Radio, Pacific Islands,
Marine Services and Broadcasting. The Australian wireless industry
is thus wholly self-contained.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


t/hme/tt
Yp/iahmi yanam/a
m
* -i
I ■• •
■
<6*
■
m
I
■
•'■:■• , . . :
ssmm
■
V a
i I
a
m
: T*s. .
Spl
IHta
H
■
■
■
■ m
#
■
n i
i
I 1
A > ; ■
>-' if <1
s . .■ - r , .....
WSm^F
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2883.
May 15, 1935.
THE YOUNG LADY SHOWS HER MEDAL.
“One of the 2300 N.S.W. recipients of the jubilee medal, awarded for ‘public service generally,’ is ‘Lindsay, Norman, artist.’”
“Oo, so you got one, too!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper Home, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SHEEP AND POLITICIANS.
The Australian wool season closes better than it
opened. Still, the return in Australian money will
show a drop of £15,000,000 —about £41,000,000, as
against £56,000,000 last season. The reason has been
mainly that prices of other commodities, especially
wheat and base metals (tin excepted), did not rise in
1934 ; this restricted buying power among wool-users.
And countries on the gold standard were at a
disadvantage in the wool market. Britain and Japan,
our two best customers, are off it.
The fall of sixpence in the average price per
pound—l6d. to lOd.—was a blow to many individual
sheepmen, but the industry did not feel it as much as
might have been expected. Droughts, financial diffi-
culties and losses from other causes in previous years
had left Australia short of stock. Development of
mutton and lamb exports increased with requirements.
The stock trade has kept graziers going, except in
some Queensland districts where drought has wiped
out the stock.
N. S. Wales in 1933-34 had the smallest lambing
for seven years. It barely exceeded the 10,000,000
annually needed to replenish losses through slaughter-
ing and net sales to other States. Actually, in spite of
wholesale pasture improvement, there are 3i million
fewer sheep in N. S. Wales than in 1927-28, and
3,000,000 fewer in Australia than in 1933, a peak year.
This is not encouraging, more especially as clips have
been light—in N. S. Wales about 71b. last season, the
lowest figure in a decade. Australian sales to March
31 amounted to 2,378,000 bales, compared with
2,900,000 bales the previous year.
Australia may nevertheless take comfort from the
fact, now plainer than ever, that there is a standard
market for all our wool, and in some countries the
demand is likely to improve. Japan produces four
times as much yarn as three years ago. Every year
it buys £8,000,000 worth off the sheep’s back. And
though the French have lost a lot of their export trade,
and the Germans and the Italians can only afford to
buy more under a system of bargaining and barter
which Australia is naturally reluctant to accept, it
might be a different story if they went off gold.
Artificial schemes for developing stable prices and
improving the grazier’s lot are still talked of. The
pool is the favorite expedient, though it is not easy to
see how it would improve conditions for anybody
except those for whom it would provide jobs.
Australian wool policy should aim rather at
quality in all classes, the building up of
the mutton trade a's a sideline and the eradication of
pests. Had mutton prices been at 1933 levels, the
industry would have suffered severely ; as it happened,
they were three times better than the worst 1933 price,
and stock prices were double those of 1932, a fact
brought about by the increased ability of Australian
consumers to buy and by the Ottawa agreements.
Overseas markets absorbed 1,350,000 more carcasses
than in 1932. Necessary for the sheepmen also are
reductions of freight-rates, interest and taxes (the
Commonwealth super-tax on property income is
helping to keep up interest) and the ending of out-
rageous discrimination such as is practised in Queens-
land. There, if a grazier loses £5OOO in a twelvemonth
(and many drought sufferers will do it this year), he
may deduct only £lOOO on account of it from his tax-
able income in succeeding years, whereas the sugar-
and dairy-farmers may carry forward losses without
limit.
Tops prices suggest a better market for wool next
season, and they are a pretty sure indicators Supplies
of some better-class wools do not yet match the
demand, and there is a long way to go before the limit
of high-quality mutton export is reached. Neverthe-
less, while service charges, interest and taxes remain
high, and the feeling abides in Parliaments and
Government departments that the pastoral industry
needs nothing and can stand anything, and the C.S.
and I.R. is short of funds for the study of sheep
diseases, the position of the wool-growers will be far
from satisfactory, especially in view of the havoc
which drought is wreaking in Queensland.
CINDERELLA OF INDUSTRY.
Inside a century Australia has built up one of the
world’s great wine industries. The industry has always
had to fight against handicaps, imposed not so much
by nature as by man. It was not till well into the
present century that rich Australians dared to own up
to a liking for the wine of their country, and Austra-
lian wines did not appear at fashionable parties to any
extent, or on the wine-lists of leading clubs, till the
war came and aroused national patriotism at the same
time as it shut out overseas supplies.
Sydney 1 and Melbourne restaurants —Sydney's
Paris House, under Gaston Lievain, was a shining
example—had started the Continental and London
Inns of Court custom of throwing light wine in with
the evening meal when the prohibitionists carried six
o’clock closing. About the same time opponents of
liquor began a crusade against wine bars. There is no
actual difference between Australian wine bars and
London bodegas, but the prohibitionists cleverly asso-
ciated the former with the dregs of society, and the
aspersion sticks. As a completely illogical result Aus-
tralian wine is spoken of in certain circles to this day
as if it occupied a different moral plane from imported
wine.
Quarter of a century ago the importation of Con-
tinental wines was enormous relatively to the popu-
lation. French champagne, now drunk by few but
the purse-proud, was an indispensable feature of
almost every social function. A few years after the
Armistice our total yearly imports of wine had got
down to 60,000 gallons, for which we were paying
over 30s. a gallon—about nine times as much as we
were then getting abroad for our wines. Imports are
still falling. In 1933 we bought 24,241 gallons at
about a guinea a gallon. But exports are rising; in
the same year we sold 3,095,600 gallons overseas for
£789,000 —say 4s. a gallon. The amount paid for
24,241 gallons foreign would have bought over 160,000
gallons of equally good Australian; there is every
reason, too, why Australians should have bought most
of the 3,095,600 gallons that went abroad.
Australia’s wine production reached its peak in
1926-27 with 20,456,341 gallons. It slumped with the
slump, and is now on the up-grade again. In 1932-33
we produced 16,417,661 gallons.
Many Australians still labor under an inferiority
complex regarding Australian wines. They talk wist-
fully of France’s Beaunes, Medocs, Chamberlins,
glorious products of Chateau districts and the
vineyards of exiled Popes, and expect to find them in
every restaurant when they visit Paris or French pro-
vincial cities and towns. Any ex-Digger who served
in Flanders could tell them that they won’t. What
they mostly find are wines inferior to and little
cheaper than our wines. The French and Portuguese,
Italians and Germans have no inferiority complex ;
they built up their wine industries by very different
methods. Good citizens of Continental wine-growing
countries take, and always have taken, a vociferous
pride in the products of the national soil.
Another delusion from which thousands of Austra-
lians suffer is that tea, which we drink to an inordinate
extent, is healthy while wine isn’t. The material and.
spiritual benefits of sound wine have been proclaimed
with equal zest by great writers, pagan and Scriptural,
ancient and modern, and, unlike the vast majority of
anti-liquor propagandists, they wrote from experience.
This country should realise that light wine grown by
Australians is better as a beverage, economically as
well as spiritually, than tea grown by overseas coolies.
Nothing but experience is needed.
The people will begin to acquire this experience
in a large way, with benefit to the national income,
when winegrowers begin to appreciate the necessity of
organising retail prices to meet depression incomes.
At present it is possible at vineyard depots to buy a
dozen quarts of excellent claret, burgundy, hock or
chablis for 15s. For a 26-ounce bottle of the same
wine bought over a counter in a city a man may have
to pay 2s. 9d. or 3s.
IN TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.
The celebration of the King’s silver jubilee synchro-
nised with the opening of the first television station
in London, achieved and reported as if it were a
commonplace. It is not the only wonder which has
become ordinary in the past quarter-century.
The first broadcast was made experimentally in
1910—Caruso’s voice. To-day the Australian can
tune-in to nearly a hundred broadcasting stations
on the other side of the world. The average working
man considers his radio set a necessity.
In 1910 all railway trains and ships burnt coal.
The Diesel had not arrived. Now, there is scarcely
a ship which does not use oil, and trains are begin-
ning to use it on a large scale—though not in
Australia. Unlike wireless, railway transport in
Australia is owned and controlled by Government.
At the beginning of the era 60 miles an hour was
regarded as a maximum practical speed of train travel.
An English train this year has done 108 m.p.h.
When King George came to the throne, motor-
cars were playthings of the rich. There was not a
tarred road in any country outside suburban limits.
Seven years afterwards the Brisbane-Sydney motoring
record was established at 22\ miles an hour —725
miles in 32hr. 14min. The first patch of Australian
cement speedway did not arrive for 13 years. The
Sydney speedster who cannot reach Brisbane in 13
hours now considers himself a novice. A car has
travelled at over 272 m.p.h., an aeroplane at 424
m.p.h. The world has been crossed from London
to Melbourne within three days.
Probably the greatest changes have been in the
lives of workers and of women. Most industries are
electrified. The younger generation knows nothing
of the discomfort and dirt of coal-burning factories.
Working hours have been lessened, and the week-end
has been sealed as an institution. Because of the war
and its sequel, the depression, there are many unem-
ployed, but no one starves or dies for dearth of cloth-
ing and shelter, and old people past work get a Com-
monwealth pension of 18s. a week.
In Britain and the Dominions women have the
vote. Perhaps it has brought them fewer benefits than
those conferred by the banishment of whalebone
corsets, trailing dresses, red-flannel petticoats, wood-
burning ovens and sooty kettles and saucepans. The
Frigidaire, the electric toaster, the radiator and the
vacuum-cleaner are revolutionising housework, not
only in the city but in the country.
Homes are now better and more sensibly furnished.
The last antimacassar is almost forgotten. New
paints, fabrics, lightweight and stainless metals and
building materials have altered the general look and
cleanliness of every community.
And manners have become gentler, public opinion
more tolerant. Much as Mr. Lang is denounced by
one side and Mr. Stevens by the other, there is never
any danger of their emerging from their campaigns
scented with ancient egg and perhaps scarred with
blue metal. In 1909 an audience pelted George Reid
with paper-bags of flour; in 1911 a Queensland
Treasurer crawled under the platform in a hostile
hall while the audience threw chairs at one another.
The press, better printed in bolder type, illustrated
on a scale never dreamed of by the past generation,
is more restrained in its condemnations, reoriented
in its interests. Its preoccupation is no longer politics
but ordinary daily life.
But the improvement in manners is not so strik-
ing as the improvement in public health. There has
been a great reduction in infant mortality, a steady
increase in expectation of life. Childbirth has become
painless ; amputations are bloodless. Tuberculosis
has ceased to be a sure sentence of death. Most
cancer can, if taken in time, be cured painlessly
without recourse to the knife ; much external cancer
even when dealt with at a late stage.
All this progress has been achieved despite four
years of the greatest war in history, a war in which
65,000,000 men were mobilised and the casualties
numbered 37,000,000. The fear of a war more
disastrous still is the one shadow on an age which,
in spite of the grumblings of demagogues, is the
cleanest, healthiest and happiest that civilisation has
seen ; and it may be a groundless fear.
KENSINGTON (VIC.).
Kensington is one of the nearer Melbourne suburbs.
When it rains Kensington suggests Venice, without
its palaces, churches and gondolas. When it rains
really hard, as it has done three times in Melbourne
during the past 16 months, Kensington becomes a vast
inland sea, with houses dotted like islands on its
surface.
Nobody in Mebourne —certainly nobody in
official circles—takes much notice of six inches or
a foot of water in Kensington streets. That is one
of life’s little annoyances, like feet going to sleep or
the wrong horse winning. Officialdom murmurs
“Kismet” and turns to its pigeonholes again. But
when people have to swim for it, and Kensington
wears bathing costumes as its workaday apparel,
officialdom gets really frenzied with energy. It
summons a conference.
The conference holds a number of sittings, and
then, after due—extremely due —deliberation, decider
that somebody ought to straighten things out at
Kensington. The somebody singled out seems to
resent the implication of responsibility, but summons
another conference. That conference deliberates, and
passes the buck to a third body ; and so the ball
spins slowly around the roulette board until Ken-
sington dries up and everybody comes to the con-
clusion that it’s no good troubling any more.
Kensington remains dry, or tolerably dry, for
five or six months. Then the whole miserable farce
is staged once again, and the curtain falls on another
dry or nearly dry Kensington, and the actors go
home to bed.
It is not lack of money which is preventing
Kensington being drained or leveed or abandoned
to the abos. Nobody has ever got as far as talking
finance. If anybody did, this is the sort of finance —
or labor, which is the same thing—which has to be
found, just as it is found in times of wars, earth-
quakes and other national calamities. Apparently it
is just mere incapacity—not incapacity for dealing
with the important question of saving Kensington,
but incapacity in administration, in deciding how
and when the work should be done.
After the big flood of six months ago, one of the
main thoroughfares out of the city—Alexandra-
avenue —was closed for nearly three months while
the Metropolitan Board and the Prahran Council
argued as to who was liable to effect the repairs.
An additional six weeks passed before a decision was
arrived at to fix the responsibility for restoring a
bridge across the main road to the hills. And it
was only the other day that a farmer burnt out in
the Gippsland bushfires of 10 years ago received his
£5O compensation from the fund raised at the time.
There is, of course, no connection between the flood
prevention and the bushfire allotment, but both facts
indicate the utter lack of co-ordination between
public bodies in Victoria. It is perhaps an effect of
the effort to maintain provincial control of national
matters like industry, transport and education.
Not only the Commonwealth Constitution needs
reforming.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lang Must Go.
In the bitterness of his latest defeat, Mr. Lang wailed
that electors had accepted Labor voting cards outside
polling booths and then supported the Stevens candi-
date ; and he couldn’t understand it. This cry from
a stricken heart shows how little he knows “my
people.”
Many of them are born legpullers. Mr.
Lang had the loan of their limbs in 1930, and they
have repaid him with interest in the same coin. Not
only have they deceived him and his Inner Group
about “how-to-vote” cards, but, concealing their
merriment, they have marched in processions to
Moore Park, joined in the shouts of “Lang Is Right”
and in the cheering for the Leader, and held up their
right hands when the familiar question was asked at
the end of the meeting. In the same spirit they have
looked on while Mr. Lang dragged his stiff joints
and ageing arteries about dance halls, and gazed at
his newspaper photographs, taken in many poses —just
as if he were a moving-picture actor with a fan mail.
Of course, there are many others to whom this
jesting makes no appeal. Multitudes of plain men
and women who give little thought to politics and
never examine platforms, and who say “I’ve never
voted anything but Labor in my life, and I’m not
going to start now.” From these honest people, faith-
ful always to the lesser loyalty, Mr. Lang on Saturday,
as three years ago, derived his main strength.
It availed him little. Commanding 56 votes in a
House of 90 members in the 1930-32 Parliament of
evil memory, and reduced to 24 after the rout which
followed his expulsion from office, he may have
28 or 29 in the next Assembly, if his dictatorship
lasts. Obsequious followers of other days have pain-
fully regained Mudgee and Canterbury and perhaps
Arncliffe, Goulburn and Bathurst. He himself held
Auburn by a majority of a couple of thousand over
the Federal Labor candidate, Mr. Chifley, a stranger
to the electorate. His personal vote increased only
a couple of hundred.
If the U.A.P. had put up one of its own men
for Auburn, preferably a returned soldier with
a local following, Mr. Lang would probably have been
unseated three years ago. In the circumstances
brought about by his crazy folly, Auburn was no
harder to win than half a dozen electorates which
were gained in 1932; no harder than Kogarah, where
a returned soldier, Mr. Ross, not only defeated Mr.
Gosling, but has substantially increased his majority
over the late Minister for Tin Hares—the outstanding
personal achievement of the election. Much as they
loathe Mr. Lang’s politics, many Auburn electors
who have turned to the Right must have jibbed at
voting for another Labor candidate from Bathurst
or thereabouts. On the other hand, supporters of
the Federal Labor group—as the event proved,
almost as insignificant in numbers as the Communists
—are so incensed against Mr. Lang that they would
assuredly have supported a U.A.P. returned-soldier
candidate. But the U.A.P. chose to throw its support
to Mr. Chifley.
In its heart it doesn’t want to see Mr. Lang out
of Parliament. He is the greatest asset it ever had
or is ever likely to have. He has made it easy for
it and its allies to win elections. Commonwealth as
well as State; easy also, by enabling them to refer to
false standards —above all, those of his maddest year
—to claim and receive credit for very ordinary
performances. Mr, Parkhill has put the U.A.P.’s
sentiments into words:
The only fear now is that this further defeat may
remove Mr. Lang from politics, because, so long as
Mr. Lang is in State politics and a disturbing factor
in Federal politics, the Labor party will never be
successful.
Mr. Parkhill’s troubles about the larger interests
of N. S. Wales and Australia! Those larger interests
demand a return to politics based on principles and
to strong parties with a sense of responsibility—the
Outs always a check on the Ins, and capable of giving
the people sane alternative government.
Mr. Lang must go. The electors have done
their part. Caucus will finish the business for them
if it is not a set of cowards.
♦
“It Wasn’t a Race.”
Queensland has returned its Labor Government, and
thereby run true to form. And because of a fatuous
Opposition bid for popularity, the Government will
have the greatest majority in the history of its party.
In the last Parliament Labor had four votes to
the good, including the Speaker’s, and the redistribu-
tion virtually assured it of two more —a rural elec-
torate, predominantly Country Nationalist, was wiped
out and a new division substituted in Brisbane, where
Labor has always been very strong. Alterations to
boundaries in other districts were also favorable to
Labor on the whole. It was likewise helped by the
feeling that it is at its best when led by a Scot with
the characteristics of his race. Fisher was scarcely one
for looking after the people’s bawbees, nor has Forgan
Smith been conspicuous in that direction; but the
tradition holds.
Labor would probably have won in any event.
Victory was made certain and decisive by the folly of
Moore and co. in courting metropolitan and country-
itown electors with a motherhood endowment scheme,
! modelled on the one in which Mr. A. B. Piddington
'tried to interest their opponents a good many years
ago. The central idea was to take ss. a week from
Ithe wages of workers without children and distribute
the money among fathers of families. Employers
were to collect it without pay and incur all the odium
of wage-reduction and take all the risks of strikes
and other nasty proceedings. They naturally objected.
Many joined in the rush of wage-earners without
children to vote for Labor. And the Country Nation-
alists’ cause was not assisted by the spectacle of two
of their members abandoning constituencies which
had been changed by the redistribution, though not
greatly, for others that looked easier.
So instead of 28 members they will have no more
than 17, if they have that many. There are 19 metro-
politan seats ; they held only Hamilton, Toowong and
Oxley, which correspond to Bellevue Hill, Mosman
and North Shore in Sydney. Their opponents won
every country-town seat —15. East Toowoomba was
wrested from J. D. Annand, the Mayor; even conser-
vative Warwick, held for quarter of a century by
G. P. Barnes, was lost. Only the dairying and mixed -
farming electorates were left for the Opposition,
which now holds not a single pastoral or industrial
seat.
As there is no Second Chamber, Labor can do
what it pleases for another three years, unless it breaks
up after the fashion made familiar in the two big
States. That seems unlikely, since it weathered the
storms of the war and the depression. All the same,
the Premier would do well to get the notion out of
his head that if the workers availed themselves of
their advantages they could win every seat. Mr.
Theodore used to talk in the same strain.
♦
Transport Czardom Checked.
Because politicians spent borrowed money madly on
Government railways and tramways, largely for vote-
catching purposes, the people in many places are
denied the conveniences which buses, service cars and
motor-lorries provide, and transport czars have been
set up to see that they don’t get them. Hitherto the
breed has had things all its own way. In Victoria,
however, it has suffered a decided check.
Two carriers applied to the Victorian Transport
Board for the right to ply between Melbourne and
Euroa and Melbourne and Yarrawonga. The board
refused them licenses, mainly on the ground that the
services would compete with Government railways
which are losing money. The Supreme Court ruled
that the board had exceeded its powers, and ordered
it to hear the applications again. From this judg-
ment there was an appeal to the High Court.
The High Court was of the same mind as the
Supreme Court, and was refreshingly outspoken about
it, Starke, J., said that the board had “exaggerated
the importance of the view that the reduction of the
railway burden upon the community was the dominant
matter for its consideration.”
The dominant consideration is the desirability of
the proposed service.
He added that in exacting an undertaking from
opponents of a license as a condition of its refusal—
i.e., from the Railway Commissioners —that they
would carry goods at the rates which the applicants
had intended to apply, the board was exercising a
right and authority which it did not possess; and
the same would apply if the undertaking were volun-
teered.
Justices Evatt and McTiernan concurred in the
view that the board was obliged to consider the
interests of the public.
The strength of the case against the board may be
expressed by pointing out that it was probably the
existence of the railway deficit which led to the creation
of the board by Parliament. It is Parliament and not
the subordinate administrative authority which is the
proper tribunal to suggest or effect a means of remedy-
ing such deficit.
The last sentence might well be pasted over the
desks of all Premiers, Ministers and Commissioners
of Railways and transport czars.
4
Libel Law Reform.
Premier Stevens promises reform of the N. S. Wales
libel law. Britain recently found it necessary to
check the “stop” writ and the speculative action, and
the British libel law before it was altered in these
directions was clarity and justice itself beside that of
N. S. Wales.
Any adventurer engaged in a ramp within the law
can have newspaper criticism silenced merely by
issuing a writ. Once it is served, discussion of his
proceedings becomes contempt of Court. When his
trouble has blown over the writ may be withdrawn,
but meanwhile the public interest has suffered and
the newspaper has been put to irrecoverable expense.
The speculative action is often generated in the
office of some solicitor of the Dodson and Fogg breed.
He is not confined to any country, and Herbert
Grotrian, K.C., Recorder of Scarborough, had this
to say of him at the Imperial Press Conference in
South Africa:
A positive industry is growing up among shady
solicitors who go through the newspapers with a fine
toothcomb to find minor mistakes. They then approach
the parties concerned suggesting a claim for libel.
Many plaintiffs in these actions are persons of straw,
and if the newspapers win they cannot get costs.
He added that.
If in any country the libel law works oppressively
against the press, such press is being deprived of its
chief functions as a guardian of public morality, and
therefore it would be justified in asking for reform.
This is particularly true of N. S. Wales, where “stop”
writs and speculative suits have become veritable
plagues. Westralia, on the other hand, is com-
paratively immune, having a very good libel law.
In Westralia a defendant newspaper may apply for
security for costs, and the plaintiff must go into the
box. In N. S. Wales the Act needs redrafting from
beginning to end.
«
Backstage Stuff in Hospitals.
Occasionally a customer at a Dago restaurant finds
himself behind the glittering chromium and cut glass
of the decorative screen which divides the public
from the workshop. One glance is sufficient; he
never eats there again.
Similarly, the citizen who has occasion to visit a
public hospital is usually much impressed with the
cleanliness, orderliness and all-round efficiency which
hits him in the eye as he scrutinises wards or operat-
ing theatres. He does not isee the backstage parr
of the institution—the kitchen, the staff accommoda-
tion. He does not see the difficulties under which
the meals are prepared, the difficulties under which
labor those neat, bright, capable girls in the lavender
uniforms.
Not that all hospitals fail in this respect. Most
of the big public institutions are well equipped, and
their staffs are adequately cared for. It is, therefore,
surprising to read the complaints made by members
of a deputation to the Vic. Charities Board. There was
no implication of mismanagement or incompetence
against hospital officials—simply lack of adequate
accommodation, adequate plant and adequate staff..
All the same, the indictment was one to shock any-
body who sympathised with the work of the institution
and to compel admiration at the manner in which
those in control had struggled along without proper
facilities.
Serious enough were the allegations concerning
kitchen, laundry, staff premises and other out-
buildings ; but the charges are more serious, seeing
that they have a distinct bearing on public health.
Research work is hampered severely because the
pathological department is out of date—this in the
institution which constitutes the centre of obstetric
training in Victoria, and a place of vast importance
in the training of medical students.
♦
Another Book Offer.
The wave of Sensational Book Offers that has been
surging through Sydney and Melbourne papers was
bound to produce an anti-climax. It came when the
“Labor Daily” advertised “The Opportunity You
Have Been Waiting For.” This was not, as might
have been imagined, a full set of The Encyclopaedia
Britannica for a guinea, or even Love Stories of All
Nations for half a crown. No ; the eagerly-awaited
prize was nothing less than Why I Fight, by J. T.
Lang, of which book, according to the advertisement,
more than 7000 copies have been sold in six months.
The published price of this masterpiece was
7s. 6d., so (after payment of royalties to the man
who wrote it) it must have brought a handsome profit
to the pockets of “Labor’s Greatest Leader” ; sufficient
at any rate to cover the free distribution of the 1000
copies included in the Book Offer, thus enabling the
rank and file of the Movement to absorb the wisdom
of the master-mind.
But Mr. Lang isn’t as foolish as that. Realising
that human beings place little value on things easily
come by, he has put a nominal price upon the volume
—not a high one, but just sufficient to make the
purchaser realise that he hasn’t got the book for
nothing, so that he won’t regard it with the same
indifference as he does the free advertising booklets
thrown over the front fence.
The small sum of 55., plus coupons from five
consecutive issues of the “Labor Daily,” will secure
a copy of the great work, but it seems rather
unfortunate that the offer is “strictly limited to 1000
copies.” There are roughly 1,500,000 electors in
N.S.W., and approximately 4,000,000 in the Com-
monwealth.
The success of Why I Fight —a sales figure of
7000 is good for any work of fiction published in
Australia—suggests that the same author should
follow it up with a biography of I. T. Lang.
Glancing through a catalogue of “Everyman’s
Library,” one notices that the “Lives” of men of
relatively small importance—Napoleon, Shakspeare,
Gladstone and Lincoln —fetch 3s. a copy and sell in
thousands, so surely no one would boggle at paying
ss. ( plus coupons), or even 7s, 6d. straight out, for
an authentic biography of “The Greatest Leader
Labor Ever Had.”
♦
“Repeaters.”
The London correspondent of the “S. M. Herald” was
facetious last week at the expense of “a few persons
rejoicing in the name of the Medical Research
Council”:
They are planning to track down and “eliminate”
all those unfortunate drivers who are considered to
be “prone to accident.” This is not a joke; it is a fact.
This writer doesn’t know, evidently, that England’s
new Road Traffic Act recognises the existence of
drivers who are “prone to accident.” After two con-
victions for carelessness a driver is liable, under the
Act, to be disqualified for three months ; after a third
he may lose the right to drive altogether.
“Repeaters,” as they are known in the U.S.A.,
cause 75 per cent, of accidents not attributable to
mechanical defects and carelessness on the part of
pedestrians. A fairly common type of drunk —the
sort who is made vainglorious by liquor—is constantly
involved in accidents. So are drivers afflicted with
bad nerves, bad eyesight or merely bad temper.
According to J, C. Watson, of the N.R.M.A., “inad-
equate teaching at the outset” is to blame for many
accidents, till such time as the novice becomes more
or less skilled by a system of trial and error, and
“develops into a good or bad driver, according to
temperament.”
Temperament is the word; in one or other of
its innumerable forms —boorishness, excitability,' a
bad reaction to alcohol, a natural incapacity to think
quickly in a crisis—it produces all the repeaters
who are largely responsible for Australia’s tally of
nearly 800 car-deaths every year.
No fresh legislation is needed to enable the
States to eliminate many of their repeaters. Magis-
trates can disqualify for long periods, and traffic
authorities are justified in withdrawing license-renewals
from those whose police-court records prove that they
are “prone to accident.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
Findy ; Jubileeilis has been raging
in the office of our Greatest Daily, it
was only to be expected that scribes
would be mildly hysterical, so it was
not surprising to read that “London
streets were still in festive, mood at 1
a.m.” and that “St. James’s Palace
blushed a fairy pink” ; nor astonishing
perhaps that those who walked, as it
were, with kings should momentarily
lose the common touch:
The Minister for the Interior (Mr. Pater-
sqn) has contracted a bad throat which
gives promise of a heavy cold.
As good in its way as Mr. Stevens’s
remark that Mr. Weaver had “enjoyed
bad health for a considerable time.” Un-
fortunately, comps, caught the infection.
They referred to the “Statute at West-
minster,” set a princess on a “bulustrade”
and reduced the loyal transports of a
London correspondent to this:
It would not be an exaggeration to say
that the people were, and still are, in a
state bordering on rupture.
“T hermos”; Queensland
Labor stole some of the Oppo-
sition’s thunder in the State
election campaign. At the previ-
ous election the Moore party
had for slogan “Give the Boy
a Chance.” Labor’s reply this
time was “We Have Given the
Boy a Chance.” The Opposi-
tion, referring to Moore’s child-
endowment scheme, put up the
sign “Vote Moore —for More.” Labor
replied, “Back to Moore Means Back
to Less.” %
“Tuart”; Westralians have dug up a
diary written by Prince George of Wales
when, as a middy in H.M.S. Bacchante,
he spent three weeks in Albany just 54
years ago. The Prince’s impressions of
place and people were altogether favor-
able ; Albany, with its “low hills covered
with dark trees sloping down to the white
sandy beach,” its “blue water, bright
warm sun and dry, calm air, filled with
an aromatic odor,” reminded him “very
much” of Bermuda. He saw “strangely
shaped and brilliantly colored flowers” ;
“blackboys,” paper-barks and scarlet
bottle-brush ; “paraquets,” black cocka-
toos, quail, wild duck, teal, cranes and
black swans; he helped to catch a ’possum,
put up kangaroos, and “kept the pads” of
two killed by dogs. Thirty miles from
Albany the party was hospitably enter-
tained for two days “at Mr. Young’s
farmhouse,” where mantelpieces, tables
and furniture were “all made of mahog-
any or the darker jarrah wood.”
Everyone was very jolly and hearty, and
did ample justice to the fowls, minced
kangaroo, the jam, cream, scones and no
end of beautiful fresh milk and butter,
such as we had not tasted since we had
left England.
On Sunday morning, May 22,
When the things were cleared away we
had a short service in the kitchen at which
the whole family attended. Round each
of our plates Mrs. Young had laid a
small wreath of rosebuds, “for Sunday
morning and in memory of England.”
A charming touch that. I wonder
whether his Majesty remembers.
“S.G.”: Relatively as well as actually,
there were more ladies on the N.S.W.
State list of jubilee medallists than on
the Victorian State list. Of 1900 medals
handed round in Sydney, women received
293 ; of 1400 dis ributed in Melbourne,
193 went to the sex that requires perma-
nent waves and resets. The Victorian
recipients were nearly all married, being
mostly wives of public men, present and
past; I counted only 25 misses, though
there were two matrons, a sister and a
deaconess. Politicians’ wives also pre-
dominated in the N.S.W. list, but there
were many departmental typists and 39
ladies described as “Feminist Leaders.”
What exactly is a Feminist Leader?
* * *
“Morita”: We had a good band just
behind us on the Anzac Day march, and
over the whole route did not recognise
one march it played. For “Tipperary” and
“Madelon” we listened in vain. No one
who saw Brussels just after the Armis-
tice will ever tire of those airs. “Tip-
perary” the civilians had heard before
the long German rule began ; they had
picked up “Madelon” from French
prisoners ; a kid greeted us with “Aus-
tralia Will Be There” in Belgian the night
we lobbed there. Any Digger who could
‘I deduce from the notice, my dear Watson, that there are two people
in the room —a man and a woman.”
“Amazing!”
Elementary, my dear Watson — elementary.”
warble any one of the three songs was
set for free liquor as long as he was able
to sing. Cabaret crowds, still celebrat-
ing their deliverance from Fritz, swung
their glasses in time or clamped their
beer mugs on the cafe tables as they bel-
lowed out the choruses and demanded
their “encores.” I can still picture an
Australian band, mobbed outside the
leave hostel till it had waded through
umpteen “Tipperary” verses.
“L.H.”: What queered the Anzac “A”
on the color patches of the A.I.F. (B.
8/5/’35) was not so much the mounting
of them by the base-wallahs as the issue
of the things to personnel who Were in
the Mediterranean service zone in 1915
and had no opportunity of getting to
Gallipoli had they so desired. The same
thing happened in the case of the 1914
star, which became the 1914-15 star, and
thereby lost a lot of its value in the eyes
of the early birds.
* * * *
“Charlestown”; News of the death of
the Duke of Richmond reminds me that
I once spent some time with him in a
South African hospital tent under the
shadow of Majuba. He was a quiet,
unaffected bloke, and as the Earl of
March was especially interesting to me,
since he was the descendant of the Eari
of March whom Thackeray pillories in
The Virginians ’ as a racecourse "leg.”
We had a bridge four every afternoon,
and by common consent March was the
worst player in the bunch. He ex-
plained that he hated cards, and this
gave me an opening to say he didn’t
take after his forebear. He was obvi-
ously puzzled, and when explanation was
made said he had never heard of the
book but would certainly get it to read
about his naughty ancestor.
■'
“El V.”: My friend Mr. Moynihan
regaled us with his views on events
as he warmed his feet before a
huge log fire after a day’s work behind
the timber lorry. “Will, will,” he said
ruminatively, “ ’tis tirrible to be an
animal. Luk at thim shape. Disases
they have unbeknownst to man or baste.
This mortality, nhow—Oi rade here
that a good half of the shape in
wan disthrict have doid av it. And
phwat,” he continued indignantly,
“phwat does the Guv’mint do? Phwat
do thim fellers do about it?” With a
snort of disgust he - resumed his dudheen,
while the camp nodded in polite acquies-
cence.
* * * *
“Horrible Hobo”: “Australia Jane’s”
young shaver who tramped and begged
car-rides 104 miles to a job (B. l/5/’35)
has scarcely let go his mother’s skirt
compared with a carroty-haired 14-year-
old I met on the track at Grafton
(N.S.W.). He hailed originally from Fre-
mantle (W.A.), had jumped the rattler
through all the mainland States and had
reached as far north as Cairns. At
Rockhampton he got a fortnight’s gaol,
putting his age on to escape the unwel-
come attention of a children’s court —he
had a horror of boys’ homes. The other
big problem in his young life is circum-
venting the schemes of women anxious
to adopt him.
“Coif”: The rare plea of autrefois
acquit was successfully advanced the
other day by a Sydney man. The charge
was selling adulterated milk ; he said he
had already been in court in connection
with it and been discharged, no appear-
ance having been put in by the prosecu-
tion. Counsel for the other side main-
tained that as no evidence had been
heard his clients were right in starting
the second proceedings. The magistrate
disagreed with him.
“Bogaduck”: Trivial things can have
a big effect upon a man’s fortunes. My
S.A. district has a mild, fairly warm
winter. South of it lies tobacco-
growing country, with a cold, bleak
winter and a cool, moist summer. A
nurseryman near me advertised that he
would have young tomato plants for
sale. One paper worded the ad., “To-
bacco plants for sale.” When the nur-
seryman saw how it had been mutilated
he felt annoyed, but his annoyance
changed to wonder when orders for
tobacco plants poured in. He did a bit
of thinking, found out all he could con-
cerning tobacco seedlings, and set to
work. By the time the orders fell due
he had the young plants ready. Next
year even more people ordered tobacco
plants ; this year he has booked orders
for two million. The reason for it is
that this district is ideal for growing
young plants but no good for tobacco
as a crop ; the district down south will
grow crops but not young plants.
* :|:
“Spare Corp.”: How did abos. measure
up to A.I.F. standards? asks “Second
Divvy” (B. 1/5/’35). My experience of
three, two of whom were not full-bloods
but close to it, was that they were hard
triers, but apt to be beaten by condi-
tions that beat all colored people—and in
which, as a matter of fact, the city white,
inured to noise and speed, was often
a better stayer than the country man. As
even such wonderful natural fighters as
the Gurkhas wilted under the continued
strain and inaction, our abos.’ failure
was nothing to be ashamed of. I remem-
ber one poor chap who hung on without
complaint, although the absolute green-
ness of his face showed what he was
feeling inwardly ; we were glad, for our
own sakes, when he was sent out.
“Pest” : Like M.L., South Africa keeps
its troubles to itself. For some months
there has been an epidemic of plague in
the Cape, but little news of it has leaked
out. A similar outbreak some 10 years
ago took in the Free State and part of
the Transvaal; the outside world heard
little of it. The colored populations in
the towns are a focus of the disease ;
in the country it travels like wildfire
from kraal to kraal. In the last epi-
demic one of the chief agents in spread-
ing it on the veld was the little meercat,
a burrowing rodent which lives in vast
colonies.
“Jeviel”: Tell “Kwakprak” (B.
8/ 5 / ’35) that war-time patrols carrying
no oxygen flew and scrapped at 20,000
feet. Handling tricky scout machines in
the rarefied air at that altitude —apart
from keeping a semblance of formation
and performing the necessary aerobatics
when mixing it with the opposition—was
a job which taxed all the faculties ; men
“behaving like lunatics” and “well and
truly ‘shot’ ” through lack of oxygen
would have found it beyond them. The
sensation is rather one of extreme physi-
cal exhaustion, accentuated by the in-
tense cold. Were “K.’s” exaggerations
correct we in warmer latitudes might
enjoy the spectacle of parched pilots
heading with throttles wide open for the
bacchanalian joys of the “ceiling” ;
whereas in reality cold sobriety in the
thinner air has followed many a tipsy
take-off. Still, “Kwakprak” does seem
to have hit the mark concerning man’s
extreme adaptability to oxygen defi-
ciency ; during the Everest flights an
observer whose oxygen failed at about
30,000 feet was little the worse for his
experience.
* * ❖ *
“Jeames” on the aristocracy:—-
The news that Miss Weigall, whose father
was Governor of S. Australia, is to bring the
fortune made by her grandfather, J. B. Maple,
the Tottenham Court-road furniture man, into
the Howe family explains why neither death
duties nor land taxation can harm some British
dynasties. Peerages are constantly being re-
vivified by money made in trade. Dukes of
Marlborough, Manchester and Roxburgh have
married rich Americans within the last 30-odd
years, and the present Duchess of Wellington
was Miss Coats, daughter of Lord Glentanar,
whose millions come from cotton thread.
The Craven earldom was refreshed in the
’nineties by the colossal wealth of the heiress
of Bradley Martin, of N’York; the Earl
of Denbigh and Desmond married Miss
Emmet, of N’York; the Earl of Berkeley, Miss
Lowell, of Boston; Lord Granard (Master of
the Horse to Edward VII. and George V.), a
daughter of Ogden Mills, of N’York, and so
on. Often trade marries trade, so to speak:
the first Lord Inverclyde made his money in
shipping, and the present peer married a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Sainsbury, who
started ham-and-beef shops in London and
were millionaires before they died.
Anybody capable of making a million sterling
at anything, from the building trade (Cubitt)
to beer (Allsopp, Guinness), from stunt jour-
nalism (Harmsworth, Pearson, Aitken) to
stockbroking (Banbury), can have a peerage for
the asking.
Jews have brought untold millions into the
British aristocracy. The grandfather of the pres-
ent Duke of St. Albans was a Jew ; the sth
Earl of Rosebery married a Rothschild, and the
present Earl and the Marchioness of Crewe are
her offspring. Lord Curzon of Kedleston
married one daughter of Levi Leiter, of
Chicago, the 19th Earl of Suffolk another;
the present Marchionesses of Cholmondeley and
Winchester are Jewesses. There are 10 Jewish
peers, all wealthy, and several of their children
have married into Debrett.
It is a solemn thought for those who adver-
tise restaurants, talkie palaces and the like
as exclusive that the British aristocracy, alone
in Europe, marches from strength to strength
just because it has never been exclusive.
THE UNCONSCIOUS PLAYER.
“Jt is on record that men have played the greater
part ot a game without recollecting one thing about
it. They have been oblivious to their surroundings,
hut have gone on automatically.” —Sydney “Sun”
sporting writer.
The heart I called was pretty good,
Though fairly snookered by the brown.
So when they yelled, “Lay on the wood!”
I loosed a left and knocked him down.
At that she tacked across the breeze,
And, full of running, took the turn,
To score along the line with ease,
And lift one, gaffed, into the stern;
Which caused the pitcher much concern,
the game was deuce by now,
And “Heads a crown! ” the spinner cried;
“All li, I see you,” quoth the Chow,
And fired. As he did, “A wide!”
Rang out above the leading crew,
And cannoned off the scratch man’s ear,
Although it was a four he threw,
To top the bar at six-feet clear;
What time his skates, in second gear,
Had pinned him with a scissors grip,
To roll with kitty in the ditch,
And hack their logs through, chip for chip:
By hall: a length the ginger bitch
Had cleared the bunker from the tec,
When I beheld the wife’s grim face
Smile bleakly, as she said to me:
‘Thanks, partner, you have trumped my
ace! ”
And so to bed, in foul disgrace.
N.S.W.
SIZZLE.


“Finn”; It-happened in a school m a
Melbourne industrial suburb. The head
teacher maintained that intelligence was
hereditary, and that the child of the pro
fessional man was thus bound to out-
shine intellectually the child of the wage-
earner. Ballard and Terman psycholo-
gical tests he had taken confirmed his
theory. Anew family came to the
school —three sharp, sturdy boys, placed
in grades a couple of years above the
average. One, when tested, gave an I.Q.
of 145, easily the highest known in the
school. The h.t. beamed. “What’s your
father, lad?” he asked. “A rat-catcher,”
came the reply.
❖ * * si:
“Jesmond”: As one who had to be
retaught to stand and walk after a few
years in hospital, I fail to see how any-
one could dance after having had paraly-
sis for 10 years. If “Inaha” (B. 24/4/’35)
had said “run” instead of “danced” 1
might have believed it, though it is
scarcely possible, as the lady’s muscles
had not held her erect for 10 years.
Personally, after learning to stand erect
with the aid of a heavy body belt, I
found it easier to run than walk. Like
a bicycle, the faster I went the easier it
was to keep my balance.
si; :|; :!; $
“G.M.”: The providence which
watches over children and drunken
men had a busy day in Caulfield
(Vic.), when school-kiddies, all under
eight, found 200 detonators, part of a
parcel stolen from a brickworks. There
were no casualties up to the time that
somebody identified the explosives and
collected as many as could be traced,
but in the interval the youngsters
admitted having scratched, hammered
and even chewed them. One proudly
announced that he had run his tricycle
over a detonator several times to see if
it would bend. A woman who collected
the detonators took them to the local
police station in a bucket, riffling so
loudly that it scared the local cops. All
the missing death-dealers have not yet
been found, but up to date none has
exploded. Possibly the record escape
from explosion occurred down the South
Coast of N.S.W. during the war, when
a large German mine was washed up on
a beach. Half a dozen bushmen gathered
round, sent for a hammer and a spanner
and a screwdriver, and took the appara-
tus to pieces without mishap. They
knew nothing of the construction of
floating mines, but by sheer accident
they did everything in the right order!
And they were all sober, too.
* * * *
“P.R.”: The Chinese labor units
attached to the B.E.F. (B. 24/4/ ’35) de-
serve praise for their part in the war ;
but “passive bravery”—no! Their main
drawback was a propensity for stamped-
ing towards the back areas if a shell
fell within a mile of them. Still, they
earned their daily issue of opium, or
whatever it was they got in lieu of rum.
Their Oriental cunning often asserted
itself, as was evinced on one occasion
when a swarm of them were road-making
near our battery. They came across a
huge rock that seemed too big to break
up or roll away, and the brass-hats in
charge of the gang adjourned to the
nearest canteen to think it over. When
they returned the pebble had mysteri-
ously disappeared. In reply to a be-
wildered “whaffor,” the grinning Chinks
pointed to a patch of disturbed earth
where the rock had been. They had
dug a large hole alongside, and toppled
the rock into it.
"Mako”: It isn’t only Australians who
are casual about dangerous goods. I
went to spend a week-end with
a party in a M.L. bush whare,
and was standing interestedly
by while a highly-qualified
youth showed the rest of us how
to grill chops on a tea-tree fire.
He presently demanded the salt,
kept, he stated, in a red tin in
the cupboard. As I held out a
scarlet tin in the midst of a
rain of fine sparks I gathered
from his splutterings and contortions that
all was not well. When the smoke had
thinned a little he hiccupped feebly:
“Take that confounded tin away. That’s
the dynamite—the salt’s in the other red
one.”
“Senex”: Phillip Gucdalla once asked
plaintively: “Doesn’t most criticism con-
sist in objecting to something one never
said?” I was reminded of it on observ-
ing that “Senescent” (B. 8/5/’35) had
accused me of saying “Good perform-
ance in sport is a handicap in the pro-
fessions,” and had proceeded to demol-
ish the imbecility by pointing out that
Howard Bullock, Charles Wade and
other lights of medicine and the law
were sporting champions at their univer-
sities. What I said (B. 1/5/’35) was that
“professional men” {not undergrads.)
were handicapped if they “kept getting
into the sporting news.” Bullock, Wade,
B. R. Wise and hundreds more Austra-
lian athletes, F. E. Smith, Hemmerde,
Webster and thousands more English
athletes were careful to keep right
out of the sporting sections as soon as
they started to practise. A saying of
Lloyd George is to the point. “I attri-
bute my success in life to the fact that,
while brushing my hair, 1 never thought
of anything else.”
“Ibn el Issar”: “Working-class” India
had one of the few square meals of its
life to celebrate the jubilee. The free
feed to the poor is one of the most
sacred and popular customs of Hind, and
is the well-to-do Hindu’s method of cele-
brating, returning thanks, acquiring
merit in the sight of the gods and gener-
ally angling for popularity. There is
no particular show about these functions,
and one in a little village given by the
local bunnia, whose son is to be married,
is typical of them all. The guests sit on
the ground, and on leaves before them
rice and curry are piled. There are no
forks to souvenir, as the guests eat with
their fingers, and the liquor comes from
the village well. There is generally a
sweetmeat and tobacco issue at the finish,
and everyone waddles home to pray for
another spree of the sort in the near
future.
“Good heavens, John — don't tell
me you've lost your new hat!"
“Bouverie”: English
publications tried the
present-giving stunts
which Melbourne and
Sydney journals have
taken on, and lived to
regret it. London news-
papers were among the
first to get on to acci-
dent insurance. It
reached a stage where
the registered reader had
practically to be found
dead grasping a copy of
the newspaper—dead at
“What are you doin' there?"
“That big loafer hit me 'fore I could put me hansh up."
a specified hour and grasping it in a
specified hand —before his heirs were en-
titled to collect. Guinea books for five
bob were a later development. All these
campaigns in which newspaper pro-
prietaries depict themselves as standing
off and viewing the lavishness of their
offerings in cataleptic amazement make
a powerful appeal to the moron mind
with its insatiable yearning for some-
thing for nothing.
“Mac Ah”; Scratching around in a
cupboard for a few souvenirs to show
some members of the younger genera-
tion, I discovered some copies of Bairns-
father’s “Fragments from France.” This
led to two further discoveries: (1) that
“Fragments” did not seem as humorous
as I once thought they were, and (2) that,
studied carefully later, they brought back
more miserable memories than half a
dozen war diaries have been capable of
doing. Now, why should sketches that
were considered to be a fair sample of
war humor do that?
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Malaria sufferers
(B. 1/5/’35) are not the only ones mis-
taken for drunks. I fell asleep on Bondi
beach, and woke up punch-drunk from
sunburn and heatstroke. Struggled to a
tram and paid out my last fourpence.
Lost all power of speech, and became
violently ill. A cop heaved me out and
left me in the gutter. Spent hours mak-
ing the rest of the journey, scaling a few
stops on each tram before being ejected
as a deadhead. Landed home, still
speechless —to be ordered out by the land-
lady. 1 reached the quack’s, and told
the story by ripping my shirt off. When
he got me into hospital the last thought
was “Hope they don’t mix the labels
up at the top of the bed.” The stomach
pump was my dread. Every Friday night
a Black Maria used to steal up to that
hospital full of metho. artists, all squeal-
ing like rabbits at the thought of trouble
to come. No, they didn’t mix the history
cards.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Do our names,
especially our place-names, sound as
weird in other races’ ears as theirs do
in ours? It seems hard to believe.
though it is probably
true. Recent advices
about the malaria epi-
demic in Ceylon tell
us, for instance, that
the trouble is well in
hand in Medawach-
chtya and Anuradha-
pura, though the out-
look is still grave in
certain unpronounce-
able spots on the
Mahaviliganga. As a
contrast, bulletins from
Rab, Pag and Krk,
islands in the Adriatic,
off the Yugoslavian coast, report that
malaria is taking the knock from a fish
called gambusia, which is a whale for
mosquitoes’ lame. I don’t know what
gambusia’s label is in good Yugoslavian,
but by all the rules it should be “plonk”
or “stonk.” The good news, I may add,
reached me from Lob or Split—l forget
which.
* * * *
“Becks”: It was at quite an early age
that I met my first case of ingenuity in
a bad cause (B. 8/5/’35). Our fat school-
master suddenly developed the habit of
leaving the room for 10 minutes or so,
and on his return distributing “handers”
and' “impots.” for delinquencies com-
mitted during his absence. His guesses
were so accurate that most of us were
prepared to credit him with second sight,
though one boy, who had been reading
Rider Haggard, went further ; he pro-
pounded a theory that the dominie had
the power of separating his astral self
from his physical body, and that it was
his disembodied spirit that did the dirty
work. The theory won some adherents,
until a lad sitting near the window dis-
covered the real solution. The windows
opened outwards, and the old sneak used
them as a periscope, leaving the room,
as Virgil would say, “for this very pur-
pose.” Anyway, the next time he tried
it the class was prepared, and when he
peeped into his impromptu mirror he
espied 40 sets of outstretched fingers
placed against 40 noses. He stayed out
much longer than usual that morning,
and when he returned there were no
“impots.”
4
“Squadron Leader”: I am a bit
puzzled over the reference by “10-2-4”
to people “dodging the firing line in field
officers’ uniforms” (B. 8/4/’35). Does
he mean to imply that men holding that
rank were able to keep out of the line?
As one of the breed myself, I must em-
phatically assert that this wasn’t the case
with my branch of the service, whatever
may have happened in others. There
are four field officers in a Light Horse
regiment in addition to the colonel, and
their place is with other ranks in the
firing line or out of it —save, of course,
at mess.
* * * &
“Kerys”: Like “Lex” (B. 8/5/’35), I’ve
often stepped off a tram still clutching
my tuppence, the alternative being to
ride past my stop in the interests of
honesty, or fight a passage to the un-
happy conductor, wedged in a mass of
humanity somewhere at the other end
of the compartment. But 1 saw one
resourceful damsel in Pitt-street, Sydney,
when approached by an official who had
noted such omission on her part, hurl her
uncollected tuppence in the wake of the
receding tram, remarking, “Well, that’s
the best I can do.” She then walked
away, leaving the astonished complain-
ant to pick up the cash if he felt so in-
clined. By the time he had recovered
from the shock she was lost in the traffic.
HEDGING.
“She agreed to sign the pledge, but decided to
have one more drink first.”— “Sun.”
The higher cost of liquid joys
Has got upon my nerves;
I almost hate the clinking noise
Of glasses Gladys serves;
But though the knell of cash I pass
Puts all my teeth on edge,
I think I’ll take another glass
Before 1 sign the pledge.
Though drunken moments give remorse,
I sober up again
To save that lasting, sad divorce
The none too steady pen
Oft brings about. In short, I think,
Till 1 go o’er the edge,
I'll always take another drink
Before I sign the pledge.
N.S.W.
HALFPINT.


10 for 9 d *
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
‘‘Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
44
Craven A have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CBAVENA
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
BIOS
POLITICAL POINTS
There are 90 Assembly seats in N. S.
Wales and 62 in Queensland. The party
situation in 1932 and as it may be in
1935:
N.S.W. Queensland.
Lab. Non-Lab. Lab. Non-Lab.
1932 .. 24 66 .. 33 29
1935 .. 28 62 .. 46 ,16
Lang makes a wonderful difference.
Tunnecliffe, Cain, Holland and other
shining lights of the Vic. State Labor
party came across the Murray to speak
for Langsters; and Tunnecliffe showed
himself an apt pupil of the Boss. He
deprecated “the outcry that arose when
Mr. Lang said the moneylenders could
wait,” and referred to the U.C.P. as
“having listened to Labor’s appeal to
join hands in the fight against the great
financial interests which are strangling
them and their industry.” What does
Dunstan think of his allies now, and the
“Age” of its proteges?
One feature of the contention up
North must have intrigued A. B. Pid-
dington. In Theodore’s time he tried to
interest Queensland Labor in his mother-
hood-endowment scheme. Now after
all these years he learned in the news-
papers that Moore, the “Tory,” had
adopted it holus-bolus, that the Labor
Premier had denounced it as “actuarially
unsound,” and that the electors would
have none of it.
Bayley, sometime M.H.R. for Oxley
(Q.), is blamed for wishing the mother-
hood-endowment scheme on Opposition-
leader Moore. He suffered for it by los-
ing his seat, Wynnum.
Two days before the electors put the
extinguisher on Lang a “capitalist” paper
came out with a double-page Inner
Group ad. in which there Were nine
large pictures of the hero, Lang urging
the claims of mannequins, Lang in a
middle-class home, Lang with a fruit
farm, Lang beside a blackboard, Lang
plain and Lang colored. Unemployed
might have imagined that the equivalent
of a year’s basic wage could have been
better spent; but what’s a year’s basic
wage to a gentleman farmer and a
£13,700 mortgagee?
Speaking to the ladies of the A.W.N.L.,
ex-Attorney-General Macfarlan flatly
declared that the Vic. U.A.P. had become
“too conservative,” was without a policy
and was clinging to a pre-selection
system which was “the antithesis of
democracy.”
I and those associated with me will
have no more to do with pre-selection.
We will stand whether pre-selected or not.
For that alone this paper takes back
every unkind thing it has said of Mac-
farlan.
If Macfarlan has his way, the Vic.
U.A.P. will be altered so drastically that
Argyle won’t know it when he returns
from England. Macfarlan’s ability is
recognised on both sides of the House,
and he has warm friends in the U.C.P.
who wanted him to join their Ministry.
If his* pertinacity is equal to his ability
he may so reorganise the parties as to
see out this Parliament with a solid
majority around him on the Treasury
benches.
The bitterest of Saturday’s elections
was at Goulburn and writs were flying
about before the finish. The combatants
were Irish-Australians of very different
types: Tully, a former footballer and
a good mixer, who has followed Lang
in all his vicissitudes; Loughlin, serious-
mannered, high-minded, scornful of Lang
and incensed at being attacked by him
over a land transaction with a returned
soldier, who publicly denied the Lang
version. Tully looks like winning.
Chifley failed to unseat Lang in
Auburn, but he put up a pretty good
fight, and seems to have enjoyed his
campaigning. At any rate he got one
good laugh out of it;
In Auburn I drove over roads of which
Nevertire would be ashamed. I mentioned
this to a friend, and he said, “Well, you
see, when Lang is in opposition he is too
pigheaded to ask the Government for
money, and when he is the Government
he has none.”
No smarter thing was said during the
election.
The U.A.P. has a great deal to learn
about the art of electioneering, though
it gets lots of practice. It could profit-
ably study the methods of Queensland
Labor. That party’s election manifestoes
were miles ahead of those of Stevens’s
organisation, and it knew better than to
publish its list of jubilee medallists before
polling day. That is what the U.A.P.
“In N. S. Wales and Queensland there was confident talk about
'the swing’ that was to carry the Opposition into office.”
“It’s h—l to miss the swing!”
did in Sydney, It will be years before
thousands of medalless former supporters
forgive it.
Primary voting in the Avon (W.A.)
by-election gave the C.P. 775 more than
Labor (it was 68 two years ago), but
there was so much cross-voting that
I. G. Boyle’s advantage at the finish was
only 351. A loss of more than half the
first-count lead is unprecedented in West-
ralian C.P. history. Evidently Boyle
offended many wheatgrowers by oppos-
ing Westralian Farmers’ bulk-handling
scheme, and by being, as they thought,
too thick with the Labor heads.
Treasurers hungry for loan money are
looking longingly to the Loan Council
meetings at the end of the month.
Acting-Treasurer Casey, who will pre-
side, has not chilled their expectations
by describing the Loan Council as “a
co-operative borrowing society.” If the
people had thought it was going to be
just that, they would never have rati-
fied it by the majorities cast throughout
the Commonwealth and in every State in
1928. The Bulletin would rather see it
a co-operative no-borrowing society.
Each State has one vote on the Loan
Council; the Commonwealth has two
votes and a casting vote. • If they “fail
to arrive at a unanimous decision allo-
cating the amount to be borrowed for
any one year,” the Commonwealth may
demand one-fifth of the money sub-
scribed, and each State will have to share
in the remaining four-fifths “in the pro-
portion which its net loan expenditure
for the preceding five years bears to the
net loan expenditure of all the States.”
So, though the Commonwealth may be
outvoted, it is not without power to
prevent another borrowing orgy, though
Mr. Casey may be too amiable to exer-
cise it.
Dillon, M.L.A., has worked out the
representation of the different parties in
Vic. Assembly. He finds that the 21
members of the Country party, now in
office, represent 258,000 electors, while
the 26 metropolitan members, none a
Minister, represent 653,000. The tail is
wagging the dog with a vengeance.
Moore’s party put
up a queer candi-
date for Bunda-
berg (Q.). His pro-
gramme included
abolition of State
Parliaments, and
he hasn’t that to
himself; but he
went on to advo-
cate full work for
the unemployed
“at award rates,”
another ss. a ton
for sugarcane and
restriction of the
profits, dividends
and reserves of
banks. The gentle-
ma n announced
that there were 17
more points in his
programme the
late Woodrow Wil-
son’s consisted of
14, and le bon
Dieu, as Clemen-
ceau said, was
“content with 10”
—but the three
were more than
enougli for his un-
fortunate party.
Dunn ingham,
Stevens’s Minister
for Labor, is on
his way to London
to represent N. S.
Wales at the jubi-
lee celebrations,
and Forgan Smith
may go in a few
weeks. The jubi-
lee will be worn
threadbare when they arrive ; and, any-
how, they will be lost in the crush of
overseas members already there. Still,
a junket is a junket,
The trustees of Melbourne National
Gallery are asking for power to appoint
a director at £lOOO a year, a head of the
Gallery schools at £5OO and a drawing
instructor at £4OO. These salaries are
in striking contrast to the parsimony
practised at Bernard Hall’s expense. It
is to be hoped that, having seen the light
financially, the trustees will also see it
artistically when the time comes to fill
the jobs.
In Chesterton’s Napoleon of Hotting
Hill two London municipalities en-
gage in lethal warfare over a question
of dignity. Melbourne councils have yet
to reach that stage, but internecine strife
rages in more than one. Collingwood
has been fighting within itself for a year,
and every council meeting has the gal-
leries crowded in expectation of a free
fight. Now the Mayor of Richmond has
found a smoke-bomb smouldering in his
private room. Collingwoqd and Rich-
mond are Labor.
Victorian tax figures show that income-
tax payers increased by 1500 last year—to
86,747. Taxable income, after allowing
for deductions, was up £1,697,000
£30,592,585 ; in effect, contributors were
taxed on an average of £356, average tax
being £2l 19s. But 87.27 p.c. of assess-
ments were on those with under £5OO
p.a. (average tax, £2 13s. 6d.) and another
8 p.c. on earnings between £5OO and
£lOOO p.a. So that the bulk of the bur-
den of the £1,904,000 p.a. collected fell
on companies, employers who are ex-
pected to put men back in work and on
thrift organisations like life-insurance
cos.
Evidence regarding the bare necessities
of life required by the modern working
girl indicate that when she has grown to
need an allowance for cocktails, bridge
and golf she will be indistinguishable
from a society woman.
There is cynical comment in Westralia,
which has a “Labor” Government, on
the fact that a Gascoyne pastoralist, sen-
tenced to 12 months for perjury, was per-
mitted to drive to the Perth lockup, pre-
paratory to being transferred to Fre-
mantle gaol, in “one of his luxurious
sedan cars.” According to the “Mirror,”
the gentleman has a magnificent prop-
erty 90 miles from Carnarvon, on which
90,000 sheep were shorn last year, and
John Wren is a partner. No doubt
“Diver” Hughes will rise up with the
reminder that the Government had the
Constitution altered so that another of
Wren’s friends, Clydesdale, M.L.C.,
might hold an office of profit under the
Crown.
The shipping industry is demanding
that the Lower Yarra be widened to
ensure safety for existing traffic and pro-
vide for the accommodation of bigger
vessels in the river and the Victoria
Dock. The trouble is that the Yarra is
crossed at Spotswood by a huge tunnel
which carries half the sewerage of Mel-
bourne. This tunnel was constructed
when ships did not draw nearly as much
water as the giants of to-day, and replac-
ing it at a lower .level, if practicable at
all, would mean that the levels of the
whole system from that point would
have to be changed.
U.A.P. voters in Hartley (N.S.W.)
found themselves in a quandary on elec-
tion day. There was no U.A.P. man, so
their choice lay between a Communist
and a Langster. The U.A.P. organisation
seesawed—first, it advised that the Com-
munist should get the first vote; then,
that he should get the second. As over
1000 informal votes were cast —more
than 10 p.c. —the electors had their own
way of overcoming the difficulty. But
it would be better in such cases if voters
could escape voting by signing a declara-
tion as conscientious objectors.
This closes a little argument:
The Bulletin has crossed swords once or
twice with Charles Crofts, particularly over his
appointment as Commissioner under the N.S.W.
Gas and Electricity Act, 1932, which became
a dead letter, and has now been repealed.
Having no feeling in the matter, it doesn’t mind
recording the fact that Crofts had a good
reason for accepting the appointment, and has
since been asked by the Stevens Government to
represent the employees on an inquiry into
superannuation for N.S.W. gasworkers. Crofts
originally came from England under engage-
ment to the Metro. Gas Co. (Vic.), and left
its employment on a matter of unionist prin-
ciple (they still praise his technical skill). He
became secretary of the Victorian Gasworkers
and, later, Federal secretary of their union.
Sometime president of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council and of the Vic. A.L.P., he has
been a member of their executives for nearly
20 years, and secretary of the Australasian
Council of Trade Unions since 1920. In 1930
he represented Australian Labor at Geneva; he
is a deputy-member of the governing body of
the International Labor Office. His only fly
at Parliament was his try for the Senate last
year, when all the Labor candidates were un-
successful.


Smoke *
We're surrouhdeo
BY WILD BLACKS
THE Smoki3 t
Remember TH& eves op
Australia are= upon us' s
// N\
Lets, make a sortie .
\V
7 Surrender im the majme of the Kikl<2j .
Bacca !
REVOLT IN THE DESERT.
“All day blacks had been sending up smoke signals....The party slept fitfully, revolvers fully loaded at their fingertips....Tribesmen gathered round, gibbering loudly.”
—Newspaper account of Ministerial expedition in Central Australia.


The Only
"ANTI-KNOCK"
"SUPER-CHARGED
CRYSTAL CLEAR
Motor Spirit
tlp* r
ELL
SHELL
FOR MILEAGE AND POWER
SiJ
mmmam
PERSONAL ITEMS
A daughter of “King Dick” Seddon,
Mrs. Knox Gilmer, is contesting Welling-
ton North in the M.L. elections. She
calls herself an independent. Seddon’s
son, T.E., failed to hold the seat in which
Ihe old man was never beaten.
W. J. Rose, the new member of the
Tariff Board, is a 49-year-old Melbourne
consulting engineer who came back from
the World War with an M.C. Before
the war he was employed by De Bavay
and Co., and in recent years he has ad-
vised the Vic. Railway and Develop-
ment and Migration Commissions.
George Young, of Brisbane, has passed
on at 105. Born in Dorsetshire, he could
recall Victoria’s coronation. Arriving in
Brisbane in 1863, after a 63-day voyage
on the Flying Cloud, he worked on the
Brisbane-Sydney shipping service before
going to Roma as conductor of the mail
between there and Charleville. He next
took on dairying, and stuck to it for half
a century. He has left 67 descendants.
Justice Joe Browne, chairman of the
commission which is learning how many
cigarettes and lipsticks a working girl
needs to make life worth living, was
born at Adelong (N.S.W.). While teach-
ing at Fort-street, Sydney, he studied law
at Sydney Uni., gaining his LL.B. in
1904. Judge Bee by, of the Fed. Arbitra-
Justice BROWNE, of N. S. Wales.
tion Court, then a solicitor and an ardent
Laborite, gave Browne his first brief
when he was reading in the chambers of
High Court Justice Rich. Lang employed
him in the action against Lyons over the
Enforcement Act and before various
jurisdictions in State Labor’s endeavors
to get the Upper House abolished. Mc-
Gowen’s Government made him an
M.L.C. in 1912, and he remained one till
Stevens picked him for his present job.
Company law is his specialty, watching
good cricket his chief hobby.
“Historicus” on British justice;
The British legal system, which takes no
notice of rank or wealth, got another favor-
able advertisement when the Duke of Man-
chester, who visited Australia 40 years or so
ago, went to Wormwood Scrubs to begin
a sentence of nine months for false
pretences. In some countries he would have
got off (no great moral turpitude was involved);
in others he would never have come to trial.
In the past five years two other peers have
passed through the Scrubs, a London
prison which housed A.I.F. offenders during
the war. The English have a tradition
to maintain in this connection. In the six-
teenth century the seventh Lord Stourton was
hanged for murder in Sarum. Two hundred
years later the fourth Earl of Ferrers, a
kinsman of the Stourtons, was hanged at
Tyburn for the same crime. In the seven-
teenth century Lord Belhavcn, who presided
over the trial of the eleventh Lord Lovat, an
ancestor of the much-respected founder of
Lovat’s Scouts, said that “accused deserved
hanging five times over in five different places,
and on five different counts.” Actually, the
octogenarian Scot was beheaded.
“A. de G.”; The Duke of Man-
chester is a cousin of Lady Stonehaven.
His heir, Lord Mandeville, married a
daughter of Sydney Stead, of Melbourne,
and there is a collateral branch of the
family, descended from the third son of
the first earl, settled in Victoria. The
present incumbent is the ninth duke.
He has been twice married, and has been
both in the army and the R.N.V.R. At
one time he was captain of the Yeomen
of the Guard. The founder of the
family was Lord Chief Justice in 1615 ;
he was created Earl of Manchester in
1626. The second earl was that Lord
Kimbolton who distinguished himself at
Marston Moor in the Parliamentary
War. By a curious perversity of fate the
family motto js: “By disposing of me,
not by changing me.”
Melb. University lecturer McMahon
Ball, who is leading the protest against
book censorship, gets off a neat wise-
crack occasionally. He once described
Sir John Simon as “a Liberal who has
sat on the fence so long that the iron
has entered his soul.”
Camillo Seppelt, who died in Adel-
aide last week, aged 57, was a prominent
member of the great winegrowing
family. A son of the late Benno Seppelt,
he was manager at Chateau Tanunda
and a fine judge of all classes of wine.
Port was his specialty. They said in
the trade that what he didn’t know of
port was not knowledge.
“Second Divvy” on cavalrymen: —
When Capt. Brett, an Anglo-Indian cavalry
officer, criticised the grooming of the horses
at Melbourne jubilee review the general in
charge (Police-Commissioner Blarney) “fired
back with. ‘Why take notice of a junior
officer’s opinion?’ ” Why, indeed, if the senior
has expert qualifications which the junior lacks?
In fact, Blarney has never had much to do.
with horses. Beginning as a militia staff'
officer in 1906, he was on the general staff
A.I.F. till ’16, when he took command of the
2nd Battalion. The rest of his A.I.F. service
was on staffs. He was C.O. a militia brigade
lor some years, and when he got his present
job he was a C.M.F. major-general. Any
regular officer, British or foreign, to attain
captain’s rank would have spent months
among military horses for every day spent by
Blarney. If Captain Brett had decried a parade
under General Chauvel it would have been
different. —but, then, with a cavalryman of
Chauvel’s type in charge there would have
been nothing to decry.
Felicity Syme, who married Dr. G. W.
Clemons, of Tasmania, in Melbourne last
week, has more than social prominence
to commend her. She is one of Aus-
tralia’s most promising decorative artists.
A granddaughter of old David Syme, of
the “Age,” she is still very young. The
few drawings she has exhibited were
such outstanding examples of their class
that Melbourne had been awaiting a full-
size exhibition.
Alt Brash, president of Melbourne
Radio Exhibition, is a member of the
old family piano firm. In his younger
days Alf was an amateur sculler of note.
During spells between training he wrote
a series of humorous sketches which
appeared in The Bulletin of the day.
They were published in book form as
Mr. Barnes , the Barber. From a literary
standpoint, Brash’s success in business is
to be regretted. Had he been forced to
live in a garret and suffer from malnu-
trition he might have trained on into an
Australian O. Henry.
Ernest Wunderlich, here depicted by
Frith, is chairman of directors of Wun-
ERNEST WUNDERLICH, musician,
archceologist, astronomer, industrialist.
derlich, Ltd., which also has a jubilee
this year—a golden one. Ernest was
born in London nearly 80 years ago, did
most of his schooling in Switzerland and
landed in Australia half a century ago.
In addition to building up a great busi-
ness with his brothers Alfred and Otto,
he equipped a complete observatory
at Port Hacking (N.S.W.), which he
handed over to the State, and founded
the collection of abo. curiosities in the
Australian Museum, of which he is a
past president. He owns the largest
Egyptian library in Australia, and has
written and composed many excellent,
songs. So he didn’t get a jubilee medal,
though his brother Alfred did.
“Jeames” discusses a dukedom: —•
The Duke of Richmond and Gordon, who
died last week, had a disappointing life. Badly
wounded in the World War, he succeeded to a
financially-embarrassed estate in 1928. His
father had been powerful (i.e., rich) enough
to refuse to entertain some of Edward Vll.’s
friends at Goodwood House. Now there is no
entertaining at the historic Sussex mansion;
most of the park is a public golf course, and
if it were not for the revenue brought in by
Goodwood racecourse the property would have
to be sold. The late Duke lived in a cottage
on it as Lord March, and his son, who suc-
ceeds, worked in a North London motor-shop
and married a clergyman's daughter. The new
Duke’s mother was a Brassey, but she didn’t
bring much money into the family. The first
Duke was a son of Charles ll.’s mistress, the
Duchess of Portsmouth, who is travestied in
the film “Nell Gwynn.”
Life must seem a muddled business to
William Buckley, the aged criminal now
doing a life sentence in Pentridge (Vic.)
for shooting a bank manager in a rob-
bery. The crime was committed 10 years
ago, and Buckley’s accomplice, Angus
Murray, was hanged, though the Crown
admitted that he didn’t fire the shot.
Buckley evaded arrest for six years, and
was taken, like many of them, when his
loot ran out. For some reason —possibly
the effluxion of time—he escaped the
gallows, and last week he was tem-
porarily released from gaol to undergo
radium treatment at Melbourne Hos-
pital.
“Cher”; Prof. Kenneth Wheare, now
of Christ Church, Oxford, began at
Ormond Coll., Melbourne, in 1926. A
year after graduating B.A. with honors
he was awarded the Hastie Exhibition in
advanced ethics. In 1929 he won the
Dwight Prize in sociology and a Rhodes
scholarship. “The House,” as C.C. is
known to undergrads., has never been
strong on scholarship. It is a magnet
for the rich and titled.
Melbourne City Council has decided to
call the Anderson-street bridge across
the Yarra at Botanic Gardens the Morell
Bridge, after Steve Morell, one-time
sculler and former Lord Mayor. Only
one voice was heard in protest; its
owner said that it was ridiculous to
name bridges after councillors. He could
have raised a stronger objection. The
bridge was built by John Monash back
in the days when he was known only as
an engineer. It was built on the Monier
principle, then a novelty, and Melbourne
for years knew it is the “Pneumonier”
| Bridge. Why not the Monash Bridge?
Arthur Irwin, of the Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne, who sold a misprinted
2|d. Australian stamp to the King for
£lO, got in addition something that was
worth more than the money—the royal
envelope which enclosed the draft. He
has already refused tempting offers for
it. If he could only induce Hitler to
buy it he might sell Hitler’s receipt to
Stalin, and so on ad infinitum.
This is an Aria impression of Cliff
Hay (nobody dreams of addressing him
as Clifford Henderson), who is believed
to have helped in allocating the jubilee
medals. He joined the Premier’s Depart-
ment in T 4, and two years later became
its Under-Secretary and permanent
head. He has walked, if not with kings,
at least with king’s sons, nor lost the
mixer’s touch. He is entitled to festoon
himself with an M.V.0., C.M.G., C.B.E.
and a jubilee medal. The flappers of his
CLIFF HAY.
department, where he is extremely popu-
lar, are disappointed that he wasn’t given
a bar to his J.M. A native of Adel-
aide, he was educated in Sydney.


rutse
R.M.S. MOOLTAN
Leaves Sydney July 13
First Saloon and Tourist-.
Fares from 18 and 11
guineas respectively
me
AMARAI
i
II^
4
m
m
5 Bent Street,
Sydney.
y,,1"'
$
/ m
m
$
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents,
Tourist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt &
Sanderson Ltd.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
nuded predation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£>
(Hi p.c.)
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
(12 i p.c.)
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 . . 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 . . 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 . . 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564. . 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
(6i p.c.)
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
What a sweet thing it has been for
shareholders is obvious from the follow-
ing compressed history of the capital
account; —•
Cash-paid capital £2,425,000
Bonus capital . . .. .. .. 13,175,000
Total £15,600,000
Capital returned 3,900,000
Leaving- .. £11,700,000
The last gift, in November, 1934,
doubled the total in the share register.
It called for £5,850,000, of which
£1,067,000 came from the reserve fund,
£883,000 from an undisclosed source
(probably suspense accounts), and
£3,957,564 was provided by writing up
the book value of some of the assets.
There was thus £57,564 to spare, which
has since been whisked away to inner
reserves. The year’s net reduction in
visibly free reserves was £866,301, leav-
ing the figure at £909,247, which is
neither the only nor the stoutest pi op.
The replacement and depreciation fund
(up £93,518) is mostly provision in excess
of requirements, while the suspense
accounts (£2,343,800) consist largely of
allowances for contingencies which may
never occur; also, after revaluation, the
capital assets were still claimed to be
worth more than their book value.
Although the amount distributed in
divs. remains the same (the rate has been
reduced from p.c. to 6\ p.c.), the
market, with one eye on the past and
the other looking a long way into the.
future, now prices the fully-paid £2O
shares at £4l 17s. 6d. as against £66 in
Sept. last. The investor who bought, say,
10 shares at £66 eight months ago is now
receiving approximately 3.8 p.c. on his
money, and he can see a capital profit
of £177 in the market if he cares to take
it. At £4l 17s. 6d. the scrip now returns
3 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. Inciden-
tally, a bit extra is to be sent out with
the div. in November next, so that share-
holders may suffer no inconvenience on
account of the taxgatherer’s demands in
connection with the new bonus scrip.
The retail price of refined sugar is
now £37 6s. Bd. a ton, of which £25 3s.
9d. goes to the Queensland Government
for the purchase of raws, etc. The other
£l2 2s. lid. is made up as follows;
Retail grocers . . . . . . .. £4 2 8
Discounts to wholesalers. . . . . , 93
Concessions to fruit industry, etc. , . 15 8
Transport charges . . . . . . 2 18
Insurance .. . . . . . . 7
C.S.R 4 3 1
Total £l2 2 11
According to the 1931 Sugar Inquiry
Committee’s report, the co.’s total profits
from the Australian sugar industry were:
Refining and services under agreement
(1929) .£400,000
Milling (average 1928-30) . . . . . . 201,000
Export to islands (1929) . . . . . . 8,000
Total £609,000
Income tax . . . . . . . . . . 137,025
Net profit £471,975
The £471,975 was 5y p.c. on the then
written-down book value of the fixed
assets and the stocks involved. It was
a moderate return in the boom days, and
is not excessive now, nor is the existence
of large reserves, visible and otherwise,
now detrimental from the consumer’s
point of view. If the co. gave all its
services as refiners at cost, the retail
price of sugar could not be reduced by
more than a fourteenth of a penny per
pound.
Thus about half the co.’s profits are
derived from the Australian sugar indus-
try ; the other half comes from growing
and milling in Fiji, refining in Maori-
iand, and from a fine wad of invest-
ments outside the business.
For the coming season crop prospects
in both Australia and Fiji are promis-
ing; the world price of sugar has
strengthened a little, and British and
Canadian preferences on Empire sugar,
which mean much to the co., continue
unaltered.
Australian Distillery Co.
To Re- Re-
July, Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
C £ £ £
1930.. 1353 Nil 1701
Profit.
1931.. 669 Nil 669 2370
Loss.
1932. . 325 Nil ' 2045
Profit.
1933.. 2102 1.9 p.c. = 1882 220 2265
1934.. 43 Nil 43 2308
This is one of the three holding cos.
through which the public is interested in
two operating concerns —Federal Dis-
tillers Pty. and Distillers Corporation Pty.
—which together distil about 80 p.c. of
the whisky vatted in Australia. At the
close of last accounts its capital (£97,890),
reserves and a few hundred pounds of
outside money were all represented by
shares in other cos. (£92,160) and Con-
sols (£8811). Owing to slump, taxation
and difficulties associated with the build-
ing up of stocks and the winning of a
market, shareholders have had only one
small taste (1.9 p.c. in 1933) during the
last five years. Prospects, however, are
more encouraging than the figures in the
table, which shows the position in this
holding co. only, suggest.
It was to meet competition from over-
seas that Joshua Bros., Brinds, Breheny
Bros, and Kenna’s, and the Australian
Distillery incorporated their interests in
Federal Distillery in 1924. Then, owing
to the tariff, the Distillers Co., of Edin-
burgh, in association with some Austra-
lian distributors, formed Distillers Cor-
poration Pty., which put up the Corio
distillery, near Geelong, in 1927. Three
years later the Federal Co. and Distillers
Corp. merged their interests, a new hold-
ing co.. United Distillers Pty., being
formed for the purpose. At the same
time the Edinburgh parent bought enough
scrip from the Federal’s holding cos. to
give it control of the whole organisation.
The relationship between the various
cos. in the group is as follows:
Shares in
United Co.
[Australian
Federal! D i stiller v
Distillery | (paid cap.)
(P a i d 1 U n i t e d| £97,890) .. 88,839
capital, Distillers) B rinds
£750,000) (p a i d (paid cap.,
Distillers capita l , £63,126) .. 60 497
Corp. (paid £1,050,000) Brehenys
capital, (paid cap.,
£300,000) J £12,139) . . 12,269
. Other interests 882,395
The Federal Co. began marketing “Old
Court” whisky in 1924, and later
“Brinds” and “Crystal Court” gin. Until
October last Distillers Corp. was selling
only “Vickers” gin ; it has since mar-
keted some of its maturing stocks of
“A.A.A.” whisky, which has been in
wood for the last five years or more. The
statutory maturation period is now two
years; but whisky improves with age,
and, within limits, general experience is
that the cost of warehousing (approxi-
mately 6yd. per gallon per year) is likely
to be returned, together with profitable
margins.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of Distillers Corp. The Federal
Co. netted £21,888, 1932; £26,941, 1933 ;
£22,840, 1934; an average of 3.1 p.c. on
its paid capital. It paid 2\ p.c. in 1933.
Obviously much depends upon what the
other working partner in the group is
able to contribute to the pool.
In the market Australian Distillery’s
fully-paid 13s. shares reached 16s. 3d. in
October last; after sales at 10s., buyers
now offer Bs. 6d. Each 100 A.D. shares
is represented by 59 £1 shares in the
United Co. and approximately £5 7s. net
in Consols. The 59 shares in the United
Co. are backed by 42 shares in the
Federal and 17 in the Corporation.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Ke-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
2 £ £ £
1924.. 56,669 12 p.c.. = 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 .. 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8„ „ 22,400 - 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25.551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21 601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20.472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 61 „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
The retail price of fine sugar in Aus-
tralia is fixed at 4d. a pound (it was
reduced from early in 1933), local
consumption is around 349,000 tons
annually, and the Government has an-
nounced its intention to extend the exist-
ing agreement, which runs out on Sept.
1, 1936, for a further five years. Chief
factors affecting returns to growers and
millers are, therefore, seasonal condi-
tions, which influence the quantity and
quality of cane put through the rollers,
the size of the export surplus and the
price it fetches abroad.
To guard against the effects of a dry
spell, which played havoc with the 1932
figures, this Bundaberg co. installed an
irrigation plant, which has given results
in sugar production beyond the board’s
expectations. Farmers on adjoining lands
are availing themselves of the facili-
ties the co. has thus provided. An extra
31,839 tons of cane, making 149,899 tons
in all, was put through the rollers. It
was the best crushing yet, being 2372 tons
in excess of the co.’s previous peak
figure. The final price for No. 1 pool
sugar is expected to be £l6 75., and for
excess sugar £7 75., compared with £l7
4s. 3d. and £5 12s. respectively for the
previous season. The drop in the average
pool figure is due to the cut in the retail
price ; the rise in the average for excess
sugar followed a smaller output for the
whole State.
After sending £11,161 (£9202 in the
previous year) to the depreciation re-
serve (now £108,231), the net result was
£1909 better at 7.6 p.c. on capital as
against 6.1, a loss, 8.8, 6.7, 8.1 and 8.3
p.c. back to 1928. The div. was lifted
half a point, making 6y p.c. for the year,
the final being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
The outlook for the current term is
for another good crushing. Still, the
market, doubtful of the future of the
industry, especially the export surplus,
prices the fully-paid pound shares at 255.
9d, as against 265. 9d. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 5 p.c. on
a 6+ p.c. div. basis. Excluding the depre-
ciation reserve, the cover is 21s. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Completion of the irrigation scheme is
reflected in a net addition of £17,498 to
the book value of fixed assets:
1921. 1927. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. 16,200 18,594 14,006 19,666
Freeholds,
mac hinery,
plant, etc... 162,031 255,612 339,399 356,897
Stocks 30,851 63,545 30,343 36,282
G o v e r mnent
securities, etc. 16,000 15,910 15,000 15,000
Debtors, cash,
ct c. .. 65,211 32,690 38,844 36,005
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£5939 of stocks, only £5660 was added
to liabilities, which include an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation. The more
or less liquid surplus (£67,621) was only
£2560 lighter than at the previous
balance, despite the expenditure on fixed
assets.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
t ui vmenus.
Net ’ Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (10 p.c.). Ordinary. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written ofl, £3587 35 912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 12£ p.c.=10,648 15,266 51,’178
1927. . _ 7,674 10,000 10 „ „ 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 7i p.c.
1928.. 23.683 7.575 Nil _
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit,
etc., £lB,OOO .. .. .. 18 000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written ofl capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss,
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil - 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO .. 2,395
Deficit
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil _ 7495
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil _ ] 7,324
Profit.
1984.. 10,357 Nil Nil 6,967
(11p.e.) Reserves.
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.c. = 1,0.65 7,678 711
This co. and its two subsidiaries —Over-
land Sydney, Ltd., and Overland, Ltd
distribute the products of the Diamond
T Motor Co. (U.S.A.) in Queensland,
and those of Willys-Overland (U.S.A.),
Graham-Paige (U.S.A.) and the Singer
Co. (Eng.) in both N. S. Wales and
Queensland. The spring in last year’s
figures reflects the remarkable recovery
in the motor trade. The £19,853 netted,
up £9496 on the previous year’s result,
wiped out the p. and 1. debit (£6967 at the
close of accounts in 1934) and left
£12,886 available for distribution.
Paid capital is £122,296 in 101,000 £1
prefs. and 106,480 ords. of 4s. each. The
prefs.’ right to a cumulative 7f p.c. (re-
duced from 10 p.c. by the statutory cut)
and to priority as to capital are, there-
fore, largely nominal. Because of this
and other things, and to give the ords.
a chance to get into the picture again—
they went without for seven years to
Jan. 31, 1934, and have had 16s. lopped
off each pound share since 1921—the
prefs. agreed to a reconstruction of the
co., and the necessary resolutions will be
submitted at the annual meeting.
Capital is to remain intact, and the
pref. div. is to be lifted to its original con-
tract rate of 10 p.c. cumulative, thus side-
stepping the provisions of the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act. Any
profits distributed after that are to be
divided in approximately equal amounts
among prefs. and ords., until arrears of
pref. div. (now £44,440, equal to Bs. 9d. per
share) are wiped out. The £12,886 avail-
able last year enabled the board to give
the prefs. 11 p.c. and the ords. 5 p.c.; the
£19,853 netted was enough to show the
prefs. 14 p.c. and the ords. over 22 p.c.
Sales have been well maintained since
the close of accounts. But the market,
mindful of the history of this and other
agency concerns, sums up the risks by
pricing the prefs. at 245. 3d. The return at
that figure is 9 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div.
basis. Each rise or fall of 1 p.c. in the
rate of distribution would affect the re-
turn by a shade over three-quarters of
one per cent. At the end of January the
net tangible cover was 245. 4d. The ords.
at par have a speculative interest, owing
to the smallness of their capital.
Here is as much as the parent’s bal-
ance-sheet figures tell:
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £186.182 £122,296 £122,296 £122,290
Sundry creditors 121,230 5,539 1,723 207
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 52,062 21,834 20,562 20,293
Plant, etc. .. 12,181 1 , ( 1,591 1,432
Stocks .. 1,067 ( I 90 370
Book debts . . 195,828 73,106 89,684 62,730
Shares in other
cos., cash, etc. 39,522 23,529 5,124 45,394
The contraction of £26,954 in debtors’
balances and growth of £40,270 in shares
in subsidiaries are interrelated move-
ments almost entirely connected with
the Brisbane offshoot. The freehold, in
at £20,000, is not worth its book value.
Standard Trust, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. (Less English Taxes.) serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 26,281 8 p.c. = 20,500 5,781 110,351
Debenture issue exes., £9112 .. .. 101,239
Profits on sale of securities, £43,725. . 144,964
1925.. 29,736 7 p.c. = 17,850 11,886 156,850
1926.. 17,174 7 „ „ 17,850 156,174
Pref.
p.c.) Ord.
£ £
1927.. 34,560 13,612 10 p.c. =16,500 4,448,160,022
Transferred to capital assets reserve,
£75,290 .. .. .. .. 85,332
Net premiums on new shares, £59,882.. 145,’214
1928.. 40,457 15,108 10 p.c. =18,775 6,574 151,788
1929.. 56,438 20,109 10 „ ~24,450 11,879 163,667
Transferred to capital reserve, £10,000.. 153,667
Net share premiums ( £36,082) carried
to capital reserve.
1930.. 60,206 22,653 10 p.c. =28,300 9,263 162,920
1931.. 50,753 24,956 7 ~ ~21,550 4,247 167,167
1932.. 39,334 24,956 4 „ ~ 12,100 2,278 169 445
1933.. 30,403 25,025 2 ~ „ 6,067 168 756
To Staff Fund, £657 168’099
1934.. 34,677 25,850 2 p.c. = 6,267 2,560 170,659
To Staff Fund, £644 .. .. ~ 170,015
Formed in 1903 as the Melbourne
Trust, this London-controlled co. took
over the assets of four defunct banks, all
of which have long since been realised,
mostly at a profit. The name was
changed to the present title in 1927. At
the end of December the holdings com-
prised 725 investments. Only 5 p.c. of
them now remain in Australasia, 36.5 p.c.
were in Britain, 15.3 in the U.S.A. and
Canada, and the rest was scattered over
the remaining portions of the globe.
For many years divs. averaged 8 p.c.
Since 1924 £1,450,000 of fresh share and
debenture capital was gathered (the ords.
were put out at a high premium), and
during the four years to the end of 1930,
which included the world stock-exchange
boom, over £1,170,000 net was added
to the book value of the co.’s investment
holdings. At the end of 1934 these
figured at £2,095,482 (up £66,413), or
£385,863 more than their market value.
Still, the position in this respect is im-
proving ; after deducting visible re-
serves, the depreciation was equal to 10.3
p.c. of their book value as against 16.8
p.c. a year earlier, and the co. is in a
position to nurse its securities —those in
the U.S.A. and Germany have suffered
most.
The £34,677 (up £4274) netted for the
year was little more than enough to give
the prefs. their 5| p.c. and the ords.
2 p.c. Gross earnings (£89,733, up
£3440) were 4.2 p.c. on the net book
value of investments as against 4.7 in
1933 and 6.1 p.c. in 1930. Deducting
exes, other than interest, the return was
3.5 p.c. on investments ; the old 4\ p.c.
debentures were, therefore, not earning
their keep.
To ease the strain in this respect, the
co. offered at the end of Nov. last to
convert the £850,000 of old 4\ p.c.
debentures into 3| per cents. When the
books closed the whole of the new issue
had been taken up, and paid to £583,597,
leaving £266,403 to come. There was
£289,175 of old stock outstanding ; it is
to be redeemed at £lO2 p.c. at the end
of this month. The saving in interest
will amount to £6375, equal to 1.5 p.c.
on ord. capital.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1926. 1933. 1934.
Pref. capital . . £300,000 £600,000 £600,000
Ord. capital . . 191,137 400,000 400,000
Debentures.. .. 300,000 850,000 887,736
Other liabilities*. . 33,684 26,409 48,518
Investments . . 791,360 2,029,069 2,095.482
Debtors .. , . 2,392 20,366 45,768
Cash, deposits, etc. 213,587 23,289 34.848
Staff Fund, £9500 at Dec. 31, 1934.
Investments appear after deducting an
unspecified capital reserve, against which
exes, in connection with the debenture
operation were charged.
The cornerstone of the investment
trust business is reserves, and visibly this
co.’s are slender in relation to its capital.
Appearances are that the ords. are in
for a run of low divs. In Melbourne
they are priced at 21s. as against 12s. a
year ago. Allowing for exchange, the
return is 2.3 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis, or
3.5 p.c. on a 3 p.c. distribution.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


■■■■■ill
!? - -M$U -V ; "
v *;,■/
i| |is ass al igiils
■-. -ft Sr-:W■ - ■
SifoaiM|||i
£
u
m
ill
: i-,
aftil
■
an
iiilß
I
■*/ a j.' JjA it' i , f' ' ''
I -, . .'■ . 3'ff'VWhiJL!,!■:•:' ■ " ;■ *r
H|.*w.- -• , ;.-
i'tvi
liiias
SiliilS
ft
ill I
mses
:
1 3 ”5$ :■■■■■■■■. V‘ ; v ■;-s
111
' ::/:
ite
iiiiiiiiii
■ - i
'
'■ “'■ ; • is ■ r' ■ fyt; s.... \* -m,.* . -
; I
: ... ' ■
issiii
:
HP HE clouds of financial worry can be
quickly dispersed.
Most of us neglect to put a little away
to tide us over a “rainy day.” If we
have managed to save a little, some
emergency generally arises calling for the
immediate disbursement of the nest egg.
YOU NEED A LOAN QUICKLY
on furniture, player-pianos, or other securities at an equitable rate of interest, and without any fuss or
embarrassment, call and discuss the matter with N.S.W. Monte de Piete D. & I. Co., Ltd.
Since 1882 this Company, which was established to suppress usury, has been noted for its friendly and an
treatment, and does not impose vexatious charges.
REPAYMENTS INCLUDE BOTH PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
ADVANCE £lO REPAYMENT S'- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £2O REPAYMENT 7 6 WEEKLY
ADVANCE £3O REPAYMENT 10'- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £5O REPAYMENT 15/- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £lOO REPAYMENT 25 I. WEEKLY
Special rates of repayment arranged if above not suitable.
Advances made on Jewellery of all descriptions, Diamonds. Precious Stones, Modern and Antique Silver and China, and all classes of
portable security.
NO FEES CHARGED FOR ENQUIRIES, PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS OR VALUATIONS.
Every Allowance made for sickness.
very rtiiuwaut.t **— _ . ,
N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co., Ltd., is an All-Australian organisation, its complete capital being subsen ec
by Australians, and all its employees being Australians.
W. MONT
D. and I. Company Limited
Paid-up Capital: £300,000
Established 1882.
7/1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
• “ {same side as David Jones). Telephone: M 6465.
11RECTORS: JOHN R. HAEME (Chairman) JOHN A. MINNETT GEORGE E. DALE JOHN M, EDWARDS PEED C. SMITH (General Manage^).
- ““ rtPL “ T o rrs“ Ti™ .m,
'B5 ELIZABETH STREET (Opp. Anzac Memorial).
A. W. Grave, Manager.
Telephone: MA2901.
Cessnock Branch;
VINCENT STREET. A McHarg. Manager.
Telephone: Cessnock 415,
18 CITY ROAD (Opp. Grace Eros.).
J. A. Doutty, Manager.
Telephone: MA4563.
217 FOREST ROAD, HLRSTVILLE. ATManager
J. Gooding, Manager. A Lw nno- UW9761
Telephone: LW2780. Telephone. UWdUti.
Newcastle Branch: B i T cow aw^niniTNf 1 S*CEOWN STREET.
200 HUNTER F. S„SmeS° mS*™™ Mophone: Wollongong 618
BRISBANE OFFICE: . ~ . ,
CORNER ADELAIDE AND CREEK STREETS. Telephone; 84944. Eric Ash, Manager for Queensland.
, 0 „ T rrnrnr tj roItiNS STREET ’Phone • M 3022. 340-351 ! Central 4330. RYRIE STREET, GEELONG. ’Phone: Geelong 3743.
300-311 LITTLE COLLINS STREEI. I none. aoo—. - N> p e ltham. Manager for Victoria.


A SURE FRIEND IN U NC E RTAIN TIM ES
m
m
wi&M
wmm
■ ■
How will it be with
YOUR Widow?
|TF you do not feel easy in mind about the provision
you have made for your widow and family, it would
be wise of you to send for an A.M.P. counsellor and
to take him into your confidence. Tell him frankly how
you stand. He will respect your confidence absolutely,
and will show you just how you can best use A.M.P.
membership to cover your risks and obligations. He will
probably surprise you, so small will the suggested
monthly, quarterly, or yearly investment need to be.
A certain man took this advice recently and adopted a plan
whereby he assures to his family (1) a continuation of three-
quarters its present income for 12 months after his death (so
that his widow can readjust herself, in peace of mind, to the
new circumstances), (2) half their present income until the
youngest child reaches 21, and then (3) enough for the
widow to keep herself, and to give her a bit of spending
money, as long as she lives.
A modest plan, but one that will give that priceless position,
financial security, to his family. Every man and woman will
have a different problem, but the A.M.P. will have a satis-
factory way of meeting it.
The A.M.P. is the largest mutual life office in the Empire, with
£97,000,000 of assets. It exists to stand between every family and
the fear that death of the breadwinner will leave them in want and
unprotected. It is the great Australian comforter.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send you a counsellor. If you live
from an office, ask that a copy of Investing m Happiness**
be sent.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay
WELLINGTON.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * :;s *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Anvr.
* * * *
AUSTRALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
' ijc 5jc %
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
SUBSTANTIAL MINING
PROPOSITION
Available at “MOUNT LEYSHONnear
CHARTERS TOWERS, North Queensland.
OPEN FOR 2 WEEK..
Worked 1912 by Opencuts and Tunnels.
Total cost, 4/6£ ton. Average Assay, 4}dwt.
Fifty acres, mainly Porphyry Ore. ONE
MILLION tons proved assayed to lOdwt.
Further three million tons provable. Also
adjoining free percolation SAND DUMP,
approximately 120,000 tons, assayed Ifdwt.
Respective Water Rights secured.
Communicate JAMES McGUINNESS, Royal
Hotel, Charters Towers.
Copper
At Mt. Lyell (Tas.) operations for the
six months to the end of March resulted
in a loss, due to the low price of copper.
No div. has been paid since the end of
1933. The recent rise in the price of
the red metal, however, has greatly im-
proved the outlook. Only about 20 p.c.
of the co.’s production (plant capa-
city is 13,000 tons of electrolytic
p.a.) is sold locally. The rest is
marketed in London, where electro-
lytic dropped to £3O 10s. a ton in
1934; the average for the year was £33
11s. 6d. as against £B5 Bs. Id. for 1929.
The figure rose from £3O 15s. two
months ago to £37 last week. At £37
(stg.) the co. can just about make ends
meet in the mining section of the busi-
ness. After deducting the value of the
gold and silver content, but including
prospecting, development and deprecia-
tion charges, its net cost of produc-
ing and realising a ton of copper was
£52 19s. lid. for the 12 months to Sept.
30 last (the figure was bumped by a 12
weeks’ stoppage) as against £46 Is. 3d.
for the preceding term.
The rise in the price of the metal is
due to a decision by the world’s largest
producers outside the U.S.A. and Canada
to restrict their aggregate annual out-
put by over 30 p.c. (=240,000 tons)
for three years from the beginning
of June next. Last year world pro-
duction of copper was 1,300,000 tons
and consumption was 1,370,000 tons —an
increase of 280,000 tons and 260,000 tons
respectively on 1933 figures. At the end
of March last consumption was reckoned
to be at the rate of 1,500,000 tons p.a.
On this basis, normal stocks would be
about 375,000 tons. Actually, world
stocks were 585,000 tons, about half of
which was in the U.S.A., behind a tariff
wall of four cents a pound. Three years
ago world stocks were equal to over a
year’s consumption.
Provided no hitch occurs, the agree-
ment has removed the immediate threat of
overproduction in Africa and S. America
—producers in the U.S.A. and Canada
have agreed to co-operate, whatever
that amounts to —while increased con-
sumption promises to provide an outlet
for surplus stocks. Users of the metal
will thus be able to more freely cover
their forward needs with less fear of los-
ing money by doing so. It is not expected
that much of the stock held in the U.S.A.
will come on to the London market
under £4O a ton sterling.
Mt. Chariested Wolfram
Mt. Chariested Wolfram (N.S.W.) has
met with trouble. Early in 1934 the co.
claimed that it would be able to produce
at a profit with wolfram at I4s, a unit
in London ; the figure, which rose to 40s.
in Dec., was 335. 6d. last week-
end. Plant capacity was increased
to 300 tons of concentrates a week.
Recently the directors called in two
independent mining engineers—Messrs.
More and McMahon—to overhaul the
show. Following their report the board
says: “The small average width of the lode
so far sloped has made for much dearer
mining costs than prospectus estimates
anticipated, and development costs per
ton of such a narrow ore-body are also
much higher.” Also, the grade of ore
milled has not come up to expectations,
due largely to dilution of clean stone with
waste rock in sloping.
The board claims that there is room
lor substantial improvement in mining
and treatment costs and ore dilution as
more experienced miners become avail-
able. Recently some of the co.’s con-
tract miners pulled out because they
couldn’t make enough money, owing to
the narrowness of the veins. The crux
of the position lies in the behavior of the
lodes at depth and along the line of
strike. Indications are that mineralisa-
tion persists in both directions. The vital
question is whether widths and values
will improve. Developments at the
lowest level (380 ft.) are said to be favor-
able. Here much depends upon the
result of a crosscut to meet the west lode,
which is the strongest of the three lines
indicated on the surface.
Having thrown off Aloha Central to
develop ■ ground with rich surface indi-
cations in the centre of the Tavua gold-
field, Fiji, Aloha Syndicate, Melbourne,
has now launched Aloha Alluvials to
take over and test two dredging and
sluicing areas: (also in Fiji) on the
Waimanu and Waidamu rivers respec-
tively. This alluvial co. has a nominal
capital of £25,000 in £5 shares, of which
600 paids plus £5OO for rights, etc., go to
the Syndicate, whose shareholders were
offered 2280 of the new shares (19 for 1)
at par. Another 120 were offered at par
to a mining group for services, etc.; the
remaining 2000 are in the cupboard, Syn-
dicate shareholders having the right to
subscribe at par for 25 p.c. of them, if
and when issued. On exercise of the
option the vendors get £5OOO plus 10,000
fully-paids in any co. formed to work
the properties. Simple tests of upper
wash on the Waimanu showed values of
over 2s. a yard. The new £5 fetched
£l7 in the market last week-end.
On the board are H. T. Day, S. Ricket-
son, R. W. Hallett and Ambrose Pratt,
with C. A. B. Joske as a local director
in Fiji.
*♦■ * *
Austral Malay Tin has taken a six
months’ option over Crocodile Creek
Gold Dredging’s Bouldercombe area, near
Rockhampton (Q.). The Crocodile Co.
will continue dredging for its own benefit
during the term of the option. The pur-
chase price is one-third, in fully-paids,
of the issued capital of any co. formed
by Austral Malay to work the property.
The vendor will also have the right to
apply for 10 p.c. of any contribs. offered.
* * * *
The new issue of 200,000 4s. shares in
Morning Star (G.M.A.) mines, Wood’s
Point (Vic.), has been oversubscribed.
Applicants for up to 100 shares have re-
ceived full allotment; the rest of the scrip
was handed out on a sliding scale. The
money is wanted to test several new
floors proved by drilling. The floors
occur as flat-dipping quartz reefs, tra-
versing a bulge in a diorite dyke. At one
point, 67ft, below No. 7 level, the core
assayed 14dwt. over a width of 14in.
The co. was floated by Gold Mines of
Australia, and Mt. Coolon came in on
the ground floor.
* * * *
Dargo Mines, a Melbourne concern,
whose Snake Creek (New Guinea) option
has proved to be a disappointment, has
nothing else in sight. Rather than con-
tinue the hunt Micawber-like, share-
holders have decided to put the co. into
voluntary liquidation. A distribution of
at least 255., or possibly 275., per £2
share is expected.
* * * *
Renown, an Adelaide prospecting con-
cern headed by M. B. Hamer, has
launched another operating co., Mt.
Margaret Mines, N.L., to fake over its
Mt. Morven leases, near Mt. Morgans
(W.A.). The new co. has 600,000 shares
of 2s. 6d. each, of which 200,000, credited
as paid to 2s. each, went to the parent’s
shareholders; the public took 200,000
and the other 200,000 are in pickle. The
co. will thus have a cash-paid capital of
£30,000 —£8000 will be needed for
options, and the balance is estimated to
be enough to equip and develop the pro-
perty, Three lines of reef have been
worked to water level (about 80ft.).
Average widths are 4ft. eastern lode,
6ft. to 10ft, central and Bft. west-
ern. A crosscut through the western
lode at 90ft. gave average assays of
22.8dwt. over the full width. More im-
portant is the behavior of values in the
near-by sulphides.
* * * .tc
T. Blatchford, formerly Government
geologist in W.A., now chief geologist
to Australian Mines Management and
Secretariat, Ltd., general managers to
Commonwealth Mining and Finance, is
on his way from Perth to Darwin. He
will select boring and shaft sites, and
lay out a general working plan, at the
Hercules Eureka. Here some 2oz. stuff
has been taken from dense sulphide
lodes ; and tests made at Kalgoorlie in-
dicate no serious extraction problems.
* * * *
South Kalgurli Consolidated (W.A.),
which is working the Croesus Prop, lease
on a profit-sharing basis with North
Kalgurli, reports that there is still 128,500
tons, averaging 6dwt., in the Australia
lode, and another 163,600 tons, averag-
ing 6£dwt., elsewhere in the mine. Prob-
able ore amounts to 12,000 tons of
sydwt. stuff in the Australia lode and
62,900 tons of 6dwt. stone elsewhere.
* * * *
Hampton Celebration, one of the latest
of Westralia’s goldmining resurrections,
is to have a treatment plant with a
monthly capacity of 4000 tons. Above
No. 4 level (400 ft.) there is claimed to
be 66,000 tons of proved and partially-
developed ore of payable grade. A. L.
Frew, of Australian Mining Trust, which
assisted in the resurrection, has been
appointed manager.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) is getting
ready to again increase the quantity of
feed to its mill. Within the next six
months treatment capacity is to be lifted
to 55,000 tons a month. This will enable
lower-grade ore to be treated and profits
to be maintained.
* * * *
Mt. Jackson board (W.A.), after con-
sultation with the manager and Charlton
Young, has decided to concentrate on
development, the aim being to block
sufficient ore to warrant the installation
of a battery. It is a wise procedure
which could with advantage be more
widely adopted.
* * * *
Golden Age, a small Westralian gold-
mining venture with little funds and
deep-seated optimism, is offering those
on the register a further 100 shares of
£lO each. It recently failed to float
a bigger concern to take over its assets,
which consist of the Maori Chief mine
and equipment at Menzies (W.A.).
* * * *
Excluding realisation charges and com-
mission, the price obtained for S. African
gold last year was £6 18s. an ounce, or
13 s. 3yd. more than the average for 1933.
* * * *
To meet the increased demand for
current, due to goldmining activities,
Kalgoorlie Electric Power and Light-
ing Corp., originally a mining co.
itself, has decided to instal £40,000
worth of new machinery, raising the
capacity of its plant to 12,500 kilowatts.
London supplies the new machines,


BEWARE OF EYESTRAIN
ZONES
e> 5
~ IS)
o' >?
o Q
O
Ql y
0£
o
o
Q oL
WF your child frowns over his homework.
or holds his book closer than fourteen
Inches from his eyes, he needs more light
or a visit to an optometrist —or both. He
is probably working in an eye-strain zone
...a zone of inadequate light •
If your lamps are of inferior make, they
may be cheating your eyes of the light
required for comfortable vision. The
dimmer the light, the greater the eye-
strain. The human eye was designed for
use In daylight—Mazda light is the near-
est approach to daylight.
There is one snre way of banishing eye-
strain zones without increasing either
your electric light bill or your expendi-
ture in lamps. Equip your home with
Mazda COILEU-COIL. lamps—the newly-
discovered lamps with the double-spiral
filament. Mazda Coiled-coil lamps give as
much as 20 per cent, more light than
ordinary lamps and 50% more than so
called ?f cheap” lamps without increase of
consumption!
GOOD LIGHT — GOOD SIGHT
B
T-H
▲
I
4
Ike,
CoAJbuL- Ccn£ iJcurruJ
ADVERTISEMENT OF ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LTD.
Sydney .. Melbourne .. Brisbane .. Adelaide .. Hobart. W.A. Agent: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
ML41.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kwa”: A remarkable instance of
native sagacity occurred recently at the
Golden Dyke mine in the N.T. The nine
miles of bush track between the mine and
the railway siding at Grove Hill were in
a particularly boggy condition after
heavy rains, and the local carrier con-
sidered it unfit for his heavy motor-truck.
As two truckloads of merchandise were
waiting at the siding, the carrier decided
to send in an abo. with a spring-cart and
horses, his instructions being to bring
back any goods of a perishable nature.
Jacky arrived back at a hand-gallop, and,
drawing up at the mine with a trium-
phant smile on his face, indicated with a
sweep of the hand his load of perish-
ables —five cases of beer!
* * * *
“Smart Alec”: Greater Brisbane
Council begged an Order-in-Counci I
declaring its area a sanctuary for birds
and animals. Just that. Now someone
has written to say that every catcher of
a mouse, the council’s own rat-trappers,
the slayers of crows and flying-foxes
and numerous other undesirable small
deer, even the destroyers of the nimble
flea, are all liable to fine and imprison-
ment under the 0.-1.-C. The Cabinet has
been besought to amend its order in
quick time, but the risk will have to be
run until after the elections.
* * * *
“0.W.W.” Thunder is blamed for
many landslides in the Tangitere Valley
(M.L.) during a recent storm. Heavy,
cannon-like claps shook buildings and
caused much more rain-sodden country
to slip than would otherwise have moved.
After each peal, rocks and many tons of
earth could be heard crashing down.
* * * *
“Western”: Quite often the inedibility
of a species of fish may reside entirely
in its skin. This is the case with the
Westralian trumpeter, to be caught in
plenty off the coast, and as often
thrown away as worthless. Stripped of
its rather slimy skin, which operation is
easily performed, the trumpeter fries
with the best. On the other hand certain
fish, such as the mullet, seem to carry
their choicest flavor in the skin.
H* H*
“F.Y.7”: The crocodile is far from a
fool when he attacks a drinking horse
from the rear (B. 1/5/’35). All horse-
men will admit that the nasty end of
a bad horse is the fore. In the yards
a habitual “striker” is much more
feared than half a dozen kickers, and
catching him is often a dangerous busi-
ness. Stallions invariably fight with their
forefeet, and the damage they can do
must be seen to be believed. As to the
crocs., southern papers a year or two ago
were publishing lurid accounts of a fight
af Katherine River crossing in the NT,
between one and a racing stallion well
known in those parts. The horse was
drinking in the river when the lizard
took him by the nose. In the scrap that
followed the horse battered the crocodile
fearfully with his forefeet, badly wound-
ing the brute, and actually striking off
one of its forelegs. None of the several
spectators seems to have been able to
interfere, and the crocodile lasted out
his opponent, though he was found dead
himself a few days later.
* * * *
“Natur”: The despised shag didn't
come down in the last shower. My
neighbor has a big dam for breeding
goldfish for the Sydney market, and tried
every dodge to keep a couple of shags
from marauding her stocks. At first
the birds took to the wing as she
approached ; they now dive under and
come up beneath the dense water-
growths till she buzzes off, then resume
their unlawful poaching. Trained to a
nicety, they dive at the first sign of
danger, and won’t appear, though she
watches for hours.
* * *
“Hopalong”: Legless gulls? Bosh!
We were lying on the deck watching the
fowls swing overhead, and someone
pointed out a one-legged fellow. Shark
or mackerel was blamed. Then someone
spotted another solitary leg; we eventu-
ally counted five one-legged birds. Con-
“Looks to me cap'n be feelin' the cold this morning .”
“Looks to me ’e DON’T be feelin' it.”
jecture was rife. Suddenly a gull with
no legs appeared, then another. We
began to wonder, like “Gabo” (B.
27/3/’35), how they got on at roosting-
time. Suddenly our legless wonder
swooped seaward —and both legs ap-
peared from the down under the bird’s
body. All the other missing legs were
revealed when we threw a few scraps
overboard. Merely nature’s retractable
undercarriage in use years before man
“invented” it.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: There is joy among the
angling fraternity of the Speck at the
discovery of a few specimens of the Aus-
tralian grayling, or cucumber-herring, in
the Douglas River, on the east coast.
This fish, about a foot in length, is a
cousin of the salmon, and is recognised
as a world delicacy. It was once very
plentiful in Tasmanian rivers, and yielded
excellent sport; in fact, many fly-fishers
pronounced it to be the gamest fish of
all. In 1869, for some mysterious
reason, it suddenly disappeared from
most of the rivers, and was thought to
have completely died out. It is hoped
that the Commissioners will cultivate the
species.
* * * *
“Canvas”: When the late Ted Hines
was managing Llanrheidol (W.Q.) he
made a patent and ever-filled waterbag
at Saville Downs, the outstation. There
was a flowing bore a bit away, and the
discharge from that bore was a tew teet
higher than the verandah at the house.
There was a cool and shady corner there,
and the bag was a good notion it me
lazy hands would only remember to
it again and not always leave it to me
other fellow. Hines got over that diffi-
culty. He stretched a single length ot
No. 8 wire from the borehead _to the
top of the bag. When that was in posi-
tion it carried a drop at a time and let
it fall into the bag. In travelling the
heated water from the bore had time to
cool, and it only needed a few minutes
in the bag to be icy.
* * * *
“Oriole”: There are times when the
kookaburra feels the ancestral kingfisher
blood in its veins, and dives after yabbies
and the like. At Red Cliffs (Vic.), a 40-
gallon barrel had been let into the ground
at a spring; water-level was a foot
from the surface. Old Jack, diving in
after a frog, had been unable to rise
again in the confined space and was
drowned. When I arrived at the spot
the frog was floating on top of the water,
and as it dived it seemed contemptuously
to kick the bird.
* * * *
“Itchy”: I’ve seen whales rubbing
against rocks to free themselves of bar-
nacles ; I’ve caught sharks with sucking-
fish attached to them ; I’ve got an odd
turtle or two with the same, and in N.Q.
lately I landed one which must have been
so long without a wash that its best
friend should have sent it an anonymous
letter. The blasted thing was covered
with barnacles from head to foot, and
they were all alive. When I hooked some
of ’em off, the acid secretions that they
used, or some other darned thing, had
eaten into the shell of the turtle, dissolv-
ing it, and there were scars into which
I could easily put the nail of my big toe
—if I hadn’t knocked it off last week
when dragging a net and getting caught
in a bit of coral.
* *
“Blader No. 3”: Let me give “Wan-
dana” (B. 1/5/’35) a wrinkle that will
abolish his razor worries and doesn’t
involve stalking the magnetic north,
dodging the phlegmatic south or any
other footling. Cutting a tough facial
scrub daily for 35 years, I’ve never used
a “safety,” never had my blade razor
“done-up” by a barber and never used
a strop. I keep a decent razor and a
perforated hone ; give the blade half a
dozen strokes on the hone after each
shave ; and it is O.K. for the next. A
replacement has been needed only when
some envious cow pinched the razor.
* * * *
“Shangaan”: The African baboons
“W. le R.” met (B. 1/5/’35) must have
been a mug lot if they allowed them-
selves to be trapped by the old A3sop-
fable dodge of a gourd with grain inside
it. My experience of old Oom Babiaan
is that he is the most untrappable beast
under heaven, and the theory has Kaffir
and Boer endorsement. His intelligence
is human and AAA at that. He does
nothing without posting a strong picket-
line, and it is a treat to watch a com-
mando retreating from a raided crop
with the women and children first and
the savage old warriors forming a per-
fectly-set rearguard. The only way to
deal with the baboons when they get
really bad among the crops or the young
lambs is to call out the countryside and
hold a drive. Even then they soon shake
off pursuit when their stone-strewed
kranzes are reached, carrying off their
wounded. Most Kaffirs believe in pla-
cating them, holding that they are half
human and capable of interchanging
shapes with men. If this is done, it is
believed they only take a tithe of the
crops, leaving the rest for the rightful
owners.
t- * *
“C.E.D.M.”: “Rindy” (B. l/5/’35)
says Australian eucalyptus-trees grown in
other countries lose their characteristic
hardness and become quite a soft wood.
In 1908, at Berlin, I saw one growing
as a vine for some distance along the
iron railing of a public garden.
“Bay Boat”: I wandered into Nicosia
(Cyprus), feeling a bit blue and wonder-
ing what on earth had brought me to
this land of the Biblical picture ot child-
hood days. Suddenly one of my Aussie
kiddies yelled “Gums, dad! Goodo!”
The sight of them cheered me up, and
later George, the Maltese hotel-pro-
prietor, completed the trick by handing
me an aged Bully. Incidentally, he ex-
plained that the gums scared away
malaria.
* * * *
“lan J.”: “Woodman” (B. 17/4/’35)
blames cattlemen for Vic. forest-destruc-
tion. The real culprits are the Vic.
Forest Commission and others who, like
“Woodman” himself, try to preserve the
timber by keeping fires out. Australian
eucalypts shed their bark annually, and
their leaves all the year round. Every
wind brings down a shower of twigs and
small branches. Each season a crop of
bracken dies, but remains standing. In
a few years there is such an accumula-
tion of debris that a fire, when it does
come—and come it will by accident,
design or act of God—destroys all
before it, even big trees. There were
better forests here before the advent of
the white man, because the abos. burnt
whenever the forest would carry a fire,
to facilitate hunting. They had no sense-
less fire-restriction laws. The eucalypt
evolved under these conditions of fre-
quent small fires, and can withstand
them, but not even a gum-tree can go
through a furnace unscathed.
* * * *
“Ex-’Rooer”: The cunning of crows
(B. 3/4/’35) reminds me of an old
chap I knew as Joe at Cockleshell Gully
(W;A.). During an argument a “mate”
knocked him and left him “out” in a
crow-ridden locality. As he was regain-
ing consciousness one of the birds got
near his face, and through his partly-
closed eyes Joe saw it and grabbed its
legs. He plucked its body nearly bare
and let it go, with the rest of the mob
in hot pursuit.
* * * *
“Giuseppe Guizzozo”: Me been walk
the scrub two day ago before daylight
make morning. Me jump my bed from
the ground, for clock the alarm make too
much noise—r-r-r-r-r-r. From my hand
the cane knife me take for cut cane
lawyer ; with the gun my shoulder I carry
for look the turkey the shoot-bang!
Long way 15, 10 miles, more, with my
leg quick about me walk. Me look
plenty ebrywhere the turkey, not find for
dinner-time, me think. Bymeby from
ground top the stone close-up creek me
sit down my leg one log, for wet too
much the ground about. With the billy
some tea cold I drink, and eat my bread
cheese. Me jump from the ground the
stone up, me ver’ fright; me see one
insect animal one foot big high look me
the eyes. Me gun with me shoulder me
make shoot bang-bang the cartridge.
Ah! Ah! me kill. Me go for 100k —pick
him —no see first time —me sure, ver'
sure, me kill, where go? Every round
me 100k —no find —me find one egg ; no,
four, I think fowl hen the turkey, him
make nest. Every round me look more.
Ah! me find him, one insect animal.
Dio came! he make egg, one, some
more. Me ver’ fright, too much this
time. Insect animal info Queensland
with four legs make the eggs, quick, ver'
quick. Fast run with my legs, my way
for come back my place, near Midgenoo.
Me tell mine expriance all my country-
men, everbod laugh. No fear, you liar
Giuseppe. Me no like for lie my coun-
trymen me tell —you tell your paper for
me, me can show mine friends, about the
insect animal. What him the insect?
THE DOUBTFUL LOVER.
Me world is upside down to-day. I’ve sorter
• lost control.
I’m wand’rin’ round the flamin’ joint jist like
an orphan foal.
I ’aven’t done a tap of work—there’s spuds
an’ grain to cart;
Them turnips should be weeded, too, but
’anged if I can start.
It ’as me fairly tricked—instead of moonin’ in
a daze,
I should be singin’ songs of love or shoutin’
loud ’oorays;
For late last night, when all the flats shone
like a silver sea,
Eliza Jane agreed to try the future out with
me.
One thing 1 know—a bloke ’oo’s keen to live
in single bliss,
If ’e’s got any sense, ’ll give these moonlight
walks a miss.
"Ere’s me intent on doin’ jist a ’armless
sorter line,
No more or less, but ’Liza slipped ’er little
’ands in mine—
’Er little ’ands all soft an’ white ; then glanced
at me an’ sighed;
Me thoughts got mixed, I seemed to go all
mushy-like inside.
An’ when I’d wakened from me trance an’
come to earth again,
I’d pledged meself an’ all I ’ad for keeps to
’Liza Jane.
As far as I can see, this love is somethin’ like
the mumps—
Not reelly bad—jist crook enough to give a
man the dumps.
I’ve often pondered when I’ve read in books or
magazines
Of love an’ all its bitter pangs—l know now
what it means.
Life’s problems git a feller down; ’e dun no
where ’e stands;
An’ when I think of ’Liza Jane—’er dainty,
dingin’ hands,
Them little ’ands that in me mind sich doubts
an’ fears arouse—
I’m wond’rin’ if they’ll stand the strain of
milkin’ toughish cows?
VICTORIA.
ELLENVAKE.


“E.F.P.D.”; At Charleville (Q.) we
are having an old-man drought. While
1 was working on a tank birds
came in to water in flocks; parrots,
doves, honeyeaters, leatherheads, top-
knot pigeons, choughs and dozens of
small birds, and, late in the evenings,
crows and bronzewings. About 10 a.m.
the parrots arrived, 50 pale-headed
rosellas together. Their color varies ; all
have creamy-colored heads, black-and-
gold backs and blue wings and tails, but
their necks and chests vary from sky-blue
to pale lemon-yellow. A big flock to-
gether on the water’s edge, with a few
crimson-wings and buln-bulns, makes a
beautiful sight. Noon would bring the
swifts. It is wonderful to see them
drinking on the wing; they just open
their beaks wide—and they are wide—
and skim about the surface at a great
pace and scoop the water in.
* * * *
“Granova”: You can have your rain-
predicting frogs, trees, rheumatism and
quandongs. For long-range forecasts
give me the rabbits. Even when
every other animal has forgotten
the color of green grass, if a
good season is ahead the rabbits
will begin to breed. For short-
range predictions the wireless is
supreme. No self-respecting Abo-
liar would take any notice of
meteorological reports, but he
might try listening to the static.
We are 150 miles north of a relay
station, and when static is fairly
loud and frequent rain is certain
within two or three days. Except when
thunderstorms are about, the more static
the more rain.
♦ * * *
“Kwa”: Noticing a lubra receiving
rather a severe thrashing at the hands
of her lord on Melville Island (N.T.)
recently, I strolled over to seek an ex-
planation. It appeared that a relative
had died some hours previously and that
the lubra hadn’t lamented as loudly as
convention demanded ; and, as the ghost
of the dear departed will haunt the
bereaved if sufficient sorrow is not
shown, tribal custom bade her outraged
husband belabor her until her wails and
shrieks were deemed equal to those of the
truly sorrowful. There was no question
as to the genuineness of her grief when
I saw her.
* * » *
“Finnegan”: “Inglegar” (B. 3/4/’35)
is right about the nocturnal nankeen
heron. When camped near the Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.) reedbeds we heard such
a din that we wondered whether we
were camped on the lid of Tophet.
Three nankeen herons were the per-
formers. They may have been courting.
It may even have been a triangular
episode. Whatever the cause, there was
no mistake about the spooky wail.
* ❖ * *
“Nawoc”: Wild donks. are no kinder
to team donks. than are brumbies to
the domesticated horse. I drew rein at
the Government well at Beltana (far-
north S.A.) to watch Old Bob water-
ing his team. The dpnks. came in
single file along the converging pads
from the common to the well, had their
drink, then, without word of command,
stood in perfect team formation on the
road near by. The last one satisfied, Bob
glumly announced that Warrigal, one of
the leaders, was missing. Pointing to the
hills, I ventured: “Perhaps he’s out
yonder.” “If he is,” mournfully replied
Bob, “the wild donks. will kick him to
pieces.” He said he spoke from experi-
ence.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: I’m writing up my experi-
ences in Queensland years ago, and there’s
an incident I’ve partly forgotten. Two
brothers, station-owners and very wild,
celebrated the sale of each draft of
cattle by going on a bender. Once, when
making out a list of stores, one remarked:
“It seems a pity to get a 200-gallon tank
up empty —let’s get it up filled with
something. What about beer?” The
other objected. “It would be flat as a
pancake by the time it got here. We’ll
get it sent up full of rum.” A month or
so later a teamster brought along the
stores, amongst which was an iron tank
holding liquor enough to give everyone
in W.Q. a headache. Who were those
two men, and what was the name of
their station? I’ve racked my brains for
a week, but can’t remember, though I
drank some of the rum.
# * % #
“Burrawingie”: “Williami” (B. 3/4/’35)
says abos. won’t eat goat. In the N.T.,
where I spent half a lifetime, blacks
would always rush mutton carved from
a billy or nanny. They eat any blessed
thing except a Chinese pheasant. One
day I shot one of these pretty birds and
gave it to one of my boys. He turned up
his nose at it in disgust. “Me pfeller no
more eat that one; him pit only for
Chinaman.”
v v t *!* '!•
“Abraham’s Kraal”: Many who took
part in the argument with Brother Boer
some 35 years ago will read with interest
of the accidental shooting of the Union
Governor-General’s son while after
springbok outside Bloemfontein. Dur-
ing Roberts’s advance from Paardeburg
to Bloemfontein the set battle-piece be-
tween the Boer forces and the advancing
khakis at Osfontein was agreeably
"If it's a thrippenny bit you're looking for, laddie, I've found it."
varied by the entrance of a mob of sev-
eral thousand springbok. These galloped
right across the front of the British ad-
vance guard for several miles. They
were a semi-wild lot, kept and bred on
his farm by a Boer who supplied Kim-
berley with venison, and gave tourists
opportunities—for a consideration—to
acquire a real South African buck’s head
to take home to Suburbia. Nearly two
years later writer was helping Plumer
to clean up the same country. The herd
of buck was still skipping about the
landscape, though much diminished in
numbers by the flying columns, which
could always find leisure to bag one or
two.
$ 'i- »!' V
“J.N.”: The trout is not cleaning out
the native fish by his cannibalistic habits
(B, 3/4/’35). Very few trout are canni-
bals ; these, long and thin, _ with noses
much sharper than the ordinary trout,
are called by the fishermen “slabs.” They
are distinctly inferior to eat. I have fished
most of the Australian trout streams
with English and Continental fishermen,
and the most frequently expressed opinion
for the small size of our fish is that many
rivers are overstocked.
* *
“Macropus”: Those who haven’t had
personal experience are apt to scoff at
the tales of kangaroo ferocity. A Vic-
torian citizen is not one of the number.
He was rooting round some rabbit
burrows in the Mt. Macedon country
when an old man hopped out of the
scrub and rushed him. There was a
handy tree, and in this the human took
refuge, while the other Australian stood
at the foot and dared him to come down.
When the man’s two dogs arrived the
’roo chased them, ducking one in a
creek and then returning to his post at
the tree-foot. At last a man and his
wife from a near-by farm came on the
scene, and the ’roo, after a half-hearted
dash at the lady, thought better of it and
made off. To an unarmed man an old
Too, especially if he is of the red variety,
is a dashed ugly customer if his monkey
is up. Even with a good stick it takes
a cool and active hand to lay him out,
and then there is a risk in it.
*i* -»• v >£
“Groper”: The N.S.W. South Coast
is probably all that “Yarri” (B. 10/4/’35)
says it is. But the place and the Barrier
Reef are overrun with anglers com-
pared with the n.-w. coast of Westralia.
There everything mentioned by “Yarri”
can be caught, including sword-, saw-,
and sailfish of large dimensions. Add
12ft. water-snakes, 16ft. crocodiles, 32ft.
sharks, half-ton rock-cod, one-ton
gropers, three varieties of turtle weigh-
ing anything up to half a ton, dugong
(as eatable as pork and bacon) run-
ning to the same weight and over,
oysters (both table and pearl), cockles
as big as one’s fist; also kingfish,
snapper, mullet—until one grows tired
of pulling them in. Coupled with
these attractions are a 30ft. and over
tidal rise and fall, a coastline of infinite
variety—deep gulfs and bays gridironed
with beautiful coral reefs. And if this
isn’t enough the ultra-keen angler can
bring along a whale-chaser and harpoon-
gun and go a-whaling.
*
“Gidyea”: “Ornithos” (B. 27/3/’35),
writing on the subject of Queensland
roadside pubs, reminds me that many
passed with the horse-drawn coach.
On the Bollon-Cunnamulla road there
were at one time two such pubs,
one at the Widgee and the other
at the Shamrock reserve. Both are
now private residences. The old
horse-drawn mail-coach driven by Bill
Land has long since given place to
modern power—at the present time an
up-to-the-minufe truck. Ford VB. How-
ever, two of the old roadside pubs still
survive on the Dirranbandi-Mungindi
road, at Dareel and the Two Mile, just
out of Mungindi.
: i : v j|; jj*
“Spare Walton”; A fish yarn from a
new angle comes from Mackay (N.Q.).
Two men in an aeroplane over Mackay
were able to watch an under-water fight
between a shark and a sawfish. The
scrap was staged in the shallow waters
of Sarina Inlet, and the airmen got a
fine view against the light, sandy bottom.
Eventually the shark had the better of
it, getting away with his opponent’s saw,
or most of it. Probably the sawfish was
an unwilling participant. He is not
a scrapper, and his formidable saw is only
used for smashing up shoal fish into
fragments suitable for his toothless
mouth or for turning over the bottom
for unconsidered trifles. The State alco-
hol factory at Sarina empties its waste
into the inlet, and this might have made
the usually pacifist sawfish feel equal to
taking on a shark.
'k :}; ;jc
“A.R.”; At last the plain turkey in
Queensland is to enjoy total protection
through the untiring efforts of F. L.
Berney, of Barcarolle, Longreach, who
has been fighting hard on the bird’s
account for a long time. Still, one
cannot help feeling pessimistic regarding
the fowl owing to the phenomenal in-
crease in foxes—my own dog has dis-
patched 80-odd during the last 1\ years.
Reynard plays havoc with ground-nesters,
and, the turkey’s clutch being merely one
or two eggs, it will take a considerable
time to replenish the much-diminished
ranks.
* ; i : * $
“Bufo”; Glowworms have been scien-
tifically recorded for the first time in
Queensland from specimens taken in a
cave near Numinbah. The creatures’
lighting apparatus is the most efficient and
economic known to science, in that prac-
tically all of the energy used in the
special light organs is converted into
light rays. Gaslight wastes 97 p.c. of
the energy put into producing it, the
glow-worm less than 3 p.c. Australian
and M.L. glowworms are not the same as
the European glowworm, but are the
larvae of a kind of gnat which breeds in
caves. There is a glowworm cave at
Bundanoon (N.S.W.), and the Waitomo
caves in Maoriland are world-famous for
the weird lighting effects produced by
these tiny creatures.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Only a fool nigger would
be taken by a crocodile whilst crossing
a stream. Arrived at a ford on
the Ord River (East Kimberley),
we reneged at the sight of a
something resembling a sunken
Jog lying under the shade of
the bank. But Jacky Jacky,
our guide, soon put things
right. After reconnoitring down-
stream a bit to be sure no more
crocs, were there, he went noisily
upstream for about a hundred
yards and flung in a big stone
which made a resounding splash.
The sunken log instantly came to
life, and made upstream like a
flash —after the supposed prey that
had apparently fallen in. And
before that deluded croc, was back
again we all, including Jacky, were
safely across.
'l' -■
“J.8.J.”: Have caught quite a large
number of squid of late while fishing off
Geraldton (W.A.). Particularly when
angling from awkward places, 1 plunge a
sharp-pointed knife through their bodies,
the point of entry being between the
eyes. They change to a pale, dirty-grey
color almost instantaneously, and I often
wonder at the cause. It isn’t loss of
blood, because they don’t bleed. The
change, by the way, takes place before
they are dead. Any Aboliar know the
reason?
“Old-T.”: A few miles below Tammit
station (B. 24/4/’35) is Ki Downs, once
a scene of great activity when a Vic-
torian firm, famous for its eucalyptus
extract, built a large treatment works,
barracks for a small army of em-
ployees and avenues of stables and sheds
for its horses and equipment. With
thousands of acres of whip-stick mallee
to supply the vats with raw material,
there was hope for a new village on the
Murray; but it was not to be. The
place is now merely an outstation of
Euston station, which also controlled
Tammit in my time.
* * $
“Pi”: The floods in the Speck were
responsible. A prominent Hobart pro-
fessional man motoring from the south
to the north encountered a sizeable
stream across the roadway. The fellow
in front got over; our chap, essaying to
do likewise, managed to get Lizzie out
of her depth. Spluttering resentfully, she
baulked, and her owner was forced to
seek the aid of a spectator to push her
out. They took off their trousers, but
still wearing overcoats waded in, and
after much explosive effort got the car
on dry land. The driver pulled up
in front of one of the stately Midland
homes. He rang the bell, and, as waiters
will, prepared to study his boots till the
door opened. His gaze certainly en-
countered the boots, but above them
arose two lengths of hairy leg which dis-
appeared beneath a shortish overcoat.
Before his mind had time to function the
door opened. The only words the un-
happy fellow could stammer out were
“My trousers are in the back seat of the
car!”
THE PRESSING NEED.
These Ministers of Mines and such are all
right in their way—•
No doubt, there’s plenty to be said for what
they have to say—
But still they miss what’s obvious to men
like you and me
In planning for developing the mining industree.
You’ll find they’ve only one idea about the
mining game;
An idea like their sober selves —I mean to say,
it’s tame.
They think that what is needed most to help
the game along
Is gold, and lashings more of gold; and that’s
where they go wrong.
A bit of gold is quite all right; there’s much
a man can do,
If he knows how to do it, with a specimen or
two.
But gold is not essential, for, as maybe you’ll
recall,
We’ve often floated mines with scarcely any
gold at all.
We know the game from A to Z, and back
from Z to A,
And so we ought to know just what is needed
most to-day;
It isn’t gold in reefs and lodes or large alluvial
slugs—
No; mining’s chief requirement is a grand new
crop of mugs!
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


n
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
C°.)<£^3)
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY c- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne,.. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
DeTghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral.
SYDNEY.
m
m
532
Gives a
Kole datf'S
running for sixpence
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Etd.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Etd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Etd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Etd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY LTD
■VALLEY' BRISBANE ■ •
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Superfine Wools.
“Sheepo”: Tell “Lion” (B. 17/4/’35)
that it is true that the finer the wool the
higher the spinning quality and the
greater the value. The fact is clear in the
difference in Bradford top prices.
On a clean scoured basis anything
better than a 64’s is pence per pound
higher than a 56-58’s or a 60’s, but you
don’t see nearly the same price variations
for wool sold in grease.
The extra spinning capacity and the
greater value per pound clean scoured
don’t seem to influence buyers since
wool entered the doldrums. One-time
growers of choice superfines are changing
over to a broader type, thus getting
average prices per pound for a heavier
fleece.
Economic conditions now preclude
finer and dearer wools being worn as
much as formerly. There’s no good
reason why superfine wools in grease
should not bring their real spinning value.
But they don’t.
I can’t support “Lion’s” statement that
choice comeback clips licked the hide
off fine wools sale after sale at Geelong.
I first handled Geelong wools in 1904.
I know intimately the best merino, Pol-
worth and crossbred clips in western
Victoria, and I’ve yet to read of any
comeback or Polwarth clip ever bring-
ing more for its top line that that paid
for such clips as Langi Kal Kal or Carn-
gham. It did not happen even in 1910,
when U.S.A. went mad buying comebacks
and crossbreds, and it hasn’t happened
since.
If ever wool prices take an appreciable
rise “Lion” will see the ever-decreasing
superfine merino wools once more com-
ing into their own as they deserve.
Black Disease.
“L.L.”: There is a lot of suspicion
about the deadly black disease. Some
graziers will not buy pale-skinned sheep.
Pale skin is a symptom, but it is also
a sign of worms, fluke and malnutrition.
There is only one sure test —the
laboratory. A liver from a suspect, pro-
cured within two hours of death, should
be sent in formalin solution, sealed, to
the nearest Agricultural Department.
Inoculation, costing 2d. per head, every
12 months is a practically certain pre-
ventive. The disease is known in all
States bar W.A., and will carry off up
to 60 p.c. of a flock in a single paddock.
The germ is akin to that of war-time
gas gangrene, and needs damaged flesh
to operate on; hence its connection
with fluke, which, perforating the liver,
allows ingress.
Black disease usually attacks the fattest
sheep, which die suddenly. Decompo-
sition is rapid, the body swells enor-
mously and the wool plucks from a
black-colored skin almost before death.
This makes it hard to procure a satis-
factory liver for a. test. But dog up the
mob, and if an animal drops back and
flops down with head outstretched be-
tween the front legs kill it. You then
only anticipate death, and have your
specimen.
Wrinkles and Fly.
“Upilio”; Fly-strike on the crutch, as
“Hortus” declares (B. 24/4/’35), in most
cases is due to the sheep’s constitution.
Examination of struck ewes always
shows that the wrinkles inseparable from
densely-woolled merinos also wrinkle the
sewerage channel.
Instead of urine draining off, it drains
on to the crutch wool. (The same
trouble can be caused by careless shear-
ing.) I find it pays to examine the sheep
carefully for this fault, and cull.
Wrinkle-development has reached a
stage when Nature is taking a hand. A
neighbor two years ago bought a good
line of ewes from a well-known flock and
joined them with heavily-wrinkled, fine-
woolled merino rams. His 1934 drop of
lambs were small and typical of the Ver-
mont-concertinas of 30 years ago. They
were crutched twice, and despite a dryer
season and constant attention 20 p.c.
were lost from fly. He sold the rest and
their mothers at a grave loss.
Wrinkles mean extra work and worry ;
and sheep that survive often cut light
fleeces of tender wool. The large-
framed merino covered with medium-
quality wool pays best.
Entero-toxaemia.
“Corriedale”: Whilst correct in many
respects, “F.L.B.’s” contribution (B.
20/3/’35) needs amplifying.
Proof that sudden changes preceded
nearly every attack, were not lacking
when Australian vets, sorted out the evi-
dence in December. A heavy over-
night dew, change from rich to poor
feed or vice versa, the heating of lambs
at marking time and hard travelling of
mobs were all put forward as causes.
“F.L.B.’s” lucerne trials are discounted,
as very few deaths have occurred on
lucerne. Clover and good pasture graz-
ing, on the other hand, have been asso-
• dated with many cases.
Evidence that inoculation is the
remedy is mounting. Gill (M.L.) treated
139 lambs, leaving 192 as controls. Of
the latter, 13 died. There were no losses
among the inoculated group. Another
mob of 361 sheep were treated without
further loss, whilst 12 of 356 controls
died.
The big curse of e.t. is the sheep which
are slightly poisoned.
Inoculation will check this. But re-
moval from the feed causing the trouble
is better than letting the sheep get too
low.
Weaning will prevent losses, as will
marking youngsters which have just
commenced to turn into ruminants.
Hence the “sudden change” theory’s
application.
In the absence of vaccine beware of
anything that can upset the tenor of the
lives of sheep on rich feed. Change
from poor to rich slowly, and do nothing
to heat or excite the mob. Cold snaps
wifl often check losses.
Look out for irritation of the bowels
by fibre—-a potent cause.
Export Lambs.
“Lion”: At shows almost invariably
lambs over the “export average,” viz.,
28-331 b., are placed anywhere but first,
on the supposition that they are not true
export type. The sooner this fallacy is
exploded the better.
Recently—the judge was frank about
the reason —some of our overweight
lambs took second place to some weeds
that would not have killed 201 b.
A truck of ours, almost as good as
the show ones, topped Homebush’s next
sale.
Breed as quick a maturing lamb as
possible. We have found English Leices-
ter sires, mated with good, plain-bodied,
big merino ewes, splendid. They pro-
duce a sound dual-purpose youngster.
If you cannot fatten him for seasonal
or other reasons, his wool fetches a good
price. The ewe or wether portion as
hoggets, or older, sell well on the open
market.
The E.L. sire is hardy, and gives an
easy lambing to the ewe, even if small.
He is a good worker, too, but must be
well fed all the time.
In seven years we have become con-
vinced that the breeder always wins with
this cross, as he cannot be caught by bad
seasons. I am not condemning other
crosses, but the fat-lamb breeder dabbling
in fancy lines must fail in the end.
Meat Products in Stock-feeding.
“Hortus”; In a drought is it better
and more economical for graziers to feed
their sheep on meat by-products or on
scrub and corn?
At Meteor Downs (C.Q.) in a dry
season sheep fed only on blood meal
during the year cut an increase of 21b.
wool per sheep, or about 30 p.c., at a
cost of Bd. per head.
At Nyngan (N.S.W.) two lots of
maiden ewes of the same class (400 test
sheep and 490 controls) were placed in
separate paddocks at the rate of one
sheep per acre. In the months of the
trial (August-July) there was only 6.6 in.
of rain.
At the start good feed was available,
but towards April scrub had to be cut
and corn fed to the control sheep, con-
ditions proving too severe.
At this stage both groups of sheep were
living on a little dry corkscrew grass,
burrs and windfall leaves. The test sheep
had no corn or scrub, but a meatmeal
ration. In May there was starvation mor-
tality among the controls—llo sheep died
between this period and shearing. Among
the test sheep no deaths were recorded
at all. At shearing time both lots were
in poor condition and the wool showed
signs of starvation conditions. However,
fleeces from the test sheep were definitely
better grown and denser.
A good many graziers are dissatisfied
with the way sheep pick at meat food.
But at the McMaster laboratory (Sydney)
penned sheep on hard feed ate the meat-
meal supplement freely, consuming 2oz.
or more daily. At Hinchinbrook (Liver-
pool, N.S.W.) one experimental group
which had access to meatmeal consumed
hardly any of it, except in lanuary, when
pastures started to dry off.
From a grazier’s point of view it must
be borne in mind that meat by-products
are fairly dear to buy, and, although in
some trials satisfactory results have even-
tuated, it is better and more economical
to go in for a good fodder-conservation
policy.
Salt in Licks.
“Spring”: Tell “32 x 40” (B. l/5/’35)
that the salt as mixed in my lick recipe
(B. 27/ 3/’35) has never yet poisoned a
single sheep out of the thousands that
have had access to it. I hold a p.m.
examination of all sheep that die, and
know most diseases when I see them.
The bitterness of Epsom salt and salt
mixed kills the desire of the sheep to go
after the molasses. Advise “32 x 40”
to put out the Epsom salt and salt to-
gether and see just how “easy” it is to
get the sheep to take it.
Even molasses doesn’t attract well,
and one cannot put too much. Finally,
the amount in my recipe is not as much
as is put into some popular made-up
licks.
“Doitnow” (B. 17/4/’35)
makes the usual mistake in mixing a
stock lick—too much salt, too little bone.
The salt need is soon satisfied.
No stock lick should contain more than
50 p.c. salt. A suitable mixture for
cattle and sheep is: Sterilised bone flour
two parts, salt one part. Epsom salt can
be added if necessary. Pigs require less
salt —not more than 20 p.c. Wood ashes
20 p.c., bone 60 p.c., salt 20 p.c. is a
useful mix.
Sheep and pigs need up to 4oz. Preg-
nant and milking animals need more than
others.
Bone flour is superior to all other
forms of phosphate, but it must be free
from gritty particles. Salt must be clean.
On no account use butchers’ floor sweep-
ings. These often contain pathogenic
bacteria.
“Putting on a Crust.”
“Warramulla”: There are possibili-
ties in “Dead Finish’s” suggestion (B.
10/4/’35) for dipping sheep on exposed
country to form a “crust” on the staple
—this apart from dipping for fly. Sheep
on the open country in West Queens-
land may have to travel up to 10 miles
for a bit of shade. This makes backs
mushy, allowing dust or vegetable
matter to accumulate on them. Wasty,
dusty backs form one of our biggest
troubles in producing a satisfactory W.Q.
fleece. They have invariably to be
treated as separate lines. Anything to
put a solid tip on the wool would be
welcomed. The ultimate return would,
compensate for dipping expense.
Drought and' Natural Pastures.
“N.Q.”: It’s no use “Albarmount”
(B. 10/4/’35) citing rabbits as “our
chief pasture destroyer” and saying that
“if central and western Queensland be-
came heavily infested” I would soon
agree with him. That area is not rabbit
land, yet over 10 years the carrying
capacity has slipped seriously, and is
going from bad to worse. Grass-eating
pests have been only slightly responsible
—marsupials are dying out.
It is too costly to restore lost protein
to large areas of pasture, and the pro-
tein contents of the destroyed natural
grasses must be replaced artificially
through licks. This does not increase
carrying capacity, but gives the sheep the
depleted essentials.
Seasons up our way have been largely
adverse for ten years, and graziers have
been forced to stock up to the hilt when
a decent growth prevailed and at other
times to rush their sheep home from
agistment as soon as the first rains pro-
duced a green shoot.
Heavy taxation and lack of finance
have been the main causes.
The aftermath has been widespread
eradication of natural grasses and
growth of weed and burr.
Not until we have a continuous run
of good seasons is there hope for our
centre and west of returning to normal
carrying capacity.
It is an acute problem ; a few more
seasons like the worst of the last 10
would debilitate our most productive
Mitchell and Flinders grass country.
Homemade Cheese.
“Lucerne Flea”: Having made your
cheese as “Pick” advises (B. 17/4/’35)
place it on a shelf in a dry, cool place and
keep turning daily until the haystacks are
being built. A stack of grass hay is best,
especially if clover is in the hay, but
oaten or wheaten haystacks can be used
if they are mouse-proofed, as long as a
little clover hay is available. Make a
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


+H €l\E’
TO’€£
* a mighty man is he.”
This blacksmith, like Long-
fellow’s village smithy, has become
a famous figure.
His might symbolises the body-
building properties of good beer;
and glorifies strength and manhood.
And regarding his robust remark —
‘Here’s To’ee.” Even the eminent
Mark Twain said that this slogan
was the most wonderfully apt in
advertising. It is at once a slogan,
a toast, and a happy tie-up with
the firm name — Tooheys Ltd.
But, most of all, it represents fine
Australian products —
Tooheys
Pilsener..
Tooheys
Oatmeal Stout.
r
/i
■
i
ft
m
m
■
m
m
mt
m
m
m
mm
Sr
M
I
m
ms
i
m
am
HI
TOOHEYS LIMITED.STANDARD BREWERY.SYDNEY.


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
m
M
m
m
I /•
mm
sis
s
Fits the foot with
perfect ease
The fine calf upper of this Abbey
Shoe . . . pliant, glossy and
serviceable ... is made on an
exclusive last. It fits with utmost
comfort. And, it is soled with
the toughest leather obtainable.
This Abbey Shoe is smart and
distinctive in appearance.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half
sizes. Specify width and order,
also, a supply of Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
DARK TAN CALF, 48/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
KPL 437.
lient. age 19|, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks. I No Appliances
„ „ 21 ., 5 in 5 mths. I —No Drags.
„ „ 20, „ 3$ „ in 16 days. 9 No Dieting.
„ 30, .. 2. „ in 4 weeks. «■
„ 40, U „ in 6 „ ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3fins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from a(l over the world.
Fee £2 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now :— ■
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist,
Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box la.)
A Revelation
in Relief of
STOMACH
ILLS
The amazing promptness with which
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia arrests acute pain,
and its downright remedial effects in
obstinate cases of Indigestion, Gastritis
and Ulcerated Stomach will be a revela-
tion to the despairing sufferer who puts
.‘Bisurated’ Magnesia to the test.
“MARVELLOUS FOR
STOMACH TROUBLES”
says Mr. Dyson of Birming-
ham, who writesI have
suffered with my stomach
for the last five years without
relief. It was like being in
hell. I saw your advertise-
ment and sent for a bottle of
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia. It
seemed to drown the pain.
It is marvellous for stomach
troubles. I am a dead man
come back to life as the
hardest work does not hurt
me now, thanks to ‘Bisurated*
Magnesia.”
Mgs
from a recent photo
of Mr. J. Dyson
w
W;
After 5 years’ torture ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
brought this man complete and lasting
relief 1
“ULCERS ALMOST DROVE ME MAD”
-NO PAINS NOW!
Mrs. Jones of Worcester
writes“ I have been ill for
seven years with gastritis
which turned to ulcers—the
pain almost drove me mad.
I was not able to take food
of any kind. A month ago,
whilst in dreadful pain a
friend told me to try
‘ -Bisurated * Magnesia which
I did, and I have had no pains
since—the first month with-
W out pain for seven years.
now eat any kind of
of Mrs. Jones food with comfort.
’Bisurated* Magnesia completed her
recovery when other methods failed.
Why continue to suffer pain and misery
when you can so easily be rid of them?
When you take ’Bisurated ’ Magnesia you
are not making an experiment; you are
taking a remedy which has been banishing
stomach ills for over 20 years. Get a
bottle of ’Bisurated’ Magnesia, powder or
tablets, from any chemist and start your,
recovery to-day!
OISURATED’
MAGNESIA
The Stomach Remedy with over 20
years’ Proof of Efficacy and is very
economical in use.
Every package bears the
oval * Bismag ’ Trade Mark
k
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
vv;
tx
P fA
m
mwm
l
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
S (CHUTE
BELLcCk
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
nest about three parts of the way up the
stack near one end. Line it with sweet,
dry clover hay, and in this put the
cheeses, packing clover hay well down
between them to prevent any two cheeses
from touching. Then build the rest of
the stack over them.
This is an old German farmer’s
method of maturing, still used exten-
sively in Europe and the German dis-
tricts of Australia. It gives the cheese a
flavor which has to be tasted to be
believed.
Or get a big mouse-proof box, cut
some clover with a scythe, cock it up and
when cured place a layer of the hay in
the bottom of the box. On this stand
your semi-matured cheeses, pack more
hay tightly around them, then put a
layer of hay over the top and weight it,
down tight.
For Horses’ Hooves.
“Michael Prior”: When horses’ hooves
are inclined to crack it is an evidence
that the horn is not healthy. The cause
often is failure to dry the legs and feet
properly after washing them.
To prevent the growth of the horn and
get rid of the cracks anoint the top of
the hoof just round the coronet with a
salve made of equal parts of soft soap
and tar.
Gutta-percha will protect the feet of
horses when tender. Cut it in small
pieces, soften with hot water, then mix
with half its weight of powdered sal-
ammoniac. Melt the mixture in a tin
saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping it
well stirred. When required for use melt
in a gluepot, scrape the hoof clean and
apply with a knife.
Harness Dressings.
“Jimmac”; To keep leather pliable
rub in fallow, lampblack or waste oil.
Never use castor oil alone —it will perish
any leather.
4 Before oiling new harness add a little
kerosene to the oil, to prevent rats and
other vermin from chewing it. A dress-
ing for the same purpose can be made
by mixing a gallon of castor oil, a pint
of salad oil and of beeswax.
Another dressing consists of marrow
(from a fresh shinbone) melted down and
added to an equal quantity of castor oil.
Rub the mixture warm into the leather,
having first washed off any sweat or
grease with warm water and soft soap.
A more expensive dressing is made by
mixing 21b. mutton-fat with 31b. bees-
wax, heating over a slow fire and adding
4lb. sugar, 21b. lampblack, 21b. soft soap
and \Vo. indigo. (For brown harness leave
out lampblack and indigo.)
If using bought harness blacking, first
wash the harness in potash water and let
it dry.
To revive old cracked harness use a
mixture of 2oz. beeswax, loz. lamp-
black and 1 pint oil.
Lastly, my grandad’s standby for
Show purposes is 3oz. ivory black,
f pint neatsfoot oil, 2oz, Castile soap,
3oz. lard, 2 tablespoons aloes and 4oz.
beeswax boiled together.
Watch for Pennycress.
“Agamemnon”: Farmers have been
warned to watch for pennycress, which
has been reported for the first time at
Guyra (N.S.W.).
It is an erect, foot-high annual with
a branched, leafy stem. The leaves are
alternately oblong, acute and toothed.
The flower is like that of shepherd’s
purse.
It causes tainted milk, and ruins mill-
ing wheat.
The best method of eradication is to
hand-pull when seeding and burn with
pods and seeds. When followed by
spring or early-summer fallowing the
seedlings will be destroyed.
The weed is causing serious loss over
vast areas of the Canadian wheatfields,
and has given trouble in M.L.
Sowing Pastures.
“Leo Lear”: Sub, clover needs shal-
low sowing, and the land does not re-
quire ploughing. Broadcasting will do,
but a more effective way is to harrow
behind a cart. A man distributes seed
with one hand and super, with the other
over the tailboard. The dragging har-
rows do all the covering necessary.
Rye grass can be sown the same
way. The harder the ground is packed
the better rye grows. See it on
stock pads and vehicle tracks. The
old way of establishing rye —ploughing
the area and sowing down —is expensive ;
it turns under the most fertile 2lin. of
surface soil and destroys good native
grasses.
I save used the harrowing method in
western Victoria with good results and
little expense. Keep the clover seed on
the light-soil rises and the rye to the
black flats.
“Mangaratta”: “Bimbo” (B. 24/4/’35)
gives a good way to' establish sub. clover
which is equally applicable to lucerne.
Several farmers in Canowie (S.A.), seeing
no future in wheatgrowing, obtained a
fine stand of lucerne on hilly country
on similar lines to those laid down by
“Bimbo.” They sowed slb. to the acre —
on the surface.
Lucerne Points.
“Mangaratta”: “F.L.8.” (B. 24/4/*35)
is right in advocating early-spring sow-
ing of lucerne, but the fact that it en-
sures good drainage is not its only ad-
vantage.
In a district where the lucerne flea is
prevalent it is madness to sow until after
the winter. Nothing suits fleas better
than cold, and even well-established
lucerne makes no growth when attacked,
and takes a long time to recover when
the warm weather comes.
Once a good stand is acquired do not
be in a hurry to cultivate it. I tickled
mine annually with lucerne tynes to
about lin. deep and top-dressed with
super. —1 cwt. to the acre. I find that
my crop is neither as thick nor as
growthy as that of a neighbor who has
never turned a clod. Others share my
experience. So cultivation is beginning
m viewed with disfavor in our N.Q.
district'.
Hints for the Farm.
“Doitnow”; When you sell a draught
horse sell his harness with him. Often
a horse has to have a special collar made
for him. Why sell this collar separately?
The practice is responsible for half the
cases of sore shoulders one sees about —
the other half is mostly carelessness.
“Pantapin”: Old or broken hames
hooks make splendid gate-hinges. Cut
off the shank, bore two or three holes
through the base and the job is done.
“Upilio”: When scum forms over a
calf’s eye from grass-seed, pink-eye or
other injury roll a 9in. by 7in, piece
of brown paper round a pencil, tie with
cotton and slip off. Use it as a blowpipe
to inject a half-teaspoon of boracic
acid into the eye each morning. Three
treatments usually are enough.
“Louden”: If sheep won’t start willingly
or run freely through the race, look to the
drafting gate. It may be too short. The
post on which a short gate hangs stands
too close to the top of the race. Viewed
from the pen it appears to block the race.
Thus sheep cannot see through to the
receiving-pens. The main drafting gate
should be sft. or more.
“Pick”; Whence the rabbit-thistle came
and why it hasn’t continued to flourish
after wide establishment are mysteries
with Monaro (N.S.W.) sheepmen. A tall,
spidery vegetable with small, sparse,
purplish blossoms, the visitant appeared
when bunny was at his thickest. The
plants matted all warrens and areas which
the furry despoilers denuded of grass and
roots. Nowadays in wire-netted pad-
docks from which cottontail has been
pushed the weed has disappeared.
“Vet.”: Technically, there are three
sources of mammitis infection (B.
10/4/’35): Haematogenous, by the blood-
stream ; lymphogenous, by the lymph
stream; and galactophorous, by the teat
duct. Vets, agree that infection by the
teat is- the only one worth worrying
about. In my experience hygienic nurs-
ing and the use of an autogenous vaccine
will give good results. Washing out the
udder, blistering and internal antiseptics
are easy methods of wasting money.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent. Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m
ilffrrrf*
m
m
msh = t ~ it
hr r "
> V»£- ‘ f ' |ft >-ft
r r
El"
SSSfSE,.
**;—■**
ffr
srrjTii
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates—unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
The Prophet.
The rain came down in torrents. The
holiday-makers didn’t care; they were
well equipped with .overcoats and um-
brellas —all except one little man, who
got drenched.
“But why didn’t you bring a coat?”
someone asked him. “Everyone knew
it was going to rain. Why, even the
weather prophet said it would.”
That’s how the fight started. The little
man was the weather prophet.
See.
-I* •!• -I* d*
“Actor claims to be able to laugh on one
side of his face and cry on the other.”
What a'politician he’d make!
Portrait of the civil servant who
didn't receive a jubilee medal.
“Correspondent claims that tennis is the
cleanest sport.”
What about swimming?
-I- *1- -I* *J*
Mistaken Identity.
He entered the police station dolefully.
“I’ve come to report something,” he
told the officer in charge,
“A crime?”
“Er —an assault.”
“Grievous bodily?”
“Very much so.”
“What happened?”
“A thief broke into our house.”
“Did he get anything?”
“A fracture of the skull and a couple
of broken ribs. The wife thought it
was me!”
Cap’n Bells.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XL —Hunting the Haggis.
Despite the grave doubts cast on its
permanence by Shakspeare (an English
poet), who wrote “Stands Scotland
where it stood?” recent investigations
prove that Scotland stands exactly where
it always stood—right on top of England.
It’s very easy to get into Scotland.
You just go up through England and
hop across the border, shouldering your
way through the crowds of Scots who
are heading in the opposite direction.
Clansman enticing a haggis to its doom.
There are two roads into Scotland—
the high and the low. The latter is
claimed to be the faster route.
Scotland is noted for its thistles, and it
is doubtless the prevalence of this hardy
flower that is responsible for the well-
known Scottish burr.
Peculiar to Scotland, and unknown
elsewhere in the world, is that strange
creature the haggis. It lives in its
sporran or nest amang the heather, lays
tartan eggs, smothers its young, and has
a queer wailing cry that is said to be the
basis of all bagpipe music. On spring
mornings it can occasionally be seen
louping o’er the banks and braes, emit-
ting melancholy chirrups, but it is more
often encountered on dark nights. Many
a Scot, wending his way home from a
late party, has met with the haggis.
“How now, you secret black and mid-
night haggis?” asked Macbeth on en-
countering one of the species. The
haggis’s reply is not recorded.
The creature is exceedingly elusive, and
this has given rise to the old Scottish
saying “First catch your haggis.”
The actual catching is an art in itself.
Armed with a large flask of usquebaugh,
the bagpipes, a plate of porridge and
the family dirk, the huntsman sallies
forth. Taking up a position behind a
thistle, he plays softly the first two bars
of “Bonnie Dundee,” which also happens
to be the mating call of the female
haggis.
Presently a young buck-haggis will
come louping along towards the thistle.
He will pause a short distance off,
throw back his head, and burst into
a wild cacophony, such as few pipers
could hope to achieve. The waiting
hunter joins in as best he can.
The creature then approaches gingerly,
and the hunter thrusts out from behind
the thistle a small plate of oatmeal por-
ridge, which the haggis commences to
devour avidly. While he is thus engaged
the hunter draws his dirk, and the rest
is easy. If there is any porridge left he
tunes up again. The best huntsman is
the one who can catch the most haggises
on one standard plate of porridge. Some
folk —rebels against tradition —dispense
with the bagpipes and hunt with porridge
and dirk only.
I tried it myself one night. My por-
ridge plate was a trifle on the small side,
but the size of my usquebaugh flask com-
pensated for that. I fortified myself with
half the contents and set to work. In
due course my patience was rewarded,
and victim after victim fell to my deadly
dirk. I was killing them so fast that
they hardly had time to put their heads
in the porridge. After making my
eleventh kill, I put on my spectacles and
struck a match to examine the catch. To
my horror, I found there wasn’t a single
haggis in the lot. Instead I had lured
to their destruction five Macleans, three
Campbells, two Bruces and a Donaldson.
I haven’t been able to look a haggis
in the face since.
Jasby.
•J* 4* *J*
Solved.
Finding things very quiet in the rent-
collecting game, I decided to take on
private-detective work. I’ve always been
a keen criminologist, and have solved
many crimes that the police still mark
down as unsolved. Moreover, private-
detective work is somewhat akin to rent-
collecting —you’re always finding people
out.
My first case concerned Lady Aire-
dale’s missing pomeranian. The only
clue I had to work on was that the
hound had a gold filling in one tooth. I
spent four months on that case, during
which time I
looked into more
than 17,000 dogs’
mouths, was
bitten 278 times
and caught dis-
temper twice. I
just felt like
turning dog on
the case when
one morning 1
struck gold in a
breakfast sausage.
I didn’t have
the heart to teli
Lady Airedale
the sad truth, but
what I got out of
that butcher in
hush money will
keep me in saus-
ages for life.
J. M.C.
The Will to
Win.
Simpson had
been a miserable
unemployed clerk
until he answered
the advertisement
of Sinclair Suc-
cess (“The man
who gives you
Pep, Hope, Vigor
and the Will to
Win. Tear out
the coupon and
the world’s your
p 1 a y t h i n g”).
After three months he laid down the
last lesson a changed man. Then he
advanced on the Big City.
Positive that his ability could be used
anywhere, he skipped up the stairs of the
first building that caught his eye. A door
confronted him ; he opened it and walked
in. Knocks were made for timid fools.
A man in shirtsleeves, with a pile
of cigarette ends before him, regarded
the visitor haggardly. The office was
meanly furnished, and dust lay thick
upon the floor.
Simpson dropped into a chair and
struck the table with his fist.
“You may say the depression has got
you down, my friend,” he boomed, “but,
believe me, that’s all rot. Tell me your
line and I’ll have this place on a colossal
profit-making basis inside a month. The
Will to Win is what you want.”
The man at the table shook his head
hopelessly.
“There’s nothing doing here,” he said.
“Name? Sinclair Success.”
J. R. McC.
Why doesn’t Parliament get the Main
Roads Board to take a few of the cor-
ners out of our road to prosperity?
Table Records.
“Sir Malcolm Campbell said that he hoped
to attain a record of 300 miles an hour at a
dinner.” — “Sun.”
It is not thought that anyone will
object—as long as Sir Malcolm pays for
the dinner. But this record-breaking at
table has long been frowned on by hos-
tesses.
I remember when I endeavored to
set new sausage-roll figures at Billie
Boggin’s birthday party. Mrs, Boggin
was at loggerheads with my family for
months after, and I believe she blamed
me for her husband’s bankruptcy.
Nevertheless, she trained Billie on a star-
vation diet, and sent him to my party.
He broke all existing table records, my
mother’s heart and three chairs. But
with bulldog determination he plugged
on, and put away almost five yards of
raspberry tarts.
His record stood for years —and it
was only in yards!
S. Esq.
•I* -I* »i* *l*
“Husband Shot After Quarrel with Wife.’’
— “Telegraph."
Well, that is the usual antidote!
•L 4*
Jubilee Jimjams.
“A large sea-lion was found sleeping on the
footpath in New Norfolk, Tasmania. A rope
was placed round its neck, but it broke the
rope, clambered over a paling fence and
escaped.”
Similar phenomena were noticed in
various mainland cities on Jubilee Day.
From Brisbane comes the report of a
large crocodile discovered dozing in front
of the City Hall. When awakened by the
caretaker it threw a back somersault,
doubled on its tracks and disappeared
into the Public Library.
In Adelaide a huge sea-elephant was
seen disporting itself in the Torrens just
below the City Bridge. With great
presence of mind one of the corporation
employees pulled the plug out and
emptied the lake. The creature trum-
peted loudly and buried itself in the mud.
It has not been seen since.
“....And keep me away from those naughty
pleasure cruises .”
But in Melbourne the visitation reached
its zenith —in fact, it lasted all the week.
A “Planet” reporter claimed to have
seen a sabre-toothed tiger at large in the
Botanical Gardens. The “Trumpeter”
retaliated with a vivid account of a
woolly rhinoceros surprised browsing in
Jolimont railway yard.
The “Planet” ran into splash headlines
over a hairy mammoth alleged to have
been seen in Toorak. The “Trumpeter”
replied with a pterodactyl. Then the
“Planet” reported the hold-up of two
inter-State liners through the presence of
a huge whale in the Yarra, and discussed
at great length whether the said whale
came within the province of the State
or Commonwealth authorities.
The “Trumpeter” was ominously quiet
that afternoon. Its final edition included
a small paragraph corroborating the
whale story.
On Saturday, however, it brought off
the biggest scoop of the week, its whole
front page being devoted to a large
photograph of the pterodactyl flying low
over the city, with the “Planet’s” whale
struggling impotently in its talons.
The intervention of Sunday had a
sobering effect, and on Monday both
papers resumed their usual book offers.
Uco.
Insult to Injury.
The doctors stitched my vitals up;
You gently soothed my pain away. '
I sipped (ugh /) water from a cup;
For days without a bite I lay.
At last, with festive air, you cried:
“To-day you eat!” In ecstasy,
“Sweet, bring me chicken — lots,” ! sighed.
You laughed, “A piece of fowl ’twill
be.”
“A wing or slice of tender breast,”
I mused, “or e’en a juicy leg ? ”
But, oh, how callous was your jest!
You brought me in a parboiled egg!
P. O. M. C.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
, Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13 45 p.m), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m.),
. Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 18.72.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern. Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank "offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service ot Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back covet ot la.
Bulletin to hand. , . • ,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every mqu .
must be confined to one subject. . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“"'anted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young blacksmith (28), N.S.W., wants work
of any kind anywhere, Islands preferred. —
6752.
Experienced Englishman (30) seeks position
as book- and storekeeper in S. Pacific. Refs.
—6703.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
exp. typing novels, plays, verse, etc., wants
work. —6777.
Youth (Vic.), industrious and trustworthy,
public school, year on Mallee farm, wants
position where he can get useful experience
sheep, wheatgrowing. Will pay premium if
required.—6746.
To buy G. B. Shaw’s plays in one volume. —
6701.
To buy old Australian military badges and
medals and old Scottish corps photographs.
—6702.
Information Sought.
(1) Where and when was Bob Fitzsimmons
born ? (2) Where and when did he begin box-
ing ? (3) Did he win three world’s champion-
ships ? If so, from whom, and when ? (4)
Where did he die, and when ? —6705.
(1) Helston, Cornwall, June 4, 1862. (2) At
Timaru, M.L., where he won Jem Mace’s light-
weight tournament in- 1880. _ (3) Yes. The
middleweight from “Nonpareil” Jack Dempsey
in 1891; the light-heavyweight from George
Gardner in 1903; and the heavyweight from
Jim Corbett in 1897. (4) At Portland, Ore.,
U.S.A., on October 23, 1917.
* * # *
(1) Origin of the word “cricket” ? (2) When
was the game first played ? (3) Date of first
tnalch on record ? —6744.
(1) The New English Dictionary identifies
it with the French criquet, first met with in
a manuscript dated 1478. (2) Cricket was not
born, but slowly evolved itself as a specialised
variety of club-ball. There is pictorial evidence
that cricket in its elementary form of club-ball
was practised in the middle of the thirteenth
century. Cricket was played by boys of the
free school of Guildford (Eng.) in about 1550,
for, in 1558, John Derrick testifies to his having
taken part there as a boy in “crickett and
other plaies.” (3) Probably the earliest definite
reference is a record in the “Post-Boy” of
March, 1700, where a match is billed to take
place on Clapham Junction.
* * ♦ - *
(1) Can (a) a serving militia officer or (b)
an ex-A.I.F. officer use his military title in
civil life ? (2) Can a former member of the
militia {A.M.F .) or/and of the A.I.F. who
has been appointed by the King to a military
rank {say major-general ) use the title of that
rank in civil life ? (3) Are any military officers
in Australia entitled at all times to be addressed
by the titles of their rank ? —6714.
(1) (a) No. He is only entitled to use the
title of his rank in camp or at week-end
parades and at military and vice-regal func-
tions. {b) No. He was a temporary officer;
i.e„ he received his commission on condition
that he resumed his civilian status after the
war. The King (meaning the Government) has
granted former temporary officers the right to
wear uniform and use their retiring rank “at
Court, vice-regal and military functions only.”
(2) No. The position of a retired member of
the militia (A.M.F.) is no different from that
of a serving militia officer or ex-A.I.F, officer
or n.c.o. In a sense, of course, anybody can
call himself anything. It is a matter of taste.
Miss Evangeline Booth calls herself General,
and some Americans are christened Major, but
there is no military authority for such prac-
tices. (3) Yes. Members of our permanent
forces, who correspond to regulars in Britain,
are entitled to use their military titles at all
times while serving, and after retirement. The
regulation, produces some paradoxical situa-
tions. A retired member of the permanent
forces who had only done staff work might
be a major-general at all times; Charles Rosen-
thal, who commanded a division with the
utmost distinction in France, and who has
commanded, a C.M.F. division for some years,
is only a major-general on specific occasions.
Jj: # .‘l< :it
(1) For what purpose was the flour tax
passed ? (2) For how long did it operate ?
(3) Rate of tax? {A) Revenue yielded ?— 6830.
(1) To provide £3,000,000 for assistance to
wheat-farmers who did not during 1932-33
receive income subject to the Commonwealth
income tax. (2) From December 4, 1933, to
May 31,-1934. (4) £4 ss. per short ton oh
all flour sold or delivered by a miller, imported
into Australia, used in the manufacture of
goods imported into Australia, or held in stock
by a person other than a miller. (4) Approxi-
mately £1,300,000.
V t •!' »!•
When the Lang Government was in power
the deficit for N. S. Wales for one year was
over £14,000,000. Following came the Stevens
Government with a deficit in its first year of
over £3,000,000. (1) Does this mean that the
Stevens Government reduced the Lang deficit
by £11,000,000, or does it mean that the deficit
for the two years was increased to £17,000,000 ?
(2) How are deficits financed ? —6732.
(1) Accounts for the years under discussion
were on a yearly cash basis. The expenditure of
the Lang Government in 1931-32 exceeded re-
ceipts by £14,227,844. In the following year the
expenditure of the Stevens Government ex-
ceeded receipts by £3,758,839. The deficits ar
cumulative. (2) Mainly by the issue of trea-
sury bills, the State’s liability in that respect
on June 30, 1933, being £25,230,000.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the Australian Council
for Educational Research 7 —6823.
This council, which was constituted on Feb-
ruary 10, 1930, originally received from, the
Carnegie Corporation an endowment of £SOOO
p.a. for 10 years for general purposes, and a
further sum of £2500 a year for five years lor
administrative purposes. The corporation has
since undertaken to continue its payments at
the rate of £7500 p.a. for the full 10-yeai
period. It consists of nine members, of whom
six are elected by the State Institutes for Edu-
cational Research, and three are co-opted
members. The publications of the council
appear in the form of a Research Series, pub-
lished by Melbourne Uni., and up to the end
of 1933 23 numbers had appeared. Since its
inception the council has granted 108 appli-
cations for assistance to persons who wished
to carry out investigations or have their works
published. During the same period the council
itself initiated a number of investigations. In
addition to organising the carrying-out of re-
search the council acts as a centre for the
collection and dissemination of information
concerning Australian education. Expenditure
on grants to the end of June, 1933, amounted
to £7640.
* * * *
What factories are maintained by the Defence
Department, and where are they situated 7 When
were they established, and number of em-
ployees ? —6BOI. . .
They comprise the explosives factories, Man-
byrnong (Vic.), established in 1911, staff 158;
the acetate of lime factory, established
at Bulimba (Q.) in 1918 (in reserve, staff of
two); the clothing factory at Melbourne,
established 1912, staff 240; the small arms
factory at Lithgow (N.S.W.), opened 1912,
staff 270; the ammunition factories at Footscray
(Vic.), amalgamated under Federal control in
1928, staff 389; and, lastly, the ordnance fac-
tory, Maribyrnong, established 1924, staff 327.
* * * *
(1) * When did the “Australian Review of
Reviews,” published in Melbourne by H. Stead,
cease publication 7 (2) What became of Stead 7
(3) Any other information on this subject 7
6604.
(1) The “Review of Reviews for Australasia”
—prior to 1914; “Review of Reviews” (Aus-
tralasian edition)—became known in 1916 as
“Stead’s Review of Reviews”; in 1931 the name
was further shortened to “Stead’s Review”;
in November, 1931, it changed its name and
also its character somewhat, becoming
“To-day.” (2) Henry Stead, managing director
and editor of the paper, died in December,
1921. (3) H. Stead was the son of W. T.
Stead, founder and editor of the “Review of
Reviews” in London during the last century,
one of the most outspoken and distinguished
journalists of his time, who lost his life in the
Titanic disaster.
!]: % * *
I have a collection of British and foreign
posters. Any suggestions for keeping them in
good order 7 —6748.
Buy cheap calico, such as signwriters use and
mount all the posters on this. Stretch the
calico by tacking it by its, four edges •to a
wall or floor. Make up a flour paste, paste the
back of the poster and run it out fiat on to the
calico in the same way as hanging a panel
of wallpaper. Use a sponge or a little roller
to smooth out the creases. When dry, trim
all the edges of calico, and place these small
posters in a portfolio. Large posters should be
mounted in the same way. When mounted, saw
a cut along the middle of a piece of broom-
stick. Open this and insert one end of poster
so that. the broomstick grips it between its
two halves. Posters can then be rolled like
wall maps.
* ❖ ❖
(V)- Names and addresses of handmade-pot-
dery makers in and around Sydney ? (2) Do
they sell wholesale 7 —6707.
(1) Mrs.' V. Eyre, 104 Coogee ;
Miss Hirst, 175 Strand Arcade, Sydney;
Mrs. Seccombe, 1 Campbell-street, Eastwood;
Miss Holden, Winton-street, Warrawee —all
N.S.W. (2) Yes, a limited quantity.
* * * *
(1) Number of boilers on the Lusitania and
type 7 (2) Ship’s speed ? (3) Indicated horse-
power of Lusitania, Kaiser Wilhelm It. and
Great Eastern ? ' (4) Length, breadth and. dis-
placement of these steamers ? (5) When built?
(6) Respective working steam pressures 7
6799.
(1) Twenty-three double-ended boilers, 17ft.
6in. mean' diameter by 22ft. long ; two single-
ended boilers, same diameter "by lift. 4m.
long; 192 furnaces, having. a total grate sur-
face of 4048 sq. ft. and a total'heating surface
of 158,352 sq. ft. (2) 25.4 knots. (3), (4),
(5) and (6) Lusitania, built 1907; i.h.p., 68,000;
length, 760 ft.; breadth, 88ft.; 38,000 tons;
steam pressure, 1951 b. to sq. in. Kaiser Wil-
helm 11., built 1903; i.h.p., 38,000; length,
678 ft.; breadth, 72ft.; 26,000 tons; 2251 b. to
sq. in. Great Eastern, built 1858; i.h.p., 7650-
length, 680 ft.; breadth, 80ft.; 27,000 tons;
301 b. to sq. in.
(1) How many cub. ft. of gas will a pound
of carbide generate ? (2) What c.p. would 100
cub. ft. of carbide deliver per hour ? —6680.
(1) Commercial carbide is guaranteed to yield
5 cub. ft. of gas per pound, and usually slightly
exceeds the guarantee. (2) 240.
* * * *
Some hints on growing the tree peony ?
6837.
The plant grows well out in the open garden,
but requires a cool, moist situation, sheltered
from hot winds and from too direct sunshine
during the summer. It is advisable to select
a position where the plant can be left undis-
turbed for several years. The best results will
be obtained in a very rich, calcareous, loamy
soil, and lime should be added if soil is lime-
deficient. About a fortnight after applying lime
work it well into the surface soil and then
thoroughly trench the ground, adding a liberal
quantity of well-decayed manure at the same
time. A little bone dust added to the manure (
will be found very beneficial later on. From
May to early August is the most suitable time
to plant. Give the plants a mulch of well-
decayed manure twic p a year (about the middle
of' April and early in October,), working this
well into the soil, and give an occasional appli-
cation of liquid fertiliser when the plants are
in bloom.
Most suitable soil for growing ericas ? Do
they need much manure or fertiliser ? Best
time for planting out ? —6815.
Most suitable soil is a sandy peat, but the
plants will do very well in any ordinary sandy
ground where the soil is naturally heavy. Mix
with ordinary soil a good quantity of either
channel or river sand, and in summer give a
top-dressing only of thoroughly decomposed
manure. Plant out from March to October.
An abundance of water and a certain amount
of shade on very hot days are necessary.
* * * *
What soil should be used for a window-box
garden ? —6804. ,
Take several spadefuls of sweet loam, and
to this add two or three handfuls of crushed
charcoal, a tablespoonful of bonedust, and a
spadeful of well-decayed manure, mixing all
together thoroughly. If the loam used is on
the heavy side, add some sand to keep it open,
while, if well-decayed manure cannot be
obtained, some leaf mould may be substituted.
* * * *
Names of the guards over Napoleon at St.
Helena ? —6619. . ,
It is recorded that 125 sentries guarded
Longwood, Napoleon’s residence during his
captivity at St. Helena. There is no list of all
their names. The chief officers under Sir
Hudson Lowe, the Governor, were: Gen. Sir
Thomas Reade, adjutant; general officer com-
manding troops, Sir George Binghanr; Major
Gideon Gorrequer, A.D.C. ; Majors Harrison,
Emmet, Power, Hoath; and Lt. Jackson. Ihe
naval representatives were Rear-Admiral Sir
George Cockburn, Sir Pulteney Malcolm,
Plampton, Lambert and Sir William Wilbur
Doneton.
* * * *
Any information about the Parisian cafe
Chat Noir and its founders ?— 6741.
Opened in Montmartre about 1880 by Ko-
dolphe Salis. Was decorated by the leading
artists of the day in return for meals and
entertainment, and became the gathering-place
for fashionable society for well over 10 years.
The waiters were dressed as members of the
French Institute, the rooms decorated in thir-
teenth-century style. The place contained a
theatre, .and there were pictures by such men
as Steinlen, Willette, Caran d’Ache and Henri
Pille. Paul Verlaine wrote some of his best
work there, and distinguished patrons included
Alphonse Daudet, Richepin, Zola, Herrer, Meis-
sonier, Clairin, Bonnat, Jean Paul Laurens and
Puvis de Chavannes. ,
* * * *
(1) How long does it take to complete the
veterinary science course at Sydney Uni. ?
{1) Cost? (3) Is there a correspondence.school
that teaches the subject ? {A) Best book on
the subject, and price ? —6526.
(1) At present four years; the course in two
years’ time will be extended to five years.
(2) £l2O. (3) No. (4). Wooldridge’s Encyclo-
pedia of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, £9.
* * * *
What is the principle of the'camera obscura,
and who was the first to recognise it ?— 6BIB.
It consists of a rotatable dark chamber,
at the top of which is a box containing a
convex lens and sloping mirror, by means of
which a picture of the surrounding scenery can
be projected on to a white table inside the
chamber. The image is not reversed, as in a
mirror. Invention is sometimes ascribed to
Giovanni Batista della Porta, 1569, but it is
known that the principle had been made use
of mapy years before his time.
# ■ * * *
What is meant by the law of conservation
of energy? —6792.
The hypothesis that no form of energy can
be produced except by the expenditure of some
other form, nor annihilated without being
reproduced in another form. Cpnsequently the
sum total of energy in the universe, like the
sum total of matter, must always remain the
same. Energy-can never be destroyed or lost;
it can be transformed or transferred from one
body to another, but, no matter what transfor-
mations are undergone, when, the total effects
of the exertion of a given amount of energy
are summed up, the result will be exactly equal
to the amount originally expended from the
source.
* * * *
Particulars of competition for a hook having
aviation as its theme recently announced by an
English publisher? —6648.
Manuscripts, which must be between 70,000
and 100,000 words in length, may consist of
fiction, personal experience, biography or his-
tory. Judges will be Sir Philip Sassoon, David
Garnett and Grover Loening. Manuscripts
must be submitted before December 31 next,
and the winning book will be published dur-
ing the spring of- 1936. by Hamish Hamilton,
Ltd, in England, and by Doubleday, Doran
in America. An advance on royalties of £SOO
will be made to the winner, and offers may
be made for other MSS. submitted. For
further particulars apply Hamish Hamilton,
Ltd., 90 Great Russell-street. London, W.C.I.
Brief Answers.
B.D.P.: The kelpie would be the most suit-
able breed to use for this purpose. Kelpies
can be obtained through W. Calnan, Thomas-
street, Sydney J.M.C.: There is a difference
in the price paid to Queensland and N. S. Wales
mills for raw sugar, owing to a greater produc-
tion of “excess” sugar in Queensland T.G.:
Name of artist and engraver required before
we can give an opinion K.M.: Values of
the prints are: “The Tribunal of the Inquisi-
tion,” 5s. ; “Luther Burning the Pope’s Bull,”
7s. 6d. ; “Trial of Charles I.” and “Trial of
Strafford,” 10s. each. Cannot assess value of the
fifth... .M.J.L.: The white spots on the pine-
tree are a species of insect which exudes a sweet
substance on which the ants feed. These insects
derive their food from the branches of the
trees on which they live, and so eventually
kill these parts. Spraying with kerosene emul-
sion is resorted to in order to get rid of this
pest... .J.H.N.: (1) and (2) There is no
general reservation of Crown land along the
main streams in the Riverina district of N.S.W.
At various points along the Murray, Wakool,
Edwards, Murrumbidgee and other water-
courses there are reserves for public purposes,
and also roadways which give access to the
streams, but no general right of access exists.
(3) (a) Property-owners may legally refuse per-
mission to persons to travel across their pro-
perty for the purpose of reaching the streams,
and (6) may legally refuse permission to any
person to camp on their land, whether close
to the bank of a stream or otherwise
W.M.L.: Write Under-Secretary, Chief Secre-
tary’s Dept., Sydney C.H.: A codicil must
be executed with the same formality as a will.
You should consult a solicitor rather than
attempt to alter the will yourself W.T.:
Wages tax amounting to 2s. lid. would be
payable by the person concerned, and would
be deducted by his employer from his wages
L.J’.B.: The Pure Food Act (N.S.W.) requires
that the iodine constituent be declared; pro-
portion per dose must be stated on label. Refer
to local Health Dept, with regard to unifor-
mity of Act in all States. The company should
be registered for manufacture of chemical pro-
ducts F.J.F.: See “The Sheep Industry,”
published by the Dept, of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne E.A.V.C.: (1) No difficulty if in
possession of British passport and either £50
sterling or a bank guarantee by responsible
individuals in Canada for that amount. (2)
Yes, British. (3) Yes, provided foregoing con-
ditions are complied with. (4) See foregoing
answers. (5) Return to Australia at expense
of shipping line concerned if conditions are
not complied with. (6) This is a question for
the authorities. (7) Strongly advise that rela-
tives and friends in Canada referred to make
the necessary arrangements in Canada for entry
and temporary domicile, owing to ..the present
regulations designed to curtail unemployment.
Such relatives and friends should apply to the
Dept, of Immigration, Ottawa, Canada
L J.M.: By advertising in a Sydney newspaper
and in a newspaper circulating where his wife
resides that he will not be liable for her debts,
and by notifying the tradesmen with whom
she usually deals W.M.: Express to Hindu-
stan, by M. H. Ellis; price, 12s. 6d J.K.N.:
Official enlistment figures for the A.I.F. were:
N.S.W., 164,030; Vic., 112,399; Q’land,
57,705 : South Aus., 34,959 ; West Aus., 32,231;
Tas., 15,485. Total, 416,809. Of this total
331,781 served overseas... .J.EP.: At the 1934
Federal elections 1,843,949 males and 1,833,774
females voted in contested electorates for the
House of Reps., representing 95.17 p.c. of
qualified electors. For the Senate 1,862,749
males and 1,845,829 females voted, representing
95.03 p.c. of qualified electors... .E.OJ.: At
June 30, 1934, motor vehicles (cars, commercial
vehicles and cycles) registered in the various
Australian States and territories were as fol-
lows: N.S.W. 227,742, Vic. 188,256, Q’land
92,835, South Aus. 66,229, Westralia 48,982,
Tas. 18,552, North Aus. 612, Cent. Aus. 66,
Fed. Cap. Territory 1415 C.N.V.: The con-
tribution of Australia towards defraying the
expenditure of the League of Nations and its
kindred organisations is on the basis of 27 of
1011 units, and for the year 1935 amounts to
817,955 gold francs, or, in Australian currency
at the present rate of exchange, approximately
£66,000, out of a total budget of 30,639,664
gold francs... .P.T.: In N.S.W. there is no
statutory provision for compulsory vaccination,
though in all the other States such provision
exists Y.L.: Eleanora Cisneros (American
operatic mezzo) was with Paul Dufault (French-
Canadian tenor), James Liebling, (’cellist) and
Harold Whittle (Australian pianist) in Australia
in 1912 F.W.: (1) Vegetable wax, closely
approaching Carnaiibra wax both in hardness
and in melting-point, occurs in some quantity
as a coating on the stems of cane grass
(Glyceria ramigera). (2) Technological
Museum, Sydney H.T.S.: Catherine Helen
Spence was engaged on her autobiography
when she died at Norwood (S.A.) on April 3,
1910. It was completed by Jeanne F. Young,
and appeared serially in the “Register” in the
same year... .M.J.K.: Result of 1933 Sydney
Cup was: Rogilla (7st. 101b.), 1; Nord (6.7),
2; Gippsland (7.0), 3; time, 3min. 23sec
A.P.: The Wallabies on their 1933 South
African tour played 23 matches, winning 12,
losing 10 and drawing one. They scored 298
points, and their opponents 195 points. Re-
sults of the five Tests were: First, lost by 17
to 3; second, won by 21 to 6; third, lost by
12 to 3; fourth, lost by 11 to nil; fifth, won
by 15 to 4....S.R.: In Tasmania annuities
are taxed in full under the Land and Income
Tax Act, no deduction being allowed, where
annuities have been purchased, in respect of
return of capital or any other item. Annuities
are taxed at property rates except where it is
clear that they are payable out of income from
business sources C.M.W.: The “Hibbert
Journal” is an English quarterly review of
religion, theology and philosophy. Address:
12 Orange-street, London, W.C.2 G.P.:
Angus and Robertson, Dymock’s, N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. and Gordon and Gotch —all
Sydney L.V.M.: Bindarregah is a N.S.W.
abo. place-name meaning “the pine-tree”
(Many others mailed.)


Oju £
S
£
4T
£
c
4
SI
S E!
ms
m
- _ r
%al.
.v*/ 4
-VW ■£^^'-/-:
/ w»
va.'^'s*''..;
-2 * -' 4 "*
*4
...... . Jit.. . , W ,'~ . _ J
V »-*;
. -..-• ■ p ,« ■■ • ' 1 .,
: ■:■ -. •,
m
.'.■■A...
***■
V-s^
rr• vJ-i.: : j
"•w. &
>^
'"fv' . 3!
k ■♦CZ-** ... - *„ - s * *%. •
WMHPi
>»
»■ «
*. "V
c*e
~ »
.»»»■
H
; ;*. w - ,*c
*km •
mm.
H
■ *of& f $ * ''l.- %ssi»
m
s
7*
m
SI&SS* g«g
& ®l
-V
■ ■ ■
" %^>
m
* -i
me.
' ....«..<
V
1
Ml
«£
’'W
**te
S W
35W
**r
%■
RS» ;
%
ig
«*e
m
|jNU|^|k:
P»
gjßi
SP**~
m
w*
mem
up
WINTER CRUISES BY 2 0, 000-TONNERS
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertakep re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.L.McA.: Sea piece crashes on “deathly-
white,” “heaving-bosom” and suchlike rocks
I.M.McC.: Glimmer of a thought, but you
don’t make poetry of it F.a.q.
Mother’s Day verse is the best we can say for
it S.P.C.: “Invitation” gratefully declined.
... .Leadlight: “Is this poem O.K.?” No;
it’s opaque... .J.G.T.: Good idea, but you
make little of it....The Nomad: Can’t find a
place for your “super”-stockman R.G.J.:
Closed season for dancing at Auburn.... Ohio;
Marry the girl.... Bellerive; Too late for
Authors’ Week, but it still might do good: —
LITERARY DISCUSSION.
Pen verses said a friend of mine.
On subject new and great.
Writing on the morbid drab is
A eccentric literary trait.
Pen verses on bright events,
Music, mirth and love.
Verses that will shineth out
Like the silver moon above.
Remember friend was my reply
That old boys will be boys.
Some poets dine on tasty fish
And some on saveloys.
In fightful speculation
Ensue a lot of gab.
As well as in the brilliant
There’s poetry in the drab.
A. Mac D.: From memory, they didn’t miss
by much. Have another shot... .F.L.: No
silver in “The Untrodden Realm”... .W.D.M.:
Yes, you could call it a sonnet, but even
First Steps in the Study of Poetry should tell
you that “When I remember how the wasted
years” is pinching old thunder... .P.M.A.:
Seems a pity to waste good thought in that
sort of substitute for verse... .H.G.: Neither
yarn is quite up to standard... .J.H.S.: It
doesn’t keep sufficient grip on the reader’s
interest E.M.G.: You have done much
better G.M.: “If published it may be the
means of saving many young country lads
from similar traps.” Don’t think so; the
tricksters change their tactics too often....
C.W.: “I start this rhyme at closing time.”
That’s the time many rhymes are started, judg-
ing by lots of samples we receive... .E.O.S.:
Has some amusing spots, but they are like
threepenny bits in a badly-cooked plum pud-
ding K.T.: Your Southport whale seems to
have habits very like the Bondi whale’s.
P.L.B.: Doesn’t quite get there
C.R.J.JL..: “Letters of a Disappointed Bee-
keeper.” Sorry to have to add another dis-
appointment... .W.M.H.: None quite suitable.
P.T.: If we meet Augustino we shall bear
your warning in mind... .D.D.R.: Off our beat.
J.H.V.: It would be more appropriate to
the Glasgow “Bulletin”... .R.K.S.: Andy’s ex-
perience at Snaky Joe’s shanty was very little
different from that of other stockmen at other
shanties N.R.: Political parody on “Alice
in Wonderland” not sufficiently amusing.
Much too long, anyway A.M.: The only
variation we ever seem to find in these racing
yarns is in the names... .J.H.: Didn’t either of
your characters read the newspapers?....
E. : Has merit, but more as a theme for a
novel than as a short story... .R.E.N: Uncon-
vincing and melodramatic.. . .C.B.R.: Doesn t
make the grade.., .J.S.L.: Its appeal is limited.
. ...V.T.: The average length of our stories
is about 3000 words. Yours exceeds 10,000.
H.H.: A trifle, but a feeling trifle
G.S.C.: Not enough laughs in it L.A.H.:
We are forced to agree... .C.E.H.: It must
certainly have been a terrible experience, but
you haven’t made a yarn of it J.S.C.: What
have you been reading? J.S.: Your story
shows how unlucky cats can be to mariners.
F.C.B.: Not for us M.C.M.: It’s an
oldish theme, and an unsatisfactory one. In
12 months’ time Lucy will be as discontented
as ever R.S.: Not quite the type. Try it
elsewhere H.B.: Rather slight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.W.: Nothing in specimens submitted
F. Sorry to have to basket the produce
of your “many hours of toil,” but duty is a
stern mistress A.A.: Drunks in fishing boat
sunk without trace... .F.B.: Idea old and
slight; execution feeble... .W.N.H.: Joke has
been going the rounds of the radio stations,
and drawing is crude... .C.T.: N.S.W. election
sketch is too late R.M.: Doesn’t bear the
faintest resemblance to the subject... .J.C.:
Lines should flow more easily... .E.B.: All
your characters have heads like pumpkins
M.D.T.: It shows promise. Carry on....
L.W.: In time you might become an artist.
Fifty years, say.
Mention of the late Knox
D’Arcy (B. 17/4/’35) recalls a story
which went the rounds when he returned
to England with money to burn. Seek-
ing to join the Carlton Club, he was in-
formed that solicitors were not admitted.
The committee presently received notice
that the club premises and lease had been
bought by D’Arcy and that they must
make arrangements to quit on the ter-
mination of their sub-lease. Straightway
the ban on solicitors was lifted and
D’Arcy was elected. The story has also
been told of Otto Kahn and an Ameri-
can country club which barred Jews.
Believe it or not, but Londoners can pick
as many holes in the one yarn as New
Yorkers can in the other.
A MIXED GRILL.
In America, as in Australia, many taxes
are duplicated, and some are triplicated.
For example, there are Federal, State and
city inheritance taxes in New York. We
haven’t got down to that in Australia,
and, unlike the U.S.A., we have set up a
Loan Council. All the same, thoughtful
men are beginning to ask in both coun-
tries whether the Federal system can
stand the strain of all the taxing and
borrowing.
* * * *
“M.”: Augustus John lost a number
of his finest paintings when his Hamp-
shire house was burnt down recently.
Unsympathetic friends will tell him to
paint them again. Similarly, a cop on
the Central station, Sydney, was once
told by a local poet that a parcel con-
taining a number of his poems had been
stolen. “You can write them again,”
suggested the policeman. “But,” howled
the despairing poet, “there were two
sandwiches among them.”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A new method of blood
transfusion, which allows as much as 10
pints or more of blood from different
donors to be fed into the circulation of
a patient, has remarkable possibilities.
The patient’s blood-group having been
ascertained, blood from sufficient donors
of suitable groups is collected, and mixed
under conditions which keep it alive and
unclotted in a reservoir at body heat.
From here it is allowed to flow at the
rate of 40 drops a minute into one of
the patient’s veins, usually in the arm.
The slow rate of entry prevents over-
loading of the oxygenating function of
the lungs, and the constantly increasing
volume of healthy new corpuscles acts
as a tonic and stimulant on the body
tissues generally. Combined with
oxygen administration and mechanical
lung inflation, the possibilities are
startling.
* * * *
“10-2-4” on our national joke:—•
The Bulletin is, of course, right (24/4/’35)
about drunk jokes having been banished from
many English comic papers, but the beer joke
persists. In Australia it is perhaps the com-
monest of all jokes. An essentially unfunny
speaker only has to look arch and introduce
“beer” or “brewery” into his oration to evoke
guffaws as hearty as those which once greeted
references to mothers-in-law. Nobody writhes
with merriment at words like claret, Chablis,
etc., though they are neither more nor less
side-splitting, as words, than beer. Another
oddity about beer is that —in Australia, any-
how —it has some kind of heroic commenda-
tion. Small, weedy men who never performed
a more daredevil deed in their lives than back
horses or play golf talk of the beers they have
drunk, as V.Cs. might talk of their exploits
if V.Cs. were not so exasperatingly reticent.
There have actually been attempts to lyricise
beer, though it is no more inspiring, either in
its origins or as a finished product, than, say,
gin. The status of beer on platforms, in col-
loquial conversation and in local journalism is
the most impressive tribute I know to the
power of the herd mind. Mae West ran beer
close as a laugh-getter for a time, but investi-
gations in moron circles indicate that she has
gone west, so to speak.
* * * *
“Barb”: The doctor’s waiting-room
was crowded, but it was my turn next.
Just as the nurse was about to usher me
in, the harassed-looking last-comer
stepped across and murmured something
to her. She looked slightly embarrassed
and glanced doubtfully at me, then mur-
mured back at him. He looked appeal-
ingly towards me. I began to feel awk-
ward. A few minutes extra wouldn’t hurt
me. His might be a life-and-death matter.
Ignoring the threatening glances of the
other patients, I nodded ; and in he went.
Quarter of an hour passed ; 20 minutes.
1 chafed a bit at the delay, but at any
rate it was evidence that his case was
fairly serious—no mere chest-tapping
business. At the end of half an hour I
was beginning to regret my Christian
action, especially as my companions were
protesting audibly about “people who
gave up their turn without asking other
people.” just then out he
came, more worried than ever. “Poor
blighter!” I thought as I passed in. “Doc.
hasn’t given him much comfort.”. “Con-
found those motor salesmen!” said the
doctor, after greeting me ; “thought I’d
never get rid of him.”
* * * *
“10-2-4”: I enter this, from a super-
soulful Sydney press boost of Yehudi
Menuhin, as the year’s outstanding
achievement of the kind:
I mentioned Wordsworth’s “Ode on In-
timations of Immortality from Recollec-
tions of Early Childhood.”
Yehudi quoted the words softly:—
Not in entire forgetfulness.
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory do we come
From God, Who is our home.
Then his eyes were far away again.
In a recent Mnemonics Tourney, which
is said to have attracted some of the most
tenacious brains in the U.S.A., the fol-
lowing won:
Tis now—er —the very witching time —
or is it period?—no, moment of night
When churchyards yawn and—er—hell—
no, Hades —no, I’m wrong, hell was right—
hell itself breathes out
Contagion to the world. Now I could
sup hot blood
And do such dirty—dirty can’t be right;
of course, the word should be bitter —such
bitter business as the day
Would quake to look at —I mean look
on.
And a very good effort, too, in view of
the fact that not one person in a million
is capable of repeating two consecutive
lines of an unexpected quotation ofhand.


USEFUL DATA ON PONTIAC SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 15 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 seconds,
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 2-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 26ft.
Maximum speed, 69.2 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 19 m.p.g.
“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
■4s/{ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
TWO-WAY, DOUBLE ACTION
TYRE INFLATION
The “RENRUT” QUADRUPLE TYRE PUMP gives a
remarkable service in tyre inflation. Built on the principle
of quadruple compression, which provides a double-acting
main barrel, drawing in air on both the up and down strokes,
this unique mechanism doubles the capacity of the large barrel,
and so halves the time of inflation. The inner high-pressure
cylinder ensures easy delivery of this large volume.
Sturdily built for a long life of faithful service, the “RENRUT”
QUADRUPLE offers quicker and easier pumping than you
have ever known.
"RENRUT
" QUADRUPLE
TYRE PUMP
PRICE
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England 60/-
JOHN ARNOLD, 336 Post Office Place, Melbourne. With gauge
6/- extra.
The Steering Column.
THE NEW PONTIAC SIX PASSES
STRENUOUS TEST.
SPLENDID ALL-ROUND PERFORMANCE.
By FERD BERRY.
nPHE latest General Motors product, a new Pontiac Six, has
been awaited in Australia with much interest. Compre-
hensive testing over the “Bulletin” course has shown that this
new model has features that are certain to win it a host of
friends. Sturdily constructed, and embodying a number of
interesting and valuable features, the 1935 Pontiac Six is an
extremely roadworthy vehicle, capable of touring over all types
of roadway at high average speed without heavy expenditure
of fuel.
Mechanical Features.
Body design is pleasing to the eye and
efficiently streamlined, while a careful
inspection of mechanical details shows
that the designers have striven to incor-
porate the triple features of reliability,
accessibility and efficiency without in-
creasing production costs.
However critical one might be he
would find it difficult to fault this
machine, which is the first of the ’35
series to be made available for testing in
Australia, and is indicative of the sub-
stantial progress made in automobile de-
sign and production during the last year.
The 6-cyl. engine, R.A.C. rating 27.4,
develops 81 b.h.p. at 3600 r.p.m. Of
the L-head type, with bore of 3fin. and
stroke the swept volume is 208 cub.
in., compression ratio being 6.2 to 1, and
compression pressure 148-1501 b. pe r
square inch.
The motor is suspended in the frame
on five live-rubber supports, and this,
coupled with the fact that the crank-
shaft runs in four robust bearings, is
balanced statically and dynamically and
is fitted with a harmonic torsional vibra-
tion damper, ensures freedom from
vibration at all speeds.
The cylinder block of chrome nickel
alloy is cast integral with the upper half
of the crankcase, and the main bearings
supporting the crankshaft are housed in
sturdy cross-webs extending the full width
of the sump. Provision is made for re-
placing the main bearings, in the unlikely
contingency of breakdown, by merely
removing the sump and sliding a new
half into place without dismantling the
engine.
Running-in Period Reduced.
Pistons are of chrome iron, with three
compression rings above the gudgeon-pin
Double KY frame of six-cylinder Pontiac, illustrating
method adopted to eliminate flexing or distortion.
and an oil-scraper ring below, and are
electroplated with soft low-friction
bearing metal. Consequently a much
snugger fit of piston in cylinder block is
made possible than was the case in earlier
practice. This means that the running-
in period is considerably reduced, because
the soft plated metal readily flows away
from the high spots on friction surfaces.
Connecting rods, of drop-forged f sec-
tion, have an oil passage drilled down
centre. Bearings are removable split
type, cast from a silver-cadmium alloy
which has a much higher tensile and com-
pressive strength than conventional
white metal.
The detachable cylinder-head block is
of unusual design, being cast with extra
A neat setting for the new Pontiac Six, showing distinctive front-end design,
V windscreen, no-draught ventilation and low overall height.
metal directly over each valve. These
areas are machined off and shaped to
permit unrestricted flow of gases both
from exhaust and to inlet valves, giving
higher effective pressures and aiding con-
siderably in the general scheme of
cooling.
Valves are side-by-side type, the in-
takes having a seat angle of 30deg. ; ex-
exh a u st, 45deg.
Valve springs are
fitted with a spring
dampenerj and
cover plates are
insulated in order
to deaden the
sound of the valve
mechanism.
New Lubrication
Method.
Lubrication is by
full - pressure
“metered” system, oil being drawn from
the sump by means of a gear-type
pump located in the upper half of the
crankcase, a metering valve ensuring
equilibrium of pressure to all bearings
regardless of individual wear.
A special feature of this lubricating
system is the elimination of tubing all
oil passages being drilled in webs and
walls of the crankcase, doing away with
risks of leakage or breakage.
Fuel is drawn from a 12-gal. tank (sus-
pended between the rear dumb-irons) by
pump operated by an eccentric from the
camshaft and fed to a Carter triple-
venturi down-draught carburettor, flex-
ible aeroplane-type tubing being used on
all connections subject to vibration.
Attached to carburettor and intake mani-
fold are the usual air-cleaners and intake
silencer. Variations in temperature and
loading are automatically compensated
for by an economiser, thermostatic heat
control of manifold hot spot, metering
rod and low-pressure accelerator pump
with automatic adjustable stroke.
Coil-and-battery ignition* system is
employed, vacuum-operated spark ad-
vance and octane selector being attached
to the distributor head. The generator is
fan-cooled and heavily constructed in
order to withstand the heavy demands
made by modern electrical car equip-
ment, including radio. The ignition
switch is wired in series with the accel-
erator pedal, starting being effected by
depressing the accelerator after switching
on.
The cooling system has been given par-
ticular attention. A centrifugal pump
driven from the fan-shaft circulates the
water through a cross-flow type of
radiator, a thermostatic temperature
control being positioned in the header
pipe. The cylinder block is cored be-
tween each cylinder, so providing even
cooling around barrels, and a special
water-distributing tube is inset longi-
tudinally over the valves to boost circu-
lation over extremely hot areas.
Trans mission is
through a single-plate,
dry-disc type clutch,
lOin. diameter, to
three - speed -and - re-
verse central-change
gearbox. Helical-cut
gears are used in both
high and middle
ratios, and synchro-
nising cones attached
to these pinions per-
mit silent changing
throughout the speed
range.
The drive to the
rear axle is through a torque tube, the
enclosed metal universal joint behind the
gearbox being automatically lubricated
from the transmission. The rear axle
housing is pressed-steel banjo type, the
final reduction in the differential drive
being 4.44 to 1,
Substantial Chassis Frame.
The chassis is heavily framed in a
double KY design, and is exceptionally
Knee-action, independent front-wheel
suspension; springs and moving parts
totally enclosed.
rigid. The front wheels are independently
sprung, the Pontiac knee-action system,
together with double-acting hydraulic
shock absorbers, being used. Rear springs
are of conventional type, with an exten-
sion at the rear to serve as a jack pad.
Brackets adjacent to the knee-action
gear in front serve the same purpose. A
ride stabiliser, connecting each side of
the frame forward of the axle housing,
is also fitted. Wheelbase is 116 in.
Steering is designed on the worm-and-
roller principle, the worm gear being
mounted on a tapered roller with full
adjustment for wear. Reduction ratio in
gear-box is 17.5 to 1.
Braking equipment is operated hy-
draulically on all four wheels, and an
emergency hand-brake applies to the
rear-wheel shoes through independent
mechanical linkage.
Wheels, of the wire-spoked type, are
fitted with 6.00 by 16 balloon casings.
Coach work and interior fittings are in
keeping with modern requirements.
Double windscreen wipers, pivoted at the
lower ends, are actuated by vacuum from
the intake manifold, and are indepen-
dently controlled. Dashboard fittings are
neatly arranged, and all controls are
within easy range of the driver.
Handy in Traffic.
The car tested over the Bulletin
course was a standard model four-door
sedan, quite new and not yet thoroughly
run in, the speedometer showing 913
miles. Driver was D’arcy Jones, sales
manager for W. J. Stack, Ltd., Sydney
distributors. The tractabifify of this new
machine in traffic was impressive. Despite
the stiff engine, acceleration in top gear
was excellent. On the busy thorough-


ivsrybody
up
D
les
i
*
a
Discriminating motorists
always return to Muller’s!
They know they are play-
ing safe in trusting their car
to our expert hands with
the knowledge that our ex-
perience extends over a
period of nearly 30 years.
For Panel Beating or Radi-
ator Service—send it to
Muller’s.
S^cAl
Ob
SIN
PARRAMATTA RD (AMPtSDOWN SYDNEY
m
'JeUpiumt L3?0I (3 IIMfS)
HAWKINS T'. n
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
If the battery
is a WILLARD,
this won't happen to your wife!
Battery failure, miles from home,
on a winter night—it’s an awkward
predicament for any woman!
Be sure it won’t happen to your
wife! Fit a Willard—the Battery
you know you can depend on!
A Willard means freedom from
the inconvenience of battery
failure — it means miles and
months of uninterrupted service
and genuine satisfaction!
Willard
m
, ''
m
wm
OIL
«ne
i
wSwafijHB
m
m*
wmm
Or
mm
fmmm
mm
, .
BUY SEALED OIL
o
QjixJieA Oil
UNAVAILABLE IN BULK
Motorists everywhere are reali-
sing that Valvoline Sealed Oil is
the best lubricating proposition.
Valvoline is sold in ‘tamper-proof”
tins, being sealed against substi-
tution. adulteration, dirt and short
measure.
When you buy Valvoline you
know what you're getting —an oil
that gives added life and smooth-
ness to any engine
and cuts down repairs.
Ask your garageman.
then let your motor
and dip stick be the
judge!
k
JCARRIGAN
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
and &mMMaeaM
HAWKINS.
If you have doubts ... SIMONIZ a Mudguard
and make your own comparisons
We* 11 send you samples free
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd., 188 Peel Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
fares leading to Parramatta many difficult
situations arose, but the Pontiac met all
demands in the matter of steering and
acceleration and braking.
On the open road through Baulkham
Hills the speedometer hovered between 40
and 50 m.p.h. with a remarkably small
Diagrammatic section of gearbox, show-
ing helical-cut constant-mesh gears and
synchronising cones attached to top and
middle ratios.
throttle opening, indicating a high and at
the same time safe cruising speed around
the 50’s.
Results of Tests.
Approaching Windsor speed was re-
duced to 15 m.p.h., and from this speed
in neutral gear the car coasted 640 yards,
directly into a strong wind, before com-
ing to rest. In still air a much better
performance would have been recorded.
Continuing through Windsor and ap-
proaching Richmond, a test of maximum
speed was made over a measured mile,
and here again the strong headwind and
stiff motor were handicaps. Time occu-
pied was 52sec., an average of 69.2
m.p.h. Through Richmond and approach-
ing Kurrajong Heights, the detour
through Grose Vale was taken in order
to test performance over a loose country
type of roadway, and the result was dis-
tinctly favorable. Next test involved
climbing 2 1-5 miles of the steepest por-
tion of Kurrajong Mountain on full
throttle, the time, 3min. 44sec., constitut-
ing excellent going. Despite the new
engine, water temperature remained nor-
mal throughout the climb.
On the many difficult corners the car
steered well, and held the road excel-
lently, with a pleasant absence of rolling
and swaying, whilst the knee-action
front-wheel suspension permitted a
straight course to be steered over rough
and loose going.
Returning down the mountain, a test
of emergency-braking equipment was
made, and as the system is independent
and not merely for parking purposes re-
sults were as satisfactory as might have
been expected.
Before reaching Richmond the cross-
country turn-off through Castlereagh to
Penrith was taken, and here further per-
formance tests were conducted. First,
to determine the inherent flexibility of
the motor, 350 yards was covered in top
gear as slowly as possible, followed with-
out pause by a similar distance on full
throttle, still, of
course, in top gear.
On the slow-running
section the time
registered, 2min. 30sec., gave an average
speed of 4.8 m.p.h., while on the accel-
erated section the average jumped to 41.8
m.p.h., the clock showing 17 l-5sec.
Further traffic tests in timing accelera-
tion from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top and
second gear showed respectively 8sec.
and 5 2-5sec., while from a standing start
to 50 m.p.h. was timed in 15 2-5sec.
Stopping distance of service-braking
equipment was tested, the car pulling up
evenly from a speed of 25 m.p.h. in 26ft.
Total time taken, inclusive of all tests,
was 3hr. lOmin., averaging 37 m.p.h.,
while petrol consumed, gallons, gave
a consumption of 19 m.p.g. As car,
Distributor head with vacuum-operated
automatic spark advance attachment and
octane selector, with vernier adjustment.
driver and observer weighed 34fcwt., ton-
mileage consumption was 31.26.
Turning circle of the Pontiac Six on
left lock is 39ft., right 40ft. Minimum
ground clearance, Bjin.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.A.L. (Armidale, N.S.W.). — The steering
wheel of my 1928 model 18-h.p. car has bin.
play before road wheels turn. Have tightened
the adjustment on top of gearbox, but so far
as I can see it only presses the wheel into
contact without taking up slack. Can anything
be done ?
Trouble is due to excessive wear in worm
and worm-wheel. Gearbox must be dismantled
and teeth engaged at a different point. Back-
lash should then disappear. At same time, look
for wear in ball joints at end of Pitman arm
and drag link.
R.G.W. (Glenelg, S.A.).— My ’26 Buick is
overheating, due to a blocked radiator, grease
having leaked out of the water pump into the
cooling system. Have tried to remove with
high-pressure water without success. Can you
suggest a cure? •
Only effective method would be to dismantle
radiator and immerse core in benzine or benzol
until grease is dissolved. This may require
some hours and one or two changes of solvent.
Before reassembling, place radiator in open air
until benzine has completely evaporated. To
prevent recurrence of the trouble, have pump
gland overhauled and made grease-tight.
* * *
N.O'D. (Beechwood, Vic.). — Overheating of
my Light Six Buick, as you surmised, was due
to my having sprayed the radiator core with
duco. Would you now advise how duco can
be removed without dismantling radiator ?
Repeated application of duco thinner will
shift the lacquer from the exterior of the core,
but complete removal will involve removing the
core, immersing in a bath of the solvent and
passing a small bottle-brush through each sec-
tion of the honeycomb structure.
* * * *
R.A.W. (Mitchell, Q.). — There is a looseness
in the rear end of my ’3O Oakland, causing a
bumping sound when driven over rough roads.
Garages don’t seem to locate the trouble, and
the instruction book does not explain how the
differential can he adjusted. What can be
done ?
Knocking is not likely to emanate from
faulty differential adjustment, but rather from
play in the spring anchorages, shackle pins or
rear universal joint. Have these points in-
spected.
****
A.N.S. (Wollongong, N.S.W.).—(I) Quota-
tion to relacquer my ’27 Chev. tourer (30,000
miles) is £10 — more than I can afford. Can
the job be done in my own garage ? (2) Engine
is consuming a lot of oil. Will new pistons
cure the trouble ?
(1) Price is reasonable for a sprayed job,
which requires use of special plant. Use a
brushing lacquer if you must do the work at
home. (2) New pistons would be a waste of
money unless you are prepared to have the
cylinders rebored at the same time.
* * * *
R.M.A. (Wagga, N.S.W.). —(1) Correct pres-
sure for 29 x 4.40 tyres ? (2) Gears in gear-
box are in good order, yet I can’t change with-
out crashing the teeth. Cause and cure ?
(1) You do not indicate whether car is
roadster or sedan. Pressure, roadster, 28 front,
30 rear: sedan, 30 front, 32 rear. (2) Thrust
race in clutch withdrawal gear is evidently
o Continued on page 30.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
Bowden wire controls, used
extensively on flexibly mounted
engines, can be repaired as illus-
trated. Pass wire through
nipple, bend strands, fill cavity
with solder, then file level.
ELECTRICAL
TEMPERING
gives extra sharpness
Why is it that Gillette can make their blades harder than ever
before and so give a keener cutting edge? Because their new
electrical-tempering process enables them to put two tempers Into
one blade. Soft at the ends where it bends to the razor, but extra
hard along the edges to allow for extra sharpening. Result—a keener
shave than you've known before and a longer life to every blade.
9 Try these new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they’re worth it.
FIVE FOR 2/-
BLUE
OF ALL DEALERS
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
“A state of affairs analogous
to that of 1930 is imminent
in A ustralia, ’ ’
is the opinion recently expressed in one
section of the London Stock Market.
“The ‘Wild Cat’Monthly,”
Australia’s Leading Journal for Investors,
does not share this opinion, and lucidly
sets out the position as it exists.
k
DON’T MISS THE MAY ISSUE, NOWON SALE
Company Notes and Reviews; Mining; Silver, Steel and Now—Paper; The
Romance of Broken Hill Prop.; Basis of Prosperity.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
A “BULLETIN ” PUBLICATION
ItTOOL
OUT of the Port of Sydney go the bales of wool;
nearly a million yearly. The story of the industry
is intensely fascinating ... nondescript sheep ...
the importation of merinos... Macarthur’s courageous
enterprise ... his first export of wool in 1807 . . .
an awakening to splendid opportunities . . . “squat-
ting ” days and days of sail , . . drought and hardship
. . . skill and perseverance . . . improvement of the
fleece until to-day sheep produce more and better
wool than ever. New South Wales exports in 1934
were approximately £17,702,306. Throughout the
State are thousands of sheep-farmers whose ambition
and resourcefulness equal that of the sturdy pioneers.
Many of them are being financed by the Rural Bank,
which derives its loanable funds from the acceptance of
Fixed Deposits and the opening of cheque accounts
for any reputable person, company, firm or society.
Crural bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H ROGERS, P. KEARNS
This is the first of six. advertisements on Primary |l
Industries in N.S.W. illustrated by Quinton Davis J
worn. When replacing, check condition of
clutch lining. This may be worn thin and
require renewal.
* * * *
C.R.O. (Castlemaine, Vic.). —Is it possible
to improve the pulling power of my 11.9 -h.p.
’2B model Cowley (19,000 miles ) ? Would
planing a small amount of metal off the cylinder
head, increasing compression, serve the purpose;
if so, how much, and what would it cost ? I
low a trailer weighing 2cwt. unladen, and, with
four passengers and luggage, I find the engine
is taxed rather severely when touring.
Loaded as you indicate the motor is grossly
overtaxed, and raising compression would only
make it necessary to use intermediate gears
more frequently. For your requirements, only
satisfactory solution is to use a motor of
greater piston displacement, so giving more
power at normal revs.
'k
B.R.N. (Thirlmere, N.S.W.). —Some time ago
the venturi cone in my Chev. Six seized and
was broken in dismantling. After replacement,
the motor would not pull normally, and if the
throttle is pushed hard down on a hill the
car slows down and finally stops unless the
acceleration is let back to half-open position.
Can you suggest a remedy ?
Symptoms indicate that either the standpipe
got cracked at the base when last dismantled,
or the newly-fitted venturi tube is too large for
the jet. In checking, make sure jet size is
similar to that originally fitted.
* * * *
C.D.H. (Baradine, N.S.W.) states a price
and asks most suitable car for family use.
It is not the policy of this Page to recom-
mend any particular make of car. Readers
are given the opportunity of comparing the
merits of new models as they are tested.
* * * *
R.A.S. (Port Kembla, N.S.W.). —I drive a
’22 model car with magneto ignition. Recently
the magneto has overheated on long runs and
seems to stick if left standing overnight. What’s
wrong?
Probably the armature bearings in the
magneto are so worn that the field windings
are touching the magneto. This will set up
intense local heating, and unless rectified will
result in a complete breakdown of the ignition
system.
Motor Oddities.
“Speedo”: Malcolm Campbell’s recent
fine for speeding was not his first. He is
a hardened offender. Away back when
he was a schoolboy in Bickleigh, Kent,
he was pinched for doing 27 m.p.h. on a
bicycle and fined 30s. The Bench was
stern, and threatened to deal with him
severely if he came before it again.
“Jo”; ’Ware goats in Longreach (Q.)!
If you leave your car under one of the
many trees that border the streets, you
are inviting a goat to jump up on the
bonnet, thence to the car hood, from
whence he can bog into the overhanging
leaves. There are hundreds of goats all
equipped with razor-like hoofs that
break through a hood-top easily, and
leave you lamenting.
* * * *
“32 x 40”: Travelling down the Mul-
ligan (Q.) driving a Studebaker Six, I
had the misfortune to shear an axle key
off. From the Mulligan to the nearest
garage is about 400 miles, so I rum-
maged through every bit of gear on the
car looking for something to make a
new key out of, without success. At
last I took the two portions of the
sheared key, and hack-sawed them into
cross sections just long enough to fit
snugly into axle and hub keyways.
Standing each section on end in axle
keyway I smeared with grease to keep
them in place, and then put wheel care-
fully on. Screwing nut up very tight, I
started for home, and got there.
* H= * *
“Nairobi”: The Royal East African
Automobile Association in a circular
letter to members calls attention to
some possibilities of sport: One of the
most interesting places in East Africa
from the point of view of seeing game
is the Ngorongoro crater, in prehistoric
times an active volcano. The present
crater consists of a huge plain, some 10
miles in diameter, with two big lakes in
the middle. Around these lakes are to
be found large quantities of game such
as wildebeest, zebra, eland, tommies.
Grant’s gazelle, duyker and lion. On
and around the lip of the crater are ele-
phant, rhino, buffalo and leopard. The
greatest difficulty has always been where
to sleep, but this has now been solved by
the erection of a camp on the very rim
overlooking the crater, with cook and
personal servants in attendance.


RADIO NEWS.
A Jubilee
Atrocity
For lack of
originality, imagi-
nation ,and sehse
of proportion, as
well as for gross
inaccuracies of
fact, the broadcast “Kings of England
inflicted on the eve of Jubilee Day almost
warrants the issue of yet another jubilee
medal.
After the way 1066 and All That
satirised popular historical knowledge, it
is incredible that anyone could seriously
mention King Alfred in the same breath
as cakes, yet the genius responsible for
the scenario of this broadcast attempted
to make a highly dramatic scene of the
nursery tale of the monarch’s reputed
culinary carelessness in an apparent en-
deavor to prove that the incident paved
the way to victory over the Danes and
laid the foundations of England’s great-
ness.
Richard the Lion Heart then died
noisily, Simon de Montfort forced Henry
111. to sign on the dotted line, and a Mr.
Shakspeare had a semi-blank verse audi-
ence with Queen Elizabeth.
Father Time, who was acting as an-
nouncer for the duration of the broad-
cast, then ticked off another billion
seconds and eavesdropped on George If.
leading his troops at Dettingen. George
was heard speaking in the mincing tones
of a dandy of the Regency period. Even
if he had not died half a century before
that period, the speech would hardly
have seemed right in a German who
was 31 years of age when he first set foot
in England, and who never really
mastered the language at all.
However, all these could have been
forgiven if the scene had been omitted
in which George Arliss Disraeli, with
the air of a radio uncle telling little Mary
that she will find her present under the
gasbox, announced to Queen Victoria
that she was henceforth Empress of
India. (Incidentally, he opened the con-
versation without waiting for his sov-
ereign to speak.)
One could almost imagine Victoria
replying, “ Dear Mr. Dis-
raeli, this is too, too charm-
ing of you.”
The next jubilee is a long
way off, but there will be
other occasions on which it
will be thought appropriate
to broadcast historical
pageants. I sincerely hope
that before the next master-
piece is let loose on the
ether the scenario writers
will either polish up their
history or stick to the safer
ground of “Speed Allen”
or “Scott of Scotland Yard.”
J. B. B.
Salute.
Not All
Radio Is
Bad
I begin to sus-
pect that the
greatest boon
radio has given
us is something
more to growl
about. The
privilege is so eagerly accepted that any-
one who rises up to praise radio feels
that he’s running a risk of nomination
for Callan Park.
Yet there is a considerable amount of
good stuff in the programmes. Take, for
instance, two A-class evening pro-
grammes which happen to be in front of
me at the. moment. At 6.15 2FC
launches an hour and
three-quarters of assorted
music. At 8 it transmits
from Melbourne a band
concert, with male-
quartet items. At 8.54
Molly de Gunst sings
four songs, and at 9.15
the Capek play “R.U.R.”
goes on the air. At
10.30 comes news,
weather and dance
music. (I am not keen
Slight mechanical defects .
on band concerts, broadcast plays or the
weather, but that does not make the
evening’s programme a bad one.)
Same night, same times, 2BL offers a
talk on Egypt, weather, stock exchange,
market reports, wool sales, truck book-
ings, sporting events, cable news, racing
survey, rowing talk and suchlike till 8 ;
then an hour of compositions and
arrangements by J. Brash, with orches-
tra, choir, contralto and organ. At 9 a
talk by parson-novelist Ralph Connor,
and, beginning at 9.15, a recorded per-
formance of “The Gondoliers.” (A great
deal of this leaves me dead cold, too,
but I’m humble enough to feel that that
is my fault—not radio’s.)
C. M.
Broadcast:
“Truth in
Radio”
What-o, there!
The Truthful An-
nouncer speaking.
Good evening,
boobs. That
sound nice and
bright andchirpy?
Bit of a change from the usual lugu-
brious, unctuous, hypocritical greeting
this place assaults you with? Splendid.
But don’t bother to write in about it.
Lavender, O.B.E.
They can’t help it,
half of them, poor
simps.
As for it being a
good evening. Good
heavens! Just poke
your heads outside
and take an eyeful of
if. And a mouthful,
too, while you’re
about it. Good even-
ing, me foot. It’s just
as bad as any other
evening. It’s a wash-
out. Just the usual
miserable few hours
of darkness that
happen after sundown. If anything,
there’s a few more drips, and sneezes,
and sniffs, and coughs, and moans in it.
Plain, fair-average quality sunny New
South Wales lovely May-time weather.
As you may possibly have noticed, this
station has been off the air for the last
half-hour. “Owing to slight mechanical
defects, we regret to say”.... Bunkum.
Here’s what really did happen. Look
down station QlC’s programme in the
paper. You see there that you were
to endure an impromptu talk by Mr. E.
B. Lavender, 0.8. E. He be, all right, I
can tell you. I’ve had him here. His
principal claim to glory is that he’s a
member of the well-known fish-glue
manufacturing family of Whiff-avenue,
Botany. In the elections he led a bunch
of nitwits calling themselves the New
Rearguard Reform Party. He came in
here to-night just when we were ready
to go on the air, and insisted on treating
me to the Rearguards’ salute.
I’ll just describe this magnificent
evolution for you so that
you can try it out for
yourself. Here you are:
Standing more or less
erect, with the hat tilted
over the left eye, place
your hands firmly in
your trousers pockets. In the case of
ladies, of course, there would be cer-
tain modifications. Next lift the right
leg slowly in front of you till it’s about
at right angles with the body. Then,
retaining that position, lift the left leg
sharply to a level with the right.
That, listeners, is what charity com-
pels me to interpret as the Rearguard
salute, as performed by the leader of
that bright bunch of blobs.
As for the impromptu address he was
going to give you, it’s all here, and if
you can read his scrawling, blithered,
illiterate handwriting you’re welcome to
it. All I know about it is what he gave
me of it from the floor after he’d done
the salute. So as not to interrupt your
bridge with anything you might want to
listen to, I’ll give you a bit of it from
memory in his own words: —
Feller-citzensh. Lisn. Whash result of
recent election? Eh? You don’t know?
No. Coursh you don’ know. Orright,
I’ll tell y’. Thish ish result. Potenshiali-
ties —evensh that bloke
—po so an’ sosh thish
magnifshcent country
once more in hands un-
principled hooligans,
trailin’ red herrin’s over
face of glorioush South-
ern Cross. Lisn. I put
up twenty-five quid de-
posit. What they do
with it, eh? Pinched it.
Thas what they done.
Pinched it.
As you might have discerned by now,
Mr. Lavender, O.B.E., was well and
nobly bottled. A beautiful job. One of
the best I’ve ever seen. When he hit the
deck he smashed two dozen gramophone
records and every microphone in the
room. “Slight mechanical defects,” lis-
teners. Anyhow, we’ve got her going
again, and here’s the first advertisement
I have to inflict on you: —
Ha! Here’s your Uncle Alf just
come into the studio. Looking full of
beans, too, I can tell you. And who
wouldn’t be on a night like this? Especi-
ally when Bilks’ Super Baked can now
be bought at all ham-and-beef shops at
fourpence a tin. Make a note of the
motto, everyone: Bilks’ Baked Beans
Build Bonzer Big Blokes.
next item ....
Not a bad ad.,
eh? And it’s sub-
stantially right,
too, as it happens,
apart from one or
two minor details.
Uncle Alf, for in-
stance, has not
just come into the
studio. He’s at
home, thank you,
in a two-up school
somewhere. Good luck to him. He’s
not a bad sort, if only he’d wash himself
occasionally. As for fact two in that ad.,
I’ve already dealt with what sort of a
night it is. The beans themselves are
all right if you don’t mind eating com-
pressed sawdust. Personally, I wouldn’t
feed them to a nigger. •
Our next item will be a violin solo by
the great Continental virtuoso, Mazzini
Jaures. Monsieur Jaures, who is under
exclusive engagement to Station OIC,
will preface his recital with a brief auto-
biographical chat. Listeners, Monsieur
Jaures.
Ah, peoples, ze pleazure iss, how shall
you say, mine. From zis beautiful coun-
try I zinks back to lufly home on ze
Vader and Modder.
Volga. My dear vader and modder zay
zit zhare to-night and lissen to my play
’ere in zis var-vlung Horsetailyou, My
modder and my vader, I zalute you. I
now play ze vavorite violin peece you
luf zo veil.
O Sal-lee,
She’s a marvellous gal-ee,
She’s everyone’s pal-ee
Brrrrrrrrrrrrrrcrunch !
Yes, you’re right, listeners —1 did the
speech, and the record’s got the wrong
label on it.
I hope you’ve all enjoyed this even-
ing for a change. Surprised, aren’t you,
to hear I’ve
resigned? In
other words,
I’ve got the
.bullet for
not putting
enough sin-
cerity into my
work! Good
night, dear
people. If you
Northern Territory.
want to con-
gratulate me I’m to be found at any
time in the Northern Territory by black
tracker.
SIZZLE AND A.
Radio in the
Next War
What part is
radio going to
play in the next
war and the next
near-war? The
moment things
get electrical between any two or
more nations the pacifists of the
world —who are organised this time
—are going to get hold of some high-
power station on neutral territory and
fire in heaps of telling propaganda to
both sides. Meanwhile official radio
stations —camouflaged as neutral —will be
all vying with one another as to who can
tell the most picturesque lies. Spies will
rig up fake official stations and send forth
reports of awful disasters, and shrewdies
of all nations will utilise the air for
profiteering and stock-exchange manipu-
lation.
Of course every belligerent nation will
take drastic steps to jamb out the inter-
ferers and see that the public gets only
what the politicians think good for it; but
jambing radio grows more difficult every
day, with variations of wave-lengths and
widespread knowledge of working wire-
less tricks. It is quite possible that before
the coming war is over even the official
authorities of both sides will have been
badly tricked over false information sup-
plied by the enemy.
During the last war the censor got to
the news so drastically that the public
had little idea of the actual state of
affairs, and even to-day, 20 years later,
the chance remark of some Digger will
explain a lot of things which puzzled, us
behind-the-liners at the time. The stay-
at-home public will have a difficult cross-
word puzzle before it when the censor
has dealt with the official radio, and the
foreigner has broadcast fake official
radio, and the neutrals have contradicted
both, and the pacifists have warned
everybody not to believe anything, and
the profiteers have got in their fine work.
It will be enough to make people long
for peace again.
M.G.
All Round
the Dial
“Me Click”:
What beats me
is the button-
holing bore from
the B - stations.
Anybody will
listen to good advertising, if the adver-
tiser knows his job. The “Grocer’s ses-
sion” from 2SM is regarded as enter-
tainment by thousands of listeners. The
birds who don’t know their job tell a
story and shiver the climax to ribbons
with selling script, butt in in the middle
of a decent record and murder the kid-
dies’ session with chorused blah. The
next time I’m tricked into hearing an
advertisement that is no good to me or
to the advertiser, I’m off to the A.B.C.
for keeps. If the standard of advertising
doesn’t improve, the B people won’t be
able to sell their time. In their own in-
terests, it’s up to them to tip the air-
splitters off their programmes.
“L.L.L.”: The 8.8. C., alone of the
big European national stations, declines
to cater for the listener who does not
know its language. Important pro-
gramme items from Russia, Germany and
France are frequently given in English
first and in the local tongue afterwards
and as good English as can be heard
comes from Moscow. Even Japan makes
announcements in English-—in fact, about
the only country which doesn’t is
America. Is the 8.8.C.’s attitude merely
British stubbornness, or is it more subtle
—a deliberate policy of asserting the
supremacy of English?
“C”: J. M. Prentice, of 2UW, whose
talks on foreign affairs and annotated
selections from opera, have a wide circle
of listeners, is a Victorian by birth, and
was brought up on the land. After
graduating he turned to a commercial
and journalistic career, and has served in
the Federal public service. He has been
a globe-trotter with a taste for strange
places and queer tongues, and served
with distinction during the Great War,
being mentioned in dispatches and twice
decorated. His aptitude for languages
enabled him to study the literature ol
the war from original documents, and
during his years of military service he
made himself familiar with many of the
large cities of the Old World. He started
his broadcasting career in 1924 with 2BL.
“W”: London’s latest pre-breakfast
amusement is “face golf.” It was started
by “Punch,” and has caught on astonish-
ingly. The idea is that whilst shaving
each morning a man counts the strokes
necessary to secure a clean shave.
Strokes are to be on one plane only—a
stroke down the cheek and round the
chin is forbidden. 2UW Sydney has
seized on the idea, and will give the man
who claims to be able to complete a
round effectively in the least number of
strokes a chance to broadcast a stroke-
by-stroke description of his achievement.
The prize will be a razor specially
designed to reduce strokes per round.
At last there’s a sport the women can’t
break into!
“Stroller”: Already radio is catching
’em young. John Pickard, of 2SM, is only
24, though his name has been prominent
on broadcasting programmes for the past
seven years. Intended for the Bar, he
became instead actor and playwright for
the national broadcasting service in the
early days of radio plays, and in 1928 his
play “The Tomb of Osiris” was regarded
by critics as one of the outstanding pro-
ductions of the year. His association
with national broadcasting continues;
he was D’Artagnan of its “Three Muske-
teers” and was given also a leading part
in “Ivanhoe.” For 2SM, where he is play-
wright and producer, he has assembled
a sound stock company, and written and
produced many successes, including the
“What Would You Do?” dramas, “Out-
lawry Under the Gums,” “The Crime
Club,” “Around the Campfire,” and “For
the Term of His Natural Life,” in all of
which he has played leading roles. Not
bad for twenty-four!


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
*“ S. V. Colville, N.Inst.R.E. (Aust.), —
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: B3261
R.F. Coil L. Det. Coil LI.
Band. Turns. Gauge. Turns. Gauge.
12-24 metres 4 26 D.S.C. 4 26 D.S.C.
22-45 metres 8 26 D.S.C. 8 26 D.S.C.
42-90 metres 22 28 D.S.C. 22 28 D.S.C.
200-500 metres 155 34 D.S.C. 155 34 D.S.C.
Tap (from earth)
turns.
!■£ turns,
ly turns.
3 turns.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
THE ELECTRONIC BATTERY FOUR.
This short-wave receiver, which can also be used for broadcast
reception, is a worthy successor to the Wide-World Four (described
B. 18/7/’34 and 2/1 /’35). It has been designed in response to numerous
inquiries as to the best way to modernise such receivers as the PCJ
hour and the All-Empire. Using the new Philips KFI valves as R.F.
amplifier and electron-coupled detector, results obtained are far in advance
of those given by previous receivers, and the writer considers this new
design to be easily the best of all the regenerative types of receivers to
emerge from his laboratory.
A first glance at the illustrations may
prompt the reader to query why this
receiver appears from the front panel
to be in an old-fashioned dress. The
dials are not exactly modern. The reason
is that many letters have reached the
writer asking if earlier designs could
with advantage be modernised, still using
the major components. It was decided
to tackle the problem just as the in-
quirers would expect to, and a second-
Fig. 1.-The diagram. Philips KFJ R.F. pentodes are used as tuned R.F. and electron-coupled detector respectively.
The 10,000-ohm resistors in the grid and plate circuits of the B240 (also the .01 condenser) can be omitted, but are a
precaution against harmonic distortion. The plate connection for the KFI's is the terminal on top. Valve-socket connections
are indicated above the circuit diagram.
hand PCI Four was obtained for the pur-
pose. The makers made a particularly
stout job of the aluminium box structure.
The gauge is No. 16, and solid brass
angles for the sides, lid and sections are
fitted. The A.W.A. .00015mfd. tuning con-
densers and the pilot dials were in good
order. Here, then, was a good basis to
work on, and it remained to redesign
Fig. 2. - Front V iew of the new , h ight-gain receiver made from an old PC'J4 of
1928 design. The dials and condensers, being in good condition, were in this, case
returned, The battery and speaker connections are on the right, of the case.
the receiver, using the new valve arrange-
ment and modern components, so that
alterations could easily be made up from
diagrams and accompanying data.
The job is worth doing, for the Elec-
tronic Battery Four is a splendid per-
former, and outclasses anything in the
nature of regenerative detectors with a
preceding tuned R.F. stage. Like the
Wide-World Four, it can be used on the
regular broadcast band by providing
suitable plug-in coils. It is a receiver
especially suitable for people situated in
the Northern Territory or the Islands, as
it combines extra high-gain, minus back-
ground noise, with good battery
economy. Despite the fact that there is
a separately-tuned R.F. control tuning
is not complicated. With the R.F. stage
well off tune, detection is so sensitive
that there is no “hunting” for signals.
It is, in fact, a remarkably efficient, all-
wave battery receiver. True, it has plug-
in coils, but that feature is not really a
disadvantage.
The Circuit.
Before using wire-cutters and solder-
ing-iron to demolish the internals of the
old set, the idea for the circuit was
worked out on paper. The result is the
diagram illustrated, in which the influ-
ence of the Wide-World Three (B.
20/6/’34) is evident in the detector. In
that receiver a screen-grid valve was
employed with filament coupling and
regeneration control by screen-grid
potential variation. Consideration of
the high-gain KFI R.F. pentode indi-
cated that improvement could be effected
by using such a valve as detector in a
similar manner, and, with the Class-B
audio channel and a tuned R.F. stage
ahead, something extraordinary should
be the result. When completed, the re-
modelled receiver more than justified the
idea, and the result is an ultra-sensitive
all-waver which will appeal to tuned
R.F. devotees and also to experimenters.
The valves used are of the Philips 2-volt
type, being respectively: R.F. stage,
KFI ; detector, KFI; audio driver.
8217, and Class-B output, 8240 (twin
valve).
The PCI Four used Philips transformers,
and one of these becomes the high-im-
nedance audio-choke coupling in the
Fig. 3.—View of the receiver with the back removed.
detector-plate circuit. The P, and G. ter-
minals are connected together, and B +
connected to the plate, with C to the
supply, through the decoupling resistor.
The R.F. stage is capacity-coupled to
the detector, and the coupling condenser
must not have more than 20mmfd. maxi-
m n 'n capacity.
The one used in this case is an Eng-
lish type of “pre-set” condenser, but an
I.F. transformer trimmer or a low-capa-
city padder is equally suitable. Alter-
natively a five-plate midget variable can be
used, R.F.C.3 is a slot-wound R.F.
choke, as used in broadcast receivers,
but R.F.C.I is a “12-50” double-honey-
comb type. The most important choke
is R.F.C.2, in the negative filament lead
of the detector. This must be home-
made, no commercial version being avail-
able. It is wound in four sections on a
i|n. dowel 4in. long. The sections are
bank-wound 30-gauge D.S.C. Each bank
is made by winding on 10 turns for the
bottom layer, nine for the next and
eight for the top, and between each
banked winding there is a space of fin.
The choke is easy to make, and when
completed is dipped into clear duco to
hold the turns in position. The filament
of the KFI detector is by-passed at the
valve socket to ensure that both sides of
the filament are at the same potential
above earth. The condenser is .005mfd.
The grid coil for each range is tapped
as indicated in the coil data and the fila-
ment voltage taken through the portion
between the tap and earth (A +).
Connections to the valves are shown
(under view) above the circuit diagram,
and the suppressors and metallic shields
(on the bulb) are earthed in the KFl’s.
A feature of these valves which makes
them simple to use is that, with the
screens fed at the full-plate voltage, they
operate at maximum efficiency. Thus it
is seen that in the R.F. stage the screen
has the same voltage as the plate, with
the R.F. choke between. Using the KFI
as detector, the screen-grid voltage does
not exceed 90 volts at the most, this
being the regeneration control. Note
that a break switch (SV/2) is used with
the 50,000-ohm potentiometer here. This
is to prevent battery drain when the
receiver is not in use without having to
remove the battery plug. Some potentio-
meters are designed with an integral
switch for this purpose. The audio
channel calls for no comment, being
familiar as the audio-amplifier portion
of the Wide-World Four. The 500,000-
ohm potentiometer in the grid circuit of
the 8217 driver is useful where head-
phone reception is desired. Up to nine
volts negative grid bias may be used on
this valve, but if this value is exceeded
some distortion may occur. The highest
value minus distortion should be used in
the interests of economy. No negative
bias is necessary on the 8240. The
driver transformer is the Airzone type
for Class B.
These Parts Are Used in the Electronic
Battery Four.
One chassis assembly (Wide-World Four speci-
fications, B. 2/1 /’35, suggested).
Two .00015 to .0002mfd. (max.) variable con-
densers.
One 5-plate midget variable condenser (band-
spread).
One 5-plate midget variable condenser (aerial
coupling).
Three vernier dials.
Two 4-pin sockets for coil mounts.
Valve sockets —
Two 6-pin for KFI. ,
One 6-pin for 8240.
One 4-pin for 8217.
Battery plug socket —one 7-pin.
Speaker plug socket—to suit speaker.
One Philips audio transformer, used as det.
audio choke.
One Airzone Class-B driver transformer.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer with switch
(Stackpole).
One 500,000-ohm potentiometer (volume con-
trol).
One R.F. choke for detector plate (12-50).
One slot-wound R.F. choke (R.F. coupling).
One special filament R.F. choke (see text).
One 20mmfd. (max.) R.F. coupling condenser
(see text).
One 2-meg. grid leak.
One 5000-ohm 1-watt resistor (detector de-
coupling).
One 2mfd. condenser (250-volt working).
Two .Imfd. tubular condensers.
Two .Olmfd. mica condensers.
One .smfd. tubular condenser.
Two .OOOlmfd. mica condensers.
One .005mfd. mica condenser.
Five knobs.
One valve screen (driver valve).
Two terminals [aerial (insulate) and earth].
One 7-pin battery plug.
One battery switch.
Valves (Philips)—
Two KFI.
One 8217.
One 8240.
Batteries —
135 to 180 volts B —three or four Ever-
Ready Superdyne type.
One 9-volt Ever-Ready C battery.
One 2-volt Vesta accumulator.
Speaker—
Amplion-type 01 permagnetic, with Class-
B transformer.
Coil Details.
These coil-winding specifications are
for .00015mfd. tuning condensers, but
are not rigid. Condensers with a capa-
city from .00014mfd. to .0002mfd. can
be used, but for .OOOlmfd. or smaller
capacity more grid turns will be necessary
to obtain overlapping of ranges.
All coils are to be wound on Ifin.
diameter formers, and Marquis 4-pin
plug-in formers are used for the coils,
the connection scheme being illus-


THE WORLDS
m
&
S-1
us
af
\
• A
nr
&
r O
cP
P:
THE WORLDS LARGEST RADIO MANUFACTURERS
F. 398
s
r
r
m
M
rn
a
r*
A
( A"-
The
Deadly
ICIL SPECIAL
Will STOP Him!!!
Fox shooters, be prepared for
the coming season, put in your
supplies of “ Icil Special ”
Cartridges—N O W.
Unsurpassed for Big Game
The hardest hitting cartridge
and longest range killer ever
offered to the Australian shooter.
In 2 & 2|" Waterproof Cases
Loaded with “ Neoflak ” Smokeless
Powder and 1% oz. Chilled Shot.
Obtainable Everywhere
At Popular Prices
A Product of I.G.T.A.N.Z. TAd.
(Ammunition Section)
SSO Collins Street, Melbourne
377 Clarence Street, Sydney
ELEY
ICIL SPECIAL’
For SPORTING NOTES
TIPS ... RESULTS
and Turf Gossip from all States
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard, or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
trated. The valve and coil sockets in the
bid set were the spring-type Benjamin.
Two of these were made into excellent
coil mounts by bridging underneath with
bakelite strips bolted to the socket frame,
thus holding the centre portion rigid.
The spring contacts in these old sockets
are particularly good for plug-in coils.
Constructional Points.
It is not proposed to specify any par-
ticular chassis size, as so many different
Fig. 4. —The inside, showing the layout. The R.F. stage
coupling choke is arranged on the plate side of the screening
partition, and the coupling condenser on the detector side.
forms of layout can be adopted. The
stage could be ganged and used
with a manual trimmer. Bandspreading
of the detector tuning is provided by a
five-plate midget variable in shunt with
the tuning condenser. This looks after
amateur-transmitter requirements, as well
as being a useful vernier on 19m., 25m.
and 31m. broadcasters. All the earth
returns are made to a bus-bar under the
chassis, and this bar is earthed itself at
one point only. This does much towards
the elimination of cranky R.F. circuits
and audio instability; also frictional
noises. As the rotors of the tuning con-
densers are earthed, and this circuit is
A+ B-, the grid return of the R.F.
stage is earthed through a .Olmfd. con-
denser but given the necessary negative
bias by connecting the end of the coil to
the A— . The audio output from the
8240 valve drives an Amplion 01 speaker
with Class-B transformers. To use head-
phones is a simple matter. A six-pin
valve base is fitted, with two terminals
connected to the pins corresponding to
the grids of the 8240. The telephones
connect across these terminals, and when
the plug is inserted in place of the 8240
there is ample volume available for
’phones. This is also an economical way,
as the plate load of the output valve is
removed. A seven-pin socket is used, with
corresponding plug, for the battery con-
nections, this and the speaker socket be-
ing fitted at the right of the receiver from
the front. The 8217 driver valve is
screened as a precaution, being in this
case rather close to the detector. As
this is a tuned R.F.
receiver, the R.F.
stage must be com-
pletely screened off
from the detector,
and it is not suffi-
cient to rely upon
the internal and ex-
ternal screening of
the KFI valves to
prevent interlocking.
With the receiver as
illustrated there is
no sign of the R.F.
stage “pulling” the
detector. A signal is
located on the de-
tector tuning and the
R.F. then tuned “on
the nose.” As a per-
former, this Elec-
tronic Battery Four
is right at the top of the class, and is by
far the most interesting of the several
tuned R.F. regenerative receivers designed
by the writer since 1928. With the usual
Fig. 5. —The connections used for the
coil sockets.
commonsense attention to short wiring
in tuned circuits, the reader should have
no difficulty in duplicating the excellent
results obtained with this remodelled
PCI Four.
D. B. Knock.
Short-wave Diallings.
These notes cover several weeks, the
Easter holidays having upset the usual
routine. At two recent week-ends DIB,
in the 19m. band, has been received at
good strength at 3 p.m. This is a new
transmission to be received here (Bom-
bala, N.S.W.), and it will be interesting
to note if conditions are freakish or not.
FYA has been heard at night, using
twin wave-lengths of 19m. and 25m.
This is something the writer has not
experienced before with FYA. Condi-
tions so far are different to last year,
and much more is being heard on the
shorter waves (20 and below), whilst
49m. is almost dead at night.
Almost daily the American amateurs
have been heard on ’phone from 9 p.m.
to, midnight or later in the 20m. band.
The Hong Kong station was missing from
the usual 34m. transmission for some
days, and was heard very weakly at the
top of the 49m. band. ZBW has now
gone back to the old wave-length, and
this is received better here.
The early mornings have been dis-
appointing, with GSD, in the 25m. band,
best. 2RO has dropped to very poor
reception after being excellent for some
time. An unusual feature has been the
reception of WBXK at quite good
strength on the 19m. transmission about
10 p.m. Another American, not quite so
strong, was heard just above WBXK, but
the callbook does not list any U.S.A.
station using such frequency. So far
the call has not been heard, and tne
carrier fades out about 10.30 p.m.
The 8.8. C. No. 1 transmission con-
tinues at excellent strength right through,
with both stations good. FYA is now
stronger earlier than usual, but at recent
week-ends was only fair at 3 p.m.
WBXK, on the 25m. transmission, was
too weak to copy on 28/4/’35, and no
Americans were heard comfortably in
the mornings, but W2XAK was fairly
good after 9 p.m. in the 31m. band.
The higher wave-lengths are slowly
improving, and static is declining. There
have been a few nights when the Russian
on 70m. and the D.E.I. station on 68m.
have been heard well; also what appears
to be yet another D.E.I. station just
above the 80m. amateur band.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
Sydney five-metre stations had a full
day of interest on 5/5/’35, when VK2OD
took portable equipment to Mt. Boyce,
73 miles west of Sydney coastline and 53
miles east of Bathurst, for contact with
Sydney and Bathurst. Starting at 2 p.m.,
schedules were kept, with VK2BP up in
Hazelbrook doing yeoman work and re-
porting progress. It is not known at
present if 200 or any Sydney stations
were heard in Bathurst, but the high-
light of the test appears to be the amaz-
ing efficiency of a new aerial system de-
signed by the writer of these notes and
installed at his portable station VK2NU,
located temporarily in Mosman (N.S.W.).
VK2NU was the only Sydney station
heard by VK2OD at Mt. Boyce, and the
aerial at VK2NU is inside the house!
This aerial will be described next week,
and all five-metre experimenters are
strongly advised to try it. The design is
extremely simple, being a matched im-
pedance feed. VK2WJ reported hearing
a weak voice from VK2OD, and VK2NU
heard VK2QD whistling into his micro-
phone. There was no actual two-way
contact, but in view of the success of this
new aerial the Brisbane five-metre group
will have to look to their laurels in a
week or so. The input power at VK2NU
is just eight watts. VK2BP also reports
that this station is by far the strongest at
Hazelbrook. The “Zep” system at
VK2NO is now being hurriedly scrapped
in favor of the new aerial, which, inci-
dentally, is also a revelation for recep-
tion. VK’s 2BP, 20D, 2WJ, 2UC, 2UG,
VK4HR 56mc. portable (two watts) in
action at Mt. Gravatt (Q.) during the
recent ultra-short-wave record communi-
cation between Brisbane and Toowoomba.
2FL, 2NS, 2WD, 2NU and 2NO were
active over the week-end, and there were
most likely others. In Newcastle, VK’s
2ZW and 2ZC are on the air on five
metres, the former using two ’lo’s in the
transmitter. That Newcastle tie-up with
Sydney will yet be achieved.
Using the Electronic receiver described
elsewhere on this page, the usual 20-metre
American amateur ’phones were heard
strongly in the afternoons. The 40-metre
band is the Mecca of many people who
are anything but genuine experimenters.
One has only to listen to the inane
burblings of several “girl friends” of
budding Marconis monopolising the air
in back-fence gossip to realise the state
of pandemonium. Mr. Public, with
his dual or all-wave superhet, can-
not fail to be impressed with amateur
radio—adversely! It is high time some-
thing was done about it, but unless ama-
teurs effect a “clean-up” themselves the
o Continued on next page.)


..
1
m
I have advanced the s
to where it OUGHT\o be
spark
071/
SUPER
1THYL
and youll get the performance your car was
designed to give-you can confidently expect
yp to
m
more
and MILEAGE
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
HNCORPORATEO IN AUSTRALIA^
innocent will suffer with the guilty. The
W.I.A. should, without delay, appoint
vigilantes to keep a check on indiscrim-
inate and unseemly ’phone operation on
the bands overheard by the public. The
P.M.G.’s Department would no doubt
think much more of a representative
amateur organisation if that body intro-
duced some form of control to check
the nature of telephonic radiations not
in the interests of experimental radio.
VK2NO.
Doublet Aerial Coupling.
L. M. Wilson, Mudgee (N.S.W.), sends
details of a scheme for coupling a doublet
aerial to short-wave receivers fitted with
the usual series aerial-condenser input.
The top and feeder lengths shown in the
diagram are'suitable for a resonant peak
in the amateur 40m. band,, but good
results can be expected on the 32m. and
25m. bands when LC is tuned to these
frequencies. C can be an 11-plate mid-
get, and L depends upon the band re-
quired. -Transposition blocks' and bare
wire should be used in the feeders for
best results.
Latest in the Trade.
Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., 70 Clarence-
street, Sydney, reports a change in tele-
phone number from BWIII4 to 86694
(three lines). Advice has been received
that a further shipment of Carter gene-
motors arrived in Sydney on 9/5/’35.
Literature covering the complete range
of these highly-efficient units is available
on application to the co.
! I !
A particularly well-designed variable
high-resistance potentiometer now avail-
able in Sydney is the Stackpole, here
illustrated. This English production is
made in all the usual ranges up to 500,000
ohms. A unique feature is the resistance
ring, which is replaceable. The wiper con-
tact is perfectly smooth and noiseless.
Two types are stocked by the distributor,
O. H. O'Brien, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
One is the plain potentiometer, and the
other is fitted with a circuit-breaker
switch, a most useful point where the re-
sistance would otherwise be continually
connected across a section of the high-
voltage supply in a battery receiver. The
gradation of the resistance in each case
is such that 10 p.c. is covered by the
wiper in the first half of rotation and
the remaining 90 p.c. in the other half.
The retail prices are ss. without the
switch and 7s. with it. The Stackpole has
become very popular with American
radio manufacturers.
Casual Comment.
“X 530”: “Querex” (B. 13/3/’35) says;
“160 m. may be coveted overseas, but is
little more than useless in Australia. If
it is ever decided to extend the broad-
casting wave-length in Australia to
cover 160 m., there will be headaches
over suppressing harmonics from some
stations between 200 m. and 550 m.”
“Querex” is wrong, as one set that is
used by signals (wireless) in the military,
known as the “Ack” set, a portable one
with limited range, intended only for
limited working, is tuned to work be-
tween 130 m. and 350 m. For signal
schemes, the popular wave-length is one
between 155 m. and 160 m, Sometimes
the police can be picked up by this set,
but they vary their wave-lengths. It is
possible to work traffic on 160 m. without
having trouble with the broadcasting sta-
tions around the 200-350 m. mark. It is
designed to receive as well as send, and
stations on the 200-350 m. mark can be
picked up. In case “Querex” thinks I
have given the show away, and he can
tune to 160 m., let me give him the tip
that messages are in cipher,
[“XS3O” refers to military telegraphic
communication. Broadcasting is an en-
tirely different proposition. A modulated
carrier, heterodyned by a strong modu-
lated harmonic, spells ruination of
speech and music. At many points be-
tween 100 m. and 200 m. the odd har-
monics from local and distant broad-
casters are powerful, and if broadcasting
stations ever enter the 160 m. region it
will be necessary to carefully avoid or
suppress the harmonics from the 200-
600 m. stations. — Ed.]
The Q. and A. Column.
I have a 1934 six-valve Radiola which gives
excellent reception, but is subject to fading
on distant stations. It is not fitted with auto-
matic volume control, and is battery-operated.
(1) Can. A.V.C. be fitted? If so, cost ? (2)
Can the tone be improved ? —261.
(1) Yes, but the method of so doing depends
upon the circuit design. Write to the makers
for a quotation. (2) Depends upon the audio
channel, and is also a subject for discussion
with the makers.
* * * £
(1) Details of a variometer for a crystal
set ? (2) What is meant by the “coils con-
nected in series’’- ? —262.
(1) ■ A variometer consists of an inductance
with a portion variable inductively. The
capacity between the windings effects a change
in inductance value when the coupling is varied.
Thus the tuning range of the inductance is
varied. , The simplest way is to consider
the variometer as two coils, one rotatable within
the other and the two connected together.
The inside coil is considered as the “rotor”
and the outside as the “stator.” The stator
should be about 4in. diameter and wound with
50 turns of bell wire. The rotor is arranged
to revolve inside, and can have the same
number of turns of the same kind of wire.
(2) The commencement of the stator winding
connects to the aerial, and the finish to the
start of the rotor winding. The finish of the
rotor connects to earth. One side of the
crystal connects to the start of the stator (and
aerial) and the other to the ’phones, with the
other side of the phones to the finish of the
rotor winding and earth,
* * * *
It is necessary for. me to move my aerial,
100/r. long and 15ft. above my lawn, from its
present-e.-to-w. position. I intend placing it
parallel above the roof of the house, in a
n.-to-s. direction, in which case it would be
s ft. above the roof and 30ft. above ground,
but only 35 ft. long. (1) Would the change
in direction and length affect the reception of
local and long-distance stations ? The set is
an Airzone 555 Superhet. (2) Would the
malthoid roof have any effect ?■ —263.
(1) Local stations will be sharper owing to
the shorter length. Theoretically, the new
arrangement is not so efficient as the previous
aerial, but with the set used there should be
no trouble in hearing the stations you have
been accustomed to receive. (2) Nothing to
speak of, as the roofing is non-metallic.


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Auburn Handicap: Turbine;
next, Silver Jubilee.
Rosehill Handicap: Foxhunter ;
next, Nachara.
Highweight Handicap: Gothlin ;
next, Cercello.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Never in the history of Sydney Tatt.’s
Club meetings have so many outsiders
scored as at their May fixture. At Rand-
wick on Saturday 22,000 people saw
every favorite beaten and outsiders romp
home in the five races on the flat. As
the result of a storm on Friday night
the going was soft, and form was all to
pieces.
Little Bouyeo (25 to 1) administered
the worst shock by winning the Flying
Handicap from High Boy and Celebrate.
He was thought to be racing out of his
class. The favorite, Silver Jubilee, was
again slow off the mark, but moved up
fast at the turn, where Bouyeo, who had
taken charge at the half-mile, held a
commanding lead. Pike sent Silver
Jubilee after the pacemaker, but he
wilted at the Leger, to be cut out of
third prize by the fast-finishing Cele-
brate. There was good support for
Turbine and High, but they were never
in the picture.
Backers of Cascade were unlucky in
the Two-year-old. The gelding took
charge of his rider, Ward, going to the
post, and threw him over the rail at the
five furlongs. Cascade knocked a little
skin off his legs, but both horse and
GiERt: Where a the nb*t qreem 2 *
Bert: a hwemt -the remotest "
GERrrl "\ THIMK WERE OF=F “THE COURSE*
' ** F\tz-r'rr=-0 Cnucul T MV COMPASS.
rider were allowed to take their place in
the field. Then Cascade’s plates shifted
soon after the start; withal he was able to
run third to Red Thespian (25 to 1) and
Yerrapie, a nice Magpie colt, which in-
dicates that he was a good thing beaten.
Red Thespian is owned by Tamworth
pastoralist H. R. Munro.
Trainer W. Thompson, who won many
races with Princess Cistercian, has been
patient with Knight Corban, a useful
type of six-year-old stallion by Corban,
sire of Arachne. Previously he was bad
at the barrier, but he was on his best
behavior in the Novice, wherein he led
throughout, winning with a lot in hand
from El Paraiso and Queen Avis. He
was backed from 20 to 1 to fifteens. The
favorite, Magnus, was hopelessly at sea
in the going ; he ran fourth nevertheless.
An early winner on a dry track.
Rivalli takes all sorts of beating when
he hits the front, but his in-and-out per-
formances have made him unpopular in
Sydney. Fourteen to one for the James
Barnes Plate, he soon established a lead,
and hung on tenaciously when Braeburn
and Persian threw out challenges. Sat-
moth, third to the turn, dropped out in
the run home, but Tremayne, after being
tailed off, came with a great burst to run
fourth. Confab, backed at sevens, could
not manage the going.
Progeny of Hunting Song are at their
best when it is damp underfoot. Scratch-
mere Scar (10 to 1), who carries the
colors of Mrs. Jack Roles, wife of a club
committeeman, gave McCarten an easy
ride in the Welter, The jockeys on the
favorite, Cabalist, and Bombus indulged
in cutthroat tactics, allowing Scratchmere
Scar —who has a victory over Nightly in
M.L. —to come along in the straight and
beat them out of sight. Touchit was
fourth, and Gothlin ran well enough to
suggest a win in weaker company.
sjc :Jc ;J:
Despite the near approach of the
Grand National season, fields in the
jumping events at Moonee Valley were
of disappointing size and inferior quality.
The Trial Hurdle, of £3OO, attracted only
eight runners, while seven competed in
the Brunswick Steeple, worth £5OO, apart
from a £25 trophy. The withdrawal of
Pactolus from the cross-country event
was a disappointment. The gelding, held
on lease by the V.R.C. chairman, L. K.
S. Mackinnon, is generally regarded as
a potential National winner. Pactolus
had been unlucky to dislodge his rider,
Howson, in the steeplechase at Fleming-
ton on the previous Wednesday. He
overjumped, and the jockey could not
“stay put,”
Howson has no reason to regret having
been relieved of the mount on Pactolus.
He weighed out for Philax, who led all
the way and gamely withstood a chal-
lenge from Character. If Pactolus had
been in the field the result would have
been unaltered; Philax jumped so dash-
ingly and set such a fast pace that the
Rossendale gelding never could have con-
ceded him 321 b. with any hope of suc-
cess. Originally Philax was in the stable
of Biggins, who won a Grand National
Hurdle for L. K. S. Mackinnon with
Kentle. Three years ago he passed into
the possession of-C. W. Cosgriff, whose
youngest son is a follower of the Oak-
lands Hounds; Cliff Cosgriff won three
Hunt Club steeplechases on the horse,
Philax is trained on unconventional lines,
doing a lot of hill-climbing, combined
with an occasional gallop at moderate
pace in a Pascoe Vale paddock.
Odds of 100 to 1 went begging about
Spearcraft, who landed the Trial Hurdle.
It was one of the most surprising
victories over the battens witnessed for
many a long day. The trainer, H. Freed-
man, had won three races at Pakenham
on the previous day, yet wouldn’t allow
any of his patrons to put a stiver on
Spearcraft, believing that he possessed
no chance. Freedman was astounded
when he saw E, Meredith bring Spear-
craft along with a leisurely run over the
last two furlongs to beat Cullingral and
Borcian with ease. There are fine possi-
bilities in Spearcraft as a jumper. Bred
in the Quambatook district by his owner,
E. F. Rettke, the gelding is by a little-
known stallion, Jagspear, a son of Spear-
head.
The ring grinned again when Grena-
dier smothered Baanya at the finish of
the Keera Welter. Punters had piled
their cash on the horse from Tasmania,
and they began figuring up their win-
nings when Baanya worked his way to
the front at the home turn; but Grena-
dier put in a late claim, and bowled the
favorite over by a length. Quoted at
25 to 1, he paid more than 34 to 1 on
the tote. Grenadier was bred by Percy
Miller in N.S.W.; he is by Legionnaire
from Flimsy, dam of Olympian, a crack
performer in Westralia. As his preced-
ing victory was registered in July, 1933,
there is no occasion for wonder at
Grenadier going out at long odds. At
one time the young owner of Grenadier
visioned a Caulfield Cup success. His
aspirations have begun to soar once
more.
Any price was a good one in the case
of Titanium for the Two- and Three-
year-old Handicap. The handsome son
of Heroic had atoned for spring failures
by annexing the Wangoom Handicap at
Warrnambool last week. His task at
the week-end was far from arduous, al-
though the finish was rendered interest-
ing by the speed at which Blue Sign
came home in second position. Both
Blue Sign and the third horse. Skipping
Girl, were 20-to-l chances.
The Warrnambool Cup winner, Taka-
kua, was all out to vanquish Sindicada
by a head in the Nonga Handicap for
apprentice riders. His owner, J. Jameson,
paying his first visit to Melbourne,
witnessed the race; Jameson is a
steward of the Masterton M.L. Jockey
Club.
Te Huon, winner of the Morang
Handicap, was got in Maoriland by Tea
Tray, but foaled in the Western District
of Victoria. She squeezed home by a
head from Keith Voitre’s mount, Nellie
Thrice.
o Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
A strong wind affected the football
in Melbourne on Saturday, In the big
game of the day Carlton led Richmond
throughout, finishing 11-11 to 10-8. The
greatly improved St. Kilda scored its
first win this season over Geelong, 18-20
to 18-15. On occasions each side played
all over the other; in a few minutes of
the third quarter, St. Kilda kicked seven
goals. Footscray surprised football wise-
acres by putting up a remarkable fight
against Fitzroy, reckoned one of this
season’s best. ’Scray led up to three-
quarter time, but tired, leaving the final
scores Fitzroy 9-12, Footscray 7-13. Mel-
bourne won comfortably from Hawthorn,
15-19 to 11-13, and South put North
through,-!3-11 to 5-14. The biggest score
was put up by Collingwood, which kicked
21-17 to Essendon’s 12-11. After the
first change of wind handicap, the
’Woods went ahead, and the issue was
never in doubt. Mohr, the former Albury
player, led the goal-kicking with six for
St. Kilda.
Although only three matches have been
played, not one club has scored full
points. Only two out of the 16 in the
competition remain unbeaten —Colling-
wood and Fitzroy.
*»* H*
The third series of Adelaide games
saw the continuance of big winning
margins. Sturt, which had beaten Glenelg
on the holiday, went down to West Adel-
aide, 96 points to 64. It was West’s first
win, and South, trouncing Torrens, 106
to 80, also registered its first win for the
season. Port, with 107 points to 54, gave
Glenelg its third successive defeat, and
last year’s premiers are now at the foot
of the list. The most important match
of the day was Norwood v. North, both
undefeated in the first two rounds; Nor-
wood, always a hard proposition on its
home ground, got home by 110 points
to 74.
* * H= *
Though still unbeaten, University had
a close call against Drummoyne in the
fifth round of Sydney Rugby Union com-
petition. Down 0-6 (two penalty goals)
at the interval, Drummoyne did all the
attacking in the second spell and notched
a try and a p.g.—a draw. Northern
Suburbs led Randwick 8-0 20 minutes
before the bell, but then last year’s
premiers showed their first sign of real
form this season to run out winners,
11-B—three tries, one converted, to a con-
verted try and a penalty goal. Towers at
centre was mainly responsible. In the
other matches West accounted for
Manly, 9-5, and Parramatta went down
to St. George, 9-12. In both matches the
winners’ points were all made up of
penalty goals; Barnes kicked three for
West and C. Hodgson four for Saints,
H* sfc
“Lancaster Park”: At its annual meet-
ing the Maoriland Rugby Union dis-
cussed numerous proposals to be put
before the Imperial Rugby Conference
at London next December. Important is
the suggested formation of an Empire
Rugby Council, with equal representa-
tion for each Rugby Dominion. It is
proposed to give this power to amend
or add to the laws of the game and draw
up programmes of international tours.
Strong opposition may be expected.
England and Wales have always shown
themselves inclined to give the Dominions
a bigger say in the councils of the game,
which at present are dominated by the
British International Board. Scotland
has been an opponent of giving overseas
unions anything more than nominal re-
presentation, and has been backed up by
Ireland. If South Africa supported M.L.
and Australia the Dominions would
probably get what they wanted. Some-
how the South African Union is domi-
nated by the diehard traditions of the
International Board.
* * * *
In the Rugby League encounter at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
Busch won the match for Balmain, not
through what he did to South Sydney but
through what South Sydney tried to do
to him. South played Busch from the
word go, and Deane missed none of it.
Free kicks came frequently. Also, the con-
centration on Busch kept the Southern
mind off Christensen, Busch’s nippy off-
sider and a prolific scorer in all Bal-
main’s matches this year. Christensen
raised 14 of Balmain’s 26 to 12 with his
boot, and scored a snifter try as well.
These 17 points bring his total to 64
scored in four matches.
sjs He ;|j #
“Mt, Eden”: The chances of the Aus-
tralian Rugby Leaguers making a profit
out of their proposed tour of Auckland
and other M.L. centres at the end of the
season are regarded gloomily by those
who recall previous tours. If a quarrel
between the Auckland League and the
M.L. ditto is not fixed up prospects will
be even more doleful. The Aucklanders
own the only decent League ground in
M. Carlow Park, and they have asked
such a whacking rent for this that unless
they come down in their demands the
visitors will have to play somewhere else.
(Continued on next page.)
“A good big man will always beat a
good little man,” and evidently it is true
also of eight big men packed into a
racing boat. In the inter-State eight-oar
race on the Nepean the Westralians had
the style, but the weight and strength of
the N. S. Wales men told over the last
bit—they averaged 12st. 6\ lb. as against
the Westralians’ list. l|lb. —and, stroked
by Mackney, the Sydney Rugby foot-
baller and policeman, they won a grand
race by three-quarters of a length in the
fast time of 16min. 20 l-ssec. S.A. was
third, four lengths behind W.A.; then
came Victoria, Tasmania and Queens-
land.
Turner (N.S.W.) had three opponents
in the sculls, but none of them could
make him travel. He finished 48sec.
ahead of Peppier, the Victorian, in 16min.
36 2-ssec. —66sec. slower than Pearce’s
time in 1928. It was Turner’s fourth
successive victory in this race, and
N. third in the eights—each a
record. Conditions on the Nepean were
perfect.


WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Model 67, ,22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch, Elevating Rear Sight. AC.!
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/3 £ K>/“
»IOD£L 62”
£5/10/-
.22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long,
Long Rifle. Carriage Paid.
£ 9/5/-
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
Carriage Paid.
Above Rifles are all adapted to
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
SPEED — POWER LONGER RANGE
is® mus^
Short, 2/8 100
Long:, 3/6 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100. Long H.P., 3/9 100.
Long Rifle, 4/- 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
SPALDING "PAR"
Greater distance than
ever before
This is the most durable Champion-
ship ball yet made. Winner of many
Australian National Championships.
Multi-dot, in Mesh and O
Dimple Markings .. each
r*
a
r
r
n
r
a
n
u
o
u
0
m
aOD
n
n
o
n
0
n
n
n
C7
<:
TOP-FLITE”
Spalding’s greatest contribution to
Championship golf. Identically the
same ball as used by Jimmy Thom-
son, winner of the Centenary Open.
The longest ball ever made. Multi-
dot, in Mesh'and Dimple /
markings each "
Under the Whip
For the greater part of its existence
South Australia has possessed a useful
horsebreeding industry, and, although it
could do with more Richmonds, Gang
Forwards and Neckersgats, locally-bred
horses win most of the big S.A. races.
At the S.A.J.C. autumn meeting the
South Australian Stakes went to Orinda
(Amalfi —Wairui), the Goodwood Handi-
cap to Isosceles (Amalfi —Triangle), the
St. Leger to Alinura (King of Mirth —
Menura) and the Adelaide Cup to Mel-
lion (Trillion —Sealorino). Mellion is
owned and trained by C. H. Woods, a
Digger, who collected some good wagers
at tens. The tote paid three divs. —
£7 18s. (for £1) on Mellion, £4 6s. on
Sir Roseland, the runner-up, and £5 12s.
on Supervalve. Sir Roseland and Super-
valve were 20 to 1 in the ring.
* * * *
Onkaparinga is to do its bit for the
S.A. centenary next year. The club races
on Easter Monday only; and for its
1936 Great Eastern Steeple it will give
£3OOO plus a £lOO trophy.
* * =t= *
Quite like old times was the crowd at
Wagga racecourse when Tapestry won
the Wagga Gold Cup —it is still that —
for Dr. Steele, of Bathurst. Volwood
was favorite at twos, but Tapestry (3
to 1) lowered her colors, finishing a
length to the good; a protest on the
ground of interference was dismissed.
G. P. Wilson, the club chairman, is to
donate the gold cup, worth 100 guineas,
next year in association with his brothers.
It is a family tradition ; their father gave
one in the old Queen’s jubilee year.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: Australia has seen
several experiments in slot totes (B.
8/5/’35). One Brisbane inventor tried
hard years ago to place his machine with
Bananaland clubs. It worked well in
trial gallops, but, as far as the writer
knows, never got a start.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Australians never thought much of
George Cook as a boxer, and when he
was last in this country sporting re-
porters gave his dull mills little space.
But the old gentleman keeps getting into
the cablegrams. In London last week
he met a Texas black called Obie
Walker. Conditions were that Cook
should get three-fourths of the purse if
he were on his feet when the final gong
went, and in this he succeeded, though
down in the third round and nearly out
in the sixth. Walker, though heralded
as a wonder, must be as poor a fighter
as his namesake and fellow-coon who
put on that infliction with “Tiger”
Payne at the Sydney Stadium during
Mclntosh’s second and most disastrous
tenancy.
Footbrawl
“Color”; Australian University blues
are becoming something of a joke, some
of them being granted to men who are
rated professionals in one sport and
amateurs in another. Melbourne Uni.
has added to the tangle by its action
in the case of Gillespie-Jones, who held a
Uni. football blue. G.-J. transferred
from Uni. Blacks, a team in the Vic-
torian Amateur Association, to Mel-
bourne, a professional League club, with-
out nermission of the Uni. Sports Union,
which has cancelled the grant of the blue.
But there seems nothing to prevent Jones
from wearing it, unless the Sports Union
lures him to some dark spot when he is
wearing it and tears if off him, as they do
with a disgraced soldier’s uniform in
Continental armies.
* * * *
“Harlequin”; A shudder ran through
Melbourne Rugby Union diehards when
it was learned that a professional runner
named Morgan was to attempt the break-
ing of the world’s mile track record in
the interval of a match between Foots-
cray and Melbourne R.U. clubs on the
Footscray League club’s ground. To
allow a professional to appear in these
circumstances is an infringement of the
many R.U. laws against professionalism,
laws which the R.U. all over Australia
is notoriously consistent in enforcing.
Apropos, Morgan has since been dis-
qualified by the V.A.L. for returning in-
correct performances, and has refunded
the £BO he won at Stawell.
* * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland Rugby Union-
ists failed to lift the return-match hoodoo
“See these notches. Well, they're in memory of caddies who chewed
fruit when I was putting!"
which has lain on them for 43 years
when playing in Sydney; their team,
which had run over N. S. Wales in the
first game, lost 6-8 in the second. The
last occasion the Bananalanders scored
the double in Sydney was in 1892. They
played seven matches on that 10 days’
tour —there were giants in those days-
and the only setback was a draw with
Parramatta club, now resurrected and
going strong. Billy Warbrick skippered
the side.
“Hooker” : Now that the Ma_ State’s
Union engagements with Queensland are
over, as far' as Sydney is concerned, the
next inter-State fixture will be against
Victoria on June 1. During the last few
years the Victorians have shown that they
are quite in the same class as Queensland
and N.S.W. N. S. Wales will have a
team in Queensland when Victoria is en-
countered, and stands a good chance on
paper of going down against both States.
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
has thus early found it necessary to make
a noise like discipline. It had decided
that a particular player was not to turn
out till his qualifications were decided —
the new club, Canterbury-Bankstown,
claimed him. Newtown, which coveted
his services, defied the ukase, and played
him on the opening day of the season.
The League held a court-martial, and it
was even suggested that Newtown should
forfeit its share of the day’s gate-money
for its flagrant disobedience. But New-
town swings a hefty lead in the League
councils, and it is to go unscathed, but
the unfortunate player who was egged on
to disobey the tin gods will earn no
money this season as a League player.
His only hope will be to apply to the
Union to be declared an amateur and
have a cushy job found for him.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Baffy”: The good folk in this coun-
try who object to golf on Sundays and
generally manage to prevent the small
man playing on municipal courses, while
the private club member goes his hardest
all day, might do worse than listen to
the deeds of the London County Coun-
cil. At present Sunday golf is allowed
on the council’s courses from 1 p.m. In
future the links will be wide open as on
week days. The only other courses near
London where all-day golf on Sunday
is permitted are Richmond Park, con-
trolled by a Government department, and
Chingford. which is under the City of
London’s wing.
* * *
“St. Andrews”: “Prestwick,” record-
ing McLean’s defeat of Busson at Ful-
well (B. 17/4/’35), was evidently un-
aware that in these annual contests the
“professors” concede the amateurs 3
up in every match, so that the results
really did not “flatter Australian form.”
In my opinion no golfer living could
concede Jock McLean 3 up with any
hope of heading him, but I could name
a few score who would do so in the
case of Bourn, Garnett or Michael Scott,
the other members of the recent R. and
A. team to tour Australia.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The question of a
manager for the Australian professional
golfers to tour the U.S.A. has been
settled ; Harold Campbell has sportingly
taken on the job in an honorary capacity.
He is paying all his own expenses, and
will save the organisers of the team the
burden of raising £5OO or so for a paid
manager. Fund-collecting is going on,
though if the leading clubs around Syd-
ney alone threw in a few pounds from
their fat funds that problem would
vanish. W. Corry, 105 Pitt-street, Sydney,
will gladly receive the few pounds.
“Sandringham”: Australian golfers of
all sexes will be sorry to hear that Shirley
Tolhurst, associate champion of Vic-
toria, is hunting health on a trip to
America, where she will put in some time
in California, returning to Australia in
time for the women’s national meeting
at Melbourne in August. At one time
Shirley gave promise of rivalling her
sister Susie, now Mrs. Sloan Morpeth.
“Lakeside”: Sarazen has caused some-
thing of a sensation by withdrawing his
entry from the Agua Caliente tourna-
ments because betting is to be allowed.
What he will do if he visits Britain this
season remains to be seen. St. Andrews
has sanctioned course betting at the big
tournaments, including last year’s ama-
teur and open championships. Still,
Sarazen is taking the right stand. If the
money is talking no game gives greater
opportunity for crooked work than golf,
and there were suspicious happenings in
some of last year’s big events in Britain
—notably the barracking and crowding
of McLean in the final round of the ama-
teur championship.
“Divot Digger”; Australia is fairly
well acquainted with one-legged golfers,
but in Britain these seem to attain a
standard of play unknown here. In the
recent amateur championship of Not-
tingham a one-legged player named
Sezlick won into the fifth round. Many
well-known amateurs were playing, and
the man Sezlick knocked out to reach the
fifth was T. A. Bourn, who was thought
good enough to represent Britain in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Sezlick plays
“artisan” golf, which means that he has
not the unrestricted opportunity for prac-
tice enjoyed by regular members of clubs.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Perry hasn’t been long
striking form in England ; he won the
hardcourt championship at Bourne-
mouth, beating Prenn in the semi-final
and Austin in the final. Austin ran him
to five sets, and then cracked up with
cramp. Austin is no stayer. Crawford
and co. might make a note of this, and
see if they can’t find the weak spot in-
stead of trying to beat the Englishman
at stroke-making.
“Milton”: Jack Bromwich, the young
N.S.W. double-hander, brought off a fine
feat in winning the Queensland hard-
courts championship at Nambour, in the
Moon country. He defeated Cummings
in the semi-final, the last set going 10-8,
and downed Moon 13-11, 4-6, 6-1.
Bromwich is reckoned by many good
judges a better and sounder player than
McGrath was at the same stage of his
career.


NEW 1935
TWENTY -70
Wffl
Built with an
EXTRA MARGIN
throughout
Modernistic body style. . . luxurious finish . . . incomparable
interior refinement . . . unusual roominess and driving
conveniences. With its amazing top-gear performance,
wide track, ample clearance, and extra-sturdy construction,
the Twenty-70 is to-day’s outstanding English Six for the
most strenuous Australian conditions.
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
Distributors for N.8.W. of Humber, Hillman■ Minx , Hillman Twen.ty-'SO, and
Hupmobile Oars, Commer and Diamond T Trucks , Trek Trailers.
155 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
And at 234-244 HUNTER STREET WEST, NEWCASTLE.
Postal Inquiries: Box 2630EE, G.P.O., Sydney.
mm
%
1
V
lb *
a
“The scenic route”
UNIONI
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION S.S. CO., UTD..
247 George St., Sydney; 69 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
18
It I
&
mm
r*
*
HER E r S ECONOMY
ha
ve
Rolls
e
V/
d
last
CO
e
e
s«S
A
r
ion
m.
azor
BRITISH
AND
BEST
On
STROPPED &
honed in
its CASE
\ai letter
fay be seen
on our files
The ONE HOLLOW-GROUND Blade of
this aristocrat of SAFETY RAZORS will
last a lifetime and save the cost of
thousands of Wafer Blades.
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all leading Retail Stores. Chemists, Stationers
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer cannot supply, write direct to
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Illustrated Catalogue post free on application.
ROLLS 11/<l
THE WORLD'S BEST SAFETY
“Milton”; Tennis-players in Queens-
land, as in N.S.W., have long been
x , . .
divided between grass and hard courts i -
terests. The antagonism still exists in the
Ma State, but in Queensland all bodies
affiliated to the Q.L.T.A. have agreed to
a to place the governing body on
its financial legs, which have been wobbly
for some time past. That is to be done
by a capitation fee for each member, to
be paid by the associations; 6d. for the
city area and 3d. for the country. The
constitution of the council, which has
been a source of friction for a long time,
is to be amended, and the overwhelming
representation of the Brisbane grass-
couriers on it wiped out in favor of
equitable representation for all hands.
.
Miscellaneous
“Newlands”; The South African selec-
tors came in for some criticism for pick-
ing two fast bowlers, one of them. Crisp,
a new hand in big cricket. The first two
matches must have been grateful to the
te .^ m generally, for both Crisp and Bell
did well, Crisp taking 8 for 47 against
w orC e S tershire, and Bell 8 for 28;
a g a j n st Leicestershire (also easily beaten)
Crisp bagged 5 for 40. He is a 6ft. 4in.
Rhodesian, a Rugby rep., and a
champion hurdler and swimmer,
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”; The new l.b.w. rule
has already got English cricketers think-
ing. In the opening week of the county
fixtures 24 batsmen went l.b.w. as against
nine for the corresponding week last
year. Already objections voiced by a
Bulletin writer a year ago are being
raised, notably against the rule applying
to off-break bowling only and not leg-
break, in spite of the fact that there is
more “covering up” to leg-breaks than
"o the off variety. It is a good bet that
lhe f oo l-law will speedily kill itself.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The news that Lord
Cobham, one of the Lyttletons, has been
elected chairman of the Marylebone C.C.
reminds me how the game runs in
families in England. With the Lyltietons
this has been the case for generations,
and extends to collateral branches as well
as the main line. The Graces, Steels,
Studds and Fords have been mostly
bands of brothers, the skill dying out in
the second generation. Our outstanding
Australian example of cricket genius is
the Gregory family, and in this case also
the divine afflatus has descended to sons
and nephews,
“Shinty”; So the Indian hockey team
arrived in Melbourne “with faces bearded
as the Meldrumites” (B. 8/5/’35)! My
photograph of the side shows only one
bearded player, and, since he is a Sikh,
he can’t help it His religion enjoins
long hair and whiskers from the cradle
to the burning pyre.
* * * *
“Shell”: Bob Pearce is to be seen in
action again; be is to meet Miller, the
Philadelphian, at Halifax in two races,
a mile and three miles, on June 15 and
20. Bob has met Miller several times,
and has beaten him so decisively that
the match hardly seems worth making.
There seems no one outside Australia
with a chance of extending Pearce. On
performances and times. Herb Turner,
of Sydney, might do it, but he is an ama-
teur. Still, if he decided to turn pro.
and Bob could fix up that little matter
of £2OO owing under his guarantee to the
Australian Olympic heads, a meeting of
the pair in Australia would be a big hit,
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: A useful bit of dis-
tance-running was brought off success-
fully in England on May 1 when boy
runners finished a relay race from John
o’ Groats to London carrying a message
to the King. The lads, aged from 12 to
18, started their 500-mile run on April
17, travelling day and night, save on
Good Friday and Sundays. Other relays
were arranged from Londonderry—pre-
sumably this did not include the swim-
ming of St. George’s Channel —and Pen-
zance, and all passed off without mishap.


COM*
El
Li
r-r-'-’Tm
t
"T
***
SH»
g^
vVKss
//rf
Jsl
55555
S***
(***
li**
A~-
mm
a
m#
31
’l’ve put up
40 chains
while you’ve been putting up
IO
9 Erecting a “Cyclone” Ringlock fence takes a quarter
(or even less) of the time needed to erect a plain
fence. The “Cyclone” needs fewer posts, so you dig
fewer postholes. It needs no droppers. Straining it
is quick and easy with the “Cyclone” strainer lent
free to purchasers by “Cyclone” dealers. Most
important, “Cyclone” is made entirely of HARD-steel
wire—wearproof and weatherproof—and possesses the
Ringlock joint, the joint that no beast can move and
that lets the fence follow every rise and dip of the
land —even gullies—without buckling or twisting.
“Cyclone” Ringlock costs less in the long run (often
less in the first place) than any other fence. Post
the coupon for literature showing why this is so and
illustrating the correct type of “Cyclone” Ringlock
for every class of fencing (sheep, lambs, cattle, horses,
pigs).
and mine s a
longer-lasting,
better-looking
“Cyclone” is not a type offence, but is our
registered trade mark and can only be le-
gally applied to fences manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
The Grace Building, 77 York St., Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Cyclone I'lTcl
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address.. BL 15/5/ 35.
TUNG OIL
Sensational Rise in Price
Investors in a soundly managed Tung
Oil plantation enterprise will be pieced
to learn that the current value of the Oil
c.i.f. Sydney is now £90 per ton, Aus-
tralian currency, with a rising tendency,
as compared with £58 per ton last August
and £45 per ton a year ago. This sen-
sational rise has occurred mainly through
the rise in the price of silver, on which
Chinese exchange currency is based, and
which has been influenced by the Ameri-
can policy of purchasing silver. There
is a world-wide demand for this valuable
Oil, with no chance of overproduction
for generations. The highest authorities
advocate the development of plantations
within the Empire, and certain portions
of New Zealand have been proved
eminently suitable for the purpose, where
under plantation conditions Tung Oil of
the highest quality has now been pro-
duced.
A Tung Oil plantation, when situated
in the right area and under proper con-
ditions of treatment and management,
is the most profitable and permanent
horticultural and agricultural invest-
ment ever offered. There is a defi-
nite and most profitable market for the
product, and Government subsidies and
expensive Boards of Control are unneces-
sary to satisfactorily dispose of all the
Oil that can be produced for many years
to come from thousands of acres under
intensive development. Australia’s re-
quirements are very small compared
with the rest of the world, yet last
year’s importations were approximately
1,250,0001b., to supply which would
require the production from 3250 acres
at the rate of 4001b. of Oil per acre
per year. Actual consumption of
Tung Oil in U.S.A. in 1933 was nearly
119,000,0001b., which would require the
Oil from 300,000 acres in full produc-
tion, and the only present source of sup-
ply is China. There is intensive competi-
tion from other countries in the produc-
tion of wool, wheat, meat, dairy produce
and fruit; but this does not apply to
the primary production of Tung Oil—
now indispensable in hundreds of manu-
factured goods, particularly in high-
class paints and varnishes and in the
electrical and aeroplane trades. If your
investment is based on a product for
which there is an undoubted world-wide
and profitable market, with land as secu-
rity, then you have the soundest possible
basis for the investment of your money.
The public has a limited opportunity
for investment in this soundest of all
primary products by means of Share and
Debenture Capital (not Bonds) issued by
Empire Tung Oil Products, Ltd., and an
illustrated Prospectus will be sent on
request.
The Company’s Prospectus is based on
the Oil from its plantations realising a
price of only 3d. per pound (£28 per ton),
on which basis invested share capital is
expected to return not less than 10 p.c.
p.a., and to-day’s price is three times that
value.
The most substantial Australian in-
vestor in the Company recently visited
the property, and in a letter reported his
entire satisfaction with the whole project
and said: —
The statements that Tung Oil cannot
be overproduced like other products of the
soil : and that the demand for it is keen,
seem quite true; and, this being so, the
price should continue at a very profitable
standard. After my visit to the property
and meeting those gentlemen who are
directing the Company's operations, I have
come to the conclusion that when the trees
reach the producing stage Empire Tung
Oil Products, Ltd., given continued good
management and sufficient capital, should
become a very long-lived and profitable
I investment.
Debentures carry 5 % p.a. interest,
payable by Coupon attached to the De-
benture, plus an annual added Bonus of
5%, with a currency of 20 to 25 years,
and with the security increasing annually.
A small amount of share capital also
available. It is not a gamble, but a
sound, solid and profitable investment.
£26,000 already subscribed. Inquire for
Prospectus from the Company.
Empire Tung Oil Products, Ltd.,
12-14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“EMPTUNG,” Sydney. ’Phone:
BW1165.
A Rod in Pickle.
“S.W.K.”: I always prided myself on
my ability as a diviner, nor do I stop at
mere water-divining—l am just as good
at locating anything else,
A goldmine was once started follow-
ing a sensational divination of mine.
Nothing auriferous was discovered, but
this was indubitably due to the fact
that a faint-hearted co. merely scratched
the surface. As I pointed out when
operations ceased, it was clearly neces-
sary to go down another 1500 ft.
However, it was when the police were
baffled over a supposed murder case
that I demonstrated what can be
done by a man who thoroughly knows
his art. When 1 dramatically announced
to the startled detective-sergeant that I
had been at work with my divining rod
(I invariably use a forked twig from a
pussy-willow tree) and had definitely
located a body, he was at first sceptical.
But his own failure had made him
desperate. And I pointed out the exact
spot over a deep gorge where I was cer-
tain there was a body. It took them a day
and a half to get down to it. When they
came up again, torn about and in rags,
they had a body with them. The
sergeant went a bright, apoplectic purple
and wrapped the defunct cat around my
neck, threatening to pull me apart if I
continued to clutter up the topography.
There was gratitude for you! He’d
bungled his job by failing to get to the
spot I had indicated, and then blamed
me.
I’ve often idly wondered since if
the pussy-willow rod had anything to
do with the location of the cat. Can
any of my readers enlighten me on this?
“Climber”: 1 can quite believe “D.J.”
(B. 24/4/’35) when he says that his Eng-
lish history was learned in England. All
English histories exalt the Saxon and
belittle the Norman, whereas the indi-
cations are that England derived prac-
tically all its civilisation and culture
from the invaders who took the country
in 1066 from the uncouth savages that
had held it. As for “D.J.’s” assertion
that the Norman was a Scandinavian
who spoke the language of his ancestors,
records fail to support that view. The
Roll of Battle Abbey reveals few names
that can be accepted as Scandinavian,
and the vast majority are definitely
French. The spoken language of the
towns of Norman England was near-
French ; the Saxon driven to the back-
blocks spoke German. The Norsemen
who settled in Normandy had been
naturally absorbed by the French popu-
lation —so absorbed that they had
adopted the language of the local people
—and during the century and a half
they lived there had intermarried and be-
come French, just as the' English in-
vaders of Ireland became “more Irish
than the Irish themselves.”


« Golfers ! If your feet slip, your shot
is spoiled. These shoes are specially de-
signed for extra GROUND' GRIL....
note the placing of the Booi erangs on the
soles and heels. It is almost impossible to
slip. All leading stores sell ‘NIBLICK"
Golf Shoes.
mm—
Golf Sh
A Policy
»/ Uelpfulnessf
THE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director;
H. FELL.
Chairman of Director*:
Hon. A K. XRETHCTvrAN, M.L.C*
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
(A good Single Bed- §
room, with Hot and fj
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; Jj
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Gold Gamble
With a few irregular spasms of life,
unproved goldmining stocks are gradu-
ally drifting to lower levels in the share-
lists. The movement is definite. Many
cos. have had time enough to prove
something ; where dilly-dallying has been
going on, sometimes coupled with pur-
chases of new properties rather than de-
velopment of the ones already held, the
market demands to know why. It has a
more sophisticated outlook than hither-
to, and rightly so.
Unless some discovery of the first im-
portance is made, there is not likely to be
another general gold-share boom, though
there may be boomlets in respect of par-
ticular localities, such as Fiji. The specu-
lator will have to rely (as he should have
done at the beginning) on the merits of
the stocks themselves. The essential dif-
ference between present conditions and
those of 12 months ago is that those
people who were buyers then are now
sellers, or potential sellers. There is
little demand for mining scrip at present
—it was scrip rather than mines that
people were dealing in when the market
was so buoyant. Nearly all those
people likely to be tempted into the gold
gamble have already been drawn in, and
are holding more scrip than they want.
Now that the hot air has been let out
of share-prices, mines with possibilities
may be worth buying into —if the in-
vestor is satisfied that finance and man-
agement are capable of bringing the
ventures to success. Money is a prob-
lem with some shows where enlarged
plant is essential and where the slump
in the market has made the raising of
new capital difficult. The present pro-
cess of “shaking-out” has caused good
and bad mines to slump together ; hence-
forth judgment should be passed accord-
ing to developments.
What of Stabilisation?
More than ever before, currency
matters are wrapped up with the every-
day life of the individual. Elections have
been fought in Australia largely on cur-
rency and banking issues. Here the ver-
dict has always been for stability rather
than indulgence in fancy doctrines. Other
overseas countries, particularly the
U.S.A. (and to some extent Canada),
have deliberately set out to change the
old order by experiments. Australia has
never experienced such prosperity as
post-war U.S.A. enjoyed, nor such
despondency and hardship as many
Americans of the present day suffer.
The job of a currency is to make easy
the exchange of goods and services.
Barter is the basis of trade. Gold enabled
business to be done with unknown cus-
tomers. In the century or so since the
gold standard became generally recog-
nised (and probably before that, with
some people) gold and gold coin some-
times have ceased to be looked upon as
nothing more than a means to an end—a
medium. Gold has become the object
of international trade amongst some
countries. Australia itself has found that
many people reluctant to take our goods
receive our gold with open arms.
Nobody wants to save chips out of
the club poker-machine, because they
have restricted purchasing power and
negotiability. The idea is to turn them
into goods as soon as possible. No-
body wants our notes, which will buy
only Australian goods. But with
a universally-accepted currency it is a
different matter. The only time that
people part readily with money is when
prices are going up and the purchasing
power of money is falling; in times like
the present, with prices low, there is a
universal tendency to hoard gold.
The United States has never accepted
its responsibilities as a creditor nation ;
it has always had a one-way trade policy,
despite the huge sums owing to it. Its
own aim has been national self-suffi-
ciency, even with its huge hoard of
sterilised international-trade counters —
gold stocks. But it still looks to the
world to take large quantities of Ameri-
can goods.
The same country has not been content
with acquiring nearly one-half the world’s
gold stocks. It has locked them up, and
there is virtually no free gold market
“Not to-night Mr. Bounderby, hut, tell me —how many o’s are there
in 'nuisance'?"
in the U.S.A, It has also devalued the
dollar. This gave importers in other
countries a greater purchasing power
when buying U.S. goods. But one of
the effects aimed at was a rise in the
internal price of those goods, and gradu-
ally this is becoming noticeable. There
is now talk of further devaluation. The
President, under present legislation, may
reduce the gold content from the present
59 cents to 50 cents.
Instability in the exchanges, while giv-
ing countries temporary trading advan-
tages, in the long run hinders world
trade. Among sterling countries there
has been a fair amount of stability oyer
the past two or three years, and Empire
trade has improved. But foreign markets
are still chaotic. Without stability finance
is a very erratic handmaiden to trade.
Professor Gregory recently said
an international gold standard is the one,
the unique, practicable method of securing
international equilibrium of prices, which
means that if the price systems of different
countries are in equilibrium, then, apart
from movements of new gold, the whole
of international trade will be adjusted by
the mutual exchange of goods and services.
The “Monthly Review” of Barclay's
Bank emphasises that
the re-establishment of an international
monetary standard will not be attained
without some immediate sacrifices on the
part of all concerned, and its ultimate
achievement will depend upon the willing-
ness of all countries to make concessions
for the eventual benefit not only of their
own people, but of the world at large.
Stabilisation and the removal of trade
barriers is one of the big problems
confronting the world to-day. But the
basis on which stabilisation may take
place —which boils down to the relation
between the gold- and paper-currency
prices which ordinary goods and services
are to cost in different countries —in-
volves, amongst other things, the question
of standards of living in different parts of
the world. Hence it is wrapped up very
closely with politics and tariff policy.
Following Broken Hill Pty.’s great in-
crease in production, it has passed on
benefits to customers. Pig-iron has
been reduced ss. a ton, and plates and
rails have been cut by 20s. B.H.P. pig-
iron, heavy rails and fishplates are now
below British c.i.f. prices. Other lines
are only slightly above British rates.
Australian efficiency can receive few
better advertisements than this, and tariff
protection of infant industries needs no
better defence. Shareholders are happy ;
the £1 shares sold at 555. 6d. last week.
Wool brought 10.4 d. a pound in April,
a penny better than in March, and the
highest price since August. The greasy-
wool average in Brisbane for the first
week of May was around 10.6 d., with
good clearances and a firm market.
Whither went that 90 millions of short-
term borrowing (B. 8/5/’35) spent by
the Commonwealth and the States, mainly
during the five years to 1934? Accu-
mulated deficits, generally forgotten
by many people, provide most of the
answer. The total to June, 1934, was
£66,317,000;
Commonwealth .. .. £17,216,000
N. S. Wales 24,926,000
Victoria 6,958,000
Queensland 6,589,000
South Austral.':’. .. .. 4,730,000
Westralia 5,149,000
Tasmania 849,000
Total £66,317,000
The piling-up is still going on, though
at a reduced rate. Here are State com-
parisons covering the first nine months
of each of the last two fiscal years:
Deficit at Deficit at
March 31, March 31,
1934. 1935.
N. S. Wales . . £2,485.000 £2,260,000
Victoria . . . . 2,309,000 1,596,000
Queensland .. 1,212,000 467,000
South Australia .. 1,042,000 220,000
Westralia .. 851,000 266,000
Tasmania . . . . 168,000 94,000
Totals . . . . £8,067,000 £4,903,000
An improvement is expected before June
30 —a reduction to £4,000,000 has been
suggested. This would be £1,500,000
below estimates. There are prospects of
balanced Budgets in Victoria and Queens-
land during 1935-36.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar shares have weakened
slightly since the publication of account's.
As the board had forecast, the div. rate
on the doubled capital was cut in halves
—6i p.c. p.a. was handed out, as against
a rate of 10 p.c. and p.c. bonus be-
fore the last capitalisation of reserves.
Sugars are a front-rank stock, but at
£4l 10s. the return is only 3 p.c., and
any increase in distributions which may
come with better times in the sugar-
growing industry is heavily discounted.
:Jc :|: jjc
Roosevelt, President of U.S.A., is well
and unfavorably known to the Chinese
as the man who turned their trade topsy-
turvy by making silver dear and Chinese
goods cheap—in silver currency. The
goods are dearer to other countries which
pay in gold or its equivalent. Austra-
lian smokers have the N.R.A. to thank
for a rise of 7d. a pound in the whole-
sale price of many tobaccos, generally
passed on the consumer as id. an ounce.
Artificial restriction of output in U.S.A.,
coupled with Nature’s own —unexpected
—methods of restriction, has brought
about a shortage of Virginia leaf. Cigar-
ettes, dark tobacco and the products of
Australian leaf will not be affected.
* * * -!.
By 166,345 votes to 148,870 share-
holders in the Federal Deposit Bank (in
liq.), Brisbane, agreed to the sale of the
residuary assets to the National Mutual
Life Assoc, for £145,000 cash. The differ-
ence of opinion noticeable in the voting
was over the question of price ; the large
minority took the view that by waiting
and realising the assets in the ordinary
course a better return would be obtained.
As it is, shareholders will have got a
return of something more than par for
their holdings—which is more than some
expected in 1931.
* * * *
Tallow has taken a rise, after a bear-
ish market for some time, prompted by
rumors of an increased American duty
on the Australian product. Tallow is
now well above whale- and cod-oil
in the world’s markets. The Brisbane
prices for different grades showed rises
of from £2 10s. to £3 15s. a ton, prime
tallow fetching over £3O last week. Aus-
tralian exports for the first nine months
of this financial year were valued at
£642,000, compared with £403,000 in
1933-34. The U.S. is a large market.
* * $
In 1934 Australia was Canada’s third-
best customer, having jumped from
eighth on the list in 1932 and seventh
in 1933. Great Britain is Canada’s best
market, followed closely by the United
States. Japan comes fourth. Among
those who sell to Canada, Australia is
steady in sixth glace.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Forsaking All Others”
A certain box-office success at Sydney
St. James. The three chief characters
have been familiar for centuries to
every civilised class and clime, and audi-
ences love to meet people they know,
well on the screen. Robert Mont-
gomery is a persistent livewire, trick,
caution or hard case ; an Edwardian de-
viser of booby-traps and apple-pie beds,
a Victorian sad dog, a Georgian
Mohawk. A stereotype of Palais Royal
farce. In Australia he may be seen per-
forming much the same waggish stunts at
bottle-ohs’ picnics and expensive race
balls. Looking on in feigned amusement
is Clark Gable —one of those males who
are satisfied privately that the hard-work-
ing life and soul of the party is an anti-
social pest. Which, of course, he nearly
always is. Egotism is the basis of his
antics, and it betrays him into deeds of
callous selfishness.
Joan Crawford plays the girl who is
convulsed at first by the playboy’s kill-
ing ways, and ends by finding them mad-
dening. She has never seemed so intel-
ligent and human. Forsaking all self-
consciousness about her clothes she
begins by being any high-spirited lass
who is delighted at her lover’s popu-
larity ; then he deserts her and she be-
comes any lovelorn girl torn between
desire and pride. There are some touch-
ing interludes, as when she tells the pity-
ing Gable that she is cured, and then
breaks down and admits it is a lie. The
interludes are effective because the sen-
timentalism isn’t overstressed. Those
who have never met a dangerous crim-
inal may be taken in by the melodrama-
tic violence of Mr. Hull in “Great Ex-
pectations” ; the girl Miss Crawford
plays has to be the real thing. Millions
of women have reacted to the emotions
she portrays.
Frances Drake is absolutely right both
in her allure and in her venom as the
Charles Butterworth in "Forsaking All
Others.”
designing creature who upsets the Craw-
ford applecart. But the thing is essen-
tially a comedy. Charles Butterworth,
Gable’s put-upon friend, has a great
part and some gorgeous lines, and the
dialogue is witty throughout.
The laughter was loud and continuous
on the first night, and it may not have
been entirely due to the cleverness of
the principal offering. The audience was
in a highly receptive mood by the time
“Forsaking All Others” began. It is
preceded by a delightful animal whimsi-
cality and about the funniest Laurel-
and-Hardy this critic has ever howled at.
“The Little Colonel”
Period of this excursion into Ameri-
can sentiment is just aftah de Civil Wah,
when innumerable Southern gentlemen
who hadn’t fought were using military
titles, while those who had fought
were fast abandoning the practice.
Gunnel Lloyd (Lionel Barrymore), a
widower, lives in his ole white-
pillared Virginny home with his only
daughter, entirely surrounded by
adoring niggers. She elects to marry
a Northerner, and is commanded
never to darken the Gunnel’s doors
again. When it is added that her
husband goes West to seek gold, and
she and her child (Shirley Temple)
come to live in a cottage on de Gun-
nel’s plantation, little more needs to
be said. The engaging little sprite,
aided and abetted by worshipping
niggers, soon breaks down the
rugged old Gunnel’s sales resistance,
and the familiar fragrancy ends with
colored pictures of a family re-
union.
Mr. Barrymore’s accents are not
those of the South, and the cullud
folk evidently came from far north
of the Mason and Dixie line. More-
over, an essential part of the plot
rests on the assumption that mere
possession of a title-deed constitutes
ownership of land, despite transfers.
But little Miss Temple, in her usual
bewildering variety of fancy dresses,
is on the screen for the best part of
90 minutes, and nothing else really
matters. Seen at a Fox theatrette
(Sydney) preview.
“Java Head 1 ”
Hergesheimer’s yarn about the sea cap-
tain who brought home a Chinese wife
and found reason to regret it provides
remarkably effective talkie material. The
cast includes Edmund Gwenn as a bluff
old seadog, John Loder as his seafaring
son, Anna May Wong as the Manchu
princess who went into exile for love
of him, and Elizabeth Allen as the girl
the captain finally hitched up with. There
are half a dozen other characterisations
worthy to be in the same frame as
Gwenn and Miss Wong. Period is a
century ago, and it is reproduced in a
much more convincing manner than
Hollywood achieved in “The Barretts.”
The Chinese lady is the only feminine
member of the cast who goes in heavily
for cosmetics —she considers it im-
modest for women to show “naked faces”
—and the surprise of her in-laws isn’t
rendered ridiculous by mascara and lip-
stick. There is nothing sloppy about the
pathos or stagy about the drama, and
Gwenn’s good humor blows through the
piece like a sea breeze. Seen at a Film
House (Sydney) preview.
“Death at Broadcasting House”
Another evidence, though not so strik-
ing, that Britain is drawing away from
America in the desperate race for cinema
supremacy. Radio studio settings have
been exploited many times before, but
the background on this occasion seems
to be the real thing. The 8.8. C., in pro-
ducing plays in which a character is sup-
posed to be alone, guards against extrane-
ous sound by putting him into an apart-
ment by himself with a microphone. In the
Phoenix talkie under review an actor who
is broadcasting in a thriller in which he
is strangled by someone who uttered not
a word actually is garrotted at that
stage in the play. He is a blackmailer
who is putting the screw on some of
the people engaged in the production of
the play. Motives and opportunities are
provided in plenty, and suspicion rests
on several of the characters. There is
a reconstruction of the crime, aided by
a recording of the playlet, and the
denouement, while it isn’t stupendously
surprising, at least affords a logical solu-
tion to the problems unfolded. Save for
Val Gielgud, who plays the part of a
radio play-producer, the members of the
cast are not very well known in Aus-
tralia, but they are an even bunch, and
the production, though loaded with some
irrelevant scenes, is of more than average
interest. Seen at a Film House (Sydney)
preview.
“Wednesday’s Child”
Built on the fact that an adulteress in-
flicts a deeper wrong on her children than
she does on her husband. The 10-year-old
Hobart Cavanaugh in "Wings in the Dark,”
at Sydney Prince Edward.
boy knows that his mother is carrying
on a surreptitious intrigue with a strange
man. He writhes under the gibes of his
playmates, and finally, when the father
learns the truth and chivalrously permits
the woman to divorce him and marry
the seducer, the boy’s mental anguish,
instead of being relieved, is intensified.
Finally, the woman permits him to go
with the father, to whom he is devoted,
and realises at last that she has done
nothing but wreck the lives of all con-
cerned. The outstanding work is that of
Frankie Thomas as the boy. He over-
does nothing. Karen Morley is the
mother, Edward Arnold the father,
Shirley Grey the damsel who comes
into the father’s life after the divorce.
Some First Nights
“The Dominant Sex,” by Michael
Egan, presented by the Firm at Sydney
Cri. on Saturday, is a modern version of
“The Taming of the Shrew.” A couple
of advanced ideas, who regularised their
union after a year of “companionate
marriage,” have theories of equal part-
nership and independent soul-freedom.
When their wills clash the husband is in
for a bad time; the lady is as unscrupu-
lous as she is clever. By the end of Act
II the bicker has gone to the stage where
the husband sees red and attempts to
strangle his tormentor, friends arriving
opportunely to prevent murder. Of
course, there’s a reconciliation, and wife
wins round one. But it is a dearly-
bought victory. Husband sheds his logi-
cal newfangled ideas and opposes to
nagging argument taciturn obstinacy and
brutal rudeness. He arrives, quite un-
consciously, at an early-Victorian concept
of morals and man’s place in the family,
and the curtain falls with his wife
accepting the situation —pro tem., at any
rate. A landlord and landlady of the
old school of ethics, another young
couple, whose marriage comes totally
adrift through too much modernity, and
a young man with strong business in-
stincts and a roving eye are other well-
drawn characters.
Acting is competent and staging excel-
lent. Outstanding member of this “Eng-
lish Comedy Co.” is Adelaide girl Lorna
Dawson, who made her first professional
appearance in Sydney on Saturday night.
She plays the wife who nags, and does
it so effectively that the audience is half-
sorry for her while it wonders how long
she will escape assassination. English
players Betty Bowden, James Raglan,
Vernon Kelso, Cyril Vernon and Hilary
Fisher-White are well in the picture, and
a one-year-old Australian made posi-
tively his first appearance in the last act
with vast success. .
* * *
Menuhin’s Sydney season, extended
because bookings showed no signs of
falling off, came to the end of its
schedule on Saturday night, when the
Town Hall was filled with the usual large
and appreciative throng. Mozart’s G
Major Concerto, with pianoforte accom-
paniment by Marcel Gazelle, and the
unaccompanied G Minor Sonata of Bach
were the principal numbers, both played
with remarkable delicacy and dignity. A
couple of Paganini caprices, No. 20 r id
24, enabled Menuhin to demonstrate
once again that in the matter of velocity
he has no contemporary rivals. The
season has now been further lengthened
to the extent of a matinee performance
to-morrow and a recital on Saturday
night.
v * *
Sydney Uni. Dram. Soc. chose Ben
Travers’s “A Cuckoo in the Nest” for
its two nights out at St. James’s Hall,
Sydney. Jack Needham, as Peter Wyke-
ham, who unwittingly elopes with an-
other man’s wife, had a lot to do, and
acquitted himself well on the whole;
Judith Halse-Rogers acted naturally as
his rather bored partner in the adven-
ture, and Jean Knight was the charming
and bewildered lawful spouse. Joan
Hollinshead was very good as Mrs.
Spoker, the high-minded landlady of the
Stag and Hunt Inn. lan Maxwell, Pat
Rutherford, Christian Jeffray-Griffith and
David Benjamin filled their roles with
credit,
* V V
A notable Adelaide show was the first
presentation in Australia of “The Song
of the High Hills,” by Delius. It is a
joyous affair for two voices and chorus —
Clark Gable applies an old-fashioned
remedy to Joan Crawford in “For-
saking All Others,” at Sydney St.
James.
orchestra under Percy Grainger—going
diminuendo as the peaks are reached —
or the stratosphere ; read it how you like.
Modern and finely orchestrated, it should
be widely popular. Another “first” in
the Town Hall was the Girls’ Brass Band,
really (and unexpectedly) effective under
Arthur Hodgkins, who has world-wide
experience.


BRANDAUERS
0*
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BEANDACER & CO.. Ltd , BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
7l
aat lack
. ,
cam jott,
SYDNEY
L f r a. f
camel ta
» c tilzi
la he boaki at
Ipdty'i cJ-ivtel
T a riff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R J Langley/ Manager,
et
tarn
teitj^ul
zi
Positions Vacant.
Marine Board of Launceston, Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of Consulting Engineer to the Marine Board
of Launceston. Applicants to state terms and
conditions under which they are prepared to
accept the position, and also furnish particulars
of qualifications and previous experience in
Harbour Works, together with Copy of Cre-
dentials.
Applications, addressed to the Secretary and
endorsed “Consulting Engineer,” must reach
this Office not later than noon on the 13th
day of June, 1935.
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Secretary.
3rd May, 1935.
One.
/ am the rock, the stream, the tree;
All finite things that sense the earth
Flux in my veins, are one with me,
The core of being, born of birth.
I am of nature unafraid ;
The skyey bolt I run to meet
That dizzy drops; I am arrayed
As one who has a moment fleet.
/ am alone, I am a stone,
Nor shall I deign but passing glance
Upon mere change; I am alone
A nd care not for the shadow dance.
I am of rock, I am the moss
That clings to rock as love to love,
I am a game of pitch and toss,
I am beneath, / am above.
Bind me not here, nor hence, nor there,
/ am of earth and stellar height,
1 am the universe, nor care
That death must end my little flight.
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONT.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Menuhin
and His
Uncritical
Critics
One of the
leading Sydney
pane gyrists of
Menuhin wrote
concerning the
young violinist’s
performance of
the Mendelssohn
Concerto: “What
comment can one make when a work of
art is presented in sheer and ultimate per-
fection? To analyse and dissect, bestowing
on this part the adjective ‘beautiful’ and
on that the adjective ‘superb,’ would be
like pulling a flower to pieces in order
separately to admire each petal.”
This is the hyperbole of idolatry, not
the language of criticism, but it is typical
of 99 per cent of the Sydney newspaper
references to the young visitor’s per-
formance. Undoubtedly this 18-year-old
lad is a juvenile phenomenon. He has
earned high praise from the most erudite
critics of the United States; has put
Ernest Newman into ecstasies; has
delighted such musical connoisseurs as
Elgar, Toscanini and Kreisler. But the
critic of any of the arts, and especially
of music, who claims to have discovered
perfection forfeits confidence. His first
business is dissection, comparison, ap-
praisement ; and a flood of superlatives is
no valid substitute.
There never has been a perfect fiddle,
let alone a perfect fiddler. The instru-
ment Menuhin used at his first Sydney
concert was the feeblest in the upper
register this writer has ever listened to
in the hands of a first-rank player. Zim-
balist, Kreisler, Heifetz, Szigeti, Balo-
kovic and Kubelik, to mention players
of whom Sydney’s memories must be
fairly fresh, though 1 should hesitate to
say they all had better fiddles, produced
a better tone in all registers. That their
appeal was less than that made upon the
emotions of the average not-very-musical
individual by Menuhin was due, it may
be guessed, to the fact that they did not
enlist the sympathy that goes out to
youth. For a lad of 18 to show a mastery
of the full kit of fiddle-tricks is as aston-
ishing to an audience as the production
of a rabbit from an apparently empty
hat. That the lad lacks the powers that
come with maturity is discernible only to
those who can appreciate those powers.
Fiddle-tricks, like piano-tricks and voice-
tricks, have nothing to do with pure
music, but they create an illusion that
very powerfully bamboozles the un-
critical.
Menuhin has been universally called
“great” during his Australian stay. He
is a great technician, and he has musical
interpretative instinct developed to a
very charming degree. He pours out
music such as the slow movement of the
“The Straggling Bridge," an arresting piece in Jo Sweatman’s exhibition
at Melbourne Athenaeum.
Mendelssohn Concerto or the broad,
rather trite, melodies of Paganini with
the careless grace of a bird. But a work
such as the Kreutzer Sonata discovers
his limitations. His inter nretation is
clever and intelligent, but it doesn’t
begin to compare with Kreisler’s. This
is too strong meat for babes and suck-
lings. however precocious. And Menu-
hin, though he may be 40 years old as a
technician, is still about 30 years younger
than Szigeti as a musical intellect. Like
other famous musical youngsters Menu-
hin lives in glad, confident morning. He
can unfold some beauties the oldsters,
alas! have lost for ever, and a sad world
is grateful. But he does not touch per-
fection. Neither did Kreisler, Szigeti
and co., but Australian newspaper critics
ascribed it to them. It is time they
became critical.
A. MAJOR.
Film Censor's
Latest
We are doing
right by our Nell
at Elstree. In
other words, the
Am e r ican film
censor has de-
creed that last year’s jolliest production,
“Nell Gwyn,” is not acceptable across
the Atlantic unless Nell is shown as
ultimately suffering for her lack of
morals.
In the picture we have seen here, there
is a most impressive last scene in which
Charles asked a friend “Not to let poor
Nellie starve.” A king's last wish is
generally held sacred, and history re-
cords that it was so in this instance. But
what is history to a censor? The Ameri-
can version will show Nellie allowed by
a crool world to die in an attic.
The censorship business is causing hot
discussion in English film circles at the
moment. Most people agree that some
sort of restraint is necessary to prevent a
few scoundrels selling undiluted sex; but
it is also agreed that to insist that every
story must show a Sunday sermon is
something not required of either the
stage or the press. When it comes to
the American idea of distorting history
to please the Puritans the thing is sheer
idiocy. Obviously, the next step is to
censor all history books.
LONDON.
KEITH BARRY.
Some Brave
New Art
Miss Helen
Stewart, a score
or so of whose
canvases make
gay the walls of
the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, has as her object,
apparently, the reduction of art to its
simplest possible form.
A face (she is mainly a portraitist) is
a flat pink oval ; a mouth is a dab of
vermilion ; hair a flat mass of brown or
black; dress a posterish concatenation
of hues that gives little if any hint of
texture. A shadow, if it is essayed at
all, is given five or six times its value.
There is a composition entitled “Not a
Woman,” which represents a nude
female figure standing in a tin tub. Half
the body, divided vertically, is pink.
The other half is dark red. A vermilion
stripe divides the segments. Tulips, in
a still-life, are represented in outlines —
scarlet outlines. In “Mayonnaise” a
crude outline of a lobster inscribed on
a dark-red rectangle occupies the centre.
What the rest of the composition
represents is a matter for courageous
conjecture.
“Abstract” defies identification in
any particular. But it and the other
wild splashes of color that com-
prise the collection are acclaimed by
people who like that sort of thing as
exemplars of the brave new world of art
in which all fetters are cast off and the
souls of the artist and her sitters (includ-
ing, presumably, the embalmed lobster)
stand revealed to those with eyes to see.
Certainly, if that’s the way to look at
it. Miss Stewart deserves to be com-
mended for her valor.
A. D. W.
What Is Jazz?
John Kentweil
(B. 10/4/’35) asks
what jazz is and
isn’t. As a result of long study and ex-
perience, I have arrived at a definition.
If there is any tune in an arrangement
of notes it is jazz. If there isn’t any
tune it is classical music. This is the
invariable test I apply, and, on applica-
tion to musical experts, I find that it is
correct nine times out of ten.
I admit that there are scraps of music
termed classical which contain tunes or
semblances of tunes, but these I find, by
once more appealing to the authorities,
are looked upon with loathing and dis-
gust, and are regarded as evidences of the
Great Masters skidding on the banana-
peel of bad art.
M.G.
Current
Artbursts
The autumn
show of S.A.
Society of Arts
is f.a.q. The most
striking works
both depict the
valley of Piccadilly behind Mount Lofty,
and George Whinnen’s has been bought
by the Art Gallery; though it is possible
to admire Gilbert' Roach’s more, with
its dim, almost moonlight, tone. Leslie
Wilkie has good portraits. Flowers and
fruit are by Max Ragless, Gwen
Barringer and T. H. Bone, the versatile
Whinnen scoring also in all these
branches. Giles has left his shipping for
a bit of Sydney Harbor. The veterans
White and Howie and the super-veteran
James Ashton are all in good form, too.
Jo Sweatman has been one of Mel-
bourne’s soundest artists for many years,
and, though it is some time since she has
held an exhibition, the present show of
77 oil-paintings of landscape and still-life
at the Athenaeum adds solidly to her
reputation. Miss Sweatman is at her
best in the smaller canvases, but two
large ones, “The Washaway” and “The
Old Weir,” both dealing with the Upper
Yarra, are excellent. The effect of the
tumbling water is admirably secured, and
there is a fine color-sense displayed in the
massing of the gum-trees on the banks
and the blue sky overhead. In the score
or so of well-painted smaller pictures,
Miss Sweatman has used the blooming
wattle dexterously. Her yellows are effec-
tive and artistic: she does not succumb,
like so many artists, to vulgarising this
overdone blossom. “The Dark Tree” and
“Main Road” are two of her best War-
randyte pictures. Around Devonport
(Tas.) she has painted a dozen canvases,
the four dealing with tea-tree being
perhaps the most cleverly handled. Her
“Sheriff’s Bridge” at Castlemaine is
another nicely composed bit of color.
In the Jamieson district Miss Sweatman
let herself go with two more big pictures
—a panoramic view from Mount Mar-
garet, which escapes many of the pit-
falls of panoramas and is quite good, and
“River Oaks,” painted in sombre strain,
in contrast to most of her work, which
shows the landscape beneath bright sun-
light. Among the still-life “Rhododen-
drons” is remarkable for clever atmo-
sphere and lighting—a beautiful and
capable piece of work.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLENS MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager jor full particulars.
I XJie Uichardson Chain Hotel
M
m
ml
li
m
is
ItU
II
!’ id
L'J II
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone; F 4141 (10 lines).
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ... .. 1.000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There are some who like their parties
a bit more exclusive, but there’s some-
thing exhilarating in grouping nearly
2000 people in a garden. That’s what
the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
did at the jubilee garden party. Further-
more, they let loose a perfectly splendid
pipe band, and the Highlanders skirled
their pipes and twirled their kilts in the
most heartening way. Another band
whose music was not so likely to blow
away the cakes played near the tea tent.
A touch of the formal was introduced by
the Governor and his lady standing on
the centre of a crimson carpet square just
below the verandah steps to greet their
guests. The hostess wore one of the new
tunic frocks, the tunic in vellum velvet,
the skirt of satin. A toque of cigar-
brown velvet, a sable necklet and orchids
were other items not to be overlooked.
The sun shone hot, and the flowers after
the recent deluge lifted clean and shining
faces to the blue sky.
A number of Japanese officers from
the cruisers at the Quay arrived at the
party in an omnibus, and many of them
gaily set about taking photographs.
Commander Gifford, Captain Holford
and Captain Ponsonby were strong sup-
ports to the vice-regals ; so were the three
girls in residence—lvie Price, a bright
composition in pinks and blacks, and
Priscilla Feilden and Patsy Little, attrac-
tions in blue. Japan’s nice-looking
princes, Rear-Admiral Nakamura and
Consul-General Murai were among the
notable. It was one of those parties
where the Army and the Navy, the Church
and the Law are well represented, and
all passed out as they had entered—be-
tween flag-decked gates under an arch-
way blazoned with the crown and royal
arms, and inscribed “Long Live the
King.”
When Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress
flung wide the Town Hall to the glory of
King George V. George-street was sur-
charged with glittering cars that stretched,
seemingly, into infinity. Slowly champ-
ing at the bit, they slid finally to momen-
tary rest before the red-carpeted steps.
Out popped their gentlemen, coat-tails
a-swing; out stepped their ladies, rosy
and glittering. Roses on her cheeks and
roses in her dress had seemingly been the
finishing touch of every woman. Sprays
of real flowers —some of them 10, 12 and
more inches long— sent out their fra-
grance. Once within the portals a dif-
ferent scent assailed the nostrils. The
ladies looked askance at each other,
thinking: “She has had her gloves pet-
rolled.” One wife whispered to her hus-
band : “I told you to air off your suit
after it came from the dry-cleaner’s.”
The Girl in the Flat Opposite circulated
a report that the fumes came from the
metal polish used by the jubilee medal-
lists present to shine up their new baubles,
but that is a base aspersion. The medals
were still on the Largs Bay and not on
Sydney’s bosom.
The ballroom was a beauteous sight.
The pillars of the gallery masqueraded
as trees, and were bark-enwrapped
from the root upwards. They rose
to a balustrade that dripped golden
blooms and autumnal foliage, the
brave little oak-leaf among them. Be-
tween the pillars occurred cream tubs
massed with white chrysanthemums. At
the end of this flowering avenue the
stage, transformed to a double pergoia,
was golden with chrysanthemums, green
with hanging ferns. Beneath its shade
the vice-regals rested snug, feet on leaf-
green carpet. The Mayor and his lady,
he in his robes, she in moonlight-blue
satins, bowed and bowed just as deeply,
just as smilingly, to the last as the first.
Lady Hore-Ruthven wore her striped-
silver-and-cyclamen lame frock. This
is very sumptuous, but untrained. Her
diamonds burned, her pearls were a lus-
trous lasso; she carried deep-red roses.
Patricia Little and Ivie Price, in the Gov-
ernment House party, seemed to have
plucked the red roses on their shoulders
the same bush. Admiral Randle
Ford’s lady cascaded taffeta ruchings
with a silver rim from her hyacinth-
blue crepe frock —rather delicious ; her
mother, too, Mrs. G. Hurry, was among
the well-dressed. Mrs, Roy Hendy wore
checks in green and silver ; Mrs. Jordan,
who brought her C.J., wore trained
velvets, flame-red ; the jewelled snake on
Lady Poynter’s arm flashed again. All
the churches were represented, and the
tall Archbishop Mowll and the small Dr.
Bernardini were in the official group.
Mrs. Mowll added deep-pink chiffons
and Mrs. Micklem dahlia-red crepes to
the night’s pattern. All the knights came
with their ladies ; social workers and femi-
nists were strong in the land. The tall
W. G. Layton couple were well-knowns,
and so was Mrs. David Cohen, in her
cigar-brown velvets. The palm for out-
standing frocking must go to Mrs. Stuart
Osborne and Mrs. Bertie Kelly. Mrs.
Osborne’s frock was of violet-and-silver
moire, and shoes and long suede gloves
were in the violet toning. Mrs. Kelly
chose cloth-of-silver woven with cosmos
pink. Dr. Mary Booth and Matron Kel-
lett were among the glimpsed. Mrs. Toby
Browne’s cherry crepes and Mis. Harrie
Vale’s frock of black sequins attracted;
so did deb. Beatrice McGirr, who came
with mother..
Andri Bevin, a Maoriland contralto,
enriched the Conservatorium one night
last week with her native wood notes,
not wild, but carefully trained in Italy
and London. The result was a recital
rich in lieder and modern Italian songs.
Andri sings again with the N.S.W. State
Orchestra at the Town Hall to-night.
In keeping with the jubilee atmosphere
was the royal crown of red, white and
blue flowers that reigned over one table
at St. Vincent’s Ball. The women in the
party surrounding it were decked alter-
nately with red, white and blue sprays.
The fable-decoration idea has caught the
welfare worker’s fancy, and there was
keen rivalry the other night to catch
the eye of the judges. Alicia Inglis, presi-
dent of the junior committee, was finally
voted the most artistic for her arrange-
ment of chrysanthemums shading from
palest to deepest gold. These sprouted in
the most pictorial manner from scooped -
out pineapples. Over 500 danced for the
benefit of the old-established Darling-
hurst hospital. Mrs. G. Flannery pinned
pink roses on her black lace frock, and
was an ideal president. Treasurer Miss
Kate Egan’s sherry velvets were perfect
in line. Mrs. John Tansey, who with her
doctor presided over a table, violet
fragrant, wore black taffetas checked in
silver. The Geoffrey Hughes couple were
there; so were the Odillo Mahers and
John Lane Mullins and his daughters.
The Weston Mahers, the Oscar Diethelms
and the Bouverie Anderson Stuarts
came. Mrs. Dan Carroll added the
gleam of off-white satins to the scene.
The University Senate is the hand-
somer by the addition of this fine head.
Its owner is Miss Fanny Cohen, princi-
pal of Fort-street Girls’ High. She is a
Master of Arts and of Science. Photo-
graph from Dayne.
The young officers in the Japanese
warship Asama were the perfect hosts
last week when they entertained hun-
dreds of Sydney prominents. Rear-
Admiral Nakamura received the guests,
and assisting him were the three good-
looking princes. After the greetings one
of the ship’s officers came forward to act
as escort to the newly-arriveds. Many of
the guests pursued their inquiries to the
very heart of the ship; others were con-
tent to watch the display of wrestling
and fencing—always a fascinating inter-
lude at Japanese naval affairs. Inter-
esting, too, were the models of famous
places, such as Fujiyama and a land-
scape in cherry-blossom time. Tiny
Union Jacks and Japanese flags hob-
nobbed amid clusters of wistaria and
autumn leaves. Our own Army, Navy
and Air Force turned up in full kit;
but the loveliest bit of color was sup-
plied by Consul-General Murai’s wife in
her kimono of violet brocade embroid-
ered in gold and pale lilac.
Lady Hore-Ruthven found her way
out to the Rose Bay Golf Club last week
and played a game on the links with
Mrs. A. Andrews, the club’s captain, and
Mrs. F. Slack. Later she took tea with
the associates, being welcomed by Miss
Kate Egan, who is president of the club.
The Lightfoot-Burlakov ballet was one
of the happy incidents at the dance or-
ganised by the Doctors’ Wives’ Auxiliary
for the Renwick Hospital for infants.
The Blaxland Galleries housed this
merrymaking, where all the wives seemed
to know one another as intimately as
their husbands did the materia medica,
or wherever it is doctors get their recipes
from. Mrs. J. E. Sherwood was the
president, and shimmered in blue satins ;
Mrs. Victor Conrick’s black velvets were
lit with sequins. Both ladies helped to
receive the night’s official guests, the
Henry Braddons and the Thomas Bavin
couple. The O Malley Woods, too, were
among the night’s honored.
Ralph Connor (he’s a Presbyterian
padre named Gordon) is a pleasant-
faced and -mannered Canadian with eye-
glasses on a cord. He told this Letter
that The Sky Pilot came in a moment
of inspiration when he was talking to a
Sunday-school class. He wished to illus-
trate one of his remarks, and he did so
with a description of a flowerful canyon.
From that sprang the book that has been
translated into many languages, and has
sold, not in thousands, but in millions of
copies. With the author is a very bright-
eyed daughter (bright as stars on a frosty
night). She is addicted to acting, and has
played many Ibsen parts, including that
of Nora in “A Doll’s House.” Father
and daughter both looked into the Savoy
to see Doris Fitton’s Independents.
Violet Roche, who met them on her
recent travels—after months in England
and Europe, she came home by way of
America—has been showing the famous
visitors some of our night life. There’s
so little of it that a Puritan might sit up
and ask for more. To-day the women
writers treat the Gordons to lunch.
Last week went as merrily as a peal
of wedding bells in honor of the jubilee.
Sydney belles joined gaily in the chime,
but nobody has owned up to ringing the
changes. Everybody danced—the medi-
cals, the military, the women chemists,
the Manly lifesavers. Among the smart-
est affairs was the Sydney Hospital Jubi-
lee Ball. This crammed the Town Hall
on Friday night, for the Macquarie-
street institution has a long list of enthu-
siastic helpers. There were roses round
the door and pillars and galleries, vivid
patches of blue,yellow fand red alternating.
There was a touch of pageantry in the
presentation of the debutantes. First a
little flower-girl in white tulle danced
along the red carpet that led to the dais
and the vice-regals. She scattered rose
leaves, and following the petalled path
came the 11 new social butterflies. (The
Girl in the Flat Opposite says it’s a nice
idea as long as the committee remembers
not to scatter primroses.) After the
Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven had
smiled on the young things, they stepped
off with their partners into a waltz of
their own. The vice-reine’s deep-violet
laces were lit with diamonds and the
King’s jubilee medal, just received the
day before. |
Lady Poynter’s gold frock had its long
train lined with emerald chiffons. The
hospital’s handsome matron was in white
and silver ; flowered chiffons were worn
by Mayoress Parker. Molly Butters’s
black frock had its cowl draped with
jade; Mrs. R. C. Dixson’s befrilled
chiffons were palely pink; blue and
silver adorned Patsy Little.
The Menuhin concerts have now
grown into an institution, and, like the
rest of us, the vice-regals can scarcely
keep away from the boy and his bow’s
magic. As the season advances the frock-
ing becomes more impressive, black
velvet, ermine and pearls being added
one night last week by Lady Hore-
Ruthven. The fiddler’s little sisters al-
ways wear their pink toe-length frocks,
and sit with E. J. Tait sandwiched between
them. EJ. always wears the black pearl
tiepin given him by H. B. Irving —only
sported when he wants to show great
honor to an artist. Mrs. E.J., a tiny
statuette in black and silver, is in the
party with Mrs. Menuhin. Just in front
of them sit the Rupert Scammels —Mrs.
Rupert, herself a brilliant violinist, slim
and fair and tall, and dressed in black
or lustrous blue. The Bertie Kellys are
regulars ; so is Dr. Hertz. Young men
bring their wives, old men their
daughters. Hugh Denison’s lady comes
mink-enwrapped, and musical young
men like Ryder Swinson and Alexander
Gordon, junior, tune the ear to music’s
faintest sound.
But the girl of the moment is a young-
ster, a persistent early-doorite who was
discovered one day at the cheap-ticket
counter, by Claude Kingston. She was
nearly in tears. Somebody had said
there were no more three-shilling tickets.
Claude, though a concert manager, has a
heart, and he saw that the girl got her
ticket. Off she went (that was about
one o’clock) gaily with her camp stool
and a sandwich to wait outside the doors
till they opened for the evening concert.
Yehudi’s father heard about it, and said
she was to have some tea. Yehudi heard
about it, and said she was to have one
of the best seats. E. J. Tait heard, and
said she was to have one of the best
seats at every concert!


RB
aw
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
EUJiijfflwraia
L-ktL
200,000
TRADE BUYERS
Records prove that 200,000 business
men and women from all parts of
the world visited the Leipzig Trade
Fair last March to purchase for profit-
able reselling.
Can YOU afford to overlook this
great Trading Centre when planning
for future business? It is well worth
an investigation.
COMMENCES AUGUST 25th.
COMPRISING GENERAL SAMPLES, BUILDING, HOUSEHOLD AND
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FAIR.
Information gladly supplied by Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair; L. Messey, Technical Adviser, 29
Bligh Street, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Box 165B, G.P.O., Melbourne;
H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
CONDUCTED BY
The New South Wales Sheepbreeders* Association
SHOWGROUND, MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
19th, 20th, 21st and 22nd June, 1935.
ENTRIES CLOSE:
Sheep Saturday, 18th May
Junior and Senior Judging Competitions . . . Saturday, 18th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 22 nd May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
CLASSING OF MERINOS WILL COMMENCE AT 10 A.M. WEDNESDAY, 19th JUNE,
AND THE JUDGING OF ALL BREEDS AT 3 P.M. THE SAME DAY.
Endeavour House.
33 Macquarie Place., Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
Melbourne
Chatter
Judging by the double fox furs on
show at racecourses, money is no longer
tight. Fashion seems to have gone com-
pletely mad on Russia. Flemington and
Moonee Valley swarmed with tunics from
the time of the Czars and hats that owe
their origin to the peasants of the Cau-
casian mountains.
The hunting set came forth with a
flourish to chase the first fox of the
season at Berwick, where the scrub
makes a good cover for the fugitive.
Nobody aired anything new in the way
of fashion equipment—the same old
black coats, fawn breeches and black
hard-hitters were mounted on the gallop-
ing horses. Lorna Embling, riding Zulu,
and Mary Sangar, astride Ansaldo, were
well to the fore. Jean, daughter of Mrs.
David Hunter, sat side-saddle on a chest-
nut. Mary Former was hunting for the
first time, and Mrs. Geoffrey Penne-
father, a bride of last week, was having
her final run over Victorian country be-
fore settling down to domesticity in
Westralia. Sandra, the 14-year-old
daughter of the Baillieu matron, has been
winning her spurs in the English hunting
field this season. Already she has been
given the brush. William Seymour,
Master of the Findon Harriers, will have
the pack careering at Woolert on Friday.
His wife, Wilma Clarke that was, prefers
to join the sightseers who stick to the
road.
Before leaving for England to be
scrapped the cruiser Brisbane had a
swan-song party. The ship’s bunting
was run out for the last time in Vic.
waters, and cocktails were served on the
quarter-deck to many old friends with
happy memories of the warship’s younger
days. The Hon. Mrs. Helme Pott
brought a Government House visitor.
Lady Rosemary Jeffreys, daughter of
Major-General Sir George Jeffreys. The
company numbered more matrons than
maids, but there were a few young things
abroad, among them Helen and Pat
Leary, Pat Newbigin, Denise Finch,
Judith Lawry and Valerie Purves. Capt.
Farquhar-Smith will have his wife and
young family, Joan and lan, waiting in
London to console him when he says
good-bye to the old ship. Mother and
babes will travel in the Ormonde, due
to sail from here on May 28. So that
wives of officers might wish the captain’s
lady a united good-bye, Mrs. Loudoun-
Shand set the tea-table and spread out
the best china at her home in South
Yarra. Admiral Hyde’s lady and Briga-
dier-General Jess’s wife gave the event
an official flavor.
Civic but most informal was the
dinner-party given by the Lord and Lady
Mayoress in the Town Hall on Thursday
evening. Speeches were cut down to
half a dozen sentences, mostly taken up
by the host paying compliments to
Bonnie Campbell, who that day had not
only celebrated her 20th birthday but had
had a dahlia of her own raising named
after her by the Royal Horticultural
Society. She is the daughter of Coun-
cillor Eddie Campbell, who was well in
the running for the Lord Mayoral chain
last year. Curator Smith, in the limelight
at the moment owing to the tree-destruc-
tion controversy, produced masses of
hot-house begonias in blush-pink tint
to deck the dinner-tables, while the chef
did his bit toward the color scheme by
serving green soup. Those who found
themselves seated at the curator’s table
took fine care to keep off the subject of
parks and trees. Rod Morell was happy,
partnering Peggy Strutt, his fiancee, who
wore chiffon patterned in pastel flowers.
Lewis Luxton danced attendance on
Louise Moran, all black, with the bodice
off the shoulder a la 1830. The Mayoress
gave the blue-velvet gown which she
wore at her daughter’s wedding a second
airing.
Dancing and games of chance fol-
lowed the serving of black coffee.
Councillors well on in years foxtrotted
with as much zest as the young fellows.
Corsage posies ran to orchids —hang the
expense! The council’s departmental
chiefs, to whom quarterly dinner invita-
tions were not extended during Gengoult
Smith’s regime, were all brought into the
fold again, making a united, happy
family.
Mrs. Mayer, sister of Councillor Baron
Marks, chaperoned her attractive grand-
daughters, Doreen and Yvonne Coleman.
Alderman and Mrs. H. C. Elliott had in
tow their daughter Molly (Mrs. Fleet-
wood Smith), shoulder-coated in white
fur over primrose satin, and their son
John’s young wife. Dorothy Kane, who
girdled her waistline in black-and-red
leather, came a nasty crash on the danc-
ing floor where an attendant had been
over-generous with the polishing powder.
Tall, dark and handsome Sandra
Shackell, niece of W. L. Baillieu, and
Trevor Clarke will marry in June. Their
engagement was announced last week,
but the romantic attachment was formed
a long time ago. Friends would not have
been surprised if Sandra had worn the
betrothal ring on her journey to Eng-
land. She went overseas just after
Christmas, and Trevor soon followed.
The mothers of the engaged couple were
on the spot to offer congratulations. Mrs.
Edward Shackell joined her daughter in
England soon after her arrival, and
when Trevor left mamma went with him.
The young people are both outdoor
types. Trevor is the owner of Devon
Park, one of the richest pastoral hold-
ings in the Western District, about 20
miles from Hamilton. He is'the only
son of a very wealthy pastoralist, the
late W. J. T. Clarke, of Mt. Schanck
station, S.A. Trevor’s mother is a
dowager of the old social order, and
affects the Queen Mary coiffure and
toques. Sandra looks her very best in
the hunting field. She rides to hounds
English county style, seated side-saddle.
Last season she rode a grey horse,
Crusader, smartly habited in dark blue,
with a trim veil finishing off her dark
boxer hat—a most arresting figure. Here
is Jack Cato’s impression of Sandra
minus the hunting hat.
An aunt, a brother and a cousin gave
the dance at which Betty Clarke,
daughter of the late Lieut.-Col. and Mrs.
Reginald Clarke, of London, made her
debut on Friday evening. Betty is a
sister of Joan, now Mrs. Barclay, who
cut a social dash here a few years ago
on a visit from England. The Clarke
clan was uppermost at Betty’s social
launching. The Knox lady was hostess-
in-chief, lending her house Greenknowe
for the party. Glad in moon-white satin
and sparkling with diamonds she darted
hither and thither, trusting to neither
butler nor maid to look after the guests.
Once her energy was rewarded in unex-
pected fashion. Putting a disturbed
Persian rug to rights, she picked up a
ten-shilling note that had wriggled out
of its owner’s possession at the entrance
to the ballroom. Clive Clarke, in addi-
tion to sharing the expense of the party,
gave sister Betty a diamond-and-pearl
brooch as a 21st birthday gift. Mrs.
Clive, smothered in white tulle,
shouldered a boa so large that at times
it hid her identity. The cousin hostess,
Janet Landale, added an emerald-green
sash and slippers to her all-white satin
frock. Against the glitter of jewels and
sumptuous fabrics, Betty’s unadorned
pure-white frock, spreading out to touch
the floor in a graceful sweep, was as a
delicate freesia against an array of gay
camellias.
Mrs. P. E. Phillips, wife of the Second
Naval Member, a new figure in Mel-
bourne society, is a good-looker and a
dashing dresser. She made an impressive
first appearance —in evening dress —at
Betty Clarke’s coming-out party, coro-
neted in pearls, and trailing white satin
gored after the Edwardian manner and
inlet with openwork bands running cross-
wise. She is a daughter of Sir Walter
and Lady Wyndham, who visited Aus-
tralia about a year ago, and a sister of
Lady Darnley, Cobham Hall, Kent, Mrs.
Tony Belville, a well-known London hos-
tess, and Glen Kidson, the millionaire
who was killed in a flying accident in
South Africa.
Furred in sable and crowned with
camellias in massed formation, the Em-
merton widow, of Raveloe, greeted Dr.
Kagawa, the reformer from the land of
the cherry-blossom, at the club run by
the internationally-minded on Saturday
morning. The welcome was shared by
the Jiri Baums, a young couple from
Prague, who are travelling through Aus-
tralia by caravan searching for crawling
specimens to put in the scientist’s
natural-history collection. He bagged a
poisonous black-and-red spider which he
had been hunting for ages when his
caravan came to rest at a Westralian
homestead. His hostess had told him
that she had often routed that kind of
crawler from underneath her dining-
room chairs. Dr. Jiri promptly turned his
chair upside down, and there, as if sent
to order, was the coveted eight-legger. A
vital little man, brimming over with laugh-
ter, Dr. Kagawa gave a few impressions
of his visit here. He noted that even our
small country towns could boast botanic
gardens. In Japan, he said, there is no
space for such luxuries. The Japanese
reformer confided that he was more at
home tea-drinking with Australians than
he had been in the company of “lords,
dukes and marquises” in England, who
entertained him in a style “very difficult
for one used to humble living.”
One of the stories behind the exhibits
in the Doll Exhibition, which is attracting
as many as 2500 patrons a day, con-
cerns two dolls frocked in the dress of
the women of Alsace-Lorraine. These
were gifts from General Pau to his
Australian godchild Jacqueline Elliott,
daughter of the late Surgeon-Captain
Elliott. The link between France and
Australia was forged by the friendship
of the Pau family and the descendants
of the Janderins —Dr. Elliott’s mother
was one of them. The French general
was one of the sponsors at Jacqueline’s
christening at St. Peter’s Church, East
Melbourne, and handed over the usual
silver mug. At his request the child was
given the Janderin family name of
Edmee. One of his gift dolls, very aged,
wears the black mourning head-bow of
the days when Alsace-Lorraine was
under German rule. The other, dressed
by Madame Pau for Jacqueline, shows
how gaily the Alsace girls dress since
the liberation. Before he died General
Pau had the pleasure of listening to
Jacqueline’s voice greeting him in French
on a gramophone record. Jacqueline
is now 18, and is being coached to go
to the Uni., where she hopes to take a
medical degree. To return to the exhibi-
tion, a tiny doll in historical dress under
a glass case represents one of Australia’s
early footlight favorites, Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis, dressed as Jane Shore in her regal
days. The toy was lent by Mrs. Lewis’s
niece, Lillie Bryer, whose first appear-
ance on the Australian stage dates back
further than that of any other sur-
viving actress.
Alfred Deakin’s daughters are all en-
gaged in some form of community ser-
vice. This family has no drones, and the
queen bee at the moment is Vera, wife
of Minister for Customs White, who is
showing oft her new autumn hat in this
picture by Dickenson-Monteath. Just
now the Legacy Club is absorbing most
of her attention. She is at the head of
a committee which worked furiously for
weeks to fill the St. Kilda Palais de
Danse on boatrace night, with the object
of raising a few hundred pounds for
daughters and sons whom th® war bereft
of their fathers. The Legacy Club Ball
last year raised £502 toward the expenses
of these children’s education and other
necessities. If she likes, Mrs. White can
write 0.8. E. after her name, but she
prefers to hide her light under a bushel.
During the war she served in the
London depot from which clothes and
comforts were dispatched to soldiers
who had been taken prisoner by the
Germans.
Frances Fraser, an outstanding figure
in our educational sphere, could have
retorted “I told you so” when the
finances of the Women’s Centenary Gift
Book were wound up. The Women’s
Centenary Council found, much to its
surprise, that the publication had cleared
all expenses and shown a profit. At
first nobody would support Frances’s
suggestion of putting down in black and
white Victorian women’s contribution to
cultural life. She had enough cold water
thrown on her scheme to turn the mar-
row of her bones to ice-cream. But she
had the right antidote for apathy—Scot-
tish tenacity. Miss Fraser found her own
guarantors, and the council gave way.


Take your Doctor*s advice . . .
He will tell you that you need a genuine, high quality
medicinal preparation to banish that cold, influenza
or cough.
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
have been accepted and recognised by the medical pro-
fession and the public for over 40 years, and must not
be confused with ordinary non-medicated confections
or gum drops. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are a
medicinal preparation for a specific purpose.
Sufferers from indigestion will find them a remarkable
A. —The Larynx or Organ of Volea, digestive agent. Take one after each meal.
B. The Trachea or Windpipe. OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung. FOR POCKET FOR HOME f /g*
D. —The lobe of one of the Luma. 0K purse, lin OR OPFICE . M O KIBI
BUY BOTH SIZES—USE LAEGE TIN AS EEFILL FOE SMALL ONE 7
Personal and Missing Friends.
RE Estate of CATHERINE MAJOR, deceased.
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of
WELDON MAJOR ASHE, also known as
WELDON MAJOR or LONG, communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
BATHGATE—Relatives of MARGARET
BATHGATE, who died on November 5, 1934,
aged about 63 years, and who was for some
nine years in the employment of Sir Alex-
ander and Lady Walker, of Piersland, Troon,
Ayrshire, and 73 Brook Street, London, are
requested to communicate with MESSRS. A.
& A. F. CAIRNS SMITH, Solicitors, Wal-
lace Chambers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
Legal Noticei
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW [
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 518 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARGARET ELIZABETH LEE
(formerly Margaret Elizabeth Waterworth)
Petitioner
And MAURICE CHRISTOPHER LEE
Respondent.
TO MAURICE CHRISTOPHER LEE
late of Watkin Street Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
ELIZABETH LEE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirtieth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Second day of May, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 707 of 1935.
BETWEEN CORALIE VERNA ROGERS
Petitioner „ _ , .
And RALPH ROGERS Respondent.
TO RALPH ROGERS late of Young in the
State of New South Wales. •
TAKE NOTICE that the said CORALIE
VERNA ROGERS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion by you for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Thirty-first day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Third day of May, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. MASON, Solicitor for Petitioner, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
WHEREAS BEATRICE CAROLINE BATT
formerly of Hobart in Tasmania but late ol
Sydney in the State of New South Wales widow
deceased departed this life on or about the
Thirtieth day of August One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four at Sydney aforesaid
and National Executors and Trustees Com-
pany of Tasmania Limited has obtained
Probate of the Will (with one codicil thereto)
of the said Beatrice Caroline Batt NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all parties having
claims on the Estate of the said Beatrice
Caroline Batt are required to send in to the
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
particulars of such claims in writing on or
before the Fifteenth day of August now next
otherwise they will be excluded from any
benefit of the assets in the hands of the
said National Executors and Trustees Company
of Tasmania Limited.
Dated this Fourth day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five.
J. SMITHIES,
Secretary National Executors and
Trustees Company of Tasmania. Limited.
SIMMONS, WOLFHAGEN, SIMMONS &
WALCH. 86 Collins Street, Hobart, Proctors.
Film
fih and robs them of Sparkle
Ilia
It can be removed safely — quickly by
this scientific method
OU must know how to keep teeth
brilliant, dazzling. If you don’t, you
can’t expect to attract men by your smile.
Now there is a special way to make teeth
exquisitely lovely. It acts by removing a
stubborn, ugly coating that forms on teeth.
This coating, called film, is primarily re-
sponsible for dull, unsightly teeth. You
can feel film with your tongue. It forms
constantly—rapidly.
This film absorbs the stains from food
—the ugly stains from smoking. In film
are the acid-producing germs that cause
decay...glued by film to teeth, where they
attack enamel and destroy the part beneath.
Thus, removing film accomplishes two
things—keeps teeth gleaming bright and
helps prevent dreaded tooth decay.
The approved way to remove film is with
PEPSODENT
*he special film - removing tooth paste
Pepsodent—urged by dentists and used by-
four million people. Pepsodent contains a
special cleansing and polishing material- —
more effective in removing film—softer and
therefore safer. The discovery is contained
in Pepsodent exclusively. Because of it,
Pepsodent is termed the "special film-
removing” tooth paste. Don’t expect the
same results from any other.
FREE - 10-Day Tube
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. S.B.),
Box 488G, G.P.O., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address
j k205sm/a Only one family. ,
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
After a lapse of six years the Murgoo
picnic race-meeting once more put the
Murchison on the social map. Cars
travelled thither hundreds of miles from
all points of the compass. Scores of the
fair sex made up their beds in the
shearers’ quarters, while the menfolk slept
more or less peacefully in the woolshed.
Portion of the shed was canvassed off for
dancing and canopied with festoons of
streamers and Chinese lanterns. The
opening night’s dance was followed by
two days of racing and dancing, culmi-
nating in the Cup Ball, which kept the
revellers going until breakfast', Mrs. Reg
Fremlin, Murgoo’s chatelaine, gyrated
her rich black velvets until dawn ; Thun-
delarra’s Mrs. Don Beaton spun a web
of beige lace ; Mrs. Edgar Grant brought
her shimmering knee-length sequin coat
from Wogarno ; Mrs. Henry Clarkson,
of Meka, was there with daughter Judy ;
the Ernest Chenerys came from Boola-
thana and the Bill Walshes from Mileura.
A red-letter day in the Myola Club’s
history was the opening of new premises
in Claremont. Co-architect's Margaret
Pitt Morrison and Harold Krantz made
a happy combination of jarrah wood-
work, red bricks and buff walls as a
background for gold-and-blue tapestry
and stage curtain in the main hall. The
club’s founder, Mrs. Flower, holding pre-
sentation roses before her black Chan-
tillies, threw wide the portals. Presi-
dent Mrs. Hubert Momber rustled her
burgundy silks between bowls of color-
ful dahlias and the sprays of autumn
leaves and berries bordering the stage,
and music was made by Mrs. Cecil Lamb,
Mrs. Jean Wilson, Zoe Lennegan,
Dorothy Formby and Kit Sherlock.
Mt. Yokine Golf Club marked its open-
ing-of-the-season ball with elaborate
floral decorations. Dahlias, zinnias and
chrysanthemums were blended artistically
within, while the approach to the club
house was lit with myriads of colored
lights skilfully hidden in the labyrinth
of trees. Mrs. Bacon bowed her mid-
night-blue flat crepes over a cluster of
pink roses and gladioli. Mrs. Keith
Gray’s trained matelasse was mossy with
green velvet; Mrs. Howard Bonner
spread a cloud of net over her black
taffetas; Peggy Boas drew a chenille
thread through her green georgettes;
Edna Tomlinson was dryad-like in nut-
brown ninon.
Roma Mansfield and Arthur Gentry
exchanged vows at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Filmy tulle fell o’er the bride’s face from
a circlet of orange-blossom and down
her back to the hem of her fan-shaped
train of snowy self-striped satin. The
cross-cut tunic reaching to the knees was
flanked with tight-fitting sleeves, cut in
a V in front and finished with a row of
buttons at the back. Picture-hats of
buttercup tulle brushed the short, flared
sleeves of Verna Mansfield’s and Patricia
Boyle’s buttercup georgettes. Rejoicings
were at the Esplanade.
Anita Fitzgerald was responsible for
the Shakspeare Club’s smooth production
of “As You Like It” at the Assembly
Hall. Freida Treadgold and Mable Starr
were admirable foils as Rosalind and
Celia, with Irma Bedwell and Marjorie
Butler keeping up the feminine standard
as Audrey and Phoebe.
Bridesmaids at post-Lenten weddings
are reaping a harvest of engagements.
Peggy Nunn and Ted Dunphy are being
showered with congratulations ; Dorothy
Royce has promised to go to the altar
with Jack Otwell, and Audrey Thiel is
showing David King Scott’s ring to ad-
miring friends.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Jubilee Ball at G.H. was a bril-
liant affair. The guests passed through
reception-rooms ablaze with gorgeous
autumn flowers into a large marquee car-
peted and furnished with comfortable
chairs. The dance marquee was further
on again. Both tents were draped with
green and white, his Ex.’s colors. At
the end of the ballroom a dais was
arranged, where eight debs, were pre-
sented.
Lady Dugan looked distinguished in
almond-green and silver-shot lame cut
on long lines, a double fold of material
round the corsage giving a sleeve effect.
She carried a huge fan of ostrich feathers
to match her gown, and wore a diamond
tiara. The guests numbered 1500. The
acting-Mayoress, Mrs. Dunstan, sported
ice-blue satin with silver lines, fitting to
the knees and flaring below, merging into
a train. Acting-Premier Ritchie’s wife
wore bottle-green matelasse shot with
gold, cut on long lines. The debs, were
Nan Booth, Judith Robertson, Ruth
Winser, Alison Anderson, Betty Despard,
Lydia Marriott, Margaret Walters and
Wendy Roupell. Five wore white taffeta,
two were in pale pink and one in bis-
cuit taffeta. Most of them favored period
frocks.
Commander Bernard Phillips has taken
over the duties of secretary to his Ex.,
Legh Winser having left for a trip to
England accompanied by daughters
Janet and Ruth.
The dance and bridge party organised
by Mrs. Dunstan and held in the Town
Hall proved a great success. The floral
decorations were devised by Mrs. F.
Harcus. Exhibition dances were con-
tributed by pupils of Miss Dorothy Slane.
TASMANIA.
Rita Grueber and Basil Jones are en-
trants for the Matrimonial Stakes. Basil
is a son of knight Henry Jones, the jam
king.
The wedding of Jill Page and Tom
Riggall at Trinity Church was a quiet
affair with only the family in attend-
ance. The bride’s going-away wedding
frock was of soft navy woollen stuff,
plainly cut, with parchment-tinted satin !
collar, and very smart hat to match the
frock, with blue-and-white feather at one
side. A luncheon at Hadley’s followed,
a family affair, and the newly-weds left
for Melbourne. Their home will be the
lovely old property at Somercotes, Ross,
inherited by Mr. Riggall from his father
and grandfather.
The cathedral saw the marriage of
Bob Sharp and Margaret Andrewartha,
Bishop Hay officiating. A cascade of
magnolia satin frills falling from the
waistline at the back into a long train
was worn by the bride, and the net veil
was caught to the head by a little wreath
of orange-blossom. Alison Page, Maisie
Sharp and Margaret Rex followed the
bride in cherry-red ring velvet trained
frocks, with little capes across the
shoulders and haloes of gold roses on
their heads,
A Longford wedding was that of 1
Mollie, youngest girl of the A. E. Brod-
ribbs, Curraghmore, to G. D. Hill, Suva,
Fiji. The bride wore white windswept
satin, with fine lines of silver lame at the
edge of the neck and sleeves, and silver
edgings to the petalled skirt, the long
train being edged with flowers and leaves i
of sequins and pearls. The heirloom veil I
of Honiton, mounted on tulle, fell from
a halo of silver leaves and orange-
blossom, The three ’maids were bride’s
sister Betty, Phyllis Swan and Janet
Davies, dressed alike in forget-me-not
blue and silver.
The Orpheus Concert at the Town I
Hall, with Allen Limb conducting, was
well attended, despite bad weather. In the !
audience were his Ex. and Lady Clark,
the Mayor and Mayoress of Hobart, the
Alan Mclntyres, Dr. and Mrs. Arundel
Orchard, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Rogers
and other musical enthusiasts.


Here's FASTEST
RELIEF from
Back Pains
In a FEW HOURS, you can
be WELL AGAIN This Way!
Drive away the cause of your pains
and get back your strength the same
way hundreds of thousands here, in
Australia, have been doing for years.
Nothing can beat Dr. Harrison’s Pills,
because the Harrison’s formula is
100% for cause-ending wasting no
bulk on mere soothing agents. Even
Aspirins may soothe and dull your
pain, but they won’t heal your in-
flamed Kidneys, won’t stop your
getting up at night through urinary
weakness, won’t end those dull groin
aches, crippling leg pains, or the
“broken glass” irritation and scald-
ing that go with bad kidney, bladder
and urinary ills. If you want to end
Backache; Rheumatism; Acidity;
Weak, Dizzy Spells and resultant
“below par” feeling—be sure you get
Harrison’s Pills guaranteed to get
rid of your pains—to give you grate-
ful relief from the very first inex-
pensive bottle —or money back. You’ll
feel better in a few hours if you get
a bottle of Harrison’s Pills from yom
Chemist NOW! Wise people ACT!
Remington Model 34
Bolt-action Repeating Rifle
DEADLY IN ITS ACCURACY
AND HITTING POWER
This repeater is ideal for general shooting or target shooting.
Magazine holds twenty-two shorts, seventeen longs, or jftP
fifteen long-rifle cartridges - Price
imp jlssSiD
For best results use Remington Kleanbore Cartridges
Ask your dealer for them
jariW PAUL & BRAY LTD., 82-84 Sussex SL, Sydney
D. D. BRYANT. Aust. Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
21-6-35
PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions to B. I/5/’35
they go to:
S. C. MARRIOTT, Ferndale, Wood-
land-street, Ashgrove, Q’land;
MRS. M. E. BARRETT, P.0. Box 129.
Quorn, S. Australia;
K. KAIN, Private Bag, Kooringa,
S. Australia; and
A. CONNELL, Military-road, Mosman,
New South Wales.
The competition now closes. While
it lasted 200 original “Bulletin”
drawings were distributed.
desejw/e*
the /W heahncnl
ijou can tjAweii,
The Jaily use of
Cntieum
illtfi
'Ointment
Keeps your skin in
perfect condition
Made of the purest ingredients, deli-
catelymedicated,theSoapprotectsas
it cleanses the skin. The Ointment
is an every-day necessity, providing
quick relief for burns,cuts,scratches
and red, rough hands. The regular
use of Cutieura Soap and
Ointment will safeguard the skin
from many of the irritations jwhich
cause much discomfort and distress.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Queensland University
“Kaloa”: Queensland University is
celebrating its silver jubilee. The seed from
which it grew was the University Exten-
sion and Equipment Committee founded
in 1893. Commonwealth C.J. Samuel
Griffith, State Chief Justice Pope Cooper
—who belonged to the old school
and drove about the town in the hottest
weather in a grey deerstalker and frock-
coat handling his dogcart reins with
gloved hands—Justice J. L. Woolcock,
R. H. Roe, A. J. Thynne, E. H. Macart-
ney, J. J. Walsh, the present Chancellor
Lieut.-Governor James Blair and a few
dozen more never let the subject die.
The scheme did not get much public
support —the day still ruled when eyes
turned to Sydney and Oxford. The
newspapers were not enthusiastic. I, the
baby of the committee, was once refused
leave to attend a meeting by a news
editor who remarked that the only uni-
versity worth while was experience and
that graduates were only “mugs in black
night shirts.”
Eventually, with two Scotsmen at the
helm —the Governor, William MacGregor,
an M.D. of Edinburgh, who rarely
began a speech without some reference
to his university career, and William
Kidston, the Premier, who had had his
education as a foundry boy in Falkirk —
the University Bill was passed in
December, 1909.
The first Senate was gazetted on April
15, 1910, and held its first meeting a few
weeks later. William MacGregor was
Chancellor and R. H. Roe, an old Balliol
mathematical scholar and blue, trained
under Jowett, the Vice-Chancellor. Of
the four original professors—J. L. Michie
(classics), H. J. Priestly (mathematics and
physics), B. D. Steele (chemistry) and
A. J. Gibson —the first three still control
their departments. T. E. Jones, who left
a mathematical mastership at B.G.S. to
become Director of Correspondence
Studies, is still in his office, and F. W. S.
Cumbrae Stewart, the original Registrar,
is Garrick Law Professor,
There are now 13 professors and 41
lecturers and demonstrators in six facul-
ties, several trained in the university
itself. Another faculty—medicine—is to
be added. About 1000 graduates are
on the lists of the institution, which has
long outgrown the accommodation of
the old Government House, in which its
first handful of students met in March,
1911, and it is proposed as soon as funds
allow to move to a site at St. Lucia in
the suburbs.
“Nagheer”: There’s Torres Strait pid-
gin, too (B. 24/4/’35). Years ago I met
my’ friend Treacle, of Yorke Island,
strolling down Thursday Island’s main
street with his head and neck all done
up in bandages. “What pfeller bin
fightum you, Treacle?” one inquired.
“Fightum pfis, master,” replied the
damaged warrior. “Be-lenty saucy pfis,
that one. Groper that pfeller. Kai-kai
head belong me five fadom, along skin-
dive. Pushum thumb belong me eye be-
long him, pushum plenty. Altogether
strongpfeller I push him eye. All time,
too, I kai-kai inside face belong that
one, pushum strongpfeller along him eye,
too. Soon I think I finish. Foot belong
me come up, I kickum belly belong that
pfis, kickum strongpfeller, pushum strong-
pfeller, kai-kai him strongpfeller. That
pfeller pfis he be-lenty sick, he sing out
‘Boomph’; let go, I come up. Good-
pfeller that up! Ned Mosby he take me
along hoppital!” For years Treacle’s
photo, had a world-wide circulation as
an alleged instance of a shark attack.
It really was a groper. I saw some of
the peg-teeth, pulled out of Treacle’s
head at the hospital.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Prospects look gloomy
for the Thursday Island shellers. At
least six Japanese sampans are working
the eastern waters of Torres Strait, with
the advantage of paying no fees or taxa-
“ Hey, don't y' know this is the close season?"
“Too right, boss—only time I can get close enough to shoot ’em"
tion and of being at liberty to lift any
size shell, however small. Australian
shellers pay heavy charges and are liable
to a penalty of £5 for every shell under
2iin. in diameter. Five years ago the
average take of a T.I. boat on a 2\- to
3-month drift was from 8 to 10 tons.
Now it averages from 4\ to 5 tons. The
Japanese store their catches on unfre-
quented islands, to be picked up by
carrier vessels. Shellers reckon that the
Government should at least give them
an open go by abolishing fees and re-
strictions.
* * * *
“Shepherd”: Millions of sheep in the
west of Queensland will perish if drought
conditions last for more than six or eight
weeks longer. Below Cameron Downs,
near Muttaburra, many stations are shear-
ing with from six to eight months’ wool.
After May a slack is expected. Stud
stock and young sheep are being fed at
great expense in the hope of rain. Older
sheep are being killed for their skins, but
some are dying before even that much
is left to the owners. These conditions
are prevalent over almost the whole
of the north and central west. Only in
small isolated areas has rain fallen. The
Gregory River, in the Gulf country,
normally carrying a strong flow, is just a
trickle.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane has been enjoy-
ing a diverting squabble between the City
Council and the . Deputy-Postmaster-
General, Mr. Corbett. The casus belli
is a new pattern of posting box designed
by Mr. Corbett. The civic fathers de-
scribe it as an obstruction to footpath
traffic, and compare its artistry to Ep-
stein’s. Or to a coffin. In the latest
round the wily Corbett got in a nasty
one by pointing out that the council
allows 299 obstructions to traffic in a
portion of Queen-street alone —32 tram
posts, 166 verandah posts, three hitching
posts, 25 rubbish-boxes, four art-union
ticket stalls, nine fire hydrants, 58 auto-
matic match and sweet machines and a
couple of newspaper stands. The bell
then called ’em to corners.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The pictur-
esque old Brisbane Observatory tower
on Wickham-terrace has seen some curi-
ous changes in its 100 years. Originally
built as a windmill to grind corn for the
convicts, it was a failure until Captain
Logan brought Andrew Petrie up from
Sydney to set it right. For some years
it had been worked as a treadmill. The
first hangings in Queensland, two abos.
guilty of murder, were carried out from
a plank projected from one of its win-
dows. For years it served as an obser-
vatory and signal-station. Now it is
a private experimental station for tele-
vision work.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon and Mrs.
Josephine Barnard were guests at the
Lyceum Club after their return from
abroad. Mrs. Barnard talked about Eng-
land and Europe, and Mrs. McKinnon
about South Africa. Mrs. B. F. Robson,
president, extended a welcome, and
the Cilento lady, Mesdarnes A. H.
Conrad, M. L. Reading, A. K. Den-
mead and Miss Harriet Marks were
hostesses.
Kathleen Joyce, of The Overflow,
Beaudesert, daughter of Edgar Joyce,
and a cousin of the Delpratt clan, was
married at St. Thomas’s Church, Beau-
desert, to Philip Bligh Nutting, second
son of Mrs. J. B. Nutting, of Bald
Ridges, Kalbar. Rev. J. Johnson tied
the knot, and Marcella Delpratt played
the organ. The bride wore powder-blue,
and carried eucharist lilies and carna-
tions. Patricia Joyce and the two little
Harrison nieces of the bride attended
her, wearing primrose.
Schumann had an afternoon out with
the Brisbane Women’s Club musical
coterie. The president, Mrs. G. L. Byth,
gave a sketch of the musician’s life, and
members exhibited his works.
Mrs. E. M. Ralph, wife of our Briga-
dier-General, will pause in her packing
long enough to present the debs, at the
annual Naval and Military Ball on May
17.
The Governor collected an LL.D. on
the University Degree Day. He wore his
new robes, and was being conducted down
the hall to the dais when a student, softly
whistling, started the “Wedding March.”
His Ex. didn’t laugh, but had a struggle
to keep calm.
Muriel Brunskill hardly had a moment
to herself here. Brisbane Women’s Club
tea’d her, and Mrs. G. L. Byth passed
over a large bouquet of red roses. At
one concert Archie Day and Fred Homer
sent up as their tribute a huge basket of
fruit tied with scarlet ribbons.
Queensland is to have an air pageant
on May 25 at the Archerfield aerodrome.
The proceeds will swell the funds of the
ambulance.
The clubhouse of the Royal Queens-
land Golf Club at Hamilton was gay
with flags and chrysanthemums for the
first winter dance. Arthur Sharp was
chairman of committee, and over 200
players and their friends came along.
J. Robertson, who collected the Aus-
tralian dancing championship in Mel-
bourne last year, and his partner, Miss
D. Humrich, gave a demonstration.
The younger set held a bridge party
in the Lady Mayoress’s room to swell the
funds of the Valley Creche and Kinder-
garten. Lady Mayoress Jones welcomed
the.guests, assisted by daughter Dorothy,
president of the younger set.
Peter Olesen, who left Brisbane 30
years ago, a young and newly-ordained
clergyman, for the mission field in China,
is spending a brief furlough in Queens-
land.


.«* IMPROVED TRUCKS
of 30 cwt. and 2-21 tons capacity
V 1
'ti
To thestandard features thathave
made Bedford famous these im-
provements are now added . . .
121% MORE PULLING POWER
at NORMAL engine speeds.
GREATER BRAKING POWER
IMPROVED DIFFERENTIAL
with Straddle-mounted Pinion.
STRONGER FRAME.
EASIER STEERING.
MORE ROAD CLEARANCE.
EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG
REAR AXLE (fully floating on
2-21 ton model), with banjo
type housing mounted at an
angle of 45 degrees for added
clearance and easy inspection
and adjustment
and
POWER BOOSTED BRAKES
(on the 2-2| ton model).
Powered by the famous Bedford six-cylinder
valve-in-head engine (the type now almost
universally favoured for its economy and re-
liability), these improved Bedford trucks mean
still lower overall operating cost.
Check those improvements again! Collec-
tively, they offer more power, more speed,
more convenience, and unparalleled reliability
.. . and remember .. . these are improvements
to a standard design that has already secured
for Bedford a position of leadership.
See these improved Bedfords to-day. They
are available in capacities of 30 cwt. and 2-21
tons. Delivery can be made of chassis only,
chassis with cab, or as complete units with any
of a number of standard and special bodies
made and warranted by General Motors-
Holden’s Limited.
BRITISH BEDFORD
The Complete range of British BedfordTiucks includes models of 8 civt., 12-15 cwt.,30cwt., 2-2i tons, and 3-4 tons.
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer
M22J6M/B
A New Note in Mystic Tales:—
WHEN THE WINDS
GO BY.
By
E.MARY GURNEY.
I was positive that not even one of Codie’s
thoroughbreds could be as beautiful as that
glimpse suggested. Beauty not of this earth;
though an untouched thoroughbred running free
in the hills always gives the impression less of
flesh and blood than spirit—something intangible,
composed of the elements, wind and sun and
rain ; all the beauty, more felt than seen, that is
God upon earth.
ONE minute the ridge was empty,
and the next he was there, with
uplifted head and mane and tail
streaming—an inky silhouette against
the reflected silver-gold of the sunset.
Then, as he had come, so he was gone,
without sound, without visible movement
even, so that 1 thought I was the victim
of hallucination.
“God,” I said, “that was glory incar-
nate ! ”
“It is,” rasped Codie over his shoulder.
“That’s the first time I’ve seen him in
two months. Come on.”
I sent my mount after him helter-
skelter, dismissing the theory of hallu-
cination, though I was positive that not
even one of Codie’s thoroughbreds could
be as beautiful as that glimpse suggested.
Beauty not of this earth ; though an un-
touched thoroughbred running free in
the hills always gives the impression less
of flesh and blood than spirit—something
intangible, composed of the elements,
wind and sun and rain ; all the beauty,
more felt than seen, that is God upon
earth.
They have it that Codie is a hard
man, but to me he is kin with his horses
—less body than spirit. You never think
of him as an entity. Codie and horses
of course ; but it goes deeper than that.
Codie and horses—and sun and wind
in the hills. Hills always, because, though
his house stands on the last slope that
rofls out to join the plains, his place runs
up and back on to the first range of the
hills that go out, wave on great, shining
wave, forty miles to the sea. From the
lop of them, looking east, there is no-
thing more than that; but west and
north and south the plains are, and be-
yond them the mountains. Forty miles,
too, from us to them, with the plains
lying between, dun in the wintertime,
emerald in the spring, topaz when the
summer droughts are on them, blue
waves when the wind ripples the autumn
seeding. Lovely always.
Codie breeds sheep for money, and
horses for love. His sheep are ordinary
—Romney-Southdown crossbreds for
freezing—but his horses are as good as
any in the world. Some of them have
been better ; and his prices are prohibi-
tive. He loves them, so when he has
to sell, every spring and autumn, he puts
reserves on them beyond what he fancies
any man will pay ; but they always do.
There’s something about Codie’s thor-
oughbreds.
They come straight in off the hills, and
we handle them ourselves. The sales
are held on the place. We get them
ready, and Codie leads them in the ring.
No other hand touches them until they
leave the place, so the bloom is still on
them.
When they go Codie is dumb for days
afterwards.
HE breasted the hilltop, but the world
was empty when we reached it —
just the sheep dotted over the hillside,
grazing peacefully. We stared from hill
to hill, watching to see them run,
scatter in a panic, before the colt’s
advance ; but they remained undisturbed.
On the hill’s round crest, soft with the
recent rains, the traces of his hoofs were
clear; and away down the steep side of
it the marks of his descent were so far
apart it made you giddy just to imagine
the way he must have gone.
“You’d say he was not flesh,” said
Codie soberly. “There’s the wind in his
feet.”
Rising two years he was, out of an
old black mare that had been kicked in
the shoulder as a yearling, and never
gone faster than a hobbling walk from
that day to this. A gentle, secret beast,
with no fear in her, and a queer, un-
canny way of looking beyond you, as
though she saw things that you could
not see. But Codie never knew who
sired her get.
“Uncanny,” said Codie, as we rode
home through the dusk —dusk on the
hilltops, night in the valleys. Out across
the plains the mountains shone through
a luminous mist, so lovely that one
turned dazzled away, overwhelmed by
the sudden assurance of one’s own im-
mortality. ‘’Since I weaned him I’ve
only seen him three times —three times
in six months! I think he stays on the
place ; but the Maoris on the coast speak
of a ghost horse that gallops on the
shore when the moon is full.”
“Bill,” I asked, “where does the old
horse go? Or, if he comes to her, why
not to the others?”
Codie shrugged.
“She conceives of the wind, I think.”
He looked at me whimsically. “Now
you’re here we’ll have to make a deter-
mined attempt to round him up.”
But I knew that he was convinced that
no one would ever succeed in catching
more than a glimpse of the black colt.
“Conceived of the wind! ”
WE scoured the place from end to end
—rounded all the horses in, even
to the old brood mares ; and once, when
we were out near the back at sunrise, we
surprised him drinking at a dam in the
valley. When he caught wind of us he
was gone like a rifle shot, skimming up
the opposite hill in long, easy strides
that left our hard-fed thoroughbreds far
behind. There was a fence below the
crest of the hill, and he went over it as
though it was not there. If I had not
seen it I should not have believed it was
possible. We made a half-mile detour to
a gate, picked up his tracks and followed
him all day towards the coast, but never
caught so much as a glimpse of him.
We got home at midnight, on horses
that could scarcely stagger ; and as we
went in through the home-paddock gate
he neighed derisively from the ridge
above us.
In the paddock behind the house the
brood mares began to gallop round and
call, but, though they kept at it all night,
never once did he answer them.
We were out again with the dawn on
fresh horses, but though we found his
spoor not half an hour old, and though
we followed relentlessly until dark, we
saw neither hair nor hide of him.
AFTER that he vanished completely,
and it was three weeks before we
saw him again, on the same spot on
which I had seen him for the first time,
and at the same hour, with dusk in the
valleys and the rich, last light spilling
in cascades of unearthly beauty along
the hilltops.
We were riding slowly on jaded horses
when suddenly, with one accord, they
stopped and gazed intently at the ridge,
which was sable against the reflected glow
of the sunset. Codie and I looked up,
too, holding our breaths as the horses
held theirs.
The sunset flared suddenly with a wild
bronze light, and a last, oblique ray
slanted over the hills and seemed to
come to rest on the motionless horse, so
that the white mark on his forehead stood
out like a single star ; and on his bare
back was a woman’s figure. Her hair
was an aureole of gold, and her garment
blue ; but of harness on the colt there
was not a stitch. The coppery glare of
the light went out as a lamp is blown
out, and when our eyes were once more
accustomed to the grey of the dusk the
ridge was empty.
Codie’s horse reared, snorting. I
ran my hand down my own beast’s
quivering flank, and the sweat was drip-
ping off him, though he was as hard
as nails.
At the home-paddock gate the old
black mare was waiting. She called to
Codie, and tried to slip through, but he
slammed the gate in her face.
“No more of your tricks, my girl,” he
told her. “This season you’ll mate with
what 1 know.”
But in the morning she, who had
never gone out of a hobble, was gone,
nor could we trace her.
“They’re born of the wind,” I said.
“Thoroughbreds. To have the wind in
your heart and never to have run before
it . . . Compensation, perhaps.”
Codie broke off his crazy whistling
to demand:
“And the woman?”
“The woman? Perhaps for her, too,
the colt is compensation.”
“Hallucination!” contradicted Codie,
almost irritably. “There isn’t a house
of any sort within ten miles of that
ridge. How could a woman be riding
an unbroken colt, without bit or bridle,
away out there?”
“How did old Dusk go over the fence
and away, leaving no trace?”
Codie shrugged and muttered: “More
things in heaven and earth”....
But what he really thought or be-
lieved 1 never knew.
WE started out on a systematic search,
riding to every homestead within
a twenty-mile radius, but nothing came
of it. No one could swear they had
seen the colt, though two farmers, with
twenty miles between them, thought they
had seen a horse, and then decided that


m
Mm
THERE'S
SOMETHING
NEW ,
HERE TOO/
COMING SOON /
they had not. All of them swore that
they had no womenfolk who would be
careering about on an unbroken colt
miles from home in the dusk.
At the end of the week I was pre-
pared to believe I had been suffering
from a touch of the heat. The motion-
less, blue-clad figure on the inky sil-
houette of the horse —the unearthly light
. . . just tricks of vision.
But Codie was certain. In the broad
daylight he knew that what he had seen
was flesh and blood; but at dusk he
got spooky again—not uncomfortably so,
but serenely, because the hills were in
his heart.
One morning old Dusk was back in
her paddock, drowsily peaceful. It had
rained the night before, and on either
side of the gate her hoof marks were
clear, showing how she had propped
herself over it.
That was early in September. Three
times Codie took her to the stallion, but
they took not the slightest interest in
each other ; and in all that time we never
so much as set eyes on the colt.
Then one morning we came on his
fresh tracks on the boundary, and de-
cided to follow them, and a pretty dance
they led us, through some of the very
roughest country it has ever been my lot
to ride. If Codie’s horses had not been
hill-bred thoroughbreds we could not
have done it. In the end we lost the
trail completely, and, giving it up in
disgust, worked our way along the top
of a razorback towards a curving range
that looked as if it might offer better
going-
Codie was in the lead, for he rides a
good stone lighter than I, so his horse
was in better case. Suddenly, above
the rocky spur that dropped away to-
wards the range we were aiming at, he
drew rein with an exclamation of sur-
prise, and as I joined him I whistled ;
for right below us, buried in the heart
of the hills, and at least three miles from
the nearest road, was a small homestead,
a cowshed and one or two other ram-
shackle buildings.
Back of the minds of both of us was
the conviction that here we should solve
part of our mysteries.
IT took us an hour to work down to it.
The house and buildings were inside
one fence, though there was a small yard
in front of the cowshed, before which
two or three cows were already waiting.
We opened the gate and went in, up a
grass-grown track, to where, beside the
house, a man in a pink singlet and frayed
trousers hoed potatoes.
He was short, stocky and aggressive,
bullnecked and florid and overbearing.
He answered our greeting surlily,
straightening and wiping his dripping
brow with the back of his hand.
“How the hell did you get here?” he
demanded, and looked half-minded to
take to us with the hoe.
Codie- answered pleasantly—he was
always pleasant:
“Over the hills. We’re looking for a
horse.”
“Horse, hey? Think I stole it? Hey?”
Codie answered mildly:
“As far as I can see, it would take
an angel to steal it. It has —wings.”
The other glared with mounting hos-
tility ; then jerked his thumb over his
shoulder and sneered:
“P’r’aps that’s it,” and fell to his hoeing
again.
I turned and saw, lounging round the
end of a shed, the oldest horse I have
ever clapped eyes on. It was not that
he looked old, for his ribs were well
covered, his coal-black coat was glossy
and he carried himself with the airy
lightness of a thoroughbred that has
never been abused. His eyes were bright
and full, and yet you sensed that he was
old as a horse is rarely old. Codie
walked over to him, and he reached out
a friendly head on which a white star
blazed, eyeing our mounts with lazy in-
terest.
Codie ran his hands down the beast’s
legs and straightened, looking curiously
at the hoeing man.
“Friend,” he said, “you own the re-
mains of a great horse.”
The other swung his hoe, right—left,
right—left, with hypnotic rhythm.
“I ain’t your friend, but you’re right.”
“He ’minds me,” mused Codie, “of
Midnight Sun.”
The other went on with his hoeing.
“He might; because he is.”
“Eh? Look here —Midnight Sun was
foaled before 1 was born!”
“And you ain’t no chicken, eh?”
Codie ignored that.
“He served his last mares when he was
twenty —and that was twenty years ago! ”
“And the last two seasons he was at
stud the mares he foaled never came to
drop ; so Smith sent him to me to be
shot, but I didn’t” —
Codie turned from him back to the
horse, and I knew what he was thinking,
but all he said was: “Do you still work
him?”
“Me? I ain’t been across a horse this
twenty year, but the girl does.”
“Girl?”
Codie swung on him again, and again
the man jerked his thumb —this time in
the direction of the rear of the shack.
“Her.” He lifted his voice in a rau-
cous shout; “Hey, Fan!”
I glanced involuntarily in the direction
his dirty thumb indicated, and caught
round the corner a glimpse of a faded
blue dress above sturdy bare legs.
He bawled again—then flung the hoe
aside and shambled off around the
house. There were sounds of a scuffle ;
then he reappeared, propelling in front of
him the child Fan.
NOT tall, but broad and strongly made
and Saxon fair. Her hair rippled
from her wide, sun-scorched forehead
in deep waves of burnished gold. In the
scuffle the draggled blue frock had been
torn afresh, exposing her smooth, firm-
fleshed shoulder.
Eighteen, perhaps—twenty at the most;
but her sullen, ruggedly-beautiful face
was haunting with the depths of its
tragedy, so childlike it was, and yet so
full of knowledge ; and under the child-
ishness and knowledge there brooded the
wildness and mystery that is born in
solitude.
The man jerked her to a halt in front
of Codie, and Codie said sharply: “Let
her go! You’re hurting her.”
“An’ have her bolt? Not much!”
“She’ll do no such thing,” said Codie
angrily, and to the girl: “1 want to talk
to you about —your horse.”
Her eyes, which had been sullenly fixed
on the ground, flew to his face mistrust-
fully, and Codie smiled. Unexpectedly
she smiled back —and that was breath-
taking, like a ray of the rising sun finding
a rift in the clouds on a sullen grey
morning.
“My—horse 9”
Her voice was low-pitched and husky,
and her utterance almost difficult, as
though her voice might be uncertain with
disuse. There was nothing common in
it The vowels were short and round,
c nnC oi Hmwl
w,th no suspicion of a nasal drawl.
The black colt, said Codie. Hov
did you tame him so that you could ride
him without bit or bridle?”
Her face went white, flushed scarlet
under her fair skin, and she twisted sud-
denly out of her father’s grasp, but
Codie was too quick for her. He caught
her dexterously but gently, swinging her
round and pinning her against the stal-
lion’s shoulder. The beast turned his
grand old head to lip her cheek.
In Codie’s grasp she ceased to struggle,
and stood staring at him with wide, fas-
cinated eyes, panting as though she had
run far.
“I’m not going to take him away from
you ” Codie said, “but there will be con-
ditions to your keeping him.”
The man intervened belligerently.
•, • i
“Look here You accusin V S
of horse-stealm ? Because if she would,
she ain t got time! You leave go of
* ier -
The girl flared suddenly.
“You hold your tongue, tool.
What do you know about it?”
Her eyes, which were hard and wary,
yet candid as a child’s, dropped to Codie’s
hands that pinioned her bare arms ; and
she muttered sullenly: “No do
you! I don’t know what you mean!
“Don’t you?” He released her and
stood looking at her thoughtfully, and
under his quiet regard she flushed like
a peony rose. “Child, don't lie to me.
For one thing, you don’t need to. You’ve
performed a miracle with the colt, and
for that you deserve—recompense. Would
you like to train him for me?”
Her sullen mouth quivered, and her
dirty hands crept up to the old stallion’s
m “e and played _ with it restlessly,
You re joshm me.
“Tm not. There are things one does
not ‘josh’ about. You love horses, and
have none. I love them, and have hun-
dreds . is the best o£ them
a || s 0 £ cannot g j ve him to you ; but
tbere is a valley on the boundary where
i cou | d budd a box and a yar d, and
you’d soon learn how to feed him.” He
swung suddenly on the man. “I’ll pay
you for the girl’s time.”
The other came back with a sort of
snarl.
“How much?”
Codie echoed him.
“How much?”
They eyed each other calculating!}-,
There were white lines running from
Codie’s mouth to his nostrils, and his
eyes were hard as I had never seen them
hard before. In them was something of
the same look that I had seen there when
he was bartering one of his thorough-
breds-hardness to cover his pain. He
was bartering with the father for the
girl’s life, though I think he hardly knew
f t
« A pound! ” said the man loudly.
“Fifteen bob!”
“Ten,” said Codie quietly.
Dutch auction!
“After all> she will live at home—
have time to work here.”
“See here, mister! I trained horses
before you was born! ”
“Yes,” agreed Codie. He hesitated,
and b is eyes strayed back to the girl
w here she stood playing with the stal-
hon ’ s mane—an impassive chattel over
whose fate men wrangled brutishly. “I’ll
make it fifteen, and all her time is
mine.”
“She’ll live home! I’m respectable!”
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE
Makes you Look and Feel so Old
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE
But act quickly. Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills from your chemist, and take them as directed. This
is the right thing to do, for De Witt’s Pills contain ingredients
which enable your kidneys to extract the harmful uric acid from
your system—just as Nature intended they should —and when
you get rid of this harmful uric acid, your back will cease aching.
Nothing else will do. You cannot obtain the same results
by any other means. Rubbing with embrocations or liniments
would probably aggravate the trouble, and add to your suffering.
But relief quickly follows the use of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and you know the pain is not likely to return,
because, by taking De Witt’s Pills, you have got rid of the cause.
ACT QUICKLY
Don’t wait, or the pain will get worse. Don’t experiment with
things you think may do you good. Get the remedy that has
been used with success all over the world for nearly fifty years.
Heed the good advice of those who have already
used the remedy.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs,
swollen feet or ankles, foul breath,
scalding pains, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede attacks of
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Lum-
bago or serious Kidney Trouble, and
much suffering and expense may be
saved by quickly getting a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, price
3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6
from your chemist to-day.
ir
m
-
HT
14' -
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
trvjD v uyu
URICrACID
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of De Witt’s Pills to-night, and
in the morning you will see, feel and know
for certain that they are doing you good.
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
“Perhaps,” agreed Codie evenly.
“People with dirty minds often are.” He
turned back to the girl. “Where is the
colt?”
She gestured vaguely.
“Out there. He comes and he goes.”
Codie grimaced.
“Do you want to do—what I want?”
She nodded, plaiting and unplaiting the
stallion’s mane.
THOUGH as yet we had not seen the
A colt, we had found the lady—found
her of the earth earthy ; at least so J
decided, though at the time I had been
deeply conscious of her kinship with
Codie and his thoroughbreds ; and both
Codie and I were satisfied that we had
solved the mystery of old Dusk’s mate-
hood, incredible as it seemed; though
whether she traversed the fifteen miles
of steep hill country to him or whether
the old gallant came to her we never
knew.
Nor did I know what Codie thought.
To outward appearances he was the same
as ever, courteous and pleasant, and
quite detached —in this world, but not
of it.
We built the yard of willow rails, but
the sheet iron for the box had to be
packed out, and a crazy job it was. But,
though the night we finished it it was
occupied, it was always empty when we
called.
In the end, Codie left a message for the
girl, and was rewarded by a fleeting
glimpse of them poised on the ridge top.
This time the colt was saddled and
bridled, but Fan was still barelegged
and clad in her old blue print frock. So
Codie left a more explicit order, and
some days later, suspicious and defiant,
she came down to the house.
The colt was beautiful, and haughty
as a king, but neither wild nor shy. He
suffered us, but looked beyond us, as his
dam looked, knowing we lived —know-
ing us powerless to touch even the
fringe of his consciousness.
As for Fan, Codie made her come in
and see his garden. She was mutinous,
but terrified of offending him. Once he
called her Fan, and she flared angrily.
“Don’t call me that! I hate it! My
name’s Myfanwy!”
Codie, gazing out over the paddocks
where the blue grass rippled, said teas-
ingly:
“That’s not a name! It’s a legend!”
“Don’t tease!” I warned him. “It’s
Welsh, and lovely!”
The housekeeper called, and we went
inside for tea, which Myfanwy accepted
ungraciously. Her eyes kept roving out
to where the soft wind of summer blew.
Watching her, you could hear it going
over the hills, sighing through the ripen-
ing grass.
“1 think I’ll be going.”
The room enchanted her, but already
the walls were crowding her, and she was
chafing to be gone.
SOMETIMES we caught glimpses of
her and the colt, and once she came
to the house, she and the colt, soft-
footed through the dusk, like phantoms.
We were out in the garden, and
Myfanwy joined us there, walking with
Codie from flower to flower, touching
them with reverent fingers, as though they
were sentient beings; never speaking
unless she were spoken to. Her booted
feet were absolutely noiseless on the con-
crete paths. Her head was bare, and the
little winds of evening seemed to gather
round her fair, flushed face, as though
they loved it, moving the glossy tendrils
of her hair.
Presently she paused beside a rose-
bush, and Codie asked idly:
“Would you like one?”
Myfanwy nodded. She never spoke
where a nod or a shake of the head
would do ; so Codie cut her the fairest
bud of all, a gorgeous thing, as long as
your thumb, scarlet at the base, and
shaded through flame and orange to
palest primrose at the tip.
Myfanwy took it with her dazzling
smile, and cupped the bloom in her hand
against her face ; and the smile died.
“It has no scent?” I said. She nodded,
holding the bloom carelessly.
“It is beautiful; but a flower without
scent is like a thing without a soul.”
Codie studied her with his queer pene-
tration that men were apt to find dis-
concerting, but under it she was uncon-
scious and serene.
“That’s so. Things without scent are
dead things. The wind never speaks
of them.”
She lifted unquestioning eyes to his,
and they considered each other gravely;
and you know they found each other
odd, and yet in perfect accord.
From the yard behind the house the
colt called suddenly, though he had
never called before, and she swung on
her heel abruptly and went running, as
though he had recalled to her mind how
brief was their span, and how the winds
went by.
Codie followed her slowly, but we
knew that, even if he hurried, they would
be gone from sight even before we could
reach them.
We had both touched the colt. When
I touched him, he took no notice, but
under Codie’s hands he was restless,
circling him, and dipping his near fore-
leg, as he did when Myfanwy swung into
the saddle ; almost as though he might
be asking Codie why they lingered. But
Codie never offered to mount him, con-
scious as he was of the girl’s jealousy of
his kinship with her and the beast.
THEN one burning afternoon she came
riding in hell-for-leather over the
hard-baked hills. It was so hot that even
in the garden there was no breath of air,
and I was lying out in the plantation be-
hind the house.
As they galloped up to the gate. Codie
came out of the house, though the colt’s
hoofs had seemed to make no sound,
even on the hard earth.
He met her at the gate, and they gazed
at each other silently.
Then she tumbled out of the saddle,
forcing the reins into his unwilling hands
—pushing her hair back impatiently from
her hot, reddened forehead. Her splen-
did eyes were blazing, and her mouth
set in its sullen defiance.
“You must take your horse!” she said.
“I can’t keep him! ”
Codie rested his arms on the gate,
speaking quietly.
“Yes. Why?”
“The old man’s been talking; and last
night they came to the stable; and now
1 daren’t feed him.”
“Yes,” said Codie. “Why?”
“They—done something to his feed.”
“How do you know?” persisted Codie.
“I saw.”
“At night? What were you doing
there?”
“Sleeping. But ’tain’t no business o’
yourn.”
“But it is! ” retorted Codie grimly, “A
child like you sleeping out there alone
at night! Why?”
“It’s—clean.”
“Oh—good God! ” said Codie violently.
“What are your parents thinking of?”
She muttered: “Mother don’t think at
ah • the old man”
“Yes?”
She lifted her head defiantly.
“He thinks I —come here.”
Codie did not answer, and she mut-
tered again:
“I don’t care what he thinks so I can
get away.”
Codie reached out and touched the
colt’s face, drawing his finger round the
diamond-shaped star. The colt lifted its
heads and touched his face with its lips,
moving restlessly.
“What now?” asked Codie.
“Nothing.”
“You’re going home?”
“No.”
“Where?”
“That’s nothing to you.”
Codie pushed the colt’s head away, and
reached out and gripped her arm.
“It is. Stay here.”
“No!” She struggled in his grip. “You
let me be! Let me go! ”
“Listen!” said Codie. “Listen! 1
want you to marry me.”
“No! No!” The colt swung so that
his head was between them, and lipped
at his hand and at her frightened, furious
face. Codie put his free hand on the
beast’s head and pushed gently, so that
they could face each other again. The
colt stepped back and lifted his head,
and stared away out over the hills, for-
getting them.
Codie said desperately:
“Myfanwy, I know you are only a
child ; and I’ll never ask anything of you
that you cannot freely give.”
She stopped struggling and lifted her
eyes, sullen with their knowledge, to his,
and slowly her mistrust died.
“I’d live here—with him?” she asked.
She touched the colt’s muzzle, but he
did not move. Only his nostrils quivered,
sniffing the wind.
Codie nodded, and tossed her the reins,
and the colt swung about, nudging her
“Yes, Myfanwy. Will you?”
In turn she nodded, swung to the
saddle, and they went running into the
wind—one with if.
Codie turned from the gate and strolled
over to me, and I said:
“You fool!”
He smiled pleasantly.
“Bill! ” I protested. “I’m afraid! She’s
—not human!”
“A spirit?” he suggested placidly. “Or
an element, perhaps? Intangible and
elusive —like the wind.”
“Like the wind,” I said soberly, “She’ll
go by!”


Who could tell that I
once suffered from
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR?
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
mm
y
m
<■ m
a
THIS FREE COUPON ° r a c °py pf same to be
i no rnce uuurun sent with your naine a mi
address and 3d. stamps. Mrs. HUDSON: Please send
me, free, your full information and instructions to
cure superfluous hair. Address: Frederica Hudson
(Lab. 9.H.), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W.l, England.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a family
high in Society and is the widow of a prominent Army
Officer, so you can write her with every confidence to the
above address , where she has been established since 1916.
Looking at me now, with my clear, un-
blemished skin, who would ever .guess
that once 1 veiled my face to hide the
hideous growth of ugly, disfiguring hair/
Vet that is so. For years my life was a
misery. As the young wife of an officer
in India I suffered the agonies of shame.
I had a distinct moustache, almost a
beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful electric needle
brought nothing but a few days relief.
Always the ugly, disfiguring growths
came back again stronger than ever on
mv face and body. Then, almost in a
day, my clouds were lifted in a most
amazing* way. My husband saved the
life of a humble Hindoo soldier. In his
gratitude the Sepoy breathed to him the
closely-guarded secret of the Hindoo
religion which keeps the women of that
race free from any sign of superfluous
hair. I tried it in desperation. From
that day—now years ago—l have never
seen a sign of superfluous hair. 1
watched for it daily for months, never
daring to hope that it was gone foi
ever. But it was! I was cured com-
pletely. I was a normal woman again.
Since then I have told many other
sufferers of my experience, and the
secret recipe has never failed. It has
brought joy and permanent freedom in
every case. If you, too, suffer, let me
help you. Let me tell you how I suffered,
and let me pass on to you the secret
that saved me. I shall gladly send it free
if you will send me coupon, or a copy of
it, to-day with your name and address/,
stating 'whether Mrs. or Miss. All I
ask is that you send me three penny
stamps to cover my outlay for postage.
Address: Frederica Hudson (Lain 9.H.),
No. 9 OJd Cavendish Street, London. W.l,
England.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones; F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Litd., Adelaide.
*
■
m
*****
Adereham Hall Flats, Sydney.
Messrs. Gordan McKinnon & Son,
Architects.
Messrs. Davie & Greenwood,
Builders.
'.A
PALL MALL RADIATOR
♦ ♦
These large Flats
found “White Rose”
Central Heating &
Hot Water Supply
necessary.
One “White Rose” cast-iron hot-water
boiler placed in the basement supplies
hot water all the time to all the flats.
Pall Mall Radiators placed in living
rooms take up little space and heat
the rooms at will.
Systematic, and Four to Five Times
Cheaper for Upkeep. For all types
of buildings. Write for free expert
information.
White Rose Domestic Boiler
burns coke or coal, simple to
operate, long- continuous slow-
combustion principle.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phones: M2331, M2751 (20 lines).
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Central 8385 (15 lines).
Use NOX ELECTRIC LAMPS
But Codie turned away and went across
to the house, whistling one of his mad
melodies —the mysteries that the wind
speaks of, that have come across the
world.
THREE weeks later they were married.
Myfanwy rode the colt in from the
hills, and let him go in the field behind
the house, and all through the short
ceremony he called and called, galloping
restlessly up and down ; but when, after-
wards, we went to him, he was gone.
All through the autumn-long drought.
Codie searched for him. Myfanwy grew
white and thin, and more silent still, and
her eyes were aloof and mysterious, and
filled with an animal perplexity that hurt;
but the only word we got of him was
from the Maoris on the coast, who spoke
guardedly of a great black horse that
galloped on the shore when the moon
was full.
Sometimes the girl was gone for days,
and then Codie would come and go with
his eyes on the hills, everlastingly
whistling one of his unearthly melodies ;
but he never searched for her, and
always she came back, with her sullen
eyes seeking him furtively, biding the
reproof that never came.
Then, on the last, hot February night,
when the rain that had been so long de-
layed was whispering along the hills, we
sat out on the last slope of them, waiting
its coming.
Myfanwy sat on a bank, apart as she ,
always sat, with her elbows on her knees
and her chin cupped in her hands. She
sat with the unnatural stillness and
silence that was a part of her, gazing un-
blinkingly up to the gaunt black shadows
of the hills.
Over them the little gusts of uneasy
wind, wet with the coming rains, came
down to us, but there was no other
sound. Far and near an uncanny silence
reigned, as though the whole world held
its breath in an uneasy waiting.
From under a flying cloud the moon
leaped out, and I glanced at Myfanwy.
She was sitting bolt upright, tensed .
and listening. The wind was hushed, and
the whole world was caught in a breath-
less, expectant hush that was intensified
by the far-away whisper of the rain ;
and the silvery notes went out from the
ridge above us, echoing and re-echoing
until it seemed as though there might be
a whole herd of horses calling in the
spellbound hills.
Myfanwy leaped to her feet, and then
stopped dead, and her eyes, with some-
thing of terror in them, dwelt on Codie.
He went to her, whistling softly ; lifted ;
her face, that was white like death in the i
moonlight; and perhaps he asked her i
to come back, and perhaps he did not;
but for a moment she clung to him,
whimpering—and then she was gone, up
and up, through the moonlight, to meet j
the far-away whispering of the rain.
Pleasant Light Comedy of Hasty Lovers:-
CONTRETEMPS.
By HALL BOYCE.
“....all the world’s best lovers have
been practised idlers. / can’t see either
Mark or Beatrice ever learning the art
of pleasant dalliance. They’re always in
a hurry.”
UT lIS trouble will be finding time to
j| love her,” declared Mrs. Stapling
at the Silvertails Club.
“And it’ll be the same with her,” de-
clared Miss Short brusquely.
“I mean, it doesn’t look like having a
million to one chance of turning out a
happy marriage,” supplemented Mrs.
Stapling. “Perhaps in the honeymoon,
yes, but once the novelty has worn off
—I mean to say!”
What Mrs. Stapling meant to say, but
found her vocabulary short of express-
ing, was that Mark Iverson and his bride-
to-be had so accustomed themselves to
work, and had found so little time for
play, that it would need a complete re-
vision of their modes of living to make
a success of married life.
“After all,” put in little Mrs. Walker,
“it’s hard for a man like him to change.
His mind is as full of business as one
of his office letters —there’s not even
room enough left for ‘kind regards! ’ ”
“Beatrice is just as bad,” said Miss
Short. “Her brain is so crowded with
thoughts about her business. She’ll never
be able to settle down to a day’s idling,
no matter how hard she tries.”
“You’re all probably right,” Miss
Hilton agreed reflectively. “When you
come to think of it, all the world’s best
lovers have been practised idlers. I can’t
see either Mark or Beatrice ever learn-
ing the art of pleasant dalliance. They’re
always in a hurry.”
“Still,” Mrs. Walker proposed, “they’re
both so terribly efficient at everything
they do they may be as successful at
love as they’ve been at business.”
“Pshaw!” exclaimed Mrs. Stapling
acidly. “Business efficiency has no place
in love-making!”
“Do you know,” remarked Miss Blair,
“Beatrice told me that even to-morrow
she will be engaged right up to two
o’clock in her office, cleaning up her
work.”
“Gracious! ”
Mrs. Stapling’s exclamation expressed
the sentiments of the company. Iverson
and Beatrice Glaven were to be married
the following afternoon, and though it
was well known that the frills and fur-
belows of ceremony were to be sloughed
—only the two witnesses demanded by
statute were to be present at the church,
besides themselves —it was surely going
to extremes to engage in commerce up
to the very hour of romance.
BUT that was Beatrice Glaven’s way.
And Mark Iverson’s. Both had
accomplished their success by dint of
strict, unremitting attention to business.
Even their courtship had been subject
to the high pressure of the clock’s minute
hand, for most of if had been done at
meal times snatched from the middle of
precious business hours. Iverson’s pro-
posal of marriage had been advanced in
similar circumstances; so they looked
back on the moment as a sort of sand-
wich in their lives. Some even said Mark
had proposed with his mouth full.
He was at his office at six o’clock on
the morning of the wedding, but he beat
Miss Glaven to it by only a quarter of j
an hour. He immediately took off his i
coat, rolled up his sleeves and got to j
work. Within five minutes he was lost
to the world.
On the fourth floor, where she had her
typewriting and secretarial agency, Miss |
Glaven adjusted her paper sleeve pro- j
lectors, gave her bobbed hair a pat and
got to work. In five minutes she was '
as busy as an ant.
At half-past eight Iverson’s chiel j
clerk knocked on Mark’s door, poked I
his head into the room and said “Good I
morning.”
“ ’Morning,” returned Iverson. “Look
here, Brent, I’ve been here since half-
past six, and I’ve got through some ,
work. I know I had to come in early
for some reason or other, but I can’t
remember what. It’s been worrying me
—sticking just off the edge of my mind
all morning. Isn’t there something im-
portant on to-day?”
Brent looked at his chief puzzled. He
said: “Wer—well, Mr. Iverson, you’ve
got four appointments, if that’s what you
mean.”
“Yes, I know that —Stephens, Blum-
son, the Home Secretary and Laycock.
I know that. But there’s something else,
and I can’t catch it.”
Brent hesitated. What was in his mind
did not seem reasonable. But, as Iver-
son remained with his elbows on the
table and his head between his hands,
and obviously looked for some sugges-
tion, Brent made his throw.
“I suppose you haven’t forgotten
about your wedding, Mr. Iverson?”
“Gosh, that’s it!” Iverson looked at
Brent like a man saved from drowning.
“I’d clean forgotten!”
He looked foolish. It was an unusual
look for Iverson, and Brent was equally
embarrassed. He withdrew.
Iverson sacked the matter from his
mind again, and settled down to work
on his immediate concerns. The whole
of the morning he kept office-boys,
typists and clerks on the run.
At 1.30 p.m. he rang for a boy, and
gave him a note for Miss Glaven.
“Wait for an answer, and bring it
straight to me,” he told the lad.
But he had a caller in his office when
the boy came Ipack, and Brent, on the
interphone, called him. “Miss Glaven
said that it suits her,” he told Iverson.
“She’s busy, too,”
o Continued on next page.)


The influence of the
tonltol ®ti
Perth’s leading weekly,
widens your goodwill
and sells your goods.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins ■ Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com’
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
CiK Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market
HEAD OFFICE;
“The Dominion" Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 454038.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £100 per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information- to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
I he trustees, whose address is 252 George-streel, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address; “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office; Newspaper House. Collins
Street.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
IQOJ. (SECOND
JL EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At aii Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
9fi‘> Beoree street Sydney. 3d. oytri
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP,
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
“Good!” said Iverson, and hung up.
Beatrice wot busy. She was selling up,
and, because she had refused to make
any sort of a sacrifice of the business
for the sake of mere marriage, she had
not even yet finalised the sale. At the
moment she got Iverson’s note suggest-
ing a slight rearrangement of their plans
she still had two appointments to keep.
By three o’clock she had decided on
acceptance of one of the offers for the
business, rang the bidder and her solici-
tors, and gave the agreement for sale,
already drawn up, a final keen scrutiny
while she waited for them to come.
Her principal assistant took this in-
terval by the forelock.
“We’d like to make you a little present
in the outer office,” she told Beatrice.
‘Whatever for?” asked Miss Glaven
in genuine surprise.
“You know—-a wedding present,” the
girl explained.
‘Oh, dear!” Beatrice .looked confused.
“How silly of me, Mary! Do you know,
I“ er > that is, it’s been such a rush that
Td forgotten what the rush was for. It
had gone clean out of my head! It’s
an awful thing to confess, isn’t it? But
there it .is! ”,
D UT everything was finished and done
** with in the end, although Beatrice ■
had to concentrate hard again in that
last discussion over the sale, as for a
while it had looked like falling through.
Then she made a round of hasty per-
sonal farewells, and by half-past four
was running out of the office.
Five minutes later Iverson was on his
way out, too —in a devil of a hurry!
Rush, rush, rush! They both stole
minutes from the future that afternoon,
and kept Father Time’s recorders busy
entering debits to their accounts.
Both discovered at the last minute
they had several necessities to get, and
separately, each in a hectic hurry, en-
gaged in final shopping expeditions.
It was by the merest fraction. they
caught the train from Central, and it
was on the move as the luggage : porter
threw Iverson’s last portmanteau through
the door. The engine whistle: tri-
umphantly, the train swept, like Gulliver
bursting his bonds, out of the station,
intq the tunnel, out again, and so on to
the open spaces beyond the city that
breathed freedom and peace.
Iverson relaxed. Beatrice’s neat little
hand lay in her lap, and he closed his
strong fingers on if. They sighed to-
gether—the relieved sigh of the prisoner
walking out through the gaol gates at
the end of his term.
“Four weeks!” murmured Mark.
“Isn’t it marvellous? Four weeks of
freedom and ease! Something to look
forward to, Bet! Just you and I—no
work, no callers, no memos, to make of
things to be done, no getting out to a
timetable, nothing in the world to worry
about!”
They sat perfectly still, and the train
roared on.
AT the hotel, the people in the lounge
eyed them fondly. Iverson was em-
barrassed, but Beatrice looked the world,
straight and proud, in the eye. The pro-
prietor, affectionately, himself showed
them to their room.
They had the bridal suite, of course.
It was perfect. Beatrice revelled in the
cold shower, ridding herself of the grime
and grit of the train. Iverson sang hap-
pily outside in his dressing-gown as
he stowed his clothes away in the lough-
boy. It was great to be free, to have
nothing to do.
They showed themselves at dinner, and
afterwards in the lounge for a little
while. But they retired to, their room
early, pleading the fatigue of a long
day’s travel.
Iverson, in the privacy of their room,
was like a schoolboy on holiday. Once
in his pyjamas, he turned somersaults on
the bed, stood on his head on the floor
and “acted like a great, big goat,” as
Beatrice caressingly remarked. She, on
the other hand, snuggled into the bed-
clothes, only her pretty bobbed head
and lovely cold-creamed face showing
above the white line of the turned sheet.
Iverson exhausted his animal spirits at
last, and came to sit a moment on the
bed.
“Beautiful!” he murmured, running
his forefinger lovingly down the line of
her perfect, straight little nose.
She reached out her hand to ruffle his
hair, tenderly, and the wide, loose sleeve
of her pyjamas fell back from her white
arm, a miracle of charming, alluring
symmetry.
He swung himself into bed, reached
for the light and switched it off.
Immediately he sat up again, switched
the light back.
“Good Lord!” he exclaimed, horror
and embarrassment fighting for place on
his face.
Beatrice saw the expression, was her-
self startled, and sat up beside him.
“What’s the matter?” she asked.
“Matter! ” exclaimed Iverson. “Matter?
Why, Bet, don’t you realise? Good
gracious, this is awful! We were in such
a hurry, you know —we didn’t go to the
church! Bet, we forgot to be married!”
Venus and Tannhauser.
Look at me ! Step not backward ! Drop
your hand
From screening your shocked eyes .. .
Look how I stand
Naked as when I trod on earth’s first
strand.
Pure, naked and pale gold from brow to
feet,
As when sea-thunders of Time’s morning
beat
Behind me, crowned with rainbows frail
and fleet.
Down from the hills the lynx and lion
came;
Through the shore-grass red flowers ran
like flame;
The shock of earthquakes uttered my
sole name.
For, man !lam of earth as of the sea;
Earth’s deep, live fire-pulse is the pulse of
me —
The burning mountain and the spring-
stirred tree.
I lead the lion to his hot-eyed mate ;
In each least, living cell I palpitate;
Oh, young man ! Oh, desirous! lam
Fate . . .
I quiver in the shock of every love —
Yes! my breasts lift when the slow
mountains move;
I lie beneath you, and I bend above.
lam the rose that makes wrought senses
swoon;
lam the passionate and blood-troubling
noon —
I, the white, sleepless fever of the moon.
Though my loves are as the uncounted
sands —
The loves I’ve lain with in all years and
lands—
/ quail inviolate under your quick hands.
This is the white, high mystery of me —
That though, in Time, all lives my lovers
be,
Yet I stand virgin in Eternity .. .
Now your hands grasp me, trembling as
they hold —
Ah ! press your brow betwixt my breasts’
pale gold —
Is it not Life itself that you enfold ?
Yes! very Life, that trembles in each
cell —
The pang of Heaven and the ache of
Hell—
Oh, man ! you’re wed to Life .. . and it
is well.
N.S.W.
DULCFE DEAMER.
Light and Shadow.
My airy laugh draws over Life’s abyss
A slender curtain of imagined bliss.
And spins the moon a web of snowy
beams
Over the night of shadow-haunted
dreams.
My thoughts raise aery domes and
friendly towers
Out of the hostile womb of Night’s black
hours;
And lush the grass springs on the battle-
field, .
Where lies a tombless corpse in horror
seal’d.
My heartstrings merrily are twang’d in
tune,
Where the Wind shrills his melancholy
croon;. .
And many a little wave skips laughingly
Over , the swell’d mad■ bosom of the sea.
The moon spins on; the grass and the
little wave
Smile on the boiling sea and the
moulder’d grave ;
While my gay laughter and my heart’s
sweet strife
Sink shrill with fear at the deadly tone
of Life.
TASMANIA.
A. L. McINTYRE.
Desire.
When the wheel stays, and in the silence
comes
That mocking imp whose voice is silence
too,
Asking “What next?” then do I parry
you,
Reproachful dead, whose days are cast
like sums
By the great Reckoner. Now the rhythm
strums
Its old inexorable call anew.
The wheel revives,
the silence to endue
With being like the rhythm of far drums.
Is it, then, lust that goads me on to feel
Again the chastity of snow and fire
That / have shared with friends, or set
the seal
Of memory on music, or aspire
To kiss the bands that bind me to the
wheel.
MAORILAND.
C. R. ALLEN.


FALSE TEETH ARE A GREAT
INVENTION, BUT KEEP YOUR
OWN AS LONG AS YOU CAN
m
-i ( ;
■
m;
■ V
m*.
., r ,
‘Si
;
j; r
■A: •••• ;
H
k:
W ;/
Any mouth may have Pyorrhea
and at 40 the odds are—
4 OUT OF 5.
Pyorrhea
has no respect for you!
DYORRHEA, dread disease of the gums, comes to four people out of five
past the age of forty. It is an insidious foe that may infect the mouth of
youth and lurk in the gums for years before beginning its real work of havoc.
It starts with tender gums that bleed easily when brushed. As it
progresses it spreads dangerous poisons throughout the system, often loosening
teeth in their sockets until they fall out or extraction is necessary.
False teeth at best are only a substitute for your own, and so often they
are only the penalty of thoughtlessness and neglect.
A dentist perfected to fight
Pyorrhea.
At the first sign of pyorrhea go right to your dentist for a careful oral
diagnosis. Modern dentistry can work wonders and save you untold trouble if
you rely on it in time.
Between visits to your dentist your teeth are your own responsibility.
Therefore choose your dentifrice with utmost care.
Forhan’s is the discovery of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., who for 26 years
specialised successfully in the treatment of pyorrhea. It is unique in that it
contains the benefits of an ethical preparation developed by Dr. Forhan, which
thousands of dentists use in the treatment of pyorrhea.
Don’t gamble with Pyorrhea.
It is really folly to take a chance. Decide now not to gamble any longer.
Visit your dentist regularly and brush your teeth with Forhan’s twice a day.
You can make no finer investment in the health of your mouth and the safety of
your teeth.
often follow
pyorrhea, which comes
to four people out of
fve past the age of 40
■
m
mm.
m
m
I o’
Jj
.
Forhan’s
for the gums
Forhan’s is sold by all Chemists —Smalt
Size 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-. It’s an
old-established, reliable product. Aus-
tralasian Agents—The Sheldon Drug Co..
Ltd., 131-135 Clarence Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney,, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
O -V e
- <v
*r
W*
f>y c^ e i x ts^/\C^ics
> *S> *tP A & M 0 » V V
g
*>»’ # 5
*1
***
>* lX °-
,*°
V (S e
’ ~.a£ V
l o%vt
.t*
. • ■ , VJ V) ev^
</••»£ ,?«■)


MML j
' : 'T
■■
\
m
For those who want the finest in radio,
Stromberg-Carlson have developed for 1935
a range of radio receivers that cannot be
surpassed for general all-round perfection in
design, construction arid performance.
★
Chromophonic Reproduction . . . beauty of
cabinet work . . . the finest circuits of
Stromberg-Carlson’s Australian and Ameri-
can laboratories ... all these are details that
raise these fine musical instruments to a class
by themselves. Superb in craftsmanship . . .
far ahead in design . . . first in value,
Stromberg-Carlson is the radio for the
connoisseur.
ott
its tin
Wgl
“M'
Y wife says to me, ‘James Brown, I’m
expecting you home early to-night,
so s we can be off to the talkies nice
and early’. . .‘Nice and early.’ I thinks,‘Well,
that’s a joke; why, I’m lucky if I get away
from here by half past six ordinary nights—
to-night being a fight night it’ll be pretty near
eight o’clock before James Brown gets his
legs under the dinner table, and there’ll be
NO talkies . . . and that’ll suit me fine.’
"‘And let me tell you, sir, even if I did get
home early, there’d be no talkies just the
same, and it would STILL suit me fine.
Why? . . . Because last winter I bought me a
Stromberg-Carlson radio, and I’m tellin no lie
when I say I haven t been out two single
nights since.”
No reason at all why James Brown should go out at night.
His Stromberg-Carlson brings to him the best the world
LONDON! PARIS! NEW YORK!
The illustration on the right shows
Stromberg-Carlson’s Model 588—a
Battery-operated Dual-wave Receiver
that brings in the foreign programmes
on the same dial as local broadcasts. It
features 8 valves (2-volt valves through-
out) . . . Automatic Volume Control . . .
Selectorlite Dial . . . special shelf to
house all batteries . . . fuse lamp to
protect filaments against faulty battery
connection • . . extremely low battery
consumption , . . Piano-finished Walnut
Cabinet . . . and many other features
which make it the equal of the finest
all-electric sets. Price .... £47/17/6
L. mrnim
wmwiIEIL
nmf /
EHECSS
■yrmumnw '*" ~ —
■;'r:
snrniDi
has to offer in entertainment . . .
brings it to him in the way that only
a Stromberg-Carlson radio can do
■— clearly, faithfully, reliably.
That “there is nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson” is proved over
and over again by thousands of
satisfied customers whose home-life
centre it has become. A Stromberg-
Carlson keeps people at home and
saves them money. It prevents
“family drift,” that unhappy state
which most parents fear.
There is a Stromberg-Carlson
Model for every home, to suit every
income. That model, no matter its
size or price, is designed and en-
gineered in the way that has made
the public accept the name Strom-
berg-Carlson as the hall-mark of
excellence in radio receivers.
Stromberg-Carlson
(A/SIA), LTD., 72 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Dealers throughout the Commonwealth.
Chromophonic Reproduction is an exclusive,
characteristic. Through this refinement greater
tonal range and Quality have been achieved.
Faithful reproduction of every shade of tone
gives a truer, more realistic interpretation of
every musical note, from the s\Veet, high trill
of the piccolo to the rich, deep boom of the
bass . ■ . from the bird-like cadence of a
famous soprano to the emotional fullness of
the deepest basso. In this greater provision
foi the most complete enjoyment of every
sound you hear no other radio can offer such
marvellous features.
