

■
'
m
*
7
: • a q °+ +. l 9ja 4 M °+
VjJDdS 3L|| 33U DApD ||JM | 'S9^
H ; ; '
SW'WMW'SWW'WTO
■■•■•liil'l'i-in- i • •'•’•^i'ii'iifiti'iSii
GTTDFD
9%v ■ h A
W SH
mmm
.
VTIVVT
JEI JL m m Ju
THEN you’ll get the performance
your car was designed to give!
fd
UP
more POWER
and MILEAGE
VACUUM OIL COMPANY ESE
•INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PSJW
The Bulletin
The Immortal Dawn
Vol. 56.—N0. 2880.
Wednesday, April 24, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE FIRST SHOT
in any
Advertising Campaign
should be fired in the
jSiintas, ®ui is
Perth’s Leading Weekly—
the Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representatives
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Slon.l Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MATE _
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
5.8.135
4
5?
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Fail information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and
Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr, W. <3. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“THEAGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
A Prize Novel
from France
With the Gon-
court literary
prize for 1932
and the stagger-
ing total of 136
editions in the
French to its credit. The Wolves, by Guy
Mazeline, now emerges in an English
translation by Eric Sutton. On appear-
ances it is a pretty good translation. It
is smooth, effortless, and retains a linger-
ing suggestion of the French rhythm. And
yet surely something has been lost; for
though it is a notable piece of literature
—if a work of upwards of 250,000 words
can be called a piece of anything—its
qualities are hardly of the kind that
make for wide popularity.
The whole scheme of the novel —its
general framework ; its tempo ; its char-
acters, and especially what the author
does with them; its theme—there is,
apart from some occasional dramatic
heroics, nothing here at all likely to
iccount for those 136 editions, though
there is plenty to account for the award
of the prize. Perhaps some untranslat-
able vivacity or other quality of style or
some subtlety of humor or pathos or
some note of frankness is the missing
ingredient.
Looked at broadly it is a colossal,
leisurely work, its narrative flow sure,
serene, untrammelled. How even it is
may be indicated by stating that the prin-
cipal elements of disturbance are those
animated public scenes to indulging in
which the French temperament is pecu-
liarly adapted and furiously addicted.
There is no paucity of these.
Apart from such temperamental exu-
berance, there is hardly a ripple in the
flow. The metaphor is not inapt: the
work is a tremendous narrative flood,
curious in seeming never to vary in
volume or breadth. It goes onwards in
an inevitable, unvarying flow, through
no channel of tortuous meandering
and unexpected discovery, but through
a canal; a vast and, as such things
go, a splendid canal, yet a canal,
nevertheless. Even the frequent retro-
spects seem to blend in without making
a ripple, and become immediately part of
the onward sweep. Nor do the charac-
ters appear with any suggestion of plung-
ing in. Separately or in groups they are
met like people coming towards you and
slowly resolving out of mist.
With these characters Mazeline does
something most uncommon in fiction
practice; something not at all likely to
explain those 136 editions. In Aus-
tralian fiction the practice is to inflate
all characters, or to use only characters
that social convention freely offers
already most suitably inflated. Even
our best writers always present some
figures inflated beyond the size of life.
Mazeline’s peculiarity is that he consis-
tently deflates. He takes for his main
people a Havre family who handle their
francs in hundreds of thousands, and for
his supernumeraries a number of the
lesser bourgeoisie, and he flattens the
lot of them. There is hardly a charac-
ter in the entire host who improves, in-
creases in size on closer acquaintance. It
is not merely a matter of deflating the
inherited rich, which is so easily done
that it is Fiction’s most hackneyed means
of getting a cheap effect. The main char-
acter does go down from riches to bank-
ruptcy, and his downward career is the
main thread of the narrative, but that
is only a superficial aspect: it is the
spiritual in his many characters that
Mazeline brings down, so that they
appear as mean self-servers; wolves,
almost all of them, in their meanness
snarling and mauling at each other.
As to the theme, it is a finely logical
study of two examples of parental love
bordering on to mania. They are curious
examples—a father (the main character)
whose mania centres upon an illegitimate
daughter to the virtual exclusion of his
legitimate family; and a mother (of this
same man) whose mania centres upon
her son and leads her into an elaborate
scheme for ruining him in order to bring
him into a position of dependence upon
her for the money she is only too willing
and, being tre-
mendously rich,
very well able to
lavish upon him.
The harvest, in
each case, of this
parental possessive-
ness mania is death.
It is impossible
to read the long
work without ad-
miring. It may
also be impossible
to read it without
feeling that it most
decidedly is long.
But in it scores of
very mixed and
contrasting char-
acters are created
and dramatically
developed; two
main stories and a
dozen lesser ones
are minutely acted
out, and the town
of Havre is re-created to the last brick
and fish-stink.
A Pastime
Novel, Very
Briefly
Read immedi-
ately after The
Wolves, George
Buchanan’s A
London Story
serves as a light
bracer. Also, it
shows off the size of Mazeline’s vast work,
both as regards architectural bulk and
literary quality. In other .words, A
London Story is as thin and light as the
most faded brain could desire. It is the
February choice of the London Book
Society, which alone means that 10
persons will read it to every one that
reads the English edition of The Wolves.
With the January choice of This Was
Ivor Trent, it gives the society an un-
broken run this year of fiction chosen
purely on its merit as popular entertain-
ment.
This Was Ivor Trent was a compound
of thriller, fake psychology and senti-
mentalism, acted out in an icing-sugar
London by a number of robots. In A
London Story two brothers work in a
large store. One is a dreamer, and gets
sacked, and marries the right girl, and
gets another job, and does all right and
is happy. The other is a pusher. He
has pushed to near the top of the house
when he marries the wrong girl. Ideas
will no longer spring in his formerly fer-
tile brain. He has rows with his wife,
throws a plate at the wall, gets sacked
and is dreadfully unhappy. Stupendous
moral: Boys, marry the right girl.
It is readable enough, not for the story
it has to tell, which is plainly worthless,
but for the complete freedom of expres-
sion with which it is written. In this it
represents a kind of novel which seems
to come naturally from English writers
and has no parallel among Australians,
whose work remains loud with the sound
of growing pains.
A Funny
One
Revived
If, howe ve r,
it does not
appeal as an anti-
dote to the 775
large pages of
The Wolves, The
Stray Lamb, by
Thorne Smith, might serve. It is not
new, by years; but the fact that it is
“No, madam: I’m sorry; I haven’t a second-hand Crahbe.”
now issued in a cheap edition —to sell in
Australia at about 4s—is sufficient ex-
cuse for exposing it here. Not that it
wants any excuse: that would be like
waiting for a cold day in order to have
an excuse for drinking rum.
Thorne Smith is an American, though
he disguises the fact quite successfully up
to page 93, and he is an outstanding
representative of the American flair for
exploiting the humor of vulgarity, one
of the most widespread merits of the
American character. His novel’s scheme
is not original. It is a reshaping of the
metamorphosis scheme of one of litera-
ture's ancient glories, The Golden Ass.
Mr. Lamb turns into almost everything
but an ass. He is : —with brief interludes
of being himself at home with his
adulterous wife and his sprightly
daughter—in turn a horse, a seagull, a
kangaroo, a goldfish, a lion, a cat, a dog
and a creature never before seen on
land, sea or metho. Mr. Lamb himself
is outwardly a sober, responsible, re-
spected member of the community;
within, he contains an unplumbed reser-
voir of good, healthy depravity. This
last each metamorphosis lets unex-
pectedly loose on a surprised world. The
situations alone are funny enough ; they
are made uproarious by Thorne Smith’s
piquant presentation. As, for instance,
when Mr. Lamb, now a horse, goes into
church in the midst of service and sits
down and listens attentively to the
sermon: “Protected by his pulpit the
preacher looked boldly down upon his
seething flock and for some odd reason
began to sing ‘Nearer, My God, to Thee.’
Several women, believing he was sum-
ming up the situation altogether too
mildly, fainted and lay in the aisles.”
All in all, a work Calculated to split
asunder the statue which Epstein has far
too long delayed in erecting to the honor
of Dean Inge.
CECIL MANN.
[The Wolves, by Guy Mazeline (Lovat
Dickson, per Angus and Robertson; 12s.);
A London Story, by George Buchanan (Con-
stable; 7s. 6d.); The Stray Lamb, by Thorne
Smith (Barker; 3s. 6d. net).]
The Cloak of
Casualness
Fresh from a
course of local
literature it seems
to me that, apart
from regarding
this country as an
incubator of casualness, many native
authors are of the opinion that it is
producing a rather brooding type of
inhabitant, with many of the introspec-
tive qualities usually said to be the birth-
rights of the Slav.
Vance Palmer’s novels The Man
Hamilton and The Passage offer typical
instances. In the former, for instance,
practically all the characters, with the
possible exception of young Denis Bur-
goyne, are beings of fiercely ruminative
temperament, with strong emotions which
they bottle up in the queerest way, while
Lew Callaway and his mother in The
Passage are of much the same type. Other
examples, such as Martin Brown in The
Doughman, Cabell in Landtakers and
the girl in Cronin’s The Sow’s Ear, could
be quoted.
Owing to the scattered nature of Aus-
tralian settlement and the consequent
lack of communication with their fellow-
beings, the individuality and self-reliance
of many locals must inevitably be
stressed to a great degree, thus produc-
ing in more sensitive types a sort of
cross between Hamlet and the characters
of Steele Rudd—a fact which Harry
Lawson, with his occasional snap-
shot of “hatters,” did not entirely miss.
But it seems doubtful if such types are
produced so prolifically as our scribes
imply.
Much of the trouble, I think, is due
to the fact that, in their eagerness to
prove to the world that the Australian
scene is worth writing about, some of
our writers have studied their country
with the object of picking out the most
striking and flamboyant things. It is
obvious that a crank or an unfortunate
badly adjusted to his environment always
stands out more clearly than the normal
run of citizen, and thus would be one
of the first objects to strike the eye of
a prospective novelist in search of juicy
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation. v “THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
f
Sole Agents for
The Famous
British Made
Grand Prize
EUREKA
Electric
Vacuum
Gleaner
1935 Model
With a silent ball-
bearing motor,
improved for longer
life, lower operating
cost, no upkeep, safety
and powerful suction.
Complete with full
range of cleaning
attachments.
£lB/18/-
The Grand Prize Eureka serves many house-
cleaning purposes. Its extra powerful suction
draws out that deeply-embedded dust and grit
which, if allowed to remain in carpets, literally
grinds them to pieces. Its powerful suction also
removes moth larvae. No amount of sweeping
can do this. ■
• Electrical Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
VALUES FOR
FARMERS
UNI
“Uni”
Barrel
Spray
Pump
£lO/13/6
“Uni” Barrel Spray Pump complete.
Mounted on skids. Equipment: 40 gallons
cask, 20ft. 2-in. hose, 9ft. extension spray, rod
fitted with cut-off and duplex nozzles.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £lO/13/6
Vl'
/
Broad'
cast
Seed
Sower
39/6
The ‘Mintern Broadcast Seed Sower, suit-
able for lucerne and all green seeds. Breadth
of cast varies according to weight of seed or
grain. Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 39/6
• Agricultural Implements—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN
& SONS, LIMITED - SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
For the same brilliant reception
as the Dual Wave Electric Set
St romberg - Carlson
HI
•;
I I
■
:
m
IH
Dual Wave
Battery Set
£47 / 17 / 6
Stromberg-Carlson Dual Wave, Model 588.
A product of Stromberg-Carlson Laboratories.
Battery-operated; gives country listeners the
same brilliant all-the-year-round daylight
reception of overseas stations as the Famous
635 Dual Wave gives in electrically-served
areas. Incorporates all the special features
exclusive to Stromberg-Carlson Radio. Vibra-
tionless valve shields and sockets. Silver
contacts; specially designed dynamic speaker;
selectorlite dial. Automatic volume control.
Low battery current consumption. Batteries
self-contained in cabinet. By special arrange-
ment with Stromberg-Carlson and their State-
wide organization, this set will be delivered
and installed free in any part of the State.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, complete, £47/17/6
For electrically-served areas the Model 635 Dual Wave Set. Price
• Radio—Ground Floor. Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
£39/19/6
11l
1
i
s
12
11
S
I
to
9
4
S
fcr~ ~r~
fas
ll il
10
4
An extra clock is always useful,
or you may need a new one
1 — Mantel Clock - 65/-
This handsome Eight-day Mantel Clock has hour
and half-hour gong strike. In rich walnut case
9in. high and 1 3in. wide. Chromium-plated bevel
and s|-in. silvered dial. A most reliable time-
keeper that will give long service.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 65/-
2 30-hour Clock - 16/6
This inexpensive Bedroom Clock has a thoroughly
reliable 30-hour lever movement, and is complete
in a handsome chromium-plated case 4in. high and
6in. wide. Silver dial x 3fin.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 16/6
3 Mantel Clock - 80/-
A dependable Eight-day Mantel Clock that strikes
hours and half-hours with gong strike. Richly-
polished Walnut case, silvered dial with
Black or Chromium raised figures. Height, 9fin.;
width, 15 in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . 80/-
4 Fancy Clock - - 15/-
A smart Fancy Clock in coloured glass case. It
has a 30-hour lever movement, and, although so
inexpensive, is an accurate timekeeper. Height,
4fin.; width, Available in Pale Lemon or
Black with Chromium mounts.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 15/-
# Clocks—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.


n
5=
m
Vim
y.\
31
COMING TO SYDNEY?
—LET US SEND YOU THIS BOOKLET.
“The Australia” Rate-card now takes the form of a handsmne brochure,
with cover as illustrated on the right, beautifully in | r^ vure -
All the famous social life of the hotel has been captured m a senes
of glamorous and intriguing photographs. Your copy awaits yo
write to-day.
NEW “ROOM-ONLY” TARIFF:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
‘THE AUSTRALIA’
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
“After all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’ ”
df
d
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,”
Sydney.
material. On the other hand, Vance
Palmer seems to have taken an oppo-
site course. In the two novels men-
tioned, for example, he deals with en-
vironments where things proceed at a
quiet and evenly-paced gait— i.e., a back-
country station and a humdrum fishing
village. In his desire to show that these
places are not really humdrum or dull,
he has, I suggest, imbued his cast with
an intentness of feeling and sensitiveness
that is not wholly true.
The chief difficulty with the Austra-
lian scene from a literary aspect is the
apparent disconnectedness mentioned
frequently by Lawrence in Kangaroo,
which gives rise to the casualness (and,,
incidentally, the cocksure narrowness) of
many Australians. But is the Australian
scene so disconnected? I doubt it. Aus-
tralia is certainly a sprawling hobble-
dehoy of a land, but, examined closely, I
think it is possible to discern the lines
of an orderly development and cohesion.
Our writers have dealt too often with
their country in section; let them be
brave and get down the rough, full out-
lines. After all, the skeleton is the chief
framework of the body, and the medical
student, must familiarise himself with it
before he goes on to detailed examina-
tion of the more intricate parts of the
human mechanism.
DENTON PROUT.
A Modern
Masterpiece
Novel
To say that
Defy the Foul
Fiend is one of
the most notable
novels written for
more than a de-
cade is to chal-
lenge comparison with the work of
Aldous Huxley and Charles Morgan. With
the latter the comparison is only one of
style. There is not one iota of similarity
between their styles, but each is a master
stylist in his own way, and both write
an English of rare beauty. Further,
while The Fountain, with its placid move-
ment, beautiful writing though it is, is not
everyone’s book, Defy the Foul Fiend
will appeal to some for its style and wit,
and to the ordinary novel reader for its
entertaining story and quick action. It
is no book, however, for the schoolgirl.
With Aldous Huxley the comparison
is but one of theme. Both deal with
the modem picaresque. But, while Hux-
ley uses his characters merely as pegs on
which to hang his own opinions on art,
letters, philosophy and life, and does not
take the trouble to round 1 off his stories
as novels, leaving everything at a “loose
end,” as it were, Collier, in this book,
while using his characters in the same
way, never loses sight of the end he has
in view—the writing of a novel, an art
form. He does not gather up his threads
in the early-Victorian manner, but he
does contrive to round off his story with
a satisfying and artistic “curtain.”
Like Richard Hughes in A Wind
in Jarnica, he is a modern romantic ; yet
there is, a flavor of Fielding in his per-
sonal and confiding manner. Talking of
manner, this is a highly mannered work,
but one feels that it is Collier’s manner
and none other’s.
For wit, and subtle wit at that, it would
be hard to find its equal in modern fic-
tion. Cynicism and sardonic humor are
here, but never facetiousness. The
dialogue, in its utter naturalness, has
only been approached by Ernest Heming-
way and Mary Webb. The book, too, is
redolent of the very soil and genius of
the English countryside and of that in-
born love of the land which is one of
the finest characteristics of the English
people.
Besides being a picaresque and frank
account of the hero’s Odyssey, and, as
such, of absorbing interest, it is, besides,
a beautiful book. Collier can write of
two innocent lovers almost as charmingly
as Meredith in Richard Feveril, and his
descriptions of country scenes and of the
moods evoked by them are extremely
moving. . .
How Collier has succeeded m achieving
such a masterpiece in this kind of writ-
ing, as he undoubtedly has, on the
stepping-stones of his two previous very
mediocre novels, Ido not know. Lei
it suffice that he has ; for this is a book
to buy, read .and re-read for its subtle wit
and for its incomparable style.
E. T. S.
“And
Tuppence
for Books”
America’s
annual book pur-
chases showed an
enormous drop as
the result of the
depression. In
1929 235,000,000
books were sold in the U.S.A. ; then sales
went down to 154,000,000.
This led the National Association of
Book Publishers to take a census, and
it was found that in 67 of the counties of
the U.S. there are no bookshops or shops
where books are sold. The mail-order
habit is partly responsible, of course;
thousands of Americans feel they are not
shopping intelligently unless they do it
with a postage stamp. A test of 100
typical U.S. families with an average
income of £340 showed that the expendi-
ture upon books was tenpence per family
p.a. Among them they bought 20 books,
although 47 of them owned motor-cars,
36 of them possessed wireless sets, and
45 had gramophones.
As the tally does not cover library sub-
scriptions, which represent the whole
book expenditure of a multitude of Aus-
tralians, the position in this country must
be much the same. Australians are not
book-buyers; and from one point of
view, at least, the position here is worse,
because in America the purchasers do
buy American-published books.
Even regarding the books we do buy
we display a curious parsimony. We
see repeated instances of books sold
cheaper in Australia than they can be
bought overseas. If they were not
cheaper they would not sell at all.
The parsimony extends to magazine
literature. Although Australians are
ranked as free spenders in most things,
the sale of any publication priced be-
yond sixpence is very limited. The most
expensive publications in Australia are
the half-guinea tipping sheets.
The book business, in short, is our
true Cinderella, and nothing is being
done to improve matters. Oranges,
apples, eggs and even wool have seen
a disposal of stagnating surpluses as the
result of campaigns appealing to patriot-
ism and a sense of public duty in help-
ing to put a languishing industry on its
feet ; but not even the literary societies
suggest that members might help the
book industry by pledging themselves to
buy one extra book a year or half-year.
The women’s papers, in all their articles
on home decoration, suggest many ex-
pensive geegaws, but never a bookshelf.
A local book industry cannot be ex-
pected to grow without a sizable market.
There is obvious room for some sort of
campaign to extend that.
HAROLD MERCER.
A Satchel of Books
AN AUSTRALIAN BOOK OF SHELLS
Sir Joseph Verco was Adelaide s leading
medico; his hobby was dredging the waters
of Australia’s southern coast and studying
marine life. It was an expensive hobby, the
cost of his cruises worked out at £1 per houi ;
to charter a vessel for a week cost him about
£l5O. Eventually he presented to the S.A.
Museum the Verco shell collection, the largest
of its kind on earth, containing some ol: the
world’s rarest shells and a few specimens of
hitherto unknown species. Later he puichased
and donated to the same institution the Ken-
yon May, Bednall and Mathews collections
of shells. Although Dr. Verco kept compre-
hensive diaries of his trips, he had an intense
dislike for putting a pen to paper, and never
published a book dealing with his woik. Altci
his death his widow handed his diaries over
to Bernard Cotton, conchologist of the S.A.
Museum, who took from them the material to
make a book. Combing the Southern Seas
(Rigby 12s. 6d.) is an excellent handbook
for shell-collectors and naturalists generally.
It has a complete catalogue, some of the plates
portray the world's rarest shells, ana irum un-
pages can be obtained much mteresti g
mation concerning the early history ol Sou
Australian outports.
NOVELS.—An extraordinary thing about
Mary Peters, by Mary EUen
per ’Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.), is that
it should have been written in this P. res f H nt
It is so quiet and gentle that the incident of
a ship's officer with a hatchet in his back
leaps out of the placid pages with shocking
effect. The narrative follows the even life o
a girl born on board ship in 1871, thi ough
ten years or so at sea, some schooling, and
then quiet existence in an American seaboaicl
village. Births, deaths and other accidents
are taken as placidly as cows take c
Nicely done; but it would have been better
had the author made the dramatic use of small
happenings that Elizabeth Cambridge admn-
ablv does in her Susan and Joanna (Cape;
Moore’s Bookshop; 7s. 6d.). Miss Cambridge
has never quite recaptured the strength ol hei
Hostages to Fortune, but she never writes a
bad novel, and her latest is a well-constructed,
beautifully written story with a strong flavor
of English country soil. Both these novels
are worth reading; they are sincere and honest
examples of the serene in fiction. Catalan
Circus by Oliver Onions (Ivor Nicholson and
Watson; 7s. 6d.), is a fair exampleof the
opposite to serenity. It is about as flash as
novels are made. Mr. Onions is such a
facile writer that he possibly could not help
showing off if he tried, and here he writes at
the top of his voice a hopeless story about a
silly wastrel artist and a sloppy girl. Nothing
out of the way, but at any rate better than
Onions, is Roy Helton’s Their Own Day (Cas-
sell ; 7s. 6d.), a story of an adopted son who
scarcely sees another human until he is a
young man. Something is made out ol his
bewilderments when, well educated and with
his powers of perception abnormally developed,
he is cast on his own resources; but his suc-
cess as a painter in New York comes too sud-
denly to convince. Home from the Sea, by
.1. Leslie (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.; 65.), is just
a mediocre readable yarn in the Clark Russell
manner, shifting from the Sydney waterside ol
the ’nineties to sun-kissed Pacific isles, ship-
wrecked crews, beautiful maidens and gallant
men-o’-warsmen, and then homing back to
Sydney, where everyone lives happily ever after.
A BOOK OF MOUNTAINS.—To regard
mountain-climbing as one of the strongest rea-
sons to be grateful for not having been born
a goat is possibly not the worst qualification
for reviewing R. L. G. Irving’s The Romance
of Mountaineering (Dent; 18s. net). The book
might not —and in this instance, at any rate,
does not —tempt the reader to join the goats
in their misfortunes, but, short of that, its
author’s enthusiasms are wonderfully engag-
ing. Mr. Irving tells all that any layman could
possibly want to know about that favorite
occupation of his. He relates its history from
the first great authenticated ascent —coinciding
ominously with the discovery of America—
describes graphically numerous individual feats
of great climbers, tells of many mountains and
their peculiar difficulties, throws in excellent
anecdotes of mountaineering personalities, and
altogether makes a book of extraordinary fas-
cination. In addition there are several dozen
photographs of great beauty, most beautifully
reproduced in collotype. They alone make
turning over the pages of the book a thrilling
experience.
ESSAYS. —Whatever we may feel about our
shortcomings in other branches of literature,
we at least have some sparkling essayists. Pro-
fessor Murdoch, of W.A., is a first-rate per-
former in the graceful craft, and something of
ah Australian best-seller. Another is Professor
Wood Jones, of Melbourne, whose Unscientific
Excursionft have been published by Arnold
(London; 6s. net). They have not the full
body of Professor Murdoch’s work, and they
taste, perhaps, a little more of newsprint, but
how good they are can be gauged by compari-
son with the batch of lighter essays included in
the Argonaut Press Essays of the Year:
]933-34 7 Professor Wood Jones meets all but
Robert Lynd on equal, and often ifiore than
equal, terms. The Argonaut volume represents
English essay-writing for all 1933 and half ol
1934. The most obvious advantage such collec-
tions have over one-writer collections is the
variety of style, thought and subject-range
represented. Here, the sweep is from mere
flippancies to appreciation of great mortals,
such as Viscount Grey of Fallodon, and to
such things as Llewelyn Powys’s beautiful
glimpses into the Book of Common Prayer,
or Gerald Barry judiciously blaming both
sides in the bodyline wrangle, and, incidentally,
having this to say of Australians: “The Aus-
tralians did a lot of things in the war, but
one of the things they didn't do was to squeal.
They were the toughest troops of the lot;
whenever a particularly difficult job had to be
done the Australians were put in the line to
do it.” Against that he sensibly points out
that the Australians conducted their cricket
case with a minimum of tact and discretion,
and he adds that “their captain has expressed
himself to the English manager in terms that
ill become a cricketer and a gentleman.” To
all of which, and the wrangling altogether, the
general run of Australians might ask why a
small body of young athletes and the old
people who control them should necessarily
be accepted as representing the kind of Aus-
tralians who “did a lot of things in the war.”
A Choice of Verse:-
ECLIPSE.
The paddocks were resting after the travail of harvest ;
Every sun-ripened stoo\ had been gathered and. taken ;
Only the stubble remained tvhere the pattering field-mice
Joyously garnered the corn that the wind had shaken .
In an old storm-strewn stack of uncovered wheat-straw
The starlings made nesting-places of coarse wild grasses ;
And sparrows built ragged structures in chosen corners
Far from the reach of the rain, and the wind s wild passes.
High over these shone the moon in unchallenged splendor,
Burnished like brass and as round as a yellow apple;
The light that it spilled was a sparkling fairy water
That, honey-hued, dripped thro’ the branches, jet shadows to dapple.
It gilded the thin, tautened wings of bats, elfishly flitting,
And in their eyes kindled the glamor of rubies glowing;
It shone on the newly-built stacks till their tarpaulin covers
Glimmered as whitely as mushrooms in meadows growing.
Never a cloud stained the sky, and the stars gleamed faintly,
Drowned by the glistening shallows of lunar wonder ;
Till suddenly over the rim of the golden lustre
A shadow crept, dark as a cloud that sheathes summer thunder.
Slowly it spread like the sweep of a lazy ripple;
Slow as the rhythm of hours, or a whispered stoiy ...
Ever it crept o’er the moon, till its seeping umber
Steeped her in shadow and crushed out her glowing glory.
The stars sprang into the sky in a tangled torrent,
The world looked and wondered, then turned again to its sleeping;
And the birds in their coverts of wheat-straw and coarse wild grasses
Dreamed of the dawn and the flame of a red sun leaping.
TAS.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


THE
0 E
-I:. , '■<
: m
■ ■s
H
m
•V
■ ~v
: :
mm
■ ms m
■
mm
■
m
msm
RADI 0 S LATEST
D EVELOPMENT ■•• THE
m
■
■
I
■
'.a
■
■
■ ■
■
« H
BAND
■’■v '
,
D A L
;;
& -V
IrJ
mm
m
EAUTy that calls a halt .• , beauty yfrapf cgsb| a spell, Not mere
prettiness or superficial charpri, V|jpich endures! Because
TASMA Receivers have brouglp cymew beat dff of tone to radio, it
is fitting that they should be Roused to fascinjle eye as well as ear
To artists of faultless taste and wide knowledge, TASMA entrusted the
designing of cabinets tor its new series of receivers . . . and to skilled
‘ -f v'v? W
m v Z'
painstaking craftsmen was given the task of building these cabinets
from the most beautiful of selected timbers . . .
290: 5-valve A.C. Superhetero-
dyne, with Automatic Volume
Control and Band Spread Dial,
using new Oct ode Valve,
£191191-.
190: The most economical
battery set and the best per-
former, with Automatic
Volume Control .. £32/1816
265: No matter what locality
this 6-Valve set, with Auto-
matic Volume Control, will
get every Station you desire,
£321101-.
Ua4ma
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
C lllustrated above.)
MODEL 185.—A11-wave Superhetero-
dyne, Carlyle piano-finished Cabinet,
has 7 latest-type valves, and receives
overseas and local stations. With Auto-
matic Volume Control, which practically
eliminates fading. Ihe outstanding All-
wave Set of the year
In De Luxe Cabinet
£36/19/6
£39/17/6
A PRODUCT
OF THOM & SMITH. LTD., 55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
JST.S.W. COUNTRY
BIS TBIB UTORS.
ERIC CUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative.
C. R. DONNELLY, 45 Cathcart Street,
Lismore.
Northern Representative.
QUEENSLAND;
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at Rockhampton, Cairns,
Mackay, Townsville.
ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD..
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
VICTORIA:
R. J. S. BRICE, Room 710,
7th Floor, London Stores Build-
ing, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Factory Representative.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
NOYES BROS. (ME LB.) PTY.,
LTD., 89 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MILLER ANDERSON, LTD.,
Hindley Street, Adelaide.
CHARLES BIRKS CO., LTD.,
Bundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, W.A.
LTD., 381 Murray Street, Perth.
THOMSON’S, LTD., 674 Hay Street
Perth.


f/fyme/tt
» 2 * 3 ‘
si (IS 1
I | ■ ’
!«•
•V
HH HHHHnIi
■
■■ I
■i
«
:-•; ~:'.v;-:
m
I m|hl
' f *%- *'
::
«
.
■H
i
HP
/
I
H
1 .
■
*
A
m
1
■
Hi
■
■
:f
y
m
mm
■
\
■
\
✓
m.
r
i
111^
m
r*
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
VoL 56.—N0. 2880.
April 24, 1935.
THEY MARCHED INTO THE DAWN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London; T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d..; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
INTO THE DAWN.
This day 20 years ago British transports and battle-
ships of the Royal Navy, carrying 3000 soldiers of
the Third Brigade A.I.F. —Queenslanders, South
Australians, Westralians and Tasmanians—put out
from Mudros, the port of Lemnos, bound for Gal-
lipoli. During the night the men in the transports
were transferred to destroyers, which took up their
stations behind the battleships, the men in which,
half the strength of the 9th, 10th and 11th Battalions,
were to form the first landing party. The moon was
up and the sea was like glass. At midnight the Aus-
tralians were awakened ; at one o’clock the battle-
ships stopped and began to swing out their boats —
36 altogether, with twelve small naval steamers to
tow them; by half-past two the boats were full.
As the moon was going down the battleships
moved closer to the peninsula, which had been seen
in fitful glimpses. At half-past three they stopped
again, “and the order was given to the tows to go
ahead and land.” In pitch darkness the tows formed
in line, and formation was kept, though direction
was not; making due east for Gaba Tepe, the
steamers diverged from the route assigned to them —
as the commanding officer put it, “the dam’ fools
have taken us a mile too far north.” But this was
not discovered till one of the central tows was 40
or 50 yards from the shore. Lights were appearing
in the eastern sky; the figure of a man was seen on
the heights; rifle fire broke out; a machine-gun
in one of the picket-boats barked back. Soldiers
tumbled out of the boats, struggled forward up to
their thighs in water, gained the beach. Writes Bean;
“It was at 4.30 a.m. on Sunday, April 25, half an
hour before the opening of the British bombardment
of Cape Helles, that the Australians landed at Ari
Burni” ; and, death striking them down every few
feet, they marched into the deathless dawn.
Everyone knows what followed at Anzac, and
what happened at Helles and Suvla Bay. The story
has inspired many glowing pens ; there is something
in it that appeals as Thermopylae does, so to poets and
patriots it will never grow stale. It moved the
Laureate to write a prose poem that may outlast
his finest verse. It fired Bean and Ross to produce
something more than conventional military histories
of the struggle on the Anzac front.
Yet the verdict of history must be that the cam-
paign was a failure. It was an ill-planned adventure
of improvised armies which lacked everything but
courage and cheerful endurance. One very important
operation collapsed because the general was a dunce
and because his raw soldiers rested and emptied their
waterbags when they ought to have been fighting.
To Britain, which has fought many wars and been
worsted in many battles, “except the last,” Gallipoli
may figure in time as just another unsuccessful
expedition, like those of Beresford and Whitelock
in Argentina, though brightened by the deeds of the
Anzacs and the 29th Division. To Australians and
Maorilanders it will always have a deeper significance.
In these countries Anzac Day is commemorated
with a solemn pride which grows more impressive with
the passage of time. On this one day of all the year
the strife of parties and factions, sections and sects
is stilled. In city and suburb, country town and
remotest hamlet, dawn finds men and women
gathered about some war memorial, musing on the
sacrifices made by husbands and fathers, brothers and
sons, and feeling that they were not made in vain—
that in that other dawn in a distant and inhospitable
land no mean nation was born.
THE BRITISH BUDGET.
Whatever party may be in power, the British Budget
is a national event. On the day it is delivered nothing
else is talked of. The silk-hatted Chancellor of the
Exchequer walks to the House as a matter of ritual;
crowds watch him arrive, and the galleries are
packed. Nor is he suffered to hurl indigestible masses
of figures at the people after the fashion of Australian
Treasurers, who puzzle even their Auditors-General.
Every item is made comprehensible. Changes in
taxation are so carefully explained that everyone can
see at a glance the effect on his domestic budget.
And the plain man is given a full and honest state-
ment of the national finances.
In times difficult for all countries Father Bull
has kept his head above water and helped the family.
While his exports to the Dominions have slumped,
he buys as much from them as he did before the
depression, and he has dropped the subject of their
war debts. In his relations with foreign countries
he has had to face intense trade competition. Tariff
walls and prohibitions have been set up against him.
Because Germany has denounced the armament
clauses of the Versailles Treaty, he has had to increase
his expenditure on the services, and £10,500,000 is
to be added this year.
Yet each Budget for three years has been able
to lighten the small man’s burden. Last year
£22,000,000 was taken off income tax and £13,000,000
off excise; now another £10,000,000 of income-tax
revenue is to be sacrificed to help the little man.
For industrial subsidies and restoration of civil-service
pay-cuts £13,000,000 was set aside in 1934-35 ; an
additional £4,500,000 is to be provided this year.
At the end of 1924 the British national debt stood
at £7,813,000,000. Reduction has been difficult for
various reasons, the chief being that the Old Man
made huge payments at Washington for many years
while receiving next to nothing from former allies who
owed him more ; nevertheless, the national debt is now
£7,700,000,000, and annual charges for interest and
management have fallen from £323,000,000 to
£280,000,000. In the same period the debts of the
Commonwealth and the States increased by
£200,000,000 —upwards of 20 p.c. The U.S.A., still
intent on destruction of crops and stock, has borrowed
£2,000,000,000 during the depression, and plunges
deeper into debt every month without recovery seem-
ing appreciably near. Unemployment is still a grave
problem in Britain, but its gravity is decreasing.
Confidence grows with the steady revival in trade.
British exports for January and February were
worth £7,908,000 more, and imports £3,750,000 less,
than for the corresponding months of 1934. While
railway enterprises in other countries have had
nothing but deficits for many years British railway
companies pay dividends —they distributed £2,250,000
more in 1934 than in 1933. London is still the
world’s banking centre, and Britain remains the hope
of the world for the maintenance of peace. Its
friendship is courted by old enemies as well as former
Allies. The moral prestige of the nation never stood
higher, and all the peoples of the earth are joining
with it in celebrating the jubilee of its wise old King.
Mr. Lyons had a seat in the Commons during
the delivery of the Budget speech. It is to be hoped
that he will turn the experience to good account.
One lesson he can learn is that it is a great advantage
for a country to have a national Parliament whose
supremacy cannot be challenged.
PROPOSED PILGRIMAGE.
It is announced that the Commonwealth Ministers
left in the Commonwealth are to hold a series of
Cabinet meetings at Perth in May or June, “as a
gesture of goodwill towards Westralia.” It is very
kind of the gentlemen ; but their meetings will, of
course, be secret. The Westralians will see little of
them except coming and going. It would be much
better to reopen the prematurely-closed Parliament
and send all the idle legislators on a tour of the six
States, sitting at least three days in each capital city
and one day in a representative country town. There
are leftover bills that could be discussed and passed ;
then every traveller might let himself go on a motion
reading “That in the opinion of this [i.e., each] House,
the state of the nation requires a definite and com-
plete separation of the powers, functions and imposts
of the Commonwealth gnd States.”
It wouldn’t cost much. Halls can be hired cheap,
and only the Parliamentary staff could legitimately
ask for travelling expenses. The members have
passes over the railways and tramways in the six
States, and there is a subsidised steamer to take them
across Bass Strait and back. For the board and
lodging they would have to provide, the salary—£B2s
p.a.—is surely ample; moreover, they must have
plenty of time on their hands. During the year to
June 30, 1934, the thirteenth House of Representatives
sat only 67 times, and the fourteenth, if it remains in
recess, will have sat only 39 times when it has been
in existence a year. The Senate is even more hard
put to it to kill time. Last year it had only 22 sitting-
days. This year it has completed its sessional “work”
in 10 days. Actually, as a Canberra chronicler writes,
“it has sat for only 70 hours, including adjournments
for meals.” Senators also get £825 p.a., plus privi-
leges. A Parliamentary pilgrimage to the six States
might save some of the Senators from dying of ennui.
It is now just on eight years since the Parliament
was transferred to Canberra. The change was
heralded by glowing predictions as to the enlargement
of minds and improvement of manners that would
succeed it as a matter of course. No longer would
members be dominated by “Melbourne influences” and
have a provincial outlook. Transported to the legis-
lative halls by the Molonglo and housed in Govern-
ment villas or hotels, they would become suffused
with national spirit, and deliberate with becoming
gravity, and all that sort of thing.
Nothing of the kind has happened. There is
more lobbying at “the new Washington” than there
ever was at Melbourne, and there are fewer men of
outstanding ability. Canberra singularly fails to attract
that type of member, and even those to whom it stands
for the best job they ever had go to it reluctantly
and quit it with unconcealed pleasure. At times they
are so anxious to get away from the place that they
leave it before their legislative job, light as it is, is
finished, regardless of the complications that may arise.
Thus in the last of the blackguard rushes that mark the
close of every session, special messengers had to be
sent into N. S. Wales to bring back departed members
so that the Government might have a majority on
hand ; and even then the Chairman of Committees
could not be recaptured, having set out post-haste
to spend Easter in Perth.
As for manners, there has been degeneration
almost beyond belief. The Canberra chronicler
referred to writes of the Bedlam that raged for three
days before the House of Representatives shut do wo
that “even the oldest and most disillusioned Parlia-
mentary hands were shocked.”
The House ceased to function as a deliberative body.
Members hurled across the Chamber epithets which,
if used in ordinary life, would lead to blows or worse.
Outrageous motives were imputed, and there was a
general atmosphere of larrikinism. Business would
have come to a complete standstill but for the ruthless
use of the gag. If the proceedings could have been
broadcast, the people must have been scandalised at
the conduct of their representatives.
And it was no isolated example. There has been
a persistent increase in disorderly conduct and in
the making of scandalous charges under cover of
privilege. Sometimes the charges are sneeringly
withdrawn when objected to, but this rarely happens
when persons attacked are private citizens —and they,
of course, have no redress. And the tenth has not
been told.
Because continuous repetition robs anything of
news interest, nine-tenths of the abuse and defamatory
language used in Parliament is never reported.
A journey to unfamiliar cities, in which they
would find audiences far more critical than the bored
civil servants and F.C.T. wages men and stray trippers
who now gaze at their performances, would oblige
these tribunes to brush up their brains, if they have
any, and conduct themselves decently. They would
be on their best behavior, and those who are not
hopeless hooligans might learn to keep that way.
THEN AND NOW.
“If we were asked to consent to an increase in armaments
as a guarantee of security, by riveting the war system upon
ourselves and posterity, the Nonconformist conscience, through
life or death, would confront the State with a ringing ‘No.’ ”
— Dr. Norwood, of London City Temple.
Nonconformists protested in identical terms against
the conscription proposals of Lord Roberts in 1913.
Germany was the menace, with the Kaiser instead
of Hitler as idol of the Fatherland’s army- and navy-
builders. The Treaty of London after the first Balkan
War had the same effect as the Treaty of Versailles.
It left everybody distrustful, and led to the second
Balkan War. Sir Edward Grey threatened to enforce
the Treaty if the Turks crossed the Enos-Midia line.
They crossed, nothing happened, Bulgaria was carved
up, and the Germans concluded that England was
afraid to fight. Owing chiefly to the pronouncements
of idealists like Dr. Norwood, the Germans again
think that England has gone pacifist.
It was impossible twenty-odd years ago to get the
Germans to say officially what they wanted, though
more or less irresponsible officers and professors kept
talking of a German Africa stretching from the Indian
Ocean to the South Atlantic which would produce
necessary raw products ; of more and more colonies
in the Pacific for strategic purposes ; of more and
more bases. What is Germany’s irreducible minimum
now? Alsace? Colonies in Africa? The Corridor?
Hitler won’t say. Meanwhile he has admittedly created
an army of 400,000, and the Moscow correspondent
of London “Daily Mail” wrote last week:
Germany could put in the field at once 108 divisions
of infantry alone (1,188,000 men).
According to the Geneva correspondent of the
“Times,” Hitler
contemplates a programme that would give Germany
a fleet one-third of the British strength—tantamount
to equality or even superiority in home waters,
especially as all the German vessels would be new.
England is reluctantly facing up to the situation, as
before. Last week’s Budget allotted an increase of
£10,500,000 to the services; and the R.A.F.
is to be expanded in an attempt to approach Ger-
many’s Air Force of 3700 ’planes—to be increased, if
General Goring has his way, to 16,000 ’planes in two
years. “The ambition of the Hitler regime,” wrote
the London correspondent of the “S. M. Herald” on
Wednesday, “is to build up to and beyond air parity
with Russia.”
Anybody who remembers the portents which
preceded the World War must be struck by their
resemblance to present-day happenings. Alleged spies
were being arrested freely on the Continent in 1913-
14; not that spies, outside movies and novels, ever
discover anything that can’t be deduced by experts
from available data, but because jumpy nations
demand anti-spy campaigns. Australia is now getting
cables like this:
Ten English-speaking members of an alleged
dangerous organisation in Copenhagen have been
arrested; their names are being withheld. It is alleged
that they were involved in a spy plot.
In 1914 Asquith and Grey were being criticised
in the press and on platforms as unrealists who talked
party irrelevancies while the nation’s existence was
in danger. Ramsay MacDonald and Neville Cham-
berlain are being criticised now, and Lloyd George
looks like coming to the front again. He is 72 ; he
has been out of office for a year longer than W. M.
Hughes; like Hughes, he used his war-time powers
tyrannically; but he is the kind of leader nations turn
to in difficulties. The “New Statesman and Nation,”
which hasn’t had a good word to say for Lloyd
George for years, makes a significant admission in its
current issue: “We prefer the Welsh wizard to the
Birmingham ascetic or the Lossiemouth obscurantist.”
Most ominous of all, armament shares are going
up. They are lower than when the war ended, but
most of them are already as high as when it began.
J. D.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Railway to Somewhere.
Lyons-Page, meeting strong South Australian oppo-
sition to its Port Augusta-Red Hill railway project,
and being apparently determined to build a non-
paying railway from Port Augusta to somewhere, has
now come forward with a proposal for a 4ft.
line to Port Pirie (56 miles). A condition is that
South Australia must extend its Adelaide-Red Hill
sft. 3in. line 26 miles to meet the new white elephant
at Port Pirie.
The only point the scheme has to commend it
is that it is the least expensive so far suggested. It
will cost £450,000 less than the line originally talked
of (or so Dr. Page assures us), and it will eliminate
one of the two breaks of gauge on the S.A. portion
of the East-West line. The Kalgoorlie and Melbourne
expresses will meet at Port Pirie, which will become
the only town in the world to sport three gauges —
the Broken Hill link is 3ft. 6in. And the lines to be
built will save the decreasing number of inter-State
travellers who don’t journey by sea, air or motor
five hours between Perth and Adelaide.
S.A. is looking the new gift horse very pointedly
in the mouth, but is apparently prepared to accept
it, provided the Commonwealth foots the bill for the
Red Hill-Port Pirie section, about £200,000. The
S.A. argument is that, if Canberra was prepared to
spend £1,200,000 on a line from Port Augusta to
Red Hill, skirting Port Pirie, and a third rail from
Red Hill to Adelaide, it should be willing to pay the
whole cost of its “amended” project.
Reasoning men have long ago realised that the
achievement of a uniform gauge for Australia would
not be worth the money it would cost. Canberra,
however, continues to play with the idea. Among
children the Hornby train is fast giving way to motor-
lorries and toy aeroplanes, but the tendency of poli-
ticians is always to legislate for their grandparents
rather than for their grandchildren.
4
Implementing the Petrol Reports.
The Petrol Commission, which started its labors in
April, 1933, and laid its reports on the table of the
House this month, revealed little that wasn’t known
already. Everybody knew, for example, that when a
newcomer entered the market in 1932 prices came
down. Everybody also knew that the prices eventually
reached (Is. sd. for first-grade and Is. 4d. for second-
grade petrol) were uneconomic. They went up to
Is, Bd. and Is. 7d. in October, 1934, and have stayed
there since.
The oil companies have to pay 7|d. duty and
primage on every gallon, and the refiller takes 2|-d.
Petrol was cheaper when it was sold in cans, but few
motorists grudge the refiller’s profit in view of the
convenience afforded by multiple filling-stations.
Duty and primage are the indefensible items. If
oil had been found here in payable quantities, or if
it looked like being found in the near future, or if
any Government was seriously tackling oil-distillation,
then tariffs on oil would be in line with the Com-
monwealth’s fiscal policy. As it is, they are revenue
duties, which serve chiefly to encourage extrava-
gance in the spending departments. Primage, which
costs the motor trade, and through it every producer
arid wage-earner in the land, more than £3,000,000
p.a. —the equivalent was saved by the 1932-33 drop
in prices—has a similar effect.
Now the Government sees a fresh chance to
drag money from the trade —and through it from
every producer and wage-earner in the land.
Important variations in the method of taxing oil
and petrol cos. may follow the inquiry. The Acting-
Treasurer is considering a scheme to assess the tax due
by cos. on the basis of some proportion of turnover
instead of on declared profits.
Higher taxation of oil and petrol companies will mean
another rise in prices to the trade, and a proportionate
rise in the cost of living. Taxpayers are likely to
think the change dear at the £10,394 which the Com-
mission cost them.
4
Unwanted Laws.
“I will not insult the new Police Commissioner of N .S.
Wales by assuring him that breaches of the six-o’clock-closing
law are of everyday occurrence.” —Canon Hammond.
Six-o’clock closing was carried in N. S. Wales at a
war-time referendum, partly because prohibitionists
concentrated on that hour, partly because many of
those who would have voted for a later hour were
overseas. Other States followed the N.S.W. example,
and for eight months of the year the social glass
became unlawful an hour to an hour and a half
before sundown. N.S.W. police raid known sly-grog
shops, but rarely find much liquor. They are beginning
to raid reputable hotels in which drinking after hours
goes on, but the practice will continue so long as it
creates no sensation of moral guilt.
The chief objection to six-o’clock closing in cities
like Sydney and Melbourne —Brisbane and Perth have
wiser ideas on the subject—is that it deprives
thousands of the chance to buy a drink when they
need one most-after the day’s work. And it operates
on discriminatory lines. Any citizen who is rich enough
to belong to what is known as a good club can get
all the liquor he wants after 6 p.m. In London,
which used to be the most bibulous city in Europe, and
which is now soberer than Sydney, there is practically
no sly-grog problem, and raids on hotels are unknown.
English law allows liquor to be sold during the
hours when normal people want to consume it;
notably in the evening. The nation has been sobered,
not by Act of Parliament (no nation can be, as
America recently demonstrated), but by improved
housing, more amusements, education and temperance
propaganda. Particularly the last. Propaganda by
newspapers, medical men and sportsmasters, as well
as by clergymen, has not only virtually banished
drunks from the streets and respectable society, but
from the stage, screen and many comic papers.
This generation should be given the opportunity
to fix the closing hour that suits it. Popular votes in
all the six-o’clock States might allay a good deal of
class feeling, assist the cause of real temperance and
free raiding policemen, who are now wasting their
time, for useful duties,
4
Mr. Dunstan’s Bucket.
Victoria’s new Cabinet has sanctioned the expendi-
ture of £313,060 on “works” which are to provide
jobs for 4850 men, and Premier Dunstan announces
that it is only “a drop in the bucket.”
It is proposed to spend part of the money on
drainage, irrigation, sewerage of country towns and
other “works” which appeal wholly to the U.C.P, voter
and the Labor man. But the greater part is to be
applied to improving and extending forestry. Well
spent it may return dividends, but, with the sole
exception of “following racing,” there is no more
effective method of wasting money than by a badly-
planned and badly-worked system of forestry.
The Commonwealth is to contribute £lOO,OOO
of the £313,060, and thus far the financing of the
“drop” is satisfactory. But the U.C.P. has to make
good its undertaking to absorb the whole of Victoria’s
unemployed and pay them award rates for six months
and sustenance rates for the second six months of
the year. Both Mr. Kent Hughes, who made the origi-
nal offer on behalf of the Argyle Ministry, and Mr.
Dunstan, who confirmed it, accepted the total number
of unemployed as being the 18,000 trade-unionists
registered as workless with their secretaries. But to
everybody who knows anything of the subject these
18,000 constitute another drop in another bucket.
A workless man who has not paid his dues
is not officially a workless unionist, and many earnest
toilers have not been able to remain “financial.”
They have to be added to the 18,000. So have
the white-collar workless. So have the boys and
girls who have grown up since the depression, and —
possibly most important of all —so have the workless
of the adjoining States, who will naturally rush to
participate in the good things kind Mr. Dunstan has
to offer on behalf of Victoria.
A common figure of the racing world is the
man who finishes a run of bad luck by one last
desperate throw. Premier Dunstan’s Ministry has no
run of ill-luck to look back upon, but it realises, as
does everybody else, that its life is to be a short one.
So, evidently, it has decided that it is going to be a
merry one while it lasts.
4
A Medical Policy.
The growth of free public hospitals and clinics is
hitting sections of the medical profession hard, as well
as sitting heavily on the shoulders of Governments.
Patients who know that they can have the services of
the best specialists free at hospitals in which they act
as honoraries sometimes avoid consulting-rooms like
the plague, although they could afford to pay.
The Queensland branch of the B.M.A. has formu-
lated a scheme to deal with the situation before it
gets out of hand. It is pointed out that a great deal
of ordinary illness can best be treated at home by a
family doctor who knows the patient’s constitution
thoroughly, and that even when the patient has to be
sent to hospital the family doctor is still the best man
to handle the job.
Under the present system, “complete medical
service is beyond the means of 80 p.c. of the people.”
So the Queensland B.M.A. proposes a compulsory
insurance scheme which would allow every family
to nominate its own doctor, and receive treatment
and care from him on a per capita basis at a standard
rate of fees paid out of the insurance fund. An
equalisation fund to take care of bad risks would
be carried by the State, and a special fund would
enable any individual to insure for specialist ser-
vices—major surgery, deep X-ray treatment, dentistry,
massage and hospital treatment. It is proposed that
the State should take care of the fees of the unem-
ployed.
The claim is advanced that the new system would
reduce fees, give doctors generally a steadier income,
make a better division of work and render services
not now given because the average man cannot afford
them. There seems to be no reason why it should not
work, but finance is the heart of it, and its cost
cannot be calculated without a census of medical
cases.
For sixpence a week a contributor to the Sydney
Metropolitan Hospital fund is guaranteed a 12 weeks’
hospital allowance of £2 9s. per week in a year for
himself, his wife, dependent father or mother and
children under 17 years old. On this basis the expense
of the B.M.A. plan should not be heavy spread over
a whole State. Sixpence per week per adult in
Queensland would return about £520,000 p.a. And if
contributions were graded according to income even
the poor should scarcely feel the burden.
4_
Out-of-date Punishments.
Cases like that of P. J. Downey, who had the whole
of his superannuation-fund contributions confiscated
on being dismissed from the N, S. Wales police force,
constantly come before the public. The Supreme
Court, on appeal, “held that there was nothing in
the Police Registration Act giving applicant the right
to a refund of his contributions.”
If a contributor to a State insurance fund had
stolen money it might be equitable for the State to
deduct the amount from the contributions. But even
then public servants would be in a worse position
than others. When a cashier is sentenced for
embezzlement the Court doesn’t authorise the bank to
impound his insurance policy.
The practice that was upheld in N. S. Wales last
week seems to be one of those crazy survivals
which led a few days ago to seven Lismore (N.S.W.)
men being fined under the Lord’s Day Observance
Act (1677) for working on Sunday—an offence which
is committed year in, year out, by right-thinking
suburban gardeners. In the last quarter of the seven-
teenth century, when Judge Jeffreys was functioning
at Exeter, it was the custom for the State to confiscate
the estate of a person convicted of treason. Juries
were so revolted at the idea of a criminal’s innocent
heirs being penalised for the benefit of the Crown that
when the formal question was put, “Any estate?” they
answered “No” in defiance of the known truth.
The same kind of thing will happen here when
juries wake up to the fact that by convicting a
public servant they may not only cause him to be
sent to gaol, but may rob his wife and children of
their only insurance against destitution.
4
“Arbitrary Powers.” .
Almost every week witnesses some new delegation
of power to bureaucrats or usurpation of the same.
For example, N.S.W. Railways Commissioner Hartigan
took leave to raise the salaries of his headquarters
staff, though every penny came out of the taxes.
Nothing was done to him, nor was there any organised
protest in Parliament, though one member ventured
a mild objection.
In the Sydney suburb of Kogarah steam trams
still cumber the ground, and there are not half enough
buses. It is a far-flung place, and its council has
been pegging away at the Department of Road Trans-
port with demands for justice. Last week it was
peremptorily informed by the boss of the concern that
it would have to wait for and accept his decision.
Further,
It would facilitate the departmental decision if the
council allowed the position to be determined on its
merits when seeking to question the mode of transport
to be adopted.
A Minister responsible to the people would hesitate
to adopt such a tone. In the same week Acting-
Treasurer Casey came out with this:
In future the Commissioner of Taxation may avail
himself more freely of certain arbitrary powers in respect
to the taxation of companies.
Myriads of good English-speaking people have died
to prevent taxgatherers exercising arbitrary powers.
4 . ?;
What’s a Few Thousand?
A glimpse at the Commonwealth accounts for any
year shows how lightly thousands are thought of in
Canberra. Parliament itself costs £lOO,OOO p.a.,
apart from members’ salaries. Transport of members
runs away with £233 p.h. p.a., their brains are fed
with pabulum from a library at the rate of £7O p.h.
p.a., and the reporting of their wisdom and the
printing of their documents cost twice that. For
maintenance of their rooms and furniture in capital
cities the annual charge is £6O per head.
The total for salaries, expenses and pensions
appertaining to Parliament House averages £941 per
member. But perhaps statesmanship needs coddling
in a territory where, after a city of 9000 people has
been planted in the centre, £5 16s. per square mile —
13s. 4d. p.h. of population—is spent on “eradication
of noxious weeds and rabbit- and dingo-destruction.”
This is six times the amount appropriated for the
Northern Territory, which is 500 times as large as the
F.C.T.
When Maoriland celebrated the Treaty of
Waitangi, the Commonwealth sent a delegation—
Mr. Stewart, then Minister for Commerce, and a
retinue. The return fare to Maoriland is £25;
accommodation to satisfy even a Minister of the
Crown can be had for a couple of pounds a day.
The mission ate up £469.
Mr. Parkhill went to the International Postal
Congress in Cairo accompanied by a senior postal
official. The Congress met in a pub in Heliopolis.
The Australians sat on one of four committees
and did nothing at all of importance—their report is
condensed into six pages—except vainly oppose a
reduction of 20 p.c. in charges made by intermediary
countries for the conveyance of international mails.
Mr. Parkhill’s mission cost £2637.
Every year the League of Nations gets £52,500
from us. For the International Labor Conference,
£lB2B was provided for in last year’s estimates;
for the League’s Assembly conference, £2508 ; , for
League Council meetings, £567; for Mandate Com-
mission meetings, £320. Professors were sent to the
London Economic Conference, and bang went £ll5B ;
and £694 was fooled away at the World Conference
on Armaments.
Now the Prime Minister, three Ministers and a
flock of civil servants, among them two ladies, have
dug themselves in at expensive London hotels, and
that probably means another £15,000 in fares and
expenses. Meanwhile the council that attends to
scientific research reports that, “owing to the curtail-
ment of the vote and to the uncertainty as to the
financial position, it is often impracticable to develop
work on lines which are desirable, or to give effect
to many requests received for the investigation of
new and important problems.”
4
The Right Meat Programme.
“El V.”; Only one Government body, the Queensland
Bureau of Industry, seems to have the right angle on
meat export. The bureau points out that to continue
sending excess supplies of overseas beef to Britain
would force the British to continue their temporary
subsidy, the cost of which would be thrown back on
exporters.
The very efficient Queensland body says that this
should be the Australian programme: “To transfer
frozen to chilled as rapidly as possible, so that the
highest return for a given quantity of exports may
be available.” It rightly adds that “this is the only
part of the problem over which we have any control.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cavendish Howley”: At the Susten-
ance Department in Melbourne they
group the different trades and callings
into several sections. Section 14 is
“Hawkers and Theatricals.” They might
at least have given us the top line.
❖ * * *
“Centurion”: The proposal to issue a
special medal for the Australian troops
who served on Gallipoli has been re-
vived. At present such men have to be
content with the 1914-15
star, which carries no special
distinction. After the Armis-
tice it was announced that
the design of a special Gal-
lipoli star had been approved,
but it never seems to have
got beyond approval. Yet
both France and Turkey
have issued special medals
for this campaign, and the
fact that 20 years have
passed shouldn’t affect the
proposal. A great-grand-
father of the writer’s who served under
Moore at Corunna did not get his Penin-
sula medal until 40 years later —at least,
his descendants didn’t.
***♦ . ■ .
“G.M.”: Flat life is becoming de luxe
with a vengeance. Anew block erected
at St. Kilda (Vic.) has, attached to the
main building, a neat structure on which
appears the title “Dog Garage.” It is
available both to residents and to out-
siders who wish to park their Pekes while
they go for a swim.
* # * :S
“Heresone”: Refinement in educa-
tion! My young cousin, who “attends”
the State correspondence school, was
asked to write a list of nouns that change
the stem in the plural, the example given
being “mouse —mice.” As she had just
been grooming her pet William goat, she
had one example in no time. Back came
the exercise in due course, with a prim
rebuke in the margin, “Little girls should
not allow their minds to dwell on such
things.”
He :!: *
“Jackaburra”: Hollywood worked a
gag into “The Gay Divorcee” that ought
to appeal to any Australian audience. A
professional co-re. is hired by the lady to
assist in securing her freedom, and hangs
round. Meantime, the dame finds
pleasure in the company of a young
gallant who is unaware of the pro.’s
contract. When they meet face to face
and the situation is explained, the y.g.
promptly tells the pro. to vanish, in-
timating that he will see that the lady is
sufficiently compromised. “What,”
comes back the indignant answer, “are
you a union man?”
* * * *
“The Ex-Subaltern”: A crowd that
were handed few bouquets in the war
were the Labor Battalions. I have a
vivid recollection of the Menin-road,
with the 5.9’s blowing craters all along
it. Here the L.Bs. were posted to fill in
the holes from piles of metal dumped for
the purpose. They carried no arms;
most of them were middle-aged and
elderly men; many of them old-style
English navvies. They never seemed to
hurry, but the holes were always kept
filled in. Occasionally one got his issue.
His mates would lay him aside with
a brief remark on poor Bill or poor old
Sam, and return to their job as appar-
ently unconcerned as if they were repair-
ing a road in Kent or Sussex. I have
noticed before that middle-aged men
often have more capacity for passive
bravery than the young.
* * * *
“Bone M.”: Those roundsmen who
described a knuckle-duster as “one
of the cruellest weapons ever seen
in this country” (B. 10/4/’35) are
only showing their ignorance. In my
prime, as a lieutenant of the Footscray
Scraggers, we had weapons beside which
a knuckle-duster was a fool’s bladder;
e.g., the bike chain. This, doubled
round the wrist until about a foot of it
was free, made the weediest fighter in
our push the equal of any John. The
supple chain, swung with artistry, would
drop a bullock, and it left a mark that
remained for weeks. No need to send
to U.S.A. for weapons while there are
bike chains available.
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Knuckle-dusters
may be freely advertised in Ameri-
can pulp magazines, together with
contraceptives, small pistols of tear-gas.
“Look here, if you don't stop moving about I Won't be able to keep the
likeness."
stink-bombs and obscene peepshows.
Writing for the gadgets is another matter,
as the Customs have an infallible nose
•for anything of this nature. Students
used to get occasional copies of Ulysses
via U.S.A. years ago, but the game’s
played out. Anyone importing knuckle-
dusters would be hit much harder right
on the pocket.
* * * *
“M.N.H.”; I can supply “Lytton Fort”
(B. 3 /4/ ’35) with at least one instance
of a tree branch fouling a ship proceed-
ing up the Brisbane River. My authority is
Welsby ; in Schnappering, describing the
fishing in the river at Norris Point, New
Farm, he states: “It was here a long
time ago the Emu had her deck, or rather
her paddle-box, swept by an overhang-
ing tree and young Mort was drowned.”
Welsby also mentions that Australia’s
old friend Lord Brassey hit the mud here
in his yacht Sunbeam, but whether that
amiable peer fell overboard on this occa-
sion, according to his habit, is not
specified.
* * * *
“Titmouse”: After all there are a cer-
tain shrewdness and a fairly accurate
appraisement of human nature in the
statement of that “hard-working Sydney
tailor” that he believed the story of the
“hard-working lady farmhand” about
her (apocryphal) wealth (B. 16/4/’35) be-
cause she didn’t seek to trade on it
in any way. Pressed further in the
Coroner’s Court, he said he would
believe anyone who told a similar story
as long as they didn’t try to obtain credit
or borrow money on the strength of it.
There would be fewer swindles worked
by alleged baronets and prospective
owners of supposititious titles in the
U.K. if credulous publicans and confid-
ing tradesmen accepted such tales with
the tailor’s reservation. In the case in
point he could hardly be expected to
know that he was dealing with a mono-
maniac.
* * *
“G.M.”: In the old days of the Bay
liners one of the passengers from Eng-
land was Lady Nozoo, around whom a
bunch of the snobs to be found even on
Bay liners buzzed like flies. One after
the other they gave their reasons for
being on board. One had missed the P.
and O. boat, another was seeking local
color for a book he was writing, a third
had tired of the Suez route and wished
to round the Cape. Lady Nozoo listened
quietly to all of them, then observed
sweetly: “I seem to be the only passenger
on board who’s travelling here because
it’s cheap.”
$ # # *
“Kwakprak”: One of our trade-risks is
illustrated by the case of Dr. Roper, of
Charleville (Q.). He was shot by a
man who suffered from delusions of per-
secution, lost a finger and was only saved
from death by a wallet in his breast
pocket which deflected another bullet.
Dr. Roper’s experience is no uncom-
mon one in our craft; only a certain
deftness acquired from Larry Foley en-
ables me to write this par. to-day. The
first time it was a gentleman with a delu-
sion and a shotgun but insufficient speed
in action. The second time a worried
lady consulted me for advice as to
whether a loaded Colt .44 (duly pro-
duced from her handbag) could be relied
upon to settle the hash of a neighboring
colleague, who, she complained, had tor-
mented her by sending voices through
the ceiling. It needed really tactful hand-
ling to get hold of that pistol, but the
promise of a loan of a newer model won
her confidence. Even madness does not
kill feminine love of fashion.
* :!: *
“Ike Hollar”: Some 10 years ago a
Premature Burial Prevention Society was
formed in Sydney. One of the stock
arguments for its formation was the case
of Martha Southwell, who has just died
in England at the age of 88. Fifty years
back she was actually on the way to the
cemetery when she felt uncomfortable ;
her movements scared the bearers, who
dropped the coffin, the breaking of which
enabled the lady to look out on a world
she was supposed to have quitted. The
North Coast of N.S.W. had a resident
who lived for 37 years after arrange-
ments had been made for her funeral.
* * * *
“Second Divvy”: The High Court
quashed the conviction of Gerald Griffin
as a prohibited immigrant because “the
offence required evidence of the in-
gredients or make-up of the offence, and
none was given,” It made me quite
nostalgic for Lark Hill and old Billy
Mailer. In the early days of the A.I.F.
one could usually get accused men (other
than drunks) off because “evidence of
the ingredients or make-up of the
offence” was rarely given. I defended
one bird for “stealing goods the pro-
perty of a comrade” —a much more seri-
ous offence than stealing. That accused
had a pair of boots which didn’t belong
to him was not disputed. But the prose-
cution didn’t call the original owner,
though he was in the next camp, and it
didn’t produce the boots, though they
were in the Q.M.’s store. In short, no
attempt was made to prove ownership.
Thousands of hours were wasted by offi-
cers and men of the A.I.F. over these
imbecile trials. In the next war the
Army Legal Corps is going to do almost
as much for victory as the A.M.C.
* v
“Jeames”: If John Buchan is as
Scuitch as “Whitehall” (B. 17/4/’35)
alleges he may jib at the fees he will be
asked to fork out when he gets his peer-
age as Governor-General of Canada.
Lord Byng, who became G.-G. in 1921,
refused to pay for his viscountcy (about
£700), and the Treasury eventually
waived its claim. Haig, a Scot to the
backbone, refused to pay for his earl-
dom (over £900), and Arthur Balfour,
though an enormously rich bachelor,
didn’t pay for any of his honors,
thus saving £2225 in all. An English-
man, Lord Palmerston, set this fashion.
When he declined to pay for Jus garter
an official warned him that his banner
wouldn’t go up in St. George’s Chapel.
Palmerston replied that as he never went
to chapel or church the threat left him
unmoved.
* * *
“Historicus” is judicial:
England has only been humanitarian for a
century, and the change was effected by an
Irishman. When “Humanity Dick” (a hard-
living, hard-drinking Galway squire named
Richard Martin) first began his campaign in
London against cockfighting and the baiting
of bears, bulls, etc., by dogs he had the whole
nation against him. But Martin was rich and
an M.P. His Cruelty to Animals Act (1822)
led to the formation of the S.P.C.A. two years
later, and the cause has never looked back
since. The society (now the R.S.P.C.A.) has
always been divided into members who be-
lieve in being humane to all animals (about
50 per cent.) and supporters of so-called blood-
sports, such as hunting and shooting, who
don’t mind seeing foxes or hares torn to pieces
or pigeons blown to shreds, but are scandalised
by the spectacle of a man driving a lame
horse. The two sections hate each other, and
the proceedings at the society's annual meet-
ings are liable to be as disorderly as an Aus-
tralian Parliamentary debate. Darwin helped
the English humanitarian movement when he
said : “A nation is judged by its treatment of
animals.” He put the nation on its mettle,
and this led to the condemnation of sports like
bullfighting as un-English. Imagine my sur-
prise when I first visited Madrid and heard
coursing condemned as un-Spanish! Simi-
larly the English condemn Irish peasants for
giving pigs and hens the freedom of their
cabins, while the Irish condemn the English
for giving dogs the freedom of their restaurants.
It’s all a matter of the point of view.
If “Climber’s” Oxford philo-
logist” (B. 17/4/’35) wrote that the
Norman invaders of England dropped
their aitches because they were French,
then the pundit needs a course of history
lessons. The Normans were Northmen —
Danish Vikings who established a colony
in what is now Normandy in the tenth
century. William had a legal claim to
the English throne (through Queen
Emma, wife of dEthelred the Unready);
and Harold, who had no such claim,
double-crossed him. Hence the Battle of
Hastings and the acceptance of William
by the English as their lawful sovereign
afterwards. William’s troops were partly
Danes, like himself, from Normandy, and
partly men of British descent from Brit-
tany. As England was largely inhabited
by Danes in the eleventh century, and as
Anglo-Saxon was akin to Danish, the
invaders had no more difficulty in making
themselves understood than Australians
would if they invaded the wilds of, say,
Yorkshire. A few of William’s officers,
no doubt, had picked up French phrases
and ways (Australians have been known
to acquire American accents after six
months in New York), but the rank and
file were as English as the men they
fought. I was taught this in England as
a lad.
“Jeames”: Tell “Climber” he is wast-
ing his time. Certainly in England many
of those in the topmost social drawer
are as laboriously careful to drop their
“h’s,” “g’s,” etc. ( e.g ., “a toppin’ good
’orse”), as radio announcers are to talk
like perfect gents. But then some mem-
bers of what “Climber” calls the Lower
Orders also drop their “h’s” and “g’s.”
The aspirate has been the victim of
fashion in England for centuries. The
Mid-Victorians (Upper Classes and
Lower Orders alike) talked of “an ’ospi-
tal,” and they sounded the aspirate in
words like “when” which are treated as
homophones nowadays. If “Climber”
wants his offspring to be taken for aristos
he will have to concentrate on their
vowels. A sound thrashing every time
one of them is caught pronouncing “o”
“aow” will work wonders.
THE BEER BAROMETER.
“The Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget
speech cluimed that Britain had regained 80 p.c. of
its prosperity. Beer-drinkers had created a new
record by consuming 272 million more pints than
in the previous year.”
O thou, reviled among the deadliest dragons
Let loose upon us by the Demon Drink
By those who point the way to water-waggons
From those establishments where glasses
clink;
O thou whom poets sing in foaming flagons
And humbler souls in battered pewters sink,
For all the obloquy you get, my lad,
There’s now and then a compensating ad.:
O thou whom nimble barmaids set a-flowing,
Esteemed accessory of song and dance,
Blest child of malt and hops, with amber
glowing,
You’re more, it’s clear, than liquid sus-
tenance,
An indicator of how things are going,
A sure barometer for high finance!
The more we call for you across the bar,
The nearer to prosperity we are.
’Twas Noah who found, teste the Bible’s pages,
The cheering properties which mark the vine;
Credit for harder tack that thirst assuages
To Pat or Mac we gratefully assign.
But where can you recall, through all the ages,
A testimonial like this to wine?
Or whisky either, if it comes to that,
The boon to all mankind of Mac or Pat.
O thou whom Normans in their grim cuirasses
Quaffed, and Crusaders often stayed to sup,
When ev’ry other fashion fades and passes
How adequately still you fill the cup!
Strange, isn’t it? The more you’re downed in
glasses.
How steadily the other “glass” goes up.
The lean years vanish and the fat appear
Once more; and, appositely, mine’s a beer.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“That Brennan kid ain't all there."
"Wot do you mean?"
"Well, 'e's had his tonsils out.”
“Urbanus”: Not long ago it was an-
nounced that certain telephone atten-
dants had been selected for their pleasant
voices and engaging personalities to com-
municate with new subscribers and put
them wise to all the details of the busi-
ness. The idea is evidently spreading,
the N.S.W. Commissioner for Tramways
having fallen into line.
To cope with the Easter traffic in Syd-
ney additional tram-conductors are being
recruited, and the services of a psycho-
logist have been employed in their selec-
tion. The Commissioner explained that
the retention of public goodwill towards
the tramway service depends largely upon
the attitude of the conductor to passengers.
And not only to passengers, either. The
other day I had no difficulty in identify-
ing one of the psychologically-selected
conductors by his attitude towards a
taxi-man who had narrowly escaped col-
lision with the larger vehicle and was
opening his mouth to discharge a torrent
of invective. The words died on his
lips when he was soothingly addressed
by the conductor as “brother”!
“Gus Upraw”: So Sydney is to have
another “amusement park”! My objec-
tion to amusement parks is not so much
the row they cause while alive as the
mess they leave after death. After all,
circuses fold up their tents and remove
their smells like Arabs, leaving nothing
more objectionable than the vacant allot-
ments which were there before their
arrival. Defunct minnie golf courses
often become filling stations. The
aesthetic evil that amusement parks do
lives after them far longer, and it is on
the grand scale. Bondi had one before
the war which in a few months became
as depressing to look at, and as hard not
to look at, as a dinosaur’s skeleton in a
winter garden. The southern end of
Manly beach was first deafened and then
disfigured by another. The one pro-
posed for Lavender Bay is scheduled to
last 20 years. I give it a year.
“Runa”; It wasn’t only to raid the
food supplies that the Germans who
escaped from Motuihi Island, in the
Hauraki Gulf (B. 17/5/’35), in 1917
made for the Kermadecs. They knew the
raider Wolf was due to call there about
a certain date, and hoped to get back
to Germany on that redoubtable ship.
How they knew when the Wolf would
call at the Kermadec group was the sub-
ject of bitter controversy in M.L. after
their escape, one section of the com-
munity maintaining that authority had
not heeded the reports of residents of the
foreshores near Auckland, who stated that
for many weeks prior to the Germans’
bid for freedom mysterious lights were
to be seen flashing across the Gulf at
night. Von Luckner, in his memoirs,
attributes his misfortune in not picking
up the Wolf, which had been hovering
round the Kermadecs in the hope of
meeting him, to the delay caused him by
the Auckland motor patrol, a mosquito
fleet that used to chug round Motuihi
every night, not regarded seriously by
anyone but itself until its prowess re-
ceived official recognition from the
enemy.
“Coif”: The Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council delivered a momentous
decision the other day in an appeal all
the way from Rangoon. If was asked to
decide the meaning of the letters “0.K.”
appearing above the signature of a whole-
sale rice merchant on invoices and
delivery notes. There was a long argu-
ment as to the meaning and derivation
of the letters, but in delivering judgment
Lord Russell of Killowen gave the com-
mittee’s unanimous opinion that they
meant that the details in the documents
thus initialled and signed were correctly
given.
“Fi. Fa.”: Six men were recently fined
at Lismore (N.S.W.) under the Sunday
Observance Act of Charles ll.’s time
(1677) for working on a Sunday. What
Australia needs is an Act
of George V.’s time to en-
able the fining of men
who do not work on week
days, “Work” should be
specifically defined to ex-
clude leaning on shovels
or watching others work,
whether from a recumbent
position or otherwise. Six
weary toilers have just
finished a footpath job
outside my office. It has
taken them two days. A
liberal estimate would
have been one man for
half a day, but it would
have lasted them a full
day longer had not a red-
haired little man, an evi-
dent new hand at relief
work, carelessly finished
the job off while his colleagues were
having their fourth smoke-oh.
“Jarndyce, Jun.”; Sixteen months ago
I became entitled to a few hundred
pounds from a small estate. From time
to time the solicitor for the estate said
the money would be “forthcoming within
the month.” After about nine months
he explained that things were compli-
cated. Would 1 forego the interest? —the
implication being that if I did the com-
plications would disappear. I pointed out
that I had been paying interest on part
of the money, which I should have had
nine months before, in the form of a
bank overdraft. Months passed, punctu-
ated by assurances from the solicitor that
the money would be forthcoming, plus
interest, within the month. Then my
solicitor notified me that the solicitor for
the estate had come to the conclusion
that I wasn’t legally entitled to the money
at all. Would I agree to halve the cost
of taking an Equity silk’s opinion? It
seemed like subsidising a gamble in
which I stood to lose something what-
ever happened; however, I agreed.
Counsel, after deliberating for a fort-
night, said the solicitor was wrong. I
have paid my share of the costs. I am
still waiting for the money. Can any-
body beat it as a horrible example of
the law’s delays?
“Der Jong”: Reference was recently
made in The Bulletin to kilted regiments
in South Africa. A felon blow has been
struck at these by one Erasmus, a Dutch
Nationalist member of Parliament, and
a real old Dopper by the sound of him.
He wants the kilts abolished as un-
seemly and associated in the minds of
many Afrikanders with the skin karosses
of the Kaffirs. Apropos, when the British
Army was being reorganised in the
’eighties Childers, then Minister for War.
backed by Wolseley, proposed to abolish
the garments in the Highland regiments.
There was a fearful outcry from the
Scottish chieftains, including the Duke
of Argyll, whose son had married the
Queen’s daughter, and as the Queen and
the then Prince of Wales threw their
weight behind the protesters the kilts
were saved.
* :£ * *
“East Coker”: Probably the main reason
why Dampier has left no name to com-
pare with Cook’s as a pioneer navigator
(B. 27 /3 / ’35) is that he reckoned the side
of the continent along which he cruised
in 1688, and again in 1699, a distinctly
poor old place. His reports to the Admir-
alty about the country caused the prompt
abandonment of the project for making
New Holland an outpost against the
Dutch; his description of the aborigines
as “the miserablest people in the world”
was equally calculated to damn the land
which nurtured them. Cook was an
honest optimist, whose impressions of the
east coast led to the first settlement of
Australia, less than 20 years later;
Dampier, doubtless just as honest, found
so little attractiveness in the west coast
that its settlement was retarded, prob-
ably for a century and a half, by his
voyages. There is no doubt that he’ was
a close, patient and reliable observer of
all that came under his eyes ; his logs
are admirable examples of clear, concise
English. He seems to have been a skilful
enough navigator, too ; but he was not a
great captain or a born leader. He was
frequently in trouble with his sub-
ordinates (who once marooned him) ;
doubtless his early buccaneering experi-
ences had spoiled his chance of ever be-
coming a tactful disciplinarian.
“Inaha”: Notwithstanding the noisy
incredulity of “Kwakprak” (B. 27/ 3/ ’35),
the story of the woman, a victim of
paralysis for 10 years, who was able to
jazz after the injection of a new drug is
supported by evidence. The woman
was suffering from myasthenia, an un-
common disease with effects on the
“You fool, this isn't OUR baby!"
“I know it isn't; but our kid was howling its eyes out, so I took this 'un."
muscles similar to those produced by
the curare poison on Indian arrows.
Following the lead given by a woman
doctor of St. Alfrege’s Hospital, Green-
wich, in the use of prostigmin to treat
myasthenia, two University College
Hospital doctors achieved “amazing re-
• suits’,’ with the same drug, including that
of the woman who danced. The effects
wear off after about five or six hours,
and research is being directed towards
providing continuous relief by repeated
injections. London “Times” suggests that
“for the treatment of myasthenia the dis-
covery is as important as that of insulin
for diabetes or liver for pernicious
anaemia.”
“H.S.” makes a suggestion:
Cinesound’s next is to be an adaptation of
“The Bells,” in which Irving made his first
London hit over 60 years ago. The central
character murdered a traveller in a sledge and
was haunted to death by the sleigh-bells. Mid-
Victorians believed in the overtime working of
a guilty conscience, and they revelled in stage
horrors. But “The Bells” seemed turgid rub-
bish to thousands even in their time; nowadays,
with Irving himself playing lead, it would
arouse shouts of laughter.
It isn’t as if we were short of horrible
murders in Australia; every State has had
them. I could name half a dozen on which
I would undertake to base plays as good as
“The Bells” —as good if only because they
couldn’t be worse. In an Australian remorse-
piece the murderer’s aural delusions might take
the form of approaching footsteps, the exhaust
of a car, a child crying; anything: bells have
no monopoly as shudder-breeders. The advan-
tage of an Australian as against a Polish set-
ting is that the producer could be sure of
getting the right characters, landscapes, in-
teriors, etc. If a study of the macabre is
required —and the censor has no objections—
what could be more effective than a film about
Butler; with fear of capture substituted for
the pangs of conscience? It would go great
guns in Australia, and, with such acting as the
late Jimmy Atholwood, say, might have put
into the chief role, it might electrify Britain,
and the U.S.A.
“D.”: In re “Kaa’s” statement (B.
17/4/’35) that proof can be got of the
python’s capacity to swallow a kangaroo
by referring to N.Q. papers of 18 months
ago, there is no need for Sydneysiders
to go to so much trouble. In the
reptile house at Taronga Park, attached
to the python’s cage, a photograph may
be seen of a python with a kangaroo
inside and a note that the digestion of
such an animal takes three weeks.
“Carrick, A. 8.”: The little coastal
steamer had an engine breakdown, and
within half an hour a stiff sou’-easterly
had sent her close inshore. “Hop on
to the fo’c’sle-head and drop the port
anchor, mister,” said the skipper to the
mate. The order was obeyed, but the
packet still drifted towards the breakers.
“Second anchor on 20 fathoms of chain,”
shouted the Old Man. This time the
mate never moved. With a curse at his
subordinate the skipper sprang down the
ladder, staggered across the well-deck
and did the job himself “That’s torn
it,” remarked the mate; “I kept trying
to” The skipper cut him short with
“Pay out that 20 fathoms of chain.”
The mate obeyed, and the anchors held
just outside the first line of breakers.
“Perhaps you’ll listen to me now,” said
the mate. “I kept trying to tell you
that the starboard anchor wasn’t shackled
on to the cable.” “I knew that as well
as you did,” the skipper snarled at him.
“But we’d have been into the breakers
before you could shackle it on if that
port anchor hadn’t held—and a nice
time I’d have had at the inquiry if I’d
gone up on the rocks with one of the
rnudhooks still on the bows. Now, if
it comes to the worst, I can swear that
I dropped both my anchors on long
cables as soon as I was on soundings.
It doesn’t matter that one of them wasn’t
shackled on to its cable ; what a Board
of Inquiry doesn’t know never hurts
them.” The mate said nothing, but he
afterwards told me that he now fully
understood that old sea maxim “Obey
the order, if it breaks the owner.”
THE EARLY BIRD.
Who yet has dared to pen an ode to ills
That come with winter’s icy blow?
Who yet has taken up the case of chills
And coughs and colds, I’d like to know?
Who yet has noted birds don’t sing
In winter as they do in spring?
When lazy winds that scorn the stoutest vest
Make muffled man bow low in fear
Lest he be counted with those “going west,”
He might reflect, it’s surely clear,
That if we knew not winter’s sting
We’d get no kick at all from spring.
And if there be no gold-tinged, smiling morn,
Is that a reason for the Muse
To stay her hand? E’en if the trees are shorn
And larks are silent, why refuse
To make the frosty welkin ring?
Why, winter’s but a breath from spring!
But bards will wait, and on their typers strum
A lay to that most magic word
(While sipping winter’s spirit, which is rum),
So here is one, an early bird,
Who lilts while winter’s still a-wing,
Ere others get a line on spring.
n.s.w.
Edwin Waller.


CRAVEN A
CELLOPHANE
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE” keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under all
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach ‘you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
HIBS7M/A
9 d
10
or
1/6
20
or
50 for 3/9
m
mm is
a
a*
m
m
m
TO
OPEN
just a touch
with the
right thumb
breaks the
Freshness
seal.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Ministerial parties preparing for
two State elections have begun them well.
In N. S. Wales the U.A.P.-U.C.P, allies
have had nine members re-elected without
contests, and'Queensland Labor has had
eight, against two in each case. Among
the nine are Ministers Bruxner and
Drummond; among the eight, Minis-
ters Hanlon, Bulcock and Mullan. Un-
opposed returns are generally a good
election barometer.
Bathurst will provide one of the most
interesting tussles on May 11. Two re-
turned soldiers are contesting the seat:
Wilkins for the U.A.P.-U.C.P. and Kelly
for Lang Labor. Wilkins scraped Kelly
off it three years ago, but the Leg. Coun-
cil referendum and the Commonwealth
poll showed good majorities the other
way. Kelly, nevertheless, depends on
the railway vote, and since the Common-
wealth election scores of railwaymen
and their families have been transferred
to other districts.
As in Victoria last month, one lone
Douglas Credit candidate is standing for
the N.S.W. State election, but in Queens-
land the Douglasites are running a ticket
of 20. They have perhaps been encour-
aged by the progress of their cause in
Alberta, Canada, where the provincial
Government has hired the Major to
come over and show it how his nostrum
can heal all Alberta’s economic and
financial ills.
Forgan Smith, wrestling with his policy
speech at Mackay, said that the return of
his Government would “mean a pro-
gressive reduction in unemployed-relief
taxation, to be followed by reductions in
other directions.” Sic promises cost
naethin’ and hurt naebody, ye ken.
Munsie, the Westralian Labor Minister
of Mines, is going to London to be
interviewed by mining investors. He will
see Ogilvie there—Ogilvie, whose great
idea is that a committee of Britons should
come to Australia and rearrange the
financial affairs of Commonwealth and
States. The New Provincialism has
some humiliating aspects.
Now it is Tasmania which is licensing
betting shops. Westralia is expected to
follow suit. Both have Labor Govern-
ments. Early Labor members strove
to make Australians “enlightened and
self-reliant,” and put the words in their
“objective.” They may have been
wowsers, but they lose nothing compared
with the sort of Labor politician whose
notion it is that the Australian should be
a thriftless gambler, leaning (when he
has lost his money) on a grandmotherly
State.
Only one N.S.W. Minister, Vincent,
the Mines and Forests man, looks like
being seriously challenged. Wallace, a
former Rhodes scholar and international
footballer, is out against him in Raleigh.
Vincent has been attacked for his ad-
ministration of the Forestry Department.
“S. M. Herald” was the latest to bang
him for letting the eminent Jolly
(another Rhodes scholar) go, ignoring
the recommendations of the Westralian
Kessell and naming Jolly’s secretary as
Acting-Commissioner as a preliminary
to resumption of bureaucratic control.
Vincent’s Forestry Bill was rudely
handled in the Leg. Council, and he may
have a rough passage in his electorate.
As if the electoral redistribution did
not handicap his side enough, Moore, the
Queensland Opposition-leader, has come
out with a motherhood-endowment plan
which will cost bushels of votes. He
proposes to take ss, a week from the
basic wage of single and childless
married men, now £3 145., and give it
to mothers with three or more dependent
children at the rate of ss. per child. It
is against human nature for a bachelor
or a Benedict to be content with 15s.
or £1 a week less than a perhaps 25 p.c.
less efficient man working at the same
bench. Moore’s crowd will get little sup-
port from toilers without families.
Another of Moore’s bright projects
for Queensland is “legislative provision
for profit-sharing agreements.” On this
basis:
Shareholders to have a first call on profits
to the extent of not more than 5 p.c. a
year. Profits in excess of that must be
divided equally between shareholders and
employees.
And what of a concern which goes
without profits for years in order to
establish the business, as Electrolytic Zinc
did? Presumably employees won’t share
losses, but will they be entitled to half
the profits of a good year, over and
above the 5 p.c., after four or five bad
ones? These fancy schemes won’t help
Queensland to secure industrial enter-
prises, and it needs them badly.
“All I have to say is that the same way that I have served you in the past. I shall
serve you in the future.” — Mr. Lang to his Easter conference.
“ I’ve learned nothing , and you’ve got to forget everything, see!”
Before the Victorian elections Jack
Cane, Labor’s deputy-leader, said he dis-
liked the U.C.P. more than he did the
U.A.P. His party has now put the
U.C.P. in office, and Cane burbles that
“the lesson of the North-Eastern Pro-
vince by-election is that the people have
spoken definitely and decisively against
the U.A.P.” The Leg. Council fran-
chise is confined to landholders, some
university men, lawyers, doctors, school-
masters and “naval and military officers
active and retired.” There are 14,000
electors in the Province, and only 26
p.c, of them voted for the winner. The
voice of the people!
MacDonald, Flandin and Mussolini,
foregathering at Stresa, condemned Ger-
many’s “unilateral” breach of the arma-
ment clauses of the Versailles Treaty,
ancl hinted that it it tried to upset me
territorial settlements their countries
would take multilateral action to knock
the stuffing out of it. A day or two
later the League Council denounced
Germany’s “unilateral” proceeding in a
resolution wherein “unilateral” appears
five times. It means “one-sided,” and
the Saxon term is far more expressive.
But politicians and diplomats delight in
the sound of the long word from the
Latin, and love to see it in print.
The standard rate of British income tax
is 4s. 6d. in the pound, but there have
always been liberal allowances and
abatements for working and lower-
middle-class people. Now a family man
with £5OO a year of “earned” income will
pay £6 if he has three children, and a
£4OO-a-year man with two children will
pay £3 15s, If they lived in any part of
Australia, Federal territories excepted,
they would pay considerably more.
In Australia, with its 557 paid legis-
lators, politics has long been regarded
as a profession, and now when a member
dies the claim is increasingly heard that
the job should be kept in the family. In
three States this last month two young
men have announced their candidature
for seats vacated by deceased fathers, and
a widow is coming out for her husband’s
position. Incidentally, though little has
been said about it, the Commonwealth
has been paying pensions to two retired
politicians and to two widows of
members.
Some newspaper transports over the
increase in the chilled-beef quota would
make it appear that Lyons had intro-
duced the pastoral millennium. One jour-
nal spread the glad news in four-
column headlines. The actual increase
for the quarter amounts to 26,000 cwt.,
worth perhaps £65,000 sterling.
Lang Labor always has an Easter con-
ference, and as a rule delegates talk
for days. But this year they sat just long
enough to add licensing of s.-p. book-
makers to the platform, and listen to
the repeated demand of the coalminers
for the repayment of £3250 lent, and
appoint Lang controller of the party
funds and of the caucus, with unchal-
lengeable power to choose his own Minis-
ter —the other resolutions mattered little.
The dictatorship is hailed with delight by
Federal Labor. It places in an impos-
sible position the anti-dictator A.L.Ps. in
other States which threatened to declare
Fed. Lab. “black” if it came out against
Langsters.
Dunstan is out to create the impres-
sion that his Government is for work,
not ornament. His chauffeur has shed
the uniform worn in Argyle’s day and
cased himself in plain clothes, and the
heraldic pennant which declared to the
world that the Premier was aboard the
car has been put into cold storage. Such
changes may be a justifiable demonstra-
tion against swank. On the other hand,
they may be just another form of it.
The Japanese are to send M. Katsuji
Debuchi, formerly their Ambassador at
Washington, on a friendly mission to
Australia. It is pleasing to learn from
the Deputy-Director of Customs that, if
gifts he brings from the Emperor “can
be regarded as samples of no commer-
cial value, duty will not be charged.”
It only remains for the visitor to see that
he and his staff receive no income while
in Australia and all chance of awkward
incidents will be avoided.
Neville Chamberlain complacently re-
corded in his Budget speech that beer-
drinkers had created a record in 1934-35
by consuming 272 million gallons more
stingo than in 1932-33. It is, of course,
an effect of the substantial cut in excise
made in 1933. Corresponding results
could have been got in Australia, but
all White would take off was three-
eighths of a penny a pint—just enough
to give more profit to brewers and pub-
licans. The public still has to pay 9d. a
pint in the city and more in the country.
Flynn and McGuinness, those stal-
warts of the organised N.S.W. public
servants, are in the political limelight
again. They generally dash into it at
State election-time with “demands” which
arouse the enthusiasm of Langsters,
though Flynn, publicly rebuked by the
Premier, avers that he is not a party
man. McGuinness is scarcely so explicit.
He protests that salary cuts are “un-
British,” and generally gives the impres-
sion that N.S.W. public servants are
treated worse than galley slaves. Farmers,
fruitgrowers, graziers and unemployed
pronounce them dashed well off.
Since Lang’s maddest year 1227 new
factories have started or been reopened
in N. S. Wales, and the number of fac-
tory employees has increased from
106,253 to 148,825. And the improve-
ment continues ; for example. Fords are
spending £125,000 on an assembling
plant and buildings in Lidcombe, They
would not be doing it if they thought
there was any chance of Lang coming
back and bringing his endowment tax
and his capital levy with him.
An Australian woman returned from
a visit to Germany tells that in Berlin
a nigger doll was broken by her small
girl and taken to a shop for repair. She
was informed by the salesman that “non-
Aryan” dolls were not permitted under
the Hitler regime, and he confiscated it.
The un-Nordic puppet, the lady was told,
would be handed over to the police,
registered, card-indexed, made the sub-
ject of report to headquarters and finally
destroyed—presumably by the common
headsman.
McGirr, M.L.C., one of those down-
trodden proletarians whom Lang calls “my
people,” has been fined at Forbes for
persistent neglect to sewer a terrace of
houses—yes, a terrace of houses. The
matter has been dragging on for many
months, the case having been adjourned
seven times. The McGirr’s latest excuse
was that “tenders received for the work
were too high.” It was thought that the
Lang policy was construction of works
by day labor.


!Sj // i
IIM A B\T WORRIED ABOUT nS
THIS Presentation Stah .
J/ Thats auur>GiHT»Joe;
Leave \t to me''
7 Mow 1m Yoij, ano You re His Majesty "
Wau< urb this
o s '
THEM BOvV Low, thus .
vv
How you do vr ; «Joe .
" w
NlO ; WO ( K\o ; MOT UU.E that- .
1 Must have started ofp omthe wromq eoot,
AND WE TH6 CUTLAJSS, 45 TAM
FULL-DRESS REHEARSAL.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds . . £3,800,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £BOO,OOO
AREA PLANTED: 156,415 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
m
MADE IN
» AUSTRALIA
BY
c
H
I
N
E
R
Y
mmm
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbournel
Adelaide. Perth - E.S.C.A., Brisbane
PERSONAL ITEM S
Sydney R.A.C. has an Oldest Inhabi-
tant in Herbert Jones, who owned the
second motor-car brought to Australia.
Though 91, he recently repaired the roof
of his house, and painted part of it. He
was president of the R.A.C. for some
years.
George Morby Ingram is the V.C.
among the 14 guards at Melbourne’s
Shrine of Remembrance. Born at Bag-
shot (Vic.) in 1885, and a carpenter by
trade, Ingram enlisted with the 24th Batt.
Before going to France he served with the
2nd Tropical Force in German New
Guinea.
An R.A.S. Identity.
A Frith impression of Colonel Gribben,
who has helped to make a success of
the R.A.S. for longer than most exhibi-
tors can remember. He served in
S’Africa with the 2nd Mounted Rifles,
and is entitled to write M.R.C.V.S.
(Lond.) after his name —in short, what
he doesn’t know about horses isn’t know-
ledge. Hon. ringmaster and chairman
of the horse committee are his principal
Show jobs.
Geoffrey Rodger, S.A.’s new Conser-
vator of Forests, took his B.Sc. in
forestry at Adelaide in 1915, studied
forestry in France, Belgium and Britain
during war leaves, and has since had
appointments in N.S.W., Tas., Westralia
and Canberra. He rose to be senior
officer of N.S.W. Forestry Commission,
and he is still only 40.
Charles Chauvel, of “Heritage,” is a
son of Major Chauvel, of Stanthorpe
(Q.). Two brothers are on stations in
North Queensland, and another is an
archdeacon at Broken Hill. Charles
began with the E. J. Carroll and R, L.
(“Snowy”) Baker film enterprises. At
Hollywood he served the M.G.M.
organisation, did publicity work for
Douglas Fairbanks and was associated
with Fred Niblo. General Chauvel is his
uncle.
“10-2-4” casts a bouquet:
If I were asked to name the best-liked man
in N. S. Wales public life, I would indicate
Sam Hordern, who, after a long illness, made
his first appearance coram populo at the
R.A.S. Nobody seems to have a grudge against
Sam Hordern. He has been in the spotlight
for decades, and there are no grins when his
name comes up, as happens invariably in the
case of leading publicity-chasers. Racing men
like him; workingmen like him; squatters
speak well of him, so do city businessmen. When
you remember that he is a millionaire, and
that the average person resents riches, his
popularity becomes all the more astonishing.
He is a cheery mixer; so are pestiferous
golf-club members. He draws no class distinc-
tions; neither do politicians. He has charm;
so have gigolos. Explain the position he
holds in the hearts of his countrymen if you
can; I can’t. Canon Hammond is the only
other Sydneysider whom everybody seems to
have met and whom practically everybody
speaks well of.
Douglas Low, brother of Dave, is
attracting notice in London as a black-
and-white artist. His illustrations (signed
“Douglow”) decorate Horace Thorough-
good’s recently-published East of Aid-
gate.
Squadron-Leader Guy Moore, the new
president of the Vic. Aero. Club, has
been its accountant and auditor since its
formation. He trained with Kingsford
Smith at Oxford, saw active service in
France and was shot down twice.
“D.”: Joseph Farquharson, R.A., who
has died in his native Scotland, at 89,
was spurned by the Impressionists with
exceptional vigor during the whole of his
long London career. He was everything
they thought an artist shouldn’t be —a
financial success, a keen rider to hounds,
a good shot and one who avoided the
society of Bohemians (he wouldn’t even
join the Chelsea Arts), and was a shame-
lessly representational painter. He retired
to Aberdeenshire after the war. His “The
Joyless Winter Day” is in the Tate.
J. P. Jones is consoling himself for
losing office with a trip to England.
Jones was Vic. Minister of Works under
Hogan, and left Labor with his chief —to
become Minister of Works under Argyle.
In his youth he was a racing cyclist who
competed against Plugger Bill Martin,
Bob Walne and other cracks of the day.
He made his money in a tailoring
business.
A. S. Orchard, Adelaide’s new curator
of gardens, is an Englishman by birth.
He was superintendent of Sydney Botanic
Gardens, but resigned to look after the
garden of Ben Nathan, the Melbourne
business and sporting ‘ magnate who
bought the late Senator Sargood’s place
at Ripponlea. Nathan’s is probably the
finest private garden in Australia —he
pays over £lOOO a year for excess water.
Attached to it is a zoo where wallabies
and ’roos and all manner of Australian
birds roam in a happy state of nature.
Frank Bradshaw, who claims to have
been a bushranger, claims also that he
put the tablet over the grave of Dan
Morgan in Wangaratta (Vic.) cemetery.
Now indecipherable through weather and
neglect, it bore the inscription “Here
lies Dan Morgan. He was not all
bad.” Actually, a less heroic, more
sadistic murderer than Dan doesn’t
appear in the annals of crime. He
was shot on Rutherford’s station,
Pechelba, by an employee named
Quinlan. Only the day before Quin-
lan, a notoriously bad shot, had fired
half a dozen limes at a bullock
before he brought it down. Brad-
shaw proposes to replace the original
tablet with another bearing a
quatrain of his own.
“Jeames”; The sixth Marquess of Ely,
dead at 80, married a Tasmanian 30-odd
years ago—Ethel Lempriere, daughter of
Nigel Gresley, of Hobart. A son of the
fourth Marquess, Lord Augustus Loftus,
is the only N. S. Wales Governor who
has been suspect of keeping fowls for
profit. In Bulletins of 40 years ago
“Hop” always portrayed the old boy
with a hen pecking about his feet. A
grandson of Lord Augustus married a
Labertouche of Melbourne (her father
was Secretary of Railways in the
’eighties), and another member of the
family married an Onslow.
This is skipper Dahlstrom, of
the Swedish four-master C. B.
Pedersen, which berthed at
South Wharf, Melbourne, last
week to Viking songs and
chanties from the score of 200-
odd apprentices aboard. Dahl-
strom is a believer in sail as a
training ground, but he has no
use for the old-time methods
of discipline. He is the guide,
philosopher, friend and con-
fessor of the pleasing young-
sters who constitute his crew.
Every one of them can speak
English—among other lan-
guages—every one of them is a
singer of parts and part-songs,
and the average age of the lot
is 20 years.
Mrs. Campbell Praed, who
died last week in London, aged
84, has few readers nowadays.
But her novels about Australia
were best-sellers in London
and New York 40 years ago,
and she was the first writer of
Australian birth to win literary
fame overseas. A member of
the Brisbane-Sydney Murray-
Prior family (her father was a
Q. P.M.G.), she could write
from personal experience of
politics and the social life of the day
on stations and in cities. Her husband,
a Scot, who took up land on an island
off the Q, coast, was a nephew of the
man who beat W. C. Wentworth for the
poetry prize at Cambridge.
G. M, (but always called “Joe”)
Anstey, dead in MX. at 73, after a flight
over the Southern Alps, was a popular
Adelaide figure. Not having to work
for a living, he lent a hand with the
Zoo and ail kinds of charitable and
public works. His most enduring Nairn
to fame will be that he was hon. sec-
retary to the original Adelaide golf club
at Seaton,
This is J. B. Chifley, who State Labor
Parliamentarians hope will lick J. T.
Lang in Auburn. Some of them have
J. T. Lang’s opponent in Auburn.
been trying to get rid of Lang, and if
Chifley doesn’t win next month they are
politically doomed. Chifley, a fine
speaker, was Minister for Defence ip the
Labor Government which was put on the
spot by the Langites.
The late Dr. Richard Stawell had been
an ornament of the Vic. medical profes-
sion for nearly half a century. Son of
a Victorian Chief Justice, he took his
medical degrees at Melbourne Uni., and
practised as a specialist in nervous dis-
eases. He was one of the first to join
A Viking Chief.
the A.M.C. in 1914, served at Mudros
(lieut.-colonel) and helped the Repat.
Commission after the war (K.8.E.). He
was 71 when the end came last week.
His was one of those early families whom
Martin Boyd—the Boyd family was
another —worked into his novel The
Montfords. The Western District town of
Stawell, where the Gift is run, was called
after Stawell’s father.
Major-General Bruche, who handed
over as chief of staff the A.M.F. to
Colonel (temp. Major-General) Lavarack
on Saturday, has been soldiering since he
joined the cadet corps at Scots College,
Melbourne, at the age of 12. He was
called to the Vic, Bar in 1898, but never
practised, joining the army as a subaltern
in the same year. He went to the
S’African War the following year, and
to the World War in T 6, having been
Commandant in W.A. since 1914. Prac-
tically all his service consisted of staff
work, at which he excels. Bruche reached
the retiring age 12 months ago, but was
retained to assist the Government in its
new defence scheme. He is an authority
on Pepys and his period, and proposes to
devote some of his spare time to writing
about the diarist.
“Athanasius”: The late Adolph Ochs,
of N. York, was a credit to Judaism. At
11 he sold newspapers in the street, and
at 20 took control, as liquidator, of the
debt-laden Chattanooga “Times.” A
negro attended to the ramshackle
machinery; a retired colonel wrote the
leaders; Ochs was manager, publisher,
proof-reader, printer, reporter and book-
keeper. At 38, having made a fortune,
he bought the New York “Times,” whose
financial status was as low as its prin-
ciples were high. He changed every-
thing but the high principles. The
“Times” was the first to receive news by
wireless, and the first to publish photo-
gravure supplements. It spent £lOOO in
order to print a speech by Lenin. Ochs
died at Chattanooga the other day aged
77, one of the richest men in U.S.A.
journalism, and the worst thing anybody
can find to say of him is that he was
vain.
A reproduction of Norman Lindsay’s
Anzac Day drawing, appearing in this
issue, will be sent to any Digger forward-
ing 3d. in stamps.


GRIMWADE CRYSTAL
MOST BRILLIANT EXHIBIT
AT THE SYDNEY SHOW
100% Australian—Hand-made and Hand-cut
mmo
Hi
m
1
I
"dr 'I
HSS»
n
■
pa
M
■
#1 an
Wm
3,1
» -»
S
a
W
» -.=?■
9 Jm
'ppip
■
s
The very table H.R.H. the Duke of Gloucester and the official party used as supper-table at the Army, Navy and
Air Force Ball. Made entirely of illuminated glass, in its entrancing surroundings it glitters like a fairy’s palace.
THOSE who saw the glass exhibition at the Royal Sydney Show could not
but have been captivated by the beautiful display of cut crystal products,
sparkling with their hundreds of flashing facets. Dressing-table sets,
tumblers, decanters, dishes and bowls —all cut by skilful Australian hands,
and all produced at the works of the Crown Crystal Glass Co., Ltd.,
Alexandria, Sydney.
With these products one might associate in one’s mind a jeweller s shop
—a single artist painstakingly carving a thing of beauty in his workroom.
Every Crown Crystal cut-glass product IS cut by skilled hands; but, instead
of a single artist doing the work, there are no fewer than a thousand
Australians directly employed in producing these things of beauty in just
one section of a great Australian industry—the Australian Glass .Manufacturers
Co., Ltd.
Those who buy a tumbler, a preserving jar, a bottle of ale or a pane
of window-glass, unless they have been through the factories of this vast
organisation—one of Australia’s largest manufacturing industries little
realise the enormous asset that is necessary to produce them. To start with,
no glass factory in the world turns out so many and varied lines of glassware.
Few, if any, factories in the world have a more efficient plant. And probably
none have gone to similar pains to educate the public in the advantages of
packing foodstuffs in glass containers to enable you to “see what you buy.
The company’s enterprise is illustrated by its latest venture —the manu-
facture of “Tarzan” toughened safety glass. This product, 600 per cent,
stronger than ordinary glass, when elevated at either end will support the
weight of three men. It resists violent shocks without breaking; if it should
shatter, it does not splinter, but smashes into small crystals without cutting
edges. Naturally, the main value of this remarkable product will be in
motor-cars, where 70 per cent, of injuries in accidents are due to flying
glass splinters. But it has many other obvious uses.
The capital invested in
Australian Glass Manufacturers
Co. and its subsidiaries is over
£2,000,000. It has bottle-works
in every Australian State. For
many years bottles comprised the
entire output. But of recent
years its activities have spread
greatly; large sums have been
invested in plant for making
crystal glass products and sheet
glass. Many hundreds of Aus-
tralians have been given direct
AUSTRALIAN CLASS MANUFACTURERS St
SYDNEY OFFICE & SHOWROOMS: DOWLING ST.. WATERLOO. Factories all over Australia & New Zealand
employment. Many hundreds more have benefited indirectly. To-day,
Australian Glass and its affiliated companies have over 3000 Australians on
their own payrolls, which aggregate over £600,000 a year. It is safe -co
assume that as many more have gained indirect employment. The advantages
of a secondary industry such as this to Australia s welfare generally should
need no emphasis. It WOULD need none if everybody were able to see the
industry at work.
The plant, wherever a machine or unit could be obtained in Australia,
is of Australian manufacture. Grinding mills, mixers, rolling mills for sheet
glass, huge ladles of molten glass—the whole impression is of steel, fire and
activity. Enormous furnaces containing 1000 tons of molten glass, great ro ers
drawing out sheet glass of different thicknesses in continuous sheets—on one
occasion enough glass was drawn during one run of the glass-drawing
machine to glaze a continuous shop window, 6ft. high, from Sydney to
Parramatta.
The organisation has not been content to manufacture glass products
alone. Tin containers, sauce bottle tops and lids for preserving jars are but
a few of the sidelines.
The plant is as self-contained as possible. The larger factory units
produce their own gas, make their own fire-bricks and fire-resisting-ware—-
a big item where high-temperature furnaces are one of the first essentials
of glassmaking.
Patterns and dies are all made in the machine-shop and foundry, while
electroplated articles, copper-ware and electrical fittings are also turned out.
Electric-light bowls of varied and attractive designs, a credit to the
craftsmen who make them, create a beautiful display in the Companies
showrooms. Agee Pyrex ovenware, petrol-pump measures, lamp globes
when one sees the multiplicity of products turned out, thousand-ton furnaces
full of molten glass do not seem out of place after all.
fd
To-day, nearly 200 skilled
glass cutters are employed
in supplying Australia's
demands for Grim wade
Hand • mad&.H a n d • c u t
Crystal, produced by the
Crown Crystal Glass Co.
ltd Sydney (associated
company of A.G.M.).
f
AGEE PYREX is the new
and highly successful clear
glass oven ware which
A ustraliatu housewives arc
now using in such large
quantities. AGEE PYREX
is made by Crown Crystal
Glass Co. Ltd., Sydney
(associated company of
A.C.M.),
df
Australian Window Glass
Ply. Ltd. an associate
company of A.G.M. pro-
duces quality sheet gloss
for all building and other
purposes including * Koala'
window glass, Figured
Rolled Glass . Wire Rein
forced Glass , etc.
d
The Australian Gian
Manufacturers Co. Lid,
established more than 60
years ago, to-day menu-
lectures 9,6} 4 different
types of Bottles and lari
as well at glass Insulators,
and metal and moulded
bottle caps.


■
m
h M
C
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, «/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
i.uncb from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M46OL
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
' Write lor explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL U DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUOKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE. Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
PUMPMOBIL
' )
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming —Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street 1 1 ■■ SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 629,904 13 p.c. = 520,000 25,000 3,830,332
1925.. 632,555 13 „ „ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „„ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927.. 654,060 14 „ „ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ ~ 630,000 4,636,943
1930. . 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 7J „ ~ 253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 9£t p.c.=331,313 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
*After deducting tax.
flncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
This pioneer of the Anglo-Australian
banks has celebrated its centenary with
a special bonus of £69,750 net (2 p.c.)
to shareholders and £36,250 to the staff.
The £106,000 came from the contin-
gency account, lumped with bills payable,
etc. (£4,542,477, down £34,502), in the
published sheet. The co. has never failed
to earn a profit, and only for two (1847-
48) out of the last hundred years has it
failed to pay a div.; that was because
it had made a cash advance of £150,000
to the Bank of Australia, which failed
following Australia’s first major crisis in
the ’forties. From 1853 to 1892 divs.
ranged from 9 p.c. to 20 p.c,; the rate
dropped to 5 p.c. for the three years to
1897 ; it had climbed to 14 p.c. 10 years
later, and the average for the 24 years
to the close of accounts in 1930 was
14.9 p.c.
The original paid capital was
£200,000; the figure is now £4,500,000,
of which £1,000,000 was transferred from
reserves in 1920, being the amount of
premiums on past issues of new capital.
The million of capital since gathered has
brought with it £850,000 of share
premiums.
Last year turnover in the exchange
market, where the co. does a large busi-
ness, increased, and trade locally was
better, too. After dropping something
into the contingencies account, the im-
provement in gross earnings (£1,075,076)
was £5374, The cost of handling the
larger business (£636,670) increased by
£7205 ; the tax bill (£173,319) was £B4lO
lighter. The net result, up £6579, was
5.8 p.c, on capital as against 5.7, 5.6,
4.8, 13.6, 15, 15.8 and 16.3 p.c, back to
1927. On capital and reserves combined
the profit was approximately 2.9 p.c.
Allowing for taxation and exchange,
the p.c. div. is worth approximately
p.c. to Australian and Maoriland
shareholders. At £ll 4s. (£l3 a year ago)
the £lO shares paid to £5 —the other £5
is a contingent liability, payable only in
the event of liquidation—return 3.2 p.c.
on al\ p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover
is £lO 3s. sd. in net tangibles, which
means that a 9 p.c. div. would call for
a shade under 44 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined.
Over the last five years there has been
a marked expansion in deposits and low-
interest-bearing liquids and a contraction
in advances:
Liabilities.
1929. 1983. 1934.
Notes . . . . £434,329 £353,520 £119,384
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 4,576,979 4,542,477
Deposits - ■ 34,414,798 87,833,350 39,601,807
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,914,862 17,388,449 19,687,630
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,991,823 2,426,692
Advances . . 34,314,960 31,247,182 31,045,284
Premises . . 278,373 472,111 503,252
About two-thirds of the Australian de-
posits are interest-bearing. When the
books closed depositors and others could
see 10s. of every pound of their money
in liquids, including bills receivable.
Advances were only 78,3 p.c. of deposits
as against 99.7 p.c. in 1929. The bank
was holding £4 16s. Bd. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own. It
is a very strong position, but it means
low earning power.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c.- Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 ~ .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. . . 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2760 .. .. 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930. . 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Trans, to bad debts reserve, £11,000.. 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2j p.c. = 4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,443 2,381 8,333
There was a better spread of spending
last year, due to growth of em-
ployment. Queensland’s Bureau of In-
dustry figures show approximately the
same number of wage- and salary-earners
employed as in 1929 ; and the bureau’s
retail sales index rose 4.9 p.c. during
1934, reaching 86.9 for December, the
best figure for five years.
McDonnell and East’s gross earnings
(£76,661) were up £ll,llB last year.
Including £2OOO set aside for the tax-
gatherer and £lOOO for doubtful debts,
exes. (£66,117) took £4484 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result £6634 better
at £10,544, or enough to give the prefs.
their £720 and show 5.7 p.c. on the
£172,027 of ord. capital as against 2.2
p.c. for the previous term. Shareholders,
who were passed by for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1933, got an
extra H p.c., making 4 p.c. for the year,
the final being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
The ords. averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930
and 1.3 p.c. since. The market notes
this and the outside debt, and prices the
scrip, fully paid to 205., at 16s. 2d. as
against 9s. a year ago. The return at
16s. 2d, is 4.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 20s. 4d. in net tangibles.
The more attractive prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
The financial position improved:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 53,000 51,750 50,250 49,500
Overdraft . . 77,343 66,296 65,000 60,000
Sundry creditors 38,336 15,356 8,440 14,964
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 131,730 129,828 128,204 128,091
Stocks.. .. 120,079 101,211 86,282 90,398
Book debts,
cash, etc... 117,216 100,624 97,538 98,364
To clip £5OOO off the overdraft, £750 off
the mortgage and add £4116 to the book
value of stocks (in at cost or market
price, whichever is lower), the co. leant
upon sundry creditors for an extra £6524.
Including stocks, the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£64,298) was
£4168.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves
;£ £> £> £
1924 .. 10,047 10 p.c. = 10,000 47 1,979
1925 .. 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 .. 6,542 7 „ ~ 7,000 1,563
1927 .. 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 .. 8,626 8 „ „ 8,000 026 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500.. .. 15,198
1929 .. 23.561 8 p.c. = . 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 .. 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 . . 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 .. 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions to resrves,
£3500 44,594
1935 . . 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Apart from competition from road
transport, this snug little concern enjoys
a monopoly of the carrying business on
the N. S. Wales South Coast between
Nowra, where the railway ends, and the
Vie, border and Sydney. At the end of
March the whole of the £lOO,OOO of paid
capital and £598 besides was represented
by Consols (£84,053), fixed deposits
(£15,168) and till money (£1377). So the
fleet, to which another vessel, bought
from the Sawmillers’ Shipping Co., was
added a couple of years ago, hasn’t got
to turn in much in the way of profit to
enable an 8 p.c. div. to be paid.
Last year another good season en-
abled farmers to fill the co.’s ships with
produce, and the board claimed an extra
£227 of profit. That was after dropping
£3500 from somewhere into reserves, and
reducing the book value of fixed assets
by £5580 net, equal to 10.4 p.c. of their
book value at the close of accounts in
1934. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.
With a twinkle in its eye, the market
notes all this, including the strong
liquid position, and prices the fully-
paid pound shares at 435. as against
345. 6d. a year ago and 255. 6d.
12 months before that. The return
at 435. is 3.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the cover is 295. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
1920. 1928. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital 75,000 100,000 100,000 loo'ooo 100,000
Liabilities.. 11,505 11,282 9,815 11,413 10,518
S'hip pro-
perty ~ 49,500 60,844 54,600 48,980 43,630
Other pro-
perty ~ 1,717 2,807 2,895 2,595 2,570
Plant, stores,
etc. .. 3,362 2,645 2,078 1,674 1,469
Book debts 14,078 15,936 6,652 8,704 11,324
Consols and
cash . . 32,062 48,268 89,323 94,554 100,598
When the books closed Consols, cash
and book debts exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £101,404 (up £9559), equal to 20s.
3d. per share,
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 49,634 15 p.c.= 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 7i p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
12J P-c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
5 p.c.
1982.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
3f p.c.
1934.. 17,311 9000 7,500 769 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
A cool, damp summer depressed Mel-
bourne’s demand for warm-weather
apparel, and many retailers had to “mark
down” prices in order to quit seasonal
lines. Still, this co., which sells mainly
men’s wear (a women’s section was
opened a year or so ago), was able
to liven its turnover; the centenary cele-
brations brought a lot of people to Mel-
bourne and unemployment decreased.
There were savings in outgoings, due
mainly to repayment of £30,000 of mort-
gage money in the previous term and to
a slight reduction in taxation. The net
result was £3496 better at £20,807, or
enough to pay the pref. div, and show
5.9 p.c. on ord. capital as against 4.1 p.c.
and a shade over 1 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. The div. was lifted from
3| p.c. to 5 p.c. To old holders the one-
for-one gift issue in 1923 makes the
distribution worth double the declared
rate.
For the five years to the close of
accounts in 1925 divs. averaged 18£ p.c.
But that is not a reliable guide to the
co.’s future possibilities. It now has a
lot more invested in bricks and mortar,
competition is more aggressive and mar-
gins are narrower. Still, the store is on
a busy corner, the co, trades on a cash
basis and there is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1920. 1981. 1934. 193/5.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 36,100 139,391 126,897 109.934
Propertv, etc. 40,199 385,086 412,253 412,253
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 5,306 7,492 7,868
Shares in other
cos. .. 5,767 5,804 5,804
Stocks.. .. 98,819 103,168 92,744 80,261
Book debts . . 5,054 6,075 5,683 4,094
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 35,040 3,062 2,487
Last year £14,921 was snipped off the
overdraft (£4986) and £2042 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£5948). The mortgage (£99,000) was
unchanged. Stocks were reduced by
£12,483. The excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids was £2916 lighter
at £22,492. The floating debt was well
covered.
Doubtful of the future, the market
prices the ords. at 21s. as against 265. 6d.
a year ago. At the lower figure the
return is 4.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
At 30s. 6d. (335. 6d. a year ago) the
9 p.c. cum. prefs. look more attractive.
The return at that price is 5.9 p.c., and
last year’s net earnings were more than
double their annual requirements. The
net tangible cover is £3 17s. lid. prefs.
and 28s. lid. ords.
Permewan Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Rc-
Jiin., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 15,811 12 J p.c. = 9,375 6436 70,681
1926 . 19,031 124 „ „ 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 .. 22,165 124 „ „ 13,802 8363 .85,575
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 91,825
1928 .. 24,693 124 p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
j 929 .. 19,732 124 „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 .. 4 7,949 10‘ „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 .. 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO .. 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. ■■ 86,562
1932 .. 1,870 Nil 84,692
• Written off, £3285 .. .. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £306 .. 81,773
1933 . . 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund. £B3l 80,576
Written off, £9000.. .. •. 71,576
Profit.
1934 .. 6,097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 .. 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
This 51-year-old is in the produce,
agency and carrying business in the
back country of Vic. and N. S. Wales.
Earnings have been up and down accord-
ing to seasons and prices. The three
years to the close of accounts in 1933
were the worst experienced since pastoral
and agricultural incomes were withered
by the big drought early in this century.
However, as stocks and debtors’ balances
were worked down, the amount coming
to outsiders was reduced and cash ac-
cumulated. The board was able to
return ss. per share (= £31,250) in 1933.
thus making possible a higher rate of
dividend than could otherwise be paid.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co. bought the busi-
ness and premises of the Trafalgar and
Yarragon Produce Co., and also the
produce business of F. E. Levy, Hamil-
ton. The floods in Gippsland cost
it nearly £4000; still, “after providing
substantially for depreciation and bad
and doubtful debts,” gross earnings
(£73,454) sprang £9583. Exes. (£64,401)
took £6627 of the increase, leaving the
net result at 7.2 p.c. on capital as against
4.8. p.c. for the previous term. A point
was added to the div., making it 5 p.c.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 225. The return at this price is
4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 31s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1920. 1925. 1933. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 75,000 156,250 125,000 125,000
Liabilities.. 79,212 63,415 33,295 38,025 63,515
Plant and
property.. 47,193 38,571 60,991 66,093 75,953
Book debts 90,583 119,109 109,036 103,646 114,279
Merchandise 32,883 44,244 43,965 58,490 64,832
Shares Mur-
ray Ship-
ping .. 18,000 18,000 6,900 6,900
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 38,449 6,528 7,547
The growth in the figures reflects the
purchases already referred to. The


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT EEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street, Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address; “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) tc either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ulus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place. Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance covered at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.5.
Formerly Commissioner for Western Lands and eight
years State Secretary N.S.W. Branch Returned
Soldiers’ League.
General Representative and Broker.
Sound advice on all matters of Land, Keal Estate,
Finance, Insurance (all kinds).
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.5.,
S 6 Hunter Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 83751; JX2946 (Private).
Box 3050NN, G.P.0., Sydney.
NOBEE
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited,
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.s Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N\T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty„ Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.; J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
amount coming to outsiders was in-
creased by £25,490. The net addition
to the book value of property and plant
was £9860, to book debts £10,633, and
to merchandise £6342, The more or less
liquid surplus (£123,143) was £7496
lighter, due to the outlay on fixed assets.
National Mutual Life
The actuary makes an annual overhaul
of the business, and bonuses are declared
each year; still, this one of Australia’s
five big mutual life offices clings to the
old-fashioned idea of sending out its
valuation figures triennially. Those for
the three difficult years to Sept. 30, 1934,
disclose steady expansion of the business,
together with the effects of lighter in-
comes, stinging increases in taxation and
the drop in interest rates.
New policies issued totalled 57,484,
assuring £23,246,713, as against 56,979
policies, assuring £25,182,890, for the
preceding triennium. Over the three
years to September 30 last the busi-
ness in force increased by £6,892,210,
reaching £104,050,195, reckoning in
£14,865,736 of bonus additions. Including
consideration for annuities, net pre-
mium income (£9,663,453) was £39,152
lighter, while the net return from invest-
ments, etc. (£4,378,491), was down
£599,360, of which £221,049 was on
account of extra Government bleeding
(£785,618). After paying all legitimate
claims (£8,931,813, up £961,322) and exes.
(£1,234,961, down £63,900) £3,875,170
remained in the business —£1,535,934 less
than for the three years to the end of
September, 1931.
Of the £3,875,170, £582,597 was sent to
the Investment Fluctuation reserve, rais-
ing it £1,100,000; the other £3,292,573
was added to the Assurance fund:
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455,499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,669,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,481,655 8,013,518
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,480 3,577,833
1934.. 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
The shrinkage of £737,011 in the surplus
available for distribution, and of £524,759
in the amount of bonuses declared, was
due to the addition to the Fluctuation re-
serve, extra taxation and a heavier crop
of claims. On whole-of-life policies,
bonuses allotted for the year to Sept. 30
last ranged from 40s. p.c. on contracts
one year in force to 68s. p.c. on those 35
years old or more. Although these were
2s. p.c. less than the rates declared three
years ago, they are still handsome.
Prospects are distinctly encouraging.
The mortality experience, although
heavier, was only 57 p.c. of expectation
as against 55 p.c. and 58 p.c, for the two
preceding trienniums. Assuming that
consideration for annuities cost 3 p.c.,
the balance of exes, took 13 p.c. of the
net premiums, whereas 15.2 p.c. was
allowed for in the valuation. Excepting a
small amount of endowment and re-
assurance contracts, valued on a 3£ p.c.
basis, the office assumes that its Life
fund will turn in 3 p.c. net. Actually
the net return, which dropped from
£5 Bs. lid. p.c. in 1929 to £3 19s. 7d. in
1932, was £4 Bs. 4d. p.c. on the mean
fund last year, thanks largely to relief
from taxation. In addition to the Life
fund, there is the Fluctuation reserve
already referred to ; it also belongs to
policy-holders (there are no shareholders),
and returns therefrom are available for
bonuses.
There has been a rush to peg ground
on the Tavua field, about six miles south
of Tavua, on the nor’-east coast of Vitu
Levu, one of the Fiji group. The field
was discovered late in 1932, initial
developments have disclosed some high
values on the Emperor, Koroere and
Loloma claims, and Dr. Loftus Hills and
T. R. Victor and others have been im-
pressed with possibilities on parts of the
ground. Several lodes have been located,
running approximately north-west and
south-east. They appear to occur as
replacements along a shear zone in
andesite, which is flanked by dolerite and
basalt on the west and by slates and
mudstone on the east. The Emperor is
thus far the principal line of lode. To
the south-west are the Regent and
Loloma lodes, and about half a mile to
the south is the Cardigan. The field is still
in the prospecting stage, although good
pay ore has been proved to depths of
over 100 ft., and the Emperor line has
been driven on for over 900 ft. in
Koroere’s ground, where it is 70ft. wide
in one place. Among those who have
recently become interested in the field
are Australian Gold Development, the
Aloha and Aloha Central syndicates
(Aloha has taken up alluvial ground)
and Hickey’s Gordon Gold, all Mel-
bourne-controlled.
* * ♦ *
The rise in the price of gold has given
Waihi a new lease of life. The co.,
which is London-controlled, has been
working the auriferous deposit at Waihi,
Thames district (M.L.), since the eighties
of last century. It has a paid capital
of £247,954, and has won over
£18,000,000 worth of gold and silver and
paid more than £6,000,000 in divs. Now
it has been decided to hand over the
mine and the co.’s other assets in Maori-
land to a subsidiary, Martha Gold, which
has a capital of £250,000 in ss. shares,
of which 991,814 are to be issued to the
parent. At the end of 1933 ore reserves
were figured at 327,847 tons, assaying
335. 3d., with promising developments on
the fifth (432 ft.) and upper levels on the
north branch of the Martha lode. Atten-
tion is also being given to the low-grade
ore-bodies on Nos. 11 and 12 levels. The
parent, which is also interested in tin in
Siam, recently turned down an option
over an'alluvial area at Avoca (Vic.).
* * * *
For the four weeks to March 25 Raub
cleaned up 10470 z, of gold from 3658
tons from its mine at Pahang (F.M.S.).
The new manager, J. C. Coldham, says
that a grade of 6dwt. per ton is all that
need be expected at present. Meanwhile,
the blocking of ore reserves and the
efficiency of the plant are receiving
attention.
. * * * *
Enterprise of New Guinea has decided
to split its £lO shares into units of £1
each, of which 22,500 will be issued fully-
paid. The 6250 in cold store will be
offered at an early date on terms yet to be
announced. The co. holds 15 prospecting
leases, totalling 5000 acres, in the Man-
dated Territory. At the moment its Sur-
prise Creek area, on the Upper Watuf,
is the most promising. Here W. F.
McKenzie figures 70 acres to be worth
over £190,000. This is based on wash of
an average depth of sft. returning 2s. 3d.
a yard, with costs at Is. The bottom is
soft and bouldery. At" Mt. Oriabanda
chances depend upon the results of a
lode-prospecting campaign. The co. has
£5200 in the bank.
* * * $
Golden Dyke (N.T.) has decided to
increase the capacity of its cyanide plant
to 50 tons a day. The co. is treat-
ing Bdwt. stone, and recovering over 90
p.c. of its gold content. The main lode is
being test-bored over a length of 3000 ft.
to a depth of 200 ft.; the three parallel
formations are also to receive attention.
Dr. Woolnough was very impressed by
surface indications on this field, which
might yet develop into a large producer.
* * * *
Euro Development Syndicate, a Sydney
concern, is reported to have exercised it's
option over the Eldorado, Tennant’s
Creek, Centralia. The price mentionel
is £15,000 cash plus a like amount in
fully-paid scrip. The vendors were
Richards and Shaw, who located the
deposit a few months ago. The syndicate
has not yet announced it's intentions with
regard to flotation.
* * * *
Mt. Hector Mines, near Proserpine
(N.Q.), made a splash in the early days.
During the last few years several mining
groups have attempted to develop the
many reefs in the locality, without much
success. Values are usually good, but
the shoots are short and the reefs nar-
row. The Last Try, however, seems to
have some prospects, if properly devel-
oped. The 160 tons of ore raised during
the last 18 months has yielded about
£4OOO worth of gold. At present a half-
dozen other shows are being developed,
but their prospects are in the balance.
* * * *
The Black Jack Co., Charters Towers
(Q.), is getting a subsidy of £l3OO from
the Government for development of its
mine. Crushings and tonnage so far
have not been up to W. H. Clark’s anti-
cipations, but dividends were paid out
of shallower ground close by.
* * 4= #
New Gympie Gold has Shown that
reefs in the Great Northern Block,
Gympie (Q.), are auriferous. An assay
of blue quartz from their No. 4 reef
went 15dwt.
H= * *
South Kalgurli’s year closed on March
31, and a final dividend of Is. 6d. and
a bonus of 4s. a share are expected in
July. At July 18, 1934, the co, had cash,
£100,744; Government and other secu-
rities, £67,137; bullion, £10,645; ex-
change premium accrued, £15,850; bul-
lion in reserve, £5250 ; stores, £10,048.
There was £37,631 coming to creditors.
Some new and valuable developments
have lately been recorded in the South
Kalgurli block, while the Croesus Prop,
(leased from North Kalgurli for 10 years,
with about five years to run) is also
reckoned to be looking well.
* * *
At the Lady Evelyn, Ora Banda
(W.A.), the reef is enclosed in a sheared
and schisted zone, and there is no geolo-
gical reason for believing that it will not
continue in depth. Dr. Larcombe’s con-
clusions are that the mine may be worked
at 700 ft. or 800 ft. on the underlay, and
that if the south shoot continues from
200 ft. to 500 ft. there should be a profit
of £50,000, given an average return of
lOdwt. per ton. This does not include
ore in other parts of the mine. The co.
has secured a further option over the
property and adjoining areas till the
end of March, 1936.
$ # * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated has com-
menced to treat ore at the rate of 1200
tons a month, and hopes to put through
more presently. Approximately £20,000
is said to have been spent on develop-
ment and plant during the past 12
months. Issued capital is £lOO,OOO in
fully-paid ss. shares. It looks like a
15dwt. concern, with doubt about per-
manency at depth. An impending de-
velopment in Nicholson’s lease, third
level, promises to have an important
bearing on the future of the mine.
* * * *
Leonora Corp. announces a profit of
£3321 for the first 10 months of its
existence. All but £5OO of it was swal-
lowed by preliminary exes, and provision
of taxation. The co. is an offshoot of
the Sons of Gwalia. Its principal assets
are 84,000 Tanami Syndicate shares, plus
£70,000 worth of the same co.’s deben-
tures, 174,984 Cornish Kaolin shares and
a 25 p.c. interest in Gabait gold mines
in the Sudan, out of which shareholders
have received nothing to date.
* * * *
Of New Venture’s shows, the Cool-
gardie Redemption, billed as a potential
good thing, and unwatered at a cost of
£lO,OOO, has proved to be a dud; Cool-
gardie Brilliant, which had a vice-regal
opening, has been handed over to tri-
butes, and the co. is not free from
worry about other ventures. An effort
is being made to interest London inves-
tors in some of them.
❖ * *
Central Yellowdine, floated' in Mel-
bourne to search for gold at Yellowdine
(W.A.), is about to put scout bores in
“covered ground close to important ore-
bodies.” The co. is also interested in
auriferous deposits at Londonderry and
Sandstone (W.A.). At the former centre,
enough gold is expected to be won to
cover purchase consideration, and at the
latter surface prospects are described as
extremely promising.
* * * *
Nothing worth a chance of successful
resurrection is being overlooked in the
Golden West. Great Victoria, prominent
among Yilgarn producers years ago, has
been acquired under option by two cos.
domiciled in the Eastern States, on the
recommendation of Ernest Bails. After
a preliminary inspection he was “much
impressed with the size of the property
and the tonnage immediately available.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.J.S.: See B. 13/3/’35... .AJ.B. (1) There
is no open market for these bonds, which are
long-term speculations. Impossible to say at
the moment what profits, if any, are likely to
be earned. (2) “Early Marketing Scheme” was
reviewed B. 23/5/’34 M.W.: (1) and (2)
Veins are narrow and relatively expensive to
work. Geologist McMahon now overhauling
the show; his report should make position
clearer. (3) Has speculative possibilities. (4)
A small mine in good hands. Something rich
is anticipated where the two veins are expected
to junction. (5) So far as can be seen, which
isn’t very far these days, it looks like a steady
10 percenter J.T.H.: They are all thor-
oughly sound bonus-paying offices. You may
not gain much, if anything, by the course
suggested W.McL.: Berlei’s 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. return 5.1 p.c. at 31s. Net tangible
cover, £4 12s. 6d W.D.X.: No, the bonds
are a long-term speculation; guesses as to
what profits are likely to be realised aren’t
worth much.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLEISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
H: * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.


ai
IXED DEPOSITS
A Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank is a law-
ful investment for trust funds. The capital sum
is constant, the yield uniform and certain.
Interest is paid at current Bank rales, viz:—
1 per cent per annum for 3 months
U 6
2i 12
21 24 ..
Fixed deposits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of the com-
munity at all Branches.
rUe RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
WALES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
f
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney,
C. DARVALL,
General Manager.
Interviewing a
Ship’s Cat
“FINDY” VISITS THE MANOORA
“Hornpipes and that sort of thing.”
OF course, I really intended to inter-
view the Manoora’s commander,
but he saw me first and dashed up
on the bridge, pointing as he did so to
a notice “Passengers not allowed on
bridge.”
“Aha!” I thought, “game and rubber
to me, old commander. I’m an inter-
viewer, not a passenger.” So I placed
my foot on the first step. Then a doubt
assailed me. What exactly was a pas-
senger? I must be careful. I went to
the ship’s library and found a dictionary
which gave as its studied opinion:
“Passenger: One who travels in a
public conveyance.”
“Travels. That lets me out,” I thought.
For we were safely anchored in Wat-
son’s Bay, Sydney.
I hastened bridgewards once more.
Again the skipper was on the alert.
“Full speed ahead!” he shouted, and
the vessel moved forward.
I am not slow to take a hint, and by
this time I could see that he didn’t wish
to be interviewed, so I decided to try
the chief engineer.
IT took me a long time to find the
engine-room entrance. It’s hard to
tell on these newfangled motor-ships. On
a steamer it used to be easy enough.
You just crept around until you saw a
grimy-lookihg stoker with a sweat-rag
round his neck leaning over the side
taking a breather. You sneaked past
him, climbed down a ladder and sur-
prised the engineer at work, if it didn’t
happen to be his day off.
But nowadays it’s different. The
engine-room is just as clean and tidy as
the vice-regal suite, though a bit more
roomy, and there are no stokers, grimy
or otherwise.
At last I found it. Another blank.
“Sorry, sir, but you can’t go down
there coming into port. Against regu-
lations, sir.”
It seemed everyone was against me.
The officers? I tried them, but they
were all busy watching sailors coil rope
—even the bald-headed one.
Reporters from the daily papers had
the stewards all yarded up on the
promenade deck getting their opinion of
ship construction and the trend of affairs
in Europe.
Why hadn’t I thought of it before?
The barman! He was the man for me.
I hastened barwards. Foiled again. The
bar was closed. I’d heard that the
Manoora’s skipper had commanded mys-
tery ships in the war, but it seemed past
a joke to keep up the mysterv business
in 1935.
ANOTHER brainwave. It seemed my
last hope. Surely the ship’s cook
would have a tale to unfold. He had.
But unfortunately he was unfolding it
to the combined staffs of all the women’s
papers in Sydney. His huge kitchen,
galley, pantry and larder were one seeth-
ing mass of excited femininity. Scraps
of chatter reached my ears.
“Isn’t it too, too beautiful, dear?”
(They were discussing saucepans or some-
thing.)
“You could eat your dinner off the
floor.” (Why you should want to, I’ve
no idea.)
“He spent months in the best London
hotels while he was waiting for the
ship.” (Sensible fellow. What better-
place could he spend them in?) Clearly
this was no place for me. 1 wandered on.
“If it’s tales you’re interested in, 1
could unfold one,” said the Ship’s Cat.
I looked around. There he was, a big
yellow-and-black tom, curled up on a
barnacle or binnacle or something.
“Puns,” i remarked, “are in very bad
taste.”
“You’re telling me,” replied the cat.
“Me, what’s been at sea, man and boy,
for nigh on 60 years.”
“Sixty years!” I said doubtfully. “Cats
don’t live 60 years.”
“Haven’t y’ heard of the cat o’ nine
tails?”
“Yes, but”
“Never mind the ‘buts.’ Aren’t we
supposed to have nine lives?”
“Yes, but”
“There you go again. I’ll do the talk-
ing. Nine tails, nine lives. Look at me.
One tail only. I’m on my last life, you
see.”
I was convinced against my will. Prob-
ably there was a flaw in the argument
somewhere, but I couldn’t see it.
“My last life,” he continued. “Fifty-
nine years I’ve sailed with this company,
"Too, too beautiful
and now I’ve got to finish up on a rotten
ship like this.”
1 pricked up my ears. “Rotten!” Up
till now I’d heard only praise for the
vessel. What could this hardened old
sea-cat tell me?
“Signed on as Ship’s Cat
with the old South Austra-
lian, in ’seventy-six,' I did.
Now, she was a boat. So
was the Victorian. But this
thing! Ugh! l>e : served
on every ship The company
ever had, and, as a general
rule, I can say they got
steadily worse and worse. But this
Manoora, she’s easily the worst of
the lot. I never thought they’d come to
this. Just as well I am on my last life,”
I was astounded.
“But,” I said, “I understood this boat
was to be the best yet?”
“Rats!” he replied.
“There’s no need to be impolite,” I
protested with some show of dignity.
“What exactly is wrong with her?’’
“Rats,” he repeated. “I’m telling you,
rats !”
Barwards.
“Surely there aren’t rats in a new ship
like this?”
“No, there aren’t. That’s just the
trouble. No rats. Not a rat. Nor' a
mouse. Nor a cockroach. Not a single
living thing to make life on board ship
bearable.
“WHAT’S the good of being Ship’s
V Cat when there’s nothing for a
fellow to do? Think I’m'too old,'!
s’pose? Show me a rat, I say, and we’ll
soon see who’s old.” ,
He snorted in disgust.
“Look at this,” He'continued, motion-
ing .towards the dance-floor.' “Fancy, a
ballroom'stretching right.across the ship.
And '.enclosed. It makes me sjck. .
‘ “Lye got nothing;.,against dancing.
Hornpipes and .that.sort~of thing. And
as “ far as the young, folk are con-
cerned —well, there’s nothing wrong with
greasing the deck and rigging up a tar-
paulin awning. A bit of a dance and a
bit o’ fun with half a dozen in the scup-
pers every time she rolls. That’s all
right. But this! A ballroom! Singe
me whiskers, it’s past a joke!”
“It’s supposed to be very up to date,”
I ventured.
“Up to date? Up to putty,” he
growled. “If they want a ballroom, let
’em stay ashore. Come and look at this.”
He led me into a cabin.
“What do you think of that?” he
challenged. I remarked that it looked
very comfortable.
“Comfort, that’s all you think about.
Just fancy! Beds! Bedsteads on board a
ship. Aren’t bunks good enough for them?
If they want beds, let ’em stay ashore.
And radiators. Oh, it makes me sick.
“Where’s Romance gone? In the old
days half the fun used to be in fighting
as to who.’dj.have the top berth. And
think of thcf- curses caused by top-
herthers, cracking their.: shins against the
sides of the bunk orAtheir heads against
the All gone -now.
“It’s the same on! deck. Sports deck
as big as a paddock. ; Prdmenade as wide
as Pitt-street. Sunbaking enclosure. A
lot o’ rot! If they want torsunbake let ’em
go to the beaches. That's [what / say.”
“We must advance with the times,” I
began. .' ■
“So you think you are better than
your grandfather?” he sneered. “What
was good enough for him isn’t good
enough for you?”
“Nothing of the sort,” I replied. “But,
after all, grandfather had conveniences
that his grandfather didn’t dream of.”
“Perhaps so, but he was content to
move a step at a time. He didn’t rush
things like this. You know this com-
pany’s motto?” he added.
“Festina lente,” I quoted.
“Do you know what it means?”
“Hasten slowly.”
“That’s right! Be literal!” he said
scornfully. “How can you hasten slowly?
Well, my translation is ‘One step at a
time.’ In the past the company has
been satisfied to move one step at a time.
Each ship has been just a little bit ahead
of the last, and I’ve approved. But this
time they‘ve let their heads go. They’ve
gone all modern. Look at those decora-
tions, Look at everything. It’s too much
of a jump for an old hand like me.
Twenty years in one leap.”
I FELT rather sorry for the poor
creature. He was clearly out of his age
—a relic of a period that was now gone.
“But,” I said, “you are an old servant of
the firm. Surely you can arrange a trans-
fer to an older boat —one where you”
He broke in hotly.
“No transfers for me, nor pension lists
either. This is my ship, and I’m going
to stand by her. I won’t let ’em say /
“Half the fun."
fell down on my job. And, besides, you
never know. Some day a rat may come on
board. Stranger things have happened.”
He looked at me meaningly, winked his
starboard eye and walked away.
I was still gazing after him when Frith
arrived.
“Where have you been?” he de-
manded.
I turned to him.
“I have been talking to the spirit of
the Manoora,” I replied.
“So have I,” said Frith. “And it’s
damn good stuff, too. Let’s come and
have another.”
We went.


lot belter motor in
mm
m*
I/f mmMskz | , >
*
■mmhbi
. I. Jj 11 § -•.- ® 1
x^fc^^sW'*... •$
. •.■> •,
***
sissa
mm
m
mm
m&i
mi^
.m
«3S
m
m
mm
«s
liii»
S*3
mm
m
m
mm
msm
m
m
y.-yy.-y.
m
Mm
'* >' s „
ii
IK UMI
Mi
ii
*>i
■fm
m
teZki
A splendid stretch
between Stan well
Park and BuUi„
South Coast. A
modern road for
the modern
motorist!
Another Important factor in to-day's vastly improved motoring conditions is Atlantic
Ethyl the fuel that has pepped up mileage, anti-knock and acceleration to a point that
means a new pleasure and economy in motoring.
df
ETHYL GASOLINE
CORPORATION
d
fd
-$C Don’t fail to hear "JANE EYRE," Atlantic’s Dramatic
Radio Feature, Every Tuesday Night, 8.30-9 p.tn .
2 UW and Country Stations.
-fcf Even better performance is yours when your engine is
specially tuned for Atlantic Ethyl. It costs a few shillings
only. See your garage-manl
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO.. LTD., AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
E 3.48.35


ABORIGINALITIES
on a western Queensland station be-
side which was a big, dead box-tiee.
Sparrowhawks were always after the
pigeons, and these soon picked up the
trick of perching in the tree when
chased if there was no time to gain the
loft. More than once, coming-out with
a gun at the cry of “hawk,” I saw
the killer perched amicably among
the pigeons, which all sat as tight as
sealing-wax, knowing that an attempt to
run for it meant sudden death.
“Eureka”: “Do I have to dress for
dinner each evening, sir?” the new hand
asked dad the first day he was at the
farm. “Of course y’ do,” dad told him.
“D’y’ think this is a bloomin’ noodist
colony?”
% * *
“Algy”: “R.L.” blames Dawson water
for snapping of picks (B. 20/3/’35). Fred
Young tempered tools with Dawson
water for 40 years, and Fred Widt never
used anything else but it during the years
he worked at Theodore. Old Bill Thomas,
on the Dawson since the river was a
cattle pad, and Jack Cook, one of the
owners of the Sunrise, sold to the Plateau,
used Dawson water at Baralaba for 15
years, and those men could temper tools.
“Vulcan”: Dawson water will temper
steel to perfection if a pinch of caustic
soda is added beforehand. A little lime
will also do the trick.
* H? * =!=
“What-O!”: When sandflies arc thick
I’ve seen sheep crowd together in an
open space and the outside circle rush
“Bondi-ite”: The platypus at Mel-
bourne Zoo is a standing disproof of
all the arguments of scientists regarding
a balanced diet. He eats nothing but
earthworms. The tally now runs to 800
a day; and a day’s meal —which con-
tinues during all his waking hours —out-
weighs the plat, himself. The Zoo is
hard put to it to cater for the voracious
triple-purpose creature, and the earth-
worm market has hardened considerably
since his advent; the other day the
authorities were forced to raise their offer
from 6d. to 9d. a dozen. Already there is
a fear that speculators are holding back
supplies to force up the market. In the
midst of a world depression earthworms
seem to be the only commodity in which
overproduction has so far not beaten
demand.
* * * *
“Elver”: “Crash” must have a diges-
tive tract of case-hardened steel if he
can extol fried eel (B. 10/4/’35), for the
beast is greasy enough itself without
frying it —an atrocious way of cooking
anything. The perfect way to cook eels is
to jelly them —or serve them en aspic, if
you like it better. When “Crash” goes
to the jubilee, I advise him to hurry to
Houndsditch some Friday night and
there buy a bowl of jellied eel at one
of the barrows. If he wants to take it
home to the Dorchester with him, he will
have to pay a penny for the basin, same
returned if he takes it back next day.
Otherwise he will pay 2d. to empty the
basin at the barrow or a penny for a
saucer if he has a frugal mind. In any
case, he will admit that he has struck
the food of the gods.
j {i ;Jc
“Ned Kelly”: Adam, the last abo. in
the Lake Macquarie district (N.S.W.),
was stone-blind' He used to supply
the Swansea housewives with clothes
props, going into the scrub, cut-
ting and barking the props himself.
How he picked suitable trees is a
mystery. Once when he was in a shop
asking for shooting onions, with which
he planted his garden about once a week,
a small pup scrambled up the steps and
began tugging at his trouser-legs. “Seems
you’ve got a fox-terrier pup, George,” he
remarked. The old chap was right.
* * *
“Green Chequer”: A Melbourne pigeon-
fancier had an unusual experience with a
hawk recently. One had been seen
haunting the vicinity of the loft and
watching for a chance at the pigeons.
He had evidently watched closely, for
eventually he lit on the landing-board
and strolled inside. He was discovered
sitting quietly among the pigeons, and
might not have been noticed but for the
infernal row set up by a cage of parrots
which had been left in the loft. A hawk
will never attack his prey in such
circumstances. 1 once owned a loft
round and round to
stir up a heavy cloud,
of dust. When these
outsiders are tired they
push into the middle
and rest while others
supply the dust, and so
on. Stupid, eh?
“ That’ll be one and three, please !”
“Jindivick”; A mob of starlings was
flying at a fair height, so that it appeared
no larger than a swarm of bees. One
moment a hawk was in the midst,
the next he was away above. The
screeching fowls appeared to be doing
their utmost to keep the killer sur-
rounded, as they followed wherever he
went. Now and again one would fall
out of place in the pack, and then the
hawk made a determined dive, only to
be frustrated by the remainder of the
mob. After a quarter of an hour of
formation-flying and manoeuvring the
hawk became disgusted, and beat a re-
treat into the blue. At no time during
the dispute did I see any of the starlings
tackle the pirate.
“Tripod”: Tell “X.T.” (B. 27/3/’35)
that his newspaper files are incomplete
if they tell him that the last shark
tragedy in Brisbane was “nearly half a
century ago,” Only a dozen years since
a man named Jack (his surname) and his
son were taken in less than 4ft. of water,
not a quarter-mile from Petrie’s Bight.
Neither of the bodies was recovered.
“S.G.”: Out in the Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.) scrub my dog located a porcu-
pine. It was burrowing furiously when, I
arrived, and in a few seconds was firmly
entrenched. Out of curiosity I turned it
over, and found the reason for its
frenzied activity; two baby porkies, the
most amusing little fellows you could
ever wish to see. About the size of a
cricket ball, they took one terrified look
at me and rolled themselves up in the
most approved porcupine manner. Their
spines were soft and pliable, the fringe
around their stumpy legs quite silky,
The way they dived for home when I
put them down was worth going a mile
to see. Incidentally, Porky’s familiar
srunl is doming rare in parts of the
outback. Closer sellite
with his approval, and notwithstanding
h'S formidable array of spikes he .s
sadly lacking .n defensive measures.
“Boomp”- “Inglegar” errs when he
credits the little nankeen heron with
being the source of Binghi’s belief
in bunyips (B. 3/4/’45). This little
chap is not responsible for the noc-
turnal bellowings heard by “I.” His
note consists of a couple of short
yaps, wherefore they call him the
“barking crane” in western Queensland,
The author of the tremendous boomings
referred to is the great bittern. This bird
is fitted with a specially-curled windpipe,
and with it he can produce a sustained
note calculated to make Sydney Town
Hall organ take notice. Long ago writer,
then a new hand in 8.N.G., was mysti-
fied by the boomings which came from
the creek near by at nights. Familiar
with the trumpeting call sometimes made
bv the Australian emus, he surmised it
might be a cassowary. A native bench-
a hiev bird which
walked about b the edge of the water and
, m xhic didn’t cnnnd like a
cass^aty! g but a h w on a e
evening flushed a bittern from the reed-
and tbn mv<jtprv was solved
beds, and the mystery was solved.
“Bray Rock”: Talking of shore-going
octopi (B. 10/4/’35), one managed to
cause a sensation on a Sydney ferry once,
A lad and a girl took quiet seats one
evening outside the for’ard lower-deck
cabin, and the ferry duly pushed off.
After a few minutes the damsel suddenly
raised her head from his manly shoulder
and cried, “‘Ere! Stahpit! Stahpit,
now! ” The puzzled and indignant swain
was just about to tell her to go and boil
her head, when he felt a firm clasp on his
ankle. Reaching down to grab the flash
joker under the seat, his wrist was seized
in a strong and clammy clasp; some-
thing slid swiftly past the imprisoned
hand, and genuine shrieks from a sorely
agitated girl rent the harbor air. A deck-
hand dashed into action with a lamp and
chivalric intent, to find that the pair were
tied up by a good-sized octopus. Like
“Dionan’s” it flopped away and slid over-
board, under the combined effect of the
lamp and the engineer’s spare starting
lever.
“Bufo”: “Airline” (B. 10/4/’35) may
have seen a forest kingfisher in his dry
area; it is a notoriously dry fowl. Any-
how, blue kingfishers are no guides to
water. When Leichhardt was taking his
1846 expedition through some dry
country in the Mackenzie (Q.) area, he
saw one, and decided, in spite of the
advice of better bushmen in his party,
that it would lead them to water. His
obstinacy nearly led to disaster. As in
the incidents of a few weeks later when
he robbed the cress-patch planted for his
fever-stricken men, and devoured the
sheep’s jemmy prepared for an invalid,
Leichhardt’s carelessness of hardship was
discovered to depend on a private suppty
of water. Study of Leichhardt’s ulter
selfishness and brutal indifference to the
welfare of his companions, together with
his incompetence as an organiser, leads
me to believe that in his last expedition
his exasperated men killed him after
realising that he had led them to un-
avoidable destruction.
H* 'l* *l*
“Notaden”: Beg pardon, but austra-
lites (B. 10/4/’35) have been found in
every State, and also in the N.T., although
most have come from the south-west of
S.A. and westward into W.A. They
are a variety of tektonite, the generic
name for little bits of natural glass which
occur over a belt about 1100 miles wide,
stretching round the globe. Their
chemical composition does not agree
with that of any recorded meteorite, but
the suggestion of volcanic origin is even
less tenable. More symmetrical than
other tektonites (billitonites, darwinites,
moldavites and so on), they are generally
found on the surface ; the others under
alluvial country. Some consider that
they are still falling—one in the Sydney
Museum is stated by the donor to have
fallen on her roof. Also, there are abo.
stories of these “sky-stones” having been
seen to fall on bare country.
* * ❖ *
“Larrapinta”: Crippled dogs (B.
3/4/’35)? At the Marion (S.A.) brick-
yards a little fox-terrier was run over by
a cart; for months he walked about only
on his two front legs, with his hind legs
tucked under and his hipdquarters ele-
vated in the air. He eventually recov-
ered, His owner had fallen down one
of the pug-holes and injured his spine
severely ; ever since he has walked about
bent almost double. During the time
the dog was crippled you would see this
old brickmaker walking along, doubled
up, followed by a dog in exactly the
same state.
* * * ❖
“F.A.4”: He blew along and asked for
a job, looking at my boots as he spoke.
Invariably a bad sign ; but I was short-
handed, and put him on.
His appearance seemed fami-
liar, but a fair-sized “mo"
hid a lot of his face. A week
later I joined the camp, riding
a real thoroughbred, and 1
noticed he was interested. I
rolled my swag out on flat
ground close to the new hand,
and that night I heard him
talking in his sleep. In less
than a minute I had placed
him ; he was wanted by the
police of two States, and 10
years earlier had got away
with a thoroughbred mare and
foal of mine. I woke him.
“You still talk too much.
Come in with me to-morrow
and get your cheque.” He
didn’t argue. I paid him off
and watched him head up the
road leading north. For
safety’s sake I got my filly in
just before sundown and put
her in a slab stable and locked
the doors. The stable was
solidly built, the slabs mor-
tised into the bedlog and wall-
plate, with a fair amount of
space between them for venti-
lation. But at daylight she
was lying dead, an old shear-
blade wired on the end of a box-sucker
beside her, the sharp end almost touch-
ing the gash in her chest. He looked at
your boots when he spoke—but he’ll
want more than a crop of whiskers next
time I see him.
* * * *
“Strawberry”: From Hawkes Bay,
Maoriland, comes news of a milch cow
that hasn’t calved or gone dry for 11
years. Her owner bought her after she
had calved as a two-year-old. At three
and four years she bore offspring. Even
with the recent dry spelTshe averaged 14
gallons daily. In the wet season, 2 to 24
gallons a day is no effort. A family pet,
such is her appearance that at a stock
sale it is doubtful if she would bring as
much as 30s. unless her record were
known.
* * *
“Trawler”: It is a curious fact that
the great migratory shoals of fish which
are such an important feature of the
North Sea take the long route round the
Orkneys to get there, ignoring the much
short journey via the English Channel.
The French Fisheries Department, which
has been making extensive researches into
this fact and others governing fish migra-
tion, has come to the conclusion that the
herrings and other shoal fish which an-
nually come by the northern route have
not yet discovered that the English
Channel exists. When the migrations be-
gan a million or so years ago England
was still joined to the Continent, and
the migrating shoals had, perforce, to go
round the northern end to reach the
waters which were then part of the Rhine
estuary. Fish are as conservative as
humans, and, having settled on that
route, they have stuck to it ever since.
OUT FROM THE PORT OF HAY.
Old bullock days, as the teamster tells,
Were the golden days outback,
When the nights were loud with the bullfrog
bells
At the camps on the sunset track;
And waggons, piled with their great grey loads,
Strung over the plain by day,
In sun and dust on the rutted roads,
Out from the port of Hay.
The Booligal Blaster, Jacky Lee,
Long Jimmy and Hellfire Joe,
Mick Quinlan, who smashed on the lonely tree,
And Harry from Ivanhoe
Would roar and yell as their greenhides swung.
Urging the slipping heels,
tn times of wet when the blacksoil clung
In Jurhps to the straining wheels.
There was Paddy the Priest—the teams he drove
The best on the western road —
There were Buoyant Giddins and Eades, who
strove
To carry the record load;
All followed the ruts in the golden years
O’er the One-tree, wide and grey,
When wool was falling from speedy shears,
Out from the port of Hay.
When the heat-haze danced o’er the tussock
grass.
Or pastures were bare and brown,
The shadeless way was a hell to pass
With the duststorm sweeping down;
But the fruits looked good ’neath the sheen of
stars
For the rovers of road and run,
And money (lowed at the shanty bars,
Through rollicking nights of fun.
Now Mick and Paddy and all their mates,
Jimmy and Jack and Joe,
Have hit the track to the Jasper Gates,
Or wherever the punchers go.
Their old bones rest in the last long camp.
Where the town goats browse and play.
Hard by the track that they used to tramp,
Out from the port of Hay.
n.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


“Old-timer”; Ability to size up a
situation won Charlie Kerry £25 at a race-
meeting behind Wongajong. Charlie had
a moke in the Bracelet; what’s more, he
had a punter who took £lOO to £25 about
it. The course was a bush track, with a
stake for a winning post, the judge stand-
ing up in a buggy opposite. The four in
the Bracelet came up the straight
neck and neck, with Kerry’s nag gaining.
Charlie was standing by the shafts of the
judge’s box, and he saw, with misery,
that his hope would just fail to make it.
The crowd was roaring its head off.
Charlie gave one look round, picked up
the shafts, and pulled the buggy forward.
The movement nearly upset the judge,
but he retained sufficient equilibrium to
give Kerry’s moke the bun by half a
head. It was not until hours afterwards
that some body suddenly woke up to old
Charlie’s move, but by that time the
battler had faded into the south-west.
sJj
“Y.0.Y.”: “Whiskers” Blake, the
American wrestler, has been honored at'
Mossman Bay (W.A.). The lads here have
named a cabbage after him. This vege-
table, growing at J. Courteney’s, stands
about 12ft. high; from its top hang a
few leaves, resembling whiskers about a
face. _ Unlike Blake, however, the cab-
bage is still growing.
* * * *
“Humo”: A spectacle to gladden a
nature-lover’s eye is the view from the
air of the beautiful mosaic carpet of
“Where's y’r manners? Didn' I tell y' not to put y'r porridge spoon in
the sugar till y've licked it?"
flowers seen upon the treetops when
flying over the heavily-timbered moun-
tain ranges in central New Guinea.
Owing to the density of the forest the
flowers, of all shades, are intermingled to
such an extent that, except to trained
eyes, it is difficult to separate one species
from another. Nevertheless, one often
distinguishes vivid flowers on trees of
quaint shape, curious orchids of strange
habit, as well as other parasites and epi-
phytes of gigantic proportions located
high up in the branches. Trees that have
a marked resemblance to the Christmas
bush of the mainland, both in appear-
ance and by the profusion of their pinkish
blossoms, are seen on sides of mountains
and in the valleys, while a huge um-
brella-shaped tree that grows on the
peaks of the Ramu-Purari Divide pro-
duces vivid scarlet racemes which, but
for their color, could be mistaken for
wistaria. Orchids of rare beauty and
rarer colorations, situated where they
could not be seen from the ground,
present a most effective contrast with
the other bright-colored flowers with
which they are surrounded.
* * * *
“Gam”; On a property at Nangwarry
(S.A.) there is a swamp with a weed that
bears a small mauve-colored flower. The
water is alive with tortoises, and when
the growth is in bloom a watcher can
see their heads bobbing up and pulling
the flowers down. Soon after this the
swamp is surrounded with hundreds of
dead tortoises. This happens year after
year. The flowering weed is blamed for
the mortality.
* 3= * *
“Sweat Rag”: He wasn’t a choom ;he
came straight from Brisbane and had
been born and reared in Sydney. He got
a job on a station near Boulia, and the
boss gave him a dray and a couple of
horses to drive to the outstation, taking
out rations or something. Another
man helping him, Percival got his horses
harnessed and his dray loaded. With a
worried look on his face, and with
memories of having seen something
somewhere, he returned to the boss. “Say,
mister,” said he, “I want two pair of
garters for them horses.” The boss had
a bit of a look. “Garters is right,” said
he. “They’re two mares you’re driving.
Had they been geldings you’d have
needed bowyangs. Go to the storekeeper
and get a couple of pairs of hobbles.”
sj!
“Mako”: Birds aren’t the only
creatures that go unconcernedly minus
a leg after an encounter with a shark.
On an island sheep station near Auck-
land (M.L.) there used to be an old
sheep-dog that had lost a leg in his youth
while swimming in the Hauraki Gulf.
He recovered, and learned to run
with remarkable speed on three legs;
when mustering was on he was always in
the forefront. Younger dogs in their
ignorance sometimes ran ahead of him,
but by some canine protest he invari-
ably made them slink back and leave the
field to him. He was also credited with
the ability to tell when his owner’s launch
was about to round the headland, and
the sight of the old dog loping down the
jetty was the signal to dash for the mail.
He had a lasting memory of his early
experience f no inducement would tempt
him to enter the sea, though he swam
frequently in the creek.
* :J: *
“Airline”: Blowflies? After experi-
ence in all parts of Australia I still give
the palm to the big blue fellows of the
birch forests. Southern Alps (Maoriland),
as the most troublesome in the Southern
Hemisphere. Hail, rain or shine, they
never seem to miss an opportunity, but
are at their worst in. the muggy weather
that usually precedes rain. Then, in addi-
tion to meat, they will “blow” blankets,
towels, socks and even bread at a pinch.
They make a real job of it, too. There
is only one way to get rid of them: damp
the affected articles and roll them up
until the wrigglers materialise. Then
you can shake them out. Even snow
doesn’t seem to curb the brutes’ activi-
ties ; an hour of sunshine after the
severest storm and they are as lively as
ever.
* * * *
“Shakes”; A newspaper announced
the other day that among the precautions
against disease being introduced from
the north by aeroplane is the spraying of
the interior of all ’planes with insecticide
to kill the Anopheles mosquito, which
carries malaria. Anopheles is one of the
commonest of mosquitoes in northern
Australia, and even further south, and
malaria has been endemic in N.Q., N.W.
and the N.T. for the deuce knows how
long. But science has spotted many
other malaria-carriers since Ross first
dropped on the gentleman (or rather
the lady) who stands inverted at meal-
times, and it is the importation of
these which is to be rigidly guarded
against.
* * * ♦
“Niddersdale”: The assertion that the
wild English rabbit is not easily pettable
or capable of being domesticated (B.
“By cri, Mary, you got mouth like rabbit-tray
“ Don't you try to flatter me, you ol' ’ roo !”
3/4/’35) won’t stand the acid. In my
youth I gave my heart to the keeping of
a Yorkshire farmer’s daughter, some 10
years older than I, who ran a wild
rabbi try—if that is the right word —in
a big loose-box in what had once been
a racing stable. The lady had her sup-
plies renewed by farmhands, who
brought in batches of kittens found when
digging out hedgerows, and fed her
charges on odds and ends from the house
and kitchen-garden. She must have done
well selling the hand-fattened bunnies
to neighbors, and always sent a good
consignment into Easingwold on market
days.
“Bunny”: It is not unlikely that
the first rabbits brought to Australia were
pet varieties. I have heard my mother,
who came to the Darling Downs in the
’fifties, say that one of her early recol-
lections was a big woodheap behind the
kitchen at Durah station which in the
evening used to be alive with particolored
rabbits. They were never touched, and
were there for years, suddenly vanishing.
This was long before the grey rabbit
made his marble good in Australia, and
I have no doubt there were many other
instances of colonies of pets brought
from England and released.
* * * ' *
“G. Trotter”: Some years ago a geolo-
gist discovered a stretch of polished rock
in Werribee Gorge, near Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.). He identified it as a relic of the
glacial period, which suggested that Aus-
tralia has also experienced an Ice Age,
estimated at 250 million years back. The
news went to England, and was regarded
as being of so much scientific importance
that a British geological body sent out
a delegation to make tracings and casts
and other data at a total cost of £7OOO.
Then came the Vic. Water Commission
with a charge of rackarock, and spilt a
large portion of the landscape over the
scientific specimen. Local scientists are
kicking now, and demanding that the
debris be removed so that future students
can examine the actual rock formation.
* * * !S
“Yabbee”; “Trotter” Barnes, of
Mirboo (Vic.), is probably the only man
in the world who ever taught a dog to
sing. “Trotter” was well known in every
pub between Bairnsdale and Orbost. He
would stroll into the bar followed by
Dan, his faithful hound —a yellow nonde-
script dog-—and when the company had
guaranteed a sufficiency of beer
“Trotter” would signal to Dan, who
would sit up and discourse sweet music.
Anyhow, _ that’s the story that went
around Gippsland at the time. Though I
never had the luck to hear Dan war-
bling myself, I knew many men who
stoutly affirmed that he could turn off
“Flora” or “Daisy Bell” in a perfect
contralto. Dogs generally are supposed
to hate music, because they howl when
any instrument is played. But nobody
has ever seen a dog get out of earshot,
Years ago when I strummed the piano
it was a signal for my dog to gallop
from a spot 100 yards away, seat him-
self by my side, raise his head and howl
to the heavens. Dogs really love music,
and have all the human’s desire to join
in. That is why they howl,
*\' * *
“Kieta”: Tammit station, downstream
f rom Euston (N.S.W.), owes its name to
its one-time owner, a dour old Scotch-
man. The only cuss-word he was ever
known to use was “tammit,” and the
property came to be known as
Tammit.
“ 0 . w. Waireki”: Henare seemed to
J lav j na a very difficult job to muster
[ lo gg C t a together, but instead of curs-
ing or becoming excited he kept on
| OU( jiy singing jazz-song hits. I remarked
t 0 Mere that he must indeed be a happv
man to sing in such t ; c i rc u n ,.
stances, but she shook her head. “He
not happy „ she saM .. Jf he
never sing
o rra time his dogs won’t bark.”
# t
“ What . o! ”; On Mount Howitt sta-
lion (Q.) in the late ’eighties there was
the only freak bull of its kind I have
? ver h< - arcl of - Pei f ect in every respect,
11 stood not more than 3_m. high, fully-
pvcn ds roai was a
slzed boll.
„ , ", , „ " t
Quareef ; To be called a goat to
n l e . lB P raise - , Dark y ? el1 ’ a black-and-
white nanny that rests her head on your
shouldci whilst being milked, was absent
from the herd. With two new-born kids
found her a mile from the homestead
ia * e th ’<* tlplbe f 5 te P he, ? s Greek
( Broken Hill) the dry bed of which ram
ra U dl Y transforms into a swirling nver.
A storm threatened. Bleating protest,
tbe . B oat foJl°wed as I carried the
unable-to-walk kids homeward, leaving
them on the creek-bank. No rain Jell,
A d( ? c Wl , arose. By dint of nose-
pushing, shoving and insistent baas”
she manoeuvred her kids down again to
the shelter of the gums. Both the fol-
lowing days held thunder warnings. On
the first Darky B. was half a mile off,
advancing on a waterhole. She had cun-
ningly concealed her stronger kid from
the eyes of hungry crows in a flood-
formed cavity of piled debris, and had
returned to urge the weaker bairn for-
ward. Tracks nearer home showed where
she had held foxes at bay while her off-
spring slumbered unmolested against a
tree-bole behind her. Next day she
was browsing alone close to the bank of
the creek. When I appeared she trotted
to a near-by gum and stood over a large
sheet of half-circle-curled bark. In this
miniature tunnel, safe from molestation,
lay the two kids, soundly sleeping.
THE BUSH LAWYER.
“I've met most ’uman pests,” said Jim, as to
his pipe he put a spill,
“From politicians to the bloke that, always
bites you for a ‘fill’;
But, spare me days! the cove that gets my
goat is ’im that yaps and skites
As if there’s nothin’ ’e don’t know about a
feller’s wrongs an’ rights.
“You’ll meet ’im ev’rywhere; in town, or in
some shearin’-shed outback.
’E bobbed up in the A.1.F.; you’ll even strike
5 ’im on the track.
1 s’pose the world’s been cursed with ’im in
_ ev’ry age an’ ev’ry clime,
An' not a doubt but what ’e’ll be a noosance
till the end o’ time.
"Old Colo Mick’s a cove like that; ’e does
; odd jobs ’ere, sawin’ wood
An’ that (which possibly explains the reason
why ’is law’s no good).
An" sure as anyone gets landed in the cooler
snug an’ pat,
Old Colo Mick is sure to say ‘But they can’t
put ’im in for that!’
"When anybody ’ere gets pulled for trumpery
offences like
Forgettin’ income-tax returns or keepin’ an
unlicensed tyke,
An’ when the beak ’as dealt with ’em it’s odds
old Mick’ll knock ’em flat
With ‘ ’Struth! You surely should have
known a feller can’t be fined for that!’
"The time’ll come,” concluded Jim, “when
Colo Mick’ll jump the stump;
I wouldn’t give ’im ’alf a chance of goin’ aloft
at Gabriel’s trump.
An’ when ’e’s stokin’ up, I’ll bet, ’e’ll give
the newly-damned the chat,
An’ say, chock-full o’ confidence, ‘But they
can’t shove you ’ere for that !’ ”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


IHTFS
LYS
A
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
SSwSX
j m
m
.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydnsy.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT LINSEED MEAL.
Which Ewes?
“Granova”; If “Murrawong” (B.
10/4/’35) wants young sheep, not culls,
and good sheep without buying cast for
age, tell him to try mixed-sex weaners.
The following examples are taken from
weekly N.S.W. lists of store sheep;
1000 mixed sexes, whole Scpt.-Oct., 1934, drop,
one mark, 10s. (id.
2000 mixed sexes, June-July, 1934, drop, shorn
September, one mark, 10s. 6d.
3100 merino weaners, mixed sexes, as dropped
June-July, 1934, pure Merriman blood,
shorn first week November, 11s. 6d.
These lines sell for 2s. or 3s. less than
cast-for-age ewes, and ss. or 6s. less than
two-tooths. They are seldom culls, as
most stations do not cull before the two-
tooth stage.
Breeders seeking ewes will have to sell
the wethers, but these will go off readily
as two-tooths.
“Valerin”:- There will always be dis-
pute about the most suitable ewes to
.start a flock with. There can be no set
standard of quality.
From a well-bred and carefully-classed
flock, young culls will be a better pro-
position than what are termed “classed"
breeders from a nondescript one. On
rough country and in a dry season, cast-
for-age ewes are a gamble.
In building a flock, the guiding prin-
ciple should be to purchase good rams
from a recognised stud. Select them for
uniformity of fleece, and avoid the
mongrel which carries wool of several
qualities.
By sticking to this rule rigidly and
culling from young sheep those which do
not conform to your standard, it does
not take long to constitute a decent line.
Parasite Precautions.
“Vet.”: To prevent losses through in-
ternal parasites, avoid overstocking, which
prevents sheep from receiving enough
nourishment to withstand worm attacks.
Where practicable, the flock should
be watered from troughs rather than
from dams, the wet banks of which are
likely to be a pest hatchery.
Swampy land should be drained or
fenced, and infected pasture burned to
destroy immature worms.
Drenching for fluke should be done in
May and July, and water and swampy
ground treated with bluestone both in
December and June.
Before drenching a bonemeal lick will
prevent mortality.
After running sheep on small paddocks
the ground becomes heavily infested, but
if adult cattle are put into them very
few of the eggs will reach maturity.
Correct feeding and a well-balanced
concentrate ration are essential in worm
control.
Footrot or Not?
“Corriedale”: The details given by
“Winfield” (B. 3/4/’35) are meagre, but
suggest footrot.
The known facts about the disease are
that it is caused by a germ, B. necro-
phorus, which does the actual rotting
damage, but can only get inside the skin
or shell through an abrasion or inflamma-
tion. It cannot live on the soil in either
swampy or dry conditions. The season
must be warm and moist.
Barley grass seeds and thistles, flints
and hard travelling can all break the
skin to admit B. iiecrophoms, which may
exist somewhere in “Winfield’s ’ paddocks
near a spring or dam. Unless this germ
gets in, the trouble does not become foot-
rot.
It may be a mild blood poisoning
caused by dirt bacteria on some of the
abovenamed irritants. In this case, a
30 p.c. solution of copper sulphate (blue-
stone) for a foot-bath may effect a cure.
Footrot germs also can enter the feet
through inflammation caused by the
larvae of Strongyloid.es. This parasite is
common in sheep, and defies drenching.
Each one may lay 1,000,000 eggs daily.
They pass out in the dung and hatch, but
die unless dews or damp soil are present.
The sheep pick up a toe-pack containing
the larvae, which then commence to
penetrate and inflame the skin between
the toes.
Blowfly Strike.
“Hortus”; “It would appear that the
dense-woolled and wrinkly sheep are
more prone to fly-strike than the more
open-woolled and plain-bodied sheep,”
says the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette.”
This is the scientists’ viewpoint.
A well-known sheepman, A. E. A.
Holmes, of West Wyalong (N.S.W.), be-
lieves that the trouble is constitutional
to a great extent, and that pastures also
have a bearing on the trouble.
He sold his five-year-old and cull ewes
last year for delivery off shears. He
drafted them off in September, and they
are running in an old cultivation pad-
dock, left out to grass, until delivery on
October 30. All his sheep were through
the yards and dipped in the middle of
October, At delivery he had to dress
fully 10 p.c. of the sale sheep.
On going through flock ewes (same
breeding) he could find only about 1 p.c.
struck, and only about 2 p.c. of wcaners.
All sheep were on good feed and in good
condition. .
Whatever it is that attracts the fly_ to
certain sheep has a greater attraction
when the wool is wet, especially if it
remains wet or damp for any length of
time.
A week of cloudy, sultry weather, with
just enough rain to keep the wool damp
and steamy, may mean heaps of trouble.
Scientific research on animal diet
seems to have proved that proper nutri-
tion is one of the greatest factors in
combating worms and internal parasites.
How far does this apply to external
pests?
Hints on Drought Feeding.
“Valerin”: In a big drought area of
N.S.W. and Q’Jand handfeeding of sheep
has begun.
Where there is a quantity of dry, rough
feed a continuous supply of salt should
be kept up. It is a good aid to digestion.
Molasses should be a component of dry-
weather licks. Besides being a digestive,
it is a laxative and supplies potash.
Where sheep have to depend solely on
artificial fodder, adequate ensilage rough-
age should be supplied. Its value varies
according to the plant of which it is com-
posed and the stage at which it was cut.
Well-cut chaff, sprinkled with salt to
render it palatable, is a valuable adjunct
to grain and concentrates. Bags sown
end to end and stretched on two taut
wires make good feeders.
Hay is wasteful, and the extra expense
of cutting into chaff and putting up
feeders pays in the long run.
There is not much to choose between
maize, oats and wheat as grain rations,
but in feeding wheat care should be taken
to give starving sheep a small ration to
start with, gradually increasing as they
become able to assimilate it. Field peas,
containing a relatively high percentage of
protein, make ideal fodder.
Brittle Feet.
“F.L.8.”: The trouble often occurs in
horses that have had laminitis.
The feet should be kept dry. Every
second day apply to the coronet only
ointment of 25 parts saltless lard and
one part cantharides.
Cover the rest of the hoof with one
part beeswax, four parts Venice turps,
four parts mutton fat, suet or lard. Melt
the wax and fat, then add the turps.
Continue this treatment until strong,
sound horn is growing all over the hoof.
Use broad shoes made so that the
pressure comes on the sole of the hoof
in order to release the jar to the edges.
Punch the holes well to the inside of the
broad shoe, and drive nails as usual. On
the top of the projecting nail, and before
clinching, affix a small sheet-iron washer,
about l-32in. thick, and tap it home to
the hoof. Then clinch. Shoeing badly
done always ends in disaster.
Careless Branding.
“Backlog”: Thousands of pounds are
lost annually through careless branding
of cattle (B. 27/3/’35), but it is not the
grower who suffers.
If buyers and those who treat the hides
would show appreciation of good brand-
ing it would take only one season for
all cattlemen to wake up. It is the
carcass the buyer wants. Other wrap-
pings are thrown in for nothing.
When Walter H. Rose managed Rox-
borough, on the Georgina, over 30 years
back, he put his STY carefully on the neck,
a useless bit of hide. It involved con-
siderable extra labor and added cost, but
he persisted until the system had been
well tested.
He did not get a halfpenny more for
those well-branded cattle than he did for
those branded on the ribs.
Dealing with Take-all.
“Wescocky”: One year on our West-
ralian property take-all ruined 50 p.c. of
an otherwise splendid 100-acre wheat
crop, and seemed about to make wheat-
growing impossible.
We first burnt all the stubble, thus de-
stroying the spores on the straw; then
ploughed the remaining spores into the
ground.
Unburied spores will remain dormant
indefinitely on a stump of straw, but
buried ones germinate with the first rains
and, if no host is handy, quickly starve
to death. To check all weed-growths, par-
ticularly barley-grass, the parasite’s best
friend, the ground was kept reworked
after the rains. Late in the season it was
sown with oats, which are immune from
attack.
Half the oat crop returned handsomely
as hay ; the other half provided a splen-
did fodder paddock for the milking
cows. We fallowed the following year,
and seeded the next. That paddock, de-
spite a low rainfall, averaged 18 bushels.
The take-all has gone.
Stinkwort.
“Lion”; I have had to fight this pest
for years, and have found mowing and
hoeing the only real methods of eradica-
tion.
Many don’t realise that one need not
take the plant out lower than -jin. below
ground. It is an annual, and propagates
only from seed, which will germinate up
to seven years.
After 11 years’ experience we have
found hoeing, mowing and heavily over-
stocking with old sheep the most effective
control methods. Young sheep don’t care
for the plant much.
When mowing a paddock one must
catch the pest well before it flowers.
Mow as closely as possible. It will then
sprout. As soon as it is well grown, mow
again. A man with a hoe should take
what the mower misses. Keep the pad-
dock well stocked for two years after-
wards. We completely cleaned up
several badly-infested areas by this
method.
Burning off will only wipe out the first
crop, but if the plant has never seeded it
is most effective. Fire will not destroy
the seeds unless it is very fierce and burns
for some time. Stinkwort loves ground
covered with ashes, and after fire the
seeds may come up thicker than ever the
following year.
The new flame-thrower on rocky
country seems successful. It is operated
with crude oil, so that it would cost about
4s. to destroy one acre moderately badly
infested. However, it can be used only
where it won’t start a bushfire.
Lucerne.
“F.L.8.”: I agree with “Hortus” (B.
3/4/’35) that early-spring sowing knocks
the autumn system into a cocked hat.
The weather gradually becomes warmer
while the plant is growing. There is
nothing lucerne likes more than gentle
warmth as long as there is plenty of
moisture in the soil. Young plants strug-
gling through a wet winter are liable to
get wet feet and die. Lucerne cannot
stand water lying round it for any length
of time. Hence, good drainage is a
necessity.
“Hortus” gives some sound advice,
but I differ from his advice to sow
deep. It may be successful, but
has “H.” ever experienced a heavy fall of
rain that caked the ground and formed
a crust which young plants could not
break?
Our soils (Riverina) may be different
from his, but with us shallow sowing is
an assurance against seeding troubles.
Sodium Chlorate v. Skeleton Weed.
“Agamemnon”: Good results have
been obtained in the control of skeleton
weed by the use of sodium chlorate,
but the cost of the spraying in places
where the weed is strong is prohibitive.
Moderately-infested land may be treated
at a cost of approximately £4 to £5 per
acre. Experiments at Wagga show that
the weed may be eradicated in four years
by lucerne.
The land should be well prepared for
the lucernej and sowing should take place
in autumn, preferably following rain, so
that the crop may get a footing while
the weed is dormant. If sown in spring,
the weed will usually crowd out the
young lucerne. One cwt. of super, per
acre is recommended, and until the
lucerne is established it must not be
overstocked. When the lucerne patches
are grazed by sheep the skeleton weed
is eaten eagerly, and so prevented from
setting seed and spreading in the usual
way. The few cultivations required for
lucerne also minimise the spread of the
weed.
At Wagga 100 acres of badly-infested
cultivation was put to lucerne as a rota-
tional and grazing crop in the autumn
of 1929. In 1933 only odd weeds could
be found, while last year the land was
clean of the pest.
“Titoki”: I bought a grade lersey
heifer in 1928, and milked her for five
seasons. During that time she produced;
1928, twin bulls.
1929, twin heifers.
1930, twin heifers.
1931, one bull and one heifer.
1932, three bulls.
She was tested during 1932, and produced
4571 b. butter-fat in 308 days.
(“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


mm
mom
mm ,
'
}iitSSSiSSi
it
It’s like a liqueur...
It m ust be
WHITE HORSE”
mmm
mmm
ff'
.
'
_______a
, V"''^
■. ?..
;
*iS
ss?
iiW:-:$>:: : '-
m
■’ :■ :v .. .. ...
.. -::■
fSSS
SyS##;
‘ Vvv. :
SSSS-S:
#1
7
/ « <
“It's equal to a fine liqueur”
There’s no concealing the obvious
good qualities of White Horse.
From the first hint given by its
subtle aroma to the rare heather
and peat flavor and ripe mellow-
ness, White Horse Whisky leaves
no one in doubt as to its identity.
Men who previously asked just for
“a Whisky,” daily insist on having
this Rea! Old Scotch, Equal
to a Fine Liqueur. There are
millions and millions of gallons
matured and maturing to meet
the demands of particular people.
Try a nightcap of White Horse and hot
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Small Flasks on Sale —Insist on White Horse
V
wH.i,


MBIGESTIIM
AGONY ENDED FOR GOOD
SYDNEY SUFFERER
PRAISES THIS
FAMOUS REMEDY
We publish this letter because it is so
obviously genuine, even without name;
a convincing picture of gratitude for
the sure effect of this new-principle
remedy— De Witt’s Antacid Powder.
13th June, 1934. Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
What users say of De Witt s Antacid
Powder is correct in every particular—l can
confirm it If any person has suffered more
intensely than I from inflamed, painful, dis-
tended stomach acid eructations (gas) and
from all those discomforting and heart-
breaking signs of a thoroughly disturbed
digestion, then I feel profoundly sorry for
that person. I bought your Powder because,
for one reason, I had already bought every-
thing else and, for another reason, because
the ingredients named on the canister appeared
to offer something different— something with
possibilities of affording relief. They did, very
promptly, too, and that relief has been
sustained. To-day I am well—really well;
full of the joy of life and for the first time in
years hungry for my meals! I now take
De Witt’s Antacid Powder only after the
principle meal. Your preparation has not let
me down, and I do think I should register
public testimony of the virtue of at least one
proprietary medicine that can fill its claims
in full, , -
(Stened) Mr.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder, with its
perfectly balanced formula of proven
ingredients to relieve stomach troubles,
is now bringing peace and happiness to
thousands of one-time sufferers in all
parts of the world,
DeWitt’s Antacid Powder neutralises
excess acidity, protects the inflamed
stomach linings from the hot, burning
acids, and actually digests a portion
of your food.
Gone for ever are those awful pains
caused by indigestion, flatulence, dys-
pepsia, gastritis, ulcerated stomach.
No more days spent in agony and
dreadful restless nights.
Why endure the pain and danger of
digestive troubles a day longer ? You
can get immediate relief and finally
rid yourself of your trouble entirely.
Get DeWitt’s Antacid Powder to-day.
If you wish for a free test supply, send
coupon now.
DeWITT'S
ANTACID POWDER
Recommended for
INDIGESTION FLATULENCE
CID STOMACH
RIPING PAINS
ALPITATION
ULCERATED
HEARTBURN
GASTRITIS
DYSPEPSIA
STOMACH
old by all Chemists and
tores, in sky-blue Canister,
Full Month’s (g% I
Treatment—
FREE GIFT COUPON
To E. C. De Witt & Co. Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept, CAI 2), P.O. Box 26,
MELBOURNE.
Please send me, free and postage
paid, a sample of De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
Mr.
Mrs. .
Miss
Address .
illeft/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
m
i
V
liil
M
mm
An upper designed for
comfort
Built on an exclusive Abbey last,
this upper is modelled to permit
full interplay of all the foot
muscles . . . thus making the boot
infinitely more comfortable to
wear. Its suppleness and fitting
assure perfect comfort, and its
double sole of first-grade leather
gives exceptional wear.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin)- or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . . 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 431.
*
w
□
55
«•
%
#»
c>
eSvIIL
Runs Li^htin^,, seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for u/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY—Moffat Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE. —Adelaide Oar and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —-Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
■ MADE 1 N QUEENSLAND
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY LTD.
■VALLEY BRISBANE •
LaA •«
LANCE SKUTHORPE, the champion
Australian buckjump rider, says:
“The seat and remarkably narrow
grip in my Walther and Stevenson
‘Cattle Poley’ Saddle enable me to sit
a real rough buck with hands quite
free of reins or horse.”
THE No. 136 “CATTLE POLEY” SADDLE,
Lance Skuthorpe’s choice, costs
£l2/10/- with leathers, girth and
irons, and we have others with
similar grip as low as £9.
Write for 96-page Saddlery Catalogue
No. 8338 —7 0 Saddles in it.
WALTHER & STEVEtNSON, LTD.,
395 OEORGR STREET, SYDNEY.
Success in Central Queensland.
“Old Soldier”: After 12 months’ fruit-
less searching for work in town or coun-
try after the war I obtained 400 acres
of dairying land in Central Queensland
under the Soldier Settlement Scheme.
I had two saddle horses, a cattle-pup,
an English bride and £2O in cash. Other
worldly possessions included a table, a
bed, an old stove, a few sheets of iron
and an old tent-fly. These, with cooking
utensils and rations, were conveyed
through the timber eight miles from the
railhead, where we found the survey
posts of our selection. Our old team-
ster dumped the lot beside a creek, and
“hoped we’d make an excess of it.”
Another Digger, camped half a mile
away, came to our aid, and we soon had
the tent-fly, eked out with a few sacks,
draped round a frame of rough posts and
covered with the iron, held down by logs.
The creek water was brackish and
unfit to drink.
The country had been severely ring-
barked 20 years previously, and good,
straight tipiber was scarce. Posts and
rails had to be carried from all over the
country.
We worked all hours every day till the
selection was fenced and a small but
secure house built. The posts were
squared with an adze, and when the iron
had been nailed on and a lucky storm
put three rims of rater in our brand-new
tank we moved in.
Homemade furniture, mostly of kero-
sene-boxes, and bright cretonne made our
home cheerful.
As soon as I had completed cowbails
and built a yard I bought 12 cows of
no particular breed, and in return for
agistment borrowed 15 others of no
breed at all. I learnt at once that mon-
grel cattle are no good.
There was good .grass that summer,
and in spite of everything we somehow
“got the cream away” and eagerly
awaited our first cheque. Butter-fat
promptly dropped to 7d.
The following spring was late and dry,
but, being understocked, we had good
grass.
We bought six springing heifers at a
ridiculously low figure, and though
they were in low condition they were
well bred and proved a lucky specula-
tion. Each presented us with a heifer
calf, and the original cows gave us a
good percentage of heifers that year.
All showed a distinct Jersey strain. We
bought a young and well-bred Jersey
bull, and the nucleus of a herd took
shape.
Meantime the work of clearing,
ploughing and cropping proceeded as the
elements and human effort allowed. The
newly-cleared patches seemed to reveal
only wider areas of standing timber.
There was a boom in cotton-growing,
and we cleared and planted 15 acres.
Between milkings I kept it well culti-
vated.
In a few years many soldiers had aban-
doned their holdings, and I secured an-
other 200 acres with a shady creek front-
age, part of one of the deserted blocks.
I bought store pigs at this period, dis-
posing of them as milk decreased again.
Milking-machines presently solved the
labor problem. 1 was able, with the
help of an inexpensive plant, to milk up
to 80 cows in the flush season. With
butter-fat at Is. per pound and the
cheque for a load of store pigs, the
returns for good months often ran into
three figures.
The winter months were fully occu-
pied keeping undergrowth in check and
adding to the general improvement of a
now first-class dairy farm. In time we
added to our house and bought a car.
Depressed markets have retarded pro-
gress of late years, but a well-estab-
lished herd still returns a comfortable
living. We have been well repaid for
a few years of arduous labor, and have
never regretted “going on the land.”
I have gained experience that money
could never buy.
Land Values at Merriwa.
“Upilio”; Land values in the purely
pastoral Merriwa district (N.S.W.) have
been rising during the last 10 years.
Little farming or dairying is done,
although increasing areas are being sown
with lucerne for grazing.
In ’26 I bought a 2000-acre block at
£3 ss. per acre. It was netted, free of
rabbits, all timber killed, but no buildings.
I sold it in ’2B (without further improve-
ments) for £4 10s. per acre net. It was
resold late last year at £5 155., a small
cottage and another shallow bore being
the principal additional improvements.
In ’25 a block of 5000 acres was sold for
£3 per acre; it brought £4 15s. in ’29,
and was resold this year at £6. All these
blocks were 20 miles and over from the
rail.
Another 4000-acre block, eight miles
from rail, was sold for £3 per acre in ’25
and resold in ’27 for £4. It was then sub-
divided into two equal portions, and one
was sold in ’3l for £7 per acre, the other
this year for £9 per acre. (Some plant
and stock were given in.) Both properties
had moderate fencing and building
improvements erected during the period.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: Tanned eelskin, cut
in strips and twisted, is superior to
leather strings for tying. It also makes
good bootlaces. So does the skin from
a wallaby’s tail, which will outlast an
ordinary heavy boot.
“Karaway”; To make a sheepskin
mat quickly spread a thin layer of
baking-soda over the skin immediately
after washing it, and leave till dry.
Though it is not tanned, the skin will re-
main soft and white.
“Titoki”: I save waste oil from the
car, the separator, etc., and pour it on to
sand in a cut-down oildrum. Into this
sand I push spades and shovels when not
in use. It keeps them in first-class
order.
“Horsey”: Tell “S.J.” (B. 3/4/’35) that
the quickest and least damaging way to
get a broken handle out of an axehead is
to bore it out. Use as big a bit as pos-
sible. Most axes allow a fin. bit for two
holes and a i-in. one for the third. Keep
the broken handle —it makes the best
wedge there is.
“Hope Vale”: When bolts break in
frames of farm implements it is some-
times hard to get the beams back into
place so that new bolts may be inserted.
Place the base of a screw-jack against a
firm beam, and force the loose beams
back with gradual pressure. This is more
effective than hammering, and less likely
to cause breakages.
“Valerin”: Lopping kurrajongs for
starving sheep seems to be a lost art.
To slash off the branches any old way
ruins a tree for several years, A couple
of men with 12ft. tree-pruners can get
down a large quantity of fodder in a
day. The tree is in full foliage next
year. Proper lopping will even improve
the crop.
“X.”: To pull the rear wheel off a
car, truck or tractor place the screw-jack
in line with the axle, the head against
the end. Pass a strong chain across the
base and fasten to the opposite spokes.
Screw out the jack, and the wheel will
be forced off. If it sticks so tightly that
there is danger of breaking the chain give
the end of the axle a tap with a hammer,
“Reefton”: A shield of heavy sheet-
iron placed about £in. from the tractor
vaporiser will prevent its being cooled by
the fan blast. This will produce a quicker
and smoother change-over to kerosene,
better idling and allow restarting on kero-
sene after as much as a three-quarter
hour rest.
“Bimbo”: A good way to establish
subterranean clover is to sow with a
cover crop of wheat or oats. Mix the
seed with manure just before sowing,
and allow it to fall on the ground. Some
farmers sow the seed the same depth as
the crop, but I find this not nearly so
good as surface sowing—llb. to the acre
will give a good stand if not grazed too
heavily the following year. There is now
an early strain on the market that should
do well in districts where the late variety
would not succeed.


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘The political gun is sometimes loaded and
sometimes it is not. Unfortunately for me, this
time it was loaded,’ said ex-Premier Argyle.”
So he gol the bullet.
“Excuse me, George dear, but will you be home to
dinner ţo-night?"
“There were 42 boundaries in that 167, a
record for the school till, some years later,
A. J. (Sherlock) Holmes, now of Sussex, beat
it.” — A. W. Carr.
Holmes presumably managed to cram
42 boundaries into a score of 166.
-I- -b ‘l* *F
Unheard Of.
“Our new programme manajer is a
genius,” said the managing director of
2BF to the secretary. “Look at this
programme he’s submitted for next
Tuesday.”
The secretary ran his eye down the
sheet.
“I don’t see anything unusual about
it,” he replied. “Breakfast music, latest
recordings, cookery talk, race broadcast,
children’s session, dinner music and so
on. The usual stuff.”
“Look again.”
The secretary did so.
“No, there’s nothing unusual in it.”
“That’s just it. Nothing unusual in
it. But there’s something usual out of
it. The man’s a genius, I tell you. He’s
actually evolved a full day’s programme
without using “The Blue Danube.”
Uco.
*!- v
“ ‘The horse is man’s greatest friend,’
remarked a lecturer during Be Kind to Animals
Week.”
It’s easy seen he has never been on a
racecourse.
•F 4* *F *F
The Supreme Test.
The politician was facing the greatest
ordeal of his career. He was proposing.
“Do you love me better than life
itself?” the lady asked.
“Yes, darling,” he assured her easily.
“Better than the limelight? More than
the publicity of politics?”
This was the crisis he had feared, but
manfully he answered: “I will sacrifice
all for love of you!”
So she married him, but she let him
remain a politician. Her reasons were
(1) she liked a bit of limelight herself;
(2) she knew he hadn’t a dog’s chance of
making anything like 15 quid a week in
any other business.
Angus O’Cohen.
Glimpses at the Globe.
VIII — Freelancing in Bengal.
Bengal is full of Bengalis, pigs, tigers
and Lancers, arranged in order of fierce-
ness. The Bengalis and the pigs get a
living off the land. The tigers get a living
off the Bengalis and pigs. The Lancers
get a living off the other three, but their
principal task is to keep the Bengalis in
order so that they’ll be able to hunt
the pigs and tigers without interruption.
The idea of hunting the pigs and tigers
is to keep up the prestige of the British
Raj in the eyes of the Bengalis.
“Can you stick pigs?” is the first ques-
tion fired at a young subaltern when he
joins the regiment.
“Oh, well, I can put up with ’em as
long as they’re clean and don’t come too
close,” he probably replies.
His colonel gives him the stony glare
that he reserves for officers who have
done something to lower the prestige of
the British Raj.
“No buffoonery,” he remarks austerely.
The sub. wilts somewhat, and on
further questioning admits that he has
never stuck anything bigger than a
postage stamp.
“Then you’ll have to start on Bengalis,”
says the colonel, and the young man is
sent off to the border.
Life on the border is monotonous and
irritating. The idea, of course, is that as
long as the Lancers are there to impress
the tribes with the
power of the Brit-
ish Raj there’ll be
no trouble.
The impressing
is done by playing
polo, holding re-
views and going
out in the noonday
sun.
The last method
is the most effec-
tive.
“Lookit y o u,”
says one Bengali
in amazement.
“White sahib go
walkabout at noon-
day, allee same
mad dog.”
“Mine tin k i t
white pfeller plurry
fool,” replies a
second, shifting a
little further into
the shade.
“Py korry, yes,” agrees a third.
An elderly Bengali, who has been lying
still as though asleep, turns and rebukes
them.
“Silence! Sons of fools! Palefaces
heap big White Chiefs, plenty strong.”
Up goes the prestige, of the British
Raj with a bound.
In the polo matches the most difficult
thing is to ensure that every match
shall end in a draw. If either side wins
the subtle Indian mind will at once de-
duce that all white men are not equally
strong and clever, and the prestige of the
defeated team will naturally slump.
After an important game the follow-
ing conversation may be overheard in
the bazaars.
“Who won polo game, O seller of
mangoes?”
“Both sides won, O my water-carrier.”
“Good egg! Up Ram See Mac! God
savum King.”
Perhaps it would be wiser of the
Lancers to cut out the polo and stick to
the noonday-sun idea. The trouble with
a drawn polo match is that it cuts both
ways. One of these days it will dawn
upon that seller of mangoes that both
sides lost.
Where will the prestige of the British
Raj be then?
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* •l-
-“ Moonlight Walks.”— “S. M. Herald.”
We’ve heard of it stealing across the
lawn, but this is too hard to believe.
-I- *1- -I- 'l-
“Grime in Holland has decreased in the last
30 years by 60 per cent.”
—Warwick “Daily News.”
There’ll soon be no dirt left for Old
Dutch to chase.
*F V V •!•
A Pardonable Assumption.
As he sat idly glancing over the great
daily he started slightly. Yes, there it
was plainly enough, the headline; “Plans
for King George V.’s Coronation.” Not
a doubt about it. A typographical error,
of course. Obviously “jubilee” had been
meant. But how on earth had a comp.’s
mistake of that magnitude got past the
reader? Particularly in a paper which
had always jealously guarded its reputa-
tion for accuracy.
With that peculiar self-satisfaction
which most men have when they
have found an unexpected and major
error in a newspaper and are deter-
mined to display their discovery to
their friends, he glanced at the top
of the page to see what day’s paper
it was. To his amazement there was a
second error, worse than the first. The
last two numbers of the year were
wrong!
Then as he suddenly remembered
where he was, he voiced a faint “Tch!
Tch! ” So the paper was right, after all.
He owed an apology to the probably
long-dead proof-reader.
He tossed the paper back on to the
table.
The door opened. “You’re next, Mr.
Smith,” said the dentist.
S. W. K.
►I- -I- *1- -I*
“The latest news is that four of those news-
papers have ceased publication.”— “Sun.”
Stop-press news.
•I* *F 4* *F
“Dogs and cats were harnessed and driven
like horses.” — “S. M. Herald.”
It’s called “reining cats and dogs.”
•I- *F *l*
Use More Wool.
“Longer Bedclothes.” — “Herald” headline.
Longer bedclothes ! What a scheme!
Demands for these should he much
stronger;
For who’d not like to lie and dream
In bedclothes, say, just two hours
longer ?
B. M.
*S- *F *l* *l*
Tropical.
The speaker looked red and heated.
“I have been in the hottest hell-hole
imaginable,” he said. “You’ve no idea
what a relief it is to get out of it. I
grilled and perspired until I felt like a
well-cooked chop. For ages I had to.”
“How long were you in the tropics?”
interrupted a sympathiser.
“Tropics be hanged!” exploded the
hot man. “I’ve been trying to get a
number from a public-telephone box.”
Sef.
-I- *1- -I- •i-
-“ Asking her to step away from the crowd,
he quickly made a sketch of her.” — “Age.”
Drew her aside, so to speak.
-I- *l* *F -!•
Drama.
Fear gripped her heart as he ap-
proached. Shrinking into a corner, faint
with suspense, she prayed mutely that
he would not see her.
Around her people laughed and
chatted, seemingly quite oblivious of her
ordeal.
Now he had paused beside her, and
her heart was thumping fit to burst. It
seemed as though fate was intent on
torturing her. But, no ! He had not seen
her. He, was moving on. She was safe!
She breathed an involuntary sigh of
“What time do they feed 'em, mister?”
relief. Her spirits rose jubilantly ; she
wanted to clap her hands, to sing. She
had succeeded, and well did she know
how much that meant to her.
So, once more eluding the conductor,
she travelled home free of cost.
T. W. N.
4* *l* 4* *F
It is when horses are coming down
the straight that jockeys get in their
crooked riding.
4* *F *F *F
Long-distance fliers usually carry simple
food.” — “Age.”
Naturally they want good ’plane food.
An Explanation.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
On the Smoke-oh Page (B. 10/4/’35) is a
drawing by Lahm showing two men in tropical
attire gazing at a bridge which spans a deep
chasm. The joke reads: “Confound it! Must
yoil remind me that I’ve got to wait three
years for my next leave ?” I cannot see the
point. Neither can my barber, milkman, baker,
s.-p. bookie and favorite barmaid. Can you
enlighten us ? 6517.
(This is the drawing referred to in
the query.)
This query was handed to a joke-block inter-
pretation expert, part of whose explanation is
here quoted. “The scene is obviously laid in
the hilly jungle district of North Borneo, where
an Australian syndicate is endeavoring to grow
colorless nutmegs. Plantation manager Fysh-
wicke (late of Potts Point) has instructed his
subordinate, Poddins, to build a rough plank
bridge across a deep ravine (not chasm). ■ Pod-
dins, although a nutmeg-grower by force of
circumstances, is a civil engineer at heart,
despite his predilection for left-handed shirts.
With the aid of a small hatchet, several nails,
some rattans and two nutmeg-trees (entered
in the official returns as destroyed by insect
pests) he has evolved a perfect replica of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge. Is it any wonder that
a wave of homesickness surges up in Fysh-
wicke, prompting his impolite outburst? In
actual fact he has only two years four months
and sixteen days to wait for his holiday, but
in the circumstances the exaggeration is pardon-
able. Poddins’s brother breeds goldfish, and
Fyshwicke has an aunt in Los Angeles”....
[The remainder of the reply seems irrelevant.
—Ed.]
“Fight at Sacred Concert —Quarrel about a
Seat.”—-“S. M. Herald.”
“Get out of my seat,” said one
of the parties. “Get out your own
self,” returned the man in possession. “I
want to listen to the —— sacred music
as well as you.” Then the fight started.
* *l* * *!•
Radiant Fatherhood.
All men whose wives are old-fashioned
enough to have babies, and modern
enough not to care for them, should
study the noble art of fathercraft. A few
hints on the subject follow;
You will realise what a big difference
a baby makes in a home as soon as you
begin to be kept
awake at night. At
first you should try
to soothe yourself
by suggesting to
your subconscious
mind that the in-
fant is not crying
at all. When this
proves useless, you
should resort to a
flask of whisky, to
keep your spirits
up.
If you are slight-
ly under the influ-
ence you will have
some excuse in the
event of dropping
the infant. Don’t
drop the bottle,
though, as this is
inexcusable.
Then there is the
teething question.
Assist the infant
during this period
by giving it a bone
to pick. Try to
annoy it so that it
will bite.
When bathing
the infant, be care-
ful never to put it
in the bath upside-down or, having put
it in thus, to leave it there for any length
of time. If it insists on drinking its bath
water, add a little bicarbonate of soda
to aid digestion.
Nat.
The True Test of Courage.
I relish peril in the raw—
Than life a risk I hold more dear.
1 love the jeopardy of waw,
Especially when Death lurks near.
I care not button, fig or straw
(Bombastic though this may appear)
For lectures by my ma-in-law —
I’m utterly immune to fear.
Foes I oppose —my friends to serve —
When chance of beating them looks
bleak.
From craven paths I ever swerve,
From danger zones I never sneak.
/ meet calamity with verve —
In me you’ll find no yellow streak —
But I entirely lose my nerve
When wearing hoots, or shoes that
squeak !
P. O. M. C.
Seasonable.
Here’s a fact we think will prove
Prosperity is on the move —
Many more are sporting noses
Colored like the rich-red roses!
Mc.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. „ , . . •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or la
Bulletin to hand. . , . • .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquuy
must be confined to one subject. . . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Qualified mechanical engineer (34) wants
mining experience, would join prospecting
party in Queensland. Good technician, reliable
and hard worker. State contribution expected.
—6513.
Young man, Sydney, some knowledge paint
technology, good motor-driver, clerical worker,
wants position.—647o.
Young man, Sydney, versed in French and
German, will give lessons at moderate rates.
—6469.
Young man (31), single, seeks employment
in Australia as farm-learner, sheep-station hand,
or clearing land. Write C. J. Lowe, 80 Baron-
road, Dagenham, Essex, England.
Youth (19), Sydney, Hawkesbury diploma,
wants position station, anywhere; good general
knowledge machinery, wool and sheep; drive
car. —6506.
To hear from genuine goldmining cos. which
would be interested in Tasmanian reefing pro-
position.—6473.
To buy Sir Henry - Parkes’s Fragmentary
Thoughts (1889), Murmurs of the Stream
(1857) and Stolen Moments (1842). —6476.
To buy photographs of Vienna or books
containing same. —6487.
To exchange A Thousand and One Nights
(8 vols.) for other books or microscope.—
6495.
Words of poems “The Bards of Beer,” by
A. A. Burnet, and “Pints 1 Have Refused,”
by “Dryblower” Murphy.—6so7.
Words of poem beginning:
An Austrian army awfully arrayed
Boldly by battery besieged Belgrade.
—6515.
Words of “The Wild Colonial 80y.”—6474.
Information Sought.
/ am employed as a cook in a Sydney resi-
dence. What award do I come under, and what
wages should I get? —6241.
If employed in a private dwelling-house, you
are not subject to the provisions of any indus-
trial award. Remuneration and other condi-
tions of employment are a matter of agreement
between yourself and employer. If employed
in a boarding establishment where eight or
more paying guests are provided each week
with food and accommodation, the provisions
of the Boarding-houses, Flats, Residentials, etc.
(.State), Award apply. The rate of pay for a
cook, where only one cook is employed, is
£2 18s. per week where the charge for accom-
modation is £3 3s. per week or over, or
£2 14s. 9d. per week where the charge for
accommodation is less than that amount.
Where the employee is provided with board,
a sum of 14s. may be deducted from the above
amount, and a further sum of 4s. lOd. per
week where lodging is also supplied.
* * * *
(1) When a story is accepted by a paper and
paid for, what rights does that paper acquire,
and what rights are reserved for the writer?
(2) When a story is printed and “Copyright”
appears beneath, does that indicate that all
rights have been acquired by that paper ? (3)
After selling a story to appear in an issue of
a particular paper, how does one protect one-
self and reserve picture, performing, radio and
other rights ? (4) Does a paper normally
acquire merely the right to print in one of its
issues ? —6222.
(1) The author is the first owner of the
copyright, but may make a partial assignment
of his rights; for example, in the sale of a
story for exclusive publication in a journal,
here the unassigned rights remain vested in
the author. (2) No; only such rights as the
author may have assigned. (3) In selling a
novel an agreement is entered into between
author and publisher in which it is usual to
reserve to the author certain rights such as
radio, dramatic, cinema, etc. _ (4) See no
reason why the right should be limited to one
issue in the absence of an agreement to that
effect.
* * * *
(1) The largest diameter of an ironbark-tree ?
(2) The largest diameter recorded of an Aus-
tralian tree ? (3) How do these measurements
compare with overseas trees? —6314.
(1) There are 20 or more different varieties
of ironbark. The largest recorded diameter of
an ironbark is 60in., and the variety Euc.
paniculata. (2) The largest recorded diameter
of an Australian tree is 36ft., this being the
measurement of a Euc. regnans in the Otway
Ranges, Victoria. A red tingle-tingle tree {Euc.
iacksoni ) in Westralia had a diameter of 21ft.
(3) Large diameter measurements of trees in
other parts of the world are: Chestnut on Mt.
Etna, said to be 57ft.; plane near Constanti-
nople, 50ft.; and cypress at Santa Maria,
Mexico, 51ft.
* t- =l= *
Would dyes from Australian, green hard-
wood, obtained in large quantities cheaply, have
any commercial value ? If so, in what way ?
—6414.
It is hardly likely. Synthetic dyes from coal-
tar products are comparatively cheap and have
the advantages of being fast to light, uniform,
bright, etc. The whole history of the dyeing
industry has been the replacement of dyes
obtained from plants by synthetic dyes.
% * *
What would help me to give up smoking ?
—6257.
The question of what constitutes over-
indulgence in tobacco depends largely upon
susceptibility in the subject. Its use in modera-
tion cannot be objected to, but obvious symp-
toms of toxic irritation, palpitation, etc.,
demand immediate curtailment of the habit.
For this purpose there is no exact remedy;
personal self-will and determination are factors
that drug treatment cannot eliminate. Asa
deterrent, medicinal tonic bitters are prescribed
with some effect —when craving is pronounced
chew a piece of gentian or calumba root.
It has been staled that the old name of
Werrie’s Creek (N.S.W.), on which the town
of Werris Creek is situated, was R eia (4 eia
Creek, an aboriginal name. Is this correct.
No evidence to connect the name Weia Weia
with Werris Creek, nor do the words Weia
Weia” appear in any of our lists of aboriginal
words. Lands Department map, 1908, shows
Werrie’s Creek. Earliest reference we can find
is in Wells’s Geographical Dictionary, 1848,
where it is called Weere’s Creek. In a map
of about 1854 it appears as Wyne s Creek, and
in the list of names of persons holding land in
the Liverpool Plains district, compiled by Oard-
ner about the same period, there are the follow-
ing entries: “John Single, sheep-station,
Summer Hill, native name Weine, situated
Wyrie's Creek, Mooki River, and F Vidal,
Weia Weia Creek and Werrie’s Creek —from
which it might be inferred that these names
refer to two separate places. -
* * * *
(1) What are the duties of a J.P. in N.S.W.?
(2) Does Government issue a pamphlet for the
guidance of Js.P. ? (3) Can a J.P. perform mar-
riages ? —6434. .
(1) He may receive information in respect of
offences and complaints, may issue summonses
or, where the information is on oath, a war-
rant, may commit for trial and accept or refuse
bail. In certain circumstances may hold
inquests and also act as a legal witness in a
number of minor matters. (2) No Government
pamphlet, but textbooks for Justices may be
obtained through any law-book seller. (3) Not
by virtue of his office.
Name of a book containing notes on “The
Slave of Love” ? —6138. .
Only reference traceable is the story
“Ganem, the Slave of Love,” in “The Arabian
Nights.”
# * * *
Name of the girl in fiction who was changed
by her mother into a man in order to save her
life ? —6142.
Iphis. See Ovid’s “Metamorphoses.
* * *
Who wrote the verses “Curfew Must Not
Ring To-night” ? —6119.
Rose Hartwick Thorpe.
*.* * *
How to prepare and apply blackboard dress-
ing 5980. , „ , , .
Make up Boz. shellac, i : -gallon alcohol
(methylated spirit of good quality will do), 2oz.
fine lampblack, 2oz. ultramarine blue, 2oz.
powdered emery. Dissolve the shellac in the
spirit by allowing it to remain for a day ox-
two ; place the black and blue with the emery
powder, all well mixed, on a piece of cheese-
cloth used as a strainer loosely placed over a
container; then pour the shellac solution over
the dry materials very gradually, stirring con-
stantly until all the powders have passed
through the cloth into the vessel below. Paint
the resulting mixture on to your board, and
allow a day or two to dry; give a second coat
if necessary. The emery powder gives a
slightly rough surface which causes chalk to
adhere to the board.
*** ■ ♦
What is caviare ? How is the product sold
in Australia served ? —6048.
Caviare is the salted or pickled roe of
varieties of the sturgeon. The preserved caviare
obtainable in Australia is ready for use, but
may be incorporated in any cookery to which
it seems suitable. It is usually used only as
a savory, being spread on savory biscuits or
toast, or in tiny cocktail sandwiches.
* * * *
How to join new and old galvanised-iron ?
—6115.
The surface to be soldered must be carefully
cleaned, removing all rust with an emery wheel
or scratch brush, and treated with strong raw
hydrochloric acid, which must be applied just
before the soldering iron is passed over the
surface. A well-tixmed iron of large size must
be used, and a plentiful supply of solder
should be melted directly into the acid which
has not evaporated from the surface to be
soldered.
* * *
Name of the woman chaplain of Great Yar-
mouth who organised a plan for the reforma-
tion of prisoners ? —-6236.
Sarah Martin, a poor dressmaker, who
became a national character (1791-1843)
through the success of her reforms.
* * * *
Where did the steel used in the Sydney
Harbor Bridge come from ? Where was it
tested ? —5850.
Partly from England and partly from Aus-
tralia. That which came from England was
tested in that country before dispatch. The
tests of the material obtained locally were car-
ried out under the supervision of the Superin-
tendent of Testing of the P.W. Dept.
$ sj{ $
(1) Where is the source of the Burdekin
River (Q.) ? (2) Does the Georgina River
rise in Queensland or in the Northern Terri-
tory ? (3) Where does it end? —6406.
(1) South of Alpha (C.Q.). For its first
130 miles it is known as the Bclyando, then
it becomes the Suttor, and finally reaches the
Pacific as the Burdekin. (2) Actually in the
Northern Territory, n.-w. of Camooweal, but
it shortly afterwards passes into Q., then, after
about 50 miles, back to the Territory, where
it is joined by the Rankine River. At Lake
Nash it flows back to Q., and thereafter is
entirely in that State. (3) It eventually becomes
the Mulligan, and fades out across the South
Australian border towards Lake Eyre.
* « - * *
/ served as a lieut. in the R.F.A. for six
months of 1918. I never received any medals,
nor applied for any. What medals am I entitled
to, could I get them now, and, if so, where
should I apply? —6l3o.
You are apparently eligible for the award
of the British War and Victory Medals, the
principal conditions of the issue of which are:
British War Medal —Personnel must have left
their places of residence and rendered approved
service overseas between August 5, 1914, and
November 11, 1918. Victory Medal—Per-
sonnel must have actually served on the estab-
lishment of a unit in a theatre of war. Applica-
tion should be made to the Officer-m-charge,
Royal Artillery Record Office, Woolwich Dock-
yard, 5.E.18, and should be accompanied by a
statutory declaration as to identity and particu-
lars of service and stating that no medals have
been received.
♦ * * *
(1) How to fasten paper labels on glass ?
(2) On iron 7 —6360.
(1) Water-glass (solution of silicate of soda)
is recommended as a very good adhesive lor
this purpose, particularly if the glass is sub-
sequently liable to be exposed to heat. (2) Rub
the surface where the label is to come with
the cut surface of half an onion, then fasten
the label with glue. It will adhere lirmly and
stand some heating.
* * * *
(1) Value of the following N.S.W. postage
stamps: Id., dated 1858; 2d., same date?
(2) Value of Victorian 6d., 1858 ? (3) Name of
a dealer who would purchase these stamps ?
■—6413.
(1) The Id. is catalogued from 20s. to 225.
6d., but may be purchased in Sydney at from
ss. to 7s. 6d. The 2d. is catalogued from
4s. 6d. to 155., and can be bought at from
Is. to ss. (2) Imperf., 15s. to 305.; rouletted
7 to 9, £5 to £8; serpentine roulette 10, £6;
serrated 18, 19 x serpentine 10, £9; serrated
18, 19, £6; pin-perf., about 10, not priced.
These stamps may be bought at from one-
fifth to one-third of these prices. (3) A. C.
Campe and Cos., Sydney Arcade, King-street;
and C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street—both Sydney.
* * * *
Has Ireland won the Rugby championship
of Great Britain previous to this year ? If so,
in what years ?*— 6276.
Ireland’s record in the championship is:
1893-94, won; 1895-96, won; 1898-99, won;
1905-06, tie with Wales; 1911-12, tie with Eng-
land; 1925-26, tie with Scotland; 1926-27, tie
with Scotland; 1931-32, tie with England and
Wales; and 1934-35, won.
* =l= * *
Are Canberra florins worth more than their
face value; if so, the price they would realise
in London ? —-6363.
As 2,000,000 Canberra florins were struck
and issued, they are frequently found in cir-
culation, and these have a value of only 2s.
each. Specimens in specially good condition
have occasionally been sold in Melbourne at
2s. 6d. each, but the Mint has no knowledge
of the price in London, as they are not quoted
in the catalogues.
* *
(1) What qualifications are required to join
the Australian Journalists’ Association ? (2)
Would membership benefit a country freelance 7
(3) Subscription for freelances ? (4) How to
join ? —6256.
(1) Must be regularly employed m jour-
nalism, either as a staff man or as a contri-
butor. (2) Members are provided with certain
rates of pay in accordance with awards. (3)
10s. entry, 30s. p.a. (4) By application to the
secretary, 5 Hamilton-street, Sydney.
;Jj if *
Best way to revive staghorns and elkhorns
which show signs of dying off ? —6546.
Loosen the wire or other ties holding them
to the structure and pack old spagnum moss
or a mixture of decayed manure and rotted
leaves at the back of the leaves. A once-a-week
dose of sulphate of ammonia (joz. to 2gal.
of water) is helpful, but it must be applied to
the back of the ferns, and not on the shields.
To get the best results from elkhorns and stag-
horns it is imperative that they are not allowed
to suffer from lack of moisture.
* * * *
(1) When should flowering-shrubs be pruned?
(2) The best: time to propagate shrubs from
cuttings ? —6534.
(1) Generally shrubs should be pruned as
soon as the flowering is over. This forces
fresh laterals, which are to carry next year’s
blooms. (2) Cuttings can be propagated up
to the end of April. Use ripened (previous-
season) wood, and place the cuttings in soil
containing at least 25 p.c. of sand. These
cuttings will be fit to place in the open garden
in autumn next year.
* * * *
Cure for catarrh ? —6374.
The condition may develop as a result of re-
current head colds, but irritative factors pre-
cipitate the attack where there is a tendency to
catarrhal lesions. There is no specific remedy;
treatment in all cases aims at correction of
the initial fault. Pending examination avoid
extremes, take frequent aperient salines, and
spray nose and throat daily with the follow-
ing: Menthol, 3 grains; camphor, 2 grains;
chloretone, I grain; oil„of cinnamon, 5 drops;
liquid paraffin oil to loz. Occasional irriga-
tion of the nasal passages with a saline wash
is also beneficial.
* * * *
What is encephalitis ? —6277.
The term is applied to an inflammation
of the brain substance; the lesion may be
comparatively local or widespread. It occurs
as a complication of influenza; measles,
mumps, scarlet fever and middle-ear disease
may be causative. In rare instances it may
follow on vaccination and septic foci of exter-
nal origin. Although various types of infec-
tion may be concerned, it is probable that a
single specific virus accounts for all cases.
Little can be said of treatment; rest, freedom
from noise and excitement, and an ice-bag to
the head are usually prescribed when symp-
toms develop. The value of drug treatment
is doubtful: but from the onset, and during
the interval between attacks, close medical
supervision is required. Complete recovery
is possible.
t. * * *
Method of cooking the fish known as
“leatherjacket” ? —6060. .
The fish may be boiled in their skins. When
cooked, strip off the skins, and send to table
coated in a good white or anchovy sauce. Or
skin the fish, dry thoroughly, dip in a light
batter made from self-raising fffiur, water and
salt (no eggs) and drop into boiling oil or good
dripping.
* * * *
(1) How did the pom-pom shell used in the
South African War explode? (2) How did it
leave the gun ? —6323.
(1) It was fused in such a manner as to
cause it to explode on impact with the ground
or other object. (2) In the same way as
a typical shrapnel shell.
Brief Answers.
F.C.H.: (1) Question is vague. Sydney gun-
smiths understand that it is .22 calibre. Most
American rifles of late production are made
with proof-steel barrels capable of using the
high-speed or low-pressure cartridges. (2)
Made in 25/20, .32 calibre upwards, it was
on the market long before high-speed ammuni-
tion was introduced, and is not suitable for
the fast ammunition. (3) High-speed ammuni-
tion in older model rifles destroys the
rifling... .S.G.: Try Jones and Joseph,
235 Clarence-street, Sydney... . K.L.M.: Lay
the coat out on a table and wash
it well with a cloth wrung out of very hot
water containing plenty of cloudy ammonia.
Wipe it dry, then rub over with methylated
spirit and hang it up in an airy place. If still
sticky, repeat the process and finish off with
a good rubbing with a dry cloth and plenty
of common talcum powder R.L.B.: Write
Secretary, Royal Economic Society, 9 Adelphi-
terrace, London, W.C.2 E.G.T.: (1) Yes.
(2) No. (3) Names of mover and seconder
should be given... .G.W.S.: Write the Junior
Theatre League, Scot Chambers, Hosking-
place, off Pitt-street, Sydney, and Bryants’
Playhouse, Forbes-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
The “Playbill,” Nicholas Bldg., Swanston-
Street, Melbourne, may be able to help
you....W.J.: “The Invisible Duke” is
obtainable in One-act Plays of To-dav
(fifth series); price, 4s. 6d. posted. “A
Night at an Inn” is obtainable in One-act
Plays of To-day (first series); price, 4s. 6d.
posted. For information regarding performing
fees write to Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney J.W.C.: Write to W. Chorley and
Co., Ltd., 313 George-street, Sydney, who will
quote for all miniatures for dress purposes.
.. ..W.T.: (1) Fresh blood is not prescribed
as you suggest —a sterile medium is preferred.
The active constituents known as haemoglobin
and iron, lime, etc., as salts of the blood, are
given in anaemic health conditions —combina-
tions in liquid and tablet form are obtainable.
(2) Blood is alkaline in reaction —taste slightly
saltish. (3) Purely American in theory and
practice R.C.W.: Yes, write to the Taxing
Master, Supreme Court, Melbourne. There
is no fixed cost; all depends on circumstances.
. ...J.W.: (1) Yes, provided he is not the
chairman. (2) Seven days’ notice of the motion
must be given, together with the names of the
proposer and seconder. The motion must
be passed by a three-fifths majority
F.W.F.: The vendor is not required to sell an
unlimited quantity or weight of the goods dis-
played for sale. It is within his discretion how
much or little he will supply T.C.: (1)
Length, 140ft.; beam, 29ft.; depth, 13ft. 7in.;
draught (fully loaded), 14ft.; single screw;
built in Glasgow in 1919. (2) F. G. Hine,
19 Albert-street, Campsie, Sydney. (3) Hall
and Co., photographers, 20 Hunter-street,
Sydney... .W.J.K.: Write Dept, of Agricul-
ture, Wellington, M.L K.M.Q.: The Ice-
land poppy is not considered poisonous to
bees. Beekeepers say other species of the
poppy family are poisonous to bees
gathering pollen from their flowers, but no
official test has been made. Don’t know of
any other flora likely to cause loss of bee
life W.J.T.: Mostly attributed to /Esop.
There is an allusion to it in the Latin fabilist
Phaedrus C.B.: Don Quixote, as portrayed
by Cervantes, was the Knight of La Mancha.
W.W.W.: Imperial Airways is the only
British company operating passenger and air-
mail services between England and other parts
of the Empire N.S.M.C.: Seed not procur-
able G.W.M.D.: Full particulars District
Naval Officer, Edward-street, Brisbane....
J.B.C.: Choice is very limited in such a situa-
tion. The pepperina (Schinus molle) may be
tried, kept cut back to height desired. Old-man
saltbush (Atriplex nummularia ) or another of
the same order, Rhagodia parabolica, both may
be trained as a hedge. Climbers, Boussingaultia
baselloides, or the Cape ivy (Senicio angulata )
may also be tried... .T.H.C.: The limitation is
six years from judgment, except by leave of
the Court V.P.: desertion without reason-
able excuse during three years and upwards
would entitle him to a divorce. He might
apply for restitution of conjugal rights; failure
to obey order of Court is equivalent to deser-
tion, without reference to the number of years.
J.W.P.: (1) Surviving brother and/or sis-
ter; failing either, then brother’s or sister's
children, if any. (2) Brother and sister would
take in equal shares. (3) No... .R.B.E.: (1)
and (2) Yes. It is merely bluff D.F.:
Yes, it being a dividing fence, he must pay
half cost for any renewal... .G.R.: (1) Good-
grade animal- or fish-glue. (2) Bamboo. (3)
Not known J.C.: The amount of wages tax
payable, would depend on the value of the
meat supplied. If the meat was valued at less
than £1 per week, the tax payable would be
4s J.T.J.: The first pronunciation is the
correct one M.G.: (1) There is no specific
“cure” for diabetes —insulin controls the dis-
ease during treatment. (2) Complications are
frequent; the “expectation” of life depreciates
according to test reaction and results from
insulin administration. The restricted diet is
essential. (3) Marriage is not advised in present
state of health. See doctor attending case
M.G.: (1) The best form in which to send
your novel to a studio is in that of a synopsis
of, say, about 2000 words. You have a much
better chance of its being considered if the book
is published first, as then a studio is certain
of copyright. If the studio was interested it
would buy only the talking-picture rights.
(2) Arrange with an agent if possible. (3) No.
H.J.S.: Practically no chance of violin
being genuine. In all probability one of the
many trade copies. W. E. Dolphin, 272 Bourke-
street, Melbourne, could let you have further
information E.S.N.: Following are stud
masters of Arab horses: J. Chittick,
Ellerslie, Kangaroo Valley; J. F. Jelbart,
Stony Park East, Jindera, Albury; A. G. F.
Munro Partnership, Weebollobollo, Moree; and
Whitfield Bros., Gineroi Station, Bingara—all
■N.S.W. G.H.: 133.813 members of the
A.I.F. voted in the Military Service referendum
held on October 18, 1916; 72,399 were for,
58,894 against, and 2520 informal. 199.677
voted in the referendum held on Dec. 20, 1917:
103,789 were for, 93,910 against, and 1978
informal M.S.: Sump oil is quite unsuitable
for use in outside painting. It is a lubricating
oil, and, therefore, does not dry. To fulfil its
purpose correctly the paint or staining oil must
dry, and for this reason linseed oil is univer-
sally used R.N.S.: Of no commercial value.
F.W.: The “Sydney Mail” was established as
a weekly-journal by John Fairfax and Sons,
proprietors of the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
on July 7, 1860. There is no record of J. C.
Fussell’s association with the “Mail,” and it
is not known whether or not he was the first
publisher of maps... .(Many more mailed.)


The Bank of Adelaide
SIXTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT
of the Directors to the Shareholders.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 25th March, 1935, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 25 th March.
1935 (including the balance brought forward from the
previous year, £48,795/10/5), amounts to.. .. ..£103,997 0 0
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, Bth May, 1935, at.
I 2 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in place of Mr. Howard Watson Lloyd, who retires in accordance with the Articles
of Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
Since the General Annual Meeting in May. 1934, we regret the death of our
colleague, Mr. A. G. Rymill, who had served the Bank faithfully as a Director for
more than 18 years.
The Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the eminently
valuable services rendered by Mr. Rymill to the Bank.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board on the I Bth September, 1934.
appointed Mr. A. E. Hamilton a Director in place of the late Mr. A. G. Rymill.
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and
to fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
LIABILITIES'.
Capital P a i tl
Up .. ..£1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 1,000,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 53,997 0 0
—— £2,303,997 0
Notes in Circulation .. . . 6,592 0
Bills in Circulation and other
Liabilities .. .. 79,495 15
Balances due to Other Banks .. 133,470 13
Deposits .. .. .. 0,372,597 6
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted 29,767 4
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 25th MARCH, 1935.
df
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion
and Cash Bal-
ances .. .. £36,309 0 10
Australian Notes
and Cash with
Comm onwealth
Bank of Aust. 984,287 3 6
G o v crnment
S e e urities,
£906,219/7/3,
and Other
S e c urities,
£6479/13/4 . . 972,699 0 7
Money at Short
Call and Com-
mon wealth
Govern inent
Treasury Bills 595,700 0 0
Balances due from
Other Banks . . 121,557 2 10
Notes of Other
Banks.. . . 3,334 0 0
Bills receivable in
London and Re-
mittances i n
Transitu .. 606,394 3 11
£3,320,280 17 S
Bank Premises and Furniture . . 352,837 0 9
Bills Receivable. Bills Discounted
and all other Advances, after
providing for Contingencies .. 5,252,802 1 5
8,925,919 19 10
Liabilities of Customers on Letters
of Credit, etc., as per Contra .. £226,708 1 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Year from 26th March, 1934, to 25th March, 1935.
Dr,
To Dividend in May,
1934 .. . . £25,000 0 0
~ Dividend in
November, 1984 25,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
Transfer to Internal Reserve .. 25,000 0 0
Balance 25th March, 1935 .. 53,997 0 0
£128.997 0 0
By Balance, March 20, 1934
,' Net .Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Interest accrued on Fixed
Deposits, and Rebate on Bills
Discounted, and deducting Ex-
penses at Head Office and 58
Branches, including Salaries,
Rents, etc.
Cr.
£73,795 10 5
55,201 9 7
£128,997 0 9
RESERVE FUND.
Balance at this date .. .
. . £1,000,000
By Balance 26th March, 1934.. £1,000,060
£1,000,000
W. J. MASSON, General Manager. S. G. MARTIN. Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD. Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of
The Bank of Adelaide for the year ended 25th March. 1935. and certify that it is
a correct abstract of the same. We have counted the Cash and examined the
Bills and Government and Other Securities of the Bank on hand at the Head Office.
The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on
the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants at the respective Branches, and
those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 9th April, 1935.
G. R. ANNELLS I Auditors
KENNETH W. NEILL j Audltors -
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P.McA.; We’re not receivers of stolen
goods... .N.P.: Miss Carabean is on her way
back from the dead... .H.C.W.; Well written,
but don’t like the theme... .R.D.8.: No, it
misses by several furlongs... .A.C.: You’ve
been reading too many penny novelettes....
C.L.M.: Not the type.... C.W.; Treatment all
right, but yarn doesn’t appeal.... R.R.: Your
mock melodrama has some good spots, but not
enough... .Z.V.W.: Mrs. Martin’s monologue
was about as interesting as we’d imagine Mrs.
Martin herself would be....L.H.: Not suf-
ficiently convincing... R.P.: The mad scientist
who experiments on living people is as old as
the hills. The alternative ending you suggest
is ' even older... .M.H.H.: Doesn’t get there.
....S.H.C.: There’s an idea in it, but you
haven’t made the best use of it....M.5J.:
Doesn’t make the grade... .K.T.: Granted that
most lottery-speculators are superstitious, we
can’t see any of them backing their super-
stition for a thousand pounds B.O’B.: We
can never raise much enthusiasm over sows;
not even prize ones like Ruby Queen....
M.S.: A plague upon your ghosts that turn
out to be galahs! ... .A.N.M.: No room for
-parables.... J.T.R*.; Your friend’s position is
a sad one, but a short story isn’t the best way
to fight his case... .H.C.: Method O.K. Just
haven’t clicked... .E.Mc.E.: Doesn’t read like
real life... .E.M.G.; Off the track....
Bellerive: No one else could have done this; —•
RATS.
Said Mrs. Kate Moody:
“If ’twere not for my cuts,
Lord above! I’d be eaten
By horrible rats.
They’ve damaged my dwelling,
There’s holes in the door,
They smashed a glass jar
And my slippers did gnaw.
I laid poison last summer,
And a stench did arise
Like a dead cow thickly
' Sprinkled with flics.
Though venturous ones
Are slain by my cats,
The clan populate—
Most awful are rats.”
. ...L.G.: No bacon off that porker....
G.M.T.: Below your usual standard
C.P.G.; Came fairly close. Try something
with a little more in it....C.L.: Facetious
without being funny....J.F.H.; Beer story
didn’t even make us thirsty... .M.McC.: Not
far off.. . . W.H.K.: Too slight Lucretius;
Was it honesty or modesty that led you to
describe your yarn as “a rather boring story”?
It wasn’t as bad as that E.H.: There’s
good stuff in it, but we get too many of the
same type... .0.L.: A long wdy 0ff....
M.W.P.; It certainly misleads the reader
pretty well, but that isn’t everything....
M.Mc.: Neither yam shows any great promise.
C.E.M.: A bit on the scrappy side; still,
there are one or two lines with a hint of
promise in them P.R.: It reads too much
like a trade puff for your favorite condiment.
. ...H.G.: Good enough of its kind, but the
theme has been versified so often J.S.T.:
That’s the sort of covering letter we like, but
your verse runs to wordiness and your type-
writer badly needs oiling... .F.A.: Vivid
enough, but you fail to make a swinging
rhyme of it P.T.: You’ve some facility for
lilting; the tendency to ramble needs check-
ing A.R.: At this time Anzac verse needs
to say much more than that... .A.G.8.: Senti-
ment 0.K.; verse terrible J.S.: Not taken
with “Jingee,” but you might place him else-
where.... Helping Hand: You don’t make
verse of “The Voice”... .N.8.F.R.: More
faults than a second-hand car.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.K.: It looks as if you had dipped a
bandicoot in tar and hurled the animal at
the drawing-paper... .C.M.: We have seen
abo. rock-carvings that beat it....L.5.;
If you must copy another man’s work, do it
for your own amusement.., .E.N.: You are
more archaeologist than artist —you dig up
such ancient gags G.H.L.; The drunk’s
wife is a misshapen creature, and her humor
is vulgar 8.L.: They might do as illus-
trations for a suburban tailor’s advertisement.
. ...C.P.: Hard to tell whether Dave is chop-
ping the tree down or the tree is chopping
down Dave R.J.S.: Drawing wretched and
letterpress far too prolix F.S.: Seems as
hard for you to draw Yehudi Menuhin as it
is for most people to pronounce his name.
. ...J.L.: F.a.q. student’s work; let us hear
from you later W.C.: Afraid the jubilee
will have to get along without your full-page
cartoon H.A.W.: Might suit a children’s
supplement 0.D.: Drawings reveal an im-
mature hand; jokes long-winded C.K.:
Dad-and-the-hotel-toothbrush joke has been
bunged out for 30-odd years N.J.: They
have a neat appearance, but not one of them
is alive A.G.C.: Poses wooden and line-
work harsh E.P.S.: Drawing from photo-
graphs won’t carry you far—try real-life
studies D.M.W.; It was sent home by
return post A.V.: Heard the joke about
the pigeon at Sydney Tivoli... .L.8.J.: A
muddy effort.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Shrewsbury”: Maoriland proposes to
send a team of cross-country runners to
compete in the Australian champion-
ships this year. It will be the first side
to cross the Tasman since the M.L. ath-
letic heads withdrew from the Athletic
Union in 1927. The Ma Staters intend
to invite a full team of track and
field athletes from Maoriland for the
jubilee of the N.S.W.A.A.A. (and of the
M.L. body also) in 1937.
* * * *
“Kalamazoo”; Many have been
under the impression that Mako is
of Japanese origin. This has been in-
dignantly denied by Hungary, which
claims he is Hungarian-born, and there-
fore should be playing with the land of
the Magyars. The Hungarians have
offered Mako a good Government job-
no salary cuts guaranteed—and will pay
for his university education, while he has
been asked to say what else he would
like. The Yanks will probably take good
care that Mako remains in America.
* * * *
“G.M.”: It has been suggested that
mixed wrestling bouts at agricultural
shows should be prohibited. Up to the
present the bouts are, of course, purely
exhibitions, for the average woman of
eight stone would have no chance against
a man of the same weight. But with
the rise of feminine athleticism mere
man may not always have it his own way,
and Angelina may yet bring Edwin to
the proposing point by applying a dexter-
ous scissors lock or an effective strangle-
hold. In ancient Sparta ladies and
gentlemen used to wrestle publicly, and,
according to historians, the contests were
not one-sided affairs.
if if if *
“Norbell”: The harmless, necessary
pressman is responsible for much debas-
ing of our mother tongue. In a recent
newspaper I read a caption, “Two
Women Held Up by Gunmen.” What
is a gunman, exactly? The weapon indi-
cated usually means a pistol or a re-
volver. The word “underworld” is an-
other that makes me groan. Where is
the underworld? It suggests a vast,
mysterious region where shadowy, evil
figures slink through the murk plotting
new and horrible crimes. When I hear
of the detectives “combing the under-
world” for the umpteenth time, I think
how sleek the underworld’s pelt must
be by now.
“Raurimu”: Maoriland, like Aus-
tralia, early discovered the disadvantages
of the trout as a denizen of lakes and
streams (B. 3/4/’35). One of the great
grievances of the Maori is that it has
depleted rivers and lakes of that native
delicacy so much esteemed by Maori
and pakeha alike, the little fresh-water
crayfish or koura. When the Maoris
recently claimed compensation from the
Government for the loss of their ancient
fishing rights, the disappearance of the
koura was stressed, and the trout’s habit
of eating all and sundry, its own rela-
tives included, was bitterly commented
upon. The Maori doesn’t particularly
care for trout, regarding it as a tasteless
dish, and to ask Henare to pay for the
privilege of catching it is adding insult to
tribal grievances.
if * * *
“Fleet-street”; Years ago I consumed
many a dinner at the Cheshire Cheese,
where J. A. Lyons has had lunch, and
they tasted none the worse for the fumes
of tobacco and the reek of punch that
were a part of the atmosphere. The
ancient tavern’s piece de resistance
was an unforgettable pudding, com-
pounded of steak, kidneys, larks,
oysters and a few other odds and
ends, the precise recipe for which, handed
down for a century or two, was supposed
to be kept as dark a secret as the process
for manufacturing Bank of England
notes. A Yankee sought to have one of
these puddings imported into his own
country, but the Customs blocked it
as some sort of contraband —so the
story went —because the consignors
refused to divulge the precise in-
gredients. I forget what became of
it; it may have been devoured by fam-
ished immigrants on Ellis Island. The
worst insult ever hurled at the Cheese
was debited to an Australian journalist
who, surveying the pew-like benches
and the sanded floor, remarked: “I’ve
seen something exactly like this before.
Now I come to think of it this
joint is a copy of Tommy Peck’s place
in Hobart.” But those who heard only
eyed him pityingly. A jest at the expense
of Stonehenge or St. Paul’s would have
had as much chance of raising a laugh.
To enable returned soldiers to brighten
up their medals for the Anzac Day
march in Sydney, the R.S.L. is making
ribbons available at a nominal cost.
Address, Wingello House, Angel-place,
Sydney.


“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
YOUR STOPPING DISTANCE REFLECTS THE
EFFICIENCY OF YOUR BRAKES
“RAYBESTOS” Brake Liners fitted
to your car will ensure reliability.
Use a quality lining.
Why not check the performance
of your car against these
figures ?
fd
HA YBESTCS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.! JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA; 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including;
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST’'
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Steering Column.
17/50 ARMSTRONG-SIDDELEY PUT
THROUGH ITS PACES.
ROBUST CONSTRUCTION, ROADWORTHY AND
RELIABLE.
By FRED BERRY.
A RMSTRONG-SIDDELEY, from an engineering point of
view, is a name to conjure with, for, although numerically
weak in the Australian automobile held, yet every country
knows, respects and uses the Siddeley Aero engines; and the
new 17/50-h.p. car tested recently over “The Bulletin*’ course is
a splendid example of British thoroughness and workmanship.
Incorporating an extremely efficient
yet simply controlled transmission
system, this car is sturdily constructed,
and should give trouble-free service for
many years. It gives a sense of solidity
and confidence, and yet, despite the low'
power-weight ratio, it shows a splendid
fop gear performance—taking most
main road hills without “snatch” or
vibration.
Usually British and Continental sus-
pension systems are harsh at low speeds,
the objective being to provide road-
worthiness at maximum speeds and
stability on corners. Armstrong-Sid-
deley design, although rigid, cannot be
called harsh at any speed, yet, while it
retains the characteristic safety on diffi-
cult going, inequalities, even of a major
nature, are not transmitted to the pas-
sengers at low’ speeds—a very happy
compromise. So far as road speed is
concerned the car is not in the sports
class, yet sitting at the wheel one feels
that a touring gait of 50 m.p.h. could be
maintained indefinitely without unduly
stressing the motor or transmission
details.
Built as the result of careful experi-
ment to comply with colonial condi-
tions, the 1935 series 17/50-h.p. car
must be given serious consideration by
those motorists who seek a British job.
With regard to transmission details it
must be admitted that the Wilson pre-
selector gearbox is definitely foolproof,
the fingertip control enabling the novice
to change ratios even under con-
ditions that would be impossible if con-
ventional gears were fitted.
Mechanical Details.
Rated at 16.54 h.p. the six cylinder
O.H.V. motor develops 50 h.p. at peak
revs. Bore, 2.625 in., and stroke, 4.5 in„
Valve gear assembly of 17150 Arm-
strong-Siddeley engine: A, rocker ad-
justing screw; B, rocker adjusting screw
locknut; C, push rod; D, water outlet
flange; E, valve rocker; F, valve gear
supporting post; G, oil pressure release
valve; H, carburettor flange; L, oil
filter; J, electric starter motor; K, oil
filter and breather.
provide a cubic capacity of 146.1 cubic
inches (2394 c.c.). The overhead valve
gear and rocker shaft are carried on a
detachable cylinder head, while the
cylinder block and top half of crankcase
and camshaft bearings are fitted with
sturdy cross webs in order to secure maxi-
mum rigidity. The bottom half of crank-
case is of aluminium, serving as an oil
sump with a capacity of li gallons lubri-
cating oil.
The combined cylinder block and
crankcase casting carries the four main
crankshaft bearings, and is supported at
four points. Cast-iron caps hold bear-
ings in position, and rear bearings are
Sturdy construction of colonial model 17/50-h.p. Armstrong-Siddeley, sunshine
sliding roof, six-wheel equipment and excellent interior fittings .
designed to take thrust in both direc-
tions.
Connecting rods are H section
stamped steel, and are fitted with white
metal bearings. Pistons each carry four
rings, of which the three upper hold com-
pression, whilst the lower is an oil
scraper.
The piston pins are a floating fit in
the rods, but a tight fit in pistons, and
lateral movement is prevented by cir-
clips at each end. Crankshaft, balanced
statically and dynamically, is fitted with
a vibration damper on the forward end,
and is drilled in order to feed bearings
with oil under pressure. Gear pump, for
purposes of lubrication, is submerged in
the sump.
Overhead valves are fitted, actuated
by a duplex timing chain through push
rods. Valve guides are carried well up
the stems, and are pressed into position
in the cylinder-head casting. Compound
springs, one inside the other, are at-
tached to each valve, thereby obviating
valve bounce throughout the entire
speed range.
Induction System.
Fuel is drawn from a 12-gallon tank
positioned between the rear dumb irons
by means of a mechanical pump actu-
ated by an eccentric from the camshaft,
provision being made for manual prim-
ing in cases where fuel supply has failed.
Carburettor is down-draught type Claudel
Hobson, with air-cleaner and silencer
attached to air intake.
Dashboard strangler control is pro-
vided in order to enrich the mixture
when starting up from cold, and, as the
carburettor is fitted w'ith a detachable
main, power and idling jet, tuning for
either speed or economy is a simple pro-
cess. Intake and exhaust manifolds are
separate castings.
Starting and lighting system is Lucas
12-volt type, two six-volt battery units
in series being housed on either side of
the propeller shaft. Generator and
starter are easily accessible for purposes
of repair or adjustment. Cooling system
differs from conventional practice in
that the four-bladed “Aero type” fan,
with ready means of adjustment, is driven
direct from a pulley on the crankshaft,
and the water pump—a phosphor-bronze
casting—is bolted to and driven by the
dynamo, thereby eliminating risks of
freezing when operated in extremely
cold climates.
Novel Transmission.
Transmission is, so far as Australian
motorists are concerned, at once novel,
efficient and simple in operation, for
with the Armstrong-Siddeley silent self-
changing gearbox h is possible for the
merest novice to drive in comfort and
security, knowing that it is impossible
to make a “crash” change of gears, how-
ever careless or inexperienced he may
be. The gearbox is of the compound
type, giving, in addition to a direct drive
on top, three forward speeds and re-
verse. All gear-wheels are permanently
in mesh, each indirect gear being selected
by tightening a band of special design
on one of the drums, each of which is
integral with one element of a simple
spicyclic gear.
By moving a small finger-controlled
lever on the steering column, any gear
may be pre-selected and engaged
when necessary by depressing the clutch
pedal, irrespective of the gear in use at
the time the pre-selection was made;
consequently the driver is not confined
to a choice immediately below or above
that actually in use. In fact, when driv-
ing in top it is possible to pre-select
second, either for the purpose of rapid
acceleration in traffic or when running
into a difficult bend in mountainous
country. The fingertip control is
mounted on the steering column immedi-
ately beneath the wheel. Final drive is
through torque tube bolted to rear end
of gearbox and to back-axle casing.
The propeller shaft inside the torque
tube is carried on a roller bearing and
thrust bearing housed in the axle centre,
and the pinion is machined in one with
the shaft, which is splined to take a
sleeve, sliding over the rear end of the
propeller shaft. Back-axle assembly is
spiral bevel banjo type, with final reduc-
Combined pump and dynamo drive: A,
dynamo locking nuts; B, cover plate
assembly; C, water joint flange; D,
spark-plug holes; E, water pump ; F,
dynamo terminal block.
tion of 5.3 to 1, third 7.8, second 12.1,
low 21.2 being the other ratios.
Service braking equipment on all four
wheels is cable-operated duo-servo type.
Brakes are fully enclosed, and handbrake
lever applies to all four wheels through
independent linkage. Steering is worm-
and-nut sports type, with provision for
adjusting wear.
Sturdy Frame.
Chassis is of robust construction, giv-
ing a wheelbase of 116 in., and incor-
porated with the frame are three D.W.S.
permanent- jacks, two on the rear axle
and one front, providing a simple and
efficient means of raising the car without
resorting to the tool-kit. Spring shackles
and all running gear attached to the
chassis are lubricated continuously by a
central lubrication system located below
the instrument board.
Coil-and-battery ignition is fitted, to-
gether with automatic advance and re-
tard of firing point.
Suspension is conventional-type semi-
elliptic front and rear, rear underslung;
four hydraulic shock absorbers being
fitted and all springs being equipped with
self-lubricated gaiters.
Instrument board is neatly arranged,
cigar lighter, ammeter, speedometer and
clock, starter and ignition switch, light
switch, oil-pressure gauge and idling con-
trol being fitted.
The car taken over the test course
was lent by Buckle and Harden, Ltd.,
Pre-selector control lever, horn button
and light-control switch, within finger
control without removing hands from
steering wheel.


f
Full Power From Your Tractor!
i
TEX/ACO
Only One Grade of
Super-Power Kero-
sen e
FIRST GRADE!
r
■ JVEN though it’s a job which calls for all the power your
engine has to give . . . don’t worry so long as the tank is filled
with Texaco Super Power Kerosene.
This specialised Texaco product is refined to vapourise quickly
arid completely. It develops full power at every stroke and sus-
tains it in a smooth, even surge that is equal to every emergency.
There are no carbon-forming elements in Texaco. It keeps your
engine clean and cool, reducing breakdown risks to a minimum.
For power—for economy too —standardise on Texaco Super
Power Kerosene!
TEXACO
SUPERPOWER
KEROSENE
SPMBB
N.S.W. distributors, and driven by J. P.
Johnston, factory representative.
Speedometer reading stood at 5131,
the motor and transmission details had
been thoroughly run in, and weight, in-
clusive of driver and observer, was
34Lcwt.
Road Performance.
Through the congested city traffic the
engine ran smoothly, and the pilot de-
monstrated conclusively the possibilities
of the pre-selector transmission. Cruis-
ing at a moderate speed until reaching
Parramatta the throttle was then opened,
and over the open country through
Baulkham Hills the 17/50 Armstrong-
Siddeley demonstrated its true worth as
a fast tourer —the speedometer needle
hovering around the 50 mark without
apparent effort.
Approaching Windsor speed was re-
duced to 15 m.p.h. for the rolling test,
and here the car rolled 660 yards before
coming to rest —a moderate performance
due no doubt to the fact that in coast-
ing the driving wheels must turn idling
pinions in the pre-selector gearbox.
Through Windsor and approaching
Richmond a test of maximum speed was
Layout of the silent pre-selector gear-
box, showing controls and coupling shaft.
made over a measured mile, the time
taken, 56 seconds, giving an average of
64 m.p.h., and over this section the
motor appeared perfectly smooth and
steering and roadworthiness were beyond
criticism.
Leaving Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong the country section through
Gross Vale was taken, and although the
unmade surface was rough and loose in
many places the car behaved splendidly,
taking the many loose corners in an
extremely safe manner.
The next test involved a standing start,
full throttle ascent of 2 1-5 miles of Kur-
rajong Mountain, and using second and
third gears a sedate but safe and com-
fortable climb was made in smin. 35sec.
Efficient Brakes.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results, and ap-
proaching Richmond the cross-country
route via Castlereagh was taken, when
further performance tests were con-
ducted. First, that of testing the in-
herent flexibility of the motofe- involved
350 yards in top gear as slowly as pos-
sible, followed immediately by a similar
distance on full throttle —still in top gear.
On the slow-running section the time
taken, 2min. 30sec., averaged 4.8 m.p.h.,
whilst the accelerated section, crossing
the finishing line at 50 m.p.h., was
clocked in 18sec., a mean speed of 39.9
m.p.h.
Further tests involved acceleration
from a steady 10 m.p.h. to 30 m.p.h. in
top, third and second gears, and accel-
erating from a standing start through
gears to a road speed of 50 m.p.h. Times
taken in this series were: 10 to 30 in
top, 12sec.; third, 8 3-ssec., and in
second gear, 7sec., while 0 to 50 through
gears was clocked in 22sec.
Measurements of service braking effi-
ciency were then made from a speed of
25 m.p.h., the car pulling up without
swerving in 25ft. 6in. Steering lock, an
important factor in manoeuvring and
parking, was tested on both left and
o Continued on page 30.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published!
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
m
Inside
there’s a reputation
at stake!
A cake with beautiful icing—a bat-
tery with an attractive case. They
look alright, hut it’s the inside that
counts. Willard quality, which made
Willard’s reputation for depend-
ability, is in the plates, the separa-
tors, the oxides inside the case.
Proof of Willard’s quality lies in
the fact that over 30,000,000 have
given satisfaction.
SEE
YOUR
NEAREST
Willard
WILLARD DEALER
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
Spend the time
to SIMONIZ your car once
and FORGET IT FOR MONTHS
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever
YOUR MONEY
need not be idle . . .
A Fixed Deposit with the Bank of
New South Wales, the oldest and
largest Bank in Australasia, ensures
complete security and regular interest
payments.
Fixed Deposits are accepted by any of the 725
branches of the Bank at the following rates: —
Interest may be withdrawn half-yearly on 12 months
and 24 months deposits.
This Bank holds over 28% of the total deposits
lodged in Australia with the Australian Trading
Banks.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
With which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of
Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
113 A
right locks, measurements being equal in
both instances at 44ft. 6in.
Returning to headquarters via Pen-
rith, the gross time occupied on the test
of 118 miles was found to be 3hr. 30min.,
averaging 33.7 m.p.h. Petrol consumed,
inclusive of all tests, was five gal-
lons three pints, giving a petrol cc.i-
sumption of 21.9 m.p.g. (37.9 ton miles),
an extremely gratifying performance.
Minimum road clearance under differ-
ential assembly was measured at B|in.
The Trouble Lamp.
C.G.B. (Pentland, Q.). — I am getting a new
30 cwt. truck, and would like to fit balloon
tyres. Would they carry loads as well as
high-pressure tyres ?
Yes. Experiments have proved that low-
pressure tyres of suitable dimensions are far
superior to high-pressure tyres, both from the
point of view of efficiency and of economy.
A.N.G. (Hawthorn, Vic.). —My 14-h.p. car
has developed a wheel-wobble which, although
temporarily cured some months ago by fitting
wedges under front axle, is now worse than
ever. Can you suggest a remedy ?
Only certain method is to take the car to
some firm equipped with special machines for
checking up front-end geometry. At the cost
of a few shillings a report will be submitted
to you, setting out precisely where your steer-
ing assembly differs from standard practice.
A cure is then a simple matter.
* *
R.A.B. (Bowen, Q.). —Which of the two
utilities (named), having due regard for initial
cost, would give the better service used con-
tinually in all weathers on poor roads ?
No. 1.
* * * *
C.J. (Parrawe, Tas.). —I have trouble with
the split rims of my six-cyl. car. The rims seem
a little too big for the wheel. After fitting
the rim and tyre and bolting up tight it looks
0.K., but after going half a mile the narrow
band works under the rim and lets the tyre off.
A ny simple remedy ?
Unfortunately, no. Rim assembly has sprung
so badly that lock band will not remain in
position. Packing up by welding the felloe
band and then turning up to size is the only
remedy short of replacement.
* * * *
A.L.K. (Katoomba, N.S.W.) owns a 1931
four-cyl. car, and complains that crankcase oil
rapidly becomes dirty. Intends to attach an
oil purifier in which sump oil is passed through
hot water an/d drawn off for further use, and
asks is the idea all right.
The fact of oil becoming dirty in color is
no certain indication of impurities. If a good-
quality lubricant is used, the dark appearance
is probably due to the motor requiring decar-
bonising. The oil purifier, if used in the garage,
will remove foreign matter and occluded car-
bon, but, if fitted to the car, will tend to
emulsify the oil and so impair its efficiency.
* * * *
R.M.W. (Wellington, N.S.W.) sends cutting
from English motor journal, and. asks is it
possible to procure similar trailer, with accom-
modation for three, in this country. Alter na-
tively, what would price he, landed ? What
about registration, and would the V 8 Ford
coupe pull the load over country roads ?
So far, no demand for caravans as illus-
trated, although odd ones have been bunt to
order. Approximate landed cost, £2OO. Trailer
must carry separate registration plate to car,
amount involved depending upon weight. Yes,
V 8 would easily handle load.
* * * *
A.H.C. (Tweed Heads, N.S.W.).— My 1928
six-cyl. Pontiac boils on hills; also when driven
on level running at 40 m.p.h . for a dozen
miles. Petrol consumption, 23 m.p.g.; oil,
2400 m.p.g. Ignition has been checked, cooling
system cleaned and engine top overhauled.
Has been rebored. (1) Would the reboring
have upset normal cooling system ? (2) Would
fitting a four-bladed fan in place of existing
two-blader be worth while ? (3) Can you sug-
gest cause and remedy ?
(1) Provided reboring has been well carried
out and the motor properly assembled, there
should be no overheating. A rough finish or
too much metal removed may set up excessive
friction and perhaps cause cylinder barrel to
crack—both reasons for overheating. Pistons
can be too neat a fit, while a leaky cylinder-
head gasket or sticking valve would set up
similar troubles. If these measures fail to cure
the trouble, suggest dismantling and inspection
of water pump.
$ =l= * *
A.J. (Innisfail, Q.).—Please advise if parts
can be procured in Sydney for a six-cyl. Lincoln
car. , _ .
Try Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue, Sydney.
:|: -fi H*
J.L. (Epping, N.S.W.).—(I) What is the cor-
rect procedure in descending moderate hills in
my Wolseley “Hornet” ? Should I merely take
foot off accelerator and leave clutch in; could
I declutch and rely on hydraulic and hand
brakes, or switch off the ignition and declutch ?
(2) Supposing brake is suddenly applied when
clutch is engaged, is not a great strain put on
crankshaft ? (3) How can 1 remove the horse-
hair air cleaner on my car ? (4) Mileage is
22,000, motor runs smoothly and coolly. How
can I tell whether decarbonising is necessary ?
(1) Safest method is to lift the loot off
accelerator and let the car run against the
engine. Many drivers prefer to throw the gear
j nto neutral on easy grades and depend on
brakes. Switching off is not to be recora-
mended. (2) No possible harm can be done
t i ie dutch by application of brake. (3) Air-
deaner unit is attached to each side ot cylinder
block, and, after removing nuts in cover plate,
t h e two studs between cylinders, acting ,as
clamps, must be removed, when the mechanism
can readily be dismantled. (4) Difficult to state
exactly when any particular motor req 1
decarbonising, much depending upon fuel and
oil used. Usually sound economy to p
overhaul” every 12 to 15 thousand miles.
R.B.L. (Trundle, N.S.W.), asks names of
three cars most suitable for country conditions .
Suggest the tests of all cars, conducted from
time to time in “The Steering Column, ’ be
perused. Performance figures and construc-
tional details are fully described.
C.N.J. (Blayney, N.S.W.) purchased a new
Master Chev. last December, and is experienc-
ing difficulty in starting from cold. Afraid of
crankcase dilution, asks what to do.
All American cars equipped with down-
draught-type carburettors are stubborn on cold
mornings unless the operator refrains Irom
jabbing the accelerator
pedal. Starting with
old - type up - draught
carburettors, it was ad-
visable to use the ac-
celerator and promote
flooding, but this pro-
cedure now merely
serves to strangle the
engine. There is an
exact position to set
choke and idle control
in order to effect a
quick start, but in no
circumstances should
the accelerating pump
in the carburettor be
moved by pressing the
foot throttle.
L.E.B. (Bacchus
Marsh, Vic.) is troubled
with oil leaking to brake-drums on a car only
six months old. Cause and cure ?
Trouble can hardly be due to wear. Advise
inspecting back-axle housing to see it small
airhole is blocked by paint or foreign matter,
thus causing a vacuum to be set up, so forcing
oil down driving shafts. If no hole is found,
advise drilling one, say Jin. in diameter, about
Ift. away from back anchorage plate.
Motor Oddities.
“K.A.S.”: Eighteen years ago lack of
petrol wasn’t such a formidable problem
to the long-distance motorist as it is to-
day. A Broken Hill driver of those days
ran short on the trip to Adelaide, but
kept going for miles on kerosene from
the side- and tail-lights. With still some
miles to go, the kerosene ran out, so
the tube from the acetylene tank (for
the headlights) was connected to the car-
burettor. On this mixture the resourceful
one chugged into Burra Burra, where he
was able to get some moie orthodox fuel.
“Alpha”; A* motorist sped through
Wingham (N.S.W.) with all lamps glar-
ing at full noon. Loungers, small boys
and citizens cried to him, chased him and
gesticulated. With the self-confident
smile of a driver whose battery is over-
charged, the man at the wheel went on.
He had been caught before by such mis-
taken kindness. The local policeman
brought him to a stop and pointed out
what everyone had been trying to tell
him. A lighted butt had started a minia-
ture bonfire on the running-board as he
came into town.
* * * *
“Shiggs”: What one small blowout
can do. While the Christmas rush was
on at Orange, a district man named
Hilton Sands was driving in a busy
thoroughfare. A front tyre blew out, and
the car cannoned on to a passing car,
cannoned from that vehicle to another
one, and the “side” it got sent it head-on
to a third car which was parked at the
time. 'All the cars were damaged, that
of Sands more so than the rest, but in
the Lindrum-like performance the only
damage caused to any person was a little
shock. The driver was the sufferer.
* * * -*
. “Larrapinta”: The worst road surface
in Australia? A blacksoil formation
after a rain. I struck one once in the
Wimmera (Vic.), and had to cover 11
miles in bottom gear, boiling three
petrol-tins of water away in the radiator.
The sticky black soil drags like birdlime
on the tyres, clings to them until it is two
or three inches thick, then flies off in lumps
in an irregular way, giving the driver the
impression that his wheels have suddenly
become triangular. The local residents of
blacksoil areas lay their cars up for the
winter and go back to horse transport;
if a summer rain wets the tracks they
wait till they dry again before taking the
car out of the shed. When I struck a
bit of potholey, corrugated metal road
after those 11 miles of black birdlime the
contrast was heavenly. Something akin
to a Nobel Prize should await the man
who devises some means of taking the
stickiness out of blacksoil roads. A
feature of this class of country being the
absence of sand, stone or gravel, the
metalling of the main roads is so expen-
sive that shire councils are baffled.


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S. V. Colville, N.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), —7
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist In Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261
df
ROSS M HEIGHT/
rllent. age 19J, gains 5 Ins. in 6 weeks.
,» M 2l „ 5 M in 5 mths. I
.. .. 20. M 3J „in 16 days.
„ „ 30, 2. „in 4 weeks. I
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
.. .. 40. IJ „in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM I
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 jin*. NEVER FAILS I
Hundredt of TetlimoniaU from dU over the world. I
Fee tZ Bf. complete.' Details Free. Write now:—l
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
Scarborough, Eng. ( P.O. Box 15.)
THOUSANDS OF REAL
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357- I
EYE LOTION
Foe Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
501.0 EVERYWHERE
H.A. ROSE &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
The Radio
Language-
Maker
RADIO NEWS.
All of us must
notice how the
broadcast an-
nouncers are
changing the pro-
nunciation of cer-
tain words among
people of our acquaintance. Because of one
announcer I have found many who would
not do it before giving the rendering
“pianofort-ee,” with a rather horrible
accent on a final syllable. Even the man
who tells us that the score is faive wickets
for a hundred and naine is having his
influence. Naice English of the sort is
a natural result of the A.B.C.’s prefer-
ence for - English announcers —worthy
fellows as they may be —to a recogni-
tion of locals.
Our broadcasting, however, is a Babel
in which all sorts of pronunciations and
(mispronunciations struggle with one an-
other, If this goes unchecked, the time
may come when people may be classified
by the distinct dialect of their favorite
radio station.
The British Broadcasting Commission
'is taking steps to overcome such con-
fusion through its
Advisory Committee on
Spoken Language, one
of the members of
which is Bernard Shaw,
whose pronunciation of
some words when he
broadcast from Maori -
land seemed curious to
Australian ears. In
Australia there is diffi-
Feed it to Pussy.
culty in the existence of indepen-
dent B-class stations, but their co-
operation should be secured easily
enough if an attempt was made to
achieve uniformity, such as every well-
regulated paper attempts to secure in the
spelling of debatable words.
The 8.8. C. frankly admits that there
are divergences in pronunciations of
words which cannot be described as right
or wrong. “Desirable” is the best label
it can give to its choice, the proclaimed
intention being to secure “a common
denominator of educated speech.” It has
decided in a recent list (its third) upon
the desirability of ‘V/efcadent” as opposed
( to de&nydent; envelope definitely re-
jplaces the envelope which was, although
.also correct, a French affectation;
Jacowstic is preferred to acoustic ; any
(attempt to Gallicise the now perfectly
(English word “garage” is discounten-
anced ; and laboratory is preferred to
placing the emphasise on the lab, one
'reason being that confusion with “lava-
tory” might occur. Also, the 8.8. C. has
given its verdict—very necessary in Eng-
land—in favor of the short “a” in the
group of words which include “dance”
and “glance.” It has found also words,
often disfigured, in which there is defi-
nitely a right form—incomparable, con-
trary and others.
There is a definite call for A.B.C.
action, and it should not necessarily be
in servile imitation of 8.8. C. findings.
(Australia has, to an extent, a language
iof its own, which is acceptable to its
people, to whom some English pronun-
ciations would seem affected and be
irritating.
Harold Mercer.
Radio’s
Effect
on Sport
The Victorian
Cricket Associa-
tion is alarmed
over the loss of
revenue in recent
Sheffield Shield
matches, and it is
contended that receipts fell in precise
proportion to the number of radio sets
in use. There is a possibility that it may
take action to prevent future matches
being broadcast.
The experience suggests another
problem when television is perfected.
How many people will trouble to leave
their homes to witness racing, football
matches, athletic meets or boxing bouts
if they can turn on the telly and have
everything at their firesides? If this
happens it will just about finish profes-
sional sport, unless broadcasting fees are
made sufficient to maintain the vast
number of people who now make a
living out of sport. The gate-money of
that future certainly would not keep
them.
Those events which exist on their
gambling attractions, such as racing, may
contrive to survive, for your born punter
must be on the spot to get his informa-
tion and ascertain the sure thing which
usually loses ; but even these might be
satisfied to attend a big gambling club,
where bets would be legal and where the
events would be run off on a screen. It
looks as if every sporting man of the
future is going to be as sky-blue an
amateur as ever carried home his bunch
of parsley from the plains of Olympia.
Globe Trotter.
Broadcast:
“The Sport
of Kings”
.... which is a
compound of fif-
teen different in-
gredients, includ-
ing wh a 1 e-oil,
tomato - juice,
desiccated meat,
charcoal, lettuce, molasses and pepso-
dised salt. The whale-oil might be de-
scribed as the cocktail whetting the
palate for the good
things which are to
follow. The tomato-
juice is the soup. The
desiccated meat is the
entree. The charcoal,
being an antacid, pro-
ve nt s stomach dis-
orders. The lettuce is
rich in Vitamin A. The
molasses is the sweet of
this rich repast, and the salt is, as it
were, the salt. Don’t forget the name.
It is on every packet. Catsmeatdeluxe.
The ideal cat food. Feed it to Pussy.
We are now crossing over to Randwick
for a description of the last race on the
programme.
Station QIC. Broadcasting from Rand-
wick. We now come to the last race of
the day, the Final Handicap. There have
been no scratchings, so all the five entries
will be having a run. Every one of them
should be very hard to beat, but the
terrible tram accident in Paraguay, re-
ported in this morning’s cables, seems to
point straight to Parakeet having an
outstanding chance. Still, anyone who
saw the wonderful pyramids of apples
in the produce exhibition at the Sydney
A splendid start!
Show last week must be convinced that
whatever beats Sphinx ought to just
about win. At the same time the State
elections next month indicate a clear-cut
victory for the aged gelding Ultimo.
Nevertheless, the slump in bananas must
not be overlooked, and Banyan might
well prove the winner. We are now
crossing back to the studio.
Station QIC. We are now back at the
studio. And here’s an extra-special mes-
sage from Mr. T. N. Tee, racing expert
of George-street. Mr. T. N. Tee is of the
opinion that the Final Handicap will be
won by a chestnut gelding. He is so
confident about this information that he
is prepared to give away all back
numbers of “Sure Tips” if he is wrong.
The chestnut geldings in this race are
Parakeet, Sphinx, Ultimo and Banyan.
Speaking of parakeets. Cats like them.
Of course they do. But cats rave over
Catsmeatdeluxe. Feed it to Pussy. We
are now crossing back to Randwick.
Station QIC. Back at Randwick. Well,
the horses are on their way to the post.
Did you go to the post this morning? I
guess you did, eh? And what did you
receive? Did you receive the special
OIC Code Sheet? Well, if you will con-
sult it, the lucky color is white. The
horses carrying white in this race are
Parakeet, Sphinx, Ultimo and Banyan.
Mr. T. N. Tee.
We are now
crossing back
to the studio.
We are now
back at the
studio. Oh,
and here is
some thing
extra good,
folk. I have just had a ring from our
special Veterinary Expert. I will read it
to you: “Where is the best gin to be pur-
chased?” No, that isn’t it. Just one
moment, please. Oh, yes, here we are: “I
personally favor white for this race. The
horses with white on them are Parakeet
and Sphinx, each having a white blaze ;
Ultimo, three white feet; and Banyan,
two white fetlocks. A tip just as import-
ant, and which also carries my personal
guarantee, is Catsmeatdeluxe. It is un-
rivalled. Feed it
to pussy.” We are
now crossing back
to Randwick.
Well, the horses
are now being
called into line.
It shouldn’t take
long to get this
lot away. Para-
keet is turned
round the wrong
way for the
moment. Banyan
has backed out.
Ultimo has his
tail to the tape.
They’re off!
A splendid
start!
Broadcasting
from Randwick.
Ultimo is first to show out, half a
length in front of Parakeet, with the
others bunched. The order remains the
same coming to the six. At the five
they re still bunched. They’re putting on
the pace now. Ultimo has dropped back.
j 8 P ara keet. And Sphinx. They’ve
all dropped back a bit. Passing the three
the field remains bunched. Coming to
the turn the boys are fighting for posi-
tion. They come into the straight
bunched. A furlong from home . . .
Yes, here he comes! Parakeet’s clear-
mg light away! Banyan’s making a
great run wide out!
Sphinx is putting in
a challenge at the
Leger! UJ time’s
jockey got a run on
the rails! . . .
Well, from here it
looked like Sphinx
or Banyan. But I’ll
leave it to the judge.
Yes, there goes the
number. No. 5.
Chatterer. A black
horse, by Listener —
The Wife. If you
will recall, we drew
your attention to Chatterer’s outstanding
chance during Station QlC’s What’s On
at the Courts session last Friday fort-
night, when we gave you our special
court reporter’s resume of the Potts
Point divorce case in which, you will
remember. U. R. A. Flopp sued his
wife for a
decree nisi on the
ground that she
wouldn’t talk to
him. Chatterer is
wearing the well-
known all-scarlet
colors of the
sportsman who
races under the
name of O.
Rufus. As we
told you well in
advance, white
was the lucky
color for this
race. Chatterer
... traces of a chest-
nut gelding.
has both his front legs in white
bandages. Don’t forget, QIC informa-
tion is always right. We are now cross-
ing back to the studio.
Station OIC. We are now back at the
studio. Have you tried Catsmeatdeluxe?
(Do so. It is rich in body-building vita-
mins. Feed it to Pussy. We will now
have an hour’s recorded music to allow
Mr. T. N. Tee to investigate Chatterer’s
pedigree for traces of a chestnut gelding.
The first item will be “Thank God
There’s a Pub Round the Corner.”
Sizzle and A.
All Round
the Dial
“Como”; “Top
Rail’s” quest for
unintentional
broadcasts (B.
10/4/’.35). One
of the most strik-
ing occurred during a Test match a few
years back. The retired international
cricketer bellowed into the mike the
words “Blinkins has just hit one of
Ooraber’s googlies to silly point for two.”
Immediately there arose around him a
protest from observers who differed.
“Full point; full point; full point,” mur-
mured the crowd. “Full point, be blan-
kered ; silly point,” retorted the expert.
“G.M.”: What is the penalty for radio
impersonation? A scientific friend obtained
an experimenter’s license, purely for re-
search purposes. He did no broadcasting
at all in the accepted sense, yet after a
week or two he began to receive
complimentary letters from list-
eners expressing the pleasure they
had derived from his excellent
items. He did not bother about
the fraud, for nothing objection-
able seemed to have been on the
air. But if one impostor could
bring him bouquets, it was
equally possible for another to
bring him socks on the jaw from
libelled citizens.
“5.1.”: The 2UW shark-spot-
ting stunt along Sydney beaches
deserved a better seasonal wind-
up than it had when the main
pilot, Ern Collibee, was forced to
crash into the scrub to avoid kill-
ing some youngsters at Harbord.
During the shark-bait season five
different aeroplanes, six pilots and 10
observers covered more than 25,000
miles of beach-water, and the warn-
ings probably helped to keep the
shark-victim record down to reason-
able limits. At any rate, the service, an
advertising stunt, has won. the hearty
applause of the Surf Lifesaving Associa-
tion.
“C.”: The 8.8. C. orchestral library
is now the largest in the world. It em-
ploys 20 permanent assistants, and is
comprised of 16,000 orchestral works, for
which complete scores for the whole
orchestra are maintained.
“Stray Mike”: If anyone on earth
works harder than George Edwards, of
2GB Sydney, he ought to be locked up
—that sort of thing might be infectious.
It’s all one to Edwards whether the part
is an American or a cat on the roof;
reputation credits him with, in one pro-
duction, playing the parts of seven Scotch-
men so that listeners could distinguish
which was which. All his plays are
written and adapted by Maurice Francis,
who, like Edwards, is an Australian.
Edwards’s most successful production to
date is the “Notable British Trials”
series, the opening item of which, “The
Trial of Sydney H. Fox,” was edited
by F. Tennyson Jesse, the novelist who
lately visited Australia, and whose novel,
based on another trial, A Pin to See a
Peep Show, was recently mentioned for
banning by our Customs Department.
Leading lady is Nell Stirling, who also
has the part of Mrs. George Edwards.
An idea of the Edwardian standard of
toil can be had from a glimpse at the
current productions. They include “Not-
able British Trials,” nightly ; “Great His-
torical Moments,” each Tuesday ; “The
Birth of the British Nation,” each Thurs-
day ; “Inspector Scott,” nightly ; “Half-
hour Drama,” Sunday night; “The Voice
of the People,” “The Romance of Rus-
sian History,” each Tuesday and Thurs-
day ; and, for the kiddies, “The Swiss
Family Robinson” and “The Search for
the Missing Link,” each Monday, Wed-
nesday and Friday. It’s enough to make
a hive of bees down sacs and go or> the
dole. Edwards has a backgroun of
stage performing. He had been in Shak-
speare, musical comedy and variety for
20 years before taking to broadcasting.


Accurate. Low-Priced
Never Obsolete
£l9/10/-
Complete
(Less Trade Discount)
® Compact
® Complete Analysis
@ Low-priced
® Weston Reliability
Model 698.
WESTON
Selective Analyser
At £l9/10/- complete, Model 698 Weston Selective Analyser
meets the demand felt by every serviceman for an instrument
that will give him a lifetime of unvarying accuracy. The
price includes Model 897 Weston Volt-Ohm Milliameter—
complete Weston Model 666 Type 1A Socket Selector Set—
all necessary leads—-substantial leatherette carrying case—
complete instructions, etc.
The range of Weston instruments is complete, and covers
all requirements for radio testing.
'Phone or write to our nearest office for booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS—
WARBURTON FRANKI LTD.
307-315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
233 ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
FOUR-VALVE ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE
SUPERHET.
“Much will be heard of the wave-lengths below 10 metres in the near
future. The newer science of television can only be realised as a practical
and commercial success by the use of ultra-short waves. Experimenters
are continually striving to effect improvement in apparatus for use at these
high frequencies, and the superheterodyne type of receiver has, until
recently, presented a difficult problem.” This brief description, from an
article by Frank Jones, ultra-short-wave editor of “Radio” (U.S.A. ),
outlines a remarkably simple but effective superhet for use below 10 metres.
No special parts or laboratory adjust-
ments are necessary to put one of these
sets into action on the experimental 5-
metre band. The circuit consists, briefly,
of an autodyne first detector, a “tuned”
resistance-coupled I.F. amplifier with two
stages (no I.F. transformers), and a
second detector. There is no complica-
tion, and the designer claims that the
receiver is more sensitive than a super-
Fig. 1.—Circuit diagram of the Jones Four-valve Ultra-short-wave Superhet.
regenerator, but has the virtue of being
free from the familiar and distracting hiss
of the latter. Tuning is easily done, be-
cause the I.F. amplifier passes a wide
band of frequencies, and several of these
receivers could be used in close proximity
Fig. 2. —Showing the layout of the simple
ultra-short-wave superhet.
without interference from radiation, as
in the case of super-regenerators.
The first detector tunes like a regen-
erative oscillating detector in the usual
short-wave receiver. There are thus two
points on the dial, very close together,
where the signal will be heard. In this
receiver the two points are so close to-
gether that the dial is merely set to either
side of the exact centre of any station,
according to the correct setting for the
signal being heterodyned properly into
the I.F. amplifier. Oscillation is obtained
in the first detector, as may be seen from
the circuit diagram (Fig. 1), by connect-
ing an R.F, choke in series with the
cathode to earth. This is simpler than
the usual way of finding the exact point
on a coil for the cathode tap.
Unusual I.F. Amplifier.
The I.F. amplifier calls for comment.
It is designed to give good amplification
over the band of frequencies desired —
from 10 k.c. to a little over 100 k.c. —and
is quite stable. This resonant character-
istic is obtained by using the correct
values of resistors and capacities. By
using low values of grid resistors (|-
megohm) and small coupling conden-
sers (.OOOlmfd.) there is practically no
response to audio frequencies. As it is
a poor audio amplifier, there is no tend-
ency to “motor-boat.” This also prevents
the rectified audio-signal component in
the first detector from being amplified all
the way through the receiver. The first
detector can thus be of the autodyne type
and serve as its own oscillator. By ar-
ranging the detector to oscillate weakly.
it is thus in its most sensitive condition,
and accounts for the excellent signal-to-
noise ratio of this receiver. The need
for tracking two tuned circuits, as in
most superhets, is also eliminated. Values
of resistors and capacities are seen in the
diagram, and volume control is obtained
by variable cathode bias on the I.F.
amplifier. Variable MU valves such as
the 6D6 or 58 are essential in the I.F.
The 6C6 is used as first detector, and the
76 as second. Grid-leak detection is satis-
factory for the second detector and pro-
vides comfortable volume in a pair of
headphones. The .Olmfd. condenser
across the headphones by-passes the I.F.
component and increases detector output
and efficiency. If loudspeaker output is
required, the detector can be connected
through an audio transformer to a pen-
tode valve. An A.C. power-pack or bat-
teries can be used, the voltage not being
critical —anything up to 250 volts.
Coil and General Details,
In construction all leads should be as
short as possible. The tuning coil should
thus be soldered to the midget tuning-
condenser lugs direct. Alternatively pin-
jacks could be fitted to use plug-in coils
for the 2j-, 5-, 7- or 10-metre bands.
The tuning condenser is a two-plate
midget variable, with the rotor earthed
to the metal panel of the receiver. In-
ductive coupling to the aerial is used, so
that a two-wire feeder to a vertical aerial
on the roof can be connected. The
cathode R.F. choke is not critical, and
is suitable for use at from 2 to 10 metres.
It consists of 75 turns of 34 D.S.C. wire
on a fin.-diameter bakelite rod. Coil
data follow for the experimental 5-
metre band. The aerial coil LI has six
turns, £in. diameter, and the tuning coil
L 2 nine turns, diameter, of 12-gauge
copper wire. The spacing between LI
and L 2 is from |in. to |in.
When first testing the receiver, the
regeneration control should be turned up
enough to ensure good oscillation in the
first detector. The I.F. volume control
should be on full if 180 volts of B bat-
tery is used. If an indoor vertical aerial
is used of any convenient length the
ignition noises from passing motor-cars
should be heard. Below the point of
oscillation of the first detector these
noises will drop out. Sensitivity is
greatest with weak oscillation, but on
strong signals stronger oscillation is
desirable to prevent overload distortion.
Too much coupling to an aerial resonant
in the band will pull the detector out ot
oscillation, and the aerial coupling must
Fig. 3. —Coil details for five metres and
connections.
then be reduced by moving LI further
away from L 2. Good .OOOlmfd. mica con-
densers and good-quality resistors must
be used. A noisy condenser or resistor
will cause plenty of background, especi-
ally if it is in the first detector or I.F.
stages. Note that the screen and sup-
pressor grids of the first detector are con-
nected together. This gives smoother
regeneration and better conversion for
5-metre reception. At the present time
there are many experimental 5-metre
stations in operation in Sydney, Brisbane
and Melbourne, and such a receiver, in-
expensive and simple to make, provides
a ready means of hearing these transmis-
sions. If L 2 is made with 12 turns the
range will include, for Sydney experi-
menters, the A.W.A. 7-metre transmis-
sion running in conjunction with
VK2ME.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions on most bands were very
good during the week to 2/4/’35 ; that
morning there was a sharp drop in signal
strength and considerable static above 31
metres.
ZBW Hong Kong continues at fine
strength on about 33 metres, and is one
of the best evening stations now.
The only exception has been FYA in
the afternoon on 25.6 metres. This has
been much below the usual strength, and
quite outclassed by the 8.8. C. transmis-
sion on GSB, with GSD very little
weaker. PHI was missing several nights
on 25 metres, but reappeared at the end
of the week at good strength, and RNE
was only fair on 7/4/’35.
The 20-metre amateur band was also
full of life, several Queenslanders coming
through at full volume on telephony,
and at night many Americans were of
good strength. They seemed anxious to
work Australia, and were heard calling
several Sydney amateurs. The 80-metre
band was also very good: Maorilanders
were at fine strength, with a few Ameri-
cans at the bottom end of the band.
RVIS, the Russian on 70 metres, has
been missing some nights, but this station
has always been erratic.
FYA now changes up to the 25.2-
metre wave-length from 19 metres much
earlier in the night, and is at good
strength—the best writer has heard on
this wave band. All the 19-metre stations
have been unsatisfactory, the season being
too late except for freak nights on that
band. 2RO has not been heard in
any more special transmissions, and the
31-metre transmission, though good, is
hardly as strong as was the 30.7-metre
two weeks previously, VK2ME and
VK3LR are not heard here now owing to
“skip.” The Americans on both 31 and
25 metres were good on 7/4/’35 after
8.30 a.m., with WBXK best.
Another station not heard lately was
also fair at 9 a.m., and is apparently being
tried out for Canada ; this was GSC on
31.1 metres. There is continual moving
down in wave-lengths of all stations;
even 49 metres is being used less and less.
This substantiates an article in an English
radio journal in which an expert stated
that the shorter wave-lengths were defi-
nitely improving and the longer weaken-
ing. He forecast the return of 1928-9
conditions, when 15 metres was much
used.
With the much-improved values of to-
day, these shorter wave-lengths should
be excellent, as there is almost complete
absence of static.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
After two unparalleled week-ends, the
10-metre band shows signs of the DX
conditions falling off. On 7/4/’35
W6VQ was heard for a brief period con-
eluding a chat with a Maorilander. The
Sydney 10-metre group stuck at it with
disappointing results, and VK2YC reports
contacts were few and far between. To
Mr. L. E. Winton, of Kenny Hill (N.S.W.),
goes the credit of being the first Aus-
tralian to log and identify an amateur
European signal on 10 metres. Confirma-
tion of Mr. Winton’s log comes in a QSL
card from ON4AU, in Belgium.
The 5-metre band is fairly active, al-
though VK2BP is sadly missed. Tests
were conducted by VK2NO on a rotary
array on 7/4/’35, and the ability to turn
the array in any direction is an advantage
which must be tried to be realised. Two
aerials and reflectors are used, the basis
of the construction being an old cartwheel
and axle. Bolted to a flat roof, this pro-
vides a solid foundation. The idea can be
equally well applied to a rotating mast in
a garden, with ropes and pulleys for con-
trol from the operating position. Stations
on the band during this week-end were
VK’s 2SN, 2UC, 2UG, 2GP, 2AZ, 2UB,
2XK and 2NO.
Many amateurs who confine their
activities to the 40-metre band are apt to
look upon 5-metre experimentation as
being of little interest. It should be
clearly understood that in the near future,
in spite of press opinions, television will
be established in Australia as in other
countries. The only possible medium for
radio propagation of television is the
ultra-short waves. There is much to be
done in the development of aerials, trans-
mitters and receivers, and those who take
the trouble to investigate these things will
be possessed of useful knowledge.
Reports from overseas show that the
2|-metre region appears' to have charac-
teristics even more favorable than 5
metres for certain working, and with the
permission now granted it should not be
long before active work on this new band
commences.
VK2NO.
Television in Germany.
A bid for world leadership in tele-
vision is being made by German radio
and television engineers, aided financially
by the Government. Experimental work
has been running smoothly for some
years, and recent developments have
been so promising that the Hitler Ad-
ministration is sparing neither cash nor
effort to bring about the realisation of
commercial television as an outstanding
German achievement.
In 1933 an ultra-short-wave transmitter
was erected in Berlin, the picture being
on a wave-length of 6.70 metres, and syn-
chronised sound on 6.925 metres. The
programme is radiated six days of the
week, between the hours of 9 a.m. and
11 p.m. The transmitted picture has 180
lines, with 25 pictures transmitted per


PUBLIC WARNING
WIRELESS BROADCASTING
PATENT NOTICE
AUSTRALIAN RADIO TECHNICAL SERVICES
AND PATENTS COMPANY LIMITED
announces that it has the exclusive right to
grant in Australia Licences for the manufacture,
sale, or use of Broadcast Receivers under the
patents owned or controlled by:—
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’ASIA) LTD.
BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES INC.
COMPAGNIE GENERALE DE TELEGRAPHIE SANS KIL
ELECTRICAL RESEARCH PRODUCTS INC.
HAZELTINE CORPORATION OF THE STATE 01 NEW YORK
(U.S.A.)
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD ELECTRIC CORP., NEW YORK
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH LABORATORIES
INC.
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY CORP.
MARCONI’S WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY LTD.
N. V. PHILIPS’ GLOEILAMPENFABRIEKEN
NEUTRODYNE PTY. LTD.
PHILIPS’ LAMPS (A’SIA) LTD.
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERCIA
STANDARD TELEPHONES & CABLES (A’SIA) LTD.
STANDARD TELEPHONES & CABLES (LONDON)
SOCIETE FRANCAISE RADIO ELECTRIQUE
TELEFUNKEN GESELLSCHAFT FUR DRAHTLOSE TELEGRAPHIE
m.b.H.
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY INC.
All persons using, making, vending, or otherwise dealing
in Broadcast Receivers infringing the Company’s rights
are hereby informed that proceedings for infringement
and claims for injunction, damages and surrender of
infringing apparatus will be instituted against an>
person or persons using such patent rights without
authority.
ALL PERSONS PURCHASING OR SELLING
BROADCAST RECEIVERS ARE ADVISED
TO MAKE CERTAIN THAT ALL SUCH
RECEIVERS PURCHASED AND SOLD BEAR
THE LICENCE PLATE OR TRANSFER OF
THE COMPANY, WHICH IS THE ONLY
PROOF THAT THE INSTRUMENT HAS
BEEN MANUFACTURED UNDER LICENCE.
(Copy of licence‘plate or transfer referred to.)
No. This instrument was manufactured under a license
granted by AUSTRALIAN RADIO TECHNICAL SER-
VICES AND PATENTS COMPANY LIMITED in
respect of patents controlled by it for the reception in
the Commonwealth of Australia and such territories
as may from time to time be administered under mandate
by the said Commonwealth of sound broadcast by
wireless but only for private use and not for operation
for any public or commercial or revenue-earning
purposes.
N.B.—A Post Office License is necessary.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO TECHNICAL SERVICES
AND PATENTS CO. LTD.
47 YORK STREET. SYDNEY
second. Not only does this service run
constantly, but some very efficient tele-
vision receivers have been developed in
the laboratories associated with the
station. These are of the cathode-ray
type, with a viewing screen 6in. by 7in.
Research is now being conducted to re-
produce blue, yellow and light-green
colors.
. The laboratories recently made some
important experiments in the relaying of
the transmission of television by ultra-
short waves. A television truck was sent
to a mountain location 125 miles airline
from Berlin, and, despite the fact that
the Berlin transmitter was 25 miles be-
yond the horizon and 3000 feet below
the receiver, fairly good television re-
ception was reported.
As a result of this test the Government
ordered a skw. television transmitter from
the Telefunken Co., and the short-wave
station DJG announces the erection of
television stations at Munich, Frankfort
and Cologne. Stations are being planned
for other large towns in Germany.
Latest in the Trade.
The new range of Raycophone re-
ceivers for the 1935 season includes
, some attractive all-wave and console
models. Illustrated is the model 61 AW.
.This is a triple-band all-wave receiver
covering from 15 to 600 metres, with
overlapping of each band, and includes
special fine tuning feature when tuning
over the short-wave bands. The mechan-
ism enables one to change from a gear
ratio of 4/1 to 60/1, and thus permits
reduction of tuning speed to a very fine
degree. The Raycophone 61 AW is also
available in a mantel cabinet as an alter-
native to the console illustrated. The
6.3-volt valve series is used, including
types 6D6, 6A7, 75 and 42. This all-
wave model is also duplicated in a bat-
tery version, the 61AWB, with all the
features of the A.C. model. Raycophone
Sales Company, 62 Booth-street, Annan-
dale, is at present appointing dealers
throughout N.S.W. to market the new
■range of models, the distributor in
Sydney being Harringtons, Ltd., 386
George-street.
* * * *
“Radio” (U.S.A.) for March, 1935, is
full of the usual technical information
and articles. I. A. Mitchell, chief
engineer, United Transformer Corpora-
tion, deals with controlled-carrier modu-
lation ; the article outlines speech-
actuated sub-audible carrier control for
increasing the power output from a given
valve capacity in a final amplifier of a
telephony transmitter. For the ultra-
short-wave engineer there are articles on
a single valve transceiver ; using a type
19 for the dual purpose; a compact 5-
metre car transmitter and receiver ; and
a new four-valve ultra-short-wave super-
het by Frank Jones.
Of particular interest is an illustrated
article dealing with solar and other dis-
turbances in radio transmission by a
research engineer of the Bell Labora-
tories. The possibility of interference by
meteor showers is discussed; also the
11-year period of sun-spot variation.
“Radio” is a publication every technical
reader should follow each month. The
subscription for one year is 255. 6d., and
may be taken through the Bulletin
office, 252 George-street Sydney.
A most striking feature of the latest
Tasma receiver is the bandspread dial,
a smooth-running tuning control and in-
dicating device of generous proportions.
In addition to the main dial, which is
calibrated both in station indication and
degrees, there is a smaller indicator simi-
lar in appearance to the seconds hand
on a watch. As the main dial moves
this bandspread indicator moves at
the same time more quickly over a finer
calibration. The innovation assists in
tuning to the centre of a modulated
carrier-wave. Unskilled hands are often
responsible for incorrect tuning, and the
best of superhets cannot reproduce the
intended audio quality unless correctly
adjusted. The Tasma bandspread idea
is an instinctive aid to correct tun-
ing. Thom and Smith, Ltd., Dowling-
street, Sydney, are the manufacturers of
the well-established Tasma radio and
refrigeration products.
During 1934 A.W.A. Valve Co. pro-
duced a most useful booklet in the form
of the first edition of the Radiotron
Designer’s Handbook. The outstanding
success of this first edition showed that
it filled a long-felt want among radio
engineers. In the second edition, just
released, new and most useful matter has
been added and the practical utility of
the publication considerably increased.
The table of contents reveals such a
comprehensive list of subjects that
nothing in the field of radio-engineering
requirements appears to have been
missed. Formuke, tables, resistor cal-
culations, resistor color codes, inductance,
capacity and frequency charts are but a
few of the items, and there are charts
of Radiotron transmitting and receiving
valves with all data. This handbook is
about the best shillingsworth in radio.
It is obtainable from A.W.A. Valve Co.,
47 York-street, Sydney.
Casual Comment.
“Querex”: As an example of the far-
reaching internationalism of short-wave
radio, the writer cites a casual observa-
tion during a tour of the dial on the
evening of 18/ 3/’35. During the visit
recently to Australia of Boy Scouts from
overseas, the Indian contingent included
Jami Mody, from Bombay, A new
station has appeared around 34 metres,
this being ZBW Hong Kong, with a
simultaneous transmission of the regular
360-metre programme. Jami, who
called there on his way home, was heard
from ZBW telling of his impressions
during his world trip, and boosting Aus-
tralia and her hospitality sky-high. He
is a staunch Britisher, and didn’t fail to
salute a portrait of the King during a
visit to the writer’s radio sanctum.
* • * *
“Cathray”; A few years ago television
was always “just around the corner,” but
in 1935, despite the criticism of those
who seemingly don’t want to believe it,
radio’s young brother has come well
into the main street. The ultra-short
waves are mainly responsible, and re-
cently in London the Duchess of Kent
made a choice of headgear via the Baird
high-definition system. Mannequins
paraded before the televisor at Crystal
Palace, and the Duchess, in a studio in
the metropolis, found no difficulty in
making her selection, afterwards com-
menting upon the remarkable clarity of
the pictures.
* * * *
“Spotlight”: In U.S.A. radio manu-
facturers encourage the experimenter to
the utmost by making available high-
quality goods at very reasonable prices.
Price lists show such items as isolantite
valve sockets with non-failing contacts
for a mere song, six-section honeycomb
R.F. chokes for transmitters at $1.75, less
40 p.c. to experimenters, and quartz crys-
tals in special power holders for $5. There
are 1200-odd experimenters in Australia,
and for desirable components some un-
scrupulous manufacturers “slug” these
short-wave enthusiasts exorbitantly. An
interrupter unit for super-regenera-
tive application in ultra-short-wave re-
ceivers carries the sky-high price of 17s.
6d. It consists of two honeycomb wind-
ings on a dowel, *with a rag bakelite end-
piece and four solder lugs. The cost to
the factory for the making is around
2s. at the most. The same applies to
short-wave R.F. chokes—three honey-
combs in series on a glass tube pro-
vided with pigtails ; it is listed at 4s. 6d.
No wonder such people squeal for “pro-
tection.”
“V.E.”; Down settled the Puss Moth,
taxi-ing across the ’drome. Out came
two young men, headphones on neck —
enough to attract a questing presstnan.
The aerial strung across the wing did the
rest. The pilot (VK4AL) beckoned him
into the ship, and over the motor-noise
asked the scribe to “speak into it,” hold-
ing up a flat-back microphone and dan-
gling lead. The operator transferred the
'phones to the pressman and flipped the
switch to “send.” “Hullo, how are you?”
barked the pressman, 100 p.c. mike-shy.
The op. cut back, and from the ’phones
came two voices at once, both giving
the “come in.” With the op. as promp-
ter, the pressman asked the one to the
west of Archerfield to say who and where
he was. “See you in five minutes,” came
the voice; “I’m out on Beaudesert-road.”
The other asked for 20 minutes, as he
had to wait at Coorparoo for a train to
pass. The pressman borrowed unusual
material as they all compared logs, and
thus ended the first ’plane-’plane and
’plane-car 56mc. (5m.) test in Brisbane.
What’s What in Radio.
The Swedish airway co. Aerotrans-
port is conducting experiments with
ultra-short-wave beacons. The airports
of Berlin, Hanover and Cologne are
already equipped with such beacons,
working on a wave-length of nine metres.
* * *
. Soviet Russia is still building radio
giants. To provide an adequate service
for the Siberian republics and Manchu-
kuo, a 500 kilowatt transmitter is under
construction at Khabarovsk. It will be
built on the same lines as the high-
powered Moscow station.
At the headquarters of the Radio
Society of Great Britain a lounge has
been built for the benefit of visiting ama-
teurs. Realising that when experimenters
get together they have a thousand and
one things to discuss, the council de-
cided to make the meeting place extra
comfortable. To give character to the
surroundings, showcases containing short-
wave apparatus are, installed.
The Q. and A. Column.
Enclosed is a circuit diagram of a three-valve
radio set, the audio side of which is built as
a separate unit. Coils used are for the broad-
cast band. (1) What is your opinion of this
circuit as a three-valver ? (2) Difference in
power of a set of this nature as against a
three-valve R.F. detector and audio set using
triode valves ? (3) Possible in any way to
incorporate a four-electrode valve as a detec-
tor ? —256.
(1) The circuit is quite workable, and should
give good results. (2) No difference. The
arrangement is exactly the same, but with the
audio stage as a separate unit. (3) Yes. If
two-volt valves are used, the type 15 could be
employed with advantage as an electron-
coupled detector. See B. 2/1/’35 for the
article on the Wide-World Four, using this
valve.
Ihe Bulletin (20/3/’35) contains reference
to Class-B amplification, with a diagram show-
ing a scheme for obtaining greater economy.
In the explanation values are given of all parts
except the resistor R], (1) What is the value
of this resistor ? (2) Would a 500,000 -ohm
rheostat be satisfactory in place of the poten-
tiometer R 2 ?—257.
(1) 100,000 ohms. (2) A 500,000-ohm
potentiometer is used merely as a variable
resistor in this position!


.
the popular Rugby
League player says
SHEAF STOUT
keeps me fit I /
■
mmmm
liiinlHijf!
■
iiiil
m
s: ' a u*
Bt " "=•
dM.
KBSBI
■' ■
•I
a
ill
in
■I
m
iiipilil
k ■ !.■
i. r ; 1
n
i
-
d
“SHEAF
o
a
u.
\J
N/


FOR THE REMAINING DAYS AT
RANDWICK.
All Aged Plate; Hall Mark ; next,
Peter Pan or Rogilla.
Cumberland Plate; Peter Pan or
Rogilla; next, Sylvandale.
Coogee HandicapDromos ; next,
The Raider.
City Handicap: Dark Chief ; next,
Stonebrook.
Rous Handicap: Cercello ; next,
Bombus.
Dangar Handicap: Stonebrook ;
next, Gold Trail.
A.J.C. Plate: Peter Pan.
Final Handicap:-First Son ; next,
Rivalli.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
That the times are improving was
demonstrated by the attendance of
51,000-odd at Randwick on Saturday—
up nearly 6000 compared with the 1934
Doncaster day. Fine autumn weather
was a contributory factor. There were
close finishes in five of the six races, a
■ fact on which Fred Wilson was compli-
mented, He is a great handicapper.
At forlorn-hope odds before the clos-
ing of acceptances. Hall Mark was intro-
duced into the mid-week betting on the
Doncaster, and the price came down
from 25 to 1 to 12 to 1, On the course
that price could still be got about the
handsome little chestnut, but not for
long. Money came for him in such
volume that he went out favorite at
9 to 2. Kellow and party collected ; but
they were lucky.
Hall Mark began more smartly than
usual, and Voitre, who rides particularly
short, had his mount in a handy position
in the first half-mile. Turning for home
he was sixth, behind Arachne, High (8
to 1), Winooka, Silver King (25 to 1) and
Sarcherie ; up to that point Arachne had
been first all along and High second.
High dashed past Arachne, who stopped
suddenly, as did Winooka, and at the
Bert/I like a. girl with
INTBLU GiEKCE
Gert: * “Thanks* , Bert
Bert: "\ sa<o.nn'Th imtelliGiENce^
//■.
Seer; I Know, opposites are
vv
Always attracted to one. another
Leger it seemed that High would win.
He had the rails position, and was gal-
loping strongly. However, Hall Mark,
coming fast, tackled him. For a few
strides High held the topweight; then
Hall Mark made a wild dash towards
the rails and tried to savage Cook’s
mount. Emerging from the scuffle and
straightened by Voitre, Hall Mark went
on to win by a neck.
Silver King was third, a length and
a half behind High; then came
Dromos, Care Free, Sarcherie, Turbine,
Break Up and Arachne, with Winooka
last. Galloped on, as was Sarcherie, the
son of Windbag had two off hind tendons
severed, and it is doubtful whether he
can be saved for the stud. The time was
Imin. 37ysec.
A protest was entered, Cook declaring
that Hall Mark had “savaged High on
the neck,” causing the horse to stumble
and the jockey to become unsettled in
the saddle. Voitre denied the actual
savaging, while admitting that it had
been attempted, and said it had made
no difference to the result. This was
the stewards’ finding;
An objection lodged by H. England,
trainer of High, against Hall Mark on the
ground of interference near the winning-
post was dismissed. Hall Mark hung in
under pressure over the last few yards,
causing slight interference to High, and
his rider, K. Voitre, was reprimanded for
not keeping a straight course.
In effect, there was interference, and it
occurred “near the winning post,” and
Voitre was at fault for “not keeping a
straight course.” Yet Hall Mark gets
the race! This Page has a great respect
for the stewards, but it regards their
judgment as illogical. Photographs of
the finish show the riders of Hall Mark,
Silver King and Dromos well down on
their mounts and riding for their lives,
while Cook is half-erect and apparently
ill at ease. Hall Mark is a great little
horse, and in a sense it would have been
a pity to take the race away from him,
but: this writer is one of the multitude
of people who think it should have been
done.
Those who had laid 5 to 1 on Peter
Pan for the Autumn Plate had some
anxious moments. Oro took up the role
of pacemaker, and swung into the straight
just ahead of Peter Pan. The favorite
had the lead a furlong from home, but
Rogilla joined him and got his head in
front. Riding with hands and heels prov-
ing of no avail, Pike drew the whip, and,
thus urged, Peter Pan scored by a long
head. It was a thrilling race. Oro was
third, four lengths away ; Gold Trail was
fourth—she had been kicked by Peter Pan
at the post—Journal next, King March
and Topical last.
Young Idea (5 to 1), who carries the
colors of two breeders, Percy Miller and
A. G. Hunter, showed plenty of pluck in
winning the Sires’ Produce Stakes. He
had given an inglorious display on the
smaller track at Warwick Farm, but Fred
Foulsham advised his friends to overlook
that performance, being positive that the
colt, a long-strider, would do better at
Randwick, He was right; but Young
Idea was hard pressed by Garrio (6 to 1),
a natty colt owned by A. T. Creswick and
trained by Lou Robertson; Legatee was
third. The joint favorites, Solfast and
Grand Mogul, failed to stay the seven
furlongs, but the colt was set a rather
severe task in making the pace from the
jump to the last furlong.
Sylvandale, 5 to 1 on for the St.
Leger, was never off the bit. Pratt took
him to the front, slowed down the field
in the first mile, and in the dash home
had too much in reserve for Contact and
Limyris. Verberry was nearly always
last.
A big field lined up for the Vaucluse
Handicap. Gordon’s Leap was the open-
ing favorite, but somebody backed
Bombus so solidly that he went out at
sixes; Veilantif was next in demand at
eights. Jim Pike gave a masterly exhibi-
tion of horsemanship on the mare. She
quickly opened up a lead, and at the
Leger defeat seemed impossible. Regu-
lar Bachelor made a dash at her, but,
taking no risks, Pike rode Veilantif hard,
and she beat the Queensland colt nicely.
Babili was a good third; Gordon’s Leap
fourth ; and First Son, who had no luck
in running, fifth. Bombus was never
in it.
Like the Doncaster, the Sydney Cup
brought out a field of 16, Hall Mark,
Topical and Sarcherie being scratched.
In ordinary circumstances, the enforced
withdrawal of Sarcherie, who had not
got over the effects of her stormy passage
in the Doncaster, which was a rough
race, would have been a misfortune for
J. J. Leahy, her pastoralist owner, and
it certainly was for the trainer, Webster,
and the youth engaged to ride her,
Zensky. As it fell out, Leahy had an-
other mare in the field, also a daughter
of Archery, in Akuna, trained for him
at Randwick by Dan Lewis, and ridden
by a little-known lad named Hanley.
And, to the delight of the ringmen, who
offered 100 to 4, with few takers, it was
reserved for the second string to win.
The result might have been different
had it been a truly-run race, but it took
them 3min. 27|sec. to traverse the two
miles. The pace was slow until they
reached the straight for the second time.
There Dark Chief, who had been run-
ning second to King March most of the
way, hit the front, and he retained his
lead until the last stride. Sylvandale (5
to 2), who had been well up most of the
way, threw out a challenge, and Akuna
joined in, the three struggling past the
judge almost abreast. Only he could
separate them, and he decided in favor
of Akuna by half a head, with Sylvandale
the same distance off. The others, dead-
tired, finished in straggling order. Rogilla
was rarely prominent.
Akuna is a half-sister to Polycletan,
winner of the 1924 Metrop. W. Cook
rode Dark Chief, so victory was snatched
from his grasp in each of the big races.
* * * *
Dead-game were the sports who braved
the elements to attend the opening of
the Williamstown Club’s meeting on
Saturday. The wind came in continuous
gusts, and more miserable climatic con-
ditions hardly could be imagined. Mc-
Shortodds alone looked happy. Under
the protection of a huge canopy, he laid
the favorites, confident that on such a day
nearly all would “go west.”
He was right. The first winner paid
a div. of £ll 17s. for ss. Towards the
close of the afternoon Busselton returned
£7 16s. for ss. in the Maiden Plate. The
nearest punters got to success was when
Gold Tier, owned by Wallace Mitchell,
the bookmaker, made a dead-heat in the
concluding event. At one stage Gold
Tier ruled favorite, but ultimately three
other horses were preferred to the Maori-
land-bred gelding.
Belle Zircon, who administered the
initial body-blow to backers by taking
the Seaforth Trial Hurdle, was making
her first appearance over the battens, and
her owner-trainer, Percy Foster, put only
£2 on the Beau Fils mare. Foster is
fond of jumpers. In the spring of 1933
he landed a Brush Hurdle at Randwick
with Phocis, who carried list. 121 b.
Tarra Valley, favorite for the race won
by Belle Zircon, tripped over Majestic
Bridge when that horse fell early in the
hunt. Asa yearling Tarra Valley (Cara-
vel—Lady Valais) cost Woodmason 500
guineas. He was a failure on the flat,
and now is leased as a jumper.
Belle Zircon has a natural aptitude for
the game, and is certain to be heard of
at Grand National time. The field in-
cluded Ramado (Trafalgar—Robecq), a
half-brother to the 1934 Futurity Stakes
winner, Waltzing Lily, who recently was
sold as a brood mare. Ramado had
scored over the battens at Epsom on
the Wednesday, and is a promising re-
cruit to the ranks of hurdlers.
Each of the rank outsiders that scored
at Williamstown was sired by Beau Fils.
Raced by Quinn, his trainer, Busselton
is a full-brother to Beaunilly, who was
sent from Westralia by Mrs. A. M. Bun-
bury to race in Melbourne. Trained by
Quinn, Beaunilly paid a div. of over
54 to 1 when she vanquished Viol
d’Amour in the Bay View Handicap at
Williamstown in May, 1933, The mare
later, became unmanageable at the bar-
rier, and was banned on metropolitan
courses. Quinn, who was a noted jockey
—a contemporary of Frank McGrath in
that capacity—bets on as insignificant a
scale as the late W. S. Hickenbotham, of
Carbine fame. All that Quinn staked
on Busselton was 10s. for a place; but
his share of the prize-money was £260.
Essentially a horse-dealer, Charlie now
wants to sell Busselton for £3OO.
If Percy Miller could have been at Wil-
liamstown he would have been delighted
with the form revealed by Favorite Son
in the Maiden Two-year-old. This young-
ster is a half-brother (by Constant Son)
to Amounis. As Favorite Son started at
12 to 1, it may be assumed that the
trainer, Steve Murphy, was not enamored
of his chance. Coming from last at the
half-mile post, Favorite Son impressed
greatly by finishing third. Du Maurier,
who scored by half a head from Stream-
line, carries the colors of Vin O’Neill.
Bred by the late J. Solomon, of Geelong,
Du Maurier is by Great Star from Miss
Cellier, by Sea Prince from a mare run-
ning back to a sister to Chester. A
shapely chestnut, the colt is held on lease
by O’Neill for the whole of his racing
career. Eric Connolly backed Du
Maurier from long odds down to 8 to 1.
While Hall Mark was giving Heroic
such a splendid stud advertisement in
the Doncaster Handicap, Spartan, a grey
son of the Valais stallion, gamely en-
deavored to uphold the family reputation
in the Easter Stakes. He succumbed by
a neck to Clive Leonard’s Tapageur, who
was in receipt of 191 b. and a. year in age.
Third place went to the topweight,
L’Elite, who tried to win all the way'
Havana, the favorite, whipped in the
field. Apparently the heavy going suited
him as little as it did many other heavily-
backed candidates.
Ben’s Fort did well to run third in the
Point Cook Trial Handicap, of a mile
and three furlongs. He was at the ex-
treme rear of the field at the half-way
stage. Evander, the winner, is by Dignity
from Larlee (Comedy King—Lady Vic).
He has struck good form.
0 Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Shocks were administered to two crack
Sydney clubs in the opening series of
Rugby Union matches. St. George
pressed Randwick hard, and the premiers
were down four points at the interval.
In the end they had 25 to 19, but St.
George’s showing impressed everyone.
And at Manly the Villagers were defeated
by the despised Eastern Suburbs, for
which Nejaim (from Randwick), Egan
and Muller distinguished themselves. At
the finish it was East 22, Manly 19.
Northern Suburbs beat Parramatta by 16
to 3, and Drummoyne put Western
Suburbs through—21 to 8.
* * $
“Northcote”: There was some sur-
prise in Melbourne when it was men-
tioned in the report of the V.F.A. umpire
appointment committee that 45 was the
extreme age limit for active umpires.
Most of us here were under the impres-
sion that Victorian umpires were mem-
bers of a sort of suicide club, with a
very brief expectation of life. In future
no applicant over 26 years will be con-
sidered by the committee.
(Continued on next page.)
“Marathon”: Curses have been levelled
at long-drawn-out Test matches, but a
series in which Australia, Canada and
M.L. are concerned will not be finished
for five years. It is a correspondence
draughts match, and the Australian team
of 21 has just been selected. Eight
players come from Victoria and eight
from N. S. Wales. There are one
Queenslander and one King Islander.


'WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
“MODEL 62”
£5/10/-
Modd 67, ,22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Me,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Satety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight. AC /_
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/3 /
.22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long,
Long Rifle. Carriage Paid.
£9/5/-
THE NEW
SPEED ——
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
■ Carriage Paid.
Above Rifles are all adapted to
WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
POWER CONGER RANGE
Short, 3/8 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100.
Long, 3/6 100.
Long H.P., 3/9 100.
Tjong Rifle,, 4/- 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
GOWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
r
DHOLES
I Mm THIS YEAR
Goes 10yds. further
Unconditionally guaranteed for
72 holes of play...with the new,
additional advantage of being 10
yards longer than any "Kro-Flite”
we have made. Multi-dot, in
Mesh and Dimple mark-
ings each
3 ; .
<L 6 c .
filM
Vl M td r- m m
n n d if
(!nr ' KRO-FLITE
rvrt 1 _ Kf
™o D
j U
X>
m
i".
■ r^~
mhtf-
KRO^FLITE
Under the Whip
Chatham is and Winooka was to go up
for sale on April 29. They are splendid-
looking horses with great turf records,
and their sire, Windbag, though far from
rivalling them in appearance, has dis-
tinguished himself at the stud as well as
on the track. But he and they are Aus-
tralian-bred, and no doubt that will be
held against Chatham.
* * * *
Moorefield (N.S.W.) R.C. has got a
good man for its new secretary in Bert
Peacock. He had secretarial experience
at Benalla (Vic.) ; then he moved on to
the progressive Albury R.C. for seven
years. A 57th Battalion man, Peacock
got his commission at Gallipoli, and re-
turned at the end of the war a major and
an M.C.
* * *
“L.A.S.”; Enter the ladies as turf
prophets! Rockhampton (Q.) “Evening
News” runs a tipping competition on
Brisbane races, one horse for each. On
March 20 two women picked the card
and divided £2O.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ron Richards, the Queensland abo.,
has added Pietro Georgi to his list.
Georgi, who weighed 12st. 4-Jlb., was
131 b. heavier, and made use of every extra
pound ; once he roughed Richards to the
floor. But Richards outboxed him in
13 of the 15 rounds. Pietro’s face was a
mere target for straight lefts, and right
uppercut's at close quarters brought
blood streaming from his nose. Ron
has become a favorite at Leichhardt, and
his victory was well received.
* ♦ . * *
“M.G.”: Something new in seconds
was provided in the amateur welterweight
finals in Melbourne when Rev. W. E.
Watkins appeared in the corner of his
son G. K. Watkins. The reverend second
was minus his coat, and waved the towel
like a professional, despite the fact that
he still wore his collar in reverse. In his
own youth he was an amateur of some
distinction, and he acts as trainer as well
as second for junior. The son of the
manse was outpointed.
❖ * * *
“G.S.”: Leichhardt Stadium has been
cast in £IOO damages because Lurich, in
one of his innumerable wrastles with
Pencheff, rolled out of the ring and fell
on a lady, breaking one of her arms at
the wrist. The Russ pioneered the rolling
act, and all the members of the Wrastlers’
Union have dutifully followed him.
Now it will have to , be banished from
the curriculum.
Footbrawl
“Cottesloe”: The feud between West-
ralia and Victoria over the attempt by the
latter to steal footballer Retell —it is sup-
posed to be one of the arguments for
secession—has blown out. After nearly
two years, during which Retell was a man
without a football country, self-exiled
from Westralia but refused a permit by
South Fremantle to play in Victoria, the
lad is to turn out for St. Kilda.
* * * *
“Scout”: For a long time the Victorian
Association and country League clubs
which have suffered in personnel by the
depredations of Melbourne League clubs
have asked that cradle-snatchers should
be compelled to pay compensation. This
is not allowed under the Coulter law, but
a way has been found to wangle matters.
League clubs have wealthy supporters.
When a player in the Association or
country is desired in the League one of
these philanthropists “lends” a sum of
money to the bereaved club, and every-
thing in the garden is top hole.
* * * *
“Maroon”; The friendly matches be-
tween Victorian Association and League
clubs have proved a bit of an eye-opener
to the Leaguers, and now there is more
talk of amalgamation. The trouble is
how to get Association clubs into League
circles. One idea is that each season
the Association premiers change places
with the League team lowest on the list.
This is the system followed by the three
League Soccer divisions in the Old
Country, but there all the clubs con-
cerned are under the one control.
* * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland R.U. held trials
in Brisbane during Easter to select the
team to play in Sydney on May 4 and
6. The fixtures are earlier this year to
make room for the visit of the Maoris,
who will play in N.S.W., Queensland and
Victoria during August, the month when
Bananaland has usually visited Sydney in
the past. The Queenslanders leave Bris-
bane on April 30, and will be back by
May 9. One of their Sydney matches
will probably be against a combined
country team,
:J« :\i ❖ #
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League has
relented and given broadcasting its
matches a trial again for a month. Last
season it cut out the radio stories on
the ground that they were spoiling attend-
ances, but found these were worse than
the season before, when the aerial yap
"You will have to put those posts further apart or Mrs. Woolpack and I
won't be able to get through them.”
"We gotta keep the cows out, mum."
was allowed full blast. More puzzling
still, the R.U., which permitted full-time
broadcasting last season, drew the big-
gest club gates it has recorded since the
war.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Shore”: Two public golf links have
been opened in Sydney with a flourish
of trumpets. At picturesque Northbndge,
on the North Shore, Premier Stevens
oave his blessing to the new nine-hole
course. The course at North Bondi
had to be content with a launching by a
mere mayor, David Hunter,
presented with a noble pewter pot hom-
ing a pint for his trouble. He seized the
chance to recall that at Ben Buckler,
near by, James Scott, Australia’s first pro-
fessional golfer, lost his life by being
washed off the rocks while fishing.
* * * *
“DNot Digger”: N.S.W.G.C. got a
shock when the Defence Department
said it would have to resume its
fourth- and fifth-hole sites for big-gun
emplacements. The area is leased from
the department, but the move came as
a surprise to members, who have spent
a lot of money on this part of the course.
There is nothing to be done but to grin
and bear it, but the club should insist
on some sort of a guarantee that before
the enemy starts a bombardment he will
undertake to replace the divots.
* * * *
“Southport”: The Roehampton tour-
nament for professionals, first of the
big tourneys of the English season, was
won by Compston, who beat Padgham,
3 and 1. Compston played a great game
throughout the tournament, which was
held in high wind with sleet and rain. In
the final his stroke score was 63 for the
first 17 holes—extraordinary in the ad-
verse circumstances.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A strong team of British
amateur golfers managed to defeat a
women’s team at Stoke Pogis by 10
matches to eight, giving the girls nine
strokes in each match —half a stroke a
hole. The star turn of the day was Joyce
Welhered’s defeat of Jock McLean by
5 and 4. Australians who saw McLean
in action will conclude that Miss Weth-
ered is a great player.
# *
“Bertha Biffit”: N.S.W. women golfers
have issued a hookum forbidding the
giving of cups or other trophies of a
greater value than three guineas. It is a
move that might be emulated by other
sports in which the pothunter is a pest.
The Ma crowd have been counting heads
for the whole of Australia, and are
mightily pleased with themselves. They
have 240 affiliated clubs, against Vic-
toria’s 174. Westralia claims 65 and
South Australia 60 ; Queensland has 44
and Tassie 23. No one would have
expected Westralia to fill third place
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: An item in the Helen
Wills-Moody propaganda now filling the
British tennis papers mentions that when
Helen, out of action for two years, went
to get her racquets, the cupboard was
bare. Whether hubby sold them to the
old-clo’ man hasn’t been divulged, but
the story stands. It recalls the yarn of
Vines when he got back to America after
his Australian tour. He was so fed up
with tennis that he cut the strings of all
his racquets so as to be proof against
temptation to play. As Ellsworth had
70-odd racquets when he left Australia
he must have had some healthy exercise.
.j { ;!j * *
“Kooyong”: Melbourne hard-court
tennis-players are forming a combination
that will control over 600 clubs (mostly
suburban and church) and 6000 players.
Tennis matters are too often directed from
the point of view of the grass-court player
only. This spirit has led more than
once to mutiny in Sydney and Brisbane.
Sydney thinks to solve the problem by
admitting the hard-courters on equal
terms.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The Bulletin’s tip that
Jean Borotra would once more drag his
weary limbs into the Davis Cup limelight
is by way of being fulfilled. With his
immemorial partner Brugnon, Jean has
been chosen in a tentative half-dozen to
practise.
Miscellaneous
Richard Coombes, who died in
Sydney last week at 80, could
claim to be the father of organised
amateur sport in Australia, parti-
cularly of track and field athletics.
In addition, he had much to do
with the establishment of coursing
in N.S.W., while his interests ex-
tended to rifle-shooting, rowing
and sculling. Born in England,
where his father was three times
winner of the professional scull-
ing championship, Coombes came
to Australia in 1886, and next
year helped to found the N.S.W.A.A.A.
He took the first Australian team
to M.L. in 1889, and in 1895 acted
as godfather of the Queensland A.A.A.
He managed the first Australian team
at the Empire Games in 1911, and
for 30 years was Australian representa-
tive on the International Olympic Com-
mittee. A man of taking personality and
strong character, he was internationally
known, and commanded the respect and
confidence of all who came in contact
with him. In his day he held practically
every office in the Australian amateur
athletic world, and for years of his busy
life he was editor of Sydney “Referee.”
* * * *
“Spike”: Mistah Tolan, who hinted at
coaching jobs in Maoriland and this
country during his recent visit, is taking
one at Manila at the end of this year.
Later on Eddie is off to the Berlin Olym-
piad, where he is to write a day-by-day
story of the Games. Yassuh!
“G.M.”: Tolan put up some astound-
ing times in practice at Melbourne; yet
he was never at his best in Australia.
Not only did his leg trouble him, but he
was worried all the time. On leaving


• i
4 u i
** J. •
It#;
u. ‘
I
\V '> m
A l\v
WHO M p *
V
Si
S'
fie
More pleasure, greater satisfac-
tion, better results—that’s what
you can look for if you
USE‘E LEY SPECIAL"
QUAIL CARTRIDGES
They are the latest advancement in
effective light loads, killing cleanly
without shattering the birds.
LOADED WITH SMOKELESS ,
DIAMOND POWDER and 1 oz. Shot;
12 Gauge x 2.1",
Q 396 in 8, 10 and 12 Shot Only..
THE VERY LATEST
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/*, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews.
Household Page, Children’s Section and
Special Articles for the Pastoralist and Farmer.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
moray-^jw#
m
i
1
Thrift is not a mean vice, as
has occasionally been said.
Rather is it a mean between
two vices the vice of
luxurious wastefulness and
the vice of stingy hoarding,
for the full meaning of the
word as a virtue comprises
not only the saving of
money, but the wise spend-
ing of money.
We have learned that money is not an end in itself—but
stands for many worthwhile things. Mostly, we earn money,
but sometimes it is the symbol of a gift of love and interest.
On the other side, money gives us what we require for three
things—the necessities of life, the amenities of life and the
emergencies of life. Perhaps it is the last two which chiefly
justify the existence of Savings Banks.
The money earned, or given, having provided the necessities,
the convenient interest-producing Savings Bank account makes
easier provision for the others.
Cbmmonwcaltl)Savfnoslankoff(iistralia
that does it
ST\ S
W
C=3
Gillette, with their new and special electrical tempering process can
soft-temper the ends of the blade so that it will bend to the razor,
and hard-temper the rest of the blade to allow the steel to give a
keener and more lasting cutting edge. This gives smoother shaving
and longer life to every blade than ever before. 0 Try these new
Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they’re worth it.
21- PER PACKET OF 5
BLUE
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
s.
Dependable /
MoHAgCH
Craig & Aitken
jm—s. Wholesale I
sydncy N.5.W.
U.S.A. he made full provision for his
parents, who are dependent upon him,
and arrived thinking all was well. He
had scarcely taken up his training before
a cable arrived to say that there had
been a hitch in the arrangements, and
that the old people had been left
stranded. After spending more than he
could afford in cables, Tolan remained
uncertain whether the old people had
contrived to get the money he left for
them.
t- * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The trip of the N.S.W.
cricketers to Westralia cost Ma £350,
though Westralia came good with its
£6OO guarantee. The manager remarks
that, though the cricket was bright and
local players did well in all matches, the
public refused to turn up. He is inclined
to blame broadcasting.
* * *
“Miaow”: As expected, the English
women cricketers have invited 16 Aus-
tralians to play through an English tour
in 1937. The girls will have to find their
own fares and pocket-money as well as
equipment—l can imagine the faces of
any members of the last Australian he-
man Eleven when they read this news.
A State vote will decide acceptance,
but there is not much doubt what the
answer will be. The English tour cost
each member £l5O. Our lasses should
do it for less.
“Jolimont”: The M.C.C. cricket team
for Maoriland next season is definitely
to play on its way across Australia.
Victoria has hopped in early with pre-
parations—that is to say, it has suggested
to the Board of Control that the tourists
shall receive 66 p.c. of the profits on the
Melbourne match instead of the 75 p.c.
handed to Harold Gilligan’s lot.
❖ c :Jt *
“Bukshi Sahib”; Cricketers who will go
to India as guests of the Maharajah of
Patiala, Board of Control permitting, are;
Ryder, Ironmonger, Ellis and Allsopp
(Vic.); Kippax, Macartney, Hendry and
Love (N.S.W.); Oxenham (Q.); Bryant
(W.A.) and Morrisby (Tas.). While most
of the players approach the venerable, it
is pleasing to see a youngster like Mor-
risby being given a chance, to say nothing
of Bryant. One or two others may be
asked. But there are unpleasant rumors
that the board is thinking of imposing
“conditions,” and even asking what will
be done with the profits. Considering that
the Maharajah is paying for everything,
such a request would be the limit in im-
pertinent tactlessness, even for the board.
♦ * * *
“Victoria Park”; Ryder is still a
cricketer to be reckoned with. This last
season the ancient batted and bowled up
to his finest old-time form in pennant
cricket, and headed the averages with
90.71 for 15 innings and 13 wickets for
11 runs each. In the final match against
Melbourne, won by the latter, he broke
up the Melbourne first innings after a
big score was up, and was the only Col-
lingwood batsman to defy Fleetwood-
Smith (7-47) in Melbourne’s first innings,
when he was 43 n.o. It was John’s
twenty-first year as skipper of Colling-
wood.
*r*
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. swim-
ming heads continue to search the cradles
for signs of professionalism. The latest
case is that of a 15-year-old Bondi youth
who has been called on to show cause
why he should not be declared a profes-
sional for swimming in events for money
prizes. Joking apart, the State union
has sound reasons for its action. The
boy is a very promising swimmer. Inter-
State and Olympic representation would
be out of his reach if his lapses were
brought up against him, as they certainly
would be, and his only chance is rein-
statement after inquiry has been held.
$ $
“Blade”; The inter-State eight-oar race
on the Nepean on May 11 will be the
53rd, the first being in 1878 on the Yarra,
when Victoria won from N.S.W. The
King’s Cup, won by the A.I.F. crew in
1919, was not tacked on to this race until
1920. The Murray Bridge crew, of South
Australia, were the first winners of the
pot in this country. So far the score for
the 52 races is:Victoria 28 wins, Ma 10,
W.A., Tassie and S.A. four each and
Queensland two: Since 1920 Westralia
has won four times, South Australia and
N.S.W. three, Victoria twice and Queens-
land once. The champion sculls have]
gone 14 times to Ma, eight times to
Tassie, six each to Queensland and Vic-
toria and once to Westralia.
*.* * *
“Torrens”: The S.A. Press is applaud-
ing the sportsmanship of the State crew
for the King’s Cup race in contributing
£5 each to the fund for expenses. But
this matter of paying for one’s seat is
the rule in most of the States. N.S.W.
has a fixed tariff of £5 for “away” and
half that for at home. All the State
rowing associations are finding the times
dashed hard just now, and are scratching
for funds to send their crews away. Big
“gates” are out of the question at rowing,
though this is probably the explanation l
of the high amateur status of the sport.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: An unusual track tour-
ney comes off in America at Princeton
University on June 15. Maorilander
Lovelock, the Oxford and Olympic miler,
is to race the Americans Bonthron and
Cunningham over a mile. Over a year
ago Lovelock put up a world’s record
for the distance at Princeton, 4min, Bsec.
This was cut by Cunningham to 4min.
6.Bsec. Bonthron holds the world’s
record for the 1500 metres, 3min. 48.8 sec.
Bonthron is from Princeton Uni. and
Cunningham from Kansas.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 638 of 1935.
BETWEEN WINIFRED ELLEN BESS Peti-
And JAMES FELIX BESS Respondent.
TO JAMES FELIX BESS late of Belmore m
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
ELLEN BESS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day
of July One Thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Elevemh day of April One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES F. HARRIS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
To
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 53 of 1935.
ALEXANDER CLIFTON FOLLICK of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
late of West Subiaco in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
the Twentieth day of March 1935 is issued
in this Court citing you to appear and answer
the petition of VIDA KATHLEEN FOLLICK
of 123 Townshend Road Subiaco in the State
of Western Australia praying for a dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within forty-five days from the_ date of
the last publication hereof to attend in person
or by solicitors at the Supreme Court Perth
and thereto enter an appearance in the books
provided for that purpose.
(Sgd.) T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
5/4/’35.
BOULTBEE, GODFREY & VIRTUE, of
Commercial Union Chambers, 66 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
sfSss
r
Lk
{■V
i i;
//>/;.
'///.
V.
_r
Cffiy
/V
5%
&
if
0
vSI)
CK
R.M.S. MOOLTAN leaves Sydney July 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from IS and 11 guineas respectively.
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Aug. 23
First Saloon and Tourist Class :
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
R.M.S, STRATHNAVER leaves Sydney Nov. 15
RMS. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Dec. 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
2i7 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 592 of 1935.
BETWEEN ALBERT SIDNEY NICOLLE
Petitioner
And BESSIE ALMA NICOLLE Respon-
dent.
TO BESSIE ALMA NICOLLE. '
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERT
SIDNEY NICOLLE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Third day of April, a.d. 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ARCHIBALD ALISTER JOHNSON, Solici-
tor for the Petitioner, Newcastle ; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS AND COR-
CORAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 613 of 1935.
BETWEEN MYRTLE EDITH NEOLAN
Petitioner '
And STANLEY NEOLAN Respondent.
TO STANLEY NEOLAN late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Myrtle Edith
Neolan has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds or
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of April, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. M. EWING & BADHAM, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 611 of 1935.
BETWEEN REGINALD BEDE McEVOY
Petitioner
And JESSIE McEVOY (formerly Jessie
Moffat) Respondent.
TO JESSIE McEVOY late of West Wyalong.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
BEDE McEVOY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the fourth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of April, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ALAN T. STEWART, Solicitor for
Petitioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
the
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 333 of 1935.
BETWEEN FRANCES ELIZABETH BAG-
SHAW Petitioner
And LAWRENCE GILBERT BAGSHAW
Respondent.
TO LAWRENCE GILBERT BAGSHAW late
of 27 Edward Street Brighton South
Australia. '
TAKE NOTICE that the said Frances Eliza-
beth Bagshaw has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Sixteenth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of April, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(l.s.V E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. ALLAN UTHER. Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
“Garrick, Tattooing, of all
human vanities the most ridiculous, is
reported to be coming back into favor.
I have a suspicion that it has never been
discouraged in the navy, where it flour-
ishes most, because of the aid it gives
in the identification of deserters. A
naval man I know deserted in order
to marry. Three years later he
had the ill-luck to be run in on a
drunk and disorderly charge. The police
sergeant noted his tattooed arms, and
ran through his list of naval deserters.
Next morning my friend was let off with
a caution, but a guard of marines was
waiting outside the court to take him to
Portsmouth. At the court-martial a wit-
ness deposed: “Served two years with
this man on the China station. His name
is Peter Blank. He has an anchor and
oak leaves on the right forearm, a Scotch
thistle on the left forearm and a nood
woman on ’is stummick.” That settled
him.
« * * *
“Kerys”: Speaking of cash considera-
tions in breach-of-promise suits (B.
17/4/’35), Maoriland still remembers
a case of 50 years ago. The peti-
tioner alleged that the man had treated
her callously, and asked for heavy
damages; he on his part maintained he
had been recklessly generous, having pro-
vided her with a dozen silk dresses (and
a dozen yards was a meagre frock in
those days), three parasols, capes and
dolmans, and a host of matching acces-
sories. The verdict went to the lady,
who, plus a capital of five hundred, im-
mediately wedded a youthful clergyman.
As all the dresses had been faithfully
described and valued in the local news-
paper reports, the parishioners had a
never-ending source of interest in the
parson’s wife, and sat through the ser-
mon mentally calculating the value of
the lady’s outfit.
“Roslyn-street”: That step-dancing
ancient (B. 10/4/’35) reminds that I once
lived in a semi-detached house, the other
half of which was occupied by an im-
mensely aloof family, father, wife and
several daughters. During the four or
five years we lived alongside each other
they barely condescended to acknowledge
our existence ; but occasionally the even-
ing silences used to be broken by muffled
thunder next door, as if some heavyweight
was leaping about an upstairs room, to
the accompaniment of a tinkly piano.
We wondered among falling plaster for
long, until the lady living on the other
side gave the show away. The head of
the dignified family sometimes came
home blotto. It was then his custom to
make his daughters! play the piano for
hours while he shuffled a heel-and-toe
accompaniment. They all departed for
England later, and. I have often won-
dered if the revelry is continued in the
ancestral home at Clapham.


Never Fails—
Unbreakable
STANLEY
HOT WATER BOTTLE
Big claims these, but amply substantiated.
Other features, too, are the Untarnishable
Aluminium from which it is manufactured
and a time-saving screw top that will never
leak. Further, despite its neat, flat, circular
shape it stands up for filling—factors that
have proved powerful attractions. The
Stanley will be found
invaluable for travelling or
in cases of sickness. Sup-
plied with cover.
25/-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LIB.
JN QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
cnthlh
FOR
APRIL
193!
BRITAIN’S TRADE
POLICY
GOLD COSTS AND PRICES
THE SHARE MARKET
MEAT WOOL WHEAT METALS
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
What Are Your
Investments Really
Worth to You?
The 1 Wild Cat Monthly
Is the Investor's Guide,
The April issue, now on sale, may be
worth pounds to you—for 2/- there is
a wealth of reliable and valuable in-
formation in each issue.
SINGLE COPIES, 2/-
By Subscription: £l/2/6 per annum,
payable in advance.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
I
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, I
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at I
Double Rates) *
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station),
w. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Silver, Steel and Now—Paper?
In September, 1883, Charles Rasp, a
boundary-rider on Mt. Gipps station,
pegged out a mining claim of 40 acres
near Thackeringa (N.S.W.). There was
an enormous metalliferous outcrop on the
property, believed by Rasp to contain
tin. A syndicate was formed, and six
other blocks were applied for. The syn-
dicate eventually developed into the
Broken Hill Proprietary Silver-mining Co.
The search for silver in western N. S.
Wales was really prompted by the dis-
coveries at Sunny Corner, near Bathurst,
originally worked for gold, Umberum-
berka became Silverton, the centre of the
Barrier mining activity. But as Rasp’s
claim began to prove itself one of the
richest silver-lead lodes in the world,
Silverton dwindled in importance. Broken
Hill soon overshadowed all other mines
on the field.
Broken Hill Prop, sold four of its
blocks, retaining the three middle ones,
the richest of the lot. In its first 15 years
B.H.P. won 101 million ounces of silver
and 403,000 tons of lead. In 27 years it
had paid out over 10 millions in dividends
and cash bonuses. Several other com-
panies also had a phenomenally rich
run, and to date over 150 million pounds’
worth of metal has been won. Compared
with B.H.P.’s early days the ore now
being mined at the Barrier is of much
lower grade. It was through evolving
processes to treat lower-grade sulphide
ores and for separating the zinc that Aus-
tralia led the world for many years in
mining technology.
In 1905 De Bavay’s Treatment Co.,
Ltd., was registered. It had a process for
the preliminary separation of the zinc,
lead, etc. Litigation arose with another
co. over similarity of patents; a merger
of the interests followed, and Amalga-
mated Zinc (De Bavay’s) was formed.
Broken Hill Prop., meantime —as far
back as 1900 a lease had been acquired—
had drawn manganiferous iron ore from
Iron Knob (S.A.) for smelting purposes.
The ore was exceptionally rich in iron.
In 1911 the co. began to plan a defi-
nite scheme for establishing Australian
steelworks. A suitable site was already
owned—at Port Waratah, Newcastle—
bought in 1896 for the erection of
smelters. In 1912 shareholders agreed.
In 1915, when Europe was requiring all
the steel it could make for war use, the
B.H.P. Newcastle works commenced pro-
duction. The old mine at the Barrier soon
faded in importance.
8.H.P., in 1892, had acquired smelting
works at Port Pirie. Following the, out-
break of war it became imperative for the
other Barrier mines to smelt locally—
previously they had shipped their con-
centrates overseas. The result was the
formation in 1915 of the B. H. Associated
Smelters, with a capital in 1917 of
£730,000. In 1925 B.H.P. sold its interest
to other shareholders, thus severing a
connection of 33 years’ standing.
While the war was forcing the B.H.
cos. to establish these smelters, yet
another industry was being developed.
During 1915 Amalgamated Zinc (De
Bavay’s), aided by the principal Broken
Hill cos., began experimenting in the
electrolytic treatment of zinc concentrates
and the manufacture of high-grade
spelter. In 1916 the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
came into being, and large works were
established at Risdon (Tas.). Over a
quarter-million was spent in research, etc.,
but the result was a product equal to the
world’s best. Capital invested in Electro-
lytic Zinc is £2,600,000, and for the five
years until depression made spelter a
drug in the market 12 p.c. dividends were
paid.
The influence of Broken Hill on Aus-
tralia’s welfare has been great, and it is
far from exhausted. It has been a
wonderfully widespread influence. The
fortunes of some of Australia’s wealthi-
est families, pastoral as well as financial,
had their foundations built of Broken
Hill silver-lead, Victoria, South Aus.
and the Speck, as well as N. S. Wales,
have all shared in it.
Tasmania, it is hoped, will shortly
benefit by another new industry. Amal-
gamated Zinc, Electrolytic, North Broken
Hill and Australian Paper Manufacturers
in 1927 formed Tasmanian Paper Pty.,
with the object of making writing paper,
and ultimately newsprint, from Tas-
manian hardwoods. English interests
have since come in, and, if satisfactory
arrangements can be made between Paper
Makers, Ltd., and other paper interests
experimenting in the Speck, great things
are possible. An ordinary paper mill
would cost over a million; a newsprint
mill would require several millions.
Recent developments are more hopeful
than for years. The successful establish-
"Cheer up, Bill, old hoy! If I don't hear you're dead I'll be seeing
you to-morrow."
ment of one new Australian industry
might lead to many others. Broken Hill
Prop, has been the means of bringing
a dozen or more subsidiary steel-pro-
cessing concerns into being.
From veteran-journalist J. Smethurst:
Before people have forgotten that wise
article “How Are We Going Now?” (B.
3/4/’35), I beg space to add a few
lines to it. Nobody can estimate the degree to
which our business recovery is indebted to
those who were not content merely to preach
confidence, but who publicly practised it in
the darkest days of the slump. I am thinking
particularly of The Bulletin itself, and
especially of the late S. H. Prior, whose inces-
sant exhortations to “do something” were
accompanied by that plucky purchase of the
paper’s new home and the expenditure -of
many thousands in remodelling the building
and in establishing a new employment-giving
department.
While “the prevailing idea was to liquidate
property and bank the money,” at a time
when newspapers were falling like grass before
the scythe, The Bulletin jumped from the
safety of its old dugout and went over the
top into No Man’s Land and dug itself in
afresh. Who knows how many were influenced
by that example; that sermon in stones —or
bricks—coming when it did, and proving that
the fighting spirit of the old Bulletin was not
confined to printer’s ink? The urge to “do
something” to diminish unemployment—to
show that those who had reaped the harvest
of the past ought to scatter in the present
time of need —was backed up by that example,
so much more dynamic than any preaching.
When the record of The Bulletin comes
to be written, the way in which it led the
van in the fight against that “fear that caused
a great part of our troubles,” by pouring out
thousands of pounds as an example to the
financially-strong members of the nation, will
stand as not the least of its performances.
Turnover in wool for the first nine
months (to Mar. 31) of each of the past
seven seasons and the gross and average
return are shown in this table:
Amount Average
Bales. Realised. per lb.
1928- .... 2,214,438 £49,078,037 17.1 d.
1929- .... 1,706,311 23,026,557 10.6 d.
1930- .... 2,148,813 23,660,649 8.6 d.
1931- .... 2,225,812 25,327,592 8.9 d.
1932- .... 2,503,384 28,371,141 B.Bd.
1933- .... 2,413,783 49,295,092 16.3 d.
1934- .... 2,275,165 28,137,223 9.7 d.
Sales were down 138,618 bales, and pro-
ceeds were £21,157,869 lower. Wool in
store at Mar. 31 was up 451,106 bales
compared with 12 months ago.
* * * *
The influence of a large industry out-
side Government control on general wel-
fare is shown elsewhere in the story of
Broken Hill companies. The benefits
these industries have brought to Austra-
lia have not loaded the country with
debt or taxation, as many “public works”
have done. Australian factory employ-
ment is now 405,000, compared with
331,000 at the end of 1931. Mining em-
ployment is increasing, despite low base-
metal prices. Bulolo Gold Dredging, in-
New Guinea, will finish the year to May
31 next, it is anticipated, with a profit
of £1,000,000 sterling. A large part of
that profit won’t come to Australia, but it
can’t be helped; overseas capital made
the venture possible. Governments
would do a greater service to the country
if they laid themselves out to smooth the
way for new industries rather than load
all enterprise with the working costs and
depreciation—by way of taxation —of
overcapitalised and often . obsolescent
“works.”
The Globe Worsted Mills, Marrickville,
now controlled by Yarra Falls, the big
Melbourne spinning and weaving concern,
employs around 800 people and processes
165 bales of wool a week. Fancy
worsteds, serges, gabardines and dress
materials are specialties. The co. also
spins woollen yarn for other weaving
mills. The Australian textile industry by
and large has had a great opportunity to
establish itself in recent years. In doing
so, it has created a goodwill as well,
* ❖ ;j;
Following Roosevelt’s action in raising
the price of silver to 71 cents an ounce,
there has been a sharp jump to 2s. 7d.
in London for spot transactions, with a
higher price for later deliveries. Prevail-
ing rates are the highest for nearly 10
years. One result of the U.S. silver bloc’s
activities has been to disorganise Chinese
monetary affairs. China perforce had to
quit the silver standard because the
currency began to leave the country as
bullion for sale in the U.S.A. Trade has
suffered. An artificially high price for
the metal has meant artificially low inter-
nal prices for Chinese goods.
Belgium, despite her currency devalua-
tion, doesn’t want to antagonise her
neighbors by abnormal exports. Licenses
are to be issued to exporters of certain
goods. Still, export prices quoted by
Belgian manufacturers are being closely
watched in Britain.
* * * *
Australian Drop Forging, Ltd., an off-
shoot of John McGrath’s, the Sydney
motor people, is now producing
car and truck axles, crankshafts,
many other varieties of motor
parts, golf clubs, picks, mattocks
and hoes, all at its Alexandria
factory. Thousands of brass
refrigerator valves have also been
made in the co.’s short history.
Prospects are encouraging enough
to have prompted the manage-
ment to enlarge the plant.
;{<
The National Bank of Austra-
lasia says there is little, if any,
justification for fears of a higher
Australian/London exchange at
this juncture. The call on our
exchange reserves should not
exceed 10 million sterling. The bank
mentions that our reserves amounted to
68 millions at June, 1934 —22 millions
higher than a year earlier —but says “the
many factors which may affect the posi-
tion next year or the year after cannot
be estimated with any reasonable degree
of accuracy.”
* •;= * *
Poet Bernard O’Dowd, the Parlia-
mentary draftsman (retired), has been
given the job of preparing the amend-
ments to Vic.’s Companies Act. In
N. S. Wales Parliament went into recess
without discussing its new Companies
Bill, introduced last December.
Imperial Chemical Industries is to have
a plant for making soda-ash in Australia.
At present most alkalis are imported
from the United Kingdom. Soda-ash is
used extensively in the glass industry.
“i' »!♦ •i' }J;
Australian Iron and Steel, the works
of which are at Port Kembla (N.S.W.),
has completed its sheet-mill and galvanis-
ing plant. A third steel furnace has
commenced production. This co. had its
genesis in the old Hoskins works at Lith-
gow.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Broadway Bill”
The Regent feature. It has two
themes: (1) Satire on a small-town Mus-
solini (Walter Connolly), (2) racing
treated emotionally. Warner Baxter, one
of Connolly’s sons-in-law, owns Broad-
way Bill, a thoroughbred; Helen Vinson
is Warner’s unsympathetic wife, and
Myrna Loy is the wife’s sporting sister,
who loves Warner and wins him in the
end. Warner enters Broadway Bill for
a 25,000-dollar event. (He has no money,
and is driven to comic shifts to raise it.)
Shortly before the race the champion
lies nigh unto death with all his teeth
showing in agony, but is induced to
struggle up by Miss Loy. And so to the
course, where 8.8. runs what appears
to be a five-mile race at a five-furlong
bat. The jockey pulls him hard for
several miles ; then Bill bolts, and, en-
couraged by the crowing of his stable-
companion, a cock, wins by a short head
and falls dead. The plot is allegedly
based on the career of Phar Lap, but a
blonde opposite the writer, whose
Marina hat, with towering feather, pro-
claimed her a bookie’s wife or mother,
said it was all wrong—particularly the
manner in which 8.8. was made a red-
hot favorite.
Warner Baxter and Myrna Loy are
somewhat long in the tooth for their
irresponsible roles, but the casting of the
others is beyond reproach.
nn i • j .v c -j »
Behind the Evidence
In this Regent gangster Norman
Foster is an impoverished American
aristo. who has a Bowery voice and
wears his hat in the house. Donald
Cook—ostensibly a society stockbroker
—is head of a gang of gunmen and the
possessor of civilised manners. Both are
after Sheila Manners—insipid as boiled
rice—who has nothing to do with the
interest, the same being exclusively
sadistic. Hero becomes reporter with
mission to unmask villain. Villain sends
thug to murder hero. Hero is winning
bare-knuckle fight when thug scores
knockout with statuette. Villain flees,
Hero—brought to villain’s hiding-place
by gangsters—is about to be shot when
police arrive, tear-gas everybody, rescue
hero and exterminate villain.
Why Cook wasn’t given Foster’s part,
and vice versa, is a mystery. So is the
fact that the U.S.A. allows such libels on
the social life of the
nation to be exported.
“Caravan”
A better name would
have been “Bacchanale.”
Scene is a Hungarian
vineyard. Gipsies, in-
cluding Charles Boyer,
who fiddles, have been
engaged to make music
for the workers. The
young countess, Loretta
Young, finding she must
be married at a few
minutes’ notice or lose
her estates, chooses the
gipsy violinist as her
bridegroom. Along
comes a lieutenant, Phil-
lips Holmes, and steals
her from the gipsy, who
returns to his dusky
sweetheart, Jean Parker.
Save that there are no
vocal solos the extrava-
ganza, which runs for two hours, is con-
ducted on musicomedy lines. Villagers,
gipsies and soldiery are continually drink-
ing, dancing and singing, and on occasions
manage all three simultaneously. The
young lieutenant switches from paralytic
blotto to perfect sobriety, or vice versa,
George Breakston in
“Mrs. Wiggs.”
every five minutes or so, and Miss Young
spends most of her time smiling vaguely.
Aubrey C. Smith’s abilities are wasted as
a comic-opera dotard. With the excep-
tion of a few bars from a Liszt rhapsody
the music has no gipsy or Magyar char-
acteristics. Seen at a Fox theatrette pre-
view.
“Red Hot Tyres”
This exploits the heroisms and in-
famies of long-distance track motor-
facing. Lyle Talbot, a mechanic, is
wrongfully convicted of manslaughter,
escapes from gaol, wins fame as a driver
in South America, returns to the U.S.A.
and there wins a race by leaping into a
car from an aeroplane. His mechanic
on this occasion is the beauteous Mary
Astor. The villain scuttles his opponents’
tyres with knives projecting from his own
chariot, a cute dodge borrowed, without
acknowledgment, from Boadicea. Rac
ing sequences are well
done. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Carnival”
Featuring folk who
run what Australians
call sideshows. A
widower (Lee Tracy)
and Schnozzle Durante
have the job of rearing
a baby, and go about it
on stereotyped comedy
lines. Sally Filers and
a dozen assorted infants
provide pathos and sen-
timent. The oft-told
story drags wearily
along for an hour and
a quarter. At Sydney
Capitol,
“Here Comes the
Navy”
Publicity stuff for the
American navy at Syd-
ney Plaza. Jimmy Cagney works hard
as a Tough Baby with a Heart in
the Right Place, abetted by Pat O’Brien.
The twain are constantly offering to
break every bone in each other’s skulls,
but unfortunately nothing comes of it.
Frank McHugh, a born droll, though not
starred, steals the comic side of the show
as Cagney’s idiot friend.
“The Woman in Red”
Gene Raymond puts
up a sound performance
as the penniless scion of
an incredibly snobbish
family. Barbara Stan-
wyck, who makes up in
acting ability what she
lacks in charm, is the girl
who makes a man of
him. There is an excit-
ing climax. Also at the
Plaza.
“Tabu”
Sydney Variety has de-
cided to test the bona
fides of those who have
been complaining that
Australians never get a
chance to see really arty
films. Hence “Tabu.”
Years ago it was the
fashion at Bloomsbury
bottle parties to apply
phrases like “too, too exquisite design,’’
“gloriously rich blacks and whites,”
“hauntingly tender greys,” etc., to this
film. Here the thing is—slow and tearful as
a funeral, but with a series of picture-
postcard landscapes as compensation,
The Variety, a small theatre with remark-
ably good acoustics, will persevere with
films of the sort if the arty do their bit.
Some First Nights
“Quadrille,” by Hugh J. Williamson,
junior, presented at Sydney Savoy, was
billed as “an original
comedy of modern man-
ners,” but demonstrated
an entire lack of manners,
practically the whole of
the action consisting of
abusive and violent en-
counters. The story is of
the thinnest, A young
couple violently and con-
tinually quarrel as much
over the precise nature of
the cause of their dis-
agreements as anything, he
attributing it to the pres-
ence of her mother (a use-
ful and apparently harm-
less person) in their home,
she to the infliction on the
household of his
obnoxious younger
brother. The wife proffers
the conciliatory gesture of sending
her parent packing, hoping to be
able to do the same later with her
offensive in-law; the maid engaged to
take over mother’s duties proves to have
been the husband’s comforter-in-chief
during matrimonial storms. The irrup-
tion of this unconventional damsel
Zasu Pitts, and W. C. Fields in “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cab-
bage Patch,” at Sydney Prince Edward.
into the household has disastrous effects
on the crockery and the young brother,
but works a reformation in the erring
spouse, and husband and wife are last
seen embracing on the darkened stage
after having ejected the other two mem-
bers of the quadrangle. Producer Eric
Howell announced that the effort had
been originally endowed with musical
trimmings, but that owing to difficulties
of presentation these had been deleted.
Probably with such garnishing (and
samples of the music presented as over-
ture and entr’actes were tuneful enough)
the weaknesses of the play would be less
noticeable. Frances Lane and Ross Ver-
non made a fair showing as the bicker-
ing pair, with Dorothy Ireland, Mena
Bastick and Bruce Craigie filling other
roles.
* * *
Horace Stevens dominated the pro-
ceedings at the Philharmonic Society’s
singing of “Elijah” at Melb. Town Hall.
The venerable basso has lately been dis-
guised as sundry characters, young and
old, villainous and heroic, in opera,
but as the prophet who brought the
Israelites up with a round turn by stop-
ping the water supply he required no
make-up. His snow-white mane, serious
face and impressive frame were well
suited to the part. Coupled with which
was a voice of rafter-ringing power. Un-
fortunately, the Town Hall has no rafters.
His passionate absorption in the prophet’s
varying moods contrasted strongly with
the attitude of some of the other soloists,
who obviously were more impressed with
themselves than with the impression they
were supposed to convey. While some
of his singing was barely distinguish-
able from shouting, nobody but Stevens
could have given such significance to
such widely-differing themes as the curs-
ing of the priests of Baal and the tender
meeting with the widow mourning for
her stricken son. Amongst the soloists
Joan Jones carried away the honors as
an angel with a rich contralto voice and a
Pauline Lord and the bargain horse in “Mrs. Wiggs.”
diction that was above reproach. Carrie
Cairnduff was a sweet-voiced youth. The
chorus work was best when the whole
pack was in full cry; in passages that
demanded more subtlety they were some-
times behind Prof. Heinze and sometimes
well in front. The quartet and double
quartet were admirably controlled.
* * *
Star of Frank Neil’s imported co. for
the “Birds of the Night” revue at Mel-
bourne Tivoli is Janice Hart, a “high-
yaller” or “golden-brown” lass. In
appearance she recalls naughty Josephine
Baker, who shocked Paris. Miss Hart
has possibly heard of Melbourne’s
Presbyterian conscience, for she doesn’t
shock anybody. She acts capably, sings
with the verve of her lace, and is pleasant
to look at. But her greatest value is as an
actress in short sketches and as a leader
of the spectacular marches and ballets
with which the show abounds. The
ballets are pretty and original, and the
costumes are handsome. Of the indi-
vidual performers, the Kiraku Brothers,
Japanese acrobats, bring some new
Oriental stunts pf great ingenuity, Marie
Ward does some graceful dancing and
smart acting, the Three Loose Screws
provide amusing knockabout comedy,
and Frank O’Brian, who is responsible
for the whole production, proves himself
a capable and versatile comedian.
It is only once in a decade that an
actor bounds into public favor by one
performance. Oskar Denes did that in
“Viktoria and Her Hussar,” at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne. The final cur-
tain fell upon Denes as an established
favorite. Apparently well past first
youth, in no respect a beauty actor and
distinctly overweight, not to say portly,
Denes outacts his physical disadvantages.
He did not stand alone, owing much to
the sure touch of that finished actress
Sylvia Kellaway. Never were a couple
better suited to act together. John Mayer
was a satisfactory hussar, Sidney Bur-
chall scored as a husband, and the comedy
touch was attended to by Jack Kellaway
and Nellie Barnes.
* * *
Massed battalions of performers are
cast at the audience of “Crazy Revue,”
at Melbourne Princess —not show girls,
ballerinas and choristers, but so many
people who do something individual that
the programme reads like a directory.
Outstanding are the ballets and the
dances and the spectacular stuff. Tire-
some are the so-called comedy sketches,
most of which could with advantage be
reduced 75 p.c, in length. Among a
regiment of imported comedians, local
George Wallace shines like a headlight;
Gerlys and Lydia, a pair of French
acrobatic dancers, give a notable per-
formance, and the Ganjou Brothers—
three of them —and Juanita present some
original stunts with great neatness. There
is a new sort of conjuror, Keith Clark,
who works wonders with such things as a
cigarette and half a dozen handkerchiefs;
and young Phyllis Baker does so well
that it seems a pity she has no chance
of doing more.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Writing
Down the
English
What England
needs is not a
censor but an
outraged public
opinion to let
outsiders who
witness the com-
edies of their latter-day dramatists know
that the educated people in England are
not all vicious degenerates.
The English “gentleman” and the
English “lady” possess many faults ; they
have in their ranks many loathsome
specimens of humanity, but I refuse to
believe that all of them are destitute of
decency, honor, even of the fidelity to
be found among the lower animals. This
is the impression a foreign observer would
form from a study of stage plays written
in recent years by the bright young
dramatists responsible for West End
London successes. Technically they are
excellent plays. Their plots are well
constructed, their action well developed
and their dialogue amusing and clever.
It is their characterisation which is at
fault: it would be impossible to collect
a dozen such unspeakable swine as appear
in the average cast out of any million
of England’s Nice People taken hap-
hazard.
Every community, every nation has its
proportion of seducers, adultresses, sou-
teneurs, blackmailers and perverts, but,
when a whole class is shown as consist-
ing largely of such, the wonder is that
this class, which constitutes the greater
part of London West End audiences,
does not rise to reveal its disapproval in
some manner consistent with its dignity.
The despised lower orders, were they
similarly treated, would reveal resentment
against the libel by hurling hard sub-
stances at the author. Members of the
well-bred audience might at any rate
blackball an offending author or two at
their clubs, or tell Jeeves to say they were
out the next time Mr. Blank calls.
During the past 10 years dozens of
plays of this type have been served to
entertain and amuse the English-speaking
world —admittedly, they succeed in doing
that—and politically have served to lessen
the respect of outsiders for the educated
Englishman and Englishwoman by ninety
per cent. England is extremely jealous
of its reputation for the decencies as a
rule ; it aims, very properly, to present
its best side to the foreigner. In the
Orient wherever England has any con-
trol or influence a British prostitute no
sooner raises her banner of joy than she
is given a gentle hint to get out. British
prestige must be preserved. Meanwhile
British prestige is being dragged in the
filth of the gutter before America,
Canada, Australia and South Africa.
I may be told that art has no connec-
tion with morals; that the virtues or
vices of the characters do not concern
the dramatist, who aims solely at writing
a good play, or the audience, which is
capable of appreciating one. But every
artist who deals with, life must deal with
normalities ; abnormalities are not an in-
tegral part of life itself.
It is not that these plays defy or con-
temn or outrage conventional morality.
There are plays that do all these things
and yet do not disgust a normal audi-
ence. It is the manner in which they
reveal their defiance, in which they re-
duce all life to a depth lower than sheer
animalism and in which they condone,
even exalt, what the ordinary decent
sinner, man or woman, regards as too
vicious for thought.
Montague Grover.
"Brown Duck’’ study, one of Beryl Mallisons fine bird pieces in the
Australian Water-color Institute show at Sydney Education Gallery.
The Wolf.
It is a wolf, unkempt but resolute,
puts up from cover that tall random
stag.
far-straying thought, and with fierce-
fanged pursuit
drives him, unwilling, to his dizziest
crag.
But for desire, what stirs in the thick
boughs
of the mind’s deep? what stays corrup-
tion there,
lest trunks fall, putrid, for the devouring
louse
mid dungeon odors of the infected air?
Already those glooms are mossed with
base disease;
luxuriant, soft weeds clog wholesome
growth ;
sodden and pulpy vines weigh down the
trees ;
and any life there rots in its own sloth.
If the wolf goes then shall the woods
ferment
inwardly, self-consuming; and decay
like a rank yeast shall swell where late
he went,
its humid heat sweat-clammy from the
clay.
Swift though his footfalls beat they seem
to mark
a count of (eons ended, when he has
gone,
their clear divisions spacing this turbid
dark,
wherein the forest breeds its malison;
and in the forest itself all is then smear
of festering minutes, changeless—a
thick slime
dewing the clotted leaves: no season nor
year ;
the centuries drip foetid through slow
time.
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Continental
Films Lead
the Way
The announce-
ment that Aus-
tral ia n film
companies are
getting under
way urges me to
suggest that, if
any one of them is having the enter-
prise to send someone away to learn the
art of directing, the Continent offers
wider scope and greater facilities than
either America or England.
Here we have just seen three Continen-
tal films—French, German and Czecho-
Slovakian—each of which is a great deal
in advance of anything we have seen
from the more famous studios.
“Remous,” the French offering, was
done “Englishman who for years
kicked his heels m London looking for a
job. The Parisians told him to get to
work, and the results are outstanding.
“Maskerade,” the latest offering of the
great Willie Forst, has. a mixture of
comedy, romance and drama such as is
rarely seen, and has taken London by
storm. London critics are almost
unanimous in calling it the best film of
the year
The Czecho-Slovaktan fi m, called
Reka, features a perfect calf-love
episode between kiddies of 16 ; and
those taking part have names quite un-
known ,n London or New York.
Motion-picture art is advancing by
leaps and bounds. A sensitive director
can produce something as artistic as
anything in the Royal Academy. A
good cameraman can make or mar the
finest star. In directing and photography
the Continent is leading the world. If
Australia intends to go into the film
business in earnest (and there is no
reason why it shouldn’t), the very first
step in the proceedings is to get a first-
class director and a first-class camera-
man from the Continent or Hollywood
(Hollywood can still show England
something). Although it is not generally
recognised by the public, the film busi-
ness is now such that a, first-class direc-
tor is ultimately of much greater import-
ance to the film company than the best-
known star in the world.
The best beginning Australian films
could make in the eyes of this country
would be to import someone of note to
make a couple of films, and so set a
standard. Victor Saville told me the
other day that he would welcome a few
months’ sunshine in the Antipodes.
London.
KEITH BARRY.
Melbourne
Gallery’s
Future
Figures in the
Melbourne Art
Gallery contro-
versy include
Lionel Lindsay,
suggesting that
a Slade school
man, who would give due attention to
the value of line, should be the next
director; the tonists and Meldrumites,
sinking lifelong hatred of orthodoxy
in the presence of the common enemy;
the people who know nothing of art,
but who hold that an Australian should
be appointed to an Australian job ; and
those who suggest that, no matter who
is appointed, the Gallery school and
that of the Working Man’s College, just
across the street, should be amalgamated.
The last suggestion has already been
dealt with. The trustees considered it
and, on the recommendation of Acting
Director Mclnnes turned it down flat.
The decision is not calculated to advance
the study of art in Victoria, nor to widen
its appeal to the public. It would be
possible to work out a combination of
the Gallery and the W.M.C. schools
which would provide Melbourne with a
replica of the Sydney Technical College
at Darlinghurst, where the so-called lower
forms are not neglected, but where they
handicap in no respect the study of the
higher forms. Most important of all, it
would make for a much more valuable
atmosphere for youth pursuing these
studies. The Darlinghurst classes form
a community which, in its hours of ease,
has developed a social side which has
art as chief topic of conversation and
which exerts a good influence on the
artistic education of the student.
The line versus tone controversy will
never be settled. Many years back, I
saw one line protagonist at Melbourne
Gallery settle it for the time being by
knocking out a tonist after five willing
rounds. But such settlements are at best
temporary. The controversy will go on
interminably, though personally I incline
to Lindsay’s support of line.
. As to Lindsay’s advocacy of importa-
tion, I decline to believe there is nobody
in Australia capable of teaching art
students, and, further, I fear that an
appeal to any English body to recom-
mend a suitable man would lead to some
dud being unloaded on us. That has
happened so often in other departments
of life that it is not to be supposed that
art would be exempt.
A most important aspect which every-
body seems to have lost sight of is the
financial side. The National Gallery of
Victoria pays its director £8 a week, the
same salary it paid him when Melbourne
was a city of 200,000 people and the
Gallery a collection of a dozen paintings
with two or three students. For the same
money which is demanded by. a skilled
accountant or a skilled engineer—a man
who is not born to his trade, which may
be acquired by any person of average
intelligence and average manual dexterity
—it demands somebody who should be a
man in a hundred thousand.
By amalgamating the Gallery and the
W.M.C., the receipts from students’ fees
would be sufficiently large to enable Vic-
toria to avoid sweating its director of art
and at the same time develop art in all
its ramifications.
Globe Trotter.
House Full
and a
Bit Over
A little time
back plans for a
new talkie-theatre
in Sydney were
turned down on
the ground that
they did not
comply with certain regulations designed
to safeguard the public. There was con-
siderable doubt as to the fact of this:
at was argued that the plans made ade-
quate allowance for ensuring public
safety; even that the building to be
erected would be safer than many al-
ready in existence. Allowing that the
case against was sound, the rejection of
the plans was justified and commend-
able: but the action would look more
altruistic and disinterested if there was
a bit more consistency in this matter of
safeguarding the public which attends
talkie-theatres.
God knows what son; of a mess there
would be if the main danger from which
the public is supposed to be safeguarded
in these places broke out at the address
of a show at present enjoying high popu-
larity in Sydney. I attended this show
on Saturday, March 30, at the midday
session, and when the programme was
through it took me five minutes to get
out through the people sitting three to
a step on every step of the aisles. And
they were doing what they could to let
me through!
This is not peculiar to that particular
theatre, either. It occurs in nearly all
of them whenever they have pictures
that draw. No action is taken by police,
politicians or anybody else. Doubtless
none will be taken until one of these
places has a fire, and then, because they
are the best of advertisers, the press will
go into crocodile lamentation over the
tendency of people to commit suicide by
panicking when they could easily walk
out safely if they would only keep calm.
The politicians, of course, will take no
action. They will not have the courage,
having learnt that' interfering with the
movie interests is always to themselves a
hazardous and apparently a thankless
business.
S. IMBER.
Current
Arthursts
dernr.' Gallery is similar to any of the
preceding 21 exhibitions of this inde-
fatigable artist. A large canvas, “Waver-
ing Shadows and Sunny Gleams,” is a
typically expansive mountain and valley
effort. The conception is good, if the
short-stroke technique somewhat nig-
gardly for such an ample acreage ; one
feels that a broader treatment would
liven the work. Some vivid seascapes and
bush pieces make up a show of 43 ex-
hibits, chiefly attractive among which are
several small pictures painted with a
more restrained palette.
Is it possible for a man to libel him-
self? One of these days the High Court
will have to decide this vexed question, and
no better leading case could be listed than
an action on the part of Adrian Lawlor,
leather-classer of Melbourne, against
Adrian Lawlor, artist of Melbourne, for
grossly libelling himself in two self-
portraits in his show at Cynthia Reed’s.
Lawlor is a modernist who makes the
other modernists of Australia look like
Stone Age draftsmen. All the same, it is
difficult to say hard things about Lawlor.
He has the rare quality of sincerity. He
firmly believes in all the tenet's of
Christian Science art, however fantastic
they may appear to the conservative eye.
He works hard, and, if his drawing does
flout the conventions, he possesses a sense
of color. Far better for the taste of Aus-
tralia is it to possess a spice of Lawlor’s
originality in its art than a wearisome
procession of canvases destitute of indi-
viduality, and all compleied “according
to plan.”
The twenty-
second annual
show of Lister
Lister’s oils and
water - colors at
Anthony Hor-


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from yoUr Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tar iff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Bunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
fd
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak,
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield. S.E.B. Melbourne.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Missing Friends.
Janies William Deboo.
INFORMATION REQUIRED as to where-
abouts of children of above (who was a child
of John Deboo and Elizabeth Deboo, nee
Cole), who is understood to have gone to
Tasmania between 1860-1865, and who at one
time worked at the Bendigo Mines in Laun-
ceston, Tasmania. Believed to have left three
children, who may be in Tasmania or Aus-
tralia. AND TAKE NOTICE that in accord-
ance with Trustee Act 1925, unless a claim
in writing is sent to undersigned Solicitors on
or before the 31st day of August, 1935, the
Administratrix of Charlotte Hogwood (a sister
of above) will distribute the assets amongst
the ascertained next-of-kin, and any other
person will be excluded from any such
distribution.
LEWIS, BARNES, WHEELER & CO.,
260 Walworth Road,
London, England.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Capes were worn at Randwick on
Saturday, and many of the girls wore
them with an air. These caped suits
promise to be cosy for winter days.
Tweeds and plaids, which somehow
always look a bit too heavy till June
is upon us, came out smartly tailored
to the accompaniment of furs—silver fox
probably the most popular pelt, mink
so rare that Mrs. Tony Hordern’s
long coat caught every eye. Hats were
small and off the face, eye-blinkingly
so. Not the John McKelvey lady’s.
Her grey velour, turned up at the back,
had a definite brim, and over her Char-
treuse-green woollen frock she wore a
hip-length grey tweed coat.
Stands seethed and simmered —a record
crowd, almost pre-depression in its
numbers and in its gaiety. The grey
top-hats of the vice-regal party bobbed
about in the crowds ; an unknown with
a golden beard received open and covert
glances; Janet Thatcher (who wed yes-
terday) came with her Geoff Ashton,
and was much gazed at. Her eyes were
very wide under her black off-the-face
hat, and she wore lily-of-the-valley in
her black furs.
The vice-regal enclosure was quite
animated. With our own Hore-Ruthvens
were Queensland’s Governor, Sir Leslie
Wilson, and daughter Marjorie. Lady
Hore-Ruthven’s black suit was belted, its
skirt a little slit. (Oh, these slits, what
a pitfall they had proved to one girl in red
Angora who had her rather deep ones
scalloped!) Our Governor’s wife added
pearls, and her black velour hat was
Breton-sailor in shape. Marjorie Wilson
snuggled into a marine-blue coat of
softest woollen, and wore a matching
navy felt hat; Priscilla Feilden’s color
choice was green; Miss Price’s navy.
Into this goldfish bowl swam the Philip
Streets, the lady black as to furs, frock
and small hat. Captain Holford, Captain
Ponsonby, Commander Gifford and Cap-
tain Leathes were in attendance.
One of the handsomest in the official
stand was Mrs. Malcolm Mackelfar,
whose head in its small black toque arose
above the rampart of fur that collared
her black coat. Mrs. Peter Poole walked
with her mother, the Knox lady ; Bris-
bane’s Mrs. A. H. Whittingham bordered
the cape of her navy-blue suit with
squirrel. Mark Sheldon brought his lady
richly-furred in black. Mrs. Reggie Staf-
ford’s blouse was of Irish lace, caramel
in tone, and was worn with a Donegal-
tweed suit; Mrs. Douglas Levy’s fitting
grey tweed frock had a caped collar.
Mrs. H. K. Prior’s leaf greens were
worn with a black velour hat. Two
of the bright-faced were Mary and
Dinah Hordern, the one in black,
the other in grey-blues. Faith Macarthur-
Onslow was smart in palm-greens ; Jen-
nifer Maughan and Helen Goldfinch
were with Mrs, David Maughan. Lela
Forsayth added slimness and a nice pro-
file to the day. Mimi Healy, Diana
Davidson and Mrs. Tom Rolin were
there. Mrs. Parker, in nut browns,
walked with her Lud Mayor. Mrs. Pat
Osborn wore navy and an active air, and
Mrs. Jim Ashton, just back from her
honeymoon, wore the prevailing tones
of soft blue.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite went
crazy over the American cowboys, the
Indian chiefs and the Cossacks at the
Show. This Letter remains true to
the Mounted Police ; all the same the
Cossacks were rather palpitating when,
after wheeling and flashing and sweeping
across the arena like a whirlwind, three
of them turned themselves into a sort of
centaur standard-bearer carrying aloft
Australia’s flag. Sir Alexander Hore-
Ruthven cracked the monster Easter egg
of the R.A.S. last Wednesday, and the
Show in all its glory was officially
hatched; really it had been a sturdy
fledgling since Monday. Ringside stands
were thick with country visitors, who
watched the judging of horse and pony,
of Ayrshire and Hereford with rapt eye
and the comments of the initiate. The
girls, very smart in their soft woollens,
were as keen as mother and dad. “Busi-
ness is pleasure” seemed to be their motto,
for on the judging days the sideshows
drew spasmodic attendances, and in half
an hour’s wandering only one man was
seen ungallant enough to try his skill at
“Knocking the Lady Out of Bed.”
Everybody saluted that magnificent
champion Ayrshire Alanvale Confidence
as with flashing eyes and shining horns
he led the princely array of animated hat
racks around the ring. Here paced
lordly Herefords, Longhorns, Shorthorns,
Jerseys, Guernseys and Friesians. Here
tramped Clydesdales, here stepped Shet-
lands, here spanked glittering sulkies and
such turnouts. In short, the crowded
stands thrilled as they do each year to
the opulence of the inland. As for the
ten hundred tons of beef and brawn roll-
ing and surging past the fascinated on-
lookers, they seemed to say “We’re the
real strength; compared with us what
are your skyscrapers, what your vast
machines?” The answer to that one was
around the corner, where motors whirred
incessantly like bees working overtime.
Show Week and the name of Hordern
are almost synonymous. This is a Dayne
photo, of Tony Hordern’s second daugh-
ter, Dinah, who made her appearance in
smart riding kit several times in the ring.
Miss Hordern became engaged a week
or so ago to Henry John Meeks, of
Edged iff.
In the Hall of Industries The Bulle-
tin possie, lined with original black-and-
whites, drew old and new friends.
Near by stood a glass table, its surface
and pillared bases glowing with light;
it looked a first cousin to the one the
Duke of Gloucester supped from at the
Military Ball. This may be the age of
youth, but Granny Smith more than held
her own in the apple display. Even the
Cleopatras and Rome Beauties couldn’t
put her out of countenance. She queened
.it in the Hall of Agriculture, where great
hams and flitches of bacon reminded
that, though Good Friday come, Easter
Sunday is not far behind. Gleaming
tiers of jams, giant carrots and parsnips,
everyday fruits, exotic fruits, nuts, wheat,
the gold of honey, the gold of corncob
—amazing earth riches caught the eye,
rose in the nostrils. Down other ways,
the fattest woman, the human sala-
mander, and the film about the Chinese
dwarfs had their temporary homes.
Woodchoppers chopped, dogs barked,
hens cackled—where your fancy led
there you could walk.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s Show outfit
featured sables worn with a soft-brown
coat and hat of sailor shape. Gwen
Stevens, who came with mother, wore a
pork-pie hat with her henna suit. Miss
Price’s coat and hat were of horizon blue ;
Priscilla Feilden turned out in green.
Colonel Somerville’s lady’s fox furs were
black; so was her suit. Black, too, was
worn by Mrs. Angus, who was hostess
for the afternoon. The Earle Pages
were there. Mrs. Tony Hordern, Dinah
and Mary Hordern were among the after-
noon’s smartly-turned-out riders ; so was
Phyllis Bray, of Glenelg. Mrs. Hugh
Main and Mrs. Bruxner were among the
officialdom who drank tea in the council
rooms. All the gold of autumn was
caught in the dahlias, chrysanthemums
and berries on the v.-r. table.
General Evangeline Booth made an
impressive entry to the Millions Club
lunch. Her gold-topped head, minus a
bonnet, was very erect, and from her
shoulders fell a cape of military cut lined
with rose-red. The Blaxland Galleries
were crowded with Millioneers and their
womenfolk. The General’s voice, husky
to rawness, has none of the gong-like
tones of Annie Besant, but is magnetic
with emotion, compelling with convic-
tion. She spoke for about 20 minutes
without notes, never once faltering.
How proud of her Fighting Mac and
Assistant-Colonial Secretary Hawkins
looked!
English visitor Mrs. R. Peyton said her
farewells with cocktails. These were
served continuously between five and
seven the other afternoon at the Garden
Club, and between sips and nibbles the
view over Elizabeth Bay, pensive and
lamp-lit in the autumn evening, was ad-
mired. The hostess wore with her dove-
grey frocking a rope of coral, each rose-
pink bead the size of a cherry—friends of
the Peyton family for over one hundred
and fifty years. John Lane Mullins
brought two slim-suited and black-
bereted daughters, the George Rayners
were early arrivals and the Snowden lady
introduced a black halo hat into the dis-
course.
Not a saxophone slinked up the steps
of Clifford, not a crooner murmured, his
way through the door, when Mrs. R.
Bassett and daughter Beaupre enter-
tained in honor of the Roy Agnews.
Sydney-grown pianist and composer Roy,
now touring Australia with the A.8.C.,
and Mrs. Roy (who was Kathleen
O’Connor) have been living in London
for some years, so musical Sydney turned
up in force to welcome them. Pianists,
violinists and singers jostled one another
in the flower-full reception-room where
Mrs. Agnew stood, tall and statuesque
in,a sweeping ivory satin frock. Mrs.
Bassett, in powder blues, and Beaupre, in
plum-gold tones, mixed musicians with a
trained hand. Tenor Charles Nicis talked
with the pianist from the Russian Ballet.
Natalie Rosenwax, Alice Prowse and
Gordon Lavers were an interesting
trio. Joan Hammond opened the music
programme with song, and the Justice
Long-Innes couple were among the many
listening.
The bright-faced subject of this
Dorothy Welding picture is Ivie Price,
who travelled from England with Lady
Hore-Ruthven, and is now settling into
her job as the vice-reine’s private sec-
retary.
General Evangeline Booth doesn’t
have to time her arrival at any given city
so that it will not clash with rival attrac.
tions. Though the Show was on and the
races were around the corner, the erect,
seventy-year-old Army leader arrived in
Sydney last week, and received thunders
of applause not only from her own
people, but from the press. Milling
hundreds of her soldiers, her sergeants,
her captains and her lassies thronged
Central to greet her train with cheers
and “Hallelujahs.” Flushed with emotion
she waved her hand, her bouquet, and
tried to make her voice carry a message
to the eager throng. The excitement
caught casual onlookers with its fire, and
one little man who had cheered and
hoorayed more madly than most re-
marked in astonishment after the General
had passed, “Me, and I never go to any
church! ”
There was an escort of aeroplanes, and
the Army band waiting outside the station
to lead the hymns. Later there was a
civic reception, and over a hundred
churchmen, politicians and professional
men assembled in Mayor Parker’s strong-
hold to welcome this remarkable person-
ality. In the evening, after her long
journey and emotionally tiring day, she
stood up to a public welcome in the
Town Hall, centre of applauding and
cheering thousands. Around her on
the platform, stiff with loudspeakers
(mechanical, of course), were importants
of the Army and importants of the State,
such as ex-C.J. Philip Street and Premier
Stevens.
Very gay was the Town Hall for the
twenty-first birthday of the Red Cross.
The galleries were garlanded in roses
and hung with Red Cross banners. On
the stage towered a cake, pink-iced, at
its base a frieze of Grecian maids in soft-
pink draperies. These were not intimi-
dated in the slightest by Lady Hore-
Ruthven, who approached with a glit-
tering three-foot knife and cut a giant’s
slice. Lifting the slice, studded with
painted plums, the Grecian maids bore
ii offstage, and the pageant began. This
started with the story of Henri Dunant,
who founded the Red Cross, inspired by
the work of Florence Nightingale ; fol-
lowed, stepping from the cut cake, each
Red Cross activity. The Governor-Gen-
eral and Lady Isaacs, Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven, the Premier Stevens
couple and the Mayoral Parkers were
among the guests. Faithful workers for
21 years received life-membership badges
and medals for long service from Lady
Isaacs.
On Wednesday, May 1, Esner Mac-
leod, eldest daughter of the late Norman
Macleod, of The Bulletin, is to marry
A. Raymond (Peter) Shaw, son of the
legal A. G. Y. Shaw, of Mosman, and
himself a lawyer. The bride- and
’groom-elect have lived within arrow-
shot of one another all their lives.
Frank Clune bought such giant hungers
for the “farewell welcome” he and the
other members of the Authors’ Week
pageant arranged for Jeanie Ranken and
John Gould that a fireman had to be
introduced into the party to let them off.
The affair filled the Burlakov studio with
much merriment, the languorous odor of
shallots —ammunition for the audience
to use in self-defence against the actors —
and as weird an array of costumes as the
stage has seen. After the foolery came
dancing ; then coffee and farewells. Alix
Lamb, a male impersonator in a well-
fitting dress-suit, was the belle of the
evening.
The Jim Gordons’ after-the-races cock-
tail party was the smart five-to-seven
crush. This filled the Queen’s Club with
about 300 guests. Daughter Beatrice
one of Easter’s social Hedgings, looked
very smart in her navy-and-white
outfit. Sister Philippa chose dark
brown, while mother wore a black suit
topped by a small black hat. In the
evening racegoers went in search of the
dance. City ballrooms were crowded,
and one of the big jubilations at
Romano’s was in honor of Janet
Thatcher and Geoff Ashton. The Aus-
tralia floor was thronged, Mrs. Ellis
Fielding Jones being one of the attractive
dancers.


liiiiiil
‘ffotA*
iiliill
i
m
■
n
m
m
N.
B.ZIHS.
s ■
lAlil
Melbourne
Chatter
In spite of a bleak night and slushy
streets swept by a freezing wind, “The
Merry Widow” Ball, run cabaret fashion
at the Commodore on Wednesday night,
was a very gay event. Blue-eyed and
beaming, Mrs. Barry Thomson reaped a
profitable return after weeks of hard
ticket-selling on behalf of the Alfred
Hospital. To rope in nearly three
hundred people on such a dirty night was
a personal triumph. Now and again the
orchestra gave rumba music a rest to
play some lilting air from some old
favorite musical comedy, and by the time
Eunice Weston’s ballet in their full frilly
skirts and period hats danced “The
Merry Widow” waltz the company was
beside itself with delight. Many refer-
ences were made to that gigantic head-
piece known as “The Merry Widow” hat,
which remained in fashion long after
the music of the opera had gone off the
barrel-organs.
After they had taken off their grease-
paint Strella Wilson and Rene Riano
joined the crowd as the guests of Miss
Lurline Irwin. The gayest note was
struck at midnight, when the whole house
rose to toast Winifred Wales, daughter
of the Lord Mayor, who with a group of
young people came on to this dance to
finish up a round of parties given that
day in honor of her approaching wed-
ding. “For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow”
was in full blast before the little girl in
silver lame realised that she was the sub-
ject of the ditty.
The Leslie Middleton pair, both on the
staff of the Uni. Con., were given a
cheery send-off by a number of musical
friends before leaving for a holiday trip
abroad. Harold Elvins, president of the
Music Teachers’ Assoc., expressed every-
body’s good wishes with the usual gal-
lantry. Carrie Cairnduff, a sweet singer,
who arranged the party, flittered about
in a lilac taffeta frock flounced to the
waistline with fussy frills. Mrs. Middle-
ton hails from Ballarat, and was well
known as an amateur player and singer
under her maiden name, Clarice Malyon.
Thanks to having a level-headed father
and mother, Winifred Wales, daughter of
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor, was not in-
flicted with the fuss and formality of a
civic wedding. The best seats at her
marriage feast, served at the Hotel
Windsor, were occupied by old family
friends, instead of being held by guests
who would have been there by virtue of
their position had the Lord Mayor
not insisted upon being regarded as
a private citizen on his daughter’s
wedding day. But for all that Wini-
fred had a very showy wedding.
Two matrons of honor, four bridesmaids
and a couple of trainbearers were
called up to see her through the cere-
mony, and two hundred guests were in-
vited to watch her walk into the Mel-
bourne Grammar School chapel and
emerge as Mrs. Lemuel James Callaway.
In robes of lacquer-red velvet, with trails
of autumn berries dangling from their
arms, the matrons and ’maids imparted a
warm glow to the dimly-lighted little
chapel and provided an effective back-
ground for the white velvet robe of the
bride. Having put by some bits and
pieces of her own wedding trousseau,
Mrs. Wales was able to supply the “some-
thing old”—her daughter’s bridal wreath
and 'train.
April has sent the confetti flying.
Florists have been working overtime to
9<ppe with the rush of pre-Easter wed-
dings. Nine Victorians, all well known,
wore the orange-blossom on Wednesday.
At Lome James Affleck and Claude
Austin ushered many visitors from the
Western District into their seats in an
old-fashioned little church to wit-
ness the marriage of Colin Whitehead,
eldest son of the Whiteheads of Good-
wood, Minhamite, and Jean Mclntyre,
daughter of Mrs. C. D. Mclntyre, of
Varna, Lome. Sprigs of heather had
been sent from Scotland for Jean’s wed-
ding bouquet.
Five bridesmaids will attend on
Audrey Poolman when she marries lan
Mann, of Lawrenny, Caramut, in All
Saints’ Church, St. Kilda, on April 30.
A couple of granddaughters of an early
colonist, Samuel Staughton, will be
among them, Patricia Mein and Valerie
Palmer, and Anne Gordon is coming
from Sydney. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Pool-
man have always entertained a great
deal in their own home, and this is where
the guests will gather to offer congratu-
lations to the daughter.
Molly Anthony that was is paying
Australia a flying visit after five years
abroad before settling down in Ran-
goon as the wife of Eric Davies, an Eng-
lishman attached to the Burma Oil Co.
They met in London and married about
a year ago. While dodging the rainy
season in Rangoon, Mrs. Davies is spend-
ing a few weeks with her father, William
Anthony, at St. Clears, Stawell. Mrs.
Anthony, with the tall, slender figure,
Titian hair and a flair for wearing ultra-
modern clothes, was one of this city’s
most conspicuous figures a few years
ago. Mrs. Davies is just as smart as
her mother. On one of the few days she
spent in town on her way to the country
she looked like a Parisian fashion-plate
in a powder-blue coat worn with navy-
blue fox furs, with gloves and a saucy
straw hat matching the fur. A fine
gold chain binding a pretty ankle gleamed
through her filmy stocking.
Victoria’s first women’s club, the
Austral Salon, has weathered many
storms, but the death of Mrs. Thomas
Baker, president for nine years, has dealt
it a cruel blow. The presidential chair
will be vacant for a couple of months at
least. In the meantime Mrs. J. L. Stein,
the decorative figure who was Melbourne’s
civic hostess during the visit of Edward
P., will take charge of certain social
duties, and the Weedon lady will take
the reins at business meetings. Mrs.
Baker made a gift of the gold and blue
enamel star bestowed on her nearly 30
years ago by the Salon to the reigning
hon. sec., Edith Billinghurst, who has
seen the organisation through many of its
ups-and-downs.
Maisie and Beryl Cowper, who on
occasion kick lively heels in charity
revues, are on their way to visit China
and Japan. “The Kowper Kids,” to give
them their stage title, are travelling under
the wing of their parents, Mr. and Mrs,
Chris. Cowper, who own one of the most
delightful homes and gardens in
Macedon, where the social atmosphere
is almost royal in its loftiness.
Mrs. F. Ross James, the bridegroom’s
sister, came from Sydney to pair with
Mrs. Jimmie Hunt as a matron of honor.
Here is a picture of Mrs. Jimmie—by
Jack Cato. As Edna Bostock she wore
the orange-blossom herself last April.
Unruffled by all the excitement of a big
wedding Dawn Roach and Margaret
Ebeling carried the bridal train like a
couple of old campaigners. Patty
Breheny, flaunting in crimson velvet at
the rear, wondered if she had done half
so well the day she carried those yards of
satin down the aisle for Winifred Wales’s
mother. The other vividly-robed figures
were Joyce Parsons, Molly Yewers and
Nell Wales. Although a social favorite,
Winifred Wales was never drawn into
the pleasure-loving set. Some of her
leisure time was always devoted to wel-
fare work, and many mornings were
reserved for duty at a free kindergarten
in Richmond, an industrial suburb where
the workers have been hard hit through
scarcity of employment.
“The Terrible Meek,” a’weird one-act
peace-propaganda play banned in Eng-
land, Germany and Russia, was put on
at the Queen’s Hall a few nights ago as
a Theosophical contribution to the Easter
observances. The figures on the stage—a
peasant woman, a military officer and a
soldier in the ranks —were heard but not
seen, all the action taking place in a
“Time of Darkness.” One voice that
came wailing through the windswept hills
was that of Mrs. Orlo Smith, who as
Ethed Goddard used to teach Young Aus-
tralia how to pronounce its vowels. Cap-
tain Furze Morrish and Stephen Chap-
man lent their aid to the sermonette.
The lass peeping from beneath the big
hat is novelist Jean Campbell, as pictured
by Athol Shmith. An unknown figure
she crashed into the literary field last
year, scoring a success with Brass and
Cymbals, a story with a Jewish theme.
A few weeks ago the leading Melbourne
booksellers united in giving a dinner
party with Jean Campbell as guest of
honor to mark the launching of her
second novel. Lest We Forget Our Edens.
Her third book will have a foreign flavor.
She wants to call it Greek Key Pattern,
but English publishers have a nasty habit
of discarding the author’s title and choos-
ing one more to their liking. Miss Camp-
bell did her first scribbling in a spare page
of the family cookery book, just after she
had learnt to put her letters together. This
Victorian has never been abroad, though
her facile pen makes you believe that she
has lived in the big world. She spends
most of her life in the country, but she
never goes bush without having her hair
set and her nails lacquered.
Dirty weather gave the first-night audi-
ence for “Viktoria and Her Hussar” a
somewhat drab appearance. In spite of
continuous rain and its aftermath of
slush, many of the young things donned
velvet or satin frocks and dainty slippers,
but covered up their evening finery with
dark fur coats. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, with
a large party in tow, occupied a dress-
circle box. Mrs. W. S. T. Godfrey sat
with mamma, while in the foreground
Felicity Syme, whose marriage with Dr.
G. M. Clemons, of Launceston, is fixed
for May 8, had keeping her company
baby sister Veronica, whose straight dark
hair reached nearly as far as her blue
sash. Singer Mabel Gibson occupied a
stall box with an escort. The grey head
of Mrs. Leslie Macdonald showed above
black velvet. Petal-pink chiffon was
trailed through the stalls by Mrs. W,
Bates. Pat Tait, the John Tait youngest,
with a mop of fluffy hair, emerged after
the show laden with chocolate-boxes. One
of the most conspicuous figures in the
house was Mrs. Silk, looking distin-
guished in a white ermine cape collared
in white fox.
Charlotte Hemming, doyen of Vic.
actresses, comes out of her retirement
every year to arrange a programme for
the Shakspeare Society in celebration of
the Bard’s birthday. Owing to an acci-
dent that has made her a semi-invalid,
Charlotte cannot take part herself now,
but at the latest celebration she presented
students who with faultless diction
declaimed scenes from various Shak-
spearean plays. Carrie Allen, a Ballarat
girl, warbled a group of songs whose
composers flourished in the days of
Good Queen Bess.
In black velvet and decked with pearls,
Mrs. F. W. Thring was in the audience
at her husband’s new production, “Crazy
Revue,” on Saturday night. Young
Stanley Parker’s mother twirled a pink
feather boa about her shoulders, and
showed a slit in her dull-black satin frock.
Four young men danced attendance on
her and future daughter-in-law Fay
Robinson. Mrs. Hal Dyson was a tall,
slim, ivory-robed figure with plaits of
bright red hair coiled schoolgirl fashion
about her shapely head.
The modern child grows up early.
Already one mite of nine knows how
many beans make five. After taking a
good look at a newspaper jubilee portrait
of Queen Mary, decked in all her jewels,
this child, whose mother has cut loose
from father, plainly showed that she was
not given to daydreaming. “My word,
mum, the King must spend a bit on her.
She’ll be a fool if she doesn’t stick to
him.”
Far-flung outposts of Empire are ill-
suited for home-makers, so Lieutenant
Hearder is going back alone. As soon as
he is released from duty on the North-
West front his young wife will join him
to set up housekeeping in a more hospi-
table part of India. Mrs. Hearder is a
niece of Dora Meeson (Mrs. George
Coates), an Australian artist who settled
in England years and years ago.
The story was told at a Red Cross
shivoo of a shell-shocked man who
lived over and over every night a sur-
prise attack of the enemy. Finally he
was sent to a nerve home. Here the
quiet of the countryside wakened another
war-time memory, and every dawning, so
quietly that he was never heard, he
slipped into the surrounding paddocks,
milked the neighbors’ cows and invari-
ably returned to the hospital with a brim-
ming bucket of milk —and a chicken or
two. He had evidently been on the com-
missariat of his dugout. A grateful wife
bequeathed her husband to one of the
Red Cross workers, “hoping he’d be a
comfort to her,”
A reproduction of Norman Lindsay’s
Anzac Day drawing, appearing in this
issue, will be sent to any Digger forward-
ing 3d. in stamps.


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery ”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
NOTICE
Slake a note of . these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON'S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts.
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas tires in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace., Hyde Park, _W.3.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
.guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas,
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 9/6. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444,
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single,
6J guineas Double. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
25-38 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Telephone: Padd : 9712.
Accommodation for 150 guests.
Hotels of refinement (adjacent to each
other), with young and cheerful society.
Delightful rooms arranged as bed-sitting
rooms. Owing to their popularity you
are advised to secure accommodation—if
possible—in advance. Terms: Single from
3 guineas. .Double from 5 guineas. Bed-
room, Bath and Breakfast from 7/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. 3. E. Stevenson.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
COME to Sydney
<9
and STAY
\0
at
s
$
w
Quiet,
Exclusive,
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
X ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
MANUFACTURERS!
New Zealand’s capital
city offers a highly
concentrated market for
products of every kind,
and is effectively covered
by Wellington’s only
evening newspaper,
THE EVENING POST
The paper with the
guaranteed largest net
paid circulation of any
daily paper published in
the Wellington Province.
Get your share of the
sales which advertised
goods have in this
territory.
The Evening Post
Wellington, New Zealand
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Particulars and rates from any
accredited Advertising Agency.
Paris gives New Secrets to surprise us
A Delightful Fashions Letter from Berthelot
VtP.'.fe**'';
THSS^
Pans »
■
mm
m
& —“•
CattsHSa# !
■**
fas n _ >»p
8 * i*W» ****
*" '’ll—■*'**'* .
3*by » , w -.Bf ■
••r- '. . r _,. ■i.wnr '*"* r
v. - 1 1
n w-,0 =»«”-
F jfctftWb
CtQ.pl ® S
Many other Outstanding Features in this
ON SALE FRIDAY
BRINGING HOME THE FIRST GAR
Father’s Car and Subsequent Troubles
SKATING SECRETS
A Talk on This Popular Winter Pastime
POISONOUS SPIDERS
How to Treat Their Bites
KNITTED COAT AND BERET
Another Prize Design
CORNS AND WARTS
A Review of Treatments
KITCHEN CRAFT
Seasonable Hints on Poultry
MADAME OF THE RESIDENTIAL
Life as Seen by the Landlady
FREE PATTERN OF A BLOUSE
Don’t miss next week’s King’s Jubilee Souvenir Number
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR” IS A “BULLETIN” PUBLICATION
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
At the Polo Club’s gymkhana the red
shirts of the Broomehill men dominated
the play, and their team rode off with all
the trophies, undefeated. The novelty
races were eagerly contested. Edna Smily
sported the gold-and-black tie of the
Perth club with her chocolate habit as
she was squeezed out of victory in the
bending race by Ruth Mawley, whose
blue silk shirt fluttered above khaki
breeches; Peggy Butcher splashed her
pinky celanese shirt as she plunged her
head into a bucket of water for an apple
that proved elusive; Norman D’Arcy
stood by his lady’s trim navy-and-white
marocains as she handed out the trophies.
The first-of-the-season dance at G.H.
ballroom was the Baby Week Ball, a
cheery affair with a great fluttering of
favors. The Mitchell lady was in amethyst
and silver lame; Mrs. Terry Anketell’s
spray of pink roses adorned cream matt
crepe ; Mrs. Shortland Jones’s biack-and-
white floral georgettes occupied the
official chair; the Collister twins, Joyce
and Joan, scattered pink posies on white
satin, and Betty Merryweather’s metal-
threaded, flounced red tunic was worn
over a black velvet skirt.
Blanche Hudspeth’s blonde beauty was
semi-concealed by her cream tulle veil at
her marriage to Marcus, only son of Dr.
and Mrs. J. H. Lotz, at St. Andrew’s.
Soft cream peau d’ange lace caressed her
throat, clung sheathwise to her arms and
ran several paces along the ground in her
wake; lilies-of-the-valley encircled her
head, and cactus dahlias and rosebuds
mingled in the bridal train. Silver-
embossed pink peau d’ange fitted snugly
over Sheila Lotz’s and Bonne Spencer’s
lissome lines, then billowed into well-
ordered trains. Across the backs of their
silver halo hats grew bands of silver
leaves, and their ’maids’ flowers were gar-
landed into festoons of Cecil Brunner
roses.
The Rear-Admiral and other officers of
the Japanese squadron have been much
feted since the vessels berthed at Fre-
mantle, Commander and Mrs. Grifiiths-
Bowen started the ball rolling with a five-
to-seven cocktail party at their home in
Swanbourne, where the hostess fluttered
her navy georgettes in the reception-
rooms and gardens. Lud Mayor Poyn-
ton put on a garden party the next morn-
ing, an informal affair with niece Mable
Teather hostessing in red-and-white-
checked marocains. Prince Asaakari Kuni,
brother of the Empress of Japan and
lieut.-commander in the cruiser Yakumo,
confined most of his activities to golf, and
scored victories at both Royal Fremantle
and Perth links. The Japanese visitors
returned hospitality with an afternoon
party aboard the flagship Asama.
The Two Hundred Club’s’ opening
dance was held at Subiaco Masonic Hall.
The hostesses were Dorothy Adams,
with a black velvet waistcoat over her
coral marocains; Viola Bathgate, who
scattered pastel flowers over her shim-
mering satins; Margaret Brisbane, with
primrose killings on her floral georgettes ;
Jean Hayles, girded with shell-pink flat
crepe ; Marjorie Lukies, who pinned a
giant lame flower on her petunia satin,
and Billie Shaw, who wore a tunic of
green cotelle over black velvet.
Those who deplored the ugliness of the
gasometer in East Perth are eating their
words, for Lionel Jago’s “From the
Causeway” shows it as a thing of beauty.
His exhibition of paintings at Newspaper
House Art Gallery, opened by the Lieut.-
Governor, is attracting a steady stream
of gazers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Every year Miss Hilda Snow, follow-
ing the example of her father, allows the
committee of the Free Kindergarten
Union to hold a fete in the beautiful
grounds at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate.
Although the weather in the hills was
extremely wintry for this year s bazaar,
there was a good attendance, and the
kindergarten benefited to the extent of
£7l.
Lady Dugan attended wearing a fur
coat and a wide-brimmed hat, and was
entertained at tea. Other guests were
Mrs. Lavington Bonython, Mrs. G. V.
Portus, Mrs. J. P. Morice, Mrs. Rudall
and the Misses Doris Beeston and E.
Langman.
Dr. Kagawa was guest of honor at a
civic at-home held in the banqueting-
room, which was decked with roses and
asters. The Acting-Mayoress, Mrs. H.
Dunstan, sported a bright navy-blue wool
georgette frock with powder blue in bands
round the square neck, a navy velour hat
and a brown fox-fur. Mrs. A. E. V. Rich-
ardson, who was one of the many pres-
ent, brought two Melbourne visitors with
her, Mrs. and Miss Mclnerney.
TASMANIA.
Times have changed since the days
when the Derwent bore a squadron of
close on a dozen warships for three
months or longer in the summer, and
bright young things were carried oft' to
swell the ranks of grass-widows in vari-
ous parts of the globe while their hus-
bands were on the China or African
station. Two naval ships, staying for one
week only, were all we were allowed this
year. However, many festivities were
crowded into six days.
Knight Elliott Lewis and his lady gave
the first private party —a late-afternoon
affair for the Admiral and officers of
the Canberra and Sussex. The drawing-
room at Weondee was a mass of autumn
color with bowls of gladioli, dahlias,
prunus and maple.
The dance at Government House
timed to entertain the Navy was a very
bright affair. Lady Clark was in deep-
plum-colored georgette. Debs, presented
were Helen Allwright, Annie Bisdee,
Betty Braithwaite, Joan Bowtell, Eileen
Corney, Zenda Edwards, Margaret Find-
lay, Marie Foster, June Gibson, June
Goddard, Barbara Hudson, Peggy Harris,
Loyal Lord, Barbara Murdoch, Pauline
Spencer-Parsons, Betty Plunkett, Rosabel
Radcliffe, Estelle Reeves and Ann Ash-
ton Jones. Some of the frocks were
charming, the slender girls appearing to
great advantage in sheath styles.
A committee of 30 girls ran a very
jolly dance for the Navy. Naomi Kennedy
worked well as secretary, and the affair
went merrily from start to finish. Com-
mittee members wore badges in the
shape of anchors —an elderly cynic said
fish-hooks would have been more appro-
priate—and masses of dahlias and
autumn leaves made the decorations.
Dr. and Mrs. Shugg gave a dance at
Wingfield, Davey-street, for their niece,
Keitha Findlay, who has just come out.
The Victoria League was invited by
Lady Clark to meet at G.H. for a fare-
well shivoo to Mrs. Goddard, who has
done splendid work during her term of
secretaryship for the league. Captain
Ogilvy (hon, treas.) said a few kind
words, and a presentation followed from
the committee and members.
Wilfrid Hudspeth’s lecture at the Royal
Society on early settlers in the Speck and
their dangers and triumphs drew a big
audience, including his Ex. (who pre-
sided) and Lady Clark. The family his-
tory chiefly dealt with was that of the
Leakes, diaries and personal records
having been made available. Sketches of
the original homestead and drawings of
its progress, culminating in the lovely
Italianate mansion in the Midlands, were
on view after the lecture.
Passed away very suddenly, leaving
behind him a big circle of friends, Hugh
Armstrong, F.R.C.S., for 30 years one
of Hobart’s best-known doctors. Much
sympathy goes to his widow. The two
Armstrong sons are in England, one an
eye specialist practising in Bedford, and
the other studying at Moorfields.
A link with old Tasmanian days was
the presence at the Launceston Pioneer
Carnival of Miss Louie Home. The lady
is of a great age, and is the last surviv-
ing relative (niece) of knight Richard Dry,
one of the Speck’s history-makers.


fd
A Thousands of British Soldiers
' in the Great Wat used
jtWAN
m PENS
And found them as Solid
and Reliable as its Country of
Manufacture Old England
IT COULD NOT SPELL
BUT WROTE RIGHT WELL
In Dug-out, Estaminct, Billet,
or when Fritz was Straffing.
"SWAN” FOUNTAIN PENS
Are the " QUALITY PENS,” and
may be obtained from all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores in Australia.
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
MABIE TODD & CO. LTD.
FOR FIFTY YEARS
A ‘ SWAN’* HOME AS YOUR "JUBILEE
IT’S ALL BRITISH
'.Remember to use SWAN INK 1
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
„ . HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love. Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
r. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank oners the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188ij
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant
Manager; J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions lo B. 10-17/4/*35
they go to :
G. GUISE-SMITH, 27 Park-road,
Auckland, C. 3, M.L.;
G. TOPP, St. Paul’s Training School,
Newhaven, Phillip Island, Vic.;
M. S. JACKSON, Billabong Creek,
Parkes, N.S.W.;
C. RHODES, Conten, Dalby, Queens-
land,
D. J. GOLDING, 181 Macquarie-
Street, Hobart;
J. L. COWAN, 33 Dixon-street,
Clarence Park, S.A.;
W. G. LINDLEY, Old Hollymount,
St. George, Queensland; and
H. GLEESON, 265 Birt-street,
Boulder, W.A.
The prizes, original “Bulletin”
black-and-white drawings, are offered
each week, in addition to the ordinary
rates of payment, for Society pars.,
Aboriginalities, Hints for the Farm
and gags for joke-blocks,
• Golfers ! The placing of the boom-
erang-shaped, non-clogging studs grip the
ground and stay steady... .there is no slip-
ping. To wear the Flexible type “Niblick”
Golf Shoe will be a new sensation for you.
Water-resisting, but light and comfortable.
All sizes for Men and Women at better-
class stores.
Carubo
Golf Shoe
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Trebla”; Mae West in New Guinea ?
I signed on a recruit recently whose name
was Ansimi. Later I added the name
of Kamop to my list, and I am now
patiently awaiting a coon whose name is
Sumtam —quite a common name up this
way. Kamop—Ansimi—Sumtam !
“Vic”: This from the special dispatch
of an earnest young journalist whom a
group of Sydney newspapers sent to
explore the treasures of Centralia:
In the Centre quest for gold—leaving
out the lure of wolfram and mica and
granite—is not always 90 per cent, failure.
But it’s nothing to the hunt that goes on
for blue-metal when they have an election
on in some parts of Queensland.
; I; Jfc
“Vic”: Many a bushman is going to
lose his breakfast through the new all-
the-year-round protection of the plain
turkey in Queensland. Till now, the bird
has had immunity from October 1 to
April 30 in S. and N. Queensland, and
from December 1 to June 30 in C.Q
Roasted, he makes a great dish, but
he is too valuable as a destroyer of
grasshoppers and other pests to allow
of his being wiped out.
* * * *
“Maskee Mike”: European education
is a wonderful thing for the Mandated
Territory nigger. I got this letter from
my coon last year:
I think that Antzac is close to now.
I know the brave masters of Sydney and
Melbin had a big fight with some other
masters at Antzac so as we can be free.
I think why for this we will have a
holiday so it is better master that you
say alright to this letter.
Your boy,
Supul.
I felt he had earned his holiday.
jj:
T. C. Beirne has celebrated the jubilee
of his arrival in Queensland by giving the
University, of, which he is Warden,
£20,000 to found a faculty of law. He
came to Australia from Ballymacurly,
Roscommon, in 1885, and set up a one-
man drapery house in Fortitude Valley.
To-day the concern is still a private
company, but it would take a cheque
with seven figures on it to buy it. There
already* is a professorship of law in
the University, founded by the Garrick
bequest, but it is controlled by the arts
faculty.
* * * *
“Annan”: The Cooktown-Leura
(N.Q.) train runs only once a week, and
it takes seven men (train and station staff,
line repairers, etc.) to operate it. By
handing over the line to the Main Roads
Board and the Shire Council, the tracks
and sleepers could be removed, and the
graded track remaining would be a
wonderful base for the construction
of a good low-cost motor road. A
road would give the people of Leura and
the back country a quick means of getting
to Cooktown without, as at present,
having to wait a week between trains.
* * * *
“Kalba”: It is reported that the oldest
landmark of interest to Australians in
the Mandated Territory is to go. It was
to capture the Bitapaka wireless station
that Australians landed near Kokopo
(New Britain) and shed their first blood
in the Great War in September, 1914.
The graves of those who died are in
Rabaul cemetery, and will be almost
within sight of the aerials of the new
A.W.A. station, near Malaguna, a Rabaul
suburb. The old station was in an ex-
posed position outside the main harbor,
and miles away from the administrative
centre. The new site is both safer and
more convenient for everybody.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Mt. Morgan, one of the safest
mines in the world, had a rare accident
last week, when a miner named Morgan
was entombed in a wastage drive by a fall
of earth. His mates, working feverishly
for hours, got him out; speaking through
a tube pushed through the obstruction,
he had assured them that he could last
for hours. A splendid exhibition of the
resourcefulness and devotion of the
Australian miner; and it had a sad
‘“Cripes, Hogface, it's great to get back to home comforts after all that
sissy business down at the Show.”
sequel. When rescued the poor fellow
did not appear to be injured seriously,
but he died within 24 hours from reac-
tion and shock.
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin is enjoying a
delightful football comedy which might
have been invented by George A. Bir-
mingham. When the garrison arrived
last year it was decided that they would
not play in the same teams with colored
persons and half-castes. There was some
resentment among the colored, especi-
ally Asiatics. Matches between the Wara-
tahs (white) and the Buffaloes (variegated
hues) ended this season in a glorious free
fight. The Waratahs have declared their
opponents “black.” The abos. have their
own teams cognate with the town teams
—they bear the same names, Waratahs,
Buffaloes and the like—so the quarrel
has now been solemnly extended to the
compound. Because the white Waratahs
refuse to play against the Buffaloes, the
black Waratahs have declared the black
Buffaloes “black.”
“Australia Jane's” Budget
The Diggers have had a busy week.
At the Rosemount Hospital the Governor
of Queensland handed to Mrs. M. C.
Gore the badge and certificate of merit
awarded her by the R.S.S.I.L.A. Two of
the Gore sons, F.D.C., from Goondi-
windi, and Justice Ralph Gore, from
Papua, were at the ceremony, with
daughter Miss E. Gore. R. D, Huish,
Queensland president of the league, and
the Deputy-Commissioner for Repatria-
tion, B. Wilkinson, said grateful things
about Mrs. Gore’s work for incapaci-
tated soldiers.
The Toombul sub-branch of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., had 21 sub-branches repre-
sented at its annual gathering, includ-
ing the returned nurses’ sub-branch.
When fallen comrades were toasted, the
hall was darkened, and on the stage
neon lights flashed out the words
“Lest We p orget” in crimson, with
a tall white cross flanked by two
smaller crimson crosses below the
lettering, while two buglers played the
“Last Post.” When they sounded the
reveille the sign changed, and the league
badge was blazoned against the darkness.
Yeronga sub-branch has created a
precedent. It has asked Mrs. H. E.
Wawn (Sister Bryden, R.R.C.) to speak
at its Anzac Day meeting. Sister
Bryden served in India, Mesopotamia
and Salonika. Her mother was Miss
Carson, a member of a famous Queens-
land scholastic family.
Various entertainments still are being
arranged for the Darnell Art Fund. Fitz
roy Darke, formerly keeper of Tut-
ankh-Amen’s tomb, gave a lecture on the
tomb in the sup per- r oom at the City
Hall and Mrs Hannibal King and Mrs.
E T Be|l are arranging a J all at the
Car|ton Cabaret for ftp ,
After Easter Naomi Rosser
is to marry J. Ewing, co-
general manager of the
E., S. and A.' Ba nk,
stationed in Melbourne.
Holy Trinity Church, Wick-
ham-street, will be the set-
ting. Mrs. S. H. Fraser
(Aramac), in town for the
wedding, gave a tea party for
sister Naomi at Whytecliffe.
Mary Stephenson will be the
only bridesmaid.
Mrs. B. Mack and her
three daughters arrived from
England by the Oronsay to
spend a holiday with Mrs,
Mack’s sister, Mrs. R. C.
Philp.
Queensland’s pretty avia-
trix, Mrs. H. B. Bonney, flew
to Sydney for the Show with
her husband as passenger.
Several parties already are
arranged for contralto Muriel
Brunskill, whose tour opens
on April 30. A welcome has
been arranged by the Bris-
bane Women’s Club, at which
Mrs. G. L. Byth will preside.
Kathleen Macgregor, Ray Moni and
Beatrice Hart, who are to be Mary
Luya’s bridesmaids when she marries
Geoff Gregory, gave a handkerchief tea
for her at the P. B. Macgregor home at
New Farm. There were about 40 guests.
Kathleen Joyce, of the Overflow, Beau-
desert, is to be a May bride. The lad
of her choice is P. Nutting.
Molly de Gunst, who leaves for Eng-
land in June, was the guest of honor
at a luncheon party at the Canberra
Hotel, at which W. Gibson, of Bingera,
was host.
Dulcie Sampson has departed for Adel-
aide, where she is to study at the Con-
servatorium for at least three years. Mrs.
J. W. Greene, while Mayoress of Bris-
bane, started the fund which is to pro-
vide Dulcie with the sinews of war to
carry on her musical education.
When our vice-regals come back to
Brisbane after Easter they will bring
Patricia Feilden, who came out to N.S.W.
with Lady Hore-Ruthven, with them.
Valerie Baldock, who has been spend-
ing about six months in India, is back
at Ellangowan. She was at the Viceroy’s
ball in Calcutta during her third trip to
India. Her father, R. G. Baldock, has
been exporting horses to that country
for 30 years.


THE GENTLEMAN is DEAF
ne luuhA.l
m- - -rv..._ ’ ’ >
ANGUS & COOTE’S “SONOTONE” DISTRIBUTORS ARE
Newcastle:
Queensland:
Gibb & Beeman,
74 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Chas. Sankey Fraser,
, 229 Edward Street, Brisbane.
Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
Victoria and Tasmania: B. Nathan,
115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South and West Australia*.
Laubman & Pank, 62 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
64 Barrack Street, Perth.
The Gentleman Is Deaf But He HEARS
BECAUSE HE WEARS
A “Sonotone
The Gentleman is deaf—but he
enjoys his radio. Yet it is tuned
quite softly. The lady is not disturbed.
-THE “SONOTONE” is the most amazing hearing aid ever
■ devised. It is the invention of Dr. Hugo Lieber, who
devoted twenty years of his life to the perfecting ot i •
It conveys natural sound clearly, effortlessly and entirely fiee
from static.
The “Sonotone” is worn by some very famous men whose
names you know well in the public life of Australia. Read
the testimony of some of them;
“It served me when I thought I should have to
abandon my public career.”
“It’s like a new lease of life now that I can hear
what goes on about me.”
“Hearing is perfect. There's not the slightest
strain.”
SOME LEADING WOMEN
wear the “Sonotone,” too, though no one
sees it. It’s worn under the hair.
IF YOU ARE DEAF
call and test the “Sonotone.” Bring friends. Show them how
easy it is now to make you hear —without shouting or strain.
To try the “Sonotone” costs nothing and involves no obligation.
If you cannot call, a trained Consultant comes, without charge,
to any suburban address.
Country enquiries are welcome. A “Sonotone” is willingly
posted to any physician who desires to help a patient or to
superintend a test.
ANGUS & COOTE
Sole Australian Agents for
“SONOTONE” HEARING AID,
500 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Frank Comedy-drama of a Careful Man and a Little Opportunist:-
SAFETY FIRST
By-E MARY GURNEY.
It was the
woman who spoke
first, in a slightly
husk y, common
voice that might
have been musical
once.
“Say!” she said.
“Scared you, did
I?”
And she laughed.
MR. WALTER DENBY sat alone in
his bedroom. For the seventh
time that week he was going
through his books. Not that it was a new
thing for him to sit alone and go through
his books. Right from the very beginning
his motto had been Safety First.
Even when he was young, and the
world had been, presumably, at his feet,
he had liked to see, before he took a step,
exactly where those feet would land. So
he never ventured round corners or
attempted rough or rocky or steep
ascents.
No one ever knew whether he loved
the garish day. One step at a time being
enough for him, he could not afford
friendships—expensive, unsettling
pastimes. Friends had ideas, unstable
ideas, about getting out and getting on ;
making places for themselves in the
world.
Other men came and went, but Mr.
Denby stayed. Of most of those who
went he lost sight. Occasionally one of
them crossed his orbit again, and of these
many had failed. Some, indeed, would
try to borrow from him, but Mr. Denby,
who took no risks for himself, was cer-
tainly not going to take them for other
men.
“Sorry, old man,” he would say. “I
make it a rule never to lend. Times are
hard. Advancement is slow, you know.
I’ve worked hard —never done anything
silly, or taken any risks ; but, even so, I
can hardly see my way . . . Sorry, old
man.”
And he would go his way without even
offering the needy one a drink.
MR. DENBY had started at the age of
fourteen in the shipping offices of
Messrs. Tomb and Failing. At thirty-
four he had risen to the position of
accountant in the same firm. At fifty,
with occasional small increases in salary
during the first ten years and numerous
little niggling cuts later, he was still
accountant.
His hair had gone a little. He looked
as shabby and cautious as he was. He
walked to and from the office, and lived,
meagrely, in a little back room in a little
back street in a cheap little suburb.
There was a bed that creaked, A plain
table, with a kitchen chair pushed under
it. There was a gas ring, over which he
did his cooking, a gas fire, seldom lit,
with, beside it, an exceedingly shabby but
exceedingly comfortable basket chair.
Otherwise, a bare place.
Mr. Denby was accustomed to routine.
Get up at six, shave, wash, dress, cook
sausages over the gas ring, walk to work.
Dinner at the self-help across the road,
walk home in the evening, and cook
sausages over the gas ring. Wash up the
breakfast and tea things in the sink on
the landing, run through his bookstand
then settle down until ten o’clock with a
book from the circulating library which
he passed twice daily.
Ever since he had achieved accountancy
at Messrs, Tomb and Failing, he had
allowed himself one luxury and taken,
yearly, one risk. He became a subscriber
to the circulating library ; and he invested
fifty pounds in gilt-edged securities.
And, all his life, though he had never
had the slightest inclination to advance
more than one step at a time, he' had
known what he was going to do. When
he was sixty he was going to realise on
those securities, add them to the little
nest-egg that had accrued in his savings
bank, retire and buy an annuity.
NOW, to his alarm, he realised that it
would be necessary for him to revise
his programme somewhat; for Messrs.
Tomb and Failing, never a large or pro-
gressive firm, but always regarded as re-
markably solid, was sliding by impercep-
tible but definite degrees down the slope
that ends in bankruptcy.
Walter Denby knew it. Had known it
for some time, but had determinedly
blinked the fact. They cut his salary and
cut it again, and dismissed first one and
then another of their clerks. They cut
his salary and sold one of their antiquated
old coastal boats to the breakers, and cut
his salary. But neither Mr. Tomb nor
Mr. Failing, who had also always lived
for safety, was capable of advancing
with the times and reorganising their
ancient, out-of-date concern.
It had always taken their old ships
such and such a time to sail from port to
port. It always would. Why hurry?
Why worry ? There was all the time in
the world, and time was money; and
their freights had always been, and still
were, cheaper than those of any other
line. To all this Mr. Denby agreed—
with the reservation that, since he had
always played for safety first, it would be
wise for him to quit the ship, so to speak,
before it sank.
So, every day, for the term of a month,
he went through his books, revising esti-
mates, revising and devising investments,
until he was quite convinced that the
safest, if not the most remunerative,
course to follow was to realise and buy
the annuity immediately.
By the exercise of the strictest
economy he would be able to go on
living much as he had always lived. He
would not, of course, require sausages
for breakfast. Sausages were for workers.
Bread and butter, perhaps, and a cup of
coffee. And, since he would not be
walking to work, his shoes would not
need resoling so frequently.
Yes ; it could be done.
HE closed his books, sighed, more with
satisfaction and relief than from
anxiety or weariness, and settled himself
in his chair for his evening recreation.
To-morrow he would hand in his
notice to Messrs. Tomb and Failing. As
he opened his book he was quite un-
conscious of the fact that he was deriving
no little satisfaction from his position.
There had been a time when Messrs.
Tomb and Failing had tentatively offered
him a partnership, but he had been too
careful for that. Businesses, he knew,
even the most conservative of them, could
fail.
Totally unimaginative, he yet could
picture the consternation his resignation
would cause, and the mere thought of it
swelled his self-esteem to such propor-
tions that he actually felt that, after all,
he had got somewhere.
He found his place, adjusted his pince-
nez and began to read.
For a time he lost himself in the realms
of romance; but round about nine
o’clock he began to find that thought of
the morrow was obtruding between him
and the printed page.
Outside things began to distract him.
The noises of the other roomers began to
jar on his consciousness. The gramo-
phone in the room below ; a child wailing
across the corridor; doors banging ; a
man shouting; a woman screaming with
rage.
Footsteps running along the corridor
the quick, staccato tapping of high heels
on boards. They ceased a second, then
came again, turning into the short pas-
sage that led to his room.
He closed his book, frowning with
annoyance. These sounds, he supposed,
had always gone on, but he had never
noticed them before. It was, he cogitated,
because he had been used to them all his
life. His safe, ordered life. Everything
had gone on like this, always; but to-
morrow there was a big change pending.
Though he had always known it would
come, had always regarded it as part of
the ordered scheme of things, still it was
an event —an epoch, as it were ; and
epochs were, in the nature of themselves,
disturbing things.
Things that called, almost, for a cup
of coffee.
MR. DENBY laid his book aside and
rose, opening the cupboard beside
the fireplace, to look into the coffee-pot.
With it in his hand some sixth sense
made him swing round. The door was
opening inch by inch.
He stood with his spine crawling. His
mouth sagged open and his eyes popped
like a scared rabbit’s.
Inch by inch, like slow torture, the
door opened. With every inch he died
a thousand deaths. When it had opened
a full foot, the coffee-pot dropped from
his nerveless grasp. The door swung
wide, and he faced the slight form of
a woman.
She stood braced at the door and
looked at him with a faint smile, a smile
that did nothing to restore his lost
equanimity, a smile that mocked, pleaded,
threatened, provoked.
He drew a deep, shuddering breath,
and put his hand over his eyes, feeling
that, suddenly, his ship was out to sea


CA'UNION
(ovefree ,
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO., UTD.,
347 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
Murdoc
c>,
m
m
Jr'
exclusive
UNDERWEAR
fm
piste
‘S
m
m
A
■A--}-
A
A
... it’s 100%
PURE MERINO
WOOL
changing tempera-
tures and treacherous
winds in the comforting protec-
tive warmth of fleecy “Cawoola”
Singlets. Made by Murdoch’s
and guaranteed 100% pure
merino wool, light in weight and
absolutely unshrinkable. With
short sleeves. Sizes
34in. and 36in. . .
Also sizes
38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 46in.
Prices —
8/11 9/6 9/11 10/6 11/6
Sizes 34in. and 36in 1 1 A
Sizes 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 46in.
Prices 12/6 12/11 13/6 13/11 14/11
Underpants to match, 1/- extra on
MEDIUM WEIGHT
Similar to above.Q/fi
Sizes 34in and 36in.
Sizes 38in. 40in.42m. 44m. 46in.
Prices 9/1,1. 10/610/11 11/6 12/6
HEAVY WEIGHT
Similar to above. 11/11
Civnc ‘{din. »nrl Sftin X X X x
above prices.
We pay freight. Write to Desk
mmwMm
PARK & GEORGE STS.
again, rudderless in a storm. And yet
there was a great silence on the world ;
a silence that waited for Mr. Denby.
It was the woman who spoke first, in
a slightly husky, common voice that
might have been musical once.
“Say!” she said. “Scared you, did I?”
And she laughed.
It was a sound the like of which he
had never heard before. A low, cool
sound that rippled.
SHE was slight and white, with mas-
cara’d eyes and a red slash of a
mouth. Her teeth were large and white,
and her nose turned up, with a dab of
powder clingingly precariously to its tip.
Her shingled henna’d hair was a riot,
and her frock, ripped from armpit to
thigh, exposed the curves of her body.
Mr. Denby gulped, shivered, turned his
back.
“Your frock!” he gasped.
He had never looked at a woman.
Women, he had felt, were dangerous,
risky, utterly incompatible with his
motto. Besides which, he had never
wanted to look at women.
But he did now; dreadfully, over-
whelmingly. He wanted to turn and look
again into that alluring, threatening, pro-
vocative face ; look again at the wonder-
ful white curve beneath her rounded
arm.
“Your frock!” he gulped again.
She laughed at him. That low sound
that was like the cool rippling of water.
It slapped against the sides of Mr.
Denby’s boat, all but capsizing it.
“Gosh!” she said. “Where did they
dig you up?”
Unaccountably he fell to trembling.
He peered foolishly into the coffee-pot.
He giggled weakly, turning very slowly
and lifting his eyes from the coffee-pot
to the woman.
She had moved from the door, but
had not attempted to attend to her frock.
Indeed, she turned deliberately so that
the rent was towards him, so that he
could see.
Doing it, she watched him with a faint
irony that changed to impatient mockery
“Hell!” she said. “Ain’t you ever
seen what’s inside a woman’s clothes?”
Again Mr. Denby giggled.
He said in his thin, colorless voice:
“I don’t know anything about women.
I haven’t been —able to afford them.”
He was amazingly unconscious of the
fact that until that very moment he had
never in the least wished to afford them.
“God!” she breathed in her husky,
common voice. “You’re archaic!”
She seated herself on the table, still
with that shameless rent towards him,
swung her foot and hummed a little
song under her breath, and seemingly
forgot him.
MR. DENBY looked helplessly into the
coffee-pot and then made a surpris-
ing suggestion.
“I —I was going to have some coffee,”
he said. “I —would you like some
coffee?”
“Coffee!” she echoed. “God, coffee!”
Laughter shook her. “Sure it won’t upset
you. Baby ? What about your milk?”
Mr. Denby, following her dimly,
flushed and grew a little annoyed.
“I am sorry I cannot offer you anything
stronger,” he said stiffly. “I have never
been able to afford strong drink.”
“Gosh ! ” She regarded him darkly,
with incredulity and hidden laughter.
Then she rose, stretched so that her frock
emitted alarming sounds of further rend-
ing, and at his start relented. “Well,
make it strong and keep it black. Desti-
tute, are you?”
Mr. Denby lit the gas ring and put
the kettle on.
“Not exactly,”, he admitted cautiously
“Saved a bit, eh?”
Her eyes were suddenly calculating,
but Mr. Denby’s mind was on the coffee
—on the speculation as to whether he
should put in two spoonfuls and fill the
pot up, or one.
“A little,” he said, and put in one.
“A rich man—in a garret!”
Her laughter jeered, stung.
Mr. Denby denied it.
“Not rich! Not by any means rich.
But enough to retire on, with care.”
“Umph!” She watched him covertly.
“Retire, eh? Lucky, aren’t you?”
Again he denied it.
“Not lucky. There’s no such thing as
luck. I have been careful. Very. Saved.
Invested wisely. Never taken a risk. I
shall not, now. I shall buy an annuity.
Settle near the sea. Live very
quietly” . . .
WITH apparent concentration he made
the coffee, but all the time he was
conscious of her, of her mascara’d eyes
fixed on him, of the red, greedy slash
of her mouth. Of the white of her flesh.
“Buy an annuity, eh?”
“Absolutely safe.” He was unconscious
of smugness. “I shall arrange it to-
morrow” . . .
He poured coffee into a cracked cup
and handed it to her, and she put her
hand round the saucer, deliberately put-
ting her fingers over his. The coffee
slopped over their hands, splashed over
her frock and down her silk-clad leg.
“Clumsy!” Her laughter flowed over
him again. “Now you’ll have to mop
me up!”
He produced a handkerchief and knelt
before her, trembling. Mopped her slim
leg, mopped her frock.
While he was doing it she took his
hand and guided it to the tear in her
frock, turning suddenly so that for an
instant his fingers brushed her bare flesh.
“Annuities cost a hell of a lot, don’t
they?” she asked idly.
“Two thousand,” he admitted, shocked
out of his caution.
She sipped her coffee without com-
ment, put the cup aside and said lazily:
“Well, thanks awfully. Young Joe
was getting a bit fresh, so I had to leave
him. This was a posh place to hide in,
but I guess I’d better go” . . .
Mr. Denby peered into the coffee-pot.
“Must you? There’s a little more
coffee” ...
She held out her cup, appraising him
coolly.
“Must—nothing! I never do anything
except what I want! Never have. Never
will. Life’s too short —too uncertain —
to waste it doing what you don’t want —
playing safe” . . .
“You’re young” ... he said.
She looked at him through narrowed
lids.
“You’re not so old” . . ,
“No,” he said. “No.”
BUT he knew that he had always been
too old for the adventure that was
rushing towards him, bearing down with
sickening certitude.
Life, he thought, with sudden horror —
life, which had always been so safe
and sane, was getting out of hand . . .
would get out of hand . . .
Behind him the clock struck ten.
Time he was in bed. Time he was
sleeping. Time this disturbing young
woman took herself off and left him to
peace—to safety.
As though entering into his thoughts,
she yawned loudly.
“God!” she said. “I’m tired.”
She looked from him to his bed.
She laughed a little, that low, rippling
sound, cool, like water ; lawless, like red,
red wine.
“I think I’ll stay here to-night,” she
said. “Would you like me to stay here
to-night?”
He nearly shouted, grabbing at his
head with both hands.
“No!” he cried out. “Yes!” he mut-
tered recklessly.
“I can’t afford it!” he thought in
agony, because, careful as he had been,
he still knew something about these little
adventures. Men who had come to the
office and gone from it had not all lived
so safely.
Her laughter seemed to ripple her from
the table.
“All right, I’ll stay. Can’t bear to
think of anyone missing life the way you
have. To-morrow we’ll talk perhaps.
Perhaps I’ll show you your way
about” . . .
To-night, he thought wildly, life was
in danger of capsize ; but, even though
they foundered, boat, hook and sinker,
he would embrace to-night.
To-morrow . . .
With hands that shook he locked the
door and laid the key on the mantel
beside the clock.
IN the morning, as he had hoped she
would be, she was gone ; but he had
an uneasy feeling that at any moment
she might return. A complex feeling,
uneasy but furtively hopeful.
And the feeling was right.
She did not come the following night,
but the one after she was there. She
had, she said, broken it off with Joe.
Terror got hold of Mr. Denby ; terror
that warred violently with his newly-
awakened desire. Without money, he
knew, he could not keep her. Without
money safety was doomed.
She could not, would not, be satisfied,
he knew, with the meagre three pounds
a week his annuity would bring him. It
was a case, instinct warned him, of the
annuity or the woman.
For some time he wavered, and then
a new idea presented itself. He would
buy the annuity, and he would get
another job.
For a time he even toyed with the
idea of marriage, but in the end he dis-
missed it. Marriage was respectable, but
a wife would expect to have the handling
of the money, and that would never do.
Certainly not with this woman.
Next time she came he did not tell
her of his decision. He gave her four
crisp five-pound notes, and she took them
with a semblance of gratitude. He had,
(Continued on next page.)


Weak Kidneys
STABBING PAINS IN THE BACK, LUMBAGO
You are justified in regarding
Kidney Trouble as a serious com-
plaint, but you should not let it
make you miserable or spoil your
life. Excepting in very rare cases,
Kidney Trouble yields quickly to
treatment with De Witt’s Pills, and
thus the remedy is within your
easy reach.
Chemists everywhere sell De
Witt’s Pills, and it is a wise plan to
keep a box handy
in the house so that
you can take one or
two the moment you
recognise symptoms
of kidney trouble.
because they contain ingredients
which act directly upon the kidneys.
They make the kidneys healthy and
active, and so rid your system of
harmful uric acid.
Nature intended that your kidneys should
act as filters to keep your system pure and free
from poisonous waste matters. By taking
De Witrs Pills you give weak or congested
kidneys just the natural assistance they need,
and the alarming symptoms quickly disappear.
Thus you see that the treatment of kidney
: TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see, feel
and know for certain that they are
doing you good.
You may awaken with a nasty
taste in your mouth; your tongue
may be coated, your breath foul.
There may be puffiness under your
eyes. Your ankles or your feet may
swell and there may be pain in your
back or your hips or your shoulders.
These are signs by which you may
know that all is not well with your
kidneys. They are allowing uric
acid to escape in dangerous quan-
tities to poison your blood and
torture your body, but De Witt’s
Pills will quickly put you right,
trouble is quite simple.
There is no need for alarm
and no reason why the
ailment should get the
upper hand and make a
slave of you. The only
thing to remember is that
prompt treatment saves
much suffering and prevents the ailment
getting a firm hold on your system. That
is why you should get De Witt’s Pills quickly.
The cost is trifling, and a remedy that has
already relieved thousands cannot fail to do
you good. Don’t stop to think it over. Kidney
trouble gets rapidly worse. Buy a box to-day,
price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen
feet or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains,
gravel or stone. These symptoms usually
precede attacks of Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica or serious Kidney Trouble,
and much suffering and expense may be saved
by quickly getting a box of De Witt’s Pills
from the chemist and taking them as directed.
Bys
GO
■
m
KIDNEY TROUBLE—
THE CAUSE
De WITT'S PILLS —
THE REMEDY
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales,
writes: —
“A few years ago I suffered severely
with rheumatism and kidney trouble. A
friend advised me to try De IVitfs Kidney
and Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful
to say that after taking only three bottles
of this wonderful remedy I found com-
plete relief’ 1
De Witt’s
Kidney 6c
Bladder
Pills
she knew, two thousand, but he would
not have it long. Easy picking.
Mr. Denby settled about the annuity,
and a week later he got a new job.
Three pounds a week. That made six
pounds ; and he could hold it for ten
years, if necessary. And in ten years’
time she would surely have grown tired
of him, or he of her.
Once againt he felt that he was in com-
mand of his destiny. Yet, instinctively,
he moved with infinite caution, nor did
he tell her of what he had done, even
when she asked him, a trifle abruptly,
for “dough.”
“And make it worth while—a monkey
or so. Clothes cost money, and I need
a perm, and a facial. Bit of a miser,
aren’t you?”
Her laughter took the sting from her
words, but he was suddenly aware that
he had miscalculated. The teashop
where he was entertaining her was quite
nice, but only for one. She would want
hotels, wine, whisky . . .
He felt suddenly cold. He had pur-
chased security—but at what price? The
price of—living ...
When he told her, she would leave
him ; this light, alluring thing ...
Well, he’d keep it from her while he
could . , . play recklessly for once. The
bank would advance him something,
“We’ll go to the bank,” he said largely.
He gave her forty pounds,
She dismissed him coolly, mollified,
and he watched her go.
Very well she looked in her maroon
frock, with her hat cocked jauntily over
one eye. He felt a new thrill—a sur-
prising thrill of complacency in posses-
sion.
“Safety!” he thought, surprisingly,
“Safety be damned!”
He would sell that annuity for what it
would fetch; sell it, and have his hour!
He would go to his lawyer now, this
very instant, and see what could be done,
For the first time in his life Mr. Denby
moved without looking a step ahead,
said the taxi-driver. “He ain’t
'J dead! He cawn’t be!”
And was very sick,
“The wheel went up over ’im,” he
babbled. “I ain’t never ’ad a accident
before.”
A policeman reached out and laid a
kindly, restraining hand on the boy’s arm.
“Steady, my lad. I saw it. It wasn’t
your fault—no one could have avoided
it . . . The city’s plastered with safety-
first notices ; and he couldn’t even look
one step ahead” . . .
Quaintly Told, with the Touch of Human Sentiment:-
MEIN SON
By ULLIN McKEE WRIGHT.
NOW that we are married for three
months and more, people still say,
“They are a happy couple, those
two.” So we are, meine Hilda and me.
But it is a Monday morning. I wake
up to see the sun winking behind a big
cloud. I think perhaps it will rain. My
heart goes heavy. But I think of meine
Hilda. I turn over to kiss her, but she
is already up. I get out of bed, a song
in my heart. I dress. I go out to meine
Hilda.
She is silent as she stirs something on
the stove. I creep up behind her. I
throw my arms about her. 1 kiss the
back of her neck.
“Fool-wife are you!” I say. She
says something, but I do not hear.
I do not kiss her good-bye. I go
out. I slam the door. I forget my
hat. Most times I like the streets of
Woolloomooloo. But to-day as I
run to work I think they stink.
She jumps. She turns round quickly.
She calls me a big fool. There is nerves
in her face. I am puzzled. This to me
is a different Hilda,
I go and have a shave. Soon I come
down for my breakfast. By now I have
forgot that meine Hilda is nervous. I
remember the joke that I read in the
paper. I tell her about it while I eat
my breakfast. When I have finished
I wait for her to laugh. No laugh comes.
I look up. She is not looking at me.
She eats no breakfast. She just sits and
looks at nothing. I think she looks
stupid.
Suddenly some blood bubbles in my
head. I jump up.
“Fool-wife are you!” I say. She says
something, but I do not hear. 1 do
not kiss her good-bye. I go out. I
slam the door. I forget my hat.
MOST times I like the streets of Wool-
loomooloo. to-day as I run to
work I think they stink. I have forgot
my overcoat. A big shower of rain
comes down. I have to stop under a
shop to keep dry. I am late at the fish-
and-chip.
For once the boss is not angry. I
wonder why.
“Look, Carl,” he says as soon as I
come in the door. I bow. I am out of
breath from running. “You’ll have to
go, Carl,” he says.. “The fish-and-chip
game’s done for. I don’t even make
decent wages myself” . . .
He says a lot more, but I can only
think I am out of work ... I am out of
work . . . over and over again.
“I’m damn sorry, Carl,” he finishes.
He puts out his hand. It seems I am
in a dream as I shake it.
I walk out of the shop. I try to think
what am Ito do now. But I can think
of nothing, only I am out of work . . .
I keep walking. I don’t know where.
A long time passes. A big hand bangs
me on the back. I get a fright,
“Hello, Carl!” a voice of friendliness
says.
I look up. I bow.
“Bill!” my voice seems half dead.
“What’s up?” Bill looks at me. A
puzzle is in his eyes.
I tell him I have a row with meine
Hilda. I tell him I am out of work.
He stands back and looks at me.
“Like to work for me?” he asks at
last. A beam of hope comes into my
heart.
“Can you drive a lorry?” I nod again,
joy coming into me.
“Good,” he says ; “you can start in the
morning.” He tells me that my work
will be bringing the cases of fruit from
the station to the market. “Three quid
a week. And now come and have a
drink."
AT first I don’t want a drink to have.
I want to rush home and tell meine
Hilda the news so good. Then I re-
member I am angry with her. I get all
angry over again.
“All right” I say, “I will have a
drink.” And so we go into the pub.
We have one drink. Bill says one’s
not enough. We have another. Still
Bill wants more. We have more —many
more.
Bill gets too much drunk. He talks
a lot. He laughs a lot. Sometimes he
cries a lot.
Me, I am like the judge —sober. 1
sit quiet and watch Bill. He is a fool,
I think.
At last I think I will go home. . 1
stand up. Someone has cut my feet off.
lam trying to walk on my shins. Bill
laughs. I see not anything to laugh
at. I get angry. Then I remember he
is my new boss. I bow and nearly fall
off my shins. Bill laughs again. I turn
round and go.
It takes me a long time to get home on
the end of my shins. I am going up the
steps to the door. I see I have got my
feet back. I am much puzzled.
I go into the hall. I hear meine Hilda
singing. It makes me want to cry. I
go in. I take her in my arms. She pushes
me away.
“You’re drunk, Carl!” she says. She
falls into a chair and weeps.
I am puzzled. I think I want a shower.
I have one.
When I come out I am most sorry.
I tell meine Hilda so, many times.
At last she forgives me. She sits on
my knee. She has a surprise for me, she
says. I ask what it is. She blushes. It
takes her a long time to tell me.
After she has told me she smiles —then
cries.
I am most happy. I think soon the
top of my head will hop off, I am so
full of joy.
But when I start to think about it I
want to cry, too. I think I am a damn
fool, but I cry. Meine Hilda and me we
both cry, and she sits on my knee.
We flow over with happiness!
AND so the spring comes. The pretty
creepers on the Woolloomooloo
fences come into bloom. When I come
home from work I pinch the flowers in
the lanes for meine Hilda’s room. Some-
times I see little birds making their nests
in the big trees. I tell meine Hilda about


6
BE
•*3-
Jjovely Skin!
Reward of constant care
With Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment. Let these
gentle emollients be yonr beauty aids.
At night bathe freely with hot water
and Cuticura Soap. If any signs of
pimples, blotches, red, rough skin ap-
Eear, anoint with Cuticura Ointment,
►aily care will keep the skin clear,
healthy and attractive.
Cuticura
Prevents Skin Troubles
THE
lIMITCn insurance
Ulll I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE £ HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
F or Genuine
SATISFACTION
It seems that only Scotsmen know
the secret of making whisky.
Tasting Vat 69 proves it. Glori-
ously mellow and smooth. Try it.
At all hotels. It costs no more.
It’s genuine Scotch. Say 69
in town. Serve 69 at home.
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, L,eith.
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
ueur
69. i
PLUM P.AIOR' CMARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24'6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin, and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
I 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 1407-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
£ type
* of 11
feZ s W °rld’ s * Q)
s °4 °Zl°i>£
o.s.s°^
. . rzf r et t j
**%r .
A/ a 7 JS ’
St *Pcjj nt> irs hip ° n ’ th e
Ca "«s Ifrw n !" rf
e^»- s
s o/
er
~ Unties P /° v e th °ot
r her„ Put e D o/ thi s inJ ub ri~
no
oil tk
,L^ ee <tol
°iher
Q n />,
Per
oil.
£
£
S 5
D
O
L
m
i£o%
*>o
v 2q
f^/y
*3
Ylv
Griffiths-Huse.
them at night. We laugh and are always
happy.
It seems for months I have got up
early and done the housework so meine
Hilda can rest all day. But lam happy.
She tells me she thinks it will be a son.
Everywhere I go I have joy in the heart.
At work when I drive the lorry to the
market with the cases of fruit 1 sing.
I step on the accelerator. I work most
hard. The others they laugh at me.
But this I don’t mind. I am too happy.
Meine Hilda is going to give me a son.
When I come home to cook our tea
I still sing. I cook pretty dainties for
meine Hilda. She laughs. She says I
spoil her. I am most pleased.
Soon, when I have washed up, we sit
and talk for hours about our son and
what we will do for him when he comes.
Then she goes to bed. I sing Deutscher
songs till she sleeps. Then very quietly
I get into bed myself.
Sometimes I go straight to sleep, but
sometimes I worry and I am unhappy.
What if she don’t have a son at all,
I think. What if it’s a daughter she’ll
get me. When I think of this I don’t go
to sleep at all. -
AT last the day comes. There is a
** doctor and a strange woman in the
house. The place seems all different.
Me, I don’t know what I am. I think
1 am up in the clouds where it is all quiet.
I think my heart is on a big sea in a
little canoe. It goes up and down . . .
up and down ... It is all so queer.
I get afraid. I think perhaps meine
Hilda will die. I want to go back to
before we were married, when I worked
in the fish-and-chip for one pound and
ten shillings for a week. When we used
to go to Manly and places and were
happy. When I used to get most jealous.
Before we started thinking of sons and
doctors and strange women. Yes! I
want to go back.
Now I change. My heart is on top of
a wave. Soon I will see mein son, I
think. I will touch him. Feel him.
Maybe kiss him. Yes! I will surely kiss
him and laugh at my fears.
I stay near meine Hilda’s doorway.
I listen. I hope to hear mein son squeal.
But there is no sound. Only sometimes
I hear the doctor say some word to the
strange woman. Most quiet it is.
Sometimes the strange woman comes
out with a jug or a basin. She glares
at me as she goes past. I move away.
But soon I sneak back. I can’t help
myself. I must be near meine Hilda to
listen. My heart is still on the big sea
in the little canoe . . .
THE doctor comes out. He walks right
up to me. He has on his face a
most serious expression. He puts a hand
on my shoulder.
“Don’t stay long,” he says. “She is
very tired.” His voice is big, but his
eyes are very serious.
“Mein son?” The words I can hardly
utter. He points to the door, which is
open.
1 tremble all over as I go in. The
strange woman stands by the window.
She puts her linger to her lips and glares
at me to make me be quiet. I am ter-
rible scared as I turn my eyes to the
bed.
My heart jumps when I see how pale
meine Hilda is, I cross over to the bed.
I bend over her quickly. She says some-
thing. Her lips move, but the words are
hard to hear. I bend right over.
“Carl,” she whispers, “I’m sorry.”
At first I don’t know what she means.
I look at the baby. Then I guess.
“It —it’s all right.”
That’s all I can think of to say. I
feel the tears come into my eyes. I don’t
think they are because she has got me
a daughter instead of a son. I think
they are because meine Hilda is so sick.
I stand up. I turn away so meine
Hilda won’t see them. I don’t know
what to do. I look in the mirror. I see
meine Hilda’s head turn. She looks at
our baby. She smiles a proud, happy
smile.
Suddenly something bursts inside me.
1 am happy. I think perhaps meine Hilda
wanted a daughter all the time. I think
perhaps I am most selfish.
I turn back to meine Hilda.
“I’m glad it’s a daughter you got me,
meine Hilda,” I say. “1 think perhaps
I like daughters better than sons.”
There is pride in the smile she gives
me, too.
The sea goes calm, but one wave stays
up. My heart is on it in a little canoe.
Our daughter cries.
I am happy!
My Political
Life
By W.A.HOLMAN
MAKING AUS-
TRALIAN FLYERS
We were as-
sured daily that
we had su P re . m “
acy in the air.
That this was deliberate lying had not
been discovered. I do not believe any-
one in Australia doubted the supremacy
of the Allies’ aviation. Nevertheless, we
were constantly treated to astounding re-
ports of air raids over London and Paris,
though we heard nothing of counter-
attacks of any kind.
The Australian, I argued, if caught
young and given the necessary training,
would hold his own with any flyers in
the world. Acting upon these views, I
determined to see what modest contribu-
tion N.S.W. could make to the Allied
strength. The Federal military authori-
ties, after some hesitation, arranged for
Colonel Reynolds—then chief of the
aviation staff—to come to Sydney and
confer with us. He was as enthusiastic
as we were, and most anxious to see our
scheme succeed.
There was no aviation school in
Australia, except one on Point Cook
in Victoria ; the students, with one
or two exceptions,' were Victorians.
Colonel Reynolds saw eye to eye
with us, and looked forward to see-
ing similar schools established in every
State. We were fortunate, too, in
getting, through the Agent-General, a
couple of machines of a slightly obsolete
pattern, but sufficient to teach with, and
a first-class instructor, Lieut. Stutt, whose
subsequent death at sea while searching
for a missing vessel closed a continued
career of heroism.
When the first batch of pilots, having
passed all necessary tests, was available,
the usual difficulty with the Common-
wealth authorities arose. No Australian
pilots, we discovered, were of any value
except those who had been trained at
Point Cook. Men trained in the N. S.
Wales school could only be found posi-
tions as mechanics and otherwise em-
ployed on the ground.
Many of these men were not
mechanics. They were flyers. Why it
should be imagined that the British Army
was short of mechanics or that there was
any special necessity to train a few dozen
men to add to the numbers available in
the foremost mechanical country in
Europe were problems in psychology
which no outsider could hope to under-
stand.
What was needed, we believed, was;
men who could control machines in the|
air. These men we were going to con-
siderable trouble to turn out. When they
were turned out and offered to the Fed-1
eral Government the best use they could
suggest making of them was to never let
them get into the ,air, but keep them filing
blocks of steel in a workshop as if they
had never been 10ft. above terra firma.
This gave rise to prolonged and compli-
cated diplomatic difficulties, which were'
not overcome until a very late date, when
Labor Governments had disappeared
both in State and Commonwealth and
National Governments had taken their
places.
Altogether only about 75 men passed
through the training course at Richmond i
and took positions either in the English
or the Australian Flying Corps. With the
smallest intelligent co-operation on the'
part of the Commonwealth this number
could have been enormously increased.
•We were prepared to double or, if neces-
sary, multiply tenfold the training organi-
sation we had at Richmond, but the ob-
stacles set up by officialdom and the
doubt they created as to whether we
should ever do any good by our efforts
caused us to postpone all increasing
of equipment until the latter part of 1917.
o Continued on next page.)


National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from I*. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
5!
£
h.
S 5
a
i
3?
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior# editor of "The Bulletin, for, 18; years# his son# H. K. Prior#
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
|. ' ■
The trustees, who will supply 1 all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on, sales of-works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees. > : | •
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born. in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific, islands will be'eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the Judges have made their decision.
The judges* selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve tne
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
audited circulation certifi-
cate in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone; F 3348.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant ami
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Cbt Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
"The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Nevertheless, much successful training
was done at the school, even under these
adverse conditions, and an interest in
aviation aroused. Most of my colleagues
made trial trips in the machines, and in
the 1920 election I did part of my travel-
ling by air.
HUGHES LINGERS
IN LONDON
To comprehend
the history of the
next stage in
Australian affairs
needs some realisation of the difficulties
which confronted the Prime Minister on
his return. The situation had changed
in many ways since he left Australia, and
in every way for the worse.
I can recall the exasperations of the
period while Hughes was away, and dur-
ing which we had to sit silent, not
knowing what his views were, with the
opponents of conscription working fever-
ishly to complete plans by which we
should all be thrown out of the move-
ment and the movement itself definitely
pledged in opposition.
Had Hughes spoken the words “Con-
scription for Australia” whilst in Eng-
land we could have rallied our supporters
inside the Labor movement, and a
struggle made with all our power might
have had a very different ending. His
protracted silence left us gagged. At
the moment everyone was prepared to
believe there were profound strategic
reasons for this reserve ; we discovered
later that there were no reasons at all
for it, other than the leader’s inability,
which he shared with everyone else, to
see any method of reconciling the claims
of party unity with those of the Empire.
During this period innumerable fan-
tastic doctrines as to the position of the
war had been gaining currency. “Aus-
tralia has done enough” became the
slogan of. many. For the first time were
heard the description of the war as a
capitalistic struggle and the suggestion
that the Western Powers were engaged
in a campaign of territorial aggression.
CONSCRIPTION
AND THE LAW
Hughes had to
face both political
and legal difficul-
ties. His legal
difficulties were these: Under the De-
fence Act the Governor-General had the
power, if the Ministry thought fit, to call
up the entire population. The people
could be organised, trained and subjected
to the severest of disciplines. There was
not the slightest difficulty about the com-
pulsory forming of an Australian Army,
nor any serious doubt as to the extent of
the powers in the hands of the Ministry.
But, in terms, the Defence Act applied only
to operations carried on in Australia, It
conferred great powers upon the Execu-
tive, but the Executive was to exercise
them solely for home defence. The
country was now confronting the situa-
tion which the clearer minds in the Fed-
eral Parliament had always foreseen,
but for which the House had refused to
make any provision—that of conducting
the defence of Australia outside Austra-
lia itself. The legal question was: Could
the forces which might undoubtedly be
raised under compulsion be transported
to the scene of the conflict without fresh
legislation?
THE WAR
PRECAUTIONS
ACT
Here the War
Precautions Act
(equivalent to
Britain’s Defence
of the Realm Act)
came into play.
Under this the Executive was permitted to
exercise an almost unfettered discretion
as to the steps deemed advisable for the
general defence. Sir William Irvine
(later Chief Justice of Victoria, and
at that time a member of the Federal |
House) had expressed the opinion
that, under the combined effect of this!
Act and the Defence Act, the Ministry
could raise Australian forces and send
them wherever might be thought neces-1
sary, and there seems no reason to doubt j
that this was the correct view of the effect
of the statutes. - |
To have this done, however, would
have been to fly in the face of the rapidly-
growing trade-union sentiment. A large
number of the members of Hughes’s own
party would have refused to continue to:
support a Government which took it.
The bold course of making the matter-
one of Executive responsibility and acting
upon the powers already given would
have left Hughes with only half his party
behind him and no clear understanding
as to his political future.
POLITICAL
DIFFICULTIES
Corresponding
difficulties beset
strengthening the
existing legisla-
tion. To have introduced a Conscription
Act would have split the party in the
Lower House ; in the Senate, which was
overwhelmingly Labor, it would have
been rejected. It was thus impossible for
Hughes to take action, either as head of
the Executive or as leader of Parliament,
without paying the immediate penalty, of
a complete disruption of his followers.
Hughes, v/hose piercing vision into the
actualities of any political situation has
always been one of his strongest powers,
realised this state of things at once. He
toured the continent addressing private
gatherings of the Labor parties and Labor
executives of every State, and endeavored
to convince the majority of the necessity
of conscription. In one State after an-
other he failed. The day of persuasion
had gone. While he had lingered in
England the Labor movement had been
induced to answer No to every proposal
for further military assistance.
In the course of this peregrination
Hughes came to Sydney, where he ad-
dressed a gigantic public meeting and
also a strictly-Labor gathering. I took
some share in both meetings, and after
them Hughes consulted me, together with
other Labor supporters of conscription.
At that conference, and at others of a
later date, he made no mention of the
possibility of moving under the War Pre-
cautions Act as it stood. The choice
which he put to us was one between
legislation, with a practical certainty of
failure in the Senate, and a referendum
which, if successful, might coerce the
Senate into an acceptance of the position.
Between such alternatives there was but
one decision possible. Those of us in
New South Wales who wished well to
conscription urged the referendum
scheme. Hughes evidently approved of
our advice, and shortly afterwards the
proposal was launched.
A.I.F.
CONSCRIPTION
VOTE
The appeal to
popular sentiment
should have been
won, one would
imagine, hands
down. No less
was , expected. One half the Labor
party had come over, and, although
each c member carried with him only
a fraction of his total following,
yet this fraction, plus the entire
Liberal party, which it was expected
would vote solidly for the affirmative,
should have given that side a clear
majority.
But from the beginning the conscrip-
tionists fought a losing battle. By this
date between 150,000 and 200,000 men
were in Europe. It is true that their votes
were taken and that they were by no
; means unanimously for the proposal. A
disappointingly large minority voted
;againsf it. Also, the Labor movement
was now solidified against the plan. So
far as it could be pledged without an
inter-State conference, it was pledged to
oppose it and to expel all supporters.
No Labor man could be heard at any
Labor gathering in its favor. It was a
thing adjudged upon. Hughes’s appeal,
I believe, still found many secret sym-
pathisers, but when he called upon them
to come over and help him a large pro-
portion of those who would have
answered the call had it been made be-
fore the movement had spoken found
their courage unequal to the enormous
risks involved.
1 have no desire to pillory individuals
here, but.it is. a fact that among those
who obsequiously accepted the new Labor
doctrine of No Compulsion—in a move-
! ment whose only basis was compulsion in
all things—were many who had in private
asserted their firm belief in the draft as
the only democratic, way of waging war.
This large’ mass,' larger than will ever be
known, was lost to us also as the result
of Hughes’s procrastination.
ESTIMATE OF
HUGHES
Nothing is easier
or, ordinarily,
more unjust after
a debacle than to
attribute it to the leadership. It is
obvious, too, that in the absence of our
soldiers on the other side of the world
it would have been difficult for any
leadership to have succeeded in this
struggle. Realising this, I am yet ot
opinion that the chances of victory, such
as they were, were diminished by
Hughes’s handling.
Hughes has a temperament which is
somehow unfitted for the winning of
plebiscites. This was the third he had
taken and lost in succession, and he was
destined to take and lose a fourth. His
personal integrity and standards are be-
yond all dispute; but there is, in such
appeals, a need for an intellectual honesty
not sufficiently in evidence in his con-
stitution.
Hughes has probably never stated a
case quite candidly or fully in his life.
There have always been certain minor
reservations, and often those which are
not minor. A smart turn stands with
him for a serious demonstration, and a
tu quoque as criticism’s best answer.
These things do not work in a refer-
endum. Its atmosphere is that of a jury
trial; in fact, the referendum is the very
thing from which jury trials have
descended —both are appeals to the
country. Experience in the courts con-
demns overstatement, 1 equivocation and
personalities as-the most dangerous of
manoeuvres where a jury has to be con-
vinced. But these were among the most
important items in Hughes’s political
stock-in-trade. They had served him well
enough in his own electorate of West
Sydney, where he had a solid majority of
about four to one; but he had not
realised the untrustworthiness of such
weapons when the appeal lies, not to a
roaring crowd of frenzied supporters who
ask for entertainment rather than con-
version, but to a constituency delicately
and evenly balanced, where the convinc-
ing of a wavering fraction is the supreme
goal.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.]


ji
l-r~\
Uuliisri}
m
■
iiiii ill I HH
’
L.J
iiiii
IHHMI
I
L : ■
. - :
f.- ; ''
£• ’ •• - ■
mmm
r
% .1
I:
*-'■“111
WWBI! 1 !
HP"
mmm.
3
i*
Wmmm
mum.
mmmmm.
HH
V
mmmmm.
■■■■■l
i
mm
mmmmm
mm.
mmm.
K)
> 0
up'
$
V^f
•.j?
■
Ml
.115558
■■
■
■i
i
■
mmmmm.
m.
mm
m
fn c Gxllam‘s
Sa>ts(Ohisky
«
il
£
n
H
mm.
mm
m
zmm
:
:s FOR THE
MORT
Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO ‘THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the’ regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ....
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
X
\> e
e e
3*
6^
0>
■v
tk£&W&s
o*
&*
t jdP .\aS
\' 6 **>
S e > 6 '
( »3P
.••’ >*
0 t ,- s ..'■ ,s
»#.<*• ;••■' o*'
..■•;■ cfi.&*s&**?


His Car Cost £2OOO
'
<9«o£'
m
m
his
i
a Stromherg-Carlson
YOU may never own a car like his,
but you can follow his choice in
radio. The line of Stromberg-Car Ison
Receivers from which he chooses pro-
vides a model to suit your income.
That model, no matter what its size
or price, is designed and constructed
in the same faultless fashion as wins
his approval.
For country districts where electric
current is not available, Stromberg-
Carlson produce special Battery-
operated Models. These sets embody
all the features which make Stromberg-
Carlson All-Electric Receivers so
popular with city people who own the
best of everything.
Special Battery-Operated
Models for Country Listeners
THOUGH battery-operated, the two Stromberg-
Carlson Receivers described below give reception
far superior to many all-electric sets.
LONDON! PARIS! NEW YORK!
The larger illustration on the right shows Stromberg-
Carlson’s Model 588—a Battery-operated Dual-wave
Receiver that brings in the foreign programmes on the
same dial as local broadcasts. It features 8 valves (2-volt
valves throughout) . . . Automatic Volume Control . . •
Selectorlite Dial . . . special shelf to house all batteries
. . . fuse lamp to protect filaments against faulty battery
connection . . . extremely low battery consumption . . .
Piano-finished Walnut Cabinet . • . and many other
features which make it the equal of the finest all-electric
sets. Price £47/17/6
AND A LOWER-PRICED SET
The smaller illustration shows Model 505 —a battery-
operated 5-valve .Superheterodyne with all the modern
features. It gives you perfect Interstate reception, with
tone and volume that have no superior. The ideal
countryman’s receiver. Price £33/19/6
ft-
VA
f
d
See Complete Stromberg-Carlson Range on
STANDS 28, 29 AND 30
IN THE HORDERN PAVILION AT THE SYDNEY SHOW
Stromberg-Carlson
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
