

y
/
I
m
m.
'\ u
V-..
't-\
~*. w.<>
r>-v-
-'• A
/ tit
Slrt
pww
r> a.
/ ;
dr'
««■>
STAMINA.. VITALI
% t . y MJt'v '
are as inherent in EVER-READY
batteries as in the ribboned
champions of the Show Ring.
Put an EVER-READ Y refill in your
torch and it will give strong, honest
light... equip your Radio with an
EVER-READY Superdyne or
Heavy Duty battery, and it will
rejoice in new tone and volume.
EVER-READ Y>
the pedigree Battery, judged by
millions of satisfied users, is de-
clared the World’s Champion.
AD'
FAi
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
k
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER.READY COMPANY {AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY AND LONDON
The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2893.
The “Italo-Australian” Objects
Wednesday, July 24, 1935.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Accountancy
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Special Mail Course in ACCOUNTANCY, as adver-
tised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 1435 ■ • ••••••»•••••••••
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:—
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
competitors on application, will publish the successful, work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve" the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize -will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
THE MAIN
BUSINESS
Consider the
curious case of a
self- confessed
cashier, “A.H.5.,”
who replied (R.P.
10/7/’35) to an
■ r f ■. .1 or. this text; “The profes-
’ : r. ,} cr :s one who makes writing
fi 1 ...fi business of his life: in every
lK ' ■' the professional is better
na . ti , amateur;” Instead of cutting
tiv ...*o a near-by rafter, and la Mon-
J having a useful truth
ah writing ■3d handy as a perpetual
ns; on hi ■ iat he admits to be his
h • ‘ intei• n life, “A.H.S.” expends
a ui nUndred words not in refut-
ing it, but in resenting it.
These points need establishing. (1)
1 lie “right” of “A.H.5.,” or anybody
else, to practise as an amateur writer
was not questioned. Every word on
lhat matter belongs exclusively to
“A.H.S.” The assertion was that the
professional was better than the amateur,
not in any social sense that may obsess
“A.H.5.,” but in writing. (2) The article
was about professional and amateur
writers, not about journalists and non-
journalists, This contrary, again, is
“A.H.S.’sh’ assumption, and an insen-
sible assumption it is. The thing con-
sidered was writing, and, distinctly, good
writing.
Well, now: “Is it necessary,” asks
“A.H.5.,” “for one to be ‘born’ in litera-
ture, and must one remain unsullied by
any hint of toil other than that of the
tapping of typewriter keys?” No sug-
gestion was made about being “born”
in literature. That is merely a part of
“A.H.S.’s” insensible misreading, and he
ought to patent it for a piece of excel-
lent nonsense. For the rest, the answer
is that the best writing is, and has been,
done by those who made writing the
main business of their life. That “many
of the world’s greatest writers discovered
their literary talent while engaged in
other professions and occupations” does
not alter that fact, nor even apply to it;
and on that fact the probability, if not
the certainty, is that our literature will
get better and better as more here are
able to make writing their main busi-
ness, as more and more realise the plain
sense —really that is all it amounts to —
of this which “A.H.S.” so insensibly
resents.
The reason “A.H.S.” resents it is, of
course, 'clear enough. He resents it
because, for all his display of unreason,
he knows it to be true. He knows that
if economic conditions permitted him
to get out of that bank he would set
up as a professional writer to-morrow,
and be a better writer for it. That is
his problem—the problem of most of us
—and anyone who knows the difficul-
ties must have sympathy for him. But
it might be suggested that the lesson to
be learned from the lives of those who
had to solve this problem before they
made literature will be had from con-
sidering how they solved it, and not in
any self-satisfying contemplation of
their having “discovered their literary
talent while engaged in other profes-
sions and occupations.”
It may, for instance, comfort, but it
will not help, “A.H.S.” to remember that
Dickens labelled pots of blacking. How
Dickens solved his problem, how he
escaped from that to Pickwick, is what
those who combine a sense of reality
with a desire to make literature will face
up to ; and just now they will find this
particular instance very brightly and
freshly presented by Andre Maurois,
translated by Hamish Miles, in a brief
work entitled, appropriately enough,
Dickens.
Dickens not only labelled pots of
blacking, but did it so well that the big
blacking boss he worked for fetched
him out of the basement and set him
up in a window to go on labelling pots
of blacking as a public show. Mean-
while, Dickens’s father and the rest of
the family resided in the debtors’ prison,
and Charles joined them and lived there
with them on his Sundays. In the pro-
cess of growing up and getting away
from all this to Pickwick, Dickens, work-
ing on the prinpiple that if a thing is
worth doing it is worth doing better,
made himself an expert shorthand writer.
“Before long he was known as one of
the most conscientious reporters in
London” ; and “His great ambition now
was to write.”
Then, having solved his problem by
these steps and the experimental Boz
sketches, he made writing his main busi-
ness—to what purpose it would be re-
dundant to discuss here, just as, saying
no more than Gissing said, Maurois’s
bright book may be said to be the same.
But the ink is fresh on Maurois, and it
is 37 -years old on Gissing, and this
seems very important in these times.
Still —and though Maurois labors this
aspect of Dickens, also —it is Gissing who
will be called upon here for a few appro-
priate words: “One thing to be learnt
from every page of the biography
[Forster’s] is the strenuous spirit in
which Dickens wrought. Whatever our
judgment as to the result, his zeal and
energy were those of the born artist.
Passages numberless might be quoted
from his letters, showing how he en-
joyed the labor of production, how he
threw himself into the imaginative world
with which he was occupied, how im-
possible it was for him to put less than
all his splendid force into the task of
the moment.”
That, too, is the theme of Maurois,
whose work, if redundant, is an admir-
able light critical sketch.
Hervey Allen's
Life of Poe
Here again, in
Hervey Allen’s
vast life of Edgar
Allen Poe, called
Israfel, in this
massing of detail,
so careful, so comprehensive that it
would seem impossible for anyone to
add another word of any importance on
Poe, we come frequently upon instance
and example of the lengths to which Poe
carried that ideal of the writer’s business
being his writing.
It is a stormy life, as the life of
genius so often is; a wild, black, wave-
tossed, hag-ridden life, so out of the
norm that the story of it reads like a
gigantic fantasy of Hervey Allen's own
romantic imagination. Poe, unlike
Dickens, never amassed wealth.’ On the
contrary, from the days when he con-
tracted a couple of thousand dollars
gambling debts at college, through his
haven-seeking retreats into peace-time
soldiering, through his poverty- and sick-
ness-stricken married life, and even
when he became famous as a writer,
until he was found dying in Cooth and
Sergeant’s Tavern in Lombard-street,
Baltimore, he was never out of financial
difficulties, and worse.
Like Dickens, whom he met in
America and greatly admired, and who
warmly admired him, he narrowly
escaped incarceration in a debtors’
prison, with the difference, of course,
that his debts were, as the moralists
would say, largely his own fault. Even
without joining the moralists, it is' hard
to accept Hervey Allen’s intense attack
in this regard on Poe’s foster-father.
The old man was a Scot of the hardest
type. He had his own morality and
integrity, and, notwithstanding Poe’s
sad case, he do£s not seem wholly to
have lost them. But this is clearly the
legend that America wishes to accept —
that Poe would have been vastly greater
but for having been left as an orphan
child with this monstrous ogre ; and so,
gentle down what Poe did to' the old
man and blacken what the old man did
to Poe!
As for Poe’s pursuit of his main busi-
ness in life, that was something from
which he never wavered. He would be
a writer though he suffered and was
damned and everybody else suffered and
was damned with him. That is some-
thing which the “A.H.Ss.” of these
parts might contemplate with profit—
the terrible lengths in sacrifice to which
the hag-ridden may be forced' to go.
They could not have it better or more
completely stated than it is in this extra-
ordinarily fine biography. Nor could
tl\ere be a better example of a writer
throwing himself whole and unreservedly
into the main business of his life than
Hervey Allen’s own performance here.
The work is Tittle shorter than fiis great
romance Anthony Adverse, some keys
to the peopling and other making of
which it provides ; and in times when
the art of biography is practised as never
before, and abused as never before, this
work, vast and yet strong and taut and
tense, gives back to what had become
little better than an art of sneering
something of its ancient dignity.
Belloc's
Milton
Hilaire Belloc
does not pretend
that his Milton is
biography in that
full sense. “This
book is not a life
of Milton; it is a study of the Miltonic
Episode in English Letters.” Neverthe-
less, if is much more a Life than the
entire works of the Sneer and Snigger
school of biographers, whose business, of
course, is not to throw up before us some
figure of heroic proportions, justly, esti-
mated and understood, but to tickle our
vanity with the proposal thatj'we are
better men than they were, Gungha Din.
That, too, is largely the business of con-
temporary poetry and contemporary fic-
tion—to expunge the thought “heroic”
from our minds, to glorify the common-
place, to enthrone Futility. We are the
hollow men, and that is the stuffing to
give us.
Whatever Belloc’s pessimism, it is not
that. He retains, now as always, his
vast sense of the heroic, and in Milton
he has, what he has not had for a long
time, a figure that is not only of heroic
proportions, but one he is singularly
equipped and qualified to understand.
Here, in viewing the one who, as Belloc
has it, put the seal of Protestantism on
English literature that has lasted to this
day, Belloc’s Catholicism is more valu-
able than a narrow acceptance of re-
ligion might be prone to allow. Belloc’s
sense of size gives him the proportions,
his religiousness gives him the means of
understanding, and the result is a book
which combines with those essentials to
any work on Milton a display of Belloc's
own splendid prose style, such as we
have not had from him for years, and a
great writer’s —that is, Belloc’s —estimate
of great literary performance—Milton’s,
and, by inference, English at large—
which alone makes the book one of
some value. And ,of these, perhaps,
the one most fitting to be celebrated is
the return in Belloc's prose to something
like his best; for The Road to Rome,
which is, at the least, a minor classic
of English prose in these days, had
seemed to have led to a bare and barren
waste of worthless historical rubbish.
To round off the picture attempted
here on the theme of the writer’s main
business: “Verse, be it remarked, was
in these early years of Milton’s a habit,
a task ; an occupation second only in
the time he gave to it to his devouring
studies, and coming before his studies
in the importance he attached to it
He saw himself from the very beginning
as a dedicated Poet: a Votes: a priest
of the Muses.” Again: “....this done
to follow his verse through his life,
not as a commentary upon that life but
as the chief business of it.”. And again:
“He had the right to claim the reward
of such magnificent fortitude and de-
votion to what is in any poet the chief
temporal business of life.”
CECIL, MANN.
[Dickens, by Andre Maurois (Bodley Head;
5s. net); Israfel, by Hcrvcy Allen (Gollancz;
from Dymock’s; 27s. 6d.); Milton, by Hilaire
Belloc (Cassell; from Angus and Robertson;
16s.). | $1
A Word for
Gordon
D e p r eciation
an d disparage-
ment of Adam
Lindsay Gordon
seem to have
become quite
fashionable nowadays, perhaps as a
revulsion against the doubtless ex-
travagant praises that were once lav-
ished on him, perhaps as a sign
that the taste in poetry is a chang-
ing one, and that critics in this country
are determined to keep abreast of Ameri-
can devotees of Ezra Pound and English
admirers of T. S. Eliot and the Sitwells.
But I think “Chiron” is unjust and un-
gracious in his “Debunking of the
Gordon Myth” tR.P. 3/7/’35). After
all, a writer doesn’t get a niche in West-
minster Abbey these times, 60 years after
his death, if he is no more than a “petty
poetaster with a good ear for rhythm, a
facility for versifying and a knack of
putting an obvious truism in striking
form.”
“Chiron” suggests that to put Gordon
into the hands of the average schoolboy
is a crime, something that will develop
neither a love for country nor a love for
poetry. The lad subjected to it, accord-
ing to him, will enjoy two or three
pieces ; “if he reads more, he will toss
the book away, every desire to read
poetry killed... .with the thought that
poetry is stuff without sense or mean-
ing.” A man can speak only for him-
self in these matters, but I got hold of
Gordon at the receptive age and hung
on him from cover to cover. He gave
me a love for poetry, beginning with
ringing balladry, which has persisted for
half a century, and he invested Australia
with a fascination for me that no other
writer has ever done. I was English, and
I knew all about the “lush vales and
green copses” with which (“Chiron” says)
Gordon makes sneering comparisons, but
I never saw it in that light. He opened
a new world for me. And as for his
leaving the impression that “poetry is
stuff without sense or meaning”—there
are many modern writers who do that;
Gordon never did or could.
Granted that he was neither a great
Australian nor a great poet, arc any of
the writers to whom “Chiron” subordi-
nates him entitled to either designation?
Victor Daley, if a finer poet, was no
more an Australian than Gordon ; and
perhaps it isn’t altogether irrelevant to
mention that Henry Kendall, a son of
the soil, wrote of Gordon with an almost
passionate admiration. “Chiron” appar-
ently holds it against Gordon that he
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—our undeviating policy.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’Phone: M24£)1, Day or Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: Box 2712C, G.P.O.
BIG SAVINGS FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
£25 “Challenge’ 7 Windmills, £ 1910
cold rolled
STEEL CUIDt
RODS
POT HUB &PIOCP
WHECLSETS OVER
OUTER BEARING
re
SCMI-STEtI
PITMANS
US TABLE
BRAKE ROD
/ SPIRAL WIRE
/CARRIES OIL TO
T RONT BEARING
COLD ROLLED
STEEL SHAFT
- 1
mm
\ OR BABBITT
\ BEARIf*.
SEMI-STEEL UNIONS
No. 2 Mill, 8 Feet —Back geared 3 to 1 .
Gross weight, 5851 b.; nett weight, 4601 b.
Has 6in. stroke, six arms, six sections and
18 fans. Develops 3-10 horsepower in
15-mile wind, and is the Standard Farm
Mill for wells 35 to 100 feet deep . . £25
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, £l9/10/-
“Challenge” Four-post Steel Towers are
made in 10ft. sections, with girths 5 ft.
apart, which makes it convenient to build
up from the ground, one section at a time, in places where trees or
buildings prevent or make difficult to put together on the ground
and erect in the usual way. Spread of Towers is as follows:
20ft. x 4ft. 3in.; 30ft. x 6ft. 2in. These Towers are rustproof and
do not require painting.
Height .. . 20ft. 30ft.
Prices £lB £23/10/-
Sale Prices £l3 £l7/10/-
WRITE FOR PAMPHLET GIVING j
FULL PARTICULARS OF MILLS j
AND TOWERS, POST FREE ON
APPLICATION.
Standard Earth Auger
Standard Earth Auger, No. 8. Can be
extended from Bin. up to 14in. diameter,
and will bore a post hole 3ft. 6in. deep. No
Farmer or Fencer can afford to be without
one. Size, Bto 14 inches. Price . . 42/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 39/6
HI
UflNhiwMld
• e ; ■'■*>
£11(10/- Myers Syphon
Windmill Pumps,
£lO
These Pumps 'are so
constructed that working
payts can be removed
without disturbing the
suction or discharge
pipes. The Cylinders are
drawn brass, with brass
valve caps, all-brass
plungers and brass-
covered piston rods.
The Myers Syphon
Pump, Cylinder.
Capacity, 1000 gallons
per hour.
Price ... £1 !/107-
Sale Price . . . '. £lO
&
MYEkS j
sirtrtNwv
Shovvvn*
Infernal
Ac\Ton
£9/15/- Hand Chaff Cutter,
SALE £9 PRICE
No. 2 “Uni” Hand Chaff
Cutter, made by Anthony
Hordern and Sons. Rising
mouth, 7|in. Capacity,
scwt. per hour. Floor
space, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in. Cuts
two lengths, *in. and
Weight, 2cwt.
Price £9/1 57-
Sale Price £9
ĸ
I
20-teeth Single Section
Price 39/6
Sale Price 35/6
40-teeth Double Section,
with bar.
Price 85/-
Sale Price 80/-
£B/10/- John Deere “Red Jacket,” £7/17/6
A Sturdy All-Steel Plough, with
mouldboard of hardened, soft-centre
steel and shares of -crucible steel.
The beam is of special steel with high
curve. Body is one-piece steel, with
steel handles.
Cut, ins.: 9 10 12
Weight, lb.; 89 .94 108
Prices.. £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Sale... £7/17/6 £B/10/- £lO
Single standard land wheels, 12/6
extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc
Coulter, 36/-.
k
Harrow
Cultivators
The Beams are of 1-sec-
tion steel, light but strong.
The channel-steel
Handles are rigidly stayed
to the Beams. These
stays keep the Beams
down level at all widths,
so that all the tines work
the same depth.
Price £4/2/6
Sale Price .... £3/15/-
£27/10/- “PLANET JR.” ORCHARD CULTIVATOR
No. 41 Planet Jr. Orchard and Universal Cultivator is built to combine strength,
lightness, adjustability and efficiency to the fullest extent in one implement.
As equipped, it is particularly valuable for cultivation of asparagus, artichokes,
etc., in irrigated districts.
The Steel Wheels are low and entirely enclosed by the frame; they are adjustable
30 to 40' inches apart. Without the extensions it cuts 4ft. in width and has seven
stiff steel standards, carrying x 1 Oin. bevelled steels, specially hardened.
With the extensions it cuts 6ft. 6in., carrying I 1 teeth, and the frame can be
changed to cut any width from down to 4ft.
The Teeth.—The regular equipment is 2£in. * I Oin. reversible steels, but other
widths and sweeps, furrowers, irrigation steels and alfalfa steels can be used on this
machine.
The Tree and Fruit Shield is placed on the right-hand side, to be used next to the
tree row to prevent injury to fruit and limbs.
The heavy, high-carbon steel Standards are adjustable up, down and sidewise.
Side Hitch for Two Horses. All you do is to set the tongue I Sin. to the left.
Price £27/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l3/15/.
£l3/15 1-
62/6“Bufco”
FORGES,
60/-
“B ufc o” Forge, a
utility model for the
farm smithy, 1 Sin.
Sale Price .... 60/-
57/6 “Buffalo”
Drills, 55/-
“Buffalo” >’«. «l Brill. This
is a very low-priced machine
designed for light work
where a small drill is en-
tirely satisfactory. Has
single speed and hand and
automatic feed. Hound
adjustable table provided.
Specifications. —Drills to
centre of lljin. circle: drills
holes to gin.; spindle
diameter, Jin.; run of feed.
Sin.; run of table, 10!in.;
length overall, 32in.
• Agricultural Dept. —Third
Floor. Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.
pan
62/6
Price
Sale Price
57/0
55/-


■r>
POPULAR PUBLISHINGS BY THE
ENDEAVOUR PRESS
SEVEN OUTSTANDING BOOKS.
Lovers of good books are being well catered for by the Endeavour Press, which has met
with considerable success since it was first established three years ago under the tegis of
The Bulletin.
Ask your bookseller or newsagent for Endeavour Press books —-they can be well, recommended
as worthy additions to your library, for gift-giving, or to while away many pleasant hours.
k
mm
LANDTAKEBS
“Lore of
Bird”
“Landtakers’
“Forty-Six”
the Lyre
5/- Postage 2d.
” 7/6 „ sd.
6/- „ 3d.
Everyone should
"PAGEANT”
Postage 4d. extra
AM*
“Blue North” 6/- Postage 3d.
“Psalmist of the
Dawn” 4/6 „ 3d.
“Karangi” 6/6 „ 3d.
ķ
wasn’t born in this country. But the
fact remains that he lived nearly half
of his short life here —17 years out ol
38 —and died here, and identified himself
with Australia for all time. And as for
his being “a pessimistic exile,” is there
a single line in “The Sick Stockrider’
(for instance) that mightn’t have been
written by a man who had never been
outside of Australia?
As for the propriety (which "Chiron
questions) of putting a few of Gordon s
ringing, musical verses into the pages ol
school-readers, I am reminded, whenever
I dip into them again, of what the late
Professor Saintsbury, perhaps the keenest
and largest-minded critic of our time,
wrote about Macaulay’s lays,*on which
generations of schoolboys have been nur-
tured. Macaulay, he admitted, was not
a poet of the highest class ; he was “too
positive, oo clear ’ —too free from harsh
obscurities, he might have added, if the
professor had lived to read some of the
stuff that passes ' poetry to-day. But
It is a gross am! vulgar critical error to
daan Macaulay’s poetical efforts vulgar or
(iiv,. They hit exactly that scheme ol
pOc- y which (he general ear can appreci-
ate and the general brain understand. They
arc coin lot general circulation, but they
arc not base com Hundreds and thou-
sands of immature and ’prentice tastes
have been educated to the enjoyment ol
better things by them; thousands and tens
of thousands of tastes, respectable at least,
have found in them the kind of poetry
which they can like—the simple, genuine
fare of poetry.
Most of this is surely just as applicable
to Gordon,
T. THE R.
Postscript to
a Current
Book
A historian is
a fool who tries
to measure the
ripples on the
river of time.
The stream re-
fuses to stay still.
and even if it did so the ripples would
be as restless as ever. I know, because
I’ve tried out the Lachlan, which is not
nearly as big as the river of time.
A year ago I covered the ground for
Rolling Down the Lachlan, and made a
historical record of that region past and
present. Last month I again went over
the same territory just as the book was
coming from the press. Already in quite
a number of details my records were out
of date.
Burrowa was the first town that had
turned dog on me. I had mentioned,
somewhat casually, that my esteemed
relative Archbishop Clune had earlier in
his career been located here. In the latest
Sydney paper 1 learned the sad news that
that beloved personality had just died in
Perth. He had been such a staunch
friend to me in the years gone by that I
cannot begrudge him the repose he had
so well earned, even if he did dislocate
another of my comments.
Next, Temora, which I had reported
as a dry place ; but in the meantime the
aldermen had apparently raided Burrin-
juck Dam, and given the riverless, brook-
less, lakeless, and even lagoonless town
an adequate supply of running water
without thinking of the possible conse-
quences to this or that historian’s
reputation.
On the former visit wrecked roads,
road-rollers and detours were as plenti-
ful as pines in the Pilliga—this time, not
a roller all the way, and not a detour.
The roads have all been put back where
they should be, and with scarcely a pot-
hole. Progress may be good for motor-
car springs, but what of the poor
historian?
Same at Grenfell. Henry Lawson’s
memorial is still there, but now it is
enclosed in a fenced-in park. Luckily
the one lone tree is still safely behind it,
and the Weddin Mountains, away to the
west, have not been noticeably dis-
arranged so far.
However, there are compensations. In
Rolling Down the Lachlan 1 expressed
concern at the lack of moss in Moss
Vale. Seemingly there are others who
have been worried by the same thought.
A week or two after the book appeared
1 received a letter from Mr. Allan Gold,
of Bowral, giving some interesting details
as to the queries concerning that town,
and, highly important, pointing out that
it is a four-pub town and not, as I had
stated, a three-pubber. Can’t make out
how my Scots friend, who was attending
to that part of the statistical collation,
missed the fourth. In addition. Mr. Gold
sends me a news-cutting explaining the
origin of the name Moss Vale. It states:
In your last issue appears a query from
a visitor as to how Moss Vale came by its
name. No doubt, many people here have
asked the same question. Curiously, the
question arose in my mind on my first
visit on 2nd January, 1883.
1 left Sydney by the morning train on a
blistering day in a second-class carriage (and
the carriages were terrors in those days;
you can see a sample of them sometimes
at the rear of a guard’s van on a goods
train). No blinds were on the windows,
while the cushions on the seats were as
hard as the wood underneath. I remember
that every man in the carriage had his
coat and waistcoat off and was sitting on
them, as there were no racks. I had a
vision that when I got to Moss Vale I
would seek out a nice mossy glen, and
sprawl amongst the ferns and moss and
enjoy myself, but I never found that mossy
glen.
Years afterwards, in talking to a very
old woman who was telling me some of the
old tales of the district (she was one of
the old servants of the Throsby family),
she mentioned that amongst them was a
man named Moss who was filthy in his
habits. The rest of the servants made
things so hot for him that he cleared out
and built himself a hut on the land now
occupied by Mrs. Varcoe’s cottage in
Spring-street. The hut was still standing
when I came to Moss Vale. The place
came to be known as Moss’s Valley or
Vale. The name has stuck, although the
railway-station was first called Sutton
Forest North.
So now we know. Moss Vale got its
nice poetic name from a “filthy” old
man.
But I can’t blame others all the time
for upsetting history. I have done a
bit that way myself. For instance, in
Rolling Down the Lachlan I mentioned
a call at Goulburn Gaol ; futile, as I
suggested, because the governor was
stocktaking. I have since seen him and
have been unable to confirm my theory,
but to show that I bore no malice I
promised to help the gaol library. Seem-
ingly very few books lately have been
sentenced to confinement there, so that
the supply was running low. Conse-
quently, when I arrived there the other
day with a parcel of 150 volumes, I was
received with such heartiness that it
looked as though I might have difficulty
in getting away. These volumes were
not all donated by me, however. I had
collected them from various booksellers
in Sydney, and from their eagerness to
donate 1 wondered if they were secretly
providing for their own possible future
needs. I have since been assured by
numerous friends who are guests of the
gaol governor that another book of
mine. Try Anything Once, is more in
demand than any other modern work.
The news gives me a pleasant picture of
the inmates waiting in queues for the
book, and simply refusing to retire to
their cells until they get it.
In regard to Rolling Down the
Lachlan, I have one great satisfaction.
On revisiting those parts I found that my
history notes were correct in one im-
portant detail. The Lachlan was still
rolling along.
FRANK CLUNE.
(The first printing of Rolling Down the
Lachlan sold out within a month, and the
author interrupted the revising to write the
foregoing “postscript.” Chine proposes more
books of a like (evidently very popular)
kind.—R.P.l
An
“Everyman's”
For Australia
Dent’s have
begun including
the work of con-
temporary writers
in their great
E v e r y m a n’s
Library. This
series has already done a notable service
to the language in making available at
a low cost most of the classics of English
literature and most Continental books
which have influenced English writers.
The inclusion of modern works makes it
even more useful to booklovers, writers
and students of literature.
A similar library could perform a
great service for Australian literature,
for most Australians know very little of
our own literary productions. Even
people of education and culture judge
our literature only by a few books which
have attained widespread popularity:
Boldrewood, Lawson, Palmer and Idriess
seem the only Australian prose-writers
known to the majority. On the other
hand, those who praise our writers often
do so uncritically and without any sense
of proportion, neglecting the great and
boosting the little ; they seem never to
have read McCrae or Allen or Fitz-
gerald.
The reason is not so much an apathy
in buying works by Australians, but that
very little of our literature is available
to any save a few students who may
use one of our large libraries. For
instance, of so recent a period as the
’nineties, “Tom Collins’s” masterpiece
Such Is Life is practically unobtainable,
the excellent short stories of writers like
Barbara Baynton, Dorrington and “Price
Warung” are seen only by chance, and
the novels of Randolph Bedford are
unknown. The works of living poets and
novelists in many cases vanish soon after
they appear, and a modern masterpiece
five years after publication might be
harder to obtain than Beowulf or the
old Norse sagas.
The effects on our literature are clear.
It loses continuity ; the present cannot
benefit from the past, and the young
writer does not learn what are (he essen-
tials, and what the main defects, of our
literature. The development of a
national prose style is checked; many
books published to-day show this in their
careless, ill-formed prose. The dangers
become greater when we realise that one
of the most important influences on our
culture to-day—the films —is predomi-
nantly American, and that a wave of
Yankee slang is inundating our language.
An Australian Everyman’s Library
might not at first be a financial success,
but if our literature is .to progress its
best productions must be made easily
available to the public. This would be a
really productive manner in which our
Governments might spend a little money.
But, whether with Governmental sup-
port or (as seems possible under present
conditions) against the opposition of
Governmental censorship, Australians
should strive to set their literature on a
firmer footing by making public its best
portions, and by showing that they are
beautiful, vital or interesting, and not
mere museum pieces.
H. T. GIBBS.
A Satchel of Books
High Dawn, by A. M. Gwynne
(Robertson and Mullens; 6s.). The hero
is Harry Penrose, a naval officer of
George ill.’s day. He wins the love of
Barbara Sutherland, and thereby incurs
(he jealous hatred of Captain Rosney, an
unmitigated villain. Poor Harry is trans-
ported for a crime of which he is inno-
cent, and he, Barbara and Rosney meet
again in Sydney. Barbara, who is the
central figure, finds happiness after many
tribulations, and the scheming, ruthless
captain is suitably punished. Miss
Gwynne knows how to tell a story, and
some of her pictures of Sydney under
Governor Phillip are interesting.
Lands of Many Religions, by Marcu
Beza (Dent; 10s. 6d. net). The author
went to Palestine on a Government
mission which gave him entree to the
inner life of monks in old monasteries,
and in writing of these he reveals a fond-
ness for and a deep understanding of anti-
quated things. He was made at home hi
these places, and moves in them with
complete ease. Here and outside, in the
streets of Jerusalem and elsewhere, he
has a keen eye for what is most worth
telling about, and he describes streets,
places and people with a nice economy
of words and most admirably and fully.
A collection of related travel essays
about places of the Holy Land written
with feeling and power.
In The Macedonian Mary Butts inter-
preted Alexander, his mysticism, ambi-
tions, vices and virtues, in a racy, know-
ing style which brought the great man
and his friends as vividly to life as any
of the celebrities we read about in the
newspapers. She has employed the same
formula in Scenes from the Life of
Cleopatra (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Pom-
pey, sailing to his doom at Pelusium, is
talking to Cornelia:
“Not making much of a show about our
arrival, are they? It’s early yet, but I
thought they’d have sent a brace of State
elephants at least. One for you and one
for me That must be Achillas in the
fancy armor. Rides well”....
The theme of the book is the essential
goodness, as well as greatness, of Cleo-
patra. It was Octavian’s business to see
that she and Anthony were defamed.
From which Anthony’s reputation has
more or less recovered. Not the Queen’s.
That is natural. Natural but cruel, while
only poets have suspected the truth.
One of the most effective points for
the defence —the strange dichotomy of
“Anthony and Cleopatra”—is made in
an appendix:
Is it not possible that Shakspeare’s intui-
tion was right; that, abandoning the scraps
of history he knew, and throwing consis-
tency to the winds, something mounted in
him like the wine of God, and he sat down
to his finale, saying: “This was how it
ended. This was what they were really
like. They died like that, being more right
than those that made them die.”
The portrait of Caesar is impressive.
Cicero, as in practically all recent studies
of this period, is a craven snob and
careerist.


I® i
V
■ ■ -'V
m
/■
•-X-
-- v :'<
MM
■ ■
.
w
*
mm &*
: * v-4;vft - ' 3T< <1
-
lS:s
■\ ■ ..
- 1
Ptfe*
■
!\ ■ #y
' , /'J !"
’
■
; ;
&V *-*
■■ I : ■•r-"v:
' J’w "1
.
'■•:•■;
.
v : : ; .:•
o»
A?
IN
OIVTB
STC
V*T!
M* '
, o XTO
* 1 *
: * , \\
'
"tieXob Wee *
Hew die
£ueku'
Koitia/


9
FAMOUS
WINES
Basted..
■-M*
j
IV
«ii
- -
TfjjZ/-.- m * ,
Mb/. Wk .
ifc -/ #
'
**/ /mte n/wfyfs /(dfci
99


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2893.
July 24, 1935.
FULLY PREPARED.
“There will be no remission of income, land or property taxation in the Budget— not even a cut in the postal rate of 2d. a letter. Yet before he joined the Ministry in
November Dr. Page said a reduction of £20,000,000 was imperative.”
“Yes, I DID say the load would break his back; but I wasn’t driving him then. Now I’m perfectly ready to let him take the risk.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street.
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months. £1 Ids.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE “ITALO-AUSTRALIAN”
OBJECTS.
Foreigners who have made their homes in Australia
do not always realise the extent of their blessings.
For one thing, they enjoy a freedom of speech rarely
allowed in their own countries, and, provided they
steer clear of the libel laws, they may write what they
please in their newspapers, the press being free. It
was recently reported that the Mussolini Govern-
ment had “sequestrated” a Rome newspaper, the
“Ottobre,” for publishing an attack on British foreign
policy. Knowing that nothing can happen to it,
the pro-Mussolini “Italo-Australian” has published
an attack on Australian defence policy because it is
—very tardily—being invigorated.
In a long leading article in English the “Italo-
Australian” denounces the Defence Minister’s “gran-
diloquent scheme for hugely increased expenditure.”
To judge by the sums mentioned —£6,734,150 this
year and £7,113,898 [next] —an opinion could be formed
not only that Australia was in danger of almost
immediate attack, but also that she was back in her
“good old days of boom and burst” Australia is
not in the slightest danger of attack.
The Minister, it seems, is “even planning to return,
at considerable and needless expense, the Royal
Military College, stationed quite efficiently at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, to Duntroon.” By not denouncing
“this great spending race, the Australian papers, which
so pride themselves on looking after the public
interests, are sleeping on their job.” For “much” of (he
“huge expenditure” “will not benefit Australia one
iota,” though it will benefit Britain, “which is hag-
gling about an extra hundredweight or so of chilled
beef.”
Mr. Parkhill has let the cat out of the bag. Aus-
tralia is being dragged round by Britain with a ring
through her nose —doing what she is told to d0....8ut
what is Britain doing to help Australia to pay for what
Britain wants her to do? Person for person, Aus-
tralia will be spending more on armaments this year
than Italy is—and Italy is beset by foes, while Aus-
tralia is the least-menaced country in the world.
“Least-menaced” sounds well, but fair words, even
when incorporated in pacts renouncing war or agree-
ments to achieve peace, no longer convince. Australia,
like Italy and Abyssinia, is a member of the League
of Nations, and for 15 years its rulers have pinned
their faith to the Covenant of the League. Especially
Article X:
The members of the League undertake to respect
and preserve as against external aggression the terri-
torial integrity and existing political independence of
all members.
And Article XI:- —
Any war or threat of war is hereby declared a
matter of concern to the whole League, and the League
shall take any action that may be deemed wise and
effectual to safeguard the peace of nations.
And Article XII:
The members of the League agree that if there
should arise between them any dispute likely to lead
to a rupture, they will submit the matter to arbitration
or to inquiry by the council, and they agree in no case
to resort to war until three months after the award by
the arbitrators or the report by the Council.
And Article XVI:
Should any member of the League resort to war in
disregard of its covenants it shall, ipso facto, be
deemed to have committed an act of war against all
other members of the League, which hereby undertake
immediately to subject it to the severance of all trade
or financial relations, the prohibition of all intercourse
between their nationals and the nationals of the
covenant-breaking State and the prevention of all finan-
cial, commercial or personal intercourse between the
nationals of the covenant-breaking State and the
nationals of any other State, whether a member of the
League or not.
Faking it for granted that these articles would be
accepted and enforced, our rulers reduced the R.A.N.
to a shadow and the R.A.A.F. to a skeleton, and
substituted a “nucleus” of volunteers for the com-
pulsorily-trained army—virtually disarmed, in short.
Events have brought it home, even to the mild
Lyons and the pacific Page, that their confidence
was sadly misplaced. They now aim at levelling up
national armaments to “the lowest point consistent
with national safety.”
Yet their proposals are very modest. An expendi-
ture of “£6,734,150 this year” is only £1 per head.
And, leaving out overseas territories, Australia has
2,974,500 square miles to protect; Italy has 119,700
square miles, and 42,500,000 people to do the protect-
ing.
When the Statesman’s Year-Book collected the
figures, the Australian Army, officers and other ranks,
numbered 29,797 ; the R.A.N. had “in full commis-
sion” two cruisers, a flotilla leader, four destroyers
and a sloop, with an active-service personnel of 3291 ;
the R.A.A.F. boasted two service land-plane squadrons
and one amphibian flight, the “approved establish-
ment” being 918. Italy, with “service in the army (or
navy) compulsory and universal,” had 254,183 in its
metropolitan army, 429,648 in the volunteer militia
and 50,500 in the Carabinieri; together with 53,500
naval men manning four battleships, 23 cruisers, 94
flotilla leaders and destroyers, 20 torpedo boats and 55
submarines, and 24,659 persons to look after 1640
military aeroplanes, the number of which was “gradu-
ally increasing.”
Expenditure on the Italian Army for 1933-34 was
estimated at 2,620,587,746 lire; on the navy at
1,397,222,277 lire ; on the Air Force at 68,000,000
lire, “exclusive of expenditure on civil aviation.”
That makes 4,695,810,023 lire, the equivalent of
£97,829,000 Australian, since 48 lire go to the Aus-
tralian pound. So, even without the frightful cost
of equipping and transporting a great army for an
African war, Italy’s military preparations have been
costing £2 6s. per head per annum. Yet the “ftalo-
Australian” asserts that Australia’s outlay of £1 per
head will be greater, “person for person,” than Italy’s
normal expenditure of £2 6s. per head, plus the
expense of sending perhaps 250,000 soldiers through
the Suez Canal and maintaining them on a war footing
in a roadless country without fields, factories, work-
shops, mines, banks or oil-wells, though it has any
amount of malaria.
A London newspaper, the “Observer,” which
apparently wouldn’t mind if the Red Sea came under
Italian control, declares that “Australia’s larger expen-
diture on defence will be received with mixed feel-
ings,” and the “Italo-Australian,” commending the
“Observer” as “authoritative, sound, fearless and inde-
pendent,” “guarantees” that “90 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian electorate will enthusiastically agree.” But who
gave this Fascist organ authority to speak for “90
per cent, of the Australian electorate”? On the
Abyssinian issue it is doubtful whether it can speak
for 90 per cent, of the Italians in Australia. It pub-
lishes a long list of Sydney Italians who are joining
in the pre-war rush to take out naturalisation papers.
Details show that they have nearly all emigrated since
the March on Rome.
THE AUSTRALIAN POLICEMAN.
Nearly quarter of a century ago The Bulletin
pointed out that the ratio of police to population in
the Australian States (roughly 1.50 per 1000 inhabi-
tants) was dangerously low. In 1933 the ratio for
N. S. Wales, which in this respect is fairly typical,
was 1.38 per 1000. The ratio for England and Wales
was then about the same ; but Britain’s police figures
don’t include the Special Constabulary Reserve
(12,000) and the Auxiliary Reserve (3000). In the first
24 hours of the 1926 strike London alone mobilised
60.000 special constables.
London has a number of crack regiments to keep
order in emergencies. Despite the metropolitan police
and special constables, the General Strike might have
succeeded but for the Guards and Tanks which pro-
tected the city’s milk supply. Order was preserved
in Paris on France’s last National Day by a special
corps of 5000, but, in the background, in addition to
the ordinary police (numbering 1.78 per 1000), were
50.000 Cuirassiers and artillerymen. Northern Ireland,
with over a million and a quarter fewer inhabitants
than N. S. Wales, has 2934 police, reinforced by 2500
special constables ; yet in last week’s riots the Border
Regiment had to be called in to restore order.
Our States have always proceeded on the assump-
tion that serious rioting is unthinkable in an Aus-
tralian city. Even if this were so —and, of course,
it isn’t so —the police forces are no longer big enough
even to deal efficiently with the prevention of crime.
The figures for N. S. Wales again illustrate the posi-
tion elsewhere. In 1905, when the force numbered
1.64 per 1000 of the population, persons proceeded
against numbered 45 per 1000; in 1933 (the last
year for which statistics are available), with the force
at 1.38 per 1000, persons proceeded against num-
bered 48 per 1000. During the depression the number
of persons proceeded against went as high as 56 per
1000, and for very different reasons the tallies for
1934 and 1935 are likely to be higher.
At the beginning of the present century, and for
some years afterwards, the policeman’s principal duty
consisted in patrolling given areas for the protection
of citizens’ lives and belongings. The arrival of the
motor-car as a popular form of transport and of
six-o’clock closing changed all that. For years
past hundreds of Sydney policemen have virtually
confined their activities to registering and issuing
licenses for cars (for the 12 months ended May 31
last the number of motors in N. S. Wales alone
increased by 16,110); signing up illegally-parked cars ;
issuing and serving summonses in connection with
motoring offences, and controlling city and suburban
motor traffic. Because of the increase in this traffic
a number of Sydney police had to be taken off their
normal duties recently to check jay-walkers. Shortly
afterwards a campaign was begun against reckless car-
drivers. There was a drop last month of 220 major
accidents as compared with the May list, and “16
were killed by traffic in June as against 17 in May.”
The improvement, according to Superintendent Carter,
of the Traffic Department, was “due to the work of
the augmented police patrols.”
Since six-o'clock closing was instituted during the
war, and particularly after the amendment of the
Liquor Act in 1922, which made the supply of alcohol
after 6 p.m. to club members illegal, large numbers
of police have been detailed to enforce the law in
hotels, clubs and restaurants, and to cope with the
sly-grog shops that are inevitably produced by legis-
lation of the sort.
In the sum it is doubtful if the 2,600,000 people
who inhabit N. S. Wales (exclusive of car-users and
bar-frequenters) have as much as .50 of a policeman
per 1000 to attend to them. The supply is all the
more inadequate seeing that the Commonwealth has
no special constabulary and only the skeleton of a
regular army.
Here, surely, is a chance to give useful employ-
ment to some of the thousands of able-bodied young
Australians who are coming on the labor market
year by year. Taking our special conditions into
consideration —the absence of anything in the nature
of a standing army; the existence in some States
of a form of prohibition ; the long distances between
country towns and the straggling character of most
city suburbs —an allowance of two policemen per
1000 inhabitants would not be excessive.
TUBES FOR MELBOURNE?
Once more comes the shrill, small voice advising
Melbourne to solve its traffic problems by going in
for tube railways, and unless all sides of the ques-
tion are studied carefully there is a chance that
another expensive blunder may be committed.
There is no necessity for tube railways in Mel-
bourne. Fairly flat and with wide streets and direct
arterial roads in every direction, Melbourne would
never have been bothered with traffic problems had it
not done what no other city in the world did —con-
centrated the terminals of a comprehensive suburban
railway system at one point instead of distributing
them. The result is that certain points in Melbourne
at certain periods are congested as badly as any
points in London or New York, and worse than any
in Paris, Los Angeles, Boston or Chicago, all cities
possessing larger populations.
Paris, of course, relies upon its underground
electric trains, which radiate in all directions. Los
Angeles, badly served by suburban railways, depends
practically on its tramways, which are as definite
street obstructions as they are in Melbourne. Boston
has solved an enormous difficulty by running its trams
on the surface in the outer (or American) part of
the city, and causing them to duck underground when
they reach the old British city, composed of narrow,
crooked streets. Chicago keeps its streets clear by
bringing all trams into “the Loop,” which encircles
the business area.
Melbourne’s wisest course would be to consider
the methods of Boston and Chicago before embark-
ing on an enterprise liable to cost fifty millions and
certain to hold up the whole city for years.
Following the Bostonian plan, the trams of the
central, city would be freed from the streets by the
simple process of placing them underground. The
cost, compared with the construction of a tube, would
be small, for the cutting would only need to be deep
enough to provide a tram with clearance and leave
room for a reinforced concrete roof. This would
fully effect that ideal of having (he streets clear for
other traffic and cause a minimum of inconvenience
to tram passengers.
But following Chicago would be the cheapest
method. The trams would be cleared out of the
central streets and come only as far as Victoria-street
on the north, .Spring-street on the east, Flinders-street
on the south and Spencer-street on the west. An
incoming tram from Brunswick would cover in turn
Spencer, Flinders, Spring and Victoria streets before
reaching its old track on Sydney-road. Similarly, the
cars from other points of the compass would loop
right round the city before taking their homeward
journey.
As Flinders-street is one of the most congested
of all Melbourne thoroughfares, it might be found
advisable to compromise here on the Bostonian plan
and carry the trams underground from Spencer-street
to Spring-street. But the erection of another bridge
would enable the south bank of the Yarra to become
the southern side of the loop and keep Flinders-street
absolutely free of traffic above or below ground —
possibly a cheaper and a most effective solution.
If it were adopted, passengers would be brought,
not to the centre of the city, as they are now. but to
its outer edge, leaving a mile between each way.
Over this mile motor-buses could ply, and it has been
worked out that they would prove a payable proposi-
tion at penny fares. The middle of each street, not
heavily trafficked, would be made available for the
parking of cars, and the kerbs would be left clear for
buses to pull in.
A tube system might be the best, but the cost is
prohibitive and the disturbance a horror to contem-
plate. Dependence on motor-buses for the whole
suburban traffic would not suffice, though people who
have visited London think it would ; they overlook
the fact that the great mass of the population there
is carried by the tubes, buses picking up the casuals.
A tunnel under the Flinders-street section would
cost comparatively little, but the interference with
business would be serious. The best compromise it is
possible to arrive at is the formation of a loop cross-
ing the river somewhere near the Melbourne Cricket
Ground, skirting the south bank of the Yarra, and
rejoining the northern system over the Spencer-street
bridge.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Achievement of Gullett.
Once more Australia has “secured agreement” with
the British Government about the meat trade. Mr.
Gullett, who has achieved the agreement, says the
figures involve a recognition of Australia’s right to
more of the market;
An expansion in turnover of Australian chilled beef
from 56,000 cwt. in 1934 to 250,000 cwt. in 1935 repre-
sents Britain’s endorsement of Australia’s mastery of
the transport system.
Actually, it merely recognises that Australia can send
a bit more chilled beef, though not enough to affect
London market prices.
For 1935 the beef quota is 1,680,000 cwt., the
mutton-and-lamb quota 1,650,000 cwt. The chilled-
beef quota for 1936 is not yet fixed, but the mutton-
and-lamb allowance will expand by about 300,000
carcasses to 1,750,000 cwt. The secretary of the N. S.
Wales Meat Exporters' Association is doubtful
whether it can be supplied.
Amid the shouts of triumph from U.A.P. news-
papers and politicians, it is just as well that Australia
should see exactly where it stands. The U.K. has
only 56,000,000 acres of available agricultural land,
of which an area equal to that of the Alexandria-
Brunette-Alroy group of stations on the Barkly Table-
land, 23,000,000 acres, is under permanent pastures
and clovers. Britain has 7,973,090 cattle, 24,000,000
sheep and 3,500,000 pigs. On an average, it produces
over 1,050,000 tons of dressed meat every year, and
fills 40 p.c. to 45 p.c. of its meat requirements.
Australia, with twice the number of cattle, five times
the number of sheep and 50 p.c. of the pigs, turns
out 200,000 fewer tons of meat per annum ; and when
its chilled-meat export quota is increased by a
thousand tons or so doubts arise as to whether it will
be able to deliver the goods!
British livestock production annually is worth
over £85,000,000 sterling. U.K. imports in 1934 were
approximately:
Beef and veal, 640,000 tons; mutton and lamb,
334,000 tons; pork, hams, etc., 400,000 tons.
Australia’s share was 81,395 tons of mutton and
lamb, and 82,650 tons of beef and veal; our pork
export is negligible. As R. M. Clark said in Sydney,
figures showing a slight increase on these “represent
about the limit of our supply in normal seasons.”
Australian chilled hinds are selling in London
at 3d. per pound, Argentine 4*-d. per pound and South
African 3|d. per pound—prices based on actual trans-
actions at Smithfield for the week to July 13. Our
top price for sheep at Smithfield that week was 2|d.
per pound—“first-quality merino and crossbred
wethers, 401 b. to 651 b.” Maoriland sheep of corre-
sponding weight topped at 4d. per pound ; Argentine
fetched 3|d. Victorian “first-grade, 361 b. and under”
lambs brought up to s|d. per pound, Canterburys 7|d.
In the face of figures like these even a blind
politician should be able to see where the real meal-
export problem lies.
♦
Let Culture Wait!
During the past year the Vic. National Gallery spent
£14,257 on works of art. The State Government’s
contribution was £85 —about as much as a private
citizen of means spends on pictures in the same
period. The whole of the vast balance represented
purchases made under the terms of the Felton
Bequest—which means either that the Government is
loafing on the beneficence of a public-spirited man
long dead or that it regards about 355. a week as a
fair thing for the artistic education of a couple of
millions of people.
Felton left his big bequest for the purpose of
buying works of art for the people of Victoria, not
for the purpose of relieving the Government of its just
subsidies to public culture.
The facts are revealed in a Gallery report for the
twelvemonth ; and the Museum report is even more
unsatisfactory. It reveals, not mere callous parsimony,
but an utter inability on the part of State Treasurers to
realise the importance of this brand of public edu-
cation.
In directing attention to what he rightly terms the
“deplorable conditions under which the Museum
labors,” director D. I. . Mahony makes the serious
charge that the funds supplied are insufficient to pre-
serve the collections from deterioration. And salaries
paid to officials of expert and technical qualifications
correspond to those paid in other branches of the
public service to semi-skilled workmen; scientists
receive the pay of artisans, and one overworked clerk,
who acts as secretary, librarian and typist, is on the
lowest-paid grade in the clerical division of the public
service. There has been a drift on the part of valuable
officers to more lucrative jobs outside, and the
material side of the Museum is necessarily suffering
from neglect.
Like all Governments, the Governments of Vic-
toria in recent years have suffered from lack of pence ;
but some pence there have been, and a sane balance
should have been preserved between the material
and the cultural. To cast the cultural overboard and.
apply all the money to the material does not add to
the velocity of monetary circulation by one half-
penny, and in its application to the population as
a whole is one of those blunders which are worse than
crimes.
*
Moving Faster.
Some water has run under the bridge since The
Bulletin began to criticise the bullock-dray policy of
those who control civil aviation in the Common-
wealth.
Australia is now connected with London by a
relatively slow, day-flying, piecemeal air-route under
four controls. Maoriland will presently add a fifth
section to the patchwork—lmperial Airways, Indian
Airways, Qantas, New England Airways and whatever
company takes over the trans-Tasman show. Travel-
lers from London to Sydney change machines three
(or four) times. Obviously the whole route will have
to be placed under a single control with unity of
policy.
If an Empire corporation with local boards
were formed, the British, Indian. Australian and M.L.
Governments supplying their quota of capital and
having their share in managing a concern on the lines
of the A.W.A., it would make for efficiency, and an
agency would be created large enough to see that
Uncle Sam does not own the trans-Pacific and Aus-
tralo-Asian air trade -as he may the way things are
trending.
Imperial Airways have ordered from the Arm-
strong Whitworth Co. 66 passenger liners, equipped
with lounges, kitchens, bars, baggage-rooms and smok-
ing-rooms, which will be able to fly by night and day
at nearly 200 m.p.h. A couple of them could carry
the ordinary passenger traffic of a Sydney-Brisbane
mail in an eighth of the lime the railways take. As
to that, railway companies in Britain and Adelaide
Steam in Australia are finding it worth while to open
air-lines while Australian railway managements are
asleep.
The four main railway companies in Britain
have a combined set of air-routes which embrace 24
cities and towns. They issue return tickets available
for three months. On some of the lines they run
eight ’planes each way every weekday, and six on
Sundays. Fares stand on an equal basis with first-
class railway fares. Birmingham to London (110
miles rail) is 555. return by air—a little more than
the rail fare. London to Glasgow (405 miles by
rail) is £lO return.
Week-end services are run from various towns
to the seaside. Freight is carried from London to
Glasgow at 9d. per pound, to Birmingham at 3d. per
pound. Passengers can have their heavy luggage sent
ahead at a nominal charge, and an air life insurance
is in force which gives them cover for a premium of
Is. per day per £lOOO.
S’African railway controllers have seen the light.
In February, 1934, the Government assumed owner-
ship of internal airways, which were placed under
railway management. The department has put 14
passenger Junkers, with a speed of 154 m.p.h., on the
Durban-Johannesburg run. Letters are carried by
mail within the Union at 2|d. per half-ounce. In Aus-
tralia the minimum rate is sd.
It might not be a bad idea if Australia were
to dispense with a few of its earthbound commis-
sioners and use the money saved to appoint an air
commissioner who would spend his time compelling
public transport systems to become up to date.
♦
Legislating in a Hurry.
“Inner Temple”: The High Court, whose principal
business is to say what laws mean, as against what
they were perhaps intended to mean, had to fulfil
another invidious duty during its Brisbane sittings.
Southport Town Council appealed against a
majority judgment of the Q. Full Court exempting
land belonging to the Sisters of Mercy from rating
“because it was used exclusively as a public school.”
No doubt the Legislature meant such institutions to
have all the privileges of other public schools. How-
ever, as Acting-Chief Justice Rich and Justice Dixon
pointed out in a joint judgment:
The sisters of the Order are not in the position
of teachers who dwell at a school for the convenient
discharge of their duties as teachers. They dwell
together because they have devoted their entire existence
to the purpose of an Order the members of which live in
a community. The land is used for a single and indi-
visible institution, the dominant activity of which is
the conduct of a school. But the conclusion that the
use of the land for a school is not exclusive cannot be
avoided, except by regarding the conventual life of the
nuns as a mere incident of the school.
Justice McTiernan concurred in a separate judgment,
and the Acting-Chief Justice commented later on the
“difficulty involved in determining how artificial or
ill-expressed extemptions from rates or taxes apply
to bodies or institutions engaged in works of charity,
benevolence or piety, and to gifts made to them or for
their purposes.” He concluded that “a well-considered
and carefully-framed list of exemptions... .might
greatly reduce, or even bring to an end, expenditure
on [tax] litigation.”
The trouble is that laws relating to taxation are
considered a bore. They are almost invariably intro-
duced in a hurry and are slammed on the Statute
Book with little or no debate. Careless legislation is
the father and mother of uncertainty, and it benefits
nobody in the long run but lawyers.
♦
The Southern Cross Retires.
Last week Kingsford Smith flew his Southern Cross
for the last time. The Commonwealth Government
has bought it for the National Museum, and the only
pity is that it will be hidden away in Canberra, where
few young Australians will see it.
No overseas birdman can beat this Australian’s
record. He got his training during the war —he won
the M.C. at 20—and perfected his technique in Aus-
tralia, flying round it in 1927. With Charles Ulm and
a scratch crew, he brought the Southern Cross from
U.S.A. in 1928 —the first ship to fly the Pacific. She
was the biggest aeroplane in point of power and
accommodation then seen in Australia, and she
pioneered the first modern inter-capital aerial pas-
senger service.
Within a few months, her owner had added to her
achievements the first double crossing of the Tasman
Sea to Maoriland, and among her other flights was
the first journey with air mail to London. She flew
the Atlantic in 1930, and thence across the U.S.A.,
completing the circle of the globe.
Kingsford Smith has earned many honors,
among them the rank of Air Commodore, the
highest in the Commonwealth. He has turned 39,
and he declares that after a flight to Japan he will
abandon long-distance efforts and settle down to
organise the Maoriland air service, which is the
dream of his life. When he has finished that job
there should be others for him. His experience and
person are too valuable to Australia to be risked in
further attempts on records.
«
The League, the Flesh and the Devils.
The League of Nations was founded on the assump-
tion that the World War had frightened the devils
out of mankind. The devil of greed—perhaps the
most dangerous of the tribe —has sent Italy to Abys-
sinia. In the words of a lecturer before the Sydney
University Committee for Peace:
Italy hopes to find in Abyssinia freedom from
dependence on other countries for certain raw materials.
The Paris correspondent of London “Times” writes:
The French Government’s efforts are being directed
towards persuading Signor Mussolini to state his case at
Geneva.
Britain has also tried to get Mussolini to Geneva.
According to the Rome correspondent of London
“Morning Post”:
Mussolini does not wish to wreck the League by
leaving it, but no attempt by the League at placing
restraint on Italy will be tolerated.
Another assumption of the founders of the
League was that the devils of hatred and strife had
been exorcised by the object-lesson of the World
War. The theory got a certain amount of support:
English undergraduates pledged themselves not to
participate in future wars, pacifist societies (most of
them, oddly enough, under the aegis of the U.S.S.R.,
which has the world’s biggest army) were organised
in practically all the countries that are not governed
by dictators. Yet last week the following reversions
to barbarism were reported:
Anti-Jewish rioting broke out in the fashionable
Kurfurstendamm district of Berlin. The police were
not adequate to maintain order. The Government
refuses to publish a list of the casualties.
The rioting in Belfast lasted a week, despite the
intervention of the Border Regiment with machine-guns.
Nine persons were killed and hundreds wounded. Part
of Belfast is in ruins.
Rioting in Mexico resulted in 15 deaths and the
destruction of many buildings.
Paris had to mobilise the best part of three divisions
to prevent rioting on France’s National Day.
If civilised nationals are ready to slaughter one
another for the sake of slaughter, what hope has
the League of persuading an ambitious nation not
to go to war for territory which is alleged to be
vital to its existence, or when a successful war may
be vital to the Government’s existence?
♦
In a Suburban Street.
“El V.”: There are 25 houses in the Sydney
suburban street in which I live. It is about 300 yards
long. It is quiet—three of us have cars, and a couple
of dozen tradesmen’s vehicles pass through it every
day. Half of it, through the years of prosperity,
has been asphalted ; the other half, apparently out of
compliment to the African statesman after whom it is
named, has always been a steep jungle of sida
retusa and long grass salted with beer bottles, old
newspapers and jam-tins. Every winter the under-
growth was cut with a scythe. Now and then some
of us have lost an alderman friend by offering to
shikari for him in the jungle in summer.
On April 8 the street woke to find itself popu-
lated with a battalion armed with picks, which, on July
17, is still there. The forest is gone. For weeks the
invaders carried on a campaign in it with steam
rollers, rock-crushers, cement-mixers and pneumatic
drills, and at last the general plan is taking shape.
The traffic half of the road has been regraded.
The forest section is being turned into “gardens,” of
which there will be about a dozen, each surrounded
by a massive concrete abutment like the parapet of a
machine-gun nest, drained by an equally massive
cement gutter, expansive enough to carry off the Nile.
Between each of these agricultural fortresses is either
a tier of shell-proof concrete steps, raised so that we
tired indigenes may not have to walk 10 yards to cross
the street—something most of us never need to do —
or a patch of impregnated roadway built to carry a
16in. naval gun, if we should feel inclined to back
one against the fence. Isaiah, who was a good
prophet, could not forecast when the huge earth and
concrete work will be finished, and even Major
Douglas would shiver at the probable cost.
When we ratepayers are inclined to blush at the
thought of the unemployed-relief money which the
council must have secured out of the Stevens millions
to do the job, while country districts sometimes come
to a standstill because of bog in wet weather, another
thought brings comfort. It serves bush N. S. Welsh-
men right for not living in a safe U.A.P. suburban
electorate like ours.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: H.M.A.S. Australia seems
to have been forced to play rather a
sorry part in the final manoeuvre of the
King’s review. “Splice the main brace”
went forth the signal from the flagship,
and on every ship, from the mighty
Rodney down to the smallest tender, all
hands received an extra tot of rum. The
Australia alone had to disobey the
order, it being obviously impossible to
serve an “extra” tot where no tot at all
has been served. As a substitute, how-
ever, tankards of stout were handed
round — stout, mark you! The drink of
invalids and fishwives as a substitute for
“Nelson’s blood.”
$ « * He
“Din, Din”: Cabled that the Duce has
endured a further insult, an Italian
soldier having been pelted in Harar by
some of the inhabitants. Harar is in
Abyssinian Somaliland ; for centuries it
has been one of the sacred cities of Islam,
and has been free to the unbeliever only
within the last 30-odd years. When
Burton visited it nearly 80 years ago he
found it more fanatical and isolated than
even Mecca —he went, of course, as a
Moslem. He wrote a full account of his
journey, but the fame of hiS “Pilgrimage
to El Medinah and Mecca” (1855) has
eclipsed his experiences of Harar.
* * * *
“Listener-in”: One of the minor joys
of existence is listening to our broad-
casting announcers with their synthetic
Oxbridge accents trying to wrestle with
unfamiliar names. The latest to tangle
them is that of Viljoen, the South African
cricketer. None of the attempts I have
heard has come near “Fillowen,” which
is the Boer version of the label. The
Boer's love for abbreviations and diminu-
tives has produced stranger verbal
changes than that. De Villiers, a French
Huguenot name common at the Cape,
always became “Filjie” in the mouths of
the speakers of the Taal. Paul de Villiers,
Chief Justice of the Cape and a framer
of the Union Constitution, was always re-
ferred to by the backvelder as “Polly
Filjie,” which sounds somewhat frivolous
for a C.J.
❖ * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Old steamers are
not the only things that find a ready
market in Japan. Many an iron bedstead
has gone there .as scrap-iron. Even my
bottle-oh has a keen eye for rusted old
metal : he tells me that scavengers comb
the garbage tips for it, and that Japan
takes the lot.
# * * *
“J.D.”; The Auditor-General’s criti-
cism of the cost of the Australian
National War History (£lOO,OOO, part of
which has already been recouped by
sales) is interesting for the light it throws
on the sense of relative values possessed
by some departmentalists. There are no
official complaints when poor old pos-
terity is burdened with bills for millions
sterling, representing the cost of perish-
able motor roads, out-of-date railway
lines, abandoned dams, costly overseas
picnics for politicians. The War His-
tory will be a far greater asset to pos-
terity than it is to ourselves. A financial
asset, because it will have paid for itself
many times over in sales within the com-
ing half-century; but, above all, a
spiritual asset, and one of ever-increas-
ing public interest. What would an
equally comprehensive work about the
campaigns of Marlborough or Wellington
not be worth in terms of money to
modern England?
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Re-reading in
D’Albertis’s fascinating book of N.G.
adventures his story of the mummied
husband whom a Darnley Island (Torres
Strait) widow kept in her bedroom, one
fell a-thinking of a somewhat similar in-
cident in a very different milieu. Forty-
odd years ago there lived in Melbourne
a wealthy and well-educated American
whom by a chain of circumstances. I
came to know as well as a very young
man can know a much older and far
wiser one. Before one of his artistic
dinners, he courteously explained a
slightly distrait mood by certain world
factors which appeared likely to affect
some of his investments. He was dis-
“ This is good-bye for the last time. I've finished with you."
“ Right- o, I'll make a note of it, Mr.- What did you say your
name was?"
posed to sell. “I’ll ask my wife,” he
said, opening a door and switching on
a light. Behind a glass sheet appeared
the immobile figure of a sweet-faced
woman, dressed in the fashion of 20
years before, perfectly embalmed, the
eyes closed. For maybe a minute he
gazed intently at it, closed the door and
switched off the light. “She says ‘buy’,”
he explained. He bought—and made a
packet by it.
❖ * * *
“Laetitia”; Plenty of people in this
country must have tasted mead (B.
19/6/’35); when I was a youngster on
the Mitta Mitta (Vic.) the cockies used
regularly to distil the fine old Saxon
drink. Usually each homestead took its
turn, and on Saturday afternoons be-
came the Mecca of the “gigs” from the
farms for miles around. Whilst the'elders
were discussing the merits of the brew
we lads managed a few surreptitious
swigs. I can still recall a headache that
has never since been equalled except
after an experimental carouse on tuba ,
the tipple distilled from the cocoanut
palm by the Torres Strait Islanders.
* * * *
“Flag 8”: In May, 1916,1 was serving
in the battle-cruiser Indefatigable, of
Beatty’s “cat” squadron, in the North
Sea. On a dull afternoon during one
of our periodical sweeps through the
Heligoland Bight I amused myself by
jokingly telling the fair-haired little Eng-
lish boy on watch in the wireless room
that I was glad to be leaving the ship
when we got back to Rosyth. “Why?”
he asked. “She has 13 letters in her
name, and her distinguishing signal in
the Navy List is Pendants 13.” I left.
A few days later came Jutland, and the
Indefat., with her thousand officers and
men, was the first of our ships to dis-
appear in a cloud of flame and flying
debris, a salvo from the Von der Tann
having exploded her after magazine. The
superstitious can give what interpreta-
tion they like to this story, which is 100
per cent. true.
* * * *
“Cephalos”: In the roaring days of the
Westralian goldfields, when press criticism
was often personal, it was rather the
exception for the aggrieved party to re-
sort to lawyers and writs. My first job
was on a coastal paper which used to
publish a weekly budget of what some-
body once termed “lies and other facts”
from a contributor in another seaport a
few hundred miles further north. Mostly
his romances were harmless enough, but
on one occasion he managed to swing
into print a story of a butcher’s carl
having been utilised in its off hours to
convey a dead abo. to the morgue. The
editor came in next morning looking
more than a little worried. “How on
earth did this get past?” he demanded ;
“it’s distinctly libellous.” We waited ap-
prehensively for the result, but luck was
with us. The aspersed tradesman read
the paragraph, gave one howl of rage
and made for the contributor, whose
identity was no secret —he happened to
be the local chemist. Falling on his foe
without preliminaries the butcher gave
him the father of a hiding, punctuating
his buffets with the expressive phrase
“That’ll learn you!” The chemist sued
for assault and battery and was awarded
£lO damages. I still recall his next
budget; it was headed “Pressman
Assaulted by Infuriated Slaughterman,”
and contained a graphic account of the
gory if somewhat one-sided fray. Those
were direct-action days.
. * * * *
“Adelaide”: The police admitted diffi-
culty in “finding a suitable charge to
lay” against a skilled diver who jumped
from the City Bridge into the Torrens at
9.30 p.m. on a holiday, and swam the
few yards to the bank. “Attempting
suicide” was absurd, and so was “Bathing
in a prohibited area.” Finally they
called it “Behaving in a disorderly
manner.” The defence was just “My
mate said I wasn’t game to do it.” The
P.M. said “Very foolish; not serious;
five shillings and costs.”
* * * *
“Runa”: That returned army captain
(B. 17/7/’35) was lucky to induce
Henare to address him by any rank at all.
Your Maori has no use for any but actual
names, if he can discover them. In the
early pioneering days it used to give con-
servative Englishmen a shock to find
themselves affably hailed by their Chris-
tian names, and one ex-colonel became
apoplectic on hearing Hone address him
as “Renata” (Leonard) and his haughtv
missus as “Irapera” (Isabella). Hone was
asked to leave immediately, but Wiremu.
who followed him, only waited until he
discovered the family names to use them
likewise. The colonel, faced with the
prospect of chopping his own wood,
compromised with Kurani for himself,
but the lady remained Irapera.
* * * ♦
“Jeames,” his idea;
fn these days of easy divorce and universal
snobbery it seems strange that some stone-
broke possessors of hereditary titles in Australia
and M.L. don’t cash in on their only asset.
It is being done in England every day, of
course, but in the kind of case I have in mind
the procedure would need to be more direct.
Sir Giles Tudor-Plantagenet, Bart., is on the
dole. No profession, no trade, no beauty and
no great charm of manner. Mrs. Gus Snaggs
(“Snaggs's Infallible Boil Cure”) is a wealthy
widow with social aspirations. The baronet
calls on her and suggests a business deal. Mar-
riage to be followed by a Reno divorce; she to
allow him, say, £lOOO a year provided he
doesn’t cheapen the title by remarrying or
embarrass her by returning to the home of his
forefathers. In England, as Lady Tudor-Plan-
tagenet, the former Mrs. Gus would be called
on by solvent members, of the family, presented
at Court, boosted by gossip-hounds, proposed
to by barons, even viscounts. If she didn’t
wind up a marchioness, or at worst a countess,
it would be only because senile sentiment had
overcome ambition, and enabled a gigolo to
lead her to the registry-office. In any case,
her first husband would be on velvet and an
asset instead of a liability to the taxpayers.
* ’l' * *
“Gain”: A curious reversion to bar-
barism is evidenced in (he coinage
to be struck in the N.T. for native
convenience. Each bit of silver or
nickel or bronze is to have a hole in
the centre so that any coon without a
trouser pocket may knot it in his hair
or hang it on a string like Chinese cash.
Before civilisation reached him, the
native had several kinds of money, and
always with a hole in it. Small tambu,
which became worth about ss. a
fathom, was shell which strung into a
line necklace, but Nakanai woven coins
ran from a halo the size of a dinner
plate to a hoop as tall as a man. Until
recent years, only one coin was current
in Rabaul —a shilling was still a “mark”
after the Germans left, and, though a
handy size to carry in the ear and hair,
is awkward for a native to handle in
bulk. Australia once had a perforated
coin—the “holey” dollar. Macquarie
created it by punching the centre out of
it, but that was merely to prevent its ex-
port —the outer ring was current as
ss. ; the centre “dump” became worth
Is. 3d. While the Administration is at it.
it might well follow Indian custom and
vary the shape so that illiterates can dis-
tinguish different values.
sjc s*e sfc
“Double Disc”: I admit all that “Cen-
turion” (B. 17/7/’35) has to say about
the inaccuracy of Brown Bess; never-
theless I saw my Malay nail a croc,
through the eye at 60 yards with his
ancient weapon. Incidentally, I met a
Sakai on the borders of Selangor and
Pahang who was armed with a British
naval cutlass (circa 1820), a blowpipe
and a Spanish fowling piece that had
been made in Seville in 1712! The barrel
was worn as thin as a visiting -card and
was most beautifully chased and dama-
scened. The old fellow resolutely refused
all offers for the relic, including a .32
Winchester and 100 rounds of ammuni-
tion.
❖ t- * *
“D.”: In many London luxury streets
(Bond-street, Piccadilly, Jermyn-street).
and in English provincial cities and towns,
there are shops that sell game and trout.
In Paris and other Continental cities
trout and wild duck are on the menus
of restaurants, and may be bought at
markets and elsewhere in season. I
have never seen trout —real trout —on a
restaurant menu in Sydney, Melbourne
or any other Australian city or on sale
in any Australian fishshop. Yet Vic-
toria has some of the best trout rivers
in the world, and a writer in a recent
issue of London “Tatler” remarked that
the waters below Burrinjuck Dam con-
stituted “a trout’s paradise.” One- and
two-pounders teem there. A few Aus-
tralian restaurants provide jugged hare
or roast wild duck at times. Most first-
class London restaurants (Simpson’s in
the Strand, for example) offer them every
night for months on end. Our hares may
or may not be as good as those of Eng-
land and Scotland, but the Australian
black duck has been compared favor-
ably by epicures with America’s canvas-
back duck. The first man to start a
game shop in, say, King-street. Sydney,
with local trout as a sideline, fairly regu-
lar supplies of local duck, quail, scrub
turkeys and the like, consignments of
chilled venison, pheasant, etc., from M.L.
and an adequate freezing-chamber,
should make a fortune.
A NAVAL DISTINCTION.
“Beards are returning to favor aboard H.M.S.
Sussex, but seamen are hot allowed to grow
moustaches. Marines, on 'the other hand, may
grow moustaches, but not boards.” —Jervii Hay item.
The tar who helps old Britain rule the waves,
Where winds (and guns) are liable to roar,
11 is honest dial o’ mornings closely shaves
Far more habitually than heretofore.
Nathless the beard his predecessors bore
Is not denied him. If he’d have it grow
He needs the cap.’s permission, nothing more.
But only a marine may sport a mo.
The “jolly” who must face the storm that raves
Afloat, or march against the foe ashore,
Who ever in a double role behaves,
“Soldier an’ sailor too,” the wide world o'er
Is bound to let the razor blade explore
His chin and cheeks till bare and blue they
show.
No beard for any of that gallant corps:
The utmost they’re conceded is a mo.
Wc Britons never, never shall be slaves
(Except to Admiralty law and lore).
Since primal man ran wild in woods and caves
What whiskers most he fancied those he wore.
Bui in the Navy—rule none dare ignore—
Though Jack and Jimmy each may shaven go,
The sailor, an he will, a beard may score,
The bold marine’s restricted to a mo.
Prince —or, alternatively, Commodore —
What quaint tradition makes it comme il faut
That, where red rum to splice the ’brace you
pour,
It’s only a marine may wear a mo?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Old Brigadier”: Some of us are old
enough to remember the days when “the
Alberts” was regarded as a refined dance.
As youngsters we used to scoff at the
Alberts and take advantage of their hold-
ing the floor to sit out with nice girls.
Melbourne is now wriggling in the throes
of this weird evolution of the ’eighties,
and 1200 people filled the Town Hall to
witness dancing for the “Alberts cham-
pionship.” The excitement resembled
that of a football final, and there were
other points of resemblance ; Richmond
ran out the winners, with Collingwood a
close second. After all, the return of the
Alberts is not so surprising when fashion-
able Melburnians are paying vast sums
for horsehair furniture and antimac-
cassars.
* * * *
“S.G.”: What a “press” the Jew has
these days! He has utterly ousted the
Irishman from first place in the affec-
tions of moulders of public opinion, 1,
like our Hebrew friend, appreciate his
cleverness and have had occasion to
admire his generosity ; but I find it cloy-
ing to be reminded so often and in such
flowery language of the surpassing merits
of Isaacs, the superlative military talents
of* Trotsky, the unearthly genius of
Menuhin and the supreme services to
Britain—belittled by the historicities of
Oxford, but recognised by the historians
of Hollywood—of Rothschild, who saved
it at Waterloo. And now I read that
Australia has been entertaining an angel
Israfel unawares, and gather that A.B.C.
will deserve to be hoofed up and down
Pitt-street if it doesn’t spend £30,000 a
year on an orchestra with Israfel as con-
ductor. Orchestral music, as transmitted
from national stations, gives me a pain
in the neck, but Israfel’s conducting
moved a Sunday newspaper to half a
column of rapture:
The emotional wand of Israfel.... that
tremendously vital and dramatic grip of
his orchestra his giant’s strength....
his almost hypnotic leadership.... the
sheer artistry of his method. Israfel’s
play of emotion.... the glory of musical
feeling... .he became at one with the
overwhelming passion of the music....
guided the enormous mass of sound to a
pinnacle of magnificence, yet lost not one
phrase in the tumult of grandeur.
And Israfel “wants to stay in Aus-
tralia”? Who is he? you ask. “The
young Jewish conductor,” of course.
* * * ♦
“Prester J.”; No single statement ever
did more to prejudice the outside world
against the Abyssinians than the asser-
tion of the eighteenth-century traveller
Bruce that he had seen natives in that
remote country cut steaks from a live
cow and devour the raw and quivering
meat while driving the wretched animal
on. 1 can recall that when 1 was a
schoolboy in England people who knew
nothing else about the Abyssinians had
read that horrible story, and would re-
count it with a shudder. Indeed, it has
had such a currency that The Encyclo-
pedia Britannica still repeals it, slightly
qualified by the researches of another
traveller, Mansfield Parkyns (1861-62).
Parkyns was of opinion that Bruce un-
doubtedly saw what he described, but
suggested that the abominable practice
was confined to the Gallas, an essentially
cruel and barbarous race, and that even
these employed it only in the case of
cattle taken in foray. He admitted, how-
ever, that most Abyssinians preferred
their beef and mutton freshly hacked
from the carcass with no culinary treat-
ment.
* * * *
“Cateran”; Cannot award marks to
“Mac” (B. 17/7/*35) for his theory that
the Highland garb is derived from the
Saxon tunic and cross-gartering. All the
evidence shows that the Highlanders, like
their Celtic brethren across St. George’s
Channel, wore until comparatively recent
times a one-piece garment of wool. This
was wrapped round the body, and what
was left was thrown over a shoulder
like an Indian woman’s sari. From this
developed the kilt and plaid as separate
garments.
* * * *
“Nemo”; While there is some mild
competition among the nations for un-
appropriated pieces of Antarctica, the
Soviet Government is determined to take
no chances with regard to stray islands
in the Arctic. This northern summer the
icebreaker Seadov will start in search
of Gillis Land, an island sighted by a
British seaman nearly 300 years ago and
never seen since. With provisions for
two years the icebreaker will leave
Archangel to follow a course along
Murmansk, Cape North, Island of Bears,
Spitzbergen and Franz Josef Land.
About the same time 75 other Soviet
vessels will enter Arctic waters, several
of them commissioned to explore north
of 83deg. Higher than that no ship has
ever been. Nansen’s Fram and the
Seadov itself are the only two ships that
have so far reached 82deg.
“Who is the father of the child?'
“ Hoo! Hoo! By cli, I always suspect that deb bil."
“Croydon”: In
some respects the
modern Greek
seems to have
utterly failed to
keep abreast of the
limes. The latest
instance is sup-
plied by the news
“P'raps the little chap Would like a game of snakes and ladders?"
“ I'm sure he'd enjoy it if you can spare the time."
that the Hellenic Government was pre-
pared to give a handsome reward and a
free pardon to any patriot who would
assassinate Venizelos. Later, it was
denied that the Government had enter-
tained the proposition, but there is no
question that it was advocated in Par-
liament. The weak point about the
offer lies in the fact that Ven. is spending
his declining years in Paris, where
assassins are guillotined if not first
sabred. The English are more logical.
When Jabez Balfour bolted to Argentina
it was seriously, though, of course, quite
unofficially, proposed, when extradition
measures looked like hanging fire, to
bring him back to England by force. And
if the law hadn’t got a move on, Balfour
would almost certainly have been kid-
napped.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: If the cables don’t lie,
a feud as bitter and ancient as that be-
tween the Greek and Roman churches
has been healed, the leaders of the Sunni
and Shiah sects of Islam haying parked
brassrags after centuries of disagreement.
Of recent years their principal differences
have concerned the method of observing
the anniversary of the deaths of Hassan
and Hussein, the murdered nephews of
the Prophet. When the annual festival
of the Mohurrum comes round the
Shiahs observed it as a day of mourning,
while the Sunnis have allowed it to grow'
into a rather riotous festival. Every year
where the two sects are in strong force,
as in most of the cities of Northern India,
troops have been kept ready to quell
rioting when the festival begins. In
cities like Lucknow, where the Shiahs are
strong, the street fighting has too often
been serious and the casualties heavy.
How long the truce will last remains to
be seen.
* * * *
“Billy See”; The other day a Bulletin
humorist pictured a suburban house-
holder grabbing the domes-
tic feline by the tail and
swinging it at arm’s length
around the dining-room,
thus demonstrating that the
latest triumph of the build-
er’s art really was big
enough “to swing a cat in.”
But hasn’t the phrase an
altogether different origin?
In the bad old days, when
the “cat” was an indispen-
sable adjunct to prison dis-
cipline, an unruly prisoner
might be “neddied” in his
cell —beaten with a baton
or a life-preserver—but for
a flogging he was taken out
to the yard, the 8 x 4
cubicles of the average con-
vict bastille being “hardly big enough to
swing a cat in.”
**c „ * *
“Shep”: Souveniring (B. 26/6/’35)
took some curious forms in the A.I.F.
At Dclville Wood some enthusiastic col-
lector hacked out a jagged shield from
the petrol-tank of a tank that was
jambed in the end of a sunken road,
wailing to be manoeuvred nearer to the
line in daylight. I still recall the tank
officer’s glowing eloquence when he
found himself unable to get on with his
job till another pcirol-tank could be
secured. Other quite legitimate war
curios possessed no attraction whatever;
most of us had good reason to bless our
gasbags, yet when our draft was offered
them at Havre as war mementoes only
a handful kept them. Then there was
the white flag that surrendered Soire-le-
Chateau to the Germans in 1914, and
flying from the tower of the Town Hall
in 1918 heralded to the Tommies that the
Fritzes had retreated. One of the towns-
folk was proudly telling us the flag’s his-
tory, and how it would hang on the wall
of the hall for all time, when he looked
up, to see a mix-up of khaki arms stretch-
ing out from the tower to secure bits of
it. We raced him up the stairs, but what
was left of the precious relic would
hardly have served for a handkerchief.
* * * *
“Nicol Jarvie”; Interesting to read in
the cables that the Mclntoshes and
McCraes are at feud as to whether black
or white ties should be worn with even-
ing dress when the kilt supplants the
Sassenach trousers. A hundred and sixty
or seventy years ago the only sort of neck-
tie of which Highlanders had any cog-
nisance was the hempen “tow” which so
many of them were accustomed to wear
at their brief public appearances in Glas-
gow or Stirling. The best settlement
would be to take the practice of the
Highland regiments as a guide. Those
with whom the writer has made acquaint-
ance in mess dress invariably affected the
black choker.
* * * *
“Sinnik”; Senator Lewis suggests
that Britain “might cede the Bahamas,
Jamaica and the Bermudas to the
U.S.A. in settlement of war debts.” Other
considerations apart, the Bermudas sent
a couple of volunteer contingents to the
war, and Jamaica is equally pro-British ;
the Bahamas are 90 p.c. negro, and
would be as resentful of American as the
Abyssinians are at the thought of Italian
rule. Instead of asking for the moon the
Americans might try to engineer a prac-
ticable deal. Repudiated State debts to
Britons (incurred by Alabama, Arkansas,
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and N.
and S. Carolina before the Civil War)
amount, with interest, to about
£75,000,000. Let Washington wipe this
sum off Britain’s debt. It would be
no loss, inasmuch as no war creditor
is going to collect any more money, and
it would be a pleasing moral score. At
present, whenever an American starts
grousing about repudiated World War
debts, someone invariably asks, “What
about America’s repudiated State debts?”
A mere book-keeping entry would enable
Uncle Sam to hold his head up as the
only non-repudiator among the Powers.
CROONING.
“Following a bitter complaint from a ratepayer
that flic nightly performance of a crooner at a
Leichhardt dance hall was undermining the health of
himself and family, the Mayor undertook to ‘slip
in there with some of the aldermen and see if this
so-called crooning is offensive.’ ”
Crooning! How widely different the realms
Of song assigned to it in days like these!
Some with a sudden rage it overwhelms.
While it’s recalling to its devotees
“(he coo of doves in immemorial elms.
The murmuring of innumerable bees."
You’re doubtful which is right? 1, also. Then
Let’s leave it to the Leichhardt aldermen.
Crooning! Before the “whispering baritone”
Arrived to usher in the modern craze,
It's clear that two varieties were known.
Alike denoted by the single phrase,
A soothing lullaby—a dismal drone
A thing of lilts and trills or bleats and
brays.
Discord that grates or harmony that joys.
It all depended on who made the noise.
Crooning! The mother hums her babe to rest
With that low-voiced, ingratiating strain.
You hear it in the pines by winds caressed.
And, turning to the diction’ry again.
I finds it’s just as tellingly expressed
By “muffled bellowing of cattle in pain”!
Even the tuneless hound that bays the moon
Might be considered, I suppose, to croon.
Crooning! Since first the prehistoric urge
Began in homo sapiens for song,
for joyous ptean or for gloomy dirge,
There’ve been two sorts of crooners, or I’m
wrong—
Lhc one endurable, the other a scourge.
And unto which the present tribe belong
I’ll not pronounce. It’s right outside my ken.
We’ll leave it to the Leichhardt aldermen.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—-the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
%•
sm*.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Lyons Government is to be asked
to resuscitate the Parliamentary Public
Works Committee. There are no public
works needing attention; but, of course,
a show could be made of inquiring into
some. When last in action, the com-
mittee divided £2OOO a year, in addition
to its Parliamentary salaries. There have
been no pickings since 1931, and some
members seem lonely without them.
The States’ financial score for the past
five years:
Number. Approx. Total.
Deficits 29 £55,214,000
Surplus 1 36,000
Net deficits £55,178,000
S.A. had the lone surplus, though there
would have been none if the Common-
wealth hadn’t helped with grants and
contributions totalling nearly £3,000,000
—about £5 per head of population.
The High Court has decided that in-
terest on Australian loans floated in
America is taxable if transferred to Aus-
tralia—with, of course, exchange added
—and for once a judgment against a
taxpayer is generally approved. One of
the bad features of the new borrowing
boom is that if is bringing into existence
another class of privileged persons
exempted from State taxes.
The C.S.I.R. is out with a blowfly-
immunisation dressing for sheep and a
method of controlling blue mould. If
they are only 50 p.c. effective they will
save Australia many millions. And it
would be safe to wager that the jobs
have been done for less than the over-
seas pilgrimage of Lyons, Gullett,
Menzies, Thorby, Stewart and their
retinue has cost.
Dr. Page “feels that the travel indus-
try can be made of as great importance
to Australia as the wool industry,” and
mentions £70,000,000 as a possible annual
value. That would mean a million tour-
ists spending £7O apiece here, or 2,000,000
averaging £35 —which is more than, a
great many trippers can be separated
from. Overseas arrivals for the last
three recorded years averaged 43,367 a
year, and upwards of a fourth were
returning Australians. The doctor is
drifting into a regrettable habit of talk-
ing through his hat,
Lyons was P.M.G. when tuppenny
postage was imposed. He then said: —-
We are only revising the rates through
force of circumstances, but.... the increases
will be temporary.
Now, five years afterwards, the Lyons
Government abruptly declares that the
increases must stand. Perhaps words
can change their meaning as easily as
some socialist politicians change their
allegiance.
When Hogan sought to amend the
Vic. Marketing Bill by authorising boards
to manufacture goods from produce
members on both sides smelt a socialistic
rat. Their fears were allayed when the
tall Minister defended the clause, giving
potatoes as an illustration. Without the
power sought, he said, large surplus
stocks would be consigned to dump
heaps; with it, they would be converted
into marketable starch. Hogan grows
spuds and knows what it is to be left
without a market.
A. E. Hocking, who as chairman of
the Vic. “Country” party engineered the
breakaway from the U.A.P. which re-
sulted in Dunstan becoming Premier, has
been made a Savings Bank Commis-
sioner. According to the grateful
Dunstan,
Mr. Hocking is a chartered accountant, a
licensed company auditor, a municipal
auditor, a director of 14 companies and
chairman of directors of six commercial
companies.
Then he isn’t really a hardy agriculturist?
Suburban Melbourne is dotted with
stucco monstrosities called town halls,
many of them built during the land
boom of the ’nineties. For many years
the town-hall habit has been dormant,
but the disease has broken out again in
Kew, where an outlay of £55,000 is pro-
jected. If Kew can raise £55,000 it can
find many and better uses for it than in
imitating the follies of the past.
This kind of advertisement is appear-
ing in American newspapers: —
Get our new cost-cutting water-heater
now while generous U.S. Government
terms are available. Nothing down! You
pay in small monthly amounts.
It suggests that the Roosevelt Govern-
ment has become utterly reckless in its
expenditure of other people’s money.
Lloyd George’s New Deal boils down to
“a prosperity loan of £250,000,000,” with
which, he alleges, “900,000 workers could
be employed annually.” Obviously it
couldn’t all be spent in a twelvemonih,
“Ah, my people in Australia support me! See them storm the shipping office! ”
"'Pardon, Excellency, but that’s the naturalisation office.”
and perhaps the gentleman means it to
last two years. Allowing for the differ-
ence in population, N. S. Wales is spend-
ing loan money at a greater rate than
that. And at the end of May, though the
richest and most populous State in Aus-
tralia, it had easily the worst unemploy-
ment statistics.
Tasmania’s Labor Government is get-
ting a magistrate from Queensland to
conduct the inquiry into the affairs of
Hobart Hospital. The board elected to
support the demand for investigation
voiced at a public meeting, but the chair-
man, Father O’Donnell, asserted that
“the public mind” had “been poisoned
by scandalous statements and cunning
innuendo,” and that “an army of lies”
had been on the march in “a campaign as
low, dirty and degrading as was ever
known in any public community.” Very
pretty; but is the exercise of a talent
for invective really a help in hospital
administration?
A comparison of South African and
Australian postal rates is interesting.
An Afrikander can send a postcard any-
where on his sub-continent (Portuguese
territory included) for a halfpenny (reply-
paid, a penny), and anywhere in the
Empire for a penny. Postage on a letter
to any part of the Empire is Id. per
ounce and Id. for each additional
ounce ; on newspapers |d. per 4oz. The
inland air-mail rate is 2|d. a letter.
Postcards cost l£d. in Australia, even if
the addressee is next door. Postage on
letters is 2d. for every ounce or fraction ;
on newspapers, Id. for six ounces ; and
the inland air-mail charge is sd. a letter.
Yet Mr. Brown, of the Post Office, pro-
tests that any reduction would be a viola-
tion of “business principles.”
These new transport czars are begin-
ning to issue ukases just like the old
superannuated czars. For example:
The N.S.W. Commissioner for Road
Transport announced yesterday that he
had placed orders for 30 new omnibuses.
That means spending £90,000 or £lOO,OOO
for which the public will be responsible,
yet the money has not been voted by
Parliament. Neither has Parliament been
asked to sanction the building-up of one
big transport monopoly, which is very
likely to result in one big strike.
Tasmanians never cared much for the
designation U.A.P., though, to oblige
Lyons, a U.A.P. branch was formed. It
is now to disappear, its delegates having
agreed with the Nat. Fed., the young
Nats, and the A.W.N.L. to merge into
“a United Nationalist organisation.”
Actually, the Young Nats, and the
A.W.N.L., while represented on the new
concern, will remain, but the U.A.P. will
go out of business. It is reckoned that
with one directing body the Nats, will
wipe the floor with the queer pro-secesh
and loan-drunk “Labor” party whose
leader is abroad learning “the truth about
Ireland and Russia.”
Two Sydney aldermen, Jackson,
M.L.A., and ex-Mayor Hagon, recently
resigned, and the Civic Reform League,
whose representatives wrangle so much,
thought it was just a question of pre-
selecting their successors, it being known
that there would be no Labor opposition.
The League nominated McCall, M.H.R.,
for Fitzroy, and W. N. Harding for Mac-
quarie. Great was its surprise when five
others came out in Fitzroy and three in
Macquarie. One of the Macquarie four
is Rosenthal, of Villers-Bret. and Mont
St. Quentin. If Diggers predominated in
the ward it “wouldn’t be a race.”
Queensland Premier Forgan Smith,
who is shaping more and more like a
Prime Minister in the making, will have
none of Page’s “national councils.” He
sees in the proposal another bureaucratic
threat to democracy, saying “there is a
tendency to create extra-constitutional
authorities and to take from Parliaments
that responsibility which the people gave
them.” “Tendency” is too mild a term.
In the form of boards, committees, com-
missions and councils, “extra-constitu-
tional authorities” are- starting up in all
directions.
Mussolini has many honest admirers
in Australia, but they can’t understand
his African policy. Apart from the
obvious danger to the League and to the
security of colonial empires everywhere,
they recall the trouble the Spaniards and
the French had with the Riffs, and to
them a war in even worse country with
fighters equally fierce and 20 times as
numerous seems like risking the fate of
the new Italy on a dicer’s throw. Perhaps
the rush of Italians in Australia to become
naturalised before war is declared ex-
plains the seeming mystery. Mussolini
may feel that his power is slipping, and
that he must consolidate it by a national
war. It is a weakness to which dictators
are prone, though democracies are
reasonably free from it.
Mussolini has ordered 10 submarines
as a rush job. Apparently he fears
that the Abyssinian Navy may turn up
to bombard Italian ports.
Said ex-Attorney-General Macfarlan
a couple of months ago:
1 and those associated with me will have
no more to do with pre-selection. We
will stand whether pre-selected or not.
The Fawkner by-election gives Macfar-
lan or someone associated with him an
opportunity of making his words good.
Although there are 50,000 electors, and
the late Maxwell’s last majority was
nearly 3 to 1, a “convention” of 50 or
60 persons with party labels have had
the infernal cheek to decide that no one
but a Mr. H. Holt shall stand with
U.A.P. endorsement, Mr. Holt was one
of seven prospective candidates sum-
moned to learn the pleasure of these
persons. Among them were two soldiers,
General Coxen and Ernest Turnbull, who
were fighting for Australia when Mr.
Holt was just out of pinafores.
“I guess I am getting air-minded,” said
Mr. Lyons a few hours after the Niagara,
on which he was travelling, collided with
the King Egbert, as a result of which
Joseph transferred to the Mariposa. Pity
the passengers didn’t include a few Rail-
ways Commissioners, Transport Strangu-
lators and others who still adhere to the
“one-foot-on-the-ground” idea.
Eastern States taxpayers filling in their
annual forms have cause to envy the
favors allowed in the State that said it
wanted to secede. They include;
Exemption from State tax for any male
person over 65 or female over 60 whose
income does not exceed £250 p.a.
Deduction from taxable income of £62
for each child; of travelling expenses up
to £l5, and of all rates and taxes actu-
ally paid, including Federal income tax.
Deduction of £4O for a married taxpayer
contributing to the support of each de-
pendant.
A single person contributing at least
£26 to the support of a dependant to be
reckoned as married. [A “dependant” is
defined as any person with less than
£lOO p.a.]
Nothing like these concessions is allowed
to taxpayers in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Queensland. They are all made possible
by the special grant to Westralia, the
cost of which falls mainly on taxpayers
in N. S, Wales, Victoria and Queensland
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


// ", f
Twelve o'clock . • hope ' havemt overstayed
MX WELCOME ? V> vv
*' YOU HAVE ! BY THREE HOURS '
// , sv
Our twimk / May I have the pleasure •
'Mtll be all yours''
'/ 5
Would you like me to sikkSv ac,a\N .
♦ no \ "
r Can you
G,UW?AWTEE IT • '
Iveuseoabout
PIFTY BOTTLES MY SEUP '
V _ <►
What age would you take ms por. *
# Weil, ip you're a day under porty
III eat my hat. "
//
Dio vou pick My
ball uf> boy ? "
Yes. SIR, HERE
m it is . vx
>OU WERE OOlNGi EiFTY .
Seventy-pive ( l reckon''
% ,
IT WAS ONLY three inches Lonr
ft ,,
'What 1m telling; you Blokes '&
, tripe . Its your votes * y/aHT
IF WE ALWAYS TOLD THE TRUTH


See what
these Great Features of the
SHELL
MOTOR OIL
Mean to You/
r-
&
QUICKER
k
BETTER
MAINTEN-
ANCE
PROTECTION FOR
YOUR MOTOR
AT HIGH SPEED
LESS
EVAPORAT-
ION
WHEN HOT
G
OIL
LESS
SLUDGE
FORMATION
HHUHl
IMbh
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia has a link with Dreyfus.
Madame Pachmann-Labori, who still
plays the piano at London concerts, was
Maggie Oakley, of Melbourne ; she is
the widow of Maitre Labori, the great
French advocate who dared to defend
Dreyfus. Her first husband was Vladi-
mir Pachmann, the Russian pianist.
S. A. Maddocks, the N.S.W. Commis-
sioner for Road Transport, who is
going overseas again, is a Waverley
(Sydney) native and was educated at'
Fort-street and Sydney Uni. He has
been secretary of the N.S.W. Police
Department, executive member of the
The N. S. Wales Commissioner of
Road Transport.
Traffic Advisory Committee and chair-
man of the Sydney and Newcastle Trans-
port Trusts. His 1929 “Report on Trans-
port and Traffic Control Abroad” earned
praise from transport authorities in other
countries.
“Freddy” Forster, who died last week,
had been a well-known Sydney figure for
30 years. A dentist by profession, he
was one of the first men in Australia to
experiment with X-rays; as a result he
had to have considerable portions of both
his hands amputated. He remained to
the end the cheery, smiling little char-
acter whom thousands of Diggers had
grown to like in France, where he served
with the Dental Corps. He was a first-
class swimmer, and formed one of the
crew of Culwullas I. and 11. when Walter
Marks, ex-M.P., was racing them.
“Sub.”; The hideous danger of taking
anything for granted in newspaper work
was exemplified in connection with the
death of Lord Dalziel last week. A Mel-
bourne cable-amplifier added “He leaves
a widow.” Nothing could have seemed
safer. Next day came the news that
Lady Dalziel had “died three weeks ago
at Carlsbad.” Telling a servant that he
“had nothing to live for now,” Lord
Dalziel took to his bed and never l<*ft it
again alive. Lord Dalziel was a Scot
who made his huge fortune out of mostly
trivial newspapers, and pronounced his
name Dee-el.
“Whitehall”: So “>E” is dead. When
I last visited Dublin (1927) he was edit-
ing the “Irish Statesman” from a lovely
Georgian mansion in Merrion-square.
He was never too busy to welcome
strangers from overseas. I found a large,
bearded sage of 60-odd with a glorious
Dublin voice, a divine tolerance, racial,
political and literary, and a remarkable
knowledge of conditions in Australia.
Like Cosgrave, he had come to like and
respect the English after hating them.
George Russell —to give him the name
that nobody in London or Dublin called
him by colloquially—was a product of
Rathmines School, a true poet and one
of the greatest journalists Ireland has
produced.
Leslie Casson, of S.A., will be one of
the world’s youngest professors when he
takes the Chair of English Literature at
Halifax, Nova Scotia. He went to
Oxford only three years ago.
Had a ninetieth birthday in Adelaide,
Slaney Poole, a former Anglican canon.
His church work was mainly at St.
John’s in the city, with an interlude at
St. Peter’s, Ballarat. The late Judge
Poole was a son.
H. P. Moore, dead in Adelaide at 75,
was a power in finance. His best work
was done as manager of the pioneer
South Australian Co. and as a trustee
in the Barr Smith estate. He was also a
president of the Public Library and one
of the governors of St, Peter’s College.
V. L. Meise, new Queensland manager
of the Shell Co., is a Brisbane Grammar
School boy who took to the sea with
the A.U.S.N. Co. He served in the
Atlantic during the war, and was on
watch on the troopship Tasman when
she was torpedoed in 1918. He joined
Shell as lubrication engineer in 1921.
Syd Deamer has relinquished the
editorship of Melb. “Herald” and left
for England to take charge of the new
pooled cable service. Deamer is a native
of Bath as a youngster he
reported for papers there
and in Cardiff. But he was
in Westralia when the war
began ; he promptly enlisted
in the A.1.F., and did good
work in the A.F.C. After
the war he became a re-
porter on Sydney “Sun,”
and left for Melbourne when
that journal started its
southern venture. Trans-
ferring to the “Herald”
proprietary, he edited Adel-
aide “News” successfully
before taking the job he has
just vacated.
H. E. Holt, selected
U.A.P. candidate for the
Fawkner (Vic.) seat, is only
27. Educated at Wesley
and Melbourne Uni., Holt
is a barrister. ' He won a
prize for an essay on
socialism, and has trophies
for cricket, tennis, bridge,
debating, rifle shooting and
dancing. This won’t be his
first shot at Parliament; he
stood against Jimmy Scullin
at the last Federal elections.
His opponent in Fawkner
is likely to be Don Cam-
eron, formerly president of
Trades Hall.
“Movie Addict” is surprised;
After all these years of ballyhoo regarding
the colossal wealth of film stars, it is a shock
to find, on the authority of the Los Angeles
taxation department, that many are virtually
broke. John Barrymore has “an assessed valu-
ation of 56,575 dollars,” but “almost all is
represented by his yacht.” (The owner of a
£lO,OOO yacht who hasn’t at least £lO,OOO p.a. to
support it is in much the same financial posi-
tion as a dole-drawer with an unsaleable car.)
Mae West is worth less than 5000 dollars.
Douglas Fairbanks owns 39,540 dollars, a drop
of over 1,300,000 dollars in the past 12 months.
Presumably the minor constellations are busy
cadging dimes and drinks in the Hollywood
equivalent of Poverty Point.
The other ranks of the 20th Battalion
knew him affectionately as “John” or
“Old John.” John Lamrock could have
had a safe military job for the asking
when the war began ; he was 56. Instead
he saw front-line service on Gallipoli
and in Flanders, won a C.B. and wound
up a brigadier-general. The illness which
led to his death obliged him to retire
from the secretaryship of Moorefield
R.C. a few months ago—a position he
had held for a couple of years when he
joined up for the war. He had been
associated with racing since he joined the
Hawkesbury R.C. 57 years ago,
“Sach”: W. V. Armstrong, president
of N. S. Wales L.T.A. in succession to the
late Frank Peach, played Rugby Union
with the Y.M.C.A.; then there were three
teams from that body. He was a ser-
geant (A.1.F.) when the shell arrived
that settled his hopes of walking for the
rest of his life. To add to Fate’s bitter-
ness he was all set to leave for an
Officers’ School in England at the time.
While receiving treatment, he passed his
exams, for accountant. He lives in Rand-
wick, is a director of Concretors, Ltd.,
and has a large accountancy practice,
Edward Bennett, of Briagolong (Vic.),
was 101 years young last week. He
arrived in the middle of the first gold
rushes in 1851, and followed the gleam
of metal for a few years, but settled down
44 years ago on his own property. His
descendants number 92.
R. D. Elliott, the Country-party Sena-
tor defeated last year, is a power
in the country-press world. Every few
months it is learned that Elliott has
bought some new provincial organ.
Meanwhile he goes on adding to the fine
collection of pictures and statuary which
he has in his Melbourne home. His wife
is a daughter of Theodore Fink, of
A Collector of Epsteins and Country
Newspapers.
Melb. “Herald.” Elliott’s favorite boast
is that he calls a spade a spade, so it is
appropriate that he should be shown
grasping one of these useful implements.
Tom Mutch, depicted here by Dubois,
is very much in the public eye at present.
Lionel Courtenay, who died before tak-
ing the N.S.W. Senate seat which he won
last September, expressed a wish in
letters to the press, his son and others
that Mutch should succeed him. Both
grew up in the Labor movement to-
gether, and both left the party because
they set principle above expediency.
Mutch represented Botany in the
TOM MUTCH.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly for 13 years,
and was Minister of Local Government
in the Storey Ministry and Minister of
Education twice. He was one of the
founders and chairman of the AJ.A.
Henry Lawson was his close friend, and
the Royal Australian Historical Society
has printed his researches into the early
life of the poet. Since the beginning of
June Mutch has been busy reading
entries in the 1935 S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize. He was the first of the outside
judges appointed by the trustees.
The late W. F. Latimer was a political
power in Woollahra in the days when
every right-thinking Sydneyite was a
Freetrader and an upholder of N. S.
Wales State rights. He became a Wool-
lahra alderman in 1898 and State mem-
ber for the constituency three years later.
He held the seat for 19 years, and then
went to the Leg. Council, of which he was
a member till last year, when he resigned
and was succeeded by his son Hugh, the
present Mayor of Woollahra. W.F. was
thrice Mayor of the suburb. An Ulster-
man by birth and education, Latimer
arrived in Woollahra 52 years ago at
the age of 23, and founded a successful
drapery there. The good of the district
was his watchword ; no Sydney suburb
has had a more effective local member.
“Exdig”: Charles Rosenthal is the
major mystery of N, S. Wales public life.
He is his State’s most representative
Digger, the acknowledged leader at all
R.S.L. functions of importance. He
bears the scars of three wounds, was
one of the outstanding successes of the
war as a general, and the French, at least,
will never forget what he did at
Mont St. Quentin. The Stevens Govern-
ment is supposed to favor preference to
soldiers, yet it won’t give Rosenthal a
State nomination, didn’t back him for
the Leg. Council, won’t even support him
for the City Council —he is standing for
the Macquarie ward. The electors may
have other views.


n
m
m*.
•?
V .
n :
w
w
y
N
\
'I--?.
“When I find that I am getting edgy’: that my nerves are
taking most of the strain, I light an Ardath De-Luxe cigarette
A few luxurious puffs and I feel myself growing calm, my
nerves becoming soothed and rested.
“Ardath De-Luxe cigarettes are a blending of special
tobaccos, produced from a traditional English formula
to protect the nerves.
“Such tobaccos provide, of course, unique qualities of flavour
and fragrance . . . and. naturally, they are ‘kind to the
throat.”
iii
MPS;
m
CsiAa/ie/fe
ARDATH
SMART
10 -9d.
DE-LUXE
FLAT TINS
20-re
Also Flat Pocket
100, also Round
50's, Tins of
Airtight 50's
9536 C-7.5,


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1925 V* 1!)G ;, 946 10 , p - c - = } 59,265 675,950
Written oft premises, £12,500 j
1926.. 207,170 10 p.c. 148,977 I- r C9g 721 f 149
Written off premises, £12,500 $ ’ ’
1927 ** 204 - 702 10 . - C - = 45 o \°°° <■ 42,202 703,851
Written off premises, £12,500 j
,9 wV« m, # 6 ° 10 . P ' C ' = iMnf 29.821 793.672
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1929 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 } „ 887 821.059
Written oft premises, £lO,OOO )
1930. . 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 I„„ .. ,
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J
1931.. 142,291 6$ p.c.= 113,750 ) la ...
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J 18 ’ 541 877 > OC6
1932.. 7*,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) . S7B
Written off premises, £2,500 J ’ ’
1983 *.• 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) 3 040 881 (iB4
Written off premises, £2,500 J
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) S7Q An-
Written off premises, £2,500 )
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. t= 70,000 ) _ g 7B 787
Written off premises, £2500 j
There is not much profit in banking
these days. What there is is derived
mainly from the difference between the
income from advances and payments
made for deposits, from the margin be-
tween buying and selling prices in the
exchange market, and from returns from
investments and sundry pickings.
This co. does about nine-tenths of its
business in its home State, where the
grip of the worst western drought for 30
years has just been broken. Over the
last five years, the volume of its advances
has contracted faster than the volume
of its deposits. Further, the shrinkage in
the average rate paid for all deposits has
been less than the shrinkage in the charge
made for advances, some of which have
lately turned in nothing at all. Also, the
interminable deposit stock (a reminder
of the ’nineties) has become a drag; it
is costing the co. 3\ p.c., or 1 p.c. more
than it now pays for two-year deposits.
The fall in export prices has affected
exchange earnings; there was a steady
contraction in the return from Consols
until the beginning of 1935, and Treasury
bills at 1| p.c. (6 p.c. in 1930) are no
longer profitable.
Still, the outlook is beginning to
brighten. Consider these figures:
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,015,095 2,854,478 2,814,989
Bills, etc. 348,219 302,531 289,042 305,362
Deposits .. 8,657,228 7,872,214 7,941,295 8,461,035
Liquid
assets .. 3,790,277 4,612,512 4,500,560 4,827,452
Advances. . 10,423,181 8,694,760 8,701,368 8,860,449
Premises .. 527,173 549,253 540,983 547,273
During the year the co. bought at a dis-
count and cancelled £39,489 of the old
deposit stock. Of the growth of £509,740
in deposits (£69,081 in the previous term),
only £16,679 was interest-bearing. Still,
most of the money was invested in low-
interest-bearing liquids (up £326,892) ;
the net increase in advances was
£159,081 as against £6608 in ’34.
Advances shrank to 104 p.c. of
deposits as against 109 p.c. at the
previous balance and 120 p.c. in 1930.
Including the deposit stock with the co.’s
own funds, it was holding only 325. 2d.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own at June 30, approximately the
same as in 1928. Liquids amounted to
55.1 p.c. of the liabilities to the public.
It is a very strong position. Plainly the
co. is well equipped to substantially
extend its lending connections.
Most of last year’s net earnings came
from investments. The £72,192 (up £2281)
was 2.7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined), or 4.1 p.c.
on capital alone as against 4, 4.3, 4.2,
8.1, 11,7, 12.1 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1928.
The div. was kept at 4 p.c,, and the
market, which doesn’t expect anything
better for a while, prices the £5-paid
shares, visibly covered by £7 10s. 2d. in
net tangibles, at £5 35.; the figure was
£4 18s. a few weeks ago. The return
at £5 3s. is 3.9 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The seasonal outlook in the far-west
and nor’-west of the State has completely
changed—ewes, recently worth 3s, a
head, now fetch from 12s. to 15s. each.
Still, unless there is a sharp rise in ex-
port prices, pastoral incomes for the cur-
rent year will be affected by heavy losses
of livestock during the drought.
New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser Co.
, Towards Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1925 --„, .25,724 7$ p.c. = ;19,650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27.156 7$ p.c. = 19.650 7.506 12.346
1927.. 25.187 7$ ~ „ 19,650 5,537 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
1929.. 27,655 8 „ „ 20,959 6,696 26,485
May,
1930*. 30,975 8 „ „ 24,453 6,522 33,007
1931.. 4,649 Nil 4,649 37,656
1932.. 15,785 5 p.c. = 13,099 2,686 40,342
1933.. 13,281 5 „ „ 13,099 182 40,524
1934.. 17,718 5 „ „ 13,099 4,619 45,143
1935.. 18,837 5 „ „ 14,410 4,427 49,570
•Fourteen months.
Provided markets can be found, one
way of taking a little of the sting out of
falling prices is to liven the quantity and
quality of production. With this end in
view the Maoriland Government has
assisted farmers to purchase top-dress-
ing ; and there has been a steady in-
crease in the average volume of all farm
and pastoral production in the Dominion
since 1928. The fertiliser cos. patched
up the differences in the trade and re-
duced their prices, thus enabling farmers
to reap the benefits of lower costs before
they were realised. As turnover im-
proved and unit costs were reduced, the
Government was able to lower its
subsidy without bringing about a rise in
the selling price of super, or damage to
the net earnings of the cos.
This one, whose works are at Auck-
land and New Plymouth, and others in
the industry have thus been able to
come through the last few difficult years
showing satisfactory profits. Further,
farmers having been educated in the use
of super., a sharp contraction in the de-
mand for it seems unlikely, subject, of
course, to the future of the export
markets and to the various relief arrange-
ments, which still hold many mortgage
contracts in suspense.
Last year’s gross earnings (£80,813, up
£6558) were the best since 1930. The
net result benefited by £lll9 of the in-
crease, reaching 7.1 p.c. on capital as
against 6.8, 5, 5.7, 1.7, 10.1 and 10.5 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
The co, went to its bankers to finance
the purchase of the New Plymouth plant
after the close of accounts in 1924, Sub-
stantial additions have since been made
to these and the Auckland works, and
as money became available the debt was
reduced:
1924. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £261,745 £261,995 £261,995 £261,995
Overdraft .. 22,786 197,099 118,802 114,205
Sundry creditors 46,008 41,126 44,860 49,511
Land, buildings
and plant.. 278,684 421,498 392,982 383,300
Stocks ~ 10,364 97,811 45,847 69,361
Book debts .. 35,906 38,302 45,001 36,959
Cash, etc. .. 409 70 70 70
To chip £4597 off the overdraft and
carry an extra £23,514 of stocks, the co.
leant upon outsiders for a further £4651
and reduced book debts by £8042.
Surplus earnings, including the allow-
ance for depreciation, etc., provided the
balance. When the books closed, liabili-
ties exceeded more or less liquids by
£57,326 as against £72,744 at the pre-
vious balance.
The pound shares are at par in the
market. The net tangible cover is
235. 9d., all in plant, worth what it can
earn.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
Written
June, Profit. , Dividends) Off. Deficit.
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1925.. 13,417 6$ p.c. 6i p.c. = 6,968 11,512
Reserves.
1926.. 39,831* 17$ „ 30 „ ~20,000 8250 69
1927.. 17,821 124 „ 16g „ ~13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 12$ „ 16s ~,,13,333 3000 5,054
1929.. 15,548 124 „ 16$ ~13,333 4000 3,269
1930.. 19,096 12$ „ 16$ „ ~13,333 4000 5,032
1931.. 9,242 2$ „ Nil „„ 2,000 2750 9,524
1932.. 11,188 8$ „ 8$ „ „ 8,313 2500 9,899
1933.. 6,345 5 „ Nil „ „ 4,000 2500 9,744
1934.. 10,982 7} „ 7} „ „ 7,750 2500 10,476
1935.. 9,781 7\ „ 7\ „ „ 7,750 2500 10,007
•Includes £24,619 surplus on sale of Victoria Arcade.
fAllowing for 22$ p.c. cut on both, classes of scrip
since October, 1931.
This is one of the few operating con-
cerns in the picture-showing business that
broadcasts its figures. Formed in 1920,
it put up the Prince Edward Theatre,
Sydney, which began to turn in revenue
four years later. It is capitalised at
£lOO,OOO in 80,000 prefs. and 20,000 ords.
The prefs. carry a non-cumulative 10 p.c.,
and have priority as to capital. After
each class of scrip has had 10 p.c., any
surplus, whether distributed or not, be-
longs 60 p.c. to the prefs. and 40 p.c,
to the ords.
The co. got a clear start; there was no
loading for goodwill, and preliminary
exes. (£BBl6 in 1924, since wiped out
altogether) were moderate. Before the
boom burst the prefs. and ords. enjoyed
a run of 12} p.c. and 16 2-3 p.c, divs.
respectively. Also, the co. got out of its
property investment, the Victoria Arcade,
with a profit of £24,619, and lowered the
mortgage from £161,793 to £60,000-odd,
thus lightening the burden of interest.
Then slump interfered with takings,
admission charges were reduced, the tax-
gatherer took a bigger bite, and, for the
three years to the close of accounts in
1933, the prefs, averaged 5.2 p.c. and the
ords. 2.7 p.c. With the improvement in
conditions generally, and a little relief
from taxation, an all-round 1\ p.c. has
been distributed for the last two years.
During the last term earnings were
charged with “unusually heavy” expen-
diture on theatre-chair renovation, im-
provements to the projection department
and painting of the theatre. The net
result was £l2Ol lighter at 9.7 p.c, on
capital as against 10.9, 6.3, 11.1, 9.2 and
19 p.c. back to 1930.
There is nothing to worry about in
the financial structure:
1925. 1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £99,971 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgage .. 161,793 60,350 59,270 58,253
Sundry creditors 8,839 610 641 710
Property, equip-
ment, etc... 262,142 174,584 191,050 192,800
Debtors ~ 1,969 436 452 533
Cash, eta .. 4,977 14,577 13,056 11,290
To meet the year’s capital outlay of
£1756 on property, etc,, and snip
£lOl7 off the mortgage, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £1766 net.
As for the current term, a supply of
pictures of good entertainment value is
assured for a considerable time ahead,
the chairman says. The market prices
the prefs. at 235. as against 21s. 6d, a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 6.7 p.c. on a 7| p.c. div. basis.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
. Tune, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 42,047 10 p.c. = 39,471 2,576 175,127
1920.. 42,181 10 „ „ 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 „ „ 44,370 7,002 148,090
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ „ 44,370 9,155 162,338
1931.. 38,222 10 „ ~ 44.370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 „ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ 35,496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 ~ „ 35,49,6 5,428 102,724
This co. enjoys a monopoly of shipping
from Newcastle north to the Queens-
land border. Its earnings depend mainly
upon shipment of dairy produce and the
backloading of goods for storekeepers
and others. The div., 8 p.c. early in this
century, was lifted to 9 p.c. in 1913, and
to 10 p.c. in 1920 ; it remained steady
until 1932, since when it has been at 8
p.c. again—the dulness in inter-State
trade and in the coal industry have had
little effect upon the business. A small
capitalisation in 1926 —the only thing of
its kind in the co.’s history—makes 8 p.c.
worth a shade under 9 p.c. to old holders.
During the last term, more butter and
other produce was shipped. Including
an unexplained addition of £l5OO to re-
serves, net earnings were £4970 better
at 9.2 p.c. on capital as against 8.1, 8,
8.1, 8.6, 12 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1929,
The next table shows how well ribbed
the co. is financially:-
1926. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £394,714 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities .. 40,802 30,859 49,121 50,873
Ships.. .. 393,689 298,238 214,921 235,305
Freeholds, etc. 36,487 35,859 24,620 19,920
Liquid ~ 202,913 318,837 428,325 419,819
During the year one of the old hulks was
sold, and a new motor vessel, Wyrallah,
a sister ship to the Nimbin, was put into
commission half-way through the term.
The net growth in the book value of
shipping property was £20,384. To meet
the outlay liquids were drawn upon for
£8506 and the book value of freeholds
was reduced by £4700. Liabilities, which
include an unspecified provision for
taxation, were up £1752. The shrinkage
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£368,946) was £10,258.
The market, which sees no cloud in
the co.’s sky, prices the pound shares at
425. The return at that figure is 3.8 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 4.3 p.c. on his money
counts on a 9 p.c. distribution. The
cover is visibly 275. 4d. in net tangibles,
of which 16s. 7d. is surplus liquids.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 5623 15 p.c. = 4350 1273 69,061
Share premiums, £6254 .. .. 65,315
1927.. 6981 15 p.c. = 7026 65,270
1928.. 7422 15 „ „ 7439 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 „ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written off investments, £2500.. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c, 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 2976 1015 64,582
Written* off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2976 1509 65,091
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 64,091
1935.. 4572 6 p.c. = 2976 1596 65,687
Written off investments, £l5OO .. 64,187
Apart from the possibilities of Govern-
ment interference, the outlook for these
trustee cos. is as assured as anything of
the kind can be these days. With the
exception of the chance they take when
investing their own funds, the cos. don’t
have to risk much; if there is any doubt
about the interpretation of a will, there
is always the Court to go to for direc-
tion. For the most part, the market
anticipates its benefits, thus placing the
scrip in the category of long-term invest-
ments, so far as the return from divi-
dends is concerned.
At 16s. 9d. (14s. 9d. a year ago) this
co.’s £1 shares paid to Bs. return only
2.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 3.8 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. distribution, which has never
actually been out of reach. The cover is
18s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Last year’s, net result was 9.2 p.c. on
capital, compared with 9,8, 8, 13.7, 17
and 16.9 p.c. back to 1929. How much
comes from investments and how much
from the trustee business is not visible
in the published accounts. Capital and
reserves combined need turn in only 2.6
p.c. to pay a 6 p.c. div., or 3.5 p.c. to
meet an 8 p.c. distribution; and that
leaves out of the reckoning whatever
profit there may be from trustee and
agency earnings.
The following table shows how the
business has stepped along:
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1925.. £4,039,989 £25,548 £18,972 74.2 p.c.
1927. . 5,188,894 31,700 23,438 73.7
1929.. 0,044,888 37,059 26,930 72.0 „
1930.. 0,515,574 41,133 80,780 74.8 „
1931.. 0,801,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,007 87.7 „
1983.. 7,181,905 30,975 20,984 87.1 „
1934.. 7,255,439 32,180 27,701 80.1 „
1935.. 7,337,162 32,980 28,414 80.1 „
New business entrusted to the co.’s
care last year amounted to £664,820
(down £28,606), and capital distributions
to beneficiaries aggregated £583,097, leav-
ing the net growth in trust funds at
£81,723.
For the first quarter of this century
divs. and bonuses together averaged
approximately 15 p.c. The bonuses (Is.
per share) were mostly capitalised,
£ll,OOO being thus provided during the
15 years to the end of October, 1925.
when the gifts ceased. Then, to provide
for the erection of new premises, etc.,
£19,593 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £24,458 of share premiums, was
gathered. That raised paid capital to
£49,593 (its present figure) in pound
shares paid to Bs. each.
At the end of April capital, reserves
and £2lOl coming to' sundry creditors
were represented by freehold, etc.,
£68,164; investments, £41,521; book
debts, £5054 ; cash, etc., £6017.
Hoadley’s Chocolates, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To He- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 9.274 0000 5 p.c. = 3748 19,809
Loss.
1920.. 4,639 6000 Nil 9,170
Profit. 4 p.c.
1927;. 240 3000 Nil 6,410
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 22,646 Nil Nil 16,236
Profit.
1929.. 6,693 NiJ Nil 6693 9,543*
Loss.
1930.. 15,795 Nil Nil 25,338*
1981.. 26,677 Nil Nil 52,015*
Profit.
1932.. 222 Nil Nil 222 51,793*
1933.. 531 Nil Nil 531 51,202*
1934.. 1,040 Nil Nil 1040 50,222*
•Freehold appreciation reserve ( £15,708), created
in 1929, not taken into account.
“The volume of trade has now reached
a point which justifies the assumption
that in future....a moderate return
to shareholders may be anticipated,” the
chairman says. It has therefore been
decided to prune the deadwood out of
the accounts, and a committee of three
preference shareholders has been ap-
pointed to confer with the board.
The £149,967 of capital is in 75,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs., which have priority
as to capital, and a like number of ords.
When the books last closed £50,222, or
13s. 3d. per ord. share, was unrepresented
by tangibles in the books, the pref. div.
had fallen £45,000 (=l2s. per share) into
arrears, and there was a contingent
liability to purchase from W. E. Hoadley
20,000 £1 shares in Federal Mill Pty.
at par. The board says it would be “un-
wise to count on any return of prefer-
ence dividend arrears out of future
profits. It should, however, be pos-
sible to ensure future preference divi-
dends at a reasonable rate, and on a
stable basis, with some prospect of a
return also to ord. shareholders, should
trading conditions further improve.”
The pref. money was gathered about
10 years ago to enlarge the factory and
lighten the debt. Previously the co.
had paid a run of 10 p.c. divs. Then
Nestle’s built its factory at Abbots-
ford ~ (Sydney), the Cadbury-Fry-Pascall
interests had set up works near Hobart,
and Macßobertson started to extend his
business. Slump brought a fresh lot of
troubles, and Hoadley’s losses for the
six years to the end of 1931 aggregated
£62,823 net.
Although the outlook has since lost
much of its drabness, the co. has been
unable to squeeze much profit out of
the business. Last year’s £lO4O was
written after “provision for extraordinary
. , (Continued on page 18.)


r.
-//
Z 1
4
V/////K '
Aw
r
REDUCED RATES
FOR OVERSEAS
WIRELESS TELEPHONE
AWA announces a reduction by
25% in the rates of overseas radio-telephone calls.
The new rates apply to calls for New Zealand,
Great Britain and other European countries.
You can now make a call to Great Britain on
week days for fl/10/- a minute with a minimum
of £4/10/- and on Saturdays £1 a minute with a
minimum of £3. New Zealand calls cost only 15/-
a minute with a minimum of £2/5/-.
Telephone your friend or business associate in
London or Wellington at the reduced rates and
enjoy the valuable facilities offered by this modern
method of communication.
To arrange an overseas telephone call from your
home or office, call “trunk lines” (consult telephone
directory for number). Non-subscribers should
apply to the nearest post office where “trunk line”
service is provided or at the attended telephone pay
station at the General Post Office.
n
9
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


Not conducted for profit but for
the greatest service to all.
m
Clothed as with a
GARMENT
NO advertisement that could be written would be
half so eloquent as the face of a certain tradesman
when he told his experience of life assurance to
a mate recently. His face shone with satisfaction.
He had, he said, taken out his first policy with the
A.M.P. when he was 22. It was for £230, To-day, with
added bonuses, it had nearly doubled itself. He had
aken out a second policy when he married, and a third
when his son was born. There had been another policy since;
all little policies, but they mounted up. He had, indeed,
“clothed himself with A.M.P. policies like as with a garment”!
Oh, how apt the old phrase from the Psalms! Like as with
a garment, he had sheltered himself and his family, and had
comforted himself with A.M.P. policies! What better way?
What of YOU who read this? Are YOU protected by the
A.M.P. as with a garment? The A.M.P. is the greatest mutual
life office in the Empire. You have but to say the word and
your fellow members of the Society will back your efforts to
protect your loved ones and yourself, with their £97,000,000
of assets; a warm and comforting garment.
Ask that an experienced Counsellor be sent to talk this matter over
with you. Don’t delay. Next month—even to-morrow —may be too
late. If you live far from an A.M.P. office, full details of the Society’s
policies, booklets, brochures, etc., will be sent sent to you.
Don’t delay!
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR’'
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
10-13 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. rue
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD..
Cathcart House, Sydney.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
PUMPMOBIL
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming —Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
expenditure to ensure further efficiency
in the factory.”
The net reduction in the book value
of plant, etc., was £2054:
1926. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £149,967 £149,967 £149,967 £149,967
Overdraft .. 40,707 41,025 24,900 12,912
Sundry creditors 29,856 17,112 13,027 11,151
Freeholds, etc. 42,861 40,580 39,178 38,600
Plant, etc. .. 64,262 46,791 37,253 35,199
Shaires other cos. 5,374 5,374 5,374 6,374
Stocks .. 02,082 55,138 48,727 36,465
Debtors .. 56,161 49,198 21,135 22,927
Cash, etc. .. 2,790 1,392 673 951
To knock £11,988 off the overdraft, £1876
off the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors and carry an extra £1792 of book
debts, stocks were reduced by £12,262.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£36,290) was £3672.
On the market 11s. is asked for the
prefs.; the much more speculative ords.
are priced at 2s. The net tangible cover
(book value) is 28s. Id, prefs, and 10s. 9d,
ords.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
Emperor Mines, Ltd., has been regis-
tered in Melbourne with a nominal capi-
tal of £1,000,000 to negotiate for the pur-
chase of all shares in the Emperor, on
the Tavua field, Fiji. The mine is,
owned by a syndicate (John Wren, E. G.
Theodore, P. F. Cody and F. Packer)
which, a couple of months ago, had spent
over £BO,OOO on plant and development.
The lode, carrying high values in places,
has been proved for a length of over
1000 ft., and at one point is 150 ft. wide.
On return from Fiji in May last, P. F.
Cody said he was opposed to selling the
mine, though the syndicate was then con-
sidering several offers. Taxation was the
question over which members developed
a headache.
How many of the new co.’s shares are
to be offered, and the terms and other
details, have not yet been announced.
The market tips that Australian Gold
Development, whose engineer, T. R.
Victor, has more than once inspected the
Emperor mine, will handle the issue of
scrip to the public. Last week A.G.D.’s
£5-paid shares rose £l4, reaching £65,
but later eased to £59 15s.
At Day Dawn South, New Guinea,
J. W. Williams and D. Smith figure the
quantity of proved ore at 4500 tons,
averaging l|oz. gold and lOOoz. silver
per ton. The Government Geologist,
H. N. Fisher, 'puts the tonnage at 3200
and the average value at loz. gold and
lOOoz. silver. On the 340 ft. level lOdwt.
stuff is visible in No. 1 vein, the Jast five
feet of which goes 17dwt. over a width
of 42in. Still, speaking generally, values
have been disappointing at depth. The
co, has £1324 in hand.
* * * *
Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines, Wood’s
Point (Vic.), has crushed 95 tons from
Burns’s floor, where the gold-carrier is
20in. thick, for 28Hoz. of bullion. If
this is 800 parts fine, as expected, the
yield will be 2270 z. fine gold, or an aver-
age of 2oz, 7.Bdwt. per ton. The co.
recently got in fresh capital to test this
and other floors, which occur as flat
dipping quartz reefs, traversing a bulge
in a diorite dyke. Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia and Mt. Coolon are interested.
* * * *
Rutherglen Gold Dumps, of whose
£50,000 of capital Placer holds 64 p.c.,
has commenced to treat the slum at
Prentice mine, Rutherglen (Vic.). There
is a few million tons of the stuff, assay-
ing 30 grains, available. The plant can
handle up to 1000 tons daily, and the
gold, which is very fine, is concentrated
by flotation.
* * * *
On the board of Great Boulder
Mining and Finance, whose share issue
was recently oversubscribed in London,
are Sir William Campion, Newton
Moore, C. A. de Bernales, A. H. Collier,
E. P. Jones, E. J. Morris and John Wad-
dington. William Campion is chairman
of all the cos. of the De Bernales group ;
Newton Moore, A. H. Collier and John
Waddington are also directors, and De
Bernales an alternate director, of Great
Boulder Prop. E. P. Jones is on the
Horseshoe and Boulder Perseverance
boards, and E. J. Morris on Associated
Northern’s directorate. Besides holding
a sixth interest in Yellowdine and own-
ing the assets of the Associated Northern,
the new co. will take over the following
resurrections in the West: Augusta, at
Laverton; Paddington Consols, near Broad
Arrow ; Logan’s Find, near Hampton
Plains ; Menzies Consolidated, close to
Menzies; Transvaal, at Southern Cross;
Bindah, at Linden; a group at Mt.
Monger, and Fitzgerald brown-coal
deposits at Phillips River.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s working profit
for June (£12,565) was the highest for
many months, and the current year’s
earnings are expected to be well ahead
of last year’s. It is intended to spend
£24,000 (sterling) on new plant, installa-
tion of which is expected to be com-
plete by the beginning of 1936. Modi-
fication of the present process has been
found necessary on account of the large
proportion of North Kalgurli ore
handled.
* * * *
At the end of May, North Kalgurli’s
ore reserves were estimated at 487,000
tons, averaging Bdwt., an increase of
124,000 tons and a decrease of Ijklwt.
in the grade compared with the previous
estimate. The co. is milling about 6000
tons a week at the Boulder Perseverance
plant.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is again earning
profits at the rate of about £BO,OOO (Aus-
tralian currency) a year, the same as
before the miners’ strike, and seems likely
to continue doing so for some years.
The co. lately announced exposure of
12ft. of lOdwt. ore in a crosscut on the
Lake View lode at the 1800 ft. level.
Higher up, this gold-carrier was of great
value to the mine, but where formerly
opened up in deeper ground it didn’t pay
to work at the old price of gold. The
enhanced price of the metal encouraged
the co. to continue where it left off.
* * ♦ ♦
Owing to the proximity of its ground
to the rich discoveries in the adjoining
De Bernales group on the north, Yellow-
dine Gold Areas has decided to exercise
its option on one lease and hang on to
another at Yellowdine (W.A.). The co.,
which has thus far been unsuccessful in
its hunt for the yellow metal, was
formed in Perth in Jan. last, and its issue
of 300,000 ss. shares paid to 2s. 6d. was
largely oversubscribed. Perth was
allotted most of them, and Adelaide and
Melbourne got nearly all the rest.
* * * ♦
Western Mining Corp. is forming a
preliminary development co. to take
over the Morning Star group at
Boogardie (W.A.). Later a subsidiary
with London backing will be formed to
handle the venture. To the end of May
the co, had spent £11,347 proving the
downward continuation of the main lode,
in this group. The unsettled state of the
market has prevented rapid finalisation
of the new cos.
* * * ♦
After allowing £7OOO for deprecia-
tion, Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) netted
£125,313 last year, and paid £97,500 (20
p.c.) in divs. The average value of the
136,548 tons treated was 29.185. (gold at
855.); extraction, (92.7 p.c.) was a little
better, but costs (235. 4.31 d.) moved up
Is. 2.46 d. Ore reserves are figured at
approximately 700,000 tons of 30s. stone,
equal to about five years’ work for the
mill. Early in 1934 the co. floated Leon-
ora Corp. on the London market to take
over its interests other than in Westralia.
The most important of these were 42,000
shares in Tanami Syndicate, now inter-
ested in gold in Kenya, East Africa, and
174,984 10s. shares and £70,000 of de-
bentures in Cornish Kaolin, Ltd. The
Corporation recently paid an interim 5
p.c. Gwalia holds two-thirds of its
£150,000 of paid capital.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options has given
London interests a three months' free
working option over its two properties
—Three Boys and Messina —at Southern
Cross (W.A.). The purchase price is
£25,000 (stg.), plus 100,000 55.-paids in
any co. formed to work the property ;
the vendor is also to be reimbursed for
expenditure on development,
* , * * *
Wiluna Ajax spent £1652 on its prop-
erty at Wiluna (W.A.) during the six
months to the end of March. The lodes
live below water level, carry gold, and
north-east shears intersect them below
the surface. It is hoped to encounter
payable values in more settled country.
* * * j *
Lake Austin Eureka hopes to be pro-
ducing at the end of the month. Delay
in the arrival of machinery upset the
co’s, schedule.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLHSON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTV., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASTAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401—403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


»woe«ee«tts«6««w.:.>x^
•SS»»«W««««B!SS«W'a?Sfi^X : :WSB£#*s ;^s^
mtmvtx&x* »«» " «ssa» ><M» sp **< •*“•* ' *** ''v f •■*&>,, \ ™
•. - vu SSj sssswiw»«««* ■. ■. ~y., ~. j , ..vww, <., * -'i-yrm^
<v.*v Ssjg&Bggggtg&tm *sSBr^'> v '5 A »V <■■■*> ftgjggjjg S' -•#■■■< ntMWt.i sggs£ggj
: /:vW<^"'vXv-v.vsy*%wy<-:-x«w-XvX-^^^
“
ssmB!«*«2*“
: »>&:v'
.. • Mil • •;• MUM ■■■ £ : : : ' x ‘
o«i^V<.v^v.v->vA-..-. A% vX<%%wXv>X<%%<vX<-X-K<'X%«.x*S3?}iSS«|fl!!S'«'>ft :
yiwaiiwwa ■■• -v » *s i j M >i’toi
Ssoasft^s?3MSSB^
*
. vx : .v /, .:■•■
• ••• ■••
w ™ WW «VAV .•.V.V i% , .; V ,.^- -IAVl y, , , . ,
'*"***»—mm——. ,*^M«i«tM»wniwp»imwwM-i—•■
■
ir nQijl^ll^ < ‘ ,<6av " ' n
M. —..^^
PtMHMUM
. _ <^<>^<<a<h^WOC^o^VVW<^W.l>»O»o^^CH!g^<‘VV% •
<;v-- vv^.
in nrp
XLL w X ■ ■ ■
V
::K S%.-v.,
fev
<***/>&* .«***<*MW»»«*
K
w '-"'
■
w
*■. .V,**#*
4***'
'
V/
'yrS**-
XZ,
: ;C •■ • ■
&
■ 'V
SrC
WWWff
■*s*<
Mi#
:■• •••••;■••-,
■st
jiOOiP’
r.
/t’s
hold on the
road that
does it!
DUNLOP
prevents treacherous
Side Skids ....
"What would happen if we side-skidded here?" Most
drivers have had this uneasy thought many a time. At such
times you need Dunlop "Gold Seal” on your wheels. Then
you’ll be as safe as if a giant’s hand barred the way to danger.
The reason is a grip that holds the road both sideways
and frontways. It is an exclusive Dunlop feature. Right
across its full width, that helical tread grips the road gear-
like and stubbornly! Speeding or breaking, it keeps the
car in a straight line stopping skids before they begin.
FORWARD SKIDS PREVENTED, TOO
As positively as it prevents a side-skid, Dunlop holds you
back from a forward skid. And this dual safety is longer-
lasting—Dunlop "Gold Seal” has a 48% increase in non-skid
life. The local Dunlop dealer has your size at the same low
price as an ordinary tyre!
"i
Tubes
{An MK ("Moulded” Kiukless) Tube is r the
best insurance of extra mileage and safety you
can give a new lyre.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Tiki”: A diver had been at work on
the piles of the Swansea (N.S.W.) bridge
for several days, much to the interest of
the local youth. A 10-year-old con-
structed a diver’s helmet from a Minties
tin and a length of hosepipe and jumped
from the bridge. Several things could
have happened, and several did. A by-
stander waiting for a bus dived to the
rescue and ruined a good suit of clothes.
After being half drowned and having
his ears nearly torn off as the tin was
dragged from his head, the inventor had
an interview with his dad that left him
sore and much less ambitious. The way
of genius is hard.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland is claiming a
record for native-bear production. The
arrival of a new koala the
other day brought (he tally
of one family born in the
Lone Pine sanctuary, near
Brisbane, to four generations.
The great-grandmamma, 13
years in the park, is, for some
recondite reason, known as
Amy Johnson. Many people
have been under the impres-
sion that the koala breeds
only once in two years. This
idea has been upset by this
family, for Amy J. has had
three nippers in the past four
years, while her eldest daugh-
ter produces one annually. A queer
point about the beasties is that as long
as they have a kid with them they don’t
seem to care whether it is their own or
another’s. One seems as good as another
to them—in marked contrast to most
other animals.
* * * :'f
“Scrub”: Tourists that come to climb
Mt. Caputar (near Narrabri, N.S.W.)
know little about the Australian bush.
One party, blaming an innocent dog for
the theft of a loaf of bread, was told that
it was ’possums. The next night, con-
vinced that it was, they put their bread
in the fork of a tree!
* * * *
“S.R.”: Forty thousand sheep trucked
from Emerald eventually reached Charle-
ville (Q.), some alive, some dead. Hun-
dreds gave up the ghost on that long,
dry, terrible trip. The tragedy of it was
that five inches of rain fell in Wellshot,
where they had recently agisted. The
drought broke the day the sheep trains,
forty in all, crawled to the end of their
journey.
* * * *
“Mak”: Sitting on the stern of a fish-
ing launch, I have often been fascinated
for hours on end by the behavior of the
dinghy trailing behind. It always rides
on the third wave from the launch. No
matter how I juggle the trailing rope
there remain those three waves; if 30ft.
of rope is in use they are long and regu-
lar swells; if two feet, small and sharp,
but still decidedly three. Any other
Aboliar noticed this trick of the sea?
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “G.H.M.” (B. 5/6/’35)
mentions a claypan between the Diaman-
tina and Georgina rivers (Q.), 25 miles
across. I know it; but did “G.H.M,”
ever see an outsize in canegrass swamps?
One, near Mira Mitta bore, on the
Birdsville-Maree (S.A.) stock route, is
reckoned to be 20 miles wide. And the
miles are all there! Taking a mob of
cattle once from Maree over to the
Diamantina, we entered the swamp at
daylight one morning. “Only a few
miles; a day’s easy stage,” said a half-
caste'who knew the locality. We arrived
on the other edge of the swamp at noon
on the third day, after trying to sleep
for two nights in blankets saturated by
water three inches deep. The half-caste
wasn’t there when we arrived back ; he’d
floated.
“N.7Y.”: As the home of the brolgas
I nominate the flat out from Mungalo
hole, on the Georgina. In any normal
time, more brolgas arc gathered there
than in any other equal area out bush.
They dig mungeroos and otherwise regale
themselves.
* * * *
“Western”: Kurrajong, even when
dry, is pretty poor stuff to burn ; but
for absolute incombustibility I’ll back
the Westralian Christmas-tree, This is
an orthodox vegetable, developing bark,
roots and rearing itself 20 to 30 feet in
the air; yet its wood when green is
about as inflammable as water-logged
palm. Even when bone-dry it refuses to
burst into flame, merely smouldering
away like punk. Another accursed
wood is desert oak, which burns black
and goes right out unless accompanied
by a few sticks of gimlet or salmon-
gum. At the other end of the scale is
W.A. mulga with a calorific value almost
equal to coal. A few sticks, green or
“These blasted bees must take a man fer one o' them flowerin' gums."
dry, will start the pressure-gauge mov-
ing up even when the machine-men
below have the compressor racing with
half a dozen air hoses full on, blowing
away the fracture smoke after firing out,
* * * *
“Kuni Kuni”: These “py korry”
artists and their Maori pars.! Will an
editor —sub-, religious or otherwise —lend
an ear, or a stick of type, to the squeal
of an anguished Pig Islander? All I
want him to do is to pinch the sporting
editor’s ticket and attend one of the
football matches the Maoris will play in
Sydney. He’ll find that about half the
team speak better English than most
pakehas, and that, where the Maori
pidgin is used, it is about as much like
the “py korry” libel as high-school
French is like the language spoken in
France.
* * * *
“Flight”: Tell “Eosis” (B. 26/6/’35)
that the scrub-turkey chick isn’t ready
to “give it the gun” the day he comes
out of the shell. The chick stays in the
mound for at least three days after he
breaks the shell. During that ripening
process, and while his feathers are dry-
ing, he lives on his umbilical sac —the
same as the young turtle does when it
is hatched. After about three days, and
with the cocksureness which is the heri-
tage of all young things, the turk kicks
his way out of the top of the nest. By
that time he is dry, warm, full-fed and
strong. Even at that, he can’t “give it the
gun”—if that means to rise and fly
strongly. When he comes from the nest
he can plane. Taking off from a bit ot.
a rise, he can spread his wings and glide
at a level which is so darned near hori-
zontal that a man would want a spirit
level to test it.
* * * *
"Burnett”: The South Aus. fad tor
rugging sheep, mentioned in recent Bul-
letins (incidentally, the order has gone
forth that sheep on Government farms
are to be rugged), has a historical prece-
dent. When Marmont, one of Napoleon’s
marshals, retired from the wars and
beat his sword into a pair of shearer’s
tongs, he had leather jackets made for
the sheep on his mountain farm to wear
in winter.
* ♦ * >!t
“Oloc”: Strange how salt-water fish
make their way up rivers and gradually
become “acclimatised” to fresh. In the
Colo (a fresh-water tributary of the
Hawkesbury) mullet and flathead are
caught in the same net as perch. I caught
a platypus as well recently, and in
attempting to release it I got my arms
badly scratched. It finally freed itself,
but wouldn’t get out of the boat, and
then my bare feet suffered.
* * * *
“Jean Rougier”: The imported fox is
generally regarded as a pest and a
nuisance in most parts of Australia, but
in one tiny corner of the continent he
has recently been acclaimed as a public
benefactor. This is one of the farming
areas under the control of the Albany
(W.A.) Road Board, where, until quite
recent years, rabbits, wallabies and
boodie rats were in the habit of devour-
ing crops of potatoes, cabbages, peas and
beans until the patience of the sturdy
settlers was exhausted. When things
were at their worst bold Reynard arrived
from the east and fell upon the minor
marauders. An Agricultural Department
inspector who recently visited the dis-
trict found that the rabbits had almost
disappeared, and the wallabies and
boodie rats had altogether vanished from
the scene of their former depredations.
He added:
I am of opinion that the foxes are
responsible for the cleaning up, and the
longer these remain unmolested the better.
There are no lambs raised in the district,
and the market-gardeners are beginning
to look on Reynard as a real acquisition.
* * * *
“Jethro Tull”: “Bowen Downs” (B.
19/6/’35) is a little out. The cattle which
Boldrewood made famous were lifted
from Mount Cornish station. When I
went to Mount Cornish one of the first
questions asked me was whether I had
read Robbery Under Arms ; the second
was in regard to my liking for rasp-
berry jam and 25 bob a week. When
the duffers started on the long trail a
white Shorthorn bull persisted in follow-
ing. At first in favor of shooting him,
they decided to take him along. The
bull was recognised in the saleyards as
one sold by a S.A. firm to the owners
of Mount Cornish. The trial was held
at Roma, but the cattle were never
within 200 miles of the place.
“Walkabout”: It wasn’t a Longreach
(Q.) grazier, “B.D.,” who overlanded
bullocks to Broken Hill by motor-lorry,
but S. B. Sinclair, part-owner of Mt.
Leonard, across the lagoon from Betoota
(s.-w. Q.). Drought conditions on the
Marree (S.A.) stock route prompted the
lorry experiment. Eight bullocks died on
the 680-mile haul —they slipped on the
smooth lorry floor and were smothered.
**>!'*
“Alga”: A peculiarity of the silver gull
is the mirror effect of his under-wing.
It doesn’t matter what shade of color
the sea might be, the gull’s wing will be
the same. That, while being good stuff
for the gull, is darned hard lines on the
little fish below. If the gull’s wings
reflect the color of the water beneath
him, a shoal of small fish swimming
near the surface can’t pick out his make
and shape, as it’s the same color as the
water they look through. That gives the
fowl cover behind which he can stalk
with impunity.
* * * *
“Ornis”: I am afraid “Par’s” theory
that birds can’t see in front would flop
if he were confronted with an owl, a bird
with eyes mounted in front of his face
like “Par’s” (B. 10/7/’35); the theory
that the eagle in the air banks because
he has to bring one-sided vision into
play when searching for prey on the
ground is also untenable. Allowing
for the side-view idea, a bird soaring
aloft would require only to look down-
wards for his tucker, and there would be
no need for yawing to bring the bow-
chasers to bear alternately, as in the old
frigate actions.
* * * *
“Ohno”: An odd few like “Eyes
Skinned” (B. 26/6/’35) may be guided
by the stars when travelling in strange
country, but it never was the bushman’s
way. He is guided by the same thing as
a horse or a dog—a sense of direction. It
would be impossible to work in the bush
without it.
']• *■*
“Noel R.”: The hero of a recent
Arthur Upheld yarn squares off a right-
angle from a fence by extending his
arms to full length each way along
the fence, afid then bringing them
together in front of him. The idea
is often used by surveyors for
approximate lines. Knew one who
claimed he could lay off opposite
angles (cosecants) of a one-chain
road correct to within a foot by this
method, and had won bets over it.
Here’s one “theodolite puncher"
who wasn't game to risk money to say
that he couldn’t.
* * * *
“Aquine”: At a N.S.W. cow-country
dance two sisters were wallflowers for
most of the evening. The M.C. made his
way to the pair, one of whom by this
time had commenced to doze. A ready
acceptance of his invitation and a nudge
to the sleeping beauty were closely fol-
lowed by most of those present; but
they were unprepared for the mode of
the dozing one’s return to life. She
jumped up and shouted “Bail up.
Darkie!” Those blasted cows would
intrude even in a ballroom.
* * * *
“J.F.L.”: A butterfly, the Imperial or
wood-white (Delias aganippe), a slightly
larger fellow than “Maria’s” Delias
nigrina (B. 3/7/’35), also lives on
mistletoe. The Imperial has two broods
—one in early spring and the other about
February. Nature helps the larvje well,
for she has provided them with a light but
strong silk to weave on the slippery
mistletoe leaf so as to be able to hold
on — e ven during windstorms —with ease.
The shiny black pupa is usually fixed to
the mistletoe-plant amongst the treetops.
where it mostly escapes the attack from
the ichneumon fly.
* # $ *
“Mobiag”: How tropical footballers
train. A colored youth, try-getter of the
Hornets (T.I.) League team, has a remark-
able sidestep, and his handling of the
ball is pretty to watch. When and where
he trained was a mystery—until the other
day. Another player, happening to be
abroad at four o’clock one morning,
came across the champion racing at full
speed in a grove of cocoanut palms, side-
stepping when a collision with one
seemed inevitable. Then he’d lay a
number of cocoanuts in a line on the
ground and run at them, also at top
speed. Taking up a cocoanut in his
stride, he’d toss it over his head and then
pick up the next, and so on. Few inter-
state champions are as keen.
THE BUSH COOK.
“This talk of raising frogs for food,” said Joe,
“it fairly has me beat;
You’d think we hadn’t got enough of things to
roast and boil and eat.
I’ve cooked for bushies half me life, all up
and down old Noo South Wales,
In lots of ways, but, spare me days! I draw the
line at frogs and snails!
“There isn’t much that hops or runs,” said
Joe, as on his pipe he drew,
“I haven't turned to steaming hash or stirred
into an Irish slew.
There isn't much that swims or (lies or skims
the creeks or haunts the bogs
1 haven’t got into the pot, but, struth! I jib at
snails and frogs!
“These flashy restyrongs,” said Joe, “can give
their patrons wot they like;
I'll lay the chaps whose scran I cook would
quick and lively get the spike
If. as a change from even goat or soup from
old marsupials’ tails,
Their plates I filled with frogdegs grilled or
fricassees of slugs and snails.
“These French and Yankees, too,” said Joe,
“may relish things that crawl and croak.
‘Each to his taste,’ the proverb says. It’s just
the same with gipsy folk.
There isn’t much that moos or bleats or whines
or hides in Ifbllow logs
I wouldn’t crash into a hash, but,‘Lord! I’d
shy at snails and frogs!”
x.s.w.
IFORD.


“Cripes, Strawberry , why don't WE go to Hollywood?”
i* *
“Bull-ant Bill”: The world's best
sharpener of cutting instruments, from
razors to crosscuts, pulled into our
Queensland town last week. Literally
pulled in. He was pulling a caravan,
weighing scwt., and containing his
tools, gear and a comfortable bed.
In six years he has hauled it and a
predecessor 4000 Australian miles, from
Melbourne to Bathurst (N.S.W.), thence
to Toowoomba (Q.), where the prede-
cessor was wrecked in a storm. He
skidded number two down the Toll-bar
Range, a fearsome steep even for cars.
"I’m 61,” he fold us as he set the best
edge the old razor has ever had, “but I
could beat any of those barrow-pushers.
Pulled her 25 miles a day often —on a
half-loaf of bread and a plate of por-
ridge. Best six years of my life, pulling
into new country. Can’t understand why
a man wants relief work when he can
independence.” Rupert Oakes
(that s his name) means it, too.
* * * *
“L.L.”: “Tom Willie” (B. 3/7/’35)
should be sure of his own “facts” before
slinging mud at others. He says many
people confuse the fresh-water crayfish
with the yabbie, and proceeds to pull
some author to pieces for his menu of
“crayfish” at the Burrenjuck Dam.
“T.W.” and his author friend are both
dining on the wrong crustacean diet.
There are no crayfish found in fresh
water in Australia. Yabbies and lobsters,
yes; but crayfish, if we must be so darn
particular about our facts, belong to the
deep salt sea.
* * * *
Shark Bay”; “Shivers” seems astray
himself(B. 10/7/’35) when he says that
vVestrahan pearlers are annoyed by “sun-
wrapping their “wings” round
anchor-lines and sliding up and down
them. The sunfish has no wings to wrap
round ropes, and his build —like a vast
tea-tray stood on edge—doesn’t permit
his sliding up and down anything.
“Shivers” has got the sunfish mixed with
the giant ray, which answers all his
specifications. In North Queensland
waters he is dreaded for his playful habit
of grabbing anchor-chains, lifelines or air
tubes and making off with them—some-
times with fatal results to the diver. The
grabbing is done, not with the “wings,”
but with the “claspers” on each side of
the mouth. The brute has been known to
tow a lugger or boat like this for miles
until the rope was cut, being unable, ap-
parently, to let go through fright at the
consequences of his frolic.
* * * ♦
“Marra”: In my ramblings over three
eastern States I have encountered many
varieties of mosquitoes, ranging in color
from black to palest grey. 1 had to go
to Cattai Creek, near Windsor (N.S.W.),
to meet a pure green variety. Any Abo-
liar found these green chaps anywhere
else?
* * * *
“E. D. Creek”: Another tiny kingdom
has fallen in the march of civilisation.
Gente Hermosa, better known, perhaps,
as Swain’s Island, 200 miles north of the
Samoan group, saw the Stars and Stripes
hoisted on May 13. The Jennings family
held it since 1860, and, with the aid
of a few families of Tokelau Islanders,
made it productive. Three miles long and
something over a mile wide, the island
is really an oval strip of land with the
centre a fresh-water lagoon. It is to be a
landing-place for seaplanes and a link in
the trans-Pacific air service.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: I don’t know whether
thresher-sharks fight whales (B. 10/7/’35),
but I do know that porpoises will attack
sharks. I witnessed a thrilling 20-minute
scrap from Bondi
beach away back
in 1908, and what
the porpoise did
to that monster
was cruel. He
was as agile as a
terrier attacking
a cow, and 20
times as fierce.
The shark hadn’t
a chance to turn
round; friend
porpoise always
led from the rear,
shot in like an
arrow and bit.
Then he'd sweep
to one side and
poise himself for
another snap.
Even tually he
surprised me by
his strength, for
he settled his
fangs under the
shark’s throat
and threw him
clean out of the
water and the
shark, remember,
.was., twice his
l.engt h . and
weight. . They were too far out for me
to tell whether the shark was killed, but
I wouldn’t have given tuppence for his
chance of recovery after all that punish-
ment. If it wasn’t a k. 0., it was certainly
not a no-decision fight; the porpoise had
scored every point in the contest.
* * * *
"Kieta”; At Sea Lake (Vic.) recently
a hare was put up, and the two coursing
dogs were slipped. Both hounds were
soon going strong; then one snapped up
a hare, apparently sitting, in its stride,
and went on with it in its mouth. Both
dogs were working the free hare when
they came to a fence. Going through it
the captive hare was knocked from the
dog’s mouth, but the hound went
straight on after the hare ahead, eventu-
ally scoring the kill. For a dog to kill
two hares in the one course must be a
record.
♦ * * *
“Ikey”: No need to leave N. S. Wales
to find river waters refusing to mingle
: (B. 12/6/’35). At Wakool Crossing in
r 1905 the first spring rise of several feet
was caused by Murray flood waters push-
ing the clear water up-stream. The
muddy flood backed up the Wakool
about half a mile a day, the division
between the two being as upright as a
wall and in a perfectly straight line from
bank to bank. The same thing could
occur in other anabranches.
♦ * * *
“Inaha”: Commonsense isn’t so
common. A M.L. man settled in the
country was sought by a neighboring
widow in a great state of perturbation.
“My goat,” she explained, “he won’t
die!” A visit to her house disclosed the
unhappy billy standing in a copperful
of water with a fire roaring merrily be-
neath it. The woman’s idea was to kill
the animal by boiling it up from cold,
a la crayfish, and the water was to serve
the additional purpose of cleansing the
hair, for which the goat was being
slaughtered. The man quickly ended its
torrid misery. Not long afterwards the
lady’s foolishness was further evidenced
by the malodor of her new fur necklet.
* * * ♦
“Cautious”; Bush-bred and city-
educated, I always offer a helping hand
in the country ; I rarely do so in the city.
Why? In nine cases put of ten the
bushman accepts or rejects help with
cheery friendliness; in ninety-nine out
of a hundred cases the city man rejects
it with suspicion or offence. But why ?
* * * *
“Aquila”: Fired, no doubt, by the
deeds of the crows which have been get-
ting their names in the papers as sheep
riders, a Victorian eagle is reported to
have put in a busy morning acquiring
publicity on the same lines. Two men
near Tallangatta saw the bird perched on
the neck of a bellowing bullock which
was galloping towards them. The fowl
sheered off as the bullock neared the
men, who foupd the beast’s neck and
shoulders badly torn. A heifer came in
for similar treatment until the humans
interfered a second time. Leaving the
badly-mauled flapper, the eagle then
picked on a sheep. This time it suc-
ceeded in killing its prey before it was
chivvied off, to be last seen making for
an adjacent mountain range. It is a fine
tale and highly creditable to Victoria, a
State whose inhabitants are generally sup-
posed to be lacking in imagination.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The mummied bodies
recently found in New Guinea caves near
Salamaua (B. 17/7/’35) quite probably
date back 1000 years or more. Chinese
historical records show that, about a.d.
876, a change of national policy caused
an abandonment of the numerous Chinese
colonies which, for centuries, had grown
up from the Philippines south to New
Guinea. After varying periods as petty
kingdoms, they were subdued by the
Sulti and Mindanao fighting seamen. The
Chinese records say that mummification
was usual amongst the “southern sea-
island barbarians” of the day. Similar
mummies have been found in Formosa
and the Philippines. The practice prob-
ably spread from ancient Egypt—it was
never a Chinese habit. Its greatest
elaboration occurred in the Torres Strait
islands —some of their smoked, stuffed,
pearl-eyed cadavers are veritable works
of art. The Sulu slavery system would
not have given the barbarians enough
leisure to prepare their dead, as they did
under (he more kindly Chinese rule.
* * * *
“Nappa Coongy”: Our Tibooburra
(N.S.W.) abo. and half-caste stockmen
dearly love playing about with their
faces. They leave the station clean-
shaven, and come in from a mustering
trip with full beards and moutaches.
Then they run through all possible per-
mutations and combinations —sideboards
and moustache, sideboards without mous-
tache, walrus moustache, eleven-a-sidcr
and Captain Keltic beard. I’ve even seen
one Imperial and a Ronald (Dolman.
The only one I haven’t seen is the old
English chin-beard with the rest of the
face clean-shaven.
♦ * * ♦
“F.H.S.”: When dingo scalps brought
a ten-bob bounty in N.S.W. I poisoned a
half-eaten calf and awaited results. Next
morning I found two dead ’uns, and
hung their scalps on a stump while I
took the horse to water. Returning, I
found no scalps but a gorged goanna -
perched on the stump. Enraged, I
grabbed him by the tail, swung him up
into the air and was about to smash him
against the stump when 1 remembered
that I was a J.P. and that goannas were
protected. At the same time I wished
to recover my quid’s worth of scalps.
I swung that lizard round violently until
he must have wondered what kind of a
willy-willy had caught him. The clerk
at the P.P. Board wondered about the
smell when I cashed in.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: There is nothing like the
turtle for clinging to life. Have seen
one beheaded and the carapace removed,
yet the heart beat vigorously for days.
Even when the flesh was cut into handy
slices for the frying-pan it shivered
away from the knife, and when sprinkled
with salt executed a miniature jazz.
Binghi, always rather ghoulish in his
treatment of game, habitually carves the
turtle whilst still alive ; his reason is that,
if he kills the thing before carving, he
will catch no more that season.
s|< Jjc Sjc *
"J.D.S."; Burrawong nuts as whistles
(B. 3/7/’35)? In my early days in Woy
Woy (N.S.W.) an old lady told me that
the kernels were used for making
flour. The shells were cracked with
stones and the kernels taken whole to a
running stream in the mountains, where
they were left for several days. Later
dried, they were crushed into small cakes
and baked in hot ashes. An old German
in 1921 started a factory in the district,
where he made a very palatable “corn-
flour” from the pulp inside the huge
bulbs that are always found beneath the
plant. Death put an end to his experi-
ments.
“Back in a jiffy, Theo — I'm just taking Willie for a ride."
PLOUGHING SONG.
I follow the plough with my brown arms bare
to the shoulders,
And a song on my lips and the wind in my
tumbled hair;
Well to be me, while the dawn in the red
cast smoulders
And the dew in the fold of the furrows shines
faintly fair!
Over the ridge with the patient team slowly
treading
We go; and I glimpse past the soft ears that
rise and dip
The rose flares of morn on the breast of the
far hills spreading,
Like the painted sails of some goblin treasure
ship.
With the salt lines locked in my palms ’neath
the curved plough-handles
1 follow the amber trough that the bright
share cleaves;
And the small wheel runs with a gleam as of
silver sandals
Over the thorn-pricked armor of thistle leaves.
We reach the headland and halt, and with
wings a-flutter
I he magpies crowd to the steaming furrow's
side;
While over the slope, as though spilled through
some burnished shutter.
The sun glows down in a rippling yellow
tide.
TASMANIA.
PLERS ST. JUST.


COLONIAL MUTU A L NEWS
BRILLIANT FUTURE
FOR TOUNG BARRISTER
When he was admitted to the Bar this year it was
the culmination of an outstanding Scholastic career;
and authorities predict that this young man will
attain the highest honors in his profession.
Many years ago this young man’s father took out
an Assurance Policy providing a guaranteed sum
for the education of his son, and as a result of
this, the boy was enabled to have the best education
obtainable to fit him for his position in life.
Particulars of the terms of such a contract may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Principal Office—Melbourne. C. B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary
BRANCHES IN SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON. C 242
ķ
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only. Single Rooms from 4/6.
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,"
SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Sucker-lamb Handicaps.
“Seenitall”: In the sucker-lamb indus-
try Maoriland can lick us every time.
Its lops are no better than ours ; but it
never has to truck them long distances.
Our main killing and freezing works
arc centralised in the cities. Smaller con-
cerns for treating sucker-lambs in the
country are the ideal. Maoriland realised
this long ago, and gave itself a flying
start.
A sucker-lamb loses up to 51b. in a
250-mile trucking—say 2s. 6d. on export
price —plus any weight lost whilst await-
ing slaughter.
Buyers pay no extra price for lambs
carefully handled from birth. The man
who dogs and prods his sucker-lambs
gets as much as the careful one. Hence
the purple marks which Smithfield sees
on our carcasses.
The maximum trucking distance to
each centre should not exceed 60 miles.
1 am not advocating the abolition of
Homebush or any other big killing
centres—they have their special func-
tions—but for sucker-lambs, which arc
most sensitive to blemish, country kill-
ing should be the rule.
Sheep and Cost Accounts.
“Glencoe”: Our cost' accounts for
1934, kept mainly to discover the sum to
be added to purchase price in order to
fix sale price, revealed the following:
A mixed flock, including lambs, can be
carried for 2}d. per head per month.
Ewes with lambs at foot work out at
sd. per ewe.
These figures were for land valued at
£6 per acre, near Boggabri (N.S.W.),
carrying a ewe per acre on natural
grass.
Interest on investment was included,
but shearing or droving expenses were
not.
It would be interesting to learn how
this compares with cheaper land and
lighter stocking or with hand-feeding.
Nodules and Hairworms.
“Nai”; The Mac Master Laboratory
(Sydney University) has made great
strides in the technique of treating worm
nodules and short-hair worms in sheep.
Many drugs have been tested, but only
copper sulphate and nicotine sulphate
showed good results. The best method
formerly achieved for nodule treatment
under the auspices of the C.S.I.R. called
for enema doses of four grains sodium
arsenitc injected with a bluestone
drenching gun, but it was not without its
dangers, and was advised only for ex-
treme cases, while there was uncertainty
as to whether it was effective, except in
the large bowel.
Any drench treatment, therefore, is
well worth experiment.
Dipping Methods.
“Albarmount”: “G.F.D.” (B. 10/7/’35)
errs in saying that sheep will “baulk at
the catching-pen when you’re lifting
them in.”
Sheep are not faced with a ducking, as
in the slide and walk-in dipping sys-
tems, and readily enter the catching-pen,
especially if a few are left in as decoys.
And, if it takes a Camera to lift a
50lb. wether into a dip, how do little
farmers get 1801 b. bugs of wheat on to
a sft. waggon? It is easier, and much
quicker, to lift in a 601 b. wether than to
push a 401 b. stubborn ewe through a
6ft. forcing-race.
Lifting sheep a few inches is little
harder than upending them.
Black Disease.
“Okcn”: The Victorian Live Stock
Superintendent has reported to the
Minister against the proposal to allow
farmers to vaccinate their own sheep
against black disease instead of having
it" done by a veterinary surgeon.
The objection is based on the necessity
for accurate diagnosis before treatment,
while a visit by a veterinary is doubly
insisted upon because it assures that the
farmer will be left under no misappre-
hension about the dangers of the disease
and the measures needed to eradicate
snails and fluke. Subsequent inspection
is recommended to see that measures in-
sisted on. are carried out.
It is the safest plan ; and, as usual with
such diseases, prevention is better than
cure. If there were no snail harbors
there would be no snail-borne diseases.
Universal Tally.
“Jumbuck”: “Murrawong” is right (B.
26/6/’35). In Queensland, where shearing
contractors hold sway, the “universal”
system wouldn’t get a hearing. It doesn’t
tend to lower costs, and it doesn’t assist
one iota towards the better get-up of the
clip, nor does it mean that sheep are
better shorn.
It is not the fast shearer who toma-
hawks his sheep, but the bustling learner,
and it is against nature for a fast shearer
to apply the brake when it means losing
money.
Anyway, the system introduces some-
thing tantamount to daily wages for
shearers a scheme which graziers
wouldn’t listen to if it were suggested by
the union.
Enzootic Ataxia in Lambs.
“X.T.”: This is one of the diseases
which infect W.A. herds about which
there is still a lot to learn. It has been
long a theory that excessive calcium in
grazing on country of cretaceous origin
has led to the storage of lead by ewes,
which threw if off to their progeny in
the milk.
Dr. H. W. Bennetts, of the Westralian
Agricultural Department, has been work-
ing on this theory, but it is not yet
proved. Nevertheless, he has had satis-
factory results from dosages of
ammonium chloride as a prophylactic
lick.
From a large-scale test made at Dan-
darragan, it seems that 16 p.c. amm. ch.
at the rate of 4oz. to soz. per week to
gestating ewes leaves their progeny ataxia-
free under infective conditions. Even
] ioz. per week to the ewes had its effect
on the lambs.
Dairy Hygiene.
“Silky Bag”: Much of poor butter
flavor is due to contamination before the
cream reaches the factory.
This has led to the installing of
pasteurisers.
The dairyman can avoid the need for
sterilising by care on the farm—even
when he has to use earth floors in the bails.
The first essential is to keep the floor
damp, and provide against the inflow of
yard dust. When a cow is bailed up,
a few' vigorous brush-strokes on her
flanks will remove particles that may be
flieked into the bucket by the milker’s
head. Washing and drying the udder
(brush the top part) and discarding the
first teatfuls allow the milk a chance to
remain clean ; domed buckets also help.
Loss of tinning from buckets, vats,
separator surfaces, seams and dints in
the bucket are a prolific source of
trouble, because rougher surfaces pro-
vide a home for bacteria.
All this sounds paltry—but it is not in
its effect on butter quality.
Droving Fat Cattle.
“Beefo”: I don't agree with • Short-
horn” (B. 26 /6 / *35) that a bullock
wastes Icwt. to Ifcwt. on the Birdsvillc-
Marrcc (S.A.) drove in normal seasons.
I drove down that track for years, and
in spile of gibbers and sandy wastes I’ve
had fats that held their condition and
even put on weight with the track at its
best.
In drought, of course, the policy had
to be “hurry up,” and weight was lost.
Usually, with feed and water plentiful,
we let the cattle go at nights. They
would invariably be all present at day-
light and full as ticks.
Bad as the reputation of the Birdsville-
Marree track is, it holds one Aus-
tralian record. Down this route walked
the “Monkira monster,” a bullock that
dressed just short of 20001 b. (over
32001 b. live weight) in Adelaide.
Potato Blight.
“Argo”: A lot of the blight which
affects Australian potatoes could be pre-
vented with a little care and forethought.
Phytopthora infestans has two stages —
it destroys foliage and later the tubers,
either in the ground with wet rot or in
the store with dry. Cold does not kill
it —even in Canada’s severe winters ex-
periment has shown that it will live in
the soil on tubers.
One of the first signs on a young plant
is a whitish mildew which has grown
from a diseased tuber through the soil.
It appears when the plant is 6in. to Sin.
high for about 2in. above the soil. There
are thousands of spores in this fungus.
They are soon spread by wind or rain
to neighboring plants. Here they grow,
and in from two days onwards the leaves
arc marked with brown blight spots
which underneath breed more spores to
be scattered. So the extension goes on
every week. Some spores are washed
into the ground and adhere to young
potatoes. One diseased plant to the acre
is enough to infect a crop.
In dealing with blight, the best cure
is to have disease-free seed. Rotation
also helps. So does Bordeaux mixture
for preventing foliage infection. Where
(here is blight in the district precaution-
ary spraying is well worth while—first
when plants -are 6in. to Sin. high, then
at intervals of about 14 days, but oftener
in wet or cloudy weather.
To make the spray, mix 401 h. of
copper sulphate with 40gal. water. Then
put 401 b. hydrated lime (slaked lime is
no good unless quite fresh) in 40gal.
water ; keep separate. When ready to
spray, pour 4gal. of the copper sulphate
mixture into 30gal. water, stirring thor-
oughly. Add 6gal. of the hydrated lime
solution. Pour both mixtures through a
muslin filter to prevent clogging of spray
nozzles. The stock solutions will keep
indefinitely, but the complete Bordeaux
loses its strength overnight.
For spraying, a four-row machine with
one down-pointing and two direct-spray
nozzles per row, 1501 b. to 2001 b. pres-
sure, is ideal on larger farms. On small
areas, a barrel-sprayer, horse-drawn, with
a hand pump, should do the job.
Lastly, a delay before digging tubers
until vines are dead pays. Digging time
is one of the most potent times for in-
fection. Spores will live on dead vines
not more than a week.
Phalaris Tuberosa.
“Spring”: It is drought-resisting, yet
flourishes in heavy-rainfall areas. It pro-
duces heavily in autumn and winter,
combines well with sub. clover, and is
very nourishing.
In S.A., at the Waite Institute, one-year
plants from seed penetrated a heavy clay
subsoil to a depth of 6ft. 4in.
In Tasmania, according to Mr. F. W.
Hicks, district agricultural officer, stray
horses ate the plot bare three months
after sowing, Jt was shut off for seed
purposes, and caterpillars attacked it.
The season was unusually dry, but the
p.t. flourished. It was scythed down m
March. By the end of June it had an
average height of two feet. It was recut.
By October it had to be cut again to
avoid rankness.
The plot was then put down to seed
once more.
P.t. makes good stack for hay, and it
seems to suit most Australian climates
except the high tropics.
Killing Skeleton Weed.
“Valerin”: The theory that lucerne’s
greater viability enables it to smother the
pest may not be strictly correct. It may
be that nitrogen stored in the soil by
lucerne may poison the weed.
Experiments with sulphate of ammonia
on infested areas have killed seedlings
and lowered the vitality of the parent
plants.
Unluckily the tests have been carried
out in a haphazard way, but they have
opened a line of investigation worth
following.
The idea of controlling weed pests
with fertilisers is not new. It has been
proved overseas that kainit, a potash
salt, will destroy thistles on farm land
when applied in spring to the leaves.
“W.McD.”: I believe that the best
means of destroying pests on arable
lands may be the rotary hoe, an Aus-
tralian invention.
In. the S. Gippsland (Vic.) hills, enter-
prising men arc buying and cleaning up
land abandoned to bracken, blackberries
and rabbits with the hoe, and sowing :t
with grass.
The hoe, doing 150 revs, per minute,
cuts the weeds into fragments and leaves
a good seedbed for pasture.
If this can be done on steep hillsides
with a 30in. to 40in. rainfall, which en-
courages a prolific growth of pests, it
should spell doom to skeleton weed on
level wheat areas with a 20in. rainfall.
A neighbor who purchased a hoe and
sold his horses was at first voted mad ;
now nearly all the farmers here in the
Wandin (Vic.) district use rotaries.
Good Lucerne and Witches’-broom.
“Stump Jump”: I cannot agree with
“Mangaratta” (B. 3/ 7 / ’35) that dry
weather is a chief cause of witches’-
broom infection. Soil quality seems to
have more to do with it. Some good
lucerne soils do not show witches'-broom.
whilst poorer ones do, yet both are
irrigated.
The cause may be a virus which acts
when conditions favor development.
Dry weather alone needs to be pro-
longed and severe to rob lucerne of its
vitality.
I think “Mangaratta’s” soils may
have had some inherent deficiency—
oContinued on page 24.)


X-. 1
m
M
m\i
V»v'
svvsa
M
SI
/
X
i
i
I
i
i
ii'A
fvv^\
mi
/m
m
iV/i
SW
N;,';:
i
».
i
iffiM
up
£i
* '
ymrhx
M •'■'■ ,; - Vv ' , : , - ,; .
---
(*s
'
«► .
THIS WINTER
GET
iTLANt
Wj
ff
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD
C 14.48.35
FLEEING
from the cold !
AWAY go the birds to warmer lands . . winter is
here againl And yet even when the weather
is bitterly cold you can still start instantly on
Atlantic Ethyl.
This modern fuel vaporises in a flash ... it burnt
evenly, eliminating knock and strain completely ...
it releases more power, giving you higher speeds
and more miles per gallon!
For Summer starts this Winter—
get Atlantic Ethyl .


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
jTuTfytilZeiz/iL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
0
7^
: . /vs
•I. i /fr >
A
»v
l'Oal '■s* ',
s>
DESIGNED FOR LIGHT-
WEIGHT EASE
The pliancy and ankle-bracing
comfort of this lightweight boot
make it one of the easiest-fitting
of all models. Its sole of
toughest leather wears splen-
didly. The upper preserves its
smart shape and appearance.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 447.
k
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
iCllent, age 19$, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks,
r „ 21 4, 6 „ in 5 mths.
. „ 20. 3| „ in 16 days.
„ „ 30, „ 2 in 4 weeks. I
m 40, U „ in 6 ..
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 jins.
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s.
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
ROSS SYSTEM
NEVEB FAILS
Malcolm Poss
Convincing Testimony
fid. stamp. '
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box 16.)
how I
ended my
stomach
trouble
ķ
“ I can eat what I please
and digest it with ease.”
If you suffer from indigestion, if you
cannot enjoy a meal without pain, wind,
distension, and a feeling of weakness and
low spirits, let nothing deter you from
trying * Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It is the
supreme remedy for stomach trouble,
with over 20 years’ proof of its unfailing
efficacy. Perhaps you are even now
dreading your next meal. Then why
not make it the occasion for putting
‘ Bisurated ' Magnesia to the test ? Get
a bottle of * Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder
or tablets, from your chemist and take
a little after your meal. Eat whatever
you fancy. The result will be a revelation
to you. The contents of your stomach will
be made as bland and soothing as milk,
instead of turning acid as before. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISU RATED'
MACNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
♦ -
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the * Bismag ’ Trade Mark
ĸ
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
MARKETS
going begging
in the
WEST
Have you exploited the rural
market* of Western Australia
methodically? I>o you realise
their tremendous purchasing
power? CAM offers a regular,
effective and economical means
of contacting these hit her! o
neglected communities.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
T’ertli,
Western Australia.
mm
m
m
•'■•-V 5;
ItI
? different
(OMW
'
MA
m
100% PENNSYLVANIA
AT ITS BEST
NEPTUNE OILC?
LIMITED ALL STATES
f FHAT Veedol Motor Oil has
x gained fame all over the
world is reflected in the fact
that Veedol can be secured in
over 65 different countries—
Veedol is the choice of mil-
lions of motorists, because
they themselves have made
comparisons and discovered
its superior performance.
If you want complete
motor protection
economy smoothness of
operation easy starting
then use Veedol! It
costs no more than other
oils.
100% Pure Pennsylvania
At Its Best.
perhaps lack of lime and other minerals,
or a physical structure which prevented
the plant rooting deeply.
So far the Hunter River (N.S.W.)
lucerne seed strains, with those of the
same origin from the Lachlan and Mur-
rumbidgee, seem to have given better
results than imported species.
The plot from which seed comes
should be inspected if possible.
Some prefer green-and-brown or red
seed, but trial is the best proof. The leafi-
ness and fineness of stem of each strain —
otherwise health and production —are the
main factors.
1 prefer to get seed from a distant
..source —a similar ruling holding as for
wheat. I also like fairly plump grain
from natural-rainfall flats, especially for
dry-country work. Buying the first seed
available, even if cheap, is a bad mis-
take. Lucerne may be in for 10 years,
where a wheat crop is only sown for
one, so the value of selection is obvious.
A germination test, by placing a little
seed between damp cotton-wool near the
Stove for two days, is worth while.
Super, and Pastures.
“El V.”: A couple of weeks ago I
toured the County of Cumberland —
round the outer ring of Sydney —and was
astonished at the quantity of good land
which seemed to have been eaten to
poverty and never dosed to cure its ill-
ness.
A few enterprising cattlemen have got
hold of properties along the Nepean
which have been bled dry for a century,
and with sub.-clover, rye grass and fer-
tiliser have put a new complexion on
them, but other owners seem to be
fatalists.
The same sort of thing has been going
on over all the older settled parts of
Australia. I suggest that some farmers
whose land is “failing” have a look
at the results which have been obtained
through decent pasture treatment within
the past few years so that they may learn
that there is a small fortune waiting for
them in the seed and super, bags.
At the Waite Institute (S.A.), the hay
yield per acre was increased 67 p.c, aver-
age for the three seasons ended 1931 by
the use of 2cwt. of super, properly ap-
plied. The yield per acre under grazing
was improved 50 p.c. The number of
sheep maintained on the top-dressed
pasture was 60 p.c. greater than in the
previous three years.
At Kybybolite (S.A.) four annual
super, dressings increased pasture output
fourfold by comparison with a control
field untreated, and perennial grasses
were gradually wiped out by legumes—
clovers increased 70 p.c.—and annuals.
Protein content of the pasture im-
proved 19.6 p.c. in the last year of the
tests, and phosphorus 700 p.c. for the
period, largely due to flora variations.
Though no variation in wool or live
weight was noticed in sheep on the
treated pastures, carrying capacity in-
creased two and a half times.
Corky-pit Causes.
“E.”; A step forward in the treatment
of “corky pit,” which is the bane of
many applegrowers, is the discovery by
H. O. Askew, of the Cawthron Insti-
tute, Nelson (M.L.), that pitted apples
contain only a third of the boron con-
tent of a healthy apple.
The problem now is to supply the defi-
ciency. Boron is an element which is
found in nature only in combination--
in borax, tourmaline, etc. —and it is not
easily isolated.
Moreover, too much boron is as bad
as too little. Even a healthy apple con-
tains only a dozen or so boron parts per
I, of dry matter ; and the fruit
world already knows, from experience in
California and elsewhere, what happens
to citrus trees grown with irrigation
water contaminated with borax from
the packing sheds.
It will now be interesting to see
whether the trouble can be better
remedied through the soil or by tree in-
jection.
Dock Control.
“Lion”: Dock is supposed to prevent
bloat. It may, but its seed cannot be
cleaned out of lucerne seed, and hence
it can be a plague.
Being perennial and having long tap-
roots, cutting off below the ground is
useless. The taproot will sprout again.
Where infestation is light the best de-
structive method is to pull out by hand,
or to cut the plant below the ground-
level and sprinkle the taproot with
coarse salt. Be sparing with the salt —
it will kill grass as well as dock.
Regular fallowing and heavy cropping
with oats for about two years are effective
with thicker growth.
Then sow lucerne or some other per-
manent pasture. Otherwise, the dock
will soon gain a fresh hold.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bimbo”; A handy trough for feeding
chaff to sheep can be made from old
railway sleepers, placed 18in. apart on
edge along each side of a plain wire
fence. Nail light battens across the
sleepers to hold them in place. Sheep
can’t get into this type of trough.
“Pick”: Waste roughage from culti-
vation paddocks, with salt added, makes
passable cattle fodder. Run it through
the silage cutter. Put it in an old tank
or barrel and cover it with salt —about
a handful for every 10 cow-feeds. Pour
enough warm water over the straw to
evenly distribute the salt. Let it soak
for 12 hours before feeding. If not
readily eaten in the feed-boxes, add more
salt.
“Bimbo”: Grass seed mixed with super,
is apt to lose fertility if left too long.
Sow the day you mix.
“Mt. Holly”: As an insurance against
drought drop kurrajong seeds in hollow,
dead stumps. The protection of the
stump gives the young plant a chance to
become established. When feeding kur-
rajong to stock lop as many branches as
possible in preference to falling the tree.
A kurrajong will grow fresh foliage
while a few leaves remain untouched.
“S.K.”: A binder with canvases re-
moved will cut pasture crops for ensilage.
The material is left in narrow windrows
easily gathered for carting. The binder
saves a rake and a man on the job.
“Merch”; Try this on deep burrows
in heavy soils that cost heavily to dig.
Cut netting for each “hole,” leaving
about Ift. margin all round the edges.
Peg it down with No. 8 wire every Sin.
This allows bunny to force his way out
of the burrow. Run over your work
night and morning with the dogs. The
homing rabbit, in a hurry, almost cer-
tainly will nosedive on top of the netting.
Results from this method, if properly
carried out, are better and cheaper than
those obtained with traps.
Failures to establish lucerne
on sound ground are not always due to
season, faulty seed or preparation. Bac-
teria must be present in the soil.
Bacteria may be had from State Agri-
cultural Departments, or inoculation can
be effected by taking soil from an estab-
lished lucerne paddock, letting it dry
without artificial heat, breaking it up
finely, and drilling in about 2cwt. of it
to the acre.
“The 0.D.”: There seems to be a hint
to the small sheep-farmer in the experi-
ence of Wickham and Candy, S.A. part-
ners, who rugged seven out of 12 lambs
for market with old manure bags as a
test. The rugged made 30s. 7d. a head,
the unrugged 275. lOd. The rugged
killed 541 b., the unrugged 471 b. Wool
on rugged sheep was remarkably clean,
grit and burr being practically negli-
gible. Fleeces were more even in
character and more stylish, the return
higher.
“Bimbo”: What is the heaviest weight
recorded of a dressed sheep—rams
barred? A three-year-old Romney
Marsh wether at Tumby Bay (S.A.)
recently dressed 1701 b.


HOTEL
Bent Phillip
METROPOLE
I Young Streets, Sydney
■
Af
m
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE." Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted lo Sell. —Experienced truck-driver,
refs;, sober, honest, good appearance. Bedford,
this office.” —Adelaide “Advertiser.”
A wage slave?
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Quiet Change.
“Was the football match postponed?”
Mrs. Goalpost asked her husband.
“Not at all,” replied Goalpost. “An
excellent game!”
“Well, what’s the matter? It’s the first
lime this season you’ve come home with-
out black eyes or bruises.”
“I didn't referee to-day,” explained
Goalpost. “The local team was a man
short, so 1 played instead.”
S. Esq.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Consistency.
As the alarm-clock rang out insis-
tently he reached across and savagely
banged the lever over to the “off" ; then.
“ Wot've I got I say about the housing question?
Well , I maintain"-
“Two 'omes."
with much yawning and stretching, he
turned out of bed, growling at the neces-
sity of having to get up in the dark
and go to work. It was inhuman, he
swore, for a man to have to get up at
such an hour just to be in time for the
7.30 whistle. Why shouldn’t a chap be
able to sleep in until it was daylight?
While he dressed he kept up a running
fire of curses about early-rising for some-
body else’s benefit. Just before he sat
down to breakfast he went to the milk-
box and reached for the can. As he
lifted the lid his hair bristled.
“That blasted milk-bloke late again!”
he roared. “If the lazy cow can’t get
here any earlier than this we’ll get some-
one else who can!”
Keo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘The man that runs away with another
man’s wife is a scoundrel,’ says a preacher.
But one cannot help admiring his
heroism.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Children should not refer to their mother
as "Ma,” ’ says a school-teacher."
Mum’s the word.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although the property is unfenced, he has
the highest regard for it.” — “Telegraph.”
In fact, his admiration is unbounded.
“Mrs. Lvons, in a speech at the Canadian
Club, said that Australian women were doing
the spadework of political life."
But it’s the men that have to fork out.
4* + 4* 4 1
“ The Black, Brown and Blue Shirts are
gradually vanishing from the public eye,* says
a writer.”
We always reckoned the laundries d
get ’em in the long run.
My Barber on the Trouble in
Abyssinia.
“Yes,” said my barber. “It’ll cost them
Eyetalians a lot o’ money to get their
soldiers and gear across to the war,"
1 agreed,
“Anyhow,” he continued, “what’s Mus-
solini want to fight for? What’ve the
Abbersinians done to him ? The pore
cows.”
His razor slid across my chin threaten-
ingly.
“What I want to know is why Eng-
land don’t stop him. Why France don’t
stop him.”
I protested that nothing short of war
could achieve this.
“What about economic
sanctums? That’d fix him."
I doubted this, but kept
silent.
He went on, “And
America oughter do some-
thing. Roosevelt could stop
him easy. All he’s got to
do is refuse to let the
Eyetalians go through the
Panama Canal and Musso-
lini’d be done properly.”
I suggested that Musso-
lini might find some other
way of getting his troops t©
the scene of the war.
“Oh, well, p’raps he would,
p’raps he would; but, you
mark my words, he’d pretty
soon be looking for some
way to get ’em home again.
He wouldn't have it all his
own way. Those Zulus are
darned good fighters.”
Uco.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Disaster.
The group in the park
stared up admiringly as the
aeroplane soared skywards.
Up, up, up it zoomed,
the sunlight flashing on it,
a commanding sight against
a background of azure, A
murmur of delight ran
through the group as it
reached the zenith of its
ascent, seemed to poise a
moment in mid-air, then swooped earth-
wards in a wide, graceful curve.
Now it was mounting again. But sud-
denly there came a cry of anxiety from
below. Something had gone wrong! It
was heeling over on one side ; it was
falling—falling like a stricken bird!
Down it came, spinning in a devastat-
ing nosedive. It was only a matter of
seconds, then —crash! Wings and frame
lay over the earth in a tangled mass of
wreckage. All was over!
With a cry of dismay, a little boy
ran from among the onlookers, and.
weeping bitterly, picked up the remains
of his toy.
Nat.
4* 4* *l* *l*
“The mere mention of the word filled a
Chinese with terror, and made a young woman
in a cabaret show surprise and excitement."
—“Labor Daily.”
It’s easy enough to scare a Chinese,
but what a word it must have been to
make that young woman show surprise!
4* 4* 4* *l*
“No wise punter would bet with a drunk
bookmaker." — “Age.”
Of course not! He'd invest with the
teetotalisator.
* * * 4*
’Flu.
“influenza attacks different people in different
ways."— “Sun.”
The popular idea is that the patient
feels half-dead, pronounces words
queerly, drinks rum and lemon, and goes
to bed for the week-end. However, on
investigation, 1 found that this procedure
was the exception rather than the rule.
First there was the cashier. After
he had been away for a week with ’flu,
it was found that his books weren’t too
good either. Then we found that in-
stead of taking rum and lemon he’d
taken a trip to Honolulu.
When the office boy’s mother rang to
say that he had ’flu, we naturally feared
he would be affected in the same way.
Our fears were groundless. He was
yelling himself hoarse at a football
match.
Then there’s the case of the man next
door. A particularly vicious attack pre-
vented his leaving with his wife for a
holiday at his mother-in-law’s. The poor
fellow was so overcome by the ailment
“Who th ' hell blew that whistle ?"
that he took the same blonde to the
theatre three nights running.
Come to think of it, I believe Fm feel-
ing ’fluey myself. It’s the only way I
can get rum into the house.
Sef.
* * -I- 4-
The Reason.
Expectantly the heiress sat wailing for
her suitor, her lover, her strong man of
the people. Impatiently she glanced at
her platinum watch. She was not accus-
tomed to being kept waiting.
He entered. Her petulance disappeared
beneath a flood of warm solicitude as
she noted the grey hollows beneath his
eyes, the skin taut over his cheeks. Less
handsome than of yore, his obvious
suffering had ennobled his features.
“What is it, my darling?” she inquired
tenderly, easing him into an armchair
three sizes too big for his emaciated
form.
“Since I last saw you, my pet, I have
not eaten.”
“But you mustn’t do that. It isn’t as
though I had spurned you.”
“I know you love me, sweet. It isn’t
that. I’m broke.”
M.C.
Saturation Point.
/ let her have her own sweet will
And studied her submissively.
/ tried my best to please her; still,
She heartlessly rejected me.
I petted, praised and pampered her,
And daily more indulgent grew.
I met her whims without demur
And gratified her wishes, too.
But, though to heights sublime I rose
A nd spent on her my hard-earned pelf,
I failed to please her, I suppose,
Because. I let her please herself !
P.O.M.C.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
IV.
Mr. Lyons sends a Chain Letter to the
Taxpayers .
Circular. 1,000,000 posted (post free
at taxpayers’ expense).
ADVANCE AUSTRALIA.
“Many a mickle makes a muckle.’
Joseph Aloysius Lyons, Esq.,
Canberra.
Joseph A. Lyons, Esq,,
Canberra.
J. Aloysius Lyons, Esq.,
Canberra.
J. A. Lyons, Esq.,
Canberra.
Mr. Lyons, P.M.,
Canberra.
Joe Lyons, Esq.,
Canberra.
Honest Joe,
Canberra.
Bring Prosperity to Australia.
This chain was started in the hope of
bringing prosperity to you and to Aus-
tralia.
Do you want to help your country?
Of course you do! What patriotic Aus-
tralian doesn't?
Well, here’s a way you can help your
country and at the same time help your-
self.
It’s quite simple.
Copy out this list 100 times, omitting
the first name and adding your own at
the bottom. Send these copies to 100 of
your friends.
Also, and don’t forget this.
Send £1 to the person whose name you
cross out, as a prosperity donation. You
see the idea? As the lists are passed on
your name will gradually come to the
top. Meanwhile, you just sit down and
watch Prosperity arrive.
By the time J. Aloysius Lyons. Esq.,
disappears from the list (provided your
friends and their friends and their
friends’ friends don’t cheat) the entire
national debt will be wiped out, and
there‘11 be a tidy little surplus over.
By the time Honest Joe gets his divi-
dend of £1.000,000,000,000,000,000 Aus-
tralia will be sitting on top of the world.
That’s where you come in, for by the
very next mail after that you’ll receive
100,000,000,000,000,000,000 letters, each
containing cheques, postal notes, money
orders, drafts, postage stamps, gold,
silver or chattels to the value of £1, in
return for your original outlay of £1.
Truly, Patriotism Pays.
Will you do your bit? Of course you
will!
Send that £1 at once.
Simple faith is worth more than Nor-
man blood.
JASBY.
Precaution.
Love at first sight it was, my sweet ;
By your shy charm was / beguiled ,
And my enchantment was complete
When, meeting my quick glance, you
smiled.
My interest your beauty seized,
Your friendliness my fancy took;
But, dearest, I’m immensely pleased
I paused to take a second look!
P. M.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote. or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton. Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and P 4
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young butcher, Vic., good shopman, just
finished fourth year, wants work anywhere.—
7660.
Foreman fitter-mechanic, exp. driving and
maintenance of tractors, motor-launches, Diesel
engines, copra drying, concrete work and
mining, 15 years tropics, not subject to malaria,
requires position North Q’land or New Guinea.
—7625.
Young man (28), qualified carpenter, all-
round farming exp., wants position on sheep
or cattle station anywhere in Australia. —7639.
Mining engineer, with 10-head stamper bat-
tery, tailings and goldmine, requires assistance
to work ’em.—763o.
To buy Those Were the Days, by Arthur
Reid—7626.
To buy instruction-book for model M four-
cyl. Samson tractor. —7617.
To buy parts Nos. 7 and 9 of “The World’s
Famous Pictures.” —7584.
Whereabouts of performers with Fitzgerald
Bros.’ Circus, particularly Martyn Hagan and
Lucy Frazer. —7640.
To buy, and obtain information concerning,
controls, plate numbers, etc., of M.L. issues
of postage stamps prior to May, 1935. —7694.
To buy Such Is Life, by Tom Collins; The
Red Pagan, by A. G. Stephens; Fair Girls and
Grey Horses, by W. H. Ogilvie; At Dawn and
Dusk, by V. J. Daley; Castro’s Last Sacrament,
by Albert Dorrington; and Maoriland and
Other Verses, by Arthur H. Adams. —7718.
To buy Pacific Peril. —76B3.
Words of verse “A Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland.” —7715.
Information Sought.
(1) Has Joe Louis, the negro heavyweight
who beat Camera, been boxing long ? (2)
Is that his right name ? (3) What chance has
he of meeting Braddock for the world’s heavy-
weight championship ? —7689.
(1) He began boxing as an amateur last year,
and, after winning the United States national
light-heavyweight championship, had his first
professional fight on July 4, 1934. Before
fighting Camera he had taken part in 19 con-
tests, for 19 wins, 17 of them by a knock-
out. (2) His name is Joseph Louis Barrow.
(3) Louis is to meet Max Baer next September.
It is probable that .the winner will meet
Braddock.
sjc sJj :}; sjj
(1) How many times did the negroes Sam
Langford and Sam McVea fight in Australia,
and with what results ? (2) Are both still
living; if so, where ? —7692.
(1) Seven times. McVea won the first fight
on points, two were drawn, and Langford won
the others. (2) Langford is still living, in New
York. McVea died in 1918.
* * * *
(1) The baulk-line on my billiard table is not
in its correct place. How can I remove the
existing line, which is in pencil, without damag-
ing the cloth ? (2) How many “spots” ore
there on a billiard table ? —7582.
(1) Don’t attempt to erase the existing line.
Make a new line in heavy pencil. In time the
other will fade out. (2) There are six spots
on the table; one at each end of the baulk-line,
one in the centre of the baulk-line, one in the
centre (termed the centre spot), one down the
table (the pyramid spot), and the last one,
near the top cushion, the billiards spot. The
pyramid spot is mostly used in snooker, as
that is where the apex of the triangle goes.
Placing is fully explained in the Rules of
Billiards.
* * * *
How did the term “cocky” as applied to
small farmers originate ? —7645.
It was applied by squatters to newcomers
who settled on the best portions of runs,
cleaned them out, and flew off to pastures new,
like cockatoos. A distinction was drawn
between “cockatoo-farmers” and “ground-
parrots,” the latter being farmers on a very
small scale.
* * * *
The best way to sweeten tobacco-smoking
pipes ? My pipes become foul very quickly.
Cleaning with ether and methylated spirit keeps
them sweet for only three or four days. Any
better method of cleaning? —7462.
Try to discover the cause of the pipe
becoming strong or foul. If the trouble should
come from the tobacco being too moist, change
the brand, and the same applies to the pipe
if it should be made of soft root. Should you
be a wet smoker, use a pipe with a wider and
more comfortable mouthpiece. Pipes should
be “rested” frequently. A man with two or
three pipes in commission, which are used
alternately, will get better satisfaction than he
who smokes one continuously. There is really
no royal road to keeping pipes sweet; all that
can be done is to use an ordinary pipe-cleaner
frequently. The occasional use of a little
chloroform on the cleaner is beneficial.
* * * *
Suitable aboriginal names for a block of
flats that is being built close to the beach and
will have a good view of the ocean and sur-
rounding country? —7sB3.
Cabarita, “by the water”; Elanora, "home
by the sea”; Elouera. “by the sea” and “good
camping-ground”; Goondiwindi, “water coming
over rocks”; Gralunga, “a sandy spot”; lluka,
“near the sea”; Monomeeth, “beauty”;
Kaiaraba, “place of seaweed”; Kanagra,
“beautiful view”; Morandoo, “the sea”;
Urunga, “a long beach”; Warrang, “harbor”;
Wooladoora, “safe harbor”; Yungarup, “hills
near sea”; Yuruga, “extensive view.”
* * * *
1 am told that, whereas in the past invalided
returned soldiers were transferred for special
treatment from one Stale to another at the ex-
pense of Repat., they must now pay costs of
transport, which may afterwards be refunded.
Is this correct ? —7517.
There has been no change in policy. If the
Repatriation Commission arranges the trans-
fer, the Commission grants travelling expenses
in advance. •
* * * *
(1) Do shipworms live in sand or mud? (2)
What parasite lives in the sand which is in-
jurious to boat planking ? (3) Will shipworms
invade red cedar ? —7575.
(1) No, they live in timber. The very young
larvae can swim, and can thus be distributed
by currents until they come into contact with
suitable timber to which they can attach them-
selves and bore. (2) No important sand-inhabit-
ing parasite is known. (3) Yes.
* * * >l=
Can anything be done to protect chimneys
on kerosene lamps from breaking ? Is hanging
hairpins on top of chimneys any use ? Does it
improve the light to put a little camphor into
the kerosene ? —7604.
Glass may break without warning through
having been badly annealed in its making, or
by sudden changes of temperatures caused
by turning up the light too soon after ignition.
A method sometimes resorted to to improve
the annealing is to stand the chimney in
cold water so that it is quite covered, bring
slowly to the boil, and keep boiling for 20
minutes, allowing the glass to cool off in the
water. Hairpins are of no service. Camphor
in the oil is useless.
* * * *
How did the trade-mark of “His Master’s
Voice” originate ? —7697.
From a picture painted by Francis Barraud,
whose fox terrier displayed interest in his
master’s gramophone.
* * * *
Can you tell me something about the strength
and organisation of the A byssinian A rmy ? —-
7724.
There are a standing army and a sort of
militia. Besides these, irregulars join on the
outbreak of war, every man, priests excepted,
being an actual or potential soldier. The
standing army, instituted by Menelik, is
reckoned at 100,000 men; army and militia,
300,000 to 400,000. The forces are loosely
organised, have nothing in the shape of trans-
port and little modern equipment. A Belgian
military mission is training 2500 men of the
Royal Bodyguard. The latter is armed with
a certain amount of modern armament, includ-
ing a five-ton tank given to the King by the
Duke of Abruzzi during his visit to Abyssinia
in May, 1927. A beginning has been made
with the formation of an Air Force, under
French auspices.
* * * *
What twelve countries in the world produce
most artificial silk ? —7739.
United States, 210,331,0001 b.; Japan,
150,194,0001 b.; Italy, 106,546,0001 b.; Germany,
91,410,0001 b.; United Kingdom, 88,870,0001 b.;
France, 88,870,0001 b.; Netherlands,
64,900,0001 b.; Switzerland, 21,010,0001 b.;
Canada, 10,450,0001 b.; Poland, 10,164.0001 b.;
Belgium, 9,658,0001 b.; Czecho - Slovakia,
9,416,0001 b. Figures are for 1934.
❖ * * *
What is the strength of the principal religious
groups in Germany ? —7736.
According to the census of June 16, 1933,
there were in Germany 40,865,151 Protestants
(62.7 per cent, of total population), 21,172,087
Catholics (32.5 per cent.), 34,927 other Chris-
tians (0.1 per cent.), 499,682 Jews (0.7 per
cent.), and 2,646,614 adherents of other pro-
fessions of religion (4 per cent.).
* * * *
Method of waxing a new dancing floor ?
7346.
Melt together 11b. hard paraffin-wax and
71b. boric acid; add 1 drachm oil of lavender
and 20 minims oil of neroli. Sift the mixture
through a one-sixteenth sieve. Sprinkle lightly
over the floor, and polish by dragging a heavy
weight wrapped in a woollen cloth over the
surface. If the room is large, a motor-car may
be used for dragging the weight up and down.
Another polish is applied by painting the floor
with boiling paraffin-wax. When it cools and
solidifies, the surface wax is scraped off and
the floor polished.
* * * *
Is there an Australian market for imported
advertising devices such as trays for hotels,
aluminium showcards, potteryware, lithographed
tin plates and enamelled iron signs, and could
a London firm compete in such lines with
Australian manufacturers ? —7562.
With regard to waiters’ trays, the Australian
market is well supplied with its own manu-
factures in metal, bakelite and synthetic resin.
There is a limited demand for advertising
potteryware, which needs personal canvass
among the users. The market for aluminium
showcards is limited by reason of the time
that must elapse before delivery and the very
excellent types of showcards which Australia
produces. Lithographed tin plates' and
enamelled iron signs are produced in large
quantities here at a price with which the English
manufacturer could not compete.
* * * *
In an aeroplane having a 6 ft. wing chord,
with a speed of 150 m.p.h., and drawing a
trailer, what is the shortest distance that the
wings of the trailer could be from those of the
aeroplane without being detrimentally affected
by the wind stream from the leading ’plane ?
At a stated distance back, what is the height
and depth respectively of the disturbance caused
by an aeroplane, having regard to wing chord
and rate of travel ? Does the distance for
normality increase with the speed of the aero-
plane, and, if so, what is the ratio ? Are
there any reliable books on the subject ? —6937.
In normal flight the airflow over the lifting
surfaces and control surfaces of an aircraft is
streamlined, and the air in rear of the craft is
not disturbed to any great extent. The major
factor in disturbing the air is the rotation
of the airscrew. This imparts a spiral
movement to the column of air through
which it is passing, and produces eddies which
persist for some time after the craft
has moved away. The disturbance in the
case of an aircraft is practically independent
of wing chord and speed with normal aerofoil
sections. The fact that the disturbance of the
airscrew persists is indicated by an aircraft
when “steep” turning or looping, frequently
flying through its own "backwash.” In for-
mation flying, the aircraft are staggered in
such a way that the slipstream from the air-
craft ahead is avoided. No reliable figures
can be given regarding the area of the disturb-
ance; this could be determined only experi-
mentally. The problem is not one which has
any particular import in aeronautics. It can,
however, be stated from experiments with the
towing of a glider by an aircraft that the dis-
turbance caused by the towing aircraft is not
sufficient to affect the glider at a distance of
150 yards.
* * * *
For what purpose did the Stevens Govern-
ment allot the “ three-year plan” loan to the
N.S.W. Railways Department ? What amount
was granted, and how is it repayable ?— 7727.
The Commissioner of Railways urged the
Government to arrange for expenditure on rail-
way tracks and rolling stock over a period of
at least three years. The benefits of being able
to plan ahead for three years were stressed.
The Government sanctioned an advance of an
amount of £3,300,000 as follows: Advance in
1934-35, £800,000; 1935-36, £1,250,000; 1936-
37, £1,250,000. This money is to be treated
in the nature of an advance free of interest, and
will be repayable by annual instalments over a
period of 20 years, the first repayment to be
made at the end of the 1935-36 year.
* * * «
(1) When did the W.A. Hospital Fund lax
commence to operate ? (2) Persons liable,
exemptions and rates of payment? —772l.
(1) January 1, 1931. (2) Persons in receipt
of salary and wages or a net income of over
£52 p.a. are liable for contributions. In the case
of persons in receipt of salary and wages, the
contribution is deducted on payment. In all
other cases the incorrie-tax assessment is the
basis. Companies subject' to; assessment under
the Dividend Duties Act pay 1 to the Hospital
Fund on all profits at 14d. in the £l. The rate
of contributions is Ijd. in the £1 or fractional
part not less than 15s. in those cases where
the weekly wages amount to £1 or over.
Exemptions are old-age and invalid pensions
and war pensions.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the James Tail Black
Memorial Prizes? —7719.
The prizes were inaugurated by Mrs. Black
in memory of her husband, a partner in the
publishing house of A. and C. Black, Ltd. A
sum now totalling £12,430 was set aside to
be used for providing two prizes of whatever
income the fund should produce after paying
expenses, including a fee to the judge, for (a)
the best biography or literary work of that
nature of each year, and (b) the best novel of
each year, the choice ■to be made by the
Professor of Literature .of Edinburgh Univer-
sity, or, failing him, the Professor of Literature
in the University of Glasgow. The prizes are
not competitive. The awards are generally
made in the year following publication of the
books selected.
* * * *
(1) Modern methods of painting mechanical
toys, such as motor-cars, etc. ? (2) Cost of
plant ? (3) Where obtainable ? —7650.
(1) Painting of large articles is usually carried
out by means of a specially designed spraying
unit. The surface is cleaned, and, if the price
permits, a coating of suitable primer, such as
duco ground coat No. 85 white, is applied.
The surface is then given one or two coats of
industrial lacquer, such as duco 502 line or
duco 508 line. Small metal toys are usually
finished by printing. (2) Spraying units may
be purchased from £3 upwards; duco ground
coat, 255. 6d. per gallon; duco 502 line, 255.
per gallon; duco 508 line, 21s. 6d. per gallon.
(3) Full particulars and plant * are obtainable
from James-Sandy and Co., Box 46AA,’G.P.0.,
Sydney. . _
**r * *
(1) Where can I register a trade-name in Vic.,
and what is the fee ? • (2) Wifi registration
entitle me to the sole right of marketing any
line of my products, or would I have to regis-
ter each separately ? (3) Does the fact that I
am not a chemist preclude me from manufac-
turing andj or selling medicinal products?
(4) In what way, if any, does the Pure Foods
Act affect me ? (5) Are there any other legal
requirements I have to comply with ? —7644.
(1) At the office of Registrar-General, 283
Queen-street, Melbourne: fee, 6s. (2) Name
of each product would have to be registered
as a trade-mark at office of Trade Marks and
Designs, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne. (3) and
(4) Call and see the Pharmacy Board, 360
Swanston-street, Melbourne. (5) Call and see
Factory Registration Branch, Labor Depart-
ment, Old Treasury Building, Spring-street,
Melbourne.
Brief Answers.
E.J.G.: No license is required, but, strictly
speaking, stamp dealers are not permitted to
sell unused Commonwealth stamps... .J.A.S.:
Catalogued by Stanley Gibbons at 155., both
used and unused. Two varieties of surcharge
exist, both very rare, (a) No stop after “d."
( b ) “1” and “d” spaced wider apart....
A.J.S.: (1) Make direct application to the
departments named. (2) Most of the entrance
examinations are open only to persons under
that age. (3) Members of the C. 1.8. are
recruited from the ranks of the uniformed
police. Full particulars from Secretary, Police
Department, Sydney... .J.S.S.: He cannot
retain the article. Write to him and say that
if it is not returned within a period named
you will take action for illegal detention....
M. The amount of N.S.W. wages tax
payable on £2 ss. per week, if in receipt of
no other allowance, is 9d K.A.F.; The
Tam o’ Shanter was wrecked a little to the
east of Five Mile Bluff, Tasmania. Date is
not recorded J.L.: Vic. crayfish, before
boiling, are dark brown in color C.H.H.:
Catalogued at from 2d. to 65., the value
depending upon the watermark and the per-
foration. • This stamp exists in four different
watermarks and in several varieties of shade
and perforation E.D.: In view of the
father’s earnings, it is not likely the son would
be granted an invalid pension E.D.W.:
Try Cbughlan Bros., tanners, Botany (N.S.W.).
E.C.L.: You would not be subject to
income tax in N.S.W T.F.: The lyrebird
has been reared in captivity. Definite informa-
tion can be obtained from Mr. John Coyle,
Springwood (N.S.W.), who has authority to
keep specimens for breeding A.C.A.: Write
Commonwealth Statistician, Canberra T.F.:
Result of the 1904 Melbourne Cup was as
follows: First, Acrasia, 7st. 61b.; second, Lord
Cardigan, 9st. 61b.; third, Blinker, 6st. 121 b.
Time, 3min. 28$sec A.J.W.: Get in touch
with the Superintendent, Government Labor
Exchange, Kintore-avenue, Adelaide... .C.J.8.:
Write Burns, Philp and Co., 7 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney ... .W.G.H.: Cape Byron is the farthest
eastern point on the N.S.W. coastline....
J.S.M.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne... .P.C.D.: You can
make a search at the office of the Registrar of
Probates, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Syd-
ney, and peruse the will on payment of a
small fee. A copy can be procured on pay-
ment determined by length P.S.: Yes, if
payment is made wholly in cash.... W.J.:
Write L. O. Blackman, Gen. Sec., Grand
National Eisteddfod of Australasia, Box 33,
Post Office, Ballarat, Vic J.V.: M.B.E.
stands for Member of the Order of the British
Empire, and 0.8. E. for Officer of the same
order. This order was instituted by King
George V, in 1917, and is conferred on both
men and women for services rendered to
the Empire which Governments recom-
mending the appointments are pleased to
regard as important. It consists of the
Sovereign and five classes... .H.S.M.N.: Can-
not trace it. Is it an indoors or outdoors
game? ... .T.G.: The Act of Charles 11. refers
to tradesmen carrying on their ordinary calling
on Sundays. The Act 21 Geo. 111., which is
in force in N. S. Wales, prohibits any house
or place being opened on Sunday for public
entertainment or amusement to which persons
are admitted by payment. Otherwise, if quietly
and decently conducted, there appears to be
no legal objection....M.A.; Ye5....C.R.: If
the employees in question are supplied with
board in addition to wages, the wages tax
payable is Is. 3d. per week for the man and
9d. per week for his wife P.J.R.: (1) Placer
gold is an American term having the same
meaning as alluvial gold. (2) White gold is
an alloy of gold with several other metals;
principally nickel and platinum. The amount
of nickel or platinum in the alloy does not
exceed 20 per cent. Gold plated with rhodium
is also sold as white g01d... .J.N.W.; Write
Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-
Street, Sydney M.U.: (1) and (2) Feeyord,
same as in English. (3) The South African
and Canadian names are pronounced as spelt;
other pronunciations are: Rooapeehoo, Naroo-
hoee, Narbarder, Bonus Airiz, Ottawah. (4)
and (5) As a rule the foreign pronunciation is
to be preferred—when an English tongue can
get round it....F.M.: (1) Mayter. (2) Kasket,
and “a” as in “that”; baysik; Glammis
V.0.V.: Write Commissioner, Western Lands
Office, Sydney... .C.G.: The population of
N. S. Wales at March 31, 1935, was 2,641,354.
consisting of 1,337,722 males and 1,303,632
females H.S.; The collector value of a
gold £5-piece (1902) is its face value. At the
present price of gold its intrinsic value is
slightly over twice its face value.., .E.F.8.:
The Oxford Group Movement in Australia has
an office at the Bible House, 242 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .T.M.D.: (1), (2), (3) and (4) Informa-
tion not available in Sydney, but may be obtained
upon application to the Official Secretary, Port
Moresby, Papua, and the Government Secre-
tary, Rabaul, Territory of New Guinea, respec-
tively. (5) Approximate white population,
Papua: Males, 645; females, 462; total, 1107.
(6) The non-indigenous population of New
Guinea at June 30, 1934, was estimated at
5453, which included 1424 Chinese and 45
Japanese. (7) Towns in Papua and New Guinea
in order of size and business importance are:
Papua—Port Moresby, Samarai; New Guinea —
Rabaul, Kavieng and Wau (Morobe goldfields).
G.C.W.: Write to the Department of
Labor and Industry, Sydney, giving particulars
of your duties and the purpose for which the
steam winch is used 8.A.R.: (1) No period
is fixed, but, owing to the difficulty of estab-
lishing proof of title, payment out of funds
which have remained undealt with for upwards
of 50 years is extremely rare. (2) Application
should be made to the Accountant-General,
Royal Courts of Justice, London. The applica-
tion must give the correct title of the matter
or suit, must be signed by the applicant, and
must state the grounds upon which he claims
to be beneficially interested in the fund. It
must also be accompanied by a money-order
for 2s. 6d., drawn in favor of the Commis-
sioners of Inland Revenue R. 8.: See J. J.
Hardie’s Wool-classing and Shed Management
(3s. 6d.), obtainable from The Bulletin, 252
George-street, Sydney... .(Many others mailed.)


a
ECUS RAZOS
The World's Best Safety
Models from £2 / 10 / - to£lo/10^-
“IMPERIAL” No. 2 MODEL.
Nickel-plated throughout, and has
a solid shaving handle. The blade
and mechanism are similar to the
beitcr-finished models. Price, 50/-
4k.' J r
rrr
“IMPERIAL" No. 3 MODEL.
Brilliantly finished finest stainless
metal. To enable blade to be
rested an extra one is supplied.
Contained in rich mottled-brown
case. Price 80/-
“DE LUXE” MODEL “D.”
Heavily gold-plated “Imperial”
Rolls Razor, with six extra blades
(preventing edge fatigue). Con-
tained in highest-quality leather
case. Price £lO/10/-
“IMPERIAL” No. I MODEL.
Heavily electro silver-plated and
beautifully finished. Has telescopic
shaving handle. Contained in
blue mottled case. Price .. 60/-
The Razor for
Discerning Men
The one Hollow-ground
Blade of the Rolls Razor
will last you a lifetime
and save you the cost of
thousands of wafer-
blades.
100,000 Rolls Razors are in
daily use in Australia, and each
one has been sold by the
personal recommendation of a
happy user.
Rolls Razors are obtainable at
all leading retail stores,
chemists, stationers, and
tobacconists.
Demonstrations daily from
9 a.m. until 5 p.m. at the
showrooms of
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUST., LTD.
8a Castlereagh Street,. Sydney,
Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific.
INTERSTATE REPRESENTATIVES.
Victoria: Alan S. Duke Pty., Ltd., 486 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W. Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Uit”; Britain had other excuses for
making war on the Boers than that the
foreign population of the Dutch repub-
lics was denied the vote (B. 10/7/’35).
One was the Boer ultimatum demanding
the withdrawal of British troops from the
British territories of Natal and the Cape ;
another, the invasion of those territories
by the Boers in force when the ulti-
matum was not obeyed.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Mrs. Lyons has been
impressed by the “quiet” of Washington,
D.C., after a tour of the live, up-to-date,
cities of the U.S.A. She is complimen-
tary. Washington, with its public build-
ings nearly all in white marble, fulfils
the gibe of the late Dick Meagher at Mel-
bourne in being “a marble morgue.” A
beautiful city, Washington is a bore-
some place for a tourist, just a glorified
Canberra. Americans are very proud
of Washington, but, apart from its dul-
ness, the fault I found with it was its
utterly un-American appearance. It is
an Italian city planted down on Yankee
soil.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”; Yes, the gum-tree is
everywhere, although it was first exported
only 80 years ago. To the places which
“Spee-waa” (B. 17/7/’35) mentions as
growing it, I can add Algeria and Tur-
key, Years ago I sent an Australian who
had not seen his own country since he
was five years old down the Anatolian
railway to Beyrout, across the Taurus.
He returned full of enthusiasm for the
strange trees which the Germans had
planted at all the railway stations in
Cilicia. Later inspection showed them
to be his co-native —good old Aus-
tralian eucalypts, and doing very well,
thank you.
* * * ♦
“Also-R.A.N.”: The death of Lord
Ampthill recalls the Russell lawsuits of
a decade back. Following on his son's
unsuccessful divorce case the baron
tried (and failed) to exclude his grand-
son from the succession. The intimate
details that were placed before the jury
and fully reported led to the publication
of divorce evidence being virtually pro-
hibited in England. The litigation prac-
tically swallowed up the family fortune.
The late peer married one of the beauti-
ful sisters of Earl Beauchamp, sometime
Governor of N. S. Wales.
♦ * * *
From an Australian mining man in
lo’burg: The high price of gold is
working wonders on the Rand field. The
average grade of ore treated has, in some
cases, been brought down to a shade
over sdwt., compared with nearly
6|dwt. in 1932, the year before the
Union's departure from the gold stan-
dard. Mines whose days were then num-
bered are now tipped to carry on for
years. Prospecting has created addi-
tional employment, and a lot of money
is still being received by the farming
community for options and for mineral
rights. Lower prices for power and dyna-
mite are expected to keep costs down.
* * ♦ *
“Scribe”: That Chattanooga (U.S.A.)
editor who destroyed himself after writ-
ing his own obituary notice was not ori-
ginal. Bill Nye, an American humorist
of the last generation, wrote a short
story called “Our Wife” in which a
country editor, using the editorial “we,”
wrote a final leading article asking sub-
scribers to help the widow he was about
to leave, a deserving woman who had
“tried for years to run a household on
nothing a week for a rum-soaked ruin.”
Having spiked his copy, he calmly
bumped himself off. Possibly more
dramatic was the New York editor, con-
troller of an important journal, who shot
his wife’s lover and then held the edition
while he dictated the story before giving
himself up—an incident picturised a few
years ago under the title of “Scandal
Sheet.”
* * ♦ *
From an old comrade:
J. P. L. McCall, who heard “lights out” in
Sydney the other day at 74, saw a lot of
soldiering in his day. Born in Ireland, he was
with Methuen’s Horse in the Bechuanaland ex-
pedition of 1884. Then he came to Australia,
and served with the volunteer forces in Queens-
land and N.S.W. He attended the Boer War
in the 2nd N.S.W. Mounted Rifles, was
the first commandant of the Signallers’ Corps
founded in 1906, and went away in ’l4 as O.C.
Ist Field Cos. Engineers. After service on
Gallipoli he was given the signalling squadron
of the Anzac Mounted Division, with which
he served through Sinai and Palestine, being
promoted A.D.S., A.1.F., Egypt, in 1917, with
rank of lieut.-colonel. He was one of the few
Light Horsemen to get the Gyppo Order of the
Nile, a distinction largely confined to Imperial
officers. Retired under the age limit in 1921,
he did good service as an official of the South
African and A.I.F. returned soldiers’ organisa-
tion. A son (J.J.L.) had a brilliant career at
Duntroon, with the 30th Batt. in France and
as G. 5.0.3 the 2nd Divvy. He is now a major
and in charge of the S.A. School, Randwick.
=s * * #
“Kingsland”: Australians who follow
English cricket got a shock when a
Sydney newspaper announced that a Vic-
torian named Kimpton had scored 439
for Oxford against Cambridge. Kimp-
ton’s figures were really 4 and 39. The
misconception was helped by some un-
usually fatuous cabled comment by
Neville Cardus, who wrote of Kimpton’s
score of 39 as if it had saved the Empire.
A society for being full up of Neville
Cardus is overdue.
* * :1c 9
“Tenakoe”: The advent of the Maori
footballers in Sydney has drawn news-
papers and speakers at receptions into
the old error that the first M.L. team to
visit Britain was a Maori one. It called
itself the N.Z. Native team, but a big
proportion of its players was pure-bred
European ; McCausland, who settled in
Sydney and played later for N.S.W., was
an outstanding example. That team
played 136 matches in Great Britain, an
almost unbelievable programme. One
wonders what the coddled modern inter-
national player would say if he had to
face a job like that. Twenty-eight
matches make a marathon itinerary to-
day.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: The late Jack London's
pretty daughter Joan, known to all Aus-
tralian residents of California, has been
divorced by her husband, Charles Male-
mute, on the ground of cruelty— i.e.,
“playing the gramophone while he en-
deavored to write blank-verse tragedies.’'
Inheriting her father’s brains, Joan was
five years ago the centre of every ’Frisco
highbrow entertainment as a dheuse.
Jack London’s earlier stories dealt iargely
with life in Alaska among the Malemute
tribe of Indians; Joan’s particular
Malemute was a young Russian. She
was only about 20 when she married him,
but she had divorced another husband
already.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of 'a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
H.C ; Can’t make much of it. Is it an
allego/y?... .A.C.: There’s something in your
week-end girl, but you draw her a bit too
crudely... .W.P.B.: As a policy it is over-
loaded with vague generalities... .M.L.: Some
sprightliness, but they don’t quite click....
L.H.M.: Too much repetition and too little
tunefulness in the “Boilermakers’ Song”....
K.D.M.: Rough as doormats H.W.:
Hardly, though all you say about the barrow-
pushing foolishness is unassailable... .H.G.:
Too many well-worn props in those nature
verses... .P.J.:—
Should you fail to print these verses
I’ll not heap your head with curses,
If only you will criticise
My art in writing, which I prize.
You’ll hardly get editors to prize it until you
have learned to cut and prune and polish
C.R.: They’re all unsuitable; you let words
run away with you M.J.L.: That’s a creaky
barrow of yours; and you miss few of the
holes and ruts in the road M.L.: Too
prosy. It’s hard to work a technical word like
“agistment” into a dirge about the drought
W.E.C.: There’s an idea in it, but you’ve
expressed it cumbrously, sometimes clumsily.
G.V.: Strikes us as very labored satire
A.G.: Thanks, but it’s a bit belated J.J.F.:
Quite agree that you are “not a great poet
as yet.” And you give very little promise of
ever becoming a minor one T.L.P.: “My
Native Village” came nearest W.L.S.:
Many happy returns to Clara on her birth-
day—which seems to be the only excuse for
your poem A.A.: —
Cupid hid in a tall green vase.
This depression reduces everyone... .H.A.P.:
You make hard going of it E.D.: Only
striking thing about “Death” is that it ends
“with mirth”... .Rob. H.: Seems too long for
what’s in it N.C.: Passable verse exercises.
Now write something M.L.B.: You, too
A.E.C.: Nothing to tempt the purse-keeper in
those IJ.C.L.: Little in it, even for
a “Nocturne” E.V.B.: You don’t manage
to say anything likely to interest others....
F.M.G.: Not impressed by the “Miracle”
D.I.R.: “Do you give anything for accepted
verse?” Oh, yes; but nothing for you this
week J.S.H.: Might do something with it
as a public exhortation, but it has defects
as a poem V.P.M.: Happy to hear of your
ante-mortem preference for
No polished box with silver knobs
In which to pass the hours.
T.E.P.: “Draw-doors,” “gum-sun,” “morn-
dawn”—out!... .A’hoon: Capital conclusion,
but treatment’s stiff R.A.P.: Trifle forced;
hardly comes to life... .C.A.: Pointless as a
billiard ball K.D.M.: The sentiment seems
sound; the jingle isn’t... .K.M.: The accent
on “deficit” is on the first _ syllable,
however many politicians may place it on the
second... .C.R.: Nothing in any of them
that we could fill a chink with
P.J.I.: It just drones along... .C.W.J.: We
hardly anticipated such a tragic end E.W.:
You’re a trier, anyhow, but they all fall short.
. ...J.F.H.: Idea rather old; the dream ending
is always a weak escape... .L.H.S.: Device too
clumsy E.R.G.: If the champion dog was
toothless surely everyone in the district would
be aware of it.... Jir: Very unreal
C.R.H.: Acquitted without a stain on your
character T.F.W.: Descriptive parts fairly
graphic; story not so good... .J.P.O.: Not up
to standard Carlo: Interesting as a par.,
but not as a yarn... .W.J.W.: No more Sher-
lock Holmes parodies, please.... F.C.: Banal
where it means to be impressive I.F.:
Doesn’t get there. The subject isn’t good
enough Homos: Nothing much wrong with
it except its pointlessness Propalong: Still
misses. Try another track... .J.K.: No space
for Egyptian curses.... Delcott: Weighed in
light M.R.: It’s a very polite ghost that
keeps a bridge engagement after its body
has been killed in a motor accident
W.O.A.: We’d like a good Mallee story, but
escaped convicts don’t seem to fit....A.A.:
This business of painting horses is worked out.
. ...J.A.M.: Not suitable V.M.W.: We’ve
read too many dog’s-eye views of humanity....
W.B.P.: It hasn’t enough interest... .E.O.P.:
The experiences of Alois among the bees did
not amuse... .R.T.M.: Off our track. —C.W. :
“Peter’s Chance” revived youthful memories
of “How Billy Saved England” A.D.:
Further off than ever.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.S.: We have been turning that jest away
for years R.L.: The boy shows promise,
but he won’t go far without lessons E.J.M.:
Infant with giant's head was ushered gently
off the premises S.F.: Give yourself time;
you can’t expect to occupy a full-page with
first efforts A.D.: Still searching for the
point of the joke V.J.: Figures in the fore-
ground merited a more carefully-drawn back-
ground T.S.W.: Draw from life, not from
photographs C.H.: It would take half a
column to specify your shortcomings A.L.:
Your linework is shaky, and your gags creak
with age M.F.: That Dave and Sarah chest-
nut has had its day W.H.C.: We’ll be
lenient and put the blame on the brand ol
nib you use....G.S.: No hope for the
crumpled ticket-collector and the drunk with
the cray D.J.H.: Pictorial skit on barmaids
badly drawn.... R.E.: No chance... .T.C.: The
same tramp has been making that identical
retort as long as we can remember S.F.W.;
Our Identification Department reports:
“Gag similar to Hackneyed Woodchoppmg
Joke, No. 53” K.B.: What the parson saw
in the nudist colony won’t be revealed here.
U.C.: Perspective all wrong; have an-
other look at those shadows R.T.: Pay
more attention to anatomical details
P.O’B.: It travelled 600 miles to land in the
basket W.M.W.: “No, no, a thousand
times no.”


“SILVER
EDGE H
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNtNQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure ?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Ray best os-Be taco Ltd,, London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
ADD TO
YOUR CAR'S SPEED
. .by replacing worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
ķ
r WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
V YEARS J
The Steering Collumn.
AUTO. RADIO HAS COME TO STAY.
A PLEASANT ADJUNCT TO MOTORING.
By FRED BERRY.
F) ECENT endeavors, both in Australia and in England, to
* ban radio equipment in cars have met with little success,
such moves being obviously sponsored by cranks without
practical experience. Every sane motorist to-day realises after
one experience that he is missing something worth while by
driving without a radio in the car, and expense is usually all
that prevents him from immediately installing one.
Whilst earlier equipment left much to
be desired both from the standpoint of
convenience of operation and clarity of
reception modern sets are equal in
purity of tone and in ease of manipu-
lation to any home set. No longer is it
Diagramatic layout of conventional
auto. radio assembly showing units for
suppression of electrical interference.
necessary for the driver to take his
attention from the business in hand to
tune-in, for the remote control with
which the latest superhets are equipped
permits any station to be selected with no
greater effort or risk than attends advanc-
ing the ignition or idling control on the
steering column.
Claims have been made that radio in
the car is prone to distract attention and
engender a sense of exhilaration, either of
which may contribute to accident. The
writer’s experience, after operating car
radio for upwards of 2000 hours and
under all driving conditions, is that speed
is invariably lower with wireless on than
when it is off. Furthermore, whatever
the subject of reception may be, it can-
not distract one’s attention to the same
extent as a chattering passenger—and it
generally stops the passenger chattering.
There are many sound reasons why
auto, radio has come to stay, first being
the entertainment provided and the re-
lief from monotony on lengthy journeys.
Also, there is practical advantage. Busi-
nessmen no longer need wait in their
offices to listen to stock calls or market
quotations, and the week-end motorist
interested in any branch of sport no
longer need curtail his Saturday after-
noon run in order to rush home to the
house set. The Sunday driver with the
family out for an airing can let them
listen-in to their favorite thriller while
enjoying a picnic-tea at some convenient
spot.
It has been said that if every car was
radio equipped the din in traffic would
be unbearable. This contention is wrong,
for in practice the volume necessary for
reception with the speaker unit so close
to the driver is much lower than that
commonly used in the house set, and
even with full volume it is doubtful
whether pedestrians five yards away could
detect sounds coming from a passing
closed car, particularly should the
windows be closed.
With regard to selectivity and direc-
tional qualities, both poor in earlier
equipment, motorists can now confidently
expect pure reception of all local stations
with a daylight range in excess of 100
miles, whilst night reception includes
inter-State and M.L. stations without
distortion at comfortable strength.
Directional worries no longer exist,
capacity aerials providing equal signal
value even when the car is put on full
lock and driven in a close circle.
Car-radio Aerial System.
The most critical part of a motor-
car radio installation is the disposition
of the. aerial, which in most cases is
built into the roof of the car. Whilst
this is convenient, it is far from efficient,
the pick-up qualities of the aerial being
extremely small owing to the screening
of the metal bodywork. Several ex-
ternal forms of aerials have been tried,
these including running-board, drop
flaps and dipole types placed fairly
close to the ground. An alternative
arrangement is the use of the bumper
bars, as illustrated here. Although
the bumper bars are not as a rule
placed any higher above road level
than the undersurface of a run-
ning-board, the advantage in using them
as aerials is in the fact that they are
spaced away from the body of the car,
and are also outside the strong field of
ignition interference. For use as aerials,
the bars must be insulated from the
car chassis, this being done by insert-
ing thick rubber or fibre strips between
the bars and the clamping arrangement.
In practice, the bumper bar aerial has
a good signal-to-noise ratio, and is so
effective that it is, in some instances in
U.S.A., used for police-car radio com-
munication.
Where capacity aerials are standard
equipment and the reception of distant
signals somewhat limited good results
may be obtained by running a single
wire, carefully insulated and kept at
least 2in. from the metal roof, outside
the car. This outside single-wire
auxiliary aerial is made fast in some con-
venient position in the rear luggage-
carrier or box, and carried along a centre
line over the roof, down-lead passing in
through windscreen.
Possibly the greatest difficulties in in-
stallation of auto, radio are those of
suppressing interference by the various
electrical units of the car, and in this
connection each car must be studied in-
dividually and a series of experiments
made if perfect reception is desired.
Furthermore, while reception may be
quite satisfactory with the car stationary
certain intricate problems arise when
driving at speed, most important being
static generated by friction of tyres on
the roadway ; and provision should be
made in each wheel assembly to earth
this current by means of a flexible wire
located within the wheel hub, a simple
and inexpensive fitting, but one which
is necessary if good performance is
desired.
VALVE LIFE WITH “LEADED” PETROLS.
NO HARMFUL EFFECTS APPARENT.
In the early days of “leaded” fuels
users were alarmed at the color ot the
deposits when their engines were dis-
mantled, as these deposits were different
from those found after using ordinary
fuels. But it was soon discovered that
the color was the only difference so far
as the engine was concerned, and that
the deposits were as harmless as those
normally found in engines which used
ordinary fuels. In fact, experience shows
that the deposits are not so pronounced
with this type of fuel as with most
“straight” fuels or benzol mixtures used
over the same running time.
The deposits are of a slightly harder
nature with a “leaded” petrol, and, it
might be added, they have different
coloration according to their position in
the combustion-chamber. If found on a
hot spot, such as the exhaust valve, they
have a reddish-brown appearance ; on a
cool part, say near the inlet valve, they
are greyish.
Users have now got used to this char-
acteristic type of deposit from “leaded"
fuel, and do not take any more notice
of it than when viewing the black carbon
deposit in an engine which has run on
“straight” fuel. These deposits are not
like carbon electrical conductors, so that,
if the mixture strength is correct for
either fuel, the deposit, so far as its effect
on sparking plugs is concerned, is less
troublesome than carbon.
Complaints of valve-burning and
-pitting have been received, but these
were prevalent in the days before
“leaded” fuels were heard of, and it has
been found that in no case was the petrol
the cause of the trouble, but rather
mechanical derangement or faulty valve
material.
In the last ten years the power ob-
tained from an engine of given cylinder
capacity has increased by about 50 p.c.
The exhaust valve works, therefore,
under very much more exacting con-
ditions. There are, even at the present
time, manufacturers who are using valve
materials which are unsatisfactory for
the increased working temperatures. A
valve, of whatever material, will burn
if it does not seat properly under work-
ing conditions. There are two main
causes for this which are very prevalent
in modern engines. The first is insuffi-
cient tappet clearance; the car-owner
likes a silent-running engine, and as often
as not keeps his clearance too fine, caus-
ing the valves to “ride” on the lappets
in the “closed” position. The second
cause of trouble is the more difficult to
combat. It is the distortion of the cylin-
der block casting under working condi-
tions, and is common to various modern
engines. However well-seated a valve
may be when the engine is initially built
up, it is almost impossible to ensure that
the valve seats truly, under working con-
tions, if distortion takes place. The
cylinder block may not distort as a
whole, but local stresses set up around
the seating and exhaust porting due to
Sometimes the only available
spanner is not powerful enough
to shift an obstinate nut. Addi-
tional purchase can he obtained
by hooking another spanner in
the end jaws, as illustrated.
badly formed or inadequate water pas-
sages will cause the trouble.
Growth in a “green” cylinder casting
brings the valve seating out of line with
the guide. A valve does not generally
distort owing to heating and cooling if the
forging is good in the first place, but so-
called valve distortion takes place, owing
to seat and guide misalignment, when the
valve hits one side of its cylinder seat
(when hot), and this “lays” the head
over.
As soon as a valve seats improperly
its temperature rises very rapidly, and
this, with the exhaust gases at high tem-
perature and pressure rushing past the
valve seat, literally burns the latter


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in ‘‘The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
109 A (SECOND
X J/OHr EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do tt.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George Street. Sydney. 3d. extra.
EASY FOR YOUR WIFE TO DRIVE
It’s such a wonderfully performing car. the 1935 Standard, that women
find it the simplest thing on four wheels to handle. It has silent
Synchro-Mesh Gears in 2nd, 3rd and top; the very safest, simplest form
of Free-Wheeling; Buoyant Power Engine Mounting and quick, smooth-
acting Brakes. Coachwork is exceptionally roomy and finely appointed.
You should have a trial run. Arrange it now with your local dealer.
Pour Models: “Nine’. “Ten ', “Twelve’*
and “Twenty” in all body styles.
k
ķ
ĸ
k
ķ
Distributors:
BUCKLE & HARDEN UMITED,
119-129 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: FL 2688
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD.
131 Collins Street, HOBART, Tas.
Telephones: 3061, 3062
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE,
58*60 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Distributors:
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
81 Franklin St., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Telephone : C 2136
Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.,
1016 Hay Street. fiiRTH, W.A.
Telephone: B 5174 (4 lines)
TALBOT & STANDARD MOTORS
PTY. LTD.,
568-574 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone: F 2154 (3 lines )
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD., COVENTRY,
ENGLAND
away. Numerous complaints of valve-
burning have been received, allegedly
due to. the use of “leaded” fuel. On
investigation the actual cause of the
burning has, in every case, been found
to be due to one of the conditions men-
tioned above.
Cases of apparent pitting on top of
the valve head have been ascribed to
“leaded” fuel. This is often deceiving,
as the deposit or scale on the exhaust
valve sometimes cannot be distinguished
from the valve material itself, and has
a mottled appearance which resembles
pitting. If the scale is removed and the
valve head thoroughly cleaned no sign
of pitting is evident in the material itself,
Pitting of the head may occur it the
valve is seating improperly and, there-
fore, operating at elevated temperatures,
The valve material is then in a condition
to be attacked by the products ot com-
bustion, but this state of affairs holds
good for any type of fuel.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
C.H.M.D. (Toorak, S.A.).—/ have damaged
the gears of my 14/30 Annslrong-Siddeley.
1926 model, and cannot get replacements. Who
are the N.S.W. agents ?
Buckle and Harden, William-street, Sydney.
.** * *
G.E.P. (Harrisvillc, Q.).—/ propose to buy
a truck for road-construction work, using a
lipping body, and have narrowed my selection
to two. (I) Is the engine of A identical with
B ? (2) Which do you recommend as the best
truck to stand up to hard work ?
(1) As spares for both engines arc inter-
changeable, they are almost certainly built by
the same factory. (2) Both give excellent results
in service, and there is little to choose between
them.
* * * *
K.B. (Wooloowin, Q.). —My ’27 Rover, 9 -h.p.,
is in good condition except for universal joint
and shock-absorbers. The rear metal universal
joint is badly worn, with considerable back-
lash. While without shock-absorbers it is
almost impossible to steer on bumpy roads.
(1) Should I fit another fabric joint in place of
the metal universal ? (2) What shock-absorbers
can / fit, and must four be used ? (3) Oil is
pumped up into cover over overhead valves
and gives a good deal of plug trouble. Should
/ disconnect overhead-valve oiling system, or
what can be done to stop the trouble ?
(I) In this type a fabric joint would not
suit at rear. True-up housings and fit over-
size carden blocks in the old metal universal.
(2) Binding springs with insulating tape will
improve riding, but any kind of shock-absorber
or snubber will serve your purpose. Try first
fitting two on rear springs. (3) Don’t dis-
connect o.h.v. oiling system. You will wreck
the motor. Try fitting felt washers over the
pushrods.
* * * *
F. (Murwillumbah, N.S.W.). — Settle an
argument for us: Did Sir Malcolm Campbell’s
Blue Bird on his last record use four or more
tyres on his road wheels, and where were they
located ?
Six tyres. Single on front wheels, dual tyres
on rear driving wheels.
SfC Jjc Jjf £
G. (Wingham, N.S.W.).—(I) Where
should I look to find the engine number on
my car ( type, year and power unstated) ?
(2) What do the numbers (quoted) on the out-
side of the dynamo case indicate ? (3) How
much would it cost to overhaul the dynamo ?
Do they wear out completely, or will it serve
again if overhauled and worn parts replaced ?
(4) Can an amateur rewire the electrical system
of a car, including lamps, horn and self-
starter ?
(1) Write Larke, Hoskins, Ltd., William-
street, Sydney. (2) C.A.V. makers, 12-volt type.
(3) Cost of repairs depends upon electrical
and mechanical condition. Reconditioning can
be effected by rewinding and replacement of
defective parts. (4) Not with any possibility
of success, as terminals and contacts must be
done by a practical electrician.
* * * *
J.E.N. (Wodonga, Vic.). — My ’26 Morris
Cowley was rebored approximately 12,000
miles ago, and alloy pistons fitted. / am
now about to have the engine overhauled
again. (1) Would raising the compression ratio
give the engine greater pep ? (2) Should red
lead he used in the head joint ? (3) Would
increased compression ratio affect the spark
(magneto ignition) ?
(1) Increasing compression will give greater
power, but a rough and less flexible motor.
Further, as the metal in engine and transmis-
sion is now fatigued through age, the change
might lead to serious trouble. (2) No. If
the job is planed off in a suitable machine a
plain C.A. gasket should make a water- and
gaslight joint. (3) Plug intensity is less as
compression increases, and plugs suitable for
the low-compression engine would short with
higher ratios.
* * * *
L.F.G. (Gizo, Solomon Islands). —My 1-h.p.
marine engine, only six months old, has "run”
the shellac in the magneto, and if I keep the
engine running I must dismantle it and clean
thoroughly every five or six hours. The defect
is not peculiar to my particular engine, for
amongst four owners of marine engines fitted
with similar-type magnetos we have twelve
magnetos between us to keep the jobs going.
Is there any remedy ?
Type of magneto fitted is not suitable for
the tropics. You could erect an air-scoop and
pipe leading from the deck directly to the
magneto. The cool air-stream would prevent
further trouble, but provision must be made
to prevent entry of water in heavy weather. A
more certain remedy would be to fit a Sims
magneto.
* * * *
C.C. (Wollongong, N.S.W.). —I cannot get
the generator of my Morris Minor to charge
properly, and would like your opinion as to
whether the defect is in generator or cut-out.
Sometimes it will charge at 8 amps, at 35
m.p.h.; again, at 45 m.p.h. it will read a slight
discharge. With light on it won’t charge at all.
Any generator in good electrical and
mechanical condition should show maximum
charge at 30 m.p.h., higher speeds frequently
resulting in a lower rate. Your trouble is
almost certainly leakage of oil into the vertical
generator from the motor, and only cure is to
fit packing washers and clean the assembly at
rather frequent intervals.
* * * *
O.R.E. (Milton, N.S.W.). —My ’26 model car
(24 h.p.) averages 20 m.p.g., is easy to start
and is running well, but when, after coasting
in gear, the accelerator is depressed the motor
staggers momentarily before picking up. Cause
and cure ?
Petrol mileage is excellent for a car of this
type and age. Mixture is probably on the
lean side, and, as the carburettor is not fitted
with a “dash pot,” the motor is starved for
some seconds under the conditions mentioned.
A later-model carburettor would cure the
trouble, but whether it is worth the outlay is
for you to decide.
* * * *
D.W. (Allynbrook, N.S.W.). —(1) Location of
engine and chassis number in Overland about
to he converted to a truck (model and age
not slated) ? (2) It is always hard to engage
gear, particularly low and reverse, while engine
is running and car stationary. Why? (3) What
is maximum safe load to carry? (4) Will a
light switch do for a self-starter switch ?
(1) Send particulars to Overland Sydney,
Ltd., Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) Due to
general wear in clutch spline and withdrawal
mechanism. (3) Big Six, 20cwt.; smaller types,
12cwt. to 15cwt. (4) No. Starter switch is
specially designed to carry heavy currents; the
light switch would burn out first start.
(The Steering Column continued on
page 30.)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
4
i
Keener and longer life
by electrical tempering
Two tempers in one blade —that's made possible by Gillette's new
electrical-tempering process; soft at the ends to let the blade bend
to the razor and the edges harder than ever before to allow for extra
sharpening. That is why these new blades not only give a cleaner,
closer shave but stay keen longer and give more shaves per blade.
• Try these new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they're worth it.
FIVE FOR 2/
BLUE
OF ALL DEALERS
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
* ‘ The scenic route ”
Fortnightly Sailings .
I
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
Aria
UNION
ROYAL MAIL LINE
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.’
... "
Simoniz a New Car”
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted teat “THE
DOMINION" overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion" Building.
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone; 84038.
DON’T TAKE CHANCES
when planning your
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
USE THE
the weekly journal with
the HOME circulation.
Used by all the leading LOCAL
ADVERTISERS during the past 37
years, who naturally place their
business where they get RESULTS.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
British Road-racing Victory.
The 200-mile road-racing classic
organised by the R.A.C. (England) early
this month provided the first notable
long-distance victory for the British-built
E. which had an Australian driver,
P. G. Fairfield, at the wheel.
This interesting car was evolved by a
syndicate of English motor-racing en-
thusiasts with the object of rivalling the
performances of German, French and
Italian Grand Prix models. Of the 13
starters in the class for cars up to 1500
c.c., only two finished, the winner’s
average being 68 m.p.h. The evergreen
F. W. Dixon, driving a Dunlop-shod
Riley, filled second place.
Cyclists and Rear-lights.
Within a week two cyclists riding
without tail-lights or discs have been run
down and killed in Melbourne. The
driver of the car responsible for the
death of the second victim was dazzled
by the headlights of another vehicle
approaching, which led Coroner Grant to
| advise pedestrians and cyclists to re-
member that when two cars are approach-
ing from opposite directions the drivers
I may be temporarily blind. So far as
j cyclists are concerned, the use of a red
rear disc should be made mandatory.
Even under favorable conditions a motor-
ist frequently does not see a cyclist until
he is almost on top of him.
Diesel Owners Fear Increased Fue!
Costs.
Diesel fuel-oil compression-ignition
engines have in recent years been so per-
fected that, in the field of heavy trails-
port particularly, the type is becoming
increasingly popular. With road per-
formance on a par with petrol-driven
Vehicles, the IIUgC economy in fuel COStS
has, in the main, been the deciding
factor, but in Britain recently consterna-
lion has been caused amongst both
makers and users of Diesel vehicles by
thc announcement that as from August
1 fuel-oil used for motor vehicles will
carry the same duty as petrol—Bd. per
gallon, against Id. as at present. Aus-
trahan operators are wondering whether
the axe is to fall on them.
In the U.K., according to the Chan-
cellor, the rapid increase in the number
of fuel-oil c,-i. motor vehicles has
, resulted in a loss of revenue to the
| extent of £1,300,000 last year, despite the
; extra-heavy registration tax imposed on
this type of motor. The intention, accord-
ing to the Dunlop bulletin, is to reduce
; the annual tax to a par with that paid
by petrol-engined vehicles. This will
mean that in the case of a five-ton lorry
equipped with c.-i. motor the reduction
in annual tax will amount' to £4O p.a.,
while on a 52-seater bus £6l 12s. a year
less will have to be paid.
Representatives in all branches of the
Diesel industry are unanimously of the
.opinion that the latest move will cripple
I the industry and seriously embarrass fleet
I owners operating these modern types.
Motor Oddities.
“Pick”: Striking the gate-block as he
drove from a wayside paddock' to the
Goulburn-road, N.S.W., a taxi-man had
the sump cap torn from his engine. All
the engine oil poured out on the road.
To drive on would probably have meant
a piston seizure. With a slice off his felt
hat wrapped round a short stick he
plugged the hole. He scooped back to
the engine as much of the oil as he could
lift cleanly with a gumleaf. He reached
home without further mishap.
* * * *
“Toot-toot”: Out Bathurst (N.S.W.)
way I frequently used to see a very large,
very ancient touring car, occupied by a
driver only and with a pushbike slung
on the running-board, tearing along the
main road. Often wondered what
was the idea of the pushbike. Found out
one day, when the car conked out along-
side a roadside paddock where I was
mustering. The driver got out, lifted the
bonnet, tinkered a little, cussed and
swore a lot, finally banged the bonnet
down, yanked the bike off the running-
board and rode away.
* * * *
“Bog In”: A good many years ago,
when cars were pretty scarce on the
Thargomindah (Q.) track, a lorry-driver
trave ui ng a i on g it ran a rear-axle pinion
bearing w hich in those days was somc-
tjmes G f babbit metal. He was 70
miles from Cunnamulla and 40 miles
from Dvnevo r Downs, and there was no
Drospect G f any assistance, but he did
£ ave * a good supp iy of tucker. So he
spent a day or two collecting all the
empty tins about the cattle camps along
lb c road, melted the solder from them,
and w jih it succeeded in running in an-
other bearing. It was rough, but it
brought him and his load into Dynevor.
* * * *
“Blue H.”; A one-cylinder De Dion
Bouton car engine is still doing duty in
a N.S.W. country hotel as a power-plant
for an electric-lighting system. The
venerable relic has become slightly asth-
matic with advancing age, but despite Us
35 years of service it still functions with
a maximum of both efficiency and noise,
Only two of this type are extant in
N.S.W., and the makers in Paris are in-
terested in securing it for their auto,
museum, but it has been in the family
for so long that the proprietor is loat i
to part with it.


RADIO NEWS.
The Bush
Will
Support It
“Will the world
get sick of broad-
casting?” asks
“Alkali Ike” (B.
10/7/’35), and
suggests that as
a means of
entertainment radio will probably run
itself to death. "Alkali Ike” may be
expressing the belief of city dwellers,
hut he wouldn’t make such an assertion
if he were to study the
countryman’s point of view.
By “countryman” I don’t
mean only the man who
produces wool or wheal or
butter, but the country
dweller generally—t h c
schoolmaster, bank clerk,
professional man, shop-as-
sistant, factory worker,
navvy, and so on. These
country people, many of
them exiles from the city,
arc as often as not discern-
ing critics with a very real
love of art. When a
William Bernard Galsworthy.
Mcnuhin visits Sydney, when they
read of Fuller’s Grand Opera Com-
pany, or even of “Roberta,” I wonder
whether “Alkali Ike” can imagine the
longing and stifling sense of isolation
they feel? Can his city mentality com-
prehend the eagerness with which they
turn the radio dial when their day’s work
is done, and, after selection of station,
settle down to an evening of the class
of music which happens to appeal to
them? Can he realise that, if the real
thing is not offering, any reasonable sub-
stitute will do?
Perhaps he was right when he said
“musicians don’t like broadcast music.”
but he should have added “except when
they can get no other.” Broadcasting
studios may, as he alleges, employ
various devices to bluff the listener re-
garding the quality of a performance, but
an eminent instrumentalist plus a little
trickery over the air is far preferable to
the limited “flesh-and-blood” music (lack-
ing even a little mild deception to make
it more bearable) available in most
country towns. Perhaps lack of contact
with real music has dulled the critical
faculties of country listeners, but to them
the voice of the radio is anything but “as
irritating as a dental drill in a sore
tooth.” It is the voice of civilisation,
the voice of friendship and good com-
pany in the midst of much loneliness.
REX G. RIENTT.
A Play We’ll
Never
Hear Now
Dear Bulle-
tin, —1 am en-
closing a play
which I wrote as
an entry for the
A.B.C. competi-
tion. Unforlu-
nately, I allowed one of my characters
lo say “Good Lord,” and as I find it im-
possible to convey the precise meaning I
require by the use of any other phrase I
have been compelled—very reluctantly
when I think of that £50 —to withdraw
my entry. My hope is that you may take
pity on a poor playwright, and by pub-
lishing it recompense me in some small
way for the weeks of work I put into its
creation.
WILLIAM BERNARD GALS.
WORTHY.
JUSTIFIABLE HOMICIDE AT
BROADCASTING HOUSE.”
Scene : The office of the Play Produc-
tion Manager of the B.C.D. The P.P.M.
is seated at a table, busily engaged in
compiling a list of restrictions for the
next play competition. There is a knock
on the door.
P.P.M. {testily): Come in.
(Enter a shabbily-dressed, sad-faced in-
dividual, with a large bundle of manu-
scripts under his arm. He is unshaven,
his hands are inkstained and he gives the
impression that he has not eaten for
many days, but the odor of his breath
suggests that there is at least one public
house in Australia which will still give
credit to a working journalist.)
Newcomer (timidly): Are you the
Play Production Manager?
P.P.M.: 1 am.
Newcomer: My name is Shakspeare
—William Shakspeare.
P.P.M. {condescendingly): Ah, yes.
Won’t you sit down, Mr.—er —what did
you say your name is?
W.S.: Thank you. (Sits.) William
Shakspeare.
P.P.M.: Oh, yes. Shakspeare, of
course. What can Ido for you, Mr.
Sharkspurr?
W.S. (mildly) : Shakspeare is the name.
1 am a playwright.
P.P.M.: Ah, a playwright. You mean
to say you write plays?
W.S. (modestly): Yes. I have some
here. I thought perhaps you might care
to see them.
P.P.M.: Well, we usually prefer to
deal with well-known authors. How-
ever (condescendingly), perhaps I can
spare live minutes.
W.S. (gratefully):
Thank you. (Places
his bundle of
manuscripts on the
table, selects one
an and h ands it
across.) Now, here
is one I have called
Love’s Labor’s
Lost.” Do you like
the title?
P.P.M. (and ub i-
o usly): H’m!
Rather suggestive,
I’m afraid. (Glances
through the first
scene.) Good Lord! (horrified) this is
positively obscene. It speaks of a person
“consorting with a wench.” My dear
Mr. Shooksburg, suggesliveness and sex
are two things we positively will not
tolerate.
W.S. (disappointedly): You don’t want
it?
P.P.M.: 1 certainly do not.
W.S. (with renewed hope, as he hands
over another manuscript): How about
this little thing? I’ve called it “King
Lear.” It’s about a mad king who
P.P.M.: Did you say mad?
W.S.: Yes. You sec, he
P.P.M.: Mr. Crooksbeer, the introduc-
tion of characters afflicted with insanity
is expressly forbidden.
W.S. ( crestfallen ): Oh! (Replaces
manuscript and selects another.) Here’s
a pleasant little piece entitled “Romeo
and Juliet.”
P.P.M.: Ah! That sounds more
promising.
W.S. (eagerly): I’m sure you will like
it. The climax is absolutely the best
thing I've ever done. Thinking Romeo
dead Juliet poisons herself, and when
Romeo, very much alive, learns of her
fate he stabs himself.
P.P.M. (returns manuscript): How
gruesome! The more sordid type of
tragedy is not favored.
W.S. {sadly): Then you won’t want
“I am a playwright.”
these. (Places
aside “Othel-
lo,” “Hamlet,”
“M acb eth”
and a few
others. He
selects another
from his rapid-
ly diminish-
ing pile and
passes it over.)
Here’s one of
which I am
rather proud.
Historical, you
know. I’ve
called it simply “King John.”
P.P.M. (doubtfully): I’m not very
keen on historical stuff unless it’s parti-
cularly well done. However r (Glances
through manuscript.) No good! Posi-
tively bristling with profanity. Why
can’t you play-writing fellows steer clear
of coarse, impious and
profane expressions? It
doesn’t improve the quality
of your plays.
W.S. ( timidly ): Would
you like to see another
period thing? It’s called
“Henry IV.”
P.P.M. (against his
better judgment) : All
right. Pass it over.
(Glances at first page.)
Goodness gracious, man
(almost incredulously), do
you realise you have
Scroop, Archibishop of
York, listed as an enemy
of the King?
W.S.: Why, yes. You
see
“This is positively obscene .”
P.P.M. ( emphatically ): But don’t you
understand? We will not tolerate any
play containing controversial matter re-
garding politics or religion.
W.S. (wearily): You limit the play-
wright’s scope.
P.P.M.: Certainly not. Haven’t you
something a trifle less sombre? Some-
thing light and airy, with perhaps a little
simple verse and some music?
W.S. (eagerly): I have. Just the thing.
(Passes over a manuscript.) There you
arc. “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
P.P.M.: Ah! This looks better. (Be-
comes more and more doubtful as he
reads.) I notice you have a character
named Bottom. We’ll probably have to
alter that. Over twenty in the cast, too.
Far too many. We prefer a limited
number of characters. Five acts! Eleven
scenes! Again far too many. We ask
for continuity of action as much as pos-
sible. No! Afraid it won’t do.
W.S. (his hopes slowly Jading): I have
another light, frothy thing. “Twelfth
Night.” (Hands it over.)
P.P.M.: H’m! Rather an Elinor
Glynnish title. However, I’ll glance
through it, (Does so.) This fellow . . ,
this Toby Belch—what a vulgar name—
am 1 to understand he’s a drunkard?
W.S.; How could he be otherwise
with such a name? One of my best
characters, if 1 may say so.
P.P.M. (shakes his head): It won’t do.
Sorry. Have you anything more?
W.S.: Only this one. (Hands over
script.)
P.P.M.; Ah! “Julius Ca;sar.” He was
a Roman or something, wasn’t he?
W.S. (drily): Yes.
P.P.M. (almost enthusiastically): By
Jove, this seems good. (Reads on; then
returns the manuscript wordlessly.)
W.S. (sadly): You don’t want it?
“You don’t want it?”
P.P.M.: No. You spoil good dramatic
effects by becoming garrulous. Take
this bit starting “Friends, Romans, coun-
trymen.” What’s it all about? A lot of
tosh about nothing. We insist that
speeches be kept short. Have you any-
thing else?
W.S. (morosely) : No.
P.P.M. (pompously): That’s a pity.
Sorry I can’t use any of your stuff, Sugar-
spoon. However, don’t let that dishearten
you. Some of your plays show distinct
promise, although, of course, you’re a
trifle immature as yet. Pay a little more
attention to our requirements, and per-
haps we may do business some day. Try
to develop a more modern style. We
favor originality of subject matter and
new methods of presentation, you know.
And remember this—when a play enters
the homes of the audience a stricter cen-
sorship must be exercised than is cus-
tomary when a performance is presented
in fhe theatre.
W.S.: Can’t they tune in to another
station if they don’t like it?
P.P.M, (pained): My dear sir, no one
tunes in to other stations when we are on
the air.
W.S. ( abashed ): Sorry. (Collects
manuscripts and rises.) You don’t think
I’m much of a playwright, then?
P.P.M.: Well, since you put it so
bluntly
W.S.: And I don’t think you’re much
of a judge, either. (He produces a pistol
and calmly shoots the P.P.M., then doffs
his hat gravely to the dead body, turns
on his heel and exits.)
[Curtain.]
All Round
the Dial
“Skyrider”: A
growl from a
bloke in the
bush: “Every
day for months
I used to hear
our announcer say ‘Good morning!
Seven o’clock of Monday, June 24’ (or
whatever it was), and then go on with
his job. Now, one day he gives the
date, another day he doesn’t, and we
never know till we get the paper.” He
admitted that the kids going to school
sometimes knew, and that as he was only
10 miles from a town he could soon find
out. “But that’s no excuse for the A.B.C.
dropping it,” he said ; “everyone wants
to know the date.”
“T.R.”: One of the war-blinded has
expressed the feeling of all these unfor-
tunates concerning radio: “Broadcasting
not only passes many congenial hours,
but removes that sense of isolation from
which the blind arc apt to suffer. Blind
men are well informed ; they feel they
are taking part in the news, the sport,
the politics, the philosophy and the pro-
gress of the time.” They are especially
catered for by the B.B.C., which not only
issues free wireless licenses to all blind
persons in Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, but has a hand in the printing
of a special edition of the “Radio Times”
in Braille, nearly 3000 copies of which
are issued weekly to sightless listeners.
“Marra”: The man who wrote Aus-
tralia's first radio serial thriller is also
responsible for the biggest piece of con-
tinuity broadcasting we have had —“Man
Through the Ages.” Author and pro-
ducer of this outsize radio drama is J. J.
Donnelly, of the A.B.C., and the work
is a 2BL feature. In 1929, when he was
with 2FC. Donnelly wrote and had put
over the air “The Jazz Spider,” the first
play of its kind in this country. It ran
weekly for 10 weeks. “Man Through the
Ages” has already run 27 episodes, and
there are 23 more to come. It began
early in January, and will conclude about
the end of the year.
“Henrij”: “How do the waves get here
through the window?” asked a visitor
from the Vatican, watching Marconi ex-
periment, in 1919, with a set which had
no aerial. Marconi pointed out that the
window was shut. “Well, where do they
come from?” the cleric persisted. “Your
Eminence should know better than I do,”
said Marconi, “for no doubt you arc
more conversant with the supernatural
than I am.” I struck a variation of that
in Queensland before wireless had gained
much popularity. A young constable de-
voted a lot of his leisure to experiment-
ing, and an aerial he had erected puzzled
the Senior. “It’s a great shame,” he said
to me one day. “He’s a decent lad, but
lately 1 don’t know what to make of
him. Aerials and reception he was talk-
ing about to-day. Hopes to hear better,
he said, and he isn’t awake to the fact
that those wires don't connect with any
others in the town.” In retirement to-day
the Senior is a keen radio enthusiast, but
I haven’t the courage to discuss with him
the advantage of aerials.
“Monto”: When Maurice Dudley was
at the height of his community singing
popularity over 3LO he was responsible
for one of the best faux pas that ever
got into the ether, and a Japanese listener
brought it to light. Maurice had handed
over the mike to a well-known soprano
and stepped back a pace or two to talk
“off stage” to another man while the
lady sang her piece. Their whispers
didn’t reach the mike, of course, but sud-
denly Maurice spluttered and exclaimed
“Oh. I swallowed that fly!” Three
months later a letter came from Japan
inquiring in quaint English for full par-
ticulars of the Australian meaning of
“I swallowed a fly.”
“Ande”: Long life to the Australian
radio advertiser, usually a faithful dis-
ciple of American methods, for not hav-
ing adopted the U.S. system of listener-
checking. Known as the “coincidental”
system, the advertiser’s latest effort is to
telephone homes while the programme
is on and ask four questions: “Do you
own a radio?” “Is it on?” “What pro-
gramme are you listening to?” “Who is
the advertiser?” Thirty Interviewers
averaging 50 numbers an hour can pro-
vide sufficient data for a statistician to
work on. Generally speaking, it has
been found that the average programme
there reaches a million and a quarter sets,
while the big ones get four million. But
also it has been revealed that two out
of every three people are reading, play-
ing cards, knitting or at some other
activity while the radio is on. I am not
sure just what I will say to the first local
advertiser who rouses me from my chair
bv the fire to know what I think of his pro-
gramme, but I will see I get my reply across.


You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
k
Milliard
MA S TER
♦ O I ■ . U 1 I Ltllt'S-COUH'IIY-HOUIS
35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
Stilt
keep _
Working when
others have Stopped,
Obtainable NOW Everywhere
THE Diamond P 5 delivers efficient current at
lowest voltage. There is no overnight collapse,
and their very gradual decline will give ample
warning before new Ps’s are required.
Thus P 5 carries on after others have stopped,
and guarantees increased service, absolute
V dependability and unvarying consistency.
\ See your dealer to-day!
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELXS PXY., LTD.,
1 19 Hawke Street, West Melbourne, C. 3. FllT.j.
Cr. Dalgety Road and Towns Place, Miller's Point,
Sydney, N.S.W.
EVERY note
AS THE JktlAt PLAYS IT.
Strombeiff
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia!
C 3
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
COMMONSENSE ABOUT COILS AND
CONDENSERS
If a business concern is making money
swiftly and times are prosperous, it is
quite likely that certain forms of ex-
travagance will go unheeded. But when
times are bad it is a very different story.
If any profit at all is to be made every
item of expenditure must be checked
with the utmost care. On the technical
side of radio manufacture to-day there is a
certain amount of extravagance, for limes
are prosperous—such a large number of
broadcasting stations on the air, and so
many new stations and installations of
increased power on the way. On the
transmitting side, the radiated power is
modulated almost to the full extent, and
on the receiving side sensitivity is so
Fig. 1. —An efficient large-size R.F. coil
of earlier days, used in the 1928 Solo-
dyne kind of receiver.
high that only three modern valves are
needed to give results which a few years
ago were unobtainable with any number
of valves. Valves are so much more
efficient and the gain for each stage so
much higher that the trend of develop-
ment has almost completely disregarded
things as important as valves.
The result is that valves are doing
more than the lion’s share of the work,
and coils (those of present-day type) are
doing their hardest to detract from the
results that could be obtained. The
average small-diameter air-cored R.F.
coil in its screening can is, without
doubt, only an apology for a coil. Some
years ago in the short history of broad-
cast-receiver design, engineers went to
great lengths to improve the combina-
tion of L and C, the coil and the tuning
condenser. Attention was directed to
the subject of losses. By using large-
diameter, low-capacity plug-in coils (the
modern switched coil was unknown)
losses were reduced to a minimum. In-
efficiency in coils had been due to losses
caused by the passage of the field through
poor-quality dielectric material, and in
variable condensers loss was due to the
concentrated electrostatic field through
poor-quality solid dielectric. Coils were
improved by using suitable formers and
a correct gauge of wire, and by arrang-
ing the coil in such a way that there was
a high proportion of inductance to re-
sistance. The improvement when this
was done was very marked.
Variable condensers were made more
efficient by redesigning them so that in-
sulation between stator and rotor was
reduced to a minimum, and closed-cir-
cuit frames were definitely “out.”
At this stage the valve people de-
cided to do something about improving
valves, and mutual conductances began
to rise steadily. With the screen-grid
valve (the subject of much adverse criti-
cism in its early days in Australia) the
overall efficiency of the receiver leaped
upward, but trouble came from another
direction. Unscreened large-diameter
coils had given relatively little trouble
when the gain was on the low side, but
with the increased gain they had to be
screened. If the metal screen was placed
too close to the coil high losses were
introduced. Thus it was a case of making
either a very large screen for a (then)
normal size of coil, or else a very small
coil in a more reasonable size of screen.
The latter was the natural solution;
so the R.F. coil of to-day is very small,
and in some cases the screen is much
smaller in diameter than the earlier coils
themselves.
Efficiency Lower.
A small coil cannot be made without
reducing the wire size for a given in-
ductance, and with the concentration of
various windings for various purposes
into the small space the efficiency is
lowered considerably. In most cases this
is not noticeable in the superhet of to-
day with its high-gain valves, but the loss
is there. One may ask, “Why worry
about it?” but such an easy evasion
Fig. 2.—This is
really more effi-
cient than —
this.
of facts is not the path to progress. For
those who may doubt the efficiency of
the larger, properly-designed coil over
the small modern variety, there is a
simple convincing test. Wind on a 3in.
ribbed former some 50 turns of 20-gauge
copper wire, spacing the turns with
thread. At the bottom end wind on a
dozen or so turns of fine insulated wire
as a reaction winding. Connect this up
to a high-grade open-frame variable con-
denser (such as an English J. 8.), and tap
the aerial about two-thirds of the way
down through a 23-plate midget variable
condenser. Connect up to a detector
valve and a transformer-coupled audio
stage. On an average winter night the
number of stations that can be tuned in
is pleasantly surprising. A fair degree of
selectivity can be secured by judicious
wangling of the aerial condenser, but
with a small fine-wire coil and a poor
tuning condenser the little test arrange-
ment tells a very different story, both in
stations heard and selectivity.
All small modern R.F. coils are not,
however, bad. Those wound with Litz
are somewhat better than others, but
there is room for improvement. A lead-
ing Australian manufacturer now an-
nounces future receivers with larger
R.F. coils, and others will no doubt
follow suit.
Of the iron-cored R.F. coil, little can
ber said here ; the case for it has been
put forward on this page on several
occasions. The obviously efficient iron
dust core coil is not yet made in Aus-
tralia. It may be that with broadcast
station rearrangement and additions to
take effect in September next the tuned
R.F. kind of receiver will be resurrected.
With properly-designed coils and the
advantages of modern valves our old
friend the T.R.F. should be able to give
a good account of itself. Condenser
gangs, in addition to being mechanically
good, need improvement electrostatically.
Just sufficient isolanlite and less metal
should be used in the frame construction.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been irregular lately,
with quite a lot of static at times, even on
31 metres. Still more stations are on the
air, and on the morning of 7/7/’35 there
were three stations just above 28 metres,
and thus not in a stated broadcast
channel. One was
apparently Dutch,
and another Mexi-
can, but the English
announcements were
very hard .to follow.
The name of the
station or location
could not be identi-
fied, only the word
“Mexico” being
plain. The third
could not be identi-
fied. Of the three
the Mexican was far
the strongest, with
excellent quality.
Two of these sta-
tions came on the
air again in the
afternoon and closed
at 4.30. HBL was
too weak to follow
at 8.30 a.m. Most
Assembling the directive aerial array previous to the
Brisbane-Toowoomba 56mc. record. VK4AW (rope in hand)
watches VK4HR and associates in a tangle of rope and wire
at Mt. Gravatt.
of the stations were weaker than usual,
but an electrical recording of the
women’s final tennis championship given
oy WIXAZ was .easily heard.
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C.
has been falling considerably by 4.30,
especially on GSD. FYA is still normal,
and RNE was more interesting than
usual on 7/7/’35 with answers to ques-
tions by correspondents.
JVH, on 20 metres, has continued ex-
cellent both in early morning and after-
noon sessions, and the two Japanese on
27 and 28 metres have been very good
after 7 p.m., especially the former.
The Germans DJA and DJN, in the
31-metre band, have been audible in the
afternoons after 4 p.m., but were weak.
None of the German stations has been
good, DJD in the 25-metre band being
about the best in the mornings.
The 19-metre band has been quite dead
at night, and GSF not quite so good
in the mornings as previously.
No trace has been found of the trans-
mission from PHI given on Tuesdays
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Probably the
16.88 wave-length is used, and this is
of no use here at present.
FAQ, the Spanish station, was excel-
lent on 7/7/’35, and should be good
for some weeks around 9 a.m. on 30
metres.
Very little attention was paid to the
higher bands, as static and noise-level
were very high, but one morning at 7
a.m. IRA, on 49.1 metres, was quite
good.
2RO has not been heard in the morn-
ings, but was testing once just before
midnight, in the 25-metre band, at quite
good strength. Reports were invited.
WBXK was only fair on 7/7/’35, and
difficult to copy at 9 a.m., quickly fading
out. This station has not been heard
during the winter afternoons on 25
metres, the wave-length used at this time
for some years past.
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave Programmes.
D . ... c.,,.;™ phi w.vp
ps £ . J 7 77 -. , * Th
length 16.88 m., 17,77. kc./ sec.
specification of hours as given belo
expressed in E.S.T. Station opens
10.30 p.m., closes 1.30 a.m.
August 4: 10.40 p.m., electrical transcrip-
tions; 11.5 p.m., records; 11.30 p.m., news
from Holland; 12 a.m., microphone debutants;
12.10 a.m., broadcast by the Roman Catholic
Broadcasting Association ; •’ '' oa r
of the water-polo match, Holland v. ucr-
U 1 , 1
many.
August 5: 10.50 p.m., meeting of the Phohi
Club (announcer answers listeners’ reports);
11.15 p.m., piano recital by Wallhcr Malthies;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 12.5 a.m.,
second part of recital.
August 8: 10.40 p.m., ’cello recital by
Ko Annevcldt; 11.30 p.m., news from
land; 11.45 p.m., station orchestra; 12.5 a.m.,
on j s; 12.10 a.m., station orchestra, modern
compo scrs.
August 9; 10.40 p.m., records; 11.10 a.m.,
violin recital by Louis Somer: 11.25 p.m.,
T¥ .
records; 11.30 p.m., news from Ho an ,
“ ’
August 10: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.10 p.m.,
talk on literature by Johan Koning; 11.25
p.m., records ; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland ;
August H; ]QAQ pm > electrical transcrip-
t]-ons. j 1.15 p.m., vioiin and piano concert;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.40 p.m.,
records; 11.50 p.m., second part of concert,
12.5 a.m., records; 12.10 a.m. broadcast from
the Roman Catholic Broadcasting Association;
1.10 a.m., dance music,
August 12: 10.40 p.m., electrical transcrip-
tions; 10.55 p.m., meeting of the Phohi Club
(announcer answers listeners reports); 11.30
p. m . t ne ws from Holland; 11.45 p.m., electrical
transcriptions; 12.15 a.m., dance music.
August 15: 10.40 p.m., concert by the resi-
dential orchestra of The Hague, conducted by
Leo Ri ygr ok; 11.20 p.m., electrical transenp-
ons. ij.3o p.m., news from Holland; 11.45
pm> second part of concert; 12.25 a.m.
records.
August 16: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.30 p.m.
news from Holland; 11.50 p.m., the residen-
g ensemb i e: i 2.10 a.m., electrical tran-
scriptions.
August 17: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.5 p.m.,
station orchestra; 11.25 p.m., records; 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m., station
orchestra; electrical transitions;


WHEN you want radio that
lives! When you want
high fidelity reception, unmarred
by fhe background hiss so long
considered inevitable in super-
heterodynes choose a radio
that is Octode-equipped.
This remarkable new Philips valve
is the nucleus of modern radio
the pivot on which radio
design for 1935 will revolve.
INSIST ON
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Badlo Accessories at give-away prices. All
folly tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, ColviUeco, Sydney. ’Phone: 8Z261
=aMPIIOh=
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
ķ
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common•
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
** A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enioy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Fitted In all quality Re-
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
70 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
New English Permeability Tuner
Design.
Permeability tuners have been dis-
cussed before on this page, and overseas
many interesting schemes have been put
forward for utilising the iron dust core
in R.F. coils so designed. The per-
meability tuner, in which the movement
of the iron core affects the inductance of
the surrounding coil and so effects tun-
ing without the necessity for a variable
condenser, has been developed in several
patterns, many of which are available on
the English market. So far, however, a
fairly standard type of coil has been
used with the iron core, and thus
full advantage has not been taken of
the benefits this core gives to the coil
designer. S. G. Brown, of loudspeaker
fame, has developed an entirely new type
of permeability tuner. The actual coils
in this unit are incredibly minute, and
arc arranged in two rows of six coils. The
complete tuner measures only 4jin. by
3lin., yet it incorporates the complete
system for an R.F. and detector stage,
with wave-change switching. The coils
are gin. long arid of square section, each
side measuring under 3-16th of an inch.
It is claimed that a much sharper tuner
is obtainable than has hitherto been
thought possible without cutting side-
bands. The tuning control is carried out
by sliding the cores in and out of the
coils, the cores being attached to cross
bars fitted to small racks and pinions.
Matching is accurately carried out by the
manufacturer, but a small trimmer is
added to balance out stray capacities.
The dial control has a smooth-running
vernier action.
Distance on Ultra-short-waves Not
New.
That there is nothing new under the
sun is at least borne out in ultra-
short-wave radio communication. The
Manual of Ultra-short-wave Radio, by
Millen and Kruse, now available in Aus-,
tralia, contains some interesting refer-
ences to milestones in the covering of dis-
tances on wave-lengths below 10 metres.
In 1926 Mario Santangelli, at Milan,
Italy, using a 40-watt ultra-audion trans-
mitter, sent five-metre signals which were
received on schedule by Captain Filipini
in Northern Africa, a distance of 1600
miles. Boyd Phelps, from Staten Island,
N.Y., transmitted five-metre signals with
a 16-watt ultra-audion transmitter to
Glastonbury, Connecticut, a distance of
120 miles.
Marcel Saces, of Casteres, France, with
a push-pull Mesny-Vallauri transmitter,
sent signals up to 600 km., receiving with
a super-regenerator. In 1927 2EB, at
Jamaica, L. 1., was heard at a distance
of 125 miles. Boyd Phelps, at Jamaica,
L. 1., and Adriano Ducati, at Bologna,
Italy, heard each other’s signals at inter-
vals, clear across the Atlantic, but with-
out actual two-way contact. Power was
500 watts at each end.
A crystal-controlled transmitter was
operated on five metres at Schenectady,
N.Y., by A. H. Taylor, covering 150 miles
between hilltops. In 1928 tests from
2CSM at Brooklyn, N.Y., with two watts
and indoor antenna, were heard on
schedule at 250 miles, over land and
several ranges of high hills.
Ritz secured dependable reception of
three-metre signals at 130 km. In 1931 T.
R. Marshall copied KKP harmonic at
10.9 metres at 5700 miles when the fun-
damental was missing.
Australians and Maorilanders should
erect beam aerials looking out across the
Tasman to see just what may or may not
be done.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
According to an English nev'spaper,
the following names have been suggested
in France to supplant the term “looking-
in” as applied to television; “Televiste,”
“televisiste,” “televidistc,” “telcvoyante,”
Fifty-kilowatt R.F. amplifiers of a modern Argentinian
broadcasting station. LR6.
“visiophile,” “televiseur,” “telespccteur,”
and “longeminrur.” The 8.8. C. favors
the words “televiewer,” “looker” and
“viewer.”
U.S.S.R. engineers have designed a
new type of loudspeaker to be used in
aeroplanes. During recent tests speech
and music from this instrument, it is
stated, were clearly picked up at a dis-
tance of 30 miles. Although the speaker
weighs over 20001 b., it has been installed
in an army aeroplane, and has proved
successful.
* * * *
Turkey goes ahead with Westernisa-
tion, and with the object of more modern
education of radio listeners the authori-
ties have decided that Oriental music is
no longer to be broadcast by the Ankara
and Istambul stations. Instead, concerts
are to be given of works by some of the
older and more renowned European com-
posers.
The Berlin public
has the opportunity
of seeing free tele-
vision broadcasts. In
order to judge to
what extent tele-
vision is acceptable,
the Berlin Central
Post Office has
opened a special
room for three days
each week to enable
interested persons to
watch the pictures
free of charge. For
these broadcasts
direct scanning is
used in preference to
the intermediate
film process.
A.W.A. announces
a new development
in Radiola design, \ t
new types of R.F.
and I.F. coils hav- W
ing been incorpor- vb
ated. The formers
are of larger dimen-
sions than those used previously, and
the results are improved all-round
frequency, greater sensitivity, low noise
level and considerable reduction in
electrical-circuit losses. It has long been
recognised that the small-diameter, five-
wire, air-cored coil is a very weak link
in the modern receiver.
“Cathray”: Apparently all is not
smooth sailing between the accredited
television concerns in England. The
Baird Co. is chafing under the collar,
and accuses officialdom of favoring the
rival concern by holding back unneces-
sarily the date of commencement. Mean-
while, the 8.8. C. station at Alexandra
Palace is under construction, and the
Baird lOkw. equipment, complete and
ready to put vision and sound on the
air, remains enforcedly idle.
Casual Comment.
“Querex”. At a recent meeting of
amateur transmitters in Sydney padre
Flynn, of the Inlani Mission, brought
to light an interesting fact in connection
with the quest for extra-economical
valves for use in bush radio stations.
Instead of the latest, cnc of the oldest
types of valves proved to be ideal for
battery receivers where many months
must elapse before B battery renewals
can be available. The old double-grid
tetrode valve pro-
duced by Philips in
1926, by reason of
the fact that it
operates with very
small plate voltage,
is the answer to the
bush radio engi-
neer’s prayer, and
A.I.M. stations
make good use of
such valves.
“Querex”: In an
article in an Eng-
lish radio journal,
balloons are sug-
gested as a means
of supporting aerials
at high elevations
for ultra-short-wave
broadcasting. There
are difficulties in
the way of such a
project, in the
nature of the weather and electrical
storms. Broadcasting would be sus-
pended when winter gales predomi-
nated, and a few hundred yards of
cable into the sky can collect a
nasty jar from even a lone cumulus
cloud. Earthing would be necessary,
and thereby exists a short cut for ultra-
short-wave radiations. The effect would
be similar to the erection of the U-S-W
aerial on top of an earthed steel tower ;
not so efficient. The best scheme appears
to be two bi-directional aerials at right
angles, one above the other and on
top of a high, well-insulated wooden
structure.
Latest in the Trade.
Ducon and Chanex condensers for
radio-receiver use are well known to
constructors, but few realise the extent
of the manufacturing activities of Ducon
Oondenscis, Ltd., a long-established
Sydney firm of excellent repute. The
manufacture of condensers for use in
radio transmitters is a highly specialised
process in view of the extremely high
D.C. voltages and radio-frequency cur-
rents involved. Ducon has for some
considerable time been making this type
of condenser, and a great many Aus-
tralian stations are equipped with Chanex
transmitting condensers.
The latest station to be completely
fitted with Chanex condensers is the 4BK
relay station now in the final stages of
construction at Oakey (Q.). Plate-
blocking condensers are made in various
sizes. One of Imfd. capacity is 1 Sin. by
15in. by lOin. ; the working voltage is
10,000 and it is tested at 25,000 volts.
For radio frequencies, the special con-
densers are oil-filled, and have Indian
ruby mica insulation. One of these
condensers is shown here. The capacity
is o.ooosmfd. working at 10,000 volts ;
the rating is 200kva.
Ducon has departed from the use of
ceramic or porcelain terminal insulators
in this type of condenser for technical
reasons, and the use of Indian ruby mica
greatly enhances the performance. A
special oil is used in this “tank” con-
denser, and chemical and electrical tests
arc made in the laboratory before use.
The Ducon laboratory also possesses a
|kw. oscillator for the testing of these
condensers.
“Brasscx”: At 73 Mrs. Madeline
Boeder, of New York, chats weekly with
her son Arthur, of Feeding Hills, Mass.
(U.S.A.), by amateur radio. She mastered
the international Morse code years ago
to keep in touch with her son, then a ship
operator. Her interest has been main-
tained, and now, reports the American
Radio Relay League, both she and her
son talk frequently with each other and
with a host of friends made via amateur
radio.
The Q. and A. Column.
/ constructed the preselector unit described
B. 19/9./'34, and use this with an old four-
valve set. It certainly improves the selectivity,
but does not cause a signal increase, as claimed.
If I can do this I could not want for a better
set. How can I improve the action of the
unit? —293.
A wider range of aerial tappings along the
coil should be tried. Also, it is important
that the rotor (and screening box) of the unit
be connected to the earth terminal of the set
and also to earth.
Jf # !jl *
I have noticed in your radio page reference
to iron-cored coils with a view to improvement
of radio tone. From this I gather that you
are interested in proper reproduction. Recently
I built myself a gramo.-amplifier to a circuit
published by “Wireless World" ( Eng .), and
have obtained excellent results. It gives a
flat response from 200 to 6000 cycles. What
about a tuner to suit these fine results ? Have
you ever worked out a really good tuner for
radio reproduction from local stations only, as
/ am certain there is a growing market for
such ? —292.
Not yet. There are difficulties involving a
high enough Q to amply separate the local
stations and yet make the most of sidebands.
The best approach to such an ideal appears to
be the new permeability tuner of compact
design by S. G. Brown, of London. It is again
a question of core material. Admittedly im-
provement of tone is one argument for inclu-
sion of the iron-cored coil in Australian receiver
design, but the more important consideration
is the possibility of designing special tuned
R.F.-type receivers for use in the far outback,
with the advantage of a much lower atmos-
pheric noise-level-to-signal ratio than is at
present obtainable. A report to hand from
a Sydney engineer who claims to have tested
iron-cored coils in cascade R.F. amplification
states that they are unstable and cause spill-
over, but the question arises as to whether
the coils tested are of the best core material
design or of a substitute.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“See Australia First”
According to the National Travel
Association, 23,050 tourists visited Aus-
tralia last year, an increase of 28 p.c.
for the twelvemonth. And many more
are coming, for the association is send-
ing out publicity matter through, 6000
distributing channels —it has issued
2.815.000 booklets, 173,000 . posters,
67.000 photographs and 4000 maps to
the world at large.
All this I read in the annual report,
but there are things it doesn’t mention.
One is that for every tourist who comes
from overseas, three Australians depart
from Australian ports. Also, on the
figures produced, the Australian spend-
ings of the tourists, including business
visitors, who came last year averaged
only £43.' No Australian can go to
Europe or America without spending a
lot more than that, so the balance is
badly on the wrong side.
It may be a good thing that Aus-
tralians should travel when the country
can afford it, but in times of stress it
would be far better if they did the first,
part of their sightseeing in their own
continent, of which many so-called cos-
mopolitans know far less than they do
about the streets of London,
The North of Australia is as interest-
ing as any part of the world. There is
more to see and infinitely more to do
for an active man on the Barrier Reef
than there is on the Riviera. Torres
Strait, to the Melburnian or the Syd-
neyite, is as exotic and novel as Egypt.
New Guinea has scenery only to be
matched in the Taurus, the Himalayas
and the Alps ; but it is more various, and
is reached more cheaply and more com-
fortably.
A real “See Australia First” campaign
is overdue. —E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Tram Fares
As a Sydney tramway employee
I greatly admire the Brisbane
tramways, as they go out of their
way to attract business; but “Ash-
grove” (B. 26/6/’35) cannot be
allowed to have it all his own way
in the matter of cheapness. Except
for short distances, travelling is as
cheap in Sydney. We, too, carry
a passenger four miles for 3d., six
miles for 4d. and nine miles for 5d.;
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. you can
travel 11 miles for 4d.
There are factors in the Brisbane sys-
tem that give it a pull over other Aus-
tralian systems, but their main strength
is the absence of the dead hand of the
politician.— Keg (N.S.W.).
The State as Landlord
The Colonel Light Gardens Unity
Committee is to fight for Adelaide “com-
rades” who have received eviction
notices. From bills dropped into my
letterbox this last fortnight I gather that
as a worker I must “be prepared to stand
behind the committee, as this workers’
struggle is the struggle of every worker
in the Gardens.”
Persons receiving eviction notices have
oeen unemployed upwards of seven years.
The State bank can find paying tenants
for the houses, and why shouldn’t it? It
has not been a hard landlord. In cases
where householders have returned to
work arrangements have been made for
capitalisation of arrears. Part-payment
of rent is accepted from those working
part-time, and those evicted get a clear-
ance from all debt. Any improvements
made by the eviction cases have been
mortgaged over and over again. Those
who have left their homes without wait-
ing for the help of the Unity Committee
seem to be able to scrape up enough to
pay private landlords.— Corunna (S.A.).
Getting on the Land
“M.G.’s” (B. 26/6/’35) plea appeals
to the heart but not to the head. A
person considering the land as a means
of livelihood needs a wealth of experi-
ence. If he has that he can get along
with neither land nor capital; he can
acquire both.
A young man who at times went
hungry to avoid the dole, I now hold
2500 acres and well over 1000 sheep. A
solicitor or a draper does not buy the
premises in which he sets up business ;
he rents them.' There is land to be leased
in almost every N.S.W. district, and
owners seldom ask for payment in
advance. Woolbrokers, too, are always
ready to find two-thirds of the purchase
price of sheep.
Essentials to begin with are a knowledge
of sheep, land and grasses, edible scrub
and noxious weeds, also of business
methods and finance, and a capacity
for living hard if necessary.— Sambo
(N.S.W.).
A Y.A.L. Tourist
We billeted a lad of 15, one of a
Young Australia League party touring
Tasmania. - Tired out, and of anything but
robust physique, he yearned to go to bed
early and get up late. It was impossible,
because of the concert to be given at
night and the preparations for moving
in the morning; in' the daytime there
“Oh George, there's a boat coming towards us. Quick, give me something
to put on!"
were a rehearsal and a public wel-
come.
The boy’s main impressions of his tour
were that there was “nothing else to”
Hobart but its high trams, and that one
small town was the same as another —
although midland, highland and sea-coast
towns were among them. He added
somewhat arrogantly that he was obliged
to keep a daily diary, and would look
it all up later. The one ray of hope we
saw in him was that he had his tongue
in his cheek over the many fulsome
speeches delivered at public welcomes.
He and his pals added to their somewhat
pathetic youthful ness an extreme blase-
ness of manner. Most of them had
“done” tours before.
The truth is that the mind of the child
receives real impressions only from
familiar objects and regular companions
and from the child’s own gradually ex-
panding senses. —J. M. E. (Tas.).
Air Services in N. S. Wales
In “Provincialists Prefer Railways”
(B. 10/7/’3s)"you' reached the point
logically and conclusively. The air as
a medium of quick- transport has come
io stay, and nothing can stop it. But
there is mention of taxation on a pro-
posed Sydney-Bathurst air service (the
journey would be one hour or less) that
needs correction.
Under the original N.S.W. Co-ordina-
tion Transport Board, I believe, Id. per
passenger per train mile was charged for
all air passengers. The present board
imposes no charges.
For the protection of passengers and
efficiency of control, certain conditions
are stipulated:
(1) The air-service co. must satisfy the
Commissioner by insurance or bond that
passengers or their dependants are protected
from accident through any legal liability.
(2) The service must be conducted by
modern, safe and efficient aircraft. Land-
ing-grounds and aircraft must be duly
certified to and registered by the Common-
wealth Civil Aviation Department.
(3) The service must be flown to time-
table, weather or other untoward circum-
stances always permitting.
Nobody could question or cavil at
these conditions. Provided they are
complied with, no obstacle is placed by
the Transport Board in the way of a
reputable organisation conducting an air
service on a particular desired route. No
tax or charge is made other than a license
fee of a few shillings p.a. per aircraft.
I promoted an air-service co. to
operate regular services to country dis-
tricts of N.S.W. We are plying regularly
between Sydney, Dubbo, Narromine and
Nyngan, and will shortly be adding fresh
routes to our schedule. I can say genu-
inely that I have had nothing but all
kindness, consideration and assistance
from the Transport Board, and my com-
pany is paying no taxation of any kind.
—W. Kingsford Smith (Manager,
W.A.S.P. Airlines).
The Conqueror, Sand
You have been kind enough to notice
my work on the watersheds problem of
Australia (B. 26/6/’35). After 50 years
in Australia I have come to the con-
elusion that as regards our superficial
areas we are no more advanced than
were the people of the Garden of Eden,
who were driven out by mobile sand.
They cut down the trees, and did not
replant. The sand blew.
This comparison impelled me to act
as I did, and to make the investigation
on the necessity of mature and over-
mature eucalypts on Australian water-
sheds. I am continuing the matter in
another way. Results convince me
that Australia’s greatness depends on
aged eucalypts, and their destruction -
ap f a S 1 . Tj L rr-„ • a
In 100 years when Broken Hill is a
mouldering sandheap and the mines of
Kalgoorlie are a memory, pure water
and copious clean water will be required
in husbandry if the white race is to per-
sist here. A hundred and fifty years ago
the Murray ran clear as the water of
the Yan Yean, Melbourne; to-day
you find it a dwindling, muddy stream.
It seems to me that our universities
do not pull their weight. In them are
intellects of the highest esteem: his-
torians, geographers, zoologists, botanists,
agricultural professors and graduates of
note. These ought to be mobilised.
They should issue an authoritative report
dealing with the destruction of ancient
civilisation by mobile sand—“ What Aus-
tralia was; what Australia is; whither
Australia goeth.” To-morrow may be
too late. Do it now; let the people
know.—A. O. Barrett (Vic.).
“ ... Who Only Stand and Wait”
Conservative Melbourne was shocked
when a clergyman of standing came out
boldly with the statement that the un-
employed man had a right to expect his
costs of living to be met while he was
waiting for a job. Revolutionary, per-
haps, but the thing obtains already in
certain departments of life.
In armies and navies, for example.
Then, every city police station in the
world keeps men who yarn or play cards
until the ’phone rings for them to dash
out in pursuit of some criminal. A fire
brigade would be of little use if it did not
hold men in readiness to jump to it when
the alarm sounds. The beach lifesaver
spends the greater part of his time watch-
ing for something to do. Defence
authorities, police departments, fire com-
missions and seaside councils never
dream of docking the pay of their em-
ployees during the period of inaction.
All recognise the truth of the maxim that
they also serve who only stand and
wait.
But in industry a man who fabri-
cates an article may be told to stand
by without pay until the popular demand
for that article becomes sufficiently in-
sistent to justify his returning to his
bench. He is forced to live on the money
he has saved during his period of work,
which means that his earnings are re-
duced by percentages varying according
to his period of unemployment. When
a demand comes for his labor, he, or
somebody like him, has to dash forward
and take up the ragged threads where he
left them.
The clergyman’s argument is logical,
and the suggested remedy is fair. The
trouble is that it would necessitate world-
wide co-operation, like the 40-hour week.
As civilisation is constituted to-day, pay-
ment of a vast army of unemployed by
industries suffering from lowered de-
mand for their products would mean
throwing other operatives out of employ-
ment and leaving everything in a tangle.
—Grasspan (Vic.).
These Uniforms
Let one who has worn both the A.I.F.
pattern uniform and
the new creation of
the Army Council
have a say. The
A.I.F. tunic was pat-
terned on the Nor-
folk jacket; the
turndown collar was
neat, gave good pro-
tection when the
greatcoat was miss-
ing, and in . hot
weather . could be
opened without de-
tracting from the
appearance of the
uniform. The
pockets were sen-
sible; and the pleat in the back of
the tunic permitted the man with a rifle
or Lewis gun to use his shoulders
and to adopt a comfortable firing posi-
tion.
The neck of the new pattern is un-
comfortable and unsightly when open,
and can’t be turned up for protec-
tion. The sleeve can’t be rolled, and
the jacket is too tight across the shoul-
ders. I have repeatedly seen shoulder
seams torn on the range by soldiers try-
ing to get round their rifles.
The trouble with the A.I.F. tunic was
that the militia under universal training
was clothed in jackets manufactured in
1918, intended to fit well-developed men
—not lads of 18. Moreover, the larger
sizes were mostly of a coarse material,
referred to by the troops as “goat’s
hair.”
Clothing of the technical arms and ser-
vices in blue was also a mistake ; the
color is not suitable for work in the field,
and the public doesn’t associate blue with
military activities. Since the alteration
I have been mistaken for a policeman,
a tramguard, an ambulanceman and a
bandsman.
If breeches must be worn, a riding
pattern similar to that issued to the Light
Horse and technical units might be used.
The average infanteer would sell his soul
for riding breeches. A more suitable
article for peace training would be fairly
wide slacks caught up with a short
puttee or canvas gaiter for field work.
But why not shorts and shirts for camps
of continuous training?— Citizen Force
(N.S.W.).


FOR ROSEHILL TO-DAY.
Flying Welter: Kaylah; next.
Atucas.
Rosehill Handicap: Gothlin;
next, Limbohm.
Carlingford Mile: Turbine ; next,
Leone.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With 21b. more than he will have to
carry in the Australian Hurdle next
month. Sixteen Annas easily accounted
for his Leamington Hurdle rivals at Caul-
field. It was an eye-opening perform-
ance on the part of Neil McKenna’s
chestnut. Sixteen Annas had not previ-
ously raced in Melbourne, and punters
considered that the transfer from brush
to open hurdles would place him at a
disadvantage; furthermore, Sydney
jumping form is lowly rated at the city
on the Yarra. Thus it happened that the
bookmakers offered 12 to 1, with few
takers. Akanree, who scored twice at
the Grand National meeting, was made
a hot favorite, the only other starters at
less than a double-figure quote being
Heroic Prince and Ranclea.
Ridden perhaps with too much con-
fidence, Akanree was powerless to bridge
the gap that Sixteen Annas set up half
a mile from home, and the horse from
Sydney scored, easing up, by six lengths.
He must take a lot of beating in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle, for he gives the impres-
sion of possessing plenty of stamina, and
ought not to be troubled by the journey
of miles and 20 yards. So far only
one horse from Randwick—Les Pad-
dington in 1923 —has been triumphant in
the Australian Hurdle. (Les Padding-
ĸ
“T —■ ——
Best,‘ Ves, (used to be quite qood ohtxem
But i cant use them now
Gert.; " WHy mot ? “
BeSCT ' '' V S-NO SNOW *
ton also took the Australian Steeple that
year.)
Laniroi, Dungannon, Fer de Lance and
Cullingral finished so far behind Six-
teen Annas that it would be wasting
money for them to oppose him on
August 3. Laniroi is not within coo-ee
of the form that enabled him to capture
the event 12 months ago. Dress Suit
did not go to the post at the week-end
because of the death of his part-owner,
Malone, in S. Aus. It may be that
Sixteen Annas will have most to fear
from Dress Suit in the big race.
Seven Australian Steeple candidates
figured in the Godfrey Watson Steeple.
Only one—Character—got a place, and
his third to Calfly and Sarno was a poor
effort. Attente, who used to race in
Sydney but has been in the Caulfield
stable of H. Leek for some time past,
looked to have a great chance when he
led over the hill. However, old Calfly
gathered him in at the three-furlongs
pole, and from that stage Attente faded
out. Dramask, the 6-to-4 favorite, in-
jured himself at one of the early fences
and fell opposite the stand. There does
not appear much prospect of this well-
bred jumper racing again for some time,
Sarno, second to Calfly, is engaged in
both the Australian Hurdle and Steeple,
He may develop into a fair horse over
obstacles.
The form of Woodlace affords H.
Butler no encouragement to go on- with
him for the race on August 10. Butler
arrived from Adelaide on Saturday to
see Woodlace perform. The son of
Backwood had been doing well in his
stable and galloping satisfactorily, but
he appears to have lost all taste for jump-
ing, and beat only one rival. Melbourn-
ites are amazed at the degeneration in
Woodlace since he annexed the Grand
National of 1934 and the Cup Steeple
at the V.R.C. spring meeting.
The proverbial good luck of new
owners was illustrated by the victory of
Prince Caledon in the first division of the
Lillimur Two-year-old. He belongs to
H. L. Scott, a city businessman, who
gave 275 guineas for the Caledon geld-
ing as a yearling. There was an element
of luck in the success of Prince Caledon,
as Fine Feathers (2 to 1) and Donaster
(5 to 1) both met with interference and
finished far back in the field. The ring
exulted over another 12-to-l shot being
first past the post.
Beau Barton, who led all the way in
the second division, hails from Tas-
mania, and is trained by G. H. Cann,
his owner. At Moonee Valley, with
Voitre up, Beau Barton petered out at
the end of half a mile. On Saturday,
ridden by Neville Percival, he never
looked like being beaten over seven fur-
longs. These are the sort of occurrences
that make the poor punter scratch his
head in perplexity.
Gay Friar, favorite for the H-mile
Murrumbeena Handicap, either received
a bump or galloped on the heels of an-
other horse coming to the home turn.
He never regained balance. The verdict
went to Gay Star, another of the Gay
Lothario tribe. The first division of the
Kambrook Trial was taken by Dusky-
Native, the only favorite that came to
light during the day. But backers sus-
tained another body blow when Sun-
raysia led home the second-division run-
ners at 100 to 8, freely offered.
* * * *
Thebez, who carries the same colors
and is by the same sire (Satelles) as the
Sydney Cup winner Crucis, is proving
a profitable speculation to the pastoral-
ist who races as “W. Carleton.” Ten
to one for the Flying Handicap at
Moorefield, the three-year-old bustled his
way through a big field and won like a
good one. The favorite, Pavarti, was
perhaps unlucky ; had she got through
on the rails at the Leger she would cer-
tainly have gained a place. As it was,
second and third were rank outsiders,
Rhamses and Love Song.
Kenya, a stable-mate of Thebez, put
up a sterling performance in the first
division of . the Maiden Juvenile. He
was “not in the race” turning for home,
but Knox drove him hard on the out-
side, and got up in time to beat Tuckiar,
Newcastle-owned and -trained, by half
a head, Kenya, a bay gelding by Sion—
Vanga, started at 15 to 1. The second
division was also a good result for the
bookies, as Lorncello, a low-set filly by
Violoncello, friendless at 33 to 1, led
throughout.
Fluent has a liking for the Kogarah
course. In the Moorefield Handicap she
ran past little Bill Wedgewood at the
home turn, and had things all her Own
way in the straight, though Head Boy
finished fast to wrest second place from
Bill Wedgewood. Fluent, a daughter of
Legionnaire—Chatterbox, went out at 7
to 2. Limbohm, who had failed in-
glonously at Canterbury, just missed a
place. Jutland, the favorite, grew tired
chasing Bill Wedgewood, and was beaten
three furlongs from home. Ramrod ran
an even race, and now that he is fining
down into racing condition may be
worth following.
Cid won’t do his best unless he is out
in front. Thanks to Darby Munro he
soon occupied this position in the Carl-
ton Mile, and made a procession of it,
scoring by two lengths from Legislator,
second-last at the turn, with Lancaster
King third. Povertdale, joint-favorite
with Cid (at 3 to 1), was never
going comfortably ; he appeared to be
tied up by the fast pace set by Cid.
Morse showed up well while his con-
dition stood to him, and Prince’s Daugh-
ter is worth considering in weaker com-
pany. After Money, badly away, was
last.
The Brewer, a solid type of chestnut
owned by the Warren pastoralist E. D.
Forrest, looks like developing into a
useful stayer. Backed to 9 to 2 in the
first division of the Kogarah Stakes, he
finished in impressive style to beat the
favorite, Quick Way, and Village Maiden.
Grand Duke (6 to 1) just struggled home
in the second division after making all
the running. He beat Televise by half a
head; the latter lugged in near the
judge’s box. Rotary was third.
(Continued on next page.)
j
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s defeat' of Geelong was
the only surprise of Saturday’s League
matches, and it was no great one, for
Melbourne had shown signs of improve-
ment and Geelong signs of staleness.
Melbourne opened brilliantly, and led all
through; 11-11 to 6-13. Good fights
were put up by all the losing teams—
possibly because the grounds were so
sodden after a week’s rain that the better
teams had little chance of revealing the
finer points of their play. Collingwood
contrived to defeat Fitzroy by a last-
quarter rush, winning by 14-21 to 12-10
after Fitzroy had led up to three-quarter
time. While Collingwood kicked four
goals and seven behinds in the last
quarter, Fitzroy scored only a single
point. Haydn Bunton, of Fitzroy, for-
merly of Albury, who is generally recog-
nised as the best player in League foot-
ball, kicked eight of the losers’ 12 goals.
South Melbourne, which still heads the
list with one loss for the season, defeated
Footscray, 15-8 to 9-8, that wonderful
player Bob Pratt accounting for eight of
South’s goals. St. Kilda, fighting hard
for inclusion in the final four, had much
the better of the mud scramble in its
match against Essendon, though faulty
goal-kicking on the winners’ side and ex-
cellent shooting on Essendon’s part made
the scores fairly close, St. Kilda won by
13-15 to 11-3. Carlton kicked 21-16 to
Hawthorn’s 11-10, the highest score of
the day, and Richmond settled North
Melbourne by 15-11 to 7-6.
South and Carlton, in a class by them-
selves, are certain of inclusion in “the
four.” Collingwood will be third. Rich-
mond fills fourth position now, but heads
St, Kilda only on a small percentage,
worked out on aggregate scores for and
against. Fitzroy follows St. Kilda, but
can succeed only by a football miracle.
* * ♦ ♦
The Maoris ended their Queensland
tour by winning their second match with
the State at Brisbane by 15-13 —three
converted tries to two converted tries
and a penalty goal. They broke even in
getting the ball, though Bonis was
operating against them; their defence
was sounder, and the guiding hand of
Billy Wallace was visible in their im-
provement at all points. The game was
remarkably even throughout; five-all at
half-time and 10-all a few minutes be-
fore the finish. A try by Phillips con-
verted by Hemi then gave the visitors
a five-point lead, which was reduced
when Doneley kicked a penalty goal;
the same player narrowly missed another
just before the whistle. The gate ran to
£530, and Queensland will pouch a much-
needed profit of over £4OO from the tour.
* * * *
The Maoris’ win against the strong
Toowoomba side was first-class training
for their final match with Queensland.
The tourists scored 35 to 13, and, though
their condition in some cases showed
traces of the influenza epidemic, im-
pressed greatly. The gate was a Union
record for Toowoomba, and, as in the
Queensland match the previous Satur-
day, field goals were in evidence, Nepia
notching two.
* * * *
“Bowen Park”: The opening Maori-
Queensland match was remarkable for
the fact .that 12 of Queensland's
39 points came from dropped goals
from the field. In a day when the
dropped goal is going out of fashion
—some of the League-Union school
want to reduce its value to two
points instead of four —the happening
recalls days not so remote when the
goal was all-important in point-scoring.
The drop-kick is the most attractive
feature of any handling code. 1 am told
it is vanishing from the Australian code,
in which it was once all-popular, the
miserable punt having largely taken its
place. Fortunately, as the punt has no
scoring value, it is not likely to entirely
supersede the artistic drop in Rugby,
<** , * *
i The three leading teams in Sydney’s
Rugby Union competition were all
beaten on Saturday, but the results made
no difference to positions. With three
rounds to go, Randwick is on top, a
point ahead of University and Drum-
moyne, with Manly, North and Parra-
matta a point further down. Manly is
becoming noted for grandstand finishes.
Randwick led it 9-0 at half-time and
12-3 with only 10 minutes left; then
Manly full-back Sutton started a move-
ment which brought a try ; centie
Wauchope scored another and the cap-
tain, Primrose, kicked a field goal: 13-12.
A penalty goal was the difference between
Northern Suburbs and University in an
uninteresting game won by North, 9-6.
Parramatta forwards bustled the Drum-
moyne pack to some purpose, 19-14 ; and
West led all the way to down East 19-11.
* * * *
In a grand burst over the last quarter
of an hour Eastern Suburbs piled up
enough points to make it appear that
it had had an easy win over Western
in the Rugby League match at Sydney
Cricket Ground. West, however, held
East in the first half 10-5, and was 12-5
ahead well on in the second term. Then
Brown electrified his plodding side with
a dazzling run which ended with Tottey
getting over right at the corner flag.
Brown added more inspiration with a
clinking goal from that position, and
East’s brisk scoring machine was mov-
ing. It was still going great guns at the
final bell, with the scores 27-12. Brady
played such a game for West as to make
the State selectors’ preference for Beaton
in centre position look odd.
(<Continued on next page.)
“Carlaw”: The Indian hockey team
won its third Test with M.L. at Auck-
land by 7-1, and leaves the Dominion
with an unbeaten record. The tourists
have notched 297 goals to 21 during their
trip, an outstanding performance. Their
wizard centre-forward, Dhyan Chand,
contributed over 100.
* * * *
“Bundobust”: Tarrant is showing signs
of restiveness over the delay of the Board
of Control in finalising the matter of the
team he desires to take for an Indian
tour. He has told an interviewer that,
though he sent the board his list of
invited players in June, he has not
received replies from the 13 members in
the six State capitals. They are all handy
to telephones, but perhaps they object
to telephones on principle.


WINCHESTER
MODEL 60.—THE IDEAL ALL-SERVICE LOW-COST RIFLE.
k
_J .22 Cal. Bolt-action Single-shot, 23in. proof steel round
tapered barrel, bright chromium finished bolt and trigger,
safety firing pin, one-piece pistol—grip walnut stock, full rounded
well-proportioned forearm with convenient finger grooves, shotgun
type butt plate, Lyman gold bead front sight, sporting rear sight with
sliding elevator, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and 07 IQ
Super-Speed cartridges. Take-down model only. Weight 4tlo. /
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
k
IMPROVED MODEL, 60.— .22 CAL. SINGLE-SHOT
BOLT-ACTION RIFLE.
271 n. round tapered barrel, improved bright chromium-finished bolt
with safety firing pin and indicator, Lyman gold bead front sight,
sporting rear sight, walnut pistol—grip stock, finger grooves in fore end, shotgun-
type butt plate, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and Super- AQ/ m
Speed cartridges. Weight about 4Jlb. Price '
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3*
IVER JOHNSON
ķ
MODEL 3X, .23 CAL. SINGLE-SHOT BOLT-
ACTION SELF-COCKING SAFETY KIFLE.
24in. round tapered barrel with partridge-type non-blur sights, screw
adjustable rear sight, military style walnut stock with full pistol-
grip, hand checkered and with finger grooves, formed steel butt plat",
cbrorhium-plated bolt unit and trigger, chambered for short, long 90 /0
and long—rifle standard and Super-Speed cartridges. Weight 4jlb. /
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
THE NEW
Speed
WINCHESTER
SUPER-SPEED
-Power
RIMFIRE
CARTRIDGES.
—Longer Range
'mm
Short, 2/8 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100,
ISE®
Long, 3/6 100.
Lone H.P., 3/9 100.
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Long Rifle, 4/- 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
Under the Whip
Strangely prophetic was the
racing talkie “Broadway Bill,” screened
in Melbourne as an appeal to horse-
lovers gathered for the Grand Nationals.
In the picture—first shown on Saturday
morning—Broadway Bill, the idol of his
stable, drops dead on the track just after
passing the winning post. A few hours
later Redditch, idol of the Aus-
tralian ’chasing fraternity, was killed at
Flemington.
* * * *
“Amateur”: Alteration of the fences
at Flemington will not improve steeple-
chasing, nor will it reduce risks to horse
and rider. Flemington and Williams-
town are the only true steeplechase
courses left in Australia; other courses
have light brush fences with a rail
eighteen inches below the top. Aboli-
tion of summer steepling has done more
to kill the sport in Victoria than Flem-
ington’s solid fences; that and the ex-
pense of getting a horse ready for cross-
country racing. Yet it should be an
easy matter to get horses ready. Four
hunt clubs meet within easy reach of
Melbourne for four or five months in
the year, and they jump all sorts of ob-
stacles, including brick walls. Half-
schooled horses cause most of the
trouble in present-day steeplechasing;
that and the foolish pace set by squibs
and followed by reasonably good horses.
Leave Flemington as it is, bring the
other courses more in conformity with
it, encourage hunt-club races with
amateurs instead of restricting them, and
give promising horses more open field
work with hunt clubs, and steeplechasing
will come back. Fiddle with the fences
by making them light brushes, and the
game is doomed.
♦ * * *
“Thrown in!” was the verdict of Syd-
ney racegoers when they saw the weights
Mr. Kerry had got in the Clarence River
Jockey Handicap and the Grafton Cup—
-Bst. 81b. in both, though he had won the
handicap a year before with 9st, 31b. and
the Cup with 9st. 1 lib. And, going out
at evens, he made an exhibition of five
opponents (Tapestry proved the best of
them) in the handicap. But, raised 101 b. in
the longer race, he could not get a place,
victory falling to the Queensland horse
Thalwyn (Syce Knight—Rose Alwyn-
ton); Narbethong beat another Queens-
lander, Brown Force, for second place,
and Regal Star, Mr. Kerry and Glads-
wood followed them home. The result
emphasised the value of Queensland
form. In ante-post betting Thalwyn was
a 3-to-l favorite in Brisbane, but on the
course 5 to 1 was the price, Mr. Kerry
being at 7 to 4 and Gladswood at 9 to 2.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Sydney racing lost a “charac-
ter” when “Grafter” Kingsley died last
week. James Kingsley he was christened,
but everybody knew him as “Grafter,”
and the sobriquet appeared even in the
funeral notice. His enormously fat
person was known to every racecourse
“sport,” and his appearance among the
Stadium ringsiders—he never missed a
mill there —was the signal for joyous
greetings from the back-seaters, whom he
would always salute by taking off his hat
and giving the nearest approach he could
get to a graceful bow. Like most of his
tribe, Kingsley had his ups and downs —
more downs than ups towards the end
of his career, I’m afraid. But he was
a rattling good judge of a horse, as he
showed when he bought High Disdain,
then looking as if destined for an early
grave, for a song and, by dint of judi-
cious spelling, feeding and training,
transformed him into a handsome horse
with which he brought off several coups,
notably in the 1931 Villiers. Another
meal-ticket he owned and trained was
Dreblah. A good-hearted fellow was
Kingsley, very generous with his money
when he had it; and he left troops of
loyal friends.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Like his negro stable-mate Roy de
Gans, who came all the way from
America with him, Gaston le Cadre did
not impress in his first bout at Leich-
hardt. Bishop was his opponent, and the
Frenchman was lucky to get a draw. He
clinched while Bishop fought and tried to
fight. The Gaul did a bit of scrapping in
the last five rounds, but his cuddling made
those encounters even, though he scored
with clean punches in the 14th. Hoots
were heard when the decision was given.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Cyril Pluto, back on a
visit to his native Perth, where he
knocked out the Victorian Lang in a
couple of rounds, will probably succeed
Jack Carroll as welterweight champion.
He is younger and a harder puncher
with both fists, though not so clever. He
is a son of the old-time colored bruiser
who fought Griffo so many times. Like
Griffo, the elder Pluto went to America,
but he was a bit past his prime and
failed to make the impression the Rocks
lad produced. He was stopped by
George Dixon, who could scarcely land
a glove on Griffo.
Footbrawl
“Magers”: Three or four Vic. League
matches this season have been decided
by a kick after the ringing of the final
bell. Years ago a Collingwood player
got a mark in front just as time was
called and the opposing team was five
points ahead. He placed the ball, and
the man on the mark danced weird
measures to play upon his nerves. Half
the crowd of 20,000 howled viciously
with the same object, while a hundred
or two opposing barrackers close at hand
solemnly counted him out as he ran to
kick. But all to no effect; the ball went
through. That footballer had to apply
far more concentration and was sub-
jected to far greater handicaps than
cricketers or tennis-players, who squeal
like scalded cats if a barracker says
“Boo” or a baby cries. Yet he never
turned a hair. Why is it that what is
“Henry, your language is simply terrible!“
“Well, see if you can do any better !”
flat blasphemy to an English cricketer
or a Czecho racqueteer is merely a
choleric word to an Australian foot-
baller?
* * * *
“G.M.”: That silence is golden within
the football arena, however admissible
barracking may be beyond the fence, was
impressed on Adamson, of North Mel-
bourne, by a severe reprimand from the
League tribunal. Adamson’s ungolden
guilt consisted of giving a barracker
backchat and, on his own admission,
advising him to “have a bit of sense.”
The reprimand constitutes a leading case
in Vic. football.
“Rover”: Sydney Australian Rulers
are in for a treat on August 3, when
Collingwood and South Melbourne will
clash in an exhibition match at the
Cricket Ground. Pratt, the South Mel-
bourne scorer, who heads the goal list
for the season, will be a great attraction.
* * * *
“Senex”: That English Rugby team
of 1888 (B. 17/7/’35) didn’t do so badly
in its attempts to play Australian Rules,
though it had never seen the game until
it landed at Adelaide. In all, the
side played 19 matches against Adelaide
and Victorian clubs, and won seven. I
doubt if any lot of Australian Rulers
could have made a better showing in
Britain against crack Rugby clubs. The
1888-89 M.L. Native team also tried its
foot at the Australian game when in this
country ; it played seven games in Vic-
toria, winning one, drawing two and
losing four. One outland spot not men-
tioned by “Grasspan” where the game
got a footing for some years was Cape
Town. There some enthusiasts and their
converts ran a competition with several
clubs for a season or two.
“Birkenhead Park”: Welcome as the
Maoris are, their insistence in perpetuat-
ing the haka before their matches has be-
come a weariness of the flesh. We have
had it year in and out from all M.L.
teams, and the time has come to petition
Maoriland to put the lid on future repeti-
tions. The form used nowadays is an
artificial chant which has no tradition
and is far too long. If the Maoris and
All-Blacks must have a war-cry, let them
go back to the heroic reply of Rewi
Maniapoto when the British summoned
him to surrender at Oakau. This was
short and sweet: “Wha wai tonu, kia
kaha, ake, ake, ake” (“We will fight for
ever and ever and ever”). The M.L.
Native team was a success in England
from the moment when, before its first
match with Surrey at Richmond, it
chanted this, clad in Maori mats. It was
a great piece of publicity, and drew thou-
sands to the grounds who had little in-
terest in Rugby football—then a close
and exclusive game, plebeians affecting
Soccer.
* * * «
“Stand Off”; The influenza hoodoo
which settled on the Maoris is without
parallel in writer’s experience of similar
tours. Nothing could be more calcu-
lated to foster an infection like influenza
than a touring football team, where the
members travel and house together and
are in close contact on the training and
playing fields. At Brisbane three of the
chosen team had to drop out on the
morning of the match, and two others
were rushed to hospital directly it was
over. The next day 10 of the 25 players
were down.
* H‘ « *
“Glenelg”: South Australian Rugby
footballers are taking themselves seri-
ously—and deservedly, since they have
put up good showings against the strong
Victorians. The Wheatfielders now want
Victoria to join in a triangular tourney
at Adelaide in September, Westralia
being the third party. It is suggested that
the teams pay their own expenses, a
pretty solid item in the case of the West-
erners, though Adelaide might help with
housing, as the girl cricketers did with
their English guests. The tourney would
help to advance the game in the three
States,
* * *
“Tenakoe”; N.S.W. Rugby League
secretary Miller returned from his mis-
sionary trip to Union-ridden M.L. burst-
ing with enthusiasm over the prospects of
the professional code in that country.
It has been going there as long as it
has in N.S.W. It has mostly been
confined to Auckland Province and
adjacent centres, with a lone outpost at
Christchurch. On Miller’s own showing
that is the condition of things to-day,
the Auckland vogue being due to the
fact that some years ago followers of the
code there had the gumption to get a
good ground site and improve it by
degrees.
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby
Leaguers are by no means unanimous on
the subject of sending a team to Maori-
land in spite of the glowing report
brought back by N.S.W. secretary Miller.
Harry Sunderland, of Queensland, who
usually knows what he is talking about
when League football is the subject, has
published some horrifying figures of the
financial results of previous tours. The
N.S.W. body also is up in arms, since a
team leaving to play a first match in
M.L. on September 7, as has been sug-
gested, will cut heavily into the Sydney
club competition.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: H. W. Hattersley.
winner of the N.S.W. golf championship,
is a player of the slatherumwhack school
and probably the longest driver in Aus-
tralia. That does not mean that he is a
slogger only, but if he could restrain his
tendency to go for length at all costs
and improve his short game he would be
one of the finest golfers this country has
produced. As it is, though he has won
an Australian championship, he remains
in the Tolley class rather than in that of
McLean.
# * *Js #
“Sandringham”: Dunlop-Perdriau pro-
vided a golf entertainment out of the
common in Melbourne when the carrying
powers of various makes of the firm’s
ball were tested by a machine. The maxi-
mum carry obtained with the gadget was
250 yards, the newest balls showing a
superiority of from 30 to 20 yards oyer
the standard makes. Most interesting
were the experiments with a smooth ball
without cover markings. These made a
very poor showing, improving when the
cover was scratched and cut. The same
fault was found when the gutty ball first
tried to supplant the old feather-stuffed
pill. Then it occurred to some genius
that the sewn seams of the feather ball
had something to do with the carry, and
he impressed the now familiar criss-cross
pattern on his gutties. The new ball at
once beat the old ones out of sight, and
the gutty reigned king until supplanted
after many years by the rubber-core.
* * *
“Susie Swattit”; The British womens
golf team is on its way to the land of
cannibals —to use a Menzelian term.
The five players are Mrs. Greenlees,
(captain), Mrs. Walker and Misses Pam
Barton, Phyllis Wade and Jessie Ander-
son. Miss Anderson cut her teeth on a
golfing iron; she is the daughter of a
Scottish professional. She has won the
British girls’ championship, and was in
the semi-finals of this year’s British
championship, going down to the winner,


"OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
“THE WONDER RIFLE.”
There is no better rifle made than the
WALTHER. It uses ,22-cal. long-rifle
cartridges, is a single-shot, repeater
and automatic ALL IN ONE RIFLE.
Price, £9/10/- (postage extra).
Winchester latest .22 S.S. Rifle,
Model 67, 27-inch barrel. Price, 45/-
(postage extra).
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISiriXG TACKLE TO TACKLE FI Sill KG."
DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
\« Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The Ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether duo to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
42 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: BSIOO.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1805.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
BERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 207 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 270 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1.000,000
£1,250,000
Also 100 Branches and Agencies In South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit Issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
eollectod and proceeds remitted. AH usual
banking business transacted.
hoot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A'CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. AI I.
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
V
SS
n
W
*&
c
o"
©
,; ?
C 3
S 3
384
"NEOFLAK'
LOADED
DUXBAC
and
KIL SPECIAL
mimmi
CARTRIDGES
Heavy Loads—
High Velocity—
Hard Hitting
At Long Range
A 2¥ Load-
In 2 r Shells
Without Excessive
Pressure or Recoil
Loaded with “ Neoflak ” Powder
—the latest and most successful
shot gun propellant.
Obtainable Everywhere
At Popular Prices
Wholesale Only:
I.C.I.A.N.Z. Ltd. (Ammunition Section)
380 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
1GI
■OM
Wakes %>.
'DjflkkUHC&l
gk,
RURAL BANK
OF -NEW SOUTH WALES
* Fixed deposits
accepted at the
following rates:
1 per cenl per annum for 3 months
Wanda Morgan. Phyllis Wade is another
youngster who won the English title last
year, and has played for England against
Scotland, Ireland and Wales. Eighteen-
year-old Pam Barton holds the French
title, and has been runner-up in the last
two British championships. Mrs. Walker
has taken an Irish championship, while
Mrs. Greenlees has won many big
Scottish events.
* * * *
“Fairway”; The N.S.W. golf cham-
pionships spluttered out with the mixed
foursomes at Rose Bay. It looked a
good thing for Mrs. Bettingfon and her
spouse at the end of the first round,
which they finished with a 73. Water-
son and Miss Corry put in a hot run in
the afternoon, and ended the 36 holes
with 150—76 and 74—the Bettingtons
running third with a cricket score of 162
—73 and 89. Ruwald and Miss Hipsley
were second with a consistent 157 —
79 and 78.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Susie Swattit”: Golf form would
give the stipendiaries a headache if there
were any. The winner of and the runner-
up in the N.S.W. women’s singles should
have been a write-your-own-ticket pro-
position for the foursomes. They were
Miss Joan Hammond and Mrs. Clive
Robertson; the opposition was Miss
Sydney Jones and Miss Ebert. The
favorites flopped by two in the 36-hole
stroke clash, Misses Jones and Ebert
handing in an aggregate card of 166
(82, 84) to one of 168 (86, 82) by their
opponents. The holders; Mesdames
Clement and Macqueen, fell in the soup
with a first round of 97.
* * * *
“Lakeside”; Little has been heard of
Joyce Wethered since she left for.
America to play professional exhibition
matches. A cable now tells that she
started her tour at the Glenhead links,
Long Island, partnering one John Daw-
son against Gene Sarazen and Mrs. Ware,
who used to be Glenna Collett. The
Englishwoman showed great form in her
long game, but found the greens slow.
The match was squared.
Racquet and Bawl
“Bournemouth”: Perry is to leave
England for Australia on August 2, going
first to Canada for some practice. Then
he will take on the American champion-
ships at Forest Hills, and so on to Holly-
wood and the Californian tourneys. He
would do well not to repeat his last
American experience, when, after pot-
hunting all over the Western States, he
arrived in Australia so played out that
his record here was one of consistent
disaster. He is to be in England when that
April’s there, going by way of S. Africa.
“Milton”: Perry will make his first
official bow in the coming season’s tennis
at the Queensland championships at the
end of October. He will probably be
partnered in the doubles by young
Huxley, who is also one of the Slazenger
string, while the Queenslanders are
hoping that the full Australian Davis
Cup side will be on the spot.
* * * *
“Milton”; Queensland tennis heads
are holding a jubilee tourney in Bris-
bane during Show Week in August, and
have invited a N.S.W. team to take part.
Invitations have also been forwarded to
individual players in N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. It will be a big powwow, 28
events, covering three grades, being listed.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Norman Brookes may
yet see his idea of a Pacific Davis Cup
zone come into actual being. It was to
include Australia, Japan, South Africa,
Maoriland, China and the Philippines,
but the refusal of South Africa and M.L.
to join in queered the pitch at the first
time of asking. The Afrikanders are
within easy reach of Europe, and are
not bothered by long journeys. M.L
has been represented for some years past
by people who either live in England, like
Stedman, or spend much of their time
there, like Andrews. Approval of the
notion at a recent meeting of the Davis
Cup nations in Europe may alter these
countries’ outlook.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The new chair-
man of the Ma State L.T.A. is likely to
find an Italo-Abyssinian situation con-
fronting him when he returns to Aus-
tralia. The row between the grass-court
people and the hardcourts ditto is increas-
ing, and efforts to calm down the belli-
gerents have only made matters worse.
So far, out of 18 on the council, the hard-
courters, numbering 25,000 players, have
only six representatives. The balance
represent 1000 grass players. The grass-
courters, who run the big tourneys, point
to the money they rake in from these
and say this gives them the right to the
excessive council membership. The hard-
courters swear their big membership
counts for more than cash, and unkindly
point out that, whereas all the first-class
players to-day have graduated from the
hardcourts, not one has come off the
grass for years.
♦ * * . ♦
“Smasher”: In Australian newspapers
Mrs. Moody—Helen Wills that was —has
become a hyphenate. According to Aus-
tralian and English custom, she is just
Mrs. Moody; according to American
custom, she retained her maiden name on
her marriage, changing from Helen Wills
to Helen Wills Moody. But according
to no known custom is she Mrs. Helen
Wills-Moody. It is only among the
Chinese that the single name is embodied
in the married, and that applies to the
man as well as to the woman. And
Helen Wills Moody is not Chinese. She
is the daughter of an Oakland (Cal.)
doctor, and made a name for herself in
the tennis world while still a schoolgirl.
Miscellaneous
Neither the South Africans nor the Eng-
lish covered themselves with glory in the
third match at Leeds, which was drawn.
After seeing England fiddle themselves
out on a batsman’s wicket for 216 —
Hammond (63) and two newcomers,
Mitchell (58) and Smith (36), made most
of the runs —the tourists gave an even
feebler showing for 171, Rowan and
Siedle being the only men to make a
stand. Yet the English bowling was far
from devastating, Nicholls (3-58) getting
the most wickets. Greatly bucked, Eng-
land raised 294 —Hammond 87 n. 0.,
Mitchell 72, Smith 57 —before declaring
with seven wickets down. Left-hander •
Vincent, with 8 for 150 in the match, was
the best of the ’Bok bowlers. Africa was
content to make a draw of it, and pot-
tered along until stumps, when it had
lost 5 for 194 ; Mitchell 58, Cameron 49.
Wyatt made a joke of the bowling as time
approached, giving most of the team a
shy, and earned the title of “buffoon”
from a nerve-racked press wrathful at
England’s lost opportunity.
♦*. * *
“S.T.S.”; Two wicketkeepers in an
XI? “Aigburth” overlooks (B. 3/7/’35)
the interesting precedent of Lilley and
Storer. Each was at the moment worth
a place for his batting alone, and they
were pretty much equal with the gloves,
though Storer’s bad temper and liabil-
ity at any moment to give back-talk to
his captain prevented him from going
far. The idea can be highly useful in an
emergency. Australia would have been
thankful to have someone on the field
more used to the gloves than was Vic.
Richardson —plucky though he was—
when Oldfield got a k.o. in the last.
Adelaide Test.
“G.S.”: “Aigburth” has a short
memory. Victoria played two wicket- ;
keepers, Ellis and Love —the latter for
his batting—in the same eleven ; and it
won the Sheffield Shield that year.
* * ♦ ♦
“Tenth Slip”: The selectors have filled
the hole in the team for S. Africa with
Sievers, the lengthy all-rounder who
played for Victoria last season. He is a
defensive batsman who has been tried as
an opener with some success, and a
medium right-hand bowler. Best of all,
he is a fine slip field.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Aigburth”; Now and then the cricket
limelight shows up some unexpected
names. In the Norfolk match with the
Springboks three Rought-Roughts took
the field. They did their bit, too, two of
them roughting several batsmen apiece,
while the family also made some runs
and held catches. Only one of the tribe
is mentioned in the latest “Wisden” —
R.C., who took two wickets for 93. He
has played for Cambridge.
* * * *
“Kuni Kuni”: I can go one better
than “Kooyong” (B. 12/6/’35). A
brother of mine sporting ’Varsity colors
received an open order for winning
the amateur long jump. A neighbor’s
son won the professional mile bike race
and was rewarded with a cheque. They
both bought suitcases at the same shop.
“Blue Chalk”: One is used to hear-
ing of Walter Lindrum doing wonderful
things on the billiard-table, but a cryptic
press message from M.L. in the Mel-
bourne papers has everyone puzzled.
Explaining that Walter is prolonging his
stay because of the demand for his ser-
vices by the South Island clubs, it goes
on: “His skill with the vitalities is amaz-
ing large attendances.” One wonders
what the British Billiards Council will
have to say to this innovation, if any-
thing.


k
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thame*,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
AND SCORES AN INSTANT SUCCESS!
I I
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY !
No More Stomach Pain
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, etc.
Harrison-Macleau Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack ,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally ; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed , a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS —NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief —the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be "just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
"H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
soim
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack-
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognises the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to the
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON - MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for any form of Digestive and
Stomach upset accompanied by Acid, Gas or Nausea.
If supplies of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(adding 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney .


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO
THE TREATMENT OR PRODUCTION
OF METALS OR ALLOYS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
3275/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN LIGHTNING
ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10427/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 13/6/’34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office; Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ENJOY
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
£
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and =
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, ]
from 7/- per day; g
Double Room at I
Double Rates)
HOTELSYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Industrials
Buyers at present predominate in the
industrial-share market. Never have
shares in such companies as Australian
Glass, Broken Hill Prop., Burns
Philp, Yarra Falls, David Jones or
Australasian Paper been bought at
figures showing such confidence in the
industries or trades the cos. represent.
It is a somewhat anomalous position.
Trade-union unemployment in May was
still as high as 22.7 p.c. in N. S. Wales,
though a great improvement everywhere
on 1932. Wool averaged JOd. a pound for
the year to June 30, as against 16.2 d. and
8.9 d. in the two preceding years. Yet,
notwithstanding these aspects of things
in which there is still room for consider-
able improvement, trade generally is defi-
nitely much healthier.
It points to one thing in particular:
among ourselves, exchange of goods
and services is speeding up. Our
external trade figures have shrunk, but
internal trade —and our manufacturing
industries have been of great assistance
in this regard—is reviving strongly.
We have an exchange pool of some-
thing like £70,000,000 sterling in
London, a reserve against drought and
adverse trade balances. Last year’s
favorable balance was about £10,000,000
(stg.) short of overseas interest require-
ments, and London reserves will be
drawn upon. In such circum-
stances unnecessary imports
must not be encouraged ;
Australian factories will have
to look after the bulk of our
requirements.
It is encouraging to see
that, despite the 25 p.c, de-
preciation of our currency in
terms of sterling and 50 p.c.
in terms of gold, non-rural
commodities in the Sydney
price index have fallen from
184 in 1929 to 165 in May,
1935. The trend is still down-
ward, if anything. Despite
lower average prices for their
products, Australian manu-
facturers and traders are do-
ing better. Cement cos., Aus-
tralian Glass, brick, construc-
tion and textile concerns are
declaring increased dividends,
and better returns generally
are anticipated from numer-
ous listed companies whose
balance sheets will be presented shortly.
Where profits appear to be reasonably
certain for some years to come, investors
are prepared to pay a much higher price
for the right to those profits than they
were in 1929. Interest returns generally
are lower. Though shares in those days,
especially bank and pastoral shares, were
sometimes higher than present rates, divi-
dends generally were also higher, and
yields to investors wider.
Australian products and Australian in-
dustries during the depression have been
severely tested, and have come through
well. The sharemarket’s appraisement
of representative listed stocks is shown
in the following table. A high level was
reached in January ; then doubts regard-
ing wool, etc., brought about a relapse.
There has been a well-sustained rise to
present levels;
January. March. July 18.
Bank of N.S.W. £32 £3O/5/- £32/12/6
Nat. of A/sia (£5) £6/6/- £6/6/6 £6/11/-
Queensland Ins. 53/- 59/- 61/-
Adelaide Steam 29/6 30/- 31/6
Amal. Wireless 45/- 46/3 50/6
Australian Cem. 25/- 27/- 32/-
Australian Gas £B/2/- £7/16/6 £B/3/6
Australian Glass 63/- 60/- 72/6
British Tobacco 40'- 38/- 40/3
Broken Hill Prop. 55/- 51/- 59/9
Bums, Philp ... 64/- 61/6 65/6
Colonial Sugar .. £42/10/- £4l/10/- £45
Cumberland, ord. 33/9 34/3 36/3
David Jones .. 41/6 39/- 41/6
Fairymead Sugar 41/- 35/6 40/-
Gen. Industries 14/- 15/- 19/9
Goldsbrough,
Mort 30/- 28/- 30/3
Gordon & Gotch 49/- 45/- 45/6
Herald & Weekly
Times 58/- 59/- 58/3
Metropolitan Gas £l4/14/- £l4/10/- £l4/5/-
Permanent
Trustee 17/6 17/6 18/6
Prestige, 10s. ord. 19/6 18/6 18/-
Tooth & Co. 51/- 49/- 55/6
Usher’s Hotel .. 33/- 32/6 33/-
Waltcr Reid .. 36/6 36/- 34/-ft
Yarra Falls ... 37/6 37/6 42/6
ft Buyer.
Whether there will be a reaction from
the high figures being paid for some of
the foregoing will depend on dividends
soon to be declared and the general trend
of interest rates. Banks and insurance
concerns, financial rather than industrial,
“ Now , dear, don't you go RUSHING into danger .”
get widely different support from in-
vestors. Insurance cos. are among the
high price stocks; banks are compara-
tively low.
N. S. Wales and Victorian banking
statistics at June 30 indicate a continued
loosening-up on lending policy and a
greater demand by industry for finance.
Advances in Vic. have risen £4,000,000
in twelve months (in the last quarter
there has been little increase), while in
the Ma State there has been an expansion
of £6,500,000 over the year, less than a
million of it being in respect of the past
three months. Deposits in Vic have
fallen £4,500,000, in N. S. Wales
£2,700,000. Taking the two States to-
gether, somebody has made use of
£10,500,000 of extra bank accommoda-
tion, and depositors have found other
avenues for £7,200,000 of idle capital.
* ♦ * *
Justly Rawlings’s decision to retire
from his job of managing director
of Anthony Horderns’ comes at a
time when the ordinary shares of the
old firm are above par on the share-
market. Department stores, with many
other businesses, had to readjust them-
selves drastically to people’s lessened
buying power when slump overtook us,
and those which have come through suc-
cessfully reflect the skill and care of the
control, foresight, too; and the fine
scheme of improvements carried out at
Brickfield Hill is an impressive sign
of confidence in the future. Justly Raw-
lings has been with Horderns’ for 32
years, 17 of them as g.m. Born
in England in 1868, he came to Syd-
ney from the London branch. He has
been a leading figure in Sydney retailers'
associations, was commissioner to the
Australian section of the British Empire
Exhibition in 1925, is a Rotary enthu-
siast and has done memorable industrial-
welfare work. He goes on six months’
leave on August 1, his retirement tak-
ing effect as from January 31 next.
* ♦ » *
Gold shares still have a following, in
some cases that of bears waiting for a
kill. Westralian mines beginning pro-
duction are receiving special attention
from admirers and cynics; it is on (he
cards that bears will come off second-
best in many cases. The revival is at
the point of making itself felt, given fair
conditions, which it has scarcely had to
date. The one outstandingly favorable
feature has been the high price of gold.
From the point of view of flotation
methods and metallurgical and develop-
mental progress—there have been ex-
ceptions in each case —results have not
been so good. Deep-seated low-grade
ore has proved more difficult of treat-
ment than the oxidised stone obtained
near the surface in the old days.
* * * ♦
Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd., a pup of the Aus-
tralian corset-manufacturing concern
with some Maoriland capital in it, is
doing well. With a paid-up capital of
£35,000, it also manufactures for another
established firm, and in its last financial
year paid a 10 p.c. div. For the half-
year to June 19 the interim has been
raised to 12} p.c. p.a., and the M.L.
sharemarket asks 50s. for the £1 shares.
At last balance-day reserves were equal
to 4s. 7d. a share. Berlei enterprises
generally have been very successful.
* * * *
Queensland reports a 95.1 p.c. “pros-
perity index” for May as compared with
pre-depression conditions. The Bureau
of Industry says that the high figure has
been maintained
through the abnormal volume of wool
sold and exported during the month and
the large quantities of other exports. Some
relapse may be expected owing to the
drought.
Direct exports show an index improve-
ment of 3.1 for the six months ended
April, but are lower for the correspond-
ing period of 1933-4 by 17.4 p.c. Super-
ficially unemployment improved from
12.8 p.c. in January to 10.9 p.c. in May,
but if 8340 men on relief work were
taken into account the unemployed rate
would be 15.5 p.c., and if part time
employment were considered it would
be heavier still. Also, says the industry
Bureau, “there has been more than the
usual seasonal increase in employment,
Government works programmes being at
their peak.”
♦ * * #
The higher prices for lead and zinc—
both metals were around £l4 sterling a
ton in London last week, and some little
time ago they were well; over that figure
—have not tempted the Barrier mines into
greater production so far. The Silver-
ton Tramway Co. handled 568,395 tons
(mostly concentrates) of freight during
the year to June 26, an increase of only
20,000 tons over 1933-34, though 64,000
tons up on 1932-33. Traffic for June,
1935, was practically the same as that for
June, 1934. Imports of pig-lead into
Britain for the four months ended June
30 were 113,421 tons, of which 57,114
tons came from Broken Hill.
* * * *
Tin, following a falling-off in produc-
tion in the Malay States during June,
has strengthened in price to around £23 5 /
a ton, a rise of about £ll in little more
than a month. Though the world’s
known supply of the metal is limited in
a commercial sense, the sharemarket
appears sceptical of the present price—
forward quote (three months) is £lO a ton
below spot. Prices offered for Malayan
dredging concerns listed on Australian
Changes have been weakening ever since
the market for the metal broke some few
months back, and the recent recovery has
not been reflected in share prices.
* * * *
B.H.P.’s Wilputte coke-ovens were
mentioned the other day as an illustra-
tion of the methods used to keep the
Newcastle steelworks in step with world
developments in steel production. Speak-
ing to 200 visitors to the works, the
assistant manager said that one of the
first things done by “the younger school”
of B.H.P. directors was to scrap coke-
ovens which had cost £500,000, then
quite efficient as compared with similar
plant in many overseas steelworks. The
new ovens cost £1,000,000, but they
helped the works enormously during the
depression. Similar modernisation had
been carried out throughout the organisa-
tion, including the allied industries.
Prices of the co.’s products are now
30 p.c. to 45 p.c. below 1923 rates.
* * * *
Incomplete figures supplied by estate-
agents in Sydney and suburbs and N. S.
Wales country districts for the first half
of 1935 reveal a great increase over
similar figures for 1934. City sales show
improvement of 170 p.c., suburban
70 p.c. and country 65 p.c. Compared
with 1932 total figures, the increase is
nearly 390 p.c. Richardson and Wrench
has raised its interim dividend rate to
8 p.c., as against 6 p.c. for 1934.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Bride of Frankenstein'*
Sydney Plaza advised imaginative
women not to see the sequel to “Fran-
kenstein,” and parents were urged to
keep their children in bed, so crowds
turned up.
Karloff makes the monster —escaped
from the fire which ended the earlier
film —a pathetic figure, fearful of the
screams and shouts of the peasants, un-
able lo understand their horror or to
make his own longing for companion-
ship understood by them. With the
blind hermit he is gentle and content —
“You friend, good.” Karloff and Ernest
Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius, the crazed
scientist who prevails upon Frankenstein —
also recovered from the (ire —to help him
make a mate for the monster, do excel-
lently, and Una O’Connor adds interest
in the part of a terrified maidservant.
As the woman created to be the mon-
ster’s mate, Elsa Lanchester looks ade-
quately terrifying.
Background and photography are un-
cannily realistic.
“Princess O’Hara**
Another one to prove that a boss-
gangster may have a heart of gold. Jean
Parker, a pretty, tearful little girl, is the
“princess,” whose father drives a horse-
cab. Chester Morris is the racketeer
who’s willing to go broke to make her
happy. Also at the Plaza.
“Lorna Doone”
The plot is picturised in detail from
the murder of John’s father by the
Doones to the shooting of Lorna during
the wedding ceremony and her recovery
after John’s victory over Carver. Roy
Emmerton makes Carver more mounte-
bank than ruthless outlaw, and Victoria
Hopper is painfully genteel as Lorna,
but most of the others (Alexis France as
Gwenny, Frank Cellier as Jeremy, Law-
rence Hamray as the parson) resemble
Blackmore’s characters as the best illus-
trators have imagined them, and several,
such as Roger Livesay (Tom Faggus),
have West Country accent's. John Loder
makes a handsome, powerful-looking
John Ridd, and the farmhouse interiors
and moorland scenes are sufficiently
naturalistic. The dialogue, which reads
so well, sounds disconcertingly stilted
from a screen. This is a movie that
might have been more atmospheric as a
silent. At Sydney Lyceum.
“All the King’s Horses”
This film is below Sydney Prince
Edward’s usual form. The resemblance
between a Ruritanian monarch and a
visiting movie-star and their temporary
exchange of roles is the inane theme.
Carl Brisson, who doubles the part, sings,
dances and dimples as usual, but is often
boring; notably in the prolonged scenes
in which he stalls off the Queen’s ardent
and mistaken advances. The brightest
feature is the singing of Mary Ellis, who
also capitalises some piquant tricks of
speech and manner. Edward Everett
Horton doesn’t get a fair chance, and
Katherine de Mille doesn’t earn hers.
“The Mighty Barnum”
This Sydney Regent film may not
boom —it has no love interest as movie
fans understand the term —but it is a
fascinating study of the period. Wallace
Beery (Barnum) is first seen as an un-
successful N. York storekeeper who
acquires freaks as the birds sing. At a
crisis, when his shrewish wife (Janet
Beecher) is about to leave him, he ac-
quires Tom Thumb. Also Tom’s girl—
surely the loveliest midget in existence.
The showman’s meeting with Jenny Lind
is equally dramatic. Adolphe Menjou
(Bailey) is expected from Europe with
Jumbo ; he brings instead the celebrated
singer. From the deck of a paddle-
wheel steamer at the docks Virginia
Bruce sings her way info the hearts of
the crowd and Barnum in a few minutes.
It is the beginning of the end for the
infatuated Barnum, who is presently
deserted by his wife, estranged from
Bailey and ruined. No one befriends
him but the freaks whom he repudiated
when he rose to be an impresario. The
picture might have ended with Barnum’s
admission that Tom Thumb was a bigger
man than himself, but it goes on to a
somewhat boring and improbable ending.
Beery’s Barnum is the complete show-
sentimental, tremendously
“THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN,” AT SYDNEY PLAZA.
Elsa Lanchester, as the Bride, repels the Monster (Boris Karloff), to the honor
of Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger).
impressed by display or notoriety, an
illiterate dunderhead and buffoon with a
piercing eye for what will interest the
public. The part was into Beery’s hands;
he must have been meeting theatrical and
movie magnates like Barnum all his life.
“The Party Wire”
One of those savagely comic pictures
of American village life in which Holly-
wood excels. Jean Arthur becomes an
outcast because the villagers, listening-in
on the telephone, put a wrong construc-
tion on a message from her boozy old
father. She is sacked from the bank;
her flower-show exhibit is disqualified ; a
perambulator, with insulting screed
attached, is left at her home; worst of
all, she nearly loses Victor lory. The
part doesn’t do justice to Miss Arthur,
who is at her best when gaily telling
society to go to the devil, and who hasn’t
the right figure for slacks. Nevertheless,
she is sufficiently beguiling, and the cast-
ing of the minor parts is remarkably
good.
“Mills of God”
Featuring May Robson and sentimen-
talism in buckets. The dear old lady
has retired after bossing a steel plant for
half a century. The slump comes, and
she tries to get her children and grand-
children to dig into trust funds to keep
the mills going. They refuse, so she
comes to the rescue with her own securi-
ties. Her granddaughter Jean (Fay Wray)
registers democratic sentiment by con-
ducting a love episode with a handsome
young Labor agitator (Victor Jory) in
a lonely mountain shack. When the
locked-out employees desire to lynch the
wealthy folk who closed up the business
the police confront them with machine-
guns, but Jean harangues the mob, and
so does Miss Robson, thereby changing
hoots to cheers. Ends with 785 ft. of
adhesive kiss between Mr Torv and Miss
aonesive Kiss between Mr. Jory and Miss
Wray and a hint that the future may
see their relations regularised. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Ten Minute Alibi”
A Melbourne Athemeum film which
follows the play fairly closely. The mur-
... 3 3 .
derer is soon known. The only mystery
3 3 3
is the uncertainty regarding the straight
running of the detectives. Like the audi-
ence, they recognise that the victim de-
served death ; but, whether going straight
or running a bye, they are strangely
stupid. They put to the suspect a ques-
tion which elicits a reply amounting to
a confession of guilt, upon which they
get their hats and announce their pleasure
that he has been “able to prove his inno-
cence.” Phillips Holmes is the boy who
prefers to murder a blackguard rather
than see his girl ruined ; Theo Shall is
an excellent villain, and Aileen Marson
looks nice as the ingenue.
“In Town To-night”
A thread on which many excellent
vaudeville items are hung. Outstanding
are a trio of “Egyptian” dancers, two
men and a woman, and a long, lanky
girl-dancer. A song, “Food, Beautiful
Food,” will probably be ringing
through the heads of radio fans before
long.
Some First Nights
Earl Beauchamp’s notion that Gov-
ernment House should interest itself in
the Arts seems to be shared by the Hore-
Ruthvens. At an at-home there on
Thursday a 14-year-old violinist, George
Farrell, was the lion, and the guests in-
cluded many of Sydney’s musical cogno-
scenti. The youngster, who has the im-
perturbable confidence and cheery soul
of a Menuhin, included in his programme
every style of playing from the Bach
Chaconne (unaccompanied) down to the
Schubert “Ave Maria.” He produces a
round, mellow tone; his phrasing is
instinctively good, and his technique,
though there are a few tricks that could
be added to it with advantage, is already
getting near the stage where neither the
player nor his audience need be anxious
about it. The lad has the physique, the
temperament and the brains necessary
for success in a violinist’s career. He
should be sent abroad for study. No
Australian musician can hope to seri-
ously impress Australia lacking a foreign
imprimatur.
* r- *
The suggestion that the A.B.C. should
take over the job of providing Sydney
with a permanent symphony orchestra
would commend itself more to music
lovers if orchestral broadcasts were
more successful. Writer endeavored to
listen to the second De Abravenal con-
cert at Sydney Town Hall per 2FC, but
the station treated the band no better
than it did when Hamilton Harty waved
the baton. Nevertheless, people who sat
in the Town Hall said the Brahms Sym-
phony and the Wagnerian excerpts were
delivered in a most pleasing fashion.
* * *
Scott Alexander’s production of Grand
Guignol horrorettes at the Kursaal
Theatre, Sydney, was full of gruesome
gusto. “The Chink and the White Girl''
gave a bloodcurdling peep into the
gutters of Paris. The fiendish ferocity of
Margaret Ackhurst, the shrinking naivete
of Dorothy Sykes, her crippled daughter,
and the oily suavity of John Rybak's
Oriental white-slave trader created an
electrical tension. Little less marrow-
chilling was “The Man without a Face,”
Henry Messent playing the mutilated one
with telling ghastliness. “The Conver-
sion of La Calomb,” badly cast and lack-
ing in drama, was merely morbid. Wel-
come interludes in a feast of gore were
a brace of French frolics. The clowning
of Arch Hull, a droll desperado, gave
pep to “Ten Minutes to Live,” and
“Private Room 27,” with Belle Burns
and James Higgins (a very knowing
butler), was also acceptable.
* # *
“Squaring the Circle,” by Valentine
Katayev, staged by the Independent
Theatre at the Sydney Savoy, is a three-
act Russian comedy which makes fun
of some of the Bolshevik theories. It
concerns two pairs of newly-weds who
are compelled by Moscow housing con-
ditions to occupy the same room. All
save one of the brides are members of
the League of Communist Youth. The
exception decorates her half of the room
with gay wallpaper, window curtains,
family portraits, silk lampshades, cushions
and a canary in a gilded cage. The
other couple’s half is bare and uninviting,
and, while their room-mates have plenty
of eggs and milk, sausage and bread, the
all-Communist pair live on little save
thin air and an interest in Communist
theory. The men become restless. The
half-starved husband is tortured by the
smell of foodstuff from the other side of
the folding screen which divides the
room, and has doubts about his purely
political marriage. The other chap finds
his wife’s coddling oppressive. Finally,
after the four have been assured by an
elderly party official that they won’t upset
the revolution whatever they do, there
is a swapping of wives. The piece was
acted as a boisterous farce, and much of
its satire was missed. Eddie Finn, Max-
well Osbiston, Sheilah Lloyd Parry and
Phyllis Chalumeau played leading parts,
and Doris Fitton was producer.
(Continued on page 44.)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
End of a Rainy Day.
The sun will set in a gash of blinding
green,
Whose ragged edge glows with a silver
sheen ;
Blue-black above the towering clouds are
massed,
Blue-black below the shadow that they
cast;
White parallels, down-slanting from the
height.
Marble the land with sliding pools of light;
While distant showers, pillars of ghostly
grey,
Wunder and fade, and, wandering, fade
away.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLS WALL.
Modernists
and Our
Galleries
A year or two
ago I was talking
to a modernist
artist at an exhi-
bition when he
said “Here’s
George Bell ; tell
him what you're saying.” I was introduced
to Bell, who at once asked me what I
thought of the exhibits. Promptly and
extremely discourteously 1 replied: “1
can see the ad., ‘Why waste five years
learning to draw when you can paint in
five weeks by taking our correspon-
dence course?’ ”
Both artists naturally regarded me as
a back-number, a Philistine, a Babbitt.
Possibly they were right, but something
Bell has written from London makes me
sympathetic towards them, though I do
not relax one inch from the attitude I
took up.
Bell has just been doing a round of
the London galleries, and reveals the fact
that such an orthodox institution as the
Tate Gallery has swung so far to the
Left Wing of Art as to have on its walls
works by C6zanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin,
Picasso, Matisse and others, even the
“abstractionist” Bracque.
With a few exceptions, I cannot bring
myself to see that the works of most
of these painters are to be taken as
serious art. Some of them—and their
disciples—have given the world replicas
of the first efforts of the nursery ; some
have thought they were throwing a bomb
into orthodoxy by depicting the effects of
a material bomb ; some have presented
excellent imitations of the pavement-
artist’s impressionistic achievements.
“Cranks are little things that make
revolutions,” once said some wise philo-
sopher. The modernists —cranks to the
orthodox —have not succeeded in effect-
ing the revolution which was their ob-
jective. But they have contrived to do
something infinitely more valuable to
the cause of art; they have revealed to
orthodoxy its own smugness and self-
satisfaction. Out of the welter of the
conflict, it is probable that a rejuvenated
art may emerge, stripped of fettering
conventions and also stripped of labored
eccentricities and miscegenetic alliances
with literature and psychology and philo-
sophy.
Whatever its future, whatever its
merits or faults, modernism has grown
to such dimensions in the world of art
that it can no longer be brushed aside
as frivolous. It will possibly die out in
a few years, but it has made itself part
of the history of art. No matter how it
may be revered or ridiculed in the future,
no national gallery in any country can
reckon itself adequately equipped when
it possesses not a single specimen of a
movement which, however heretical it
may appear to the faithful, has a wide
following, and a following comprising
men of undoubted ability. The National
Galleries of the Australian cities by
their affected contempt for modernism
are failing in their duty in failing to
secure any examples of modernistic
work. Modernism may be a passing
phase—my belief is that it is—but pass-
ing phases which command the serious
attention of serious artists are part —and
a very important part —of the history and
development of art and a necessity for
the study of those who will be the artists
of the future. The censorship of mod-
ernism in art runs parallel with the cen-
sorship of “revolutionary” literature by
Minister of Customs White. The public
must not be permitted to know that the
revolutionary's views are unsound ; it
must not be permitted to know that he
has any views.
G. TROTTER.
Film
Imagination
The hypothe-
tical Australian
film - producing
concern in which
Stan Morrison
would not invest
if 1 had the remotest connection with the
business should make, he says (B.
3/7/’35), a Mede-and-Persian rule that
“anyone heard uttering such an idea as
‘the fusion of sound with movement in
a rhythmic unity’ or babbling about
‘bridging the time-lag between sight and
sound’ should be warned off the premises
for life.”
Well, suppose Walt Disney should be
a member of the organisation! There is
a “cinematic genius” who, not content, as
1 modestly am, with “spouting uninlelli-
"Memoria de Valencia,” by W. Prater, in the exhibition at
Melbourne Athenceum.
gible balderdash,” has actually bridged
ihe time-lag between sight and sound in
his Mickey Mouse and Silly Symphony
cartoons. And instead of screaming with
rage at this practical demonstration of
the possibility of the fusion of sound with
movement in a rhythmic unity the de-
luded public positively laps up Disney’s
creations.
Charlie Chaplin, another “cinematic
genius,” has written that his success on
the screen dates from the time when he
“began to take his eyes off the public and
to aim exclusively at pleasing himself.”
This is the attitude of the creative artist.
Chaplin is not in the least apologetic to
the Industry for having dared to formu-
late and express in all his films a philo-
sophy of life (bite hard, Stan!) which, he
says, “looks upon humor as a kind of
gentle and benevolent custodian of the
mind which prevents one from being
overwhelmed by the apparent seriousness
of life.” Chaplin even questions whether
the Industry is on the right track to
popularity in its representation of life as
lived chiefly by male and female manne-
quins in drawing-rooms as large as
cathedrals. The average man, he says,
does not cut a dashing figure as he
blunders through a drab and common-
place existence... .As he shambles along
with dwindling hopes he is smitten more
than ever with a sense of his own unfit-
ness and inadequacy. When he sees on
the stage or screen the romantic hero who
sweeps through life like a whirlwind, he
feels a sense of inferiority and is depressed.
Then he sees me shuffling along in my
baffled and aimless manner, and a spark of
hope rekindles.
Out into the street with Chaplin! The
fellow has Imagination.
Stan Morrison wisely made no attempt
to refute on a box-office or,any other
level my contention that dialogue is not
the most important ingredient of a mov-
ing picture. Such outstanding box-office
successes as “Tell Me To-night,”
“Viennese Nights” and “One Night of
Love” all formed part of a movement in
the direction of minimising dialogue and
substituting a use of sound more com-
patible with the camera.
At the worst Stan Morrison can only
accuse me and my imaginary supporters
of “constituting a serious menace” to
Australian films—that is, a danger of the
future. Yet he writes that “public enthu-
siasm for local films is weakening.”
Now 1 wonder why.
KATHLEEN PITT.
Current
Artbursts
The show of
the paintings of
Roland Wakelin,
high priest of
A u s t r a 1 a s ian
mode mists, at
Sydney’s Macquarie Galleries raises in-
teresting questions. Do these modern-
ists work in a spirit of deep humility,
saying to themselves “Nature is so com-
plex, so splendid, so beautiful that it
would be utter presumption for me to
attempt to reproduce her. so 1 shan’t
try,” or do they throw paint at canvas
muttering defiantly “Nature is wrong
and I m right”? Mr. Wakelin, once upon
a time, so it is said, was a Meldrumite.
One of his pictures in the present show,
“Morning,” has the merits of that school
—insistence on essentials and light as the
first essential—and it offends no old-
fashioned eye. Others seem to be
essays in deliberate crudity—still-lifes in
which indigestible-looking fruit or
woolly flowers are grouped around a
vase or jug on which the potter’s thumb
has slipped disastrously; landscapes
overshadowed with clouds like rect-
angular blocks of solid concrete. As to
style, the artist appears to be still in his
bathing-towel period—every sort of sur-
face or texture, from blue sky to bricks,
being represented as patches of colored
towelling. Doubtless it is all intensely
significant and inspiring to those who
know why things are represented thus,
but without a key to the symbolism it
conveys about as much to the average
man as an algebraic equation does to a
guinea-pig.
Styling themselves the Contemporary
Art Group, a dozen Melbourne artists
are holding a very creditable show at the
Athenaeum. The “Old Contemporaries”
—and some of them are very young—
unlike most artistic groups, are not
pledged fanatically to any one theory of
art; their motto is evidently “Let ’em
all come,” provided they have sufficient
merit. The present display, therefore,
ranges from the conventional to the
revolutionary, and both seem to have
profited by the comradeship. Outstand-
ing are two portraits, each representative
of its type and each full of merit—W.
Prater's “Memoria de Valencia” and
Rupert Bunny’s “Miss Mavis Shore.”
Prater’s picture depicts a most un-
Spanish-looking brunette beauty in a
Spanish costume. It is a dexterous
arrangement in pale grey, with brilliant
crimson dots here and there. The draw-
ing is good, the color excellent, especi-
ally the clever mingling of various tints
loaning the background. The crimson
represents the lady’s lips and her ear-
rings and a few adornments to her dress.
Fortunately, this picture is placed far
Irom Bunny’s. Together they would
have clashed. Prater’s would have
appeared cold and Bunny’s over-bright.
The Bunny picture follows more closely
the conventions of portraiture. It is
brilliant —almost luminous —in its color.
It is easy and natural and well-drawn
and exquisitely harmonious. The treat-
ment of a fur cape shows that the artist
has mastered one of the most difficult
problems in painting. Prater exhibits other
portraits—one, “Moya,” following the
sketchy formula so popular in modernism.
Arnold Shore shows an excellent por-
trait of Mr. Justice Evatt, dominated but
not overwhelmed by his scarlet gown,
another of Lady Barrett and some
glorious flower pieces. Norman Mc-
George has a couple of sound land-
scapes, Mrs. Percy Grainger an imagina-
tive and colorful skyscape, and George
Bell a picture of an old English abbey,
painted in his manner of some years
back, and a large, well-drawn, well-
painted nude. Daryl Lindsay exhibits a
couple of beautiful flower pieces and
several landscapes painted with an
approach so suggestive of the eighteenth
century as to arouse misgivings that he
is about to form a new group of
“Ancientists.”
The most interesting of the work of
the Left Wingers is from Enid Cam-
bridge, R. Wakelin, lan Fairweather,
Rah Fizelle, A. M. Plante, Kenneth
Macqueen, E. W. Syme and Grace
Crowley, whose portrait of a cock-eyed
lady is presumably reflective of the world
to-day. Isabel Tweddle dabbles in both
conventionalism and modernism, reach-
ing her top in a portrait, “Miss Betty.”
Some clever drawings of ballet girls are
shown by Daryl Lindsay and half a
dozen monotypes by Rupert Bunny.
Rex Wood, in the latest one-man show
at S.A. Society of Arts Gallery, has por-
traits and still-life full of promise, but
hardly more than that. In black-and-
white and lino-cuts he breaks loose from
convention, especially in his anatomy.
Morgan, S.M., opening the show,
warned all-comers that this is not freak-
ishness ; still less is it lack of skill. It is
just how the artist sees the subject; and
they must try to see with him.
Greek by birth, Westralian by adop-
tion, Ulazio Lanalis felt himself inspired
to commemorate on canvas in the heroic
manner Australia’s emergence from the
Great Depression. His huge picture was
unveiled by Dr. Kocotakis, Greek
Consul-General, at Anthony Horderns'
gallery recently. It is a striking com-
position. Bathed in strong light in the
centre is Australia, a robed female figure,
eyes bright and brave, treading under-
foot a world wrapped in rolling murky
clouds. In the foreground are four semi-
nude male figures representing Australia’s
main industries. Behind is a gigantic-
winged figure in shadow, offering Aus-
tralia the fruits of courage and industry.
Composition is strong, symbolism logical
and intelligent, anatomy sound enough.
Drapery is the artist’s weakest link—it
suggests the stiffness and solidity of cast
brass rather than the yielding softness
of fabric —but, even so, the work remains
the first Australian attempt to rival
Michelangelo that has come anywhere
within coo-ee of success.
“J.”: Although Melville Haysom has
been painting for years, the picture with
which he won the Godfrey Rivers art
prize was his first serious attempt at
portraiture. The portrait is a vivid study
of his wife, with a sunlit landscape as a
background. Haysom is a Victorian, and
before coming to Queensland five years
ago was a student in the National Gal-
lery School, Melbourne, where he won
minor prizes for figures and heads. He
has frequently exhibited at the Queens-
land Art Society’s shows, and once held
a one-man show. He is a professional
musician and a member of the Regent
Theatre Orchestra, though, but for the
fact that economic necessity compels him
to thus earn a living, he would devote
himself entirely to his paint. Prize-win-
ning is not a one-sided affair in his
household, for last year his wife carried
off a prize of nearly the same monetary
value by her reproduction in embroidery
of one of her husband’s pictures.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results,
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modem convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Bunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
k
Tlie Richardson Chain Hotel
15. ’ M
»I*
1.3
Hi*
iiH ll (nTiTT;
M
1-
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Kail way Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from. . 12 6
’Phone: F4l 41 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The highlight of the Red Cross Head-
quarters Younger Set’s birthday dinner
was the presentation of the Florence
Nightingale medal to assistant-matron of
the Sydney Hospital Elsie Clare Pidgeon.
Sister Pidgeon is the first in this State to
receive this distinction, which is awarded
by the International Red Cross com-
mittee of Geneva. Sister Pidgeon served
in the war from 1915 to 1919, and since
then has been on the staff of Sydney
Hospital. Lady Isaacs handed over the
medal with appropriate words at the end
of the dinner which marked the fifth
birthday of the Y.S. Five red candles
around a glistening iced cake testified to
this. A cheque for £lOO was handed to
the chairman of the State’s R.C.S. Miss
M. Fairfax cut the cake.
Surely £l2OO is a record harvest from
a ball for charity. Yet that, and perhaps
a bit more, will be the sum distributed
among Sydney hospitals by City Tatt.’s.
You could feel the seventh wave of suc-
cess the instant you walked into David
Jones’s ballroom the other night. There
was a buoyancy about the committee
ladies that comes from the knowledge
that all expenses are already wiped out,
money is in hand and the night
ahead is just one long glad croon. As for
Jack Mandel, who won the ugly men’s
competition and thereby (and each vote
only one penny each) added £459 to the
gleanings, he looked prouder than if he
had broken two banks at Monte Carlo.
The frocks were handsome, jewels
gleamed and every female head in sight
wore exquisite waves. A basket massed
with nasturtiums, pansies, poppies and
marigolds, from which royal blue and
gold ribbons flowed, decked the official
board.
The Julius lady came along to receive
the debs. Her hyacinth-pink moires
toned in with their snowy whiteness. The
young things, with their partners, danced
a minuet, gliding and floating and sub
siding into the curtsy with faultless
grace. From their arms swung posies
of snowdrops and hyacinths grouped
around pink carnations. Mrs. G.
Herdsman, who presented the debs,
and later hostessed the official party,
wore ivory velvets glinting with diamente.
The club’s chairman, Gus Mooney, with
the vice-president of the ladies’ com-
mittee, Miss N. Brazel, entertained a
great tableful. Blackberry satin beaded
in blue was worn by Mrs. Carmody ;
daughter Mavis was graceful in Parma
violet velvet. Mrs. P. O’Leary, wife of
the organising secretary, had a short cape
of wine velvet warming her patou-pink
crepes, while Mrs. J. O’Leary’s chiffons
were Marina blue. A dummy whisky-
bottle towered on the O’Donnells’ table,
and emerald laces were worn by Mrs. J.
Clarke.
The little fur tippet worn by the wife
of Dr. Paddy Moran attracted the eye at
the Modern Languages Association lunch
last Thursday. The gathering was to wel-
come the V. A. Baileys—he’s associate
prof, of physics at Sydney University,
and the two are just back from their
travels. These lunches, no matter how
cosmopolitan their consumers, remain
strictly English. Mightn’t international
amity be encouraged if occasionally a
French, Italian or even Spanish dish
were introduced into the menu? It
might even help the student’s accent.
Tina Bentivoglio was one of the smart
lunchers, very pleased over sister Dr.
Marie’s successes in the U.S.A.
Dr, Marie, who is on leave from the
Teachers’ College, was entertained by
many of the principal colleges in the
States. Introduced by the British Ambas-
sador, she had almost an hour’s inter-
view with President Roosevelt. In Los
Angeles the American Association of
Women Graduates gave her a dinner ; in
Washington she gave a lecture to the
National Geographical Society, where
nearly 4000 people listened to her talk,
which she titled “Introducing Australia.”
At present Marie is in Europe, gathering
material for her return lecture.
Maurice de Abravanel, his face pale in
contrast to his black hair, was an in-
spired traffic cop to the various com-
panies of instruments in his orchestra
last Thursday. Up and down and across
their prescribed avenues of sound he
directed them, and brought them up with
a dash, clear of the Wagnerian Picca-
dilly Circus through which he had be-
guiled them. The concert offered some-
thing both for eye and ear. The Town
Hall was packed, and for once the men
outnumbered the women —after the in-
terval the corridors were carpeted with
cigarette-butts, though a fair ratio of
these can be debited to the girls.
Lady Hore-Ruthven came, nothing
much to be seen of her black chiffons be-
neath a cosily-befurred gold lame coat.
Ivie Price’s coat was cheerfully red, her
frock a flowered affair. Dolly and Patsy
Bell, of Coochin-Coochin, were with the
Government House group. Mrs. De
Abravanel listened raptly. She wore
satins of daffodil hue, and somebody
whispered that she always carried a spare
collar in her handbag to tie around her
husband’s slim throat at interval time.
Mrs. W. G. Layton had the loveliness of
lily-of-the-valley pinned on her black
furs. Mrs. Garnet Halloran aired plum-
colored velvets, and her doctor husband
was among the wildest applauders of
“Tristan,” Black lace and Mrs, N. K,
Johnson were all in all to each other.
Jack Griffiths squired sister Mrs, F.
Garrick, and Miss Anne Rogers had
come from Leura,
Pictured here is Barbara, daughter of
Irene Vera Young. To-morrow night
Miss Young will be helping her mother
with her recital of modern German
dancing at the Conservatorium. Barbara
is not only an ardent dancer, but a clever
little actress. In addition she plays the
piano so charmingly that she has been
entered for the open pianoforte cham-
pionship at the eisteddfod in Sydney.
The nurses at Tusculum must be sorry
for two things. First, that when the
pleasant and prepossessing Captain Hol-
ford was in their charge a week or so
ago his complaint should be 'flu, and,
secondly, that there is no bathing pool
in the grounds into which they might
have accidentally slipped. The nurses
at Tusculum are very attractive, and
Captain Holford does a water rescue
with the most dashing air. Still, ’flu and
the absence of anything deeper than a
bath full of water cramped their style.
The moon raised her lamp above for
the wedding of Hazel Grace and Hector
McFarlane. One of the loveliest nights
this winter encompassed the ceremony,
and, of course, there was the usual elec-
tric voltage in the church, so Archdeacon
Langley had no trouble in reading his
lines. The bride, a graceful creature, wore
white angel-skin made with an unusual
length of train, over which the tulle of
her veil floated like some particularly
ethereal brand of fairy floss. Orange-
blossom bound her head, and she carried
a great bouquet of lily-of-the-valley.
Elsie Barritt (of Young), ’groom’s sister
Elizabeth, Alix Lamb, and Daisy Osborne
dangled cascading bouquets of white
camellias against the pale-blue crepe of
their frocks as they paced after the
bride; bands of white camellias and
pale-blue veils covered their heads.
Bill McMahon was best man. The
parly that followed was at the Wil-
fred Fairfax home at Point Piper (the
Grace home is at Canberra). The bride-
groom is a citizen of Young. Alix
Lamb, who is in “Ball at Ihe Savoy,”
went straight from the church to that
revel.
Jessie Auld, of Sydney, has just com-
pleted the libretto of an operatic fantasy
on which she has been working for some
considerable lime. Howard Garr is
attending to the musical setting, and
speaks highly of the quality of the book.
Minnie Hooper will arrange the ballets,
and the comedy and patter are being sup-
plied by Nellie A. Evans. The fantasy
will be produced by Gordon Forsythe.
A Falk photograp: of Miss Auld.
Let other countries have their winged
lions and winged serpents. Australian
airmen stick to their winged kangaroo.
The impression of this kindly creature
appears now on the gilt buttons with
which the Aero Club males decorate their
mess jackets. At the club dance at the
Palais Royal, these took an airing ; so did
wooden dolls in flying kit, which were
apparently quite pleased with their land-
ing place amid the scarlet poinsettia and
red roses of the official table. Flower
aeroplanes were poised on many tables,
and on each side of the orchestra stood
a real ’plane. (Moths for once un-
scorched, though bedizened with colored
lights.)
Flight-Lieutenant S. J. Moir, the club's
president, had in his party Mollie Kearns,
whose frock held the pale and the deep
blue of the delphinium, and the Flight-
Lieutenant Mulroneys, Mrs. Mulroney's
vellum chiffons being caped in velvet.
Such well-known flying names as Broad-
bent, Shiers, King were among the gay
parties that visited from loge to loge.
Peggy McKillop, one of our youngest
fliers, was with her friend in adventure
Nancy Bird (another baby winger). Peggy
wore rosy satins, Nancy skyey-blue laces.
And one noted Mrs. Broadbent’s beige
lace frock and tulle cape.
No girl was wafted through the gates
of matrimony with more good wishes
than nice Audrey Hedger. For the past
month her life has been one long party
accompanied by gifts. Notable was the
evening arranged in her honor by the
junior members of the Legacy Club. Then
the combined committees of the Blind
Institution honored the girl who has done
such splendid work for the sightless—for
three years she has worked as a volun-
tary assistant in the office of the auxiliary
committee. On Saturday Audrey mar-
ried her James Mackay Sutherland, of
the Commonwealth Bank in Manly. The
wedding was at St. Stephen’s, and the
two set off for Melbourne by car the
same afternoon. ’Groom’s family lives
in Victoria.
The producers of “Orpheus,” the Con-
servatorium opera offering for August,
have induced Harold Abbott to design
their sets. This won’t be a small task,
because there are four acts, with two
scenes to the last one. Roland Foster
and Hilda Mulligan have the singing and
acting in hand. Harold, who is already
making a name as a portrait-painter, is
just a few months back from London,
where he studied for two and a half
years at the Royal Academy. He showed
with last year’s Society of Artists, and
put in four entries for the Archibald
prize. In the recent Brisbane competi-
tion his work was placed among the first
four.
Grafton, that lovely little town of tree-
lined streets, was bathed in sunshine for
Cup Day. Visitors came from Syd-
ney (everybody who wasn’t snow-
sporting at Kosciusko turned his eyes,
and often his car, towards Grafton),
Murwillumbah, Orange, Armidale, Taroo
and Windsor, and all the places in be-
tween. Hotels were crowded, and there
was a series of dances and private parties
starting from the Monday before the
race meeting.
The Golf Club dance filled the Filzroy
Theatre at Grafton with three or four
hundred dancers. Besides a forest of
orange and gold streamers, the ballroom
was festive with palms brought from
Yamba. The orchestra was coyly hidden
behind a hedge of maidenhair and
asparagus. A supper-table in the annexe
was laid out as a nine-hole course. The
High School’s Old Students’ Union had
its ball at the Criterion; the South
Grafton Catholic Church building fund
benefited from a Movie Ball at the local
School of Arts. The C.W.A. sponsored
one of the big dances of the week. It
was known as the Blue and Gold, and
hung out its sigp at the Criterion. The
G. W. Fitzgeralds, the George Morrisons
and Dr. and Mrs. E. A. Woodward were
among the week’s private hosts.
Florrie Howard, that tireless worker in
the cause of United Charities, was impli-
cated in the Mimi cabaret; so were the
Rosemary Club and supporters of the
Nellie Stewart Memorial Fund. They
all met together in the new State ball-
room and flashed smiles that left the
chromium fittings dull and pallid. Micro-
phone personalities (it was whispered)
starred the premises as thick as clover
does the fields in Maoriland. There were
barn dances, old-fashioned waltzes and
just plain everynight dancing. There
was singing, plain, torch and funny;
violins and voices throbbed with senti-
ment ; pretty girls in Georgian costumes
sold programmes and added to the deco-
rative effect.
The Julius lady and Nancye Stewart
were there ; so was Mayne Lynton. The
Smith Family and the Benevolent Society
were represented by genial gentlemen.
Josephine Marks and Alderman E. S.
Marks were among the afternoon’s per-
sonalities and dancers who bit through
a sandwich during a really funny imita-
tion of Clara Butt's singing (Ned Astor
responsible), digested a savory to the
dynamo throb in “The Talk of the
Town,” and gazed with sentiment on the
cream puffs while Evelyn Lynch and
David Craven were singing “Falling in
Love with Someone.” The ballroom,
with its jade walls, mirror columns,
chromium glitter and unusual lighting,
makes a pretty setting for laughter.


23 Goulburn
Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP,
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id, extra.
Be»'* t \ V °V,y 9 e
<
. e 0 '
**«•«*' Q ut S' x ®*
'* on ' e " 5 ' A
-*3*3*
Wanted.
TWO healthy young fellows for genuine New
Guinea venture —security £lOO required, return-
able in six months; references given.—MASON,
Box 2706 c, Sydney.
WANTED, about middle August, nursery gov-
erness (£1 week) for three children, 4,6, 8
years. Correspondence. Reply MRS. F. B.
RUTLEDGE, Moblc, Quilpic, Queensland.
Missing Friends.
DUNN, RICHARD THOMAS—Please for-
ward me your address. —J. J. LANE, Milton,
New Zealand.
IN RE ROBERT GILL AND MILLER, for-
merly of Pareora, Canterbury, New Zealand. —
INFORMATION is required as to the where-
abouts of the abovenamed, who was last
heard of in Sydney in the year 1924. Anyone
who has seen or heard of him is requested
to communicate at once with the undersigned.
TRIPP & ROLLESTON,
Solicitors, Timaru, New Zealand.
MRS. LEILA M. ALTMAN, formerly of Swan
Hill, in the State of Victoria, last heard of at
St. Kilda, in the said State, Married Woman.—
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of or any-
thing concerning the abovenamed, please com-
municate with ALAN GARDEN & GREEN,
Solicitors, Swan Hill, immediately.
Melbourne
Chatter
Guests who wended their way to the
Alliance Franfaise Ball were met at the
entrance to the Lower Town Hall by
Madame Cockerton, wearing her little
French fringe and a green taffeta frock
with a split along the spine. She handed
a perfumed fan to each of the women
and pinned a tricolor to every manly
chest. The president, M. Vanderkelen,
who is a most distinguished figure at any
gathering, did the honocs unaided, his
wife being absent through illness. The
Consul for Peru, M. dc la Colina, was
another husband whom the prevailing
epidemic had robbed of wifely support.
Vice-president Madame Gay twisted a
feather boa of pale lilac about her shoul-
ders while holding her presentation
bouquet. The Consul for the Nether-
lands brought Mrs. F. H. Wright, in sea-
green lucks and draperies, and the Con-
sul for Switzerland escorted Mrs.
Pictzcker, striking in gold lamd. Nancy
Rees wore a Katharine Hepburn fringe,
a black skirt with a swathed white blouse,
and, in honor of the occasion, blue, white
and red bracelets. Pat Moore was in
pink floral chiffon, Joyce Walker
chose an all-onc-color scheme, del-
blue even to her glove, and Mrs.
Charles Goff wrapped a black coat
over a blue satin gown. Giselle Steinle
wore silver and a knee-length white velvet
coat, to which she attached Jily-of-thc-
valley. The band started off with “O. K.
Toots,” and picked its way through med-
leys old and new until everybody played
ring-a-rosy and stood at attention for
“The King” and “The Marseillaise.”
On a night when the wind broke all
bounds, tore away roofs, uprooted trees
and piled snow against the windows of
mountain chalets, P.L.C. Old Collegians
held a Diamond Jubilee Ball. Not one
of the 30 debs, had a frill out of gear
or a hair astray after the difficulties of
getting to St. Kilda Town Hall with their
finery intact. This year gallery tickets
were issued, and the faces of mothers,
fathers, small brothers and sisters were
seen through the lattice of blue, black
and gold decorations. Mrs. L. S. Latham,
in dark-green draperies, received the
young things, who walked up the long
room with the escorts. Molly Lamb was
at the head of the line, in which Shirley
Duncan had the puffiest sleeves, Noela
Woods the only pale-pink collar and
Linsay Bell-Towers the brightest red-gold
hair.
Among committee members, who wore
wrist posies of sweet-peas, were Burneice
Swainc, in a greeny floral dress, and
Elma Watson, who fastened violets into
her hair with a diamente clip, Coralie
Gardiner and Mrs. Gilbert Crawford.
Beth Davidson’s gown was cream satin
for’ard, the aft view being mostly black
velvet. Donna Pascoe-Webb wore a
bustled frock of flowered chiffon, and
Alma Silvester rustled taffeta under mist-
grey lace with a swirling train.
Clyde Old Girls rallied to the Wattle
to celebrate the silver jubilee of their
seminary. Ages ranged from this year’s
debs, to mothers present with their
daughters, so that “Do you remembers?”
were scattered from soup to savory.
College principal Miss Tucker wore black
lace and carried deep-pink camellias, and
Old Girls’ president Olga Hay attached
her black laces to a flush-pink yoke. Joan
Webb, Joan Black, Barbara Weigall, Jean
Howartson and Diana Mann were a few
of the committee people present, and the
Mann lady, Mrs. James Weatherly,
Mrs. Begg and Margot, Mrs. Cecil
Tucker, Mrs. Jock Turnbull and Mrs.
Cecil Miller were among the guests, who
were all either past pupils of Clyde or
of Miss Henderson’s former schools,
Kalymna and Oberwyl. The Clyde Old
Girls’ Association has decided to in-
augurate the Henderson Bursary, which,
when plans mature, will be available to
girls at Clyde. It’s a jubilee gesture and
a token of the esteem in which the
school’s founder is held. Miss Hender-
son, who has lived in England since 1922,
will get another pleasant surprise when
she receives the book of greetings signed
by everyone at the party.
The International Club gave an at-
home for the Trade Commissioner for
Canada and Mrs. Cosgrave, to which Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Brookes brought W. J.
Cleary, chairman of the A.8.C., having
collected him from the Sydney-Mel-
bourne express that morning. Mr. Cleary
commenced his address with an informal
opening; he’d travelled on the same
train as the Cosgraves, and the glimpses
he’d caught of a happy couple who
seemed to be such excellent pals made
him wonder if they were really married.
Lieut.-Col. Cosgrave spoke about Canada
and also about Shanghai, where he and
his wife, with their schoolgirl daughter
and young son, have lived for the last 10
years. One of the adventures which he
looks back upon was the outbreak
against the British in 1925, when he was
asked to do his bit by mobilising a unit
of mixed nationalities Norwegians,
Swedes, Danes, Russians and friendly
Chinese. He had nothing in the way of
a uniform but some epaulettes of mixed
origin, a battered cap and an ancient
German pistol, and his one word of all
the languages of northern Europe was
“skaal”—the way a Norwegian says
“cheerio” as he drains his glass of aqua-
vit.
A little lass who has done well at the
exams, conducted by the British Operatic
Society of Dancing is Phillida Cooper,
pictured here by Broolhorn. Phillida
skipped all the minor grades, got honors
in elementary, passed intermediate and
studied the work for advanced. She’s
quite made up her mind to be a ballerina,
and is looking forward to the day when
she reaches the highest rung of the
ladder. Phillida, who is just 14, is a
pupil of Eunice Weston. Another of
Miss Weston’s pupils to get an honors
certificate was Esme Eshelby.
The Lyle lady’s address was a bright
spot of last week’s Animal Welfare meet-
ing held in the ballroom of Greenknowe,
lent for the occasion by Robert Knox’s
lady. Once a hysterical female tele-
phoned our well-known animal philan-
thropist about “a rooster cat who is
taking fits.” At 11.30 p.m. one cold dark
night there were furious rings on the
Lyle doorbell, where an unattractive man
requested hospitality for a large, savage
Alsatian. The chatelaine refused, but in
the morning the man had disappeared
and the hound was chained to the door-
knob, threatening to bite in halves any-
one who passed in or out. Once came
an excited demand on the telephone, “My
dog’s gone mad ; come at once! ” A
refusal brought an angry explosion and
a fast and furious “Go to the devil! ”
The Animal Welfare League has to
vacate its clinic, and is trying to raise
£5OOO towards building a hospital. Mrs.
J. G. Purves took the chair at the meet-
ing, and the ball was set rolling for a
dance at the Commodore and a bridge
party at Darling-street, both to be held
in September. Mrs. W. J. Seymour, in a
browny reefer suit; Mrs. Lionel Grim-
wade, wrapped up among foxes; Mrs.
Lucius Conolly, with a long white bodkin
stabbing her brown beret; Mrs. Louis
Nelken, in blue, with a feather over one
ear; and Nancy Hewlett, all in brown,
found themselves elected in various work-
ing capacities to a committee.
Here is a Jack Cato portrait of Mr.
and Mrs. Otto Neuendorf’s daughter
Joan. Miss Neuendorf, who is an old
girl of C. of E. Grammar School, is
a lucky young person who has had
lessons in flying, rides to the hunt,
drives a car and is fond of all sports.
She’s had some office training, so the
job of ticket sec. for the “Dogs’ Ball”
(run for the Dogs’ Home and Animal
Hospital), to be held next Saturday at
the Commodore, will not cause her much
worry.
A petticoat is not always an anachron-
ism. On a rainy night it’s a decided
advantage to owners of delicate frocks
to be able to lift them up and do a quick
sprint from verandah to running-board.
It rained the night of the Junior Empire
League’s at-home at Raveloe—not a
heavy downpour, but a vindictive
spattering that could do a world
of harm in a few minutes. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton thoughtfully pro-
vided a parking official with a grand-
father umbrella : it and the petticoat trick
were adequate protection over the few
yards of path from kerb to doorstep.
Lady Huntingfield was guest of honor,
and the evening’s speaker was Lieut.-
Col. Cosgrave, with medical-knight James
Barrett as second string. Acting-presi-
dent Valerie Purves made a success of
the first speech she has ever delivered.
The candidate for Fawkner, Harold Holt,
an energetic and personable young man
in his middle twenties, introduced Lieut.-
Col. Cosgrave.
Mrs. Cosgrave’s blonde head and per-
fect complexion were visible above a
velvet wrap. Anne Falkiner sat in one
of Mrs. Emmerton’s wickerwork chairs
that have a spread of cane back like a
peacock’s tail. Judith Lawry and Eliza-
beth Darling were in the range of a pair
of tigers who stalked their prey (in tapes-
try) on the wall. Pat Hammond, in pink
cockleshell crepe made with little but-
tons and split in the bathing-suit manner,
watched proceedings from the ballroom
steps. A very youthful listener was Rose-
mary Lyon, with her straight, black
fringe and a halo of pearls. Another
lass with a severe fringe was Moira
Madden. Barbara Dougharty was
swathed about with black velvet. Supper
was served in the billiard-room among
the loveliest flowers (despite the wind-
blown week); early blossom, masses of
irises, poppies, wattle and tight little
bunches of violets arranged as foils for
deep-rose candles in silver candlesticks.
Fires were everywhere—in the billiard-
room, in the ballroom (where a whole
tree smouldered) and even in the dress-
ing rooms—and radiators glowed in all
the passages. Jf any future Empire-
builders shivered it was not Mrs. Emmer-
ton’s fault.
Young men and women threw
bouquets (more often of garlic than of
roses) at one another during the New-
man Society’s debate on the proposition
that Woman’s Place Is in the Home.
Flushed with rhetoric, one male orator
announced that “women arc disregarding
the glory of maternity, preferring
to compete with men in earning a few
filthy shillings a week.” Another, after
deliberating upon the information that a
recent British census disclosed 848
women blacksmiths, 821 women rail-
way shunters, 432 women bookmakers
and 198 women undertakers, bewailed
the fact that women don’t want babies,
but demand liberty and the “spurious
glitter of dance halls and night clubs"
(interjection—“ Lead us to them!”). The
girls argued that women are no longer
hangers-on to men, that it’s up to them
to carve out careers for themselves and
not sit about all day getting fat and lazy.
Adjudicators Miss Wilson and Mr.
Frederico couldn’t agree. The girls, deter-
mining that all’s fair in love and political
argument, put up both arms in a show
of hands and had an overwhelming
victory.
Guess the name of a pom. pup which
has been christened by the Air Vice-
Marshal ; guess the number of beans in
a bottle. Questions of the same diffi-
culty were put to ardent suitors for the
hands of beautiful princesses in the days
of dragons, wicked ogres, castles with
moats and knights on fiery chargers.
Then there were always fairies to help
the poor, good and handsome and thwart
the rich, ugly and wicked. But they’re
out of date—nobody guessed the puppy’s
name, so the emergency “number
method” was used. Little pom. went home
from the Air Force Officers’ Wives and
Mothers’ bridge party under the arm of
his lucky new owner, Nan Musther. Mrs.
Roy Mitchell and Mrs. H. Berry won
stockings for recognising how many
beans made 2000 when they saw them.
A cake made by Greta Harrison as a
replica of the ace of hearts and a
bronze ashtray donated by Mrs. Cobby
went as bridge prizes to Mrs. Warner
and Mrs. B. A. Crowther. Mrs. Edward
Anderson was among those who joined
the party for tea. Mrs. Rik Harrison wore
her “Bertha at Blackpool” hat and waist-
coat with a tailored navy suit. Lily-of-
the-valley grew upon Mrs. F. J. Thomas’s
lapel, and snippets of Persian lamb
frolicked upon Mrs. de la Rue’s blue
cape. Mrs. Donald Eadic was among
the wives who represented the Navy.
Overseas and inter-Stale visitors to
Melbourne nearly always include upon
(heir itinerary a visit to our National Gal-
lery. But numbers of our local inhabi-
tants never go near the building. During
their schooldays they hurried through the
picture galleries on their way to the
sharks and stuffed monkeys ; they went
to see Phar Lap when he was put into
his glass case ; they always mean to go
again, but somehow never get there. Now
(here are more opportunities for nine-
(o-six toilers. The galleries are open
until 10 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Fridays.


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY .
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
iolhersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Guarantees Travel Comfort
«>•
ON SALE FRIDAY .
64 pages of bright and
intimate reading for
young and old.
This Week’s
FREE
PATTERN
Cj/ia
AUST.R A L I A N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Outstanding Features in
Friday’s Issue.
GLOVES AND BAGS
A Glimpse of London s Latent.
FASHIONS FOR JUNIOR
What the Very Young Man is
Wearing.
THE BOY FRIEND
How to Improve Him.
FATE IN LITTLE THINGS
How Trifles Mould Destinies.
BETWEEN OURSELVES
Interesting Happenings and Topical
Titbits.
TORCHON LACE
How to Weave It.
HOW TO PLAY BASKET-
BALL
MODISH PATTERNS
Fourteen Valuable Patterns at
Special Price Discount.
FREE PATTERN
Woman’s Smart Blouse.
The Bulletin went along to the debut
of the Budapest String Quartet at Melb.
Assembly Hall, The place was packed,
and microphones spread the glad news
abroad to an expectant continent.
Hitherto chamber music in Melbourne
has been confined to cafe dining-rooms
on Sunday evenings and to infinitesimal
audiences. Now the walls of the chamber
were the earth, the Heaviside layer and
as far on either side as the A.B.C. net-
work penetrates. After the Ravel the
audience rose and cheered. It was a
tribute to an astounding display of
musical gymnastics and pyrotechnics,
though the slow movement had charm
and melody as well. In a Beethoven
work (Op. 18, No, 3), written by the
composer as an experiment, the four
grave dark men showed that they were
capable of sobriety, mathematical exacti-
tude and contemplation. Schubert’s
“Death and the Maiden” was a lovely
thing out of which the combination drew
the last drain of musical nourishment.
The applause was loud and prolonged,
and the performers were obliged to
return and give a short encore. Later in
the week The Bulletin repaired to the
A.B.C.’s premises in Russell-street and
listened to a gay and lightsome series of
Mozart quartets, to Beethoven’s majestic
Opus 59, written to the order of Count
Rasoumoffsky, and to a modern work oy
Grieg which sounded less like a per-
formance on four instruments than a
work performed by a whole orchestra.
There was nothing to distract orie in the
room except sporting almanacs, photo-
graphs of victorious and smiling Austra-
lian tennis-players shaking hands with
defeated and smiling Japanese, and
posters of dead and forgotten centenary
cycle races, so the environment was
favorable for concentration on the sound.
The listener’s impression was that in the
Mozarts one occasionally found oneself
listening to the instruments, but in the
Beethovens one listened to the music
and nothing else, but how much this
was due to the composers and how much
to the performers it would be difficult to
say. That the combination is something
outstanding in the way of string quartets
was manifest, and it is billed to work
its way through almost everything ot
first-class significance in the musical
literature of foursomes.
* * *
Edward Elgar’s second symphony, per-
formed for the first time in Melbourne
after a quarter of a century, was the
opening item of the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra’s 183rd concert at the
Town Hall on Saturday night. Prof.
Heinze controlled a vast volume of sound
in which a succession of gentle passages
and thumping climaxes alternated, much
as if a procession of bands was approach-
ing, passing and receding from a listener in
the street. This marchlike and monoton-
ous effect was maintained for nearly an
hour, placing a heavy strain on the
brasses and the drums; there was a
beautiful organ-like finish, but most of
the applause of the crowded house was
probably intended for the rondo, which
suggested a farmyard drowsing in the
heat of a summer afternoon. The Elgar
occupied the whole of the first part, and
after the interval Austral appeared on
the platform and metaphorically brought
down the house. She sang Beethoven's
scena and aria “Ah, Perfido,’’ the words
of which are a complete document of the
self-pitying emotions of a woman who
has been dropped by a man, but the
music of which sounds like a challenge to
a fight. Austral was in magnificent voice.
Then husband Amadio came on with his
magic flute, and with complete self-con-
fidence was soloist to Mozart’s No. 2
Concerto, holding up a warning but
benignant hand to check the applause
between the acts. The work, as the pro-
gramme note said, is not difficult to
follow, especially wUh a flute like
Amadio’s to light the way. Austral re-
appeared for Isolde’s Narration from
“Tristan and Isolde,” and the evening
concluded with Brunnhilde’s Battle-cry.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Nedlands young folk poured the
rakings from their dance into the coffers
of Sister Kate’s Children’s Cottage Home.
Gyrating was at the Stirling Institute,
where president Pat Treadgold spun a
web of rosy lace over her lissome lines.
Marjorie Counsell kept the accounts in
black chiffon velvet; almond-blossom
matt crepe well became secretary Nancy
Mansfield ;• Phyllis Dale’s velvets were
woodland green; field-flowers bloomed
on Barbara Morgan’s white marocains ;
Dulcie Disher shimmered white char-
meuse satin, and Peggy Holland’s frothy
confection was of white-and-green
organdie.
While artisans are busy rebuilding the
Rep. Soc.’s theatre the production of
“Thunder in the Air” was taken to the
Assembly Hall for a three nights’ stand.
Stage-manager Bill Scott and electrician
Ron Miller put in some good work with
spooky storm effects, and producer Cyril
Riley had an excellent response from one
of the most evenly-balanced casts seen
in Perth for many moons. First- and
last-act frocking was colorful and pleas-
ing, but sandwiched in between were
some gowns rather too sombre for stage
wear.
Dick Bryant, ofttimes captain of the
State cricket team, chaired the commit-
tee for St. Ildephonsus O.B.A. dance,
which attracted a goodly gathering to
Anzac House in spite of the heavens’
copious weeping. Nell Bryant’s blush-
pink georgettes were agog with tiny
frills; Pat Ahern pinned flame gladioli
on her coin-spotted leaf-green taffetas ;
Doreen D’Arcy’s georgettes dawned pink
and gold; Mrs. J. J. Clune’s peach-pink
matt crepes were self-striped ; a spray
of multicolored flowers grew on the
corsage of Nell Connaughton’s black
velvets; Jo Reardon flecked her per-
simmon cotelle with gold, and Mar-
jorie Pope clipped diamente on her green-
and-red plaid taffetas.
The Uni. French Club went mid-nine-
teenth century in dressing for the pre-
sentation of De Musset’s “II ne Faut
Jurer de Rien.” Dr. Margaret Clarke
produced and arranged for the attractive
settings in the refectory. Honors went
to Don Gravenall as Van Buck, with
staunch support from Merle Morrison as
Cecile and Muriel Kierath as the
Baronne.
Bride-elect parties for Dorothy Sum-
merhayes run to bi- and tri-daily
affairs up to the time of her sailing
for Colombo to keep her date with
Francis Henstock. Dorothy Kirby (rust-
ling nut-brown taffetas) was first in the
field with a five-to-eight shivoo at her
home; Mrs. Ned Moss and Mrs. Harry
Hill served supper after taking their
guests to a cinema session ; Molly Atkins
came next with bridge; Peggy Watson
Williams shook cocktails, as did Mrs.
Bob James. Mr. and Mrs. Reg Summer-
hayes took a group a-dining and a-danc-
ing at Karrinyup Country Club; and
Mrs. Hugh Burns brought up the half-
way mark with a party at her Claremont
home.
Another pre-matrimonial guest of
honor was Sister Walton, who for some
time was in charge of the infant health
centre at Northam. Dr. Stang’s tea-
party gave nurses connected with the
work an opportunity to tender good
wishes to their colleague. Gertrude
Walton, with silver touches on her rose-
and-black tunic frock, poured tea at her
home, where Sister’s navy-blue striped
ensemble came in for admiration.
With Joyce Col liver’s marriage to Alan
Uphill looming in the middle distance
Beryl and Joan Birchley put on a bridge-
party in honor of the bride-to-be. Sadie
Parrant and Gwen Cash collected the
prizes, and Joyce went off with a pre-
sentation bouquet of pink roses.
The W. Balstons’ eldest daughter Mary
has promised to paddle her matrimonial
canoe with Hirzel House, of Katanning,
son of Dr. and Mrs. House, of Albany.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Alliance Franchise’s dance was at
Birk’s Piccadilly, the panel-room and
lounge decorated with autumn leaves
and flowers. President W. W. Goodhart
and secretary Mrs. Ernest Puddy, in
black net embroidered in black and beige,
received. Mrs. James Davidson’s dress
was all gold sequins with a bold floral
design in jet; the deep V bodice at the
back finished with a fold of soft satin.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson was gowned
in powder-blue chiffon velvet with silver
sequins on the corsage. There was an
exciting moment when the apricot ring
velvet frock of Alison Cherry caught fire
from a radiator. Luckily velvet isn’t
very good fuel.
At Christ Church, North Adelaide,
Gordon Fletcher, assistant general super-
intendent of Vic. Railways, married
Dorothy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. R.
Dibdin, of Port Pirie. The bride has a
studio in Collins-street, Melbourne, paints
miniatures, and is responsible for clever
poster work for Prestige and Kayser.
She wore a slate-blue woollen frock, with
hip-length cape of the same, a large navy
taffeta butterfly bow at the neck, and a
wide-brimmed navy felt hat. Her sisters
Geraldine and Marjorie were brides-
maids. A reception was held afterwards
at the South Australian.
Over 900 attended the charity ball
organised by Foy and Gibson. Lord
Mayor Cain and Mrs. Dunstan were
there, the lady sporting a frock of pillar-
box red romaine. Mrs. B. S. Dixon, who
entertained the mayoral party, was
smartly gowned in gold net, with bands
of satin on diagonal lines and a brown
sash of ring velvet.
Dr. and Mrs. Llewellyn Davey and
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Stevens joined forces
in a dance for the ddbut of Margaret
Davey and Marjorie Stevens. The cheery
party was held at the home of Dr. Davey,
Payneham, decked with mimosa and Ice-
land poppies for the occasion. Margaret
wore a charming frock of ivory chenille-
embossed chiffon, with trails of silver
lame and chiffon roses, and Marjorie
chose white satin, fitting to her slim
figure.
The Gunners’ Ball at the Embassy
went off with a bang. A dinner preceded
it and the dress circle was a bar pro tem.
His Ex. came along, was received by
Lieut.-Col. Cyril Coombe, and danced
the first dance with Mrs. Coombe, who
was a charming figure in flesh-pink lace
with a sash irv a deeper tone. The bright
uniforms of the officers helped the gaiety
of the scene.
TASMANIA.
Friends’ Old Scholars’ Ball was a
bright affair. The Hodgkin dining-
hall was crammed for dancing. School
colors were chiefly used in the decora-
tions, and the supper tables were gar-
nished with masses of holly. Mrs. Un-
win, wife of the Head, was in green,
with a little shoulder cape.
The W. Gregorys lent their house
Quamby, near Hagley, for a dance to
raise the wind for next year’s Waterloo
Cup. The old house has an interesting
history. It was first owned by knight
Richard Dry, and still contains some
of his furniture; in particular, a lovely
old walnut bed and wardrobe. Some of
the original wallpapers, still perfectly
good, and one or two carpets are also
in existence. For the dance, the ball-
room was decorated in the club’s colors,
red and white.
The Junior branch of the Hobart Rep.
Soc. gave A. A. Milne’s “Ariadne,” pro-
duced by Robert Montgomery, at the
Town Hall. Preceding the play w*s a
bright playlet by Anne Brough, “The
House Across the River,” originally
a short story in The Bulletin. Both
plays got an excellent reception from a
good house. Mrs. Roy Cox shone in the
part of Ariadne.
Edith Gwendoline, youngest chick of
the late R. D. and Mrs. Whitchurch, and
Alan Patrick Brammall were married at
St. James’s, New Town. The bride’s dress
of ivory crepe had a sweeping train and
long tight sleeves. The veil of fine net
was held by a wreath of orange-blossom.
Car Wall and Catherine Watts, the two
’maids, wore filmy blue frocks and little
silver sequined caps. The bride’s mother
welcomed friends and relatives after-
wards at Stroke, New Town.
Mrs. P. Robartes Lake has been stay-
ing with her sister, the Ashbolt lady.
She now has her home in M.L., her
husband being boss of the Molyneaux
mine in the South Island.


L
A PI NNY
ANHOUR [
‘The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.**
(Extract from *‘R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
Ml details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE; Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.; Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE ia OUEENiIAtII BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•■VALIEV BR i SSA h E
% ’W-' • .
-
s’mjr .
m«OUy
Have You Considered
the Stability and
Earning Power of
Your Investments ?
now on sale, will help you answer this important
question.
FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED;
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd.
C’wealth Wool & Produce Co.,
Gordon & Gotch (A’sia), Ltd.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd (Perth, W.A.)
Union Trustee Co. of Aust., Ltd
Haymarket Land & Building Co., Ltd.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
Prestige, Ltd.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
PR J CE f1 2 l' PER c OPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS .
Published Iv >,(3M may /iave //ie journal posted direct each month.
bed by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
<
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
1
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £*Son Ltd • SYDNEY
MePHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Melbourne,, Adelaide. Perthi
_ E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Mrs. Frank Anning, who died in Syd-
ney last week at 85, went out to Reedy
Creek, at the head of the Flinders (N.Q.),
67 years ago. She lived for (he first seven
years in a slab hut among blacks so
dangerous that she was never allowed to
leave the verandah alone. By the time
she left the old station 26 years later,
she had 13 children, most of whom went
on the land—they still hold Reedy
Springs, Cargoon, Cornelian, Longford.
Weatherby and other properties. Her
brother T. M. King was Queensland
Auditor-General and Railway Commis-
sioner, and a nephew was Education
.nd Works Minister in the Moore
Administration.
* n* * *
“Sen”: The old Longreach building,
which smooths off the corner of Queen-
street and the North Quay near Victoria
Bridge in Brisbane, is to change its face.
In convict days, it was the site of a
limber yard. Then the Church of Eng-
land got it as a grant and built a church
in which some of the first free pioneers
were married—Fred Bracker, for in-
stance, who brought out the first Saxon
sheep in 1828 and rode 150 miles to wed
the daughter of the first man to forge a
plough in Queensland. Sixty years ago,
the church having gone, the Anglican
authorities let the property on a building
lease to a humorist who promptly pul a
hotel on it. When the lease ran out in
1906. they refused to renew. The old
building has looked on some stirring
scenes. Just outside it on “Black Fri-
day.” 1912, one of the fiercest battles
in the tramway strike took place, and
facing it on the other side of Queen-
street returned soldiers assembled on
the night of the 1919 Russian riots, when
the police were out with fixed bayonets
and palings, firesticks and revolvers lent
variety to highly irregular but enjoy-
able proceedings.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Longreach”; Intense cold followed
the rain in parts of western Queensland,
and sheep on relief country or artificial
feed perished. In some districts where
there was no grass and vitality was low.
the losses were as much as 90 p.c. of
recently-shorn animals and 75 p.c. of
those carrying wool. The Graziers’ Asso-
ciation president told of a case at Win-
ton where ewes had been kept alive for
six months at a cost of 255. per head,
only to die in the freeze. Longreach,
however, where the sheep were in better
fettle than in some other areas, has light
losses.
♦ * * *
“0.P.”: In Brisbane an old-standing
law says that hotels must not serve liquor
on Sunday. Publicans have held a meet-
ing and, in matter-of-fact fashion, “de-
cided that all hotels in the Greater Bris-
bane area should be asked to sign an
agreement and to help fix a date after
which Sunday closing would be strictly
observed.” The Home Secretary benevo-
lently “wishes them luck in their attempt
to enforce the law.” The Prohibitionist
League’s Arthur Toombes says that the
Police Department, “which allows the
trade to decide by vote whether the law
will be observed,” should be cm bar-
rassed. The truth is that public opinion
is the deciding factor, and the Act has
broken down.
* * * *
"Batavia”; G. A. Cameron, the Towns-
ville P.M. who is to conduct the inquiry
into the affairs of Hobart (Tas.) Hospital,
has served at the topmost point of Aus-
tralia. He was Resident at Thursday
Island during the 1923 Asiatic riots,
and it was his coolheadedness and refusal
to become rattled in the face of violence
and insolence which prevented serious
trouble.
♦ $ >!t *
“X.TV’; Young Jack Hides and his
patrol, who had been out of touch in
the centre of Papua since February, arc
safe. The fact that Hides turned up at
Kikori suggests that he achieved his main
objective of crossing the mountain coun-
try between the Fly-Strickland area and
the Purari River, which runs out of the
Mandate into the unknown in the Delta
division of Papua. When last heard of
he was entering unexplored country on
the edge of the Purari zone.
* * * *
“Weei”: It is reported from Tennant’s
( reek (N.T.) that, because the Govern-
ment will not provide health and school-
ing facilities and a battery there may be
“Lay off my Jacky , or I'll push yr face right down y'r throat.”
“ That'll do me. I ain't had a decent feed f'r a Week.”
a wholesale burning of miners’ rights. The
word “Eureka,” a good old standby, was
mentioned, but there will be no standards
raised or earthworks thrown up. What
made Eureka a vigorous affair was an
affront to the miners’ sense of freedom
—they had to pay £l2 per year for their
miners’ rights and were liable to gaol if
the documents were not actually always
on their person. The climate is against
a real brush at the Tennant, and the
more experienced of the miners know
that it takes time to get anything out of
the N.T. Government, which is nothing
if not deliberate.
* * * *
“Malaguna”: Rabaul may be isolated,
and it may be hot, and it may have
earthquakes and malaria and coral
poisoning, but where else is “The Mer-
chant of Venice” produced in Cantonese?
This was done the other evening, with
classical selections on a Chinese piano
and mouth-organ solos in the interval.
The show paid, too—it netted £lOO in
two nights for the support of local
Methodism.
* * « ♦
“X.T.”: Pine Creek (N.T.) residents
have opened a fund to make a presen-
tation to “the flying doctor,” who has
spent more than one sleepless night tak-
ing injured miners to hospital. At the
meeting which launched the fund, “con-
cern was expressed at the likelihood of
losing Dr. Fenton as a result of the pin-
pricking by Darwin authorities.” Most
Terrilorians would feel the same way.
It is a matter which the Minister for the
Interior should look into while he is in
Darwin. If there is pin-pricking or irri-
tation, a little tact should cure it. The
North cannot afford to lose its Fentons.
* • *
“Salamaua": Guinea Airways put up
another record last year. Its turnover
was £114,465 and its profit £20,818. It
carried 5688 tons of freight and 9721
passengers, which shows a fourtecnfold
increase in freight, a twelvefold ad-
vance in passengers, but less than a
threefold increase in revenue, illustrating
the fall in charges since 1929. The capi-
tal is only £75,000, and the 27th quarterly
dividend of Is. per share has been paid—
£ls,ooo went to shareholders last year.
The figures should speak eloquently to
Australia, where actual passengers carried
by 17 subsidised services last year num-
bered only 3411 (“by stages,” 8808) and
actual freight carried was only 54 tons
odd.
* * * *
“Malo”: Applications are being called
for a batch of cadets for New Guinea.
The cadet system was established a few
years ago, and 30 cadets are now in the
service. Lads of university age with
sound physique and high mental qualifi-
cations are chosen and given a course of
training before being sent to the Man-
date to be attached to patrol officers or
district offices. It is a good life which
should attract the pick of adventurous
young Australians.
* * * *
"Vale”; The “Graziers’ Review”
announces its last issue; it will be
absorbed by Queensland “Country Life.”
Started by the Graziers’ Association
about ’l9 or thereabouts, it did some
good work, and, considering the low price
of pastoral products for years, to say
nothing of droughts, it showed consider-
able staying power. The first of its editors
was A, C. Morgan, ex-M.P. I drew
many good cheques from it, and I shan’t
be the only freelance sorry to see it go.
* * * *
"Varabus”; The death of young Gar-
butt, a northerner born and a fine athlete,
proves the risk the ignorant tourist can
run. The shell which pricked Garbutt
was a volute—to eat it brings stomach
pojson ; to be pricked by it means blood
poison. I have seen many unsuspecting
tourists probing in the coral and lilting
stones with their bare hands. Many
have been indignant when warned.
Stone fish? Never heard of it. Reef eels
(or snakes)? What are they? The reef
is safe enough for those who are careful,
but death for the ignorant may lurk in
any pool or under any weed.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
So far, only four Queensland girls
have decided to join the Young Australia
League excursion to Japan. The party
will sail on (he Taiping, and will be enter-
tained in Brisbane by the Y.A.L.
Charmian (“Poto”) Beit, who married
Captain James Powell, of (he Seaforths.
has a small daughter, Charmian Mar-
garet. “Toto” was the daughter of Willie
Beit, of Toowoomba, and was only a
small child when the family was trans-
planted to England. She and her family
are now in Cairo,
The Governor and his lady, just back
from a few days’ rest at Harrow, the
Lloyds station on the Downs, plunged
into the social fray as soon as they re-
turned. Lady Wilson opened the garden
party and fete at Bishopsbourne on July
20, in aid of the Queensland Adult Deaf
and Dumb Mission ; and H.E, was at
the Dickens Fellowship meeting at night.
Joyce Winterflood, Marjorie Fletcher
(Bonus Downs, Mitchell) and Dorothy
Withers are three of the 23 girls who
will “come out” at the United Service
Club Ball in Show Week. Hilma Ward,
a great-granddaughter of Moses Ward,
Brisbane’s pioneer chemist, and a daugh-
ter of Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Ward, is
another, and Lorraine Grant Thompson
also is on the list.
English marigolds and blue tulle
beautified the tabic at Finneys’ when
Mrs. W, Woodcock tea’d the Victorian
lady bowlers. The Victorians present
were Mesdames F. H. Selby, W. Hands,
E. Michael, E. Cheel, F. Werrett and
Miss N. Cochrane.
When Doris Dunckley, of the
“Roberta” company, went down with ’flu
Nellie Ferguson stepped into her shoes,
with only an hour or two to prepare.
Cyril Ritchard publicly congratulated her.
The Alliance Fran?aise celebrated the
anniversary of (he Fall of the Bastille
with a soirde, K. A. Lemon, the presi-
dent, and his wife were the official host
and hostess to over 100 guests.
Mary, daughter of Peter Macgregor,
K.C., is visiting friends in Hollywood
after a two months’ tour of Scotland with
Ellen Terry’s grandson, John Gielgud, in
“Hamlet.”
Claire Macrossan, only daughter of
Hugh Macrossan, J., is engaged to Flying-
Officer Charles Curnow, elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. L. J. Curnow, Melbourne.
Despising superstition, Claire, like a
good Queenslander, chose our gem, the
opal, for her ring. It has diamond
shoulders, set in platinum and gold.


In 1858 as in
1935
9
RED fil ORB
galvanMd iron
Each of the years since Lysaghts
was founded has meant added ex-
perience. It is this experience
which enables Lysaghts to make
galvanized sheets which are
thoroughly dependable—under all
conditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght's galvanised-iron
for every job.
FOR ROOFING
S’beUfi
LYSAGHT'S
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbare, Adelaide. Fremantle.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Striking , Unusual Story by a New Australian Writer:-
PRIMTIVE
By A.CONNELL.
££piEE after the wheat,” said Nicholas
'N Seaton. He might have used his
last words for a farewell, but it
was his crops he thought of. “It’s good
wheat, child.”
Nonie, fifteen years old the week
before, her hands clasped at the back of
a coarse green dress, tried to say a word
of agreement, found only the husk of a
whisper in her throat, and nodded
violently lest her silence be misinter-
preted.
Nicholas Seaton died.
AMONG the neighboring farms a
number of fantastic discussions and
quarrels arose for and against the leav-
ing of a mere child to l(j»ok after herself
in a lonely shack and conduct the vary-
ing interests of a decaying farm. The
wrangling waxed and waned according
to the presence or lack of new items to
feed it, and it went on in such protracted
monotony that in time its main factor
was submerged and the prime object
became the determining of who had been
right and who had been wrong.
In any case the ultimate decision
rested with Nonie. She fought all inter-
ference like a bush animal, and through
five years she drifted into a state of wild
womanhood of which she had little per-
sonal realisation. She followed odd
whims and fancies because no one had
ever guided her away from them. She
could sit for an hour brooding over a
reflection in a pool, spend half a day
draping her shack with wildflowers or
a month taming a rabbit. And other
things were hinted and quickened the
pulses of the young males near by: she
bathed naked in the river and she was
as illiterate as a child.
In between her own variant impulses
and those that humor added to her she
managed to keep the farm in a state of
what seemed like continually unrealised
promise, but was in reality an inevitable
decay. She managed, too, to feed her-
self ; though there were times of the
year when her thinness made the
farmers’ wives wonder. When, with
their rough delicacy, they mentioned
food to her she only turned wide eyes up
to them and shook her head. So they
had to watch her body progress and
retrograde in silence and continue to
wonder.
NORMAN, approaching up the worn
track, his eyes, as always, noting the
values and faults of each person he saw,
noticed that Nome’s dress was old, faded,
patched and not very skilfully mended,
that it was hitched and that it sagged.
He saw, too, that her face was like the
very heart of a song.
She was leaning against the door-
frame of the shack, her hands behind
her head, her eyes on the distant gums
or perhaps not on them at all. She did
not change her pose when he stood near
her, but she dropped her eyes to him and
said in a kind of acknowledgment of
his presence, “Norman.”
“I’m going over to Moon Rock,” he
said. “Thought you might want to come,
Nonie.”
“I don’t know . . . Yes, if you want.”
She walked with the grace of a jungle
creature.
NORMAN, after several futile attempts
at drawing Nonie into some more
intifnate companionship, was carving on
the surface of Moon Rock. Presently
she divined his intention, and when she
demanded the chisel from him he sur-
rendered it willingly, hoping that she
would finish what he had begun.
But she carved haphazardly, and his
anxiety grew. He put a tentative finger
on her work as though to learn by touch
what it represented. His knuckles were
rapped sharply.
“Hands off!”
“But what is it?”
Nonie dropped the chisel and brushed
loose sand off the face of the rock. She
laughed. “It’s finished.”
“It’s nothing,” Norman said sullenly.
She laughed again. “I tried to make
flowers, then a river and other things ;
but I s’pose they was too hard.”
Norman was short and dark and
heavy, overdeveloped for his nineteen
years; and his unruly hair and wander-
ing eyebrows gave his face an odd fuzzi-
ness. His lips were loose, and they had
not forgotten how to pout.
“You’d like David Benedict's initials
there,” he said.
The egg-smooth granite that was
named Moon Rock was like a fabulous
entity in the heart of the bush. Once,
legend said, a justly or unjustly famous
pair of lovers had carved their entwined
names on it, and from that date onward
it was the custom of the local young men
and women, made hazy by the spring-
time of love, to inscribe their initials
deeply upon it.
Nome’s eyes were gleaming. “I
wouldn’t not,” she said. “And you needs
not mention his name. Which you’ve
been a nuisance all afternoon, and now
I’ve had enough.”
From under heavy eyelashes Norman
watched her go. He was conscious of
anger at her, but he could not bring it
to the surface.
NONIE crossed a field of wheat which
she herself had planted by hand.
The stalks were nearly as tall as her
head —for this was real wheat country —
and they were dry and brown. She
walked carefully so as not to trample
them down. They rustled against her
legs and clothing, and she inhaled their
dusty fragrance.
A mouse ran past her feet and she
kicked a little clod after it. The mice
came from nowhere when the wheat was
high, and went back into nowhere when
it was harvested.
When Nonie was close to the fence
she saw David Benedict. David was her
enemy. A petty family quarrel over
diseased crops, and Nicholas Seaton had
conceived a feudal hatred of the Bene-
dicts and passed it on to Nonie. Even
on his deathbed he had hinted at things
that would prevent her from forget-
ting . . . And she did not forget, lor she
could hate more fiercely and more keenly
than ever he could.
With the shyness of the wilds, it was
her habit to hide from David Benedict
rather than walk past him with his
curious eyes on her.
She went down on her face among
the tall stalks ; and David went on and
did not see her.
She did not rise when he had passed.
The warmth of the earth was lulling, and
it drew unordered thoughts from her
easily-stirred mind. Strange conceptions
of exaltation and power came to her. She
abandoned herself to them, for in them
she found an essential freedom in which
illiteracy and the other sins she knew
were whispered about her had no place.
It was an unconscious pantheism, but it
went deeper and more sanely, because
at the back of it there was one spark of
truth idealised.
THE raw earth was beneath her face ;
two stalks of wheat were clasped in
her hands. She felt an overwhelming kin-
ship with them. It was as though all the
vital smells and sights and sounds of her
life in the fields and bush had mar-
shalled themselves and crept upon her in
one unguarded moment and pointed to
an immutable sovereignty of earth and
wheat. And in their train came matters
of poignancy and regret.
“I got to choose well,” she said half
aloud, “and love so hard—so hard
Dast!” she said, thinking of magazines
and newspapers that she had pored over
in her struggles with the intricacies of
language. From those papers one could
gather that the core of the continent was
a loyalty or a patriotism, of some mis-
begotten spirit or studied law. There
was no mention of the earth and its
fruit, no word of the wide clean fields
like hers.
“Dast!” she said again, bitterly. For
six million people had decided what were
the essential factors of life ; hers was
only a daydream, and it was one she
could not overcome.
She caught the sound of a clod
crumbling underfoot, and she came to
her feet in a torment of resentment. It
was David Benedict. He was bare-
headed and clad in overalls. His cheek-
bones and chin were prominent under
his brown skin, and his eyes, as ever,
were curious and groping as they looked
at her. He had been standing almost over
her. For how long and what he had
heard or guessed of her strange, wild
thoughts, she did not know or care very
much. But she was angry.
“Dast!” she said. “You dare!”
He flushed. The idea that he might
have offended her personally frightened
him.
“I’m sorry,” he told her. “I’m sorry,
Nonie, honest I am.”
Some inner consciousness told her to
stop. There was a rareness in his anxiety
and his youth and grave pleading, and it
was new to her.
The sun was low. It struck horizon-
tally through the wheat. David Benedict
had not seen many beautiful things in
his life, and certainly none as heart-
breaking as Nonie caught in the merging
unsubstantialities of light and shadow
and with a sunshaft across her red-goid
hair.
“Nonie”
“I hate you!” she said, her stormy
young lips trembling, and, in what was
to her the most adequate way of finalis-
ing the discussion, she turned and ran
on through the field.
On the road she stopped at Norman’s
home with an uncertain idea of making
some apology.
Norman had not returned. His mother
offered Nonie pastry, but she shook her
head with a quick motion and stood on
the road looking back along it. It came
to her that she would have to go back ‘
to Moon Rock.
“Dast him!” she said.
NORMAN had gone down the north
side of Moon Rock. Nonie’s deser-
tion of him was not a new thing, and
always when it happened his mind
dropped down into channels of uncanny
maturity and perception. On the surface
Norman was simple, vaguely stupid ; but
that was because he was inarticulate and
physically clumsy. Under it all he had
a certain vicious intelligence of his own.
He pounded an antbed beneath his
feet and crushed underfoot all the insects
that escaped the first turmoil. It gave
him a sadistic pleasure to do this because
of his inability to dominate human
beings—least of all Nonie.
A spray of wildflowers threw perfume
in his face. He tore them from their
bush and dropped them to the ground.
He was not interested in wildflowers
or their odors. Nonie was a near-pan-
theist, but Norman was a groping realist.
He was off the track. From all appear-
ances this was virgin bush: low shrubs,
gums with peeling bark, dry grass and
leaves underfoot. The air was full of
the murmur and whisper of insects.
He parted two bushes and stood still.
There was a clearing before him and on
it some form of camp. A crude lent of
weather-beaten sacks had been erected.
Close to it, strung on wire between two
sticks, clothes were hanging in the still
air. A circle of stones enclosed the ashes
of a fire.
Before the tent sat two men. The
younger of them had seen him. He came
to his feet uneasily and called.
Norman went forward into the clear-
ing.
“Damn!” said the second man, and
clawed at his grey hair. A furtive air
came over him.
“Sit down, Carly,” he said. “You sit
down, too,” he added, addressing
Norman.
“I like to stand.”
“Sit down! ” said the old man with a
spasm of hellish fury. Then he leaned
over and regarded Norman with an ex-
pression of wistful benignity that came
from nowhere to displace the marks of
his rage.
“What are you doing here, boy?”
“Nothing.”
The fury mounted again under the old
man’s repulsive skin.
“Answer, damn you, or I’ll twist your
neck!”
The younger man, Carly, made a
motion of protest, but the old man
turned on him, and he became silent.
Norman said: “I’m going home.”
“Not yet, boy. How would you like
to fetch me some food and blankets and


LEMITE
~nat
is what your car,
van or lorry
require
©Marks the points tehich must be protected
against tvear byLVBRICA TI ON- not hap-
hazard greasing—to get the utmost in
useful car-miles. Insist on Alemite full
lubrication, under pressure, and you insure proper
functioning of all metal-to-metal hearing surfaces.
Al .EMHE provides specialized lubricants
for cylinders ... water-pump... gear box ... wheel
bearings . . . clutch release . . . universal joints ...
steering gear . . . chassis and differential. Motor
efficiency demands ALEMITE not just grease!
A 1 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Alemite corporation CdWe Address: ALMIT .. . Chicago
Pali particulars from MR. KENNETH .T. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E, A. MACHTN & CO, (Pty), Ltd,, 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Ausl—l-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
This winter
ķ
enjou a month of SUMMER
TAKE one of the big Trans-Pacific liners via
Auckland, N.Z., and a few days will see
you in Fiji, islands of enchantment.
Every day you spend in Fiji will be notable—
swimming, tennis, hiking, driving, golf, bowls,
idyllic days by lagoon and river; brave sport
with giant fish among the coral reefs; colourful
inter-island trips of 5 to 14 days’ duration, and
on beautiful Viti Levu a 250-mile motor drive
over good roads—one of the most perfect
scenic drives in the world.
Now is the time to plan your holiday in Fiji.
From now till September the climate is perfect
—cairn, sunny days, cool nights. First-class
hotels will cater for your comfort. Post the
coupon below for Fiji tourist literature and full
particulars of steamer sailings, etc.
Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU. Suva, Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
Please send me booklets and pamphlets on
Fiji and all information regarding travelling
to, and holidays in Fiji.
Name - "
Address -
come to
FIJI
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT
perhaps some other things: clothes and
tobacco, perhaps?”
“There’s a place in town you can
apply to if you want anything.”
“What, boy? Me go into town?”
The old man shook with a brief cackle
of amusement.
Norman had divined that these men
were hiding—were afraid of the law and
of being seen. He attempted to get to
his feet, but the old man put out a quick
dirty claw and pulled him down again.
“Stay there, damn you. You’ll stay
there till you’re ready to get what I want
—or perhaps we could sort of keep you
for ransom, boy,” he added, grappling
in the fantastic mazes of his mind for
a way to regain some of the comforts
that he had missed for so long.
IT was then that Nonie, a spray of
flowers in her hair, came into the
clearing.
Carly’s face grew while with uneasi-
ness. The old man clawed at his knotted
hair in exasperation.
Nonie looked from one to the other.
Norman moved and stood at her side.
He began to whisper, but he spoke so
disjointedly that she could not gather
what he was saying.
The old man, 100, was muttering. An-
other gust of rage came over him be-
cause he did not know how to deal with
the situation.
“The boy’s staying here,” he shouted
abruptly. Then in a tone of coaxing
sweetness: “You arc, ain’t you, boy?”
Nonie said: “What is it he means,
Norman? Who is he?”
“I don’t know,” Norman said sullenly.
“They wanted to keep me here.”
“I don’t see. Them’s queer men ; and
it’s late, and I come all the way to look
for you, Norman.”
With that lightning swiftness the old
man’s graciousness vanished. He began
»u iicniblc. “You stay . . . stay!”
Fire came into Nome’s eyes. “You
shut that mouth. I ain’t afraid of you.
Best you keep quiet.”
She took Norman’s arm, and he went
willingly with her.
The old man was still trembling, and
his eyes were flaked with red. He
seemed on the point of rising, and his
hand had closed on a heavy stick. Carly
pushed him down again, and he lapsed
into a fierce silence. He was fat, and he
squatted before the tent in the attitude
of a toad before its hole until the turmoil
of hate had subsided in him and he
could begin to think.
“You let them go!” he said. “They’ll
tell. Brats! Even if we did get out we
couldn’t get far enough before they got
on our heels. Carly, you’ve got to make
them forget us —give them something
else to think about.”
“What do you mean?” Nerves began
to play strange tricks in Carly’s head.
He thought the old man was going to
talk about killing and blood and
weapons.
“I seen fields over there. Wheat. Set
them alight, Carly. Take the matches.
Make it a good blaze, Carly.”
IT was close to dusk. About the summit
of Moon Rock flowed an eddy of
the last colors of sunset. Nonie, hurry-
ing home with an unapologetic Norman,
stopped dead in her tracks and pointed.
Carved deep in the stone was a new
inscription—a heart, and in it the names
of Nonie Seaton and David Benedict!
Nonie seemed speechless. Then she
turned on Norman with her hands out-
flung slormily.
“Norman, it’s you’re a devil. You did
that.”
“Me?” He laughed slyly. “You know
me better than that.”
“I don’t. It’s you’re too deep for me
to know all of you.”
“Maybe David”
The stormy flickerings in her eyes
stopped and were quiet, “It's your wish
to taunt me,” she said.
“He could do it.”
He had chosen to be tantalising, and
when he took that attitude she always
fought a silent battle to keep her tongue
from giving him any encouragement.
His remarks would have the innocuous
simplicity of a schoolboy’s, but under-
lying them would be his sinister unfeel-
ing thoughts, and of these she was afraid
as she was afraid of nothing physical or
spoken.
They walked the road in silence.
“To-morrow,” said Norman when they
stood at his gate, “I think I’d like to go
down the ridge.”
Nonie shook her head.
“No. I’m going to rub those writings
off Moon Rock; and after that I got
other things to do.”
DAVID BENEDICT was bathing in
the river. As the oldest male in the
Benedict family, the whole responsibility
of making their farm pay rested on his
shoulders. He did more things in a day
than he could remember in a week, and
few of them were clean. In time he had
found that the best way to remove the
grimy traces of all those things was to
bathe each night in the river.
Nonie fingered the waxlike head of a
waratah and watched him through the
fronds of a bush. Norman’s tantalising
suggestion haunted her. She struggled
with an involved piece of psychology.
If he had the chance, would David
Benedict unite her name with his on the
surface of Moon Rock?
She pressed her face against the cool
heart of the flower, struggling to piaster
the erratic flights of her mind. She
remembered moments when uninvited
impulses had come to her and rocked her
giddy as though another personality
sought to possess her. Once when she
had seen David on horseback, to-day
when she had faced him in the wheat
field.
As boy and girl it had been easy to
keep enmity alive. As man and woman
she began to be afraid.
“I am a woman,” she said aloud as
she ate her evening meal. She was alone
at the table which had seen no one but
her for five years—little more than a
child and prey to all the hauntings and
memories of that tumbling shack.
“David is a man, I apt a woman. I
should wear new smooth clothes and —
and Oh, but I can’t. I can’t!”
She knelt at the side of the bed on
which her father had died, her chin in
her hands, “Oh, I wish you didn’t go.
It’s damn hard to know what’s right and
what’s wrong without you to tell me,”
FIRE! Its darting, ruby lances washed
the night with crimson—hot, terrify-
ing. Building with light and shadow it
sought to re-create the bizarre landscapes
of the nameless dawns before the voice
of Man whispered across the earth.
When the voiceless telepathy of its
presence began to creep across the
countryside, Nonie rose and pressed her
face against the window of her bedroom.
The night was filled with jumping blurs
of shadow and rose light.
After a time it was borne in upon her
that the fire was centred very close to, if
not right in, that same field of wheat in
which she had hidden from David
Benedict.
She dressed, left the house and went
along the road. There were other people
out, singly and in groups, dressed and
half-dressed, none of them recognisable
in the riot of shifting light, and none of
them recognising Nonie. They moved
swiftly past her in a continuous flow
and with a definite purpose. Nonie
alone wandered aimlessly as though she
were lost. The farther she went the
more sure she was that her precious
wheat had been incinerated. As a cul-
mination of financial disaster to a day
of conflicting emotions it left her dry
and heart-empty.
Something was crying out from her
very soul: “My wheat . . . my wheat!”
She thought of it as a child lost to her.
In the warm darkness of his bed
Norman stared at the red glow on his
window-pane and was resentful that his
sleep should have been disturbed. He
muttered, and buried his face in a pillow.
'THE fire had started in a corner of
* Nonie’s main wheatfield. It had fled
across the few acres in one gigantic
swoop, toyed with the wooden fences
until they exploded into flame, then
reached beyond to a second field and
on to the right to the strip of bushland.
Nonie looked at the field —the same
field in which she had kicked a clod at
the fleeing mouse and dreamed her
dreams of fiery loyalties. It was spread
now in a carpel of glowing ashes.
“Oh!” she said in a sudden burst of
tears. “It’s all gone—there’s none left
—and I got to live. Why must it be
mine? Why ain’t it someone else’s
burned like this? I got to live.”
On the other side of the paddock, where
flame still leaped and boiled, she could
see lines of men bending and swaying
like urgent phantoms—driving, flickering
shapes, blind things of the dark —sweat-
ing and shouting as they passed water
up from the river in buckets, in tins, in
anything they could lay hand on.
With a sense of amazement that was
like physical shock Nonie saw that the
most active, the most desperate of those
phantom figures was David Benedict.
David Benedict, fighting to save fields
—her fields. It was wrong. It spoilt all
that tradition of hate.
“Dast you, David Benedict!” Nonie
said. “You must not do it! You can’t
do it!”
A woman came and stood at Nonie’s
side. She had a high-pitched voice, and
she talked with little cessation, her long
fingers pointing at burning bush and
smouldering fences.
(Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM
Joints Stiff, Swollen and Painful
If your joints are stiff, swollen and filled
with pain, you are so badly handicapped
that you are little better than a prisoner or
a slave. You cannot be a success either
socially or commercially, and you certainly
cannot enjoy life as you should. You will
find it hard to believe that
your suffering is unneces-
sary, but surely you will be
willing to make an effort to
get well, and your effort will
not be in vain if you get a
box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and take them as directed.
No doubt you have already tried all sorts
of things—embrocations, liniments, oils,
medicated baths, purgative
salts—and perhaps you are
disappointed, and disgusted
as well, because
they have failed
to give you the
relief you desire,
but, just for one
week, forget your
d i s appointments,
and decide that
you will give
De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills
a fair trial
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
u \jjj v Im.’)’ ugw
iiDir^inn
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitfs Pills to-night
and in the morning yon will see and
feel and know for certain that they
must do yon good.
Throughout your future life you will be
glad if you do this, because De Witt’s Pills
never disappoint, and you can take them
with absolute confidence in their ability to
do you good.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of
the limbs, swollen feet or
ankles, foul breath, scalding
pain, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede
attacks of Rheumatism,
Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or serious
Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting
a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and taking them as directed.
They cost only 3/6, or the larger size,
containing 2\ times the quantity, 6/6. All
chemists sell them in the blue, white and
gold boxes, so that you will have no diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies. You will derive
certain benefit from the first dose, and as
you continue, the pain and stiffness will
leave your limbs and joints, and in a very
short time you will fully regain your health
and strength. These results have been
obtained by many thousands of men and
women who were tortured by rheumatism
and joint pains. Be persuaded to do as
they did—take
iii
it
I
f -., .:
%' %*■>
mm*
ĸ
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Nonie turned and ran away. She took
the trail into the bush. Her hands went
out to touch leaves and shrubs and the
dim faces of flowers. Soon, guided there
by subconscious urge, she saw that she
stood beside Moon Rock. She sat in its
shadow, then bent her face to the grass.
THE fire was the plaything of the
vagrant night winds. It ran north
like a lava stream, then it circled on its
tracks and came back in a wide curve
towards Moon Rock. It sent a spur of
smoke ahead of it, and the smoke was
filled with little brilliant sparks, and it
warmed the air with warning of the
scarlet disintegration behind it.
“Nonie! Nonie Seaton!”
She recognised the voice as David
Benedict’s. She did not stir.
“Nonie Seaton!” he called again, and
he must have seen her, for she was aware
that he knelt over her. He touched her
shoulder. “Nonie, the fire’s coming.
You can’t stay here.”
She turned over and looked up at him.
He felt the heartbreak of her beauty.
“You strange child,” he said. “You
can’t stay here.”
“I’m not a child,” she said simply.
“I’m a woman. I been thinkin’ . . .
David Benedict, I want for you to love
me. Can you do that?”
A red flush mounted in his brown
cheeks. “You don’t know what you
mean, Nonie. Don’t say it.”
“I’m a woman,” she replied. “I love
you, and I want for you to love me and
hold me.”
He could not fight. He said despairingly:
“To love you and hold you, Nonie.”
“And keep me always.”
“And keep you always.”
“And I want for you to make me a
mighty fine lady and be proud of me.”
“And make you a fine lady ... I
will, Nonie, I will,” he said, and he bent
and kissed lips that had never before
known the touch of man. She responded
in a surge of awakening, and the wild
red-gold of her hair fell across his face.
“David Benedict!” she said. “I got
.you and you got me, and it’s you must
keep me always.”
“I’ll put our names on the Rock,
Nonie,” •>
She laughed suddenly. “You needs
not do that, David. It’s / put them there
myself to-day, and I want them to stay
there as long as we both live —as long
as we both shall live,” she corrected.
She had unconsciously quoted, and the
words had a foreign beauty in her mouth.
Character Study in the Tropics:—
THE MOSQUITO HOUSE
By MERVYN SKIPPER
FEAKES, an electrician, and Willis,
an operator, employed on the staff
of the cable station at Pulau Anu,
are seated in the mosquito-house which.
the former has had built on the bal-
cony of his bedroom in the cable quar-
ters. It has only that day been com-
pleted, and is the first of its kind on the
island, and they have been admiring it
together. Now Feakes is writing, the
light of a kerosene-lamp falling on his
head and shoulders; while Willis is
sitting in an easy chair so close behind
him that he appears to be engaged in
inspecting his backbone. There is only
room in the mosquito-housc for the
table and two chairs. It is beginning to
fill with tobacco smoke, and the fine-
wire gauze prevents the smoke from
escaping, so that the two men appear
to be imprisoned in a pale-blue cube
magically suspended in the night, which
is dark and starless. About forty feet
away the darkness is punctuated by the
light of a lantern which throws a pear-
shaped patch of light down a wall on
to the bald head of the nightwatchman,
squatting on the floor of the porch lead-
ing to the cable office.
“Oh, hell! Oh, hell! Oh, hell!” sighs
Willis, drawing in his breath and letting
it out again with a sound like escaping
steam. “Will it ever come?”
“If it does come it’ll bring the rain,
but it’ll knock down a few houses,” says
Feakes, without turning his head.
“They’re bringing water for the natives
to drink and us to wash in from Singa-
pore. It’ll be too dirty, though.”
“Anything for a change,” groans
Willis, drawing in and. blowing out his
breath again. “Fd welcome an earth-
quake. Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord! What on
earth do you find to write home about,
Feakes?”
He stands up for a moment, and turns
his back towards the garden in order to
cool the seat of his trousers. He is an
extraordinary-looking youth, as broad as
he is long, with enormous hands and
feet, and everything about him —his head,
his fingers, his nose, his ears and even
his toenails —is curiously blunted, as if
Nature had deliberately set herself the
task of building a human being on the
lines of a negro sculpture.
“Anything for a change,” repeats
Willis. “I’m not sure if it isn’t hotter in
here than outside. Have you ever done
any yachting?” he adds suddenly.
A delighted expression spreads over
Feakes’s face, and he turns half round
towards his companion.
“Yachting! Rather,” he says.
“I did mine in Portsmouth,” says
Willis, sitting down again. And he starts
talking about tacking and gybing, long
legs to windward, gales and full main-
sail breezes, and asks Feakes if he knows
what a Blackwall hitch is. Feakes stares
through the gauze at the office, a door
of which has been flung open, giving a
view of the interior with a man sitting
in it. Waiting impatiently for his friend
to finish, he, too, starts talking about the
pleasures of amateur boat sailing.
“What sort of sail do you use in
Portsmouth?” he asks; and, without
waiting for an answer, explains that in
Sydney they use ringtails and water sails,
topsails and spinnakers and then think
nothing of cracking on a balloon jib and
a square sail as big as all the other
canvas put together.
IN the pauses of their conversation a low
droning can be heard. Outside the
mosquito-house myriads of insects are
dancing against the ceiling. They are a
foot deep everywhere, and are in per-
petual motion as if they were engaged in
some collective activity, like bees
or ants, though actually they are young
mosquitoes which have not yet acquired
the strength or appetite to prey on
human beings.
“Oh, cripes! Oh,cripes!’’ moans Willis,
jumping up again and clutching at his
head with both
hands; “why did
I come to this
God- forsaken
place?” He is
thinking of great
stretches of blue
water covered
with white foam-
bursts like explo-
sions ; of calm
backwaters at
night when one
rows away in a dinghy and, looking
back, sees the yacht’s image held upside
down in a flawless mirror: Feakes is
thinking of “strong” fish hanging motion-
less in the cool green depths under jet-
ties ; of a river which runs between fac-
tories and warehouses where the yacht
is one moment gliding mysteriously up-
right and the next is lying on its side,
with the wind screaming through its rig-
ging ; and both are wondering how it
has come about that they now find them-
selves in a situation so different from
their youthful experience.
“Oop, room for a little one?” says a
piping voice, and an eager smile looms
out of the darkness of the bedroom and
a pair of small blue eyes looks through
the gauze at them.
“Oop, room for a little one ; oop, what
a squeeze!” grunts the voice, and an enor-
mously fat young man pushes through
the doorway and lowers himself with
groans and wheezes on to the floor
behind Feakes. “Oop, my goodness!
Any news about the typhoon? Oop,
oop, damn your floor, Feakes ; why the
devil don’t you get it upholstered?
Phew! It’s hot in here, five times hotter
than outside. But there are no mos-
quitoes. What have you been talking
about? Yachting? Talk about some-
thing you can eat. I went yachting once
at Cowes, oop, aboard Colonel Surges’s
yacht, a real beauty ; and, by Gad, the
colonel knew how to keep a good table!
Oop, by Gad, he did!” And he recites
with relish the list of dishes habitually
served on the yacht of Colonel Surges.
His legs, like those of a grand piano,
stick out from under the native skirt he
is wearing, and they are covered with
old swamp sores ; dinner has given him
an attack of the hiccups, and every time
he coughs his breasts shake, like those
of a woman! He starts to describe the
meals he has had in other places, rails
against his heredity, to which he attri-
butes his condition, and, in the same


SYDNEY
Going to Sydney? Then stay at
Petty’s Hotel... Petty’s is differ-
ent; there is an air of restful
quietness. Service is perfect;
cuisine excellent. Tariff, Room
and Breakfast lnclusive 18'-
PETTYS
Hotel
York Street, Sydney • R. J. Langley, Manager
A Policy
•/ Helpju In&sM f
THE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PIIOIIIJCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN. M.L.C.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
&
£
<9
$
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
I
i
f PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BRAND AUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, UNO.
...And now —
Your Income Tax Return!
BEFORE you take out a life-assurance policy you consider
premium rates, expenses, bonuses, mortality and other
items which go to make a policy good or better. You want
to pay the least for what you get in return for your money.
You have to pay taxes, but you don’t want to pay more than
you're obliged to. How many people are fairly assessed? Are
YOU being fairly assessed? You don’t know unless you arc con-
versant with the Acts.
The best way of gathering an immediate working knowledge
of the Federal and N. S. Wales Income Tax Acts is to read
“INCOME TAX RETURNS,” a simple and concise explanation of
the subject by H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.).
The extent to which life-assurance premiums, calls paid to
goldmining companies and losses on share dealings are allowed
as deductions are explained in this book. Other items of income
and outgo are fully and simply dealt with. The book is the
handiest and most concise work on the subject yet published,
and it has been brought right up to date. The price is only
FIVE SHILLINGS
(postage 3d.).
There is a 16-page index of income and expenditure items.
The book is indispensable to businessmen, farmers, salary-earners
and company secretaries. Accountants, lawyers and sharebrokers
will find it invaluable. Write to-day to the Endeavour Press, 252
George Street, Sydney, for your copy of
INCOME TAX RETURNS
The Book of the Month —JULY means
Income Tax Returns'
breath, complains of the bad native cook-
ing he has to put up with in quarters.
“I was as skinny as you once,” he says,
looking at Feakes’s back pathetically.
"As skinny as you. You needn’t believe
it if you don’t want to, but I have photos,
to prove it. It’s the climate. It stimulates
the gastric juices. Oop! As skinny as you
are, I was. I was engaged, oop, to the
prettiest girl in Surrey, but last time I
went on leave I didn't dare go near her.”
“Go near who?” says another voice,
and a red, clean-shaven face appears
outside the mosquito-house, smiling
broadly as if to ensure its welcome.
"Let’s in. What’s the business? Has the
typhoon warning come yet? When she
comes she’ll lift every house off the
island. Move ovei . I’ve got me pass-
port.”
WAVING a bottle of whisky in one
hand and a glass in the other the
newcomer, a stout, middle-aged man,
enters the mosquito-house and seats him-
self on the floor beside the fat youth.
“What’s the topic? Women, I’ll bet!
So this is your new invention, Fcakes.
My word, it's hot in it ; it’s like an oven.
Here’s luck, anyhow.” And he drains a
glass of whisky and immediately bursts
violently into perspiration
"Women? That’s right. A man must
have a woman,” he continues, looking
from one face to the other with an eager
expression as if he expected to be con-
tradicted.
“Harmony in the home’s the iirst
essential. Do these married men get it?”
He waves his hands towards the garden.
To be sure, they don’t. All they get is
responsibility without service. They
haven’t the sense to go for the native
girls, and catch them young and educate
them. Look at the way I got my girl.
I was out shooting up above Durian
Tunggal—there’s a good place there for
punai —and I saw the kid playing with
other kids in the village. I fell in love
with her on the spot, she looked as fresh
as a young cocoanut. 1 said to some of
the old men, ‘Who’s she belong to?’
And they said, ‘That’s her uncle,’ point-
ing to one of themselves. ‘She’s an
orphan, harbormaster,’ says the old boy—
he used to be one of my boatmen. ‘She’s
an orphan, harbormaster,’ he says, ‘and
I’m too old now to look after her; you
can have her for eighty dollars.’ Well, he
brought her along, and —do you know? —
she nearly broke her neck jumping out of
the window on the first night. Would you
believe it, she started running along the
track back to her village, me after her
and both of us mother-naked in the
moonlight? It would have been funny
if we had met the Resident’s lady. She
gave me a good run for my money, she
did, the little devil; but I caught her and
carried her home, kicking like a mullet.
It's hot in here, Feakes ; why don’t you
have the place properly ventilated? She
hadn’t seen a white man all over before —
that was her trouble. But, my goodness,
she soon got over it, and look at her no&.
Swears like a Yankee sailor, smokes like
a cruiser smokestack and can drink me
under the table. No. you can’t come
in! We’re packed like sardines already,”
TWO more men and a yellow dog are
* standing staring in at them. One of the
men, clean-shaven with red hair, ignores
the last remark, squeezes through the
doorway and. despite protests, brings the
dog in with him. The other man, who
has a long dark face, a black moustache
like a Chinese mandarin, and a melan-
choly expression, is obliged to stay outside.
"What’s that you’re saying, Dawkins?”
he cries, looking down at the red-faced
man. “What’s that you're saying? You
ought to be ashamed of yourself. A
native woman has a right to the same
respect as a white woman.”
Inside the mosquito-house Dawkins
fills his glass and drains it.
"And doesn’t my girl get it?” he says,
and for some reason he lifts up the sole
of his boot and stares intently at it. "Is
there a married woman, white or colored,
on the island who gets better treated by
her lord and master? You ask Elli,
Bawkley—just you ask her.”
The other men are silent. They are
thinking that Dawkins, who lives with a
man nicknamed “The Beachcomber” and
two native women in a house behind the
superintendent’s, is regarded locally as a
scapegrace ; yet he has a pleasanter life
than they have. With the Beachcomber
and the harbormaster and their girls
live snakes, cockatoos and hornbills;
monkeys swing from the rafters, and their
chattering and the swearing of the cocka-
toos can be heard every night mingled
with the shrill giggles of the girls and
the guffaws of the white men.
“Just you ask her if she’d change
places with Mrs. Bawkley,” says Dawkins,
still staring at his boot sole.
“Don’t you dare mention Mrs.
Bawkley’s name in the same breath with
your strumpet!” cries the man with the
black moustache, running along two
sides of the mosquito-house and back
again. “Don’t you dare mention it.”
"Oh, shut up, you two,” wails Willis.
“It’s hot enough as it is without you
making it hotter. For God’s sake, you,
get over!”
WET with perspiration the men in the
” mosquito-house begin to stir and
push against each other. They keep get-
ting up to cool themselves and sitting
down again ; and to Norsa, the night-
watchman, who is dreamily observing
them from the office porch, it is as if a
colony of orang-outangs were struggling
and drowning in an immense bowl of
blue water.
The red-faced man drains another
glass of whisky, rolling his eyes angrily.
“What sort of respect does he show
his wife, I ask you?” he mumbles.
"Keeps her shut up like a Grand Turk ;
everybody knows it. And throws the
food at her—there’s respect for you.
Won’t trust her with a farthing ; lets the
Chinese cook run the housekeeping.
Does he let her drink or smoke or swear,
if she wants to? My goodness, he
doesn't. What’s sauce for his goose
isn’t sauce for her gander. And now
she's tired of him ; everybody knows she’s
tired of him. She’s young and pretty ;
why shouldn’t she be tired of him? Does
he say, ‘You go home, me girl—l won’t
stop you ; and here’s a pension for you’?
My word, he doesn’t. So where’s the
respect, 1 ask you?”
The man with the black moustache
has been trying to catch what the red-
faced man is saying, but is unable to do
so. He stands staring down at him for a
while, opens his mouth to speak and then
throws up his hands and vanishes.
“Move over, can’t you?” moans a voice.
“Oh dear, it’s getting hotter. And what
stillness! As if the lid were going to
blow off something.”
It is a fact that the silence has become
more oppressive. Not a sound comes
from the garden. The nightwatchman
can be heard slapping his body, and, ap-
parently miles away, there is a sound of
something breaking, followed by a
woman’s voice speaking angrily in the
Malay language.
A SUDDEN clatter breaks out, and the
eyes of all the men in the mosquito-
house turn towards the office. They see
the clerk on duty, a green shade over his
eyes, bend over and stare with set face
at some object in front of him. The
fingers of his right hand begin to dance
up and down, and a dry melody arises
from them, as if a pianist were playing
a tune with only two notes in it. A
second figure crosses the doorway and,
going behind the operator, stands watch-
ing his fingers ; and presently the figure of
the nightwatchman joins it. The operator
lifts his fingers and, bending forward,
starts writing, and the two figures stand-
ing behind him bend forward, too, as if
all were part of the same mechanism.
Then all three straighten suddenly, and
the operator hands something to the
nightwatchman.
Presently from the darkness of the
garden below the mosquito-house the voice
of the nightwatchman is heard calling.
“What is it, Norsa?” says Feakes
softly, as if he were afraid of awaking
something.
“Typhoon, tuan ” whispers the night-
watchman, holding up a paper for him
to see, and speaking gently as if he were
ashamed at having to interrupt the white
men.
Closer Is He.
He is closer, maybe, than the resinous
breath that is charged
With a longing ineffable, having its birth
in the fire
That purges in autumn the garden you
loved as a child.
Is He nearer, think you, than the breath
that you grasp on the wild
When the Borean hounds are abroad and
the world is enlarged
With a buffeting pregnancy ? Nearer, is
He, than desire
That is born of the tapping of tendrils.
the soughing of trees?
You are close with your whispers and
sighs ... Is He closer than these ?
Is He nearer, think you, than my hands?
Here I tap on the keys
Because it is dark, and the silence
engenders old fears
I am naught hut a timorous robot bereft
of all skill.
I would throttle my life if I could, but
I have not the will.
Though I see with my hands and my feet,
is He nearer than these;
Is He closer than hands that are clenched
for the stemming of tears ?
Prehensile these hands. Yet I muse on
their wonder of shape;
Is He nearer than hands that are less
than the hands of an ape ?
maoriland.
C. R. ALLEN.


Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55
s
m
s
4?
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commomvealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenudi
Clk mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
THE SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS’
(EST. 1924.)
THE ONLY
EVENING PAPER
IN THE NORTH
OF TASMANIA
“The S.E. Express” gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Midlands
and the North West Coast of Tasmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, it is the
Sunday Newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN “THE S.E. EXPRESS” FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Heports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures of
Rural Interest are given in
'THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Land.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Hearty Yarn of the Fistic Gentry:—
GINGER
By CON DREW.
IT’S hard to teach an old dog new
tricks. You’d have thought that,
havin’ burnt my fingers in the
boxin’ business, I’d have given the game
a pass. Not me. Less than two months
after that setback I got from Melbourne
Harry I’m out on the road near Wattle
Flat runnin’ a boxin’ booth.
We’d a team of pretty good scrap-
pers, let me, tell you. There was a
featherweight who could move around
pretty lively, two fair to medium welters
and a brace of heavies. The biggest of
(he heavies called himself Basher Kelly,
and looked the part. He wasn’t a high
card in the fistic pack, but he had a pretty
solid right hook which didn’t do his
opponent much good when it landed on
his jaw. On top of that he had plenty
of sand in his craw. The other heavy,
Bob, was a real snappy boxer, and,
bein’ an easy talker, relieved me with
the spruikin’ now and then.
We had a horse waggon to cart us
around, and a fairly good tent and other
gear.
The usual thing was for the boys to
line up on the board outside our tent,
and I’d offer a fiver to the local lad who
could stand three rounds with Basher.
Most of the come-ons stopped a hook
on the jaw and went to sleep inside
two rounds. The sensible ones sent in
the towel before the debate had been
goin’ a round. Afterwards, Basher would
take on Bob for a little glove play, and
the welters would do their piece.
WELL, we showed to fairly good busi-
ness for a week or so; then we
switched off north-westwards, meamn
to follow the railway line to Dubbo.
That seemed to change our luck. For
a start off, my second heavy, Bob, got a
touch of ’flu at Euchareema, and we
had to leave him behind.
Then bad luck started in earnest.
You’d have thought we’d been hoistin’
the Blue Peter on a Friday. The sheep-
minders and stump-diggers were havin’ a
bad time with one thing and another,
and they gave the show a pass. When
we did strike a good show town we’d
be dead sure to clash with a travellin’
circus or some other counter-attraction.
There was weeks when we only took
enough money to pay expenses, and there
was weeks when we couldn’t do even
that. Half the time we didn't know
where we were, and didn’t care.
To make matters worse, the rain came
on, and it rained for nearly a month.
At one place we were bailed up for a
fortnight, all the creeks bein’ bankers.
And so the game went on, and every
day my bank reserve was gettin’ less.
TO cut out the harrowin’ details, we’d
been on the road about two months
when we stumbled into Dubbo, and set
up the tent on the outskirts of the town.
“If this town don’t turn out good,”
I said to Basher, “we’ll chuck the towel
in.”
The news had got around that we
were goin’ to show, and when I lined my
boys up on the board that night a big
crowd collected. There was more of a
towny touch about them than the people
we’d met on the road, and I expected to
do good business.
But I had another think cornin'. When
I let fall the usual well-chosen remarks
anent the capabilities of the team there
wasn’t even a nibble.
“Come on, gents.,” I said. “There must
be a local lad in the mob who is anxious
to earn a fiver. Who’ll have a try to
stay three rounds with Australia’s cham-
peen heavyweight, Basher Kelly?”
There wasn’t a murmur, and I held
out a glove invitingly. “First up, first
served,” I said. “You put in a feather
and take out a turkey. A lot of things
can be done with a fiver. Who’ll be
the first?”
Agen dead silence.
I tried them with everything I knew,
but not a blow was struck. It was
like tryin’ to peddle mouth-organs in a
deaf and dumb asylum.
JUST as I’m thinkin’ of steppin’ down
off the board and closin’ up the
show, a big ginger-headed gent, sings
out: “Aw, go and get work.”
“Thanks,” says I. “You ain’t done
much work, though, by the look of you,
unless it was reachin’ over for poker
chips. What’s wrong with you doin’ a
little now by tryin’ to earn a fiver?”
“Bah!” says Ginger. “When I fight
two or three rounds it ain’t goin’ to be
for a flamin’ fiver.”
“Oho,” says I. “Jack Dempsey the
eighth. I thought he was doin’ picture
stunts in Hollywood.”
“1 might be Jack Dempsey,” said
Ginger, “but I wouldn’t fight for no
fiver."
“All right,” said 1. “If you feel like
stagin’ a comeback, how much money
would it take to entice you into the
ring?” •
“More than you'd feel like partin'
with,” Ginger came back.
“Don’t you bet about it,” says I.
“Go on, Jack,” said the crowd.
“We’ll see you get a fair go.”
I found out afterwards that this bird
Ginger had been in Dubbo about two
weeks, and had earned a bit of a repu-
tation as a scrapper.
“Not me,” says Ginger. “I ain’t goin’
to fight an’ get knocked about for a
fiver.”
“All right,” I says. “Let us turn to a
more cheerful subject. How much
money have you got?”
Ginger didn’t answer, and a bloke with
a moustache like a shootin’-gallery pro-
prietor pushed his way to the front.
“He don’t need no money,” says the
bloke with the mo. “I'll back him to
beat your man in a ten-round go for a
tenner.”
“For a man who believes in miracles
you ain’t takin’ much of a risk,” says I.
“Why not make it twenty quid?”
Someone sniggered, and the bloke
pulled out a roll of notes.
“All right, I’ll bet you twenty quid,”
says he, and over he came and put
the money in.
DID we pack them in? I'll say we did.
But not before I’d rose the price of
admission to a dollar a head. Some of
them squealed a bit at the charge, but
they were too eager to see the scrap to
argue the point too long. When the
last man was in there wasn’t room for a
dog to bark. Everything was lovely.
When the ginger bloke peeled off his
shirt for business you could see he was
a fairly well-conditioned man. He had
the shoulders of a fighter, and there was
muscles on his back which spoke of
hiltin’ power. The crowd appointed a
referee, and, as I was holdin’ the stakes,
I couldn’t very well object.
When everything was ready the ref.
made the men shake hands, and un-
loaded a few after-dinner remarks about
how the affray should be conducted.
Then he sent them on their journey.
The fight was short and sweet, but
any doubts that there might have been
about Ginger bein’ a dinkum good
scrapper vanished as soon as he went
into action. For a start, he poked his
left into Basher’s face, and followed
it up with a snifter right hook which
would have spread-eagled Basher if it
had landed on his jaw. Basher just
ducked in time, and slammed his left
into Ginger’s ribs. It steadied him down
a bit, but ten seconds later he was
forcin’ the fight agen, and the crowd
went wild with excitement.
“Give it to him. Jack,” they yelled.
“Keep on top of him. He can’t hurt
you.”
Ginger needed no eggin’ on. Twice
with mighty right swings he would have
skittled Basher if my boy hadn’t kept
his glove well glued to his jaw, and
once he banged him on the side of the
head so hard that Basher staggered across
the ring.
Talk about a Donnybrook go. The
pace was terrific.
“This can’t last much longer,” I said
to a bloke who was standin’ at the ring-
side near me. “Somethin’ll have to
happen in a minute.”
It did. Ginger was followin’ Basher
around throwin’ in punches from every
angle when suddenly Basher unwound
a terrific right hook. It seemed, from
where I stood, to land square on Ginger’s
jaw, and he fell to the floor with a
thud.
The ref. was a fairly square man, con-
siderin’ all the circumstances, and only
counted up to twelve before he gave the
fight to Basher. The crowd had seen
a good go for its money, anyway.
When Ginger came round he put on
his duds, and they all streamed out
lookin’ mighty crestfallen, but I’ve seen
a crowd do that before.
ABOUT an hour later Basher and me
are countin’ the takings, when the flap
of the tent is pushed up and in floats
Ginger.
“Good on you, Bob,” I says. “You
came to the rescue just in time. How
did you get here before us?”
“Easy,” said Bob, my second heavy.
“I shook off that bout of influenza in
a couple of weeks, and took the rattler
here to Dubbo. But I’d better duck
away now. I’ll pick you up on the road
outside the town to-morrer mornin’.”


Training
Courses
English
and in
Writing
for
Publication
THE WELFORD COURSE
IN ENGLISH.
Rv E. H. Wclford and A. W. B
Wclford, M.A. (Cantab.). This
course deals adequately with
common errors, with business and
social correspondence, with brevity,
emphasis, vocabulary and the man-
agement of sentences. It corrects
errors both in speech and in writ-
ing. 12 lessons.
THE BERNARD CRONIN
Story Writing Course
(Writing to Win).
Prepared and conducted by Mr.
Bernard Cronin himself, its foun-
dation is the pupil’s own work, his
or her thought, .expression and pre-
sentation. 10 lessons with 3 sup-
plements.
PARAGRAPHS
and ARTICLES
A complete training, including in-
struction not only in the writing of
articles and paragraphs but also in
the selection of subjects and in
methods of treatment for different,
kinds of publications.
CRITICISM OF MSS.
A critical service by Mr. Cronin ol
MSS. —Stories, Articles, Novels,
Scenarios. It has helped many
writers.
We shall be glad to send full
particulars of all the training ser-
vices described above, but we be-
lieve that your purpose and ours
' will be best served il you tell us
where your interest particularly lies.
Please address your inquiry to
E. H. Wclford, 398 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, C.l.
No attempt, is made to perSUade
those without natural aptitude to
take any course.
The Key to a Man’s Career
DR. NORWOOD says that “ A Proper Grasp of
Pelmanism Would save any life from Futility .”
Amongst the many Australians who have achieved distinction in Great
Britain, none is regarded more highly, either there or in Australia, than Dr.
Norwood. Dr. Norwood is the Minister of the City Temple, London. He
has travelled much, has had a wide experience of men and of life, is $ keen
observer and a great thinker.
• t
I>r. f. W. Norwood, X>.l>.
Of the City 1 Semple,
London.
“Pelmanism," Dr. Norwood says, "is
sound Psychology and an admirable
system of Mind-training. It is more
than mere Memory training. There is
no co-ordination of knowledge without
a retentive memory, but the mind is
more than memory. It involves the
whole man.
“Pelmanism reduces to a coherent
system what every person who lives
intelligently and strongly must at least
partly carve out for himself. A proper
grasp of it would save any life from
futility and would cause many to dis-
cover powers latent within themselves
of the existence of which they had not
dreamed. It teaches that man has the
key to his own career and enables
many to find the key itself which for
want of self-knowledge, had lain un-
discovered.”
Amongst other well-known Pelmanists
are:
k
ķ
k
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
Lord Riddell.
Sir Arthur Qulller-
Couch.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
Lady Keeble.
Lord Baden-
Powell,
Sir Herbert
Barker.
Sir Herbert
Austin.
And many others.
Pelmanism does, indeed, bring out
the mind’s latent powers and develops
them to the highest point of efficiency.
It strengthens Will-Power; it develops
Personality: it gives Courage, Initiative,
Forcefulness and Determination. It
banishes the defects which interfere
with the efficient working of the mind,
and in their place it develops such
attributes and qualities as:
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-Power
Initiative
Self-confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
and a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong,
positive, vital qualities contributes to
one’s earning capacity and makes it
possible to live intelligently in the
present and build strongly for the
future. What is of equal importance
is that there is increased happiness
and a keener appreciation of the
beauties of Nature, the Arts and Life
generally.
In a sentence, Pelmanists live a
fuller, happier and more successful
existence.
This is borne out by the letters re-
ceived from those who have taken the
Course, some extracts from which are
given here:
AN At om NXANT stAtes that Pelmanism
hits shown hi in "how to overcome that
paralysing feeling of Inferiority."
A sTI I>KNT writes: "I have now an aim
in life. 1 have become more Observant. My
Concent rat ion is more developed- My
Imagination lias increased.’'
A SHOP ASSISTANT reports that lie has
secured a belter position, and attributes
Ibis to Pelinanlsm.
A FARMWORKER writes: "Thanks to
Pelmanism. I am feeling more confident
and more alive."
A MANAGER reports an increase in sclf-
eonfljicncc, “which has brought me the
respect of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes; “I feel especially
an increase in Self-confidence, which gives
professional status.”
A TYPIST says that she has abolished
groundless fears, and now leads a much
happier life.
A CI.ERK writes that he has improved
in memory, concentration and will-power,
and that his mind is quicker and more
alert.
A DOCTOR writes that he has improved
his powers of Observation, Concentration
and Memory, and has increased his Self-
confidence.
AN INSURANCE’ CLERK writes:
“Financially 1 am over 30 per cent, better
off than before; mentally and physically I
am hundreds per cent, better off.”
A WOMAN CLERK writes: “I can con-
centrate for quite a long period without my
mind wandering. I observe. things far more
quickly, and have ever so much more con-
fidence in myself and my abilities. My
thoughts arc far more orderly.”
A TEACHER writes: “This Course has
had a remarkable effect on my physical
and mental health. What pleases me mast
is tjie certainty that I have lost my fear.
My self-confidence has returned and my
whole outlook on life seems to he recon-
structed.”
A CARPENTER says Pelmanism has
helped him both physically and mentally.
Pelmanism is scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Institute is a World-wide organisation
of 30 years' standing. Its headquarters are in London.
There are 650,000 World Pelmanists; 31,000 are in Australia and New Zealand.
A CLRWiVMAX writes: “I haw expert
enced much benefit. and wish I bad under
taken the Course earlier In life. Had I
known at (he age of 30 eertatn livings
which I know now- largely thnouph the
Pelmnn lessons 1 think t coaild have
avoided one or two painful, nervous break
downs . To summarise (and employ a
fashionable word), I think 1 have pained a
better orientation towards If.fe.”
A HANK CLERK, writes: “This Course
has enabled me to see .dearly what I want
in life and how to pet it. it, lias taken me
out of the rut. It has shown me (hat,
whatever the elnnivstancos may be. life
holds infinite possibilities of enjoyment and
improvement.”
Thousands of similar letters could be
printed did space permit.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
TO THE
PELMAN INSTITUTE.
Liege, 1930:
Diploma and Medal.
Nancy, 1932:
Diploma and Medal.
Geneva, 1933:
Diploma and Medal.
Paris, 1933;
Diploma, Gold Medal
and Cross.
In "The Efficient Mind,” you will
find a full explanation of the Pelman
Course and much interesting informa-
THE ffPKKNTMIND
W*B
OoL
TO
tion on the subject
of Mental Training.
This book will be
sent you free on
application to the
Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Write for it to-day,
and it will be in your hands by return
of post.
All correspondence is regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor
representatives.
CUT OUT OR COPY AND POST TO-DAY
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
JOS
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Piease post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
►
\P.
tv
$>
ftV'
►V «* t&ttS
v>
o
0
e
e
A*
&* ..-•’ .•
..•••' ..•••■,4<5
..•* x <\c V vV ° r
••■ ,^ sc i S 6l
••• <$ '°^A> e ‘


Pull ... is the secret of
success in O'Brien advertising.
It draws more trade at the
lowest possible cost.
This pull . . . puts new life
into old products and
energises to the utmost the
selling possibilities of new
ones.
Such pull ... is individual
from the original idea to the
completed campaign. It is
the vital spark in modern
advertising.
\ • -v ■ r . 4 a
an
I
■ • . 'y\ - -c X
O'BRIEN HOUSE,
YOUHO STREET,
SYDNEY.
BVW 1501
pi
.
(3 lines)
' -"H:,
TEMPLE COURT,
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE*
Central 59
(2 lines) - \ ",
• . ■>> >'•«/*
>fe lw!
i'™i>
The O'Brien system of
approach to advertising
campaigns always operates
from the client's angle, by
plotting the greatest sales
volume per pound of ad-
vertising money spent.
O'Brien advertising problems
are considered by and
reconstructed from the group
ideas of highly qualified
executives.
Working details are
systematically organised and
carried through with the
most scrupulous care, thus
ensuring frictionless operation
and maximum efficiency at
every stage.
This care and consideration
on behalf of clients is the
result of twenty-five years of
alert, practical experience
and establishes a new
standard of service that is
veritably an assurance of
universal, lasting satisfaction.
