

i
p }
"...
m
i kr..
if <*<
2*
--'■
u
-'.
>
111
-g?a..^-.-^ l __r
*£?
ii
Tri
!
1 1 '*- Vv •
'i :
►rra
ngUETB
l ’ 3 Ek
iRP
if 2 *
A
V.
A SA
a? -
fi .
GLAMIS CASTLE, .
(Forfarshire)
"Where the ; grim grey tmeets of Glamis
Keep their watch above Strathmore
In response to many requests, Dewar's
have ordered tor their patrons a supply
of etching reproductions of this picture
on heavy Esparto, measuring 12 x 10
inches, and free of all advertising matter
whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name
and address to John Dewar & Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne or Sydney.
N what stirring events have the lofty towers of
Glamis looked down in the course of centuries. A
Scottish sovereign, mortally wounded by a traitor’s steel,
who staggers into the castle to die. Macbeth, the usurper
whose hands were later stained with the blood of his King.
A prince who fought a futile battle for his rightful home.
And - in our own time - another prince who claimed a
bride from Glamis. History is written in the vale of
Strathmore ... not many miles from the home of Dewar’s,
the whisky with a heritage that is held most precious.
D E WAR’S
"24 SCOTCH WHISKY
THE SPIRIT OF OLD SCOTLAND
The Bulletin
Secession by Instalments
Vol. 56.—N0. 2896.
Wednesday, August 14, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Mew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Red Page
IS THIS
ENGLAND?
Are the pictures
of the English
social scene pro-
vided by writers
of English best-
u i , sellers Aldous
Huxley, the Waughs, Eric Linklater and
their imitators; —libels on a fairly virtuous
race. Or has human nature changed?
Dr were the novelists of the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries blind to the
truth about their contemporaries, or
afraid to tell it? On the showing of
many moderns, English people of all
classes are not only indifferent to sexual
restraints (a phase that has often recurred
in their island’s story) and to religion ;
they are no longer kind and normal as
so many are in the novels of Richardson
and Smollett, Dickens, Thackeray and
Meredith. There are plenty of illicit Jove
aflaiis in the works of these old writers,
but no girl parts casually with her virtue]
and no women and few men are cynically
promiscuous. Fantastics swarm, but
they are human and likeable on the
whole.
Mayfair
An outstanding
and almost uni-
. versa! peculiarity
ol the aristocrat of modern fiction is flinty
resistance to the softer emotions. His
passions have been deodorised of both
sentiment and jealousy. “As a writer of
stories,” says the dust-jacket of Back
C hat (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), “Barbara
Back is as smart as the society she
writes about." It may be true also that
she can see through “those casual and
inconsequential airs beneath which May-
fair seeks to hide its dramas and its
comedies.” It is odd, though, that the
things she sees were not seen by any-
body who wrote of English society
before Michael Arlen.
Trevor Rice has two mistresses—Ann
Manners for London, Monica Carlton
for the country. Also a mythical wife.
When he wants to stay with Lady Carlton
he tells Ann that his wife is ill in the
country ; when he wants to get back to
London he tells Monica that his wife is
ill there. Sir Charles Carlton is pheno-
menally complaisant. He greets his
rival: “1 hope you will forgive me, old
boy, but I’m just off for a week-end’s
fishing. The mayfly is up and I wouldn’t
miss it for the world. Look after my
little wife for me." One night Ann and
Monica meet and learn the truth. Is
there an emotional scene? Not at all.
The ladies go off to dine together in
high spirits, and compose and jointly
sign a bantering note to their betrayer;
“How is your wife?”
Upper
Middle Class
The hero of
W. F. Casey’s
Private Life of a
Successful Man
(Dent; 7s. 6d.)
moves in a less
exalted sphere. He has some attributes
of the late Lord Northcliffe. The way-
ward lock of hair, the Napoleon com-
plex, the loyal brothers, the adored Irish
mother whom he goes to for advice.
Margrove. A bull-necked, thickly-built
but swiftly-moving man of just under middle
height Margrove was always in a
hurry. Do it now. Don’t waste time.
Quick. Quick.
He is one of those who have enabled
the lower middle classes to ape the rich
the originator of Homes, Ltd., Epicure
Restaurants, Ltd., Public Schools Kit,
Ltd., and many more.
Public Schools Kit, Ltd., gives the hus-
band clothes that resemble those of those
mythical beings the ‘*club man” and the
”man about town.” In the evening the
small man and his wife can come into the
West End, she in an evening frock by De
Luxe, Ltd., he in a dinner-jacket by Public
Schools, Ltd., and they can imitate the
ways of Claridge’s and the Berkeley at
one ot the Epicure Restaurants with a five-
course dinner, a bowing • matire d'hotel,
and a jazz band.
All this is in a familiar tradition ; the
English are snobs inasmuch as, unlike
the French, they have always been
socially dynamic. The smallgoodsman
of to-day may be a peer in 20 years’
time, but he won’t become one unless
he is a successful social climber as well
as a successful businessman.
Mud less traditional is the sex life
of Margrove’s wife Adela. He is re-
pugnant to her physically, and after
humiliating rebuffs he turns to others.
They have been married nine years
when she goes to Venice with a party
which includes an “easy, elegant young
man.” Harold “saw that Adela was
hungry for emotion.” He “waited
patiently and warily,” then one night he
struck.
„ ,“h’s very queer, my dear,” he said,
that you should always behave like one
ol those mean, miserable, unsporting
females who provoke men and then bolt.”
Adela felt as if he had sharply slapped
her face.
And was forthwith seduced. It no doubt
happens like that as often as not, but
it never did in the novels of the roman-
tics—perhaps because the romantics
didn’t know what was going on around
them, perhaps because they didn’t think
such trivial 1 oik worth writing about.
Villagers
Jobber Skald,
by John Cowper
Powys (The
Bodley Head ; Bs. 6d.), stands in a dif-
ferent category from either of the fore-
going. It is literature. Few men living
are so completely articulate as this writei
or so much at ease in dealing with ever>
aspect of English village life. Though
Sea-Sands, where the action takes place
is a town of some size,' the inhabitants
are essentially villagers ; primitives who
bear a close family resemblance to the
people in A Glastonbury Romance.
They differ from the country folk of
Hardy as widely as fashionable Lon-
doners of modern fiction differ from the
Londoners of Thackeray, and in the
same degree. Judged by.the standards
of past generations they are degenerates.
Jobber Skald (“His big, hooked nose,
massive chin and corrugated brow had
something about them that resembled
those accidental features that people in
a mountainous country come to detect
in the lineaments of some jagged
eminence”) earns his living with a motor-
boat. He is crazily set on murdering
the local brewer, Dogberry Cattistock,
plutocrat, miser and lecher. To this
end Skald carries a large stone in his
pocket; he means to destroy himself
after braining the object of his hatred.
Magnus Muir (“a hypochondriacal tutor
ol backward little boys”) is the imme-
morial frustrate. He has persuaded Curly
Wix to become engaged to him, but she
has been seduced by Cattistock’s nephew
Sip Ballard. Her lover remains in her
thoughts even while poor Muir is caress-
ing her. “It might have been worse.
He s a real gentleman in the way he
touches a girl.... But, oh. Sip, oh, Sip!
If it were you, my sweet love.” She
eventually bolts with Cattistock. There
is that absence of class distinctions
which is often found in remote villages.
Jerry Cobbold, a clown, is at the house of
Doctor Oirodel, an abortionist, while
Curly and Sip are there.
n '? l .^ e marriage coming off,
Curly?” inquired the doctor with a leer
• 1 m not being nasty, Jerry,” he added.
1m asking the young lady for informa-
tion.
Curly got up from her lover's knee
and moved off without answering him to
one ot the great melancholy gilt mirrors
that hung about the room.
“ r j}. d,< K’ she thought, “before I’ll let
Dr. Oirodel meddle with me again.”
Ihe clown’s brother Sylvanus (“with a
weak-minded mouth, like a prehistoric
hare going about helplessly over the sur-
iace ot the earth”) is a menace to chil-
dren. He tells Muir that they are going
to lock him up.
“Jerry has done his best, but all he’ll
be able to do will be to have me sent to
Brush s place where my father was
before he died, and where -Edward Loder
wen .t- Lots ol us Sea-Sands people end
at Brush s. Hardly an old family round
here but has someone there,”
The children—Peg, Daisy, Zed—are
neurotics, erotics, half-wits.
And tlitre are no moral characters;
none at all. Jerry, the clown, likes
Oirodel tor his “complete freedom from
ordinary human decency, dignity, pro-
priety, seemliness, pride, honor and self-
respect,” and it is to the doctor alone
that Jerry reveals the secret of his charac-
ter, a “loathing for humanity even deeper
than that of Mr. Wichit, the fish-
monger ol St. David’s-street, a monstrous
Rabelaisian gusto tor the grossest
animalities, excesses, lapses and shames
of his fellows.” Cattistock swims out
after a wreck to rescue something cling-
ing to a barrel that resembles a human
form. But it is bogus heroism designed
to impress the onlookers.
Never was a more strategic nor a more
searching eye cast about for a move this
way and that in the march of events than
was turned that night upon the crowd
and upon the waves and upon the lifeboat
and upon the beach and upon the sight-
seers from the town by the sharp-chinned
president of "Cattistock and Grimstone.”
If there is a sympathetic character it is
Perdita —companion to Jerry’s appalling
wife- whom Jobber Skald, almost as an
afterthought, spends the night with at
‘The Head.” However, Perdita’s mother
was Belgian.
No more horrible gallery of portraits
has figured in an English novel. But
the question arises again: Is this Eng-
land?
RED PAGE .
Australia’s
First
Impressionist
Painter
It is now
nearly four years
since Tom
Roberts died. He
was a great
person to the
Australian
painters of the
’eighties and
nineties; a great legend to their suc-
cessors. R. H. Croll, in Tom Roberts,
Father of Australian Landscape Painting
(Robertson and Mullens; 215.), has
gathered together reminiscences from
various sources of the man who “put
life into art here as no one else ever
did,’’ to borrow J. S. MacDonald's epi-
taph. The book would have made easier
reading had it been written by one of
Roberts’s intimates; as it is, it strays
backwards and forwards over Roberts's
career and presents the views and recol-
lections of a multitude of his admirers.
The viewpoint shifts continually, and it
is difficult to find perspective in the pic-
ture. Still it does help to explain how
the founder of the “Heidelburg school,”
opposing a mass of prejudice and mis-
understanding, was able to propagate his
principles and to watch the growing-up
of those principles into honored tradi-
tions.
English by birth, Roberts dearly loved
the land of his adoption. That affection
breathes in such pictures as “The Break-
away,” “Shearing the Rams” and “The
Golden Fleece.” They are authentic,
and they represent the essence of Aus-
ti alia as no alien brush could portray it
To this new land Roberts, in the earh
’eighties (he had then been an Australian
lor 14 years), brought a gospel he had
picked up while touring in Spain—the
dictum ol the European master Gerome:
When you draw, form is the important
thing ; but in painting the first thing to
look for is the general impression of
color.” Gerome enjoined his pupils to
make each day a color-sketch direct
from nature. Ihe advice seemed sound
to Roberts after he had seen the bril-
liantly clever and effective work of some
of Gerome’s pupils, and for the rest of
a long life he put it in the forefront. Of
course, he had to compromise. None of
the pictures that made his reputation
was done in a single sitting. As he
often told impatient sitters for portraits,
he was “no lightning artist.” But he
became an adept at capturing evanescent
color impressions, and his insistence on
truth in color impressed others—among
them Conder, Fred McCubbin, Louis
Abrahams and Arthur Streeton—with the
realisation that this was the root of the
matter.
A shrewd as well as a kindly soul was
Roberts in his judgment of character,
and this quality recompensed him, per-
haps, lor a lack of commercial instinct.
He had a habit, after sketching a sitter,
ol entering in his diary such observa-
tions as these;
Lord Hopctoun, 42; 6ft.; lOst. 101 b.;
Scotland. He told me Scotch stories so
well that I had to ask him to stop.
Doesn’t enjoy sitting, but would rather do
that than go to a Liedertafel concert.
Archbishop Carr, 63; sft. B+in.; 16st.;
born Ireland. A man you could tell any-
thing to -except something trumpery.
When Roberts was painting Barton he
decided that the only way to keep the
P. !Vl. awake was to make a remark in
tavor ol Freetrade. The experiment pro-
duced such a tirade that Roberts had to
point out that if his work was to go on
argument must cease. “Well, Tom”
snapped Toby, “I'll only say one thing
more. England and Turkey are the only
Freetrade countries in the world. D'you
think the rest are all damn fools? Get
on with your work.”
Dave Souter gives testimony as to
Roberts s standing among his fellow-
artists in the ’nineties: “He told us
things and we never questioned them,
lorn Roberts said so’ was enough. We
looked at his work with wonder and
admiration, seeing in it the reflex of the
man ; all there, smart, clever, most of
the goods in the shop window and all
priced high?’ But the letters Streeton
wrote to his old friend better express
not only the deference but the affection
Roberts inspired.
A. D. W.
A Little-known
“Munchausen”
In the 1870’s
there was such
interest in New
Guinea that pub-
lic demand in-
duced a supply of
informative books, a copy of one of
which. Wanderings in the Interior of New
Guinea, by Captain J. A. Lawson, is in
the Mitchell Library.
According to his own “veracious” re-
port, Captain Lawson left Sydney on
May 24, 1872. on the ship Nautilus, 220
tons, master Captain Dobbs. On June
22 he landed at Houtree, a village of 263
inhabitants (notice the accuracy of the
scientific observer) on the north side
of Torres Strait. It is to be regretted
that the Sydney harbor authorities seem
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation. “THE SENIOR STORE.
AMTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone: M 2401, Day or Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: 80x2712C, G.P.O.
Finishes Saturday at 12.30 p.m.
Final Bargains
in Warm
Outerwear
'
> ■:
LMm
m
■«
17/6 Sweaters
A very low price for
a Coat Sweater that
will make you feel
comfortable. It is of
12'6
all Wool in an extra-warm weight. Drop-
stitch knit in plain shades of Brown,
Grey, Heather or Marl effects. V-neck.
Sizes 36- to 42-inch chest. Price, 17/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 12/6
trs*
21/- Pullovers
Only 350 left and the
whole lot are genuinely
reduced 6/-. Fancy
Pullovers and Cardigans
15 7 -
made of double-knit pure Merino yarn.
Soft. warm quality in new and attractive
designs. Pullovers in sizes 34- to 40-inch
chest. Cardigans in sizes 36- to 42-inch
chest. Price, each 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 15/-
ANTHONY HORDERN
& Sons, Ltd., Sydney
Phone: M 2401, Postal Address:
Day or Night Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
sn.
9 7 6 Brit. Poplin
<;OLF SHIRTS
6 7 6
Men's British Poplin Golf Shirts
made in our own workrooms.
They are quality Shirts with two
collars, double cuffs and V-
cased fronts. Blue, Grey or Fawn
stripes. Sizes to 18-inch
neck. Price, each 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 6/6
6 7 6 Brit. Weave
WORK SHIRTS
Men come back for these Shirts
time and again because they give
such serviceable wear. Made in
our own workrooms of British
Galatea weave. Butcher Blue
with White stripes, they are
finished with collar and pocket
attached. Made in generous pro-
portions. Sizes I4£- to 19-inch
neck. Price, each 6/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 5/-
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid to
all seaports in the Commonwealth
and railway stations in N.S.W.
:m* \ i
3 Aa :
-
IT-.'
’tl
“*—Hwtyw
■■
. ;, A
M
’
v .•<--. <5
• Pyjamas
Order early because there is
only a limited quantity at this
genuine saving of 6/-, Men's
Ceylon Flannel Pyjamas giv-
ing warmth without weight.
Soft finish. Made in our own
workrooms. » Popular stripe
effects. Price, suit . . 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, suit 15/-
• Pyjamas
Men’s extra-warm Pyjamas
made of Horrocks’ double-
warp twill Flannelette in our
own workrooms. Cut in full
and generous proportions, they
are in small, medium and out-
sizes. New stripe effects.
Price, suit 12/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, suit 11/6
• Underwear
Men’s ' Natural Wool and
Cotton Underwear. Under-
shirts have short sleeves or
underpants to ankle. Extra-
warm weight. Best finish
with flat lock seams. Full
fitting garments in sizes 34-
to 44-inch chest or waist.
Price 10/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 6/6
• Dress Gown
Save 10/- on a Dressing
Gown! Made of Flannel in a
Light Grey toning. Dark Grey
collar and cuffs, also pocket.
Medium weight with a soft,
warm finish. Wool girdle and
tassel to match. All sizes.
Price, each 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, each 15/-
\
.7


About Your Indigestion..
*
<?•
m
X 1
*
V
V 1
INTESTINES
A
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
■ ■■■ stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
"■ The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
.. outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur w-ith agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common-
sense way and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt s Antacid Powde'
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt's Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITTS ANTACID POWDER
151=.1~2/6
not to have recorded either the Nautilus
or her departure from our shores ; per-
haps the gallant Dobbs acted here as he
did later when he “slipped slyly out of
the bay [i.e., at Houtree].... and went
off without paying for the cargo” which
had been entrusted to him by the
Houtreans—“an action,” says Lawson
feelingly, “of the meanest sort.” It is
puzzling also to learn that the position
of Houtree, indicated exactly by Captain
Lawson, is in the sea about one mile
from the west end of Bristow Island, six
miles from the low coast of New Guinea,
touching a locality marked in the Ad-
miralty charts “shallow flats” and “heavy
rollers.”
Lawson’s object was to cross New
Guinea from south to north. He left
Houtree accompanied by three servants
—Australian aborigines—and two native
guides who spoke not only English but
had a smattering also of French, Dutch
and Portuguese in addition to several
Malayan dialects. For some seven
months the intrepid explorer jour-
neyed through New Guinea to within
30 miles of the north coast, when an
unfortunate fight with a large force of
natives (armed with firearms) determined
him to return. Three of his companions
were dead, and all equipment was lost.
It was a wonderful journey, though the
observant Lawson does not appear to
have come across either the river Fly or
its estuary, which it might be thought
would stand right in his track. Law-
son met with daisies as large as sun-
flowers, beetles sjin. long by Sin. broad
with horns 2in. long, butterflies with
wings 12in. across and other wonders.
It was no joke meeting such things, par-
ticularly in a temperature of 112 deg. in
the shade. What a relief must have been
that storm on August 2, when the ther-
mometer dropped fifty degrees! When,
again, your party meets the noxious
“yaghi,” or trapdoor spider, 13in. across,
or is pelted by monkeys with nuts from
the “wallah”-trees, you begin to realise
that exploring is not exactly a week-end
stroll. In such a recital, the incident of
being tossed 30ft. by a buffalo, which in
dying falls upon its victim with “crushing
weight,” from which misadventure a day’s
rest and the application of some leeches
quickly restored Captain Lawson, makes
us appreciate forcibly the sterling calibre
of our hero.
It is quite in character that he dis-
covers the highest mountain in the world
—named by him Mount Hercules—tower-
ing 32,783 ft. above sea-level or about
30.000 ft. above the surrounding country.
Of course Lawson must climb it, and it
is doubtful if the annals of mountaineer-
ing contain a parallel feat—the success-
ful ascent and descent to a height of
25,000 ft. of a completely unknown and
snow-clad mountain in 15 hours.
From Houtree Lawson embarked on
a fortunately encountered but rather im-
probable Chinese junk, and sailed to
Banda, whence he returned to Europe
via Singapore and Calcutta. As one
critic admiringly concludes: “Few trav-
ellers have escaped, as he did, out of the
very jaws of a moolah, a beast the exis-
tence of which many zoologists have
doubted and still doubt.”
Alas for Captain Lawson, the publi-
cation of his book brought it to the
notice of such experts as Captain (after-
wards Admiral) Moresby, and under
stress of expert criticism so many “in-
accuracies.” shall we call them, were
pointed out that the publishers withdrew
the book from publication.
CECILL W. SALTER.
The New
King Arthur
Philip Lindsay,
in The Little
Wench (Ivor
Nicholson and
Watson ; 7s. 6d.),
continues the task
he has imposed upon himself since
he left Australia that of putting
history and legend on the right track.
He seems rather vague as to why he has
written this at times boring volume,
which produces an entirely new concep-
tion of Round Table heroes—an Arthur
whom Nennius would not know, a
colorless diplomatist .rather than the sol-
dier of the legend, and a cuckold into
the bargain. Lancelot is a common wife-
stealcr with a dash of Jack the Giant-
killer, Guinevere a fat temptress, and
the rest of the story is well salted with
naked bodies, plump females, gentlemen
who expire with clutching fingers and
swords protruding from their abdomens,
and ladies who seem to have thoroughly
learned the art of being nakedly naughty
without getting into serious trouble.
Lindsay hopes “it will drive a few
readers back to the Morte d’Arthur” It
is a worthy aspiration. The Arthur
legend is not easily susceptible to modern
treatment. The sophisticated touch spoils
it, and Malory’s mind, Malory’s prose
and Malory’s atmosphere were entirely
suited to his subject, with which he was
very much in love. Lindsay, however,
has merely made a marriage of con-
venience with tradition, and, though, no
doubt, it will bring him a reasonable
dowry, the rest is obviously misunder-
standing, and one feels towards the end
of the tale that he is so weary of the
whole business that he would gladly give
back the ring.
EL V.
Discurse
Prose, like every-
thing else, is in the
melting-pot. Why
shouldn’t it be? The world is still alive,
and man’s hands a.re more restless than
ever. Habitudes of grammar, syntax,
rhythm and modulation sink easily into
obsolescence as new modes are sluiced
over old ones and given their brittle
vogue before being flung into the dis-
card.
Tradition is change. The process, old
as history, is given an increasing empha-
sis of speed; that is all. It means,
though, that the individual man from
this time on must rebuild the structure
of his experience many times in one life-
span if he wishes to go on enjoying life.
He will come to expect, among other
things, a continuous shifting distortion
and unpredictable difference in contem-
porary prose, just as we expect these
qualities in contemporary music and
painting. Or do we? Most of us, at
any rate, write as if Matthew Arnold
was still a contemporary. An elegant
and senescent style is this stock-in-trade
of leader-writers, professors of literature,
art critics, gentlemen who sign them-
selves “Pro Bono Pub.” and makers of
books in general about nothing in par-
ticular. A style orotund and dignified
that will set you fuming or lull you to
sleep according to your politics. English.
I suppose you would call it.
English or not, they do at any rate
order these things differently in America,
where most everybody, from sophomore
to sopherim, is the addict of some syn-
thetic verbal abracadabra ; or will poke
a nasty joyce-steined finger into places
that remind one’s nose of the celebrated
crypt the cat crept into. Wat Pater
(another petit maitre), who didn't even
know there were such dreadful things as
smells, would certainly have been a cot-
case after three sniffs —poor Pater, afraid
and all as he was to read even R.L.S.,
as perhaps you’ll remember!
And now here’s Bonamy Dobree,
whose delightful name sounds like some-
thing out of Galsworthy. Dobree has
recently published a book on Modern
Prose Style (Clarendon Press) in which
there is a chapter with the enticing head-
ing “The New Way of Writing," in
which chapter there is the following
passage': “We know, as once we did not
know, that our emotions vary with the
language we use in describing them ; the
spirit of an age is not only reflected in
its prose, it is to some extent conditioned
by it. This, however, is an issue which
would take us too far outside the bounds
of our subject; nor am 1 qualified to
pursue it.”
This helpless throwing up of depre-
cating academic hands on the brink of
what looks like an abyss but may after
all prove nothing but a little velvety
puddle—how characteristic that is of the
man who has never tried jumping over
puddles, let alone flying across abysms!
Bonamy Dobree is known by now to
the whole literate English - speaking
world —and known somewhat at least in
France —as prose-fancier, purveyor of
critical valuations in literature, colleague
of the industrious (if not illustrious)
Herbert Read, familiar contributor to a
whole rackful of awe-inspiring journals,
and I don’t know what else. His creden-
tials would seem, in fact, to be quite top-
hole. What better guide could you wish
along the outcropped and uncharted
littoral of contemporary experimental
prose? Yet, faced with a little dubiety
as to these emergent directions, he is
afraid, even to the extent of a couple of
paragraphs or so, of becoming bushed ;
and is “not qualified,” if you wish to
know, to exercise his lungs with a brisk
coo-ee or two, either on his own or any-
body else’s behalf. You must make your
own reconnaissance.
-This is distinctly not the sort of thing
one expects in a guide, whose business,
it was understood, was to get us through
the wire out into No Man’s Land, throw
up a few flares, and shepherd us back
again. No. But what do we get? Turn-
ing his back on an extraordinarily
interesting question, as he does in the
passage quoted, Dobree sits down and
places a quotation from Sir Thomas
Browne alongside of one from William
James. We are invited to walk up and
analyse (a la Saintsbury) the prose
rhythm of the two samples. As a result
of which experiment we find (everybody
being by this time very matey and agree-
able) that the essential difference between
the prose of the seventeenth century and
that of to-day is merely that the earlier
mode was more heavily rhythmed than
ours.
In short, we are asked to scan the
prosody, weigh the syntax, shake out
the rhythm, pick up the punctuation, sip
the essence, admire the effect and ask no
questions. So what we really get is
another primer. But does anybody want
to argue that a book on modern prose
by, say, Wyndham Lewis couldn’t com-
pete (for interest, of course, not sales!)
with the thriller of the year?
A. L.
A Satchel of Books
Casual Slaughters, by James Quince
(Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). If
this English thriller has a weak point it is
at the end, where the reader is asked to
believe that a village rector and Paro-
chial Church Council conspired to shield
a member who—with the best of inten-
tions—broke the law. Casual Slaughters
isn’t a fantasy, though it has plenty of
humor; the murderer is an extremely
credible menace to society. Neither is
it a brain-teaser; just a plain talc of
village life by one who knows his subject
and can write.
The Mistletoe Child, by Herbert
Palmer (Dent ; 10s. 6d. net). An auto-
biography, chiefly of this poet’s child-
hood—a childhood evidently enormously
interesting to the one who lived it, but
tedious as reading. For example, Mr,
Palmer was such a violent-tempered little
boy that at the age of nine it required
three people to carry him up to bed, two
holding a leg each and another his arms.
What docs one put in brackets after that
sort of thing— {Hear, hear!) or {Loud
laughter /)? The only stuff of any
general interest in the book is the chap-
ter at the end, in which the author grows
suddenly out of his singularly uninterest-
ing childhood and comes into contact
with people like the two Roberts, Graves
and Bridges.
No sort of book is better calculated
to annoy a newspaperman than one that
bestows advice upon journalistic tyros.
Writing for a Living, by Murray Tonkin
(Robertson and Mullens; Is. 6d.), is no
exception to the rule. He advises inter-
viewers to make the interviewee sign
their notes. This is supposed to safe-
guard the interviewer against charges of
inaccuracy. It wouldn’t. No intelligent
public man would sign a mass of Gregg
or Pitman hieroglyphics, and if he did
it would prove nothing. The first rule
of interviewing when this commentator
was at the game was never to produce a
notebook unless the interviewee was the
sort that expects it. Furthermore, Mr.
Tonkin advises freelances to sell “society
and theatrical gossip” to The Bulletin.
which, he assures them, relies on outside
sources for this sort of stuff. It doesn’t
use gossip at all ; the law of libel is one
reason. However, the section of Mr.
Tonkin’s work which deals with the
short story is excellent, and his set of
brief excerpts is intelligently chosen.
The Education of the Adolescent in
Australia (Melb. Uni. Press ; 10s.). Eleven
Masters of Arts, members of the Council
for Educational Research, deal with
various aspects of secondary education
in this continent. Most interesting chap-
ters to the layman uninterested in the
minutiae of instructional policy are those
on “Characteristics of Adolescence,” by
Dr. Lovell, and on “The Training of
Teachers,” by Alexander Mackie. Both
authorities are agreed that the teacher of
the adolescent should have some under-
standing of the mental and physical
changes taking place in their pupils—a
matter in which many great pedagogues
of the past were extraordinarily wise, but
in which many of the lesser fry were ex-
tremely ignorant. J. A. Seitz sets out
the first object of post-primary instruc-
tion: “To give all pupils the minimum
knowledge necessary for every good citi-
zen and to develop the main common
interests—health, the mother tongue, the
world as the source of supply of his food
and clothing, the achievements of science
in harnessing Nature for the service of
mankind, appreciation of the beautiful
in Nature, music, literature and art, and
development of a sound code of ethics.”


V
m
r A
fiTr / A
/*£>
/ ~\
f
i S* v- J
■V
5^
(\\
£
?
:*
*
f.
ri
_;— l
>
sfl
C
o>
K
£
er
He said to me :My cold needs doctoring .. /
I said to him : The best doctrine for a cold is—JOHNNIE IVALKERI
In its bouquet is the first hint of the special
qualities in Johnnie Walker. A promise more than
met when you sip this grand whisky. Leisured
age and choughtful blending are the two material
reasons for the exceptional excellence of Johnnie
Walker. It is an excellence the whole world
agrees, upon . . .
Johnnie
MU
tm
. af
m
Walker
Born 1820
Still going Strong !
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.


' y/a
c
FAMOUS
PORT
CL T c.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2896.
August 14, 1935.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
“How long must a fellow wait in this joint?”
“Be patient, signor, and you shall be served.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place. Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Penh.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: I. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“TO BE CHARGED UP.”
A swarm of politicians and other “Crown employees”
heard London calling this silver-jubilee year, and the
bills are beginning to arrive. The two Swanland
secessionists were first in with theirs—a travelling
allowance of £1022 (plus Assemblyman’s pay) for
Mr. MacCallum Smith, who is reputed one of the
wealthiest men in Westralia; another £1022 for Mr.
Watson, and “remuneration, £1709,” besides. And
there may be more to come, though “the expenditure
on the delegation” (counsel’s fees brought it up to
£5234) “is believed to be complete.” Nearly four
thousand pounds for two bores from Perth, when
Westralia had in London an Agent-General with
separatist sympathies (Mr. Colebatch) who is an
incomparably better writer and speaker than either!
We may judge from this brazen ramp what the
Lyons embassy will cost. In addition to the Prime
Minister there were Ministers Gullett and Thorby
and Attorney-General Menzies (though presumably
his expenses did not begin until after argument had
ceased in the Privy Council case for which he went
abroad as a private practitioner); and Mr. Stewart,
who is called Director of Re-employment or some-
thing, joined the party after a visit to Geneva, where
he gave a benevolent, if somewhat fatuous, blessing
to a 40-hour week. All the gentlemen took private
secretaries, and one had his typist as well, and along
with them went advisers from the Customs, the Com-
merce Department, the Queensland Agricultural
Department and what not. And they all, or
nearly all, put up at perhaps the most expensive hotel
in London, where even business was transacted in the
grand manner, though space, acres of it, was available
free at Australia House.
Leaving out salaries and “higher-duties allow-
ances” (“higher-duties allowances” are what substitutes
get when their departmental superiors go away, and in
the Commonwealth service alone they amount to
£50,000 or £60,000 a year), and such of Mr. Lyons’s
expenses as were paid by the British Government, it
is doubtful whether £25,000 will cover the cost. And
Australia is expected to pay with a thankful heart
because 7300 tons or so has been added to the British
beef-import quota. Its “Crown employees” could eat
as much in two months.
Other pilgrims were the Premiers of South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania. Their silver-jubilee bills were
also met by the Old Man, but they indulged in
extensive peregrinations besides, and one gendeman
momentarily restored the gaiety of Dublin, somewhat
eclipsed of late years, by advising Fianna Fail and
the United Irelanders and the Green Shirts and the
Blue Shirts to be good boys and settle their differ-
ences after the happy fashion of Australian politicians.
The other tripper boisterously announced that he had
been at pains to learn “the truth about Ireland and
Russia,” and proposed to get it off his chest as soon
as he returned ; that accomplished, he would never
rest until he had “done something towards taking
the control of credit from the predatory banks.”
There were others, of course. For example, Mr.
T. J. Hartigan, the N. S. Wales Commissioner of
Railways, making his second overseas tour in five
years or so, was reported in one London paper to
have arrived in the train of his daughter, a charming
tennis-player:
Miss Hartigan’s father and mother and sister have
come over with her. Unlike many other girls, Joan
says she can play better when her relations are near.
Very interesting, but apt to convey a false
impression, since Mr. Hartigan, who is an expert
accountant, went abroad to buy—or, at least,
look at —streamlined and air-cooled trains and
Diesel-engined caravans. During two full years of
his management, in spite of punitive laws and regu-
lations designed to stifle commercial motor transport,
the railways were run at a loss of £5,388,000, and the
Auditor-General suggests that the first year’s loss was
understated. It is anticipated that before Mr. Harti-
gan returns he will meet his fellow-Commissioner,
Mr. Maddocks (also on his second overseas tour in
five years or so), who, trained as a lawyer, is going
to buy (or look at) trolley-buses and double-decker
buses, and perhaps learn something more about the
art of strangling motor competition. The great new
12-storey structure in York-street, Sydney, which was
begun without the trifling formality of consulting
Parliament, will be ready to house Mr. Hartigan
and “more than 1000 railway officers” when he steps
off the homeward-bound steamer. Mr. Maddocks’s
own particular monument to the glory of Transport
Commissioners (it is to cost £100,000) may also be
ready for occupation when he returns.
But the list is not yet exhausted. It includes
Mr. McKenna, the Queensland Director for Educa-
tion, and Mr. Edwards, his chief inspector of schools,
and Mr. Brooks, Director of Education in Tasmania,
and Mr. Hicks, Assistant Under-Secretary for Educa-
tion in N. S. Wales—though “Mr. Hicks returned
from a 12 months’ tour in the early part of this
year.” Mr. Alanson, secretary to the Federated
State-school Teachers, is positive that "the results
of all these investigations and consequent movements”
will be “valuable,” though he admits that they will be
“largely restricted to the States represented”—surely
another argument for placing education, now bossed
by six political Ministers, under Commonwealth
control.
The fact is that not one in 20 of these lavish
trips is now warranted. Any politician and any public
servant can now converse by telephone (publicly
owned) with any overseas authority they wish to con-
sult. Television may not yet be at their service, but
motion-photography is, and through its agency they
can get a perfect idea of what any gadget they are
interested in looks like and how it works. For
precise information there are technical publications,
hundreds of them, which have almost reached perfec-
tion ; and, comparatively slow as it yet is, the air
mail will carry any communication they want to
make to Britain and return with a reply well within
a month. Beam wireless, the radio, the gramophone
and the illustrated newspaper are also at their disposal.
Yes, 95 per cent, of this deadhead tripping is just
vulgar swank, and the cost is an impudent imposition
on an overburdened people.
SECESSION BY INSTALMENTS.
After the war the State-Rights spirit nowhere
stronger than in Freetrade, anti-Victorian Sydney-
waned for a time. The A.I.F. had made Australia
realise its nationhood. As memories of common sacri-
fices grew dim, and as Diggers died, or came to realise
that ideals they had fought for were unattainable,
inter-State jealousies and selfishnesses began to get
their heads up again. The movement was accelerated
by the disintegration of Federal Labor, a party that
had put up a great fight for nationalism before the
war, by the rise of aggressive State politicians and the
depression.
In recent years blow after blow has been aimed
by State Governments at Commonwealth supremacy;
and, though in the S. Australian dried-fruits case
the Privy Council said that this particular attempt
to regulate inter-State sales was wrong, it has never
been certain, despite Section 92 of the Constitution,
that other attempts on similar lines might not be suc-
cessful. The Privy Council is now considering whether
or not the Commonwealth can pass valid supple-
mentary legislation with the object, virtually, of
nullifying the law which says that trade and com-
merce between the States “shall be absolutely free.”
The Lyons Government is amenable to State influ-
ences —more so than any other Government that
Australia has had since George Reid's day. If the
Privy Council decision goes the way the Slate Righters
desire there is every likelihood that it will hasten, in
a recent phrase of Mr. Stevens, “to supplement
marketing legislation by restricting sales of commodi-
ties inter-State.”
The question arises. Does Australia as a nation
want these pools, boards and commissions, designed
to bring grist to sectional mills? One of their effects
is to add to the cost of living. Another is to pile
more and more taxation on industries which arc
already crippled by taxation. Incalculable losses are
being suffered by tens of thousands owing to the
efforts of Transport Commissions to reduce the inevit-
able losses on State railways. There is nothing so
fluid as transport; the trade rhythm of the modern
'nation is wholly dependent on it, and an inefficient
transport system may lead to defeat in war. These
considerations rather than local protests led to the
abolition of toll gates, which appeared in England in
the middle of the eighteenth century. Toll gates
derived from the feudal practice of “tollaging the
villeins” —a practice which is being vigorously revived
in most States, with motorists in the role played by the
serfs of the Dark Ages.
The future of transport lies, not on railway tracks,
but on roads and in the air. Yet, because the State
railways are Government-owned, desperate attempts are
being made to save them by the revival of shockingly
tyrannical methods. Motor vehicles suspected of
being run in competition with the railways have been
expropriated in N. S. Wales and delicensed in Vic-
toria. In a single week in N. S. Wales recently the
employees of a trading company were fined over
£lOOO for the new crime of “driving motor vehicles a
greater distance than 50 miles in competition with the
railways.” Air transport has been blocked by out-
rageous tolls in N. S. Wales and by legislative action
in Westralia.
A result of these restrictions is that many Aus-
tralians are growing acutely State-conscious again.
Individuals are inconvenienced, trades suffer, Aus-
tralia is prejudiced, even imperilled, as a nation, but
State departments wax great. Government jobs increase
and State politicians enjoy an added sense of import-
ance. It seems right and natural to this new genera-
tion of State-Righters that the Commisioner for
Transport should have ordered a home for his board
in Sydney at a cost of £lOO,OOO. There is plenty ot
room for the Transport Board elsewhere —the Corn-
missioner of Railways is raising an enormous green-
faced structure on his own account —but while Gov-
ernment boards live they grow, and it is a poor one
that doesn’t need a £lOO,OOO building to itself after
it has been in existence for five years or so.
The confusion is increasing, and there is no
guarantee that the Privy Council’s next ruling in
regard to Section 92 will be more helpful than its
ruling in tfie dried-fruits case. The only certainty is
that in the grant of powers which the States made to
the Commonwealth at its establishment it was intended
that there should be inter-State freetrade with no
strings to it. The electors understood 35 years ago
that any kind of trade barriers would render a united
Australia as impossible of achievement as a united
Europe. The electors understand it still, and, despite
the proliferation of interested parties—ambitious State
politicians, employees of boards, commissions and
the like and straight-out secessionists—they would
say so now if given a chance at a referendum under
Section 128.
PEINE FORTE ET DURE.
The English were proud when they removed the
imposition of torture from their legal system, and
angry when some ignorant foreigner referred to the
punishment of peine forte et dure as “torture.” it
was an entirely different thing, the authorities pro-
tested; torture meant suffering inflicted on the prisoner
or the suspect by the thumbscrew and other ingenious
devices for jogging the memory ; peine forte et dure
simply amounted to gradually increasing weights on
his chest until he was ready to listen to reason.
As the world became more and more sentimental,
peine forte et dure went the way of the torture
chamber. The third degree took its place as a method of
persuasion. The suspect was made to stand up before
a couple of detectives and questioned until the detec-
tives grew exhausted ; then another pair would lake
up the running, until the interrogated parly tottered
on his feet; when they tired, another relay would
happen along, fresh from their breakfast. And so
the inquisitors would continue until the victim broke
down and confessed, or demonstrated by his inability
to tell anything of value that he was innocent.
This form of the third degree was practised almost
universally by police forces. The arguments against
it are familiar, but had it not been in existence it is
extremely likely th'at many dangerous criminals
would have gone unpunished and many potential
criminals been tempted to embark in desperate enter-
prises. Those in close contact with matters criminal
know full well that the vast majority of malefactors
are convicted out of their own mouths, and, had the
police not been permitted to question a suspect, the
crime rate would have risen to appalling heights.
But the criminal became more efficient. He
prepared for the third degree, rehearsed a story and
stuck to it. His body became limp after standing
without a rest for hours at a stretch, but he contrived
to keep his brain under control; and, in place of
trying to invent explanations on the spur of the
moment, he sheltered himself behind “I know nothing
about that.”
The battleship armor had been perfected, so
the shells had to be improved. American police
abandoned long-distance questioning and returned to
first principles. If the suspect didn’t “come across”
after the first few simple elementary tricks of cross-
examination, his memory received a physical spur.
He got a punch on the nose —not on the jaw, for that
may cause unconsciousness—and if he still professed
innocence he got another and another. If these did
not suffice, he was kicked with big boots. If he still
held out, a piece of stout string was tied round his
thumbs and he was suspended from the doorway.
Despite vigorous denials, the earlier third-degree
methods have been practised in parts of Australia,
with the result that worn-out suspects have confessed
to crimes—their own and their accomplices’. To
that extent the introduction of the system, repugnant
as it is to Australian sentiment, has been justified ;
there has been increased protection for life and
property. The popular belief that innocent people
confess to crimes they did not commit is all bunkum ;
nor is the admission of a prisoner, whether secured
by voluntary confession or under duress, in itself
sufficient to obtain a conviction.
But in a disquieting number of cases violence
has been charged. Not only prisoners but witnesses
for the Crown have alleged on oath that they
have been assaulted until they “came across.” The
point to consider is whether the extortion of evidence
in such a manner should be regarded as a part of the
civilised warfare which society wages against crime.
“No,” Australians would unhesitatingly reply: “meet
the cunning of the criminal with superior cunning,
and, if he increasingly resorts to scientific devices,
improve on them.” And there is one danger in
permitting torture or peine forte et dure or third-
degree methods to be resorted to.
Criminals often blame the police for having
“framed” them. Such stories are almost wholly lies.
But, with the police ready to secure evidence of guilt
by means of violence, the door is left open for the
master criminal to go unscathed, leaving the lesser
dupes to face the big sentences. Professor Moriarty.
planning his crimes in the safety of his cellar, let his
subordinates do the dirty work and face the music.
How much easier and profitable is his job when he
knows his subordinates will spill the whole story, as
they know it, when they get into the backroom ot
the detective office.
The master mind will take good care that he is
not personally known to the accomplice who collapses
under violence or that such a man does not know
the location of the stolen property. It is the othei
members of the gang who will serve the sentences,
going to gaol with a profound admiration ot
Moriarty as the "good sport” who saw they were
defended by the best brains that money could hire.
OLD ROUNDSMAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
State Parasitism.
The Postal Electricians’ Union, 150 members of which
toil in St. Peters, a Sydney Labor district, asked the
local council the other day to have the footpath in
front of their workshop repaired, saying that it was in
so bad a state that men had sometimes to take to the
road, at the risk of being run over. It was consider-
ably shocked when it received a cold refusal. The
explanation was that the council could get no rates
from the Postal Department—could not extract from
it even a contribution to footpath work outside its
own building. Yet the Postal Department com-
placently reported a “profit of £1,747,200” last year.
This parasitic feature of State socialism (or State
capitalism) in Australia has never received sufficient
attention. The Post Office is one of the very few
“public utilities” that show profits, and it shows them
only because it exacts a minimum charge of twopence
a letter, and parcel rates in proportion. In nine cases
out of ten Government-owned concerns incur heavy
losses, which the taxpayers have to meet. And whether
they make profits or losses they nearly all loaf on
the ratepayers in respect of the local services they
utilise.
The Commonwealth Bank makes contributions
equal to rates on all its buildings, but it is the one con-
spicuous exception to a rotten rule. The worst para-
site of all is the one with the hugest deficits, the N.S.W.
Railway Department. It not only refuses to pay city
rates on its Sydney properties, some of which are let
to private tenants, but cheats country councils and
shires in respect of the refreshment-rooms it carries on
in competition with local taxpayers and ratepayers.
In 1931-32, it is true, it included a whole £9 4s. in
“rates and taxes” in expenditure amounting to
£523,886, which exceeded revenue by £21,402. But not
a penny was set aside for rates in 1932-33, when a loss
of £10,761 was admitted, or in 1933-34, when a profit
of £5331 was claimed. Now keepers of city hotels,
restaurants and teashops are to have more of this
lax- and rate-free competition ; the anti-socialistic
“S. M. Herald” meekly reports that a cafeteria, “to
seat 350 persons,” is to be established at Wynyard
station.
Dunstan Carries the Baby.
After a very brief experience of running an establish-
ment Vic. Premier Dunstan finds himself financially
embarrassed.
Not only has he to honor his promises to the
workless, but he has found queues of unexpected
beggars on his doorstep —deserving beggars, too.
Hospitals can’t pay their way ; asylums have patients
sleeping on the floor; the University, schools and
public libraries are in need, and the museums threaten
to shut their doors for lack of funds to keep them in
repair and pay their staffs. And there are many
incomplete public works, all eating up interest.
Had he been tricked into the marriage, Mr.
Dunstan might have a genuine kick at having to
father the political child of somebody else, but he
was not. He became the bridegroom of an indigent
widow well knowing that he had to maintain her
infant, and now he doesn’t know how to do it.
The unemployed are alleged to have decreased,
but the diminution isn’t so important that anybody
could notice it, and the school year will soon come
to an end, throwing more thousands of growing boys
and girls on the labor market.
Still, Mr. Dunstan can get out whenever he likes.
It requires only an “unpleasant misunderstanding”
with Labor to force Tunnecliffe’s brave boys into
opposition and open the door for glorious freedom
once again. And this is what will happen, sooner or
later.
*
The Open Season at Geneva.
From a man who has been there without his gun:
With the drawing on of winter, which is the close season
for new wars in Europe, the open season for the League of
Nations begins. Its meetings are being hastened a little this
year because another war between member-nations pledged
“not to resort to war” seems likely to break out next month.
Last year Soviet Russia was admitted with a permanent
seat on the Council, like Italy. Its advent does not seem to
have improved the atmosphere, though it has brought a sub-
stantial increase of responsibilities.
By way of preparing to renounce war, Russia set out to
“double the Red Army in four years—it increased from
562,000 to 940,000,” annual conscripts bringing the number
to 1,500,000. This is Commissar Tukhchevsky’s version, but
Hitler accuses the Muscovite of haying 8,500,000 trained
reserves under 32 years old, plus 4300 military aeroplanes and
an ambition —he quotes another Commissar, Stetzky—to
make Soviet Russia “a shock brigade which must advance
against its capitalistic surroundings and carry the socialist
world-revolution to victory.” (This German summary of
the Russian situation, fully documented, was printed at
Geneva itself.) However, Litvinoff agreed that his country
would observe the covenant and articles —except as regards
disputes “originating prior to its entry into the League,” such
as the occupation of Bessarabia by Roumania —and General
Assembly got down to business. The business included the
subsidising of the Nansen Refugee Office to provide for
“800,000 Russian refugees” and “a large number of Russian
women in China” who had “become victims of the white-
slave traffic.”
The protection of racial minorities was also discussed.
The delegate from Poland, which has dissatisfied racial
minorities, said his country would “refuse to co-operate in
the present system of protection of minorities,” though it
is sworn to protect them. Then it developed that Bolivia
and Paraguay had been hammering one another for two
years, and that other member-nations were suspected of
selling armaments and munitions to both. After the Bolivian
delegate had appealed for intervention and the Paraguayan
delegate had made it plain that he was not in favor of
any move to spoil sport, it was decided that “it appeared
desirable that the problem should be studied carefully.”
To the support of this polyglot debating society Australia
contributes £57,000 or £58,000 a year. It pays as much as
Norway and Sweden put together, and more than Austria,
Hungary, Bolivia, Abyssinia, Afghanistan, Paraguay, Panama,
Guatemala and Honduras put together. Reckoning the cost
at 1011 units, the British Empire finds 267. It is “admitted
frankly” that “consistent overbudgeting has been resorted to
to avoid deficits,” and that “there are many defaulting States”;
still, enough cash has been gathered from the good marks
to build a £1,750,000 palace. Mr. Lyons was a “little shocked
at the extravagance” he saw at Geneva, and it takes a lot of
extravagance to shock Mr. Lyons. Nevertheless, it is hoped
that this chattering concern retains enough moral force to
prevent one of the four permanent members of the council
from falling on the first (alphabetically) member of the
League. There is no harm in hoping—hope is the one League
commodity that costs nothing.
+
Profit and Loss.
Spurred on by press complaints about road accidents,
the N. S. Wales Government recently directed its traffic
authorities to do something. A police patrol was
equipped with high-powered cars, and constables
were directed to look out for dangerous drivers.
They have certainly got results. Fatal car
accidents for July were only 14, as against an average
of about a death a day for the previous 12 months.
As against which the Traffic Court has never
known such a rush of business: a couple of hundred
cases have been dealt with almost daily. On Wednes-
day, one driver was fined for “crossing a bad city
intersection at 45 m.p.h.” ; another for “travelling in
traffic on the wrong side of the road at 45-50 m.p.h.” ;
another for “crossing a bridge at 60 m.p.h.” Convic-
tions totalled 210.
Meanwhile more and more cars are coming on
the roads (whereas less than £500,000 was spent on
cars in the 12 months 1932-33, more than that sum
went this year in single months, such as March and
April); and the N. S. Wales Government has
announced its intention of spending £9,500,000 on
more and better roads. So N. S. Wales at least may
expect more police patrols and more work for its
Traffic Court. With this contingency in view, the
establishment of a Motor Cases Court “to embrace
all claims and prosecutions arising out of motor col-
lisions and breaches of the law in which motor
vehicles are involved” is being canvassed. J. C.
Watson, president of the N.R.M.A., has given the
idea his blessing, and it may be put into operation
when the Commissioner for Road Transport (Mr.
Maddocks) returns. Which will mean another Judge,
more officials (“it will be necessary for the legally-
trained chairman to have the assistance of assessors”)
and more taxation.
The main consolation is that this form of public
expenditure returns abounding profits. It would be
almost impossible to estimate in terms of money the
value to a State of an organisation that permanently
reduced the death-and-accidenl rate from cars by 50
per cent.
Too High by Half.
Australian postal rates, which were raised by Mr.
Lyons when he was Mr. Scullin’s P.M.G. in 1930,
are too high by half. Maoriland and South Africa
have penny postage. The charge for letters within
Britain and Ireland is l£d. for the first 20z., with
id. for each additional 2oz. or part of it. The
Australian rate is 2d. per ounce. So a letter weighing
3oz. sent within Sydney or Brisbane costs 6d. to
post, or three times the postage which would be
imposed in London.
A 21b. parcel can be sent from Land’s End to
John o’ Groats (over 600 miles) for 6d. To send
a package the same weight from Sydney to Brisbane
or Melbourne costs Is. 6d. The limit of weight in
parcel post in both Australia and Britain is 111 b.
and the 111 b. rate over Britain and Ireland and the
Channel Islands is Is. 3d. Rates on I lib. parcels are
zoned as follows in the Commonwealth:
Rate.
Within 30 miles .. .. .. .. .. Is. 9d.
Over 30 miles, but within State .. .. .. 2s. 9d.
To adjoining State .. .. .. .. ss.
Elsewhere in Australia 7s. 3d.
The chairman of the postal section of the Sydney
Retail Traders’ Association is indignant at the main-
tenance of the present charges. Mr. Benjamin points
out that most costs have fallen since 1929 ; railway
freights, for instance, have generally been reduced ;
so have the prices of materials.
In 1929 it cost 3s. Bd., or 1\ p.c. of the price, to
send a 71b. parcel of crepe de Chine to North Aus-
tralia. The price of the material has fallen since
then from £2 9s. 7d. to £1 9s. 7d., but the postage
has increased to 55., and now represents \l\ p.c.
of value.
For the year ended June, 1934, the department
was able to spend £865,494 on new works and build-
ings and sites, and still show a surplus of £868,126.
It should now be obliged to help overtaxed business
people to secure surpluses.
*
Victoria’s Rotten Boroughs.
It is 32 years since the House of Forty-eight Rich
Landlords was reformed by the late Tom Bent. In
those dark days the State Constitution provided that
only a mere handful of persons was eligible for
election to the Legislative Council, while the fran-
chise, based on a land-owning qualification, narrowed
down the number of electors to a few thousands.
There were about half a dozen capable members
of the House ; the rest were mostly nonentities and
dunces.
The number of members was reduced to 34, and
the franchise was liberalised. To-day, if there is to
be a “House of Review” at all, there is little seri-
ously the matter with its constitution ; but there is
much the matter with the way the electorates are
distributed. Anomalies of the Legislative Assembly
distribution, in part a development of increased and
shifting population, have been repeated and inten-
sified in the Council, with the result that it has
ceased completely to be a Chamber representative of
the people, or even of the section of the people whose
interests it is supposed to watch.
Most striking of all the contrasts in represen-
tation is that of Yarra province with Bendigo pro-
vince, both of which have the same representation.
There are 11,721 electors in Bendigo. Yarra has
68,425. This means that one voter at Bendigo has
nearly the same power in the government of the
country as six voters in Yarra. At one of the triennial
elections there were more electors in Melbourne
North (64,113) than in Nelson (12,007), Wellington
(12,171), Western (16,475) and Southern (19,353) put
together, though each province returns two members.
The disparity in voting power, illustrated at its
worst in the case of Bendigo and Yarra, is above
all party politics. It is grossly unjust to the electors
and a travesty on fair representation.
*
Baffled.
“C.H.S.”: There never was such an orgy of road-
making and bridge-building as is going on in N. S.
Wales at present. From Tenterfield to the Murray
you can see creeks, dips and gutters being spanned,
deviations straightened, roads turned into speedways
and direction posts erected. Loan-money and unem-
ployed-relief money are being spent like water to
make the way of the road-user faster and more com-
fortable. At the same time, the Road Transport
Department is doing everything in its power to
prevent the roads being used by owners of commercial
vehicles.
The Ministerial head of this department and of
the Government Railway Department—which is losing
£2,000,000 a year—is Mr. M. F. Bruxner. To a
gathering of motor-traders, Mr. Bruxner extolled the
road from Sydney to Goulburn. It was so good, he
said, that he had motored from Sydney to Goulburn
in 2 i hours. He could have gone by Government
train in 3 2-3 hours, but he preferred to go by
Ministerial car. Private citizens exercising a corre-
sponding preference, without debiting the cost to the
taxpayer, are savagely punished.
The political mind has me baffled.
Medical Services in the Backblocks.
Now and again medical missionaries tells us heart-
rending tales of the sufferings of the Chinese in remote
districts--tales so heartrending that further subscrip-
tions are generally forthcoming. At the same time,
people in the backblocks of our own country are
suffering almost as severely, and little is done to
relieve their plight.
Sydney knows every year the pathetic spectacle
of scores of youngsters brought to Manly from western
N. S. Wales to recover from what is nothing more than
neglect of ordinary measures of health—neglect for
which their parents are without blame, neglect which
is the price of pioneering. Most of these children
suffer from eye complaints, trifling in their early
stages but developed, through absence of medical
attention, into grave irregularities which may result
in total blindness.
The plight of Adaminaby (N.S.W.), cut off by
snowfall from any medical attention, has brought
the subject once more before the public with dramatic
force, while the feats of Dr. Fenton, the N.T.’s
“flying doctor,” have received much deserved pub-
licity.
But the price of pioneering a continent should
not be paid by appeals to emotional listeners at a
meeting. It should not be paid by private charity or
by self-sacrificing medical men and nurses. It is a just
charge on the people as a whole, as important as the
support of public hospitals in the cities.
Here and there medical men and nurses in centres
not capable of supporting them by fair fees are
subsidised. The system should be made nation-wide.
Further, there should be provision for telephonic
communication and for aeroplane and motor transport
to hospitals with complete nursing staffs and neces-
sary facilities.
In some remote spots the people of Australia
should bear the whole cost of maintaining a medical
man ; in others, the subsidy might be reduced to £5O
or £25 a year. It would be on a sliding scale. The
discovery of a new line of reef might attract a popula-
tion sufficient to make the fortune of an efficient and
popular man; the petering out of another might
reduce his earnings by 70 or 80 per cent. The subsidy
should be sufficient to bridge the gap left between
the ability of the inhabitants to pay and the legiti-
mate needs of a medical man.
The total cost of a complete service of the sort
would not be great, probably not greater than the
cost of the annual overseas tours of politicians and
public servants. And the benefits, immediate and
ultimate, would be immense..
Letting Tigers Roam the Street.
Constituted authority works itself up to frenzied
energy about trifles, yet dangers which threaten the
lives of citizens find it wanting.
A bundle of explosives was stolen from a boat at
Williamstown (Vic.). During succeeding days minor
explosions occurred in the locality. On another day
a ship’s rocket went off as small boys were experi-
menting with it over a fire on a vacant lot, with the
result that two were killed and several seriously
injured. The robbery was evidently the work of
youngsters, not of criminals. The earlier explosions
pointed definitely to the affair being a prank, and
even Dr. Watson might have traced the rest of the
missing explosives after such a series of clues as
that. Yet the bulk of the goods —ship’s rockets and
Verey lights—remained in the possession of the wrong
people, with direful results to children whose only
fault was boyish mischievousness.
Meanwhile, hundreds of public servants, highly
paid and lowly paid, have been working hard to see
that Australia is not corrupted by reading how many
tons of pig-iron are turned out of certain European
furnaces, and to ensure that beaches 50 miles from a
habitation are not sullied by the nudism of passing
motorists.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Brix”: Numexous hawkers continue
to recommend themselves to householders
as returned soldiers. Many, doubtless,
are genuine, but a youthful-looking indi-
vidual who called on us last week said
reproachfully when we intimated that we
did not require bootlaces, “Well, it’s
folk like you that forgets all you owe
to us as fought for you.” A casual query
about his age brought the admission thai
he was 32.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Is our cheap-law system
usual elsewhere or unique? S.A. Law
Society got the Public Solicitor abolished
a year ago because, at best, he could
take only one side of a case, leaving the
other without assistance; and it now
assigns the work (where applicants arc
unable to pay for legal advice) to various
volunteer solicitors in turn. In its first
year the scheme had nearly 1000 appli-
cations, and acted on 750 of them. There
were some criminal or civil cases, but
matrimonial suits of various kinds make
the big majority ; and divorce, becoming
easier, becomes accordingly more
frequent.
'J.i •<:
“Kerys”: When a party of Maori-
landers returning from the war was put
ashore at Newport News, while the
transport was disinfected for some minor
epidemic, the lads found themselves
camped beside the Doughboys. In a
kindly spirit M.L. introduced to U.S.A.
its special brand of two-up, over which
young America went completely cracked.
They played at all hours for five days
and nights, after which the visitors were
able to congratulate one another on hav-
ing won all sorts of stakes, from mere
money to a ranch in California or a
drug-shop on Thirty-ninth-street in some
Middle-west city. Unfortunately for
them only the money was collected ; an
unfeeling O.Q ordered all aboard before
more of the winners had time to inspect
their other acquisitions.
♦ Sfc ♦
“Inaha”: Two men required to appear
before the Auckland (M.L.) Supreme
Court on charges of sheep-stealing were
isolated by floods at Whangarei. Re-
mained only the sea route, and the two
repaired to the only ship sailing in time
to get them to their trial, to find the last
of the passenger accommodation booked
by the police party of 15 witnesses. The
captain refused to carry any more, and
turned down the offer of the two accused
to work their way as stokers. The vessel
departed with its load of Crown wit-
nesses, leaving the principals in the case
to surrender themselves to the Whangarei
police, who declined to take the respon-
sibility of shepherding them to Auckland.
Explanations to the Court were neces-
sary ; it was left to his Honor to point
out the obvious.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“A.C.”: “J.M.’s” mention (B. 7/8/’35)
of what an American magazine editor
advised him recalls a different kind of
intimation handed out by the Soviet
journal “Gosisdat” with each rejected
manuscript. The note I saw read as fol-
lows: “Comrade, we are unable to use
this manuscript. Should you feel in the
mood to cancel your subscription, we
beg to remind you of the order of the
High Commissar, dated January 2, 1932,
prescribing 15 years’ imprisonment at
forced labor for efforts to impair the
circulation of State-operated journals.”
* * * ♦
“Fore R.”: English chefs must have
lost their cunning if tinned fish was
ranked as superior to freshly-caught by
those who catered for “M.G.” (B.
31/7/’35). Many times have I enjoyed
freshly-caught-and-cooked salmon, both
in England and in Puget Sound (B.C.) —
whence comes so much of the tinned
variety—and there was no comparison
between the real thing and the tinned
article. Fresh herrings are admittedly
rather lacking in flavor, but freshly-kip-
pered herrings or planked haddock, par-
ticularly those obtainable in Shields or
“And when your wife threatened to do aWay with herself, didn't you
say 'Okay'?"
"Nothin' o' th' sort! I said ‘ Good-oh'."
Grimsby, provided me with breakfasts
which are still dreams of blissful satis-
faction. Apart from the relative values
of vitamin contents, a steak from a
newly-caught salmon, nicely grilled, is
something nobody who has partaken of
it will ever forget.
* * * *
“Tenth Batt.’s” theory:
The Italians shouldn’t have much to tear
from the “two army corps of negroes resi-
dent in the U.S.A.” that have volunteered to
fight in Abyssinia. Among the few comic
memories that I retain of the front-line area
in Flanders are mental pictures of bolting
American negroes. Tali and lanky, with colos-
sal feet, they used to stampede insanely into
the darkness whenever a shell landed within
a hundred yards of the dumps they were sup-
posed to be looking after near such places as
Dickebusch early in TB. Noise terrified them.
Yet nobody is gamer in a ring than the aver-
age American black, half-caste or octoroon. I
once saw Hugh D. Mclntosh throw Sam Lang-
ford out of the boudoir which was the office
of the original Sydney Stadium. The face of
the pocket Hercules turned from golden to grey.
“He knows I carry a gun,” remarked Mc-
Intosh. People who know American negroes
well believe they have a hereditary terror of
firearms —a result of their slave-ancestors
being chased, bailed up, wounded and as often
as not killed by armed whites.
* * * *
“Cateran”: In upholding his fantastic
theory that the kilt was evolved from the
Gallic breeches and cross-gartered hose
(B. 7/8/’35), “Mac” has evidently taken
his inspiration from the 100-odd portraits
of Scotland’s kings which adorn the Long
Gallery at Holyrood; several alleged
monarchs are depicted in the costume he
upholds. But these ghastly daubs were
done in the seventeenth century by a
Flemish artist who contracted for the job
at a pound (English) per head. 1 am
glad to hear, now that the tragic old place
is being reconditioned, that the preposter-
ous fakes are to be chucked into the
discard.
♦ * * ♦
“Oxmead”: For a regular jaw-break-
ing word, and a hybrid one at that, I
should think it would be hard to
beat “sesqui - centenary” (B. 7/8/'35).
“Sesqui,” I learn from the dictionary,
means “one and a half”—an abbreviation
of the Latin semis (half) que (and) —but
its use seems so far to have been mostly
confined to chemistry. And it sets your
fancy turning to “sesquipedalian,” which
carries its own invidious meaning for
ridiculous ponderosity. Surely it oughtn't
to be beyond the literary powers of uni.
professors to find some less sesqui-
pedalian substitute for 150th, if only out
of consideration for the poets who will
be expected to write loyal odes and things
in 1938. Then “sesqui-centcnary” could
be handed over to the police as a drunk-
enness test, with a clean bill for the sus-
pect who could repeat it half a dozen
times rapidly and clearly.
* * * *
“El V.”: 1 do not know why "H.A.L."
(B. 31/7/’35) should trouble to laud the
ancient Yankee rifleman who used to
shoot British soldiers between the eyes
at 100 yards. As a youngster I had a
muzzle-loader which must have been five
times as good as Ye Oldc Washington
model, because it was five times as large
in the bore. Its charge consisted of a
tot and a half of powder, half a news-
paper (wet and well rammed), a glass
marble or a few copper rivets or the
head off a lead-headed nail or a bit of
basalt. It was usually fired from a stump
support, with the firer well braced into
a heel-hole. You never cared whether
you hit your soldier between the eyes
with that weapon. If he was within a
a hundred yards in front, you merely
picked yourself slowly up from the spot
where you had been tossed by the gun-
kick and went and brained him with a
bit of brigalow. He would be still stunned
by the displacement of the surrounding
atmosphere.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: I did a job for
Jimmy Ah Wat recently ; when he paid
me I looked around for a pen and paper
to give him a receipt. He waved the sug-
gestion away. “Leceipt,” he scoffed.
“What we want leceipt fo’, eh?” I told him
that if he neglected this rule of business
a creditor might try to collect a second
time. Jimmy’s face broke into a thou-
sand tiny wrinkles. “One man tly that,”
he replied ; “he tly hard, too. Him come
and talkee loud. Him send letter, him
send summons. But him no get paid
second time.” “How was that?” I asked,
and Jimmy grinned more widely than
ever. “I go along court,” he said. “Two
other Chinee go along. They say they
sittee in my shop, see me pay. Case dis-
miss. You still think you oughta give me
leceipt, eh?” I waived the point.
* * * *
“Skyrider”; Souters elephant which
“shows that he can draw something be-
sides cats” (B. 7/8/’35) reminds me that
I discovered this years ago. The Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) centenary committee had
commissioned me to write a miniature
history of the old town. I suggested a
colored cover for the booklet, with a
Souter cat as the central figure. The
artist was communicated with and asked
to send the drawing direct to the block-
makers who were also printing the book.
The parcel arrived just in time for the
opening ceremony. Tearing off the
wrappers I found that Souter had done
the drawing all right, but in place of
the cat he had made so popular was a
dogi with a label inscribed “To Goul-
burn” tied to his collar. “But didn’t you
ask for a cat?” queried the president.
“Of course 1 didn’t,” f barked. “1
thought Souter could only draw cats.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
Farewell to greatness:
Wyldcfcl, which overlooks Port Jackson
from the north-eastern slopes of Potts Point,
is the latest outsize Sydney house to come into
the market. There arc few uses to which these
solidly-built and often beautiful mid-Victorian
places can be put. Tusculum, whose acres
of garden and orchard stretched from Maclcay-
strcct to Victoria-street half a century ago, is
a hospital. Tarpcian, which dates back to
an age when Woolloomooloo was a fashionable
residential area, and which looked down on a
beach when it was first built, is mostly
Dursley School. Dangar Castle, near by, begins
to look like a media:val ruin. The mansion
a few hundred yards south of Wyldcfcl which
Chief Justice Martin spent a small fortune on
has been transformed into a couple of luxury
Hats. Elizabeth Bay House, after being given
up for dead by its admirers, seems now to
have a fairly good expectation of life as a
sort of Eastern Suburbs Palais Royal. A
century ago, when Bellevue Hill was virgin
bush, nearly all Sydney's most imposing resi-
dences were scattered about Potts Point.
To-day few survive, except as hospitals, con-
vents and schools —almost the last remaining
institutions that can’t be conducted in
skyscrapers.
* * * *
“Light Horse”: The Lewis gun, a good
friend to the British forces in the last
war, is to be superseded by a Czecho-
Siav weapon, the Bren, which is lighter
and not so liable to jamb. Light Horse
Lewis gunners often had
reason to curse this tendency
in the Lewis. During the
Sinai campaign it was found
almost impossible to prevent
the fine sand being sucked
into the lock mechanism by
the air draught rushing into
the mouth of the cooling
jacket round the barrel. All
sorts of dodges were tried to stop this,
including the spreading of rubber ground
sheets on the sand under the muzzle,
but none was completely successful.
$ * * ♦
“Lembarb”: The contention of the
Nazis that all patriotic Germans should
substitute rhubarb for lemons on their
bill-of-fare, on the ground that the
former is more Nordic and less exotic
(B. 7/8/’35), is hardly borne out by the
reference books. Both the fruit and the
vegetable have an Asiatic origin ; the
lemon seems to have come into being in
the north-west of India, the rhubarb in
China, and neither arrived in Europe
much before the fourteenth century. The
Arabs are credited with having brought
the lemon into Spain, and rhubarb
reached Turkey by way of Persia and
Asia Minor. The ancient Greeks and
Romans, according to The Enc. Brit.,
knew nothing of either. Yet, when Oscar
Aschc produced “Julius Qesar” in Syd-
ney some 13 years ago, Casca was
depicted as breaking off his remarks
every now and then to suck at a lemon.
Which suggests that even Oscar, so often
lauded for his meticulous attention to
historical detail, sometimes nodded.
* * * *
“Gray’s Inn” (Lond.): The practice of
libelling relatives and others in wills re-
ceived a sharp check in the Probate
Court when the estate of the late Sir
John Collie came before Mr. Justice
Bucknill this month. Sir John was a
doctor from Aberdeen whose Fraud
and Its Detection in Accident Insurance
Claiifts is a classic ; he was a terror to
malingerers as M.O. to the Ministry of
Pensions. At 68, within a few months of
the death of his first wife, he married
Lady Arrol, widow of the engineer who
built the Tay and Forth bridges, and
they promptly quarrelled. He developed
a pathological hatred of the lady which
preoccupied him to the day of his death
and was given full expression in the
will, in which he cut her off without a
farthing. Mr. Justice Bucknill ordered
the abuse to be expunged. Almost simul-
taneously Lord Justice Clerk issued a
warning against the registration of libel-
lous wills, which, he said, might cause
estates to be cast in heavy damages.
The Judges' remarks have caused sur-
prise in lay circles. Everybody knows
that the dead are unlibellable, and cer-
tain debased journals make a practice of
raking up old scandals accordingly. It
was also widely believed that the dead
have a sort of compensatory right to
libel the living. Some almost unbeliev-
ably vindictive wills have found their
way into the London newspapers of
recent years.
STREAMLINED.
“Ono reason for the decline in bread consumption,
according to Herbert Gepp, the Wheat Commission
chairman, is that women generally believe in a
streamlined figure, which is detrimental to the
future of the race.”
Willi roses and with cream lined
She loves to keep her face;
Her figure must be streamlined
To give it charm and grace,
And flow in cadence gentle,
1 lowevcr detrimental
To that account parental
She owes the human race.
Towards that dream of beauty
Her fancy ever roves.
She fails to do her duty
By humble cottage loaves.
The forms of bread most taking
She's steadily forsaking;
She shies at scones they’re baking
Upon a thousand stoves.
At “bfck” she’s ceased to batten
On rolls that fill and warm;
She fears they’re apt to fatten,
She apprehends a swarm
Of troubles to o’ertakc her
If once she gives the baker
An open go to make her
Less of a streamlined form.
She must be slim and slender
And trim and taut of gauge;
She simply won’t surrender
Such dreams at any age
To give the wheatbelt plodder
Who grows our cereal fodder
A lift —or any “odder”
Who votes for Doctor Page.
You fashion-loving beauties,
Get hep to this, get hep!
I bid you mind your duties,
f bid you watch your step.
These streamlines may be splendid,
But when the craze is ended,
The more of bread that’s vended
And with your contours blended
The more you’ll be commended
By good old Herbie Gepp.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"I've just flown from South America. What day Is It?”
“Doncher know? It's my BIRTHDAY!”
“Clinker”: The Official Year-Book ol
N.S.W. supplies the interesting informa-
tion that the death-rate inside prisons is
only 3.4 per thousand, whereas the rate
for the whole State is 8.58 per thousand.
Of course, one may find plenty of reasons
for this, without jumping to the con-
clusion that being behind the bars is
conducive to longevity. Infants don’t
get there, or children of tender years
either, and most prisoners are merci-
fully freed when age or infirmity makes
it clear they haven't long to live. And
there are many ways of shortening life
that aren’t available to prisoners; no
man can dig his grave with his teeth in
gaol or let strong drink get him down.
Also, medical skill and attention are
always available for the most trifling ail-
ments. Nevertheless, allowing for all
these things, it does look as if prison
life in N.S.W. were remarkably healthy.
It may be a tribute to the New Penology,
which has made it so much more com-
fortable.
jjc 4c 4* O'
“D.” philosophises:
The usual “economic expert” prophesied
i'i a Sydney Sunday paper recently that a
number of things would happen “when the
world got back to normal.” Wbrc things
normal in France and the U.S.A. before they
began gold-hoarding? Was England normal
before it went off the gold standard? Was
Australia normal before Federation, or after it
adopted a tariff, built a fleet and imposed com-
pulsory service? My view is that things never
get back to normal; it isn’t in nature.
Departures from normal used to be con-
cerned chiefly with religion (civilised Europe
was once wholly Catholic), fiscalism (national
Protection is a modern growth)and monarchism.
Money once meant silver; a pound was a troy
pound of silver divided into 20 shillings and
240 silver pence. After the Australian and
S’African gold rushes it came to mean gold.
Now money mostly means paper; Britain is
the only powerful monarchy left: there are no
Freetrade nations, and religious fights are con-
fined to a few backward races. Obviously,
whatever lies ahead must be abnormal i.e.,
different from anything that has gone before.
"If we go backward we die, if we go forward
we die; better go forward and die.”
* * * *
“Sojer”: No doubt about the big
majority of those university voters
against war rushing to enlist as soon as
the chance comes (B. 7/8/‘35). Most of
us can recall returned soldiers who swore
“Never again!” Yet before the agony of
1914-1918 had time to fade out, and
Lloyd George had nearly landed the
Empire in another war with Turkey over
his catastrophic Greek friends. Victoria
Barracks in Sydney were rushed by
returned men who had picked up the
whisper that another A.I.F. was about
to be formed.
n- * * *4*.
“Lycidas”: The Governor of N. S.
Wales, in his speech at (he opening of
the Royal Art Society, said:
t am glad to see there is an absence
from the exhibition of what is called
modern art, with its false technique.
All the Sydney dailies reported this ex-
cept the “S. M. Herald.” Is modern art
already one with Tyre and Nineveh —
and Vart nouveau ? Clearly his Ex.
thinks so, or he wouldn’t have com-
mitted himself. Seemingly the “S. M.
Herald” thinks otherwise. Examples of
modern painting—girls with arms like
sausages and gamboge complexions lean-
ing stiffly against Noah’s Ark animals —
are beginning to appear in junk shops
side by side with eighteenth-century
oleographs. Tf not the end, it is the begin-
ning thereof.
:?s * * *
"Darlinghearsed”; Although there is
no loneliness like that of a big city, it
must be difficult
for a man to live
for 40 years in a
place like Dar-
linghurst without
being really
known to any-
one. Such a case
was reported re-
cently ; when the
man died it was
almost impossible
to find anyone
who knew any-
thing about him.
A landlady who
years ago took
him over with the
residential where
he had long been
a fixture seldom
saw him except
when he paid his
weekly rent; she
had an idea that
he spent his time
“in the library or
somewhere,” To
her, as to the
shopkeepers from
whom he occa-
sionally made
small purchases,
he was just “Old
Tom.” He seems
to have even
managed to keep his name off the
electoral roll. A cheque-book, halt-used,
led to inquiries being made about him at
a city bank, but these elicited nothing
more than what was presumably his
right name. The account, a small one,
had been kept alive for years by pay-
ments made in cash every quarter, but
where the money came from nobody
could guess. There were no other papers
of any kind. Even the “Old Tom” was
wrong ; according to the bank evidence
the unknown's name was “William.”
“D.”; Some great
films should be made
when the plutocrats
who dispense culture
from Hollywood learn
that a guy named Walt
Scott wrote novels
which are far more
dramatic, colorful and
generally filmic than
any gangster yarn.
Ivanhoe, for example.
What a movie plot!
The mysterious hero —
a blend of Mix and
Fairbanks —who turns
out to be Richard
Lionheart. The Saxon
sub - hero almost
equally lethal on or off
a horse. Isaac the Jew
(a great part for Lionel
Barrymore), Friar Tuck
(Charles La u g hton),
Rebecca the lugubrious
(Garbo) and many
more. Also, wonder-
ful opportunities to dis-
play (he unspoiled beauties
of rural England at the begin-
ning of the thirteenth cen-
tury; the quaint ness of the
» half-Saxon towns and houses,
manners and customs (infinitely more
interesting, if realistically done, than
period stuff about Henry Vlll.'s
reign), and unlimited fighting and blood-
shed. The chief characters in Ivanhoe
arc incredible, both in their heroisms and
in their villainies; yet most of them
existed, and were like that. The leaders
of society in the Dark Ages are about
the only people on historical record who
were as unbalanced, emotional and
illiterate as the chief characters in a
modern film drama.
* >ii * <■
“1880”: A Bulletin writer (31/7/ ? 35),
in mentioning “a demand which was
met to an extent by rowing-boats
when the population of Sydney was
half its present size,” evidently had
in mind the watermen who once plied
between Man-o’-war Steps and Milson's
Point, Neutral Bay, etc. The most reli-
able of them was one-armed ; he pro-
pelled and steered his craft with an oar
attached to a rowlock in the stern. No-
thing very startling about that, you may
say. But how would a modern boatman,
one-armed or otherwise, receive an order
to row to Manly in the early hours of
the morning? The late W. B. Dailey
often returned to his home in the Village
by rowing-boat after a late night in Par-
liament or at the Australian Club. Clad
in full evening-dress and a tall hat. and
smoking the inevitable large cigar, he
presented an impressive spectacle as he
grasped the tiller-ropes. Skiff-owners of
half a century ago used to jump at this
job in all weathers. The charge was a
sovereign, bed and breakfast at Dailey's
Castle being thrown in if desired.
“ What's the meaning of this?"
"I saw a mouse, John, and when I screamed this gentleman rushed
to my assistance!"
"H. 8.”: It was on the August bank
holiday in England 25 years ago that 1
saw my first aeroplane. I was in London
with one of the small Australian cadet
parties organised by Captain Alex.
Rushall, of the old Melbourne Cavalry.
Ross Smith was a member of the party,
and we went to a motor-race meeting
at Brooklands because there was to be
some flying. No aeroplane had then
been flown in Australia, and we felt it
would be a feather in our caps when we
got home to talk of having seen one.
Waring, of Melbourne, and Whittle, of
Adelaide, joined us. That day Blondeau
flew his Farman biplane, a short, circular
flight and never more than about 100 ft.
high. Cordonnier went up in an Hanriot
monoplane, one that had been flown just
before by Wagner at Bournemouth —on
the occasion, J think, when Rolls was
killed. Cordonnier rose only a little and
then fell abruptly into the River Wey,
but escaped injury. That was all, but
it was a thrill for us. It was the first
flying Ross Smith saw, and by a sad
coincidence it was on those very grounds
that he met abrupt death 12 years later.
* >ii * ♦
"Bradford”: There was some contro-
versy a few months ago about the dictum
of a Victorian Judge that there was
“no such place as hell,” an opinion
from which some stout churchmen hotly
dissented. But nobody quoted, as far as
I know, from the witty epitaph suggested
for Lord who was Lord Chan-
cellor of England:
Towards the close of his earthly career,
In the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council,
He dismissed Hell with costs,
And took away from orthodox members of the
Church of England
Their last hope of everlasting damnation.
* * * #
“Dixie”: Two veterans of the U.S.
Civil War have died in Victoria. At one
lime there was a number of ex-Federal-
ists and ex-Johnny Rebs in Australia —
“Hop,” of The Bulletin, was one
of the former —but the survivors must
be few to-day, seeing that the war
finished 70 years ago. During its pro-
gress, Melbourne was the location of an
unrecorded incident in the history of that
strife. The Confederate warship Shenan-
doah came to Port Melbourne, and the
local population made much of the
officers and crews —so much that it got
the goat of the resident Yanks, who were
Northerners almost to a man. A con-
spiracy was hatched, and night after
night small boats set out from St. Kilda
and Williamstown containing barrels of
explosives which, it was hoped, would
blow the hated rebel vessel sky-high. But
the Southerner was too well guarded.
Every time a rowboat ventured near her
anchorage a challenge rang out, and the
trespassers had to beat it for the shore.
During her stay in Melbourne the Shen-
andoah enlisted a number of local men
—a breach of the laws of neutrality
which cost the British Government
£20,000 when the war concluded.
sjc * * *
“Spare Corp”: When the next war
comes every sweet garden scent will be
suspect. A green reinstoushment, I
suddenly received an impression of
spring flowers in bloom. “Smells like
lilac,” I commented to another Digger.
“It’s gas, you goat!” he told me,
scrambling with his gas-mask. 1 followed
suit : but the little whiff I had got,
although it was only a drift from
another sector, made me deadly
sick for a couple
of days. Now 1
notice that a
British handbook
warns citizens
that if they smell
geraniums during
an air-raid they will know they are being
bombed with Lewisite, a virulent de-
velopment of mustard gas. We were
warned also in France against a German
gas that bore the pleasant odor of violets.
I picture the nervous citizen of a future
war period rushing his face into his gas-
mask every time he passes a flower
garden.
THE ANTHROPOPHAGI.
“A tribe, regarded by ethnologists a.s singularly
interesting, has been discovered in the Interior of
I’apua. They have light skins and light-brown eyes ;
they are all cannibals, and every man carries in his
belt a dagger fashioned from a human thighbone.”
Their skins arc light, their eyes a pleasant
brown,
And none too dark, presumably, their hair.
In Papuan wilds they wander up and down,
A dickens of a way from anywhere.
For aeons they have vegetated there
And found in bounteous Earth a real mother.
No, “vegetate” will hardly do, I’ll swear,
For chaps who lunch and dine on one another.
They’re anthropophagi, by all report;
They feed upon their fellows, killed and
dressed,
Not, like our blacks, when other scran is short,
But just because they like such tucker best.
They’re simply full of human interest,
But one unpleasant trait you cannot smother:
With sharp-set appetities and healthy zest
They sink their grinders into one another.
Stone Age survivals? Let ethnologists
Decide that knotty problem as they will.
But clearly strong resemblance still exists;
They’re very, very close to Nature still,
So close that each man bears a blade to kill,
Should the necessity arise, a brother,
Chinks in his own anatomy to till —
They dine incessantly on one another.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


■. * s
w
m
mM
m
m
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”— 10 for 9 d * and 20 for 1/6
HIB2OM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats —
POLITICAL POINTS
Melbourne—not Canberra —was the
scene of two more Commonwealth-and-
States conferences at the week-end: one
to discuss the co-ordination of income-
tax laws and the other to consider the
“amendment” of the inter-State free-
trade clause of the Constitution. In the
latter case the gentlemen failed to agree
about anything; in the former, they
were unanimous on minor points, but
“the vexed question of taxing inter-State
profits was referred back to the States.”
It would be far cheaper to conduct these
discussions by telephone, and results
would be much the same.
Perkins, whom Lyons dropped from
his Ministry after the general election,
has heaped coals of fire upon his head by
certifying that “the trip of Mr. and Mrs.
Lyons to England should be worth un-
told gold”—presumably to Australia.
Mr. and Mrs. Lyons are very worthy
people, but Australia" would rather have
the gold. A hundredweight, say.
There must have been some hard
swallowing in Lang’s newspaper office
before this appeared:
When a company purchases their gold
holdings in Fiji Mr. E. G. Theodore will
be one of four to share £1,000,000. Mr.
Theodore, who has other interests in Fiji,
including, one worth over £200,000, has
lived on the island for two years.
Well, ho can’t say Lang didn’t help to
send him there.
Another Theodore is in the limelight
—Theodore Charles Trautwein, the
Sydney M.L.C. He is being sued for
Federal tax “and additional tax” on in-
come alleged to have been derived, mainly
from pubs and “a business of betting,”
during the years 1921-27 inclusive: the
amount claimed is £162,826. This Theo-
dore, like the other, has been associated
with the party to which “labor is the
source of all wealth” and which burns to
“secure to the producers the full results
of their industry.”
On his way to the constitutional con-
ference called to discuss the amendment
of Section 92, Forgan Smith reiterated
that he had his doubts.
The creation of multifarious boards
means the creation of a bureaucracy.
In the doubter’s own State almost every-
thing that grows there, from pineapples
to peanuts, is under the control of
boards ; but in politics it is never too
late for a man to change his mind.
A strenuous protest against the restora-
tion of the four saints’ days as public
holidays has been made by Brisbane
business people. They point out that in
95 p.c. of State industrial awards em-
ployees get a week’s holiday p.a. on full
pay, together with nine or ten public
holidays, and that when the full working
week operates 124 hours are their own.
“Mossy” Hynes has promised to place
the position before Cabinet, which has
itself taken up a position—on a fence.
Compulsory third-party motor insur-
ance is on Westralian Labor’s programme
for its last session. A powerful argu-
ment for it has been furnished by the
police, who report that during the year
to June 30 69 persons were killed and
971 injured in metropolitan traffic acci-
dents, compared with 48 and 721 in
1933-34 ; but severe punishment for car-
stealers should be part and parcel of
the scheme. On the face of it, the hit-
and-run motorist is nearly always a car-
stealer, and his victims are never com-
pensated.
Last of the States to legalise the tote,
Victoria introduced it four years ago,
and has no regrets. In the four years
£6,731,100 passed through the machine,
and receipts are annually increasing.
Ten per cent, is deducted, the Govern-
ment taking 5 p.c. for hospitals and
charities. In N. S. Wales the Govern-
ment grabs 9 p.c, for itself alone, so
bookmakers are preferred.
Beyond contributing capriciously to
the cost of Stale “works” of no import-
ance, the Commonwealth has done no-
thing in the unemployed-relief line. The
modernising of civil and military aviation
gives it an opportunity to do something
really useful, but, if Parkhill has his way,
one important feature will be shirked.
He says the making of aerodromes is a
job for municipalities, most of which are
desperately hard up, and for shires, some
of which do not drag in the cost of an
aerodronje in a year’s rating. It is legi-
timate Defence expenditure.
Congratulating Isaacs, G.-G., on hav-
ing reached 80, Westralian Premier
Collier reminded Hitlerites of the great
regard in which Australians hold their
foremost fellow-citizen of the Jewish
faith. While Hitler is about it, he might
consult some of his
boys who were at
Hamel and on the
Hindenburg Line re-
garding the quantity
of-respect they had
for another Aus-
tralian Jew John
Monash.
“Anything to declare, Mr. Prime Minister?”
“No, not a thing.”
According to Dr. Harris, the Vic. Min-
ister of Education, the Mallee will de-
velop into another Sahara unless breaks
are planted to prevent sand drifting into
irrigation channels. Immense sums were
spent to clear the Mallee of scrub ; im-
mense sums will need to be spent to get
it growing again.
Roosevelt’s party has lost a by-election
for one of the Rhode Island seats in the
House of Reps.—there are only two. At
last year’s Congressional elections it won
322 seats and the Republicans but 102,
and this is its first setback in the con-
stiuencies. The report says that “the
abnormally large Republican vote reflects
working-class dissatisfaction with the
Roosevelt policies,” Very awkward for
the New Deal President and very en-
couraging to Australia’s old friend
Hoover, whose friends are launching a
renomination campaign.
The S.A. Government proposes, rather
vaguely, to reduce the number of
Assembly members “by six, or at most
eight.” Rightly believing it is not keen
about it, electors have turned in a peti-
tion urging reduction in both Houses—
Council, from 20 to 15 ; Assembly, from
46 to 20. The excesses of politicians and
bureaucrats have aroused a very healthy
and encouraging spirit of opposition in
the central State.
An editorial has been devoted to The
Bulletin by the “Italo-Australian,”
which had the face to denounce Aus-
tralia’s “hugely increased Defence ex-
penditure” (it has painfully reached
a whole £1 per head p.a.) and to
assert that “person for person” it
amounts to more than Italy is spend-
ing this African war year. These
preposterous claims are no longer ad-
vanced, and the Fascist organ’s good or
bad opinion is of no consequence. Inci-
dentally, it publishes another column-
long list of Sydney Italo-Australians who
are applying for citizenship of a country
which doesn’t conscript men for African
wars.
N.S.W. Assemblymen, who get £670
a year and free passes everywhere, and
judged on results are sinfully overpaid,
are demanding tax-
relief for them-
selves. They already
enjoy a special in-
come-tax deduction
of £lOO, along with
the statutory exemp-
tion of £250, plus
£5O for each child
and allowances for doctors’ and dentists’
bills; but they have to pay wages
tax on the £670, and that is what
hurts. They are not likely to get what
they are after. The taxpayer is a long-
suffering animal, but even his patience
has its limits.
Egon Kisch celebrated his departure
from Australia by shaking his fist from
the deck of a mail steamer at the crew
of a German freighter tied up in Fre-
mantle. The incident was doubtless re-
ported in Germany, and grave fears
were expressed when Emil Voigt (imp.)
was reported missing in that country, in
which he had tarried on his way to
Russia to gather new. wrinkles for the
N.S.W. Labor broadcasting station, of
which he is manager. It transpires that
there was not the slightest occasion for
worry, since Mr. Voigt (imp.) was cour-
teously treated by the Nazis and arrived
safe in Moscow. Safe, and in his
spiritual home, no doubt.
While the Charmers and Fettlers were
gathering in Sydney for their annual con-
ference, the Stevens Government came
to an obliging decision:
It decided to bring down legislation to
establish a wheat pool, with a home-con-
sumption price and to ask the Common-
wealth to pass supplementary legislation to
control inter-State trade. The State
measure cannot be effective without this
supplementary legislation.
It prompted Ernest Field, the F. and
S.A. president, to laud Stevens and rock
it into Page for alleged lack of enthusi-
asm for a compulsory Commonwealth
pool which might be pronounced uncon-
stitootional at any moment.
Stung by criticism at the F. and S.A.
conference, Page said it was “an absolute
lie” that he had weakened in the cause
of the wheatgrowers:
For 16 years I have been spending
myself, destroying my domestic life, and
throwing away my whole fortune. And
then you come and say, “Here is a man
who only looks for place and power, and
who is betraying the people.”
Any doctor could tell the cockies that
Page sacrificed a splendid practice to
champion their political and economic
interests; but some of their delegates
have grown very soreheaded.
After prolonged negotiations, con-
ducted rather shabbily on the Govern-
ment’s part, Harold Clapp, Vic.’s Chief
Railway Commissioner, has been re-
appointed for five years at a nominal
£3500 p.a. Financial-emergency cuts
bring it down to £2885, and there are
three income taxes to come out of that.
Harligan, the N.S.W. Commissioner, is
on £5OOO p.a., less financial-emergency
cuts, and, except on the accountancy
side, he is a tyro compared with Clapp.
Growers of mandarin oranges received
a Commonwealth bounty amounting to
£lO,OOO last year (£8515 was distributed
in N. S. Wales), and they are asking for
another. If they get one, it will be simply
encouraging the production of stuff that
the public won’t buy. Apropos, bounties
amounting to £43,000 are to be paid on
exports of canned apricots, peaches and
pears, which are up 35 p.c., thanks largely
to tho British preference. It is admitted
that “to fulfil orders, canners were com-
pelled to buy fruit of a quality inferior
to that generally used” ; and bn this also
bounty is to be paid. In the larger in-
terests of growers, as well as those of the
taxpayers, it is dashed bad business to
subsidise the growing and marketing of
rubbish.
Harold Gatty is the latest authority
to tell Melbourne that it must have an
airport, and that the Crown owns the
ideal site in Fisherman’s Bend. But it
has only drawn from Dunstan another
declaration that he won’t have an airport
at the Bend. Behind him stands the city
Labor member who believes that an
airport would be part of capitalism’s
preparations for a war on Russia.
Westralia’s bulk-handling commission,
back from its wanderings through the
mainland States, has delighted the co-
operative concern that introduced bulk-
handling at its own expense by recom-
mending that it should be authorised to
go on with its proposal for a State-wide
scheme, provided the silos at Fremantle
(concrete is specified) are controlled by
the Harbor Trust and those at Geraldton
by the Railway Department. The report
is a facer for the Labor Government,
which has “not yet considered it,” and
the Fremantle Lumpers’ Union, which
ordered the Government to veto the com-
pany’s plans for extensions.
Queensland pastoral production was
worth £14,600,000 in 1933-34. There
were over 5000 sheepmen alone. Yet
only 1303 pastoralists made enough to
pay State income tax, and, of those, 961
had taxable incomes under £5OO.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


Last week, a prisoner escaped from the Brisbane Gaol
Represented himself to be the som of the superintendent,
And sot awav bv aeroplane " s
? oh 1m the Bishop 3 of Bosgabri
' Its difficult to understand the
MENTALITY of people WHO POI&ON
DOCS . " Sum .
Sometimes there are extenuating
circumstances .
A visit op a team of Soccer p»l_avbrs prom
Soviet Russia mas been "
A PuSSIAKI WA<A WOULD PROs/E A GREAT
attraction ,
In AUCKLAND a. mother. ACTEC
Ac, SECOWD TO HER. SOM IK) A
BOXING COKITE ST > vV
" The big, Cias'. Evincing his mother
MjOKC vS
The Vice- Chanceu-or op the Sydnev Umwbr&itv
COMPLA.IWS THAT THE UkUVERSITV OPERATIONS’
ARE ‘ HAMPERED B>> LAC-** op PUNDS V
u Well arekjt we aj_l_ 7 vv
A Victorian M L.C.
ADVOCATES TAXATION
ONI RI_EA.SUR.E-
’/ _
IHATT WILL BE THREE
AMD COUR. PEMC6, PLEASE
IT HAPPENED LAST WEEK.


Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Kvery
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
FOREIGN STAMPS. Join Empire Stamp
Club. Junior and Senior Approval Books sent.
References—l49b Liverpool Road, Burwood,
N.S.W.
BEST offer, complete files of Bulletins from
1883-84 to 1907-08, leather bound, perfect
order—Apply WILKINSON, Box 217 D.
G.P.0., Sydney.
A VALUABLE JOURNAL FOR INVESTORS.
August issue Now on Sale.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Aust. Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Jantzen (Aust), Ltd.
Vic. Butter Factories Co.-op Co., Ltd.
Bank of New Zealand.
Malley’s, Ltd.
Marchant’s, Ltd.
Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
N. Coast Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Handsome
TIE
RACK
A GENTLEMAN’S
WARDROBE
ACCESSORY
made in polished
oak with beauti-
fully nickel-plated
fittings. May be
fixed to Wardrobe
or Wall.
ŵ
Has twelve arms with hooked ends and will
suspend any number of ties up to 24.
PRICE - - - 14/6 EACH
PIKES
Of Queen Street
Brisbane
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ivanhoe (Vic.) has a veteran J.P. in
Tom Latham, who, on his 82nd birthday
recently, received good wishes from his
four very successful sons —John (former
Federal Attorney-General and possible
Chief Justice), A.T. (secretary of Vic.’s
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals), Bertrand (actuary in Sydney
to the Commonwealth Bank) and Dr.
L. of Collins-street, Melbourne. Tom
is chairman of trustees of the Indepen-
dent Order of Rechabites (Vic.), and
twice weekly fakes his seat on the City
Court Bench.
Alexander Herdman is returning to
M. politics at 65, after 17 years on
the Supreme Court Bench. He will con-
test the Parnell (Auckland) seat as an
opponent of the Coalition Government
and the opposition Labor party in the
elections to be held at the end of this
year. He was bank clerk, barrister and
solicitor, first borough councillor and
mayor of an Otago mining township
before he entered Parliament in 1902.
He was Premier Massey’s Attorney-
General in the great strike of 1913. His
knighthood came in ’29.
From Norfolk Island ;
The case in which Charles Nobbs, of Nor-
folk Island, sued Captain Pinncy, M.C., the
Administrator, for “wrongly and unjustly re-
moving him [Nobbs] from the office of Presi-
dent of the Executive Council” ended in some-
thing like an anti-climax. After a District
Court Judge had been imported from Sydney to
try the cause celebre Nobbs got judgment
for £2, plus 6d. less than that in costs. Mr.
Nobbs and the Administrator hadn’t been
friendly since the Macarthur-Onslow affair.
Nobbs is one of the oldest inhabitants, Pinney a
comparative lad of 52. Pinney, who had a
brilliant career in the A.1.F., learned his job
under Hubert Murray, whose son-in-law he is.
He first entered the Papuan Civil Service 29
years ago. He has been at Norfolk Island
since 1932.
J. P. ABBOTT, president of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association.
History will repeat itself in the case
of the Marquis of Linlithgow, who is
going to India as its first Federal Vice-
roy. His father, the seventh Earl of
Hopetoun, was Australia’s first Governor-
General, and was created a marquis for
his services in that capacity. Born 48
years ago, the new Viceroy went to
France in 1914 in command of the Ist
Lothians (he is Lord-Lieutenant of West
Lothian) and served till the Armistice.
He married a sister of Sir William
Milner, Bart., a London architect, who
served under him in the Lothians. The
marquis has had little political experi-
ence, but is a director of many important
companies, including the Bank of Scot-
land.
Twelve years ago The Bulletin christ-
ened Allen Lewis, pictured here by Dubois,
“Concrete” Lewis—he had just built
Menzies Hotel and the Astor Flats. He
is still “Concrete” Lewis, managing direc-
tor of Concrete
C o n s t r uctions,
Ltd., of Sydney,
which now has in
hand Jo’burg’s
new G.P.O. (the
firm’s S. African
contracts total
over half a mil-
lion sterling a
year), the Hotel
Australia addi-
tions, the new
City Mutual Life
and Aust. Catho-
lic As s u ranee
buildings, addi-
lions to the
Homebush abat-
toirs and the
Newcastle wheat
silos. Allen
Lewis is in his
early forties, and
was born in
Kent, of Welsh
parents. He came
to Australia when
he was 20.
“Bathurstian” ;
H. E. Suttor, who
has died in
Bathurst, was
born at Peel
(N.S.W.), near by,
92 years ago. A grandson of the horti-
culturist George Suttor, who arrived in
Sydney at the end of 1800, H.E. took up
land before the gold rush, and saw
Bathurst grow from a village to a city.
He helped to found the Bathurst Turf
Club and A.H. and P. Assoc., and battled
for the good of the district in many other
directions. This pioneer family has pro-
duced a number of political notables,
including W. H. Suttor, M.L.C., and his
son, who was an M.L.C. and Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council; F. 8., who
after holding office in several Ministries
became President of the Council, and
J. 8., a late Councillor with Labor sym-
pathies.
“Athenasum”: Noel Coward is being
advertised in Sydney as “the most ver-
satile man in the world.” Many have
better claims even in England. Winston
Churchill, for example—the greatest
First Lord Britain has had, and the
holder of every other important Cabinet
position except Prime Minister; a
biographer who ranks with Trevelyan ;
a brilliant war correspondent; a soldier
who has seen front-line service in almost
every big campaign of the past 35 years.
Noel Coward is actor, producer and play-
wright. His music is trivial; if he is a
composer, then Churchill, who has pro-
duced many negligible oils, is a painter.
ALLEN LEWIS.
Churchill is also a bricklayer (in the
sense that he has laid innumerable bricks
and has been made a member of the
Bricklayers’ Union), and he is a notable
landscape gardener. The little Italian
town of Rapallo contains two men who
are more versatile than Churchill—Max
Beerbohm (playwright, essayist, novelist,
parodist, caricaturist and dramatic critic
of the “Saturday” in the days of its
glory), and Ezra Pound —poet, composer,
essayist, literary critic, sociologist and
former editor of the “New English
Weekly.” Shaw is probably more ver-
satile in the true, or Shakspearean, sense
than any of them.
Speaker Charles Statham, of M.L.’s
House of Representatives, has decided to
quit politics and devote his talents to
his legal practice in Dunedin. He was
born in Dunedin 60 years ago. When
he beat the Social Democrat candidate
in Dunedin Central by 12 votes in 1914
and some votes in favor of his opponent
were rejected as invalid, Statham refused
to accept election and resigned. He was
elected by a big majority at the by-elec-
tion. He has pre-
sided over the
deliberations of
the Reps, for the
past 12 years.
Cecil Mann
underwent a
major operation
in a Sydney hos-
pital last week.
An old war-
wound gave
trouble, and
Mann had to have
some shrapnel
dug out as well.
Poet, short-story
writer and critic
with an indi-
vidual outlook,
Mann first joined
The Bulletin in
1925. He left to
take a job with the
“S. M. Herald,”
but returned after
a year or two in
Hunter-street. For
some time after
Bert Toy’s death
he was editor of
t h e “Woman’s
Mirror.”
“ ’Berra”: A
Sydney Sunday
paper has been
tipping the next
Governor-General every other week
for months, its latest fancy being Sir
Alexander Hore-Ruthven. The only justi-
fication seems to be that Sir Alexander
holds practically every decoration for
valor, including the V.C. Whoever takes
this job on will require matchless cour-
age. Apart from having to live in Can-
berra, the politicians have turned the
G.-G.-ship into what pugs call a grudge
fight.
“Kenso”: The death of Ernest Abigail,
jun.—killed in a motor smash last week
—is another illustration of the way pro-
minent Sydney families disappear. For
close on half a century the name Abigail
was a household word in N. S. Wales.
The originator of the family was a subur-
ban storekeeper who made money as
an investor. His sons, Ernie and Arthur,
were notable as criminal lawyers, in poli-
tics, sport and public affairs generally.
Ernie made a fortune, but cut Ernie, jun.,
out of direct interest under his will. What
threatened to be the biggest will litiga-
tion in N.S.W. history (Ernie’s brother
Arthur, who had helped in the making
of the fortune, was also an aggrieved
party) came to an end as a result of
agreements made by the beneficiaries.
Ernie’s son showed no taste for public
life, but he was a noted baseballer.
H. J. FINNIS, sec. S. Aus. A. and H.
Society.
Harold Finnis, here depicted by
Coventry, has been secretary of the
Royal Agricultural and Horticultural
Society of S.A. since 1926, and for the
next couple of months he will be the
busiest man in Adelaide. During Sep-
tember Show Week he works 24 hours
a day, plus any extra half-hours he can
manage to fit in. When things are less
strenuous he finds time for tennis and
gardening—no, horticulture is the word.
“Jeames” supplies some details:
Lord Woolavington, who,has died at 86, after
being an invalid for nearly 10 years, made his
colossal fortune in whisky. Though Scottish by
birth and the owner of a castle on Speyside, he
preferred Sussex, where so many of Britain’s
commercial monarchs abide. Lavington Park,
a few miles Londonwards from Goodwood race-
course, was his favorite home; passers-by were
able to guess its owner by the black-and-
white gates. Most of deceased’s money goes
to a devoted only daughter. She married a
Scots Guards captain named Macdonald, and
he added her name (Buchanan) to his. Mrs.
Macdonald-Buchanan was as fond of racing as
her father, and saw the two Derbies that his
horses Captain Cuttle (1922) and Coronach
(1926) won.
Survivors of the battle of
Glen rowan are getting almost as scarce
as those who fought in the earlier affair
at Waterloo. Bishop Gibney, of Perth—
who rushed into the burning pub as
parish priest to administer extreme
unction to Dan Kelly and Steve Hart —
has gone. Also Curnow, the school-
teacher who by waving a red light pre-
vented a train full of troopers from
being derailed. A few days ago two of
the troopers died in Victoria within 24
hours of each other.
“Dewey”: Alexander Christie Walker
was sent by his father from Gayndah (Q.)
to occupy Bingera cattle station in the
early ’sixties. He stayed there all his life,
refusing the offer of a seat in the now-
defunct Q. Legislative Council. Mrs.
Agnes Broom arrived in Bundaberg with
her parents in 1866, when half a dozen
men were the only inhabitants. Her
father, whose name was Watson, selected
the first block of land in the thick vine
scrub which then covered the whole of
North Bundaberg, and commenced sugar-
growing. Mr. Walker and Mrs. Brown
died within a few days of each other
recently, both being in the neighborhood
of ninety.


I *
Look far the
DISTILLERS'
GUARANTEE
i
OF
mpiiom
m Ml
AGE
on the
BACK LABEL
N
9S
a
Q
R
tt Cl
X
u
AUSTRALIAN
w
<b
c
a
$
ST
m
ol; court whisky
Mt
is bottled in bond under supervision
of the Commonwealth Customs, which
means that the contents of every
bottle must be absolutely true to label.
r v
THE DISTILLERS
siuavante(
msm
that the BLEND of Old Court
in this bottle is comprised of
whiskies aged in the
following proportions;
50% Distilled in the Years 1926"27
so% 1929-30
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES
PTY. LTD.
4i
Ot4TtU.RO A OUBHOAO
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES Pi
MpUSOURWK <•••■• MtBT«
m«t CCtH TOUTS. Ibntß SUUtI
Look for a new smoothness and mellowness in Old
Court. The back label tells you why. Here is stated,
under a guarantee from the Distillers, the actual age
of the component whiskies in the blend. Here is
definite proof that "Old Court is of a maturity excelled
by few even of the proudest whiskies in the world.
No other whisky gives such definite proof of age on
every bottle offered for sale. Old Court now gives
you a new pleasure in whisky.
OLD COURT
&
40
whisky


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single arid Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Tills Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request
Directors - .
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKI.AND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J H S ANGUS
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
TAcensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores. Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestoneb
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS—Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company's
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: .360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle In full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The [?]
COLUMNL
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends To
June, Profit. (10 p.c.). Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 480,201 849,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,050,296
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 .. 3,905,296
Written Oil.
1927.. 556,705 401,817 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
(8J p.c.)
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,226
(5$ p.c.)
1932.. 253,866 260,646 4,417,446
(5 p.c.)
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256,731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 263,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
It looks like a definite turn of the tide,
which has come later for the banks than
for other traders. Briefly, that is because
returns from advances, some of which
have lately turned in little or nothing at
all, and from Consols, Treasury bills,
call money, etc., have kept on contract-
ing faster than the cost of deposits and
overhead generally, including taxation.
When traders’ turnovers began to shrink,
stocks were reduced ; at the same time
the banks’ advances fell away and
interest-bearing deposits began to pile up,
helped partly by the issue of Treasury
bills. As trade began to recover, many
merchants financed expansion of their
activities out of accumulated funds. For
a time, therefore, business continued to
expand while bank advances marked
time.
During the last couple of years, how-
ever, advances have shown a welcome
expansion, and the pressure of interest-
bearing deposits has eased. Consider
these figures:
1932. 1934. 1935.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13,760 £13,703
Bills ■ • . • 1,158,933 1,240,483 1,173,911
Deposits . . 44,466,426 48,629,115 49,191,296
ASSETS.
Liquids . . £18,952,981 £22,001,960 £21,469,657
Advances . . 34,643,037 35,888,549 ' 36,940,268
Premises, etc.. . 1,318,090 1,269,690 1,247,812
Last term the growth in advances was
£1,051,719. This was accompanied by
an expansion of £562,181 in deposits and
a contraction of £532,303 in liquids.
According to the March quarterly aver-
ages, 60.8 p.c. of the co.’s deposits was
interest-bearing in ’35 as against 62.3 p.c.
in ’34. Also, when the books closed,
advances amounted to 75.1 p.c. of the
deposits as against 73.8 p.c. at the pre-
vious balance ; and the co. was holding
approximately £5 10s. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
Liquids, which amounted to 42.6 p.c.
of the liabilities to the public, were held
in this form:
1934. 1935.
Coin, bullion, notes, etc. £7,697,536 £7,892,626
Money at call .. .. 960,000 1,150,000
Treasury bills . . .. 4,640,000 3,865,000
Government securities .. 5,654,059 5,985,760
Bills receivable, London,
etc 2,070,620 2,111,077
Due from other banks.. 979,745 465,194
£22,001,960 £21,469,657
The contraction of £775,000 in Treasury
bills, now returning only 1| p.c., and
growth of £331,701 in Government securi-
ties favor slightly better earnings.
After setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, there
was an improvement of £7206 in last
year’s declared net result, which was
2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), or 5.5 p.c. on
the £4,739,012 of capital alone, compared
with 5.4, 5.7, 5.3, 9.3, 13.7 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1929. Taking the mean between
the amount of Government securities and
Treasury bills held at the beginning and
end of the last term, and assuming that
the former average 3 p.c. net and the
latter 1| p.c., then the profit claimed from
all other sections of the undertaking was
less than £15,000. The div. was kept at
5 p.c. Only once (in 1893) has the
C.B.S.’s yearly div. been less than 5 p.c.
since 1848.
Subject to economic developments, in-
dications are for a better showing at next
balance. The market therefore prices the
£25 shares paid to £l2 10s. at £lB 18s.
as against £l6 14s. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 3.3 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis, or 4 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
distribution. The cover is visibly
£24 3s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net to Re- and Re-
done, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8.781 414,043
1920.. 40,113 10 „ „ 30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,683.. 501,428
New capital, £30,040 .. .. 532,008
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,037 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 002,544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 013,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 021,479
1930.. 39,768 10 „ „ 40,000 021,237
Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 „ „ 12,000 005,184
Profit.
1932.. 12,795 S „ „ 12,000 795 006,979
1933.. 19,315 4 ~ „ 10,000 3,315 009,294
1934.. 31,738 0 „ ~ 24,000 7,738 017,032
Provident fund, £2OOO .. .. 015,032
1935.. 47,372 7 p.o. t= 28,000 19,372 034,404
Evaporation of insurable value, and
therefore premium income, due to slump,
was aggravated by unsatisfactory London
marine business, from which the co. with-
drew about three years ago. Freed of
this handicap, and with a more rigid
selection of risks, the Mercantile’s figures
have responded nicely to the steady im-
provement in trading conditions.
Last year merchants generally in-
creased their stocks, payrolls lengthened,
there were more motor-cars on the roads
and activity in the building trade livened.
The growth in net premium income was
£7314:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Kate. Rate.
1900.. £32,058 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 50.4 p.c.
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 ~ 62.9 „
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 ~
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 „ 39.8 „
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 „ 43.5 „
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 „ 46.6 „
1932.. 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 „ 50.3 „
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 ,
1934.. 230,060 87,192 123,211 37.9 „ 53.5 „
1935.. 237,374 85,963 125.437 36.2 „ 62.8 „
Of each £lOO of net premiums, losses
made off with 345. less than in the pre-
vious term, and the larger business was
handled at 14s. p.c. less cost, making the
saving in total outgo 48s. p.c. There
was a spring of £6317 in the under-
writing surplus (£25,974 = approx. 6.5
p.c. on capital). That was after paying
£29,772 (£1772 more than shareholders
received) in rates, taxes and compulsory
contributions to fire brigades. A longer
rent roll added £1317 to returns from
investments (£21,398, equal to 5.3 p.c. on
capital). The net return from all sources
was thus 11.8 p.c. on capital as against 7.9,
4.8, 3.8, a loss (£4053), and then profits
of 9.9, 11.9, 12.6 and 15.2 p.c. back
to 1927. A point was added to the div.,
making it 7 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a. For the decade to the
close of accounts in 1930, divs. averaged
a shade under 10 p.c., and for the 10
years before that 15 p.c.
The market notes the improvement;
notes also that the co. enjoys a high
reputation, built up during more than
half a century’s careful trading, and that
£152,250 of its £400,000 of capital has
been transferred from reserves (now
£234,404). It therefore prices the pound
shares paid to 16s. at 28s. 3d. as against
235. a year ago. The return at 28s. 3d.
is 3.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects.
Policy-holders are well protected, as
they always have been:
1928. 1931 1934 1935.
Paid capital.. £333,750 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 237,262 202,668 135,317 147,796
Freeholds, etc. 227,181 412,968 413,315 412,000
Mortgages .. 17,822 19,256 18,817 17,208
Public securities,
etc. ' .. 459,474 319,963 297,471 306,425
Book debts .. 80,865 67,614 46.679 49,908
Cash, etc. ~ 35,153 6,051 12,916 23,597
When the books closed net tangibles
were equal to 267 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. It was to build the
new headquarters in Pitt-street, Sydney,
that the co. went a bit into debt. Still,
finances are very comfortable.
Kando* Cement (N.S.W*.)
t Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
„ £ £ £ £
1925.. 127,829 10 p.c. a 84,282 43,592 186,894
1926.. 133,246 10 „ ~ 84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other cos. £25,380.. 160,528
1927.. 138.204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,600
Written off shares in other cos. £36,000., 179,500
1928.. 174,045 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,013
1929.. 137,898 10 „ „ 84,232 58,606 323,579
1030.. 118,349 10 „ ~ 84.232 84,117 357,690
1931.. 43.702 5 „ „ 42,116 1,640 859,342
Written off shares in other cos, £10,000.. 849,342
1932.. 14,820 2J p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 ~ ~42,110 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl ~ 350,000
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 850,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549. . ' 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 868,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 856,090
1935.. 76,471 71 p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,027
When trouble loomed up in the over-
capitalised cement industry in 1929, this
co. and Australian Cement (the only
producer in Vic.) decided that the best
way to ensure a place in the race was to
go on the market together (the surplus
production of one had previously com-
peted with the other). So each took
a million paids in Australian Portland,
which became the operating co., control-
ling plants in N. S. Wales and Vic. with
a combined annual capacity of about
450.000 tons, or approximately one-third
of the total plant capacity of the Com-
monwealth.
During the 1932 term, the sale of
cement throughout Australia dropped to
not much more than one-third of the
1929 figure, and this co. had to tap re-
serves to pay 2i p.c. There has since
been a steady recovery in sales, and
therefore earnings, due mainly to the re-
vival of trade and industry generally,
and partly to the good work done by
Cement Manufacturers’ Association in
widening the use of the material. Also,
the co. having more money than it
expected to find employment for in the
industry, was able to return £168,466
(= 4s. in the £) of its capital, thus mak-
ing payment of a better rate of dividend
on the remaining £673,862 possible.
The figures of the operating co. are
not broadcast. But total sales in N. S.
Wales and Vic. increased by approxi-
mately one-third last year, reaching
259.000 tons and 128,000 tons respec-
tively—a little less than half total plant
capacity in the two States —and the
Kandos works got a full share of the
business. There was thus a spring of
£35,992 in net earnings, which were 11.3
p.c. on capital as against 4.8, 1.7 and 5.1
p.C. for the three preceding terms. That
disregards a surplus of £12,549 on realisa-
tion of some of the assets, £452 trans-
ferred from the doubtful debts reserve
and £6958 struck off the book value of
shares in other cos. The div., lifted from
6 p.c. to 7\ p.c., was a comfortable matter.
The immediate outlook is for another
satisfactory showing at next balance;
sales continued to increase up to the
close of accounts, and the co. has since
secured a 12 months’ contract with the
N. S. Wales Government for the supply
of 35,000 tons of cement at £2 17s. 6d.
ex works.
The market prices the 165.-paid shares
at 265. as against 21s. a year ago. The
return at the higher figure is 4.6 p.c. on
a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The cover is 31s. 4d.
per pound of paid capital in net tangibles.
Finances are comfortable:
1927. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £842,328 £842,328 £673,862 £673,862
Liabilities .. 99,596 39,214 29,272 14,205
Freehold, plant,
etc 732,632 _
Shares other cos. 267,2001,031,247 1,023,247 1,005,000
Stocks .. 77,231
Hook debts .. 121,438 98,247 28,387 00,075
Cush, etc. .. 151,860 42,586 56,159
The year’s surplus earnings plus profit on
realisations, etc., are reflected in the
growth of £60,328 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£102,029).
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 36,737 10 p.c. = 27,532 9,205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 098
frets.,
7J p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles. £8750 .. 8,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,647 8,383
,1028.. 54.833 22,600 7„„ 21,000 11,838 19,606
1929.. 47,496 22,600 6i„ 19,500 5,496 26,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1982.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1938.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,294
1934.. 12,807 25,594* Nil 2.507
Deficit.
1985.. 13,057 25,594* Nil 10,089
*4 p.c. from l/12/’32 plus £13,504 towards arrears.
The present co. amalgamated the old
businesses of Cheadle, Crase and Co. and
Bennett and Fisher in 1919. The busi-
ness expanded rapidly during the boom,
and the ords. averaged 7.4 p.c, for the
nine years to the close of accounts in
1929, but the co. had put on little fat.
Then came the break in the markets and
in earnings, and payments to the prefs.
(150,000 As and a like number of Bs,
which used to carry a cumulative 1\ p.c.)
had fallen £54,375 behind at the end of
1932. It was decided to wipe out the
arrears by four annual payments (£13,594
each) from reserves. Also, the div, was
lowered to 4 p.c., with the right to an-
other 1 p.c. when the ords. got up to
5 p.c., and the further right to advance
with the ords. beyond 5 p.c. to p.c. and
to share in future bonus issues, if any.
The co. does not broadcast the number
of bales it has put under the hammer.
After providing for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, last year’s
gross earnings (£70,554) were £1598
better, despite the fall in the price of
wool. Exes. (£57,497) were up £1348,
due, apparently, to extension of the sell-
ing season. The net result was thus
£1057 better than a full year’s pref. re-
quirements at 4 p.c. Actually, the prefs.
got 8i p.c., of which A\ p.c. was in
respect of arrears, leaving a final £13,594
to come at next balance. Reserves were
tapped for £12,537 net. That left £10,030
of the ord. capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles at the end of June —goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein, figures at
£27,000.
The real financial position is obscured
by lumping merchandise and fixed assets
in an untidy entry (up £16,990 net) in
the published accounts:
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 380,068 296,805 218,610 234,507
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc. 114,113 106,524 92,064 109,054
Advances & bills 904,429 790,196 719,053 705,764
Investments and
cash .. 18,373 20,291 20,401 20,458
To meet the outlay, together with the
third instalment of pref. div. arrears, the
(Continued on page 18.)


vymsrLq
AUSTRALIA’S
COMMUNICATION
NEEDS
£
(W
Sj
Mi
M
it
I *
pH®
fflj
S
£l
Vl c i
if*
Mi
Mi
x'
if'
M‘
Mi
W
IIM
*U'
cl
I*
X
ti
Mi
Mi
*
j
■
Mi
r'i
A*
A?
Mi
aM
6”
A*
V
n
o
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph
services are indispensable to a country’s
progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has
anticipated, rather than followed, the
needs of the Australian public for modern
wireless telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day oper-
ates the Beam Wireless Telegraph Service,
Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the
Beam Picturegram Service between Aus-
tralia and overseas. A.W.A. also operates
the Australian Coastal Radio Service and
the Pacific Island Services in New Guinea,
Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on
ships at sea for the safety of life and for
the interchange of public wireless tele-
grams between ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-
important factors that have resulted in
giving the public satisfactory service. To
this end every new phase of wireless
has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
The Company invites inquiries in respect
to any of its wireless communication
services, and will count it a privilege to
be of service.


m m
EIGHT PER CENT.
SOUND INVESTMENT.
Write for Prospectus.
Box 3871 T, G.P.0., Sydney.
QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN-PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th June, 1935.
COMPANY.
Jelapan£ Tin Dredging, Ltd
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd
Rawang Concessions, Ltd
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd
NOTE.—AII figures are expressed in English sterling,
and, except in the case of Rawang Concessions, Ltd.,
the two months’ carry-over stocks as at June 30.
The yields represent entire production for the quarter,
the above figures exclude the cost and realisation of
book value of advances was reduced by
£13,289 and £15,997 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
The year’s slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£491,715) was £29,229.
The market, doubtful of the future,
prices the As at 13s. 6d., the Bs at 12s.
9d. and the ords. at 4s. 3d. At these
prices the return on the A and B shares
is 12.6 p.c. and 13.3 p.c. respectively on
an 8-i p.c. div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. and 6.2
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is £3 18s. Bd. As, £2 18s.
Bd. Bs and 19s, 4d. ords.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Ue-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Si Si £ Si
1025.. 14,145 14 p.c. = 10,500 3,045 27,615
1920.. 13,355 16 ~ ~ 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 „ „ 13,500 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 30,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,013.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,904 18 „ „ 13,500 4,404 75,095
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 90,095
1931.. 12,277 10 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 „ „ 10,800 88,145
1933.. 11,700 12 „ „ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ ~10,800 4,151 93,250
1935. . 11,973 12 ~ „ 10,800 1,173 94,429
There is £90,000 of capital to feed in
180,000 50s. shares paid to 10s. each ;
the other 40s. is callable only in the
event of liquidation. At the close of
accounts the money, together with a
mortgage of £31,612 (the co. went out-
side to help finance erection of its new
Bourke-street premises) and £998 from
the bank, was invested in freehold, etc.,
£142,797 ; debtors for commissions, etc.,
£69,917 ; guarantee fund at the Treasury
(Vic.), £lO,OOO. What the lot turns in is
not disclosed in the published accounts.
Still, with reserves piled £4429 higher
than paid capital, the two combined need
net only 5.8 p.c. to pay 12 p.c. on capital
alone.
Last year’s gross earnings from all
sources were up £443:
Dross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17431 £11,328 66.1
1920 .. 26,673 14,775 55.3
1925 . . ’ 37,467 23,322 62.2
1927 .. 47,091 27,968 59.3
1928 .. 46,963 31,162 62.8
1929 . . 54,856 30,632 55.8
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 05.6
1931 . . 47,338 35,061 73.0
1932 .. 43,454 33,382 76.9
1933 . . 45,244 33,484 74.0
1934 . . 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 .. 5Q,300 38,327 76.1
The spring of £3421 in exes, suggests
continued growth in the trust business,
the volume of which is not disclosed.
The contraction of £2978 in the net
result is therefore not a serious matter.
The £11,973 of profit claimed was 13.3
p.c. on capital, compared with 16.6, 13,
11.1, 14, 23.9, 32.3 and 21 p.c. back to
1928. The div., which averaged 17.2 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1931, was kept at 12 p.c.
The market notes the co.’s past per-
formances —£50,000 of the capital was
transferred from reserves, though share
premiums have since taken some of the
gilt off the gingerbread—sees no cloud
in the sky, and prices the scrip at 345.
The return at that figure is 3.5 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c, should the
distribution be lifted to 14 p.c.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
After a little haggling concerning the
terms of purchase. Emperor Mines, Ltd.,
has been put off the stocks in Melbourne
to buy all the 100,000 fully-paid
£1 shares in the Emperor G.M. Co.,
working a rich deposit on the Tavua
field, Fiji. The purchaser has a
nominal capital of £1,000,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 900,000 were offered,
underwritten at 6d. a share by Wallace
H. Smith and Co., and quickly snapped.
The vendor (chief shareholders were E.
G Theodore, John Wren, F. Packer and
P. F. Cody) takes 600,000 fully-paids,
together with £300,000 cash and an 18
months’ par option from Sept. 15, 1936,
over 350,000 of the half-million shares
that are in pickle. The immediate total
purchase consideration is thus £600,000
out of an issued capital of £750,000, leav-
ing £150,000 to further equip and de-
velop the property and pay underwriting
and other preliminary exes.
The mine is in a sheared zone on the
northern slopes of Koroere Hill. The
formations are composed of altered ande-
site, and contain silica, with a. propor-
tion of kaolin and felspars, much iron-
stained. In places contacts occur, giving
the lode mixture great width, 500 ft. at
one point. The Emperor has been opened
by a series of shallow shafts and trenches
for a distance of approximately 1300 ft.
from the southern boundary. T. R.
Victor puts the average width of the
main shearing or lode track at between
15ft. and 20ft., with an easterly dip or
underlay of from 50 to 70 degrees. To
the main tunnel level, 100 ft. from the
crest of the hill, or an average of 70ft.
below the surface, Mr. Victor conser-
vatively figures 211,000 tons of ore, con-
taining 141,5000 z, of gold, an average
of 13.4dwt. That was after allowing for
loss by dilution and for loss in the tail-
ings. It also leaves out of the reckoning
at least 30,000 tons of “highly payable”
ore on which a reliable average value
cannot yet be placed, owing to lack of
development.
At £8 an ounce, Australian currency,
the 141,5000 z. would be worth
£1,132,000. Costs are put at 20s. per ton,
thus leaving a profit of £921,000, or suffi-
cient to return the capital and £71,000
(less than Is, per share) besides. In
addition, there is the 30,000 tons
just referred to, plus whatever may
be disclosed by further development be-
tween the present tunnel level, the walls
and the surface and water level, which is
expected to be reached at about 200 ft.
“I believe,” says Mr. Victor, “that
values are certain to live at least to the
sulphide zone, and there is some evi-
dence that they may live to great depths.”
Time may justify the beliefs, but one can’t'
help recalling remarks ventured by
mining men with equally high creden-
tials concerning Bullfinch. Mr. Victor
recommends that the deposit be worked
to the present level by opencut, and
that, should the lode maintain its width
and values, a 10,000-ton-a-month mill-
ing and treatment plant be installed.
The present mill (handling about 100 tons
a week) has put through 1663 tons for
42950 z. of fine gold, an average of
15.5dwt. Extraction was 92 p.c. of the
head value.
The co. was floated under the wing
of Australian Gold Development, whose
shareholders had prior rights to 100,000
of the shares offered (50 for 1).
On the board are W. H. Smith, T. R.
Victor and A. G. Campbell.
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, formed at
the end of January to work ground on
the right bank of the Bulolo, New
Guinea, has construction of the water-
race well in hand, and the first unit of
its hydraulic sluicing and elevating equip-
ment (capacity 11,000 c.y, monthly) is
expected to be in full swing by the end
of October, which is ahead of schedule.
Surplus water will be used to ground-
sluice the adjacent slopes of the Mid-
lothian breccia deposit. Much depends
upon what this deposit turns out to be
worth.
The testing of Barola Gold Reef’s
property on the Ramu River, New
Guinea, has been disappointing. Ten
samples, taken by J. M. Spence, over
10ft. sections from the portal of the adit
show values from Idwt. to sdwt. per
ton, another went Bdwt. and two more
than an ounce. The find is in difficult
country, which means that the average
value needs to be fairly high to make
the show worth while.
* * * *
Watut Dredging, a Melbourne concern
which drew a blank on the Watut River,
New Guinea, has decided to put up the
shutters. Holders of scrip on which
both application and allotment money
has been paid will receive £9 7s. 6d. a
share ; where application money only has
been paid, £4 7s. 6d. a share.
•** * *
A company is being formed, in which
Amalgamated Gold Estates has a con-
trolling interest, to develop a property
on King Island. A shaft has been sunk
to 25ft., and a well-defined lode of silver-
lead-zinc has been exposed, width nearly
Bft., underlying to the west. Assays
from the shaft show gold, Idwt. 15gr. a
ton ; silver, 4oz. 19dwt.; zinc, 18.77 p.c.;
lead, 9.82 p.c. The lode has been traced
on the surface for two and a half miles
north and south.
* * ♦ *
The directors of Lady Shenton, Men-
zies (W.A.), put ore reserves at 50,040
tons positive in the main lode, averaging
29dwt., worth £588,126 with gold at £8
an ounce Australian currency ; probable,
36,205 tons. At grass and broken from
old Shenton workings, 2173 tons, aver-
age 34dwf.; 2450 tons, 12dwt.; 3000 tons,
lOdwt.; gross value of the lot £54,728.
Recent drilling to test the Falconer lode
at depth, south of the fault, has given
disappointing values to 283 ft. Since the
ore-bodies are lenticular, and gold is in
the shoots through the lodes, the question
of putting down further bores south on
the 425 ft. level is under consideration.
* * * *
The board of Lake View South Ex-
tended, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is bucked
about recent developments in the Im-
perial, immediately to the south. Both
cos. are developing the same wide lode.
Values, though not high, are claimed to
be good enough to show satisfactory
profits if large tonnages are milled. The
Extended intends to unwater No. 4 shaft
to 500 ft., and drive on the lode. At the
same time the shaft will be sunk to the
next level, where it is expected to meet
with “a large tonnage of payable ore.”
There is also a chance of further new ore
being developed when the cross lode from
No. 6 shaft intersects the main Aberdare
lode.
* * * *
Good Hope has abandoned its option
at Broad Arrow (W.A.). The lode, 2ft.
to sft. wide, was driven on for 80ft. on
the 160 ft. level, values ranging from
3dwt. to 70z., but good ore was very
patchy. Prospects are not sufficiently en-
couraging to warrant an extended option
at increased terms, the manager says.
* * «■ *
B.A.N.Z. has paid the final instalment
on two leases at Nevoria, on the Yil-
garn goldfield (W.A.), The vendors, J.
French and J. O’Neil, receive £6OOO. The
co. has adjoining leases under option ;
it also has property at the northern end
of the Golden Mile and at Kurrawang
(W.A.). It was responsible for the
flotation of the Ora Banda Co. in London
for the development of leases formerly
held by Associated Northern Blocks.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder’s ore position is better
than it was 12 months ago. Translated
into cash, the additional tonnage devel-
oped represents an advance of £280,400
sterling. Capital outlay on chanses in
treatment practice, coupled with the loss
on account of the miners’ strike, has
been considerable, and payment of an
interim div. has been postponed until
later in the year. But the new treatment
method is expected to swell net earnings.
*** ' p
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie is spending
£30,000 on a central power station on
its Golden Mile blocks, and the till is
being dipped into freely for develop-
ment. Also, money is being spent patch-
ing up the old mill on the Associated,
which will be used by arrangement with
Lake View and Star, which recently added
the Associated to its list of Golden Mile
holdings.
* * * *
Australian Mining Trust has placed a
contract for supply and erection of an
ore-treatment plant, capacity 60,000 tons
annually, at the Celebration, Hampton
Plains (W.A.). Primary and secondary
crushing will be followed by fine
grinding by ball mill, filtration and pre-
cipitation. Production is, expected to
begin by the end of the year.
* * * ♦
Coolgardie Brilliant, having thrown
one show into the discard, is having an-
other shot at picking the winning ace;
this time at Yalgoo, in porphyry coun-
try. Here little work has been done to
date; the present owners have broken
450 tons to a depth of 20ft. Values of
27dwt. are mentioned.
* * * *
lyes Prop, has taken a free working
option on the Homeward Bound, about
16 miles north of Leonora (W.A.).
Arrangements are being made to test
the areas by diamond-drilling. If the
option is exercised, the price will be
£4OOO.
* * * * ,
Since May last Swan Bitter (W.A.) has
treated 1972 tons for 508 oz. gold, and it
is estimated that there is another 5720 z.
in the sands. It is now proposed to
double plant capacity, and the co. is on
the hunt for £5OOO for the purpose. The
chairman says there is 2000 tons of ore,
estimated to return £4OOO net, available.
The market remains unimpressed.
* * * ♦
The Dunbar, operating at Broad
Arrow (W.A.), crushed 76 tons for an
average of 14dwt. 6gr. The co. pro-
poses to sink the shaft from 150 ft. to
200 ft. to develop the mine further.
* * * *
Bullfinch Syndicate, from leases under
option at Bullfinch (W.A.), crushed 150
tons of oxidised ore, averaging 27dwt.;
50 tons of sulphides returned 51.80 z.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlanda and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult -
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * ♦
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 . General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


' ■ ;v '\
;
*• . •
‘
: v ; ■ -i ■ :
■■ i ■ ''' .
ill
(f
m
si
1 i in
mm
■Am
B # 5 > «•
m 1
■'
fIVS -v >,
i s
■ .:•*■
.
•they will
tell you.
th ese
discriminating
people •
• • • •
• • • that part
of their life is
Country
Life
Jne Cigarette
100% PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
Tins of 14-1/-; 21-
Also Flat 50’s and
Round Airtight 50’s,
100’s, etc.
■ lili
♦ | ''V' 1 ” s
; •. ■
t.‘ ' ~ *
* -
4 X 'v «.• f'ffyfS '' '
, ,
,A,/
*
■S
U'J •
1
iff fy*.
.
I
;#
~ -I' 1 ' . f
*E7
: .v
■
n
*****
fc
Ww
- ■■ ■
.
' * ■■
•••:• V :
m
mm
m
m
s,
■■
■ ■
wHsH -
e**
■ ■••■ ■
o
1/6
2W*
MS
»■■■»
■• ■
iisHpissi
A.
> -
y
■ ‘A --
■
■ •
■
7740-5-5


ABORIGINALITIES
“Oran”: Uncle Harry, who has spent
most of his life in the backblocks, hasn’t
much opinion of modern notions since
an experience that befell him on the
King’s highway. I He was driving in
the spring-cart to get a few supplies from
town, and chanced upon an empty car at
the gate of a farmhouse. As uncle drew
level with the vehicle it began, according
to his account, to laugh loudly and sing
in a raucous voice, a phenomenon which
caused Dobbin to lurch into the water-
table and uncle to take a header after
him. During this exhibition the car
continued to bellow “Ha! Ha! Ha! You
and me, Little brown jug, How I. love
thee,” and it was still singing and laugh-
ing when uncle, entirely infuriated,
picked himself out of the mud. He still
disbelieves our explanation of a car
wireless set.
* * * *
“L.L.”: For many years I had tried
in most of the known haunts of the cur-
lew to catch a glimpse of one of the
cunningly elusive birds. Once I watched
for an hour a fox stalking one. The
fowl was behind the trunk of a tree,
probably with one eye on the fox and
the other on me, but I could see only
the fox. 1 tired of the vigil and shot the
fox. And then, as 1 was driving one
night from Brisbane to Caboolture. a
big bird cracked me on the side of the
head and fell fluttering across my hands
on the steering wheel. It was a curlew.
* ❖ ❖
“Petitor”: Yarn-spinners are too
generous in recounting exploits of yester-
year. Eight years ago in the Soustralian
wheatbelt a widow with a small scrub
selection sewed bags at harvest-time. Her
best day’s tally, in addition to milking
her six cows, was 94 bags. I heard this
next day from her employer. Last week,
20 miles from the spot, the exploit was
served up afresh. I. was interested to
hear the lady credited with 18 cows and
171 bags.
# * * *
“Ex-’Rooer”: It was the custom among
Kimberley (W.A.) abos. to hold newly-
born piccaninnies over a smoky fire to
make them turn black. They believed
that if this custom was neglected the
children would always remain the pale
color they are at birth. While there, I
knew a half-caste girl of Chinese extrac-
tion who declared that her yellowish-
grey skin was due to the neglect of her
mother in not smoking her enough.
% % %
“Old Q.”: An old report of the
Queensland Royal Society shows that Dr.
Joseph Bancroft, the elder, one of the
pioneers in connecting the mosquito with
malaria and other tropic diseases, in-
formed the society that, in conjunction
with Baron von Muller, he had
investigated the properties of the
pituri plant used by the natives of n.-w.
Queensland as a narcotic. He had
isolated “the mydratic Dubosia, per-
haps the most powerful agent known
as a paralyser of the internal muscles ol
the eye, and yielding a drug now em-
ployed all over the world by ophthalmic
surgeons.” That was in 1877. Do our
modern quacks still employ the stuff, or
have they found something better?
* * * *
“A.J.W.”: Any Aboliar know to what
age a goat may live? At Forsayth (N.Q.)
there’s an old nanny aged 17 years. She
is called Bertha after a daughter of the
house born on the same day. Nanny-
called-Bertha has for years given up
roaming with the mob, and lives on
potato peelings and scraps.
* * * *
“J.E.M.V (Torres Strait): Natural
luminosity isn’t confined to land
creatures and objects. The marine life
known as plankton exudes an elfin light at
certain periods of the year. These lights
are a sexual phenomenon ; the female of
the species of these microscopic creatures
surrounds herself with a bluish phos-
phorescent glow at mating times for the
purpose of attracting the male. The
waters of the Barrier Reef are at times
thick with them, and a pickle-bottle of
water from the reef will glow with milky
luminance.
:j! * if
“D.M.”: Australian eucalypts? I have
seen magnificent forests of gum-trees in
Algeria, and even as far north as Galicia
(n.-w. .Spain). The little seaport of Pon-
tevedra, near Vigo, has a thriving export
trade in eucalyptus pit-props, which are
sent to Cardiff for use in the coal-
mines. Gum-trees can survive even the
English climate. I know of two fine
specimens growing in a field at Saltash
“Here I am, dad —back agin after twenty years!"
“By cri, I knew you soon get tired of roughing it!"
(Cornwall). Perhaps the most unlikely
use to which eucalypts have been put
by foreigners occurs in Italy. If you
visit the Franciscan monks at the Por-
tiuncula (Rome) they will refresh you
with a fine liqueur made from gum-leaves.
It has a flavor all its own, and with no
suggestion of eucalyptus tang in it.
* * * *
“Como”: The latest sea-serpent, which
came so close to Airey’s Inlet (Vic.)
fishermen that they endeavored to lasso
it, appeared on an adjacent beach next
day and was photographed, turning out
to be a common or garden sea-leopard.
Now that sea-serpents are in the boom,
some enterprising guest-house in a re-
mote spot would find a domesticated
marine monster a big pull for the
summer months. Any theatrical prop-
erty man or out-of-work artist could
convert a small motor-boat into a sea-
serpent at a cost of a few pounds. Dart-
ing about on a calm sea half a mile from
the shore it would be indistinguishable
from the dinkum article direct from
Lough Ness.
H 1 J I ; %
“Piscator”: Those compelled to be on
Port Melbourne pier at night or in the
early morning are being given a chance
just now to watch some unusual fishing.
The quarry are ling, which are now fre-
quenting the water under the wharves. A
tiny fish on a small hook is the bait, and
this is lowered through the inch-wide
cracks between the planks. The angler’s
ends of the lines are fastened to tobacco-
tins placed on small pegs. When a ling
bites, the tin falls off the peg and gives
warning. The fish is then hauled up
through the crack, though he may weigh
as much as three pounds. He has a
cartilaginous skeleton, and tapers away
at the tail-end so obligingly as to lend
himself to the part of a camel passing
through the needle’s eye.
* * * *
“Kellick”: 1 read with interest and
amusement the assertion of “Mak” (B.
24/7/’35) that a dinghy always rides
three waves astern of a launch. I once
got 14 days’ stoppage of leave because a
skiff I was towing crashed into my boat,
damaging the rudder. Three waves
would have kept my conduct-sheet clean.
HC ❖ H*
“Eureka”: Though the platypus is
essentially a fresh-water creature, 1 have
seen them swimming in the Pambula
(N.S.W.) River where the water was too
salt to drink. They were plentiful in the
upper reaches. Whether they swam down
or were washed down to the brackish
end during floods t can't say, but the salt
water certainly didn’t kill them.
* * * *
“Wun Legg”: One-legged birds? Three
Westralian wheatbelt experiences. A
groundlark caught its foot on the barbs in
a top wire ; the bone snapped, and when
I found it the skin was wound several
times around the wire. A plover tangled
in wire-netting and surrounded by
squawking and obviously worried
friends lost his foot before I managed
to release him. Next I saw what seemed
to be a bird-tight ; it turned out to be a
crow caught in a rabbit-trap. Two
hawks had taken advantage of his pre-
dicament to attack him, but each time
the crow rose in the air in a frantic
effort to reach his tormentors the rat-
tling trap scared them back. The black
fowl’s efforts to escape were successful
before I reached him, but he left one pin
behind. Since then I have seen both
plover and crow stumping about like
Long John Silver.
* * * *
“Runa”: The peroxided cat mentioned
by “G.M.” (B. 10/7/’35) had a com-
panion in misfortune in the small dog
owned by a Maoriland dye firm. He
was originally some kind of a white
poodle, but the firm, having realised his
possibilities as an advertising medium,
used to parade him in the city streets
decked with green ears and a purple
tail, or spotted with vivid scarlet or blue.
His daily trot down town was always
worth watching for.
* * * *
“Retired Squatter”: “J.F.L.” (B.
*l7/7/’35) wants to know how seeds of
useless plants came to be in a 160-acre
patch which had been burnt off six
months previously. Some seeds are so
small that they are carried by the wind :
others are rolled along the ground by the
same agency. xMany weeds are dis-
tributed through fodder and unclean
seed (in fact, most of the weeds we have
imported came in that way). Floods,
coats, feet of animals, manure and birds
are other agencies ; and, finally, weed
seeds are so hardy that they are cap-
able of germination under conditions im-
possible to useful plants. In many cases
they remain dormant in the soil await-
ing favorable conditions for germinating
—such as the scrub-felling, burning ami
heavy rain that “J.F.L.” describes,
* ♦ ♦
“Bla-bla”: Twelve months ago I
boxed a swarm of bees olf a fruit-tree
and left the hive on the ground. Rob-
bing it recently, 1 turned the box up and
was interested to see what appeared to
be an outsize in queen cells, sealed in
thick wax and firmly cemented to a
corner of the box. It turned out to be
the body of a mouse in a wonderful
state of preservation—there was no smell
at all. Judging by the dark color ot
the wax encasing Micky, the embalm-
ing process appeared to have taken place
soon after the honey-makers decided to
hang out their sign and start business.
* * * ♦
“Monto”: The peewits or magpie-
larks mentioned by “Dewey” (B.
31 /7/’35) aren’t a recent invasion in
Bundaberg (Q.). Epidemics of the fowls
sweep over the place. They have a
penchant for trees and telephone wires
along the west end of Bourbon-
street, the rum city’s main thorough-
fare. Nesting and the breeding business,
however, arc carried on further up the
Burnett, among the tall, swampy timber
along the banks. In one apparently
favorite tree I counted seven of the birds'
mud nests.
* * * *
“Orang Malayu”: I don’t sec anything
simple in “Ethno’s” deduction (B.
7/8/’35) that the light-skinned Papuans
found by Hides are “descendants of Poly-
nesians, possibly the original occupants
of the island, driven skywards by Mela-
nesian invaders.” Environment alone
would account for their lightness, since
the climate in that high country is cold
and equable compared with the coastal
regions. The “sullenness” of them
suggests the Mongol rather than the
Polynesian. Austen, who penetrated
to the headwaters of the Fly and the
edge of the Star Mountains some years
ago —a greater trip than Hides's, but less
advertised —showed me a list of trade
Malay words which he had brought back
from the interior.
♦ * * ♦
“El V.”: “Hoopla’s” bush yell (B.
7/8/’35), which comes from my native
part of the country, is all right on the
plains and watercourses, but in real
bush —Cape York or the Roper and
Limmen —where the air is often damp
and the landscape is filled with tricky
timber and little hills, it is about as
foreign as a wombat in Piccadilly. Many
of the tribes around the Gulf use the
best hail that I know —“U-lu-lu,” from
well down in the chest. There are some
variations among peoples, so that by
slight differences in note it is possible to
identify callers. The same cry is in use
in parts of India, where the usual hail is
“Qu'hai” —hence the nickname “Kooee-
hai,” which used to be applied to the
old-time company man who was always
shouting for his bearer. And, of course,
“Ululu” was the war-cry of the Roman
soldier. But, perhaps, there is nothing
strange in these links. In Kalkadoon
(N.Q.), a fairly limited tongue, 1 have
catalogued 124 words either almost iden-
tical with or related to words of similar
meaning in Latin, Turkish, Norwegian,
Tamil. And a tribe next door has Can-
tonese words in it, though the coast is
600 miles away.
“S.G.”: “Ya-a -ho-o-o-o!” (B. 10/ 7/’35).
You’ll hear it when they’re mustering the
high country of the South Island (M.L.).
All the mustering there is done on foot,
owing to the incredibly rugged nature of
the country, and the musterer who can’t
make himself heard from the snowline
to the dank, dismal depths of the gorge,
perhaps two or three thousand feet below
him, soon gets his cheque. In the days
when I dragged a pair of 91b. boots over
the “tops” of the Bealey, up the Waimak
Gorge, there was always bitter rivalrv
between the various mustering teams in
the matter of vocal attainments, especi-
ally when wet weather gave all hands a
chance to assemble at the pub. One ot
our team held the undisputed title ot
champion of the Alps. The man below
him (we worked a line from the summit
to the river-bed) was never safe; the
noisy one would start an avalanche even
time he gave his position. And the local
Bung prohibited him “talking shop” on
Sunday afternoons, owing to the fac.
that the John Hop stationed a few miles
down the gorge sternly objected to the
disturbance.
“RHEUMATIC GUS.”
“It’s marvellous,” old Shorty said, and held his
palms towards the flame,
“!low some coves hang to notions ’cause some
other joker’s done the same,
ft makes no difference, either, when those
doctor-blokes an’ scientists
Keep bustin’ up those same ideers —their fond
belief in ’em persists.
“We had a feller on the station here they
called ‘Rheumatic Gus’;
He always had the ‘screws’ (at least, that’s
what he kept on tell in’ us).
An’ ev’ry time he felt a twinge he never failed
to come to light
With ‘’Struth! me rheumatism’s crook —you
see, we’ll get some rain to-night.’
“He never clicked —an’ he was here right
through the nineteen-twenty drought
(If we’d had all the rain he tipped, we’d surely
have bin flooded out).
The mob, of course, kept slingin" oil. but
Gus'd take it all an’ say:
‘Well, anyhow, 1 bet there must be moisture
not 100 far away.’
“They struck a reely splendid flow half-way
from here to Kingdom Come.
‘We’ll cellybrate it,’ says the boss, and trundles
out a cask of rum.
His back teeth soaked in alcohol, old Gus
he ups an’ has his say:
‘Ain’t I been tellin’ you galoots that moisture
wasn’t far away?’
“ ‘Rheumatic’ wriggled out one day—had water
on the brain, I s’pose;
Perhaps by accident he’s gone to where blokes
like him rarely goes.
When skies arc clear you bet he’ll rub his
disembodied neck an’ say:
‘The rheumatism’s crook again—I’ll bet there’s
rain not far away.’ ”
N.S.W.
S. W. K


"Bui, darling, MUST we have
twin beds ?”
“Tweet”: Brisbane saw a new kind
of sporting competition—the first in
Australia —when 21 roller canaries sang
for all they were worth before a com-
mittee of judges. To the uninitiated, it
may be explained that the roller canary
is so named, not because he revolves on
the floor while shrieking like a hysterical
damsel, but on account of the peculiar
rolling quality of his notes. Points were
awarded for “Glucke-glucke,” “Shockel.”
“deep burbling,” “flute,” “high bell.”
“bell roll” and “swirr”—“swirr” is
likened to the ripping of a piece of calico.
An imported bird—unnamed—won.
* * * *
“Petitor”: Sea-birds, like old shell-
backs, like pickles with their salt tack.
After a storm the ornithologist of the
S.A. Museum scoured the beaches from
Moana to Sellicks. Among the flotsam
he found giant petrels and smaller alba-
trosses: in the stomach of one of the
petrels was a pickled onion ; under an
albatross’s waistband was found the
stomach of another bird containing
cuttlefish beaks. Two shags, shot in the
Botanic Gardens and brought to the
Museum, contained the reason for their
extermination —13 goldfish taken from
a pool in the Gardens.
* * * *
“Lacerta”: Tell “Purinthy” (B.
31/7/’35) that there are genuine sea-
going goannas without any of the fishy
attributes of his reef friends. They are
found in several parts of the world, and
Darwin, on his voyage in the Beagle, was
so fascinated by some he discovered in
the Galapagos that he devoted a chapter
of his book to them. These, true monitor
lizards like our Australian pal, lived on
the seashore, diving off the rocks when
approached and lying on the bottom
for indefinite periods until the departure
of intruders.
“Old-1.”: And another “fig” for
“Bogan's Boy’s” 273 snakes killed in one
day (B. 31/7/’35). Camped near
Mathoura Lakes (N.S.W.) in 1925, Iwo
sleeper-getters accounted for 187 crawlers
in a 150-yard walk through the reeds
between their camp and the water!
* * * *
“Rex”: Henare's kerosene-tin-and-
stick method of mustering sheep (B.
10/7/’35) reminds me of a sheep-muster-
ing method de luxe we used to employ
on a small Riverina station, where the
country was quite flat and practically de-
void of limber and scrub. We'd simply
get Lizzie out, and race after (he jum-
bucks tooting and honking. Handy for
picking up stragglers, too.
* * * *
“A.J.W.”:How is this for horse sense?
Af Gilmore tinmine (N.Q.) there’s an
old brown horse that never remains away
far from the vicinity of the camps. He
has evidently a liking for something
sweet, and wanders from camp to camp
in search of jam- and milk-tins, which he
licks out cleanly. Sometimes the lids of
the tins jamb on his tongue ; then
Brownie goes home and stands about
until the encumbrance is taken off. The
owner of the nag and the mine has asked
the miners to cut the lids off before
dumping, in order to give the old chap a
fair go.
♦ , ♦ * *
“Airline” ; Reading of the post-drought
freeze that caused heavy losses among
sheep in Queensland reminded me of the
desperate remedy I saw one canny
South Canterbury (M.L.) Scot put
to the test with conspicuous suc-
cess. A mob of 1000 valuable
ewes, just off the shears, was being
taken to a sheltered paddock. With-
out warning a
shower of sleet
swept down the
gorge, and within
five minutes the
whole mob was
down and obviously
out. The manager,
hurriedly sum-
moned, took one
look and raced back
to the homestead.
A few minutes later
he arrived back, with
a following of drays
shearers and shed-
hands. and two cases
of whisky. Never
was there such a
rush to be of assist-
ance. On the prin-
ciple of “one for
you and one for
me” all the animals
were hastily given a
nip, heaved into the drays, and rushed to
shelter, where one by one they staged a
wobbly —very wobbly—recovery. They
were a good way ahead of some of their
saviors in that respect.
* * * *
“Zwengo”: London Zoo has gained a
prize—the rare and shy okapi, a giraffe-
like creature about the size of a 12-
month-old calf, which frequents the
depths of the great Congo forests. The
okapi was regarded as a native myth for
many years until that versatile genius
Harry Johnstone at last determined its
existence some 30 years ago. The beast
lives only in the remotest and darkest
corners of the great jungle, and is rarely
seen even by native hunters. How it will
fare in the comparative publicity of a
Zoo remains to be seen. This specimen
is said to be the first in England. Most
1 oik were under the impression that none
had ever been brought to Europe alive,
though skins became fairly plentiful after
Johnstone’s discovery.
* ♦ * *
“The 0.D.”; Yabbies are more appre-
dated in Australia (B. 17/7/’35) since the
depresh. Bagmen have found ’em a
succulent article of diet on the track ; in
N. S. Wales every rendezvous of the
wanderers these days reveals its heap of
pink yabbie shells—relics of feasts—if
there is a dam or creek near by.
* * * *
“Cirrus”: “Western” (B. 24/7/’35)
could place a good number of N.Q.
timbers in the same class as kurrajong
and Westralian Christmas-tree for in-
combustibility. Coastal jungles arc full
of wood so resistant to fire that when you
are clearing land for holing in cane it
tends to extinguish fire in timber that will
burn. Such stuff is generally left on the
surface ; it will rot easier than burn. Black
bean is the best of all for fencing posts •
cane-farmers want nothing else. Recur-
ring grass or trash fires, sometimes fierce
enough to burn wire, leave the posts
unscathed.
* * * *
“Marra": Has “Nordbo” (31/7/’35)
been stung by a catfish and allowed his
ravings to get into print, or is he con-
fusing jewfish and garfish? His 251-
/«.. s * . m ... 2
pounds) ( Ihe champion ) weighs less
qu “t 7 ° f i he , re , C o°oS ,e r y ’
wh«h turned the scales at KWb. Any-
,; P M nd c rs iv a ? £re ? ue " tly
, r eS ‘T eS '
STU on an * SOm * J un ‘
,? f 2 °-. I® JO-Pptnd jeweys have
i,i . I i'" 'he Hawkesbury R'ver,
ulnle several over 601 b. fell to Ihe set-
mei # #
“Balrachia”; Don't think “Jurgen” (B.
17/7/’35) has ever been nearer to a frog
than to throw stones al one. As a matter
of fact, frogs croak only in Ihe mating
season, in spile of lhe fact lhal Ihesf
amphibians in evolution were the humble
pioneers of Ihe human voice.
* # #
ukt a v ii " -ru , . ,
io/t!, y ’ be butcbe L bird (b -
10/7/35) cottons on to man quicker than
any other bush fowl. Opening up land
in Westralia (Doodlakine it was) I had
a pair quite tame within a week. When
dad joined me they left, but returned in
a few days and made friends with him.
Later, when mum and the children
arrived, they left again. They made
Iriends with mum, but came to the house
only when the children were at school.
* * * *
“Marra”; As an ardent fish-lover (gas-
tronomically), 1 can’t agree with “West-
ern’s” rhapsody over fried jewfish liver
(B. 31-/7/’35). Snapper and jewfish
"Apples , you call 'em! They're not Granny Smiths."
"'Oo said they Was? They're mine."
roes I enjoy, but I draw the line at
jewey’s liver. It has a flavor all its own
—far different from that of other fishes.
The organ is elongated, and lies along
the full length of the gut. The gall
bladder doesn’t appear to function so
efficiently under these conditions.
“Bill R.”: “Alga’s” strange announce-
ment (B. 24/7/’35) that mirrors beneath
the wing of fisher-birds reflect the waters
and enable an unseen approach in attack
needs investigation. When sea birds de-
tect fishes below them they closely fold
their wings and plunge headlong from a
height. During the dive any mirror
effects would be shut off. Further, if
terns and seagulls can draw nigh to fish-
schools unnoticed, why their rapid wheel
aloft and their terrific plunge? Also,
why the frenzied scurry of the finny
schools when a bird of prey circles over-
head?
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; Those green mosquitoes
“Marra” saw at Cattai Creek (B.
24/7/’35) aren't really mossies but a
cross between Hawkesbury greys and the
green-head ants that abound there. I’ve
picnicked and camped at Cattai, and
the skeeters and green-heads combined
to make my stay as unpleasant as pos-
sible. It was clearly a conspiracy, and
at the time I reckoned something like
that seen by “Marra” would result.
* * * *
The sea-hedgehog, or oopul,
as the Torres Strait Islanders know him,
is a black ball of opalescent sheen from
which graceful ebony-black quills pro-
trude. These secrete an irritant poison
when embedded in the flesh of a victim,
but it is easily extracted when the injured
part is exposed to heat.
* * * *
“K.C.”: When “The 0.D.” attempted
to intercept a fleeing rabbit (B. 26/6/’35)
he was taking a risk. A pal of mine in
a Westralian district where they loathe
rabbits tried it when his dog chased a
bunny along a fence towards him.
Bunny left (he ground like a rocket, but
it would have taken a good rocket to
throw off the stars Jim saw when his
nose slopped the animal’s flight. His
nasal organ was swollen and skinned
when 1 saw him two days later. “And
the darned thing got away, too," he
growled.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: Tell “Cautious” (B.
24/7/’35) that rarity of offers of help
and nefarious intentions prompting the
majority of them naturally lead the
city man to view (hem all with suspicion.
Countrymen visiting the city are fre-
quently advised to do likewise, whereas
in the country (hey cast aspersions on
the few who refuse to lend a helping
hand.
* * * *
“Kotuku”; Sunday Island, in the Ker-
madec group, where Alfred Bacon in-
tends to settle (B. 3/7/’35), has a long
record of bad luck. Parker, a settler,
died there —the result of tetanus de-
veloping from a slight cut on his hand.
Other settlers have been visited by hur-
ricanes and have had their crops de-
voured by hordes of rats. The island is
seven miles long and four miles broad,
and is dominated by a large volcanic
cone. The land is very fertile, and—
apart from the occasional hurricanes—
the climate is said to be ideal. And Mr.
Bacon should be no stranger to the con-
ditions, having lived there as a boy, and
later spent considerable time on the
island in the company of Ashworth and
Parker.
MISSING.
“It’s funny when you think of it,” said old
Dryblower Jack,
“The way those blokes ’ave done a flit; why,
just a few months back
They’d come out ’ere, all dolled up nice, and
poke around the show.
And then they’d ask you for your price, and
say they’d let you know.
“A while ago I used to see some every day
or so;
They were so thick a bloke’d be kept always
on the go.
Right on their heels 1 used to prance till they
were off me ground;
You can’t afford to take a chance with blokes
like them around.
“They used to come and cut a dash; they
seemed well in the play;
They always had a lot of cash behind them—
so they’d say.
But such a scrap of it was seen, I’m more’n
’alf inclined
To think their money must have been a darned
long way behind.
“There’s no one ’untin’ shows to-day; there
ain’t no buyers now;
It’s pretty plain to me that they ’ave come
to grief somehow.
They used to come out ’ere in style and pitch
a man a tale;
I ain’t seen one for quite a while—they can't
be all in gaol.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


ẅ
w
ŵ
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ẁ
ẃ
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Down with Lice!
“Julius Want”: Several months ago
the “M.O.L.” page had something to say
about the spread of sheep lice. The
position is worse than it was—migration
of sheep consequent on the drought has
spread the pest.
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
is applying stringent regulations drasti-
cally. Jn the Riverina the Minister has
been asked to waive the rule that animals
not dipped clear of lice must be quaran-
tined on their home holding. It is
pointed out that fat lambs would suffer
from dipping.
Loss from that cause for one season
will cost less than a general epidemic of
lost wool and broken fleeces, and it is
best to stamp out the curse before it gels
the upper hand.
The restrictions may be hard on some
graziers, but the waiving of them might
in the end prove much harder.
“Narine”: Dipping is better than pro-
test to the Government when it comes
to dealing with lice. There are half a
dozen effective commercial dips—the
arsenic ones are best.
If the sheep are badly infested, treat
them about 14 days off shears. Make
the dipping thorough, since the lice hang
close to the skin. Repeat the dose a
month afterwards to clean up the hatch-
ings and account for the Noahs which
found an Ark during the first flood.
If infection is mild, make the first
dip a month off shears, and repeat in a
fortnight.
Once clean, there is no reason, bar
accident, why sheep should be infected
again. Keep them out of lousy yards
and paddocks where infected sheep have
rested. Disinfect yards and races and
the shed. Hold lambs well away during
shearing, since the blades set a propor-
tion of the gentry scuttling to new homes.
The sucking liee —Hcematopinus ovillus
are a different proposition. They form
villages, and can be recognised by the
matting of the wool round their egg
masses. Their eggs are larger than those
of the biting louse. Though they do
a good deal of damage, they do not irri-
tate the sheep and cause as great a loss
of wool as the ordinary louse. But they
are harder to get rid of.
Weigh Before Selling.
“Upilio”: Years ago in the Riverina
1 was advised by my agents that sucker
lambs were selling well. I trucked 700,
and net returns were half what I ex-
pected. Not knowing that the lambs
were too light for profit proved costly.
Since then, 1 weigh my lambs. Before
ordering trucks I yard suckers overnight
and place an ordinary sheep crate on the
woolshed weighing machine. I select
five average lambs to fill it, and weigh,
the lot, deduct the weight of the crate,
and from the balance take off 56 p.c.
This gives the approximate dressed
weight of the draft. Keeping in touch
while the saleyard per-pound quotes I
know pretty well what my returns will be.
Training the Picker-up.
“J.W.”: The thing which strikes me
these days about shed technique is how
little trained some of the men on the
more important jobs are. A lot of
pickers-up would be called “slingers-up”
or “wool-heavers” if they had their
deserts. Fleeces are slumped down any-
way instead of with the graceful lasso-
thrower swing with which the old hand
who takes pride in his work spreads the
wool on the table without a wrinkle or
fold.
It is a pity that show societies don’t
start a few competitions in this and other
small arts, skill in which has an effect
on the grazier’s pocket.
It is easy to train a piece picker. Start
by dropping a woolsack or heavy bag
on the floor. Then teach him to take
hold of the further edge between the
first finger and thumb of each hand. His
hands should be 2ft. apart. The bag
should be raised, brought clear to the feet
and swung out to the length of the arms,
a fold being made during the movement.
The picker should bend to the ground
again and, without releasing the original
grip, sweep the rest of the “fleece” to the
feet with the other fingers of the hand.
Now, bring the hands and forearms
towards each other to bunch the
“fleece” and carry to the table. Stand
with left hand to the table-end and, with
a sweep from left to right, extend the
arms, while loosening the second grip
(three fingers), but keeping the original
(thumb and finger) grip intact.
If the motions are easy and regular a
lleece handled this way will fall like a
cloth on the table, white, clean wool
underneath and tip up.
After a little practice it goes like
physical drill,
Footrot in N. S. Wales.
"Winfield”: The mystery disease in
our flocks (Boggabri, N.S.W.) (B.
3/4/’35) turns out to be a form of foot-
rot —anew and serious development of
it.
The disease will spread rapidly in wet
seasons. We put sound ewes in a pad-
dock where it had been, and in three
days several were infected. A bad
feature is that it spreads to all hooves.
We have had the best results from a
treatment recommended by the McMaster
Laboratory (Sydney) after inspection.
Remove all blind pockets and underrun
horn. Get behind the infected parts even
if it involves cutting into the quick until
it bleeds. Then treat vigorously with
a 30 p.c. bluestone solution.
When dry, this solution should leave
a very thin crust of powdered bluestone
on the infected parts. For pruning the
hoof, use secateurs and a camp knife.
During treatment invalids should be kept
in a separate paddock and the main flock
gone through frequently for new cases.
“Corriedale” (B. 24/4/’35) maintains
that the germs cannot live on the soil,
dry or swampy. The C.S.T.R. says this is
a moot point.
Dr. Clunies Ross says that this type
of footrot has occurred in southern N. S.
Wales, and that doubtless it has been
introduced from the Riverina to north-
west N.S.W. Our cases were not isolated
—I have recently seen sheep with the
same disease in saleyards near Gun-
ned ah.
Dipping Methods.
“Lion”: Tell “Albarmount” that he
can have the lifting method on his own
tB. 24/7/’35). Anyway his “little
farmers” mostly get their wheat on to
the waggon with a horse and bag-lifter.
If we could dip under these conditions,
lifting methods would be fine. Personally
I prefer sending the sheep from a small
crush up a race to the slide in. With
plenty of men on the job stubborn ewes
and baulking sheep soon get their
accounts receipted with a minimum of
exertion.
Wool Standards.
“X.T.”; There is a good deal to be
said for the viewpoint of A. F. Blax-
land, descendant of one of the first two
or three Australians who could lay claim
to be genuinely “stockbreeders,” when
he issued a warning at Melbourne Sheep
Show that too much coarse, common
and ill-nourished wool was being pro-
duced.
Mr. Blaxland said that he feared
present-day Australians were losing their
eye for good wool and producing
material which was getting closer and
closer into line with the products of the
Argentine and S. Africa.
A lot of the trouble is undoubtedly due
to the rise of the fat-lamb trade and the
desire of breeders to do two jobs with
one animal. If Australian cattlemen had
gone as far in “dual purpose” practice as
sheepmen have in some districts in
recent years, Australian champion dairy
producers would not hold world records
and the butter export business would have
gone back instead of forward.
The industry needs to watch its step.
The wool market has been built on our
high standards, and Australia very largely
has been built on the wool industry.
Jaw Abscesses.
“Corriedale”: In some districts—
Monaro (N.S.W.), for instance —sheep
have fairly often been found with a hard
swelling at the tip of the lower jaw. The
swelling is usually about the size of a
small orange. A barley-grass seed is
nearly always found at the top of the
abscess. All the lower jawbone point
becomes rotted, and the teeth may fall
out or be skewed badly.
The grass seed seems to enter when
the milk teeth have broken off, leaving
bare gums. This often occurs at grass-
seed time. There is no cure, except pre-
vention.
All abscesses should be lanced, other-
wise the sheep will probably die. Copper
sulphate and Condy’s crystals are useful
disinfectants.
Cattle also suffer with grass seeds in
the jaw. Again, prompt lancing is the
treatment. A swelling far back may be
t.b. or a wide one lumpy jaw—both in-
curable.
Seeding barley grass is always a curse.
Wimmera rye has none of its dangers
and is far more profitable.
Killing Skeleton Weed.
“Seenitall”: The use of the rotary hoe
for destroying this pest, as advocated by
“W.McD.” (B. 24/7/’35), sounds Al,
but s.w. grows from a small portion of
the plant like prickly-pear. Wouldn't
the hoe, therefore, tend to spread it?
If the r. hoe is used and lucerne
planted, the hoe might check the growth
of s.w. long enough to allow the lucerne
to become firmly established. If this
works, the r. hoe should prove of great
value.
Where only lightly infested, I think it
is best to wait for soft-soil periods, and
then remove the s.w. with as much tap-
root as possible. The plant is perennial,
and as long as it can be recognised at
any time it could be dealt with when
suitable, always before seeding, naturally.
It is in the removal of the taproot in
particular where the r. hoc might prove
a failure. The flame-thrower now on
the market would at least prevent the
s.w. from spreading by seeding, and
miaht prove very useful in conjunction
with lucerne.
Lantana and Grazing Land.
“Ginger”: “Plankton’s” remarks (B.
17/7/’35) on the virtues of lantana appl\
solely to fruit districts.
Within 25 miles of my home (near
Gin Gin, Q.) is lantana so dense that it
has even swallowed roads. Fifty thou-
sand acres would be a low estimate of
the size of this scrub, which was formerly
good grazing country, but is now a wal-
laby’s playground and full of birds which
carry the seed into the surrounding dis-
tricts.
I admit lantana enriches the country,
but with the prevailing low prices no
farmer or grazier can afford to grub it,
as when cleared—having fertilised the
ground for itself—it comes up with re-
doubled vigor, making clearing a yearly
job.
And fire seems only to singe it here
even in a dry spring. In this district we
say “Good luck” to the tingid bug.
Points in Beef Animals.
“F.F.7”: It is wise for the breeder
of meatworks cattle to begin with
an ideal and to make it practical
by choosing a particular line of sires
of which he knows the breeding and
history, and sticking to them. No-
thing has done more harm in Australia
in the past than the habit of station men
who “follow the fancy”—buying herd
bulls from some champion strain for
three or four years, then changing to
some scarcely related strain which hap-
pens to have become fashionable.
The first essential in a beef producer is
a roomy frame, giving plenty of space
for vital organs to function in healthily
and for choice cuts to hang on —thick,
fleshy, with properly marbled roasts and
steaks.
The bone itself does not matter so
much as what it encloses —large heart
and lungs and stomach all help the round-
ness of the trunk, on which profitable
meat hangs.
But these cannot develop without proper
stoking apparatus —look for the short,
broadfaccd head with the fine muzzle,
deep where it joins the vertebra;, because
this type is the feeder, with better
muscles for mastication than the narrow-
headed animal.
No combination in physical attributes
—good head, sound bone, roomy frame
—is any use without the cellular quality
which goes with strong digestion anc]
power to absorb and utilise fodder, which
makes for quick maturity.
Handling usually tells the story to the
experienced man. It is the final test.
Some of (he greatest bulls in history have
been saved from the slaughleryard be-
cause a Colling or a Booth realised that,
though their conformation was not good,
they possessed unusually the power of
producing meat, and that bred to the
right.cows their progeny would overcome
their symmetrical weaknesses. No matter
how perfect in line the bull, he is no
use either to the stud or the herd unless
he is mellow under the hand.
Bovine Tuberculosis,
“Nemo”: The N.S.W. Veterinary
Association is adding one more to the
legion of attempts made to bring horns
to dairymen the seriousness of bovine
tuberculosis. Out of 2000 dairy cows
recently tested, 10 p.c. were infected.
And leading authorities have shown that
in cases of tuber, in children under five
years old, approximately 70 p.c. arc of
bovine origin, and the only figures pub-
lished in Australia show a percentage of
42 p.c. of bovine origin.
There is a general relationship between
the percentages of humans affected with
tuberculosis arising from digestive in-
fection and the numbers of dairy cows
which suffer.
All infected cattle are not dangerous,
but they may become so. The association
(Continued on page 24.)


f
/
COMBINES
ẅ


£lB/15/-
N°!74
One of the Finest
Cowboy Saddles
We Make
For Cash with Order we pay rail freight in
N.S.W.
COWBOY RIDING BOOTS
American pattern, made
w
in Black Kip, 77/6.
Postage: 2/- N.S'.W.; 3/6 Q.
and Vic.
FANCY COWBOY
BRIDLES, 55/- without
bit.
Postage: 2/- fl.s.W.; 3/0 Q.
and Vic.
COWBOY BITS, 17/6.
Postage; 1/- N.S.W.; 1/6 Q.
and Vic.
COWBOY SPURS.
N. plated, 8/6, 10/6.
Post; 1/- NjS.W.;
1/6 Q. and Vic.
WALTHEK & STEVENSON LTD.
395 OBORGK ST., SYD. (oi»i>- Dymook’s),
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
; T fffil
"M?L
a V-/ r
S
\*d»
Made of supple, fine-
finished leather!
You will find the greatest com-
fort in this pliant, shapely,
Abbey Boot . . . delightfully
easy fitting, and long lasting, too.
It has a double sole of first-grade
leather, with a specially-designed
upper of fine, supple calf,
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF ... 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TJU-EG RAPHIC A DDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 450.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman):
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay. R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
C WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
r
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
Co., Ltd.,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
C AUNION
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING ANE
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
advocates that N. S. Wales shall set up the
ideal of milk supply wholly from tuber-
culin-tested cows.
Bull-control.
“El V.”: Before anything real can be
achieved in the export of chilled beef,
the bull question will have to be handled.
Admittedly it is ticklish —there is too
much Government regulation already.
But utility stallions are under control in
three States. Before they can stand stud
they must conform to a reasonable stan-
dard of type, conformation and breeding.
A rejected horse can be used only on the
owner’s own mares. And the horse trade
is not as important as the beef trade.
Bulls are not stood at stud in the same
vicarious way as stallions. They are used
almost invariably on the owner’s herd,
and it seems to me that the Government
and graziers together should be able
mutually to arrive at some scheme
whereby bulls used to breed stock likely
to find its way to chilling works should
be kept up to standard.
After all, butter and meat arc export-
graded, and bull-control would merely
be another form of grading control exer-
cised at the source.
Only Queensland has a Bull Act for
the encouragement of better bulls, but it
would be better if it were a Common-
wealth matter concerted with exporters,
the graziers’ associations and the herd-
book societies.
Generally speaking, Australia is far
behind in its methods of encouraging
cattle improvement. Canada for years
has given free railway passages to
farmers travelling to buy stud stock at
recognised sales, and stock bought by
them is carried to the farm free. Scot-
land has bull registration.
I do not suggest a scheme which would
involve the sudden wiping out of every
poor-quality bull in the country. But if a
time limit of five years were set to allow
of scrubs to be got rid of, and it were made
plain that noxious breeders would no
more be permitted than noxious weeds,
there should be considerable improve-
ment.
The standard of some of the sires used
in the far north is unbelievable —the
cattle of one big station which the
Queensland Government bought a few
years ago were described by a Royal
Commission witness as “looking like
lemonade-bottles on four sticks.” It is
nothing for Argentine export ranches to
number pure-bred herd bulls by the hun-
dred, and we must follow their example.
Victorian Rabbit Methods.
“Julius Want”: In a 12 months’ cam-
paign against bunny, the Victorian Agri-
cultural Department has seen every
eradication method tried, and the results
are interesting.
Digging out in winter after dogging—
a method specially recommended by
several “M.0.L.” writers during the past
year—is popular with those who do it
thoroughly. But only when the dogging
is meticulously done and the burrows
are carefully marked out and all their
entrances dealt with before the spade-
work begins.
Strychnine was good—the “M.0.L.”
method, with apples laid in furrows,
worked well. The best results were
with sound fruit in cubes, with
11b. of sugar sprinkled to each 121 b. of
fruit. The departmental recipe is loz.
strychnine to 161 b. of bait.
Fumigation proved useful in rough
ground, especially where rocks made dig-
ging out difficult; but on reasonably
open farm land it is difficult to improve
on the results obtained by the other two
methods.
Drought Fodders.
“Wundi”: Surely somebody will have
the energy to push through a Queensland
drought fodder conservation scheme this
time —every drought since before the war
has produced a still-born plan.
In 1923 the Agricultural Council pro-
posed the purchase of 300,000 tons of
lucerne hay, which, with silos to hold it,
would have cpst £2,325,000. In other
words, at cost price, there would have
been no profit on the saving of 4,000,000
sheep at 10s, per head, even allowing
nothing for transport, conditioning and
administration costs. Ex administration
costs, hay bought at £4 per ton would
have been charged £7 odd per ton after
five years storage. Nothing more was
heard after these facts came out.
Then came the C.Q. drought of 1926-
27. In its first year, lucerne was £9 a
ton; in the second, it fell to £6 9s,
About 150,000 tons of various fodders
was railed. At £4 per ton it would have
been profitable.
The Bureau of Industry took a hand
1933, It suggested a concern financed
by joint interests—pastoral firms, graziers
and the Government—with a board to
manage it and an insurance scheme, the
particular types of fodder to be decided
on after inquiry ;
If the whole of the purchases were
lucerne hay an increase of 15 to 20
p.c. on average production would be
needed.
The bureau proposed, also, to accumu-
late a large store of hay.
Without a guaranteed price, the risk of
loss under this scheme is too heavy. As
suggested (B. 7/8/’35), the matter needs
taking in hand by two authorities—one
to develop a standard, compact drought
ration ; another to explore the actuarial
aspects of drought insurance.
Hitherto, all schemes brought forward
have been shots in the dark.
Colored Lucerne Seed.
‘Mangaratta : Preference for green-
brown or red lucerne seed rather than
standard seed can be due only to sen-
timent or economy. Fancy colored seed
can never be first-grade, but I do not
condemn it.
Most growers in my S.A. district sell
their first-grade and sow the inferior
sorts. That the germination percentage
may be a little lower than with first-
grade is the only disadvantage. After
all, discoloration is usually due to un-
seasonable harvesting conditions.
In carrying out a test, remember that
standard undressed lucerne seed gives
only an 85 p.c. germination. Unless in-
ferior grades are merely screenings, they
will nearly always test over 70 p.c.
1 contend that the source of the seed
is more important than the sample.
“Stump Jump” (B. 24/7/’35) says that
Hunter River (N.S.W.) strains give better
results than imported species. As nearly
all imported seed is from M.L. and other
damp countries this is only to be expected.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pinto Pete”: A piece of old plough
disc, shaped and riveted to the back of
a worn mouldboard, will lengthen its
life. The piece should be big enough to
enable it to be riveted through the thick
parts of the mouldboard so that the rivets
can be countersunk on the face.
“Pinto Pete”: When horses are being
worked tandem in the dray or waggon,
do not fasten the back chain too short.
If it is, the draught will cause pressure
on the shafter’s back. Result: Sore
backs and feet.
“Dimon”; To set a screw in a brick
or concrete wall, first drive in a piece of
folded lead, with an inside diameter
slightly smaller than the screw. When
the latter is screwed into it the lead ex-
pands and fills the uneven surfaces of the
drilled hole. If wood has to be used,
chop a few notches on it, and put some
wet cement in the hole before driving in
the plug.
“L.L.”: The slump in quality of Vic-
torian butter is excused on the score of
the number of factories competing for
cream supplies. A hue and cry is in pro-
gress, and Minister Hogan is being
plagued with deputations from established
factories to refuse licenses to new com-
panies. Mr. Hogan may tell the prohibi-
tionists that in Denmark, the country
which produces the greatest part of the
world’s best export butter, there are
1700 factories —some with lower outputs
than any in Victoria. Victoria has
fewer than 200. Another and a better
reason for low quality should be found.


SMOKE-OH!
“Thieves entered a Melbourne factory and
stole 2040 shirts.” — “Argus.”
Bookmakers are asked to keep a sharp
watch upon punters’ currency.
-I- -I- 4- *
“To-day, who does not play bridge?"
—‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Well, for one, the man who ’was my
partner last night.
“The township does not boast a single
crooner.” —“ Telegraph.”
Why should it?
4* *l*
“Many bushmen have the habit of sleeping
face downward.” — ‘‘Sun."
In inverted comas.
•J# •% y
Head above Water.
Being broke and sadly in need of
clothes, 1 borrowed a fiver. 1 bought a
slop-made suit, a raincoat, a pair of
shoes, socks and garters, a singlet,
knickers, belt, shirt, collar, tie and hand-
kerchief ; but I couldn't manage a hat.
So I’m only up to my neck in debt!
C.
*l*
“A chef says that soup-tasting has destroyed
his sense of taste.”
Too many broths spoil the cook.
4* + 4*
“Manx cats arc great fighters.” —Nature note.
They never turn tail.
The Reason Why.
I dreamed that it was a big race-day
and all the lads were listening-in at the
local pub. There was a lot of betting
going on, but I wasn't in it. I wasn't
even present. 1 had given up betting for
good.
In my dream, too, 1 had given up
drinking. There were several bottles be-
side me, a most attractive assortment
which would erstwhile have made me
ecstatic, but not one of them did 1 open.
And outside my window were numbers
of beautiful girls. Every one of them
was an answer to a poet's prayer. But
they didn’t affect me. 1 dreamed that I
had given up women for ever . . .
I dreamed that 1 was dead.
T. W. N.
»*• »Xt
“Only her late husband knew her past his-
tory.”—Daily paper.
And dead men tell no tales.
4* + + 4*
“Wanted, man with own gun to duco in our
garage.”—“ S. M. Herald” advt.
Sounds very much like Chicago.
.J. 4* *i‘
”A sea-serpent resembling a bear, and having
extremely large eyes, is alleged to have been
seen in Queenscliff, Victoria.” —“Labor Daily.”
It was believed to be heading for Dar-
linghurst.
Learning to Skate in Three
Movements.
First don your skates, the left one on
the left foot and the right one on the
right foot. If left-handed, please your-
self. Then step on to the ice and:
1, Raise the right foot and bring the left
forward in a gliding movement, fol-
lowing it with your body. If the
body doesn't keep up with the foot
don’t be alarmed. After, all it’s your
foot the skate is on, not your
body,
2. The second movement will come auto-
matically, without instructions.
3 Pick yourself up and proceed as be-
fore. There’s really nothing in it.
Figure Seven.
* * -I- *
Too Good to Be True.
I’d always wanted to get into a nudist
club, and when Sophie asked me to go
along with her I jumped at the oppor-
tunity.
A couple of days later we went.
The clubrooms were elaborate and
modern, all done out with those mathe-
matical nightmares modern artists favor.
Lots of people mooning round in their
street clothes looking at the junk.
"Where’s the men’s dressing-room—or
I suppose I should say the /mdressing-
room?” I asked.
“What on earth do you want to get
undressed for?” said Sophie.
“Well, that’s the idea of a nudist club,
isn't it?”
“You poor boy,” she replied ; “it must
have been my cold. I said Cubist Club."
C. M.
+ *l* 4- *
“Legislation is proposed in Victoria to en-
force the covering of abandoned mining
shafts.” — "Argus.”
This step is long overdue. Many
buyers of mining shares have fallen in.
“Wanted, boy, able ride with or without
cycle. 1 ” —‘ ‘Herald.' ’
It’s much easier to ride through the
traffic without a cycle.
Bush Lore.
“The city man, when he conics to the bush,
will always sit on the windward side of the
campfire. He blocks the wind, and immediately
(he smoke swirls back in his lace.”
The day's felling was over, and “Gee-
hung” Dave, with a true bushman's skill,
sot about preparing his fire. He laughed
to himself as he thought of the weird
way in which (he city bloke built one —
starting it off with dried leaves and then
gradually adding twigs and bigger sticks
until finally the logs. His own method
was that of the real bushman.
First he set the logs, then put the
smaller twigs on top of them, and lastly
the dried leaves. Then he put a match to
the lop. Bush cunning again—he didn’t
have to get down on hands and knees to
blow it; all that was necessary
was to blow it from the top, thus
saving wear and tear on the back.
Certainly his whiskers Were per-
petually singed, and he had no
eyebrows or eyelashes, but a
bushman could do without them.
After half an hour’s coaxing and
with the aid of a pannikin of
kerosene, his fire was at last alight.
Next, to gauge the direction of the
wind, he held a wet forefinger aloft —
infallible method of the great outback.
The wind was coming from tlie south-
east. There was only one place for a
bushman to sit, so he squatted down on
the north-western side of the fire.
He pulled the brim of his hat over his
eyes, clamped his mouth shut, and. as
the dense smoke billowed over him,
breathed through what remained of his
whiskers and pondered on the queer
ways of city coves who sit on the wrong
side of the fire and have to put up with
the smoke whirling back in their faces
through blocking the wind.
Kf.o.
•%
.“An Ordered Life.”
“The man who acquires riches must have
lived an ordered life.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Unfortunately, most of us have to be
contented with a slop-made life: to have
one ordered for us is, of course, nice. I
suppose Shine is an example of what the
"Herald” means. He was a great ob-
server of forms, especially of forms of
deeds entirely in his favor. He made a
clean sweep of his victims, brushed aside
obstacles and combed the world lor
profits. He even polished off his meals.
He drank his whisky neat, and when he
died left a tidy sum.
P. P.
“Being a Viking, with a Viking's love of the
sea. he bought up the windbags—l 4 of them.
There are, however, only 20 working to-day.”
—Article on sailing ships.
But, even so, to have 20 ships working
out of 14 is not so bad for these days
of depression.
Speeded Up.
“Will you love me in December as you
do in May ?”
Sounds a silly, slow old Query in tins
modern day.
This question now perturbs us as we take
the flat:
“Will you love me still on Monday as
xou do on Sal. ?"
M.
Division.
That figures, clear, embarrass you
{Except, of course, your own)
Has been the more impressed on me
The longer you I’ve known.
You’ve made of love and marriage,
sweet,
A complex proposition.
And latterly I’ve noticed that
You're weak on your addition.
And, since this laxity suggests
That I am ‘‘nil” or “none,”
/ rather hope his Honor finds
That two from three leaves one!”
P. O. M. C.
Fourth Player Plays Low.
lt was just sociability that made me
accept Bangs, a total stranger, as my
partner to make up a bridge four. He
said smilingly that he had forgotten the
game ; but he used to play, and he would
soon pick up the points again.
As a matter of fact, he did not pick
up the points. Neither did I. Bangs was
the sort of man who, when you asked
for his strength, played the very deuce.
Then with a burst of joyful triumph he
put his ace on my king, and seemed flai-
lered when our opponents applauded
him.
“I asked you for that ace on my first
lead,” I remarked mildly.
“Oh, did you?” he said. “I’m sorry.
1 didn’t hear you.”
But apart from the times when he
asked what was trumps fmainly when
we were playing no trumps), and wanted
to know whose play it was, or gave a
burst of song when he took my trick, he
talked incessantly, especially while the
bidding was on.
“Never met Bangs before, have you.
Aitchem?” said Smith slyly. “He’s got
a reputation as a conversationalist —
keeps all his friends amused.”
The silly ass looked pleased.
“He probably does amuse his friends,”
I said bitterly. “I’m not his friend —I’m
his bridge partner.”
Fortunately a telephone ring gave me
an excuse to get away. Bangs was sorry.
He said he had thoroughly enjoyed the
game.
“But, you know,” he added, “it wasn't
bridge I used to play at all. I’ve just
remembered the name of the game. It
was euchre.”
H. M.
Trainers’ Trials.
“Because an Adelaide gelding had shown
himself sensitive to noise, Ids trainer plugged
his cars with cotton-wool before the race. He
won easily.” —"Sunday Sun.”
The extremely fussy racehorse is the
trainer’s bugbear, but one that I trained
once was the absolute limit.
When I took over Faceache. a flea-
bitten aged chestnut, to prepare him for
his Moorecastcr engagement, 1 • found
that he had more fads than a pampered
Peke.
He refused, for instance, to gallop
without the playing of operatic excerpts.
Then, again, he was ultra-sensitive to
the least bit of dust in the air, and always
wore a patent dust-strainer attached to
“I want to speak to No. 912. Is he in ?”
his nostrils. His owner, a firm believer
in wearing wool next to the skin, in-
sisted on his being fitted with a chest-
protector, contending that during a race
the horse was in a perpetual draught
created by the speed at which he ran.
These and many other little things I
had to do to humor him, but, withal, his
trials proved satisfactory. I knew that he
would be a cert to win provided he could
be assured of hearing suitable music
throughout the race, and the solving of
this problem was my chief anxiety, for
this was before the advent of radio.
1 hit upon an idea. I procured a highly
sensitised instrument to fit over the horse's
cars which was capable of picking up
music played from a distance; then I
arranged for a gramophone to be played
in a house overlooking the course.
Faceache leaped away from the barrier
all right, and surged to the front. Two
furlongs from home, however, he fal-
tered, gradually fell back and, despite
the frantic efforts of his jockey, stopped
altogether. When the winner flashed past
the post, Faceache was still standing by
the rails and shaking his head furiously.
Utterly chagrined, 1 later discovered
the trouble. The idiots with the gramo-
phone had played the jangling “Anvil
Chorus” from “II Trovatore.” The horse
detested Verdi.
S. W. K.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
VI.
(Extracts from correspondence between
Messer Christopher Columbus and the
Chancellor of Spain, 1492.)
From the Chancellor:
In connection with your recent offer
to discover America for Queen Isabella,
her Majesty desires further information.
1. What do you mean by “discover
America”?
2. Supposing you discover it, what do
you propose she should do with if?
3. How much do you want?
From Columbus :
1. “Find” it.
2. Keep it.
3. You say first.
From the Chancellor :
Her Majesty instructs me to inform
you that she does not consider the time
is yet ripe for the discovery of America.
Meantime she considers it will keep well
enough without any effort on her part.
How would 50 doubloons do?
From Columbus :
I’m going to discover it, ripe or un-
ripe. Everyone knows that 1492 is the
right year for the discovery of America.
If we fool around here in Palos much
longer it'll be 1493. and the darn place'll
never be discovered, and what a mug
I'll look in the history books! . . .
Columbus, the man who didn’t discover
America in 1492! If she doesn’t want
it why doesn’t she say so? I can easily
find someone who does.
P.S. —Would that be per week or per
day?
From the Chancellor to Queen Isabella :
Your Majesty will sec from the at-
tached letter that Columbus is determined
to discover America. I would respect-
fully suggest that you let him go ahead
and do it. After all, not much harm can
come of it, and we needn’t pay him until
he comes back.
If I may say so, your Majesty, lie’s
been making a damned nuisance of him-
self, and 1 hope he doesn’t come back it
all.
From Queen Isabella to the Chancellor:
All right! Let him go. He'll come
back all right. Clever fellows, these
Genoese.
From the Chancellor to Columbus :
Her Majesty says “Go ahead.”
(Twelve months later.)
From Columbus to the Chancellor :
As it is now several months since i
discovered America, I think it's about
time you paid up. What about it?
From the Chancellor to Columbus :
The terms were C.O.D. You may have
discovered America, but you didn’t bring
it back.
JASBY.


thersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Quickly Relieves
Travel Sickness .
I
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S.' Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors-480,000-word
gazetteer—l2o.ooo-word story of the earth.
42/- value for 7/6! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue—Now on Sale —Price 6d.
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young lady, 25, good education, languages,
own typewriter, travel exp., wishes to go abroad
as companion, secretary or care of children.
Interview Sydney or Brisbane. Free from Jan.,
1936. Refs.—7932.
Returned soldier, Sydney, general blacksmith
and tool-sharpener, hand or machine, wants
job on station, boring plant, mine, or any-
where. —7937.
Ex-G.P.S. man, 32, single, has passed matric.
and public service exams. ■, wants employment
anywhere.—7947.
Young man (19), well educated, knowledge
ol station book-keeping and sheep work, wants
position as tutor or book-keeper.—7974.
Returned soldier would be grateful for dis-
carded overcoat and other clothing, large size.
Will pay reasonable price.—8017.
Poems (published) written in honor of Lceu-
win, Dampier, Oxley, Flinders, Cook or other
early discoverers and explorers of Australia,
suitable for school use.—7909.
Words of “The Black Maria,” by Rod
Quinn. —7967.
Words of verse “The Kerrigan Boys.”—7994.
To buy White Witches, by Mabel Forrest,
Swinburne’s poems and Charlin’s Anglo-French
Course (Part 3). —7893.
To buy Roget’s Thesaurus and The Adver-
tising Handbook, by S. Roland Hill.—7998.
To buy books dealing with modern suction-
gas producers.—7879.
Information Sought.
How old is James J. Braddock, holder of the
world’s heavyweight championship ? What is
his height, and what does he weigh ? When
did he begin boxing, and what is his record ? —•
8010.
Braddock was born in North Bergen, N.J.,
on December 6, 1905. He stands 6ft. 2in. in his
socks, and weighs 13st. 3!b. He began boxing
in 1926, and at the end of 1934 had taken
part in 81 contests, for 48 wins, 21 losses,
seven no-decisions and five draws.
* * * *
Has the Governor of N.S.W. always resided
at what is known as Government House ? Was
the now Cranbrook School ever used as a Gov-
ernment House either for State or Common-
wealth Governors ? If not, for what official
purpose was it used ? —7655.
The Governor of N. S. Wales has not always
resided at the present State Government House.
There were two previous residences; the first,
a temporary one occupied by Phillip, and the
second, in Bridge-street, which continued to
be occupied as Government House until the
early ’forties. From 1902 until 1915 Govern-
ment House was unoccupied, and the State
Governor resided at Cranbrook.
* * * *
(1) Number of Australian soldiers in ratio
to population engaged in the Great War? (2)
Same ratio for South African soldiers ? (3)
Considering that 50 p.c. of South African
population was pro-German at the outbreak of
the war, do you not consider that South Africa
made a much greater sacrifice than Australia
with regard to the supply of men, taking into
consideration that there was no conscription
in South Africa ? —7503.
(1) The total number of enlistments in the
A.I.F. was 416,809, approximately one in twelve
of the population in 1918. (2) According to
the Official History, the Record Office, Union
Forces, dealt with some 90,000 enlistments,
approximately one in sixteen of the European
population in 1918. (3) The figures speak for
themselves; there was no conscription in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
(1) After whom was Araluen named ? (2)
Is it an Irish name ? (3) When was gold first
discovered there? (4) By whom? —7737.
(1) and (2) Araluen is an aboriginal name.
(3) and (4) Gold was discovered there in
1852 by two men, names unknown. The fol-
lowing extract is from Back to Braidwood, by
A. Hogg: “Early in 1852 two men, whose
names have not been obtained, travelled along
the Dena River from the coast looking for
gold. They reached Araluen, and, though they
had carefully searched, could find no trace
ol the precious metal. That night one of them
had a vivid dream of finding gold near an old
stumpy tree beside the camp, and was so im-
pressed that he dug round the tree and found
the gold exactly as he had dreamed.”
* * * *
I have a boy two years old, and left-handed.
I am teaching him to become right-handed.
A friend states this may lead to stuttering in
after life.-—12,2%.
It shouldn’t. Change from left-to right-handed-
ness is not advised after maturity—mental con-
flict develops with enforced reversion of habit,
so that stuttering may result. In infancy, how-
ever, the mental or suggestive correction is
accepted without detriment, the infant mind
being plastic and unfixed. As the brain de-
velops from childhood its left side becomes
the more important, containing as it does the
nerve centres that control speech and the
association of thoughts and symbols with words.
Although primarily influenced by education,
there is a natural or inherent tendency to right-
handedness in the normal subject. The left
side of the brain controls the right side of the
body—therefore it is natural that right-sided
limb movement is more readily specialised.
But forcible correction is always ill-advised.
* * * *
I intend to apprentice a lad (N.S.W.) to
bootmaking. Before completing the indentures,
is it necessary to notify any industrial depart-
ment; if so, which ? Terms of apprentice-
ship *—7850.
If the question relates to bespoke boot-
making and repairing, the conditions under
which an apprentice may be employed will be
found contained in the Bespoke Bootmakers
and Repairers (State) Award No. 280, published
March 25, 1927, and variations thereof, Nos.
2993 and 4063, published respectively July
14, 1933, and May 24, 1935, copies of which
may be obtained from the Government Printer,
Bent-street, Sydney, for Is., plus postage. No
permission is required from the Department
of Labor and Industry to take an apprentice
so long as the terms of the award referred to
are observed.
* * * *
Can a man qualify for an invalid pension if
his wife is in possession of a house and a little
capital ? What, generally, are the conditions
for such a pension ? —7616.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that, where a pensioner has property
other than the home in which he permanently
resides, the rate of pension otherwise pay-
able shall be subject to a deduction of £1
for every complete £lO by which net capital
value of accumulated property exceeds £5O.
Where net capital value exceeds £4OO no
pension is payable. In the case of husband
and wife, except where they are living apart
pursuant to any decree, judgment or order, the
income and property of each must be deemed
to be possessed by both in equal shares. Any
assets, other than home, the value of which is
in excess of £5O, will affect the pension rate.
* * * *
Is it legal in S.A. for a premium to be
accepted for apprenticeship to the profession of
dentistry in the case of a boy who has not
passed the Dental Board’s examination ? —7613.
To qualify for registration, every apprentice
must pass the matric. examination and be regis-
tered with the board. Registered apprentices
only are permitted to perform dental operations
in pursuance of their articles; therefore, any
articles entered into in the circumstances
stated would be a nullity, because they could
not legally be carried out. If you care to com-
municate more details to the Secretary, Dental
Board of S.A., he would endeavor to assist
you.
* * * *
How can I learn to operate a theodolite
sufficiently well for some rough level-taking ?
—7809.
Probably a dumpy level or similar instru-
ment made especially for taking levels would
serve your purpose better than a theodolite.
Sufficient knowledge of the use of a level could
be acquired without much difficulty, but the
theodolite requires a great deal of experience
to use correctly. While correspondence courses
exist for teaching the uses to which such instru-
ments dre put, a few practical lessons from a
surveyor or engineer would be the best way to
learn the actual handling of them.
* * * *
How to prevent a chimney from smoking in
windy weather ? —7930.
The trouble is often caused by the chimney-
stack not being high enough above the roof
of the house or by adjacent houses being so
high above the stack as to cause the wind to
be deflected on to the stack, thereby inducing
a down-draught. The remedy is either to in-
crease the height of the stack or to fit a down-
draught-preventing pot.
* * * *
/ have noticed that the willy wagtail mostly
builds its nest in the same tree as a peewee.
Is this because the willy thinks the peewee can
defend the nest for it ? —7594.
Perhaps so, but obviously it is impossible to
prove it. Both birds are very aggressive towards
intruders when nesting, and the observation
as to mutual defence has,'from time to time,
been applied to the wagtail also.
* * * *
In the convict days, what happened to
juvenile convicts when they were sent to Tas-
mania ? —7844.
From 1842 incorrigible juvenile offenders
from Parkhurst Prison were sent to Point
Puer. There was no similar establishment in
N. S. Wales. The juvenile convicts, on arrival
m Tasmania, received .treatment in accordance
with their conduct during the probationary
period in Parkhurst. . If their conduct was
good they received a ticket of leave; if indif-
ferent, a probationary pass; if bad, they were
sent to Point Puer.
*
Areas under forest and percentages to total
area in Britain, Australia, Maoriland, Germany,
France and U.S.A. 7—1615.
Great Britain, 4745 sq.- m. under forest, 5.4
p.c. of total area; Australia, 30,469, 1.08;
Maonland, 20,778, 20.2; Germany, 48,857,
France, 39,873, 18.74; U.S.A., 733,539,
The particulars are taken from the
Official Year-Book of the Commonwealth of
Australia, which contains • similar information
m regard to other countries.
* * * *
• Compulsory age for child to attend school
m Queensland? (2) (a) Is it necessary to have
a license to sell fireworks {crackers), and (b)
is it against the law to light or fire crackers
in a public place ? (3) Is it against the law
to have “ two-bobs-in” for drinks in Queens-
land ?—7791.
(1) Age six years to 14 years, except in a
case where an application has been made to
and been sent on by a head teacher, stating
that the child has reached a certain standard.
(2) (a) No license is necessary to store fire-
works unless the value exceeds £3O; otherwise,
license fee 2s. 6d. per annum, to be paid to
C.P.S. They must, however, not be exposed,
and are not to be displayed in show windows.
(b) Yes. (3) Yes—this is gambling and against
the law. Law frowns on all forms of gamb-
ling that it doesn’t expressly permit.
♦ * * *
Who was Lord Dundreary, with whose name
flowing whiskers are associated ? —BOl5.
A character in Tom Taylor’s comedy “Our
American Cousins,” first produced in New
York in 1858. The part originally played by
E. H. Sothern is that of a good-natured but
foolish man of fashion, conspicuous only for
his distinctive flowing side-whiskers.
How can I transfer a design to china ready
for china-painting ? —7678.
Make a tracing on transparent paper with
a 2B pencil. Wipe over the surface of the
china with turpentine and attach the tracing to
it with small dabs of paste, or, if the surface
is curved, with little bits of modelling wax
pressed over the rim. Sec that the pencilled
side of the tracing is toward the china. Work
carefully over the back of the design with a
hard sharp pencil, and the turpentined surface
will take a clear lead outline.
♦ * * *
How to stain seagrass mats that have faded
in the sun ? —-7955.
Buy a suitable quantity of any of the
standard boiling- or cold-water dyes, procur-
able from chemists or grocers; prepare accord-
ing to instructions, and then with a stiff
brush paint the dye into the mats, which should
be laid flatly on the grass or newspapers. They
should be well cleaned before dyeing; if the
mats are old and worn, they will absorb a lot
of dye, which should be made up in a strong
color to get a good result.
* * * *
(1) Was the Sennar dam built by a British
firm ? (2) What is the Emperor of Abyssinia’s
religion ? —7943.
(1) Yes ; the consulting engineers were Coode,
Fitzmaurice, Wilson and Mitchell, and the con-
tractors S. Pearson and Son, Ltd., represented
on the works by J. W. Gibson. The work was
completed in 1925. (2) He belongs to the
Christian faith, and has translated portions of
the Bible and other Christian literature into
the native tongue.
* * * *
(1) How wide should the red cross be on a
St. George’s flag 6ft. x 3ft. ? (2) Amount of
materials needed ? (3) Approximate cost of
material, linen or artificial silk? —79so.
(1) Six inches. (2) Six yards of linen or
bunting 18in. wide —four of white, two of
red. (3) Bunting at Is. 6d, per yd. is obtain-
able from S. Walder, 340 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Artificial silk varies greatly in price, and
would not be as suitable for the purpose.
* * * *
What is Raynaud’s disease ? Its cause; is
it progressive, and how can development be
arrested in early stages ?—-7785.
. The complaint is characterised by repeated
interference with the circulation in various parts
of the body, commonly occurring in the fingers
and toes, probably due to spasm of small
arteries to the affected part. Heredity has a
definite influence on its causation, but it is
somewhat more liable to occur in young females
and persons of neurotic tendency. Although
the actual attack most frequently develops on
exposure to cold, emotional disturbances may
precipitate the trouble. Cases differ in
severity; in some instances only the first stage
occurs. Chilblains are a mild form of Ray-
naud’s disease. Treatment depends upon
location and extent of the development. Local
warmth is essential —normal circulation must
be encouraged with gentle upward friction. A
liberal allowance of fats in the diet is of bene-
fit ; cod-liver oil may be taken during cold
weather. Electric treatment, such as galvanism,
may be applied to affected parts for relief. In
the initial stages, the main requirement is
exercise to stimulate a healthy circulation.
* * * *
Recipe for a disinfectant cleaning solution,
to be broken down with water approx. 1 to 40,
similar to Hiegenol or Sofania ? —7357.
A formula is: Caustic potash 42 grammes,
water 250 mils. Dissolve and add linseed oil
180 grammes. Heat the mixture until saponifi-
cation is complete, then add resin 10 grammes,
caustic potash 1 gramme, cresol 30 grammes,
water to 1000 mils. The job needs chemical
knowledge and experience.
* * * *
General treatment of hardy varieties of water-
lilies ? —7745.
Take a shallow tub or box and fill it
with a compost made up of two parts of clay
or stiff soil and one part of cow-manure, thor-
oughly mixed together. Make a hole and put
the plant in, leaving the crown just above the
soil; press the compost firmly around it, and
then strain two or three strings or wires over
it, or secure the plant with pegs until it has
made a few roots. This is to prevent the
plant from coming to the surface when the
box is put into position, otherwise it would
float like a cork. The hardier kinds will grow
well at a depth of 3ft. below the surface, pro-
vided the water is clear; but, if somewhat
muddy, place them nearer the top, and, if
necessary, transfer into deeper water later on
when established. When the water can be
kept at one level, it is best to have the crown
from 9in. to lOin. from the surface. When
the plants have grown several leaves on the
surface of the water, it will be known that the
roots are active, and a little very rich, stiff soil
made up in the form of bricks may be dropped
in, say a couple of feet from the crown of
the plants. If the pond has a clay bottom,
nothing more will be necessary; but if this is
of cement, and the plants have to depend upon
the soil in the boxes, additional rich soil will
be required each spring. September and the
first half of October are the best months for
planting.
Brief Answers.
ẁ


ẃ
nave you ever really
tried
?
TF you really want whiter, more attrac-
tive teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth.
It catches bits of food. Harbors stains.
Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. Film is laden with
germs that are often the forerunner of
tooth decay. Thus film must be removed.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satis-
factorily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders
may be ineffective in removing film. There
is now a tooth paste you can depend on
regularly—a tooth paste thousands of den-
tists use in their own homes and millions of
people have used successfully. This tooth
paste is Pepsodcnt—the special film-removing
tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
Pcpsodent is different in formula, hence
different in the way it works. It contains
no grit, pumice, or soap. The basis of this
definitely modern tooth paste is a new
and revolutionary cleansing and polishing
material which is far softer than the
polishing material used in other leading
tooth pastes or tooth powders. Yet it removes
film and polishes teeth to new gleaming
lustre as more abrasive kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain”
tooth pastes or questionable ways? Remember
that this unique film-removing agent is
contained in Pcpsodent exclusively. Thus
no other tooth paste can assure you of
true Pcpsodent results. Use Pcpsodent twice
a day— sce your dentist at least twice a year.
N 7332
% it
•••
„
f m
yr
K-
N
1:
r-;->
m
m
m
m
■
-
i
A
H
Jm
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
DBO'C; Can’t publish 64 lines of panegyric
on a local celebrity of whom few people out-
side ever heard... .H.V.W.: Poem on the bath-
tub sailor who, after many vicissitudes,
Was shipped oil' to Thursday, where he was beset
With dictations in French, and his Waterloo met,
foundered in the breakers R.T.A.: You
shouldn’t try to rhyme “Spooner” with * rumor.
R W.; Sounds heartfelt, but that isn t
enough... .E.W.: A long way oil the target..,.
G.M.: Light verse isn’t your forte T.W.N.:
It turned our thoughts to insecticide... .J.A.F.:
“If you don’t like it send it back.” Right....
W.W. “After Longfellow,” eh? But it’s hard
to imagine the smoothest of poets ending one
line with “<sclat” and its mate with “avuncular.”
H.S.: If you find in the calm of a
bush night “a brooding peace and quietness
that words will not define, why waste all these
words? 8.D.: No kennel here for Bill the
bagman’s faithful hound... .W.W.A.; Nor any
market for these sentimental snippets
S.W.W.: No, we didn’t appreciate it. Mr.
Dennis’s address is Toolangi, Victoria....
E. Very little in them.... Bass: They’re
not bad at all, but you don’t quite score an
inner E.W.: Too many ruts and stumps
along “The Beaten Track”... .N.R.: No oilers
for those three cows S.C.K.: “Do not judge
my first attempt at verse too harshly.” Can-
didly, it would be impossible to do 50....
A.M.8.: It doesn’t hold the interest... .W. 8.:
Philistines would not be converted by your
article, and non-Philistines don’t need it....
K.E.J.C.: A string of puns and wisecracks
doesn’t make a humorous article... .O. Yeah:
“Offspring of an opium-befuddled brain”?
We can’t believe it to be that, if only out of
respect for Dc QuincSy... .H.A.L.: Doesn’t
make the grade.... F.Z.: Too long and de-
sultory ... .R.M.T.: Needs less profanity and
more humor... .C.H.S.: Oxford Dictionary gives
“jamb” as an alternative spelling of verb....
F. It’s been said a million times already.
I.M.G.: MS. beginning “Life is an ashbm
full of burnt hopes” consigned to the flames.
P.K.: It is very hard to find anything new
to say about a sunset, or even to say it
in a new way....N.K.: Well, he’s happy now,
anyway H.C.D.: Appears to be an attempt
to combine the philosophies of Wordsworth
and Omar. Both would be vexed.... F.J.J.:
Repeats old platitudes immaturely... .C.R.A.:
Neither good nor bad... .H.C.D.; “Flower-clad
meads,” “youth's Elysian lyre.” You arc
writing m the twentieth century... .J.W., T.R.
(and others); It is reassuring to hear that
spring will be with us again 500 n... .L.McD.:
“The scene I leave and to my house repair.”
Presumably you are a carpenter... .S.C.:
The rhyme of the week—“warmy-corner”
M.L.: All right in its way, but the sentiment
is trite... .Bellcrive: “Blowflies” is a bit out
of season, but here goes:
“We may have a blazing summer,”
Said King Blowfly to his clan.
“With clouds of dust as usual
The north winds fiercely fan.
But our glory is the summer,
For feasts and wanton flight,
To saileth forth in clusters,
And dart from left to right.”
“We’ll have to cease a-buzzing
When we’re on the wing,
If we hope to dodgeth danger,”
Said a warrior to the King.
“Fool,” the King retorted,
“You fear insectibane;
We have our resurrections
To prance and buzz again.”
... .C.W.C.: First three verses swing along
fairly well; the fourth seems to have run away
from you F.S.: Mostly words A.M.W.:
It certainly contains 14 lines, but that doesn t
make it a sonnet... .A.8.T.: and M.L.: Not
suitable J.V.M.: Parish-magazine verse....
W.H.: We are full up of poems about wheel-
barrow-pushing... .L.A.: You have a certain
facility for rhyme, but you can’t yoke up
“satyrs” with “craters” A.C.: Not lor us,
but it certainly holds a promise of something
better G.A.L.: Still wide of the mark....
Y.G.: At last we know who writes the verse for
the “In Memoriam” columns M.F.: We are
returning your nutshell with kernel intact...
Margot: None suitable A.E.G.: Far too
long; wouldn’t be a winner anyhow Jane:
Of ghosts and haunted houses. “Sometimes
these apparitions assume the appearance ol head-
less women, sometimes a beast about the size
of an ordinary cow.” More often the latter.
C.H.M.: Merely a story-book detective
yarn R.H.M.: Has merit, but not enough.
p.S.: The correct place for first-hand
account of a trip to hell seems to be the
“National Geographic” H.E.R.: All right
as a sketch, but with little appeal R.J.G.:
Platitudinous... .J.P.G.: Interesting as an
account of a confidence trick, but not as a
yarn A.L.8.: It didn’t make us laugh....
F.0’8.: Not enough in it....R.R.: You in-
vented an improbable situation and, instead
of justifying it, trailed oft into a common-
place anti-climax... .C.R.: There is a lot ol
humor in a beginner’s horse-riding, but you
haven’t extracted much... .J.W.H.: “Hopeless”
is the best word for it... .F.8.F.: The foot-
ball yarn lacks the atmosphere of reality. As
to the other story, if poisoned apples arc
handled as carelessly as that the matter needs
looking into... .H.C.: Neither the sketch nor
the verse impresses C.W.: Story of rival
pig-farmers too slight... .Zcbcdec; Not enough
of it Bally: Funeral humor is not in the
best taste W.P.B. (Vic.): The initials were
transposed. Thanks for good wishes
M.G.D.: The separate incidents arc too slender.
.... D.H.M.: Not up to the standard you set
for yourself.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Don’t care for it A.W.: Drawing
of boudoir is nicely decorative, but jest is
flimsy R.T.; Gag about gallant who
waited outside picture theatre with roses for
star dates back to the early days of
the flicks N.W.S.: Well, at least you can
draw tramlines... .G.H.M.: A muddy piece of
work... .C.L.: Wheeze about the gold stan-
dard didn’t stand the acid test J.F.: Two
still figures and gag that lacks punch... .S.H.:
Shadows fall the wrong way, and the perspec-
tive is wobbly.... D.J.P.; The plumber is an
old friend; so is the drunk with the crayfish.
. ...K.M.M.; There is a glimmer of merit in
the line drawings—keep on W.C.J.: Over-
crowded sketch, and joke is no youngster....
M.G.: There’ll be no cheques while you con-
tinue in that vein P.J.D.: A cartoon should
not need so many labels L.R.H.: You may
make good, but it will take years... .8.E.R.:
A flapper with legs like that would keep out of
a bathing costume.. .H.C.G.: It cost us 4d.
in deficient postage to run our eyes over that
atrocity N.A.: If you must draw, do it on
decent paper with suitable ink G.L.: It
crossed the continent all for nothing
R.M.H.: Looks like a stray from London
“Punch” P.S.F.: “Do you think I should
spend my evenings drawing?” No, listen to
the radio... .R.C.W.: Hopeless.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Grasspan”: Complaints of elderly
and decrepit people against Sydney
subway stairs are only an echo of similar
growls which have risen from Flinders-
street station, Melbourne, for 20 years.
This terminus, which discharges by far
the greater part of the suburban traffic
of the metropolis, is provided with both
stairs and ramps, but both are equally
arduous to all but the agile and active.
Escalators are no new thing, and depart-
ment stores, run by private enterprise,
relieve their customers of stair-mounting
by their use. It is surely not too much
to expect of a huge Government mono-
poly that it should provide its millions of
patrons with equal facilities.
♦ * * *
“Centurion”: Discussing the Australian
war history, “J.D.” asks (B. 24/7/’35)
what equally comprehensive works
about the campaigns of Marlborough
and Wellington wouldn’t be worth
to-day. The answer is—what they would
fetch at a second-hand dealer’s. Both
Marlborough and Wellington have been
soundly dealt with by military historians,
Napier’s Peninsular War in particular hav-
ing great merit as a literary production
as well as the leading authority on that
long-drawn-out struggle. But how few
ever dip into that nowadays, or King-
lake’s Crimea either. Our own part in
the Great War will be forgotten when the
next boilover comes, just as the costly,
and for the most part hideous, memorials
of the 1914-18 struggle have temporarily
eclipsed those raised after the Boer War.
* * * ♦
“G.M.”: Victoria’s Municipal Asso-
ciation has approved of the Spooner
bathing costume and associated regula-
tions, and, if individual councils accept
the recommendation, all the beaches of
Victoria will conform—in theory. What
the individual bathers will do in practice
is another matter. It is scarcely likely
that Beryl and Doreen are going to scrap
that delightful brassiere design which
made all last year’s boys gather round
like flies. The trouble about making
stringent regulations is that public
opinion refuses to accept them, and public
opinion generally proves stronger than
the law. There might be no open beach
bathing in Australia to-day if sundry
rebels hadn’t flouted laws which formerly
existed. Even to-day it is forbidden in
Victoria—and not long ago in N.S.W. as
well —to lie, sit, play or loiter on any
of the beaches while in costume. A
visit to any stretch of sand on Mel-
bourne’s foreshore will show how fer-
vently that regulation is carried out.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Quamdiu”: Sydney doctors and den-
tists claim to be, and probably are, as up
to date as any in the world, but a
stranger would hardly guess it from the
staleness of the magazines and periodicals
one is apt to encounter in their waiting-
rooms. Many of them seem to harbor
a vague idea —if they think about it at
all —that London illustrated papers
(“Punch” is the standby) are none the
worse for being a few months or even
years old, and that patients waiting for
their ministrations can pick up Austra-
lian weeklies to pass the time without
bothering in the least about the date on
them. Certainly there are bright excep-
tions —Macquarie-street is somewhat less
benighted or belated than the suburbs
in this respect —but for a few shillings a
week any doctor or dentist could keep
his waiting-room literature reasonably
fresh and approximately up-to-date.
After all, it is the regular patients who
suffer most from the omission.


ss? RfiuAedbi,
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd,, London, England.
Factory Rep ; John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
BRAKE
UNiNQ
m
IfraURiMR
replace worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
L.HAMPION
™° R ' SPARKING PLUGS
The Steering Column.
DODGE PASSES STRENUOUS TEST
WITH HONORS.
SPLENDID ROAD PERFORMANCE AND RIDING
COMFORT.
By FRED BERRY.
nPWENTY-ONE years ago Dodge Brothers produced their first
* automobile, and at the same time laid down a policy
wherein standardisation of parts, together with dependability
and high performance, was an essential feature. So successful has
been this policy that to-day every motorist must give more than
casual attention to Dodge products when purchasing anew car.
ẅ
Compact, efficient, accessible and dependable, the famous
Dodge "Red Ram ” power unit used in the 1935 series.
ferred to the stabiliser bar, which in turn
reacts to keep the body on an even
plane.
In addition, the new steel Australian
bodies are roomier and more com-
pletely streamlined, and front and
rear seats have been widened, while both
doors are also wider, providing easier
access.
With bore 31-in. and stroke 4|in., the
L-head motor has a displacement of
217.8 cub. in. R.A.C. rating is 25.35
h.p., but with 6.5 to 1 high compression
head 85 b.h.p. is developed at peak revs.
Cylinder block, cast integral with the
upper half of the crankcase, is of grey
iron, with cylinder walls honed to a
Efficient streamlining and neat profile of the new “Air Glide” Dodge “DU”
touring sedan, tested over the Bulletin course.
mirror finish. Water jackets cast in the
block extend the full length of cylinder
bores, giving from 50deg. to 70deg.
cooler oil in the crankcase at high speeds.
The detachable cylinder head, whether
5.6 to 1 or 6.5 to 1, is of cast-iron, but
the specially designed combustion
chamber prevents “pinking” even when
second-grade fuels are used. Side-by-
side valves are
used. Exhaust is
silchrome steel,
inlet chrome nickel
alloy, while ex-
haust-valve sealings
are “insets” in the
cylinder block and
made from the
hardest tungsten
chrome steel,
thereby extending
the period between
valve-grindings to
30,000 miles. While
valve inserts have
done much to
lessen the neces-
sity for valve-
grinding. Dodge
engineers have
gone a step further,
and have taken full advantage of
their improved cooling system to
place cool water around each of the
exhaust valves. Jn addition to the long
life made possible by this combination,
the valve tappets are of a new mushroom
type with hardened steel heads, ensuring
long periods of trouble-free operation
without necessity for adjustment.
The crankshaft, 2lin. in diameter, is
balanced statically and dynamically, runs
in four large precision-type bearings, and
is fitted with seven integral counter-
weights. In order to secure great rigidity
and freedom from vibration, webs are
cast in the crankcase extending to each
main bearing. An impulse neutraliser,
to further damp out power vibration, is
fitted to the front end of the crankshaft.
Pistons are lightweight aluminium
alloy, T-slot type, each with four rings:
two top rings compression, two lower
oil control. Gudgeon pins arc of full-
floating type.
The connecting rods are sturdy forgings
with precision-type bearings, balanced in
weight for smooth engine operation. The
camshaft is driven by a silent chain, and
runs on four bearings.
Fuel is held in a 12gal. tank suspended
at the rear of the car, the fuel line from
tank to motor being carried outside the
frame member, so preventing heating and
possible vapor locks.
A diaphragm-type mechanically-oper-
ated fuel pump maintains constant pres-
sure regardless of extent of throttle open-
ing, and supplies a down-draught car-
burettor, equipped with accelerator
pump, automatic choke control operated
by thermostat, oil-bath, air cleaner and
intake silencer. In order to further im-
prove “cold starting” a thermostat is
incorporated in the water-circulating sys-
tem, preventing the flow of wafer into the
radiator until a
predet ermined
engine temperature
has been reached.
A 6-volt electri-
cal starling, light-
ing and ignition
equipment is fitted,
ignition by coil
and battery. Elec-
trically - operated
dual windshield
wipers are stand-
ard equipment,
whilst dual vibra-
tor type electric
horns are neatly
arranged in the
front engine cowl-
ing.
Lubrication is full-force feed under
pressure to all main connecting-rod
and camshaft bearings, the pistons,
gudgeons, valves, cams and tappets
being splash lubricated. An effi-
cient crankcase ventilation system is
incorporated, and a large oil filter in
the pressure line removes impurities
and keeps the engine oil at maximum
efficiency.
The motor is suspended in the chassis
on flexible “floating-power” mountings,
permitting the engine to move on its axis
Vacuum-operated spark advance, con-
nected with intake manifold, providing
ideal ignition point and preventing
detonation and pre-ignition.
within reasonable limits, thereby absorb-
ing power thrust and vibration.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch to a three-speed-and-
revcrse gearbox, with central change-
speed lever. The clutch differs from last
year’s model in that it is now air-cooled
and requires 30 p.c. less pedal pressure
in operating. The clutch pedal is
mounted on a frame cross member so
that movement of the engine is not trans-
mitted to the pedal. All pinions in the
gearbox are helical-cut for silent opera-
tion, and the new type synchroniser pre-
\cnts clashing even when shifting at high
speeds. Consequently any gear can be
selected, regardless of the skill or experi-
ence of the operator, and in descending
steep grades lower ratios may be* selected
without fear of damage to the transmis-
sion.
Final drive is through an open pro-
peller shaft with Spicer ball and trun-
nion needle roller bearings at front and
rear to a spiral bevel differential assem-
bly with a reduction ratio of 4.125 to 1
Back axle assembly is of the semi-float-,
ing type enclosed in a “banjo” steel-
stamped housing. Double-tapered roller
bearings are used at each wheel.
Chassis is of double-drop X-braced
construction, and the all-steel body with
pressed steel floor is bolted to both
chassis and cross members, thereby en-
Greater comfort in new all-steel body types. At left, conven-
tional design; at right, lower and more natural seating
position, due to lower floor level.
suring an extremely rigid construction
and preventing wearing and the develop-
ment of body rattles when driven over
rough roads. Furthermore, side mem-
bers of the chassis are outswept to con-
form with the body profile, resulting in
a low floor level and greater leg room
for both front- and rear-seat passengers.


USEFUL DATA ON DODGE SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 24ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 79.29 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.7 m.p.g.
TO RADIATOR
TO WATER
PUMP
Engine cold-valve cloaed
by lhenno»ta* prevent*
water circulating through
radiator.
Engine warm —valve open,
permitting water to circu-
late through complete
cooling »yitem.
New-type thermostat in water-circulating
system. One of the reasons why the
Dodge warms up so quickly after a cold
start.
The car tested was a four-door sedan,
and, inclusive of full fuel tank, driver and
observer, weighed Sl^cwt.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 €k*>A (SECOND
J. I/UT' EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do It.
FRO'rt “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydne -, 0/0 FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
6 3>
0
dSSs - ’*
n\j?qß
RO^ s
* in * n ® n
* he,e
- PtCIAUS^f^/w^ed 9
C,na 00 ~ t Ss**^*££2»
~ m *0 a n»» o,a ;0« ae Ll »na “ ic ;
OuW ® n t,anu< aC '? ere arVt ® v et» *\ p * n the r° ad
»Cnuc T
t>uto f or cye rv
o<V> oUs tV>aC k\e
a u‘
Ste©
rin9 ,^ rt the \ sU rfa cC
to
,°, • ■ «e.." 7a «to» —.like •-
.hatienea a „
n»a
. , Sha°
0U etc- ® rC
ftohs- j tase
e\® n ?. r a* a 9 cS
chin©
a »° 3 tod tear
for
ste
re
°7^° 9
25 s
s:r^ u p- 0* - pet ’ dh o^.
VaW eS *0 eQ ua -* 5 sP eC , V hoU» e$
**%?%>**
*r°
00- - s,ra
s ;i«
\
A***'
and
is »
Ud
tfed
iord
sta
ed.
nd « a °"
OoW
t«on
a»sa
of9 a
liao*
Aostra
» iaVls, ° iM
eo nUO«® d
HAWKINS IQ.
Worm-and-sector steering is fitted, with
ready means of adjustment in case of
wear. Suspension is by semi-elliptic
springs front and rear, silent “U” non-
sway shackles with rubber bushes being
fitted throughout. Single-acting hydraulic
shock-absorbers are fitted to the front
spring anchorages, together with the ride
stabiliser, and double-acting shock-
absorbers are attached
to the rear suspen-
sion.
Wheelbase is 116 in.
Four-wheel Dodge
hydraulic internal-ex-
panding, self-equalis-
ing brakes are fitted,
the braking surface of
cast - iron being
moulded into steel
housings, giving long
life and maximum
efficiency. The emer-
gency braking equip-
ment, actuated by
hand lever, operates
by a contracting band on the propeller
shaft at the rear of the gearbox. The
bodywork is of all-steel construction,
designed on modern aerodynamic prin-
ciples, interior fittings including remote
control for rear blinds and courtesy lights
in rear panels connected with rear doors.
Upholstery and hardware are of excel-
lent quality.
On the instrument panel is a large
aeroplane-type speedometer around which
ammeter, oil-pressure gauge, petrol gauge
and water temperature indicator are
neatly arranged and indirectly lighted for
night driving.
Despite several hold-ups owing to con-
gestion in early traffic, fast time was
made to Parramatta, due mainly to the
fact that, even with a top-gear ratio of
4} to 1, acceleration from low road
speeds was positive and of an extremely
high order; consequently traffic-driving
in the Dodge holds no terrors even for
the novice.
On the open country roads through
Baulkham Hills an effortless cruising
speed of 50 m.p.h. was steadily main-
tained, all main road hills being taken
without diminution of speed.
At Pitt Town speed was reduced to
15 m.p.h., and with gear lever in neutral
the car rolled 710 yards before coming
to a standstill.
Immediately following the rolling test
maximum speed was clocked over a
measured mile with flying start. At the
first attempt the motor was cold, and as
the engine temperature rose so did the
maximum speed. A second attempt was
then made, and the time, 46 3-ssec., gave
an average of 79.29 m.p.h. Over this
section the car held the road splendidly,
and motor and transmission were so free
from noise and vibration that conversa-
tion could be carried out in the car in
normal fashion.
Through Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong Heights the unmade by-pass
road through Grose Vale was taken, and,
although several sections were extremely
rough and under repair, the riding com-
fort and road-holding qualities of the
Dodge could not be faulted. Next test,
the speed hill climb of 2 1-5 miles of the
steepest portion of Kurrajong Mountain,
gave further indication of remarkable
engine power and road-holding, for,
although clocked in the fast time of
3min. 15sec., the car held the corners
splendidly and negotiated the several
hairpin bends without rolling, swaying or
undue skidding.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results ; and, tak-
ing the cross-country route via Castle-
reagh to Penrith, further performance
tests were conducted.
As top-gear flexibility is an important
feature in modern cars the first test in-
volved covering 350 yards as slowly as
possible, followed immediately by a
similar distance on full throttle, still *n
top On the slow-running section the
Dodge took 3min. 51sec., averaging 3.1
m.p.h., whilst on the accelerated section,
clocked in 16 2-ssec. and crossing the
finishing line at 60 m.p.h., the average
speed was 43.9 m.p.h.
Acceleration from a steady 10 m.p.h.
to 30 in top and middle gear was next
checked, top gear being clocked at
7 3-ssec. and second at ssec. Accelera-
tion from a standing start to 50 m.p.h.
in 12sec. was conclusive proof of the
remarkable traffic possibilities of this
car.
Service brake equipment was next
tested from a speed of 25 m.p.h., a
distance of 24ft. 6in. being covered
before coming to a standstill. Turning
circle on left and right lock, was 41ft.,
and minimum ground clearance B£in.
Fuel consumed on the test of 123 miles
was sgal. 1\ pints, averaging 20.7 m.p.g.
(32.6 ton miles), while the time taken,
inclusive of all tests, 3hr. llmin., gave
an average speed of 38 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
G.B.C. (Kelso, N.S.W.). — What Is the law
governing car headlights, and is there any regu-
lation limiting the candle-power of headlight
bulbs ? If so, what is the largest size per-
mitted 7
N.S.W. regulations provide that two lighted
headlights of approximately equal candle-power
capable of showing a white light only at the
front be affixed on opposite sides of the vehicle.
Such headlights must not be higher than
4ft. 6in. from the ground, must be fixtures, and
all rays must be projected on ground at a
distance not exceeding 60 yards in a direct
line in front. The headlights must be of such
power as to render easily visible any sub-
stantial object or person at a distance of 25
yards. With regard to power of the lights,
the regulations provide that no person shall
drive a car with headlights not constructed or
adjusted in such a manner as to diffuse suffi-
ciently all rays projected in order to prevent
interference with drivers of approaching
vehicles.
* * * *
J.McM. (Rostock (Q.). — Where can .spares be
obtained for Vulcan cars ?
Vulcan Motors, 529 Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l.
* * * *
Morris (N.Q.). — I live many miles from a
garage, and it is frequently necessary to do
overhauls without expert assistance. Chief
trouble lies in finding a suitable material to re-
place gaskets on cylinder head, inlet and ex-
haust manifold and carburettor. Is it neces-
sary to use copper asbestos, or is there any
suitable substitute ?
So far as the cylinder-head gasket is con-
cerned, you must use either metal or metal and
asbestos. A thin sheet of lead or annealed
( Continued on page jU.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of ‘'The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
nh
OF GAR RUNS
(BmXWu. oru
VALVOLINE
mm
oil
■y i U
m
a
O A
a
o
Well, frankly. Valvoline is a better oil!
Tests, both practical and theoretical,
prove this.
Secondly, Valvoline is not handled
like other oil —it is Refinery sealed.
It comes to you in "tamper-proof” tins
and is sealed as a protection against
substitution, adulteration, dirt and
short measure
Ask your garageman!
O
UNAVAILABLE IN BULK
J.CARRIGAN
• SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
HAWKINS V 7.
iVVion
1U
thirty
ot
one
1
m
More Willard automobile bat-
teries are sold year after year
than any other make.
If your horn sounds like a
hull frog headlights dim
and your motor’s hard to turn
over BUY A WILLARD.
Over 30 million Willards
have given satisfaction.
SEE
Willard
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
Simoniz Your Gar
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kieener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
copper will serve the purpose provided you have
the means of cutting it to the exact shape.
For manifolds or carburettor, where tempera-
tures are lower, several sheets of brown paper
or one thickness of cardboard will serve the
purpose, but the paper or cardboard should
be coated with shellac or a good-quality soap
in order to ensure a perfectly airtight joint.
* * * *
R.T.N. (Seymour, Vic.). — My 1932 six-
cylinder car (32,000 miles ) has recently given
trouble with the engine boiling when driven
fast or when climbing long hills on middle
gear. Mechanically the car is in good order,
having been overhauled a few months ago.
Spark is good, carburettor working well, valve
timing correct, new fan belt and brakes not
binding. What is the trouble ?
If your car is in good mechanical condition
the trouble must lie in a defective cooling
system. Possibly the radiator core has become
“furred” with a deposit of rust, and, while
this would not cause boiling before the recent
overhaul, the extra heat generated by addi-
tional power output cannot now be dissipated
when full throttle is used. Have the radiator
core dismantled and thoroughly cleaned out
either by the use of alkalis or by high-pressure
water-air system.
* >;= * *
A.S. (Hawthorn, Vic.). — Driving my six-
cylinder Chrysler in the city during the last three
years, my fuel consumption has approximated
21 tn.p.g. Now, after being transferred to the
Western District, where runs of 250-300 miles
on the open road are commonplace, / find my
petrol consumption has risen to 15 tn.p.g.
What is the reason ?
The main factor in fuel consumption is the
speed at which the car is driven, and you have
not indicated whether this has increased.
Should you drive your car on full throttle
without having to slow up for any reason petrol
consumption would be somewhere about 10
m.p.g. No doubt in your new environment
speeds, and consequently petrol consumption,
arc higher than they were when driving in
city areas.
* * * *
T. 8.0. (Bcga, N.S.W.). — My ’26 model four-
cylinder Morris-Cowley is giving good service
except that No. 4 cylinder oils up every few
miles. Oil consumption is excessive, and 1 am
obliged to carry several plugs as spares to
change over when the offending cylinder begins
to miss. Would it be possible to rebore No. 4
cylinder—others seem all right—and so cure
the trouble ?
No. Reboring one cylinder would throw
the reciprocating masses out of balance, and
serious trouble would be sure to follow. The
whole cylinder block must be rebored or re-
lined if you intend to continue using the car.
A.G.N. (Gawler, S.A.). — On several occa-
sions I have been compelled to drive home
without headlights, owing to the fuse having
blown and no spare
being available. Is
there any temporary
remedy for this
trouble ?
Yes. Take out
(he fuse and wrap
the glass tube, in-
cluding metal ends,
with tinfoil from a
cigarette case. Pos-
sibly this temporary
remedy will again
fail unless you seek
the real cause of
the trouble, which
appears to be a
serious short-circuit
in the wiring sys-
tem.
Fuses held in metal
clips.
J.J. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). — My six-cylinder
sedan, at 23,000 miles, has begun “ spitting”
back into the carburettor when starting off
from cold. After running for a few miles the
trouble ceases, but it is most annoying, and
every morning, owing to this spilling, 1 have to
start the motor several limes before gelling
away. What’s wrong ?
Provided no alteration has been made in car-
burettor setting, the trouble must be due to
sticky inlet valves. When the motor is cold,
should the inlet valves be covered with thick,
viscous oil, they will not follow the cam pro-
file, and so, failing to close on the compression
stroke, allow the burning charge to blow
through the induction manifold and carburet-
tor. As a temporary measure, you might put
a few drops ot kerosene on the cylinders and
spin the engine before switching on, but ulti-
mately it will be necessary either to renew
valve guides (if they happen to be replaceable)
or to fit oversize valves and reamer out the
original guides.
* * * *
W.W. (Toorak, Vic.). — My ’26 seven-h.p.
Austin has developed intermittent ignition
trouble whenever driven in wet -weather. All
mechanical adjustments are in good order, and
when going the car performs normally. In
rainy weather, however, misfiring is liable to
commence, and if I stop the engine I have great
difficulty in getting it going again. Cause and
cure ?
Water in petrol line or carburettor would
most likely cause this trouble, but if this has
been checked you will in all probability find
a hairlike crack in the distributor head of
the magneto. This crack, becoming filled with
carbon, allows the spark to bridge two or more
plugs simultaneously, and as "a consequence
the firing order is disturbed. A new dis-
tributor head will effectively solve the problem,
but as a temporary remedy scrape the black
hair lines away with a nail-file and fill with
sealing wax, levelling off with sandpaper after-
wards.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“A.N.S.”: The engineer of Forbes
Shire (N.S.W.) has asked for suggestions
as to how to deal with road corrugations.
Here’s one tip. Carling gravel on a
private road across the plains near Mul-
laley (N.S.W.), the track became so bad
that work was suspended. Then the boss
ordered every truck to drag the iron rim
of a cart wheel (on its flat) behind. It
worked excellently. But 1 can’t say
where a supply of iron tyres can be got
these days.
* * * ♦
“Greenhide”: It happened in Sydney
about two years ago, when the car-pilfer-
ing craze had reached its height. A
cautious owner developed the habit of
passing a chain through the spokes of
his rear wheel and padlocking the
machine to the nearest telegraph or elec-
tric-light standard. Worked well for a
while, too. One night he parked the bus
outside a dance hall. When he came out
chain, padlock and wheel were still in
place, but thieves had jacked the car up.
removed the wheel, replaced it with the
spare and driven off.
* * ♦ *
“Bogaduck”: Three deep creeks, un-
bridged, lie between old Tom’s place
and the township. The other day 1 went
out with him and discovered how he
forded ’em in his car. The first creek
was up to the four-foot mark on the
gauge stick. Tom stopped on the bank,
and from his back seat took a piece of
stout duck fitted with eyelet holes and
ropes, like a miniature tarpaulin. This
was passed under the crankcase, folded
up over the front of the radiator and
tied across the bonnet. Then Tom sent
the bus at the water as hard as she could
rip in bottom gear. There was a splash
like the launching of a battleship, a noise
on the hood suggesting that we had
driven under a waterfall, and then the
nose of the car rose in the air, and we
climbed up to the road on the other side,
with the engine still running without a
splutter. “You’ve got to take the creek
at the gallop.” the old boy explained.
“But if you do it right you can get
through four-foot-six of water, provided
the creek isn’t more than 20ft. wide. If
it's any wider, the car slows down so
much that the water gets to the engine. ’’
Backed by £SOOO Federal and Slate
assistance and £2500 which it says it can
raise itself, Frcney Oil Cos. (W.A.) is
about to try again. Dr. Wade is busy
on an extensive geological survey, on
completion of which boring will be re-
sumed. Faith is the co.’s long suit.
* * * ♦
Melbourne has unearthed a citizen of
Carlton who has only once seen the sea,
though the beach is less than two miles
from his house. His record is beaten by
Paddy Lynch, who died in West Mel-
bourne, aged 86, after having lived there
for half a century. During all that time
Lynch had never ventured cast of Eliza-
beth-street except to cross the road to
St. Francis Church every Sunday.
# V * *
“Mttggs”: As far as charges go, the
taxi-man is no improvement on the
cabby. The taximeter is supposed to be
a perfect protection (for the passenger)
against extortion ; it can't lie about the
distance registered. But if the passenger
can’t or doesn’t read it, where is the pro-
tection? Three times in three weeks
I have hired a taxi from the same
suburban stand to lake me to the same
building in Macquarie-street, .Sydney—a
distance of three or four miles. Each
driver charged me a different fare; and
each shoved his body between me and his
indicator before charging it—a quite un-
necessary precaution, because I couldn’t
read the instrument anyhow, and I
wouldn’t have known whether its
diagnosis was correct if I had been able
to. The difference between the lowest
and highest fare was two shillings, and
there was no use arguing. The London
cabby of my youth—the chap with
half-a-dozen capes whom Keane used to
draw in “Punch” —was much less dicta-
torial. He would give you his estimate
of a fair thing, and sometimes add, per-
haps appraising you shrewdly, “But I
leave it to you, sir.” And he was gener-
ally an oldish man. so that you didn’t
mind overpaying him a trifle.


WIRELESS
VALVE
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
RADIOTR
WIRELESS (A/sia). LTD., 47 York Street, Sydney; ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD.. 93-95 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.)
RADIO NEWS.
Australians
on the
English Air
A pub 1 i city
broadsheet issued
by the 8.8. C. has
some interesting
references to Aus-
tralians on the
air in England.
There arc no fewer than 36 ol them in the
regular list of artists on the Empire ser-
vice. South Africans come second, with
21; Canadians, 13; Maorilanders, 11.
Early this month a 8.8. C. concert was
wholly made up of music by Australian
composers now living in England, and
included songs by Peggy Glanville Hicks
and Esther Rofc, sung by Linda Parker
and Victor Evans. In the same pro-
gramme Miriam Hyde played her own
pianoforte compositions.
Peggy Glanville Hicks was born in
Melbourne and studied at the Albert-
direct Conservatorium. In 1932 she be-
came a student at the Royal College ot
Music, London, studying under Dr.
Vaughan Williams and Arthur Benjamin.
Her works include a ballet, compositions
for chorus and orchestra, pianoforte
music, pipe music and songs.
Esther Role was also born in Mel-
bourne, and at 14 was a violinist in the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra ; also at
that age she wrote lyrics and composed
a short fairy operetta. Her more recent
compositions include orchestral and
pianoforte works, symphonic poems, flute
and pipe music. She has broadcast in
the Empire programmes as an accom-
panist, (he concert being relayed through
3LO.
Miriam Hyde was bom at Adelaide,
and at 12 won a scholarship to the Elder
Conservatorium. In 1932 she went to
England to the Royal College of Music,
and in 1933 completed a pianoforte con-
certo which was performed the next
year by the London Philharmonic
Orchestra. Since then she has written
a second concerto, chamber music, an
overture, pianoforte solos and other
pieces. She has broadcast here from
Adelaide and Melbourne.
Linda Parker is one of the versatile.
She has distinguished herself as singer,
violinist and pianist. She was born and
brought up on a dairy farm at Won-
thaggi (Vic.), and studied first at the
Albert-street Conservatorium, and later
with Elena Gerhardt in Europe. She
has broadcast on several occasions in
the Empire programmes, and also taken
part in variety shows in the British pro-
grammes.
Studying first at the N.S.W. Conserva-
torium, Victor Evans later went to Rome
and Milan to study grand opera. In
Australia he has sung oratorio with the
leading choral societies, and made stage
appearances in light opera, musical
comedy and vaudeville, as well as broad-
casting here and in Maoriland. Since
going to England in 1930 he has broad-
cast both in the British and Empire pro-
grammes.
SEAM.
Broadcast:
“Health Talk ”
....was Gus
Honkswizzlc and
his Harmony
Boys playing a
potpourri of
I rving Berlin's
classics. And talking of pots. The know-
ing housewife scours hers with Blumph,
the aluminium cleanser that is ab-so-
lulely guar-an-teed to put a shine on
them better than the one on a three-year-
old navy suit. Get your Blumph at any
reliable grocer's, and when making your
purchase don’t forget to mention Station
EOE.
The “Daily Groaner” time service—it
is almost thirteen and a quarter minutes
to nine, and our special slimming com-
missioner, Mr. Anchises Arphemeau, will
continue his helpful talks on the avoid-
ance of obesity and how to keep fit.
These talks are brought to you by cour-
tesy of Amalgamated Erbz, Ltd., manu-
facturers of the famous Aktkwik Anti-
Mr. Anchises
Arphemeau.
Corpulent Capsules
and other well-
known health lines.
Now there is a
slight hold-up, as
Mr. Arphemeau is
not yet in the
studio, so while we
arc waiting we will
have a bagpipe
solo: “Owrc Puir
Reek it Dei I Hae
Maun Fu’,” by
O’Toole, bagpiped
by Sol Schneider and recorded by
Just a minute, please. Ah, yes, here
is Mr. Arphcmeau now. J thought 1
heard the steps of an athlete. 1 will
hand over the microphone to him.
Good eve . . . ningeverybo . . . dy—
huh! huh! I hope you .. , will ex . . .
cusc me —huh! huh! Been un .. . avoid-
ably dc . . . tained —huh! huh! Lift
out of or . . . dcr, and had to . . . walk
up the stairs —huh! huh! Ah-h-h-h-h!
That’s better! Thanks, Cyril, I’ve bl .. .
Definitely spreading.
er —pretty well ... got me second wind
now.
Well, listeners, I propose to-night to
deal with the question of exercises in their
relation to slimming. This is of vital
importance to those who have reached
the Spreading Age. Now, if you are
dubious as to whether you have reached
this physical stage, an excellent test is to
take a seat in a tram compartment where
there are already three persons seated.
If you take up the rest of the available
space you are definitely spreading.
Reached the spread-
ing age.
Always re-
member that
you can only
spread out-
wards, and
not up or
down.
For those
who wish to re-
tain that sylph-
like form or who,
having lost it
through over-
indulgence in the
fleshpots, seek to
recover it, exer-
cises are impera-
tive. A splendid
exercise for re-
ducing the laminations of avoirdupois,
whether it takes the form of a dropped
chest or a fatty medulla oblongata, is to
hold the breath tightly against the thorax
and bend and touch the toes. The breath
should be held for three or four minutes.
Now this is quite simple, and if my lis-
teners will draw a little closer to their
sets I will demonstrate how easy it is.
Listen carefully and you will hear me
touch my toes .. . there! Simple, isfft
it? It is all a matter of constant appli-
cation. It would be no effort at all for
me to do it 100 times. For you it can
be the same.
Another excellent corrective for the fat
man or woman is to stand facing a wall,
with the toes and stomach touching it.
This should be possible except with those
who are very fat, in which case the
stomach must
still touch the
wall, while the
feet will be
slightly ou t
from it. This
will be neces-
sary to retain
c q u i 1 ibrium.
unless the
person exer-
cising has very
large feet. If
your stomach
still touches
the wall with
your toes more
Dropped chest.
than a foot from the wall, snap your
wireless set off and consult a faith
healer, as even this session will be of
little avail.
Having then assumed this position,
commence to inhale and exhale at a very
fast rate, say 175 breaths per minute.
It will be found that the constant fric-
tion of the thus-agitated stomach against
the wall (which must be of plain brick,
and not plastered or papered) will, if the
exercise is persevered with, wear that
organ down until what was once a con-
vex excrescence will become an object
of streamlined beauty.
Now it must be borne in mind that
these exercises are in themselves almost
entirely ineffective unless another power-
ful remedial agent is used as a concomi-
tant. Need I say that this agent is Akt-
kwik Anti-Corpulent Capsules? Take one
after every six-course meal and get slim.
Simple.
All chemists
slock them, and
when buying
don’t forget to
mention Station
EOE.
Now I have
one or two
letters to
answer. The
first one is
slightly discour-
teous in tone,
and 1 would
ignore it but
for the fact that it conveys an idea of
the efficacy of the capsules. Here it is:
“To Mr. Anchises Arphemeau, c/o
Station EOE. —You stupid cow. Next
time you mag through the mike take the
watermelon out of your mouth, and per-
haps ‘fit’ won’t
sound like ‘fat.’
Your faulty
articulation has
ruined me. I was
the fat man in a
circus, weighed
42 stone, had five
chins and six
necks, and took a
28in. collar. I
listened-in last
Five chins and six
necks.
week and heard you say distinctly—or in-
distinctly—‘How to keep fat —take
Aktkwik Capsules.’ I took two, and
when I sneezed 10 minutes later my
collar, which previously had fitted my
neck as tight as an Aberdeen pawn-
broker’s purse, shot up and cut my ears,
necessitating several stitches. 1 have
fallen away to a shadow, and now go
only 19 stone. I hope you get strangled
by the cord on your microphone.—
Yours, Silas Chipmunk.”
Well, Mr. Chipmunk; my advice is to
take another
capsule and
get a job in
the circus as
the Incredibly
Thin Man.
My other
letter is from
Mr. R. Phwitt.
of Drinkers’
Flat, via Bog-
g a n a g ortoo.
Usual half-dozen.
He says: “1 been gellin’ falter and falter.
I ’aven’t got a tape measure, but last year
I went three hammer-handles around the
stummick, and now 1 go four. What
would you suggest?”
Well, Mr. Phwitt, my advice is that you
measure in future with an axe-handle. It
won’t sound as many.
Well, that’s all until next week, lis-
teners. 1 am now going to have my usual
half-dozen before turning in, and I
strongly advise you all to do the same.
Good night, everybody.
S. W. K.
All Round
the Dial
“Sub.”: Anona
Winn, described
by Keith Barry as
“the best dubber
in London” (B.
10/7/’35), must
be earning a falter income by Thames
his banks than any Australienne since
Melba took her positively last farewell.
In addition to her film work, described
by she is a recognised 8.8. C.
and gramophone-studio star. Her voice
is by no means great, but she makes
every note and syllable tell: enuncia-
tion and intelligence are her strong
points. She was a discovery of Lee
White’s when that amiable woman,
doomed but game, essayed a season of
revue with Clay Smith in Sydney 13 or
14 years ago. It was not successful,
and salaries were small and (I suspect)
irregular. Anona supplemented hers by
freelance journalism. She wrote very
bright pars, for a youngster. I ought to
know —I handled some of them.
“Phil”: A.B.C. made no mistake when
it brought out the Budapest String
Quartet, The gentlemen from the place
where tokay is the staple tipple'arc very
competent instrumentalists, and their
music never palls, as do the efforts of
bands, orchestras and gropera cos. as
hurled at our inoffensive ears from
national stations. There is a splendid
literature of chamber music, and trans-
mission is pleasing and adequate. Still,
it shouldn’t be necessary to bring out
any more foreign performers—for a long
time to come, anyway, Sydney has an
eminently satisfactory combination at the
Con., and other cities can make corre-
sponding claims.
“Solomon Shicker”: Why does the
A.B.C. allow no one but parsons to play
ducks and drakes with its timetables
v/eek after week? One gets a bit fed
up when the items one wants on Sunday
nights are fairly regularly ten to twenty
minutes late. Isn’t an hour and a half
a reasonable allocation for a church
service?
“G. 8.”: That very wary bird Rudyard
Kipling has unbent for once, and all
through the urgency of an Australian
broadcasting station. The manager of
SDN Adelaide ’phoned him, asking him
to become first patron of the SDN Boys'
Club. The poet of Empire promptly
accepted, and offered to send along a
signed copy of “If” as the club’s creed.


J
: 0F133S
m
Stiomberg
■Carlson 3
Chromo-phonic RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C 2
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Raclio Accessories at give-away prices. AH
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
REVOLUTIONARY BATTERY DESIGN IN ENGLAND.
In “Wireless Magazine” (Eng.) appears
a brief description of an entirely new
principle in primary batteries. It is a
long time since any real novelty was
introduced into the design of primary
batteries ; and all those now in use, the
Leclanche, Bichromate, Fuller, Bunsen
and Daniel), are variations of the decom-
position of zinc by chemical action.
The arrangement of the Gordon
primary cell.
Something new has at last appeared,
and this is described as the Gordon cell,
presumably after the inventor. It uses
a carbon electrode in a novel way. This
carbon is the positive element, as in the
Leclanche and Birchromate cells. Plain
water from the tap is used as the elec-
trolyte, and the negative element is mag-
nesium. Reference to the illustration
shows the make-up of the cell. The car-
bon element is in the form of a tube on
the outside, and the rod in the centre is
the magnesium. Between these elements
is placed a “wick” of wood-wool, brought
up from the bottom of the tube to form
a pad, resting on a block of potassium
bromide, and kept moist by the tap
water. The potassium bromide is not
the reason for the action of the cell, but
its presence is useful in keeping down
the internal resistance. Not only the
construction but the action of the cell is
unusual. The primary cells of familiar
type settle down to the working voltage,
but the Gordon cell settles up to it. On
a test, taking 100 milliamperes for eight
hours, the voltage rises steadily for the
first half-hour from under 2.5 volts to
3.1 volts. This test was conducted with
four of the cells in parallel, as con-
veniently made up for practical use. The
rise in voltage is due to a “warming-up”
effect, as the cells are cold when first
switched on, but gradually rise in tem-
perature as current is delivered.
The battery can be brought up to full
voltage in a few moments by placing it
temporarily under a much heavier load.
As an example, if a flash-lamp bulb is
connected it glows dull red at first, and
then rapidly grows brighter and brighter.
A striking feature is that the service life
is actually better under a continuous
than an intermittent load. The Gordon
cell is not yet on the English market, but
it is reported that plans are under way
for production. The advantages of such
a development are obvious, and if and
when it is applied to B batteries for radio
receivers the prospects are interesting.
FOUR VALVES IN CAMOUFLAGE.
It is possible that in the near future
the small regenerative (or not) two- and
three-valve receiver may ride on a wave
of popularity, at least with the construc-
tor community. Considered from the
tuner angle alone, even a non-regenera-
tive affair can be made to separate four
or five of the local stations without oyer-
lap and without any suspicion of side-
band cutting. Hitch to such a tuner a
really good audto amplifier and there
at hand is an inexpensive instrument
which can be made to perform wonders
with the audio scale. The business re-
solves itself into disregarding distant
stations and going the most direct and
simple way about getting good quality
from the locals. Occasionally descrip-
tions of such small receivers appear, but
they are invariably of the time-honored
variety launched in the dim, dark ages
of radio when the “latest circuit” was a
breathless wonder and there was magic
in the names of Reinartz and Schnell.
Since the advent of valves designed for,
and capable of, a multiplicity of pur-
poses, some clever ideas in small re-
ceivers with big hearts have been
revealed.
An interesting version appeared re-
cently in “English Mechanics,” but at
the moment it cannot be duplicated in
Australia, owing to one of the valve
types being unknown here. The circuit
diagram shows the scheme. VI is a
combination valve containing a detector
stage and a Class-B amplifier in one,
made by the Hivac Co. The usual driv-
ing transformer is used to couple this
detector to the amplifying portion of
the valve. Following the plates of the
first valve is a Class-B audio choke, and
after this a normal transformer-coupled
Q.P.P. stage. The purpose of the choke
is to enable the primary of the Q.P.P.
transformer to take the alternating cur-
rent from the plates of the first valve.
The Q,P.P,' transformer has a high step-
up ratio of 9 to I, and, as the com-
bination of transformer and output valve
is highly efficient, it becomes necessary
to use a 100,000-ohm stopping resistance
in the grid circuit to prevent oscillation.
Grid bias is supplied through this
resistance. The Q.P.P. valve (available
in Australia in Osram QP2I type) is
neither more nor less than two audio
pentodes in the one envelope. Such a
receiver provides interesting material for
experiment, and would be equal in prac-
tice to a four-valve arrangement. The
tuner circuit is shown with switching for
two ranges, as broadcast coverage in
Europe includes the 1000- to 2000-metre
range ; but this could be considered, with
appropriate values, as a dual-wave
arrangement with 200- to 500-metre and
19- to 50-metre coverage. Differential
reaction is employed in the detector.
D. B. K.
CHANGE OF WAVE-LENGTHS.
AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
To relieve the minds of listeners who
believe that the change of wave-lengths
of broadcasting stations in September
will be detrimental to their interests, and
that the receivers at present in use will
not be as effective as they are now, the
Postal Department states that the main
effect of the changes will be improved
service, as the separation between the
points of the receiver tuning dial where
local stations are normally received wifi
be widened. This better separation wifi
improve conditions by making it easier
to tune in a station without overlapping
another station’s programme. The only
change wifi be that listeners wifi find that
certain stations wifi be received at a
different point of the tuning dial from
that previously. Before the change is
made, however, tests wifi be conducted
by the stations so that listeners wifi be
familiar with the new conditions before
they are actually introduced.
in the case of a few country stations
it wifi be necessary to put more than one
station on a particular channel or wave-
length. This is the only method by which
broadcasting services can expand, as
there is obviously a limited number of
broadcasting channels available for use.
In the U.S.A., where the available
channels are about the same as here,
nearly 700 stations are in operation,
while in Europe, with a few more
channels, about 250 stations are operat-
ing. The Australian distribution of
channels, therefore, is on a much more
convenient basis for fairly wide coverage,
and the number of shared channels is
much less than in other countries,
Between September and (he end of the
year several additional stations wifi
commence service, with advantage to
country listeners particularly. The open-
ing of these additional stations is the
main reason for (he readjustment in
wave-length allocations,
All receivers in use and for sale wifi
be as effective under the new conditions
as under the existing arrangement.
Broadcasting Station Frequencies On and After September 1, 1935.
Fre- Wave-
quency length Station
(kc.) (m.)
550 545 .. 2CR Central Regional.
N.S.W.
560 .. 536 .. 6WA S.W. Regional, W.A.
580 .. 517 .. 3WV West Regional, Vic.
590 .. 508 .. 7ZL Hobart—National
600 .. 500 .. 4QN North Regional, Qld.
610 .. 492 .. 2FC Sydney—National
No. 1
630 .. 476 .. 3AR Melbourne —National
No. 1
640 . . 469 .. SCK North Regional, S.A.
670 . . 448 .. 2CO Riverina Regional,
N.S.W.
690 .. 435 .. 6WF Perth—National
700 .. 429 .. 2NR Northern Rivers
Regional, N.S.W.
720 .. 417 .. 6GF Goldfields Regional,
W.A.
730 .. 411 .. SCL Adelaide—National
740 . . 405 .. 2BL Sydney—National
No. 2
750 . . 400 .. 7NT North Regional, Tas.
770 .. 390 .. 3LO Melbourne —National
No. 2
800 .. 375 .. 4QG Brisbane —National
820 . . 366 .. 7HO Hobart
830 .. 361 .. 3GI Gippsland Regional,
Vic.
850 . . 353 .. SRM Renmark
870 .. 345 .. 2GB Sydney
880 .. 341 .. 6PR Perth
iwi 1 3MA Mildura
900 .. 333 .. , 4WK Warwick
910 .. 330 .. 4RK Rockhampton
Regional, Qld.
930 .. 323 .. 3UZ Melbourne
950 .. 316 .. 2UE Sydney
960 .. 3)3 .. SDN Adelaide
970 .. 309 .. 380 Bendigo
Qgn 4AY Ayr
•• • |6AM Northam
990 .. 303 .. 2GZ Orange
1000 . . 300 .. 4GR Toowoomba
1010 .. 297 .. 3HA Hamilton
1020 .. 294 .. 2K.Y Sydney
1030 .. 291 .. 3DB Melbourne
1040 .. 288 .. SPI Crystal Brook
1050 .. 286 .. 2CA Canberra
1060 .. 283 .. j Maryborough
Fre- Wave-
quency length Station
(kc.) (m.)
1080 .. 278 .. 7SII Swan Hill
1100 .. 273 7LA Launceston
1110 .. 270 . . 2UW Sydney
H2O .. 268 .. 4BC Brisbane
1130 263 .. 6ML Perth
1140 263 .. 2HD Newcastle
1150 .. 261 .. 2WG Wagga
I 2KA Katoomba
1160 .. 259 .. 4MK Mackay
I 6BY Bunbury
H7O .. 256 .. 4TO Townsville
1180 .. 254 .. 3KZ Melbourne
1190 .. 252 .. 2CH Sydney
1200 .. 250 SK.A Adelaide
1210 .. 248 . . 1 2GF Grafton
I,6KG Kalgoorlie
1220 .. 246 .. 4AK Oakey
1230 .. 244 .. 2NC Hunter River
Regional, N.S.W.
P4O -ms /3TR Sale
•• ■ 1.61 X Perth
1260 .. 238 .. 3WR Shepparton
1270 .. 236 .. 2SM Sydney
1280 .. 234 3AW Melbourne
1290 .. 233 .. 4BK Brisbane
1300 .. 231 .. 2TM Tamworth
1310 .. 229 .. SAD Adelaide
1320 .. 227 .. 3BA Ballarat
13tn j 2BH Broken Hill
‘ I 4RO Rockhampton
1340 .. 224 .. 2XN Lismorc
1350 .. 222 .. 3GL Geelong
iun i ( 2MO Gunnedah
' ‘ I 4PM Port Moresby
1370 .. 219 .. 3HS Horsham
1380 217 4BH Brisbane
non sit 12GN Goulburn
1390 .. .16 |7BU Burnic
1410 .. 213 .. 2KO Newcastle
1420 .. 211 .. 3XY Melbourne
1430 .. 210 .. 2WL Wollongong
1440 208 ..
1450 .. 207 .. SMU Murray Bridge
1460 .. 205 .. 7UV Ulvcrstone
1470 .. 204 .. | 7 r ß | ® e ? a
I 4CA Cairns
1480 .. 203 . . 2AY Albury
1490 .. 201 .. 2—South N.S.W.
1500 .. 200 .. I o7#°w r ,V , KI . .
(3AK Melbourne (Night
Service Station)
Adapting the Broadeast Superhet
for Short Waves.
ŵ
amateurs and short-wave listeners. It is
realised that mostly the worst piece of
work in the amateur’s station is his
receiver. Most amateurs have available
a broadcast receiver of the superhet type.
Ninety per cent, of amateurs are in-
terested only in one or two of the useful
bands, and, this being the case, what is
wrong with constructing coils to use in
the B.C. receiver, giving operation on
80m. and 40m., or 40m. and 20m.? The
diagram shows the essentials, with the
80m. coils individually padded to make
lining-up easier. The padding conden-
sers are represented by C 2. Cl is the
usual broadcast condenser gang, and, as
this is normally too big to permit easy
tuning over the amateur bands, some
form of bandspread should be included
(bandspread can be omitted for ordinary
short-wave listening). This could be
effected by switching in series small mica
condensers adjusted to peak the bands at
the centre of the dial in each case. Coil
data will be depen-
dent on several fac-
tors, including dif-
ferent valves and
inter-wiring capaci-
ties in the set, but
as a guide the fol-
lowing could be
taken, as in the Re-
generative Reflex
Superhet (B.
21/11/ ’34): Oscillator plate coils for
80m., 40m. and 20m., nine turns 32.
eight turns 30 and seven turns 30 D.S.C.
respectively ; oscillator grid coils, 21 turns
28, 10 turns 26 and five turns 26 D.S.C.
respectively; detector grid coils, 24


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
T' Icy ram?, Colvillcco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261
f
BUY
\S^CV
3 TtI^SPA
I RADIO
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd.. Crow's Nest.
They needed a GOOD PRECISION INSTRUMENT
and THEY GOT IT!
When they bought the SLADE MULTIMETER — the hirst oj the
VIIIVJUNIOR (Midgel Series) PRECISION INS I RUM ENTS
AND NOW!
THE ARISTOCRAT OF THE SERIES.
Provision for New Type Valves.
ACCURATE AND RELIABLE.
Of Good Appearance and Workmanship
Inside and Outside (the former a SLADE
feature).
Fitted with “CALSTAN” Universal Meter—
0-500 micro-ampere movement, 2000 ohms per
volt. Complete with Accessories.
Price £11/11 /- (Nett Trade)
Specification — . .
Blk. leatherette Carrying Case, 8-1 8 x if.
Engraved Ebonite Panel, 8 x 5| x 3-16.
K< "a U./D.C. Volts, 1000, 250, 100, 10.
D.C. Milliamps., 500, 100, 25, 1.
Ohms, 0-100,000.
Point-to-point Volts and Ohms.
Milliamps. through German-silver Push-
button Switches.
Special Test Switch and Outlets for Inductance
and Capacity Tests.
Ilf
u rr>
«S? - -'
ITtf»
«nl
A.C.jD.C. ANALYSER, TYPE AD402.
The Series Includes:
D.C. MULTIMETER, TYPE 0101.
Range: Volts. 500, 100, 10; Mu., 100, 25, 5;
Ohms, 0-100. Price £5/5/-
A.C./D.C. MULTIMETER, TYPE AD101.
Ranee- AC./D.C. Output: Volts, 500, 100, 10;
D.C Milliamps.. 100. 25, 5; Ohms, 0-100,000.
Price £//'/-
DC. MULTIMETER. TYPE D102.
Ranee- Volts. 1000, 250, 100. 10; Ma., 500,
100.® 25; 1; Ohms. 0-1000, 0-10 000.
0-100,0(H). Price 11
A.C./D.C. MULTIMETER, TYPE AD102.
Ranee: A.C./D.C. Output; Volts, 1000, 250.
100, 10: D.C. Mils., 500, 100, 25, 1; Ohms,
0-1000, 0-10,000, 0-100,000. Price .. £8/8/-
Extra range of Ohms in types D102 and
AD102 to 1 meg. (including batteries),
20/- extra.
Write for particulars of New Range of
CALSTAN Meters.
D.C. ANALYSER. TYPE D402-
Rangel D.C. Volts, 1000. 250,
and Ohms; Milliamps. through
10; D.C. Milliamps., 500, 100. 25, 1; Ohms, 0-100,000. lesis: ru.n
inn-silver Push-button Switches. Price o.,
100,
German-silver
Tests: Point-to-point Volts
/- (Nett Trade.)
SLADE'S RADIO 1
PRECISION TEST EQUIPMENT
AND RADIO MANUFACTURERS
LANG STREET, CROYDON, N.S.W. Tel: UJ5381 and UJ 5382.
DISTRIBUTORSSydney—David Jones, Btd.; Martin <le Uaunn.v; Bloeh & Gerber.
Melbourne—Australian General Electric, Etd. Brisbane—Chandler & Co., Etd. Adelaide A. *• c* ——
Etd.
turns 28, 11 turns 26 and five turns 26
D S.C. respectively ; primary, 20 turns, 10
turns and five turns 32 D.S.C. respec-
tively ; R.F. grid coils similar in each
case to detector grid coils, and aerial
coils eight, six and four turns respectively
of 26 D.S.C.
D. B. K.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
A battery broadcast receiver recently
put through The Bulletin’s radio lab.
tests carries a world-famous name, that
of Milliard, and embodies many original
features. It uses battery valves of this
make, and is marketed as the Mullard
MK1 Master Unit. It is intended to pro-
vide country users and dealers with a
receiver in a standardised form that can
be easily removed from its cabinet for
repair or replacement. It is a seven-valve
battery broadcast superhet, foolproof,
and made in such a way that it would
take a lot of knocking about to put out
of action. Despite its strong and hand-
some black polished steel case, it arrived
for test in a large cardboard carton,
generously packed with corrugated strips
and complete with Amplion 01 permag.
speaker and an ingenious folding baffle-
board. In this manner the unit is shipped
to dealers and customers.
The illustrations show the appearance.
Upon removing the back cover, two-volt
valves are revealed in the following
order: One VP2 as R.F. amplifier, one
SP2 as oscillator-delector, two VP2s as
I.F. stages at 175kc., one TDD2 as second
detector, A.V.C. and first audio, one
PM2DX as audio driver and one PM2B
as Class-B output. As the filaments are
connected in series, a six-volt accumulator
is used, and biasing is obtained by using
the drop
across the
filame nts.
Thus no ex
ternal C bat-
teries are
needed. Bat-
tery connec-
tions are con-
fined to A
and B, and
the B supply
need be no
more than
135 volts for
full opera-
tion.
Seen from
the front, the
dial and con-
trols have a
neat appear-
a n c e, and
with the unit fitted into a cabinet the
escutcheon is easily arranged at the
front. There are no fussy battery con-
nections, and a well-engineered plug-and-
socket connector permits instant removal.
The knob at the front left of the con-
trols is a combined switch and volume
regulator, and the knob at the right a
five-position “range” switch. For local
reception it was found that this switch
did not need to be advanced beyond the
minimum position, even using a small
indoor aerial, and with this adjustment
fully advanced there is sensitivity to
spare. At 135 volts B, the static current
(no signal) is between 9ma. and 10ma..
and on the strongest local, properly
tuned, the drain did not exceed 14ma.
This figure is exceeded if the strong
signal is mistuned, but in view of the
fact that the receiver is essentially for
country use this is unimportant.
The main features are the surprising
economy for the number of valves, the
distance-getting qualities and the obvi-
ously efficient application of the Class-B
audio system, resulting in excellent audio
quality. It is next to impossible to make
a mistake in connections, and a complete
set of general instructions is printed and
fixed inside the removable back cover.
The casing is absolutely dust-proof, an
important point with country people.
No country dealer should overlook the
advantages of this intelligently designed
receiver, and country listeners who rely
upon batteries for their programmes
should make a point of seeing and hear-
ing it. Further particulars can be ob-
tained from the Mullard Radio Co.
(Aust.), Ltd., 35 Clarence-street, Sydney .
Casual Comment.
“Fisher”: Every now and then some
public hospital is equipped with a central
radio installation for the benefit of
patients. The cost in many cases is con-
siderable, and even a small country
hospital can spend £100 before it
gets to ear-
phones.
Where a sta-
tion is close
to the hospi-
tal why not
use crystal
r e c e ption?
Thirty
’phones can
be wired up
to. the aver-
age crystal
without
harmful re-
sults, while
crystal detec-
tion is prob
ably prefer-
able to the
t h e r mionic
valve as a
rectifier for
earphone pur-
poses. Pos-
sibly a num-
ber of such
sets would
Showing the Nalve positions inside the Mallard MKI Master
Unit and the plug connector for batteries.
be necessary to equip every bed ; even
so, the cost of installation is negligible,
running and maintenance nil. An addi-
tional factor is that even the humblest
amateur set builder could easily do the
whole job as a piece of voluntary labor.
* # * *
“Mac”: Sydney taxi-cabs are not to
be permitted to instal auto-radios, and
those already rigged must conic out
again. The public nuisance they arc
alleged to create apparently does not exist
when the same apparatus is installed in
a private car, and is not increased by
dealers blaring out lOkw. 01 pure dis-
tortion to advertise their wares in
interference-ridden areas of the city.
Several fleets of cabs were on the point
of having sets installed when the ukase
was issued.
* * * *
“Norwood”; In view of the enormous
space that must be covered by most
Australian stations, there is a constant
demand for increased power in the trans-
mitters. But more power wouldn’t be
an unmixed blessing. There arc slit!
thousands of T.R.F. veterans giving satis-
faction to their owners which would not
last ten minutes if increased transmission
power blanketed their stations at the
point of marginal contact. Another con-
sideration is that a great number of
crystal listeners can’t separate 3AK from
2CO, figuratively speaking, as it is. These,
too, would have to be scrapped and re-
placed by multiple tuning circuits, if it
were possible to continue any form of
satisfactory crystal reception, which is
itself a debatable point.
* * *
“Service Area": Television experi-
ments have been made by means of re-
ceivers and transmitters located at the
summit of the Brocken, Germany, about
150 miles from Berlin. From these tests
it appears that an ultra-short-wave trans-
mitter located there would be able to
serve an area of some 100 miles radius,
and so a regular transmitter will be put
into operation from this mountain-top in
the near future. In view of the fact that
with very low power an ultra-short-wave
carrier radiated from the Blue Moun-
tains region in N.S.W., as proved by
certain experimenters, puts a remarkably
strong signal into almost any part oi
Sydney, a location somewhere in these
mountains should be ideal for a television
service for .Sydney and a large amount
of countryside. If Mt. Victoria were to
be used, the possibility is that a strong
signal could be radiated as far as Sydney,
Bathurst and Newcastle, thus covering a
goodly slice of population.
What’s What in Radio.
The captain of the Newcastle S.S. Co.'s
CJwydir can now communicate with his
owners by radio-telephone while on the
run between Sydney and Newcastle. The
vessel was fitted by A.W.A., which co.
has trained the ship’s officers in the use
of the equipment.
)]: >lt >l< ♦
At the end of 1934 an ultra-short-
wave telephone link was put into opera-
tion between England and Ireland. So
successful is this service that it is to
he extended from six to 15 channels. In
the new system conversations will be
transmitted and received by a single
transmitter and receiver for each channel.
The S.T.C. Co. is in charge of the work.
The Q. and A. Column.
I have a four-hand short-wave battery con-
verier ( superhet) using one IC6 valve. An old
T.R.F. battery set is available, with three T.R.F.
stages, detector and two audios, transformer-
coupled. Tuning is three-dial control, using
all triode valves (no screen grids). (1) Would
it be workable to rewind the aerial and R.t.
primaries with many more turns to gel greater
gain ? Seems to me it would not matter how
“broadly” it tuned, as the superhet converter
would he feeding into it. (,2) Would it work
out well in practice, or would the fact of in-
creasing the T.R.F. primary turns make it so
unstable that no advantage would be gained
by altering them ? —306.
(1) Not normally. You cannot expect to
unduly increase the gain from triode R.F.
stages this way, although a slight improvement
might be effected with modern triode valves.
Without other considerations, the idea is im-
practicable. (2) Not unless high-gain screen-
grid stages arc used, with well-designed R.F.
{Continued on next page.)


W.A. B-Class Wave-length Change.
Advice received from Mr. W. E. Coxon,
manager, station 6AM Nortliam, West-
ralia, states that correction is neces-
sary in the allotted wave-length for this
station under the pending rearrangement,
effective in September. The wave-length
is to be 306 metres and not 280, as
originally allotted by the P.M.G.’s De-
partment. The wave-length used until
September l is 275 metres.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing Hil. in stiun|w) for tlic* 30 x ZO
inch J.avislily 1 Hurt rated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
LOWEST PRICE EVER
for a 35-cwt., 6-cylinder
INTERNATIONAL TRUCK
MODEL C-30
Cross Capacity, including
body and load, 55 cwt.
Chassis Prices from
£359
(Plus Tax)
Convenient Terms Available
Quality and Equipment
—still the same.
Model C-30 Features at a Glance
Six-cylinder engine — 78.5 horsepower—hardened
exhaust-valve seat inserts — full-floating rear axle
—133 or 157'inch wheelbase —any desired body
style —most economical in operation of all trucks
in its class lowest-priced 35-cwt., 6-cylinder
truck in International history. Other International
sizes range from half ton to five tons.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
[INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA]
5-11 PYRMONT BRIDGE ROAD, CAMPER D 0 W N, SYDNEY
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
We again invite attention to the fact that
International Model C-30 has been reduced in
price. Today International offers a truck recognized
as one of the world’s best, at a price little higher
than the cheapest on the market. This is vitally
important to truck users requiring a quality product
as well as those to whom price is a prime
consideration.
This price reduction has been brought about
by increased demand throughout the world for
International Model C-30. Greater factory output
. . . reduction in manufacturing costs definitely
passed on to buyers. Nothing whatever taken from
the truck’s quality or equipment. All well-known
International features, including attachments and
maximum tyre equipment maintained.
All buyers will naturally wish to investigate
the many features and exceptional value that this
truck offers. May we send you a catalogue ?
w
coils. Large Litz-wound honeycombs, with
loosely-coupled high-impedance honeycomb
primaries in large screening boxes, would
achieve the desired result. If ordinary solenoid
R.F. coils with overwound primaries are used,
instability and restriction of the gain possible
will result, even with screen-grid valves or
R.F. pentodes. You could try one screen-grid
stage at the input as an experiment. This
should give somewhat better coupling for the
converter.
/ would appreciate some information con-
cerning a Breville model 2\A five-valve receiver
recently purchased. My location is equidistant
between 4QG and 4 RK. The performance of
the receiver in daylight is good, and about 24
stations come through at full speaker strength.
2FC is not one of these. At night 1 have tuned
in 87 stations, including M.L., Japan and
U. Best results are obtained from 2 CO.
S CL, SCK, 1 YA.-2LO, 2 BL, 2UE and ISM, but
some stations suffer in quality from adjoining
stations. (1) When the new wave-length allo-
cations commence, how will things be ? (2)
Is my receiver considered a good class make
and selective as modern design goes ? (3)
Would an improvement be made by putting in
another make of valves ? If so, what make do
you recommend ? (4) As I intend erecting a
new aerial, could you advise a system to make
the set more selective ? —3OO.
(1) The general rearrangement should be
beneficial. (2) Yes, although no receiver of
this make has yet been tested by The Bulle-
tin. From your results, the receiver appears
to be working normally and quite well. (3))
If the present valves are in good order, little
purpose would be served in making a change.
The valve makes advertised in The Bulletin
can be relied upon. (4) A doublet type could
be used, 25ft. long each half, with a 10ft. in-
sulating section in the middle. Twisted 18
V. should be used for the feeders (any
length), fanned out 10ft. per side at the junc-
tion to the aerial. This makes a 10ft. triangle
at the centre. Connect one feeder to the aerial
terminal and the other to the earth terminal,
but use no earth connection. This aerial is an
all-wave type, and will definitely improve selec-
tivity without signal loss.
* * * *
How can I make provision for using head-
phones with my dual-wave A.C. superhet, so
that the speaker can be cut out far late-at-
night reception? —304.
The circuit arrangement diagrammed shows
the easiest way of doing this. One lead from
the speaker voice coil is broken, and a closed
circuit jack inserted at this point. The jack
can be mounted anywhere conveniently, even
on the front panel if there is no objection to
this. By using a ’phone plug in the jack,
.with a pair of 2000-ohm ’phones, this extra
resistance is placed in series with low resist-
ance of the voice coil. Although the ’phones
will respond, the speaker will not. Be sure that
the connection is not made accidentally in
series with the field coil, or the consequences
can be dangerous.
“Spotlight”: According to “Practical
Television” (England) high prices will
not be the rule for high-definition re-
ceivers. One English co. is marketing a
suitable receiver for sound and vision,
as soon as transmissions commence, at a
price between £25 and £3O.


FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Three-year-old Handicap: Par-
quet ; next, Tuckiar.
Flying Welter: King’s Head ; next,
Wee Warrah.
Moorefield Handicap: High Cross
or Sarsign.
Rockdale Mile: High Cross or
Love Song.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
First in the G.N. Hurdle, second in
the Australian Hurdle and first in
the Australian Steeplechase. It reads
like the achievement of a champion, but
Fulham, who has accomplished it this
season, is far from being that; apart
from the people who have profited most,
no Melbourne racegoer would put him
in the same class as Bribery at either
branch of the jumping game. Gameness
and toughness arc his outstanding char-
acteristics ; in both respects he is a
credit to Poitrel, his sire.
The Australian Steeplechase was a very
good betting race. There was a steady
demand for Fulham, and when the 10
runners were lined up he and Buckler
were favorites at 9 to 2, with Character
and the Adelaide jumper Kingstol each
half a point longer, and Pactolus at
8 to, 1. It was well for the field that
brush had been substituted for the stifTer
obstacles of other days; as it was, Pac-
tolus and Mitten fell and Laniroi ran off.
The other seven provided an inter-
esting race. Hynes, on Buckler, and
Sandiford, on Fulham, were content to let
Character and Wakerife make the run-
ning ; Fulham, indeed, was last five fur-
longs from home. From that point
Sandiford sent him along, and as they
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
entered the straight it was Character, Ful-
ham, Buckler and Kingstol, in that order.
After leaping the 29 obstacles, they were
a very tired lot, but Fulham had more
left in him than the others, and he had
the race won a furlong from home. It
there looked as if Kingstol would beat
Character for second place, but Char-
acter beat him by half a length, being
himself two or three lengths behind Ful-
ham, with Buckler fading right out. At
two miles and a half the hunter seemed
a very likely winner, but he could not
manage the other mile. The indifferent
quality of the field was indicated by the
time, which was I6|sec. worse than the
6min. 53|sec. recorded by Redditch.
Heroic Prince, winner of the 1934 Aus-
tralian Cup, is developing into a good
hurdler. His jumping can be improved,
but, combined with his fast work on the
flat, it was good enough to enable Leek
and his friends to collect some substan-
tial wagers, at 4 to 1 and better, during
the settling on the Arkaringa Hurdle. A
close second to Heroic Prince was The
Mirror, always conspicuous. Third was
Brilliant Son, owned by the Perth sports-
man Harry Boan.
Chatham and Winooka have retired
to the stud, and Liberal’s brilliant turf
career was cut short by accident, but
Windbag has sired another of their class
in The Chanter. Favorite at 5 to 2, The
Chanter defeated his opponents in the
Chatsworth Plate as if they were so many
hacks —Palfresco and Prince Caledon
were nearest to him when the procession
ended. The Chanter is a son of Even
Song, a grand little mare in her day, and
he seems to have inherited the best
qualities of both parents. He is owned
by E. L. and N. Baillieu, and has been
backed for the Melbourne Cup, in which
he has 7st. 31b. In his only two races as
a two-year-old he was first (at Caulfield)
and second (at Flcminglon).
Unplaced in the Epping Welter at
Moonee Valley three days before the
Caulfield fixture, Highardo won the Bala-
clava Stakes, at fives, and the crowd
gave his party one of those receptions
for which Melbourne is famous. But the
stewards, after interrogating all con-
cerned, were satisfied that the nag had
been genuinely backed at the Valley.
Voitre nearly stole the race on Metro
(5 to 1), who at one stage was quite 15
lengths ahead of the favorite, Gay Star,
and Highardo, and the latter got up just
in time. Gay Star was third, a couple of
lengths away.
* * * *
Roschill’s Wenlworthville Stakes is not
Duke Caledon’s lucky race. Last year he
went under to Canegrass, a moderate,
and on Saturday he was runner-up to
L. K. S. Mackinnon’s Ronsard horse
Barak. Barak gave the big fellow lengths
over the last furlong and beat him point-
less, Contact was a fast-finishing third,
but Sarcherie would have got that posi-
tion but for being forced wide at the
turn. King’s Head, heavily backed,
petered out at five furlongs. Barak
started at 4 to 1 after being at sixes. Ike
Foulsham, a sound old judge, trains him,
and he looks an ideal Epsom horse with
7st. 101 b.
Bulldozer has improved with racing,
and he put up a capital performance in
the first division of the Flying Handicap.
Knox sent him away at the turn, and he
did not lose the lead there gained, though
Moonray—on sufferance, perhaps—was
only a neck away ; Journal, also from
the Cush stable, was third, a length and
a half astern. Journal’s finishing effort
was impressive. He looks bigger than
when he took the Caulfield Cup, and he
is not out of that race this time with
Bst. 101 b. A rush in the ring for Silver
Ring (twos to evens) enabled the Bull-
dozer party to get sevens. The Maoriland
horse has been sore since his arrival,
and he ran that way ; naturally, Pike's
efforts were unavailing. Theo, Dark
Chief, Vice-Royal and Akuna had an
outing, but were obviously below racing
condition. Curator ran an unencourag-
ing fourth. 1
Wee Warrah (5 to 2), trained at War-
wick Farm, won the second division well,
but Cool Spell was unlucky. In a mix-up
at the start. Cool Spell was hurried along,
but when in a good position at the turn
had to be checked several times. He was
beaten by a length ; King Gee —an early
winner in easier company— was a length
and a quarter away. Ben Field finished
second-last, but Mafoota showed pace
enough to keep backers interested. Dick
Wootton’s First Son will do better over
a longer journey.
Jim Hacked did his brother-fielders a
good turn in the Three-year-old, as
Lolorua, a nice Heroic colt (20 to 1),
won from a bunch of prospective Derby
candidates. Latharna and Saecula filled
the places. Dampier.(2 to 1) annexed
the Maiden Handicap, but was all out
to beat Ned Moss’s Derby colt Loud
Applause, who was drawn wide and
covered a lot of extra ground in the early
stages. Pasforalist Jack Leahy’s Bringa
was third.
Gladswood disappointed again. He
looked a picture when going to the post
for the August Handicap, and heavy
support sent him out at 6 to 4. He had
the run of the race, as McCarten bounced
him out, saved ground by hugging the
rails, and allowed El Senorita to do the
pacemaking. Everything looked all right
for the favorite at the turn, but El
Senorita (8 to 1) dashed away and was
not overtaken. Turbulent' came with a
last-minute rush to beat Gladswood for
second. Limoux dropped out when it
came to racing.
Handicappcr Jim Tanner must have
been pleased with the finish of the Parra-
matta Mile, as four horses passed the
judge almost in line. Bill Wcdgcwood
made attempts to steal the race, but
Kagal had him in trouble at the Legcr.
In an exciting finish, Kagal, ridden ex-
pertly by Hickey, beat Golden Gate by
half a head, with Mystic Spell a head
away, and Bill Wedgewood on their
quarters. Kagal has been a useful horse
for Mack Sawyer, and some nice wagers
were lifted on Saturday; he was backed
from twelves to sevens,
* ♦ * *
Lough Neagh, cleverly ridden in front
by Hill, won the Doom ben Stakes, a 10-
furlongs weight-for-age race —at least, it
was called that, although the scale of
weights was uncommonly light. The
chestnut was favorite at 6 to 4, so natur-
ally his success was popular, but he
seemed lucky to beat Pamelus, who
would only do his best at intervals and
when seemingly just about to overhaul
the favorite ran out wide. The stewards
asked the rider, Tebb, to come along to
the Q.T.C. office on Monday and answer
some questions. Soft Step, who has been
favorite for the King’s Cup, and Thal-
wyn, winner of the Grafton Cup, were
among the runners, and both had strong
support, but it was reserved for Serlodi
to gain third place. Hill slowed down
the field to such purpose that the time
was only 2min. Bisec.
♦ ♦ * *
“Retired Gun”: The queer queue of
“sports” that always tags on to a Labor
party is again trying to have control
of racing in Bananaland taken from the
Q.T.C. and handed over to a board to
be appointed by the Government. The
latter it seems, may nominate a commis-
sion of three to inquire into all sports in
which betting is involved—a pretty wide
field. Among other matters, the advisa-
bility of licensing betting shops is to be
investigated. Racing is a hardy plant,
but licensed betting shops and political
control would kill it as a sport.
* ♦ ♦ *
Since broadcasting of races became
fashionable, a regrettably large propor-
tion of the N. S. Wales population has
made it a habit on Saturday afternoons
to hang round s.-p. shops and other
places where illicit bookmakers congre-
gate to listen to the spoken reports and
make silver bets. It doesn’t matter much
in the case of old-stagers, but a multitude
of young fellows have given up football
and other manly sports for this useless
pastime. Now White, J., of the District
Court, has delivered a judgment to the
effect that only streets are “places” within
the meaning of the Gaming and Betting
Act in shires—the s.-p. bookmaker
plying his trade in shires can snap
his fingers at the police everywhere else.
It shows once more how badly these
paid legislators do their job.
Footbrawl
The roses and raptures of inter-State
and country trips enjoyed by several Mel-
bourne League teams played havoc with
form. Carlton, which had kept Vic-
torian fires burning during the touring
period, made the mighty South Mel-
bourne look like a collection of old or
slow workers exempt from the provisions
of the Factories Act. Minus the services
of crack goal-kicker Pratt, who was
injured in Sydney, the southerners were
unable to prevent Carlton from taking
a lead of five goals in the first quarter.
They never caught up: Carlton 16-26 to
12-9. Collingwood contrived to defeat
Geelong by playing like a genuine first-
class team for a quarter of an hour in
the second quarter, during which it scored
10 goals; 'Wood, 22-13 ; Geelong, 16-15.
St. Kilda and Hawthorn were responsible
for the worst game seen for seasons, St.
Kilda winning by 17-22 to Hawthorn 9-9.
Fitzroy led North Melbourne through-
out,-and at the bell had scored 12-10 to
North’s 10-13. Possibly the best game
of the day, as pure football, was played
by Essendon, which defeated Footscray
by 15-25 to 12-10. Football after a
holiday spell is like Monday-morning
work in the factory,
* ♦ * *
N. S. Wales beat the Maoris 20-13 in a
solid game on bank holiday, but was
walloped unmercifully in the deciding
match on Saturday: 14-5, and it might
easily have been worse. The N.S.W.
forwards played a tired game and the
three-quarters made a sorry showing;
the Maori forwards, breaking quickly,
were on top of the five-eighth and in-
side centre almost as soon as they got
the ball. Further out it was not much
better: Towers sparkled occasionally, but
the wingers got little of the leather and
could do nothing when they had it. Full-
back Storey again played excellently,
taking the ball up to the three-quarters
only to see the bustling Maori pack send
it back. By comparison the Maoris
looked champions, but indifferent hand-
ling lost them a number of opportunities.
It was two tries, one converted, and two
penalty goals to a converted try;
incidentally, N.S.W. forwards scored six
tries in the three matches, the backs none.
. Just on 21,000 saw the massacre, and the
sickest man on the ground was the
Sydney Rugby Union official who was
against bringing the Maoris over because,
he said, Maori football had gone to pot
and they wouldn’t “draw.”
“Senex”: The bank-holiday match
between N.S.W. and the Maoris enabled
Towers to beat Fred Wood’s tally of
appearances for N.S.W. with 39. He also
ran over the 100-points mark for the
State, his tally being 104. He is the third
Ma Stater to pass the three-figure mark ;
the others were Stan Wickham, a light
of the long ago (120), and Alec Ross, of
the Waratahs and Wallabies (119). The
lamb-like Bill Cerutti also caught the
limelight, the game making his 36th for
the State, while he has made 14 appear-
ances for- Australia.
-** * ♦
St. Joseph’s took Sydney G.P.S.
Rugby Union premiership, going through
first, second and third grades unbeaten.
The firsts 1 scored 263 points to 27, and
the three teams notched 788 to 51. King's,
beaten only by the leaders, was runner-
up in each division.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne “Age” does
not agree with “G.M.’s” estimate of the
Maori-Victoria Rugby match in Mel-
bourne (B. 7/8/’35). It says the crowd
“seemed to enjoy the tackling,” and
quotes “a prominent Australian League
footballer who was present” as declaring
that “if the Australian game allowed
tackling it would be the makings of the
code, and would do away with the
holding-the-ball and holding-the-man
troubles.” Rugby draws bigger crowds
for the minor matches every season, and
when one considers the big leaven of
other Staters and Maorilanders exiled in
Melbourne the 16,000 (“Age” figures) at
Carlton can be understood. In any case,
what were those devoted A.R. barrackers
doing away from the Vic.-S. Aus. match
the same day?
o Continued on next page.)


A
m
m
m
FOXES
GOOD MONEY TO
BE MADE NOW
Skins are fetching Tip to
£7/1/- per doz. on the Sydney
market. Increase your hag
hy using the new Fox Cali.
Jto special skill required to
correctly imitate the squeal
of a rabhit. Having “called”
your foxj make a certain kill
with
iimmirn
Tlf K NE \\ O / Post
Super-Speed Cartridges
RIMFIRE, STAYNLESS, KOPPERKLAD.
25%
GREATER
VELOCITY
60%
MORE SMASHING
POWER
LONGER RANGE
w
100. 1000.
Short . . 2/8 26/-
„ H.P. 3/- 28/6
Long ... 3/6 33/3
„ H.P. 3/9 35/9
Long-rifle 4/- 38/-
L.-R. H.P. 4/3 40/-
FREIGHT EXTRA
COWLES & DUNN.
PHONE: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
1C I
/a
NON-RIUTING
RIM
FIRES
£
In Short, Long
and Long Rifle,
—Solid & Hol-
low Point.
ICI
22 SHORT
I^^SOUD,
ii
R.F.400
Sureness, swiftness and
absolute reliability in per-
formance have won for
1.C.1. .22’s the foremost
place of popularity with
shooters, as evidenced bv
the fact that their sales in
Australia exceed those of
all other makes combined.
Obtainable
Everywhere
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Under the Whip
Melbourne bookmakers increasingly
feel the competition of the tote, and they
would feel it still more if punters could
back tote doubles; but outsiders often
ease the situation' for them. A mare
called Gay Mary won at 100 to 1 last
Wednesday, the race being the Bourne-
field Park Handicap at Moonee Valley.
Though one of Holt’s, she was a skinner
for nearly all the brotherhood, the one
conspicuous exception being an operator
who laid £lOO to ss. Even he must have
been a good winner.
* * * *
Mainlaw and High Cross began the
new season auspiciously by winning at
Rosebery. At least, Mainlaw won a divi-
sion of the Flying Handicap, beating Tur-
bine among others, and High Cross dead-
heated for first with Nord in the Welter
Mile. These are two very honest and
consistent horses, and perhaps are still
capable of improvement, though Main-
law is in his sixth year and High Cross
in his seventh. Neither did much racing
till last season, when High Cross started
19 times and was only six times un-
placed, and Mainlaw engaged in 14 races
and was out of the money in five. They
were opponents on several occasions.
High Cross was second to Mainlaw in the
Encourage Stakes at Victoria Park and the
A.J.C. Trial Stakes ; Mainlaw was second
lo High Cross in the Denman Handicap
at Sydney Tatt.’s meeting, but beat him
again in the A.J.C. Anniversary Handi-
cap, though Miss Nottava beat them
both. High Cross has 7st. 61b. and
Mainlaw 7st. 71b. in the Metropolitan,
and each has Bst. 31b. in the Caulfield
Cup. The former is by High Art-
Bronze Cross, the latter by Magpie—
Secret Present. On their good showings
last season they must be accounted well
treated in the Metrop., although the las!
furlong may trouble both.
* * * *
“Fifzcray”: The eight metropolitan
racing clubs in Victoria distributed
£259,575 in stakes during 1933-34, and to
this was added £12,435 from the trots.
The V.R.C. tops the list with £88,165, dis-
tributed in 15 days; the V.A.T.C. spread
£62,200 over 14 days and Moonee Valley
£46,825 over 11 days. Williamstown,
Ascot, Epsom, Mentone and Werribee
follow in that order. The figures show
an increase in stakes of £23,500 com-
pared with the previous season, each of
the eight clubs showing a rise.
* * * *
“S.G.”; E. W, Forsyth, dead in Syd-
ney, was a veteran member of Tatter-
sail’s Club and the Randwick ring. Born
in Armidale, he saw a lot of goldfields
life in his youth, and established a repu-
tation among northern-districts sports-
men which stood him in good stead when
he came to Sydney. Like other members
of his calling, he was a very charitable
man, and was conspicuous during the
war for gifts to patriotic causes and for
good deeds to returned soldiers after-
wards. One of his neighbors and inti-
mates was ex-Mayor A. A. Taylor,
M.L.C., who keeps a diary which the
Mitchell Library will be after some day.
The entry on the date of E. W. For-
syth’s death was “To-day 1 lost a friend
who was a lovable soul.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rales
King Levinsky outpointed Jack Demp-
sey when that warrior was engaging in
short bouts preparatory to challenging
again for the championship (he thought
better of it), and has whipped Sharkey
and other good men. But he proved no
match for Joe Louis when the pair met
in Chicago the other night; the coon
stopped him in half a round or so. Louis
seems certain to become the next black
champion unless the Braddocks and
Baers draw the color line, as did John L.
Sullivan, Corbett, Dempsey and the rest.
* * * *
Joe Hall was too fast for Kid Rooney
at Leichhardt on Wednesday night.
Rooney was second-best in every one of
the 15 rounds boxed. Hall held too
much in the early rounds, but action
enough was seen in the last five. Rooney
is a Chinese-Australian.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: No one loves a de-
feated champion, whatever his line. Poor
old Camera has just found this out.
Applying for a passport to leave Italy
he was refused and informed that if he
wanted to do any scrapping there was an
engagement for him in Abyssinia. In-
sult was added to injury by the official
statement that he had dishonored Italy
“ Cripes , I thought he'd EAT the other bloke.”
“ Don't be too 'ard on 'im, Joe —’e ’AD a late dinner!”
by allowing himself to # be walloped by
a Yankee nigger just* when the East
African box-on was imminent.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: Pity the amateur-status
foolishness spoilt that goal-kicking con-
test between Australian Rules and Rugby
Union players (B. 7/8/’35). One would
have liked to see Nepia, Hemi and West-
field competing. These competitions were
popular before drop-kicking in Rugby
declined. Hardly any forwards and not
many backs can do a decent drop-kick
nowadays. It was once expected of
anyone calling himself a player to be
able to kick decently whatever his place
in the field ; now a wild punt is as much
as many can manage.
“Old Q.“: Football-kicking competi-
tions were once a commonplace at Rugby
and Australian-rules matches. Records
show that, with the heavier A.R. ball, the
Australians have the better performances.
Macnamara is recorded to have done 93
yards with a place kick in Melbourne.
The best Rugby place-kick is 75 yards
by Doyle in Dublin in 1903, Australia’s
best being 71yds. 2ft. by Angus, of Syd-
ney, in 1892. The best Rugby drop-
kick is 69yds. 2ft. by Norman Elhsworth,
of Sydney, in 1901.
* * * *
“ Wick": “Stand Off” evades the point
at issue (B. 7/8/’35). The evolution of
the game has made the try the primary
scoring agency of Rugby, It is the
mainspring of the players’ activities, the
object of desire, the acme of achieve-
ment. It distinguishes the game from
other codes ; without' it Rugby would
be no more Rugby than “Hamlet” would
be “Hamlet” without the Prince of Den-
mark. On the other hand, attractive as
it may be, the field goal could be
eliminated as a scoring medium without
the game suffering in thrill or distinc-
tiveness. I repeat that it is illogical to
rate a mere incidental at a higher point-
value than the feature round which the
whole game revolves.
“Hooker”: When the Maori visit was
first proposed—Victoria must be given
the credit—a strong section of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union was hostile on the ground
that it meant losing money. The tour has
been one series of record gates in town
and country. Even in Australian-rules-
loving Melbourne 15,000 people paid
£660 to see the picturesque tourists, and
there should be a thumping profit for
the Australian handlers of the tour,
which was within an ace of being turned
down. The happening is one more argu-
ment in favor of an Australian Rugby
Board of Control. That one State should
have the power to make or mar a tour
without consulting the others is an
anomaly.
“Tenakoe”: There were some Chicago
trimmings about the departure for
Britain of Meredith, manager of the All-
Black footballers. He received a threat-
ening letter which was thought serious
enough to call for a police guard and
a secret departure from Auckland.
Meredith is a Crown Prosecutor who has
ushered quite a few crooks gaolward, and
this may explain the mystery. Of course,
if he had been an umpire the happening
would have been understandable.
* * * *
“Centre Half”; The Australian Soccer
folk are talking of inviting a team
of Soviet comrades to tour Australia.
Bolsh form is said to be good, but posi-
tive evidence is lacking. Most of the
European countries, including Italy,
Hungary and Austria, are in the habit of
engaging British teams at home and in
Britain. So far the lads of the sickle-
and-hammer badge have no credentials
of the sort to show, and the importation
of a lot of unknowns at great expense
seems a risky business.
<• * * >i<
“Gale”: One of the troubles of the
N.S.W. Rugby League —as with other
sporting bodies—is the tendency of the
best players to gravitate to one or two
of the crack clubs, .the others having to
do the best they can with inferior
material. This was so bad in the days
of club football before the League was
born that the Union introduced the dis-
trict scheme, no lad being allowed to
play outside his own boundaries. It
was'soon found that things were as bad
as ever, single young men being given
plenty of inducement to change their
districts, and this state of things continues
to-day. Several schemes of reform arc
proposed, one being the transfer to
weaker clubs of good reserve-grade
players for whom there is no room in
first grade. The only plan likely to stop
the annual game of prisoner’s base would
be to make the residential qualification
in a new district 10 years at least, a
player who had to live out of his original
area being permitted to play with his
original team.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: It is announced that
the team of professional golfers for
America will be selected from Bolger,
Kelly, Richardson, Cohen and Gray
(N.S.W.) and perhaps Naismilh (Vic.).
The size of the team will depend on the
amount of money raised. So far there is
enough in sight for three, and it is hoped
that Victoria will fork out enough for
another. Unfortunately the States out-
side N.S.W. are frigid. The tour will
be for about three months, ranging from
California to Florida.


In 1858 as in 1935
,i
r
•iij. •
of
tilnF
r
3
Each of the years since Lysaghts
was founded has meant added ex-
perience. It is this experience
which enables Lysaghts to make
galvanized sheets which are
thoroughly dependable—under all
conditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght’s galvanised-iron
for every job.
FOR ROOFING
<S
LYSACHTS
RED feCtt ORB
GALVANISED iron
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisba-e, Adelaide. Fremantle.
W/-
"M n ‘,
$
Wm i
A
i*
ii
See your local
authorised
Bedford dealer
for full details
of Specifica-
tions, Models
and Prices.
121% MORE
PULLING POWER
24% MORE
BRAKING AREA
VACUUM SERVO
BRAKES
BRIT
Astute fleet operators are
standardising on BEDFORD
Greater pulling ability and bigger,
power-boosted brakes . . . these
are but two refinements that are
making new sales history for
Bedford’s 2-2\ ton Models. If
you check the specifications of
this famous truck you’ll find
every worthwhile feature that
contributes to truck economy and
ruggedness ... a full floating rear
axle . . . differential housing
mounted at a 45 degree angle for
easy inspection ... straddle-mount-
ed bevel pinion for true alignment
... a frame of pressed steel and
immovably braced with 5 massive
cross members on the 131" wheel-
base and 6 on the Ix 7" wheelbase
. . . four semi-elliptic springs of
Silico Manganese steel . . . cast
iron pistons and six-cylinder
overhead valve engine for heavy
duty work . . . steel-backed main
bearings ... a cushion-drive,
clutch with self-lubricating roller
bearing—and other advanced en-
gineering features.
The more careful your inspec-
tion the more convinced you’ll
become that Bedford is the
soundest, safest and most eco-
nomical truck investment you can
make. See your Bedford dealer
to-day and learn the details of an
easy payment plan that will permit
you to purchase the truck out of
its earnings.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
Models from 8 cwt. to 3-4 tons
ISH BEDFORD
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer
“Suburbia”: Strathfield (N.S.W.) golf
club, one of the State’s youngest, has
been acquiring merit by holding com-
petitions to raise money for the fund to
finance our professional golf tearrf for
America. Its latest effort is a 36-hole
open event for the “Strathfield Cup” on
August 17, all entrance fees to go to
the fund. It has also been disclosed that
Manly G.C., not one of the wealthiest in
the State, has given 20 guineas.
* * * *
“Marino”: In spite of the meanings of
some of the other States, which regard
Adelaide as unfitted for an Australian
golf championship, 55 amateurs and 25
professionals have entered from South
Australia, Victoria and N.S.W. Bolgcr
will be there to defend his open title, and
the cream of the golfers in the three
States have put in their names. Von
Nida, the Queensland open champion,
sent a telegraphic entry which arrived a
few hours late and was refused. The
committee would do well to imitate St.
Andrews this year when the South
African Brews was late with his entry,
and admit the tardy one as an act of
grace.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Divot Digger”: Young Perrier ex-
celled himself in the contest for the
Australian club medal at Kensington
(N.S.W.), winning by five strokes from
scratch with a total for the two rounds
of 135 (66-69). Yet there was a fearful
sand-laden wind blowing all day. The
66 broke the lad’s own record for the
course by three strokes. Nearest to him
among the amateurs was Box, who, with
a 16 handicap, had a net card of 140.
Veteran Soutar led the professionals, and
collected the purse with 145 off scratch, a
stroke ahead of another scratch man in
Kelly.
* * * *
“Brassey”: There has been a small
campaign in Sydney newspapers against
the rule of the professional golfers
which says that no one can become a
member of their union until he has done
two years’ apprenticeship in a club-
making shop. The rule has many merits,
since it demands practical knowledge of
an important side of professional golf.
Amateurs who have found themselves
blocked in their attempts to transfer to
the paid ranks complain that in these
days of machine-made clubs expert
knowledge of the kind is unnecessary.
Even if that were so, the repair of clubs
is not. Ready-made wooden golf clubs
are imported in the rough in many in-
stances and shaped in Australia. The
skilled professional should make a better
fist of this work than any non-player.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”; Since the row started
in 1900 Britain has won the Davis Cup
seven times. Australasia has equalled
this, but America heads the list with 11
wins, France running fourth with six.
Only four of the many competing
nations —there have been as many as 31
in one season —have had a look at the
pot.
* * * *
“Milton”: When Queensland invited
N.S.W. to play men’s and women’s inter-
state matches in Brisbane at the end of
this month it announced that the visitors
would have to pay their own travelling
expenses, this being the usual custom on
such occasions. The N.S.W. heads asked
for applications, but when time was up
and the secretary looked in the letter-
box the devil a one was there. It is
rough on Queensland.
* * * ♦
“Amateur Pro.”: Failing a visit from
any of the big tennis amateurs, the
A.L.T.A. is asking Norman Brookes to
fix up a visit from some of the leading
professionals, Continental or American.
The notion is that they should play
against and in combination with our
amateurs, and Brookes is to try to
wangle the International Tennis Federa-
tion into allowing paid and unpaid
players to mingle. In the past the I.T.F.
booted such applications down its front
steps.
♦ * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”; Dorothy Round
has taken a job as a designer of dresses
for sporting women. She has had to
drop out of the South African tour, but
will show up at Wimbledon next year.
The situation is interesting, because even
the nebulous tennis outlook on the ama-
teur status is against the selling or push-
ing of sports goods or materials by lily-
whaites, and to most women the right
clothes are more important than the right
racquets or golf clubs. Joyce Wethered
was pushed out of amateur golf ranks
lor taking on a very similar job.
* * * *
“Old ’Un”: Some persistent souls are
trying to revive in N.S.W. the agitation
for a women’s Davis Cup competition.
If the girls must have something of the
sort, let them try to break into the Wight-
man Cup competition, confined to British
and American young women. As matters
are, Australia is sending abroad, or is to
send, female hockey players, cricketers
and golfers. Then there are the multi-
tudinous inter-State and national golf,
tennis and hockey fixtures inside Aus-
tralia. As it is, these athletic females
are away from the fireside and the Old
Man for two-thirds of the year. The
nation naturally stands to suffer, the
cradle is empty and the spider spins on
the feeding-bottle.
Miscellaneous
*‘S.G.”; W. L. Kelly, who managed
the 1930 cricket team in England, has
lost his position on the V.C.A. and the
Board of Control, Richmond having re-
jected him as one of its delegates to the
V.C.A. (W. L. Rush is the other) in
favor of E. H. King, its president. His
defeat is an effect of the Board of Con-
trol’s veto on Woodfull and Ponsford
going to India. It is the second change
recently made in the composition of the
board, and others are likely, cricketers
and supporters of the game being of
opinion that the board has grown too
big for its boots.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Brass Addler”: Australian cricket
tours of England are rightly regarded as
the means of subsistence for most of
the county clubs, but not many realise
that some of the Australian States are
kept of!' the dole by the same means,
division of the spoils when the warriors
return being their chief source of in-
come. Thus the annual report of the
Q.C.A. shows an excess of assets of
over £BOOO, enough to make some of
the pioneers of the game in that State re-
volve in their graves. Increase of in-
come over the previous year’s was £3520,
the cut of £4OOO from the tour of England
being responsible. On the season’s work-
ing the association was down £4BO.
* ♦ * *
“Shinty”; Gopalan, one of the Indian
hockey team, was given a gallop
against lardine’s side when that genial
soul was touring India in 1933. He was
played as a bowler, but took only one
wicket. Playing for an Indian team
and for Madras, however, he did a good
deal better, his bag in the first-named
match being 5 for 99. He is keen on get-
ting into the Indian team for England
next year, and cherishes a meeting with
Bradman at Adelaide as one of his red-
letter experiences.
* * ♦ *
"Rowl ’Em O.op”: England is hoping
that amateur H. D. Read, of Essex, is
the new fast bowler for whom the prayers
of the nation have been requested. He
was at, Winchester, like a brother who
also bowls fast for Essex. Last season
Wisden declared H.D. a real find, and he
wound up his first county season with 55
wickets, averaging under 21. His latest
performance is 6 for II against York-
shire, that powerful team getting only 31
runs in the innings.
* * * *
“Splash”: The result of the postal vote
for a committee to pick the swimmers
for the Berlin Olympiad was in favor of
the veteran Bennett (Victoria), Sheedy
(W.A.) and Molloy (Tas.). The last selec-
tion came as a horrible shock to N. S.
Wales, and agonised yelps are still rever-
berating from the Blue Mountain wall.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Scoundrel”
Like scores of dramas and comedies,
stories and poems, this modern morality
play at Sydney Prince Edward is based
on Tirso de Molina’s imperishable
creation. Somerset Maugham summed
up the man whom Noel Coward por-
trays.
Ilc is incapable of gratitude and insen-
sible of others’ pain. He is gallant, witty
and courteous. The type lives on; Don
Juan is the ancestor of the raffish young
nobleman of our day with the manners of
a gentleman and the instincts of a Borstal
boy.
Mallare is a publisher. For the first time
on any Australian screen the kind of
publisher whom writers know is shown;
his untidy, bookish little office and lone,
plain typist; the literary hangers-on
who form his social circle. Noel Coward
is careless of his looks as Mallare. No
dapper beauty-actor this, but an ageing
businessman whose tired, ravaged face
tells of hard vy*prk and dissipation.
Enter Cora Moore, a poetess. Julie
Haydon was an inspired choice for this
part. Her childish ways and appearance,
her comic little hats and arty clothes
make her a forlorn and touching figure,
and she is an emotional actress of rare
power. Mallare deserts her before his
death in an aeroplane crash, and there
is a poignant scene when she reads the
news. But she doesn’t cry—and some-
body must if the departed is to enjoy
eternal peace.
Clad in a semblance of the coat in
which his corporeal form is tossing in
the sea, and with white, set face and
dead eyes, Mallare’s wraith searches the
town for the cast-off, who is his only
hope of salvation. It is a triumph of
the macabre. After many anxious weeks
he finds her, and touches her heart. It
is doubtful if anybody but Noel Coward
could have got away with the climax in
which the tears of power —equivalent to
the confession of faith which saves
Tinker Bell —are shed, and the relieved
ghost lifts a beatific gaze to heaven.
What Hannen Swaffer said is true ;
this astonishing man acts even better than
he writes. Also, he has a beautiful
voice, and his articulation is a delight.
He hasn’t a public-school, Oxford or
any other kind of accent, and he gives
each word and syllable, vowel and
diphthong its precise value. In a sense —
a relative sense, the norm being other
film stars —he speaks even better than
he acts,
“People Will Talk”
A domestic farce at the Prince Edward,
with Charles Ruggles and Mary Boland
as a well-meaning, futile father and
managing, affectionate mother respec-
tively, Their daughter has been estranged
from her husband by a married vamp.
In all 4 innocence Ruggles not only gets
drunk with the vamp, but falls asleep
beside her on a sofa and is there dis-
covered by his wife and some malicious
women friends, A charity wrestling
match in which Ruggles has a bad time
as the referee is one of the many knock-
about comedy sequences.
“Under the Pampas Moon”
The story opens in a setting that
resembles the pampas of the imagination
(though from the scarcity of cattle one
is led to believe that the menace of the
Argentine beef industry has been greatly
exaggerated), but the action soon moves
to a fashionable cabaret in Buenos Aires.
Warner Baxter is the uncrowned king
of the gauchos, tamer of horses and
women. Living in a Spanish-American
country, he naturally speaks broken
English, but finds no difficulty in under-
standing Ketti Gallian, who, being a
French actress in the Argentine, ‘speaks
another brand of broken English,’or her
manager, who speaks perfect English, or
his horse, who speaks no English at all.
The manager steals the horse and wins
races with him. Gaucho, after several
cabaret parties, a couple of songs, an
exhibition tango, a little love-making and
a hearty brawl, steals the horse back ;
also the actress,
Poorish entertainment. The humor
depends on the overdone rus in urbe
theme. At Sydney Plaza.
“Ginger”
The star is Jane Withers, rising eight,
far from pretty, and not caring a button
about it. Jane possesses a personality
that was probably the despair of her
parents until they realised its film value.
“BULLDOG JACK," AT SYDNEY LYCEUM.
Jack Hulbert and Claude Hulhert chasing the villain, Ralph Richardson.
She depicts a New York slum child
who is taken from her uncle (O. P.
Heggie), a broken-down old Shakspearean
actor, to live with a fashionable society
woman with extreme theories on the up-
bringing of children.
Katherine Alexander is the experi-
menter, Walter King her husband and
Jackie Searle her small son —a horrible
example of misguided youth until Jane
gets busy with him.
But Jane is practically the whole show.
Most qf the time she seems quite natural,
even when voicing sophisticated lines un-
natural in one of her age, and only occa-
sionally is she caught looking to the
director for a lead. Also at the Plaza.
“Awakening of Jim Burke”
Jack Holt, as so often before, is the
hard-swearing, hard-drinking, two-fisted
construction boss on a dam in the rugged
West. His 12-year-old son, who has
been brought up in the East by a mother
from whom Mr. Holt has long since
parted brass-rags, arrives on a visit. The
boy has dreams of becoming a great
violinist. The father remakes the lad
after his own rough pattern, with pain-
ful results to the emotions of both.
Jimmy Butler, as the youngster, makes
a neat job of a hard role. It can hardly
be credited that even the most foolish
of American mammas would array her
boy in an Eton suit, plus a large
flowing bow, for his debut in a con-
struction camp, but thus it is. Eventu-
ally Holt is reformed and married to the
sweet Florence Rice, discarding the
vampish Kathleen Burke. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Our Little Girl”
A Hollywood exegesis on the same
theme as “Little Friend.” Joel McCrea
is a young doctor, wrapped up in re-
search ; Rosemary Ames, his neglected
wife ; Lyle Talbot, the other man ; Shir-
ley Temple, the little tot whose winning
ways induce her parents to drop divorce
proceedings. Instead of attempting
suicide, as did the little heroine of the
English film, Shirley decamps— en route
for China. She is on the screen almost
all the time, and her acting is, as usual,
amazingly clever. Casting is good
throughout, and one of the smallest parts
—an old tramp —is put over in masterly
fashion. The piece is overloaded with
domestic details, but that’s what Shirley
Temple’s public pays its money for.
Some First Nights
“The Mikado” is the most popular of
all the G. and S. operas, but Saturday’s
performance at Melb. His Majesty’s was
the least satisfying of the present season.
Ivan Menzies as Ko-Ko clowned the part
after the manner of Laurel and Hardie.
Where former exponents have secured
their effects by delicate whimsicalities, Mr,
Menzies laid on his colors with a trowel.
But, as usual, his antics were received
with wild enthusiasm. His singing and
dancing were excellent, and his enuncia-
tion was faultless. Richard Watson didn’t
get 100 p.c. out of the character of Pooh
Bah, but he did fairly well. Gregory Stroud
was the most able of the exponents of
the three male “character” parts, his
opening song, “Our Great Mikado,” being
first-class. Godfrey Stirling’s Nanki Poo
was acted like a curate and sung like a
crooner. Winifred Lawson was in good
voice, but failed to get full value out of
the most charming solo, “The Moon and
I,” or out of the pertness and archness
incidental to the part. Eileen Kelly’s Pitti
Sing appealed, and Jean Battye made a
dainty Peep 80. Evelyn Gardiner's
Katisha was her best effort in the
presefit series. She sang better than in
earlier operas, and was appropriately
fierce and dominating. The outstanding
piece of acting was that of Bernard Man-
ning as the Mikado. The chorus, as
usual, was not far short of perfect, and
the production of Minnie Everett and the
conducting of William Quintrell stood
once more in the A 1 division.
Gordon Daviot’s “Richard of Bor-
deaux,” done by the Independents at
Sydney Savoy, is a play in 12 scenes
written around Richard 11. Richard is
18, an idealist, head over heels in love
with Anne of Bohemia. His uncles
Lancaster and Gloucester are trying
to swing Parliament against him. Upon
reaching manhood he endeavors to assert
his authority, and achieves some small
victories, only to have the crown snatched
from him. John Wyndham on one
or two occasions made the ill-fated king
a dignified and noble person. Norman
Rothwell’s portrayal of the Earl of Arun-
del was well conceived. As Anne of
Bohemia, Anne Gordon was well cast;
William Rees, William Gates, O. D. Bisset,
William Leahy, John Alden and C'olin
Peebles also stood out. The costumes,
designed by John Wyndham and executed
by Enid Lorimer, were a feature of the
production, and the scenery left little
to be desired. But waits between scenes
were lengthy, and the production occu-
pied close on four hours.
* * *
“Is Life Worth Living?” an “exag-
geration” by Lennox Robinson, making
its Australian bow under the wing of
Sydney Players’ Club at St. James’s Hall,
satirises Erin in an inoffensive farcical
manner from all angles. Though the
lines are racy enough, the merri-
ment derives from the rustic types
portrayed—a delicate business, this
(witness “The Hayseeds”)—and it says
much for the dexterity of the play-
wright and a capital cast that there is
no suggestion of malice, the characters of
good-natured John Twohig, his pretties-
loving wife and assorted associates being
invested with a charming homeliness. In
his efforts to boost an unpopular seaside
resort John Twohig, a publican, foists an
arty rep. soc. on the dreamy village, and
the wave of homicide that surges through
the community following an exotic
douche of Grand Guignol, Ibsen and
Chekhov provides plenty of humor ere
the inhabitants revert to normal. As the
innkeeper, Edward Cavill’s grimaces held
interest, while the lugubrious mummer of
Arthur O’Keefe and Robert Grome’-;
lamblike party hack were founts of fun.
Harold Fraser (producer, too), Doris Wil-
liams and Harley Goodsall were well in
the picture.
* * *
Well acted and produced was the re-
vival of Maugham’s “Sheppey” by the
Gregan McMahon Players at Melb.
Comedy. McMahon carried the greater
burden as Sheppey, the genial barber who
wins a fortune in his old age, with more
or less disastrous results, but the play
was so well cast and so smoothly pre-
sented that he did not upset the balance
by dominating it. Eileen Ragg made a
capable Mrs. Miller, Keith Johns and
Maive Turner were the young lovers and
Paul O’Loughlin the unspeakable Cooper.
A delightful cameo was that of Thelma
Besant in the Jean Harlow part of
a manicure girl.
y
Bela Bartok’s Opus 7 in A Minor,
which was added to the repertoire of the
Budapest String Quartet at Melbourne
Assembly Hall, was remarkable for a
long opening movement and a passage ot
rhetoric near the end which sounded like
musical tub-thumping by a passionate
revolutionist. As a display of virtuosity,
it astonished the large audience, which
broke into loud applause.


Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt 6c Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
KYLIE TENNANT’S
PRIZE STORY
TIBURON
will grip you from first to
last chapters.
NORMAN LINDSAY will
illustrate this remarkable
serial—the best published
by “The Bulletin” for many
years.
FIRST INSTALMENT
SEPTEMBER 4
ŵ
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
I
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and :
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; a
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Are They Worth the Money?
Idle capital isn’t so obvious a feature
in the financial scene as it was 12 or 18
months ago, but it is still a feature.
Bank deposits and advances are coming
closer into relationship with each other,
though the movement has been slowed
down recently. After a 3 p.c. loan in
November, 1934, a 3£ p.c. issue a
lew weeks ago was a bit of a flop,
though what tjie public didn’t take was
handled by the banks. This stock is
now slightly below the issue price in
the market.
Mortgage-interest rates still show little
or no upward movement. Possibly, as
happened with industrial shares, mort-
gages were too heavily discounted as in-
vestments when Lang was in power, and
are now recovering to something like
reasonable popularity. There was no spec-
tacular recovery in real estate or real-
estate finance to compare with the up-
ward movement in Consols of a couple
ol years ago. Strangely enough—or
perhaps not so strangely—investments
which depend upon profitable use or
production to make a return to investors
have been last to recover. Consols, the
interest on which is paid from taxation,
and goldmining shares, which were often
viewed as gambling counters by specu-
lators rather than interests in mines, had
their upward surge long before indus-
trials, the great attraction at present.
Real property, which perhaps more than
anything else depends upon possibilities
of immediate profitable use to be worth
paying taxes upon, is yet to have its
moment.
After the uncertainty following last
year’s wool-price rise and fall had been
dissipated by encouraging reports from
nearly all sections of industry, there was
a strong tone in quotes for industrial
shares, particularly those engaged in
manufacture. Attention has been largely
switched away from gold shares, and
there is now a definite speculative ele-
ment in the industrial market. People
in many cases are “buying for rises” —
they always do when the market is
strong—and unless they are well advised
they are likely to do mischief.
Idle capital is still prepared to pay a
good price for reasonably safe dividends .
from concerns with prospects. That is
mainly the reason for present low in-
terest yields on many leading stocks. In
addition, there appears to be a promis-
ing future for a number of well-estab-
lished manufacturing industries.
But what does the sharemarket know
or think of the future? How much re-
liance can be placed upon “tone” in the
market? It is safe to say that many
investors, if they are led to assume that
such and such a co. “should now be
doing better,” are influenced by that
rather than by a long-distance view of
things. Examples of this type of market
psychology are seen every day. When
the hides market is favorable Wilcox,
Mofflin shares are up above par ; when
conditions are unfavorable in this specu-
lative type of business the shares weaken.
The market doesn’t put a fair average
price on the stock and leave it at that.
Dealings in a hide-exporting co.’s
shares may tend to exaggerate short-
sightedness amongst investors, but there
are plenty of other examples. The
market for picture shares is ragged and
uncertain, Mort’s Dock scrip rose and
fell heavily about balance-sheet time,
and pastoral stocks have jazzed back
and forth erratically, though holders of
this class of scrip should at least have
had the feeling that, if the pastoral in-
dustry was to fail altogether, wool con-
cerns would be little worse off than the
majority of other businesses, most of
which depend largely on wool.
Investors, to be anything like safe,
must take a wide view of the position
at the moment. Investments must be
considered on their individual merits,
and with particular regard to what the
future of the industry they are interested
in is likely to bring forth. Good manu-
facturing stocks, if not priced ridiculously
high, appear to have a reasonably bright
future, unless the unspeakably stupid
policy of borrowing new money overseas
is revived. It’s called borrowing money,
but is really the purchase overseas on
tick of goods which might well be
made here.
Only those who can afford to hold
should buy shares at the moment. But
if they buy wisely they can hardly go
wrong in the long run.
Lead is over £l5 sterling a ton in
London, with spelter around £l4. Barrier
“Dang me, I'll see 'e don't stoke any more boilers!"
mining shares are up to the highest levels
for years ; every increase in the price of
the metal should practically mean that
much extra profit to mines which were
earning a surplus when lead was around
£lO a ton. North shares (£1 denomina-
tion) are at £7 6s. on the Australian
market, as against £5 for .Souths and 495.
6d. for Zinc Corp.
• * * *
Japan’s purchases of our wool should
total a record figure when imports for
12 months are added up on Aug. 31.
Something like 700,000 bales will have
been taken by then ; the previous biggest
year showed 668,000 bales for the same
period of 1931-32. Stocks of raw
materials in Japan are comparatively low,
and the heavy purchases during July
(70,000 bales) were due partly to that and
the belief that the new season’s wool will
be dearer.
Broken Hill Prop.’s £1 shares went to
over 68s. last week, following the dis-
closure of a profit equal to 22\ p.c. on
capital for the year ended May 31. The
price compares with 745. 6d. for Aus-
tralian Glass ords., leaders among manu-
facturing co. shares. The buoyancy in
the market has even extended to banks ;
the Commercial of Sydney has been par-
ticularly prominent.
* * * #
For the five months to the end of
May British exports to the Empire were
up £10,400,000 (stg.), and those to foreign
countries by £5,600,000. Imports were
only £BOO,OOO higher—an increase in
purchases from British countries of
£2,800,000 was offset by a reduction in
those from foreign nations of £2,000,000.
The New Deal, of which so many world
exporters were afraid, has not greatly
checked British trade in the aggregate,
though it perhaps has affected motor-car
sales. There is a feeling in Britain that
(he benefits to American manufacturers
bestowed by the N.R.A. will eventually
be stultified by increased taxation.
* * * *
For the first time since 1930 Britain’s
unemployed are officially below the
2,000,000 mark. As against 10,381,000
insured persons in jobs during July, there
were 1,972,941 pul of work in that
month. The unemployed position is an
improvement of 153.319 compared with
a year before, and is in keeping with
Britain’s trade recovery.
♦ * ♦ *
Up to March this year 10,500,000 tons
of iron ore had been mined and dis-
patched from Iron Knob IS. A.), where
B.H.P. gets its large annual requirements
of raw material for the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) steelworks, and where it em-
ploys 800 miners. There has been great
expansion in production over the two
years, present output being at the rate
of 2,000,000 tons p.a. There is estimated
to be a life of at least 100 years ahead
of the deposit, one of the largest and
richest in the world.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Industrial production in Italy, Soviet
Russia and Chile during the first few
months of 1935 was up from 16 to 25
p.c.; in Japan, Denmark, Finland,
Sweden and Hungary, about 11 to 13
p.c. ; in the U.S.A. and Germany, about
6 p.c. The comparisons are with the
same period of last year. Countries
which showed regression were France,
Belgium and the Netherlands —all, with
the exception of Belgium (which went oft
gold early in the year), on the gold
standard.
* * * ♦
Timber-milling in Maoriland has ex-
perienced something of a revival lately.
Stocks accumulated during the worst
years of the depression have suddenly
been depleted by an unusual demand,
probably caused by the revival of build-
ing activity both in Maoriland and the
Commonwealth. Kauri Timber shares
are up to 225. 6d. in Melbourne, as
against 17s. 6d. this time last year.
* * « *
Maoriland flax (Phormium tenax ) may
come into its own after all. Woolpacks
made from the fibre now appear to have
advanced beyond the experimental stage,
and the flax industry has a much more
hopeful outlook. Packs made from the
flax are claimed to be better than jute,
since the fibres don’t mix with the wool ;
but Australian sheepmen don’t admit the
claim. Hopes are that eventually an
export trade will develop.
* * * *
Melbourne and Adelaide ’Changes
have altered their methods of charging
commission on transactions in Consols.
Instead of one-half per cent, brokerage
being charged by the selling broker, one-
quarter per cent, will be debited to both
buyer and seller. The method of charg-
ing brokerage only to the seller of com-
pany shares (excepting mining issues) re-
mains unaltered in both centres. .Sydney
’Change is sticking to the old method of
charging (he seller with all the commis-
sion on Consols, and, incidentally, to the
old method of collecting both-ways com-
mission on mining scrip.
♦ * * *
Palings, the Sydney musical-instru-
ment people, are returning 2s. a share
in cash to those on the register. It is
another case of time-payment balances
being squared up by customers; receipts
recently have increased the co.’s funds to
such an extent that the directors have
been prompted to make the capital
return, which will call for £43,258. Cash-
order companies have also had a very
satisfactory experience with customers.
It speaks well for the honesty of Austra-
lian workers; with some companies
accounts date back to 1928-29.
* * * *
The Homes Department of the N. S.
Wales Rural Bank, since the inception of
its present home-building scheme in
March, 1934, has approved of 1412
suburban loans aggregating £1,061,480,
and 920 country ditto totalling £514,230.
The State’s real-estate dealings and build-
ing activity continue on the up-grade ; the
cost of finance obtained from all quarters
is mostly 4\ p.c. or less.
* * * *
Including motor-cycles, there were
244,428 motor vehicles on N. S. Wales
roads at June 30, 1935, as against
231,973 a year earlier and 209,079 at
June 30, 1932. New registrations for
June numbered 256, the highest figure
since February last.
* * * *
“Kieta”: A record shipment of copra
left the Mandated Territory during May,
8759 tons going out in six vessels. Of
this, 1093 tons came to Australia, 307
went to Germany, 1991 to Italy, 2444
to Spain, 2459 to the United Kingdom
and 465 tons to France. Gold hasn’t
ousted the cocoanut altogether—better
prices lately have pul new heart into
copra producers.
♦ * * *
“M.L.C.”: The butter factory at Wyn-
yard (Tas.), a small town on the n.-w.
coast and centre of the Table Cape muni-
cipality, took first place in the Com-
monwealth in the recent butter tests.
After eight weeks in store a sample was
declared by the judges to be equal to
fresh. Queensland came second.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions, No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-,
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Legal Notices.
TO DAVE HUNTER formerly 9f Wiluna in
the State of Western Australia Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
the Thirteenth day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western Australia
citing you to appear and answer the petition
of FRANCIS PERCY SALE of Meckermg m
the State of Western Australia Laborer pray-
ing for dissolution of his marriage with JLSSIt
CHRISTINE SALE IN DEFAULT of you so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce sen-
tence therein AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within FORTY-FIVE DAYS after the date
of the last publication of this notice to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Central
Office of the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose.
(L.s.) T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, of Nos. 37-39 Padburv
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State ot
Western Australia. Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO BE ADVERTISED:
(a) The “Brisbane Courier-Mail,” published at
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland. One
advertisement. ,
(b) The Bulletin, published at Sydney, in the
State of New South Wales. One advertise-
ment.
Melbourne
Chatter
After fighting with a vicious wind
which grabbed at hats and twisted scarves
with evil intent round the necks of their
wearers, guests were thankful to arrive
in the restful comfort of the Lady
Mayoress’s reception-rooms. The party
given by Mrs. Wales for the municipal
mayoresses and wives of councillors was
no solemn, stilted function —everybody
chatted in a friendly spirit, and the
hostess hardly needed the services of the
plum-colored flunkey to announce the
guests, for she has an enviable memory
for names and faces. Cinerarias were
reflected in the gloss of a highly-polished
table, a pink cloud of peach-blossom
decorated the piano, and more blossom
bloomed pink and white beside the win-
dows.
Mrs. Lem Callaway, attractive in
her black coat with its very wide bell
and buckle, sported a little halo hat with
a veil over the forehead. Against the
green faille curtains the brown coat and
hat were noticed worn by Mrs. A, A.
Thomas ; a study in mulberry was her
daughter Lesley, whose suit had a long,
swinging cape and whose hat was wide-
brimmed in the sailor mode. Mrs. Lewis
Carnegie’s snow-white hair, distinctive
against the deep burgundy background of
her dress, was visible within conver-
sational distance of Mrs. Fleetwood-
Smilh’s black scarf and beret. Mrs. W.
Flintoft wore black with demure cuff
and collar accessories of white satin. An
equally blonde young matron was Mrs.
J. D. Hunt; she wore silver foxes and
helped her sister-in-law and other lasses
hand round tea-time morsels in decora-
tive dishes. Beryl and Joy Hardy, Nancy
Johnson and Iris Smith were a quartet
who chatted together just inside the door.
Masses of flowering plum and tall
sprays of snow-white almond-blossom
gave an illusion of spring to the Vic-
toria League’s party. Special guests
were Mrs. A. C. Stourton, of Tasmania,
and Miss S. Davis, of Auckland, M.L.
Among the hostesses, who, standing in
hall, passed each arrival from hand to
hand, were Mrs. Cairns Officer, in brown,
with a bunch of violets on her shoulder,
and Mrs. A. Taylor, in forest-green and
a shoulder-spray from which came the
subtle scent of boronia and violets. The
most uncommon fur in the room was
Mrs. Whitmore’s Abyssinian monkey,
white, with black tips, and made like a
cape. Mrs. A. E. Boyes indulged her
inclination towards spring with a navy
straw hat and a wee eye-veil to the tip of
her nose. A Sydney visitor who wore a
cocoa-brown Angora ensemble with an
elbow-length cape was Mrs. Maxwell
Watts. Mrs. Val Tuckett was in navy
over a paler shade of blue. * After an
hour of music, tea appeared from the
hands of sec. Mrs. Addison, Marion
Ranting (with a dash of black-and-white
checks at her throat), Vida Duncan fa
pink gladiolus on her lapel), Pat Carnegie,
Molly Parnell and a few more recruits.
R. D. Elliott got punch into his open-
ing of the exhibition of the New Mel-
bourne Art Club. He asked people to
buy pictures and queried the inclination
of some collectors to hanker after Old
Masters only. Provided the subject and
execution please him, he said, a picture
hanging in a busy man’s office is like a
tonic to his nerves. Perhaps some day
still-life in oils will be mixed up with
posters on Spencer-street station and
modernistic figures will caper round the
barricades at Station Pier.
Mrs. Claude Couchman addressed the
Centenary Club on the value of radio.
Her advice is “Listen properly—don’t
criticise a programme until you have
heard the whole of it.” But the
average person won’t follow these in-
structions, though the ideal listener
might. He’s a rare bird, but not as rare
as the ideal radio station. A point
worth noting is that in the whole of
Japan no ads. are allowed over the air.
Any word or phrase which is even sug-
gestive of an ad. is blue-pencilled before
it gets near the mike. Japanese listeners
are lucky.
Mr. Lyons has the Book Censor-
ship Abolition League waiting to pounce
on him. The Broothorn picture is of Thea
Lucas, the league’s hon. secretary (an
article written by her appeared on last
week’s Red Page). The Melbourne
branch of the league is the oldest in
Australia, but it’s still in its baby
clothes, having been born only last
November. McMahon Ball is the presi-
dent, and the professions of law and
medicine are well represented among the
members. Miss Lucas’s interests lie in
varied directions. She occasionally man-
ages art shows, and is on the committee
for the exhibition of Portraits of Fair
and Famous Women to be held at Scots
Church Hall on August 26. The exhibits,
reproductions of pictures from the gal-
leries of 11 different countries, are the
property of Miss M. Chomley. Every-
body paying the Is. admission fee will
have a chance of winning a picture by
Victor Cobb. Proceeds go towards the
restoration of St. Katherine’s, a historical
old church at St. Helena.
Velvet curtains of a deep ivory tint,
chairs covered with an oatmeal-colored
woollen fabric, chocolate-brown carpets
and little tables made (legs and all) from
mirrors provided the right kind of glam-
orous setting for Cann’s fashion show. It
seems that, whatever tricks spring hats
perform behind, they must droop over
the eyes in front. Giddy little basques
have arrived; if cleverly cut they don’t
add width to even the large figure.
Tailored suits made of brightly-patterned
floral material will be seen at summer
luncheon parties. Whoever is to be the
lucky owner of a ravishing white moire
evening gown must have nothing in the
world to do while wearing it. To sit
down would squash the cunning little
derriere frill; to dance, save with great
circumspection, would crumple the won-
derful ruffles which adorn the front from
waist to shoulders. For those who like
something really unusual there was a
dinner gown of mushroom-pink tailored
lace—the collar and belt were of brown
velvet to match the buttons running
down the front. A newcomer among
nightgowns was a lovely thing of shell-
pink chiffon, cut very full and trimmed
entirely with shirring at the demurely
high neck, at the waist and at the cuffs
of the voluminous long sleeves.
Never have more gorgeous flowers
been piled up on the Town Hall stage
than at Gertrude Johnson’s concert. In
the foyer baskets and bouquets com-
pletely covered one long Chesterfield,
three armchairs, two tubs of palms and
a good deal of floor. After the interval
they gave almost a lived-in human look
to the grim platform, with its bare boards
and militant squad of pot-plants. Miss
Johnson is lucky in her friends. Com-
panions of her students days worked
hard selling tickets and giving parties
beforehand. In the audience was
Maurice de Abravanel with his wife ; her
black velvet was noticed, as was also
Mrs. Basil Hart’s brief fur coat. Among
those v who are seen more often at
first nights than at concerts were the
C R. Duncan couple, she in golden-
brown velvet with a swathe of stiffened
net over her hair. Mrs. lan McNeil’s
navy toque had a list over one ear and
a flyaway veil. Dudley Glass came along
after posting his first novel (he says he’s
now graduated from children’s tales),
Nightingale of Kensington, to England.
Gregan McMahon does not believe in
resurrecting corpses—an idea which other
theatrical entrepreneurs might share with
advantage. In his latest production,
“Sheppey,” poor, mad Sheppey saves
further complications by giving up fiis
ghost in an armchair. The cast gathers
together at the close of the play to re-
ceive applause and the usual vegetation—
but without .Sheppey. Mr. McMahon,
having removed Sheppey’s make-up and
overcoat, takes a solo bow in front of
the curtain. Thus Sheppey stays dead,
and the right atmosphere is preserved.
Seen in the “Sheppey” audience at
the Comedy was Professor Giblin, wear-
ing his favorite ox-blood red tie. Lynette
Dickenson, who did so well in “The
Tudor Wench,” watched from her nest
of white foxes in the stalls. Also noticed
were Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and her
daughter Mrs. Ronald Irving, the Aub-
rpy Gibsons, Mrs. Gibson in pink and
lilac, and Madame de Woolf, all white
furs and platinum-blonde hair. Mary
Horne was in black lace, with a knee-
length cloak of black velvet. An arrest-
ing little figure was Janet Johnson, with
long dark hair waving over her neck
and a nectarine velvet wrap which but-
toned snugly up to her throat and fell
in graceful flares to her toes.
Nancy Gollin is at present paying a
visit to Melbourne, where she is staying
under the wing of her grandmother, Mrs.
John Jacobs, Miss Gollin has many
friends here, but she spends most of her
time abroad. When at work her metier
is attending art classes and slipping into
a smock to paint in a Paris studio. Her
portrait is by Broothorn.
A comedian must have his little joke.
Ivan Menzies had his at a musical after-
noon held at the Commodore. His name
was chief among the entertainers, but
when he got up to do his bit (having been
specially called for by the husband and
car of one of the committee women) it
wasn’t something light and humorous but
a lecture on the Oxford Movement.
Politeness triumphed over consternation.
Smiles were uncertain and slightly forced,
but there was a Jot of applause
and no one spoke any audible words of
disappointment. President of the Mercy
Hospital Mrs. E. L. Kiernan wore black
and the largest, loveliest pansy in Mel-
bourne. Just as fine a specimen in an-
other botanical section was the white
camellia veined with pinky stripes with
which Mrs. A. J. Black adorned her tur-
quoise dress. Mrs. C. W. Batten wore
the new vineyard-green, with crossover
bands fastening her cape. Margot Stain-
thorpe had a vivid scarlet blouse under
a black suit, and Mrs. T. F. Starr was
all in black, with silver daggers in her
beret. Mrs, Con Skehan had a lucky-
number day—the cumbersome brown-
paper parcel which she took home had
inside it a young fat turkey.
“House Sold Out” and jostling crowds
in the narrow doorway marked the Buda-
pest Quartet’s last public concert in Mel-
bourne. The audience dressed itself in
everything from trains, diamonds and
flowers in the hair to tweed suits, berets,
rugs over knees and leather coals worn
by sporty-looking men of a type one does
not often see at concerts. With the
Arthur Baillieu couple—Mrs. Baillieu
was wrapped up in a marmot-trimmed
black velvet evening coal —was Mrs. Sid
Myer, snug in an ermine coat and a
bunch of lily-of-the-valley under her
chin. Mrs. Jan McEacharn had foxes
over her shoulders. In a blue tailored
coat was Mrs, Joseph Bell, who wore
also a look of distinct approval over the
arrival of a new grandson—he belongs
to Mr. and Mrs. John Bell. Muriel
Campbell was in navy, with a little blue
hat. Real cornflowers pinned to the
throat of a white velvet cloak were worn
with distinction by Mrs. Lindsay Biggins.
Mrs., M. E. Frankel Cohen and Valerie
and Yvonne spent last week unpacking
and getting settled into their flat in St.
Kilda-road. They are a lucky trio. Twice
they have wandered over Europe, staying
wherever they felt inclined, and now
they have sampled an Asian atmosphere
by a trip to Java and Singapore. The
girls are in love with Bali, and hope to
return there some day.
Mary Cecil Allen has absorbed
America. During her eight years in the
U.S.A. she lived among foreign settle-
ments in New York where hers was
the only English newspaper which
brushed the noses of passengers in the
crowded buses. She used to visit negro
churches where the music was like
spirituals. She often went to Harlem to
see negro plays and dancing, and gives
a vivid description of the amazing suc-
cess of Gertrude Stein’s “Four Saints in
Three Acts.” Miss Allen is an intimate
friend of Julia Peterkin, an American
woman who owns a plantation in South
Carolina, and is a friend and guardian
to her colored servants. Mrs. Peterkin's
book Roll, Jordon, Roll had such an
effect on singer Paul Robeson that he
sought her out in the middle of a large
and formal dinner party (at which he
was not a guest) to offer his thanks for
what she had done for his people. Miss
Allen knows Chicago, where there’s a
friendly feeling about skyscrapers —
people who live in the one building actu-
ally get to know one another. Down in
New England she visited country homes
where old English furniture is
and there’s sometimes a spinet in the
parlor. Miss Allen and Doris Madden
delighted to meet one another again.
Miss Madden, whose long suit is music,
has lived in the U.S.A. for 15 years.
This is the third trip she has made
back to Melbourne, her home city.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Exportable
Surplus
of Art
Provincial art
galleries in Vic-
toria are asking,
with much jus-
tice, for the res-
toration of Gov-
ernment subsidies,
and at least one threatens to shut down
unless some financial aid is forthcoming.
On the whole the collections at Bal-
larat, Bendigo, Geelong, Warrnambool
and Castlemaine are highly creditable,
seeing the financial troubles the directors
have had to face; but they could be
made three times as creditable by a sane
system of handling the works of art
now in possession of the State.
The cellars of the National Gallery in
Melbourne are crowded with pictures and
casts which nobody has seen for nearly
a generation. They constitute the pur-
chases of the early days, when the taste
of the trustees and the director differed
from what it was in later years. .Some of
these works have been lent to provincial
galleries, but there is no adequate reason
why every picture and every statue not
on exhibition in the gallery itself should
not be made available to the people of
the country districts. Even those centres
which haven’t art galleries of their own
have places where pictures and statues
might safely be placed for the pleasure
or criticism of such of the local popula-
tions as were interested. It is a poor
country centre which has not a shire hall
or a mechanics’ institute wherein a pic-
ture could be hung with little risk of fire.
In any event, the gallery might justifiably
require that the local body should pay
for insurance and carriage.
According to present-day standards of
art, the pictures left in the cellars are not
valued highly, if they are valued at all.
Their purchase is generally regarded as
the mistake of a past generation. But
fashions of art change almost with the
rapidity of fashions in women’s clothing,
and have the same faculty of recurring.
Nobody can forecast that in 50 years’
time those immense canvases “The
Brigands” and “Moses on Sinai” will not
be treated with the same respect which
was bestowed on them in the ’seventies.
Even if modern standards persist, the
implied fear that any taste will be misled
by regarding these pictures as examples
of high art is not tenable. Even if they
are as poor specimens as the highbrows
allege, it is surely better for people to
have a chance of seeing such works of
art rather than seeing no works of art
at all.
McGILP.
What is a
Repertory
Play?
There is a ten-
dency to divide
plays into two
categories—com-
mercial drama
and repertory
drama. Commer-
cial drama is, of course, that produced
at the big city theatres by the big city
managements; repertory drama com-
prises the plays usually produced by
amateurs in suburban halls. As far as
my observation goes that is the only dis-
tinction. It is the location of presenta-
tion .and the name of the entrepreneur
which raise a mere repertory play into
the exalted altitude of a commercial
drama.
The “tired businessman,” , who is
popularly supposed to constitute the High
Court of all things dramatic, is led to
believe that the repertory play is a high-
brow production, dull, boresome and full
of deep, scientific problems, psychologi-
cal, psychiatrical, pathological —some-
thing in which there is nothing to enter-
tain, only something to ponder over
through the night and half through next
day and then give up. There are such
plays ; but the average so-called repertory
play is just as good an entertainment as
the average commercial play ; it calls for
no more depth of study ; it cannot by
the greatest stretch of imagination be
classified as highbrow ; there is nothing
in it to place it parallel with the high-
brow productions of the sister arts of
music, painting and sculpture. When
it is enjoyable, its wit in dialogue, its
ingenuity in situations, its originality in
plot are as recognisable by the schoolboy
as by the professor of English literature.
As far as I can see, a repertory play
appears to be one whose merits have
not been recognised by entrepreneurs of
commercial drama—and such entre-
preneurs frequently have their inability
to recognise merits broadcast by the suc-
cess achieved commercially by plays re-
garded as being of the repertory class.
Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand” is one ex-
ample. “The Beggar’s Opera” lay avail-
able for any commercialist to revive, free
of royalties, for over a century; yet
when an indigent company of out-of-
work pros, and amateurs put it on in
a suburban London theatre it ran for a
year. Eugene O’Neill’s earlier plays
were regarded as repertory and
“precious.” They were first exploited, 1
fancy, by the Provincetown Players, who
produced them in an old whaling shed at
Provincetown (Mass.), a centre of 500 to
1000 inhabitants. It was when the
P.Ps. visited New York that the world
awoke to discover O’Neill. The big shots
of New York commercial theatres then
suddenly realised his ability.
Repertory plays all the world over
suffer from being presented by amateur
casts, coached by amateur producers
and put on before amateur scenery. They
start with a tremendous handicap, and
their public appeal is further handi-
“Light Across the Valley ,” by E. Buckmaster.
capped by the popular belief that they
are highbrow productions. In fact, they
are not. They are just as lowbrow on
the whole as the plays of the commer-
cial theatre. The only difference is that,
in many instances, they are infinitely
better plays.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
The
Repertory
Talkie
Mont a g u e
Grover is right in
assuming that he
has no commer-
cial instincts in
his suggestion of
“The Repertory
Talkie” (B. 31/7/’35). I agree with
him that there are many excellent
one-act plays of Australian origin
(I’ve written some magnificent ones
myself), but I don’t agree that “apart
from film, the cost of production of
such plays would be nil” in their trans-
ference to the screen. I’m not talking
of the craziness that gives a fleshy blonde
£30,000 annually or more for making
two films a year, nor of the major studio
idea that puts £lO,OOO overhead on a
picture before even the title is written ;
I’m talking of the realities of making
intelligent dramatic shorts in Australia
at the lowest possible cost.
Apart from actual film costs you must
have developing, printing, sound, trans-
portation, distributing and advertising
costs. If your actors are going to be
heard your sound cost will be at least
three times your film cost; say 9d. per
foot. Apart from your cameraman there
must be a sound engineer and his assis-
tant ; a boom man, who controls the
microphone ; a make-up man (there are
few in Australia who understand make-
up for high-speed film); two or three
laborer-carpenter-bushmen to handle the
heavy equipment and light reflectors;
a script girl and, of course, a producer.
With this cut-to-the-bone company your
producer would have to rehearse all
dialogue and write his own script! When
the picture was finished “shooting” he
would then become his own film editor
(film cutters insist on being paid), place
in his own sound effects and titles, and
then wait with sweet anticipation until
his master print was finished so that he
could run off to find a distributor to sell
his picture.
And there’s the rub. The market for
one-reelers is negligible, and our dis-
tributing exchanges have them packed
away in dusty tins on their shelves. The
reason is partly that the double-feature
has crowded out shorts throughout the
world, and partly that the feature film
gets all the money from a public that
will even pay good money to hear a
Crosby croon.
1 warn the Australian film producer
(if he needs any warning) not to monkey
around making intelligent one-reelers an
unintelligent public doesn’t want. The
lowest possible cost of a picture in
original sound is £1 per foot, but anyone
who makes a film under £2 per foot
deserves to be hung with his own cellu-
loid.
ERIC BEDFORD.
Melody
Returns
After being
thrown into the
discard since the
war melody is
coming back, and
it is no longer
fashionable to sneer at a good tune.
Covent Garden has made the first move
by having a lot of early Italian opera
mixed up in its current Wagner season.
We may have “The Ring” one night, but
we are placated by being fed on Rossini
24 hours later. The great Toscanini
has just come amongst us, and astounded
us all by his conducting of very hack-
neyed Italian overtures. He has found
sermons in stones, books in the running
brooks and music in everything.
Of course, a few of the highbrows are
rather annoyed about the whole matter.
They have so consistently told us that
melody is merely a matter of the out-
look of a particular generation that they
hate to witness the truth of its immor-
tality. The world never believed them,
as a matter of fact. All the time they
deluged us with the tuneless type of
art song, “Rites of Spring,” “Pacific 231,”
overdoses of Wagner and the rest of it,
that heathen gent, the man-in-the-
street insisted on the counter-attractions
of sea chanties, folk songs and negro
spirituals. Hurriedly the highbrow took
these things under his patronage, and so
for the past 10 years they also have been
officially recognised as art forms.
We have all been rather guilty of
going anti-Italian in matters musical. I
think the trouble was that singers and
opera managers knew only Verdi, and we
had come to the conclusion that Verdi
was all Italy had to offer. They gave
us “Rigoletto” and the others till we
were sick to death of them. They re-
fused to explore further ground than that
which the box-office had already pro-
nounced safe. Star singers, too, had
rather sickened us with Italian opera,
which, as they presented if, was not
so much a form of music as a hori-
zontal bar for vocal acrobatics. We fell
to worshipping the instrument instead of
the music. >
I am waiting for the French revival.
These things generally run in cycles, and
the French have waited long for their
turn. Before the war we saw only
Italian opera. Since the war we have
made up for our anti-German hysterics
of 1914-18 by wallowing in Wagner. We
have yet to discover the grace and wit
of the operas so frequently performed
at the Paris Opera House and at Brussels.
London.
KEITH BARRY.
Current
Artbursts
The exhibition
of E. Buck-
master’s oil-paint-
ings at Melb.
Fine Arts Gallery
indicates that the
artist is a person of two personalities.
Buckmaster-Jekyll shows one portrait,
that of Chief Justice Irvine —an excellent
likeness, but the antithesis of the mod-
ernists' endeavors to push psychology
and other sciences into art. It reveals
the surface Irvine, that is all, and it is
so beautifully sandpapered and finished
that it reminds the spectator of a newly
ducoed car. As a counterblast, Buck-
master-Hyde has given us really admir-
able landscapes, thrown on the canvas
with the unerring recklessness of the
master hand. He appears to have stood
off the easel and simply Hung masses of
paint here and there—but it is always
the right color and it always falls in the
right place. For those who admire bold
dexterity with an artistic brain as the
motive power, these pictures are a
delight. But even in his handling of the
landscapes Buckmaster reveals a further
subdivision of style ; two are misty com-
positions of the sort called “poetic,” but
they are not nearly so successful as those
in which he has let color and light have
their fling. “Light Across the Valley”
is possibly the most arresting canvas in
the show, the sunburst through clouds
suggested by the brilliance of a patch of
the foreground. Scarcely less successful
are half a dozen pictures of scenery
around Sylvan Dam; they are all so
good that it is difficult to discriminate.
“A Morning in June” is a charming
arrangement in greens, and “Morning in
the Murray Valley” a combination of
greens and browns and blues charged
with the atmosphere' of Australia. There
are half a dozen still-life studies, mostly
flower pieces, very beautiful but of little
artistic interest, with one outstanding ex-
ception, showing a brass bottle, a wine-
glass, some grapes and apples—brilliant
in light and color.
There is pleasing, conscientious work
in all the main styles in the fifty-sixth
show of the Royal Art Society of N.S.W.
(Education Department’s Gallery, Syd-
ney), but nothing very outstanding. Among
the water-colors which greet the eye at
the front door the familiar styles of such
sound practitioners as G. K. Townshend,
Tom Garrett, C. E. S. Tindall, Erik
Langker, J. S. Watkins and G. W. L.
Hirst figure prominently. A lot of gay
color is provided by H. Nevill-Smith,
who riots nowadays in vermilion and
orange. G. Lyall Tindall’s nude,
“Reverie,” and a portrait, “Little Blonde,”
have grace and delicacy. Among the
portraitists in oils most interest centres
in the work of Archibald Prize winner
Hanke, who has had many commissions.
He gets a faithful likeness. His cleverness
in posing and his increasing mastery of
texture are best demonstrated in “The
Sports Girl.” Joseph Wolinski scores
with a striking portrait of The Bulletin’s
old friend Dave Souter. Among the
landscapists the clever coloring and dis-
tinctive style of Sydney Long stand out.
Lister Lister shows one of the large
mellow scenes expected of him ; Langker
in a glimpse of “Old North Sydney”
catches the English flavor that crops out
here and there unexpectedly in that not
very picturesque suburb. J. R. Jackson,
who paints more like Streeton every year,
contributes an effective Sydney harbor
scene, but fails to represent human flesh
in a nude study, “The Bower.” The
N.S.W. Gallery bought his “Drying
Sails,” a fine against-the-light study.
Best still-life in the show is A. J. Sher-
man’s “Study in Gold.” Running it close,
and displaying originality to boot, is
Leslie J. Walker’s essay in which a single
bar of sunlight figures in the composition.
Alan D. Baker pegs away with his un-
usual subjects—a woman making lollies
in a kitchen ; a crowd in Hyde Park —
but fails to make pictures of them. Some
fine pencil sketches by Douglas Pratt and
George Johnston and some essays in the
glazing of pottery in various styles by
E. Finlay are also of interest.
Douglas Dundas, whose paintings
adorn the walls of the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, has discovered some of
the pictorial possibilities of Sydney, and
has set them down on canvas sedately,
but with enough affection to preserve
them from dulness. “The Fig Tree,” one
of those Moreton Bay monsters in Hyde
Park, with a glimpse of Darlinghurst’s
pinkness beyond, is the most carefully
finished. More of the impressionist order
are “Nocturne, Phillip Lane,” “Misty
Morning, Hyde Park,” and “Morning,
Queen’s Square.” Some landscapes of
a more pastoral order, all greens and
blues, seem more commendable for their
conscientiousness than for their com-
position.


m
ja. a
ife
wm
W
Springtime is calling! Sydney
and her wealth of seasonable
attractions await you—and so
do the welcoming portals of
“The Australia.”
You are assured of a delightful
holiday, luxurious comfort and
flawless attention to your
personal preferences.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Telegraphic Address;
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
/H'irrhi
--
■sT-mr
(L C.C. 13
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth, Sydney.
Australia Hotel
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney’si art world mourned last week
for the blow that had fallen on Lister
Lister, president of the R.A.S. His wife,
who died after a week’s illness, had been
the companion not only of his joys and
sorrows, but of his work. When Lister
Lister decided to paint one of his
outdoor canvases, the two would go
picnic-basket in hand, and when the
artist had picked his scene his wife
would settle herself with book or
work near by. When the day’s work
was over they would return from
bush or stream bearing their loot of
sunshine and color with them. From
the trustees of the Gallery down to the
beginning artist, friends and sympathisers
in the art world were present at the
funeral.
Maoriland Prime Minister Forbes and
Mrs. Forbes were welcomed wildly by
Enzedders in this city last week. The
two arrived fresh from jubilee doings in
London, but were not too blasd with
high life to look as though they enjoyed
their parties at the Carlton and the Pick-
wick Club, The Kia Ora Club arranged
the afternoon welcome, while the Enzed
Women’s Association hostessed the even-
ing reception at the Carlton. There was
music, and president Mrs. J. W. Prentice
was proud of her programme, to which
such artists as Mr. and Mrs. Marotta,
Gladys Lorimer, Tui Hall and Marjorie
Hesse, as well as Vern Barnett and
Frank Hutchens,. contributed. Mrs.
Forbes and Mrs. Jeffrey (her husband
secretaries the P.M.) trailed black Jacc
and black chiffons respectively.
Having first been dined across the way
at the Australia by the Commonwealth
Government, the guests were a bit Iqte
in turning up, but welcome was just as
brightly blazoned on the doormat, A
small Maori canoe, freighted with daffo-
dils, lily-of-the-valley and violets, deco-
rated the supper-table. The Maori foot-
ballers got in early. They boarded the
Maloja on its arrival and greeted the
travellers with a heartening haka.
Tonga’s queen has become a favorite
with Sydney. Her fine carriage, her poise
and her quick smile make her an out-
standing figure. Even in an assemblage
which includes such tall pillars of faith
as Archbishop Mowll, Queen Salote is
impressive. This was noted last week at
the reception given in the visitor’s honor
by president of the Methodist Conference
Gilmour and his wife. Dr. Mowll and
Moderator-General of the Presbyterian
kirk Dr. Reid were among the speakers
who gave graceful tribute to the queen’s
qualities.
The queen of the island kingdom with
the balanced Budget sat at tea in a room
of the Chief Secretary’s Department one
afternoon last week, and the Premier
came in during the afternoon. No doubt
he hoped to get a hint or two on this
matter of balancing by gazing at his
wife’s royal visitor. Wives of Ministers
(Cabinet and church siza) met to honor
the guest, and, though Gwen Stevens
could not be present in person, she was
there in thought; the very decorative
flower arrangements in the room were
her little greeting.
Selma Mutton, whose father has long
been a master of The King’s School, left
her old home in Broughton House to
step into matrimony by way of King’s
chapel. Headmaster padre C. T. Parkin-
son blessed her linking to Thomas Nelson
Lawson. The school choir lifted its voice
in glad chants, and the subsequent recep-
tion was given by the bride’s parents at
Broughton House.
Among the week’s records was the Old
Sydneians’ dance, which drew over 1000
dancers to the Blaxland Galleries. Daf-
fodils are here again, and sprouted gay
and laughing from baskets high and
low. In company with black lacquered
leaves they ornamented the official table ;
and in compliment to the visitors repre-
senting other G.P.S. there were posies
and ribands in their school colors. Ex-
Chief Justice Street, who is the patron
of the Old Boys’ Union, and his wife
were among the night’s honored. Mr.
and Mrs. H. S. Dettmann were at the
official board, but daughter Ellis hos-
tessed her own party, in which was young
sister Denise. Enid Halloran and deep-
blue chiffons were well mated; Nora
O’Brien matched her name with the color
of her frock. Its chiffons were of
Deidre green. President E. M. Mitchell
and Mrs. Mitchell entertained the
officials.
With bookings for over 500, tne Uni-
versity Medical Society’s Jubilee Ball
promises to be one of the month’s suc-
cesses. This Dayne photograph is of
Mrs. Harold Dew, wife of the well-
known professor. As president of the
ball committee she is happy over the
promised numbers and the scheme of
table decorations that will turn the ball-
room of David Jones’s into a place of
gladness.
The enterprising Joan and Betty
Rayner climbed into scarlet tights and
grey smocks and launched their first
Sydney programme under the gallant title
“Scarlet and Grey.” Perhaps Joan’s legs
looked nattiest in the long tartan panta-
loons of the Heir of Linne. Both girls
looked beaming under their high white
chef’s caps when they cried “Hot Cross
Buns!” The Savoy was crowded for the
opening of the Troubadours’ season, the
front of the theatre dressed in bare
backs, fur wraps and tails; the back in
day frock and spring hat accompanied
by the lounge suit that, funnily enough,
with Australian manhood that has no
time to lounge, is the most popular wear.
After four years and a half abroad —
with London and Paris her headquarters
—one of Queensland’s daughters, Emily
Skyring, will give a recital in Sydney Con.
on September 10. A dramatic soprano,
the girl from Bundaberg has sung in
Paris, where she studied vocal art and
languages for three years, with Gerald
Moore, a noted accompanist, at the piano
(he flew across the Channel for the pur-
pose). She has in holiday mood made
an incursion into old Spain, has seen
the glaciers on Swiss mountains, has
heard grand opera in Milan and loved
the silvery notes of Lotte Lehmann at
London’s Queen’s Hall.
The balcony didn’t fly away from the
Wentworth ballroom the other night,
although a very efficient propeller pro-
truded its nose from it, above the
dancers at the United Service do. If
there had been a sudden flood' the
assemblage would have been quite pre-
pared, for lifebuoys were festooned
down every pillar. From these jets
of ensigns sprayed in rainbow hues.
Backing the official table were the Navy
and Army ensigns and Australia’s flag,
and everywhere gracefully drooped the
pinions or pennons of the lancers. Lace
frocks were almost as constantly recur-
ring as scarlet mess jackets. Some Herod
had got busy. There were baby saveloys
for supper.
Full marks go to the wife of Briga-
dier J. L. Hardie for a pleasant smile.
It was worn above off-white laces pat-
terned in gold, Mrs. R. Dowse came
with her colonel and weighted her black
tulles with folds of black satin ; Capl.
Pope and his wife were on the active list
of dancers, she in flowered brown
chiffons. Major Boyle was everywhere
(he does a job of publicity for the ser-
vice), and Mrs. Boyle between dances
handed out refreshment to many friends.
Her attire was long, flowing and gold of
hue. The Herrings, the A, J. Mills
couple, the Lorenzos, the Keatinges and
the Murrays were all there.
At seven o’clock last Friday Consuls
and world artists were still hurrying up
the stairs of the Arts Club to drain the
cocktail of welcome to Annis Parsons.
Mrs. F. Taylor hostessed the party in
honor of her sister, her clear-cut profile
and black-and-white outfit worthy a stop-
press notice. Miss Parsons, also in black,
smiled cheerfully at' the welcomers over
a flower basket and a small Lend doll,
very droll in its smartness. An orches-
tra played old-fashioned waltzes, and
enthusiasts like Aubrey Halloran, Mr,
and Mrs. C. V. Potts and the Profes-
sorial Fawsitts took the floor. Sydney
Grammar School Dcttmanns, Sir Hugh
Poynter and his lady and Dutch baritone
Sydney de Vries and his wife sat at the
same table. With them, too, was Switzer-
land’s acting Consul-General Hedinger
and Mrs. Hedinger, just about to revisit
their homeland of sky-blue lakes and
snow-capped peaks. Mrs. E. Wunder-
lich, pictorial as ever, wore black.
Always active in the interests of
“Shore” Grammar, of which famed
school her husband is head, Mrs. L. C.
Robson is one of the most popular
young matrons on the north side of the
harbor. She was president of the com-
mittee of the recent Old Boys’ Union
Ball in the Palais Royal. A Dayne photo-
graph.
It’s not every portrait-painter has the
joy of hearing the verdict “no com-
plaints” from his sitters; but veteran
J. S. Watkins (Watty) can claim that dis-
tinction with his subjects in the R.A.S.
Furthermore, Major-General Rosenthal
was so delighted with the counterfeit
presentment of himself in regimentals
and decorations (we’re at the salute
to them) that he asked the society’s
secretary, Estelle Oxnard Smith, for
a sheaf of extra tickets to pass on to
friends. Watty’s* proudest achievement
is Archibald Prize winner Hanke, for
whom in his early student days the dis-
cerning teacher predicted success. Hanke
is one of this year’s best-sellers.
The wife of Priminister Lyons (brought
back to us by the Mariposa), as cherry
of lip and bright of eye as ever, flashed
smile for smile at welcoming hordes of
U.A.P. women at Hordern Brothers’
restaurant on Monday afternoon. Kings
and queens have not altered the clever
woman’s method of address; even meet-
ings with the redoubtable Lady Astor
have made no marked dent on her vowel
sounds. Her speech is as pleasant as
ever.
What at first glance suggested some
sacrificial altar in Greek drama turned
out to be a snow-white dressing-table set
against a coldly gleaming white back-
ground. This was the stage for a dress
parade in aid of the Mayoress’s clothing
fund, and it made our old friend the
vestibule of the Town Hall seem some
unknown land. The famous chandelier,
unlit, drooped its lustres in melancholy
fashion. But the frocks on the figures
that stepped from their niches behind
the revolving circular mirror were jocund
as spring. The suggestion of the sacri-
ficial altar was not in vain. When those
smart, svelte sports and afternoon frocks
swung into view, inches of waistline met
their doom, and by now in many a home
the dumb-bell has once more been put
on the active list. The smartest wear
seemed designed for the young girl.
Hats were provocative or charming (not
a masculine note anywhere), and a wed-
ding frock of white stiffened lace over
tulle and taffeta was almost cheered.
Mayoress Parker presided over the draw-
ing of lucky numbers for an opal pen-
dant and a trip to the Caves, and Mrs.
Norman Macleod wore one of the new
glass hats. It was wide-brimmed and
daffodil yellow, and just in the front
the crown was decked with a tiny posy.
In appearance it was a satin straw under
a glaze, one might say a hat in aspic.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite was pass-
ing through one of the big book stores
when it was stocktaking and heard a
voice call “Lost Innocence, The History
of the King’s School.” Another voice
replied loudly “Right!”
Wyldefel, the old Potts Point home
that A. B. Crowle had packed from floor
to ceiling with glass and china and rugs
and paintings from the world over, was
overrun with the curious on Saturday.
For Wyldefel is to be stripped by auc-
tion, and the collection will be scattered
among scores of new owners. Once within
the portals the visitor is simply dizzied by
the Carrara and tinted marbles, by Kir-
man and Persian and Bokhara rugs, by
the frosted glitter of lalique, by the
gleam of red lacquer, by Chinese and
French porcelains, by rich furniture in
Tudor, Jacobean and all the Louis
periods.
It’s a safe bet that there isn’t a square
foot of Wyldefel that doesn’t give house-
room to some rare piece of beauty and
great price. Here in Chippendale cabi-
nets is Pekin, Tiffany and Bohemian
glass. There are ivories and miniatures,
paintings on porcelain, bronzes, tele-
scopes, and the most luxuriously ap-
pointed bathrooms with every known
brand of spray. Mr. Crowle’s hospitality
was famed. A pity to think that the
Dresden-china name-cards and menu-
holders and the famed brandy goblets
are being dispersed and will probably
never again bear one another company
on the same dinner-table.
loan Badgery, of Scone, is to become
Mrs. Harry Guinness. Joan is the
only daughter of the W. T. Badgerys,
and the young man’s father was Dr.
Grattan Guinness, of London.


IF
men
did their own sewing
m
ft
?
they would want
the most efficient
Sewing Machine.
MEN WOULD ALSO
WANT TO KNOW
What is the lowest price at which an
efficient sewing machine could be '
purchased ?
How can you decide which is the
most efficient sewing machine ? •
Which machine is the easiest to
operate ? •
Which machine is the most reliable?
Definitely the Bebarfald-Bluebird is the
most efficient sewing machine obtainable
at the price, because it is the only
machine covered by lifetime and money-
back guarantees.
By the period of time the manufacturer
is prepared to guarantee it.
The machine with perfectly balanced
bearings and most modern improvements.
The Bebarfald-Bluebird, because it is the
only machine covered by a Money Bach
Guarantee.
UNNECESSARY TO PAY MORE, BUT RISKY TO PAY LESS,
because the New Improved
Bebarf aid - BLUEBIRD
Sewing Machine definitely has these improvements:
It is complete with a picture course
in dressmaking in book form.
4 — is backed by one of the most effi-
cient sewing machine organisations
in Australia.
Your money is refunded if the machine is not as represented.
_It is legally guaranteed in writing
to last your lifetime.
It is complete with a full set of
dressmaking attachments and hem-
stitcher.
The New Improved Bebarfald-Bluebird is not an ordinary Sewing Machine
as sold in Departmental Stores, but is the finest Sewing Machine you can
buy. It is the only machine guaranteed in writing for the purchaser’s
lifetime, and the only machine which is covered by a five-year Money
Back Guarantee. Bebarfalds are the pioneer manufacturers and the largest
distributors of cabinet sewing machines in the Commonwealth. Bebarfalds
are also distributors of the world-famous Vickers Machines of England,
and their long experience has enabled them to produce this most efficient
and reliable sewing machine covered with guarantees which are not
obtainable with any other machine. Definitely the new Improved
Bebarfald-Bluebird is the finest Sewing Machine you can buy at the price.
It will sew anything from chiffon to leather, and is the ideal sewing
machine for a woman to use. Post coupon now for full particulars and
large free book, “How to Judge a Sewing Machine,” which tells you the
truth about Sewing Machines.
Usually
£25/18/6
Now £21110/-
rr
■rm*
N
NO CANVASSERS—NO COLLECTORS, BUT REDUCTIONS
TO YOU INSTEAD.
Bebarfalds sell direct from their factory to you and save you these extra
charges. For a limited period you can obtain one of these wonderful
Bebarfald-Bluebird Sewing Machines for £21/10/-. We know that you
will be so pleased with one of these wonderful machines that you will
recommend it to your friends, so we are giving this reduction to enable
you to purchase now. Each machine is complete with 14 Dressmaking
Attachments, including a Hemstitcher and Complete Dressmaking Course
in Book Form, worth £10/10/-, and free Hollywood patterns to your
own measurements.
Post coupon now for particulars and copy of the free book.
£1 Deposit Obtains Delivery.
You can obtain delivery of a wonderful Bebarfald-Bluebird for £1 deposit.
Balance can then be paid in convenient monthly instalments. Agents
throughout Australia, and duplicate parts guaranteed for your lifetime.
Post coupon now for particulars and free dainty handbag mirror.
Bebarfalds
Head Office, George Street (0pp. Town Hall), Sydney.
And at 271 Edward St., Brisbane, and 9 Manchester Lane, Melb.
Bebarfalds were established in Sydney in 1852. Over 80 years of integrity,
low prices, fair dealing and the goodwill of nearly 500,000 satisfied
. customers.
The Bebarfald-Bluebird Sewing Machine.
Covered by a Lifetime Guarantee.
7 COUPON T
BEBARFALDS, LTD.,
. George Street, Sydney.
Please send me immediately full particulars of the New
1 Improved Bebarfald-Bluebird Sewing Machine, which you
■ ore selling at a reduction of £4lB/6, and also a copy of the
' free book "How to Judge a Sewing Machine."
1 1
| NAME 1
ADDRESS ...
I understand this places me under no obligation.
FREE! Dainty handbag mirror to first 40 inquirers.
1 B. 14-8. 1


STOMACH DISTRESS
and ACIDITY
VANQUISHED...
This New Way
"Entirely due to self-poisoning,"
says the eminent Berlin physician,
Dr. C. Oppenheimer
Hi
AUTOXIMA
. Us Cause and Effects
Civilised life guards against many dangers.
But it exposes us to hidden ones such as
autoxima. Modern food gives insufficient
exercise to the walls of the intestines. These
intestines lose their power of normal move-
ment and are unable to get rid of the
waste matter which settles in the folds.
Minerals essential to health are not ex-
tracted from your food by the lifeless walls,
and your vitality is lowered by their ab-
sence. Meanwhile, rotting food-waste lies
stagnant and fermenting in the colon, giv-
ing rise to gases which are forced back into
the stomach, thus souring the food. Other
acids and impurities are created; they enter
the blood stream and thus attack and
weaken every vital part of your body.
READ THIS
"ILLNESS VANISHED IMMEDIATELY"
"I have to tell you that I felt great benefit
from COLOSEPTIC. I was suffering from 'flu.
I was ill for a month. After taking but a
few doses I felt much better. The dry cough
left me entirely. Am telling my neighbours
about it now."
Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
A.E.T.
(The original of this letter
may be seen at Head Office).
Stomach distress and acidity do not, as is popu-
larly supposed, result from just indigestion, for
this, too, is only a condition arising from the real
cause. As Dr. Oppenheimer, the celebrated
Berlin physician, points out, these complaints are
entirely due to self-poisoning (autoxima). That is
why preparations which act only on the stomach
can give no permanent relief. The clogged colon,
where the cause of autoxima begins, must be
cleared of fermenting debris before real relief
from stomach distress, indigestion, gastritis,
belching, bloatedness, gas pains, sourness and
ulcers can be effected. So clear your colon now.
ENJOY REAL HEALTH
The left illustration shows your
colon clogged by fermenting
food waste. Your partial bowel
movements may be regular, but
modern food has clogged your
colon and autoxima is poisoning
your system. You feel depressed,
bloated. You are troubled with
gas pains, sourness, constipation.
You cannot avoid it. Laxatives
are useless—they only act on
UNCLOGGED
COLON
I
sss
£
?%S3
CLOGGED
COLON
the lower part of the bowels; they do not clear away the gas-
generating poisons from the colon-walls. COLOSEPTIC, however,
activates, and cleans and evacuates the entire colon of waste matter,
as shown in the right hand illustration. Its tonic action also tones up
and activates the three other eliminative organs — the pores of the
skin, the respiratory system, and the kidneys. Clear your colon with
COLOSEPTIC now, and you'll know what it is to be really free from
many forms of stomach distress and, indeed, most forms of sickness,
you'll know what it is to be vigorous and vital as in healthy youth.
IMPORTANT BOOK ON AUTOXIMA — FREE
An intimate and important booklet, giving all the facts
about autoxima, will be sent FREE if you complete and
mail the coupon for a demonstration jar of COLOSEPTIC.
Learn how you are unwittingly poisoning yourself and pav-
ing the way for disease. Don't delay, mail the coupon now!
DRINK
ic
(WAmt'S IMPROVED ■ F BD lfcWU)
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., Box 3415 R, S.P.O., Sydney.
CLIP OUT AT*
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
Box 3415 R, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my demonstraiior
jar of COLOSEPTIC, for which I
enclose I/- in penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS
Personal and Missing Friends.
NELLIE SCOTT (nee Parsons).—lf Nellie
Scott, widow of the late Ninian Bannatyne
Stewart Scott, or her son Charles, with com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear ot
something to their advantage. —NORMAN A.
MILLER, Solicitor, 100 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
WOOD. —The next-of-kin of JAMES WOOD,
a carrier, native of Scotland, aged 47 years,
who died at Bunda, near Hillston, on March
12, 1935, are requested to communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
BROOK. —Will anyone knowing anything of
EMMA BROOK, wife of George Albert Brook,
one time of Broken Hill, Miner, communicate
with H. S. W. LAWSON & CO., Solicitors,
Castlemaine, Victoria? To Mrs. Brook’s advan-
tage.
INFORMATION is desired as to the present
address of AUBREY EVANS (son of Francis
Evans, late of Launceston, in Tasmania), who
was last heard of in Grafton, New South Wales.
If he is dead, information is desired as to the
date and place of his death, and as to the
names and addresses of any descendants ot
his, or of his legal representative. Please repb
to MESSRS. RITCHIE & PARKER, ALFRED
GREEN & CO., Solicitors, 81 St. John Street,
Launceston.
ADDRESS wanted of ALFRED LINDSAY
KENNEDY, last heard of at Junee, N.S.W.,
in 1933.—EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, LIMITED, 22 Grenfell Street, Adel-
aide.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The opening of Parliament was marked
with a burst of sunshine, the boom of
cannon and an army of feminine guests
whose winter woollies were less decora-
tive than the full uniforms of the quar-
tet attending his Ex. Mrs. J. Cornell,
wrapping a grey-fur-collared burgundy
coat over her smoky matt crepes, stood
next knight John Kirwan in the Presi-
dent’s room, where the Mitchell lady
sipped her tea with her brown sables
thrown back from black silk crepes. In
the Speaker’s room Mr. Panton had his
better-half alongside, her cocoa-brown
crepes set off with orange-feathered hat
and stonemarten furs. Miss Panton’s ox-
blood ensemble was relieved with beige,
enviable black tailored silks peeped from
Lady Athlumney’s Kolinsky coat, the
Kingsmill lady’s black fox furs merged
into her trim black suit and Mrs. Hubert
Parker introduced a note of color with
her gay green tweeds.
Shekels poured into the Kindergarten
Union coffers as a result of the Bankers’
Ball at Government House ballroom. A
quintet of young bank officers arranged
the doings and hung the huge bunches
of balloons which served as a canopy for
Rene Esler’s ballet girls, who pointed
their toes from picture frocks of black
taffeta and net. Silver gleamings came
from most of the frocks worn by the
dancers. Mrs. Karl Knapp’s sheathings
were of silver lame, Bonnie Spencer wove
a silver pattern into her blossom-pink
georgettes, and Helen Dobson tied a silver
girdle around her black velvets.
Four-year-old Graeme McKenzie
Grant was dressed in the Grant tartan,
with black velvet coat and creamy lace
ruffles, as he marched down the aisle of
Perth College chapel as page at the Stuart
Duncan-McKenzie Grant wedding. Jean’s
misty tulle veil, caught well back
on the head with a circlet of orange-
blossom, cascaded far beyond the in-
triguing train of her ivory and silver
cellophane georgette, and her bishop
sleeves were semi-hidden by the bouquet
of white camellias and snowdrops. Mary
Grant’s halo of silver leaves topped
classic-cut pearly white georgette, long
and full as to train and sleeves.
Kangaroo paws spread their green
and scarlet fingers over supper-tables set
in the Embassy dining-room for the
National Party Jubilee Ball. Dancers
and onlookers filled the loges and gal-
leries, and president James beamed his
approval of the rally. Gold and blue em-
broideries were stitched into Mrs. W.
Nairn’s black silk and nets, and Mrs.
Theodore Ambrose finished her enviable
black satins with a fishtail train.
Golf associates from metropolitan and
country clubs flocked to Karrinyup for
the State golf championships. Rigouts
were colorful and varied. Mrs. Oscar
Negus, who collected the trophy for the
third year in succession, lets her brown
Eton crop wave in the wind, but pro-
tects herself from its gusts with a cable-
stitch cardigan. Runner-up Dorothy
Royce rolls up the sleeves of her silk
shirt and plays bareheaded; quarter-
finalists Mrs. G. McQualter and Mrs. H.
W. Ward confine their locks, the one in
a beret and the other in a felt pull-on.
To welcome Mrs. C. P. Smith home
from her six months’ globe-trotting Mrs.
Herny Greig and Mrs. C. H. King put
on an afternoon-tea at the Karrakatta
Club. Both hostesses chose navy-blue
suits to go with a background of gold,
red and pink carnations. The guest of
honor’s mauve hat and satin blouse were
worn with grey tailored tweeds.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Though the war orphans taken under
the wing of the Legacy Club are
now young men and women, interest
iri the club has in no way dimin-
ished. The Palais Royal was crowded
when the annual ball was held in
aid of funds. His Ex. and Lady
Dugan were received by S. R. Preston
and K. Bentzen, and escorted to the
vice-regal box by a guard of honor of
Legacy proteges, the boys wearing uni-
form. Lady Dugan looked charming in
a delicate mauve chiffon clinging to the
figure and flaring from the knees into
a slight train. She wore pearl orna-
ments. Acting Mayoress Dunstan’s pale
apple-green romaine toilette was bright-
ened with diamente clips. The official
box was decked with pink and crimson
hollyhocks, and a huge laurel wreath and
torch, symbolic of the club, made by
Mrs. Keith Bentzen, were in front of the
stage.
At Christ Church, North Adelaide,
Norman, son of Alexander Jude, of
Birmingham, England, took to wife
Nancy Margaret, second daughter of
Mrs. Keith D. Bowman, of Poltalloch,
Tailem Bend. The bride, who was given
away by her mother, wore white-and-
silvcr-brocaded satin cut on princess lines,
merging into a long train. The bodice,
high-neckcd at the back, had a square-cut
front and shirred Medici collar. Long
sleeves finished with points over the
hands. The tulle bridal veil was held in
place with a coronet of brilliants. Bride’s
sister Daphne Bowman, Patsy Giles and
Jean Hodge ’maided in ice-blue ring
velvet with halo hats of the same
material.
Marguerita, elder daughter of the P. J.
Ryans, of Parkside, exchanged vows with
Arthur, only son of Mrs. A. Horsley
Chapman, Glenelg, at St. Peter’s Col-
lege chapel. The bride wore a Wedg-
wood-blue crepe de Chine ensemble and
brown straw hat, with a spray of orchids
on her coat. Her sister Kathleen, who
was bridesmaid, chose a beige-toned
tailored suit and a black hat.
Captain and Mrs. Nelson Clover, from
England on a visit to Mrs. Clover’s
parents, Sidney Kidman and his lady,
have taken the Way Campbells’ house in
Medindie during the owners’ absence
overseas.
A scavenging party given by Kay
Powell and Olga Krakowsky provided a
host of entertainment. Eight carloads of
young people dashed off to see who
would be the first to secure 25 items,
including the signature of Frank Leigh-
ton, three hairs from a cow’s tail, four
legs of a crayfish, four sausages, a
tumbler with the name of a hotel en-
graved on it, and a baby’s dummy. The
winners were Suzanne Hawker and
Warren Bonython, who brought back 23
out of the 25 souvenirs.
At the Returned Soldiers’ Club former
army nurses entertained Lady Dugan at
their reunion dinner. The tables were
decorated with roses and lupins. Lady
Dugan was welcomed by the president,
Mrs. R. L. Hurst, Miss Shannon (past
president) and Miss Sinclair Wood (vice-
president). A letter was read from Lady
Hore-Ruthven, sending love and remem-
brances. Lady Dugan autographed the
menus.


55
G
<>
'y^sg
o
Runs Li£htm£ .seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for i's u/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run."
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH.—Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKL A N D, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
AAAOE IN B Y
RAPSONdDUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY BRISBANE
J
K
* f
m
13
a}.-
P3S
j
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
> throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
<jjmz~xn>z.
JOHN HEINE
5 Y D N E Y
cHrzouw*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Without A. D. Walsh, who has re-
tired, Dalgetys’ Brisbane office will
scarcely be like itself. He has been
manager for 41 years. He is a
Queenslander—son of W. H. Walsh,
a grazier who was once .Speaker and
Minister for Works. When he left Bris-
bane Grammar School in 1882, he joined
Sloane and Co., a Melbourne pastoral
firm, and when Dalgetys opened a Bris-
bane branch in 1894 he became manager
with a staff of four, which has since grown
to 160, apart from the branches which
he controlled. He is the only survivor
of the committee which moved in the late
'nineties to have woolsales established in
Brisbane. A tall, handsome man with
endless friends A.D.W. —universally
known in Brisbane as “Coogec”—was an
athlete in his younger days, playing polo,
cricket and football with equal relish.
For a generation he has been a keen
golfer, and the Boy Scouts have found
him a good friend.
* * f *
“Kcppcl”; Four hearty youngsters
lined up the other day to show the effete
Southron how healthy the Queensland
climate can be across Capricorn, and
especially in little St. Lawrence, where
William McCormack, once Premier and
now exploring Russia, was born. Wil-
liam Joss is 86 ; his sisters, Miss Joss and
Mrs. Tagg, are 84 and 81; but Mrs.
Margaret Robinson, another sister, looks
down on them as, mere children. She is
94, and friends are laying 5 to 1 on her
reaching the century.
* * * *
“Booby"; Who says the Straits abo.
isn’t intelligent? There were 15 reverends
at the recent North Australian Anglican
Synod held at T. 1., and six of them were
not white—outside at any rate.
* * * *
“Vic”: Queensland does not possess as
many prisoners as other States, despite
the efforts of southerners to help our
score since our Consorting Act fell to
pieces. Still, we cannot complain of the
quality and enterprise of those who are
“in.” One adventurer was left to work
in the kitchen of Boggo-road the other
day. Tiring of being a housemaid, he
strolled into the gaol governor’s house,
appropriated a suit and wallet belonging
to his host’s son, walked gaily out of
quod, negotiated six miles of city streets
to the aerodrome and booked a passage
(on the gaol governor’s credit) to Too-
woomba. Then he flew off into thin air
before anybody in S. Brisbane realised
what had happened to him.
* * * *
“Mirani”: Let me nominate Robert
Brown, of Home Hill, as the first
aeroplane-builder of N.Q. His effort
recently flew successfully at Ayr, handled
by Pilot McDonald, who made a name
for himself in the search for boats lost
in the cyclone off Gooktown last year.
The machine is a man-high, high-wing
monoplane. Queensland ought to pro-
duce pioneer designers. Her greatest war
ace, Stan Dallas, came from Mt. Mor-
gan (C.Q.), and I was with him on his
first essay in the air—a gliding experi-
ment off a cut between Red Hill and
Cemetery-road, 30 years ago, Icarus
never made a worse job; but Stan died
a hero and world-famous. And Qantas,
the first Empire air service, was con-
ceived in Longreach.
“X.T.”: Now that the trans-Timor
aerial mail service has been operating for
months, some great brain in Melbourne
has been smitten with the idea that it
might be a good thing to have a few
beacons on the Arnhem coast to guide
aircraft. “No official decision has been
reached,” of course. When somebody gets
lost and a few lives are sacrificed it will
be time enough to discover that the ship-
ping light at Cape Don —the only one
outside Darwin —is worth about a two-
penny glim in Hades to an air pilot. The
dangerous landfall should be guarded
“Shut that blarsted door! Anyone 'ud think y' was dragged up in a barn !”
with radio beacons and proper search-
light air-beacons. If the service is to be
permanent, the Government may just as
well resign itself to the buying of the
equipment, and also to dropping a beacon
or two on the waste spaces which lie
along the air track across the Territory.
♦ * * *
“X.T.”: This year the general quality
of tobacco-leaf around Mareeba (N.Q.)
has improved out of sight. At the
second sale of the season, held a few
days ago, only nine bales out of 154 were
rejected—a great improvement on the ex-
perience of a couple of seasons ago. Ten
tons was marketed, returning over £3OOO.
Top price was 3s. 6d. per pound.
* * ♦ #
“El V.”: Let’s hope the Common-
wealth Government will not be any less
generous to Farmer Paterson, who is
carrying the Ministerial flag into the wild
North, than it has been to stunting
aviators. Either the M.B.E. or a trip to
London should certainly be awarded
him when he returns to civilisation.
Travelling all day in motor-cars, going
without his coat, taking part in “eerie
scenes underground” in the Pine Creek
mines, working a “huge drill” —which
works itself —exploring tunnels and
crosscuts and mixing with savage miners
who “had half-smoked cigarettes rolled
behind their ears,” the brave expedi-
tionary has been having a perilous time
and has excited the unbounded admira-
tion of the “S,- M. Herald’s” young
man, who caught glimpses of him “dimly
seen through a murky haze from the drill
exhaust.” The only trouble is that they
will scarcely appreciate his virtues to the
full in Pine Creek, a city in which a
bishop and a Judge arrived one morning
years ago wearing only a few bushes,
which replaced the garments they had
lost in a flooded creek,
* * * *
“Megass”: The first international con-
ference of sugar technologists held in
Australia will meet in Brisbane this
month. The delegates will include O. H.
Sweezy, Hawaii’s leading sugar ento-
mologist, Dr. E. W. Brandes, chief
pathologist to Uncle Sam’s Agricultural
Department, T. S. Verkatraman and O.
Posthumus, who are among the world’s
foremost cane-breeding technicians. After
the conference, a tour of N. Queensland
will be made—and it will not be barren
for the delegates, since the North is well
up to date in both technique and organi-
sation. Most of the visitors, however,
will have a unique experience in seeing
the industry conducted with white labor.
“Eso”: A Queensland grazier, W. B.
Lawless, has a special interest in Abys-
sinia, since he went to Rugby with Alam-
ayahu, the only legitimate son of the
Emperor Theodore. The latter killed
himself during Napier’s attack on Mag-
dala. The mother, who died soon after
the tragedy, commended the youngster
to the care of Queen Victoria, who had
him sent first to India and then to
Rugby, He was delicate, cared little for
Alam-ayahu, buried in Windsor Castle.
Western amenities, and his Australian
former schoolfellow remembers him
chiefly for his establishment of a school
record by going to sleep in a cold bath.
Alam-ayahu died at 18, and is buried in
Windsor Castle.
“11 Vecchio”; Weil’s disease has given
a good excuse to northern agitators
to organise a strike in the Mourilyan
sugarmill district which has put 450
cutters and mill hands out of work on
150 farms. The workers want all cane
burnt before cutting as a disinfectant
against the disease. The Industrial Com-
mission, on medical advice, has refused
to order the burning, and the A.W.U.
supports the commission. Burning robs
the farmer of the green wastage from the
crop—a valuable fertiliser and humus-
builder —and decreases the sugar yield.
But burnt cane is easier and much
quicker to cut in proportion to the small
reduction in award rate which rules as
against that for cutting green cane. So
that proportion of the workers which
prefers leisure to wages and that other
section which, loves mischief at any cost
—it is largely foreign—arc all
for hygiene.
*'‘Australia Jane’s” Budget
It will be sad if the delegates
to the August conference of the
National Council of Women
have to roost in the parks,
but it really is a problem how
to house them. Every hotel and
boarding-house are booked to
the ceiling.
Muriel Russell, daughter of
the late W. H. Russell, M.L.A.,
of Jimbour House, Dal by, is
to be married in September. The
lucky man is T. R. Cooper, of
Warra. There are to be seven brides-
maids, and Fifi Billington, with whom
the bride-elect is at present scouring the
Sydney shops for pretties, will be one.
Eileen Russell, Constance Nelson-Watson
(recently returned from abroad) and the
bridegroom’s sister already have been
chosen, but at the moment there arc
three vacancies.
Mrs. Palgrave Carr, whose husband is
on H.M.A.S. Canberra, is staying with
her sister-in-law, Mrs. L. Tyrrell, at
Hamilton. The Canberra will be at
Brisbane for Show Week.
Marie Bjelke Petersen, the Tasmanian
novelist, who has written a lot of stories
staged in mining camps, has been in
Brisbane. Now, with Mrs. Isaiah Lahey.
she has left for Cairns.
The Governor celebrated his fifty-
ninth birthday by attending the second
annual Police Ball with Lady Wilson,
and receiving 21 debs. There was a
birthday cake for him, and each deb.
received a posy of pink sweet-peas and
Geraldton wax flowers. Mrs. C. J.
Carroll was matron of honor.
Leo Darnton, formerly leading tenor
with J.C.W., who is playing lead in Marie
Knight-Corkran’s two productions,
“Martha” and “II Trovatore,” was wel-
comed by the Knight-Corkran players at
a dinner at Lennon’s,
At the Brisbane Women’s Club, Mrs.
J. Wilde and daughter Doris poured tea
in honor of three visitors —Mrs. Norman
Wilde, of Wau, New Guinea; Mrs. S.
McCosker, of Rabaul; and Miss Joan
Utz, of Armidale.
Kilts, thistles, oatcakes and cheese
were features of the Caledonian Ball, at
which the chieftain, W. McGregor, and
Mrs, A. S. McLelland (convener of the
ladies’ committee) were official host and
hostess. The thistle-shaped programmes
included reels, quadrilles, schottisches
and barn dances.
About 30 debs, will emerge from the
chrysalis stage at the United Service Ball
on August 19. Government House will
attend.
Margaret Bell, a cousin of Mrs. Sam
Hordern, is visiting Joan Turner at
Dangarfield. Jean Low, a student at
Melbourne Con., is at Glenearn, Surat,
the property of the Stephen Morells.
Both girls were the guests of Lcura Mac-
farlane at South Brisbane before trek-
king to the west.


ẅ
w
ŵ
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
■ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of ACORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the com won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn>
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
VVADE & DUERD1NS, LTD., MELBOURNE
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the originaL
Study of an Unoffcial Post-mortem:-
"AND AGATHA
LOOKED DOWN"
BY DONALD THOMAS FRANCIS
HE turned out of the broad, tree-
fringed road and came into the lane
that was called, by courtesy, Con-
way-place. The alley was short—there
were but five houses of the semi-detached
villa type, then his aunt’s home.
Each part was as familiar to him as
his own home. He knew, and avoided,
the projecting trap of the concrete man-
hole: it was there that his aunt had
fallen and broken her leg. He bobbed
his head when he came to the tangled,
thorny mass of the rambler rose that
sprawled over the back fence of one of
the houses.
His Aunt Agatha’s home was different
from the rest. For one thing, it was
double-fronted, and did not. depend oh
any party-wall for support; for another,
its sombre brown paintwork was fresh,
and its white lace curtains were always
crisp.
His cousins’ cars were stretched across
in front of the house. He recalled that
they had always parked them in the lane
when they came to visit her ; they were
less conspicuous there than they would
be in the street.
He heard voices, shuffling footsteps ;
then his mother opened the door. Her
eyes were red-rimmed from weeping;
her usually trim, grey hair was dis-
ordered. She snuffled a little as she
wiped her nose on her clean white apron.
She said dully: “Oh! It’s you” ; then,
querulously, “You needn’t have knocked
so hard. Might have more respect.”
He said nothing, removed his well-
worn grey felt hat, and stooped his head
as he entered the low doorway.
“in there,” she sobbed, pointing to her
sister Agatha’s bedroom. He patted her
shoulder, but she shook off his hand
impatiently.
The dog Thomas, a small, black
Pomeranian, opened old eyes, raised his
old head for a moment, then sank his
pointed, white-flecked muzzle on his
small paws, and resumed his solitary
vigil at the foot of one of the trestles.
The man noted mechanically that the
wooden bedstead had been dismantled,
that the striped mattress was rolled neatly
in the corner of the room. Clean sheets
covered the mirrors on the dressing-
table. Something white veiled her face.
HIS mother raised the covering. "Come
and look,” she sobbed. “Just like a
young girl.”
Silently, reluctantly, he obeyed, though
he kne.w that she was wrong. Death
had erased the lines, but the face had
a yellow, waxen transparency and was
old, old.
Perhaps it was the light, the dim light.
“The blinds.” He turned fiercely to
his mother. “Why don’t you pull up
the blinds?”
She gave a little shocked gasp. “The
neighbors. They’d talk. It’s not the
thing.”
“T’ hell with them!” he snorted, and
crossed the floor. “She liked the sun.”
The cords were stiff, and the green
Venetian blinds went up with a clatter,
with tiny, down-falling clouds of dust.
Ah! That was better! The slanting
beams of light gave warmth to the cold
face, dispelled the shadows of gloom
from the room. She liked the sun.
He stood for a time looking out of
the window.
“It looks like rain,” he said presently.
“1 don’t think the sun’ll last long.”
But his mother still moaned her per-
petual “Like a young girl. Like a young
girl.”
He crossed to her side, and thought as
he gazed at the still features of his Aunt
Agatha that the dead woman had not
had much out of life. She had been
eleven years old when they had taken
her out of the orphanage and appren-
ticed her to the Jew clothing manufac-
turer. She had been still in her twenties
when she had saved enough to make a
home for her far-younger brothers and
sister. She had mothered them and
worked for them, and had kept their
reluctant feet on the path of virtue.
When her brothers had died she had ex-
tended the same partisanship to their
children. And all she had got out of it
were a few stray caresses, she who had
hungered for life and youth and beauty ;
she who had loved but had not been
loved.
He gripped his mother’s arm. “Come
on!” he urged. She resisted. “Come on!”
he repeated.
She stared vacantly at him for a
moment, then wiped her streaming eyes
on her apron.
“They’re all in the kitchen.” she
snivelled.
“Who’s there?”
“All of them —Tom and Bert and
Ralph, and Bertha and Hilda and May.
Been here ever so long. Hadn’t you
better”
His face stiffened. He said “Yes,”
but he did not go. Instead, he crossed
the passage to the front room, paused
before the time-polished rosewood case
of an upright piano. He hesitated, then
lifted the lid.
His blunt fingers hovered over the yel-
lowed ivory keys. Soundlessly they ran
down the scale as they used to years
ago. Do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si . . .
There was a doggerel verse that went
with it. He smiled as he remembered,
then gently closed the lid.
He fingered the pile of music that she
used to play, touched a faint circular
impression in the dust on lop of the
piano.
“Mum!” he called.
She shuffled into the room, wiping her
wrinkled hands on her apron as she
came, and he knew that she had lowered
the blinds in the bedroom.
He pointed to the top of the piano.
“There was a vase. Small. About a
foot high. Pale-green. Chinese. Been
there ever since I can remember.” ✓
She looked at him furtively. “Sort of
soft-looking and shiny?”
He nodded.
She leaned confidentially forward.
“She’s got it. And them little china
figures off the mantelpiece.”
“The Dresden ones?”
“Mmm. And that pretty jardiniere with
the statues of little boys on the side.”
“That was Sevres.”
“Was it?” Uninterestedly—his mother
had not the faintest idea of what he
meant. “Well, she’s got that. And all
the best tablecloths and serviettes.
Beautiful linen, too. You know how
your auntie liked good things. That
case of cutlery that she bought off that
bookmaker that went broke. Real
silver. Though I don’t know why she
bought it, ’cause she didn’t use it, and I
said to her one day ‘You don’t want to
have things hanging around that aren’t
no use.’ Goodness knows what else
has gone, too. I’ve been too worried to
look.”
“Who’s got it?’’ He gripped her arm.
“Bertha,” she gasped. “Let go. You’re
hurting.”
He released her, wrinkled his fore-
head. “You didn’t stop her?”
“I didn’t dare.” She sucked in her
breath. “Why, that Bertha, she’d do
anything. She’s awful when anything
puts her out. Always has been. Why,
when she was little”
“I’ll have something to say,” he mut-
tered grimly.
Her things—the things she had known
and loved, for which she had ransacked
second-hand shops and pawnshops. She
had often laughingly said, for she knew
that he appreciated her love for the
beautiful, that she would rather have a
vase for her mantelpiece than a rug
for her bedside.
And they’d taken them. Thieves.
Ghouls. But he always did say that
they were a hungry lot.
He made for the door.
His mother clutched him by his coat.
“Don’t,” she wailed. “Please don’t go
starting a row. Not with her lying
there. Not now. Please.”
"All right,” he said fiercely, and again,
more calmly, but sullenly, “All right.”
He walked slowly down the passage.
THE kitchen was blue with tobacco
* smoke from his cousins’ cigarettes,
their husbands’ cigars. They greeted him
casually as he entered. Nobody asked
him to smoke. He seated himself on
the table. All the chairs were occupied.
Something, someone, prodded him in
the back. A voice said, “Ease up.
You’re on my cards.”
He craned his neck, looked over his
shoulder at Bertha, who was playing
patience with an old pack she had
unearthed from somewhere. He thought,
as he shifted his position, that her hus-
band’s hotel must be prospering.
There was a time when, as his mother
expressed it, she had only two dresses
to her name —one on her back and the
other in (he wash.
But now! A small black hat was
glued to the side of her henna’d hair;
a gold-tipped cigarette drooled from her
too-red lips. Her grey squirrel coat,
open at the front, revealed a black
dress which, somehow, did not suggest
mourning. Her scarlet-taloned, beringed
fingers shuffled and reshuffled the greasy
deck.
The other women were similarly be-
furred, and appeared to have been weep-
ing. He wondered whether their emo-
tion had been evoked by the contents of
the empty brandy-bottle beside him on
the table.
They made the usual inquiries about
the health of his wife and children. He
gave the customary politely evasive
answers.
“Doing anything yet?” asked Tom,
with a smile that might have been a
sneer.
The man on the table flushed and un-
crossed his legs. “Silly question,” he
thought. “They had only to look at his
clothes, his shoes, to know the answer to
that.”
Pointedly, he scrutinised his brothers-
in-law.
The men sat stiffly, as if the hard
kitchen chairs hurt their soft bodies.
They were uniformly well-dressed, and
looked prosperous, portly, flabby and
liverish.
“Awful about the old girl,” said Bert,
podgy fingers playing with the brim of
his bowler.
“Oh! 1 dunno.” Ralph’s round, red
face looked wise. “Seventy-six, y’know.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 331 of 1935.
BETWEEN MABEL GALVIN Petitioner
And THOMAS HENRY GALVIN Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS HENRY GALVIN late of
Narrandera in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MABEL
GALVIN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND LAKE NOTICE that
you arc required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirty-first day of
October One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
live and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. L. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. M. LAMPART, Solicitor, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
On the C.P.R. route Home
To see the best of the Cana-
dian Roekies, visit Banff’.
Bracing climate, magnificent
scenery, a palatial Hotel . . .
excellent cuisine, countless
social attractions. Rates
surprisingly moderate.
The pleasures of Banff’ can
only be reached via the
C.P.R. route to England.
Write for illustrated litera-
ture and details.
Any Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS — STEAMERS — HOTELS
13/33
Farming
Communities
These communities reppeseivt' the
biggest purchasers in the State.
They spend more than twice as
much as the people in the metro-
politan area. OAM caters for these
people and is your logricul udvertis-
i it K medium.
6AM
Prince's Chamber*.
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ẃ
The Governa Correc-
tive Belt will make
you appear inches
slimmer AT ONCE.
Its elastic action
causes 9 gentle chang-
ing pressure on the
abdomen, bringing re-
sults formerly obtain-
ed only by regular
massage and exercise.
Daily after the first
day’s wear wearer
will find it possible to
further “draw in” the
new automatic self-
V
L
locking “Holdfast” buckles, thus
securing a progressive reduction-
restoration to the normal figure.
In 7 short days your waistline will
actually be § inches smaller—3 inches
of “bulge,” strain and discomfort gone
—or it won’t cost you a penny.
The Governa Corrective Belt supports
the abdominal wall and keeps the
digestive organs in place—it gives you
an erect, athletic carriage and greatly
increases your vigour and endurance.
Note how much better your clothes
fit and look without a heavy waistline
to pull them out of shape.
FREE
SENT ON -T
DAYS'TRIAL *
Prove that the Governa Corrective , Belt will
reduce your girth by inches; prove that it will
grive you the smarter appearance that you desire,
and a waistline of which you will not be ashamed.
We will send you the Governa Belt on 7 Days’
Free Trial, with the distinct understanding- that
it brings you the full results you desire or else
IT COSTS YOIT NOTHING. Send the Trial
Offer Coupon AT ONCF..
7 DAY TRIAL
OFFER COUPON
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Without obligation send me your illus-
trated folder describing the Governa
Corrective Health Belt, also full de-
tails of your 7-DAY FREE TRIAL
OFFER. I enclose 2d. in stamps for
postage.
Name
Address
U3
income TAX RETURNS
* Conets# amt ReilaW* ,or
Mini and H.s.v*. Purposes
irf.auv> unm ««»»
GpS£M**«
.3U»
ji-teawv ■" •^ r ° *
fnptr- t
, 0 V * «**
iii-tjr. •»
Spcfiii bed* Tw
By tt RAWSON STEVENSON. FXA. t*-->
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus.).
' just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
valuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St., Sydney
Ripe old age. And working right up
till a month ago. Reckon that’s a record.
Bet it would be a record if it was put
in the papers.”
“She should have money,” said Hilda.
"Can’t understand why she lived in this
rotten hole. You know, I said to her,
'Auntie, dee-ar. Why don’t you come
and live with me and Bert? Every con-
venience. Maid to look after you and
all!’ And—do you know? —she wouldn’t
come. Said she liked it here. And look
what it’s brought her. Now, if she’d
only listened.”
“I bet she’s got a nice stocking,”
agreed May. “She used to earn good
money in the old days. Only had her-
self to keep all these years, and”—her
small eyes flickered cunningly—“and
Aunt Martha.”
“Yes ; she’s always had Aunt Martha.”
Bertha laid down her cards. “She’s
always had Martha hanging around her
neck.”
The man on the table closed his lips
tightly, opened them. “If that’s meant
as a crack at me, Bertha, it doesn't
work. You know dam’ well I wanted
mum to live with me.”
Bertha lifted one corner of her mouth.
"Aw!” she sneered.
THE man’s angry answer was never
uttered, for just then his mother
entered. Her face was red ; she had
evidently been listening.
“That’s a. line way to talk about your
auntie. That’s a nice way to talk. And,
if she did take me in when my poor
husband passed away, didn’t 1 pay her
back? Who did the cooking, and the
washing, and the cleaning? Tell me
that? You should talk. You’ve had
enough out of her. Who set your hus-
band up in his first pub? Who bought
Hilda’s car? Who paid for May’s
operation? Who? She did. And you
talk, and you say ... Oh! Oh! Oh !”
She sobbed and snivelled, but nobody
comforted her. They knew from bitter
experience that her fount of tears was
practically inexhaustible.
Bertha said “Bah!” disgustedly, and
May, who all this time had been kneel-
ing in front of the dresser, gave a squeal
of glee.
“Mmm!” She licked her thick lips.
“The old lady did herself well. Chicken
in aspic, stuffed anchovies, tinned lob-
sters, bottled mushrooms, whitebait,
turtle soup . . . Why, there’s enough stuff
here to start a delicatessen.”
“Leave them alone!” The old woman
grabbed her by the shoulder, and May
sat back on her haunches. “Leave them
alone, 1 tell you. They’re not yours.
They’re hers. People in the shops used
to send them in for her when she was
sick. They liked her. Everyone liked
her.”
May gave a strangled giggle. “Oh,
go on with you. She won’t need them
now. I expect the truth is you want
them for yourself.” And she began to
shovel bottles and jars and tins on to
her silken lap.
The man on the table said “God!”
explosively, uncontrollably. They were
still squabbling when he went outside.
THE yard was roughly ten feet by
twenty, slightly larger than the others
in the lane. There were aspidistras,
begonias and ferns in pots; ivy and
Virginia creeper smothered the walls
that surrounded it. There was no real
garden, for the whole of the space had
been paved with scarred, weather-worn
red bricks.
The sky was overcast, and the chill
breeze cooled his burning face. From
one of the houses further along the
lane came a sudden melody, a man’s
voice singing pleasantly a foreign song.
No wonder they called the locality Little
Italy.
He was still sitting there, smoking his
pipe, when Ralph came outside, button-
ing his expensive overcoat across his
stomach, laughing: “That’s funny.
Gosh! That’s funny.”
“What is?”
“The dog. It bit one of the—one of
the fellers when they came to carry
the old girl out. Bit him right on the
leg. Gosh! Should’ve seen him jump.
Nearly dropped his end of the box.”
The man hated him.
HE rode alone in the single mourning
coach, for his aunt had specified that
it was to be a private funeral. No
flowers. Hilda had been justifiably
annoyed, for she had ordered a
“bee-uut-i-ful wreath. All white roses
and lily-of-the-valley.”
His relatives rode in their own cars.
All save Bertha and his mother, who
had both been too overcome to attend.
He had ordered his mother to keep an
eye on his cousin. He wondered whether
she would.
The service was longer than he ex-
pected.
He heard Tom and Ralph complain-
ing about the long-windedness of the
minister and the clayey soil that marred
the polish of their patent-leather shoes.
He heard Hilda calling Bert’s attention
to a “lovely memorial ... No, you
silly; not that granite column —that big
white angel with the spreading wings.
Isn’t it sweet?”
He heard, too, the patter of earth,
first in clods, then in great shovelfuls.
THEY were all in the kitchen when
he returned. They seemed brighter,
more jubilant than before. Another
bottle of brandy had been opened.
There was a stooped, shabby old
woman talking to his mother. He
approached her, because everyone else
seemed to ignore her presence, because
he vaguely remembered her as being
one of his aunt’s oldest friends.
He held out his hand, grinned. “Don’t
remember me, do you?”
She looked at him out of rheumy,
shrewd old eyes.
“Now . . . let me . . . Why, you’re
. . . Well, well” . . . Her breath smelled
faintly of stale gin.
His mother snivelled. “He loved his
auntie, he did.”
The old woman told him, in a pene-
trating whisper: “They’ve found her
bankbook. You’d better go over.”
He grunted “What?” incredulously,
then joined the circle of relatives.
Bertha tried to hide something beneath
her coat. He grabbed at it and brought
it to the light. It was a small Japanese
tea-cabinet made of polished, inlaid
wood.
He glared at Bertha, said huskily:
“That’s mine. She gave it to me.”
Two days before her death. He re-
membered her slow, painful articula-
tion. “Yours.”
He had wanted to take it then, but
she had whispered “Not . . . now . . .
of ter.”
Bertha shrugged indifferently. Hilda
gasped. “Let him have it. We don't
want any row here.”
There was a shrill cackle from behind
them. All turned. The old woman faced
them, wagged a wrinkled forefinger.
“Give it to him. Give him the money.
Give him the house. It’s all his. She
willed it to him.”
“You’re mad.” Bertha’s lips tightened.
“You're drunk, you old fowl. There’s
no will. She hated lawyers. Wouldn't
have one near the house.”
“There is a will”—the old woman
showed toothless gums—“l saw it. I
signed it. She left everything to him.
Said he was the only one that didn’t
ask nothing from her, the only one that
didn’t get nothing when she was alive.”
“You’re mad!” Bertha’s lips were a
thin red line. “There’s no will. She
died intestate. He won’t get a penny.
It’ll be divided amongst the next of kin.
Not a penny, I tell you ; his mother’s
alive. And Aunt Martha”—her lip
curled—“ Aunt Martha holds on to
what she gets.”
“There is! There is!” The old woman
fairly danced with rage. “Nobody’s
seen it except me and another lady. Wc
signed it.”
“Another lady?” Bertha sneered. “A
pair of gin-guzzling old bats.”
The man muttered “Shut up, you!”
then addressed the old woman, quietly,
eagerly, “Where was it—when you saw
it?”
She pointed a trembling finger at the
box under his arm. “There!”
He tried to control the tempestuous
beating of his heart as he placed the
cabinet on the table. God knows, he
needed the money badly enough. He
shuffled through the drawers, upended
'Jiem, searched again, frantically. Then,
at last, dully, “It’s not there.”
“There’s no will,” repeated Bertha
decisively, emphatically.
HE looked at her, and then he knew
why she had remained behind, why
the kitchen fire was burning brightly.
“You bitch!” His crooked hands
groped for her throat, then dropped
nervelessly. “You’re not worth swinging
for.”
Ralph thrust his face aggressively for-
ward. “Here, what’s all this? Now, you
can’t”
The man said “Ah!” and pushed the
other backwards against the wall. Then
he shoved his hat on his head, put the
cabinet under one arm and went.
His mother shrilled, “Take the um-
brella! It’s raining! You’ll catch your
death of cold!” and he laughed, softly,
crazily, to himself.
The little dog, the little dog that
nobody else wanted, brushed against his
leg as he went down the passage, and
whined. He put it under his coat,
beneath his other arm, and went out
into the rain.
The blinding drops spattered his face,
trickled down his chin.
He could feel the heart in the small
furry body beating next to his own.
beating, beating ...
And Agatha looked down upon it all.


DBk
travel-
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
pass-book disposes of all the money
worries that usually trouble the
traveller.
Whether the journey be undertaken
for business or pleasure purposes,
and so long as it is confined to
Australia and the Mandated Terri-
tories, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Service will operate through-
out. Money can be transferred to
any point, and withdrawn or
deposited at any one of the Bank’s
4,000 Branches and Agencies
without cost.
Ensure the utmost convenience and
safety by travelling, not with a
dangerously large amount of money
in your pocket, but with just your
pass-book to see you through.
commonwefliTH
SAVINGS -BANK
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
THE
MAN
WHO
KNOWS
C
I
SCOTCH
WHISKY
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Tells of an Aboriginal Girl Who Knew Her Own Mind:-
THE LAUGHTER
OF MIMBIRA
A RTHUR FALK.
u\T URBYA is the sturdiest warrior
IV of our tribe. He has beaten
many in fair combat, including
Taralanjie, who lately challenged him ;
he has killed the white man who dis-
turbed our sacred burial .ground to search
for yellow dust; he is young and mighty.
Why, Mimbira, will you not wed him?”
Thus spoke the head of the council of
elders. The six other sages who sal
with him glared in indignant anger at
the maiden he addressed. She, her arms
akimbo and her legs planted wide, stood
unabashed before this array of wisdom,
her dark eyes flashing defiance.
“Why do you reject him?” insisted
the elder.
Her mouth puckered into a sneer. “I
hate him,” she answered, and this set all
the ancient heads wagging and caused a
medicine-man to wail loudly. Then a
tall, white-haired chief rose to his feet
and said to her sternly:
“You will wed Nurbya, or you will
know, the worst misery and degradation,
for evil spirits will grip your soul.”
This command was answered by a peal
of laughter which rang through the
village and echoed and re-echoed like an
unearthly sound. The old men, and those
of the village who were watching from a
distance, recoiled in horror. Mimbira,
amused at the stir she had caused, turned
from her inquisitors and walked jauntily
away.
She met Nurbya himself, who stood
with arms folded, scowling and mutter-
ing. She looked him in the face brazenly,
while his jaw moved in unconcealed rage,
and she laughed. She knew his glare
was upon her as she passed on, but her
step was light and careless.
In a large space before a hut, Taral-
anjie, who had been almost clubbed to
death in his recent encounter with the
warrior, sat on the ground busily cutting
and rubbing a piece of wood. Intent on
his task, he was oblivious of what went
on about him, and he did not notice the
girl’s approach. She stood over him,
her lips curled in contempt.
“Always slicing wood like a child,”
she remarked.
He looked up quickly, and winced. “I
am making a weapon.”
“A weapon—from that crooked
thing! ”
“You may mock, Mimbira, but this
bent piece of wood will perhaps kill a
beast, or a man, when hurled, and return
to the thrower. A warrior of the Arun-
tas has taught me”
She laughed, almost as loudly as she
had laughed at the elders, and eyed the
maker of weapons with scorn and ridi-
cule.
“When you can kill a man,” she
scoffed, “I shall cease to laugh at you.”
And she left him, throwing him a final
contemptuous snigger as she went.
FROM that day the rebellious Mimbira
was in disgrace, none of the tribe,
even of her own family, showing her any
sympathy. After refusing the hand of a
warrior who had conquered for her sake,
she had flouted the judgment of the high
council of elders; for this even death
would not have been too severe a penalty.
However, nothing could alter the verdict
that she was to become the lubra of
Nurbya; she could revolt, but finally
would yield, or be a prey to evil spirits.
Despite this terrible choice confront-
ing her, Mimbira showed no sign of con-
trition.
On the eve of the day set apart for the
marriage ceremony the medicine-men per-
formed weird rites, their painted bodies
glowing in the firelight, their shrieks and
groans penetrating the night’s stillness.
The inhabitants of the village stared in
awe at the proceedings. Mimbira was
there, but her attitude was restless and
sly, and she was glancing furtively about
her. From among the shadows, two
men watched her. One, Nurbya, never
removed his lynx-like eyes from the slim
form of his bride-to-be. The other, Tar-
alanjie, divided his attention between
the warrior and the maiden.
Gradually Mimbira stole from the midst
of the onlookers, moving so stealthily
that she was unnoticed except by the
two who watched her. She withdrew
from the large circle of light thrown by
the fire, and could now creep along with
less fear of detection. She flitted between
the rows of huts almost at a run. .She
left the village and pushed through the
scrub, with only brief pauses to recover
breath. The cries of the medicine-men
faded to mere whisperings behind her.
She stopped, panting, alarmed by a
strange noise. But it appeared that the
rustle of the breeze in the leaves of the
tall gums was all she had heard. She
went on, treading lightly but hastily, with
many apprehensive glances over her
shoulder.
She came to a creek. At its edge she
stood a while, breathing deeply the cold
night air and revelling in the sensation
of escape and liberty. She laughed—a
low, excited, glad laugh which echoed
faintly in the silence of the bush. Again
she was startled ; there was that sound,
as before, and too pronounced to be
caused by the mere stir of leaves and
boughs. Yet although she remained alert
and tense she could hear nothing more.
With a toss of her head and another soft
laugh she hurried on beside the creek,
dismissing fears and fancies and drink-
ing in the joy of precious freedom.
SEVERAL miles from the Chimaga vil-
lage was the camp of two white men.
Not long before the events just chron-
icled, three prospectors had pitched a
tent close to the village and had begun
to search for gold. One, however, had
unwittingly dug into a burial ground of
the tribe, and had paid for the indiscre-
tion with his life, and the policeman
who had appeared in the locality with a
view to tracing the murderer had warned
the two others to shift camp.
The discovery of Saddler’s speared
body had haunted Alec Hedge and Tim
McEwan like a nightmare, but they con-
sidered themselves safe as long as they
refrained from sticking their picks into
the bones of deceased aborigines.
They spent many days in the bed of
the creek near their tent, panning off in
the fine, wet sand. On one of these occa-
sions Tim, looking up from his dish,
fell back to an undignified sitting posi-
tion and said, “Well, I’ll be hanged!”
Alec raised his eyes. On the bank above
stood a young aboriginal woman whose
slender brown body trembled with some
inward verve, and whose eyes were
alight with curiosity as she looked at the
white men. She gave vent to a fit of
laughter, pointed to the mess of sand
and water in which their hands dabbled,
and said, in barely recognisable English,
“Yella dust!”
“She finds plenty of amusement in this
rotten game,” Alec commented.
But Tim looked serious. “I’d like to
know where her menfolk are.” Then
he asked the girl, “Where have you
come from?”
“Me run off,” she explained in her
queer accent. “Him marry me —no,
no!”
Alec grinned slightly. “Here’s the abo.
version of an old story, my boy—the
unwilling bride taking matters into her
own hands. I wonder if she’d be kind
enough to tell us which of her nice friends
did for poor Saddler.”
Without replying, Tim turned to the
girl and asked:
“Who was to be your husband?”
“Nurbya,” answered the fugitive from
matrimony; then added naively, “Him
big pfeller warrior ; him kill white man
—white man spoilum burial place.”
There was violence in the oath that
came from Tim McEwan this time.
“Where is this —er —Nurbya?” was his
next question.
“Him long way ; me leave him! ”
She gave way to another bout of merri-
ment. She placed her hands on her hips
and sent forth a round of it, her limbs
quivering with the effort. The very sky
seemed to ring with the high, rippling
tones of her voice.
BUT abruptly, while the echoes were
resounding in the air, the laughter
died on her lips ; she stiffened as with a
sudden horror; she cried out shrilly:
“Nurbya! ”
The two men peered above the brink
of the creek and saw a native of brutally
powerful build steadily approaching,


SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Dan-all, General Manager.
-
•: ; x : x : :
Hi
m
1181111*1
• ?; ; --
x ; x‘x : x : x
: : x ; x ; x : : : x
:'x-.-xv-xx
x ; : : :
***•
***&#&*
:
11 a.m.
Y'\
IS TEA TIME
M O H \ 1 \ 4. T K A
Morning Teal Once just a luxury for the
leisured, but now a very pleasant necessity
in the lives of modem, busy people.
The business world recognises that the
stimulating and energising value of morning
tea means increased efficiency . . . greater
output . . . more sales.
And, at home, it is just as necessary . . . just
as helpful and cheering . . . but, remember
you can only expect these benefits from a
GOOD Cup of Tea.
Let's have a good
cup of JEA
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU T _ Htt 8-35
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine- Steel, Ivory Handle ...... 21/-; with guard, 24/6
■'trongly-made. grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLIi.M RAZOR GUARD, for Sin.. 'lin. and iin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CIt.MG & AITKEX, 651 George Sydney.
7-daJ sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black. 85/-
Xvlo 10 °/'
Ivory !«/.
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, tin. and iin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
years free of charge.
crouched as if in readiness for a leap, a
spear in one hand.
“Keep down,” Alec said. “Here comes
the man himself.”
Tim snatched the rifle which lay near
him. The girl seemed dazed as she
cowered helplessly before her advancing
tribesman. Tim poked the rifle over the
bank and levelled it towards the intruder.
“'Here’s where we get some sweet
revenge,” he muttered.
"Are you really going to plug him?”
"Why not? We owe it to Saddler ; also
to this gin for delivering the culprit so
neatly into our hands. I’m putting a
bullet into the dirty big lout as soon as
he stops moving.”
Nurbya paused only a few yards from
where the girl stood. The men hidden
in the creek could hear his husky breath-
ing and sec his savage grimace of
triumph. But in that short pause, before
Tim could aim and press the trigger, there
was a whirring noise like the swift beat
of a bird’s wings. Some object whirled
through the air at lightning speed, struck
Nurbya a blow on the side of the head
which sent him reeling to the ground,
then swerved upward and dropped some
distance away.
Quietly and unexpectedly, another
black had appeared and was standing I
where the deadly weapon had fallen. He i
came forward and looked down at the
twitching body. The girl, who had
recovered a little from her petrifaction,
joined him ; then side by side the couple
hurried to the shelter of the gums.
The prospectors watched them until
they vanished., Tim’s fingers were shak-
ing as he uncocked the rifle, and an
emphatic “Well, I’ll be damned!’’
escaped him.
There was no derisive laughter on
Mimbira’s lips, nor any reluctance in her
footsteps, as she followed Taralanjie back ,
to the village.
Handsome Harry Scores Once Again:-
THE NIG
By-CON DREW.
1 AIN’T ever told you birds about that
nigger footrunner that me and Hand-
some Harry was trainin’ out at Botany,
It was the time of the Botany Handi-
caps, and footrunnin’ was boomin’ big.
Nearly everyone had a few runners
under his wing in them days. They used
to keep their peds in camps out Botany
way and give them secret trials.
Me and Handsome had a camp near
Lady Robinson’s Beach, our string com-
prisin’ two Sydney peds and a nigger.
The white peds weren’t up to much, but
the nig. was pretty slick. He could slide
over 100 yards in even time, which
wasn’t bad goin’ at a time when the peds
stood straight up on their mark.
Me and Handsome had entered the
nig. for the Botany Handicap, but, when
the handicaps came out we seen he had
no chance. They’d walloped it on to him
pretty hot because he'd just won a £2O
handicap in Brisbane.
It was a big disappointment to Hand-
some and me, as we’d reckoned on pick-
in’ up a pinch of change with the nig.
I was for scratchin’ him and disbandin’
the camp, but Handsome voted for
stayin’ on. “Somethin' might turn up,”
he said.
“What could turn up?” says I.
“Oh! Somethin’ might turn up,” says
Handsome. “Y’ never know.”
Handsome had footrunnin' on the
brain, and there wasn’t room for anythin’
else. But I’ve got to hand it to him.
that he understood peds. None better.
So when I seen that he was set on hangin’
on to the camp, 1 agreed.
THREE weeks later we were still bang-
in’ on, and nothin’ had turned up. 1
was gettin’ pretty fed up, let me tell you.
Our runners had brought their appetites
along, and they took some feedin’. Not
that Handsome didn’t make ’em work
for their tucker. Far from it. He put
them through the hoop each day, includin'
Sundays. Every time I gave him a nudge
about breakin’ up the camp he’d say;
"Oh, hang on for just another week.”
And so the waitin’ game went on. I
got so full up of doin' nothin’ that I
nearly started talkin’ to meself.
One day the news dribbled in that the
bloke who ran the neighborin' camp had
got a new runner named Curtis who was
said to be a streak of lightnin’. He
could run the hundred in 9 4-ssec., they
said.
Handsome sent a scout out to see if
the news was correct. Our bloke put the
watch on Curtis, and found that it was
correct all right. It would have been all
the same to me if Curtis had run a half-
hour in twenty minutes. I was fed
up right to the neck.
One day Handsome went over to
Curtis’s camp to give him a look-over,
and came back lookin’ mighty pleased
with himself.
“Did y’ get a squint at him?” I asked.
“I did not,” says Handsome, “He was
out doin’ his walkin’ exercise, but I had
a yarn with Grogan, his manager.”
“That and a shillin’ would get us a
feed,” says I.
“It’ll get us more than a feed,” says
Handsome. “I’ve matched our nig. to
run Curtis for £25 a side.”
“You’ve what?” says I. “Are you
mad?”
“Far from it,” says Handsome. “It’s
a chance of rakin’ in some money.”
“It’s a chance of handin’ out some
money,” said I. “If Curtis can slide over
the hundred in 9 4-ssec., what hope would
the nig. have of heatin’ him?”
“You’ve got to remember that our
bloke is improvin’ every day,” said Hand-
some.
“He’d have to improve a mighty lot,”
said 1. “When is this fool match goirT
to take place?”
“A fortnight to-day,” said Handsome.
“That means that on Saturday week
we get separated from a pony,” says I.
“You needn’t be in it if y’ don’t want
to,” said Handsome, kind of nettled.
“I’m in it, of course, if you’ve made the
bet,” said I, “but I know we’ll do oui
money.”
NEWS spreads like a bushfire among
peds and their followers, and in
no time everyone is talkin’ about the
match. Sports came out from Sydney to
try and get a peek at the trials, and there
was a general bustle among the camps.
Handsome was a busy man durin’ the
next twelve days or so. He had the nig.
out exercisin’ at daylight every mornin’.
and every second day he gave him a trial
with one of our other peds. It was so
much wasted time, I thought.
About three days before the match
our scout came in with the news that
C urtis had bettered his previous time, and
I knew that we were gone to the pack.
Handsome didn’t think so though.
“I’m pinnin’ me faith to the nig.,” he said,
and we let it go at that.
The race was to be run on the Botany
track, and on the day of the match we
drove the nig. over in a sulky. Talk about
a crowd. All the peds from the neigh-
borin’ camps had rolled up to see the
match, and there was two or three
bookies on the ground. The nig. got into
his runnin’ togs and we took him down
to the track. After a bit down floats
Curtis, and I gave him a good look-over.
I didn’t feel any happier after I’d done it.
He was easy six inches taller than the
nig., and looked every inch a runner.
Curtis was favorite at 6 to 4 on, and
our bloke was 5 to 4 against. Just
before they lined up for the start a bookie
floats up to Handsome and says: “Do
you fancy the nigger’s chance?”
“I do,” says Handsome. “Why?”
“Because,” says the bookie. “I thought
you might want to back up on him. I'll
bet you an even fifty quid he gets beat.”
“Don’t stint yourself,” says Handsome.
'“I can get set to a hundred at 5 to 4 if
I want it.”
“All right,” laughs the bookie. “I'll
bet you 5 to 4.”
“Make it 7 to 4 and I’ll go you.”
says Handsome. “You all seem to think
that my bloke ain't got a chance.”
( Continued on next page.)


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which-day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s 1 happenings, and upon
. its advertising columns to bring to their
attention . that which is required in their
home or busiscss life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age”. a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price Ijd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE" FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
r : 'r i .. i
is the first choice-of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians. , ]
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but ;it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by. reason of
its sanity, completeness- and service.
, . | i
“The Mercury” circulates all over th'e
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House. Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Western Australia’s
Leading Weekly
Has ; a reliable house-to-
house circulation which
gives advertisers the
Highest Value.
Full particulars as to Rates, etc., from: .
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
•The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; 11. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House. Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
2$
s>
5v>
v’-
fi
Does It Well!!
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the oldest daily news-
paper in Tasmania, and it still is the Family Paper of
Northern Tasmania,
It circulates everywhere in the North —the home of two-thirds
of the population of Tasmania —and it does it well!
Advertising in “The Examiner” is well done.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of "The Examiner” and "Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Best by
est
Read what one of New
Zealand’s leading advertising
agencies has to say.
.“We have recently completed an
analysis of the relative pulling
power of a group of New Zea-
land Newspapers. Of the many
interesting facts which have
emerged from the analysis, the
following is outstanding: —
“ ‘THE DOMINION’ not only
PULLED BETTER than any
other daily newspaper, but it
pulled TWICE AS MANY RE-
PLIES as any other newspaper
WITH AN EQUAL CIRCU-
LATION.”
Make certain to include in
your campaign.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Head Office:
“The Dominion" Buildings,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
111 split the difference with you,”
says the bookie, “and bet y’ 6 to 4. How
about seventy-five quid to fifty?”
“It’s a bet,” says Handsome, and puts
m the money.
«THIS is where I get back on the bread-
-1 line,” I says to meself as I watched
the starter warnin’ the men to get ready.
Presently he sent them away, and they
hit the breeze like a pair of scalded cats.
They hung together for a breath, then
Curtis started to forge ahead. Inch by'
inch he got a lead on the nig., and was
half a yard in front before they’d gone
a quarter of the journey. When fifty
yards had been covered he increased his
lead by a foot, and seemed to be full of
runnin’.
We re gone,” I said to Handsome.
Not on your life,” said Handsome.
“Just you wait a bit.”
“By hell, I’m still waitin’,” says 1 as
Curtis forged further ahead. “If the nig.
can give him that much start I’ll eat me
flamin’ hat.”
Twenty yards from the tape Curtis is
a lull yard in front, and it looks all over
bar payin’ the stakes. Then suddenly
he appeared to falter, and the nig. stepped
on the gas. Whew! How did he go! In
a couple of ticks he had made up a foot
of. ground and was gainin’ on Curtis
with every stride. Five yards from the
tape he caught him, and for a wink a
towel would have covered the pair. Then
the nig. put in a final effort and won by
three or four inches.
Talk about a boil-over. . Those who
had backed the nig. let loose a bellow of
joy that could have been heard in
Bowral. Curtis’s crowd looked glum, and
you couldn’t blame ’em. In addition to
the wager they’d rrfade with Handsome
they’d unloaded a big consignment of
sugar with the bookmakers. -After a bit
they got arguin’ among themselves, and
me and Handsome decided to push off’.
It wasn’t too easy to do, however, for
the nig. was surrounded by a crowd of
sports who’d won money on the race, and
there was much shakin’ hands and all the
rest of it.
At last we got him away, and when
Handsome had collected his winnin’s
f rom the bookie the three of us beat it
back to the camp.
Handsome was pretty busy for the rest
of the afternoon, what with shakin’ hands
with visitors and receivin’ congratula-
tions, so I didn’t get a chance to yarn
with him until after tea. When the table
things had been cleared away and we’re
sitting smokin’ in the kitchen, I says:
“You seemed pretty certain that the nig.
•was goin’ to win?”
“I was more than pretty certain,” said
Handsome —“I was dead certain.”
“You had a lot more faith in him than
1 had,” said I.
“Why wouldn’t I?” says Handsome. “I
planted Curtis in the other camp four
weeks ago. He was one of a string of
runners I used to manage in Melbourne.”
A Compelling Brevity:-
AUTOMATON
By-WYNNE N.WHITEFORD
THE thunder of the machinery, un-
ending, unchanging, seemed, to strike
into the very soul of Ashmore, sub-
merging him —absorbing him. He became
merely a part of the gigantic mechanism
about him, his heart, his mind, his whole
being swaying to the rhythm of its
song. Where another man would be
conscious only of an incessant roar his
time-attuned senses felt the hidden,
pulsing life of these steel monsters.
“Mr. Ashmore!”
He turned, startled, at the sound of his
name.
“Yes?”
“There’s a man down below. Wants
to see you.”
“Give any name?” 1 .
“No. Just said he was an.old .friend
of yours.”
“Thanks.” •• • ;
Ashmore passed through the door,to
the staging at the head of-the iron stair-
way, pausing for a moment to look but
across the sunlit landscape. Into tfiis
end of the crushing-mill came the con-
veyor-belt with its stream of coal-j-a'
sluggish, steady river of lignite, proceed-
ing from the great land-dredge whose
superstructure was just visible above the
distant hummocks. His mind, oddly
impressionable, was gripped by the calm
of the scene even as it had been seized
by the life of the machinery, and it was
with an effort that he brought it under
control.
As he reached for the foot of the
stairway, a man advanced to meet him
from the shelter of the wall.
“Lucas!” exclaimed Ashmore.
Lucas came forward—a heavily-set
man of medium height, slow-moving,
awkward, his lank hair plastered down 1 in
a greasy film. He smiled, his small eyes
twinkling.
“Well?” began Ashmore harshly. As
they drew closer, the contrast between
them heightened, Lucas’s placid stability
serving to emphasise the opposite
qualities which appeared in his com-
panion.
Lucas came straight to the point. “I
wanted to see you about a private matter
a —well, let’s call it a loan.”
As he spoke, his eyes ran exultantly
over Ashmore, who was trembling with
the violence of his emotional conflict.
“No, Lucas.” He started at the vehem-
ence of Ashmore’s reply. “This time
you can do what you like. You can’t
prove anything.”
“I can’t, eh? Well, let”—
- “I tell you I’m through /” Ashmore s
voice rose to a thin scream. He stood
for a'jmoment as though about to say
something further, then spun round and
was off. As his feet rang on the iron
stairway, he heard Lucas calling to him ;
but he went on, unheeding.
UE realised that he had been a fool in
** enlisting the aid of Lucas, although
the inclusion of some such man in his
plans had been inevitable. Always the
human element had to enter into his
schemes—the element of weakness. His
mind, with its characteristic volatility,
slipped from the concrete to the abstract,
playing on a futuristic vision of an all-
mechanical, all-electric age when men
such as himself could dispense with the
services of other men, relying only on
machines, on robots to carry out their
conceptions.
He passed the crushing-mills, his heart
slowing to a more regular beat as though
in response to their rhythmical throbbing.
As he ascended the stairway flanking the
coriveyor-belt taking the pulverised coal
from the mills fi> the vast concrete
bunkers, he saw in the fantastic bulk of
the building before him some monstrous
primeval beast, perpetually devouring
the streaming freight of the belt. He felt,
without conscious thought, that he had
friends in these insensate giants—living
entities which understood him and which
he, alone of men, understood in return.
Inside the housing of the - bunkers,
which were .placed in a double row, he
proceeded along the narrow iron cat-
walk beneath the ridge of the roof, with
the bunkers expanding downward to
either side of him —huge, gloomy pits.
The belt ran beneath him, and, where it
passed above the fourth bunker, which
was charging, inclined plates of steel
swept its load of coal sideways into, the
deep vault below. He paused here for a
moment, looking down—watching the
coal shoot downward, a thunderous
cataract of powdered jet.
He went on lingeringly, his mind
hazed by the grandeur of the sight. At
the end of the iron walk, passing through
another doorway, he came again into
the open, to the clear air, the blinding
sunshine. Out here he felt more normal,
less dominated by the machinery, more
human. Human things, petty and trivial,
came again to his mind —Lucas and that
half-forgotten error of the past, the
memory of which Lucas, unless pacified,
might resurrect. It all seemed so foolish,
so trifling. All the affairs of man were
just as small to him now, and just as
unimportant, when measured by the
standards of the metal Titans in whose
life he participated , . .
“Oh! So there you are!”
He looked up, to see Lucas standing
in the doorway.
“You—followed me up here?” he said
foolishly.
“You don’t expect me to throw up a
chance like this, do you?” Lucas’s voice
was sardonically pleasant.
“I’ve already told you” Ashmore
began.
“Oh, I know about that. But listen to
reason! Isn’t it worth it? After all,
I’m not asking much.”
Yes, thought Ashmore; after all, it
was worth it. After all, it would save a
great deal of trouble . . .
“All right,” he conceded dully. “I’ll
fix it up. Come along.”
HE led the way through the doorway,
from blazing sunlight to weird gloom.
They went along the narrow cat-walk,
the sounds of the endless belt, of the
bearing-rollers, of the falling coal all
blending in a roar that deadened the
senses. The sounds again seized Ash-
more in their strange, persuasive influ-
ence, gradually taking possession of his
mind, of his will. The roar, the vibra-
tion of the black cascade struck into his
brain, numbing, dazing, until he was no
longer a man, but an automaton —a
machine, half-sentient, mindless, ruled by
greater machines. The ceaseless song of
the mechanism played on his mind as
on a tuning-fork. Their life absorbed
him as it had never done before , . .
He and Lucas were, in his eyes, no
longer two men amidst insensate
machinery. Lucas was the alien, invading
creature, while he and the machinery
shared a life of a greater, purer order.
He halted, peering over the low railing.
Beneath , him the black cascade fled
down, down, down into the abyss below
—part of a single stupendous mechanism
unswayed by the petty emotions of man.
“Get on, man!” urged Lucas im-
patiently.
;■ Ashmore turned to him, and Lucas
saw that his face was curiously calm
—expressionless— lifeless. Only the eyes
were living—-eyes that seemed to look
right,into Lucas . . . through him . . .
beyond him ...
Ashmore’s lips parted. He may have
spoken, though the words were incom-
prehensible.
“What” began Lucas. Following
Ashmore’s glance, he looked down at the
tumbling fluxion of coal. Suddenly he
was grasped by hands that possessed the
irresistible strength of a machine —hands
that swung him off his balance. The low
railing came against his knees. He
screamed, lurching backwards over the
dark void. The cat-walk seemed to fly
upwards, away from him, with the figure
upon it standing motionless.
Looking downward, Ashmore saw him
strike the loose surface of the coal—
vanish, blotted out by the sliding, living
blackness . . .
With a strangely mechanical precision
he went his way, his pulses beating in
rhythm with the thundering mills.


lIOLJL/
-JL.III 1 * '
l f=‘.
C=/' o'- - -
iiiiii
■P Us»;||A = = fe '
5&
‘A* is
■M
iiiiiiiiii
k.; ..
iiili
V
rf A
U
In
a;
£ \K/;
H
A
P M
mm>.
m
mm.
JJ
v -'n
4111
r.
m
x
i
H
%
Hi
CD C CollxUTi , S
Scots (fllhisky
0
tJ.MKXU*
m.
33.-7
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON. Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
iT
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 50/-.)
X
.os
ci l
V^°^ o \j^ 4S p 06^
►V <# I^s c (S- e -•••■ ••••- ..
Os* ° ,-A C •••■ •••• ••■•■
\\ e
*
se !#V Vo<
* .* .•* V'
.** ..•* o^


BUSINESS...
•. is far less
fatiguing if your
health is
RIGHT!
■
m'Mm
m.
mm
v
m
me-
• tome
s
•cm?*
SHEAF STOUT ENSURES GOOD HEALTH
If you feel “all in” at the
end of the day... if you feel
that the tasks ahead of you
are overpowering ... it’s time
you started a course of Sheaf
Stout. The rich barley-malt
IN THREE SIZES; BOTTLES,
HALF BOTTLES. BABY BOTTLES
from which Tooth’s Sheaf Stout is brewed will give
you strength and energy and make a new man of you.
TOOTH'S
SHEAF
advt
STO Hi
Stick to “Sheaf” and your health must benefit
