

■ „ .
li
'l?
1/
7.
t'' ! \
■/rVlhvrK!
-:t.i r -'.f 1N: ;,.>.l
li
(M
tuui
'4
fill
i 3
CP TP -fs
S:
A RAINY night traffic-clogged streets the fear of acci-
dent lurking with every cross-road. The familiar cloaked
figure standing straight and undaunted at his post, unweaving
the mesh of traffic and dispelling the fears of motorists and
pedestrians alike The Police Officer, Symbol of Safety and
Guardian of the people’s interests.
So Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. stands guardian over the inter-
ests of the investing public, giving them that assurance of safety
and security which comes from an unparalleled knowledge of
the investment markets of the Southern Hemisphere.
The principle of offering shareholdings in ESTABLISHED Com-
panies only guarantees results with security; furthermore,
the policy which guarantees that balance sheets and full infor-
mation regarding investments is available at all times to the
investor ensures both Safety and Security. A free service, cov-
ering such information, together with the monthly circular,
“PIUiFITS,” is available, free, on application to
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box; 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. .Box: 1017 N.
H
Chamber of Manufacturers’ Bldg.,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE,
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington NT.Z.
The Bulletin
Defenceless —and Why
Vol. 56. —No. 2909.
Wednesday, November 13, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for (935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
tireless
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND 1 MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of ypur
Special Home—Study Short RADIO COURSE as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’ 3
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 935 ...
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second AnnuaTTx)mpetition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will- retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
“PACIFIC
FLIGHT”
In his book
Pacific Flight:
The Story of the
Lady Southern
Cross, P. G.
Taylor speaks of
the sporting spirit in which Smithy
allowed him to “commit aviation” in
that thoroughbred,” a “real aeroplane,”
as he calls the gleaming craft in which
they flew to America.
In the same sense it is easy to “com-
mit enthusiasm” over his book. For
one thing, it is written with enthusiasm ;
for another, it is admirably written —and
the first of these things accounts for the
other. Not only its incidental interest,
but the force of the narrative rises and
falls as occasion or occurrence affects
the authors feelings.
He is easily at his best in the air, in
description of flight, in conveying to the
reader the sense of movement, making
him feel something very like the actual
sensation of flying. What happens when
Smithy and himself are down on the
earth at Fiji or Hawaii is merely ordi-
narily interesting travel reading, pleasur-
able, but of no distinction. It serves a
purpose, however —to throw into still
stronger relief, by contrast, the flying
highlights, the flashes of high adventure
soaring up above these levels.
To read, for example, the description
of the night flight in storm approaching
Hawaii is to have added a clearly defined
reality to experience. Few who read it
will soon forget the storm-tossed ’plane
toppling down, “a fantastic whirling
madness in the centre of black infinity,”
spinning, with Smithy, and then Taylor,
and then Smithy again, triumphantly,
fighting at the controls; down and
down, from above 14,000 feet to below
6000. “Smithy’s voice comes steadily
through the telephone: ‘She won’t come
out.’ ” As they topple, the klaxon which
warns about the undercarriage—that it
is not set for landing, evidently—en-
velops them with its screaming. Then,
“Suddenly the movement is different.”
The feeling now is that they are diving ;
and next, “ T think I’ve got her,’ Smithy’s
voice comes back.”
That is flying, hazardously,, but mar-
vellously, too. The telling of it is more
than merely good descriptive writing of
flying: no superb, stylistic prose in the
grand manner, but clear, unaffected
statement; thoroughly honest; reading
that boys will understand as well as
anybody. This may do as an example—
they are above cloud and have been fly-
ing over some islands:
I call through to Smithy;
“We are now over the sea. In about
twenty minutes we should pass close to the
southward of Mare Island. I want to
check on it; then keep in sight of the sea
for drift. How about going down?”
“Yes. I think there’s a gap ahead. We’ll ■
have a look; then go down.”
In a few minutes we run out over a
precipice of cloud that reaches down
8000 ft. almost to the sea, and there the
white .horsfes are tumbling in from the
south-east. It is the view that gives an
impression of breathless depth, and is like
looking over the sheer side of a colossal
mountain. Ordinarily there is no uncom-
fortable sensation of height in an aero-
plane, as there is nothing connecting us
with the ground, but here the wall of the
cloud drops sheer to the water 9000 ft.
below. It is only a small gap, but we
have seen what we want. Smithy shuts
off and lets her go, down throuch the
cloud.
Several dozen such bits could be given,
all as revealing as that of the new world
that flying has opened out to men’s eyes.
But these are occasional glimpses, such
as the small island of incredible beauty
lying entirely alone on the sparkling sur-
face of the Pacific. For the most part
“the country over which the machine
passes means little more to the aircraft
than the bottom of the sea does to the
ship,” and no more to those in the craft.
They see something of what passes
below, but; “This machine belongs to
the air,” as he says describing an Aus-
tralian flight. “Straight off the ground
at Essendon she makes for the sky and
drives a line to Sydney. Rivers and
towns, forests, plains and mountains slide
by below ; she does not have to bargain
with the earth.”
“It is never boring,” he says of ser-
vice flying, “for each day the air is dif-
ferent. .. .The movements of the air, in-
visible to those who do not study them,
can be seen by the watching eye of the
mail-pilot. The slope of the cloud-tops,
the movement of their shadows on the
ground, the blue of the sky, the smell of
the air and other signs are there for those
who learn to understand them.” It is
on the ground, passing through the city
of Brisbane on the way to the aerodrome
to begin the great flight, that there is a
feeling of isolation, of loneliness. “In
flight the isolation will be too complete
for there to be any loneliness. In the
blackness of the night, over the Central
Australian desert, alone in an aeroplane
there is no loneliness. One has lost touch
with the world of people altogether;
there is nothing else, and as the nose of
the machine bores into the night the
world is in the cockpit, the spread of the
wings and the drone of the engine.”
White
Feather
Before the
greater flight, one
of the finest in
aviation, there
were the flights
about Australia,
testing the ’plane in preparation for the
Melbourne centenary air race. By sheer
bad luck they could not start in the
race ; he tells why, and gives at least a
little idea of their feelings of disappoint-
ment. They had cause for other feel-
ings, too.
There were whispers round the aero-
drome, about the Pacific, and in other
places more than whispers, that we had
squibbed the race —always second-hand
whispers. I believe Smithy received several
letters to that effect, all anonymous, and,
of course, that humorless and unoriginal
thing, a white feather, with which the
sender had neglected to give a name.
I always picture people who send white
feathers as dreadfully earnest but mis-
guided individuals, with a great purpose
in life, who, havipg courageously plucked
the local white leghorn of his perfectly
good feather, placed it nobly in an en-
velope and deposited it in his Majesty’s
postbox, retire to their armchair simply
tingling with the thrill of having done
a really good job of work. Life has its
thrills for everybody.
With minds of that sort irritating
them, minds so small, paltry, vicious
and ugly that it is hard to believe their
existence at large, it is little wonder they
kept their proposed flight to America
secret as long as they could, lest some-
thing should happen to prevent it also.
And then, when at last they had an-
nounced it, and were ready, something
did happen. It seemed that their earlier
tests had been mistaken, that they could
not carry the necessary fuel, and could
not make the flight after all. More
tests, and ihis was overcome ; but; “Had
it been necessary' to abandon the flight
the resulting situation does not bear
contemplation. 1 doubt very much
whether many people would have be-
lieved us; and yet it is so easy for these
things to happen.” The multiplicity of
things that possibly can go wrong, like
the unaccountable splitting and peeling
of the ’plane’s cowling which prevented
their Starting in the race! It is still very
young, this adventuring. So young that
this author, who has proved himself a
brilliant navigator, makes it a curiously
arresting point that the great thing in
air navigation is to be able to believe
always what your calculations tell you.
The temptation is to disbelieve the cal-
culations, to feel that they cannot pos-
sibly be right. It seems a most extra-
ordinary statement from a navigator of
his class; and yet when he has ex-
plained the methods it is not so in-
credible.
It may be quite a wrong impression,
but his remarks on this matter seem to
suggest a belief that some of the
tragedies of ’planes lost at sea might be
accounted for in this way—that the
navigators could not believe the posi-
tions given by their sights and figurings.
With Smithy
Aloft
One thing
above all others
which makes it
seem good that
the book is such
a fine one is that
it holds, a fellow-flier’s appreciation for
the pilot whom most Australians excus-
ably think the greatest of them all. It
is not an overdue tribute, because the
general opinion of Smithy among air-
men and all but the soft-headed has
long soared as high in superlatives as
Smithy himself has done in ’planes.
Nine hundred and ninety-nine people
out of any thousand would cheerfully
trust their lives to him, however timid
they still might be of flying, and as
many airmen, if there were so many,
would be willing to try to learn from
him.
The value of what is said in this
book about him is in the one it comes
from, and the fact that it is written and
fixed for as long as the book continues
to be read. ,“I had,” Taylor writes,
“become used to the fact that whatever
could be done in the way of handling
an aeroplane Smithy would do.” “I
cannot imagine a better leader and com-
panion in an aeroplane under any con-
ditions whatsoever, from the best to the
worst.” “On the flying side I had no
worries at all. I knew Smithy could do
that.” When the possibility of flying
to America had become doubtful on the
eve of the flight: “We could have
optimistically adjusted the probable
headwind to our range and chanced it.
Kingsford Smith is not given to that
kind of aviation, and I have no doubt
that he would have faced the inevitable
outcry from the multitude of critics
rather than risk his neck and mine in
an almost impossible enterprise.” Flying
stone-blind, with cloud shutting out the
wing-tips, terrific bumps and rain slash-
ing in at the screen, “my course is being
steered more accurately than most pilots
would do it in clear weather.” “I have
never seen anybody settle down so
quickly to blind flight.” One other
comment, because it gives Kingsford
Smith’s singular genius in action:
Had Smithy hesitated for one second in
the midst of the shower of water as §he
drove into the sea, it would certainly have
been the end of Lady Southern Cross.
In a matter of 10 seconds he twice saved
the machine from total destruction by
instantaneous action.
The whole book is a fine record of
that sort of airmanship.
Red Page.
[Pacific Flight, by P, G. Taylor (Angus and
Robertson; Bs. 6d.).]
Memories of
Steele Rudd
[This revealing,
critical apprecia-
tion is based on
the author’s
“B io g raphy of
Steele Rudd,” the
MS. of which has been purchased by the
Mitchell Library, the right being re*
served to Miss Hamilton to publish this
portion of it. The author is the autho=
rity on Steele Rudd’s writing, and knew
him personally as few others did,]
It was in the year 1917 that I first
met Steele Rudd at his home in Bris-
bane. I was informed by a pretty dark-
haired girl, his only daughter;, that
“Dad” Was working irt His garden-. In
a few minutes Steele Rudd entered the
room struggling into his coat, a tall,
well-made, rather ruddy-faced man of
middle-age, whose appearance was made
distinctive by a pair of very dark, very
melancholy-looking eyes.
He was extremely ill at ease, seemed
unable to find words either in question
or reply, and he infected me with his
nervousness. The harshness of character;
the gentleness of heart, the fiery temper
were all a closed book to me then. It
was these contradictory characteristics,
sometimes so provoking as to rouse a
feeling of dislike, sometimes SO appeal-
ing and charming, that made OUr long
friendship quite an exciting adventure-.
One never knew when One Was going
to quarrel violently, or When his com-
panionship was to be a thing Of delight.
Buoyant, mercurial, irresponsible as a
child at times; again vitriolic, intolerant,
pouring scorn and contempt on all
people and all things. Like all men of
strong personality, he was egotistical, and,
like so many egotists, he was warm-
hearted and sympathetic with a naive
simplicity completely disarming. Yet
many people have cause to remember
his biting satire, of which he was ft
master, and his blunt condemnation.
Steele Rudd was blessed with no
scholarship in the accepted sense of that
much misused word, for he had but
little book learning ‘ this was more than
made up for by an almost unerring
capacity for getting to the heart of
things through an unadulterated worship
for the simple and natural things of life.
He offered me a position Its sub-editof
on “Steele Rudd's Magazine*" When he
was turning it into a monthly instead of
an annual. It was here he showed me the
fieriness of his temper. But after his
rage-storm was over, he completely for*
got it, and was amazed that anyone
else should remember or feel aggrieved.
He used to tell how when he was a
lad doing the work he loathed, such as
yarding sheep, cutting lambs’ tails, and
cutting the Bathurst burr in the summer
heat, he was haunted with the dread
that he would never get away from the
scorching plains. In his own words:
“Hammering at the d— burr all day (and
with the fear of snakes), I thought. ‘Will
there ever be work in the shade or am
I doomed to work in this sun with flies
and burr for ever?’ ” A little later the
efforts of his mother were successful,
and he went to Brisbane, into the Public
Service.
1 think the greatest passion of his life
was his love for horses. His reputation
in the saddle was always one of extra-
ordinary erectness, no matter what the
speed or pace. For 25 years he was one
of Queensland’s best polo players, and
played up to the. war in Brisbane and
the Darling Downs.
His tales of horse and cattle life were
thrilling, and at length I persuaded him
to write these as he told them, and out
of this came a series of splendid yarns,
totally different in treatment from his
“Selection” series. These went through
a newspaper, and later the MS. was
(Continued on page 4.)


“The Senior Store” “Truth in Advertising"—Always
SANTA CLAUS
arrives to-morrow at 1 p.m.—
Duke of York steps!
To-morrow is the big day! After a long and adventurous trip from
Iceland, Santa Claus is coming to make his headquarters at Santa-
land. Santa could not bring his reindeers, so Anthony Horderns’
made arrangements for him to arrive at the Duke of York steps
at 1 p.m. He will then wend his way through the city streets in a
great white chariot, straight to his home in Santaland at Anthony
Horderns’, where he is expected to arrive at 1.30 p.m., and he will
stay right up to Christmas Eve. Santa Claus wants to meet all his
little friends and talk to them, and he has a surprise gift for every
boy and girl who visits him. Santaland is on the Second Floor,
where all the Toys are.
ẅ
Come and meet
him in
SANTALAND
Safety Rocking
Horse
Garage and
Clockwork Car
A toy that is sure to please the
small boy. Attractively coloured
Clockwork Motor Cars, complete
with a garage.
2/9
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each
Clockwork
Racing Cars
Pi®
o
A Clockwork Motor Car will keep
him amused for hours. These are
strongly made and finished in attrac-
tive colours. Price, each .... 1/9
1/9
Also Limousine, Sports Car or Charabanc styles
are available.
Safety Rocking Horse, strongly constructed on
Swing Rockers. It is beautifully modelled and
finished, and available in several sizes.
Numbers I 2 3
Height 2ft. 6in. 2ft. 9in. 3ft. 2in.
Prices, each . . . 42/- 55/- 67/6
Numbers 4 5 6
Height 3ft. 6in. 3ft. 9in. 4ft. 4in.
Prices, each .. . £4/7/6 £6/10/- £7/10/-
fs.
Express Waggon
i m
Attractive Express Waggons
strongly constructed from
sturdy steel. Length, 1 8-J-in-;
width, 9^in.; depth, 2£in.
8/11
Steel handle and undercarriage, Sin. rubber
tyred disc wheels.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 8/11
Fur
Dogs
Great Favourites with all
small children. We have a
splendid range, similar to
illustration, for selection.
9/6
Prices, each 9/6, 11/6
Also others. Prices, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6.
# Toys —Second Floor. Free delivery
City and Suburbs only.
Deposit Purchase
System
•
The easiest and most
economical way to secure
Christmas Toys is with
the aid of 'our D.P.S.
Select the Toys now, and
on the payment of a small
deposit they will be re-
served for you. You may
then pay the balance in
convenient monthly in-
stalments without any
interest or additional
charges. Take advantage
of this splendid service!
Horse and Cart
4
For the tiny tot! A
Horse and Cart,
sturdily made and
beautifully finished in
15/6
attractive colours. The horse can be
unharnessed. Price 15/6
Hor3e only. Price, each 7/9
Mickey Mouse
Any small child would be
delighted to receive either
Mickey or Minnie. They
are unbreakable and attrac-
2/3
tively dressed. Anthony
Prices, each
Hordern ’
1/3, 2/
w »
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
V • 1
-i-
-art
-v
%
E
■cr
THE LYSAGHT BRAND STANDS FOR
DURABILITY and DEPENDABILITY
Lysaght’s still manufacture the highest-grade galvanized iron. Made
in Australia for Australian conditions Lysaght’s galvanized iron is the
cheapest and most efficient means of roofing, walling or tank making.
SPECIFY THE CORRECT BRAND
Red Orb corrugated sheets for roofing.
-fc Blue Orb corrugated sheets for curving.
-jtf Queens Head plain galvanized sheets for general use,
Lysaght's special Tank Making Sheets.
m
iiwii
sold. Why up to date they have not
been published in book form is a
mystery.
In regard to Lawson and Steele Rudd,
I think that Lawson, despite his
graphic, pathetic and fine writing of the
swagmen, small townfolk and the city
derelict, was never in touch with the life
of bush and station as was Steele Rudd.
Lawson made many technical errors in
his portrayal of types and surroundings,
which, while in no way detracting from
his literary ability, yet irked those who
knew. Bushmen find Steele Rudd differ-
ent, and know him for one of them-
selves. And I believe that when the
best work Steele Rudd did is known it
will stand and be judged as literature.
This, I consider, is the Romance of
Runnibede, Bush Horses and Bush
Horsemen, and The Grey Green Home-
stead.
In all these he shows how he had
absorbed the ways and haunts of the
great mobs, the wild life and mad
gallops, the stress and triumphs of
long, eerie night rides, the terrors
of flooded waters, the heartaches of
shifting the stock, the joys of bringing
them home again. In all these pages he
faithfully interprets the real and intense
spirit of the Australian bush.
Critics make a stupid mistake if they
acclaim Steele Rudd only for his humor,
Lawson for his pathos, or Vance Palmer
for his exquisite care in painting word-
pictures of Australia and its people.
Nevertheless, there is little doubt that
Steele Rudd will be remembered best
for On Our Selection, for, despite
academic critics, it is an enduring book.
Had he not been blessed with that sense
of humor which made him clothe
grimmest tragedy always in laughter
he may have written a book of the soil
as gloomy as did any Russian writer of
a similar life, and he would have been
called “great” and “literary.”
He wrote a most dramatic thing which
would .make a splendid one-act play,
“A Bush Tragedy,” which is printed only
in the original edition of Dad in
Politics, and in that there is no laugh,
not even a grin.
Dad in Politics, I might mention, was
the book which caused such a stir: he
was very nearly called to the Bar of the
Queensland House for his merciless
satirisation of the then Government.
On Our Selection was pirated by
American publishers, and Steele Rudd
received not one penny. Russian,
German and Scandinavian publishing
firms wished to translate his first books,
but Steele Rudd, who was favorable to
the project, was dissuaded, the argument
being that it would be too difficult to
check royalty accounts! For his third
hook, Sandy’s Selection, he was paid
£5OO cash and a royalty on all copies
sold outside Australia. I believe no
Australian has yet reached such pay-
ment, much less exceeded it.
In 1928 Edward O’Brien, on behalf
of Jonathan Cape (London), wrote
asking for a biographical note and per-
mission to include three short stories of
his (published in The Bulletin) in the
Best Short Stories for 1929. Steele Rudd
cabled O’Brien that he could use them
for £lO. The reply was that stories for
anthologies were not paid for, Steele
Rudd was always up in arms over the
honor-and-glory business of anthologies,
asking why a writer should give his
work any more than a tailor or a
plumber. On this principle he did with-
out the honor and glory of appearing in
Britain’s Best Short Stories.
Winifred Hamilton.
Brooke in
Maoriland
Surprising that
Quentin Pope
omitted Rupert
Brooke from his
interesting survey
of the literary
visitors to M.L. (R.P. 30/10/’35).
True, Andre Siegfried, the French
economist, gives a shrewd study of the
people in his work, which is read by
hardly anyone. Yet no summary of his
is sharper for the layman than Rupert
Brooke’s, gained during the few days he
was obliged to wait in Auckland for a
ship to Tahiti.
Writing to his mother on December
17, ’l3, he commented: “The queer thing
[about M.L'.] is that they’ve got all the
things in the Liberal or mild Fabian
programme: eight-hour day (and less),
bigger old-age pensions, access to the
land, minimum wage, insurance, etc.,
etc., and yet it’s not paradise. The same
troubles exist in much the same form
(except that there’s not much bad
poverty),” Again: “All the women
smoke, and dress very badly, and no-
body drinks. Everybody seems rather
ugly—but perhaps that’s compared with
the South Seas.”
The odd thing is, especially because
he wasn’t a political student on tour,
but a poetical observer of life, that the
first set of observations was correct, the
second wrong. Still, obviously he him-
self had a twinge of conscience over the
generalisation about ugliness.
T.H.
Bound in
Suede
On my last
birthday my Aunt
Jemima, being of
a “litery” turn of
mind, presented
me with a slim
volume bound in pillar-box-red suede,
entitled Purple Sage. I smiled and said
“ Thank you” in my best barbed voice,
and took it away. Red suede volumes
do not, as a rule, figure among my read-
ing matter.
Still, on re-reading the title, I decided
to have a peep inside. I like a bit of
good purple as well as the next man,
and was prepared to overlook what was
sage. So I put on my slippers and sat
down.
The first offering that met my eyes
was called “Windows.” It seemed to
smack of the sage, and I was about to
pass it over for the next one, but, owing
to its terseness, thought I might as well
read it. This was it:
Windows,
They ache,
And ache.
With pane.
Yes, decidedly of the sage persuasion.
The following one seemed to hold
more promise, for I read, “Between
Sheets,” and,* on glancing at its general
set up, saw it was shaped like a limerick.
Preparing myself for a good laugh, I
started reading:
I trudge my lonely soul along the carpet.
Black spots with wimple posit
They smell,
Pink cows lightly,
Out there, out where, out .tspuoK
The laugh was on me, because I don’t
know any Spanish.
At this point I turned to the last page
to see if it had a happy ending, and came
across a description of the evolution of
ŵ
W.P. STACY.
A Satchel Books
Blow for Balloons, by W. J. Turner
(Dent; 7s. 6d.). The Australian writer
whose biographies of Beethoven and Ber-
lioz are the most important contributions
to that sort of musical literature in recent
years here ventures on another sort of
biography—the story of (he family of
Blow, who made balloons and sold them
in many strange regions of the earth.
The vein is that of Swift in “Gulliver” ;
the Australian incidents are evidently,
though fantastically presented, in some
way autobiographical. Turner under-
stands music and mathematics ; his most
interesting observations on sex (as he
complains in a letter to reviewers) have
been excised by his publishers, but there
is a clue to their nature on p. 197. The
author’s observations about insects,
though not always quite original, have
a new flavor, and there is a monologue
on carpentry which evinces a very pretty,
freakish wit. Old pupils of .Scotch Col-
lege, Melbourne, may be able to read
between the lines and recognise some
of the personalities of that seminary. Not
a book for wholly serious nor yet for
wholly frivolous people. .Some of Mr.
Turner’s fooleries strike deep at the
roots of conventions.
The Ginkgo Tree, by Cora Jarrett
(Barker; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), opens
somewhere near the end; then relates
what has gone before to the extent of
190 pp. and skips back to move to its
foregone conclusion. None of the char-
acters ever lived. The men are
utterly cruel, utterly villainous, utterly
stupid or utterly chivalrous. The women
(almost all of them) are paragons of wit,
charm and sensibility. But the plot has
elements of originality, the denouement
has the sort of dramatic elements that
every right-thinking Hollywood roag-
nate demands in the final sequences of
a scenario, and the literary style, though
not impeccable grammatically, is lively.
Miss Jarrett’s picture of small-town
U.S.A. society is considerably less re-
ticent than that of Gene Stratton Porter,
but virtue triumphs just as triumphantly
as in the work of the older novelist.
The Countryman (2s. 6d.). Periodi-
cally this thick, green-jacketed, solid
little quarterly comes along, with a taste
of the English country scene that can be
had in no other way the Red Page is
aware of. An attractive item in each
issue this year has been the instalment
of unpublished Cobbett letters.
The Regent Encyclopcedia of Empire
Postage Stamps, edited by Robson Lowe
(Halcyon Book Co.; 12s. 6d. net). Give
this to the family stamp-collector for
Christmas, and you will keep him quiet
for long hours. A finely-made and good-
looking book, with frontispiece picture
of “The world’s premier philatelist,
King George V.,” it runs to close on
500 "pages of closely-packed stamp lore,
all clearly arranged under headings, sup-
plemented with general articles by the
author and others, among them John
Drinkwater. Many reproductions of
specimens illustrate it, and there is
knowledgeable information about for-
geries and other matters of great moment
in the craft.
Briefly, by Duncan Grinnell-Milne
(Chapman and Hall ; 7s. 6d.), has so
slender a thread that the spinning of it
out to 298 pages is a feat of industry.
The device of putting the story into the
mouths of two narrators, who chat be-
tween reminiscences, makes weight, and.
moreover, requires every paragraph to
be single, double or triple quoted. A
barman in an English village pub.
addicted to poetry, ran away to sea and
fell in with gun-runners in the Dutch
East Indies. Left by his associates to
take all blame, he captured a Dutch
cruiser with Malay assistance, pursued
the ship in which his false friends and
sweetheart had fled, rammed it and
sank it with all hands. Style has all the
brooding over minute details affected by
Conrad, but the details don’t focus into
vivid presentations of reality as some of
Conrad’s did,
C nildren's Books. The joyous Joy
Street annual published by Basil Black-
well (Oxford) has reached its thirteenth
number and skipped the risk by label-
ling itself No. 12a Joy Street, under
which little fiction its stories and illus-
trations by well-known people are as
bright as ever. Contributors this year
include Eleanor Farjeon, Roy Meldrum,
Algernon Blackwood, Compton Mac-
kenzie, Philip Lindsay, Laurence Hous-
man and several other good ones. Philip
Allan publishes an excellent series of
National Fairy Books— The English
Fairy Book, by Ernest Rhys ; The Scot-
tish Fairy Book, by Elizabeth W. Grier-
son ; The Welsh Fairy Book, by W.
Jenkyn Thomas; and The Irish Fairy
Book, which includes old Irish tales as
told by such writers as W. B. Yeats,
Lady Gregory, William Maginn, William
Allingham, Samuel Lover and a dozen
or more others. Each book well
illustrated.
Win fan’s People, by J. E. Hammond
(Robertson and Mullens ; 2s. 6d.). An
interesting little work dealing with habits,
laws, customs, rites and behavior of the
south-west W.A. tribe of abos. •as the
author knew them in the ’7o’s. Brightly
written by one who found in them much
to respect, it records, too, the tragedy of
the blacks’ high moral code wilting in
the inexorable white advance.


36
SmMUTJjCATion
services
illil
M
r # "
I
|RU:
IMF
fell
KS
ffi
S 3
SH
imp
hip
r Ss
• rVv
*•<
The Company invites enquiries
in respect to any of its services.
An illustrated booklet, setting
out the Company’s activities
and services, will be sent post
free on application to the Com-
pany’s Offices at 47 York St.,
Sydney.
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph
services are indispensable to a country’s
progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has
anticipated, rather than followed, the
needs of the Australian public for modern
wireless telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day oper-
ates the Beam Wireless Telegraph Service,
Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the
Beam Picturegram Service between Aus-
tralia and overseas. A.W.A. also operates
the Australian Coastal Radio Service and
the Pacific Island Services in New Guinea,
Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on
ships at sea for the safety of life and for
the interchange of public wireless tele-
grams between ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-
important factors that have resulted in
giving the public satisfactory service. To
this end every new phase of wireless
has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
D
L
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


% A
,
m
it- .
■
W wn
■
m. ■
■. ■
M
w
:”t:, \-,t
■
»
~ i
Warn
* JL * " **
*: .rf
■ ;% - v -
WbwsSM--
.
*
■>: ' : '-
|V#V:
, ?' Z ' '--- 4«u. w* >'% 1% r*%
fttt
, * *\.v
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.
!
MARABOU,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1935.
Owners - - J. Fell and T. Hogan
Trainer - - L. Robertson
Jockey - - K. Voitre
Weight- - 7st. 11 lb.
Time - - - 3min. 23|sec.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0, 2909.
November 13, 1935.
SAFETY FIRST.
“We’d see better without these bandages, P.M.!”
“Yes; but don’t they make you feel SAFE?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington,
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
DEFENCELESS—AND WHY.
Mr. Hughes says that the book which had him
kicked out of the Cabinet was written “to arouse
the people of Australia to a realisation of the danger
to which the country is exposed through the utter
inadequacy of its defences.”
That could have been much better put. As it is,
it implies that the “people” it is thought necessary
to “arouse” are responsible for the state of things
which Mr. Hughes deplores. There is no question
about the deplorable nature of that state of things.
We are disgracefully, invitingly, defenceless. But for
Mr. Hughes or any other politician to put the blame
for this on the people is like starving a dog and
then belting him because he has hollow ribs.
Only one set of “people” can be held respon-
sible —the “Federal people.” Mr. Hughes knows that.
Arranging for defence is their business, and nobody
else’s. Mr. Hughes also knows that, beginning with an
action which he should have no trouble in remember-
ing, these “people” have been either smashing defences
or doing nothing about them since shortly after the
war.
For Mr. Hughes it must be said that he has wal-
loped the defence drum even when it was of no
apparent immediate political advantage for him to do
so. On such occasions he has been denounced by
romantic university theorists and other pacifists, and
many who do not take such matters seriously have
regarded him genially as a crank who could not for-
get his great innings as a Prime Ministerial warrior.
But most who had not swallowed the pacifist and
internationalist boluses, and who believed that a
strong-knit peaceful Empire was a better guarantee
of world peace than a polyglot talkshop could be,
appreciated the little man’s persistent effort.
That much must be said for Mr. Hughes as a
freelance crusader. It must also be said, however,
that it was a Hughes Government which started the
slide that has been followed by collapse. That action
of 1922 was not in itself highly important, and could
even be defended as reasonable statesmanship. But
it was the first reduction in the defence system since
Federation.
Until then defences had steadily and systematically
grown. Doubtless they were always too meagre for
what they were intended to defend, but they had
proportion with the population, increased with it, and
looked useful. The system began when the Common-
wealth, in 1902, commissioned Major-General Hutton
to evolve a plan. In 1909, for the first time in an
English-speaking community, liability to training was
fixed by law, and two years later compulsory training
was introduced. From 1914 onwards war tested this
system, and found it good. Even so, it was long
enough before an efficient fighting force could be
licked into shape. In 1921 the Divisional Organisation,
by which A.I.F. units, system and traditions were kept
alive, was introduced, and the 1922 action was to
reduce this to be a nucleus force.
The ground on which that reduction could be
defended is that the scheme was far too grandiloquent
for times of peace. It tended to militarise the whole
country. The point is that there was this reduction.
Already anyone with a little astuteness could scent
that defence was due to become unpopular.
The rest of the story is a climax of smashing. In
1930 Mr. Scullin took the opportunity offered by
Britain’s well-meant disarmament gestures to shatter
the whole organisation. Compulsory training was
abolished in favor of a volunteer system which by last
year had resolved itself into the expected farce. Poli-
tically, defence had become an animal to be kicked
with impunity—not to say with profit.
Mr. Scullin’s successor has done no kicking. He
has simply blanketed the issue with the woolly negative
that serves him on all occasions when he hasn’t the lead
of an English politician to guide him. This, however,
can be said for Mr. Lyons’s defence acrobatics —in
their sadly bedraggled way, they have been funny
enough. All his references to the subject have been
touched with that bravado born of desperation that
sometimes makes men grin on the way to the gallows.
His actions do not enter into the matter: there have
been no actions.
In his 1934 policy speech his few sentences on
defence alternated between scared mention of the nasty
necessity and safety-first (his own) assurances that:
“We propose nothing extravagant. We suggest nothing
which savors in the faintest degree of militarism or
aggression.” Nothing more indeed than “a carefully-
balanced scheme to recondition and somewhat increase
our existing services and defences.” And the taxpayer
need not worry—“A great deal of the money required
will be found from accumulated surpluses.”
Consistent with this shuffling evasion by words
has been the evasion of action. When it became
evident last year that the volunteer system had col-
lapsed, there was no attempt to establish anything
in its place. Again, last March, when a decision had
to be made, the best this negative statesmanship could
think of was “not to reintroduce compulsory training
for at least two years.”
The position and history of naval defence are
similar —no worse, only because nothing could be
worse. The R.A.N.'s three or four light ships make a
fleet only in the sense that two starters make a horse-
race.
Air defence is too recent to have a history. It
consists in some 80 ’planes, half of which are
moderately good: about the same number that Hitler
recently had given to him for a birthday present.
That is Australia’s defence: without any question
the weakest in the world. It is not mentioned here
with any intention to “arouse” the “people.” It is
mentioned only as an example of the kind of govern-
ment in which policy is shaped by the temporary
popularity or otherwise of measures, irrespective of
their ultimate consequences.
Australia is defenceless for the one splendid
reason that a safe seat is of more importance than
a safe country.
THE FORGOTTEN MAN.
There was quite a revolt of U.A.P. Assemblymen
when the N.S.W. Wheat and Wheat Products Bill was
debated. This is the measure designed to legalise (if
legalised it can be) a home-consumption price (4s. 9d.
a bushel has been mentioned, though it may be
more); and Messrs. Foster and Jackett objected to it
lock, stock and barrel. Mr. Waddell and Mr. J. C.
Ross swelled the chorus of denunciation, Mr. Ross
thundering against the proposal to deprive consumers
of representation on the board which is to fix the
price; and the situation looked so serious for the
Government that the taking of a vote was postponed.
When the debate was resumed on the following day
the gag was applied. Ten U.A.P. members voted
against it.
Perhaps overcome by the novel spectacle of
U.A.P. members bursting the bonds of machine-made
opinions, two Labor members confessed that they
hated boards. This is interesting, considering that
the party to which these gentlemen belong has kept well
abreast of other parties in the rush to appoint boards—
Milk, Egg, Sugar, Dried-fruits, Dairy-produce, Peanut
and Transport. They have all been at it, Labor
parties, Country parties and U.A. parties, and the idea
in every case is to outlaw competition so that the buyer
of the article or the service may be obliged to pay
whatever the controlling satrapy may choose to
demand. In the process fresh inroads have been made
on the old freedom of the Australian people.
Doubts having arisen as to the constitutional
position of food-control boards, it is proposed to send
Attorney-General Menzies back to London to
argue in a Privy Council appeal case that the sanc-
tion of his Government is sufficient to validate any
board and all its proceedings. It has been held that
.Section 92 of the Constitution (“Trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be abso-
lutely free”) cannot restrain a State Government
from stopping a private transport vehicle engaged in
carrying goods from another State and demanding
possibly prohibitive fees. A declaration is now
sought that the Commonwealth may stop the goods.
And the people, whose freedom will be gravely
restricted and whose progress towards pation-
hood may be permanently arrested if the inter-State
freetrade section is struck out of the Constitution —
they pay the bill.
Here and there farmers may have benefited from
the control policy, but the majority stand to lose more
than they gain. As citizens they suffer, and are
increasingly suffering, from the restraints it imposes ;
as employers they have to pay wages inflated in pro-
portion to the inflation of prices ; and as taxpayers —
when they are in a position to pay taxes —the same
boomerang comes back. It was mentioned in the
Victorian Assembly that a farmer carrying
was liable to be exposed to the attentions 16
Government inspectors, and astonishment was
expressed—that the number should have been so
strangely understated. The system spawns all descrip-
tions of Government inspectors, especially the trans-
port part of it. This is not the case with voluntary
co-operation, which has done great things for the
Danish farmers and has been very progressive and
efficient in the N.S.W. dairying and Westralian wheat-
growing industries ; but voluntary co-operation has
lost its appeal since so many farmers have been
dazzled by the meretricious attractions of control.
Then consumption is not increasing at the same
rate as population. This has been admitted in the
case of sugar by the chairman of C.S.R. The simple
explanation is that many people are compelled to
restrict their purchases of sugar at 4d. a pound. But
rather than bring the price down —even a farthing
a pound on bulk purchases would be something—the
sugar interests are spending a fortune on propaganda
in the effort to persuade an incredulous and increas-
ingly hostile consumer-public that it must be kept up.
One weakness of “control ’ is that people can
find substitutes when they feel that they re being
stung too impudently. They even find substitutes for
bread. But, where children are concerned, there is
no substitute for milk, and, because multitudes ot
people cannot buy enough milk at the iniquitous price
demanded in mainland cities, doctors begin to say
that children are undernourished. Politicians deny
it, but the truth of the indictment is plain enough to
those who go about industrial suburbs with their eyes
open. There is a real danger that if this business ot
making necessaries artificially dear becomes a settled
policy the next generation will be tragically unlike
the Anzacs, who were what they were largely because
good food was at a reasonable price when they were
growing up.
It has been argued that it doesn t matter what
home-consumption price is charged, since the basic
wage can be “adjusted.” Unfortunately every such
“adjustment” further restricts the opportunities tor
lads who have never had jobs and men who have
had nothing but relief work for years at least, in
industries which have to meet competition, especially
foreign. Taxes have to be “adjusted as well. It is
estimated that an increase of Is. 6d. a week in the
N.S.W. basic wage would cost the State Government
£200,000 a year ; and every Federal basic-wage increase
adds to the Commonwealth's outlay. The Common-
wealth Government has had to put 6d. a week on the
old-age pension, and this, plus (he customary number
of new claims, is expected to raise the old-age pensions
bill (£10,791,300 in 1930, the first depression year) to
£13,000,000 this twelvemonth. Reduction of sales tax
and primage would have rendered the increase of 6d.
a week unnecessary, but the new Treasurer won t con-
sider anything but (rifling cuts. He even refused to
take the sales tax off biscuits, though manufacture of
biscuits is useful to wheatgrowers and has considerable
export possibilities; and he remained unmoved when
reminded that there is no sales tax on lorgnettes.
It is rather refreshing to see politicians taking up
the cudgels for the consumer. Their zeal may not
last, but at least it has the charm of novelty. In
these matters the average man has been a forgotten
man.
THE TANGLE OF THE LAW.
The labyrinth of the Minotaur was nothing to the
maze of laws which seven Australian Parliaments have
fashioned. Samuel Griffith consolidated the criminal
laws of Queensland into a code at once lucid and
simple. In Victoria Leo Cussen did much to cut out
dead wood. Mr. G. C. Ligertwood, K.C., told the
Legal Convention at Melbourne that the whole of
Australian law should be consolidated. He must have
the heart of a lion even to suggest it.
N. S. Wales alone has 1420 operating Acts (apart
from English and Commonwealth laws applicable to
the State) and scores of thousands of regulations.
And every year its Parliament turns out 50 or 60 more
bills, and its bureaucrats grind out bushels more
regulations. Leaving out Territory Ordinances, the
seven Parliaments pass 300 measures every year;
sometimes more. Many of them are unintelligible
in themselves, since they “amend” other Acts or apply
the law on some subjects to other subjects.
Sales Tax Acts are a sovereign example. The
Commonwealth led off with 18 in 1930. The 18 have
grown to 70, and are implemented with so many
regulations that nobody but the Commissioner under-
stands them. And some of his interpretations have
been pronounced wrong by the High Court.
All the same, the Sales Tax Acts are no more
difficult to follow than the Income Tax Acts. The
Commonwealth has the most awful example, which
is rather reminiscent of a rabbit-proof paddock in
sandy country. First a stout legal fence was put up,
and then traps were laid wherever a rabbit-taxpayer suc-
ceeded in burrowing under it. There have been
“amendments” and “amendments” of “amendments” ;
but sections like this remain:
Where the taxable income of the taxpayer ascertained
from the income of the year which would otherwise
be the first average year was greater than his taxable
income of the next succeeding year, the first average
year shall be the first year, subsequent to the first-
mentioned year, in which the taxable income of the
taxpayer was less than his taxable income in the next
subsequent year.
Then there are “formulas” which look like the
differential calculus in Greek. A Senator used to carry
a copy of the “formulas” in his pocket and challenge
every student he met to calculate the tax on a given
income. He never met one who could answer the
conundrum correctly.
Apart from straightout crossword puzzles, there
are stacks of hide-and-seek Acts. Into these have been
flung little junks of explosive which the passer-by does
not find until he trips over them. Mr. Ligertwood
quoted one from S. Australia, where the motorist
is bound to report an accident to the police, not by
virtue of Road Traffic or Police Acts, but under the
Public Hospitals Act. And there are measures of
the dragnet variety, such as the Queensland Sugar
Acquisition Act, which was used some time ago to
prevent the holding of pony races on a sportsground
by socialising the electric lights.
A start in the right direction might be made by
repealing a lot of superfluous laws as a preliminary
to shortening and clarifying those which are essential.
The thing needs doing in a national way. This is not
a feature of consolidations in progress; when they
are complete it will still be possible for absurdities
such as the tacking to the Commonwealth Bankruptcy
Act of two sets of regulations because S. Australia
will not fall into line with the methods and practices
accepted by other States. The very root of obedience
to the law seems to be that ordinary men ought to
be able to understand it. This eminent Judges not
seldom confess that they are unable to do.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kingsford Smith.
When the Red Page went to press, with a review of
P. G. Taylor’s story of his flight last year with
Kingsford Smith to America, Kingsford Smith was
just setting out from England to Australia on what,
it had been said, would be his last long flight. Now,
when this page is printed, he has been missing for
nearly four days somewhere about the Bay of Bengal,
and hope for his being found alive can be sustained
only in. the belief which all Australians have felt,
that “if any man can get out of it. Smithy will.”
No other Australian holds, or ever has held, that
measure of confidence. It has been invested to the
same degree only once before: that was in the Diggers,
of whom Kingsford Smith was one. Others —
athletes —have aroused something like it; and if
there were not classic precedent for the naming of
athletes and heroes together, excuse enough could be
found in the current eagerness for synthetic excite-
ments, the hysteria in which every piffling perform-
ance —a hit to the boundary, a race run at a fast pace—
is' exaggerated into a major sensation. In this silly
calendar every jockey is at some time a Hero, every
scribbler is a Genius, every string-twanging child is
a Prodigy, and the performance of every one of
these is an Epic.
The confidence given as a national oblation to
Smithy is of a different order. It is a specific feeling,
not to be confused with temporary enthusiasm.
Kingsford Smith raised the flame of this also to a
high pitch on occasion, as when, with Ulm and the
two Americans Lyon and Warner, he completed the
greatest of all his flights, from San Francisco to
Australia in 1928. Then, at Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne, he and his crew were inspiration to re-
echoing outbursts of feeling that came spontaneously
from an immensely stirred public sentiment.
If Kingsford Smith had been fixed in the public
consciousness no stronger than that, he would have
been one with thousands. The feeling he inspired
was of a quieter nature, a steadily intensifying con-
fidence, increasing as he went from one wonderful
flight to another. It was not merely for what he
contributed to our modern Liturgy, the records of
speed. It acknowledged, in the time of such cheap
worship and feverish grasping at momentary sensa-
tions and excitements, the gesture of dignity and
grandeur that attached to all his flights.
The strength of this popular feeling for Kingsford
Smith is not lessened but seen at its best in that it
prevailed over a counter-feeling, never far from it,
and plainly dictated by common sense. This was that
he would make one long flight too many ; that his
extraordinary genius for instant action, which had
saved his life and the lives of others a score of times,
must some time fail him ; or the storms that he had
made his familiars turn and destroy him, the incalcul-
able mishap to intricate machinery occur: by some
such means the silver cord of his heroic performance
be loosed tragically at last.
Flying, it has to be admitted, is still hazardous
adventuring as he pursued it, driving a way through
storm and black night, with primitive and uncertain
means of navigation, high over thousands of miles of
ocean, from pinpoint to pinpoint of land. We begin
to see the true measure of Kingsford Smith’s per-
formance only by remembering that no one knew
the nature of the hazard .better than he. Ali his
flights were made in that clear knowledge. He
planned them carefully ; and dealt with the unpre-
dictable as it came to him.
Against a life on these heroic lines how shallow
is the sophistry which reminds us that “paths of
glory lead but to the grave!” Then the other paths
that men follow —fearfully, timidly, meanly and
without valor —they, perhaps, lead somewhere else?
Hughes and Sanctions.
Having forwarded the resignation which the Prime
Minister “requested” by telegram, Mr. Hughes, forti-
fied by hundreds of sympathetic messages, made a
very effective speech combining support for the
Sanctions Bill with a defence of the position taken
up in his book. Obviously anxious to avoid embar-
rassing the Government, he did not even mention
that the Prime Minister had made the contents of the
telegram public before giving the recipient a chance
of replying.
Straightway it was whispered that the clumsy
“leader” he had thus spared would ask Mr. Hughes
to rejoin the Ministry. This has not yet happened ;
indeed, Mr. Lyons has himself been sworn in as
Minister of Health and Repatriation. But, then, he
may be seeking the approval of British politicians, pur-
suant to his policy of “tuning-in to England” which
is such an agreeable substitute for thinking.
Meanwhile, the Sanctions Bill, the passage of
which was delayed owing to the greater urgency of
the Melbourne Cup, has reached the Senate, where
petrol has been added to the list of articles which
may not be exported to Italy. Britain, of course, is
imposing a corresponding ban ; but it will not take
effect till November 18. Until that date John Bull,
as a shareholder in Anglo-Persian Oil, will evidently
have to go on supplying Italy with the one com-
modity which its fighting forces cannot do without,
and which could be withheld without punishing,
perhaps ruining, Italians who are against the whole
adventure. This is unfortunate, but Article XVI is
already producing complications undreamed of by
the lawyers who wrote it into the Covenant.
Even after November 18 Italy will go on drawing
supplies from and through the U.S.A., Germany, Brazil
and six members of the League which have refused to
apply economic sanctions. Presumably Austria, Hungary
and Albania are three of the six, but the others have
not been named, either in the Commonwealth
Parliament (though a question on the subject was
asked) or in the one newspaper service to which
Australia is now reduced. There are spread before
newspaper-readers cartloads of tripe about the havoc
that will be wrought by the terrible Danakils, the
“wild Fanno hunters,” and the “famous creeping
Gofas” when they start fighting (they are a long time
starting). Precise and pertinent information as to
what is going on at Geneva is denied.
— —*
Mr. Hartigan’s Holiday.
On Thursday last the Orion, “the largest passenger
liner ever built for the Australian trade,” arrived in
Sydney Harbor, and at a lunch on board Mr. M. F.
Bruxner, the N.S.W. Deputy-Premier and Minister
of Transport, gave her the Government’s blessing.
He asked the gathering to visualise what Orient vessels
had meant “to Australia and its development,” and
what the Orion would mean. He grew almost
lyrical in bespeaking support for British shipping
enterprise and seamanship.
In the gathering was Mr. T. J. Hartigan, the
Commissioner of Railways. No one was rude enough
to remind the orator or his Commissioner that Mr.
Hartigan and the Assistant-Secretary of Railways had,
two days before, returned to Sydney in the Lurline,
one of the subsidised U.S. luxury liners which are
threatening to sweep British passenger ships off the
Pacific, and that the Union-owned Monowai, also
carrying passengers from North America, had reached
Sydney three days before the Lurline.
Mr. Dunningham, the N.S.W. Minister of Labor,
and Mr. Stewart, the Federal Under-Secretary for
Employment—both, like Mr. Hartigan and his
Assistant-Secretary, returning from Britain via North
America—had come by the Monowai, and there was
plenty of vacant first-class accommodation. But
perhaps the Monowai is not grand enough for Mr,
Hartigan, whose department is used to piling up losses
(according to the Auditor - General’s reckoning,
£26,095,100 in nine years) on the grand scale.
Mr. Hartigan and his Assistant-Secretary were
away for nearly nine months, and in salaries, travelling
expenses and higher-duties allowances for their substi-
tutes the cost of the trip to the taxpayers will prob-
ably exceed £lO,OOO. “Truth” has asserted that before
they departed they received, on account of salary,
£3540 free of unemployed-relief tax. This is difficult
to believe, seeing that the Government which employs
these gentlemen and has to meet the huge annual
losses on railway operations is exacting relief tax on
income from Britain and Queensland, as well as
deducting it from the meagre pay of relief-workers ;
but the charge has been published and should be
answered.
In any case, Mr. Hartigan has done famously
in the matter of overseas tours. A thumbnail
biography says that, when Comptroller of Accounts
and Audit, he “toured England, Europe and America
investigating railway matters, 1929.” Appointed Com-
missioner on December 29, 1932, in violation of the
Government’s policy of soldier-preference (but per-
haps that is only for obscure clerks and navvies),
he had been in the job only two years and three
months when he set out again on the leisurely travels
which closed with the sumptuous voyage in the
Lurline. He says he was “greatly impressed by the
development of air-conditioning on American trains,”
but is “doubtful whether it would prove popular in
Australia.” Without spending taxpayers’ money on
passages in American luxury liners the Common-
wealth Railway Department is introducing air-
conditioning on the Great Western express.
In these days of talkies, air mails, beam wire-
less, overseas telephony and all manner of technical
publications, there is not a shred of excuse for jaunts
which add considerably to the cost of government that
is weighing this country down.
♦
Satellite Towns.
Surveyor-General Percival brought back from
Britain particulars of a plan for preventing cities from
becoming unwieldy and infested with slums.
This device is the creation of “satellite” towns,
cut off from the cities by a belt ten miles wide—
something after the model of Adelaide, except that
the empty spaces will be larger and will be devoted
to market gardens instead of to parks. Already Man-
chester has a satellite in Wythenshaw, with a popula-
tion of 30,000.
But, according to Australian customs and ideals,
30,000 people are far too many to be concentrated in
one spot. If they live in six-storey flat buildings
in the European fashion, it may be possible to jamb
them together without wasting effort and money in
transport; but, with the one-storey gardened cottages
which the Australian prefers, such a population would
still necessitate a tramway, if not a railway, system
and much lost time in travelling. The ideal town for
Australia should not contain more than 15,000 people.
would enable everybody to live within
walkfllg distance of his place of work and his places
of amusement, and reduce tremendously the vast sums
now utilised in taking people backwards and forwards
twice or three times a day.
A further advantage of the small town would be
the possibilities of architectural grouping, arrangement
of parks and gardens and general beautification.
There would be no long lines of parked cars along
every kerb in the central streets, and no traffic prob-
lems. And there should be an enormous decrease in
traffic accidents, responsible to-day for so much
injury and loss of life.
Added to these advantages, the limitation of
towns to fixed populations and areas would mean that
the streets would be torn up once in a lifetime — to
repair the water supply, the electric and gas supplies
and the sewerage. Under the Rafferty rules which
prevail now nobody knows that he won’t return to
his home to find a heap of mullock 100 yards long
blocking him from his front gate for a fortnight. No
sooner has one line of mullock been cleared away
than another arises, and yet another. In the limited
town the street surfaces would stay put.
* :
“Be Prepared.”
From a Westralian contributor who is no alarmist:
There has been enacted in Kalgoorlie a scene that
emphasised the need for th,e note of warning sounded in a
Plain English article (B. 23/10/’35). A gazette was being
screened, and the appearance of Mussolini addressing troops
was the signal for an outburst of hooting and hissing.
Counter-cheers came from Italians in the packed house. An
ugly situation would have developed had not an alarmed
management switched off the film.
Later the foreign element showed its resentment when
King George was introduced. In this case the attempted
demonstration was soon squelched, and racial feeling sub-
sided under the influence of the latest thriller.
The incident was short and sharp, but chockful of
significance.
. ♦
“Billy.”
From “Scribe,” who owns to being a veteran;
When Labor divided over the conscription issue and
dropped its best men, W. M. Hughes described it as having
blown out its brains. Now Lyons, by sacking Hughes, again
has blown out the brains of (he present U.A.P.-C.P. Cabinet.
For a lifetime I have been closely associated with
Australian politicians, and one man stands out so promi-
nently from all the rest as to constitute a class in himself.
That man is Hughes.
“Billy” was treated badly by Labor. His expulsion was
one of those blunders which were worse than crimes. Had
Labor found a way to compromise on conscription and
retained Hughes as leader, it would have been supreme
for 20 years, and would have brought in ameliorative legisla-
tion which possibly have made the depression a
thing unknown m this country. Hughes was not passed out
for his moderation; he is—or was—as extreme as any member
of the party; but he regulates his extremism by sanity. He
will countenance no harebrained schemes liable to plunge
the country into chaos. He wishes to see a clear road ahead
before he embarks on any progressive enterprise.
As well as anybody I know his faults: his impatience, his
irascibility, his inability to suffer fools gladly—serious handi-
caps for a politician who has to find himself surrounded
by a phalanx of influential fools in whatever parly he hap-
pens to follow. 1 would not care to work for Billy myself,
but there is nobody I have ever seen in political life whom
1 would so gladly follow.
His political virtues are many and supreme. He is a
speaker with rare qualities; clear, logical and with an ability
to sway a crowd which is a gift. He is no less effective
in the House; many a time 1 have seen him swing the
Opposition by his clear, logical arguments, until its only retort
was “Well, we’re going to vote against you, anyhow.”
On top of all this he was a wonderful administrator.
His department was always up to date; he had the faculty
of inspiring energy, pepping up even those who hated his
wild methods and his wilder remarks. He set an example
to the Sons of Rest by his uncanny, tireless, machine-like
vigor. I have never seen a man capable of such sustained
effort; he was ready to work for 24 hours a day. It seemed
impossible to tire him. Apart altogether from the quality
of his brain and the wisdom of his decisions, (he amount
of work he contrived to compass was equal to that of any
(wo Cabinet Ministers 1 have known—and I have known a
few.
1 am well aware of the man’s lust for power and his
intolerance. The war needed a dictator, and he slipped into
(he niche to fit it perfectly. But, with the Armistice, politicians,
like the public, grew restless under the domineering control
which had grown up during the hostilities. Everybody longed
for normal life again—everybody except Billy, who had grown
so accustomed to saying “Off with his head! ” that he resented
a resumption of peaceful routine. The upshot was that he
was jockeyed out of his job, and Stanley Bruce was pushed
in as a seat-warmer, to make himself a permanency, like
many other supposed seat-warmers. Bruce satisfied his
party and the public by carrying out his job like the Prime
Minister of a democracy, not as Hughes had done—like
Tamerlane or Genghis Khan —with the result that everybody
has come to regard him seriously. But between Hughes and
Bruce there is a continent. Hughes stands supreme as a
leader, and if he makes mistakes at times it is only to be
expected. The rusher always makes mistakes. Where Hughes
diners from most rushers is that they generally do little but
rush. Hughes does things, and ninety-nine times out of a
hundred they are in the circumstances the right things to do.
+
One-way Traffic for Fruit.
A Victorian M.L.A. grew mightily sarcastic because,
he said, Californian grapes could be bought within
half a mile of Parliament House. As grapes are not
in season in Australia just now, it matters little if
they are sold to people who can afford them. What
matters much is that, when their own fruit is out of
season, Americans cannot obtain Australian fruit.
Owing to the intense fear of insect pests, especi-
ally the fruit-fly, the U.S.A. enforces regulations
against the introduction of foreign fruits which are
probably the most drastic in the world. Since they
were passed, fruit-fly was reported in Florida, but
was stamped out, and the Republic is now apparently
clean. But the Florida outbreak served to make the
country even more fearful, and every traveller to
the U.S.A. knows well the precautions taken before
a vessel is permitted to berth at San Francisco or
Los Angeles.
If it were not for those regulations Australia
could find a profitable market for every orange which
could be landed in America during the off season.
And Uncle Sam won’t relax them while there is any
risk to his own orchards. Still, he might consider a
proposal for the appointment of American inspectors
at the point of dispatch—officials of the Republic
sent by Washington to, say, Sydney to certify all fruit
clean before it is loaded on the ships. Capable
men, devoted to their duties and highly skilled as
they certainly would be, would be unlikely to let pass
any doubtful consignments which would jeopardise
American interests. If they were over-strict in their
decisions, Australians could not grumble ; they had
asked for them and must submit to their judgment.
Further, Australia should be willing to pay their
salaries and reasonable expenses. The cost of these
to the Commonwealth would be trifling ; their value
would be great.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Monty”: The comedy element of
the Melbourne Cup meeting was pro-
vided by the return of the bell-
topper. It is many years since the
’topper was seen in such numbers at
Flemington, and the anxiety of the man
who wore it for the first time was amus-
ing to the onlooker. The majority moved
in ghastly fear of the darned thing
falling off; many were crushed and
badly rattled by underestimating the
heights and projections of surrounding
architecture. And singularly few knew
how to wear the fashionable headgear
correctly. Your true English gentleman
of 1935 wears his stovepipe like a Hebrew
comedian ; it falls almost over his ears.
The Australian emulator wore it tight
round his cranium like an ordinary hat,
which is one of the things that might
almost lead to his expulsion from any
high-class London club.
* * * *
“Tuart”: One of the Sydney papers
referred jocosely to a series of mystery
yarns being prepared for book publica-
tion by a group of professors and literary
ladies, each being bound to contribute
a juicy murder. A few days later it
had to record a crime which, if not as
fantastic as the case of the Man with
the Tattooed Arm disgorged by a shark,
was wilder than any of their imaginings.
The victim was a blameless Conciliation
Commissioner. Returning in a Blue
Mountains train from seeing his son con-
firmed, he had seemingly been knocked
on the head and thrown out of the
carriage; anyway, the body was found
in a railway cutting. His hat, spectacles,
money and gold chain were missing, but
not his gold watch. An arrest has been
made; the accused is described as “an
ecclesiastical student.” Meanwhile the
post-mortem has revealed that death
“might have been due to fatty degenera-
tion of the heart.”
* * * *
“1.D.8.”: “J.G.” asks if anyone knows
a bigger man-made hole in the ground
than one due to a pottery works in
Brunswick, Melbourne (B. 6/11/’35). I
nominate the vast orifice in Kimberley,
South Africa, from which the early
diamonds of the famous field were won
before diggers realised that the shaft-
and-drive method paid better than the
open cut. The “Hole” was the pipe
of a vast volcano, and many thousands
of miners worked in it at once, with their
claims on its precipitous faces, getting
out the blue clay in which the stones
were found. It is over 30 years since I
saw it, but I understand the hole is still
there, nobody being inclined to tackle
the job of filling it up. Its extent and
depth have escaped me.
# * *
“General Prac.”: Tell “Somnus,” poor
chap (B. 6/11/ ’35), that while hay-fever
can’t be cured — i.e., banished for good—
it can be kept under by injections of
pollen extracts. Such treatment should
be continuous, and not commenced only
when, with the spring, sneezing and run-
ning -eyes make the patient hate himself.
Hay fever attacks about 1 p.c. of us,
and, like asthma, is very often heredi-
tary. The scourge, really, is an allergy—
a failure of the patient’s body to treat
as other than poisons certain substances
quite harmless to other people. Simi-
larly, there are unfortunates who can't
swallow an oyster or touch a primula
plant without swelling up and going
nearly mad from the devilish itching
which ensues. Over in England and the
U.S.A. they are now putting hay-fever
patients in air-conditioned rooms into
which tiny doses of pollen are blown.
The principle of “a hair of the dog,” in
short.
* * * *
“Bokio”: One gathers from the blurb
issued by war correspondents and
“observers” that Abyssinia is a malaria-
stricken, waterless desert of terrific heat
wherein any but a hardened nigger just
frizzles up. I read in the Encyc. Britt.
that “it enjoys probably as salubrious a
climate as any country on the face of
the globe, a fine air counteracting the
power of the sun.” Another impression
“Go back to bed, you! It wont be morning for another three munce
gained from a course of newspaper study
is that the Abyssinians are the world’s
most poverty-stricken nation, and that if
the Negus’s old oak chest were upended
there wouldn’t be enough to set the centre
for a decent-sized two-up school. Now
cables announce that file canny Haile has
a war-chest of 50 million pounds (includ-
ing his patrimony of 30 millions), which
is being distributed around European
capitals for credits. Nor does this include
Menelik’s treasure of 10 million of the
best, which is presumably buried in a
sock under the loose floorboard in the
palace kitchen. If Haile Silassie has got
50 millions, then he deserves to lose his
country for not developing it or spending
some of the oof before on adequate
defence.
* * * *
“Escay”: Two men were sentenced in
Melbourne by the Court of General Ses-
sions to long terms of imprisonment for
coining. On appeal, their counsel raised
the point that the Court had exceeded
its jurisdiction in trying the case, as the
offence of coining was one against the
“King’s prerogative.” The presiding
Judge agreed that, although the word
“prerogative” had been “loosely used,”
it covered the case ; the appeal was up-
held and the men discharged. The queer
thing was that, although the question
might have been raised a dozen times
before, it had never been the subject,
here or in England, of a judicial de-
cision.
“Oran”: The whole countryside had
gathered at the ford to witness the open-
ing of the new bridge over the river.
The local M.P. had made his speech,
the members of the shire council had
followed suit and the audience was
breathlessly awaiting the cutting of the
ribbon and the triumphal passage of the
first car over the bridge. It was at this
stage that there was a rumble from the
opposite side of the river, and a dilapi-
dated lorry swung into view. In it sat
a cheerful camping party, returning from
a sojourn at the coast —dad, mum,
grandma, the kids and sundry other
relatives. All unaware of their hideous
breach of etiquette they rattled across
the bridge, broke the ribbon, missed the
just-about-to-lead car by an inch, and
with affable shouts vanished up the road.
The local rag next day, in reporting the
“regrettable incident,” remarked bitterly
that something similar had marred the
opening of the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
* * * *
“Kerys”: My neighbor's frivolous
missus went out the other day and paid
five shillings for an orchid. Binks was
indignant, and inveighed against the
lady’s determination to be in the fore-
front of fashion. “Five shillings for a
damn’ flower that will die the first time
you wear it,” he shouted. “Wicked
extravagance.” Mrs. Binks merely
smiled serenely. That’s three weeks ago,
and the orchid, which has attended all
the local functions, is still young and
beautiful. When she wears it Mrs. B.
treats it with every consideration, and in
its off moments it revives and retains its
charms in the family refrigerator.
* * ♦ *
“Tidapa”: I know one Melbourne
policeman who wouldn’t agree with
“Como” (B. 30/10/’35) about the useless-
ness of the black helmet. He staggered
into our Melbourne office at 3 a.m., and
in a faint voice asked us to help him out
of his headgear. It was bashed down
well over his ears, and the crown had a
dent in it as big as a man’s fist. But
there was no mark on the head. It turned
out that he had sought to make an arrest
in Little Bourke-street, and three thugs
had kept him busy while the fourth
bashed him over with a bottle.
Obviously, only tNH|.helmet had saved
him from a dangerous concussion.
* * * *
“Bo”: For months Sydney City Coun-
cil has been trying to make up its mind
to replace the greasepond in Woolloo-
moolloo, known as the Domain baths,
by a modern pool on the lines of the
Melbourne one, built to Olympic stan-
dards. Now that the Ma city has been
chosen as the venue for the 1938 Empire
Games a pool, centrally situated, and
with accommodation for some thou-
sands, would prove a capital investment.
One of the sites suggested is in the Dom.
near St. Mary’s, which would be ideal
for accessibility. Sydney, with a popu-
lation of one and a quarter million,
can’t afford to trifle with the question
any longer.
“Uramao”: The danger of handling
shells that seem to have outlived their
harmfulness through old age or immer-
sion in water has received tragic ex-
emplification at Auckland (M.L.). A
boy of eight had an old 61b. shell which
he used as an anchor for his model
yacht. His playmates used it for crush-
ing sea shells ; his mother had hammered
in stakes with it in the garden. It had
been about the house for 10 years. The
other day the boy dropped it on the
concrete ; it exploded, killing him. A
military expert said it was of a type
used before the Great War and from its
rusted and pitted appearance must have
been at least 15 years old.
* * * *
"R.H.P.”: Future generations of
Stanleyites will never find the skeletons
of those 300-odd whales buried there
(B. 30/10/’35). They had neither bones
nor oil. When they were offered as a
free gift to the new Jap whaling fleet,
en mule to the Antarctic regions, the
commander wired back a curt “Not
interested.” No flies on Nippon!
* o * ♦
“Dr. M.”: In one of the Sydney banks
where you take your pink slip to a brass
plate high on a panelled partition marked
A to G or O to Z, and get it back to take
to the paying tellers, there arrived a new
but very nicely tailored customer who
a week before had banked first £l4O,
then £9O. He presented a cheque for
£2OO, got it initialled, and cashed it. At
the end of the day two of those £2OO
cheques, one with forged initials, were
found to have been cashed. Bank
officials and detectives watched all the
trains bound for Melbourne and the Cup
that evening, but couldn’t find the hand-
some stranger.
* * * *
“R.F.F.”; In a Chinese paper pub-
lished in Hong Kong, a copy of which
was sent to me by a relative, the only
English words that caught my eye were
under the heading of “A Practical Eng-
lish-Chinese Dictionary.” The name
“Winston” appears in large print, and
than, evidently as samples of the infor-
mation available, come “carryover,”
“Nazi,” “nudism,” “violet rays,”
“whoopee” and —yes —our Australian
“bonzer.” It intrigued me to imagine a
Chinese student of English trying to eke
out a conservation with this limited
vocabulary as its basis.
* * * *
“Ormonde”: Curious is the different
effect climate may have on sturdy demo-
crats. Henry Labouchere used regularly
to move that the House of Commons
shouldn’t adjourn for Derby Day. It
wasn’t that “Labby” objected to gam-
bling or holidays: his point was that Par-
liament should stick to its job in session-
time ; if individual members wanted to
go to Epsom, let them, but it wasn't fair
that the business of the House should be
hung up for a horserace. At Can-
berra Dr. Maloney, who more nearly re-
sembles Labouchere in his outlook on
things in general than any other Federal
legislator has done, asked Lyons to
reconsider his decision that the Reps,
should sit on Melbourne Cup day, on the
ground that it was something in the
nature of a national holiday and that
such a gesture on the part of the Com-
monwealth Government would be con-
ducive to the general happiness. And
the doctor was successful, too, which is
more than Labby ever was. Yet, even
with all the developments of modern
transport, Canberra is much further
from Flemington than ever Westminster
was from Epsom Downs.
* * * *
“Nonped”: “Pedantus” is barking up
the wrong tree when he accuses the Vic-
torian road-transport people of coining
the word “haulier” (B. 23 /10/’35).
Thomas Hardy, in Under the Greenwood
Tree, written in 1872, describes one of
his characters as a “tranter and haulier,”
and, as the story deals with a Wessex of
fifty years earlier, the word must have
been in common use many years before
the Yarra was contaminated. Anyhow,
there’s nothing particularly “uneupho-
nious and foolish” about “haulier.”
* ♦ * *
“Say 99”: 1 am interested, medically,
in Kuda Bax, the Indian firewalker,
who has startled England by his feats.
Bax, who is apparently as temperamental
as a prima donna, claims to have mystic
powers of some kind. What he does
possess is a very dry skin ; that of the
English volunteers who attempted to
emulate him and got burnt for their
pains was moist. Probably, as suggested
by one doctor, the Indian has the ability,
given to few of us, to control the nerves
governing the dilatation and contraction
of his blood-vessels. People who shove
needles through their tongues, without
resultant Weeding, are similarly gifted.
MEMO FOR MILLINERS.
“Extreme- styles ran riot on Oaks Day at Klein—
ington; many of the hats could only be classed as
crazy.”
The frocks were cut with piquant wiles
That once had caused disquiet;
Bizarre designs and outre styles
Ran frolicsomely riot.
The female form divine was clad
In colors mixed and mazy,
And rare as ever rainbows had.
The hats were mostly glad and mad.
But some were simply crazy.
The skirts of chiffon a la mode
Artistically chosen
In fascinating wavelets flowed
Above the silken hosen.
Some screened the shapely contours; more
Were shimmeringly hazy.
But, whatsoever else they wore,
One point there was you couldn't ignore:
Whole heaps of hats were crazy.
The shoes were chic as fairies’ dowers;
The parasols were stirring,
Alternatively gay with flowers
Or just “a mass of shirring.”
The girls were dreams you’d long to kiss;
They filled the heart with lazy
Wonder at art (and artifice),
Except, admittedly, for this:
So many hats were crazy.
They drooped like lilies, rocked like swings,
And strained at unseen tethers;
And some were decked with floppy wings
And more with flaring feathers.
Come, Joan and Shirley, Rose and Ruth,
Come, Dorothy and Daisy,
Your frocks are right as rain, in sooth,
But when will unreceptive youth
Grasp the unpalatable truth
Your hats are simply crazy ?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“General Prac.”: An English lady who
is puzzling the doctors by her continuous
yawning offers an interest-
ing field for speculation.
Granted that she has not
had an overdose of poli-
tical oratory (there’s been
a spate of that in Eng-
land), she may have one
of several maladies.
Encephalitis lethargica is
a possibility, and so is a
tumor of the brain, especi-
ally in the frontal area.
The age is not stated, but
when an old patient of
either sex commences to
yawn (or, more correctly,
to sigh) ceaselessly and
gently it is pretty safe to
say that the end of the
road is in sight. But why
is yawning so infectious in
normal, healthy people?
You can notice the thing
in any gathering. I can’t
forget-!the instance of a
renowned English medico
who lectured to some of
us a short time ago.
Subject-matter, splendid.
Delivery, monotonous and
prosy. One by one we stretched out our
legs and gaped shamelessly at the ceiling.
At the end of his harangue the lecturer
was yawning himself.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: A Melbourne lad of 15
years has been sentenced to 15 months’
gaol for walloping a couple with an
iron bar and throwing pepper in their
eyes. When arrested, the youngster
refused to be tried by the Children’s
Court and demanded a jury, before
which he conducted his own case, cross-
examining witnesses at length and
vehemently protesting his innocence. He
did the job with undoubted ability,
though his bearing drew from the
usually-sympathetic Judge Foster the
rebuke that he seemed to regard himself
as a hero. Now he is appealing, and
proposes to conduct his own case before
the Supreme Court.
* * * *
“Como”: It’s a thankless job being in
command during a period of depression.
The man on top is always blamed be-
cause things are not so good, and the
man below is always looked on as a
liberator. My friend Demetrius Oyster-
ropulous gave me the low-down about
things in his native land as he wrapped
up the flounder. The restoration of the
monarchy, he explained, was foretold in
letters right from the horse’s mouth.
Everybody in Greece was tired of living
on the smell of an oil rag, so everybody
looked for a king to restore the pros-
perity everybody had never had. Some
years back the Greeks had passed out
a king and established a republic to the
same end. but things got worse. A
shrewd military clique, encouraged by
the success of Mussolini and Hitler, saw
the chance of establishing a virtual
dictatorship, if it could only get a king
as a figurehead. The public was per-
suaded that such a move would make
the country flow with milk and honey.
A minority, like the rest of the world
cynical and apathetic, was content
to let things drift; the monarchy conies
in once more in spite of one of Deme-
trius’s ancestors having said, two thou-
sand years ago, that when revolutions
take place the difference for the average
man is only that his master has changed
his name.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Touching the power of
scents to stir old memories (B. 6/11/’35).
On one of London’s most mildewy days
I was seated in the Anzac Buffet when
something suddenly came to remind me
of warm sunshine beating on the flower-
stalls in Martin-place. It seemed quite
unexplainable until I noticed other
Diggers sniffing the air. By a common
impulse we found ourselves all rushing
to the basement, where I got my share of
the boronia some good soul had packed
into the top of a case of comforts be-
fore dispatching it from Australia. I
wonder if the sender ever got an idea
of the appreciation her kindly thought
evoked —it must have been a her.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Some experienced ballet
girls use greasepaint to make up for the
deficiencies of legs without tights (B.
6/11/’35); but the tights had other
advantages besides hiding the unprepos-
sessing color of naked shins in the glare
of the footlights. The ballet girls of old
used extensive padding under the hose to
give their understandings shapely out-
lines. They were not the only stage
users of padding, either. A pair of
brothers, good actors but built on
skeleton lines, had a complete set of pads,
false shoulders and everything, to give
themselves the manly-hero appearance
demanded by the public. The most pain-
ful incident concerning padding occurred
“ Suckin' y'r thumb! A bloke ought
t' jump out an pass y' one!”
when the magnificent bust of a chorus
girl disappeared, the padding having
worked loose under the corsage, to
appear lower down,
♦ * * *
“Findy”: Hunger-striking was known
in England long before the time of
Evelyn’s Quakers (B. 6/11/’35). Accord-
ing to Rymer’s Foedera, one Cecilia
de Rygeway, whojflfcid been imprisoned
in Nottingham gaol in 1357 for the
murder of her husband, “remained mute
and abstinent from meat and drink for
forty days.” This being made known
to Edward 111., that monarch “moved
by piety, and for the glory of God and
the Blessed Virgin, to whom the miracle
was owing,” granted her a pardon. The
king was probably not so much struck
by the fact of her remaining alive as at
her voluntary refraining from speech
for forty days. There is no record of
either suffragettes or Irish patriots carry-
ing things that far.
* * * *
“R.F.F.”: “H.A.L.” (B. 2/10/’35)
expresses himself puzzled as to why
the autogyro is not more popular
for general flying. The explanation
is that it is largely a matter of
limited pay-load. The ordinary ’plane
is pulled through the air by the narrow
steel shaft which carries the propeller,
but the whole weight of a ’gyro is sus-
pended in the air by a similar narrow
shaft which holds the rotors ; and there
are definite limits to the tensile strength
of steel. The ’gyro’s unusual appearance
is another handicap. The residents of
Ceduna (S.A.) see many types of ’planes
besides the W.A. Airways mail-carriers,
but when a crowd of us turned out one
freezing morning last winter to see the
arrival of the “flying windmill,” whose
pilots had camped on the Nullarbor, 1
didn’t hear one spectator say that he
would like a trip in the ’gyro. Demon-
strating the hovering capabilities of their
strange craft, the pilots kept it sus-
pended in mid-air about 200 feet above
the Airways’ resthouse —an eerie sight in
the dawn light. Another point which
was commented on disapprovingly is that
the cockpits are open ; there is no protec-
tion for passengers against noise or
weather. The ’gyro is ideal for special
flying, in war-time particularly, but it
won’t come into its own until it is made
faster, more comfortable and capable of
lifting a much heavier pay-load.
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”; The report of the sur-
geon who has devised a method of deal-
ing with the flea — Le. t drenching the sus-
pected area with chloroform —reminds me
that many years ago 1 ventured into
the same field. My notion was a
tiny vacuum-cleaner, plugged in at the
bedside. Its flexible nozzle might be
directed anywhere (especially the exact
spot on the back where fingers can’t
reach); the captured fleas were pre-
served in a glass container. Manufactur-
ing concerns in the vacuum-cleaning line
received my overtures coldly. The
patent offices of seventeen countries
refused my protective device on grounds
which 1 considered specious. I now
present the system to the world.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: The policy of sacking
youths when they reach manhood (B.
30/10/’35) is particularly hard on those
lads who, to help the family exchequer,
leave school at fourteen and get
work in and about the coalmines. At
twenty-one they are put off, and their
places taken by younger boys ; the more
modern the pit, the more of this boy
labor is used. At one time a man too old
for the coal could get easier and lower-
paid jobs about the pit-tops. Now he
has to stay below until he is old enough
for the pension, or until he gets miner’s
nystagmus. Neither situation is profitable
for the companies. One N.S.W. mine,
resuming work after a long spell of idle-
ness, is seeking to get over the difficulty
by refusing to reinstate men over forty.
* * * *
“Shep”: The most deadly air-bombing
I actually watched was not done by a
massed formation (B. 30/10/’35) —just a
solo effort that for hours demoralised the
Menin-road. We were relieved in Glen-
corse Wood about midnight, and had
reached “Clapham Junction,” where the
track wound down to the Menin-road,
when a Fritz ’plane flashed past us only
a few hundred feet aloft. From the shell-
hole we dived into we could follow its
course straight along the road, laying
its eggs at intervals of about 100 yards.
In the bright moonlight the bomber
could hardly miss some target with every
bomb ; for that matter, at most hours of
the day or night a shell lobbing on the
road would be sure of some result. A
few minutes later the ’plane returned,
dropping the rest of his deadly cargo on
the confused transport it was impossible
to shift. Anti-aircraft and machine-guns
were employed in vain, and as the burst-
ing bombs died down we went on to
Ypres, past labor corps already filling
in the bomb holes, ambulances squeezing
between wrecked transport waggons to
gather in the victims, mules and shat-
tered limbers being dragged off the road,
and a wrecked howitzer that had never
fired a shot.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”; Iceland has other peculiar
customs besides free-and-easy gaol regula-
tions (B. 23/10/’35). Its capital has a
system of medical attendance which more
enlightened centres might well adopt.
There are a dozen doctors in the
chief town, and, by arrangement, 10
have their nights free in turn, the
remaining two remaining on duty
for emergency work. The medical
man everywhere else in the world
never knows for certain that he can keep
a date ; he is always liable to be pulled
out of a play or taken from the arms
of his dancing partner to diagnose an
appendix or usher another citizen into
the world. Another noteworthy thing
about Iceland is that, despite its in-
clement climate, one of the favorite
summer sports is surf bathing. The
island even boasts a cult of nudists.
“1 ungo r”: The
Lyons - Hughes busi-
ness reminds me.
Close on 40 years ago
John Forrest, West-
ralia’s Premier, wrote
to Venn, the Com-
missioner of Rail-
ways, requesting his
resignation. Venn re-
fused it, claiming that
he should be given a
chance to justify him-
self. Forrest per-
sisted, and finally sent
a telegram to the
effect that the Cabinet
was unanimous that
Venn must go. The
Commissioner replied,
somewhat melo-
dramatically, “Death
before dishonor! ”
Thg next intimation
he got was that the
Governor had dis-
missed him from
office, whereupon he
complained ruefully
that he had been
“sacked in his night-
shirt.” This the gold-
fields press of the
period insisted on re-
garding as an admis-
sion that the old hard-
shell Groper hadn’t
yet been educated up
to the amenities of
pyjamas, and for years
afterwards the refractory ex-Minister was
dubbed “Nightshirt” Venn.
* * * *
“Bezique”: Anglophobia in Italy
takes some amazing forms. Among
other ebullitions one reads that sign-
boards of English hotels and clubs have
been torn down, a certain type of hat
worn by a British Minister at Geneva
is regarded with abhorrence, and
finally—
Even the aristocracy is abandoning
bridge and tea-parties owing to their
British associations.
Tea-parties, one would imagine, have
become a fairly cosmopolitan institu-
tion, but the five-o’clock habit (although
seldom five nowadays) is always credited
with an English origin. But whether
bridge was first played in England is
open to doubt; there is a mass of con-
flicting evidence, some authorities
favoring Turkey and others Russia as
having started the game from which the
present craze or business has developed.
Anyhow, bridge is only one of many
card games, and playing cards (after the
present style) were known in Italy
before packs were ever cut and dealt in
England. An Italian historian claims
that they were introduced into his
country from Arabia (of all places) in
1379, and gradually spread northwards.
They were being manufactured in Italy
years before other nations butted into
the industry.
THE LINGUIST.
“Joseph Gardiner, M.L.C.. a pandidate for the
Gipps ward of the Sydney City Council, issued his
election appeals in five languages—English, Greek,
Italian, Maltese and Chinese.”
We’re cosmopolitan, and that’s undoubted.
The language such as fell from Shakspeare’s
lips,
That Gibbon wrote, and Burke and Johnson
spouted, . ,
That furnished Swift with snarls and Pope
with quips, .
The tongue from British hustings now being
shouted ,
Can’t be relied upon, it seems, in Gipps
To lure and coax, to wheedle and cajole
And place a candidate atop the poll.
You may be eloquent as,Reid or Deakin,
Yet there are hundreds that you’ll fail to
reach
If you can only fulminate (or squeak) in
Plain, honest “sabre-cuts of Saxon speech.”
Still, there are dodgers that a chap can shriek
in,
Implore, adjure and earnestly beseech
When he’s interpreters his views to seize
And frame them in Italian or Chinese.
Your knowledge of these alien tongues is
scanty
As mine—and that I candidly admit.
You couldn’t read a single line of Dante
In the original, or construe it.
But, none the less, whether you’re pro- or anti-
Existing rule, your stuff will make a hit
In any sort of language if it states
You’re out to help reform and lower rates.
Write it in Greek, with winged words that
flutter
Like birds and bees about Arcadian bowers,
Or those Maltese habitually utter
And understand more readily than ours;
For, after all, butter is always butter
In any dialect, and flow’rs arc flow’rs;
And what was Greek to Casca thrills and grips
Hellenes who operate in fish-and-chips.
Your aim’ is but the welfare of the many;
And when their birthplace was beyond the
seas
You woo their voles with glimmerings of Pliny
And fleeting glimpses of Demosthenes.
And should there be, unfortunately, any
Left cold by such expedients as these,
There’s one device that’s left you anyhow:
You may enlist their sympathies in Chow.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


20m6
10/
9 d
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
.
TIPPED CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
The Commonwealth Bank Board has
been engaged in another struggle to
moderate the appetite of Australian
Governments for loans. In the end it
agreed to underwrite £7,500,000 at
£3 15s. sd, per £lOO. Premiers who
wanted more at lower interest went
away in a bad temper, but sore heads
are no novelty after Loan Council
meetings.
The last repat. measure introduced
while Hughes was Minister prohibited
the eviction of soldiers’ widows or
widowed mothers from their over-capi-
talised war-service homes and provided
for the restoration of those who have
been evicted. His offsider, Thorby, in-
troduced it, but the Diggers know whom
they have to thank.
According to a Canberra chronicler,
“political observers are mystified by the
number of times the Ministry has
changed its mind on rail-gauge unifica-
tion.” Other political observers have been
wondering whether the Government has
a mind to change.
Stevens and co. are conferring a
dubious financial boon on N.S.W. coun-
try towns by thrusting on them the
“sixty sewerage schemes,” constructed
with loan money by labor largely inex-
perienced, on which they pride them-
selves, The works committee at Albury
reports ratepayers’ liabilities at “more
than £25,000,” part being for sewerage
rates.
If municipal-election results are a
guide to general-election results—and
they generally are —Britain will not
change its Government this week. A
year ago Labor made substantial gains
at the municipal elections ; this time it
has lost about 30 seats. Naturally
“sanctions” and national defence were
not issues, but the division produced by
them in the Parliamentary ranks must
have had some effect in the munici-
palities.
Ramsay MacDonald, fighting for
what is left of his political life at
Seaham, scornfully refers to the crowd
he led so long as “the Opposition Labor
party.” His show is “the National
Labor party.” It consists chiefly of
Ramsay, his son Malcolm and Jimmy
Thomas, and the chances are that all
three will go out this week. If so, it
will only be consonant with Australian
experience. Hughes could have told the
MacDonalds that “National” Labor
parties don’t last.
When the Sydney U.A.P. chooses to
dispense with a ballot, it hands over the
pre-selection business to what it is
pleased to describe as “an electoral col-
lege.” Ignorance is no bar to member-
ship of “electoral colleges,” as was
demonstrated in Gordon the other
night; 193 collegians were present (there
were 10 candidates), and six failed in
the struggle to mark ballot-papers cor-
rectly. In the end Philip Goldfinch was
proclaimed dux, as it were, getting 113
votes ; and there is to be no contest.
There are 20,000 electors.
Asked to come out for the N.S.W.
vacancy in the Senate, and promised a
block vote, Potts, of Broken Hill Prop,
and the Chamber of Manufactures, was
badly let down. Resentment at the treat-
ment of Potts was voiced at the manu-
facturers’ recent conference in Brisbane,
and fears it inspired may have had some-
thing to do with the giving of the Gordon
nomination to Goldfinch. All the same,
it seems queer that the g.m. of a concern
like Colonial Sugar should aspire to a
seat in a Parliament without a future,
except, perhaps, as a local Legislature in
a city-State. There is no accounting for
the political ambitions which seize cap-
tains of industry in their riper years.
Stewart, M.H.R., “the Under-Secretary
for Employment,” has returned from
Geneva so enthusiastic for the 40-hour
week that he is introducing it in a
woollen mill he controls. He explains
that he has ordered labor-saving machin-
ery and hasn’t the heart to instal it
without giving workers a quid pro quo.
Very creditable of him ; but he won t
find running a woollen mill on a 40-
hour-week basis as easy as running buses
in competition with petrified Govern-
ment Railway and Tramway Depart-
ments, in which pursuit—as well as in
shrewd land deals in the boom days—he
made his money.
Young (N.S.W.) increasingly depends
on its cherry orchards, and when the
season opened the growers worked like
beavers to anticipate threatened rain and
get their fruit to the Sydney market for
the first sales. They did their share, but
they missed the market; trucks bear-
ing 50 tons of prime cherries failed
to connect with the ordinary train, the
department having altered the schedule.
The orchardists are so wild that they
"Did you say I was out, Mr. Lyons?”
“M-yes, hut I’m not so sure about it now. Think I’ll wait and hear what the
Hill says!”
threaten to send the rest of their season’s
fruit to the city by motor-truck in defi-
ance of the Transport Strangulation
Act.
Now that the damage is done, there is
a move to start reafforestation in the
Vic. Mallee to arrest the sand drift which
has blotted many farms out of existence.
Had the implement which was used to
roll down scrub been halted every few
acres to leave a windbreak, the Mallee
to-day might still consist of flourishing
farms.
Hughes, holding forth on the pressure
to be applied to Italy, was interrupted by
one of the Lazzarini brothers, who
barked “It is starvation!” The other
Lazzarini —Carlo Camillo, the M.L.A.
has been shouting that Australian sol-
diers who served in the Great War were
called upon to “bayonet other men
whom they had never seen.”
The system wanted that for 6s. a day.
While a returned soldier in my electorate
was at the war as a butcher, he was a
valuable man.
War and sanctions are subjects on which
politicians of Italian descent should keep
their mouths shut, even if they have to
stuff them with cotton-wool.
Just as every native-born American
boy (white is understood) may aspire to
the Presidency, so every little Australian
has a chance of becoming g.m. of the
A.B.C. There have been three g.ms. in
three years: the first was a journalist;
the second had been governor of a gaol ;
the third was soldier, fruitgrower and
motor-car salesman, then “announcer
and sporting and news editor.” None
has been a figure in the musical world,
but the present incumbent protests that
he has “not missed hearing each of the
principal artists who have come to Aus-
tralia in my time.”
Gardiner, M.L.C., who wants to be-
come a Sydney alderman, is out with a
policy which strikes at everything that
politicians hold dear. He wants a penny
off the rates (they went up 20 p.c. when
the depression cut 16 p.c. off unimproved
values); abolition of the bridge and
main-road taxes; extension to all Gov-
ernment properties of the Common-
wealth Bank’s plan of paying the equiva-
lent of rates; reduction of interest
charges through conversions; no pay for
members and no municipal trading.
Gardiner had better look out. They
have passed a new law in Canberra to
deal with revolutionaries.
To Commonwealth loans amounting
to £66,513,000, a whole £514,000 has
been subscribed in Tasmania. This was
printed in “Hansard” before the Loan
Council met, but it did not prevent the
Tasmanian delegation from demanding
£600,000 of “new money” this year, as
well as £592,000 in “loan repayments.”
In the end it deigned to accept £211,000
out of the £7,500,000 to be offered at
£3 15s. sd. p.c.
For nine months to September 30,
British departures from Australia ex-
ceeded arrivals by 5925, while the ex-
cess of Greek, Italian, Yugoslav and
Maltese arrivals over departures was
1127. This surplus included 924 of Mus-
solini’s compatriots, as against 459 for
nine months of 1934 ; in the September
quarter alone, 465 Italians arrived here.
They must prefer Australia to Abyssinia.
Jennings, M.H.R., has been railing at
“our conflicting and cumbersome arbi-
tration methods,” which, he says, pro-
voke endless confusion.” He declares
that regulation of industry must be placed
under national control, and as a first
step the Constitution will have to be
amended by referendum. So far the
Court is with him, but when he proceeds
to assert that “the solution of most indus-
trial problems and all unemployment
problems is through one national arbi-
tration system” the Court marvels at
the tenacity with which he has retained
illusions. Though not exactly stricken
in years, Jennings served in the Boer
War.
The Post Office is a stickler for State
rights—when it suits the Post Office.
Collins, M.H.R., cites the case of Mun-
gindi, on the N.S.W.-Queensland border.
Queensland Mungindians can send a tele-
gram to Cape York. 1400 miles away,
for a shilling, but it costs Is. 4d. to send
one to the N.S.W. part of their own town.
There isn’t much permanence about the
“permanent section” of the League
Council. The original members were
Britain, France, Italy and Japan, In
1926 Germany was given a permanent
seal, and last year Russia was. added.
Germany and Japan have resigned. If
Italy goes, only two originals will be left
to share their sorrow for the departed
with Lilvinoff. Litvinoff is the Mosc'ow
gentleman whom Britain held as a
hostage for its imprisoned charge
d'affaires and whom France for years
would not allow on French soil.
The Collier Government’s appointment
of McCallum, its Minister of Works, to
the chairmanship of the Agricultural
Bank Commission is going to provoke
awkward questions at the general elec-
tion. “Hell would have been let loose,”
said Cornell, M.L.C., “had any other
Government been responsible for such
an appointment.” It would, too.
F. N. Yarwood, the veteran chairman
of the Permanent Trustee Co., again
warns the politicians that their multitude
of taxes “is fatal to enterprise and tends
to increase the withdrawal of the capital
required to carry on industries”; but
doubtless the warning will fall on deaf
ears. Though the problems of over-gov-
ernment and over-taxation can be solved,
the impulse will have to come from the
people themselves. Incidentally, at a
company meeting held simultaneously
with that of the Permanent Trustees, it
was mentioned that taxes were equiva-
lent to nearly 48 per cent, of the year’s
profits. The concern is Australian Drug
Investments, which has an interest in
Drug Houses of Australia and owns a
Sydney building.
There are 28,333 persons in the Com-
monwealth public service, and all but
1946 have now been exempted from
depression cuts. Put in another way,
26,387 Government employees are now
back on boom-time pay, less cost-of-
living reductions, which would have
come anyhow. Considering that they
have had steady jobs when scores of
thousands of equally deserving Austra-
lians have been out of work for years,
and that their future is provided for
under an expensive superannuation
scheme, and that there are “Canberra”
and “higher duties” allowances and
things like that, the seven- and eight-
pounds-a-week men at least should con-
sider themselves lucky. But many don’t.


You MIGHT RESTRING, THIS /
CACQ.UIT. 1 DONt LIKE THE /
PING OF THE GUT.*
“ Yes, S'«s; It sounds a bit flat
// / ♦
Chase that' bird away, box, its distracting, he .
II ' f •}
Cant you get another whistle ( ref \
I Mate the tune op that one > v
v.
Tsul your Missus mot to snore so Loudly,
Tom . S «E PUTS ME OFF MV C^AME*.
n
I protest that
mans car, It's too loud.
# \\
Stop groamwg ; Dan -\t unnerves me.
n
Will you plea.se njeer Your vonees* fron\ iojocximq
WHIUE I TAKS A.\NA f u
TEMPERAMENT.
“Some of the world’s greatest tennis players are so temperamental that even the click of a camera upsets them.”


£
Wi
m
m
ii
Saves
up
to
I
nobbier of petrol
on a single cold
start
% savings
Saves
up
to
tumbler of petrol
on a hard 10 -
minutes * climb .
SHELL
Saves up to a
I jugful of petrol
on an hour's
steady running.
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Almost all that is known outside the
Orient Co. about Captain A. L. Owens,
of the Orion, appears in the Ray Whiting
drawing. The long, sagacious face,
the stubborn chin, the slightly lowered
humorous eyelid, the patient, long-suf-
fering look with which he faces publicity
“OWENS, of the Orion.”
are characteristic. He is more like a
scholarly admiral than the commander
of a merchant vessel, and nobody has
ever been able to worm his biography
from him. “How did you get on?”
asked the news-editor of a daily news-
paper of the reporter who had called on
the captain. “I asked him when he was
born,” said the scribe sadly, “and he
was so non-committal that I wondered
whether he ever had been.”
The Navy League, with the Naval
Board and the Ex-Naval Men’s Associa-
tion, has launched a scheme to per-
petuate the memory of William Rooke
Creswell, who laid the foundation of the
Australian Navy. It is 50 years since the
old sea dog joined the S.A. service after
having been invalided out of the R.N. a
lieutenant, following some arduous ex-
peditions against slave-traders. He was,
in the end, First Naval Member of the
R.A.N. Board, retired a vice-admiral
and lived till he was 82.
G. A. Robinson, who becomes head of
the million-pound company which is to
link up the Australian east coast by air
with a service which Will make the
capitals only three hours apart, and bring
Cairns within six hours of Brisbane, has
always been a step ahead of com-
petitors. Who in Northern N.S.W. does
not remember the lean, busy, youngish
man who astonished the natives of In-
verell with his cross-country bus service
from Glen Innes which, 12 years ago,
was equal in comfort to metropolitan
buses of to-day? When his bus net-
works were paying on a variety of routes,
he turned to the air,and his New England
Airways took over the Kingsford Smith-
Stewart route to Brisbane.
H. F. Broadbent, son of an old-time
cyclist of note, now holds the record for
a solo flight from Croydon to Darwin
(6 days 21 hours 13min.), as well as the
round-Australia record. Also, he is now
the first man to fly a light ’plane, a Gull,
designed by another Australian, Edgar
Percival, non-stop from Darwin to
Sydney. He holds another record: he
is the first record-breaker who has had
the commonsense to say wisely that
aerial stunt record-breaking at this stage
is the result of “senseless ambition.” He
is a lean, quiet, self-contained lad in his
twenties.
The first Dean of Queensland Uni-
versity Law Faculty is F. W. S. Cumbrae-
Stewart. Before 1910 he was chief clerk
to Thynne and Macartney, solicitors, a
stout, moustached Maorilander who
looked the typical artillery major rather
than the lawyer. He was a B.C.L. of
Oxford and a member of four Bars—
Inner Temple, N.S.W., Vic. and Q’land
—and was appointed first registrar to the
University. When the Garrick bequest
enabled a professorship in law to be
established in 1925, he was promoted.
Oxford has since conferred a D.C.L. on
him, and he took silk in 1927. He is 70
years old.
Brisbane lost an old municipal identity
in John Lackey, dead at 74. Born in
Redfern (Sydney), he began life as a con-
tractor, and put down some of Sydney’s
larger sewerage works. In his early
thirties he was mayor of Fairfield
(N.S.W.). Forty years ago Lackey went to
Brisbane, and for several years was a
member of Coorparoo Council. He un-
successfully contested the Brisbane
(Federal) and Merthyr (State) Parlia-
mentary seats. His spare time was
devoted to mission work and bowls.
R. S. Maynard is well known to ad-
vertising men throughout Australia, and
to cattlemen, too.
Son of a N. S.
Wales Director of
Education, he was
trained as a sugar
chemist, and later
applied his scien-
tific knowledge to
make himself an
expert in soil and
stock fodder prob-
lems. In his early
years he joined
Burns-Philp, and
served it in pre-war
days from the
Marshalls south-
ward through the
Pacific. During his
voyagings he accu-
mulated a wealth
of literary material,
and wrote many a
bright short story,
paragraph and
vers e —s o m e
printed in The
Bulletin. Even-
tually he settled
down in Brisbane
as a pioneer adver-
tising man and the
owner of a dairy
newspaper. He
later moved his headquarters to Sydney
—he is president of the Australian In-
stitute of Advertising Men. His volumi-
nous work on dairy cattle is a standard
textbook.
“T.P.”; George H. Wise, now nearly
90, ex-Minister and stalwart of the
A.N.A., is actively practising as a solicitor
in Gippsland, and could boast till the
other week that for 65 years not a single
day had been missed from his office
through illness—in fact, he had never
spent a full day in bed. The record is
broken—an accident which severed a leg
muscle has put him to bed for a few
days.
A lot of Diggers know Lt.-General
William Marshall, now visiting us. An
old Indian North-West veteran, he left
the command of the Sherwood Foresters
in France to take over a brigade of
the 29th Division at Gallipoli. He
saw the show through from Landing to
Evacuation, took over the 27th Division
at Salonika, transferred to command of
the 3rd Indian Army Corps in Mespot.
and finished the war as C.-in-C. in the
Irak region. He retired in 1924, but is
colonel of the Sherwoods, whom he
joined in 1886.
“Granpa’s Understudy”: Born in
1853 at Geelong, F. J. Martell went to
Ballarat as a teacher, and has lived there
ever since. He had a hand in introduc-
ing to Ballarat the Art Gallery, the Arts
School, the telephone, the sweet-pea and
the daffodil. His hobbies have covered
a wide range. Experiments with X-rays,
photography, radium, liquid air,
acetylene light, and kite-flying (in col-
laboration with Hargrave) have all
claimed his attention. And South-street
owes him a debt of gratitude for his 20
years of work on its committee.
H. B. Howard Smith, seventh son of
the founder of Howard Smith, Ltd., was
not so well known as Bruce Smith, of
the same ilk, and his predecessor as the
head of the firm. They were a large
family—H.B. was the seventh son of old
Captain William Howard Smith, who
founded the company in the days of sail.
All the manhood part of H.B.’s life was
given to family interests, which grew dur-
ing the days of his connection with them
from the ownership of a couple of small
vessels to embrace not merely modern
coastal passenger services of Australian
Steamships, Ltd., of which he was a
director, but coal, insurance and real
estate as well. He had been ill for a
long time before his death.
Edgar Percival is a good example of
the prophet without honor. Four or
A Leader in Advertising.
five years ago
he was staggering
round Australia in
ancient ’planes
while trying to per-
suade somebody
that he could plan
a fast Australian
machine. Two
years later he was
a national figure in
Britain, while pilots
of world standing
broke records to
Australia and flew
in the King’s Cup
with his Percival
Gull “Smithy”
and Broadbent
broke London-
Darwin records in
Gulls. Still another
year, and Percival
appeared in an-
other light long-
distance machine,
so fast that it laid
the foundation for
a new type of
fighter which may
revolutionise air
combat. This year
he won with it the
Johnston Memorial
Trophy, awarded by the Guild of
Air Pilots for the best British air
feat of the year, by his flight to Oran
(Algeria) and back—2 Boo miles in
one day.
Reginald Marcus Clark, managing
director of Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.,
has grown up with a store that has been
a Sydney landmark for many years He
was born at Newtown, Sydney, m 1883—
the year his father, Henry Marcus Clark,
“The Chief "—Sydney Chamber of
Commerce.
established the firm—and was educated
at the Sydney Grammar School, from
which he went straight into the business.
A year later he was sent to London,where
he spent five years learning the wholesale
and retail trade. Returning, he was
appointed to the board in 1908, and five
years after, upon the death of his father,
became managing director. He is presi-
dent of the Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce, vice-chairman of the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, and a pillar of strength
in the Retail Traders’ Association.
Keenly interested in art, he has given
considerable practical encouragement to
Australian artists.
George Brown, an Adelaide man,
originally a Welsh miner, has had a
properly certificated 103rd birthday. His
curious hobby, since retirement from
work, has been attending Parliamentary
debates; the Assembly members, in
natural surprise at seeing his face every
day for over 30 years, gave him a lun-
cheon and a walking-stick.
The tale of three brothers;
Irving Geddes, chairman of the Orient Co.,
director of Imperial Airways and member
of the London board of “the ’Wales,” is a
son of one of the most “meteoric” families in
Britain. Eric, the eldest, born of Scottish
parents in India, had been by turn lumberman
and manager of small railways in India and
the North of England when Lloyd George set
eyes on him in 1915. He had a square figure
and the kind of face that Mussolini might have
if he were Scottish, and he spoke scarcely
at all, which immensely pleased LI.G., who
likes to do the talking himself. To the sur-
prise of those who were cynical about Ll.G.’s
choices, Geddes turned out a highly capable
administrator. Inside two years he was
Director-General of Military Transport on all
fronts, inside three years a member of the War
Cabinet, and soon after the war he became
chairman of Dunlops at £25,000 a year and of
Imperial Airways. Brother Auckland, who
strongly resembles Irving, was brought home
from the front in 1916 —he had been a Professor
of Anatomy at McGill University, Toronto, and
was completely unknown to the public. A
year later he was Minister for National Service,
and by 1920 had risen to be Ambassador to
U.S.A. He is now chairman of the great Rio
Tinto Co. Irving Geddes is perhaps the
shrewdest of them all—an unassuming man
whose name is not even in Who’s Who.


a
-...
mm
-'••• •• m '
* <
mm
I
m
m
Wm
• -■-<
V.
ft
mm
VnetGlass
BE SURE—
fit “CHECKSKIDS"
Weaving through traffic . . . speeding the corners and highways . ♦ *
your tyres have the last say in the safety and accuracy of your steering.
Is there a chance that their smooth, grip-less treads will let a front-
wheel skid happen? It is a treacherous trick which will discount all
your driving skill. Don’t let it happen. Discard those old, worn-
smooth covers and replace them with Barnet Glass Checkskids.
With unequalled tenacity the Checkskid tread fastens on the road —
taking you where you steer —and not where slip or skid may chance
to land you. Economy? Well, that deeper, broader road-holding
tread gives extra thousands of miles—and you pay not a penny more!
In a jiffy the nearest Barnet Glass dealer can fit Checkskids to your
wheels —It’s the thrifty way to be safe!
The New
“Checkskld”
with
MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
TREAD.
M6B-FP3S.
SBUAI
New tyres
call for New
BARNET CLASS
“Moulded”
TUBES


~S» L '. .«
m
">Jkk
v*
w
i mam
BMMrjffl
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR'’
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for ail classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-13 Parramatta Road. Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’25. .404,628 124 p.c.=304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mur., ’26. .396,104 124 „ „ 304,687 91,417 1.557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 „ „ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27..424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 ~ 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 12 4 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 124 „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 124 „ ~ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 124 „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
5ept.,’29..465,492 124 „ „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,770
Mar., ’3O. .445,337 12} „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,405,488
Sept., ’3O. .350,727 12} „ „ 365,625 1,450,590
Mar., ’3l. .384,097 124 „ „ 365,025 18,472 1,469,062
Sept.,’3l. .378,812 12} „ „ 365,025 8,187 1,477,249
Mar., ’32. .370,509 12} „ „ 305,625 4,884 1,482,133
Sept, ’32. .370,291 12} „ „ 365,625 4,666 1,486,799
Mar., ’33. .422,123 124 „ „ 305,025 56,498 1,543,297
5ept.,’33..468,112 124,, 305,025 102,487 1,645,784
Mar., ’34. .495,389 12} „ „ 305,625 129,764 1,775,548
Transferred to reserves, £883,000 ~ 2,058,548
Assets written up, £3,957,504 ..6,010,112
Sept, ’34. .444,782 124 p.c.=365,025 79,157 6,095,269
.Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 .. 845,209
Reserves disappear, £57,504 .. 787,705
Mar., ’35..487,167 0} p.c.=365,625 121,542 909,247
Sept.’3s. .443,007 7}; „„ 511,875, 840,439
* Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
}lncludes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus issue.
When capital was doubled by the issue
of £5,850,000 of bonus scrip a year ago,
the declared intention was to continue
distributing the same amount in divi-
dends. The rate of div. was therefore cut
in halves, making it 6| p.c. So that
shareholders may suffer little or no in-
convenience on account of the tax-
gatherer’s demands in connection with
the new bonus scrip, the board sent out
an extra ss. per share, making 17s. 6d. in
all, for the six months covered by the
latest accounts.
In the hands of shareholders, the pro-
portion of this bonus scrip payable as
N. S. Wales income tax is 10.278 p.c.,
only if the shareholders’ rate of tax ex-
ceeds the co.’s rate (2s. 6d. in the £),
which means that only very large in-
comes will have to pay this tax. But the
proportion of bonus scrip payable as
special income tax (unemployment
relief) is 29.633 p.c., approximately
4s. lid. per bonus share, for persons
domiciled in the State, and for persons
domiciled outside the State 6.578 p.c.,
or Is. Id. per bonus share. In the
Federal sphere, dividends paid by the
co. (including bonus scrip) during the
year to June 30 last are taxable or
exempt in the following proportions;
Taxable at prescribed rates: Resident. Absentee.
(a) Subject property tax .. 50.73 p.c. 35.92 p.c.
(b) Not subject property tax 17.27 „ 10.81 „
Exempt .. .. .. .. 32.00 „ 53.27 „
In all but a few cases, the special ss.
per share (= 10s. on each bonus share)
will more than cover extra taxation.
The market, with one eye on the past
and the other apparently looking a long
way into the future, prices the fully-paid
£2O shares at £43 2s. 6d. The return at
that figure is 2.9 p.c. on a 6 \ p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for a
shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 9 p.c. distribution, which would call
for £1,053,000 p.a., or £122,766 more
profit than was claimed for the 12
months to Sept. 30 last.
Certainly the £930,234 of profit
(£9937 less than was claimed in the
previous year) was figured after £100,896
had been aded to the replacement and
depreciation fund (£3,129,935) and
£46,556 to suspense accounts (£2,383,931),
and some or all of these additions may
be genuine profit. Still, it is doubtful
whether anything better than 6} p.c. need
be expected for a while. Costs are show-
ing a tendency to rise, and the world
price of sugar remains depressed. Much
depends upon the outcome of the Inter-
national Sugar Conference to be held in
London early in 1936 to discuss export
Quotas. The issues mostly concern the
Fiji section of the business. About half
the co.’s profits are derived from the
Australian sugar industry, mainly as
commissions, etc., for refining, selling
and financing the crop ; the other half
comes from growing and milling in Fiji,
refining in Maoriland and from a wad
of investments outside the business.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it;
1934. 1935.
Paid capital £5,850,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors .. .. 842,477 794,291
Refineries, mills, etc. .. 10,075,358 10,230,358
Steamers, etc. .. .. 142,118 142,118
Distillery .. .. . . 177,200 177,497
Premises .. .. .. 56,011 56,027
Stocks, etc 2,460,676 2.461,817
Book debts, etc. .. .. 3,865,873 3,168,411
Cash, deposits, etc. . . . . 2,342,549 3,124,244
The outstanding feature is the pile of
more or less liquids, which exceeded
outside liabilities, excluding suspense
accounts, by £6,960,181 when the books
last closed, an improvement of £133,560
over the twelvemonth.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
Toßc-
Junc, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 939,262 75 p.c. = 525,000 414,262 1,713,313
1926.. 782.106 95 ~ „ 665,000 7 ai ,
Written off £16,493 1 100 * 613 1.813,9-.«
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 42},, ~ 297,500 231,140 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50 „ ~ 350,000 2,064,055
1931.. 103,571 8] „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,100,976
1932.. 205,752 25 „ ~ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1983.. 196,505 15 „ „ 105,000 91,585 2,229.293
1934.. 303,355 27},, ~ 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935.. 420,083 40 „ „ 280,000 140,683 2,480,881
A reduction of lead stocks and, thanks
to Mr. Roosevelt’s silver-buying pro-
gramme, a rise in the price of the white
metal and a better return from invest-
ments were responsible for the spring of
£117,328 in last year’s net earnings. Chief
adverse factors were a drop in the price
of lead, a rise in costs and decreased
revenue from zinc concentrates (sold
under contract to Electrolytic Zinc and
Imperial Smelting Corp.), due to the fall
in the price of spelter. In London the
year’s average spot price of lead was
£ll 6s. a ton (down 10s. 6d.), silver 2s.
3.8 d. an ounce (up 7.3 d.) and spelter
£l2 16s. 7d. (down £2 15s. 5d.). Still,
the co. finished the term with 31,544 tons
of lead and 887,8830 z. of silver on hand,
as against 41,998 tons and 647,3400 z.
respectively a year earlier. Of the
887,8830 z. of silver 370,4930 z. was with-
drawn from sale under the agreement,
which runs out at the end of 1937, among
silver-producing countries. Sales of lead
exceeded the year’s production by 10,454
tons, which had been taken into account
at £l2 10s, a ton in local currency.
Revenue and expenditure figures com-
pare as follows:
Revenue:— 1933. 1934. 1935.
Mine production .. £619,822 £792,721 £991,460
Investments .. 111,584 98,594 109,560
£731,406 £891,315 £1,101,020
Expenditure;—
Mine .. .. £493,157 £522,832 £560,370
P. and 1. items .. 71,684 95,128 149,967
£564,841 £617,960 £710,337
Net profit ~ . . 166,565 273,355 390,683
For each of the last three years the p.
and 1. items include an allowance of
£30,000 for depreciation, treated as profit
in the introductory table. The £390,683
was equal to 11s. 2d. a share, of which
approximately 3s. Id, was from invest-
ments and the balance from mining.
Divs. totalled Bs. a share, as against
ss. 6d. in the previous term. Since the
close of accounts the rate of div. has been
lifted to 70 p.c. p.a., thanks to the rise
in metal prices.
Of the 395,995 tons of crudes raised
a shade over 41 p.c. (30 p.c. in the pre-
vious year) came up the new No. 2 shaft,
now down to 2350 ft. and equipped to
2300 ft. The ore, which was a trifle richer
in lead and zinc, assayed 15.4 p.c. lead,
9oz. silver, 11.8 p.c. zinc. Costs per ton
of crudes were mining 17s. Lid, (up
Is. 2d.), development 2s. 9d. (up 3.7 d.)
and milling 6s. B.Bd. (up 5.8 d.).
Milling performances compare as
follows:
Ore i Concentrates ,
Treated, , Lead ( Zinc
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assav.
1930.. 452,295 94,330 64.0 p.c. 75,910 49.3 p.c.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 „ 13,730 51.6 „
1932.. 306,052 61,430 73.6 „ 58,140 52.5 „
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 „ 57,746 52.8 „
1934.. 395,577 76,810 74.8 „ 67,180 53.3 „
1935.. 396,175 79,060 73.5 „ 74,370 53.3 „
Lead and silver recoveries were a shade
lighter at 95.3 p.c, and 88.3 p.c. respec-
tively, and the recovery of zinc a frac-
tion better at 84.7 p.c.; in 1929 the
figures were 92.9 p.c, lead, 83.3 p.c, silver
and 76.8 p.c. zinc. The improvement
reflects the good work of the staff and
introduction of the new fine-grinding and
flotation units.
Over the last half-dozen years £363,846
(£29,434 of it in respect of the last term)
has been spent on mine and plant (in
at £1,423,622, cost), and £175,100 has
been invested in central power equip-
ment as well. The outlay has lengthened
the life of the mine and lowered costs.
Measured ore reserves have advanced
from 3,200,000 tons in 1932 to 4,500,000
tons at June 30 last, notwithstanding ex-
traction of 1,103,944 tons meanwhile :
and a lot more payable stone exists out-
side the measured limits.
Including shares and debentures in
other cos. (£996,068—up £28,762), the
year’s net improvement in the financial
position was £111,250; — ’
Assets other than 1928. 1934. 1935.
mine and plant £1,702,970 £1,763,381 £1,893,810
Liabilities .. 132,087 117,422 136,601
Net liquid assets £1,570,283 £1,645,959 £1,757,209
Excluding shareholdings, etc., the more
or less liquid surplus was equal to 21s. Bd.
per pound share.
The new agreement with the unions at
the Barrier, together with the lead bonus
(6d. a shift for every £1 by which the
price exceeds £l5 a ton in Australian
currency), will add roughly £1 per ton
to the cost of lead. The London average
price of the metal for October was
£lB 4s. 2d. ; last week-end the figure
was £l7 12s. 6d. The outlook favors
producers.
The market prices the pound shares at
£8 10s., as against £4 15s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the immediate return
is 8.2 p.c. on a 70 p.c. div. basis. Allow-
ing only 21s. Bd. per share for surplus
liquids, the investor at £8 10s. who looks
for his money back plus a shade over
5 p.c. p.a. counts on divs. averaging 80
p.c. over the next 20 years.
Herald and Weekly Timec, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Div idciids
Prof. To Re-
Sept., Profit. (64 p.c.) Ord. Reserves, serves.
1926.. 191.858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,490
1927.. 201.194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 60,569 127,00 a
1928. .219,245 8125 25} „ ~140,250 70,870 197.935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~154,000 103,712 301,047
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275.000 26,047
1930.. 223.578 8125 22 p.c.-150,367 59,080 85,733
1931. .147,934 8125 9 „ „ 98,310 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,220
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~ ~110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 ~,,110,000 08,023 280.822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £306,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.-110,000 1 r , ft rr . ... ~ rn
Written off, £41,031.. ..} 50 ’ f,fil 34,766
This big newspaper organisation,
whose investments embrace a string of
daily and other publications, etc., in all
the Australian capitals except Sydney
and Hobart, has put up very attractive
performances. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, circulation
of the co.’s dailies and advertising
revenue further increased, while invest-
ments in other newspapers, in broadcast-
ing stations and in Newspaper House
“added substantially to the co.’s financial
strength.” The year’s £209,707 of profit
(up £28,958) was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 18.1 p.c. on £1,100,000 of
ord. capital, as against 16.2, 15.8, 16.6,
12.7 and 30.3 p.c. back to 1930, when the
ords. get their last lot of bonus scrip,
one for two.
The board doesn’t exhibit the figures
quite like that. It reckoned last year’s
profit £18,459 better at £168,676, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
approximately 14.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
The difference represents additions
(£41,031 last year) to the depreciation
reserve, which amounted to £366,139, or
55.9 p.c. of the book value of plant, at
the close of accounts in 1934. This re-
serve has now been deducted from the
plant item in the sheet, which explains
why £280,822 of reserves in 1934 has
been replaced by a deficit of £34,766 at
the close of last accounts —goodwill
(£250,000, and probably worth more at
the moment) has not been treated as an
asset herein. Certainly newspaper plant
leads a fast life, and calls for special
writing down. Still, according to the
co.’s 1927 report, visible allowances were’
“in excess of normal provision for de-
preciation,” and the co.’s history pro-
vides ample confirmation of this.
Shareholders have the board’s assur-
ance that the co.’s position, whilst liable
to the fl iterations of the times, is sound
and healthy. Here is as much as balance-
sheet figutes tell
1920. ' 1931. 1934. 1935.
Stock ..£108,087 £104,679 £116,568 £149,719
Debtors, etc. 56,890 89,116 165,013 198,207
War Loans 70,389
Shares in
other cos. 100 478,315 331,685 348,738
Cash . . 27,621 92,172 23,266 13,741
Liquids.. £263,087 £764,282 £636,532 £710,405
Liabilities 91,782 103,657 143.741 165,875
Surplus. . £171,305 £660,625 £492,791 £544.530
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,645 331,711 417,083 420,215
Machinery
and plant 45,796 445,513 655,011 314,315
Net assets £290,746 £1,437,849 £1,564,885 £1,279,060
To carry an extra £33,151 of stocks,
£33,194 of debtors’ balances, etc., and
add £17,052 to shareholdings, cash was
reduced by £9525 net, and £22,134 was
added to the debt. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus was
£51,739. Over the last two years old
plant has been modernised and two
new super-speed Hoe presses installed,
at a total cost of nearly £150,000.
Formation of a subsidiary to manu-
facture newsprint from timbers in the
Derwent Valley (Tas.) is under con-
sideration ; mill and other plans are
being prepared, following satisfactory
conversion of over 2000 tons of the
wood into newsprint in American mills.
At 625. (48s. two years ago) the ords.
return 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis,
or 4.2 p.c. on a 13 p.c. distribution,
which is already within reach. The
prefs. at 31s. return 4.2 p.c.
Hordern Bro*., Ltd. (Sydney)
e Dividends N Towards
Prefs. Re-
Julv. Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 14.460 9,000 Nil 5,460 45,973
1926.. 30.857 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 8,357 37,616
1927.. 40.639 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 18,139 19,477
Reserves.
1928.. 42.596 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,096 619
1929.. 43.046 9,000 6 ~ „ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
9 & 8 p.c.
1930.. 27.725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 6,786 23,676
1931. .17,319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28.231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933.. 30.207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934.. 31.007 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935. .34,860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,609 8,016 40,227
Expansion of the business has been one
of the outstanding features of the co.’s
activities ever since the public became
interested 13 years ago, when £lOO,OOO
of 9 p.c. pref, money was gathered to
hasten the process There was a little
trouble with stocks at the start, but that
was soon out of the way, and, despite
protracted building operations, net
earnings climbed rapidly, reaching their
peak in 1929, when there was enough
to give the prefs. their 9 p.c. and show
15.1 p.c. on ord. capital. So the board
had no difficulty in getting another
£lOO,OOO of 8 p.c. second prefs. to finance
further improvements to the store, etc.
With - slump came a fresh crop of
troubles, and the 1931 profit (it was
enough to pay the pref. divs.) fell to
less than half the 1929 figure. The
recovery in earnings is self-explanatory.
Turnover continued to expand during
the last term, when the spring in gross
earnings (£238,694) was £19,394. Exes.
(£203,834) took £15,541 of the increase,
leaving the net result £3853 better at
8.1 p.c. on the pref. and ord. capital
combined. But the ord. div was kept
at 6 p.c., and the prefs., owing to the
statutory cut, got 6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c.
respectively. They are entitled to
advance with the ords. beyond these
levels to their original contract rates
point for point with the ords. To pay
the full contract rates plus 9 p.c. to the
ords. would call for only £2644 more
than was netted last year.
The market prices the firsts at 295.
and the seconds at 255. 6d. as
against 275. and 255. 3d. a year ago.
At the higher figures the return is 4.7 p.c.
and 4.8 p.c. respectively on the basis of
last year’s distributions. The net tangible
cover is £4 13s. 7d. firsts and £3 14s. 7d.
seconds. The ords., covered by 235. 6d.
in net tangibles, are not listed.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in balance-sheet movements:
1929. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £325,000 £425.000 £426,825 £427,825
Liabilities .. 325,646 273,913 180,510 193,014
Premises, plant.
and fittings 375,318 405,858 406,149 405,178
Stocks . . 200,291 175,683 127,383 150,441
Book debts . . 47,894 49,956 46,569 56,920
Cash, etc. .. 61,807 91,410 67,383 58,100
To carry an extra £23,058 of stocks
(reported to be conservatively valued),
and add £9351 to debtors’ balances,
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £9283
and £13,104 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders, which includes an
unspecified sum secured by mortgage
over the freehold. The more or less
liquid surplus (£70,847, including
stocks) was £10,022 stronger than at the
previous balance.
{“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.)


TP
M
* r
'
V
f
■
-v
Jr* >:<^:
,i J ||g
. « ■; h
■■' : •' <
:
‘A
VV«k
i
‘A
kx
m
n?
• •'{
5 i
iP
My
j '
A
ki
; ; :'■;' .
A:.:
.-
.
KV'-X. -X-. -,..
■ wl
■
V-'.
-
*
->:•' >•'
%
Sw
*
■
r.
iiii
■
2€
.
.
*
■
■ :
V ■•
:•:;•••
r; -v'
/■
cm maim ?
but who cares
when the cigarette
is a Country Life
Superstitious?—Maybe—but not in their
choice of cigarettes. They know Country
Life to be the "correct" cigarette because
they are so consistently good, possessing
a unique blend of the world's finest
tobaccos fine flavoured and fragrant.
They are packed fresh and kept fresh by
double interior wrapping and an outer
sheath of protective English Viscacelle—
the most effective moisture and climate-
proof wrapping ever devised.
Keep on smoking Country Life—the only
shilling tin of cork-tipped Cigarettes.
Country
I ■ ■■■ mmm
LIFE
In Tins of
U-V- : 21-V6
Also in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
Also 50’s Round Air-tight Tins.
• ,
.
, ry '«'*** Zmm
MMto- 4F rnS
mm ISmtt IKC ~<r ■
|p MKm
V, -:
/
mmm
* 'mW
wW
%-W
dm
mT
y
100% Pure Virginia Cigarettes


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
AMP. SOCIETY
GROUP ASSURANCE
u
■>:<• £>*•>:<•>:< :<•;<•:<•-<•$ •>
<:<•>;s: vjji|
m
.•> '.W,
£s•3
r
■M
John Applethorn Helps
HIS FELLOWS
IN hundreds of offices, warehouses and
factories throughout this country men
and women are joining A.M.P. Groups
so that, with the assistance of their em-
ployers, they may obtain all the great
advantages of A.M.P. assurance on the
simplest of bases.
Usually these Groups are formed by some member
of the staff inspired by a desire to serve his fellows
as well as himself. He asks for the help of one of the
Society’s experienced advisers, and carries the plan
through to finality. Such an enthusiast is John
Applethorn, the story of whose achievement in
forming a Group in his warehouse is told in a book,
“John Applethorn Finds Himself,” just printed.
The Society would like to send a copy of this book into
every office or warehouse or factory where a number of
people—even if only half a dozen—are working to-
gether. It will help them to acquire a new sense of
security.
This book sets out all the great advantages of A.M.P.
Group Assurance clearly and precisely. A copy will
gladly be sent to any address on application.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A,
Actuary* General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary,
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pill Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all Stales.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Australian Alloy Steel
This little Sydney concern has what
looks like a promising future, thanks
largely to the low cost at which it turns
out high-grade general foundry products
and agricultural implement parts by its
patent gravity die-casting system of
manufacture. Founded by J. M. Des-
champs in 1931, when trade was at its
lowest ebb, the co. has had to fight hard
to win a market. For the 12 months to
June 30, turnover expanded 60 p.c. ;
both sections of the business contributed
to the increase. After setting aside
£l2OO for the taxgatherer (no allowance
was made in the previous term), net
earnings were £2039 better at £4933, or
11.1 p.c. on average capital, and a 5 p.c.
div. (the first) was paid.
During the year the debenture debt
(now £3825, 7 p.c.) was reduced by
£6175 by conversion into shares at par.
Paid capital increased by £10,237, reach-
ing £49,247. Additions to plant, etc.,
called for a capital outlay of £7538,
mainly during the last half of the term.
Fixed assets figure at £36,364, up £6537
net. Stocks, etc. (£4422), debtors, etc.
£3397), and cash (£868) together exceeded
the amount coming to trade creditors
(£3776) by £4911 ; there was also £5674
(up £1718) coming to J. M. Deschamps
on current account. Shares in the sales
subsidiary, which is trading at a profit,
figure at £5250, and patents, etc., at
£27,876, down £7846.
Since the close of accounts, share-
holders have been offered 25,000 new £1
shares at par. to provide for further
expansion of the business, and the co.’s
interests have been extended to Maori-
land by the sale of rights.
Mount Morgan
Excluding £lO,OOO (in scrip) received
from its prospecting offshoot for an
option at Jonesville (W.A.), Mt. Morgan
netted £100,433 (up £19,864) for the year
to June 30 last. Four 6d. divs. (together
£BO,OOO, or 40 p.c.) were paid, as against
two (= £34,418) for the previous term.
Capital was increased to £232,000 by the
issue of 128,000 new ss. shares at a
premium of 15s. each. The year’s capi-
tal expenditure on new plant and recon-
ditioning of old equipment, etc.,
amounted to £58,574, and on mine pre-
paration, £7147. The whole of this ex-
penditure and £llO4 besides was written
off out of share premiums.
Of the 178,547 tons of ore mined (up
25,564 tons), over 56 p.c. came from
overburden, etc., outside measured ore
reserves. The head value of the 177,780
tons treated (up 24,500 tons) was s.Bdwt.
gold and 0.54 p.c. copper. Production
was 6266.5 tons of concentrates, con-
taining 33,8320 z. gold and 844.8 tons
copper. Recoveries were a trifle lower
at 65.77 p.c. gold and 87.83 p.c. copper,
with a concentrating ratio of 28.37 to
1 as against 26.44 to 1 in 1934. Mining
and milling costs per ton of crudes were
7s. 5.05 d. and 10s. 6.66 d. respectively,
compared with 7s. 2.01 d. and Bs. 10.57 d.
in the previous term. The rise is due
almost entirely to a reduction of work-
ing hours from 48 to 44, and to a lift
in award wages: these two factors com-
bined represented an increase of Is.
7.8 d. per ton of ore.
The additions and alterations to equip-
ment, mainly in the fine-grinding and
flotation sections, have lifted mill capa-
city to 6000 tons of ore per week. The
full benefit of these additions, etc., and
of the rise in the price of copper will be
felt during the current term. The board
is now considering installation of more
plant, to cost £lOO,OOO or thereabouts,
to handle overburden, tailings, etc.
Ore reserves at June 30 were figured
at 7,652,530 tons, averaging 4.26dwt.
gold and 1.77 p.c. copper; this includes
over 2,000,000 tons of readily-accessible
ore, assaying 5.64dwt, gold and 0.84 p.c.
copper. In addition there is a big heap
of tailings, estimated to contain
115,0000 z. of gold, which can be re-
covered at a profit.
Gold and Tin Development, an Eng-
lish concern, has taken a three months’
option, with the right to two months’
extension, over Crocodile Creek Gold
Dredging’s area at Bouldercombe, near
Rockhampton (Q.). Gold won mean-
while belongs to the vendor, and the
cost of further testing the property
T. Sheppard will be in charge of the
work) is to be shared by both cos. If
the option is exercised, the vendor gets
£lO,OOO cash plus 15,000 fully-paids in
a new co. to be formed to work the
ground. The new co., which is to have
a capital of £lOO,OOO in 10s, shares, is
to construct a second and larger dredge
(cost about £60,000), and a water con-
servation scheme is to be put into elfect.
* * * *
In its second crushing since the public
became interested the Emperor (Fiji)
treated 470 tons for a recovery of 4520 z.
of fine gold, an average of 19.28dwt.
Head value was 20.2dwt., the loss in the
tailings, being approximately a penny-
weight. The mill has a capacity of 500
tons of ore weekly, but only about one-
fifth of that amount is being put through.
The co. is still in the development stage.
* * * *
Australian Mining Trust will presently
form a co. to take over the Golden Hope,
Hampton Plains (W.A.). Nominal capital
will be £37,500 in ss. shares, of which
30,000 paids go to A.M.T., which has
arranged for 70,000 contribs. to be taken
up. It is figured that the mine (it is
about four miles from the Celebration)
contains 18,000 tons of ore, expected to
yield a profit of 30s. a ton. The possi-
bilities of extension of the ore-body,
laterally and in depth, are said to be
encouraging. Arrangements have been
made to treat 10,000 tons of the ore
annually at Celebration’s mill, now in
course of erection. Crushing is expected
to begin early next year.
* * * *
Since March last ' South Kalgurli’s
actual ore reserves have increased by
5000 tons, according to the latest (Sept.)
estimate, which places them at 197,400
tons, averaging 6dwt., or a shade less
than previously. Probable ore at 62,000
tons is about 12,500 tons less, but the
grade is idwt. better. Excluding ore
mined from the leased Croesus Pro-
prietary block, the actual ore estimate
puts the mine nearly three years ahead
of the mill, at present rate of extraction ;
and recent developments >on the Lake
View lode at depth place it further
ahead than that.
* * * *
Gold Exploration and Finance
(London) announces that A. J. Brett, a
director of and consulting engineer to
Central Mining and Investment Corp.,
will shortly visit the co.’s Australian
ventures, in company with M. P. Latter,
a senior geologist of the corporation.
W. S. Robinson and A. S. Mason, Gold
Exploration’s managing director and
general manager respectively, will accom-
pany them. The board hopes to have
Brett’s report and that of his associate
about March. They will deal principally
with the CO.’S Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
and Victorian deep-lead
First Hit Co., Menzies (W.A.), talks
of altering and enlarging its treatment
plant. The aim is to secure better extrac-
tion and enable the residues (
already accumulated contain £BOOO worth
of gold) to be handled. Bullion from
accumulated sands plus crushmgs to the
end of December is expected to provide
sufficient to meet the vendors’ considera-
tion now £16,000 —£20,000 of the
purchase price (£50,000) was paid on
formation of the co. last November,
and £14,000 has been handed over since.
* * * *
Edjudina, Yard (W.A.), has its power-
house practically complete, and the 100-
tons-a-day treatment plant is expected to
be ready by the middle of November. To
a depth of 60ft. it is figured that there is
250,000 tons of 6dwt. to 7dwt. ore avail-
able. Water is said to be making at a
rate sufficient to meet mine requirements.
* * * *
Hill 50 Co. (W.A.) hopes by hook or
by crook to begin production by
next March. Those in control declare
that developments to date are satis-
factory, and that when crushing com-
mences 2000 tons will be handled
monthly. But for how long?
« * * *
Claude de Bernales, director, and
Ernest Williams, general manager, will
confer during the month regarding
the future of Great Boulder. Boring
to test the mine’s gold-carriers to a
vertical depth of 6000 ft. is a possibility.
* * * *
The Dundas Co. (W.A.) is anxious to
extend its activities. It has a show at
Grant’s Patch, near Ora Banda, which is
being worked by tributers, and which
last year yielded £330 in royalties. Cash
in hand totals about £3500.
* * * ♦
At Cox’s Find, north of Laverton
(W.A.), where the Midas Co. has secured
from sdwt. to 12dwt. values, Hall’s
Associated has pegged ground which
takes in a continuation of four of the
known lodes on the Midas property.
Kaolo Mines has also pegged an area
near by,
* * * *
The Empress, which has taken up
several properties in Westralia without
much success, now has what it hopes to
be a winner—a block on Murray’s new
find at Mt. Ida, east of Leonora. The
co. will retain 40 p.c. of gold won during
the 12 months’ option period. A surface
crushing yielded 9dwt. a ton.
* * * *
Meekatharra Gold Mines, London,
has sent its managing director, General
Belton, to Westralia to hasten develop-
ment. The co., which is in the De
Bernales stable, reckons it is a winner.
<c * * *
Westralian State batteries continue to
pay their way. Last year they treated
approximately 100,000 tons (a record)
for an aggregate gross return of £510,000
Australian. Profit was over £15,000. For
a long time prior to the rise in the price
of gold operations showed substantial
annual losses.
* * * *
The importation of explosives into
Westralia has practically trebled since
1930. Gelignite increased from 413,5001 b.
in 1930 to 1,411,9001 b. in 1934, gelatine
dynamite from 447,0001 b. to 1,432,6501 b.,
detonators from 1,075,0001 b. to
2,644,0001 b., and yards of fuse from
1,987,200 to 4,322,000. Over 90 p.c. of
these items is used in the goldmining
industry.
* * * *
Despite extraction of record tonnages,
there have been big increases in ore re-
serves on the Rand, S. Africa. Since
1932 those of New Modderfontein have
risen from 3,450,800 to 7,872,200 tons,
and those of Nourse from 1,631,200 to
4,007,100 tons. Costs were 21s. Bd. and
19s. 6d., and working profits £2,280,206
and £350,581 respectively.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. —Advt.
ft ft * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service. New Zealand), Consult-
in'' Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. —Advt.
" * * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street,’ Sydney. Successfully used all ever the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* * * *
PERBODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Sufh
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company.
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
AIRLINES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Registered under the Companies Act of New South Wales, and incorporated on the Fourth day of October, 1935.)
(Application for the whole of the undermentioned issue of Ordinary Shares has been guaranteed by British Pacific
Trust Ltd., 4 Cleveland Square, St. James, London, W.)
CAPITAL £1,000,000
divided into
995,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each . . , . . . £995,000
5,000 Deferred Shares of £1 each . . . . . . . . 5,000
1,000,000
£1,000,000
75,000 Ordinary Shares are offered for subscription, payable 5/- on applica-
tion and 5/- on allotment; the balance in 4 calls of 2/6 each at
intervals of not less than one month, the first of such calls to be made
not less than two months from the date of allotment.
20,795 Ordinary Shares and
5,000 Deferred Shares are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendors (New
England Airways, Limited, and G. A. Robinson) and the Option-
holders (British Pacific Trust, Limited) for the transfer of goodwill
and assets, particulars of which are set out in the full prospectus of
the Company.
899,205 Ordinary Shares are to be held in reserve for future issue at the
discretion of the Directors: Of these shares 100,000 are placed under
option to British Pacific Trust, Limited, on terms set out in the full
prospectus.
1,000,000
The British Pacific Trust, Limited, has undertaken to apply and pay for
25,000 Ordinary Shares of this issue, and if the issue is not fully subscribed for
it has also undertaken to apply and pay for the remainder of the Ordinary Shares
not subscribed for so that the whole issue of 75,000 Ordinary Shares is assured.
No cash consideration is being paid, but a sum of £2,000 is to be paid to
Mr, G. A, Robinson, Managing Director of New England Airways, Limited, to
refund him certain personal expenses which are referred to under “Preliminary
Expenses” in the full prospectus.
DIRECTORS:
The Lord Sempill, Director, Marine Airways, Ltd., and other Companies, Sardinia
House, Kingsway, LONDON, W.C.
W. S. Stephenson, Managing Director, British Pacific Trust, Limited, 4 Cleveland
Square, St. James, LONDON, W.
G. A. Robinson, Managing Director, New England Airways, Limited, 14 Martin
Place, SYDNEY.
E. B. Wareham, Company Director, Late Manager Adelaide Steamship Co.,
Ltd., 48 Milson Road, Cremorne, SYDNEY.
H. C. Armstrong, Company Director and Australian Representative of British
Pacific Trust, Limited, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
A. D. W. Allen, Solicitor, Messrs. Allen, Allen & Hemsley, 19 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Andrew Macdougall, Director of Macdougalls, Limited, 131 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
E. D. Armstrong, Chartered Accountant (Aust.) and Consulting Accountant to
New England Airways, Limited, LISMORE, N.S.W.
SOLICITORS*.
Messrs. Allen, Allen & Hemsley, 19 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
BANKERS:
The English, Scottish & Australian Bank, Limited, King Street, SYDNEY.
The National Bank of Australasia, Limited, BRISBANE and LISMORE.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 350 George Street,
SYDNEY.
REGISTERED OFFICE (PRO TEM.)*.
New England Airways, Ltd., 14 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
RIGHTS OK ORDINARY AND DEFERRED SHAREHOLDERS.
Profits which it may he decided to distribute shall be applied in the following manner:—
First in payment of a non-cumulative dividend on the Ordinary Shares up to 71 p.c.
per annum.
Of the balance, one-half shall be paid to the Ordinary Shareholders in proportion to
their respective Shareholdings, and the other one-half to the holders of the
Deferred Shares in proportion to their respective shareholdings.
Ordinary Shares have priority over Deferred Shares in repayment of Capital in the
event of a winding up of the Company, but in all other respects the rights of the
Ordinary Shares and Deferred Shares shall be the same, including the right to
vote at all meetings of the Company.
PRIMARY OBJECTS.
The Company has been formed for the purpose, inter alia,
of acquiring the main assets of New England Airways
Limited, and also the manufacturing plant, etc., of the Larkin
Aircraft Supply Company Limited (In Liq.) at Coode Island,
Melbourne, Victoria.
The Company will carry on all the services now being
conducted by New England Airways Limited between Sydney
and Brisbane, Sydney and Newcastle, Brisbane and Towns-
ville, Brisbane and Toowoomba, and, in addition, it contem-
plates extending these services to Melbourne and other centres.
Four new “Monospar” 10-passenger ’Planes are to be
purchased for use on the above services, in addition to the
aeroplanes at present being used by New England Airways
Limited, and to be taken over from that Company.
The new 10-passenger “Monospar” ’Planes which the Com-
pany will acquire have two engines of Pratt and Whitney Wasp
Junior type S.B make, and the makers of the “Monospar”
(General Aircraft Limited) guarantee a maximum speed of
187 miles p.h. and a cruising speed of 170 miles p.h.
The great advantage of this enterprise lies in the fact that
it is taking over a going concern which has clearly demon-
strated its profit-earning capacity. Moreover, with its equip-
ment of hangars, aerodromes and servicing facilities, which
can be expanded wherever deemed advisable, the Company is
in a position to offer exceptional facilities to the travelling
public. The Company will have a valuable asset in the
experienced personnel of pilots and mechanics who are ready
to conduct the extended services contemplated; it is thus in
a position to undertake all its operations on a most economic
basis, and meet any competition that may arise in the future,
apart from the fact that it has behind it British Capital and
a British aviation organisation.
NEW ENGLAND AIRWAYS LIMITED.
For more than three and a half years New England Airways
Limited, under the management of Mr. G. A. Robinson, has
successfully conducted services between Sydney and Brisbane,
and more recently between Newcastle and Sydney, and Bris-
bane and Toowoomba and Townsville. Mr. Robinson, with
a lifelong experience in transport, has proved to be a capable
manager, and the fact that the services have operated with
regularity and safety has attracted the attention of the travel-
ling public, whose patronage shows a steady increase in
volume. The Company’s record of punctuality and freedom
from accident is an enviable one, and shows what can be
accomplished by competent pilots flying reliable machines
supported by an efficient technical organisation.
The profit-earning capacity of New England Airways Limited
has already been , demonstrated, and with speedy and
economical new machines the services at present being
operated by New England Airways Limited will, apart from
other sources of icvenue, offer profitable employment for the
Company’s capital. The Auditors to New England Airways
Limited (Messrs. A. C. Joubert and Co., Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), Lismore, N.S.W.) have certified that the Com-
pany’s profits over the last four years were:
Net Profit or Loss
(After Providing for Depreciation
Gro>s Revenue but Not for Taxation.)
Year from All r~ * •> Paid-up
Ended. Operations. Profit. Loss. Capital.
31/8/’32 .. £12,572 1 3 £043 14 7 £6,605 0 0
31/8/’33 .. 23.337 15 11 £l2OB 17 11 6,967 10 0
31/8C34 .. 29,786 10 3 1429 8 3 13,151 0 0
31/8/’35 .. 35,983 8 0 0530 11 5 13,181 0 0
(Depreciation charges were £2685 for 1932, £2428 for 1933,
£2372 for 1934 and £lB2B/16/8 for 1935.)
ESTIMATED PROFITS OF AIRLINES OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Below arc set out the estimates of Mr. G. A. Robinson,
Managing Director of New England Airways Limited since
the incorporation of that Company in 1931. Mr. Robinson
has taken as a guide to his estimated gross earnings the actual
results of New England Airways Limited Sydney-Brisbane
Service, which has been in full operation for the three years
ended August 31, 1935.
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED ANNUAL RECEIPTS.
Sydney-Brisbane .. .. .. £32,667
Sydney-Newcastle .. .. 4,500
Brisbane-Toowoomba .. .. 4,500
Brisbane-Townsville .. .. 6,000
Pleasure Trips and Charters .. 4,000
Sydney-Melbourne .. .. 32,667
Per annum £84,334
The earnings of New England Airways Limited have been
increasing each month, and for the months of July and
August, 1935, the gross earnings on the first five of the above
services were £4021 and £4224 respectively, which, if main-
tained throughout twelve months, will provide a gross income
of over £49,000 per annum.; this would be only slightly less
than the estimated annual receipts (£51,667) of Airlines of
Australia Limited from the same services under the improved
conditions contemplated in this prospectus.
The receipts of New England Airways Limited from Special
Trips and Charters during the year ended August 31, 1935,
amounted to £3283.
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED ANNUAL
EXPENDITURE.
Operating Charges on the above services (including
pilots’ salaries) £39,964
Depreciation 13,100
Overhead (including insurance of ’planes) .. .. 18,232
£71,296
Estimated Annual Revenue as above .. .. .. £84,334
Estimated Annual Expenditure as above .. .. ,71,296
Estimated Annual Net Profit (without providing for
Taxation) .. .. .. .. .. .. £13,038
BRITISH PACIFIC TRUST LIMITED.
British Pacific Trust Ltd., of 4 Cleveland Square, St. James,
London, the promoter of this Company, is an English Com-
pany engaged in the finance and large-scale development of
a number of substantial enterprises in Great Britain, Canada,
India and elsewhere.
One side of the Trust’s activities is specifically devoted to
the development of aviation. Hanworth Aerodrome was
acquired by the Trust last year at a large cost, and it was
mainly responsible for the formation of General Aircraft
Limited, the makers of the “Monospar” Aeroplane.
The Trust has recently acquired the Douglas Motor Engineer-
ing Works, one of the largest of its kind in Great Britain,
where construction of Aero Engines on a large scale will
shortly be commenced. It has also acquired the British
Empire Rights of the Hispano Suiza Aero Engine, which is
used very largely in modern aircraft. This engine will also be
manufactured at the Douglas Works.
The Trust’s latest subsidiary aviation organisation is Marine
Airways Ltd., of which The Lord Sempill is a Director.
Marine Airways Ltd. has been formed to control an Empire
and International Flying-boat Service. In connection with
this it has been reported recently that the Trust has secured
control of the output of British-made Sikorsky Flying-boats.
The Sikorsky Flying-boat has achieved great reputation in
its performances for a number of years on Commercial Ocean
Services. It is at present used by Pan-American Airways on
the services to South America, and, it is reported, is to be
used on the contemplated extensions of American oversea
services. It is also used for daily services between the Islands
of Hawaii. British Pacific Trust Ltd. have already invited
suggestions as to what services in Australasia could be under-
taken by Airlines of Australia Ltd. with Sikorsky Flying-boats.
Having determined on entering the Australian field by
enlarging the operations of New England Airways Limited,
the excellent reputation of which attracted their attention, the
Directors of the British Pacific Trust have been proceeding at
considerable expense for the last year with preparations for
the formation of Airlines of Australia Limited and the exten-
sions indicated in the full prospectus.
Three “Monospars” for Feeder Services have already been
delivered by them, and are now in use by New England
Airways Ltd., and four 10-passenger ’Planes are reaching
completion, having been specially built on their instructions
to meet Australian requirements. Others will follow as needed.
These steps taken by the Trust will do much to hasten the
realisation of the Company's expectations. Experts, where'
considered advisable, will be sent out by the Trust, and,
further, the Company will have the benefit of the advice of
The Lord Sempill and Mr. W. S. Stephenson, both of whom
are acknowledged to be the most active personalities in the
development of Empire aviation. The recent solo flight of
the former from England, and over many parts of Australia,
is well known.
ALLOTMENT.
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised out of the proceeds of this issue is £75,000 to
provide for the following expenditure:
1. The liability to General Aircraft Limited, to
be taken over from New England Airways Ltd.,
being the price of three “Monospar” ’Planes
as hereinbefore mentioned £8,062
2. New 'Planes to be acquired for the extension
of services contemplated .. .. .. 50,000
3. Preliminary Expenses (including £2OOO to be
refunded Mr. G. A. Robinson) and brokerage 6,500
4. Working Capital .. .. .. .. .. 10,438
£75,000
The above is an abridgment of the full prospectus dated
November 5, 1935, a copy of which has been filed with the
Registrar of Companies in Queensland and South Australia,
and does not contain all the particulars required to be inserted
in the full prospectus by the Companies Acts of Queensland
and of South Australia. No shares have yet been subscribed
for by the Directors to qualify them as such.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Prospectus with full information may be obtained
on application to the Company’s brokers, to any
member of the Stock Exchange, or to the Company’s
offices, pro tern, (c/o New England Airways, Limited,
14 Martin Place, Sydney), and applications for shares
will be received only on one of the forms of application
referred to and endorsed upon the full prospectus.
Organising Brokers : Messrs. Philip Pring & Co., Queensland National Bank Chambers, SYDNEY.
Brokers in Queensland;
Messrs. CHARLTON ELLIOTT & SONS,
356 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Brokers in Victoria:
Messrs. JOHN MAY & SONS,
90 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Brokers in South Australia:
Messrs. H. W. HODGETTS & CO.,
23 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.


ABORIGINALITIES
“F.Y.7”; In his account of a tour of
the Queensland backblocks published in
a Brisbane paper,
Archbishop Wand
says of “Waltzing
Matilda” that it is the
first of Australian
folk-songs. His
Grace errs lament-
ably. “Matilda” is
quite sophisticated
verse, written by an
accomplished maker
of these things and of
fixed form and length.
The folk-song proper
is an accretion which
grows with the years
as the result of the
unstudied inspiration
of the people. It is
of irregular form and
metre, and is added to
at the fancy of
singers, inspired and
otherwise. In this
way classics like “Robin Hood,” “Chevy
Chase” and, in a lighter mood, “Widdi-
combe Fair” were evolved. The only
Australian work I know coming up
to these specifications is “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” a true folk-song if ever
there was one. Perhaps the archbishop
has never heard of it. If he would care
to come up and see me some time !
should be pleased to sing him the 40 or
50 stanzas I know.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: The talkies are spread-
ing culture even in the wilds of the
Never-Never. I picked up a half-myall
blackboy the other day who had just
returned from a spell in Darwin. After
dinner I said to him, “Fetchum up all-
about horse. Bimeby we pack up.” “That’s
okay with me, bo,” he replied casually.
* * * *
“Potheen”: Australian resourcefulness
got a good advertisement when a gentle-
man was convicted in a N.S.W. country
police court of distilling rum without a
license. The prosecuting policeman told
how he had searched for the rum in vain
until he noticed unusual activity among
the citizens of some beehives in the bush
near by. Screwing up his courage he
kicked a hive over and found 22 bottles
of the stuff which biteth like a pony
urger. Other hives yielded more bottles
and a gallon jar, and in a rabbit burrow
were found pieces of the still.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: The best-eating pigeon in
the bush? Topknot isn’t good. Bronze-
wing is better, squatter better still.
Flock is tender and white. But the
daddy of the lot is the spinifex pigeon,
and with him I place the spinifex
quail. The latter is a little bloke,
plump with a depth of flesh which is
astounding. To the artist, alive he gives
more pleasure than when in the pot —a
fragment of the rainbow let loose,
scarlet legs, a wisp of a topknot about
four to six inches long. Strangely, when
standing still, in spite of his color-
ing, he is almost invisible. The spinifex
pigeon has all the eating qualities which
the quail possesses, though, being bigger,
there is more of him. He is a dusky-
brown chap, barred with black bands,
and fan-shaped tail when in flight. Like
the quail, he is hard to flush and darned
hard to see when standing still.
* * * *
“C.8.W.”: The barramundi is one of
the best of sporting fish. He is
usually to be caught in and around salt-
water mangrove creeks, and a bait of
“beakie” (a red-tipped garfish), suspended
about three feet from a float, is the best
lure. When that bait drops within ken
of Barra, who is generally sulking be-
neath a snag, and if he feels inclined,
you’re hooked to a torpedo with brains
and science. Ten- to forty-pounders
—quite common—put up a great show.
Perch-spinners arc often used success-
fully when conditions are favorable.
* * * *
“Beesknces”: Bees go straight to the
head of your sex, too, “Ned” (B.
23 /10/’35), and the man I saw attacked
didn’t have the saving covering of hair.
He was a dealer, and travelled per van
and two horses. The bees, from a hive
at our house, buzzed out as his caravan
approached. As he alighted and franti-
cally endeavored to unharness the horses
before the pain of the bee-stings sent
“Hey! Where are you off to ?”
“I'm just going over to tell Mr. Dorkins's bull he's a father
them mad, the stingers transferred their
attention to the old chap’s bald pate. He
suffered with a swollen head for many
days.
* Jjc * *
“R.J.0.”: Reports from different
N.S.W. country centres, including places
as far apart as Gulgong and Windsor,
indicate that a plague of Joe Blakes can
be expected this summer. Even in
Maroubra, a Sydney suburb, brown-
snakes are reappearing friskily in places
where they have hitherto kept out of
sight.
* * * *
“Freelance”; “Kellick” (B. 30/10/’35)
wasn’t hoodwinked by the snapper-
fishermen. Almost all fish will follow a
departing comrade right to the surface.
Leather-jackets are best caught by skin-
ning one of their tribe, then sending him
to the bottom with extra lead. On pull-
ing up you may scoop several into the
boat if a scoop net, made of small-
mesh wire-netting, is used.
“Mid-Sussex”: A George’s River
(Sydney) fisherman had us guessing how
he caught so many. We found out when
his boat was beached and turned over
for repairs. On the bottom was painted
the portrait of a large bream about to
partake of a feed of live prawns. The
whole was covered with marine varnish
to prevent fading.
* * * *
“Granilla”: “The 0.D.” is only partly
right about the peewee’s call (B.
16 /10/ ’35). To hear them to the best
advantage a man wants to get a couple
on the job. One swells his throat, hitches
the seat of his pants, spreads his wings
and shrieks “P’wee.” The other, on
another bough of the tree and up to
twenty to thirty feet distant, will take a
deep breath, lower its head, jerk its
wings spasmodically and add its reply;
“P’woo.” The two are perfect artists
working together. If a man didn’t watch
’em carefully and note from where the
sounds were coming he’d bet that one
bird alone was making all the row.
♦ * * *
“The 0.D.”: N.S.W. plague grasshop-
pers moved from west to east last year
(B. 23 /10/’35). Unlike mice, ’hoppers
are easily turned from their line —timber
or hills will do it. Mice go straight
ahead ; in 1918 they came up from Vic-
toria into N.S.W., crossing the wide
Murray, ever moving north. A plague
of waterhens that followed the T 7
flood in the Murray travelled down-
stream. Never noticed rabbits moving
in any particular direction when in
plague proportions. Politicians consis-
tently move Londonwards. Probable ex-
planation is that all of ’em have to go
somewhere, and where one leads t’others
follow.
* * * ♦
“Plankton”: Until recently I had the
idea that those Gippsland earthworms
(Megascolides australis) were a race of
world champions, as specimens 6ft. long
have been caught. Now that a KM ft.
wriggler is recorded from the Windy
Isles, won’t some Gippsland Aboliar sit
up and take notice?
* ♦ * ♦
“Shot”: There would be little danger
in juggling cases of dynamite (B.
30/10/’35) provided the stuff was in good
condition, and that goes even more for
gelignite and blasting gelatine. It takes a
lot to explode these fracteurs ; hence the
use of special detonators. The detonators
are the real danger. Their fulminate-of-
mercury charge will explode without
apparent reasqn and in spite of elabo-
rate precautions. Yet I have seen a
man toss a tin box of the little copper
tubes in their loose sawdust packing to
be caught by a mate half a dozen yards
away.
* * * *
“St. Anne’s”: Among sea foods
abounding in Australia and neglected
(B. 30/10/’35) is the cockle, which, when
properly cooked, excels even the oyster.
On the north-west coast of England these
are found by the million in the sand-
flats which run from Mersey-mouth to
Blackpool and beyond. Lancashire folk
made many delectable dishes of them, of
which pickled and scalloped cockles
live lovingly in the memory. In my time
the gathering of cockles was the specialty
of curious communities which lived apart
from other fisherfolk in villages stuck
in the sand-dunes. The women did the
gathering and hawking of the cockles,
the men making the wooden spades and
rakes used. The ladies had the repu-
tation of being even rougher than the
mill girls of Bolton, who in those times
bore a lurid reputation as amazons.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Maori pantomime is full of
elemental humor. One Maori choir
stunt that appealed to Sydney audiences
because of its novelty (though possibly
it dates back through the thousand
generations of Maori history) might
have as its text “What is man? A reed
shaken by the wind.” A substantial, mus-
cular fellow takes the centre of the stage
and poses immovably as a rock, arm
outstretched. Not a movement of eye or
flicker of expression. Conies another
chap; puffs gently at the outstretched
hand, which sways in retreat as gently as
a willow-twig swayed by the breeze. The
puffing is directed in turn at hands, arms,
legs and torso, and the general effect at
the finish is that the subject has been
completely blown away.
* * * *
“Balogie”: At James Sinclair s
Glencoe homestead. Northern Burnett
(Q.), the “happy family” birds, more
commonly known as the twelve
apostles,” line up every day to be fed
in the kitchen.
“Blue Flier”: Add Willie Wagtail to
the list of house-entering birds. When
the flies are bad this little chap practi-
cally lives in our C.Q. kitchen and
dining-room for months at a time. He
is a general favorite, but unfortunately
loves to tease and generally runs foul
of the station cat.
* * * *
“Petitor”: Lightning does odd things
in its pranks. Recently on the west coast
of S.A. a place was struck. Next day
hundreds of barbs were found on the
ground intact, but the wires to which
they had been attached were reduced to
a semblance of No. 3 shot. During a
later storm a farmer advised his wife
to put aside a carving-knife she
was using. She placed it in the sink.
The blade was immediately struck, and
the sink, of porcelain, shattered.
+ * * *
“Sa Tiko”: Don’t keep “Coolibah”
waiting. He wants to know (B. 9/10/’35)
the natural life-span of a goose. There
isn’t any. Twelve
months is as near as
you can get to it, but,
if Christmas doesn't
quite fit in with that, a
month or two is neither
here nor there. Why is
it that the goose is not
more popular among
non-vegetarians? Next
to the curlew it’s the
best table bird I know
of. It beats turkey or
duck the full length of
the course, is easy to
rear and will fatten on
grass. You need plenty
of room, however, be-
cause four geese eat as
much grass as one
horse. And you can’t
keep your horse in the same paddock. A
horse won’t eat the grass where a goose
has been. But no one would want a
horse after tasting a well-baked goose.
* * * *
“Byraminc”: It’s no wonder the
Cousin Jack (B. 9/10/’35) got his finger
damaged, seeing that his unlucky mate
is using a spawling hammer to strike the
drill —and hitting left-handed at that.
* * * *
“M.R.P.”: The place for natural ice
<B. 30/10/’35) is Merredin (W.A.). As
with all towns en route to Kalgoorlie its
water-supply is got from the main which
supplies the inland city. The pipes lie in
an open ditch parallel to the railway,
and are easily inspected daily by trips
in a rail-trolley. In wintertime the
water freezes in the pipes. Domestic
supplies have to be taken in overnight.
In the summer at the hottest part of the
day the tarred aqueduct becomes too hot
to touch with the naked hand, and bath-
water has to be cooled off after it cqmes
from the tap. A couple of newspapers
alight will bring it to boiling point.
* * * *
“Ehoa-o-te-Manu”; “Honi Pikau” (B.
18/9/’35) gets the decision in his debate
with “Erua” regarding the inclusion of
“g” in the Maori alphabet. But he him-
self comes a crash about tfie correct
spelling of Otago, which is Otakou —cer-
tainly not Otauko. The inability (or the
indifference) of the early pakeha in the
South Island to discriminate between the
sounds of “k” and “g” in the native
language led to many corrupted pro-
nunciations which still survive— e.g.,
Goai for Kowhai, Gigi for Kie Kie
and Matagouri for Matakauri. But
they are nothing compared with the
hideous jar that jolts the ear in Dunedin
streets on New Year’s Day when boys
bellow “Race Cards —Whack-a-white
Races.” The place they refer to is
Waikouaiti, where Johnny Jones
founded a whaling station years before
the first fleet with Scottish settlers arrived
at Taiaroa Head, some 10 miles lower
down the coast. The middle syllable in
this (if properly pronounced) sweet-
sounding Maori name is similar to
the last one in Otakou.
THEY OUGHTER TALK!
“These deep-sea coves,” the hatter said, “who
talk of days of sail.
Of starlight on the bounding main and green
seas over the rail.
They oughter seen the boats I knew, before
me whiskers greyed.
When I was mate of the Murray Pride or
skippered the Darling Maid.
They talk of storms and bucko crews, of the
Horn and ‘ten months out’;
They never had forty drunks aboard when a
’Bidgee shed cut out!
They never got bushed in a Murray flood, with
their paddles turnin’ slow,
reelin’ their way through stumps and trees in
search of the channel’s flow.
1 know yarns that’d make ’em stare of the
happenings, good and ill,
1 hat the paddle-boats met on their endless
trips from Goolwa to old Swan Hill.
When the Gem was split below Mcrbcin the
skipper could only laugh,
Tor, while he was boss on the for’ard bit, the
cook had the other half.
When the Marion stuck on the Gol Gol mud
(’twas Christmas, and far from cold),
Ihc hands stood fast by the stranded craft—
and the beer in the after hold!
1 here was big Mick Doolan, the engineer,
who fought with the Struggler’s steam;
Her boiler blew up off Tapio, and scattered
her on the stream,
they found a boot on the river bank; poor
Doolan, where was he?
Hung by the seat of his greasy pants to the
fork of a tall gum-tree.
I hink of a bloke on an ocean boat, weeks
from the nearest isle,
And us with a girl and a pub or two every
twenty mile.
These deep-sea coves,” the hatter said, “they
don’t know what they missed
As they pitched about in a Biscay swell or
stopped a bucko’s fist!”
N.S.W.
OLD-ILMER.


“Mat’s Mate”: We emerged from the
Victorian Malice after a year’s hard
work, self-conscious in new suits, and
caught the train for Melbourne and
King Ingoda’s Cup. Two coves in the
compartment suggested a game of 500.
Tiring of that, we swung into nap,
accepting a proposal to play with all
the small cards. Whoever went down
on going nap doubled the kitty. Those
two fellows were reckless, and in no
time kitty was worth £9. Then I got
ace, king, queen, ten, nine, and went ’em.
One of the others showed four little ones
and the jack. Then they blundered.
Next deal Mat got the same as I had
had, in a different suit. It was too
sudden. He went four, and the dealer
threw his hand in. Mat’s f knee knocked
mine under the table ; then he stood up
and leaned against the compartment door.
“Me and my mate,” he said, “have lost
things like that before. Give him his
£9 out of the centre and get out.” They
tried to argue, bpt he was adamant. It’s
great to be cobbers with a bloke 6ft. 2in.
high, 15 stone and suspicious! Especi-
ally on a train going down to the Cup.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; Tell “Blue Flier” (B.
23/10/’35) that lizards do drink, and
that “flat out like a lizard drinking” is
a very apt description of how they do
it. In our garden we have a sunken
bird-bath under a dripping tap, and every
hot day dozens of stumpy-tails make
their way to it, and with their blue
tongues slowly dip up drops. While he
drinks old Stumpy-tail is flat out —the
only flatter lizards to be seen are the
dead ’urts to be found on the motor
roads at this time of the year.
“Ned Kelly”: The goanna drinks.
He stands daintily on his toes in a
muddy spot and takes in the liquid with-
out damage to his appearance. He is,
though you might not think it, a cleanly
reptile.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: That .22 rifle of
“Taalpa’s” (B. 30/10/’35) must have
been in a class of its own. If the first
bullet lodged in the barrel the impact of
the second one upon it would have
served to make an almost perfect gas-
tight obstruction. I’ve seen a hand prac-
tically blown off by the explosion follow-
ing the vain effort to shoot a jambed
.45 slug out of the barrel of a service
Webley-Scott revolver. Just how this
Westralian hero managed to fire three
rounds in the manner alleged—and get
away with it—is a mystery.
**" * *
“Plumb Bob”: A needle or a pin
heated and correctly applied will make
a scrub-tick back out like a mong that’s
nosed a wasp’s nest. Or just heat a bit
of a twig to a red end.
*****
“Napoosis Ogemaw”: Why should
“Pisces” (B. 23/10/’35), on the strength
of the incident he quotes, assume that
turtles sleep? There is no convinc-
ing evidence of slumber in any creatures
below the level of birds. Reptiles and
fish may rest, but we have no evidence
that they sleep. A snake may curl itself
into a sleeping attitude, a lizard may
show not a quiver as it basks in the sun-
shine, a fish may be seen in motionless
pojse in the pond, but there is no hint
of a drowsy awakening when one touches
them. Indeed, it is very much the re-
verse in the instance quoted by “Pisces.”
A hibernating mammal, a hypnotised
guinea-fowl, a frog in cold-coma —they
are not asleep. The most one can say
scientifically, on the evidence produced
by “Pisces,” is that the turtle was in a
“hypnoid state.” Sleep is really a tax
for having a fine forebrain.
"I'm representing the Happy Home Furnishing Co. Are you the
gentleman who Was married last week?"
“vSnobby”: Here’s another who says
rams can knock spots off goats as
butters (B. 30/10/’35). Any man work-
ing in a yard of rams in good condition
is in danger every time he bends down.
I used to be overseer of a big place in
C.Q. A 6ft. 6in. jackeroo in the draft-
ing yard bent down to pick up his hat.
No ram could resist. I could hear the
smack from where I was, and, out of
the corner of my eye, I saw Bob sent
skittling into the fence. Part of an over-
seer’s job is to see that his men don’t
knock sheep about. Still, being human,
I pretended not to see.
•I*
“Marsupial Jack”: According to the
statistics of the Westralian Agricultural
Department, just over 20,000 kangaroos
were destroyed on the Roy Hill station,
Upper Fortesque River, last year. It
“Now, now, Tibby—be patient!"
sounds a bit incredible just for the one
station, even though it is larger than
many an English county; but a little
arithmetic shows that the average runs
at 55 per diem —just handy shooting for
the nor’-west when drought conditions in
the farther interior send the marsupials
coastwards seeking for the permanent
waters. With an acetylene flare showing
on to a windmill trough, writer and a
couple of mates often accounted for a
similar numbir night after night—though
it wasn’t always at the same water-
trough.
“Lou”: “Sa Tiko’s” magpie (B.
9/10/’35) isn’t the only bird who knows
the shadow trick. A carelessly-displayed
shadow means no dinner for any pre-
datory fowl, and well he knows it. Even
a newly-hatched chick instinctively
burrows under its mother when a cloud
goes over the sun. Watch a hawk cruis-
ing after ground game. If he can’t keep
his shadow on the treetops or the scrub,
he tries to get it on a slope above the
normal eye level of his quarry. Failing
that, he works against the sun.
* * * *
“O. I. Saye”: In his reference to betel-
nut (B. 2/10/’35) “Stultus” repeats a
common slip. There is no such thing as
betel-nut. The chew popular in India and
elsewhere is a shaving of areca-nut
wrapped in a leaf of the betel-vine (a
pepper).
* * * *
“Kali”: You mention croc.-shooting
(B. 2/ 10/’35). Bill Matthews, now
stationed in Sydney, once killed a 14-
footer with a Winchester pea-rifle.
Matthews was shooting Torres Strait
pigeons two miles past East Point,
Darwin, when a croc, suddenly heaved
himself from a near-by mangrove swamp
and made for the water. Annoyed
because he had nothing heavier than a
.22, and without any hope of stopping
the brute, Bill aimed behind the foreleg
and let fly. The croc, just sprawled for-
ward and lay still. Practically all croc.-
shooters in the Territory use a .44 carbine
on the monsters; they say the high
velocity of the .303 rifle gives the saurian
a chance to reach water before he passes
out.
* * * ♦
“Marsh”: Neither “L. 1.8.” (B.
9/10/’35) nor “X.T.” (B. 16/10/’35) is
convincing. The adaptability of camels
is limited. Where tracks are moist and
slippery they are useless ; and, as to their
ability to go long periods without a
drink, I know of half a dozen that
perished in n.-w. Q. after being waterless
for only four days. Horses running in
the same paddock were still alive two
days after the oonts turned it in. If ever
I had the choice of mounts to cover a
lengthy stage, desert or not, I’d prefer a
’Waler to the best ca'mel that ever carried
a nosepeg. I’ve forked both steeds.
* * * *
“Bungarrer”: Although “Jungor” (B.
30/10/’35) quotes verse to prove that
the Westralian goanna is called “bun-
garra,” a pronunciation evidently drawn
in to rhyme with “jarrah,” it is bungarrer
on the Murchison and Kalgoorlie fields.
Binghi, from whom the name came, in-
variably calls his landfish by it. The
cooking of the go. is a culinary art in
itself. He is stunned by a waddy, has his
legs stretched and his tummy squeezed
affectionately if “phat-pheller,” and is
gutted by having a forked stick wound
about his tongue until the entrails are
gradually drawn out.
* « * ♦
“R.J.0.”: Revivers (B. 23/10/’35)?
Worcestershire sauce overworks and ex-
hausts the digestive system, while metho.,
in addition to being merely “a
hair of the dog,” will send a per-
son blind with five drachms. Hot
water and bicarb, soda is O.K. to
settle the stomach after you’ve got
everything else out of it. Com-
mon water is as good as onion-
soup, as both act by diluting the
alcohol within. Milk is a safe
antidote for any poison in the
Mary, including alcohol. As for
Condy’s “strong enough to stain the
finger,” “8.F,” would be well advised to
order his harp and pay up the instalments
as quickly as he can if he comes at that.
* * ♦ *
“Highandover”: An abo. was called
into service to help a Yorkc Peninsula
(S. A us.) farmer in salvaging a ketch. He
was sent down to the wreck on the beach
to attach ropes to movable pieces, while
his boss remained on the cliff-top above
to haul. The nag took it into its head
to back, and in two seconds it had been
pulled over the cliff-edge by the weight
of the dray behind it. As soon as silence
had settled, Jacky put his hands to his
mouth and hollered upwards accusingly,
“What for you do that, boss?”
* * * *
“Oolarinna”: Condy’s fluid (B.
23/10/’35) is the great Centralian remedy
for most ills. Centipede and red-backed-
spider bites are common ; out comes the
bottle of Condy’s crystals every bush-
man carries, some is rubbed well into the
wound, and there’s no more trouble. But
its greatest boon is in cases of dysentery
where bore-water is highly mineralised
and surface-waters grow stagnant and
germ-laden. Varying in strength from
just-tinted for the baby to a bright pink
for mum and the men, I’ve never known
Condy’s to let you down. All tourists
should be made to carry it. Binghi loves
his “Essom-salts” colored with Condy’s,
Once when our goat-shepherd’s wife
had eloped with her boy-friend and our
g.s. was like to die from a broken heart,
all remedies failed until Condy’s fluid,
served in a clear glass tumbler every four
hours, had him cured in a couple of days.
* * * *
“Freelance”: I didn’t know stinging
nettles could trail like a vine until the
other day. I found a bunch on the top
of a 20ft.-high rock. Part of the plant
had grown down the rock-face to within
three inches of the ground. Roots had
formed in readiness to start a new clump
when it reached terra firma.
* * * *
“Jimmac”: Is “Marra” (B. 23/10/’35)
sure that the porpoises which “attacked”
a small boat weren’t only playing? I
had the same sort of experience once,
also in a small boat, but my porpoise
was merely scraping the barnacles off
his back (a whale did exactly the same
thing to a Government lightship tender
in Moreton Bay a year ago). The ex-
perience wasn’t pleasant, but the beast
was definitely sportive—the close-up view
of its face proved that. Another favorite
game is shooting the breakers. While
surfing at Southport (Q.) another chap
and myself were surrounded by a school
of five of them, and I’ll defy anyone not
to reproduce the shivers up my spine as
they flashed past and around me. I’m
still wondering what record I set when
my mate shouted “Shark!” just as I
caught sight of the shadowy streaks.
* * * *
“Myzantha”: Noisy minahs and mag-
pies fighting (B. 23/10/’35)? Observa-
tion will show that the minahs follow
the magpies and seek the quarrel. It
isn’t a sordid trade war; minahs, being
honey-eaters, don’t covet magpies’ worms
and caterpillars. Nor are the magpies
pugnacious except in the vicinity of their
nests. Then why the enmity?
“HARD AS GOATS’ KNEES.”
Long Ted, the timber-getter, is a man who
hasn’t much to say—
He reckons, pretty modestly, that no one
wants to hear him bray—
And when some chap is being called all sorts
of names, a “Stone the crows,
The cow’s as hard as goats’ knees!” is as far
as Ted’s detraction goes.
Perhaps an outsize “blue’s” been felled, and
on the butt he’s just begun,
And though his crosscut’s sharpened up it’s
making hard work on the "run”;
He’ll listen calmly to his mate’s complaint
about its being tough.
And, spitting on his hands, he’ll drawl. “It’s
hard as goats’ knees right enough.”
When old Depresh first hit us, and the timber
trade was knocked about,
With sixpence off each "hundred super.” that
he cut, Ted got a clout.
He didn’t ramp and roar and rage, it’s doubtful
if he even swore,
“My oath! they’re hard as goats’ knees,” was
his commentary —nothing more.
Old Bung's considered by the chaps the
stingiest of all his breed,
The cheerful “Have one on the house!” is not
included in his creed;
But whensoever thirsty souls rain maledictions
at his head,
“As tough as goats’ knees” is the most cen-
sorious thing you hear from Ted.
The time will come when Ted, his last log cut,
will be compelled to wait
(Though not, 1 think, perturbedly) outside old
Peter’s Pearly Gate.
And should the Saint prove obdurate I doubt
if he’ll annoyance show:
With “Aw, y’re tough as goats’ knees, mate,”
he’ll hit the track for down below.
N.S.W.
QUAYEAU.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA; 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epwortli Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including;
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Hi
|:K;
mm
B.VD
UNDERWEAR
~]ieat tb- yyiub&Sf-
BYDfJwb;
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years. —-
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fO«
©a®
Rtf*'
RlS\
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
d# 1
A PENNY
ANHOUR
&
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.’*
(Extract from **R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following;
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEY BRISBANE
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Hints on Corriedales.
“Hortus”: Remember that the breed
is dual-purpose. The best type of ram
is short in leg, yet active, with deep
body, broad back and shoulders, low
prominent brisket, and well-fleshed hind-
quarters.
Avoid dumpy rams, as well as leggy,
narrow-ribbed, narrow-backed ones, no
matter what size they may grow to.
A hardy, sound constitution goes
with a strong, bold, masculine head
with a bright, keen eye. Muzzle should
be thick-set, dark or mottled for prefer-
ence. Avoid anything thin in the skin
and ears, showing a bluish or reddish
tint, especially round the eye.
Select a ram on the fine side of
medium wool, showing a bold staple
and fair density. Avoid harshness and
hairy tips. Very “dense” sheep usually
are short-stapled and become blankety
or boardy. Don’t select wool that is
uneven in length and quality, especially
on the side. Have nothing to do with
open, pretty-woolled sheep ; these soon
become light and wasty. What’s more,
they impart these qualities to their off-
spring.
Graziers in the higher-rainfall areas
should select darker-hoofed sheep. These
seem to be more immune from foot and
scale trouble.
In N.S.W. the Department of Agri-
culture is always willing to class flocks.
Farmers should avail themselves of this
free expert information before launch-
ing into anything big.
Belter Wool on Fat-lamb Ewes.
“Corriedale”: An increasing number
of mixed-farmers are getting lower prices
for their flock wool every year. Use of
poor-woolled British breeds is the
trouble, kempy fleeces being far more
common in flocks of 800 and under than
four or five years ago.
This is not to decry the use of these
excellent fat-lamb sheep, but to
emphasise that the breeding ewes must
be kept straight on merino-longwool
blood. An owner is tempted to keep
the odd year’s drop of ewe lambs when
prices have been low. Once in the flock
it is hard to cull them out. Breeding
numbers must be kept up, so the short,
hairy wool continues.
Most of our fat-lamb breeders fail to
realise that their lamb is not bought on
carcass alone. The skin can be worth
anything from Is. to 55., according to
the wool on it. In addition, a good-
shaped export lamb can be bred from
square-framed, clean-woolled half-breds
or comebacks.
Replacing “C.F.A.” Ewes.
“Winfield”: Sluggishness in longwool
rams has caused the waste, for a whole
period, of as many as 30 p.c. in a flock
of good breeding ewes. They are a con-
stant source of worry to fat-lamb raisers.
Shearing the rams and crutching the
ewes have been found beneficial. Yarding
at night has been tried with limited suc-
cess ; and dosing has been resorted to —
with, in our experience, least result of
all.
This fault appears to be inherent in
the longwools, but fortunately it can be
changed to a virtue.
The first essential is a strong ram pad-
dock ; and the idea is the working of
suitable merino rams as auxiliaries to
the longwools.
Join the merinos to the flock not with
the longwools, but after they have
stopped work. Then each year a number
of merino ewes is ready to take the
place of the culled-for-age. The wethers
can be sold as a line (there is always a
demand) at the same time as the “c.f.as.” ;
and young ewes bought with the money.
“Buy British”—Bulls.
“Poley”: Barmar Quality Again,
regarded as one of the best Aberdeen-
Angus yearling bulls in U.S.A., has been
secured for H. B. Williams, Turihau,
Gisborne (M.L.). There is a vogue for
American blacks both in Australia and
M.L. which started when the N.S.W.
Government imported a Canadian con-
signment some years ago. James Barclay,
secretary of the British Aberdeen-Angus
Society, now charges M.L. farmers with
imposing something like a boycott on
British pedigree stock. The Argentine
is Britain’s best pedigree buyer.
Recently breeders in M.L. shared two
shipments of high-class U.S.A. polled
Hereford, horned Hereford, Aberdeen-
Angus, Jersey and polled Shorthorn
cattle; now another shipment is an-
nounced. Included in it are polled Here-
ford in-calf heifers, polled Shorthorn in-
calf heifers, another Aberdeen-Angus
sire' and a remarkable three-year-old
Jersey bull. A large shipment of
Canadian polled He refords was also
landed recently in M.L. Breeders would
do better to stick to British cattle. The
main reason for importing beef stock is
to be able to preserve the characteristics
of meat which find favor in the country
which buys beef from us. Britain is our
customer, not U.S.A. The Argentine will
go to Chicago for its sires when it sells
its meat to Chicago.
Meat-export Control.
“El V.”: The Commonwealth Meat
Export Control Bill is on all fours with
the measures to control wheat and
dairy produce and dried fruits. There
will be a London representative on the
Empire Meat Advisory Board. All meat
will be exported under license “under
conditions which will assure that the
full season’s output will be disposed of”
—that can be done now without organi-
sation.
The conditions will be decided by
a board of 18 members representing
all sections of the industry—everyone
knows how efficient mixed boards of
18 are. Finance will be provided by
levies of not more than jd. per quarter
on beef and Id. per carcass on lamb,
pork and veal, which are expected to
yield not more than £25,000 p.a. After
administrative costs are paid, the bal-
lance will be devoted to overseas adver-
tising—the whole £25,000 would be only
a drop in the ocean as propaganda
among the 45,000,000 people of the
British Isles.
On the board, the balance vote will
be held by producers. This is good
Country Party politics, but it places
marketing in the hands of people whose
specialty is growing beef and mutton
and not selling it. There will be one
Federal representative.
The scheme is a poor shadow of the
1924 scheme, and is about as far from
the ideal as the average Australian
scrubber is.
What Stanley Argyle said of Aus-
tralian produce selling in Britain —he
made it quite clear, as dozens of other
people have, that our standards are un-
satisfactory—is equally true of beef.
We can sell to the British beef market
all the beef we want to when we turn
off baby-beef chillers of the requisite
size, standardisation and quality. And
semi-political regulation will not do that,
though building up our herds will.
There is a £30,000,000 trade to be
captured, but not by negotiation.
Material is the only thing which will get
it for us ; organisation without material
is like a gun without ammunition.
Governments would do better by
giving special taxation and rental con-
sideration to those prepared to pul
money into producing the ideal beast, by
making the import of stud sires easier,
and by penalising the diehard who, with
advantages patent, continues to eat out
good country with scrubbers fit only for
the boiling-down works.
Private enterprise in a free market
can do the rest.
Binder Hints.
“Stump Jump”: It is important to
have a smooth-running knife, which is
only obtainable by reducing all slackness
in crank- and knife-pins and pitman bar.
It pays to fit a new crank if the old
one bumps in the least. Pitmans wear
out quickly or even smash, whilst the
crank-pin remains oval, and the load on
the horses is far heavier. Also, (he
chances of knife-jambing are great, A
new crank can be fitted in half an hour.
Saw the old one half-way through on the
collar. A few smart taps with a chisel
and hammer in the nick break it in two.
As the knife-guards wear, they should
be tapped down so that they just let the
knife work freely. This saves knife
wobble and makes the load easier. At
the same time the stalks are cut more
against the plates.
A frequent trouble is the tearing-off
of canvas slats. This happens nine times
out of ten when (he elevator frames
aren’t truly square. Remove the can-
vases and check, with a straight length
of No. 8 wire, the inside diagonals, from
roller corner to roller corner. If both
diagonals aren’t square, adjust on the
cross-stays, which are screwed and
nutted.
The inner roller of the platform
canvas may wear at each end and so
cause bad alignment of the long drive
chain, which cuts up badly. Solid leather
washers should be placed on each end
of the roller-spindle to restore the align-
ment.
The reel on most machines, especially
after repairs, needs balancing if it is to
operate evenly. Disconnect the drive ;
wire lead-sheet strips to the arm ends
or plates. A fair speed is needed for
good cutting and tying. Some men try
to tie the sheaf too tightly, a thing which
1 believe is often at the root of knotter
troubles. With the two flat springs hold-
ing firmly and correct notch position, a
knotter should cause little worry if this
point is watched and the knife is sharp.
Mitchell for Grain.
“J.W.”: If the C.S.I.R. wants a real
job it might lake on the development of
some of our native grasses, which never
see fertiliser and live from hand to
mouth and from drought to drought.
Mitchell, which is the salvation of
western Queensland and of the N.T.,
seems to me capable as much of devel-
ment for grain, through specialised
breeding, fertilisation and inurement to
cultivation, as primitive wheats and bar-
leys. If it can be developed it should
have an even more important influence
on the progress of the grazing industry
of the North and Central Queensland
than it has at present., since the tropics
do not grow cereals. In the process ot
experimenting it should be possible to
establish a method of culture which will
turn off more leaf and stalk feed, at least
in good seasons.
Apart from this, there is plenty ot
work to be done in restoring grasses
which once covered tens of thousands of
acres and have been destroyed or heavily
depleted by stocking. Kangaroo grass, a
valuable fodder, which now flourishes
only in protected areas, is one of them.
It has disappeared from areas as big as
European countries.
The inland of Australia has a long way
to go in husbandry. Many of its inhabi-
tants have not learnt as yet that there is
such a thing as pasture improvement or
replacement. Twenty-five years ago
coastal men believed that Australia was
immune from the laws which have re-
duced other countries to desert or made
them rich, according to the habits ol
their graziers. But they have since learnt
their lesson.
Bracken-control.
“Ghanam”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department strongly recommends the use
of Kikuyu to control bracken in coastal
districts. There is a lot to be said for
the system. The grass is a strong grower
and perennial. It spreads very quickly
in runners and makes a lot of leaf. At
the same time, not being a free seeder,
it is easy to control.
Every runner-joint sends down a strong
root, and it soon makes a closely packed
turf which on loose soil will withstand
cattle-trampling.
Where it is used to kill bracken the
ground should be ploughed—it is not too
late now in the year in N.S.W. —after
the fronds of the fern have been mowed
and burnt. Runners or cuttings should
be dropped every 3ft. in drills 3ft. apart.
If the fern seems to make headway at
first, it does not matter —it will provide
shelter for the young grass through next
winter. And next spring will see the
bracken being strangled. When the
Kikuyu is well established and cattle are
put on, they help considerably by break-
ing down the bracken.
About April it is a good idea to broad-
cast 41b. of white clover to the acre
among the grass. The combination
makes a good feed paddock, for Kikuyu
produces more feed than paspalum, is
a good summer and dry-weather grass
and remains green a long time. Each
autumn a cwt. of super, will help.
Rot in Maize.
“North Coast”: The season is coming
in N. S. Wales and Queensland for the
stalk, ear and root rot which destroys
large quantities of maize. Poor stands
and poor germination mark the develop-
ment of root rot, and sometimes the
plant tries to defend itself by sending
out new roots above the diseased parts.
It is hard to pick the disease when the
plants are young, though a tendency to
wilt on hot days when they are two or
three feet high often gives a pointer.
Later, the upper leaves of diseased
plants begin to die off, and sometimes
stalks are infected to such an extent
internally that they bend and break with
their own weight. Diseased ears show
splitting or brownish discoloration.
All infection comes from fungi—
fusarilim and gihberella. Fusarium is
the primary infection of roots and
stalks; gibberella the resistant stage
found on dead stalks as well defined
black pin-points. The fungi live from
crop to crop in soil or on left-over stalks,
and infection can also be transmitted
through seed.
Careful selection of seed in the field
is the best control measure when com-
bined with cleanly farming habits. The
burning of dead stalks and rotation of


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
JTuT&xxlle&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A delight to wear !
Enjoy the ease that this shoe brings.
Right from the start it fits with rest-
ful comfort, giving immediate relief
to cramped or aching feet. It’s long-
wearing and smart-looking. The sole
is made of toughest leather, the upper
of supple, glossy calf.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full
and half size . . . narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. When order-
ing, state which you need and ask,
also, for the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY,
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
s
.
i
m 3
r&i
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
CREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World’s
Talcs of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ẃ
It's the popular model . . . Globite 1853,
light in weight, glossy as leather and extra
strong and rigid. Globite Cases, made of
the best and toughest fibre, are reinforced
for better wear. Ask for Globite 1853 . j .
there are all sizes.
ẅ
“The scenic route "
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
crops should be practised. Seed, also,
can be treated with mercury-phenol
compounds, but this should not be
needed if the other precautions are
properly carried out.
Crop Rotation and Fertilisers.
“Seenitall”; Modern methods of
farming may not prove so efficacious as
the older ones. For centuries in Eng-
land regular crop rotation, covering a
period of four years or longer, has been
the rule. And fertilising has been regular
in period and materials.
Recently, chemists suggested that by
the use of extra artificial manures crop
rotation could be abolished. This has
been tried with bad results, disease and
pests having taken a heavy toll,
I cannot see that anything can replace
careful crop rotation. The soil is given
a rest, and each plant is chosen with a
view to taking something out of the
soil that the previous plant had little or
no need of. Oats follow wheat without
detriment to the soil, more especially if
sown after a pea, bean or clover crop.
Roots cannot be used in most places
here owing to their moisture heed.
Where they can be grown they are
splendid for crop rotation.
Let oats follow wheat, and after the
oats sow clovers. The third and fourth
year graze with sheep, and keep a good
bulk of clover.
By this time the clovers have rebuilt
the soil, and another crop of wheat can
be produced. No time or money has
been lost by leaving for a full fallow,
and profits have been made off the
sheep grazed. A farmer with a 1000-acre
wheat-farm could have 250 acres of
wheat, 250 acres of oats and 500 acres
of clovers and grasses for his sheep,
with the additional feed from the green
crops.
Not one acre of his ground need ever
be idle. Only if the clovers failed would
it be necessary to fallow for a full year.
With proper working, two sheep to the
grass acre (/.<?., the 500 acres) could be
carried on fair N.S.W. coastal country.
From experience, I know that a given
acreage can be made to return far more
by this method, and it costs less to run
than repeated croppings with occasional
long fallows.
Grain for Fodder.
“The 0.D.”: Practical farmers will set
aside part of the coming wheat crop as
fodder grain— to supplement their stores
of hay and silage.
A few points before harvest starts;
Galvanised-iron tank silos make good
stores. They protect the grain against
weather, fire and vermin. They can be
had large enough to contain up to 2500
bushels of wheat each.
Next best is the shed or barn. See
that root, sides and floors are weather-
proof and secure against mice and in-
sects. Clean the shed thoroughly, and
spray with strong kerosene emulsion con-
taining 3 p.c. of cresylic acid. This will
get rid of weevils, etc., remaining from
last year’s grain.
Lastly comes stacking in bags. Put
them on a high platform of concrete or
stout limber if you can. If dunnage is
to be used on the ground plough the
ground up and destroy any loose grain
from a previous stack. Dip the timber
in boiling water before laying it out.
Give the stack a galvanised-iron roof,
but keep the iron clear of the bags ; iron
sweats inside on frosty nights. Cover
the sides and top tightly with Malthoid
or similar material. Stack the bags as
closely as possible. If they are well
covered air is excluded, and the grain
gives off sufficient carbon dioxide to kill
any weevils that might get in. Don't put
wet grain in the stack.
Pasture Improvement
“Albarmount”: C. E. Prell, of Goul-
burn, a pioneer in the fat-lamb business,
now has the greater part of his 7000
acres on Gundowringa under a pasture-
improvement scheme, mainly planted
with sub.-clover and regularly top-dressed
with super. Production has increased
from 160 to 500 bales of wool and from
3000 store lambs to 8000 fat lambs.
On the improved areas carrying capa-
city has increased from two sheep to
three acres to sheep per acre. Mr.
Prell estimates that when the whole area
is improved the output will be 700-800
bales ’of wool and 10,000-12,000 fat
lambs.
If this estimate is borne out, it will
represent a total improvement of 500
p.c. in wool and 400 p.c, in lambs.
Gundowringa is in a cold and good
rainfall district. Although these excel-
lent results cannot be expected every-
where there is not much of the fat-lamb
belt which could not show a 100 p.c.
advance in output if properly treated.
“Sheepo”; “Cutter” (B. 2 /10 / ’35)
gives good advice on the scrub-feeding
of sheep, but 1 don’t agree that “sheep
must be shepherded on scrub” ; the less
bother and handling sheep get the better.
Only when it is necessary to drive scrub-
feeding sheep to water should they be
“mobbed.” “Cutter” says, “Give ’em
variety, or give ’em licks.” I say, give
them a lick independent of wha't scrub
is available. The man who sidesteps the
lick supplement for scrub-feeding sheep
reaps deaths from impaction. The salient
point in drought-feeding is to get the
animals on to scrub whilst rough grass
still exists.
“X.T.”: Ron Glasson, of Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), has been doing some large-scale
motor experiments which should point
the way to the saving of large numbers
of drought-stricken sheep. With motor
trucks he has moved over 13,000 sheep
from 100 to 200 miles. One journey was
made from Broken Hill to Cunnamulla
(512 miles) with 250 stud rams. Nor-
mally, two of his trucks carry as many
animals as four rail trucks, the double
quota being 550 lambs, 460 hoggets or
330 woolled wethers. He is also carry-
ing loads of wool up to 10 tons. Though
much of the country which he traverses
is trackless, his average speed is about 18
m.p.h. With this sort of equipment, the
carriage of both stock and feed and, in
severe emergency, water—one 10-ton
truck could handle a couple of thousand
gallons—should revolutionise northern
dry-season technique.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
I should like to have accompanying samples
classified by your expert, and suggestions made
for improvement. My property is in north-
west N.S.W. Dry conditions often prevail, and
duststorms are common. —9201.
Of 11 wool samples forwarded, six are warp
66’s, one is I-warp 66's, and four are warp 64’s.
Wool shows good character, and is even in
quality. Samples show no sign of deteriora-
tion through age or faulty breeding. Lack-
ing information as to sex and age of sheep,
and allowing for smallness of samples, one can-
not deduce the general evenness of your flock
dr of individual fleeces or whether fleeces are
lacking in density. Points to be aimed at in
selecting rams for a dusty district are: (1) Den-
sity of fleece, especially on backs, while re-
taining length of staple; (2) perhaps a bolder,
more pronounced crimp of, say, 64/60’s
quality, as fleeces tend to run tine under your
conditions; (3) select rams that will correct
the weaknesses of your flock. If ewes are poor
underneath or too bare on points, see that
your rams are well covered there. Cull all
short-woolled or open-fleeced sheep.
* * * *
Satisfactory method of preventing bandi-
coots from invading a nursery garden already
protected by a fence ? —9037.
You can only destroy them. But bandicoots
are protected in N.S.W., and a permit will
have to be obtained from the Agricultural De-
partment. When applying, the number de-
sired to be destroyed and the property should
be stated. Poisoning is prohibited by law.
under heavy penally, so a permit gives the right
to shoot and trap only.
* * * *
How to cure cracked hooves on a hull ? —■
9000.
It is a difficult matter to cure. Trim the
hooves to the requisite length. By removal of
the overlong horn less strain will be placed on
the cracked surface, which will then have less
tendency to open out. Should a crack extend
from the coronet to the toe, a V-shaped piece
should be cut out of the hooves with the apex
pointing to the coronet. This will further
prevent spreading of the crack. The hooves
should also be dressed with Stockholm tar and
raw linseed oil in about equal proportions.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent. Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
ŵ
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE /’ Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“The president of the Sydney Harbor Trust
said that the largest liner in the world could
be accommodated at more than one wharf in
Sydney.”
Possibly, but it would be more satis-
factory to all concerned if the vessel
could be accommodated at one wharf.
•J*
The Groucher.
“Radio programmes are shocking,”
protested the chronic grumbler. “I’ve
had a set pretty well ever since broadcast-
ing started, and I’ve never heard a decent
programme yet. Crooners, cooking ad-
vice, children’s sessions and so on. They
get my goat!”
This seemed rather extreme, so I re-
minded him of last year’s opera broad-
casts.
“Opera! ”he snorted. “Squeaking and
squawking! It wasn’t worth listening to.”
“But surely you found it handy when
the cricket was on?”
“Handy! Kept me awake all night,
confound it. Never got a wink of sleep
before three o’clock. They oughtn’t to
be allowed to do it.”
I spoke of celebrity recordings. He
sniffed. Of oversea broadcasts. “Nothing
but static.” Of talks on international
affairs. “They read it out of a book.”
Of race descriptions. “A mere jumble
of horses’ names,”
Nothing seemed to please him at all.
“And the advertising,” he said —“those
confounded advertisements every time
you switch the thing on. It’s not worth
it. They ought to be darn well ashamed
of themselves. Why can’t they give us
decent programmes?”
“Well, anyhow,” I said, “I’m glad you
brought the subject up. I’ve just remem-
bered the wife told me to renew our
listener’s license. Where do you pay the
blessed thing?”
“Hanged if I know,” he replied. “I’ve
never had one yet.”
Uco.
4* 4* + 4*
“Sheep cry out to their lambs in an almost
human way.”
Sez ewe.
4* •!• 4* +
“Cables copyright to the Australian Press
Association compromising all the leading news-
papers.”—Broadcast announcer.
Truth will out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Topping!
“ ‘lf two men come into my office, and one
wears a silk hat and one a bowler, the one in
the silk hat always gets the first chance,’ said
Lord Runciman, the millionaire shipowner.”
Me too. I’ve always found that if
one goes in search of a job silk-hatted
one gets the first chance.
For instance, the other day I joined
a queue in the passage of—l forget
where. I forget what the job was too,
but I know that the manager picked me
out the moment he saw me. He called
me over and said, in a voice trembling
with emotion, “Go for you life. We
don’t want a riot here.”
Hatter.
“After being in theatrical management for
many years in Australia, he is now ruining a
picture theatre in South Africa.” — “Sun.”
Looks like another case for an
apology.
Suits by the Gallon.
“Dr. Ferretti, in Milan, has produced from
milk a fine fibre appearing to possess most of
the properties of natural wool.” — “Sun.”
It was only after years of research
that I evolved a yarn from milk. It was
a true yarn, though I found it difficult to
convince others.
My first difficulty was getting it into
rolls, like tailors’ cloth. Eventually I
constructed a long, shallow channel, and
poured the milk in. When it dried, I
found it stuck to the bottom, and
wouldn’t roll up. A dash of duco
gave it the necessary glaze to get it off.
The first lot I dyed navy-blue, and the
resultant cloth had a shine on it. The
wholesalers refused it. Navy suits
already shined aren’t saleable.
All my efforts to get a pure white
material proved abortive; this, I de-
duced, was due to the cream, a pro-
portion of which remained in the milk
even when separated. I did have success
with a deep-brown, though—dyed the
milk-fibre with cocoa, thus getting a
chocolate-malted-milk cloth. It created
quite a furore among milk-bar addicts.
After the cloth had been on the
market a little while complaints started
to come in. One client was lumbered
for walking along the street in shirt and
underpants. He had been drinking rum,
and that beverage, permeating through
his pores, had pursued its natural affinity
and absorbed his suit.
“Yairs , but you should've seen the one that got away!"
When summer came real trouble
started. One chap whose suit went sour
boiled it down and got his wife to make
scones with it; but they weren’t all as
reasonable as that. I finally went bank-
rupt through the exorbitant claims
brought against me by clients whose suits
had curdled on them.
S. W. K.
Guessing at the News.
“Gelignite Stolen. Supposed Work of
Thieves.” — "Herald.”
In Snow-street, Donghimhurst, a man
armed with a revolver fired six shots
at a youth, who dropped dead
immediately. It is believed that a
murderer was responsible.
Last night two city buildings were
burned to the ground. Smoke was still
issuing from the ruins early this morn-
ing, but it is thought that the damage
was caused by flames.
Every favorite was beaten yesterday
at the Robbery Park races. The shortest-
priced winner was at 33 to ,1. Most
punters probably had a bad day.
S. Esq.
That Bridge Toll.
“The Bridge toll is severely felt by residents
on the northern side of the harbor, and is
crippling business there.”
Too right! I quite agree. Three
nights a week and my wife’s two after-
noons have left the mortgage instal-
ments unpaid and got us all behind on
the rates. But the rates can wait. What
I’m worrying about is the gas. It may
be cut off as the result of that disastrous
night last Sunday. Trying to get back
a little on the last hand with a desperate
slam bid, I had to owe for the petrol I
picked up on my way home.
As if that wasn’t bad enough, there
is the way the wife’s losses cripple the
tradesmen. That five-hearts contract
which Mrs. Sharpfizz doubled and she
foolishly redoubled did in the milkman’s
bill. The baker’s account went when
she failed to make her three spades,
which would have won us the rubber.
Her failure to bid in the next hand gave
the opponents the game and rubber, and
settled the grocer’s prospects.
Unless the Bridge toll is lightened in
some way, there’s going to be a dread-
ful muck-up. Too right there is!
H. M.
»•« *|* *|«
Odd Oscitancy.
“A 42-year-old woman in British Columbia
has, for six weeks, yawned from one to twelve
times a minute without stopping. An examina-
tion revealed no malady.”
I struck a somewhat similar case when
I first started out in practice.
The wife of one of my patients rang
me one night to come straight away.
When I got there I found the husband
seated in an armchair yawning nineteen
to the dozen. Swiftly I tapped his
clavicle for a reflex action, got him to
say ninety-nine a few times, took his
temperature and ten-and-six, and was
about to depart to consult Boobe on
“Causes of Undue Oscitation” when my
keen ear caught a droning monotone.
I hadn’t noticed until then that my
patient was sitting alongside the radio.
Then I heard the words .. .And if we
are returned to the Treasury benches at
the coming” Policy speech, of
course.
I immediately switched off the wire-
less and the man’s lower jaw stopped.
A complete cure.
Dr. Quayeau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It needs a lot of heads to run a
barber’s business successfully.
•J*
“ ‘Everyone should have a doze after lunch,’
says a doctor.”
If he can fix it with the boss it’s O.K.
with us.
Making Our Railways Pay.
VI. — City and Suburban Lines.
My policy as so far enunciated has
met with severe criticism. This is only
to be expected; every new movement
finds itself hampered by diehards who
tty to clog the wheels of progress. Most
of these critics I intend to ignore. How-
ever, one persistent complaint has come
from Victorian correspondents, who com-
ment on the absence of slogans. “No
railway policy is a policy at all without
slogans,” they say. Very well! So be it.
Now to proceed:
(a ) Underground Railways. —These I
shall scrap altogether. I find that a por-
tion of the Sydney underground tunnel
is used for growing mushrooms, and
returns a small rental. No rent at all is
received from the tunnels which the trains
traverse. Why not make the whole lot
revenue-producing? Out with the trains
and in with the mushrooms! My mush-
rooms will become as famous as Mr.
Clapp’s raisin pies. Honest workers and
wizards of finance will alike devour them.
A slogan? Certainly!
The loyal train traveller consumes
Underground railway mushROOMS.
( b) The Nearer Suburbs. —I intend to
“run” stationary trains to the nearer
suburbs. They will be very long trains,
and only second-class tickets will be
issued. The carriages, however, will all
be first-class, and will bear a notice:
Unless you hold a Golden Pass
Walk right through to Second Class.
By the time the passenger has walked
as far as his own station he’ll give it up
and get out. The saving in coal and
water and wear and tear will be tremen-
dous, and the passengers will feel all
the better for the walk. Another big ad-
vantage is that there will be no risk of
being overcarried.
You may wonder how the politicians
will get on who, feeling secure in the
possession of their gold passes, sit down
in the first-class carriage and wait for
the train to start. This won’t happen!
In practice, politicians don’t use their
passes on suburban lines. They either
borrow a Government car or cadge a
lift from a friend.
(c) The Outer Suburbs. —On longer
journeys, to places where one cannot
reasonably expect people to walk —say
15 miles or more from the city—l shall
concentrate on making the journey com-
fortable.
No one will have to sit with his back *
to the engine, and everyone will have a
corner seat. How I’m going to manage
it is my secret. Oh, yes! I nearly forgot.
Comfort, rest and ease complete —
Everyone a corner seat.
As for that blight, the Fve-travelled-in
this-train-for-forty-six-years type, who
considers that he has bought a particular
seat on the hire-purchase plan, and
abuses or glares at anyone who chances
to get to it ahead of him, he’s going to
be well and truly stonkered. He woift
be able to tell which is his seat. They’ll
all be alike.
And won’t he be wild?
Jasby.
*l*
Despite all that’s said in favor of
modern bathing costumes, they’re not
much.
Fall from Grace.
I know I’m not a perfect lover, dear,
Like Fredric March, Les Howard,
suave George Brent
And other dudes who on the screen
appear
As model swains, gay, spruce and
competent.
I know I’m neither polished nor astute,
And that, when dancing, I have two
left feet;
Oh, I’m aware I’m just a bungling brute
Who’s graceless, clumsy, dull and
indiscreet.
But, dearest heart, be rational, be fair;
Don’t weep or like a peevish child
behave —
I didn’t notice, when I stroked your hair,
That you had had a brand-new water-
wave !
P.O.M.C.
Waterloo.
Oh, heavens! I never will drink any
more !
Not after that fearful sight!
For I’ve never seen such a horror before
As the one that I saw last night!
So frightful it was it convinced me I
Must either abandon the bottle or die!
’Tis true in my time I have fiercely closed
With a dragon, as few would dare;
I have even stood my ground opposed
To a crimson polar bear!
But yestereve I was forced to flee
With a statue of Epstein’s after me!
NAT.


Running
cSufaA Running
Running
*
\
I
/
rv
.7
Your Goodyear Dealer
can show you why
"Type H" is the tyre
for to-day's conditions
Vastly Reducing
Operating Costs
That is what Goodyear Engineers offer you in the "Type
H"—the tyre that answers a great number of to-day's
commercial transportation problems.
Why? Because the centre rows of diamond blocks in
the tread are tied together supported held rigid
—by heavy connecting ribs of tough rubber. So, the
"Type H" gives you:—
(1) The grip of the famous (3) More even wear.
All-Weather tread. (4) Smoother, easier
(2) More non-skid service. running.
(5) Greater total mileage at no extra cost.
GIANT PNEUMATIC
FOR TRUCKS & BUSES
w
i
A
a
i
k
N
r\
10-C2B-35
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


ẁ
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
I
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY <
C 0,1 {SZ o
e- Son Ltd.
IMcPHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne., Adelaide.. Perth, ,
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
HEAD ON COLLISION IN CITY
Young man disabled for life . . .
When two cars met in a head on collision in the city recently,
one of the drivers, a young man who has a wife and two children
dependant on him, was so badly injured that doctors say he will
be unable to work again.
However while he was working, he had taken out a combined
Accident and Life Assurance Policy and a large sum was paid
to him soon after the accident.
His Life Assurance Policy will be continued without further
payment on his part and a further sum will be paid to him upon
its maturity.
ẃ
Thousands of accidents happen yearly—provide NOW against
the possible loss of your income . . . Get in touch with
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. J. Anderson, Manager.
Head Office: Melbourne. Branches in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Tasmania, New Zealand, South Africa and London.
ENGINEERS
• on ;
SUCCESSFUL
ENGINEERING
CAREERS
SIT DOWN AND
THINK THIS OVER
There really are thousands of
opportunities around you but un-
less you know just where they are
and how to prepare for them the
chances are that your opportun-
ity will pass by unheeded. This is
the day of the Specialist. The
man who is just a Mechanic can-
not go far. Our unique Hand-
book. "ENGINEERING OPPOR-
TUNITIES" explains clearly and definitely many
ways of carving out a successful career. Among
many other interesting things it outlines Home-
Study Courses in all branches of MECHANICAL,
CIVIL and CONSTRUCTIONAL, ELECTRICAL.
MOTOR, DIESEL, WIRELESS, TELEVISION, and
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING and gives de-
tails of A.M.I. Mech. E., A.M.1.C.E., A.M.1.E.E.,
A.M.I.A.E. Examinations.
In all sincerity we urge you to sit down and
plan your career whilst the chance is in your
hands. Write for this book to-day. It is sent FREE
and POST FREE and without any obligation.
ẅ
THE BRITISH INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY
Offices for Australia. New Zealand
and the Far East,
k, 58 Margaret St., Sydney, Australia
The Steering Column.
THE FIRST FIVE MINUTES.
HOW STARTING-UP METHODS INFLUENCE WEAR.
BY FRED BERRY.
D APID wear of any part of the car is something every motorist
wishes to avoid. Contrary to the generally accepted idea,
high speed is not alone responsible. Considerable damage can
be done when starting-up from cold.
Although the rate of wear on tyres is
almost wholly governed by factors of
speed and temperature, in the power
plant and transmission system the result
depends upon the driver’s action in the
first five minutes after starting up, and
in maintaining efficient and suitable lubri-
cation. The careless man will do more
harm to his car in that period than would
be normal in 500 miles of touring.
Briefly, ideal working conditions for
any particular motor are efficient lubri-
cation, equal and regular expansion of
all component parts, clean oil, air and
fuel, and correct alignment and adjust-
ment. Each of these factors is so closely
connected with the other that failure in
one department rapidly sets up a vicious
cycle of wear and inefficiency.
Most motorists are aware that, without
a film of suitable oil between moving
parts, excessive friction will induce high
temperatures, unequal expansion and
seizure of a more or less serious nature.
Reasonable care in lubrication will be
repaid.
Cold Bearings.
Movement is relatively small and slow
in the case of spring leaves ; little heat
is generated, and lubrication has little
bearing upon wear. But a peep inside
the crankcase reveals a steel crankshaft
(held rigidly in place by a number of
metal bearings), four, six or more con-
necting rods (also held firmly to the
crankshaft throws by metal bearings),
and pistons (attached to the con. rods
by small end bearings). This intricate
mass of metal is rotated and subjected
to enormous loads and stresses at speeds
of up to 5000 revs, a minute. Without
adequate lubrication, and even in cases
where inferior oils are used, terrific local
heat is generated and serious damage is
caused.
Oil technologists have reduced the
manufacture of lubricating oils to an
exact science, and to find a quality oil
is not a hard job. Any reputable brand
will (provided the correct grade is used)
lubricate efficiently. Although lubricat-
ing systems differ widely in principle
the objective in each case is to introduce
a film of oil between bearing surfaces,
not, as is generally supposed, to grease
these particular units, but to serve as a
fluid buffer and to prevent friction.
Assuming a good-quality oil has been
used, the motorist alone, usually, is re-
sponsible for excessive wear by being
unskilful in using controls or neglecting
precautions during the warming-up
period.
Solvent Action.
When a car is switched off, the last
few strokes of the pistons draw into the
cylinders a moist petrol-air mixture
which, in the absence of a spark to burn
it, merely settles on the cylinder walls
and pistons. As lubricating oil is soluble
in petrol, this vapor mixes with the
warm film of oil already on cylinders
and pistons, rendering it more fluid and
causing it to seep down the cylinder
walls into the sump. Later, the motorist
takes his seat at the wheel with bearing
surfaces practically devoid of oil, the oil
in the sump cold and viscous. It is at
this stage that care must be exercised if
excessive wear, and probably damage, is
to be avoided.
Starting up, apparently a simple
process, involves many possibilities of
mechanical damage. It should be realised
that, the cylinder walls being practically
dry and sump oil being cold, the first
objective is to create a protective film
THRILLS OF SPEEDWAY RACING.
A “Motor” impression of T.G. Clarke ( Bugatti ) throwing a rear wheel in the
Brooklands (Eng) “500” when driving at 120 m.p.h.
speedily. Pulling out the choke control
and pressing the self-starter until the
motor fires are just what one should not
do. Instead, one should leave the switch
off, pull the choke out about half-way,
press the self-starter and, after the
engine has turned several times, switch
on the ignition. In this way the first
few revs, of the crankshaft cause the
submerged pump to force oil to main
and crankshaft bearings, and perhaps to
throw a little on the cylinder walls. This
restores the protecting film so essential
if scoring is to be prevented. Further,
with the choke control half open, the
incoming mixture will not flood the com-
bustion chamber. It will be more likely
to supply a suitable mixture for firing
immediately the ignition is switched on.
Even should the motor fail to continue
firing with this setting, the second or
third attempt will be successful. In the
meantime, heat from exploding gases will
be absorbed by the cylinder walls and
transmitted to sump oil, so eliminating
risk of partial seizure.
Use of Choke.
Once the engine is running steadily
the choke control should be restored to
normal quickly. This will check excess
petrol passing the piston rings, falling
into the sump and diluting the crankcase
oil. However good the oil may be, its
efficiency will be greatly impaired by
dilution with petrol; those drivers who
are careless in choke operation will
pay for their folly in terms of excessive
bearing and cylinder wear.
It is remarkable how few motorists
understand the necessity for ensuring
equal, regular expansion of all compo-
nent parts. When an engine is started up
from cold, pistons, cylinder walls and
combustion chamber at once begin
absorbing heat from the burning gases.
As these metals are heated they expand.
Cylinder walls and head, surrounded
by water, heat up more slowly than do
pistons. .So, in the first five minutes,
motorists would be well advised to let
the motor idle for a minute or two
before moving off', and to avoid opening
the throttle to its fullest extent until the
heat of the whole engine has reached
normal working temperature. Similarly,
care should be exercised when running-
in a new engine, for, in cases where
clearances between pistons and cylinder
walls are small, a long burst on full
. throttle, beginning with the engine below
normal working temperature, will result
inevitably in some scoring of pistons and
cylinder walls. In extreme cases it will
wreck the motor.
Cleanliness Essential.
Clean oil, air and fuel are essential
if long life is expected from a motor.
In the early days of motoring, and until
the introduction of air-cleaners and oil-
purifiers about 10 years ago, major bear-
ing overhauls at between 10,000-15,000
miles were common ; and reboring at
more than 50,000 miles was the exception
rather than the rule. To-day, a rebore
or bearing overhaul at less than 50,000
miles is somewhat of a mechanical
curiosity; and 100,000 miles between
major overhauls is everyday practice.
Improvement has been almost wholly
due to fitting as standard equipment
efficient air-cleaners and oil-purifiers,
which prevent fine particles of hard
carbon and abrasive matter suspended
in the air from entering the motor and
destroying bearing surfaces. Dirty fuel,
although not directly responsible for
mechanical wear, imposes undue stresses
upon reciprocating and transmission
details in cases where the motor misfires
for lengthy periods.
Finally, although modern cars are
extremely reliable, the newer school of
driver is apt to take too much for
granted. He fails, for instance, regularly
to check up alignment and adjustment of
various units. With power to spare,
almost any of the newer types will keep
going even though alignment or adjust-
ment is astray in some important detail.
A missing plug or riding valve still
permits a full load to be taken without
greatly detracting from performance ; but,
owing to unevenness of torque, damaging
vibrations and unnecessary stresses are
set up within the motor and on trans-
mission details which, apart from increas-
ing overall wear, are sure to find some
weak spot, with more or less serious con-
sequences.
Again, a brake shoe out of alignment
and fouling the drum will make little
difference in road performance; but
wear will be so rapid that a complete
replacement may be necessary to effect
a satisfactory repair.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
L. (Stansbury, S.A.). — A farmer, I do
the usual 10-20 -mile runs interspersed with odd
nO-mile (/nick trips to Adelaide. After read-
ing the Bulletin tests, 1 have selected the
three cars named. Which should I buy ?
Nos. 2 and 3 better performance. All
approximately equal in reliability and cost of
operation.
* * * *
M. (Nelia, Q.). — Ever since my car
was new the lights have been poor, and show
at maximum strength only after 30 m.p.h.
Have had new wires installed and new bat-
tery without improving matters. Cause and
cure ?
Voltage to light points apparently low. In-
spect all contacts and earth return, as there
must be a high resistance of some description
in the circuit. Do this job at night with a
torch. The lights will be brighter immediately
you locate the faulty contact.
* * * *
F.F. (Waverley, N.S.W.). — Where can 1 have
my 30/98 O.E. Vauxhall ’26 overhauled and
rebored? What would it cost ?
Call on Boyded, Ltd., Hunter-street, or
Bradley and Webb, Wentworth-avenue. Can’t
assess cost unless mechanical condition known.
h < * * *
Jaydee (Barnawartha, Vic.). —My ’27 model
car has been on my mail run continuously for
eight years. It was rebored 31 years ago.
(1) Will it stand another dose of the same
medicine, and what shall I do to prevent valve
noise ? (2) Battery, filled two years ago, is
showing signs of fading out. I average one
stop each mile on the run. Can I boost it
up? Any use using colloidal graphite in the
old job, and, if so, where can it be obtained ?
(1) Depends on how much taken out last
rebore. If about 12 thou, there is just about
room for another touch up, but why not make


REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
No Exercises No Diets
—No Drugs
Fat causes that waist-
line bulge; fat-infil-
trated muscles, leading
to weakened, degen-
erated abdominal
sagging, maybe caus-
ing morbid and
dangerous changes in
the position of your
vital organs displace-
ments, disturbing their
functions.
The Governa Correc-
tive Belt is light, com-
fortable and effective.
By its constructive
support and gentle,
changing massage
action, waistline bulge is eliminated with
every move you make. It not only reduces
a bulging waistline, but also tends to
restore the abdominal wall to normal
strength and condition; thus it not only
safeguards the organs of the viscera
against further harm, but improves your
general health and well-being by restoring
their normal function.
w
TRY THE GOVERNA
BELT FOR 7 DAYS
AT OUR EXPENSE
We want you to TRY THE GOVERNA
BELT FOR SEVEN DAYS AT OUR
EXPENSE. It will greatly improve your
appearance; it acts as an abdominal sup-
port; it will ease muscular strain and make
you appear inches slimmer AT ONCE!
In seven short days your waistline will be
3 inches smaller—THßEE INCHES OF
BULGE AND STRAIN GONE—OR NO
COST! Get the results you desire. Send
the 7-Day Trial Offer Coupon AT ONCE!
7-DAY TRIAL
OFFER COUPON
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Without obligation send me your illustrated
folder describing the Governa Corrective
Health Belt, also full details of your 7-DAY
FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose 2d. in
stamps for postage.
NAME'
ADDRESS
U 5.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suapenaiona
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do It.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St, Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
ONLY VAUXHALL GIVES YOU
Such distinction.. and such power
at such a price
Tj' YEN if you took your demonstration drive
on a Vauxhali chassis from which all
means of identification like the famous fluted
bonnet and radiator emblem had been
removed, you’d choose the 27 h.p. Vauxhali
Big Six. It is such a supremely good car.
It performs so easily . . . holds the road so
excellently . . . gives such flashing accelera-
tion . . . with such ease of gear-changing.
At £365 you’d regard it as a “buy” regard-
less of its name or the factory that built it.
(regardless of price) offer you such power
as Vauxhall’s 27 h.p. Engine ... or such
features as Vauxhall’s efficient, time-saving
Automatic Chassis Lubrication. And no
other Six of comparable price can offer
the same satisfaction of ownership as this
truly distinguished English Car of time-
honoured name.
GENERAL MOTORS • HOLDEN'S LIMITED
When, additionally, you realise that it
is actually aVauxhall with all Vauxhall’s
background of fine car engineer-
ing and all VauxhaU’s social
prestige ... its value is doubly
emphasised. Few other Sixes
i
m
KE9O
.s'
Prices from
Big Six Roadster - £365
Big Six Tourer - - £375
Big Six Coupe - - £4lO
Big Six Saloon - - £425
Plus Sales Tax
27h.p. VAUXHALL Big Six
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
1 he Xew Air Chief Car Bad o has separate speaker, either for header bar or dash mounting', giving perfect reception,
tone and clarity of reproduction. A 6-valve set with 9-valve performance. Price £2", plus Sales Tax. If purchased with
car, finance can be arrcftigqd under G.M.A.C. Deferred Payment Plan.
certain and have liners fitted? Valves will need
reseating, and guides reamered and rebushed
or oversized valves fitted. Battery is over-
loaded; cheapest plan would be to renew and
at same time increase charging rate to 12-15
amps. (3) Yes; if engine is rebored or re-
lined. Any large city accessory house.
* * * *
C.O.D. (Tallygaroopna, Vic.).—(l) Your
opinion of the suitability of a ’25 Master Six
Bttick for conversion to a truck, and what it
should carry ? Mechanically sound. (2)
Would the engine stand up to the work ?
(1) Never intended for a lorry. Success will
depend upon modification of chassis and trans-
mission details if heavy loading is desired.
Existing safe loading, 15-20 cwt. (2) Engine
should prove satisfactory.
* * * *
E.C.H. (Mount Mulligaq* Q.). — Cannot get
an instruction-book for my Advanced Six
Nash ’27 model from Q. agents. (1) Who are
Sydney reps. ? (2) Where can I get a good
road map of road from Cairns to Melbourne?
(1) Willsfords, Ltd., Phillip-street, Sydney.
(2) Write Touring Department of Royal Auto,
clubs in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. No
single map would suit your purpose.
* * * *
J.T.C. (Tully, Q.). —Which is the correct type
of Champion plug to use in my '3O model
Fordson tractor ?
Type C 3,
* * ♦ «
R. (Corinda, Q.).— l intend buying a
car for country use. Which of the three men-
tioned do you favor, taking into account all-
round performance, reliability and price ?
No. 1; then 2 and 3 equal.
* * ♦ *
S. (Parkes, N.S.W.). — I have ordered a
FB, with high gear and 6.50 lyres instead of
standard ratio and 6.00 casings. (1) How
would the acceleration figures for the high gear
compare with those of the standard figures
reviewed in The Bulletin ? (2) Would there
be greater strain on the engine through running
with more throttle, and consequently shorter
life and more maintenance costs ? (3) Would
you advise oversize lyres and high gear for
my type of work, cruising at 45-55 m.p.h.
_(1) Acceleration figures would vary only by
fractions ol seconds. (2) Not necessarily any
greater strain on the engine at your cruising
speed, while lower r.p.m. should make the car
pleasanter to drive. (3) Yes. Oversize tyres
provide greater comfort, and give considerably
greater mileage.
* * ♦ *
W.B. (Ashton, S.A.). —Please advise which
of the five trucks named would be best value
in hilly country.
Nos. 1,2, 3, 5 approx, equal performance.
No. 4 most economical to run.
* * * *
F.C.S. (Bendigo, Vic.). —/ have a ’34 model
fitted with aluminium high-compression head.
Motor knocks. (1) Would it be any benefit
to use super spirits ? (2) What adjustments
would be required? (3) Which is to be pre-
ferred ?
(1) Combustion chamber probably dirty with
carbon. Motor should not knock, but better
results with super grades. (2) None. (3)
Either.
P.A.C.P. (Brisbane). —(I) What is the un-
laden weight of the F 8 Ford coupe, ’35
model ? (2) Standard tyres are 6 in. section.
What is correct inflation pressure ? (3) Would
you recommend 6.50 lyres ? If so, what pres-
sure; and would speedo. reading be affected ?
(4) ’34 and ’35 engine specifications appear
identical. Where does extra horse-power come
from ? (5) Can I use colloidal graphite in the
grease gun ? (6) Is there any self-equalising
action in the brakes of the ’35 V 8 ?
(1) 25cwt. (2) 281 b. (3) Yes; 261 b. Speedo.
reading will be slightly slower both in m.p.h.
and trip miles. (4) Specifications are different
in many respects; cast-iron crankshaft, higher
compression ratio, redesigned intake manifold-
ing, new-type pistons and crankcase ventilation
among other things. (5) Rather use suitable
graphite greases, correctly mixed. (6) No.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Jay”; I saw in Melbourne’s
Museum the first Australian-designed
car; in fact, the first to be driven in
Australia. In 1896 Jack Pender went
to America with his designs of a petrol-
driven vehicle, and about a year later he
returned with the finished article, which
I saw. Top speed was 16 miles an hour.
It was used for over five years. Any
other claims?
* * ♦ *
“Darken”; As a motor-cyclist I have
often had to surrender the right of way
to the superior weight of some road-hog.
Yet weight does not always tell. On
a Sydney suburban road a Model
T Ford and a council steam-roller
decided to argue it out. After much
recrimination Lizzie backed off. The
roller stayed where it was with a cracked
steam-something-or-other.
* ♦ * ♦
“Don Pip”: During the 1932 River
Murray flood, a motorist parked under
a gum on one of the few remaining
high-and-dry places at Mannum (S.A.).
Later he was dismayed to find that the
knoll was an island surrounded by water
four feet deep and gradually diminish-
ing in size. A block and tackle was used
to haul the car into the tree, where it
remained for a month, one of the show
sights of the town.
* * * *
“Reg-D.”; In Colac (Vic.) we see
Ford back axles, minus differential and
plus shafts, rather like chariots, dashing
about as milk waggons. Regularly passes
a huge truck chassis, twin tyres and all,
shored up at the sides, loaded with
wood: motive power is provided by six
hefty draughts, marching three deep. A
little engineless old tourer is drawn by
an aged pony. On sunny days, hood
thrown back, coachman on the box, it
suggests a nineteenth-century barouche.
* * * *
“Lon”; After cranking my car, 1 for-
got to remove the handle. On the way, I
hit a bump, apparently doing no damage.
Later I noticed a pool of oil under the
engine, and found a hole in the sump.
A search in the locality of the bump
revealed a trail of oil leading to the
handle, which was dented and exactly
fitted the tear in the sump. Instead of
falling flat, the handle must have stood
o Continued on page 28.)


ŵ
fm
mm
m
ML v
om
m
m
a
WMS
’
m
mm
»>->
'V.m
VMW>.
Well, frankly. Valvoline is a better oil!
Tests, bo'th practical and theoretical
prove this.
Secondly, Valvoline is not handled
like other oil-it is Refinery sealed.
It comes to you in "tamper-proof” tins
and is sealed as a protection against
substitution, adulteration, dirt and
short measure.
Ask your garagemanl
ẁ
J CARRIGAN
SY
EY
DN
M
EIBOU
RN
HAWKINS Y 7.
s.
II I.
; i ,! 1,
g ',F»;
>
<r/*
=?>£
llUi
“r-
-y
•jt-'A
m
m
!f
ROTO Rlld
ẃ
A PLACE of gushing geysers, boiling pools, world*
famous mineral springs, wonderful trout fishing in
streams and lakes, and the charming Maori Race
and its arts, music and dances. Just one of the
many unique thrills that await you in NEW
ZEALAND—Mount Egmont.Lake Waikaremoana,
Wanganui River, Waitomo Caves, Tongariro
National Park, Buller Gorge, Franz Josef Glacier,
Mount Cook, Lake Wakatipu, Milford Sound.
You’ll see all these cheaply and in comfort when
you visit NEW ZEALAND.
For full particulars call or write—
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
14 Marlin PI. (directly opp. G.P.0.), Sydney. Tel.: B 7043
Collins Use., 360 Collins St., Melbourne. Tel:: Cent. 3110
King House, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane
And All Travel Agents
New Zealand
ZIUe Scenic p&uffitvunct of the paclfiuc
A NEW ZEALAND tour means luxury all the
way—the trains, cars and steamers arc modern,
and the hotels arid guest-houses offer first-class ser-
vice and cuisine. If you book through the N.Z.
Government Tourist Bureau, you will save yourself
needless worry and expense and ensure courteous
and help'ful service throughout your stay in the
Dominion.
=sg
iA 5
a
Q L *
L
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 7t Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper Houje, Collins Street,
London Representative; A. J, Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
momentarily on end, and the car
bounced high enough to settle on it.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I asked six friends for the
numbers of their cars. Only three were
sure; another had a rough idea, which
proved to be wrong. The others hadn’t
the faintest notion of their numbers. One
of the first three told me that once he’d
walked a mile to ’phone the N.R.M.A.
for assistance when his car broke down
on a quiet road, and when asked for
the number of his car he couldn’t tell
them! A woman didn’t even know the
make of her car. Her husband had
bought it for her ; all she knew about
it was that it was very nice to drive,
* * * *
“Slipper”: A W.Q. boundary-rider’s
hut was just short of 15 miles from the
head station. The road between it and the
station was good, over high downs and
heavily-grassed country. I was there
when more than 2in.' of rain fell sud-
denly. Wanting to get home, I decided
to dash before the water soaked in. I
suppose I saw the road for about three
miles. The rest was a running race of
water. We staggered home—the car and
I —mud-bespattered, weary, steaming
from the joints, nerves trembling. And,
though I’d set the speedo. at zero when
I started, the thing read 17.6, Skidding
did it.
‘‘Roper’; The N.T. has done its bit
towards helping Abyssinia to keep on its
feet. The Arnhem buffalo, which has
a hide that even politicians envy—it
turns a knife and has to be sawn up like
wood —has for long been providing the
Ethiopian with sandals. I often wonder
that Australia does not find some use
for the skins, which are finger-thick and
as durable as old iron when properly
cured.
* * * ♦
Melbourne Gity Council has compro-
mised with the shopkeepers of Collins-
street who kicked against tree-planting
along the footpaths, and has decided to
plant the whole north side of the thorough-
fare “except the Block, between Swanston
and Elizabeth streets.” This is the very
stretch which would be best beautified by
planting, and why shopkeepers should
imagine that business would suffer be-
cause its surroundings are more decora-
tive is a mystery. Perhaps they think
that shoppers would spend so much
time admiring the foliage that they
would never enter the premises.
* * * *
Something novel in economics has
cropped up in St. Kilda (Vic.), where the
corporation laborers are agitating for
special pay. They get the basic wage, but
assert that the cost of living in St. Kilda
—a seaside tourist area —is higher than
in other municipalities paying more than
the basic wage. One neighboring coun-
cil where rents are nearly half those at
St. Kilda gives its laborers an additional
pound a week.
* * * *
It has been admitted by the N.S.W.
Department of Transport re-
surfacing of tramway tracks, an ordinary
departmental job, is being done by men
paid at relief-work rates. The admission
throws an odd light on the boast that
this department, which has been the
means of throwing hundreds of busmen
on the dole, is making profits. The Rail-
way Department, for its part, is getting
the use of millions of loan money, bor-
rowed at p.c. and upwards, for re-
conditioning and the like. If that con-
cern is ever in a position to claim that
it is making profits it will be hard to test
the claim, but the position doesn’t seem
likely to arise until the moon turns green.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Room*, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV.G PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lurch from 12 uoon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m
Tables, or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
s-x-s-sv??:
JuTMW]
itttllliij
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
SalT'S'
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our "capital. Buy from manu-
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GIL.MOUB COY., LID., Dept. 113,
Onr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Expert typist, Sydney, own machine, will
undertake all copying; long exp. with MS. —•
$124.
To buy second-hand copy of Victorian
Days and Ways, by Perugini.—9160.
Wanted £1000 for one-third interest in
patented invention. Product in everyday use.
—9108.
To get in touch with Australian firms likely
to be interested in M.L. pumice.—9114.
Intelligent, willing man (25) wants job on
sheep station. —9126.
John Edwin Johnson, formerly of Taranaki
(M.L.), is asked to communicate with brother
Oliver, Taihape.—9115.
Words of recitation “Murphy Shall Not
Sing To-night.”—9002.
Words of recitation “Spotty.”—9158.
Words of verse “The Kerrigan Boys.”—
9130.
Words of “That’s Where the Outback
Begins.”—9091.
Words of old Bulletin poem “Devil-may-
care.” —9143.
Information Sought.
(1) Did any Australian XI player go through
a tour in England without a not-out innings ?
(2) What is the record Test match for
“ducks,” and the players who got them ?
9150.
(1) Yes, Victor Trumper with the 1902
team; 53 innings for 2570 runs. (2) Test at
Manchester in 1888 produced a clutch of 13,
those failing to score being R. Abel, G.
Ulyett and G. Lohmann (Eng.), and C. Turner,
J. Worrall (twice), J. Ferris, J. Edwards, Alec
Bannernian, P. S. McDonnell, Harry Trott, G.
Bonnor and S. M. Woods (Aust.).
* * * *
What nationality was Peter Felix, the
colored heavyweight boxer? Where and when
was he born ? How tall and heavy was he,
and where and when did he die ? —9023.
fie was a native of the West Indies, being
born in St. Croix on July 17, 1866. He stood
6ft. 3in. in his socks, and weighed 13st. when
in condition. He died of heart disease in
Sydney on November 10, 1926.
* * * *
If a heavy object, such as a battleship, sinks
in mid-ocean, will it reach the bottom, or will
it remain suspended between the surface and
the ocean floor ? —9063.
Any object whose weight is greater than the
weight of the water it displaces will sink to
the bottom, the time taken to reach the bottom
depending upon the depth of the water and the
weight of the object as compared with the
weight of the water it displaces.
* * * *
What are ocean deeps ? —9013.
Sea abysses frequently found bordering sub-
marine ridges, which may be regarded as the
equivalent of mountain rang'es on land. They
are broad in mid-ocean but very narrow and
long near the coast, where they are found par-
allel to the major mountain systems of the
adjoining land masses. The chief deeps are
the Tuscarora, near Japan, the Challenger,
near Guam, the Hilgard and Tonga, near
Maoriland, the Murray, east of the Tuscarora,
the Ross, bordering Antarctica, the Nares, near
the West Indies, the Mosely, Buchanan and
Tizard, bordering the Atlantic ridge, the
Wharton, to the west of the East Indies, and
the Jeffreys, to the south of Australia.
*** * •
On what legal basis was George Dean, the
wife-poisoner, tried a second time, after being
discharged ? Under the terms of Magna
Charta, is it not a fact that no person can be
twice tried for the same offence ? —9027.
At the trial the jury returned a verdict
of guilty, with a recommendation to mercy.
A royal commission appointed to investigate
the evidence expressed grave doubts as to
Dean’s guilt, and recommended his release;
he was released accordingly. Subsequently,
confessions and admissions were made by Dean
and others which upheld the verdict of guilty.
The finding of the commission was not a
judicial trial, and the release of Dean on its
recommendation was an Executive act. The
provision in Magna Charta had nothing to do
with the case.
* * * *
Are there any vacancies in the New
Guinea police force ? Who makes the appoint-
ments for such positions ? Is there a long
waiting list ? —9019.
Appointments to the force are made by the
Administrator of the Territory pursuant to the
provisions of the Police Force Ordinance, 1930-
35. There are 39 names on the waiting list
(selected from 1500 Australian applicants), and
it is anticipated that these will be sufficient
to meet requirements for the time being.
Your name has been recorded.
* * * *
■ L. m a nd would like to obtain a position
in the mechanical section of the Air Force or
the army. What positions of the kind are
there, and where should I apply? Are there
many openings? —B93l.
d 0 * l acancies exist in the ranks of the
■ , at P re ? en t- As it is probable that
additional recruits will be required during
March, 1936, an application form has been
posted, together with a summary of conditions
of service, trade requirements for enlistment
as a fitter, pay, etc. If you are qualified, com-
plete the form and return it to the Air Board,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. Particulars re-
garding enlistment and vacancies in the army
may be obtained from the Secretary, Military
Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) Does air possess weight, and, if so, who
was the first to observe the fact ? (2) Any
way of proving it ? —9076.
(1) Otto von Guericke, of Magdeburg
(1650), seems to have been the first to observe
that air has weight. (2) The air is first ex-
hausted from a glass vessel of known capacity.
The vessel is then placed on a balance and its
weight counterbalanced by suitable weights.
Air is now allowed to enter the vessel. The
mass of the contained air at atmospheric pres-
sure is found by weights added to restore
equilibrium. One litre of air at Centigrade
zero and 760 m.m. pressure (atmospheric)
weighs 1.31844 gramme.
* * * *
(1) What are the methods of smoking barra-
mundi and curing shark fins ? (2) Names of
buyers in Sydney ?— 41559.
(1) Shark fins are cut from the shark so
that no flesh remains adherent to them, and
they are then dried in the sun on wire-netting
supported above the ground. No further
treatment is necessary. A pamphlet giving
practical instruction for the smoking of fish
generally has been posted. (2) Marks and Co.,
Regent-lane, Redfern, Sydney, might be inter-
ested in smoked barramundi, and Wing On
and Co., 10 Ultimo-road, Sydney, might buy
cured shark fins.
* * * *
Is the popular belief that butterflies fly only
during the day and moths only at night cor-
rect ? 9176.
The belief is inaccurate, since some butter-
flies appear only at dusk, and many moths
fly by day.
* * * *
(1) How to determine the capacity, in gal-
lons, of a cylindrical tank, knowing the
diameter and the height ? (2) Conversely, how
to determine the height, knowing the diameter
and capacity? —B9Bl.
(1) Multiply the diameter in feet, squared,
by 4.9 times the height. For example, a tank
has a diameter of 10ft. and a height of 6ft.
The capacity is 10 x 10 x 4.9 x 6, or 2940
gallons. (2) Divide the capacity by 4.9 times
the diameter squared. For example, a 10ft.-
diameter tank has a capacity of 2940 gallons.
The height is, therefore, 2940 divided by the
product of 4.9 times 100, or 490, equals 6ft.
* * * *
Where does the quotation “Timed Danaos et
dona forenfes” come from ? —8944.
Virgil’s AEneid, Book 2. Translated it
reads: “I fear the Greeks when they bring
gifts.”
* * * *
(1) Would it be possible to operate a Pel ton
wheel with water from a tank 14ft. high through
a }in. pipe, 190 ft. long, driving a - or 12 -volt
dynamo? (2) Agents for the Felton wheel?
(3) Where could I obtain a 6- or 12-volt
generator ? —8361.
(1) No. A 190 ft. |in. pipe will deliver less
than 4gal. per minute at a head of 14ft. This
would not provide sufficient power to operate
any generator of practical use. (2) W. G.
Watson and Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence-street,
Sydney. (3) Try Bennett and Wood, Ltd.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney, or any dealer in motor
accessories.
* * * *
When should spring-flowering shrubs be
pruned ? —9144.
Get the work done as soon as the flowers
fall. On the new wood will come next year’s
blooms; therefore, cut out cross-growing limbs
in order to maintain shapeliness. Shrubs to
be pruned include lilacs, azaleas, weigelas,
prosanthtras, peaches, plums and quinces;
and such natives as waratahs, Geraldton wax,
b'ottle-brushes and eriostemons.
* * * *
(1) Has the timber of while beach (G.
Leichhardtil) any economic value ? (2) Why
is it dying out in some districts ? —9170.
(1) The timber is strong, durable and easily
worked; if moderately seasoned it does not
unduly contract or expand, and is therefore
valuable for decking vessels, flooring, veran-
dahs, etc. (2) The fruits (“beech-nuts”) are,
when approaching maturity, frequently attacked
by insects, which destroy their fertility
This factor, in conjunction with the hardness
of the seeds, reduces the productivity of the
plants to such an extent that in certain dis-
tricts the species is within measurable distance
of extinction.
* * * *
What kind of weather can one expect during
the third and fourth weeks of September in the
Red Sea and around Karachi and Bombay 7
—9033. * ’
The mean daily temperatures for Karachi
and Bombay for September are respectively
81 deg. and 82deg. Fahr., and the average
daily relative humidity is approximately 85 p.c.
for both stations. For purposes of com-
parison, it may be of interest to note that at
Thursday Island in March the temperature is
84deg. and the humidity 78deg. The places
in India may be regarded as more oppressive
than Thursday Island. In the Red Sea con-
ditions will be warm to hot and sultry owing
to excessive evaporation. From the middle of
June until the end of September, summer con-
ditions prevail north of Lat. 22, the relative
humidity being low away from the coast. In
the south the weather is unsettled.
* * * *
How does the saliva assist the digestion of
food. What control is necessary for this
purpose ? —9152.
The mouth saliva has digestive properties
due to the presence of a ferment or enzyme
that has the power of acting upon starch. This
ferment is known as ptyalin or salivary dias-
tase ; in an alkaline medium it converts starch
products into simpler bodies or dextrins. Sali-
vary digestion proceeds until the acid secre-
tion of the stomach has penetrated to the in-
terior of the food bolus. The flow of saliva
is stimulated by the presence of food in the
mouth or by the thought, sight or smell of
food. Controlling influences pass from the
brain to salivary glands through medium of
the nerve fibres. Moist and soft foods that
can _be swallowed without mastication cause a
minimum secretion of saliva; this factor de-
mands attention in food regulation and diet.
♦ * * *
How is malaria diagnosed ? Is anosmia
associated with it, and what are the indica-
tions ? —9159.
Diagnosis of malaria is based on two funda-
mental methods. The surest is to find the
parasite in the blood; otherwise signs and
symptoms must be examined clinically in their
response to treatment with quinine. Where
the disease is known to exist, or when the
patient has come from an endemic area, its
special symptoms should be borne in mind
when blood examination for malarial parasites
w made. At this stage the influence of a
regulated quinine therapy must be noted for
diagnostic purposes. If the parasite be not
found, pallor and changes in the red blood
cells may point to anxmia, especially in
chronic malaria. In acute cases there are gen-
erally a periodic fever (it may be remittent),
characteristic ague, and an enlarged, tender
spleen. In chronic and latent malaria, an
enlarged spleen is not uncommon, the other
signs in order of frequence being anaemia (with
general wasting and sallow skin), enlarged liver
and heart weakness.
* * * ♦
What were the major Spanish schools of
painting, dates, etc. ? —7550.
The school of Castile, with centres at Toledo,
Badajos, Valladolid and Madrid, arose in 1226
at Toledo, and that town was the home of
Spanish artists for 400 years. Later came the
school of Andalusia, with centres at Cordova,
Granada and Seville, founded by Juan San-
chez de Castro at Sfeville in the fifteenth cen-
tury. Next came the school of Valencia,
founded by Pedro Nicolas Factor, krfown as
“El Beato,” 1520-1583. Italian and Flemish
influences affected these early painters. The
really great national schools of Spain arose
in the seventeenth century, with Velazquez and
Murillo.
♦ * * *
(1) What materials are necessary to do fine
etching ? (2) How is it dotte ? (3) Can tuition
he obtained anywhere ? —8422.
(1) Materials are copper and zinc plates, a
ball of etching ground, a dabber, etching
needles of different sizes, a drypoint, some
nitrous or other acid, porcelain baths, a bottle
of stopping-out varnish, an oil rubber, a
scraper, a burnisher, a blind or shade and a
rest for the hand when working. A beginner
will need as well a number of bottles with glass
stoppers, a large bottle of spirits of turpentine,
benzine, wax tapers, a small vyce with a
wooden handle, an oilstone, water-color brushes
of different sizes, plenty of soft, white blot-
ting paper, tracing paper, washleather, thick
charcoal, crocus powder, the very finest emery
paper, plenty of old rag, olive oil, gauze,
etching paper for printing, printing ink and,
most important, a press to print on. (2) A
design is first made, and then a copper plate
is prepared by coating it with the etching
ground, which is smoked with the lighted
tapers. The design is then traced on to it.
This design is drawn over with the etching
needles, which lift away the wax surface of the
ground and expose the plate along all the
lines of the drawing. The back of the plate
is coated with stopping-out varnish, and when
this is dry the plate is placed in a bath of
acid, which bites into the exposed copper and
so permanently places the design on the plate.
When sufficiently bitten, the plate is taken from
the bath, cleaned on both sides, inked, wiped
and printed in the special kind of press neces-
sary. (3) At East Sydney Technical College
or the Syd Long School of Etching—both
Sydney.
* * * *
What are considered the best pictures painted
by Josef Israels, the Dutch painter ? —8426.
Among his masterpieces are “The Zandvoort
Fisherman,” “Village Poor,” “Shipwrecked,”
“Cradle,” “When We Grow Old,” “The
Widower,” “The Bric-a-brac Seller” and “Be-
tween the Fields and the Seashore.”
* * * *
Information concerning the surname Cliffen,
and its origin ? —B4lO.
In the form given it does not appear in
any book of reference, and is probably a
derivative or variant of Cliffe or Cliff, “at the
cliff,” from the Middle English clif, clef or of
Clifton, meaning “farmhouse or manor at the
cliff.” Clifton is a very common place-
name, being distributed throughout England,
Scotland and Ireland; Ireland has as well
Clifdcn and Clifferna, any of which could
have stood as god-parent to the surname.
* * * *
Method of cleaning a panama hat ? —8984.
Scrub with pure white Castile soap and
warm water containing a little ammonia; use
a nailbrush to remove the dirt. Rinse in warm
water, and then in cool water containing a
little glycerine. Wipe off surplus water with
a soft towel, place the hat on the folded
towel and dry in the sun.
Does Anybody Know?
How did the word “station” come to be
used in connection with Australian country
properties?—B932.
Brief Answers.
Tassie: (1) The person who employs the
debt collector should pay him. In N.S.W. it
has been held that on a garnishee summons
costs should not be given against the judgment
debtor; nor should the creditor be ordered to
pay the garnishee’s costs except where the gar-
nishee has been put to extra difficulty by the
judgment creditor. Service of a summons is
not necessarily personal; the law provides
other means where defendant cannot be
found. A garnishee order remains in force
until debt has been discharged. (2) It
would not be lawful to make any arrange-
ment calculated to defeat the judgment
Bali: In copying, an extension to twice the
nominal’ focal length of a lens gives an
image equal in size to that of the original.
Each additional increase in the distance of
the lens from the back of the camera equal
to the focal length of the lens increases the
diameter of the image one time. A lens of
6sin. focal length used at a distance of 37iin.
from the plate would give a magnification of
five K.S.C.; Card posted T.J.S.: Pam-
phlet mailed. Routine entails treatment by
diet, without drugs A.H.D.: The nervous,
highly-strung child is susceptible; full correc-
tion is usual in the early teens. In normal
health specific treatment is seldom required;
give chemical food twice or thrice daily as a
tonic, and cultivate a regular habit by waking
the child if necessary. Liquids in any form
should be avoided after the evening meal....
T.A.; Suggests a case of a simple nature.
Wear a pad support (elastic); doctor will advise
as to type. Physical extremes must be avoided.
. ...S.N.: (1) Details regarding baccarat and
its derivative chemin-dc-fer too involved to
publish here. See Hoyle’s Games Modernised ,
by L. H. Dawson, stocked by all big book-
sellers. (2) Yes. Particulars forwarded....
8.A.: The Danish Consul-General can furnish
no particulars K.N.: You have misunder-
stood the directions given. The pronunciation,
as nearly as it can be given in phonetic Eng-
lish, is mad-m-wa-zel G.L.: Communicate
with the Stock Branch, Dept, of Agriculture,
Box 36A, G.P.0., Sydney... .G.T.: The seven
wonders of the ancient world were the pyra-
mids, the hanging gardens of Babylon, the
temple of Diana at Ephesus, the statue of
Jupiter Olympus at Olympia, the tomb ol
Mausolus, the Pharos of Alexandria and the
Colossus of Rhodes... .C.A.: (1) The informa-
tion is not recorded. (2) Sydney, 1,249,000;
Melbourne, 1,000,000 D.P.: Quinginup
means “plenty of rats,” Turndijap, “a small
spring,” and Walkinnupp, “wait a while.” All
are Westralian aboriginal place-names.
....J.M.: The Poetical Works of Henry
Lawson (7s. 6d.), obtainable from leading
booksellers R.L.L.: From Ford, Sherring-
ton, Ltd., 119 Kippax-street, Sydney... .K.D.:
Get in touch with the Vocational Guidance
Bureau, Education Department, Sydney
W.P.W.: (1) The Comet used by Scott in
the air race from England to Australia cost
£5000; it is an experimental type of ’plane,
and is not available for sale at the moment.
(2) Qantas Empire Airways, Ltd., Archerfield
Aerodrome, Brisbane; Dc Havilland Aircraft
Pty., Tugan Aircraft, Ltd., and Adastra Air-
ways, Ltd,, all Mascot Aerodrome, Sydney;
Ma’tlhews Aviation Pty. and Hart Aircraft
Service Pty., both Aerodrome, Essendon (Vic.);
and Robert Bryce and Co., 526 Little
Bourke-street, Melbourne, stock aircraft parts.
(3) The ordinary timber -tests would ascer-
tain its suitability for constructing aircraft.
....R.F.S.: In most cases height can be
increased by exercise. Junctions of the long
bones are involved in active growth changes in
early life; after 20 or so their fusion renders
further growth impossible. To some extent
growth is influenced by the presence of requi-
site vitamins in the food, and fails to be
normal when these are deficient or unbalanced
in supply. Any disturbance of the ductless
glands (thyroid and pituitary) demands atten-
tion. Exercise should be regulated to suit
the individual case N.L.: Information in-
sufficient. Send the bore of the test pump,
its stroke, and the capacity obtained with it
in gallons per hour... .T.R.: Firearms the
personal property of persons entering the
Commonwealth are free of duty. Under the
Customs Regulations, pistols, including any
lethal weapon capable <Jf being ’concealed on
the person and from which any shot can be
discharged, as well as rifles of .303 calibre and
any parts thereof, are prohibited imports, ex-
cept with consent of Minister... .D.L.: Barns
and His Poetry, by H. A. Kellow, price 35.;
Burns, by Principal Shairp, price ss. 9d.;
Robert Burns, by Catherine Carswell, price 35.;
John Galsworthy, by Hermon Quid, price 13s.
—from Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney.
E.S.; Original cast of “lolanthe” at
Theatre Royal, Melbourne, May 9, 1885: Lord
Chancellor, Robert Brough; Earl of Mountara-
rat, M. H._ Woodfield; Earl Tolloller, Frank
Boyle; Private Willis, Ernest St. Clair;
Strephon, Signor Brocolini; Queen of the
Fairies, Florence Trevelyan (Mrs. Brough);
lolanthe, Emma Chambers; Celia, Emma
Temple; Leila, Aggie Kelton; Fleta, Lillie
Forde; Phyllis, Nellie Stewart. The Sydney
season • followed in July the same year with
the same cast. Then in November there was
a change, with Ida Osborne as lolanthe,
Howard Vernon as Lord Chancellor and
Alice Barnett as Queen of the Fairies (her
original part in London). W. H. Harrison
was the conductor and John Wallace the stage
manager... .W.T.C.: The most comprehensive
textbook is Millard’s Real Property (£2 55.).
There is no handbook on “Law for the man
on the land.” A catalogue of law books is
posted... .D.S.H.: It was written by Jack
Moses, and appears in his Beyond the Citv
Gates A.T.: The surname Penrhyn is pro-
nounced Penrinn H.T.: No exact figures
available, but tennis probably has more players
than golf. .. .N.G.N.: Montague Grover’s
stories “Thirty Pieces of Silver” and “One
Punch Patsy” have not been published in book
form (Many others mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in ths story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XIV. — {Continued.)
111.
TIBURON never understood why the police charged.
It was such a wet, discouraged meeting. True,
the speakers had no permit to hold it, and Scorby
had instructions to see it was stopped. It was shown
also at the inquiry that many of the strikers carried
weapons, that some were characters well known to
the police, and that the executive had allotted posi-
tions and tasks in case of police interference. But
that three policemen should put to flight a crowd
of fifty or more people in a couple of minutes seemed
incredible to those who were not there.
One minute there were only the sounds of the
Magsman’s hoarse, thin voice and the deliberate tread
of the approaching feet as the police strolled slowly
along the pavement. A few yards from the meeting
Scorby paused and spoke to his two assistants. The
three began to work their way quietly towards the
Magsman. The crowd faltered ; but when Scorby,
uttering a quick “Get him!” made a sudden dart
forward, it roared and broke and fled.
The soapbox on which Denny had been standing
was knocked from beneath him, and he crashed for-
ward on to the charging Scorby. Scorby, anxious
only to get at the now-vanishing Okker Slade,
wrenched at the hands which clutched his waist; but
the Magsman did not let go. Even as he drew his
baton Scorby grimly remembered that he was still
within his regulations. He crashed his baton down
on the Magsman’s bent head with all the stored-up
hatred he had been saving for the missing Okker;
but when he drew back his heavy boot it was with
a wild satisfaction that he felt it thud dully against
the crumpled body.
Then he charged on, his face cool, his baton
swinging round the ankles and calves of the groups
that scattered and stumbled as they ran, head down,
blindly seeking shelter from those thudding feet, so
deliberately pursuing. Make a good job of it, he
thought; make a clean job of it. How stupid, how
unbearably stupid! Running like rabbits! He was
the more savage that they would not fight. Weak,
stupid! Stupid, weak! He hated them, not because
they were weak, but because they claimed to be men
and they would not fight. Let them take what they
deserved. Anyway, this was the end of the strike.
He chased the fleeing, stumbling figures with a
swift savagery, looking always for the one man he
wanted, until he found himself across the railway
line and alone, except for two or three dark shapes
heading over the lucerne flats. He stood panting
for a moment, more with excitement than weariness,
and then turned back to the group which had clotted
like flies round the splintered remains of the packing-
case, A dark stain spread out on the wet pavement.
It would be a long time before Denny the Mags-
man would be anything else but a case of concussion
and broken ribs. He lay there in a mess of broken
false teeth, with blood running from the corner of his
mouth and the gash on the side of his head where
he had come down on the iron binding of the packing-
case. Two of his ribs were broken, although they
did not discover that until they got him on the
stretcher. He was a nasty sight, and it was little
wonder that Sergeant Moore, after one look at him,
refused to proceed with a case.
As Scorby stood waiting for the little ambulance,
with the group of hushed whisperers behind him and
the wet, deserted pavement in front, he stared at the
stained pavement and felt a sense of loss and loneli-
ness as though something more than Okker Slade had
escaped him. He noted with faint surprise what a
small man Denny was. Strange that these little men
were always getting into trouble, always pushing their
way in where they had no right to be. If Denny
had not tried to hold Scorby he would not have been
hurt, but he had hung on. He lay there beaten; but
it appeared that by losing consciousness he had
eluded the police.
“Keep back there,” Scorby ordered; and he
watched them put Denny into the ambulance almost
with impatience. These rebels, these stupid fools!
Then he went off to report to the sergeant that the
strike was over.
From the other end of the block came the sound
of a piano, a violin and the toot of Standforth
Roman’s trombone, with a thud-thud sound like a
herd of policemen. It was the ballet of “The Mackoni-
culls of Kilmuckie” going through their opening
number, “Men of Kilmuckie.” The girls had insisted
on having the doors shut, because the sports outside
would pass rude remarks about their legs ; so none
of the company had heard the shouts of the strikers
above the noise they were making themselves. They
were all very chagrined to hear later what they had
missed ; but well on to midnight the piano, violin
and trombone kept up their faint requiem, while the
rain beat down on the deserted corner and the faint
thud, thud of the dancers’ feet trod underfoot the
memory of that other thudding. The rain water
trickled into the stains and washed them clean ; but
the broken packing-case, which no one had seen fit
to remove, stood like a monument in the gutter.
IV.
There was panic in the ranks of the travellers.
Horses were harnessed to turnouts, children and
baggage were bundled in, and at an early hour a
line of vans and sulkies was to be seen crawling like
a plague of caterpillars in a straight line towards
Mudger’s Flat.
The story that Scorby had knocked down and
injured half a dozen of the strikers and arrested a
dozen more made Mudger’s Flat infinitely to be pre-
ferred. The inhabitants of Mudger’s Flat gave them
no welcome at all.
Okker had departed for the north the night before
with an old shearer’s cook called Corney Blain. They
made slow progress on foot, but stood less chance
of capture. Scorby rode out and made a few in-
quiries, but he had the sergeant’s instructions' that
he was not to interfere with the travellers. Sergeant
Moore was too relieved at the thought that the strike
was over to want any further trouble, and his one
desire was that as many as possible should go, and
quickly. Scorby also, after a night spent restlessly
pacing the narrow confines of his solitary room at the
barracks, felt that he was missing the quiet country
life for which he had been sent to Tiburon. it is
strange, however, how trouble will persist in coming
to those who want it least.
A group seventeen strong of the young travellers,
including Army MacPherson, who, although he did
Clutched his waist.
not hold with “Commoonists,” had been active enough
during the strike, got a lift on a wheat lorry to
Mudger’s Flat with the idea of getting an empty
goods train through to the west. With these went
Bill White. It had been decided at a hasty family
council that he had best follow in Larry’s footsteps
and seek his fortune elsewhere. Bill had tripped up
one of Scorby’s assistants at the meeting, and it was
felt that the police would be rounding him up any
minute.
Dave sat and watched while the girls, weeping,
brought Bill things he protested he didn’t want and
could never carry. Finally his kit was reduced to a
sugarbag containing a shirt, a tin plate and knife,
some food, a woollen undershirt and sandshoes, a
cake of soap (Lizzie), a blanket, a razor and a second
pair of socks.
“An’ y’r startin’ in life like y’r ol’ dad,” Dave
remarked as he knocked the ashes out of his pipe
on the side of the bed. “Well” —he fumbled ruefully
in the pocket of his trousers and beckoned to Ella —
“never say I didn’t give y’ nothin’.” Ella walked over
to the heap and deposited Dave’s gift on the top or
it. It was a tarnished object, Dave’s mouth-organ, an
instrument with a history. Bill grunted m an em-
barrassed way, and the girls sniffed louder than ever.
“An’ now that y’re startin’ out in life,” Dave
continued, full of paternal affection and bad judg-
ment, “remember what I told y’ about dyein Guv ment
tarpaulins with bark so’s the stripes won’t show. Don t
go anywhere near Orchard Hill, because cockles
there are the ’ungriest lot in Horstralyer, an if yre
down in Sydney call on y’r Aunt Mollie an’ tell er
Dave sent ’is love. Don’t sell that mouth-organ or
I’ll knock y’r block orf, an’ if y’ ’it it lucky y’ can
let us know.”
“Oh, them p'lice!” Ella wept. “Come an’ kiss
Bill good-bye, Evie and Bobbie. Oh, I could’cry me
eyes out!”
“Cheer up,” Bill mumbled. “Ain’t dead yet.”
“Oh,” Ella sobbed. “You’ll write, won’t y’, Bill?”
Bill was uncomfortably surrounded by a damp and
vocal ring of small relatives and sisters. “An’ if
you ’ear of a job you’ll send f’r me, won’t y’ Bill?’
“That’s enough from you,” Dave put in roughly.
“Y’re a married woman, an’ y’re goin’ t’ stay in y’r
own ’ome with y’r ’usban’ an’ family. Don’t get any
idea into y’r head that y’re goin’ gallivaritin’ round
the globe.”
“An’ is that so?” Ella’s voice was strident. “To
hell with you, you old boozehound! All me lile I’ve
’ad you muckin’ up any chance I’ve got, an’, let me
tell you, if I as much as see the sign of a job”
Their voices rose in unison.
“To hell with you!” roared Dave. “Hey, Sam,
y’re a wonderful sorta ’usband, leltin’ y’r wife talk
like that.”
“’E ain’t my ’usband. To hell with him.”
“An’ to ’ell with you!” muttered Sam.
“Well, so long, Jim,” Bill said, holding out a
hand.
“So long, lad.”
Dave limped carefully over to the sugarbag and
thoughtfully retrieved the mouth-organ.
“Never know when 1 may need this more’n you,”
he remarked as he resumed his place on the bed and
fondled the battered instrument lovingly. The last
Bill heard of his home was the sad strain of “The
Three-leaved Shamrock.”
V.
They trickled into the goods siding at Mudger’s
Flat that night in groups of three and four ; and the
night watchman, who was a wise man, simply did
not see them, though he mentioned later to the local
police inspector that he had a feeling that some
“rattling” was going on.
“I like wheat,” Army MacPherson remarked to
Bill, who was in the same truck ; “jus’ like fevvers,
1 don’t think.” He grunted and rolled over to the
other side of the truck, where he proceeded to bore
himself a new peephole in the tarpaulin with his
pocket-knife.
Bill watched him with very little interest. “If
ever I set eyes on Tiburon again,” he remarked, “it
won’t be my fault.”
“We’ll be goin’ through there soon, sonny,
remember.”
“Yes, an’ when we’re drawin’ in I’ll shut me
eyes. Never want t’ see the lousy joint again.”
Unfortunately for Bill’s fond hopes, the police
inspector at Mudger’s Flat was a zealous man, and
he had thought it wise to telephone the Tiburon police
that a group of train-jumpers would possibly pass
through their town.
“As though we hadn’t enough
damn’ trouble,” Sergeant Moore
groaned. “We’ll have to make a
search, 1 suppose.” He looked ap-
pealingly at Scorby, who merely
nodded silently.
Bill White, conscientiously clos-
ing his eyes as the train slowed down
at the culvert, opened them again with
a jerk as the truck in front of his
crashed to a stop and butted his truck
with a force that made him bite his
tongue. The whole line groaned and
squealed to a halt.
“Come on, now ; get out of that,”
came the sergeant’s voice, shouting at
them. Interested heads projected
from the passenger carriage while the
surprised Scorby, finding that the ap-
parently empty trucks were carrying
a freight of ex-strikers, was busily in-
structing them to remain right where
they were.
“Come on, get down out of that,”
the sergeant was shouting, until Scorby
pointed out that Tiburon was faced
with a small invasion. Flustered, the
old man drew his revolver and clam-
bered up the side of the truck. “Get out of it,” he
ordered. “I’ve got you covered.”
“Oh, is that so?” roared Army Macpherson in
an ugly temper. “Well, you come in an' get us.”
This put the police force in a quandary. After
a few minutes’ deliberation, the sergeant tried a new
tack. “Now, come on, men,” he said, almost coax-
ingly. “It won’t do you any good to take up this
attitude. You treat us square and we’ll do the same
by you.”
He finally managed to get the seventeen into the
guard’s van.
“I’ll see you at the police station,” he said sternly
to Scorby as he locked that luckless individual in
with the captives, much as a lion-tamer might lock
in a leg of mutton with the lions. Scorby, philo-
sophically consoling himself that the sergeant had been
the first to break regulations, drew his revolver and
placed his back against the door.
The seventeen were roaring “The Red Flag,” but,
as only four of them knew the words, it was not
really a good effort, even though it was only meant
to be aggravating to the forces of law and order.
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family, the chief of Tiburon’s
“unwanteds” live in humpies on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Blue, Okker Slade and Denny the
Magsman are “travellers,” camped at the un-
employed shelter.
Sergeant Moore and Constable Scorby
are “the Law” in Tiburon.
Jingo Barnes, a teacher at Tiburon School,
has written a play which the Dramatic Society
is about to produce.
The relief-workers are on strike, their chief
demand being the right to refuse work if the
wages offered are less than the dole. At the
close of last instalment arrangements for an
open-air meeting had just been concluded.


They dropped it for that grand old busker song
“Mother and Home.”
“Co-o-ome, listen to my-hi sad story.
My mo-o-ther for me did cry;
She-e-e said, ‘My son, don’t leave me-e-e,’
For me-e-e she would of died.”
As the train slowed into the station a bagman,
walking along the row of trucks looking for a good
place, knocked on the wall of the van. “Don’t make
so much row,” he warned. “You’re in Tiburon.”
Even Scorby smiled grimly.
The sergeant unlocked the door at the station,
and Scorby and the seventeen looked out at a ring
Dave retrieved the month-organ.
of passengers busily explaining what had happened
to the locals on the platform. Murmurs of sympathy
were as loud as remarks about the brutality of the
police. An impressionable woman lawyer who was
on the train was offering to prosecute the police for
drawing their revolvers, and recorded the names of
Bill White and Army Macpherson for reference. The
seventeen sat tight on their swags and refused to
move. Only the sergeant’s promise that they should
be driven up to the police station in taxis induced
them to come out on the platform, where they busied
themselves collecting such trifles as stray tobacco and
other contributions to tide them over their stay in
gaol. The train whistle sent the passengers scuttling
back to their carriage, whence they gave three cheers
lor the train-jumpers and three hoots for the police.
“For the Lord’s sake get them away,” Sergeant
Moore hissed to Scorby, who promptly hailed old
Sid Harper and chartered his taxi and that of Bill
Pearson, the other taxi-driver.
“Pick up your swags, men,” the sergeant com-
manded.
“Pick ’em up y'rself,” roared Macpherson, scram-
bling into the taxi.
The group of loungers watched with interest and
approval as the sergeant and Scorby directed that the
assorted billies, sugarbags and blankets be loaded
on to the carrier’s lorry. As the strange procession
made its way through the town it created quite a
sensation.
“If I’d only known it was this mob,” the sergeant
murmured to himself, “1 wouldn't have gone two
yards to stop them. I’d have lent them their fare.”
Scorby, in the other taxi, had feelings too deep
and rich to be expressed in words. To think that
they had gone out of their way to bring back to
Tiburon this hornet’s nest! There is nothing very
pleasant in the thought that you are about to be
cooped up in an undersized police station with seven-
teen reckless individuals who have every reason to
do what they can to annoy you. As he meditated
on the fact that but for that officious inspector at
Mudger’s Flat these unpleasant customers would be
miles away from Tiburon, he felt that he could
commit murder. And to think that Bill White was
one of them!
The sergeant and Scorby pursued the prosecution
with little zeal, and old Elliot gave the men only four
days. “You must remember, sergeant, that these
men have every reason to expect leniency,” he said,
as if the sergeant were rather to blame for making the
arrest. “The dangerous practice of boarding railway
trucks is one that no one would attempt if not under
stress of urgent necessity. Four days.”
Scorby and the sergeant relieved their feelings
by removing from the strikers all tobacco in their
possession. This, to the travellers, was worse than
four days in Tiburon lockup. They did as best they
cculd by tearing leaves off the lily plants Mrs. Moore
had planted round the yard. But smoking lily leaves,
as they complained, makes you go right out to it
when you do the drawback. The noise was horrible.
It seemed to the distracted Force that the travellers
never went to sleep. When they were not singing
they were playing games which necessitated as much
high spirit, banter and quarrelling as might be expected
from a boys’ school. Remonstrances were met by
calls of “Raspberry Nose” if the complainant hap-
pened to be the sergeant, and “Murderer” if it hap-
pened to be Scorby.
“Men,” said the sergeant sweetly on the third
day, “I have decided to take off a day for good con-
duct. I consider that you have behaved very well,
considering the small nature of the gaol.”
Instead of thanks he was met by abuse and
accusations that he was trying to pocket the shilling
allowed per meal per man. They wished to finish
their sentence properly.
“Stay there, then,” the sergeant roared.
When the seventeen finally went to get their
tuckerbags, the meat after four days was ready to
walk away with the bags. The sergeant wiped his
forehead thankfully as he watched the group stream
down the road to “bite” Tiburon and spread the tale
of their hardships.
“And now,” said Scorby sardonically, “you’ll
have them hanging round to-morrow wanting more
dole.”
The sergeant paled. “Good God!” he said. “I
didn’t think of that.”
While on the road towards Warning Hill the
travellers were overtaken by the sergeant’s car.
“And what will you boys be doing now?” he
inquired.
“Ar, go an’ boil y’r nose,” came a sullen murmur
from the rear.
“I can see” —the sergeant was unruffled —“that
you think you’re hard done by. But we’ve got to do
our duty. Train-jumping’s a breach of the law.”
Hostile silence.
“Well," said (he sergeant awkwardly, “there'll be
another train passing through here about nine o’clock
to-night, and if any of you should happen to be
aboard I won’t know anything about it.”
He drove away, with a cheer to follow
him.
“No, I’ve come *ome,” Bill said firmly
as he sal down heavily in the White hut ; “if
that's travellin' I’m damned if I’m goin’ to
’ave it on.”
“It’s almost Fate,” Mary sighed. “Lizzie,
didn't I dream of trains the night Bill left?
That’ll show y’.”
“An’ ain't y’ goin’ to start again?” Bill’s
father asked.
I “No, I ain't. Not if I know it. Travellin’,” he
said nastily, “is only for them that ain't got rich
fathers to live on. Ain’t that so, Jim?”
Jim only grinned. “Stick around,” he said.
“Damn’ good thing I didn’t give y’ me mouth-
organ,” Dave grunted.
Chapter XV.
I.
AND then, temporarily sweeping all memories of
the strike out of mind, came the tremendous
success of Jingo’s play, “The Mackoniculls of
Kilmuckie.”
The thing was a preordained success, and the hall
had three hundred seats booked out in advance. It
must be admitted that this was largely due to very
effective advertising. An enormous banner swung
across the main street warning passers-by not to
miss “The Mackoniculls.” All (he stores had window
posters proclaiming the coming of “The Mackoniculls
of Kilmuckie” and boasting of. “its super-acting,
glorious dresses, pretty girls, pathos, humor, fifteen
new song hits, dancing and delight.”
Jingo was not personally responsible or he would
never, in self-defence, have allowed himself to be
billed as “that talented producer and playwright, Mr.
Eustace Barnes.” It was his fault, though, indirectly,
for giving Ted Pew the part of blackmailer and crook
as well as that of publicity agent for the play. Ted
was a small, pinched-looking man who had lost his
hair. He edited the “Tiburon Advertiser.” Siddy, his
printer, took the part of the comical Jew ; and the
two made sure that the show was boosted in the
“Advertiser” for months ahead.
Everybody was there. Colbert Carfrae, who
detested musical comedies and disapproved of Jingo,
sat in a complimentary seat and gazed so steadily at
the curtain that his eyes nearly burnt a hole in it.
The curtain was an inflammable yellow affair, orna-
mented with advertisements of shops long bankrupt
and businesses that had changed hands ten years
before. It had been put up when the theatre was first
built in nineteen-twelve ; and the purple boots, crim-
son buns and cups of tea, blue scissors and green
hosiery had been made profitable for long afterwards.
It gave the advertisers every satisfaction to sit and
consider before the show began how much better
their pink bun looked than their neighbor’s apple-
green leg of mutton. It put them in a tolerant mood.
The Harpers were there, down to (he latest
arrival, little Norman Harper; the Harpers from
seven miles out were there, and the Harpers from
ten miles out; the Harpers from the general store
who had intermarried with the Reeds, Sprints and
Traves. There were Harpers from Long Gap who
had come to see Floss Souter (who was a Harper by
connection), with boxes of chocolates in their hands.
The Gordons were there in reserved seats ; and Mr.
Gordon wore a dress-suit without even being an
usher. A little party comprising Mrs. Claufield, Mr.
and Mrs. Ilford, Mr. and Mrs. Darch, Bella Malloy,
young Mrs. Westly, Councillor and Mrs. Mac Leary
and the rest of the “nobs” occupied the third row
from the front. The Perrys (bakery) were represented ;
the Hicks (flourmill) with “bouquets of choice blos-
soms for daughter Jill” (see “Tiburon Advertiser”);
dentist Fulcombe was there, and Wilfrid Parboy (law),
who had come to see his office force show its
mettle and its legs. Mrs. Smith waved to every-
body, and loudly announced her son's talent for elec-
tric-light effects. Father Flaherty and the Salvation
Army captain nodded to each other across two rows
of seats.
( The audience whistled and hummed and studied
its “souvenir'’ programme, crammed with advertise-
ments, only a tiny space in the middle being given
over to the names of those acting.
Jingo tore around behind the scenes giving
orders to the sports (who had rallied nobly),
helping with the scenery, issuing last-minute warn-
ings, cursing the effects for getting in the way and
helping to dress and make up the principals. The
orchestra, with Standforth Roman in a dress-suit,
had played the “Grand Hussars’ March” three times
before the curtain waggled a signal, staggered, fell,
rose again and sailed high and glorious over “ ‘The
Mackoniculls of Kilmuckie,’ an Australian Musical
Comedy.”
The curtain ascended to show another splendid
drop of scarlet sateen with the initials T.D.S. in yellow
silk. In front of this the male members of the com-
pany were stationed for the opening number, “We
Are Kilmuckie Men,” before the ballet came on with
a bound and high kick to sing “We are Kilmuckie
Maids.” The number was uproariously received ; the
scarlet curtains parted on the “Drawing-room at Kil-
muckie Station,” and the audience, rapt in contempla-
tion of the work of the younger strikers, held its breath.
The drawing-room of Kilmuckie station was truly
baronial. The canvas walls were painted greeny-grey
to imitate marble pillars, while the crimson plush
curtains hanging at the back gave the effect of a hall
beyond and distance to a stage only eight feet deep.
Beside this table sat Mrs. Mackonicull (Beryl
Perry, of the bakery) darning a sock to illustrate
domestic virtue. After a pause Mary, the maid,
entered, to carry on a long and inaudible conversation
with her mistress. She spoke with a Cockney accent
to show, first, that she was an Australian, and,
secondly, that she was a comic character. No one
could hear a word that she said because of the rain
on the corrugated-iron roof; and they would not
have recognised the accent if they had heard it.
Then, as Mary went out, Wal, the jackeroo
of Kilmuckie station, came in. He naturally
mentioned his great love for Mrs. Mackoni-
cull’s daughter Jean in the course of the con-
versation ; and, while admitting that his family
were only poor English aristocrats, expressed
the hope that some day he would scrape enough
together to get married. For this hope he received
so much sweet and womanly sympathy from his
prospective mother-in-law that he was moved to
exclaim, holding her hands tenderly, “Now 1 know
why they call you the Little Bush Mother.” A ribald
element in the audience was led to snigger at this
remark,' for Beryl Perry had inherited her father's
physique and weighed a good eleven stone.
Mrs, Mackonicull then removed herself and her
darning in order that Wal might sing of his deter-
mination to provide “A Little Home for the Old
Folks by the Sea” with the help of the ballet in the
costume of parlormaids. Had Mrs. Mackonicull
remained on the stage she might have wondered at
this sudden change of ambition ; but the song sounded
very tender and filial indeed with all the lights
dimmed.
The lights sprang up brightly again on the
entrance of the Mackonicull family, avowedly return
ing from the picture show. The family consisted of
the Bluff Squatter, his Aged Parent, the Bluff Squat-
ter’s grown-up Son and Daughter and his Young
Child Tim. They came on rather in the manner
of a mob of sheep, and several chairs and the tabic
had to be shifted before they sorted themselves out ;
but then the audience broke into applause. For the
Aged Parent: was none other than Frederick Jackson
Traves. Grand old Traves had practically stood there
while they built Tiburon round him. With his little
fluffs of sidewhiskers like cotton-wool, his tottering
gait and walking-stick, he was the complete stage
grandfather in real life. He enjoyed his part enor-
mously and acted better than anyone. Good old
Grandpa Traves simply purred with delight at the x
chance to thunder “There speaks the blood of the
Mackoniculls” and “Do not be deceived, William —the
girl is an adventuress.” The audience clapped his
every line.
The other triumph of the play was young “Mot”
Willis in the part of little Tim. Mot, the pride of
Father Flaherty’s boy choir, had the audience in tears
when he came out at the end of Act I and sang
“Yes, Even Die for You—That’s What God Made
Mothers For.”
“I ain’t cried so much,” Mrs. Mulver confided
to Lizzie, “since me operation f’r Norman was a
failure. Ah, ’e’s a woondah, that boy.”
But to return to the great tragedy of Act I.
Mrs Mackonicull, after expressing a great deal more
A ballet of parlormaids.
domestic virtue, decided to press the pants of Tim,
the Boy Wonder, who wanted to start off early for
a picnic. She was warned in a manner remi-
niscent of Greek drama that the electric iron
was not safe, that it was not properly earthed, and
that, if she would but wait until the morning, her
elder son would repair it. Bravely she persisted in
her design, and, amid the united warnings of the
(i Continued on page 50.)


THIS
LJ
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
ŵ
Milliard
MASTER
f O 1 ■ A U i T LAII&'S'COU »t X Y ■ HOM I t
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
EVERY note
AS THE JhtiM, PLAYS IT.
Stromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
C 3
RADIO NEWS
ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE TELEVISION FOR SYDNEY.
BY
DON. B. KNOCK.
The news that the Australian Radio
Manufacturers’ Patents Association, Ltd.,
has been appointed sole representative
in Australia for Baird Television comes
at an appropriate time, for the sooner
somebody makes a definite move toward
the establishment of television in Sydney
on lines laid down in England and Ger-
many the better. That Baird sees fit to
extend activity to Australia is sufficient
to inspire confidence, for the extensive
organisation now existing under the
Baird flag knows just what it is about.
There is no doubt that television bv the
Television as it is on the cathode-ray
tube screen. This is an actual snapshot
of Frdulein Patzsche, a Berlin television
announcer, seen at the receiver end.
Definition is 180 lines at 25 frames per
second.
From “Practical Television.”
modern Baird, E.M.1., Telefunken,
Farnsworth or Mihaly systems is fit
for public eyes. That television has
reached this stage is indeed evident
when England spends £175,000 on the
establishment of one experimental
station alone. Much has been written
and said in Australia about television
being a long way off. It is only just
as far off as it takes to get organisa-
tion going and to dispel apathy.
There is one very important point in
connection with the establishment of tele-
vision in Sydney or any other Australian
city. Those responsible for its inaugu-
ration should not leave the ultra-short-
wave part of it until the last moment.
There is a lot to be done on receiving
equipment, and the training of those
who will be associated with receiver in-
stallation in the requirements of ultra-
short waves should be commenced now.
To say that wave-lengths between 5 and
10 metres will have an effective radius
of about 25 miles is one thing, but to
receive the signal well above motor-
car ignition and electrical noises is
another thing. It is easily done with
the right kind of aerial and receiver
installation. To-day many a radio ser-
viceman or mechanic knows little about
the behavior of equipment working on
five metres or thereabouts.
On the other hand, there are some
radio experimenters who know the pit-
tails, the places in and around Sydney
for miles where reception under well-
checked conditions is good, bad or in-
different. They know these things by
reason of years of amateur communi-
cation on the experimental five-metre
band, and their knowledge is invaluable.
Some of these experimenters are ill-
equipped financially to carry on their use-
ful work, and some are unemployed or in
jobs which last a few weeks. Such men
can be of great use to those
concerned with the technical
side of television in Australia,
and they should be snapped up
without delay, A 25-mile radius
for an ultra-short-wave tele-
vision service is easily attain-
able, particularly for Sydney.
The city is extremely favorably
placed in having the Blue Moun-
tains a short distance away, and,
although the average
tested locations in
the mountains are at
50-odd miles range,
there has never been
any failure to estab-
lish perfect and re-
liable communica-
tion between these
positions and Syd-
ney on five metres
with the right kind of equipment. Eighty-
mile ranges to and from the mountains
are easily covered with transmitter
power of a few watts, so that the effect
of a few kilowatts can be readily
imagined.
From any of the mountain vantage
points a strong television signal can
be radiated to take in the whole of
Sydney and many other places, such as
Liverpool, Camden, Katoomba, Wind-
sor, Parramatta and all inclusive terri-
tory. This is no idle claim ; it is well
proved, and those responsible for the
establishment of a television service
should plump for the mountains as an
originating source to be certain of
success and wide coverage. With the
coming of television, the public must
have it drummed home that the trans-
mission of pictures will not render
existing broadcast receivers obsolete. If
this point is not stressed the radio trade
will suffer owing to misunderstanding,
as it has in other countries.
Ultra-short-wave television will be
separate and distinct from broadcast-
ing as now established, • and require
special and entirely separate apparatus.
With the co-operation of the radio trade,
prominent members of which are certain
to be associated sooner or later with
television, the home-constructor side of
television should be fostered, as it was
with radio in the early days. In addi-
tion to the expensive commercially-de-
signed television receiver, essential parts,
and even kits, should be made available.
Not everybody likes to, or can, buy the
ready-made article, and many thoroughly
enjoy making their own radio equip-
ment. When television gets a in
this country, hundreds will, by hook or
crook, try to make their own receivers,
cathode-ray or otherwise, and many will
succeed. In that aspect may be dis-
cerned the nucleus of a new and lively
trade.
D.B. KNOCK.
Long-distance Television Report.
“Popular Wireless” (Eng.) refers
briefly to unexpected results obtained
with Germany’s new television service,
operating on six metres. For some time,
unusual conditions appear to have pre-
vailed in the ultra-short-wave regions, as
evidenced by the recent sudden long-
distance communications of American
amateurs. German authorities were con-
siderably surprised when a letter was
received from a New York television
experimenter who had received both
sound and vision from the Berlin six-
metre transmitters. Further details are
awaited with interest, and it seems certain'
that, in defiance of radio theory, six-metre
television has crossed the Atlantic.
All Round the Dial.
“C. Sharp”: Now that “Light,” like
the “dramatised war cables,” has been
put over with realistic sound effects, are
national officials going to stop there?
Can we hope for rainfall reports accom-
panied by patter of raindrops, squeals
of joy from cockies and moans and
grunts from tennis and cricket enthu-
siasts? Falls, especially of metals, would
make the Stock Exchange reports a bit
less dry. And why not present artists
with all the sound effects of a theatre,
from the box-office to the callboy?
♦ * * *
“B. Flat”: The A.B.C, like the
8.8. C., should produce a list of stan-
dardised pronunciations, particularly of
proper names. Free copies should be
given to all A-class announcers. Aus-
tralian place-names seem to have them
bluffed; but, at least, they should use
accepted pronunciations. Foreign words
should be Anglicised, and elementary
textbooks of music could be consulted
for the correct pronunciation of musical
terms. Names of composers are often
murdered.
* * * *
C. J. A. Moses, the new g.m. of the
A.8.C., became well and favorably
known to the listening public through
A.B.C. microphones between 1930-35.
A genial personality was suggested by a
pleasing voice. The position is a big
one for a man of 35 summers; but a
lot of worldly knowledge and experience
will help Moses to hold it. Born in Lan-
cashire (although there isn’t a trace of
the dialect in his speech), he has been
professional soldier, fruitgrower, and
motor-car salesman. Australian listeners
know him as a first-class sporting and
news commentator: he is himself an
athlete of distinction. Although the
quality of the sports side of A.B.C. pro-
grammes should be improved under his
managership, the needs of the musical
community will not, he promises, be
neglected.
♦ * * *
“Ne”: The old theatrical maxim “The
show must go on” is applicable to
studio plays. At SCL Adelaide a line
in a play ran, “It’s much more exciting
to listen to a radio play than to see it.”
Ironically, the player who .uttered it
(Mavis Stephen), half-fainting, was being
supported by one man and sipping water
from a glass in the hand of another.
Producer and staff were on tiptoe, ready
to announce that the play couldn’t go
on ; but Miss Stephen stuck to it. She
collapsed when the play was over.
* * * *
“Como”: A Melbourne man has
issued a direct challenge to the radio
authorities by asking if they are game
to shut off the A-class stations for a full
week and see if any listeners notice the
omission. So far the challenge has not
been taken up.
* * * *
“Donness”: The habit of giving the
new Australian relay stations the adjec-
tive “super-power” is ridiculous. The
average power of the 8.8. C. stations is
50kw., and England, Wales and Scotland
can be fitted nicely into Victoria.
Luxemburg (a pocket- kerchief prin-
cipality) impresses itself on the rest of
the world with 500 kw. Russia has three
500 kw. stations in action, and more pro-
jected. The average of European stations
is certainly not under 75kw. ; and from
the U.S.A. comes news of the establish-
ment of four more 500 kw. radiators.
Australia, with its vast spaces, shouldn’t
regard 7kw. as “superpower.”
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been very patchy
lately, especially in the mornings, when
after 7 practically all stations have faded.
On Sundays one of the D.E.I. stations
has been on the same frequency as GSE.
making reception impossible for a time.
Best feature has been the continued excel-
lent reception right to closing down of
the No. 1 transmission from the 8,8. C.
Radio Coloniale has not shown improve-
ment at the 7 a.m. session, but is quite
good copy on ’phones ; the news at 9 p.m.
on the 19m. station is better.
The Belgian, ORK, has been on fro.m
6.30 to 7 a.m., but much weaker, and
CTIAA has been barely audible except
for the first few minutes. In the early
evening the best stations have been on
the 19m. band, with very little between
England, Germany and France. PCJ in
that band has been most erratic, being
one night bare copy and the next gopd
speaker.
PHI, now on 25m., has been excellent
from 11 p.m. on, with the usual cheery
announcements, and a lady announcer
has been heard at times; a new
feature for the station. Radio Coloniale,
on .25m., has been the only station heard
at any strength during the day, and it
has remained excellent about 3 p.m., but
under quite a lot of static at times.
2RO has been the best early-morning
station, being usually very strong until
nearly 8 a.m.
RNE seems to have gone off since last
year, and neither the evening nor morning
transmission has lately been of much
reception value. A new station on about
24m. has been heard testing, but the
language could not be understood. It is
probably another commercial ’phone
station.
The usual Japanese stations have been
at good strength, with the one on 27m.
best.
One remarkable reception was from
JVH, actually operating on 20m. This
station was heard for nearly an hour at
fair to good ’phone strength on the 10m.
harmonic. On 27/10/’35, when 10m. was
very fine, telegraphy stations were heard
from several European countries about
5 p.m.
During the last few days the very
short waves are the best ever recorded in
the writer’s nine years’ experience.
NIGHLOWL.
“P.R.W.” writes further:
The DJB “letter-box” sessions appear to be
directed to correspondents in regional groups.
The October 9 session mentioned by “Night-
owl” was mainly for the benefit of Indian
gentlemen with unpronounceable names. An-
other, given (in Dutch) on October was
directed to Java, Borneo, etc. The “dear
frans and listeners” in Australia might have
better luck next time —or the time after—
and should take a note of these “letter-box"
fixtures: November 15 (8 p.m.), November
20 (11 p.m.). By the way, the Reichs-Rund-
funk-6esellschaft, Berlin, will be pleased to
send its monthly programmes (and wonderful
programmes they are) regularly in advance
to any overseas listener who writes for them.
In my case it sent also a printed article en-
titled “Hello, Everybody!” a nicely-illustrated
booklet in German for my daughter,
here is the quid pro quo —a questionnaire


=AMPIIOH=
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker/*
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enfoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Pitted in all quality Re-
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMRLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
70 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (rnclosing 3d. in stamps) for tbc 30 x 20
nth l,avislily Illustrated Constructional Tableau..
lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
m
fro
9
MODELS
FROM
£l9/19
asking every conceivable question as to the
reception of its ' transmissions in Australia.
“Nightowl” remarks that Hong Kong is
“in the middle of strong C.W. stations, and
suffers from interference.” Well we know it,
but the following curious experience may be
of interest to your readers. When bigger and
better aerials had failed, I obtained clear re-
ception of ZEK by means of an odd piece of
wire, nearly 25ft. long, slung round the pic-
ture rails. Now the wave-length of ZEK (34.29
metres) is exactly 44 times 25ft., and, theoreti-
cally, with this length of aerial I should have
obtained almost the weakest reception pos-
sible. Apparently, however, the interfering
C.W. station just below ZEK was completely
obliterated, and amplification of ZEK’s signals
did the rest.
* * * *
The following short-wave stations
should provide the most satisfactory re-
ception during the next few weeks:
GREAT BRITAIN {London).
GSD 25.53 metres 5.15 p.m.-7.15 p.m.
GSB 31.55 „ 5.15 p.m.-7.15 p.m.
GSF 19.82 „ Midnight-3 a.m. .
GSE 25.29 „ 1.30 a.m.-3 a.m.
GSC 31.32 „ 1 p.m.-2 p.m.
GSD 25.53 „ 1 p.m.-2 p.m.
FRANCE (Paris).
FYA 25.23 metres ‘6 p.m.-7 p.m.
F'YA 25.23 „ 2 a.m.-8 a.m.
FYA 25.6 „ 9 a.m.-noon.
FYA 25.6 „ 1 p.m.-3 p.m.
JAPAN (Tokio).
JVM 28.14 metres 4.45 p.m.-5.15 p.m.
6.45 p.m.-10.45 p.m.
SWITZERLAND (Geneva).
HBL 31.27 metres 8.30 a.m.-9.15 a.m.
(Sundays)
HBO 26.35 , 4.15 p.m.-5 p.m.
(Mondays)
DUTCH EAST INDIES (Batavia).
PMN 29.24 metres 8.30 p.m.-1.30 a.m.
PLP 27.27 „ 8.30 p.m.-1.30 a.m.
(Sundays only)
RUSSIA (Moscow).
RWS9 25.00 metres 6 a.m.-9 a.m.
ITALY (Rome).
IZRO 25.4 metres 5.45 a.m.-8.15 a.m.
AUSTRALIA (Sydney).
VK2ME 31.55 metres 3 p.m.-5 p.m., 8 p.m.-
midnight Sundays,
2.30 a.m.-4.30 p.m.
Mondays.
AUSTRALIA (Melbourne).
VK3ME 31.55 metres 8 p.m.-lO p.m. Mon.
to Sat. inclusive.
(From “Radiola Notes,” A.W.A.).
Amateur Chatter.
Australian 10m. experimenters are
annoyed, and justly so. While congratu-
lating Nell Cony, of G2YL, on her 10m.
W.A.C., N.S.W. 10m. men have a
bone to pick with Sydney’s daily press.
Cabl.e news referred to the inclusion of
Australia in this W.A.C., but news
editors missed a goo.d scoop in not get-
ting the inside information from such
men as VKs 488, 4EI, 2LZ, 2HZ, 2HY
and others, The bare cable news should
have been supplemented by a summary
of the intense activity on the part of
Australian experimenters for the last six
years on 10m. In finding out the
vagaries of this band, a group of Aus-
tralians has done more than amateurs
elsewhere, and for an obvious reason.
Australia is geographically isolated from
the rest of the world, and very much so
where ultra-short-wave communication
is concerned.
The number of seriously active Aus-
tralian amateurs on 10m. is a mere
handful. In England, amateurs have
European countries within coo-ee for co-
operative tests, and when such tests are
mooted the number of stations likely to
be actually on the air may run into hun-
dreds. So it is with America, where for
recruits for any particular purpose
50,000 or so amateurs are listed. The
great objective of Australian 10m. men
has been for years to communicate with
Europe. The suggestion was made in
letters to Europeans, who until recently
pooh-poohed the idea. Examination of
the records will show, in the long run,
that it is this handful of Australians who
have done the hardest work on the 10m.
band, and they are the real 10m. DX
pioneers.
It is apparently a peculiarity of some
people responsible for dispensing news
that they laud the efforts of anybody but
their own countrymen.
Commercial activity is in the offing on
the ultra-shorts, as revealed in the press
announcement of the projected use of
Chart showing percentage of homes connected to electric mains.
Sydney (N.S.W.) is compared with thirteen European countries.
(Block by courtesy of Philips Lamps (A/sia), Ltd.)
radio by Sydney Water Board. Old-timer
Jack Pike (VK2JP) will be in charge of
development, the undertaking being to
link dams and other important water-
supply points by duplex telephony where
land-line conditions are difficult. 2JP
will be well remembered for his excellent
work in 1930 when handling emergency
traffic with the writer (then VK6NK) at
Wyndham, W.A., during a search for
lost aviators. There are many instances
where good use could be made com-
mercially of ultra-short-wave channels,
but such channels are likely to be more
valuable eventually than the broadcast
band. How the humble and once
despised wave-lengths from 10m. down
have come into their own! All the result
of the hard and unselfish work of pioneer-
ing amateurs who get little or no credit
for it!
VK2NO has been testing new trans-
mitting equipment on 20m., but the ever-
present question of most effective aerials
for Europe asserts itself. Fortunate,
indeed, is the station in a location with
ample ground space to try every kind
dealt with in the handbooks. Matched-
impedance-fed aerials are undoubtedly
most desirable, but where all-band opera-
tion is desired the station is likely to be
hemmed in by a mass of radiating
systems, one for each band. Any station
is only as good as its transmitting (and
receiving) aerials.
It is high time something was done
to curb the exuberance of a certain
breed of new amateur, to whom experi-
mental radio is merely an excuse to get
a license and indulge in indiscriminate
’phone transmission. If amateurs alone
had to put up with it, the “HI-HI” busi-
ness, and all that goes with it, might be
just tolerable, but the public to-day is
using dual-wave receivers, and these re-
ceivers include the 40m. band. It is on
this band that most of the offences occur.
One Sydney suburban station does almost
everything that a regular B-class station
does, short of actual advertising. This
station runs for hours on end, a la broad-
cast studio, giving out birthday calls, etc.
Experimental licenses are not granted for
this sort of thing. The worst offender is
the youthful ’phone hound with his
cinema slang. Truly, our regulating
authorities are easygoing when valuable
frequency territory is swamped by such
“experimenters.” One feels that sooner
or later, if the W.I.A. does not make a
serious attempt to tabulate and report
these people to P.M.G. headquarters,
officialdom will step in, and the blame-
less will suffer with the guilty.
VK2NO.
Casual Comment.
Port Moresby’s 4PM, built by Amal-
gamated Wireless, is giving good service
in Papua and New Guinea. It is on the
air officially only during the day; but
experimental night-time broadcasts have
revealed that the station may be heard in
Sydney and Bendigo and in certain
p aces J n
M.L.’s Public Works Department has
insta | led radio equipment at Mangahao
and Waikaremoana to provide com-
municalion betwecn two Cl £ tres in which
are hydro-electric generating stations,
Intervening country is exceedingly rough
ir de^
ment design f d and
Amalgamated Wireless, is similar to that
used throughout the southern electricity
area of N.S.W., where the engineers
speak over the area reticulated. During
the M.L. tests, excellent results were
obtained.
Station 2GZ Orange, operated by
Country Broadcasting Services, Ltd.,
which comprises members of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, is the State’s most
powerful B-class station. The equip-
ment, the latest, was designed and manu-
factured by Amalgamated Wireless,
The transmitter has a power of 2000
watts unmodulated in the aerial. Be-
entertainment, 2GZ aims at
furthering rural interests.
A.B.C. and Opera.
Few commendable things achieved by
the A.B.C. have been as noteworthy as
the introduction it gave national listeners
to radio opera last week. Moussorg-
sky’s “Boris Godounov,” broadcast in
two parts from Sydney studios on Tues-
day and Thursday, was strong in color,
vividly rhythmic and melodic ; and the
orchestra under Maurice de Abravenel’s
baton was precise, robust and sensitive.
The most delicate solo numbers were as
clearly heard as each element in the ex-
citing orchestral and choral climaxes.
Having set a high standard in a wireless
entertainment new to Australians, the
A.B.C. must maintain it or be charged
with spoiling an appetite it has whetted.
Improving the Old T.R.F. Receiver.
If you wish to improve the tuned R.F.
receiver of recent years, with its com-
paratively inefficient small-size screened
coils, there are a few points to bear in
mind. If space is available it is possible
, to obtain sharper tuning and higher R.F.
gain by discarding the old coils and fil-
ling coils embodying more commonsense
and less of the makeshift. Such coils can
be made, short of the non-obtainable
iron-core type, by using 2in. diameter
glass formers and winding to the required
inductance value with 9/38 Litz. It
should be needless to stress the import-
ance of carefully soldering every strand
of the Litz. Screening is best done by
fitting the coils in rectangular screening
boxes, unless some of the early-day large-
diameter circular cans are on the shelf,
but biscuit tins can be called into action.
It is an improvement in results, not
appearance, that is sought. Assuming
that efficient inductances are now fitted,
various things are likely to happen, and
these must be checked. It may be found
that tuning is sharper and amplification
greater, but that the set is unstable and
oscillation in the R.F. stages.
In this case the plate of each R.F. stage
should be coupled to the following
circuit, either by taps on the grid coil (if
capacity coupling is used) or a tapped
primary. The tapping will have to be
varied so that fewer turns are included in
the plate circuit, or the primary reduced.
This will lower the voltage variations on
the plate. In the aerial circuit, a similar
procedure may be necessary, and the
effect of lowering the tap here will be to
increase the selectivity and probably the
signal strength applied to the first valve.
Pay careful attention to proper screening,
and the changeover from inefficient to
really good coils will make that old
T.R.F. receiver a horse of a very different
color.
D.B.K.
The Reason Why.
For many years the ultra-short-wave
region of five metres has been looked
upon as a purely local medium of com-
munication. Amateurs in various parts
of the world arc proceeding to demon-
strate that such is far from being the
case. Recently several American ama-
teurs hooked up over distances up to
2000 miles, and such performance defi-
nitely indicates the existence of a sky-
wave. Such contacts don’t take place,
however, with super-regenerators and
(Continued on next page.)


Quick as you say
its
Swan
Pen
just
»
mm
one! two!
Ilk and FULL!
Quick as ever to welcome a first-
rate modern idea, lots of go-ahead
Australians have already invested in
this new and better pen. It is so
strong and simple that it can*t go
wrong even after years of hard
work and wear. And it fills in an
instant, too! See and try this wonder
writer at your Stationers or Jewel-
lers —it’s something distinctive to own
and show your friends, and a pleasure
to write with.
Be up-to-date —get a
LEVERLESS
(Patented)
Made (and well made!) in Gt. Britain.
PRICES: The New LE VERLESS •Swan ’
costs 25/- (black or colours, mounted)
or 21/- (black only, unmounted). Other
* Swans * from 15/-.- 4 Blackbirds ’ from
10/-i 4 Jackdaws ’ from 6/6<
Fully guaranteed by :—
Mabie.Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George Street, SYDNEY
ALWAYS USE • SW INK 6d a bottle:
95
RADIO
ENGINEERING
SCHOLARSHIPS
SEND FOR FULL
PARTICULARS TO
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
BROADWAY. SYDNEY
To Writers.
SUBMIT REJECTED MSS. —Short Stories, Art ides,
Serials Novels, Scenarios —to Mr. William Hatfield,
the well-known author for
CNo oninion given on untried MSS.) ahe reasonable
fee may save you years of effort to reach saleable
iTantod. B« 1616 DD, G.P.0.. Sydney.-ADVT.
modulated oscillators, and investigation
shows that the most consistent and re-
liable contacts are made with stabilised
transmitters of some form and super-
hets. The Gordon superhet (B. 9/10/’35)
is an example of the kind of receiver to
use. The portable aspect of five-metre
working is very interesting, but long-
distance working will be done only by
the use of correctly-designed apparatus.
The latest example is the report from
Europe of an American experimenter
who has been able to receive the Berlin
six-metre vision and sound clear across
the Atlantic. The time has come when
Australian experimenters interested in
u.-s.-w. development should get away
from the “wobbulated” oscillator-super-
regenerator complex, and carry out some
serious work on advanced apparatus.
The apparatus now mainly in use has its
limited applications, but falls as far be-
hind what is really needed as the broad-
cast receiver of 1922 falls behind that of
to-day.
VK2NO.
New Cable for Television.
ẃ
lead sheath, two separate tubes, each
containing a conductor. Each one of
these lines is capable of carrying fre-
quencies of a band width of the order
of a million cycles. Such a coaxial line
requires successive amplifiers to take care
of attenuation, spaced at distances of
about each 10 miles. The amplifiers
themselves are fully automatic, and
amplify all frequencies at the same time.
The amount of gain necessary (which
varies with the temperature) is automatic,
and a feedback principle in the valves
controls the gain and permits high
stability and freedom from noise and
distortion. This feedback principle is
the reverse of that used in radio receivers
some years ago.
A 1,000,000-cycle line such as this will
carry over 200 voice conversations at the
same time without interference. All of
these signals pass through the amplifier
(power for which is sent at 60 cycles
over the same line). The separate voice
signals are modulated on to different fre-
quency channels (up to 1020 kc.) by
multiple oscillators, and the separate
channels are selected at the receiving end
by quartz crystal filters.
The coaxial line is also well adapted
for transmitting the extremely broad fre-
quency bands required for television.
The new cable may become a means of
transmitting television programmes from
one part of the country to another if the
actual maintenance costs do not run too
high.
Artificial “Relay” Solves Ultra-short
Problem.
According to a report in “R 9,” U.S.A.,
a test conducted by a group of Ameri-
can amateurs on sm. indicated a manner
of overcoming the screening effect of an
intervening mountain where communi-
cation is desired between two screened-
off points. It was found that where nor-
mally extremely weak signals, or no
signals at all, could be heard, the placing
of a vertical aerial at the top of the inter-
vening high point, to act as a reflector,
immediately brought the signal up to
a good normal strength. This is a logical
conclusion, and it is a wonder nobody
ever thought of it before. Here, then, is
a new line of action for amateurs con-
cerned with bridging mountainous
obstacles. It would mean only a gallon
or two of petrol, an Bft. length of rod
or wire and a permanent fixture on the
top of a gum-tree overlooking the coun-
try in both directions.
This reflection possibility explains why
around Sydney some stations find that
they can work with suburban stations
well away, but in obviously screened-off
positions. The antenna of some inter-
mediate sm. station may be passing the
signal on.
VK2NO.
Ultra-short waves are banned for com-
mercial use in the U.S.A. by the latest
ruling of the Federal Communications
Commission, which has decided that
transmission on the ultra-high frequen-
cies must be limited to experimental
laboratories for another year. Actually
there are, according to a correspondent,
991 individuals and organisations in the
United States holding licenses for ultra-
short-wave tests. In an official statement,
the Federal Communications Commission
says that its policy has. been to proceed
with caution, strictly maintaining the
experimental status of the ultra-high fre-
quencies until such time as all requisite
information is available.
The Q. and A. Column.
/ have a five-valve receiver which has de-
veloped trouble. When first switched on
volume is normal for three or four seconds,
then decreases suddenly by 50 p.c. This hap-
pens every time the set is switched on and off,
even if at frequent intervals. The signal is
there, but faintly. What is wrong? —332.
Advice in a case like this is pure guesswork.
The symptoms point to an opening or short-
ing circuit. Evidently a few seconds’ heat
produces the intermittency. Resistors should
be examined. Valve-socket contacts could be
responsible, and a good plan is to remove
all valves, clean the pins, and tighten the
socket contacts if these are of an easily-
accessible type. If this does not clear the
trouble, get a serviceman to go over the re-
ceiver with an analyser.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.H.8.: Sorry we can’t find any merit in
it It’s tame, tedious and uninspiring through-
out J.L.C.: Fair shooting, but it didn t
score an inner... .L.A.S.; Some good lines, but
you don't seem to have the knack of packing
half a dozen together or keeping clear of
weak endings E.F.0.:
Exciting was the match between
The council and the club;
’Twas played upon the local green,
h)uitc handy to the pub.
Quite a good start, but your Pegasus cracked
up long before the straight was reached....
EA.S.: Try a children’s paper V.W.:
“Muggcrtip” smothered in waves of his own
weird verbosity H.C.C.: Pretty fantasy, but
unsuitable for us. Worth a try elsewhere....
8.E.8.: Boring M.A.8.: The old German
woman’s dialect makes it halt too much....
K.M.: “Fingerprints” inconclusive R. 8.1.:
“FaStly” is an obsolete word; and the tops ol
trees can hardly be called “spires” N. 8.:
Ng H.L.T.: Moral seems to be that
you should beware of strangers who
engage you in affable conversation on
racecourses. But you make heavy going
of U Old-timer: Overloaded with truisms
F.H.: Quite out of our line
H.C.: Far from discouraging “budding
Homers” and “Kiplings in the making” we
frequently hearten incipient Pyes K.M.:
Heavy as a cold doughboy Ilford: “Men-
them,” “off-froth,” “laws-yours”! Try prose
for a change T. 5.8.: Vin ordinaire for
thinness N.C.C.: Seems to be some sort of
an allegory. Anyhow, we don’t want to in-
tensify international ill-feeling J.C.: Well
meant, no doubt, but not happily phrased
R.G.: Sketch is better than jingle D.B.O’C:
Suitable for an anthem competition only
K.E.J.C.: “Australian Soldier’s Farewell to
France” seems a trifle belated... .J.J.: You
don't seem to worry whether a line scans or
not, and if a rhyme doesn’t offer itself you
just skip it. Verse-writing needs more care
than that C.P.: “Zephyrs,” “kinc,”
“gloam,” “sylvan majesty” and so on. You
seem to be a throwback to the pre-Wordsworth
school K.C.C.: The sonnet has been re-
sponsible for some of the finest poetry in the
language; also for some of the tritest plati-
tudes. Yours joins the many thousands that
fill the gulf in between... .W.G.D.: Too slight.
...J.8.; Why anticipate? .. ..E.McC.: You
sing an old refrain... .A.M.L.: Not suitable.
....P.8.: Undecided whether lines arc
intentionally obscure, obscure through in-
ability to make ’em clear, or have any meaning
at a 11.... J.R.R.: “Nature’s Mirror” doesn't bear
much looking into... .E.F.0.: The story about
the twin beds and the photograph (sometimes
a clock) has been going the rounds for years.
Delighted to discover the originator
Z.V.W:. Not up to your usual.. . .W.M.H.:
Unsuitable....!, le B.: Style in dialect excel-
lent, but plot ancient; let’s hear from you
again G.R.McC.; Characters wou|d be
better if they weren't on stilts; plot trite....
H.S.: Give us something to bite on A. 8.;
We’ve sworn off fried sausages, having to batch
occasionally ourselves... .N.M.D.: Office
smilometer registered low grin-content for each
yarn... .K.McC.: Lurid melodrama is as
fashionable as whalebone neck supports for
women, and as saleable... .T.W.B. : Both fail
to tickle the peter... .H.F.; Exclusive London
mansion; butler; great Russian violinist play-
ing in the gutter—away! away! G.E.M.:
Doesn’t hold the interest sufficiently... .T. 8.:
You are trying to get beneath the skin of an
aborigine, but you're still thinking like a white.
.... A.L.McI.: Slow-time interlude uninterest-
ing A.C. (Q.): Coining story doesn’t ring
true....S.E. (Maoriland); Too much senti-
ment. .. .E.R.R.: Came about as close as
Peter Pan in the Cup....M.M.; Not quite
up to standard... .J.M.K.: That t.b. hero has
sacrificed himself so often that it is beginning
to look like a habit... .N.J.L.: Your police-
man seems to have stepped straight out of a
radio-detective play, he is so sure - of himself.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.T.; The chap on a bender is crawjing
homewards on all-fours R.S.: Abo. rider
in mid-air looks more like a dark cloud loom-
ing over the station... .T.S.: Some rough
merit, but not enough... .N.D.: Study for a
few years; then try again. . ~M.A.; Every
cricket season brings us that jest about the
umpire and demijohn of beer... .T.W.: Oswald
Pryor’s types without his 5ki11....N.C.J. Illus-
trations might do for a rag-shop's catalogue.
. ...F.G.: We don’t want colored drawings or
made-over joke .A.M.F.: From what vault
did you lift it? H.C.: Those niggling little
lines will never earn a cheque T.H.S.:
Neither the curate nor the Chinaman amused.
Same applies to the three-legged d0g....J.G.:
We might have found it funny had there been
sqme key to what it was all about 5.8.:
Your early ’teens influence us to let you on
with a caution... .M. 8.: A political cartoon
mustn’t carry so many labels J.J.: Hope-
less from every angle V.A.: Drawing is
cluttered with mistakes, and joke is mouldy....
DK.: You should do well with more confi-
dence 1.L.: Without question —the weeks
worst R.S.A.: F.a.q. student's work....
W.S.: Since five of the six jokes were a n c J*j nt
we naturally suspected the sixth E.N.:
Nothing to suggest that you will ever earn a
living as an artist C.M.D.: Use a softer
pencil and a board with a less-pohshed sur-
face v.0.C.; A badly-drawn and muddled
piece of work... .E.S.; Feeble so far: lessons
may help... .J.G.: You have an unusual style,
but all your jokes are threadbare H.U.8..
infantile....R-D.F.: Mere outline drawing,
and not very clever outlines WJ.I.: evi-
dence of some merit, but not quite enough
evidence J.R.: Somewhere near the mark;
make them less stiff S.S.: Wooden and
scratchy.


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Clyde Handicap: Rembrandt;
next, Cherry King.
November Handicap; Fourdroy-
ant; next, Magnitas.
Rydalmere Mile: Foxhunter;
next, Autoland.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Cup: Garrio or Nalda, 1 ;
Hyperion, 2 ; Oro, 3.
Ozone High w e i g ht: Great
Legend ; next, Link Divine.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Thanks to the introduction of a
reasonably-taxed tote and to the exten-
sion of amateur control, Melbourne has
clearly established its supremacy in the
Australian racing world—if, indeed, that
supremacy was ever lost. There were
108,000 people at Flemington when
Marabou won the Cup, and £101,554
was put through the machines —easily
an Australian record. On Saturday
£62,669 was paid for tote tickets; dur-
ing the four days the clerks handled
£277,157. Not only tote figures but tote
co. shares are up.
All the big bookmakers lost at Flem-
ington, but they could stand it; prior to
the V.R.C. meetings the Melbourne bat-
talion, at least, had had a glorious time.
The people behind Country Party
(George Tancred owns and J, T. Jamie-
son trains him) hit them to leg over the
victory of their chestnut —a three-year-
old brother to Upopo Ariki —in the
Batman Stakes; he had been backed
from twenties down to fours. Bartle
rode him, and the gelding was never off
the bit. Unbacked, he had run un-
placed in the Railway Highweight on
Tuesday.
The stewards immediately opened a
“retrospective” inquiry into the running
II
aERTI Vbu &AAD Yt>U W&RE QoikJc,
To &HOOT yOufJSELF *
Bert! "l FOUMO I COUUOMT*
Gert : Wmy mot 7 “
Bert; Lice^cct
of Country Party. On Monday they dis-
qualified owner, trainer, rider and horse
for 12 months. All the parties are
appealing—that is to say, the men are
appealing on their own account and the
owner on behalf of the horse.
Genoa was no match for Fidelity, but,
with the A.J.C, chairman’s unbeaten filly
withdrawn for autumn racing, Genoa
proved too good for 10 opponents in the
Ottawa Stakes. Godby and his fol-
lowers threw in for a substantial win at
fives and fours.
Reminiscent of the Caulfield Cup was
the run that Percival put in on Bunsby
Gaze (8 to 1) in the V.R.C. Handicap.
The slow pace suited his mount, and
just when backers of Sporting Blood (6
to 1) thought it was all over, Bunsby
Gaze came like a flash and streaked
away from him; Hot Shot (11 to 2)
was third. Efforts were made to buy
Sporting Blood, but the Maoriland
owner wanted £4OOO for him. He is a
good horse, but not that good.
Success deserted Voitre on Saturday.
Skidmore, on the other hand, wound up
the meeting in a blaze of glory. He
rode a beautiful race on Hall Mark (11
to 8) in the C. B. Fisher Plate, and he
could have won by more than the “long”
neck that separated his mount from Syl-
vandale (4 to 1), but did not ask a rather
weary little horse to do too much. Munro
was on Sylvandale ; why Pratt has lost
the riding of that hard-worked animal
has not been explained. Oro (4 to 1) led
into the straight, but blew out, and
Hyperion slipped past him to run third.
Another that grew weary was Bimilla ;
apparently one race over 12 furlongs
was enough for her that week.
It was not Munro’s lucky day, for
Skidmore, piloting Dick Devon (7 to 1),
again relegated the Sydney jockey to
second place in the Final Handicap.
Munro had been engaged for Whitting-
ham, who was favorite at fours; he is
as honest as ever, but not quite as
speedy as he was. Ruling Light (33 to
1) was a good third. Dick Devon, like
Hot Shot, is trained by R. J. Shaw, who
deserved a turn of the wheel.
(Melbourne Cup matter on next page.)
♦ ♦ * *
Spearfelt equalled the Melbourne Cup
record (3min. 22Isec.) in 1925. Now
one of his sons, Soft Step, has cut the
Australasian record for two miles to
3min. 2Hsec., and another, Spear Prince,
by compelling Soft Step to go his hard-
est (there was only a “short” head be-
tween them), helped him to do it. The
place was Brisbane; the race, the
Queensland Cup, and Faith Australia
was third. Soft Step, who was ridden by
Tanwan, was favorite, with Auto Buz,
at 5 to 2 ; Spear Prince was an outsider
—25 to 1.
* * * *
“S. Gumm”: I agree with The Bulle-
tin that there is an uncommon number
of three-year-olds above f.a.q. this
season ; but I have seen nothing like Man-
fred (1925), Aurum (1897) or Newhaven
(1896). I reckon these the best three-year-
olds I ever saw (I have to admit I missed
Artilleryman), and each in his year did
a thing which has never been surpassed
—Manfred when he was left half a fur-
long in the A.J.C. Derby, and yet con-
trived to overtake and beat a field that
included Amounis (he was timed to run
his mile and a half in 2min. 29sec.);
Newhaven when he made all his own
running in the Melbourne Cup, with
7st. 131 b. up, and won by six lengths;
Aurum when he was third to Gaulus
and The Grafter with the greatest Cup
burden ever shouldered by a three-year-
old, Bst, 61b, That was a really great
field ; as The Grafter demonstrated in
1898, either of Forrester’s pair could
have won any ordinary Cup with 9st., yet
Aurum had to give both brothers nearly
a stone. Nevertheless, Newhaven’s per-
formance remains in my memory even
more vividly, partly, no doubt, because
his was the first Cup I ever saw. Along
the Saltwater side he was out by him-
self, hard held by Gardiner ; and every
other horse but the ultimate second,
Bloodshot, was under the whip. Great
as was my subsequent respect for Phar
Lap, I will never think that as a three-
year-old he was the equal of Newhaven
that day or of Aurum in that 1897 Cup
or of Manfred in that 1927 A.J.C.
Derby.
* * * *
Different riding tactics brought suc-
cess to Rembrandt in the first division
of the Highweight at Canterbury.
A. Frauenfelder paid 1250 guineas and
contingencies for the High Art colt, but
he had subsequently been a failure.
McMenamin was advised to “sit against”
him, and this the hurdle jockey did, with
the result that Rembrandt,’pulling hard,
won “in a walk” from Chemosh and
Raleigh. Sixes were bet, but the closing
price was 9 to 2. The favorite, Prince
Pombal, was anchored by his lOst. 71b.
Psalmist, who is raced by “P, Kitro,”
a lady, took the second division, at sixes.
Ridden vigorously by the apprentice
Young, Psalmist scored narrowly from
the pacemakers, Orpah and Orient Orb.
Orient Orb was in need of the race. Tom
Pinch lost his chance at barrier-rise,
where he was squeezed. Downham’s
fourth was a good effort.
Nine-year-old Anchor (5 to 1) failed
ingloriously at Kensington, but he was
in his best form in the Flying Handicap.
Bouyeo looked a good thing at the turn,
where Anchor commenced a forward
move. Running on, Anchor scored from
Prince Yamba and Falstaff. Headmaster
was unlucky, in the first furlong, being
knocked back; he made up a lot of
ground, only to tire in the run to the
judge. He may be worth following.
Kaleon (10 to 1) gave the books a nice
win in a race for two-year-old fillies.
She hopped out briskly, and was never
in danger of defeat; the joint-favorites,
Kinsfolk and Peg’s Pet, filled the places.
Kaleon is by Caledon out of Girton
Girl, who could go fast when trained by
Kelso.
Warren-owned Toriwa (7 to 1) led
throughout in the Canterbury Handicap,
First Balloon (5 to 2) made a great effort,
but the country moke lasted long enough
to beat the mare by a head. Volwood,
disappointed when going for a run on
the rails at the turn, came home well to
get third. Nord was favorite. Moved up
at the half-mile, he was forced wide at
the top of the straight, but came again
at the Leger, only to stop in the last
furlong. Old Magnaver, looking nice
and bright, shaped well for nine furlongs.
Broccoli was backed from 7 to 2 to
7 to 4in the Ashbury Handicap. At
Moorefield he had run unkindly; at
Canterbury he was kept on the out-
side, and got home narrowly from Air
Pageant and Alan Verde. Chatterelle
was tailed off soon after the start, and
remained in the rear.
Ins and Outs
Waite, for S.A., got the hat-trick (the
last three wickets) against the M.C.C.
at Adelaide; nevertheless the tourists
made 371 (Parks 67, Smith 52, Hardstaff
90, Human 87 ; Waite 5 for 42). S.A.
hoped for much from Bradman, making
his first appearance for the State, but
he got his pads*in front of a straight
one from Sims when only 15. Badcock
contributed a nicely made 45, and Moyle
(39) and Parker (30) each added a few.
On Monday afternoon. Waite reached
58 and Walker 65 n. 0.; all out, 322.
In Adelaide club matches Bradman
opened with 60, made in as many
minutes, but he’s had two innings since
for only 35.
♦ * * *
In the first of the season’s .Sheffield
games at Brisbane, N.S.W. batted first
and was all out for 370 (McGilvray 68,
White 63 and wicketkeeper Easton 83 ;
Cook 4 for 111). For Queensland Allen
and Andrews opened, and at stumps
Allen (119) and Tallon (53) were still
there; 3 for 249. On Monday the
Queenslanders passed the N.S.W. score
with three wickets in hand.
* * * *
“Gate”; It has been suggested that an
England v. Australia match —to be
played, of course, at Sydney—should be
sandwiched into the tour of the Maryle-
bone team. It could be done after the
Queensland match, it is alleged. The
Queensland match ends on December 3,
and the Englishmen are due to land at
Auckland on December 9 for a very full
programme, running about two matches
a week, until the last Test match starts
on March 6. Of course, the Maori-
landers may willingly disarrange that
programme to make a Sydney holiday,
but from what writer has seen of them
in such matters he doesn’t think they
will.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sensible suggestions for
amending the laws of cricket are as rare
as paradise plumes on a mud turtle.
One which commends itself comes
from an American student of baseball
who has also considered the matter of
cricket. He suggests that fielding might
be greatly improved and mammoth
scores kept down if dropped catches,
misfields and wide throws were debited
to the offending side. This is the rule in
baseball, and the writer, for one, has
for years been barracking for something
of the sort in cricket. Instead of apolo-
gising off-handedly to the blasphemous
bowler, the coot who drops a sitter in
the slips would add 10 to 20 runs to the
opposition score and subsequently enjoy
a painful interview with his captain or
the selectors.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland cricket
heads have been in anxious consultation
as to Gilbert's outfit if they send him
south. They finally decided that the
native must pay for his cricket gear out
of his allowance, but that the Abo.
Department be asked to supply his
civilian kit. If this is done writer re-
spectfully suggests that the fast bowler
be issued with a white evening dress-
suit instead of the customary black one.
Otherwise he will certainly be galloped
on at dances and other functions ten-
dered to (he team by shortsighted people
who will take him to be part of the ordi-
ẅ


m
The Prontac
k (Patemeu ■
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . •
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string: it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
i ;
1
%/
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearm Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
Two New Models of Mauser
Bolt-action Magazine Rifles
for 22-cal. long cartridges.
Light Model, 235 in. barrel; weight, 61b.
Heavy Model, 26iin. barrel; weight, 81b.
These rifles group into *in. at 50 yards.
Price for either rifle, £lO/10/-
Postage extra.
Most accurate rifles yet made.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540. .
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
Under the Whip
Though Peter Pan failed to bring off
his third Cup, Sarcherie made turf his-
tory by running second in successive
years. And Shadow King completed a
record which may never be surpassed.
Blocked when making his run, and
naturally not so quick to get going again
as a younger horse would have been,
Shadow King was fourth and finishing
fast. Another 50 yards, and he might
have cut Sylvandale out of third place.
Shillabeer’s nag is 10 years old, and it
was 25 years since his sire, Comedy
King, won his Melbourne Cup. Shadow
King was sixth at four years, third at
five years, second at six years, third at
seven years and second at eight years ;
in 1934 he did not start.
After the first day's racing, the
generality of punters summed up the
chances pretty correctly; at all events,
the favorite. Marabou (9 to 2), won, and
the second favorite, Sarcherie (6 to 1),
was second. Sarcherie’s backers were
rather unlucky in that Shean, rac-
ing from the barrier for a good position,
found he had hit the front and had to
make the running. He could not get
anyone else to do it. Naturally it look
a good deal out of the chestnut mare,
and when Marabou made a dash at her
a furlong and a half from home she
could not cope with it. Probably the
result would have been the same had
she dwelt behind three or four horses
for a mile and a half or so ; but she
would assuredly have been closer than
2\ lengths. Sylvandale (15 to 1) did
splendidly to run third, half a length
behind Sarcherie. He is obviously a
better horse than this Page reckoned him.
Next to Shadow King were Contact,
Feldspar and Sporting Blood ; in the
absence of Palfresco (he went wrong at
the eleventh hour), Young Idea and The
Chanter, Feldspar proved himself de-
cidedly the best of the three-year-olds.
Peter Pan’s name was never called till
the finish. There his position was
fifteenth or sixteenth, the field having
been reduced to 22 by the scratching of
Palfresco, Young Idea, High Cross and
Satmoth. Organically there is nothing
wrong with him; he is just a dead-tired
horse, as he was in the autumn of
1933. The time was 3min. 23£sec. —
much better than the average for the last
20 years.
“S.G.”: Joseph Fell, part-owner of
Marabou, saw his horse win the Mel-
bourne Cup and died in his sleep
36 hours afterwards. He had been
a sick man for months. Fell was a
member of the syndicate that gave
6750 guineas for Dominant as a
yearling. The time came when another
member of the syndicate could have
done with the £1771 he had contributed,
as well as his share of the expense in-
curred in trying to make Dominant
gallop like a real racehorse (he never
did), but it was no embarrassment to
Fell. He and his partner, Hogan, got
Marabou as a three-year-old for about a
fourth of the amount that Dominant
1 etched. For the Marconigram stallion’s
second in the Melbourne Stakes and first
in the Melbourne Cup, they divided
£6600, less what they gave the trainer,
Lou Robertson, and the jockey, Voitre,
Trainers usually get a tenth of the stake-
money ; jockeys—very irrationally—
more.
“Jamwood”; J. L. Reilly (B. 6/11/’35)
didn’t see every Cup. He died in his
Toorak home while the Flemington crowd
was cheering Marabou. Victorian racing
has lost stout pillars this year ; but it
has good men coming on.
• 1 • • • •
“Tuart”; Voitre must now be
accounted the most successful jockey that
ever came to Australia from Maoriland.
To find a parallel to the riding of the
winners of the Newmarket, Doncaster,
Epsom, Victoria Derby, Melbourne
Cup and Oaks in one year, besides
many minor races, one would have
to ransack turf records for decades.
J* J s certainly a feat unrivalled
by McCarten or even Hewitt, although
Hewitt, riding Maximise and Solution,
carried off the Epsom-Metrop. double in
1906. Voitre is a level-headed young
man and has all the other essentials:
yet he has his off-days—they all have.
On each of his otherwise successful visits
to Sydney, he began with an indifferent
showing which prompted not a few Syd-
ney observers to remark that Melbourne
overrated him.
* * * *
Valiant Chief is no stayer, but he
proved in the Linlithgow Stakes that the
Derby race had not taken the edge off
his speed. Five to two in a field of four
(he would have been at a longer price
if Voitre had not been the horseman)
he waited on Sylvandale and Synagogue
for seven furlongs and made short work
of them over the last furlong of a mile
run in Imin. 38isec. Silver Jubilee ran
past the other pair at the end and beat
Sylvandale by a neck for second place.
Synagogue faded right out. He is an
erratic customer, and his bookmaker-
owner may be reckoned fortunate in hav-
ing won an Epsom with him and col-
lected hall of the Futurity Stakes money.
“That the Stadium? Well, I'm ringin' up t' tell y' Bill Bashem's lorst
his title o' middleweight champeen."
Bimilla was one of four that went out
at 7 to 2 for the Oaks, and looked a good
thing beaten. Dempsey pulled her back
to last, and then made a forward move
suddenly—just as he did on Palfresco
in the Derby. At that Bimilla had to
go wide at the turn. In the end she just
failed to catch Sol Green’s Verbius
filly Nalda. Salamander (12 to 1) was
third. The race-record time of 2min.
32|sec. was established, and the field
was the best for years.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There are some good featherweights
about —the best since the days of Thorn
and King. “Spider” Roach is one;
Merv Blandon another. The pair met
at Carlton (N.S.W.) on Wednesday, and
referee Joe Wallis declared their fast
fight a draw. Blandon attacked continu-
ously, but was almost always beaten to the
punch during nine rounds ; Roach was
the speedier and better-balanced boxer.
Aware that he was behind on points, the
champion tore-in with greater energy
than ever in the tenth, but to this observer
it seemed that Roach still had the ad-
vantage. Wallis gives points for aggres-
sion, as no doubt he should, but Roach’s
much more attractive display did not
bring him the reward many thought tie
deserved.'
* * * *
Ambrose Palmer has made a good
impression on English boxing writers;
“fastest mover I ever saw among the
heavyweights,” the “Daily Mail” man
says. The Footscray lad was matched
with a Canadian, Wenstob, and, barring
a postponement, the result should be
known to-day.
Ins and Outs
“Cottesloe”: Though the bowling was
not strong (Ditchburn, 6 for 92, pro-
vided an exception) the M.C.C. team
made an impressive batting ddbut in
Australia against Westralia, making runs
quickly and attractively as soon as they
found their feet. The visitors ran to 344
and 266, Westralia making a draw of it
with 232 and one for 29. The new l.b.w.
rule, used for the first time in Australia,
gave no trouble, only two batsmen being
out under it in the match. The English-
men take block well outside the leg
stump and walk across to play the ball.
The Westerners have decided to adopt
the new law in their club cricket.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: On November 23 the
Australians will begin their first match in
South Africa against Natal at Durban,
where the first Test will also start on
December 14. Fifteen matches are down
for decision ; a couple of fixtures may
be added after the last Test, also at
Durban, finishes on March 3. This is
only the third Australian side, other than
the A.1.F., to tackle the ’Boks on their
own midden, and it is the first to go
direct from Australia. Of the 19 Tests
played Australia has won 14 and South
Africa one —at Adelaide in 1910-11. The
rest were drawn. The team’s predecessors
were Darling’s side of 1902 and that led
by Collins in 1921. The only survivor, in
a cricket sense, of that last team is
Oldfield.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Queenslanders are still con-
vinced that they have the world’s best
fast bowler in Gilbert. One enthusiast
has been publishing a comparison of Gil-
bert’s figures in Sheffield cricket with
those of the great fast bowlers of the past
40 years. Jones (209 at 26.33) has taken
most wickets; then come Cotter (131
at 23.46), Wall (128 at 30.90), Scott (117
at 32.26) and Gilbert (54 at 27.24). Mc-
Donald had a comparatively brief Shef-
field career, but he took 70 wickets and
Gregory 38. Figures of the kind prove
nothing, of course. Probably the best
fast bowler the northern State has had
was McLaren, of pre-Sheffield days.
Though, like all Bananaland speedsters,
he suffered hideously from the State’s
notorious slip fielding, he got a place in
the 1912 Australian Eleven. It was his
misfortune to strike one of the wettest
seasons on record.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Hagen and Kirk-
wood will reach Australia early in
January, instead of in December, as first
intended. Hagen, though no chicken, has
lost little of his old skill. He led the
American team in the most complete
victory over Johnny Bull that has been
recorded in Ryder Cup annals.
* * * *
“Brassey”: There is a disturbing
doubt as to whether W. Bolger will be
able to make the trip to America with
the Australian professional team after
his recent appendicitis operation. He
left hospital at the beginning of the
month, and has been ordered three weeks’
holiday. As the players will all have to
submit to medical examination before
sailing, the matter will soon be settled.
It is suggested that, if he cannot go,
brother Fred may take his place. The
State professional championship will be
decided on November 27-28. Why not
let that pick the substitute if he is
needed?
Racquet and Bawl
N.S.W., without McGrath, won the
men’s and women’s matches against Vic-
toria in Sydney, Young Huxley, having
his first shot at the big stuff, was un-
beaten ; Bromwich also had two wins,
one over Hopman ; . and Crawford
showed better form than he has done at
home for some time. In doubles Vic-
toria didn’t take a trick. It was 17
rubbers to three at the finish. The visit-
ing girls did better. N.S.W. had only
one win in the singles on the first day—
Thelma Coyne over Miss Stevenson —
and was down two rubbers to four. Next
day Miss Hattersley was the only player
to drop a match, and N.S.W. ran out
the better by two rubbers, seven to five.
* * * #
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Fred Perry
arrived with his back still bothering him.
At the time it was reported that a kidney
and various other internal fittings had
come adrift. A Sydney doctor’s examina-
tion makes the injury just a couple of
ricked muscles.
**. * *
“Top Spin”: Two Yankee players of
some class unexpectedly turnfed up in
the liner which landed Perry and Brookes
in Sydney: Tilney and Blanchard, of
Princeton University. After the N.S.W.
meeting the pair intend to have a shy
at the Victorian and Australian cham-
pionships. Practising in Sydney after
their arrival, both were astonished by
the pace of the White City grass courts,
which exceeded even that of the board
courts in their own land.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Norman Brookes came
back full of his great idea —the Pacific
zone. The institution of this in north
and south sections has been recom-
mended to the International Tennis
Federation, and ratification will no doubt
follow in due course. The northern
section is to comprise Japan, China, the
Philippines, Java, Indo-China, Malay
States and India. Australia, Maoriland
and South Africa are to make up the
southern section. But, except for Japan
and perhaps India, the northern section
exists and is likely to exist on paper
only. As to the southern, South Africa
has several times declined to support
the idea, preferring to play in Britain.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: One bright notion
brought back by Norman Brookes from
U.S.A. is the proposed building in Cali-


Patents.
LUBRICATOR FOR AXLE OR SHAFT
BEARINGS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
9679/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office; ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET,
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET,
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
Lon don Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
SEASICK REMEDY
RELIEVES STOMACH
DISTRESS WHEN
TRAVELING s
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Sutrtap Wmcs
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
* %■
INSRS*^
r/m
k •>,
iH
R)
■vN>
I
it
p
a*
1
? y
m
■m-
¥SSt
*•«
*
m
n
RAMBLE THE COUNTRY
j
‘IN A V-8 PHAETON
You’ll recapture your first delight of touring—when
you drive a Ford V-8 open model. Never before
have you handled a car that gives such exhilarating
performance—that is so smartly and modernly
styled. Centre-poise riding provides luxurious
comfort with safety. As value for money V-8 open
cars are outstanding prices from £275 (f.o.b.
Ford Branch plus tax), with easy purchase terms.
Drive a V-8 Phaeton or Roadster and experience
a new motoring thrill —your Ford dealer
will gladly place a car at your disposal.
THE CENTRE-POISE
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) FJO.JO.V
fornia of a Davis Cup stadium in which
competitors in the American zone would
decide the question of who should get
the trip to Yurrup. As Cuba, Canada,
Mexico and others of the southern
republics are generally competing, this
central meeting-place would do a lot to
maintain interest in the contest. If the
Pacific zone comes into being, Australia
would meet America there, and the long
journeys of other years would be
avoided.
* * * *
“Mindanao”; The Philippines Tennis
Federation wants a visit from an Aus-
tralian tennis team, of two ranking men
and one woman, to play in the national
championships from February 11-23.
Turnbull and young Bromwich are men-
tioned. The trip would be an enjoyable
holiday, judging by the experience of the
last Australian side to go to Manilla,
but it is hard to see how the invited trio
will be able to afford the time. In
February they will be busy with their
hobby in Australia.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Howls of jubilation almost
deadened the Melbourne Cup lamenta-
tions when it was announced that the
Empire Games Council had allotted the
big show to Sydney for January, 1938.
It only remains to bring our primitive
athletic facilities up to date. A cinder
track has been promised, and an up-to-
date swimming pool is being built at
North Sydney, At some of the grounds
which will have to be used stand accom-
modation will have to be increased and
improved, notably at the Sports Ground.
The Games will cover athletics, swim-
ming, boxing, wrestling, cycling and
rowing, with bowls added to make
weight. A sculling race will again be on
the programme; it was cut out at
London. Australia has been remarkably
successful at the past two meetings, con-
sidering its tiny representation; at
London a team of 14 took eight firsts,
three seconds and two thirds. With all
Australia to draw on that tally should
be improved this time.
* » * *
“Spike”: The Federal Government
will give £2OOO on a pound-for-pound
basis to finance the next Australian
Olympic team. This means that the
Olympic Federation will have to raise a
similar amount, a job it is already en-
gaged upon. Mr. Lyons accompanied
his announcement with one of those
fatuities becoming so common with him
when he praised the wonderful spirit of
modesty in victory and generosity in
defeat which permeated these games. As
a matter of fact they have caused more
bad blood between competitors than any
similar functions. Spiking of track rivals,
failure to notice that a negro runner was
inches ahead of a white, free fights
between teams and the throwing of a
water-polo referee into the Olympic pool
are only a few of the evidences of
camaraderie recorded in the near and
distant past.
* * ♦ #
Despite the charges and counter-
charges of rough play during the Vic-
torian football season, the Australian
council, for some unknown reason —
probably sheer conservatism —refused to
adopt the sane suggestion of the Canberra
League that umpires should have the
power to order offending players off the
ground. The rule has existed in Rugby
from time immemorial, and why Aus-
tralian-game umpires should not be
similarly empowered is a mystery. The
possession of such power, even if it were
rarely put into effect, would have a
most salutary effect on Robbo and
Johnno, who leave the pavilion proudly
whispering to their cronies that they in-
tend to “put the boot into” the crack
player of the opposing team,
* * * *
“Newtowner”: Roy Cazaly (B.
23/10/’35) is captain and coach of New
Town, which this year, for the first time
since its entry into the Tas. League in
1915, won the League premiership. New
Town was beaten by Lauriceston (15-17
to 6-6), of the Northern Tas. Associa-
tion, for the State premiership—Laun-
ceston’s third in succession.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”; The successive
victories—and good ones, too—of the
All-Blacks against the powerful Welsh
clubs Newport and Cardiff indicated
that the tourists had recovered their lost
mana. Worth noting, in view of some
recent arguments in The Bulletin, that
the field goal is playing a leading part
in the scores of the Maorilanders and
their opponents. Tindall and Gilbert
have been the leading exponents of the
four-pointer, and every match sees one
or two hoisted.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: When “Sale” says
(B. 23/10/’35) that Soccer used to be a
monopoly of the North, though “now
the Cup final is always played in the
effete South,” he goes back not far
enough. The game started as absolutely
southern —and aristocratic; the Cup’s
earliest years were mainly divided
between Old Etonians and Old Carthu-
sians. Then Lancashire workingmen
took it up ; I remember well when Dar-
wen travelled to London —and tied—
and could hardly raise the fares for a
second journey. Only when the North
triumphed, and the code was profes-
sionalised, did the schools drop it for
hockey or Rugby. But the South stuck
to the final; and all England seems to
welcome the excuse for a long day in
“Lunnon.”
* * * ♦
“Blue C.halk”: Walter Lindrum has
told the world that anyone wanting the
Billiard Association’s cup and the world’s
championship that goes with it can pay
his own expenses to Melbourne and try
to take it. When English players held
the cup aspirants from outside had to
go to Britain, so J.B. is only getting a
bit of his own back. Davis is the only
Briton with a hope of beating Walter.
Last time he wanted a guarantee of
expenses, and, after haggling, something
of the sort was fixed up. This time he
is likely to look coldly on a long journey
on the chance of a share of the gates
and pay his own way.


yr 3
D
HOLIDAY TRIPS
IN
COOL TASMANIA
THE IDEAL SUMMER HOLIDAY
By combining a visit to Tasmania with the plea-
sure of a sea voyage on one of the modern P & O
Liners you are assured of a perfect holiday.
In Tasmania the weather is cool and invigorating
and excursions to the various places of scenic
beauty may be enjoyed under ideal conditions.
TO HOBART TO MELBOURNE
From Sydney Via Hobart
R.M.S. NARKUNDA LEAVES SYDNEY FEB. 6
R.M.S. MOLDAVIA LEAVES SYDNEY FEB. 19
R.M S. MOOLTAN LEAVES SYDNEY MAR. 4
R.M.S. MALOJA LEAVES SYDNEY APRIL 1
Single
To Hobart
First Saloon £5 10 0
Tourist Class from £3 10 0
Fares:
To Melbourne via Hobart
First Saloon £9 10 0
Tourist Class from £6 0 0
TO BURNIE
R.M.S. MALOJA LEAVES DEC. 13
R.M.S. COMORIN LEAVES JAN. 10
Single Fares:
first Saloon £4/10, Second Saloon £3/15. Tourist Class from £2/15.
Fares are free of Exchange
Tickets are interchangeable with the Orient *
and Aberdeen and Commonwealth Lines.
Inclusive tours will be quoted on application.
Principal Agents ; Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co. Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney. 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
p«,o
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue, now on sale, discusses —
THE OUTLOOK IN SECURITY AND OTHER MARKETS.
TRADE DEVELOPMENTS.
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION.
BASE-METAL PRICES.
THE MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £7/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
■?
r *m.
1
e
Jli
t
a
TT7HEN you give up the unequal struggle with an im-
perfect memory and frankly admit that you can’t
recall his size in bedroom slippers —or his taste in literature
—or whether he smokes cigars, here is a flash of inspiration
to solve that Christmas present problem. Give him a
‘Valet.’ The self-stropping safety razor for men of all
shapes and sizes, of all ages and tastes. The gift that is
certain to bring peace and goodwill to men, not only at
VAX,
Christmas, but for count-
less mornings after.
THE SET illustrated is
the No. 50 Nickel Set. In
highly-polished nickelled
case lined with velvet
Comprises a heavily sil-
vered self - stropping
‘Valet’ razor, twelve tested
‘Valet’ blades and strop
of selected leather
in hinged container
Other Sets from 4/6 to
65/- of all Dealers.
VALET
*
Safety Razor
V 2.205
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“M.G.”: Facts elicited in the Mel-
bourne Law Courts regarding the Felton
estate recall the old calculation that a
penny invested at 5 p.c. compounded in
a.d. 1 would amount to-day to a ball
of gold larger than the earth itself. The
Felton estate, on the death of the testator
in 1904, was sworn at £383,000. Despite
provisions for various payments —includ-
ing the famous Felton Art Bequest—
the assets have now accumulated to
£900,000. H. G. Wells’s romance When
the Sleeper Wakes pictures a capitalist
who falls into a cataleptic sleep for a
hundred years, and awakens to find that
his investments have so grown under
the wise guidance of his trustees that he
owns the earth and all that in it is.
In the light of the Felton aggregation
Wells’s novel doesn’t seem so fantastic
after all.
-** * *
“G. Trotter”: Amusing, if many
people did not take them seriously, are
the published “impressions” of returned
travellers who air their views on Euro-
pean situations and similar matters. Most
of these people see foreign lands from
seats in hotel lounges, and very few have
any acquaintance with languages other
than English. Yet they presume to
know the animating spirit of every coun-
try they visit—just as visitors to Aus-
tralia sum us up after a couple of days
in each capital. A Melbourne daily
played a cruel joke on a couple of
travellers by publishing their remarks
on Italy in parallel columns. One found
depression, widespread misery and re-
sentment against Mussolini and his sabre-
rattling. The other saw nothing but joy
and enthusiasm. It needs only a
moment’s reflection to show what utter
bunk is the claim of visitors to interpret
the feelings of any country. Before any
general election, anywhere, politicians,
journalists and others who have excep-
tional facilities for accurate prophecy
make their forecasts. Fifty per cent, of
them are always wrong.
* * *
“Centurion”: There is room for cor-
rection in the statement (B. 23/10/’35)
that “a few Arabs with British leaders
and no more gelignite than could be
carried on half a dozen camels utterly dis-
organised Turkish transport.” The Arabs
concerned numbered up to 50,000 when
the news got round that Lawrence had
received another consignment of English
sovereigns. Further, the demolitions on
the Medina railway were mostly directed
by the small party of expert engineer in-
structors sent by the British to show
Lawrence how things were done, just as
parties of artillery experts, Army Service
units and even a batch of live staff
officers were. Also I would undertake
to load enough gelignite on “half a dozen
camels” to wreck Sydney. Finally, the
Arabs never “utterly disorganised Turk-
ish transport.” Their activities were con-
fined to a section of the Damascus-
Medina railway serving a division of the
Turkish army which acted as left flank-
ing force to the armies of the Unspeak-
able below in the plains. Even here they
never entirely blocked traffic, though they
harassed the Turks considerably, especi-
ally in the disastrous closing stages of
the campaign.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“G.M.”: It is quite pleasant to be
arrested for drunkenness in the Soviet,
according to a Melbourne speaker at a
meeting of Red intelligentsia in Mel-
bourne. No cells for Ivan. When he
lurches into the view of a cop, the cop
has to obtain the authority of two pass-
ing comrades before he pinches him.
Ivan is taken to a police station, given
an emetic and a bath, put to bed and
supplied with a good meal. Next morn-
ing, his clothes are presented to him,
cleaned, and he is told to go away and
sin no more. But —he is presented
with a bill for all these services on the
higher scale. If he has no money in his
pockets, the bill is forwarded to the fac-
tory where he works and is deducted
from his wages, which for some weeks
are paid, not at the ordinary pay office,
but at a special box reserved for drunks
and offenders against other factory dis-
cipline. But there is another fly in the
ointment. The Pioneers, who correspond
to our Boy Scouts, are armed with
cameras, and bands of them roam the
streets looking for drunks, whom they
snap in the most ludicrous attitudes. The
negatives are developed at headquarteis,
and enlargements are forwarded to Ivan’s
factory, where they adorn the wall for
the amusement of everybody until he
has expiated his offence by prolonged
repentance.
* * * *
“Macaulay’s Schoolboy”: Count
Strzelecki was certainly not the original
Count Smorltork in Pickwick (B.
6/11 /’35). That story arose this way.
In 1893 Sir William Fraser published
a chatty volume of reminiscences entitled
Hie et Uhique. The author mentioned
that he knew Strzelecki well—“a clever,
agreeable, and very talkative man” —and
went on to hint that the name popu-
larised by Dickens was applied to him
by some who were a trifle irked by the
Count’s loquacity. Fraser also told how
he once introduced Dore to the Count,
using Mrs, Leo Hunter’s own words, “1
want to introduce two very clever men
to each other,” and adding, “You re-
member Count Smorltork’s introduc-
tion to Mr. Pickwick?” Whereupon
Strzelecki’s countenance changed to a
look of disgust and anger, evidence that
he had heard and hotly resented the
nickname.


The KiehardKon Chain Hotel
h
m
m
SS'S
M
11
u
M Si
Lla
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
SHEEP EAR LABELS & MARKERS
w
(5z5&?
ALUMINIUM (STUDLOCK) REG. SHEEP EAR LABELS.
15/- PER 100; 500 LOTS, 12/6 PER 100.
CATTLE SIZE, 25/- PER 100.
W. JNO. BAKER CATTLE AND SHEEP,
HAND-FORGED, BEST STEEL.
ROUND FORK,
19/-
NOTE,
19/.
DOUBLE U,
23/6
Send for New Illustrated Catalogue.
W. JNO. BAKER Ltd.
COMPOUND PLIERS,
Price on Application.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
M A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
M address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double.
Ip. with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
jS&i.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Difference in Yields
Often an investor looking down the
share-list will wonder why two different
stocks paying, say, 10 p.c. each have
widely different prices—which means a
greater yield on one than the other.
Sometimes there is good, sound reason
for the varying support. One business
may have large reserves, a past record
of steady dividends (perhaps sugared with
bonus issues), it may have an equally
promising future, or it may be retaining
a considerable proportion of its earnings
in the business and still be paying good
divs.
The other (lower-priced) concern may
be handing out most of what it earns, or
be trading on a great deal of borrowed
money or preference capital. The busi-
ness it pursues may be of a fluctuating
and uncertain character, with irregular
earnings. Or it may be particularly sub-
ject to seasonal or other conditions.
Some of the steadiest dividend-payers
in Australia are those which have suffi-
ciently large reserves to enable them to
acquire interests in industries indepen-
dent of their own. Burns Philp, for in-
stance, besides its South Seas business —
upon which it was established—now
draws a substantial income from ship-
ping, insurance, trading agencies and
tourist bookings.
It takes some time, as a rule, for a new
investment to establish itself in the share-
market’s confidence. Sometimes there is
prejudice against a type of stock—
drapery shops, for instance, generally
give a high yield, management of city
stores, such a vital factor in their success,
being of uncertain continuity. With
retail stores, too, 10 years’ progress in a
city may see great changes in the loca-
tion of shopping centres.
An interesting sidelight on market ap-
praisement can be got by comparing the
prices of ord. shares in Usher’s Hotel
(Sydney), David Jones and Burns Philp
(ten-percenters each of them). All £1
shares, those of the hotel are at 31s. 9d.,
those of the store at 40s, 6d., while the
scrip of the island trader-c«m-investment
co. is at 665. The yields are 6.4, 5 and
3 p.c, respectively.
In the last case the investor is prepared
to accept a low, safe yield in the hope
of better things coming to light in the
future. B.P. didn’t alter its div. through-
out the depression. David Jones dropped
its ord. distribution from 10 p.c. in 1929
to 4 p.c. in 1931, but the rate climbed
back rapidly to 10 p.c. in 1934. Last
year’s earnings were over 15 p.c. on ordi-
nary capital. In this case the market
seems to be too much preoccupied with
the general drapery-shop theory about in-
vestments. D.J.’s haven’t overreached
themselves in any way, finances are
sound, and the div. looks as safe as most.
Usher’s Hotel is one of the most pros-
perous in Sydney. But there are limits
to its expansion possibilities on the
present site, and the market classes hotels
as being one grade lower than retail
stores as to regularity of dividends. On
the other hand they may have periods of
remarkable prosperity.
Sometimes opportunities are over-
looked by the investor who classifies his
stocks on too-general lines. After all,
individuality in management is liable to
produce individual results.
For the first three months of the
present financial year Australia’s trade
balance is £2,262,000 (stg.) to the bad.
All that can be said in favor of the
position is that it is £822,000 less bad
than last year. Imports are coming in
at the highest rate for years, and, though
average exports are better than this time
last term (owing to improved wool
prices), they are not yet very large. It
seems also that towards the end of this
financial year there will be a falling-off
in export values owing to a short wool-
selling season ; in 1934-35 our heaviest
exports took place in March and April,
with comparatively high figures in May
and June as well.
# * * *
Sydney wool prices have averaged 13. Id.
a pound for the four months to the
end of October, as against an Australian
average of lOd. for last season. Greasy
fetched 12.5 d. in October, the average,
including scoured, being 12.7 d., and the
market is firm. Unfortunately the clip,
by weight, appears to be smaller than
anticipated ; bales are lighter.
* * * *
For some time Golden Plateau shares
fully paid to 3s. 4d. have been selling for
less than those paid to 2s. 6d. Last
week buyers were offering 265. 6d. for
the contribs., while sellers asked only
265, for the paids. Probable reason is
that there is a scrip shortage in the more-
generally-dealt-in contribs. —the bears
“I alwuz send Gus in t' ask f'r a handout. 'E's one of them poor little
coves women fist loves t ’ mother."
have been active for some time. Paid
capital is £113,500 in 210,000 paids and
630,000 contribs. ; the mine is on the
Cracow field (Q.). Last financial year
£182,000 was paid in dividends, £42,000
has been handed out since the close of
accounts, and £63,000 goes out to share-
holders on November 21. To date
£252,000 has been returned to scrip-
holders in divs. ; the bears have been
basing their operations on the belief that
the rich oxides were likely to give out. T.
R. Victor, who reported on the Emperor
(Fiji) show, and who is a director of both
cos., says that ore proved would provide
sufficient material for at least four or
five years, but development, it was hoped,
would “reveal large bodies of ore that
would add considerably to the life of the
mine.” Even at the present price, which
is much below that of some months back,
the market is paying something for pros-
pects. It certainly has been a prosper-
ous and cheaply-worked mine to date.
* * * •
Broken Hill South will pay 2s. 6d.
(quarterly div. and bonus) a share on
December 19, the same rate of distribu-
tion as in September. North’s quarterly
rate is now 3s. 6d. Assuming that these
dividends are maintained for 20 years,
at £5 ss. Souths would yield 4.5 p.c.
p.a. and return the purchase price;
Norths, at £8 10s., 3.2 p.c. and the cost
of purchase. Earnings of each company
have still to reflect the benefit of the
much higher metal prices since June 30
(out of the year to which the present
divs. have been declared), and better
things may be expected shortly. From a
long-distance viewpoint the outlook for
lead also favors good returns. Each
company has liquid resources in excess
of paid capital.
Lead has not held the spectacular price
of a month ago, but it is now firm
around £lB in London. Spelter is
around £l6 10s. sterling. North Broken
Hill’s chairman predicts an increasing
shortage in the world’s supply of the
metals as known ore-reserves are worked
out.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. (the parent)
reports a profit of £288,242 (stg.) for the
year to March 31, as against £403,427 in
1934. Lake View and Star’s showing for
the 12 months to June 30 was
£79,304 lower at £380,934 (stg.). Wiluna
paid shareholders 20 p.c., as against 221
p.c. in the preceding year. The sub-
sidiary co. which owns the mine netted
£411,857 (Aust.), being now the largest
profit-earner among Australian gold-
mines. Positive ore reserves (averaging
6dwt.) have a gross value of over
£5,000,000 (Aust.), excluding large bodies
of probable ore. The sharemarket’s
valuation of the show is around
£5,500,000.
* * * *
Raub, the Brisbane-controlled gold-
mine in the F.M.S. that gave shareholders
a scare last year—ore reserves were
reported to have been “exhausted,” and
returns fell away precipitously—has
gone ahead quickly developing new
bodies. Crushings this year are on a
somewhat higher scale, but the grade
varies from month to month —a good
deal of developmental ore is presumably
going into the mill. For the four weeks
ended November 2, 4023 tons was
crushed for 1554 fine ounces, average
grade being 7.7dwt., as against B.4dwt.
in the previous month. A larger
throughput maintained the level of gold
production.
Lancefield (W.A.) has maintained a
working profit of over £lO,OOO for the
last three months. Paid capital is
£200,000, so that, on a working surplus
of £120,000 p.a., the dividend of “at
least Is. per share” before the end of
1935 seems likely. Such a distribution
would call for £50,000.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (Menzies, W.A.) has
made another call of sixpence a share,
which will make the contribs. paid to
4s. 6d. The treatment plaut is expected
to be operating in ezfrly December.
There is 70,000 tons of positive ore
(values undisclosed) and 11,500 tons of
broken ore on the surface. Market valu-
ation of the show at 10s. 6d. for the
contribs. is £325,000. Though some ore
has been put through the First Hit mill,
there have been no divs. to date.
* * >(t *
Industrial shares, as suggested here
when the war panic was on, have recov-
ered much lost ground. Several stocks,
including Australian Glass, Edwards
Dunlop, Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
Broken Hill Prop., Tooths and Newbold
Firebrick, have gone to new high levels.
Kandos Cement, some time ago men-
tioned as being underpriced when com-
pared with Australian Cement, has come
up steadily to 255. Industrial shares,
soundly managed and granted freedom
from further taxation impositions, have
the most promising future among Aus-
tralian investments.
* n< ♦ *
New Occidental (B. 6/11/ ’35) crushed
4728 tons during October for 2103 fine
ounces, average return being B.B9dwt. —
a high grade which, if it continues,
should be quite profitable. It is above
the average of the ore reserves indicated
in the initial sampling. Costs now re-
quire attention.
* * ♦ ♦
The International Agricultural Insti-
tute provisionally anticipates a reduc-
tion in Argentine wheat crop from
233,000,000 to 168,000,000 bushels, but
the European production will be up
about 25 p.c. to 1,540,000 bushels (Italy’s
increase is 22 p.c.). The Canadian crop
will be 18 p.c. down —291,000,000
bushels; but, western droughts having
broken, the U.S.A. » return will be
bigger by 39,000,000 bushels —597,000,000
bushels. No Russian figures are avail-
able. The estimate for Australia is
placed at 134,400,000, slightly more than
last season and 27 p.c. below average.
* * * *
Newbold Firebrick is after another lot
of new capital; shareholders are to be
offered one for three, at par. Paid capi-
tal, at present £148,200, will go up to
£197,600. The mining industry has been
a great aid to this concern, as has
Broken Hill Prop., which uses firebricks
on a large scale in its furnaces. New-
bold shareholders are getting 10 p.c. p.a.
these days, and the shares, cum rights,
are at 40s. 6d.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold production is now
stepping up, aided by the operations of
a number of new shows which have
reached the production stage during the
past few months. Westralia Renown
and Edjudina are two more that should
be producing in a small way shortly.
During October the State produced
64,1410 z., up 14340 z. on September, and
an' increase of 11,1770 z. on October,
1934. Present rate of gold output is up
about 100,000 oz. p.a, on 1934.
* * *
Norseman (W.A.) reports ore reserves
of 157,000 tons, averaging 9jdwt., of
which 126,000 tons is proved. Gross
value of proved and probable stone is
thus in the vicinity of £628,000 (Aust.).
There are 300,000 ss. shares issued,
which the market prices at around 165.,
as against over 40s. a year ago, giving
the undertaking a present valuation of
£240,000. Investors appear to be scep-
tical about recoverable values.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
There can t>e no argument as to
whether the screen or the stage offers
the better scope for the production of
an imaginative piece of nonsense such as
Shakspeare’s immortal fable —the screen
wins hands down. It can depict fairies
dancing on moonbeams, flights through
air, the transformation of humans into
animals, sprites emerging from acorns
and the bird and animal life of a forest.
It can move back and forth from one
set of characters to another without
tedious waits and give unlimited variety
in scenic effects.
Photographically there is nothing to
cavil about in the Max Reinhardt film
version now showing at Sydney Embassy.
It is a joy to the eye ; as perfect and as
spectacular as the energy and imagina-
tion of its director and the technical re-
sources behind him could make it.
There are scores of scenes that are
breath-taking in their beauty and amaz-
ing ingenuity. The glimpses of the
fairy dances and the Palace of Theseus
are notable. But on the acting side there
is nothing wrong with lan Hunter as
Theseus and Verree Teasdale as Hippo-
lyta ; both have dignity and poise and
charming speaking voices. Victor lory
as Oberon and Anita Louise as Titania
also accord with stage versions of these
parts.
The half a dozen commoners are in
safe hands. James Cagney is a won-
derfully expressive Bottom the weaver,
Joe E. Brown is capital as Flute the
bellows-mender, and Hugh Herbert and
Frank McHugh as Quince and Snout
will surprise those who have seen them
in more up-to-date roles. The Puck of
Mickey Rooney is a highly-debatable
characterisation. Mickey is an excellent
mimic and full of boyish vigor, but his
pranks are more the antics of a high-
spirited guttersnipe than of Puck as
Shakspeare drew him. The four lovers
will also cause a pain to Shakspearean
purists. Neither Dick Powell (Lysander)
nor Ross Alexander (Demetrius) takes
the love-making seriously. Both are
too intent upon being comical, with the
result that they present a false picture
and minimise the charm of both Jean
Muir (Helena) and Olivia de Havilland
(Hermia).
Korngold’s arrangement of Mendels-
sohn’s incidental music adds to the
beauty and distinction of the film, which
is as near a masterpiece as one may
hope to see with a Hollywood cast.
“The Morals of Marcus”
Lupe Velez does a deal towards mak-
ing this British film —her first —at Syd-
ney Mayfair a success. According to
W. J. Locke, the lady played by Miss
Velez was an English girl who was
brought up in a Syrian harem and
escaped just in time to dodge becoming
the thirty-third wife of some Syrian dig-
nitary. She meets Sir Marcus,, an emi-
nent and wealthy scientist, travels with
him to London and eventually finds hap-
piness as his wife. Before that happens,
of course, there have been shipboard
scenes (Marcus in pyjamas; Lupe
dressed as she left the harem), cabaret
scenes (Lupe contributing one of the
harem dances), misunderstandings be-
tween Lupe and a lady who expects
Marcus to marry her, and other trim-
mings. Miss Velez looks pretty, wears
little, has a pleasing voice and generally
does the “savage in civilisation” capably.
lan Hunter is the scientist, and Noel
Madison a globe-trotter interested pri-
marily in women.
“The Lad”
Also at the Mayfair. Edgar Wallace
wrote the play—a mixture into which
are stirred hidden jewels, a philandering
husband, a criminal butler, a gambling
wife, a villainous bookmaker and an
old lag believed by all the rest of the
characters to be a private detective.
Gordon Marker has the part, and he’s
never at fault. He’s the Cockney crook
one moment; the next, a would-be
gentleman discussing art, about which he
knows nothing.
“Dr. Socrates”
A gangster thriller with plenty of
punch. Paul Muni, as a physician, is as
tough a guy as ever, but he can’t com-
pete with “Red Sebastian” (Barton
Mac Lane) and the various iron-jowled
persons who figure in the duel People v.
Public Enemies. But he’s hard-boiled.
He strolls into the gangsters’ head-
quarters, dopes all inmates with mor-
“A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM ” AT SYDNEY EMBASSY.
Mickey Rooney as Puck; James Cagney (Bottom ) as Pyramus; Joe E. Brown
(Flute) as Thisbe.
phine on the strength of a typhoid-fever
scare, and rescues the goil (Ann Dvorak).
The home-life of the gangster is well
portrayed, someone with at least one
year in medicine at college had a hand
in the scenario and the sound effects of
tommies and typewriters (lethal sort) are
beautifully reproduced. At Sydney
Capitol.
Some First Nights
“The Yeomen of the Guard,” as done
by the Firm’s latest Gilsullivans at
Sydney’s Theatre Royal, is entertaining,
but the many encores on the opening
evening were not all earned or even
demanded. Godfrey Stirling’s Colonel
Fairfax was a neat blend of dignity
and lightheartedness. Ivan Menzies was
a cheerfully confident Jack Point, but
managed to suggest the aching heart
under the motley. Richard Watson’s
Shadbolt (the gaoler) was a good bit of
character acting, and Winifred Lawson
as Elsie Maynard, Eileen Kelly as Phcebe
Meryll and Evelyn Gardiner as Dame
Carruthers sang with spirit. Minnie
Everett produced the show as well as it
was ever done at London Savoy, and
Andrew MacCunn and his orchestrions
put as much fervor into “Sing Me a
Song O” as higher-browed but not more
competent organisations endeavor to
inject into Beethoven’s Ninth.
+ + + +
If there were in the world only one
player of music and one listener —in
some little worlds that really is the case —
the listener would be as important as the
executant, and, unless the listener were a
paralysed technician of the order of Karl
Tausig (and even perhaps then, for
Tausig was a great musician), miracles
of fingering would be of less importance
than sympathetic interpretation. Isador
Goodman, of Sydney, pianist, can play
any bravura passage ever written —one
wouldn’t put a chromatic glissade in
octaves beyond him —and at his recital
at Sydney Con. Hall he kept connois-
seurs of pianism breathless with his per-
formance of such technical war-horses
as the Brahms Variations on a Paganini
Theme, Liszt’s No. 12 Rhapsody and the
Tausig transcription of the Bach Toc-
cata and Fugue in D Minor. But he had
his whole audience with him when he
played Chopin, Debussy or Scriabin,
because he obviously is in much closer
sympathy with these sensitive impres-
sionists than with the great roaring lions
of the organ and pianoforte. This com-
mentator would like to hear him in
Grieg and Albeniz.
4. 4- 4* 4*
Sydney in recent weeks, has listened
to some’ very fine quartet-playing by
fiddlers from Budapest, and its appetite
for chamber music has been whetted.
Quite a lot of the people who sat in the
Con Hall last week to hear the Ravel
septet (not in sonata form) done by
locals expected to be able to feel a little
superior. Some of them may have
accomplished it, but this commentator
had visions of a time when the cities ot
the Old and New Worlds (Budapest and
Sydney in particular, of course) will just
swap players when their musicians need
a sea-change. The string backing by
Walenn, Davis, JCrasink and Bell gave
the harp of Madame Metters, the clarinet
of Crosby Browne and the flute of Victor
McMahon just their proper places in a
composition written with a great deal of
charm and just a little originality. In
Brahms and Dohnanyi quintets (Lindley
Evans at the pianoforte in the Dohnanyi)
the impression was equally lavorable.
The Con. choir sang part-songs by Parry,
Stanford and Balfour Gardiner and some
sixteenth-century madrigals, net result
of which was to demonstrate that not
much has been learned about choral
music in 400 years.
4* 4* 4* 4*
As serious in their mien as ever, and
possibly even more meticulous in their
playing, the members of the Budapest
String Quartet reappeared at Melbourne
Assembly Hall last week. They repeated
the lovely Mozart in B Flat Major and
the Brahms Op. 51, the new item on the
table being Hindemith’s Opus 22, No. 3,
which sounded as distinguished in some
places as it sounded ordinary in others.
The concert was not rushed. Mel-
bourne’s musical intelligentsia are saving
their shillings for the Beethoven Festival,
commencing on November 18, when the
present combination, in six recitals, will
play their way through the entire quartet
literature of the Mighty Man of Bonn.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Adelaide Repertory’s final offering for
the season was “The Devil,” by Benn
Levy—real repertory stuff. The fiend
comes as a curate, the better to tempt;
yet does not get very far, human nature
being fundamentally decent. Frank
Johnston, producer, played the lead,
and found two powerful recruits
in Llandaff Mathews and David Daw-
son. Muriel Marks, Iris Thomas, and
Elizabeth Campbell were their usual
competent selves.
*J«
Chief points of the Sydney Thespian
Dramatic Club’s production, “Putting It
Over Clara,” are a fairly credible Aus-
tralian and an incredible peer, “Winnie.”
A chance remark by the head of the
family is interpreted by his dependants
to mean that they have become paupers
—reduced to a paltry few thousands a
year. He does not undeceive them, and
feigns deafness. He proves, however, so
inefficient at simple deception that it is
difficult to imagine how he ever man-
aged to hold his own in business.
Arthur Fellowes carried off chief honors
as the eccentric parent; Iris Benassai was
satisfactory as his wife Clara; Joan
Howard and Eveline Shearer were suit-
ably trying as in-laws, and Osmund
Wenban was amusingly futile as a
matrimonial acquisition of the latter,
while Fenton Dobson made the most of
his part as the portionless lord.
Current Artbursts
A husband-and-wife show is the ex-
hibition of Amalie and A. D. Colquhoun
at Melbourne Athenaeum. Each has
fully preserved individuality. Mrs.
Colquhoun follows the principle of
symphonic painting in her portraits.
There is a definite color scheme. Most
striking is the portrait of Nancy Baird,
a boldly-painted piece of portraiture in
which browns and yellows predominate ;
Jean Lawrence is pictured in a setting
of green. The courage of the manner
in which the subject is treated is less
observable in Mrs. Colquhoun’s land-


EYE LOTI
For In-flamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
Ce. Ltd. King st. Syd ne y
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
com, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Henry Clarence Reilly.
LAST heard of some seven years ago near
Richmond, in Queensland. The above is re-
quested to communicate with MESSRS.
MORGAN & FYFFE. Solicitors, Chancery
House, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic-
toria, when he will hear of something to his
advantage. Anybody knowing his whereabouts
(or, if dead, giving proof thereof) is, re-
quested to communicate with above firm, when
they will be rewarded.
MAUDE TERRETT (nee Icland or Iceland),
who was born in New Zealand about 1867,
and married in Sydney in 1886, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, is requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, re estate of A. A.
Terrett.
The New Power
Motion Picture lndustn|
FTTTO
r
Sum
tuous
uction
w
t.-V.
w
m
3
'%
%
i
<M
■S
«i
i
4&
7
%
: l
i
'4.
i
|
i
Story tjjij
by Escape Me NEVER'author its!)
The Life of Mozart—a tale,
haunting and tenderly appeal-
ing as the Master’s music, set in
picturesque Vienna and lavishly
produced with full official sup-
port of Austrian Government.
W
with a Distinguished Cast headedby
SIR THOMAS
n EECHAM
i
LONDON
PHILHARMONIC
ORCHESTRA
r
o
V
«
w
m
W
r
W
%
's
Coming to enter lain
alnVustralxa/
Jskyour LoadJheaireManadpr about it
WORLD STANDARD PRODUCTIONS
scapes, in which atmosphere and reces-
sion seem to be mainly sought. “Surf
at Lome,” “One Fine Day” and “The
Wave,” a brilliant little picture of break-
ing surf, are the most attractive. Most
striking example of the work of Mr.
Colquhoun is “Landing of Edward Henty
at Portland.” The artist has refrained
from melodrama, and has turned out a
landscape full of sunlight and true
to the appearance of the Portland coast,
with the figures lifelike and convincing.
His portrait of former High Court Chief
Justice Duffy is a fine piece of por-
traiture. In contrast, but equally success-
ful, is the full-length “Chinese Lady,”
delicately finished and with glorious
coloring and texture in the coat.
Three heads are beautiful examples of
flesh coloring. “Alice Pensive” and a
self-portrait are also excellent. Mr. Col-
quhoun exhibits a number of flower
pieces, all well-painted. In addition there
is a number of landscapes which are
distinguished mostly by their delicacy
of touch.
4* 4*
The late Charles Nuttall was best
known to the public as an illustrator. The
exhibition of his works at Hogan’s Gal-
“The Schooner,” water-color by the late R. W. Sturgess in
Melbourne Fine Arts Gallery.
lery, Melbourne, entitles him to a repu-
tion in arty circles. A number of his
etchings are excellent, especially those of
Belgium and Holland and their people.
A couple of heads of the same old
Dutchman, fur-capped and smoking, are
splendid examples of work in this
medium, as are “Baguinage, Bruges,”
and “Canals at Bruges.” Among the
exhibits is a conception of that very
prosaic person John Batman, recon-
structed, it is said, from a sketch done
in Tasmania before the foundation of
Melbourne.
+ •5* 4* 4*
A fine color-sense glows through
Nancy Moffatt’s exhibition of childhood
pictures at Margaret McLean’s gallery,
Melbourne. The best work is revealed in
vivid and effective decorative panels,
subjects being mostly the fairies, gnomes,
mushrooms and flowers so popular
among girl artists.
“El V.”; The tender regard which
the Commonwealth Government has for
all small and weak things is well illus-
trated by legislation designed to pro-
tect young whales. In future the
chasers must throw the little ones back
—nothing under 60ft, may be caught.
* * ♦ *
“Mataranka”; Even the Tennant does
not growl about paying Is. a glass for
beer (B. 6/11/’35), and at the present
rate of progress it will soon be cheer-
fully paying about the same for water.
After many tests a Government bore
has struck the precious liquid, but it is
so full of mineral salts as to be undrink-
able. Beer ran out about the time the
water was broached, and when a new
supply arrived the population was waiting
in lines to get it in wholesale quantities
at ss. a bottle. If the field is to survive,
something will have to be done to solve
the water problem. Perhaps, a pipe-line
from the Barkly via Attack Creek would
be feasible.
* * * *
“Herpeton”; Snake venom continues
to get into the news as a remedy for
some human ill or other. The latest
American discovery is that cobra venom
is an antidote to drug-taking habits. A
giant king cobra at N.Y. Zoo is now
supplying the hospitals with venom for
the purpose. It recalls the old days of
local prohibition in lumberjacking
Maine, then the only dry State in the
Union. Only druggists could dispense
alcohol, and then only for snakebite or
other cases of dire emergency. The
result was that every ' druggist kept a
stock of rattlers, then plentiful in Maine,
and placed them at the disposal of
thirsty customers.
♦ * ♦ *
“Old Q.”: Gazing at the latest pic-
tures of Brisbane, I cannot help won-
dering what it is going to be like in a
century. The early
builders realised
that it was North
of Twenty - eight
and laid down good
models for their
successors to fol-
low: Parliament
House, old Gov-
ernment House
and the Queens-
land Club were
built for coolness
in summer and to
defeat the wester-
lies in winter. Pos-
terity, however, has
found itself
afflicted with the
complex of Syd-
ney. Its taste runs
to huddled flat-
sided skyscrapers
of types common
in the more con-
gested Yankee
northern cities, with
low ceilings and
plenty of ferro-
concrete in them.
The streets are hot cement and almost
treeless by comparison with other near-
tropical cities, narrow, with the more
modem pavements unshaded by arcades
or verandahs. I am glad I shan’t have
to work in Queen-street when it is all
flat-sided and ten-storeyed and the roar
of the new steel bridge is driven up
through the natural loudspeaker which
it will form on an average February day.
* * * *
“Zedo”: A 57-year-old gardener who
shot himself in Brisbane a few days ago
was reported by a police witness to have
had a mania for buying Government
lottery tickets. A year previously there
had been £2OO in his bank account, but
after he had bought the necessary cart-
ridges there was only £1 6s. Bd. at his
death. The event does not seem to have
fluttered the public conscience in the
least—the newspapers reported it in small
print on a back page. 1 wonder what the
reaction would have been had the dead
man been throwing away his money in
illegal two-up schools.
* * * *
A year or so ago it looked as if the
Hobbs gearless drive, the invention of a
young South Australian, was a washout.
Shares in the co. had run up to a high
premium on preliminary reports; then,
after the visit of one of the directors to
England in hopes of marketing the
patent, prospects didn’t seem so good,
and liquidation of the co. was suggested.
But shareholders hung on, and now “a
financial return from the English rights
is expected at no distant date.” The
gear has been installed in standard
Maudslay (English) cars, and manufac-
turers in other countries are to be
approached.


BRANDAUERS
m
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BRANDAUER & CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
ŵ
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling I.lst Pree.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide foi
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
“Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy!
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva
tions day and night—ever at your service.
Hotel Mansions
King’s Cross. Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
ẁ
DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
\o Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
42 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
London has had a new bit of pageantry
to illuminate its history. On a fair day
last week, the November sun shone
bravely on a glass coach in which a
royal bride drove from Grosvenor-place
to Buckingham Palace to marry her
prince. The bride’s frock was of satin
lustrous as pearls, her roses were cream,
and tucked into the bouquet was a sprig
of myrtle. Queen Victoria, who found
a use for everything, must smile to know
that the myrtle in her wedding bouquet
now provides a shoot for every bridal
bouquet in the family. With Lady Alice
Scott drove her brother, the Duke of
Buccleuch, the scarlet and gold of his
Grenadier Guards uniform a strong con-
trast to her gleaming whiteness. Tall
guardsmen at the Palace gates, the escort
of mounted police smartly reining up,
the flash of a white-gloved hand as Lady
Alice waved, and the crowds around the
Victoria Memorial felt more than re-
warded for their vigil. With some, that
had commenced as early as two in the
morning. Of course, in between, there
had been the excitements of the arrival
of the small princesses, eager faces very
bright between white fur capes and pink
rosebuds in their hair, and important
guests from many lands.
Royal brides seem to have no modern
ideas about the wedding service, and
don’t baulk at “obey.” The new
Duchess of Gloucester expressed her will-
ingness on this point when asked by the
Archbishop of Canterbury. The Palace
chapel was fragrant with thousands of
pale-colored blooms —narcissi, roses,
orange-blossom and white heather. The
gold plate from the lovely Chapel Royal
at St. James’s lent its gleam, and the
Prince of Wales and the Duke of York
added the uniforms of the Welsh Guards
and the Scots Guards to the general
magnificence. The bridegroom was all
blue and gold and scarlet, and, as old
Will would have said, looked “a proper
man’s picture.” King George and Queen
Mary smiled from crimson-and-gold
chairs to the right of the altar.
From the wedding presents it can be
gathered either that the Duchess of
Gloucester has a known taste for jewel-
lery or that her jewel box was notably
empty. The King and the Queen have
given tiaras of turquoise and diamonds,
pearls and diamonds, each accompanied
by corsage sets and rings, and rings of
pearls and emeralds. There was also a
diamond brooch of marvellous voltage
from the princes and dukes and duchesses
of the royal household ; and the bride-
groom himself added two diamond tiaras,
diamond and emerald brooches, earrings
and diamond and pearl bracelets. Jewels
came, too, from foreign royalties. The
Aga Khan sent an elephant’s tusk richly
mounted. In the growing scarcity of
ivory, that’s a very handsome gift. The
Prince of Wales added a dashing sports
car, and now for ever the question of
what shall we do with our girls is
answered: “Marry them to dukes.” So
far this avenue is not overcrowded.
While lesser women clustered around
their club radios waiting for the Cup
relay, the Arts and Grafters, steadfast in
the knowledge that the race is short but
art is long, spread before the guests at
president Florence Sulman’s at-home
demonstrations of beauty in weaving
and modelling. In the small gallery
Ethleen Palmer bent her shiny black
head over colored linocuts. Grace
Seccombe and others juggled with wet
clay— an d, behold! butterflies were born.
Marie Hall at her spinning-wheel and
Jessica Booth at her loom were strong
attractions both to students and the
merely curious. After the visitors had
gazed their fill, they were divided into
two layers (quite without prejudice),
handed tiny buff tea tickets and were
equipped for the tea-drinking in the Kin-
dergarten tearooms down the corridor.
One lady, thinking the ticket was a pass-
out check, wanted to press it back on the
donor.
When 100 members or more invite
their friends to their club you can
imagine that club is a very populated
place. Rose Bay Golf Club seemed the
objective of half the women of Sydney
on Cup Day, though the Queen’s Club
showed a good muster, and there was
almost a full roll-call at the Forum.
Most of the clubs put on bridge before
the race, and tea after, but the Women
Pioneers despised such make-believe.
They had gathered through eagerness for
Cup news, and they filled in the earlier
afternoon with chat about the horses and
Cups of other years. Later the brew of
jubilation or consolation was poured.
The new Cerretti Memorial Chapel is
an added dignity to St. Patrick’s
Seminary, set on the hill above Manly.
The chapel is a long stone building with
a parquetry floor. The choir stalls are
of silky oak, beautifully carved and pol-
ished. There is a perfect piece of stone-
work in the altar canopy, the carving of
which has been done by Australian work-
men. The stained-glass windows, which
came from England, throw the glory of
crimson, purple, melting blues and mossy
greens over the mellow woodwork. In
the window at the end, above the organ
loft, are shown the three Irish saints,
St. Patrick, St. Brigid and St. Columb
Kill. This is considered by connoisseurs
a perfect example of stained-glass art.
At the back of the sanctuary is a cir-
cular corridor in which are set chapels.
The altar of one of these was given by
Pope Leo XIII. to Cardinal Moran for
the college ; it is made of stones from
the Pyrenees, and had been a gift to the
Pope from the people of Lourdes. This
corridor opens out into sunlit cloisters.
Other features are the niche in the en-
trance porch where the cardinal’s hat and
sash which the late Papal Nuncio’s sister
sent to Countess Freehill will be encased ;
a painting by Sydney artist Norman
Carter, and the small windows that circle
the sanctuary, depicting such details of
the Passion as the cock, the bag of silver
and the basin in which Pilate washed his
hands. From to-morrow morning at
seven o’clock thousands from all over
the State will make pilgrimage to the
new chapel.
Here is Dorothy Senior, the student
who won the craft prize at the Arts and
Crafts show. She is a diploma
student in the Technical College school
of design, over which Phyllis Shillito pre-
sides, Dorothy is brilliant and original,
and can give an idea on designing any-
thing from an eggcup to a picture-
theatre. Her ambition is the right one.
It is to run an art school of her own
somewhere in the country, where the
girls miss many of the privileges of
study the city has to offer. A diffidence
about shouting her own wares is a pleas-
ing feature of Dorothy’s make-up.
The Orion and the Lurline brought
back crowds of interesting people to Syd-
ney, among them Joan Hartigan, surely
one of the nicest-looking tennis stars
Wimbledon has ever seen. Joan still
plays in skirts, though she admits that
shorts are favored by many. Mrs.
Norman Brookes, who passed through to
Melbourne and preparations for daugh-
ter Elaine’s marriage early next year, told
of the very modern flat in Park-lane that
will be the home of the Bessemer Clarks,
and of the antiques which she had passed
on as wedding gifts to her daughter.
Another gift from mother will be a
diamond tiara. The Walder lady and
daughter Mollie were among those who
travelled back with the 78 clocks of the
Orion. Mrs. Julian Mackay was another
Australian to return from foreign parts.
Back to Scone she takes memories of
South America, of the ornate and lovely
cities. Mrs. I. G. Geddes, whose hus-
band is chairman of the Orient Co., re-
visits Australia after 15 years.
Doris Browne, whose head looks
something Greuze might have painted,
is already an ardent student of dancing.
Doris (whose father is president of the
Industrial Commission of N.S.W.) has
already earned several of the coveted
Royal Academy of Dancing certificates.
Desmond Woolley made the picture.
Two brilliant terpsichoreans who won
scholarships in the Royal Academy of
Dancing, presided over by Genee, are
about to sail for London. They are
Queenie Royal and Andrae Swayn.
Next Monday at the Con. a testimonial
ballet recital will be given to raise funds
for the two young things. It will be the
first time a public appeal has been made
for dancing students.
The orchestra started to play at eight-
thirty, but at a quarter-past nine the
hall under the great dome at Elizabeth
Bay House was still filled with the glad
sounds of meetings and greetings. The
largest and cheeriest crowd was around
the Frank Wrights. With them was artist
Treania Smith, the satin of her frock
camellia white against the black moires
spattered with red rosebuds worn by her
hostess. A decorative moment was sup-
plied by a graceful girl in flowing cream
net who poised on the wide staircase.
Her frock was drawn high about the
neck with a ribbon that ended in a tight
little red-and-blue knot of flowers ; the
sleeves were long and caught in at the
wrist. The flowers were magnificent.
There were lilies and greeny shoots in
the hall, and the ballroom and dining-
room repeated the red, white and blue of
France in red roses and camellias, white
spears of gladioli and the blue deeps of
delphinium. There was other horticul-
ture, too, rich and rare and lavish, and
always in the Tricolor shades.
President Alfred Wunderlich gazed
around and was content. Mrs. Alfred’s
black velvets had sleeves of real ivory
lace that drooped in a bell from elbow
to wrist. Daughter Marguerite twirled
gaily-flowered chiffons, and Mrs. Charles
Wunderlich brought hydrangea-blue
satins to the family group. The acting
Consul-General Meyers were the night’s
importants, and there was dignity in the
black crepes and dark-red roses worn
by Mrs. Meyer.
Sydney wore its poppies proudly on
Monday. It had bought them on the
Friday before, but these poppies are
everlasting, the same as the memories
they evoke. Once again the city stood
in silence while thoughts that grow more
clamorous with the years beat on heart
and brain. The wreaths mounted high on
the Cenotaph ; there was the gleam of
uniforms. “The Last Post” was sounded,
and then, after the sacred two minutes,
a city turned back to life, another poppy
added to its dear pile.
Mrs. Andre Brenac and Mrs. Georges
Brenac brought May Proud ; her rose-
patterned blue crepes frivolled between
their black and magnolia satins. Gold
coin spots were scattered over the black
organdie which made Mrs. Ribot’s dress.
This was sheathlike to the hips, and then
flounced out to unbelievable fullness.
Mrs. Jacques Playoust was graceful in
white chiffons with draped sleeves.
Nobody can say after this that Sydney
is not an honest city. There’s been a
whole million pounds’ worth of Orion
lying loose at Circular Quay, and not one
sneak-thief tried to get away with it. Buff
and green, her top layer of white picked
out with a dazzle of electrics, the hand-
some ship has sent out millions of travel-
lure vibrations. Nobody on the passing
ferries escapes them. One old lady in the
shabbiest black, her gloves a mass of
darns, sat on an incoming ferry. She gazed
with complete approval on the great liner.
“That,” she said, “is what 1 call a ship.
That’s the sort I’ll travel by. None of
your cargo tramps for me.” A
young girl with her murmured some-
thing about expense for clothes. The old
lady considered. “Well,” she said, “1
wouldn’t be needing sports clothes.”
“Evening dresses,” muttered her com-
panion. “I’m past bare backs, so a good
black moire with real lace sleeves Of
course, you’d need more.” At the Quay
they bought a fashion book. And let’s
hope they win the lottery.
Fuchsias and pink candlelight on old
rosewood make an ideal setting for a
supper party. Mrs. David Knox proved
it last Sunday when she and husband
Dr. David Knox welcomed the Lemberg
couple. The Lembergs (he’s a doctor of
philosophy) come from Heidelberg by
way of Cambridge, and he’s the first
biochemist appointed to the Royal
North Shore Hospital’s new bio-
chemistry department. The “Medical
Journal” Archdalls, anthropologist
Camilla Wedgwood, of the Women’s
College, the Alan Clunies Ross couple,
artist Albert Collins and writer Amy
Harrison were among the highbrows who
enjoyed the ice pudding made from the
King's favorite recipe.
There will be one thing that Charles
Joseph Moses, new general manager for
the A.8.C., will keep his ear tuned for,
and that is voice quality in announcers
and broadcasters. He has shown a fine
taste for the descriptive in his own ses-
sions, and his voice has a resonance that,
coupled with careful diction, has made
him a pleasure to listen to. This Letter
has long ago come to the conclusion that
there should be some standard in which
everyone who is to be allowed to unloose
his vowel and consonant sounds over the
air should qualify. Perhaps under the
guidance of Moses there will be both
manna and manner.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1545 of 1935.
BETWEEN ISABELLA PARKER (formerly
Isabella Pettit) Petitioner
And ERNEST EDWARD PARKER Re-
spondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD PARKER late of
Victoria Street St. Mary’s.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ISABELLA
PARKER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
desertion without reasonable cause by reason
of your failure to comply with the Decree for
restitution of conjugal rights in a suit Number
1641 of 1934 made against you by this Honor-
able Court on the Thirtieth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the 23rd day of January One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of October,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
• Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Probate Jurisdiction.—ln the
Matter of the Estate of BRUCE WALTER
FINLAY, late of Callan Park, in the State of
New South Wales, Laborer, Deceased, Intestate.
Pursuant to the Wills, Probate and Administra-
tion Act, 1898, and the Trustee Act, 1925.
Bruce Walter Finlay had a brother, John Turner
Finlay, who was also known as John Finlay
and John Watson, and who predeceased the
Intestate and died in Sydney on the 29th
June, 1913. The said John Turner Finlay,
John Finlay or John Watson was married,
firstly, to Isabella Blatch, and, secondly, to
Ellen Marlcy or Ellen Marley Cook. Any
legitimate child of the said John Turner Finlay,
John Finlay or John Watson will be entitled
to share in the Estate of the Intestate, Bruce
Walter Finlay. Therefore take Notice that
any person claiming to share in the Estate of
the Intestate as a child of John Turner Finlay,
John Finlay or John Watson must give notice
of such claim to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, St.
James’s Buildings, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, within three months of the date of
publication hereof, otherwise the share held
for the issue of John Turner Finlay will be dis-
tributed amongst the other persons interested
in the Estate. Dated this Eleventh day of
November, 1935.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1721 of 1935.
BETWEEN EDITH JANE MAUD BROOKS
(formerly Edith Jane Maud Hall) of Morce
in the State of New South Wales Peti-
tioner.
And PATRICK JOHN BROOKS of
Morec in the said State Husband of the
said Edith Jane Maud Brooks,
TO PATRICK JOHN BROOKS late of Morec
in the State bf New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH JANE
MAUD BROOKS has commenced a Suit
against you in this Honorable Court applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left the said Edith Jane Maud
Brooks continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-ninth
day of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
MOODIE, COLE & CO., Solicitors for
Petitioner, Morec. By PURVES & MOODIE,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 676 of 1921.
BETWEEN ERNEST ALEXANDER FER-
GUSON Petitioner.
And ELIZA ANNE FERGUSON Re-
spondent.
TAKE NOTICE that this Honorable Court
will be moved on Tuesday the Tenth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five before the Honorable Francis Stewart
Boyce Judge of the Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction of the said Supreme Court at the
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney at
ten o’clock in the forenoon or so soon there-
after as Counsel can be heard on behalf of the
abovenamed Respondent for an order that the
Decree Nisi pronounced herein on the Thirtieth
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-one in favor of the abovenamed
Petitioner be now made absolute AND FOR
AN ORDER that the Respondent’s costs of
and incidental to these proceedings be paid
by the abovenamed Petitioner AND for such
further and other order as to the Court may
seem meet upon the grounds appearing in
and by the affidavit of Eliza Anne Ferguson
and Keith William Gunn both sworn on the
Eighteenth day of October last and filed herein.
DATED this Sixth day of November, a.d
1935.
KEITH W. GUNN,
Solicitor for the Respondent,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
To the Registrar in Divorce,
And to the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chartter
After the experiences of last year,
when the lawns on Cup Day became a
morass of mud, when dresses shrank at
an alarming rate right up above their
wearers’ knees, new hats were thrown
away as sodden wrecks and hundreds of
people went home after the second race,
visitors to this year’s Cup took no risks.
They brought coats and umbrellas and
wore tailored suits instead of lawn-
sweeping chiffons.
It’s a hungry crowd that goes racing.
As relays of people were still plying
knives and forks in the luncheon-rooms
the tea-ticket arrivals were clamoring for
admission. There was not a spot of rain,
so that luncheon parties under the elms
were as successful as in the old days
before the new stand was built. In the
members’ parking area were many picnic
parties; some people even brought
bridge tables and collapsible chairs to
make things more comfortable. There
are always some lucky winners who buy
champagne. One woman included in
such a party caused a mild stir with her
two-toned hair waved in gold-and-silver
curls.
J. J. Fell, a grand sportsman, was a
very sick man when he saw Marabou
win the Cup—it was his greatest achieve-
ment as an owner and his last race, for
he died in his sleep two days later. On
the day of the race Mr. Hogan, co-owner
with Mr. Fell of Marabou, generously
declared that the golden trophy must be
kept in the Fell household. At the
presentation by the Governor-General
neither of the owners actually took the
Cup in his hands ; to look at it seemed
to be sufficient thrill. In the enclosure
Mr. Fell was accompanied by his daugh-
ters, Mrs. Jervis Crespin and Mrs. Kings-
ley Dawborn.
Mrs. Lewis Clifford was in the minority
of the lightly-clad ; her white frock was
sprigged with navy spikes, and a muslin
ruching trimmed her navy hat. Mrs. Jim
Fairbairn’s lichen-green suit showed the
new slightly-shorter skirt; Mrs. Walford
Manifold was in cocoa-brown with a
lighter beige patterning, and Mrs. Sam
Hordern chose a jubilee-blue hat with a
grey tailored suit and a starched white
pique blouse, Mrs. Angus Urquhart was
among the wearers of halo hats—some
of these haloes are very large, quite cir-
cular and sit like full moons on the back
of the head. Mrs. Leigh Falkiner looked
her very best in a suit of navy moire, the
coat short and slightly shaped to sug-
gest a basque. An individual touch was
a chromium initial plate upon her navy
suede bag.
The present generation would never
dare to pass judgment on jewellery. The
young folk have been brought up on
paste and glass baubles, and have not the
reverence for precious stones which was
an instinct of their grandmothers. At
the traditional Government House Cup
Ball there were valuable tiaras, bracelets,
brooches and earrings which in their
original settings appeared at vice-regal
balls in the brilliant days of Lord Hope-
toun, when fashionable women wore real
jewels or none at all.
Lady Huntingfield chose a handsome
gown of blue lame shot with silver, and
Lady Isaacs wore a diamond-and-pearl
tiara with her oyster satin dress. Lord
Huntingfield thoroughly enjoyed his own
party, for, except for the bobs of five
debs., there was no official receiving.
From the time when he found himself
stepping out with Lady Dugan to the
tune of “Ping Go the Strings of My
Heart” he didn’t miss a dance. The
Countess of Bective danced in her silver
fox cape and a silver lame gown, to
which she had fastened a sapphire brooch
pendant. Mr. Justice Martin’s wife wore
white chiffon shirred to the knees, thence
a swirl of accordion pleatings. Mrs.
Leonard Wheatley contrasted cherry
fingernails with a gown of flag-lily
purple. Mrs. Geoff Grimwade, in pink
with a breeze-blown surface, clasped a
silver bag against her dancing partner’s
arm. Mrs. Dudley Brunton displayed a
beautiful suntan —the corsage of her ice-
blue satin dress was frontpiece only, with
wide lapels and a halter neck support.
Heather MacKellar was also in blue with
an up-to-the-throat necklioe. Mrs. Reg
Baillieu stabbed a diamond pin into the
shoulder of her damson-red gown, and
Commander Ramsay’s wife swathed black
velvet round the neck of her silver dress.
It was not really the young folks’
night out. The fleet wasn’t in, and some
of the lasses had to accept their papas as
partners. On the fountain-lawn chairs
were tactfully placed in twos, but, as one
lad put it, the colored lights were a nuis-
ance and the garden was full of police-
men. Dense crowds waited outside the
dining-room for their turn at supper, and
the marquee and the alcove buffet, es-
pecially the champagne corner, were
packed all night. Everybody helped
him- or herself to, and some‘people even
filled their cases from, the cigarettes,
monogrammed with a gold crown and
capital H, which were placed on tables
in the hall and in the drawing-room, with
its hospitable air of crackling fires, large
gallery pictures and masses of flowers.
As perfect weather was given to Mr.
and Mrs. Lucius Conolly for their cock-
tail party they decided to make it an
out-of-doors occasion. In the quaint
garden which is hidden behind their
home in Kensington-road they arranged
a temporary bar, beach umbrellas, canvas
seats and, out of consideration for the
smudges of affectionate paws on party
dresses, secured the cocker-spaniels
behind wire-netting. Guests of honor
were the recently-married Franc Falkiner
couple, who were introduced by the host
and hostess on a piece of special matting
under the Ice of an orange-tree.
Among inter-State visitors for the
races were the wife and daughter of Dr.
A. E. V. Richardson, of the Waite Insti-
tute, Adelaide, and the Council of
Scientific and Industrial Research. Mrs.
Richardson and Yvonne (whose photo, is
by Jack Cato) had a gay time being
entertained by their Melbourne friends.
Yvonne is cutting her holiday short to
attend some musical functions in Adel-
aide this week.
Picture hats are alluring, and it doesn’t
really matter if they droop right over
the eyes of the wearer —she can see all
she wants to see. These large hats had
a day to themselves at the Oaks ; that
they obliterated their owners’ vision was
not such a serious detriment when one
remembers the thousands of women who
go to the races and never look at a horse.
They struggle for their rights at the tote
window, but not for a place in the stand
to get a good view of the race. Sun-
shades made bright spots of color on
the lawns, and many people wore sun-
glasses, tinted so dark as to become
almost a disguise and rimmed with bone-
white, scarlet or green.
There was a tendency to put wide
lapels of dark colors upon floral dresses.
Mrs. Hamish Macdonald wore hers in
navy taffeta to match the wee toque
which accompanied her navy-and-white
frock. Ragged petal trimmings for neck-
lines were also popular ; Mrs. Norman
Price chose white georgette upon a
spotted dress. Beryl Homburg (Adelaide)
decided upon a halo hat with her all-
navy ensemble. The pleats which have
crept into capes, across the back of the
shoulders as well as into the hems of
skirts, were a feature of Valerie Palmer’s
taffeta frock. Florrie Green chose a
cool pastel shade to synchronise with her
name. A very attractive gown of stiff-
ened gauze, ice-blue and white stripes on
a black ground, was worn with a large
white hat by a visitor from the F.M.S.,
Mrs. B. M. Webber. Mrs. Purves Smith
and Mrs. Euan Littlejohn were among
the many people who decided that black
is safe for all occasions.
Mr. and Mrs. Hector Kendall gave
their usual Cup week cocktail party
with a sweep on one of the races among
the people present and bacon-and-eggs
about 11 p.m., for, although the party
commenced at 6 p.m., the flat was still
crowded in the early hours of the next
morning. Mrs. Kendall wore claret-
colored matelasse and her hair uncovered;
as soon as things got well under way
she persuaded all her friends to take off
their hats, for, as she explained, this
was not just a dash-in-dash-out party.
Among guests who had returned in the
Orion were Dr. and Mrs. Clifford Ellings-
worth and Mrs. Harley Styles, whose
cocktail gown was worn with silver foxes
and four Christmas roses. Mr. and Mrs.
Rex Hall came on after the wedding of
Tom Mitchell and Elyne Chauvel. Wives
who had been present at a women’s
dinner party and arrived later than their
husbands were Mrs. Gordon Hope, wear-
ing a cocoa-fox-lrimmed evening coat
and Mrs. Brian Foster. The Ken Mc-
Leans were also late arrivals, Mrs. Mc-
Lean wore cuffs and collar of ermine
upon her crinkle crepe ensemble.
For Mr. and Mrs. Len Buxton’s after-
the-Oaks cocktail party the banquet hall
at Menzies was transformed into a bush-
land setting with gum-trees and creepers
growing along the walls, with a fountain
tinkling in a bamboo clump and broom,
irises and gladioli making spurts of color
in the green jungle. Mrs. Buxton wore
a blue coat over a white frock, and a
large white flower opened its starched
petals on the front of her cartwheel hat.
It was such a jolly party and everybody
talked so hard that many people didn’t
realise that a trio of musicians were
contributing a light-opera repertoire in
the lower alcove. The Norman Brookes
couple were made much of. Mrs. H. R.
Hamer wore a black cocktail gown
which just touched the floor, and
pink ospreys nestled round the brim of
her hat. Mrs. Charles Moore pinned
unusual flowers to her cape ; they were
pale-pink and shaped like very small
arum-lilies, Mrs. Cliff Scantlebury’s
navy dress had white revers, and Mrs.
Ernest Heymanson’s navy-and-white
frock showed sleeve and corsage elabo-
rations of crisscross pipings over net.
Mrs. Ronald Watt’s black velvet suit
had »i cherry collar and scarf. A
chou bow under the chin was wom by
Mrs. Freddy Glover in mushroom ; Mrs.
Widge Gray’s bow was of crisp white
organdie. Mrs. John Williamson bal-
anced a large white hat above a floral
dress with a suggestion of V at the back.
Mrs. Sid Myer’s saucer sailor had a
black crown and a white brim.
Here is a Dickinson-Monteath portrait
of Elizabeth, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Henry G. Allen, who has re-
cently become engaged to Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Carnegie’s younger son Bruce.
The two families are already united by a
matrimonial link, for Elizabeth’s sister
Margaret is the wife of Bruce’s brother
Douglas. The newly-engaged pair are
very young. Miss Allen is still in her
teens, and her fianc6 celebrated his
twenty-first milestone at a party last
week.
Another after-the-races party was at
Grosvenor on .Saturday, a welcome to
Dr. and Mrs. Clifford Ellingsworth, who
live in England and are in Melbourne
on a visit. The host and hostess split
formalities, Mr. Justice Martin standing
in the hall as official receiver, while his
wife was so busy in the reception-rooms
making introductions, joining in bright
conversation and seeing that no one went
hungry or thirsty that many people
didn’t discover her until they were ready
to go home. Mrs. Martin wore black
georgette of cocktail-hour length and a
shovel hat with lilac under the brim.
Her sister, Mrs. Ellingsworth, chose a
halo hat for her black frock, with its
clever white-and-silver-embossed sleeves.
Mrs. Bert Anderson, who disembarked
from the Lurline, was garbed entirely
“on the gold standard.” Gold coins
were the buttons which fastened her
dress, the belt buckle was a cluster of
coins and the collar was ornamented
with gold leaf. Mrs. Tim Amess and
Mrs. J. Dunstan were among the many
in floral frocks and navy hats. *Mrs. J.
Fogarty allied a black satin skirt to a
corsage of pink and silver laced up the
front with silver cord. Dr. Esme Ander-
son wore black and white and the curl
of an osprey. There was dancing all the
evening in the ballroom, with its gaiety
of rhododendrons. When the band
played the National Anthem about nine
(Continued on page 44.)


it was no signal for going home, but
only a call for another round of cock-
tails and piping-hot morsels on sticks.
Very elaborate were the decorations
for this year’s Australian Club Ball, A
- fairy grove upstairs was composed of
real moss and turf where grew paper
roses, daffodils and tulips, each bloom
lit from within by a tiny electric globe.
Around the fountain were baby Christ-
mas-trees, and in the background cherry-
trees, blossoming out of season. In the
large reception-room Hansel and Gretel's
lollipop house was equalled by sugar
swans sailing on glassy lakes, by cushions
all lace and silver bows (also made of
sugar) and a lucky horseshoe surround-
ing the book of the Australian Ball,
1935. The flowers were gorgeous, and
so were the strawberries used as pin-
nacles of color upon the buffet tables.
On their return from abroad the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne and Mrs. Head
were given a civic welcome by the Lord
Mayor and the Lady Mayoress. The
council chamber was adorned with roses
on the small tables, creeping plants twist-
ing round tall pillars which sprang out
of clumps of calceolarias to support
baskets of ferns, and sunlight streaming
through the Austrian presentation
stained-glass window with its inscription
of Vires acquir'd fundo. Fruity drinks
and sparkling wine were offered with
savories, and there were two brief
speeches—from the Lord Mayor and the
Archbishop. Mrs. Wales wore dusty-
pink with a patterning of white upon her
scarf, and Mrs. Head was in beige and
brown. Among the guests were several
church dignitaries wearing the gaiters of
office, the Rev. Precentor and Mrs. Sher-
win, knight Edward Mitchell (now a
parent basking in reflected glory —he’s so
often described as the father of Mary or
Janet), the Rev. and Mrs. C. W. Wood,
“Uncle Alec” Isaacson, C. R. Colquhoun
and F. L. D. Homan, with forget-me-
nots in his buttonhole and a notched
walking-stick swinging from his wrist.
Mary Cecil Allen opened a group
exhibition at Margaret Mac Lean’s new
studio high up in Kodak House. Sheila
McCubbin, exhibiting for the first time,
produced flower pieces and decorative
panels of ornamental fish swimming
through beams of light deep down
among Barrier Reef coral and seaweed.
The other three artists, William Hunter,
Murray Griffin and James Flett, covered
the walls with etchings, color prints and
water-colors. Among the onlookers was
Mrs. R. Jorio, of Brisbane, who is visit-
ing her mother. Mrs. A. Hart, of South
Yarra. Mrs. John Tyson and Mrs. David
Grant were there ; also Thomas Brent-
nall. Flora Mclvor was attractive in her
spotty scarf and navy-blue halo hat. Mrs.
Fred Ward was all black-and-white spots
and a gardenia.
There was a packed house, with a
wind-up of no speeches and a golden
windmill, part of a basket of flowers for
Marie Bremner, at the first night of
“Miss Hook of Holland.”
WESTRALIA.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
Masses of roses filled St. Andrew’s
Church with fragrance when Gordon
Stimson and Freda Gates were made
one. The bride’s cowl-necked, satin-
backed moire was flanked by voluminous
sleeves, rear-guarded by a circular train
and shielded in front by a four-foot sheaf
of orange-blossom and white pansies.
Marjorie Edward and Dick Broadfoot
followed, their blush-pink crinkly chiffons
shirred and fichued and tied with taffeta
sashes which formed narrow trains.
Circlets of pastel buds bound their
tresses, and they j carried tulips and
anemones.
For three full hours Anita Fitz-
Gerald and Sylvia George entertained the
large audience which attended their
dramatic recital at Anzac House. Honors
were divided in individual items, and in
duologues Miss Fitz Gerald’s Junoesque
stature proved an admirable foil for Miss
George’s diminutive daintiness. Keith
Wood and Phyllis Dingwall appeared in
small parts. There was a hidden male
quartet as accompaniment to “King
Robert of Sicily,” and songs by Ugo Mina
served as an atmospheric prologue to
other items.
During the few hours she spent in
Perth, Ruby Rich, liaison officer for the
Australian Federation of Women Voters,
took her bois-de-rose cape ensemble to
the Women’s Service Guild for the
luncheon given in her honor. State
president Mrs. W. H. Evans parked
her smart black-and-white outfit at the
top of the festive board, which was gay
with leschenaultia and marigolds.
A sun-on-snow-mountain effect was
achieved by bride and ’maids at the
Warnock-Grieve wedding. Kay Grieve,
all snowy with trained satin, tulle and
w hite camellias, drifted down the aisle,
Wlth Ruth Lobb and Ra V Grieve back-
,n dawn-pink Their three-
tiered tulle capes sparkled at the throat
with diamente. and wafted over Grecian-
cut trained cloque crepe, frosty with the
glitter of a silver thread,
An occasion for wassail at the C. H.
Guys’ home in South Perth was the
coming of age of eldest daughter Vyvyan.
Twinkly fairy lights festooned the garden
marking the route to the house, where
there was dancing ’neath myriads of
balloons and streamers. Mrs. Guy's
black satin fell from a tunic of silver
lame, and gold sequin lace scintillated
over V y v y an ’ s crimson velvets.
Letters from England describe the
wedding of Meg Leeds, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. G. Leeds, of Surrey, and
formerly of Westralia, to Dr. Douglas
Mylechreest. The bride’s lacy veil hung
over classic-cut white silk marocain, and
she carried a sheaf of pink tiger-lilies
and spider orchids ; the four attendants
wore white hailstorm muslin piped with
apple-green and white picture hats
swathed with apple-green velvet,
The Prima te, Archbishop Le Fanu,
lent th e g rounc j s Q f Bishop’s House for
ific Old-English Fair organised by the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Australian
Board of Missions. Archdeacon Huddle-
ston and Mrs. R. E. Freeth received the
Mitchell lady, who opened the doings,
Scholars from the C. of E. schools put
on country dances, drill displays, horn-
pipes, hooplas and crazy putting compe-
titions. Stall-holders did a brisk trade,
many purchasers depositing their wares
on the empty stall, which was filled dur-
ing the afternoon with a miscellaneous
collection of gifts for missioners.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Palais Royal was crowded when
the Caledonian Society celebrated
Hallowe’en, and entertained members
and bairns. The chief (Max Fothering-
ham) and his wife arrived back from
overseas just in time ; Mrs. Fothering-
ham was in black chiffon flowered with
pink roses. In the official party were
George Ritchie and his lady, the latter
in white-and-cinnamon figured chiffon.
Premier Butler’s wife chose a cream chif-
fon flowered in a small design with fichu
effect. Mrs. Andrew Young, who made
her first appearance after a protracted
illness, was accorded a warm welcome on
all sides. She wore a shell-pink chiffon
embossed with a light design in white
and black. Her daughter was frocked in
a rich-carmine chiffon velvet.
Nora Stewart, who leaves on a trip to
England in January, gave a dance for
her pupils in the North Adelaide Insti-
tute. The decorations were carried out
in yellow snapdragons and broom ar-
ranged in huge brass bowls. The supper-
table was done with mixed flowers in
orange and yellow. Miss Stewart was
frocked in a floral chiffon, and sister
Geraldine chose a rose-colored satin
veiled in georgette. There were about
220 guests.
A concert in aid of the Mothers and
Babies’ Health Association, held in the
ballroom at the residence of Mr. and
Mrs. C. V. T. Wells, St. Margaret's,
North Adelaide, was a great success. The
performers included Mrs. J. Davidson, a
very charming Danish woman, whose
husband is on (he Uni. staff. Beautifully
gowned in a gold-and-black beaded fab-
ric, she sang Danish songs very
charmingly.
TASMANIA.
Things have been quiet socially since
Show week, but a good many country
folk stayed on in town for the Queen
One of the sheath-fitting garments Prestige are making for Spring. A
"Sleekie” in smooth “Powderfee” fabric with contrasting Alencon applique.
Mary Club’s shivoo, and smaller bridge
gatherings and so forth have kept society
from utter stagnation. “David Copper-
field” was responsible for some cheery
parties of young people, who afterwards
danced and supped at the Imperial.
Enid Brownell, who is to be married
to Quentin McDougall, has been enter-
tained at many parties. Last week Mrs.
Cecil Parsons, Kathleen Loney, Betty
Hood and Sybil Sale were joint hostesses
at an afternoon party in her honor at
the Sales’ house, Montrose. Lovely roses
made the chief decoration. After tea
a huge basket, decorated with white lilac
and filled with stores for the larder of
the new home, was handed to Miss
Brownell.
Artists Lily Allport and Betty Hood
are showing color prints and woodcuts
at their room, the Bolt Press, in
Collins-street. Their designs for calen-
dars and Christmas cards have charm.
The shivoo at the Queen Mary Club
to celebrate the purchase of the premises
was entirely a feminine affair—there
wasn’t room to accommodate male
guests if all the members rolled up.
Every room was decorated differently—
some yellow, some pink—and the supper-
tables with ninon roses. Games of all
sorts, from bridge to crown and anchor,
and a treasure hunt kept things lively,
and the supper was something extra
special,
Launceston Players have been hand-
ing bouquets to their Mrs. Margery Fysh,
who has won the All-Australia one-act
play competition organised by Beryl
Bryant, of Bryants’ Playhouse, Sydney,
with “Centenary.”


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and 06
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. 'Vales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thin
Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ẃ
0 For 100 years, Petty's Hotel has given service
to guests. Visitors to Sydney still stay at Petty's
you should stay at Petty's. Comfort; service; con-
venience. Tariff: Room and breakfast, 11/6;
Inclusive. 18/-.
PETTYS..
MONTHLY INCOME
GUARANTEED
ẅ
■
At last you can obtain complete protection for
your wife and family at remarkably low cost.
The P. & C. Family Income Policy has revo-
lutionised Life Assurance. It pays, in a lump
sum, the full amount of the policy in 20
years; meanwhile, it pays a steady, safe in-
come of £l2/10/- per month per thousand of
the policy, in the event of the assured’s death
before the end of the 20-year period.
Full details gladly sent on request.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director
H. FELL.
HON.
Chairman of Directors :
A. K. TREXHOWAN, M.L.C.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Proud Regiment’s Colors
“Zedo”: The placing of the colors of
the old Moreton Regiment in St. John’s
Cathedral, Brisbane, will wake a lot of
memories.
The old corps traced its origin through
various volunteer companies to 1860—
the year after the State was founded. In
1884 a bill introduced by Samuel Grif-
fith caused its reorganisation as the Ist
Queensland (Moreton) Regiment. It was
a select show, and entrance was much
sought to its ranks, which braved the
Queensland sun in scarlet coats with blue
facings, blue trousers with red pipings
and white helmets with ferocious brass
spikes. Commissioned ranks were
elected, and there was great competition
to be in the ceremonial parades, when
the band sported scarlet horsetails be-
sides its other finery.
When the Commonwealth took over
defence, the regiment became the 9th
(Moreton) Infantry. The Scullin re-
trenchment in 1930 hung its remains up
with those of (he 15th. Last year it was
again reorganised as the 9th-49th.
Many a great figure in Atizac history
figured on its rolls and learnt discipline
and warcraft from old Sergeant-Major
Rigby—late Scots Guards. Brudeneil
White had some of his earliest training
with it; Harry Chauvel was its adjutant
for a time ; L. C. Wilson, H. A. Goddard
and Jim Cannan, all of whom rose to be
brigadiers with historic war records,
served with it.
It got its first colors in ’BB, and they
were carried for 12 years before the regi-
.ment saw service and wrote “S. Africa”
on them. King’s Color came in 1925
and a new regimental color in 1928. By
this time a lot of names had been added
to the blazon —The Landing, Defence of
Anzac, Pozieres, Bullecourt, Ypres,
Menin Road, Hazebrouck, Amiens,
Hindenburg Line.
At The Landing, some of its men,
with a boatload of the 10th, were among
the first ashore, and their casualties were
the first to come through to Australia.
“X.T.”: J. A. Carrodus—Joe to his
friends—is the first Secretary to the In-
terior who actually has had practical ex-
perience of the interior. By temperament
he is well fitted for the job, and his record
has been a fine one. He joined the Com-
monwealth service in 1904, enlisted as a
private in 1914 and came home from the
war a captain. After his return, he be-
came expert in matters affecting the Ter-
ritories, and represented the Common-
wealth before the Mandates Commission
in Geneva in 1926. Last year, he was
acting Administrator of the Northern
Territory, and traversed practically the
whole of the more accessible parts of it.
* * * *
“Gain”: For the first time since the
German days, the Mandated Territory
will have its own coins on December 2
—shillings, which N.G. old hands still
call “marks.” Apparently out of defer-
ence to Chinese custom and the ancient
native habit which made all its currency'
annular, the coin will have a hole in the
middle, but it is, alas! not a patch on
the handsome German bird-of-paradise
money which used to run current and
which is much prized by collectors. Jt
has the usual crowns and sceptres, and
there is nothing on it symbolical of New
Guinea except the name of the Terri-
tory. And it weighs 19oz. per £lOO
less than the Australian bob.
* * * *
“The Powell”: People who wonder
why settlers from the N.T. grouse at
their conditions should take a look at
the figures quoted by Collins, M.H.R. He
gave the following costs from an N.T.
station:
N.T.
Sydney Cost. Station Cost.
Flour (501 b.) .. 4s. lid. 17s. Od.
Sugar (701 b.) .. 21s. 3d. 41s. od.
Salt (per ton) .. 78s. 6d. £3O os. Od.
Petrol (per gall.) .. Is. 7d. 4s. 4d.
Fencing wire
(per ton) .. £l7 ss. Od. 37 17s. 2d.
And these pioneers hang on, even
though wages are lower on stations than
they are in industry.
* * * *
“Kaloa”; There was plenty of excite-
ment in north-west Mandated N. Guinea
this year. First, a first-class earthquake
hit Aitape. Millions of tons of earth
fell off the Torrecelli Range ; houses, St.
Anna Mission and trade stores were
badly damaged ; about 40 natives were
killed, and an island shifted its position.
Then, a new canoe left Matapau for
Ali Island in .September. There were 30
on board. Two women were rescued
after five days in the sea, only to die on
"Nol up yet? An they call you blokes the visin' generation!"
the beach; five more, including one
woman, arrived, still paddling, at Ali at
the end of 5| days’ floating on a 50-
mile drift. Another native went to sleep
on a launch at Marienburg and found it
adrift. He did not understand launches,
so he sat down and waited for something
to happen. Showers gave him water, but
food does not come down in rain, so
when he was picked up after a fortnight
there was considerably less of him than
left port. But they breed a hardy race
around the Dutch border —he was still
smiling.
* * * *
“Vic”: Darwin has its “Eureka baby,”
too. Mrs. Susannah Mansfield, who is
still full of life at 93 this month, re-
members her father arming for (he fray,
and in childhood often listened to him
and old soldier friends talking of the
Duke of Wellington. One of her play-
mates was Wills, the explorer.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Two cheery couples celebrated diamond
anniversaries of their weddings, Mr,
and Mrs. James Lapworth, aged 83 and
79 respectively, spent their day with Mr.
and Mrs. Vic Jensen (Mrs. Jensen is the
only daughter), and occupied their time,
when they were not being congratulated
and toasted, in opening telegrams and
answering the telephone. The Golden
City brought the male partner to Aus-
tralia in ’64, and the bride had her fifth
birthday aboard the good ship Sultana,
bound for Australia. Ipswich and Too-
woomba were the first two towns both
families settled in. Mr. Lapworth was
a soldier in the old Moreton Regiment.
Same week granddaughter Hazel Lap-
worth, daughter of the late A. J. Lap-
worth and of Mrs. E. G. Uhlmann,
Manly, announced her engagement to
Jack Dix, son of Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Dix,
of New Farm.
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham William Mel-
ton, Red Hill, also made their vows 60
years ago. Mr. Melton is 80, and his
bride a month or two his junior. Both
hailed from Northamptonshire, and they
came to Queensland in ’Bl. Mr. Melton,
who sees and hears belter than many a
younger man, has managed creameries
in various districts in Queensland, and
lived in Rosewood for 12 years.
Brisbane is beginning to take notice of
its latest industry—picking and prepar-
ing beche-de-mer for the Asian market.
A handful of men is established at
Werrin Creek, near Amity Point, Strad-
broke Island, and last week nine tons
of the sea slugs was sent to China.
If the game proves worth the candle
more men will be put on.
St. John’s Cathedral has been celebrat-
ing the diamond jubilee of the Anglican
church in Brisbane, and for the first time
in its history the cathedral grounds pro-
vided a setting for a huge garden party.
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson went along
with P. S. Cecil Feilden as bodyguard.
Dean Barrett and his wife received the
guests, the lady in cornflower-blue and
white crepe. Lady Wilson favored
hunting-green georgette, and Mrs. Wand
wore a black hat with her rose floral
chiffon. The recently-acquired Canter-
bury Cross, which has been set up in the
cathedral, was much admired.
Bertha Roggenkamp, schoolmistress
and head of St. John’s Day School, in-
tends to retire at the end of this year.
Over 3000 children have passed through
her hands in the 47 years she has been
engaged in teaching. One of her most
prized possessions is a copy of Shaks-
peare’s plays. On the flyleaf a faded in-
scription states that the presentation was
“in recognition” of her prompt and
courageous action, in 1889, when one of
her pupils was bitten by a snake, and the
girl teacher cut the wound, sucked the
poison out and saved the child’s life.
Marjorie Wilson, who went to Mel-
bourne for the Cup, stayed with Mrs. W.
L. Russell Clarke, South Yarra. Pris-
cilla Feilden also was a member of the
house party.
As usual on Melbourne Cup Day, Bris-
bane hostesses gathered their friends
round wireless sets and drank tea until
the hour of the big race struck. Mrs.
A, J, Deakin hostessed at Rowe’s, and
many assembled at the Carlton for what
is known either as a Dutch shout or a
Kentucky tea, organised by Mrs. Jim
Geddes and Mrs. E. P. Turner. Jean
Tynan entertained a crowd of young
matrons and girls at her home at Ascot,
and Mrs. Alf Thurlow had the radio in
full blast and (he teacups rattling in her
home at Kelvin Grove. Mrs. W. J.
Phillips and sister-in-law Dorothy Phillips
gave a bridge party on the day, as did
Mrs. J. E. Dixon. Her party was rather
different, for (here was a buffet aflcr-
noon-tea. Other hostesses were Mrs. N.
F. Langdon, and Mrs. Alf Huybers ; the
lastnamed also mixed her racing with a
drop of bridge. Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, on
the edge of her 87th year, had the Pre-
mier’s wife, daughter-in-law Mrs. Charlie
Buchanan, and granddaughter Jean to
tea and listen-in.
Mrs. W. J. Gall, who was Australian
representative at the Y.W.C.A. World
Conference at Geneva, came home in
the Mooltan. She visited Swiss cottages
in which the same families had lived for
over 400 years, saw the battlefields of
Flanders, and spent the midsummer in
Norway, where the populace was en-
gaged in harvesting.
Nearly a thousand guests surged aboard
the Duntroon on its maiden voyage to
Queensland in response to the invitation
to afternoon-tea sent out by Howard
Smith, Ltd., and Captain Lloyd. J. M.
Gregson, Howard Smith’s Brisbane man-
ager, and his wife received, and York
Syme represented the Melbourne Steam-
ship Co. Most of the female guests
couldn’t be torn from the kitchens, with
their spotless electric stoves and up-to-
date fittings. Flags and music and a
very large afernoon-tea served in buffet
fashion provided the trimmings.
Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Tooth, who spent
their honeymoon in England and
America, are back again and have started
housekeeping. They motored 7000 miles
in Britain, went to all the shows in
London, met numerous film stars in
Hollywood, and came home in the Lur-
line. Mrs. Tooth stepped on to the S.B.
railway station in a very smart get-up—
navy-and-white hailstone frock, blue
Glengarry cap with red-and-white pom-
poms, and an eye-veil.
T. Langford Ely is the oldest air-pilot
in (he Commonwealth, so when he had
a birthday last week his brother pilots
rallied round to wish him best of luck
and all that. Two miniature Puss Moths
hovered over the centrepiece on the
supper fable, and above them the Royal
Queensland Aero Club’s wings in sky-
blue and maroon. There was dancing,
and (he river, which winds below the
Langford Ely home, made a romantic
background.


"ALEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
A
LEMSTE
-MOt (j'C&CtAJLj
©Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard "greasing” methods
IJyiiversa
[joints
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
cm
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal joints
CHICAGO.SILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Alemite VOtJpOr ation Cable Address: ADMIT .. . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT * M OOD, Etd„ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St„ Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 123 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—s-33
SPARE
THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
1811
a
%
Wmk
A Smoker’s Christmas
WOULD BE COMPLETE WITH ANY OF THESE
and very incomplete without them. You ask him and see.
Better still, choose one, two, three or the whole four of these
gifts and receive his warm gratitude.
Dunbar Briar Pipes. All popular shapes. Each, 9/6.
Du Maurier Filter Tip Cigarettes. 50, 5/-; 100, 10/-.
Col. Eazy (Rhodesian Tobacco). Prices; Mixture —
20z., 2/6; ilb. tin, 10/-. Plug Cut. 20z., 2/6; ilb. tin, 10/-.
Tobacco Pouch of Beaver Calf or Morocco. Each, 8/6.
ALL POST FREE EXCEPTING TOBACCO
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
A Dingo-trapper Has a Close Call:—
THE FLUKE
BY ROY DE COQUE.
THE landlord of the Sluicer’s Arms
leaned on the verandah rail yarning
to the Casual Motorist, who had
pulled up for a drink.
“Yes, it’s wild country, all right,” he
remarked.
“Wild country and wild men?” ven-
tured the traveller.
“Tough men,” corrected the landlord.
“We’re only a few miles from the crest
of the Dividing Range . . . you can see
the snow on Kosciusko from here on a
clear day. Used to be plenty of money
around till the gold petered out. All
there is now is a bit of timber and a
bit of fruit and farming. Hot as hell
in summer and bitter cold with plenty
of slush and snow in winter. Hard
living breeds hard men.”
He shaded his eyes to get a better
view of an approaching horseman.
“And here comes one of the toughest,”
he continued. “Doggo Ranson, dingo-
trapper to the squatters down on the
plains. Got a good job, too . . . four
quid a week, year in, year out. Traps
’em in the mountains here before they
have a chance to get down to the woollies
. . . at least he thins ’em out consider-
able.”
The Casual Motorist took stock of the
approaching man and horse. It struck
him that they were a well-matched pair.
Both were weedy, wiry and angular.
Pulled up outside the hotel, the pony,
out of action, appeared more listless than
ever, but into the rider’s eyes came a
gleam of animation. A little flicker back
of the blue eyes advertised a latent sense
of humor.
“How’s the beer?” he inquired. “Luke-
warm as usual?”
The landlord smiled the superior smile
of a man who knows that his goods are
beyond reproach.
“Hop off and have one,” he invited.
“With me,” amended the Casual
Motorist hospitably.
THROUGH the open bar door the
traveller eyed the mountain pony dubi-
ously, almost pityingly. The dingo-
trapper read the expression.
“Becky ain’t much to look at,” he
drawled in defence. “But she’s the
surest-footed horse in the mountains.
When 1 goes out I might be gone a week
—I might be gone a couple, or three,
four. These ranges are mighty rough,
and I needs a sure-footed pony where
1 goes . . . looks don’t count. 1 been
ridin’ Becky for fourteen years, and she
ain’t let me down yet.”
From the hotel verandah Doggo and
the landlord watched the Casual Motorist
depart in a cloud of dust.
“Saddle-bags is well loaded, Doggo.
How long will you be out?”
“Y’ can look for me if I ain’t samplin’
the warm beer again in a coupler weeks.”
“1 wouldn’t look for you if you was
gone a couple of months ... or years.
I fell for you once, Doggo —when you
were overdue three weeks. Rounded up
Rusty and Lanky and a few more and
combed the ranges for you. You’d taken
a sudden fancy and gone fishin’ to the
Murray. Never no more, Doggo ; never
no more. All jokes aside, though, you
ought to leave word where you’re head-
ing. Sooner or later something’ll happen
—ridin’ the ranges alone like you do.”
The dingo-trapper laughed.
“Nothin’ ain’t happened in the thirty
years I been doin’ it,” he said boastfully.
“I rides careful, Jim, and we knows the
mountains, Becky and me. Anything
that could happen to us we dodges, and
if we struck a snag we'd fluke out some-
how.”
“Jim!” An irate female voice hailed
the landlord from the rear of the hotel.
“Blarst it! The missus has a new
fad . . . gardening. Kidded me to
promise I’d dig her a new vegetable
patch. Have one more before you go,
Doggo.”
THE trapper checked Becky in the shade
of a clump of wattle and deftly rolled
a cigarette. Doggo had come on dingo
pads in the dust of a wallaby run within
half a dozen miles of the hotel, and had
decided on a camp in the old hut at the
back of Razorback. The hut suited,
being a considerable distance from the
wallaby run ; it wasn’t advisable to camp
too close to the traps he had set, or even
to visit the locality for at least another
day. Now he was just on a casual jaunt
in search of likely places to continue
his operations in.
“It’s a blarsted hot day, Becky. What
say we make back across Taylor’s Gully?
We ain’t given it the once-over for a
coupla years. Rough goin’, Becky, but
a good bit shorter back to camp. Git
goin’, old girl.”
Half an hour later Doggo checked the
pony again while he took stock of the
rough gully he had decided to cross. The
country around was barren and useless,
but right ahead was the last thing in
dreary desolation. A series of rocky
ridges liberally strewn with loose granite
that made treacherous foothold gradu-
ally steepened to a bottom that did not
even sport a creek except after rain.
Only one thing relieved the desolation
of the place. About half-way down an
old mining race wended its sluggish
course, fed from a creek in the back
ranges. The man-made waterway, about
two feet wide, ran in tortuous turns fol-
lowing the levels the miners had taken
and laid down for it. Its course in places
cut through solid rock, in others built up
round acute turns, the race still carried
water down to places miles away, where
alluvial flats had long since been worked
out and abandoned.
A VIEW of Becky now might have dis-
pelled the Casual Motorist’s doubts as
to her worth. Legs hunched, unguided,
she unerringly picked a safe course
through and over the treacherous loose
granite. Sometimes she slid, a quite
different thing from slipping, but she slid
perfectly balanced, with no chance of
giving her rider a fall. Now she stopped
on a level ridge, for straight below lay
a twenty-foot drop.
“You oughter remembered, Becky,”
her master chided. “A coupla years
since we was here . . . but you oughter
remembered. Straight along the ridge
to that there big boulder ; other side o’
that the ridge slopes gradual to the race.
Git goin’, girl.”
And round that bulky boulder a seem-
ingly dead limb, about six feet long and
as thick as a man’s wrist, stirred and,
lifting a foot of its length, surmounted
by a wicked head, listened uneasily to
the beat of iron-shod feet on granite.
The black snake raised itself still further
as the sound drew nearer, a wicked
tongue flicked in and out, and it began
an angry, menacing swaying.
Becky ambled round the boulder.
Doggo ripped out an oath, and quicker
than the eye could follow his hand tight-
ened on the reins . . . but not quickly
enough to check the little mare’s in-
stantaneous leap of sheer terror. And
she leapt sideways and back, straight
over the twenty-foot drop.
In the air her feet worked like a cat’s
to effect a balanced landing, but the
weight on her back settled all chance.
Becky turned a complete somersault,
throwing Doggo clear, and man and
horse went hurtling down the slope in
an avalanche of dust and rock.
DOGGO opened glazed eyes, wonder-
ing dully the cause of that agonising
pain above his right knee. He rubbed
an investigating hand across his fore-
head and brought it away sticky and
wet and red. His eyes turned to Becky
lying in a grotesque heap a few yards
away, and they darkened, cleared. No
need to investigate the little mare ; the
way she lay, the unnatural angle of her
neck, told all too clearly that Becky
had paid for that blind, terrified leap
with her life.
It was not until Doggo attempted to
rise that he realised the full extent of
the catastrophe. For a second or two
he lay back, gasping. Without shadow
of doubt his right leg was badly broken
just above the knee, and there wasn t
much hope that his left ankle wasn’t
smashed, too, judging by the pain the
slightest movement caused. There was
also a painful wound high up in his
back, still bleeding. Doggo wondered
dully how long he had lain unconscious.
The presence of crows circling overhead
suggested that it had been an appreci-
able time. A blowfly settled on his
bloody shirt, and he struck at it angrily.
He had the true bushman’s dislike of
crows and a horror of blowflies, but
their presence roused him to the necessity
of action.
“Couldn’t blame Becky,” he mur-
mured. “No horse breathin’ would’ve
faced a snake on that ledge. Let’s see,
Doggo. Y’re about five mile from the
Sluicer’s Arms . . . and y’ might just
as well be five hundred. Y’ve got a
coupla broken legs, and y’re in Taylor's
Gully. No one but a big goat like
you has been here in donkeys’ years: no
one’s likely to come. Ain’t nothin’ to
bring no one. Doggo, y’re in a hell of
a mess. It’s goin’ to take a big fluke
to git y’ out of it.”
He struck again savagely at the blow-
flies, rapidly increasing in numbers.
“Where the hell they comes from!” he
muttered. His eyes darkened, widened
at a thought. “Doggo, y’ve got to git to
the water-race; y’ve got to wash y’r
shirt and cover that cut. If y’ don’t the
blowflies”
He drew a deep breath. The water
was a hundred and fifty yards away.
Agonisingly he turned on his front and
started forward, pulling on stray tufts
of rank grass and bits of rock, heaving
with his one good knee.
PROPPED against a knoll that offered
at least scanty shade during the heat.
Doggo was enduring his second day in
the gully. His eyes sought the hillside
where, fortunately out of sight, Becky
was serving as a feast for a host of black
scavengers.
“Hot as hell in the daytime,” he mut-
tered, “an’ bitter cold at night. If a
man could reach a bit o’ wood he could
have a fire . . . die more comfortable.”
His eyes lit on a substantial tree limb,


m
mm
m
How I
ended my
stomach
trouble
“ I can eat what I please
and digest it with ease.”
If you suffer from indigestion, if you
cannot enjoy a meal without pain, wind,
distension, and a feeling of weakness and
low spirits, let nothing deter you from
trying ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It is the
supreme remedy for stomach trouble,
with over 20 years’ proof of its unfailing
efficacy. Perhaps you are even now
dreading your next meal. Then why
not make it the occasion for putting
‘ Bisurated ' Magnesia to the test ? Get
a bottle of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder
or tablets, from your chemist and take
a little after your meal. Eat whatever
you fancy. The result will be a revelation
toyou. Thecontentsof your stomach will
be made as bland and soothing as milk,
instead of turning acid as before. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
‘Bl SU RATED’
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the * Bismag ’ Trade Mark
w
Jo EUROPE via
\
IM
ILLLi
4 A
4 A V
fi pt***wm****f :
-in Canada's
Rockies
Only reached by
Canadian Pacific
Glistening snow peaks . . .
tinkling streams ... quiet
forests . . . placid lakes.
A veritable fairyland in the
heart of the Canadian Rock-
ies. Days of sport and
adventure. C.P.R. Hotel accom-
modation . . . cuisine . . . personal
service ..... all at surprisingly
moderate rates.
Write for illustrated literature.
Any Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN I'ACUTC,
317 CJeorge Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
l3/33
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
fc NOW
PLEASANT HOBBIES
“These two Modern Electrical Units advance
housekeeping 50 years in ease and comfort
and—are so saving as well.’’
mm
McCLARY’S
ELECTRIC RANGES
Make daily good cooking certain.
Noted for splendid enamelled oven heavily-
insulated. Quick heating elements, plenty
of cooking space. Cooks for four for less
than threepence per day.
Price from £l9/10/-
Terms if desired. «
DRUDGELESS WASHING
with the
ABC ELECTRIC
WASHER
Washes and wrings in less than one hour
the former heavy all-day hand wash.
Capacity, 14 gallons; 551 b. dry.
Price from £35.
Terms if desired.
(P
as
'=== = Al£
building exhibit, Strand Building Centre, Strand Arcade.
’Phones: M 6505 (18 lines)
&
&
U
324-330 Pitt Street SYDNEY
391-403 Bourke Street - - MELBOURNE
The New SIMONIZ KIEENER RESTORES
Gar Beauty Quickly and Easily
deposited by some past flood, wedged
under a massive boulder surmounting his
protecting knoll, round which the water-
race ran in a sharp bend.
Reaching up, although the movement
caused agony, Doggo found that he
could grasp the timber. A little pressure
indicated that it acted as a lever on the
boulder. Gritting his teeth, he pulled
harder, and the big rock toppled over
on the far side of the knoll, letting the
fuel slide down easily to him.
“Bit of a fire to-night, anyway,” he
cheered himself.
About noon on the fourth day Doggo
woke out of a feverish doze.
“One thing y’ can do, Doggo, is sleep ”
he told himself. “Sure sign that y’re
gettin’ weaker. Makes a man laugh to
think he’s only about five mile from
the Sluicer’s Arms, Haw, haw! Listen
to them crows. What would y’ rather
have, Doggo? Pound o’ steak or a
stick o’ dynamite an’ fuse so y’ could
have a go at the black cows . . . damn
’em. I told Jim at the pub if
anything happened I’d fluke out, but
it’d take some fluke to git me outa this.”
He checked his soliloquy to listen
intently, incredulously—looked almost
tearfully for the fluke to come round
the knoll.
“Blarst all women that runs gardens,”
puffed a mutinous voice. “Mile after
mile I tramps this race to find what’s
blocking it so’s the missus can water
her damn’ cabbages. I got it: a blasted
big boulder tumbled into the race, mak-
ing it overflow and run off down the
gully. I’m going to sit in the shade.
Blarst gardens. Blarst water-races.
Blarst” The landlord halted, open-
mouthed, as he came round the corner.
“How’s the beer?” asked Doggo
inanely . , . and laughed hysterically.
<<IT’D make a man spit blood.” Doggo
* looked almost himself again after
three days in bed at the hotel. “The hell
I went through , . , an’ right at me feet
was as good as a telephone. How was
I to know?” he demanded fiercely.
“How could a bloke guess that any man
could be such a flamin’ goat as to bring
the old minin’ race near a mile over the
flats to the pub so’s his missus could
water ’er cabbidges?”
“Jim! Jim!”
“There she goes again,” complained
the landlord. “Blarst gardens, blarst”
Doggo interrupted him imperiously.
“I won’t hear a word aginst cabbidge
gardens,” he announced flatly. “Git out.
Git to y’r diggin’ . . . y’ big fluke!”
Do Trees Have Souls?
That Murderous Fig
BY R.W. COULTER.
IN the golf club smoking-room the
subject turned to the old Fig in
Arthur-street. It had stood there since
before suburban history, and in the
memory of the oldest inhabitant it had
always been as huge and hoary as it now
appeared. Its shadow at midday in
summer must have covered a circle
seventy-five feet in diameter, and the
great dark-green mass of its foliage was
a landmark for miles about. The old
Fig stood in a little naked triangle at
the intersection of three streets, and
formed a central point from which the
model suburb radiated.
“I’m going to see the council about
having it cut down and grubbed out,”
said the New Member confidently ; “the
roots run all under my property and
drain all the good out of the soil.”
“I’d advise you not to take any steps
about that Fig,” said a dry little man
crumpled up in the shadows.
The New Member turned his large
red face to him and blew out his cheeks
petulantly.
“Dammit, Currie, you must have them
as bad as I have. You’re the next
nearest!”
Currie nodded assent. “They’re all
under me.”
“Then what’s to stop all of us
neighbors from having the thing de-
stroyed, and a garden planted there with
a few maples or something pretty?
What’s to step us?”
“The tree,” answered the little man.
“The tree? What the blazes’re you
talking about —what’s the tree got to do
with it?”
“Everything,” said Currie, with a signi-
ficant look at the other members. They
nodded, slightly smiling. “That tree has
already killed three of its would-be
murderers.”
The New Member glared around.
“What’s this rubbish—a tree”
“Yes, that old Fig is a threefold
murderer.” Currie crumpled forward
into the light. “You may not have
noticed that there is personality in
trees?”
“Rubbish,” grunted the New Member.
“I’ve heard such trash before. ‘Trees
have souls’ they say, and so on, but it’s
all bunk.”
“Well, I won’t argue,” softly said the
little man, “but I’ve been watching that
old Fig for years, longer than any man
in the suburb, and I know its ‘inside,’
and I’ve got to know its ‘inside’ only
because I’ve studied the changing moods
of its ‘outside.’ Have you ever noticed,”
he went on very earnestly, “that when
the kiddies are playing about it during
the day it looks kind and benevolent—
patriarchal is the word—holding its limbs
over them protectingly, as though giving
them a blessing? But at night it seems
to brood, sullen and menacing”
THE New Member roared a mirthless
* laugh. “Well, if you’re going to get
supernatural count me out.”
“Three murders I said that tree has
committed.” The little man leaned back,
clasping a knee. “Lemme see, I wonder
how it would get you .” He looked the
New Member over speculatively.
“You’ve got a good neck.”
The New Member’s face flushed.
“What t’hell are you getting at? What’s
the joke?”
“No joke,” answered Currie very
quietly. The other members sat silent
and still. “It’ll get you all right if you
interfere with it, just as it got the other
three.”
The New Member shrugged im-
patiently. “Oh, cut the cackle and get
to the egg. What are you driving at?”
“All right, I’ll tell you, for your own
protection. I’d hate to see you as I saw
ojd Latimer, with his neck broken and
his face burnt to the bone by acid. Wait
a minute!” Currie waved a gentle
hand. “The man who built your house
was in similar circumstances to yourself ;
just retired and wanted to lead a quiet
life for the rest of his days, pottering
about a garden. He got a landscape
gardener to lay the place out, and every-
thing went all right until his plants
began to grow. They did for a time, and
then stopped dead and started to go
back; the roots of the old Fig, you
understand. He was a pretty influential
man, so he approached the council about
having the tree destroyed, which they
agreed to do, and all was in train for its
removal when suddenly it removed
him !”
THE New Member was scornfully in-
credulous.
“Indirectly, of course. He was grub-
bing up some roots one day in a pretty
state of temper—it’s hard graft, as you
know—when he struck down with his
mattock, extra savagely 1 s’pose, and a
small stone flew up, struck him on a
temple and killed him.”
“And you say the tree killed him!
What utter rot! It’s the sort of accident
likely to happen to any man.”
“Not exactly any man,” objected
Currie. “It’s not so easy to kill a man
by a blow on a temple with a small
stone. It must have hit some particularly
vulnerable spot. Coincidence perhaps?
All right, then ; we’ll get on to the next
victim.
“The subject of destroying the old
Fig was dropped, lacking this man’s per-
sistence, and I noticed at the time the
tree seemed to take on a smile, a rather
vindictive smile. The widow sold the
place to a man named Gertz, a big,
heavy German woolbroker, who dived
into the garden with true German
thoroughness until he ran against the
roots, and then he started to rave
and bluster. ‘The tree must come
down!’ said he, and the council,
more or less cowed, reluctantly agreed.
Some more of us had built in the mean-
time, and, althouh we were sorry to
lose the old Fig, we did not raise much
objection. We were not so tree-conscious
in those days and were a bit garden-mad
ourselves; also, this club had not yet
been formed. However, the old Fig
had its own mind about the matter
I noticed it was looking very down and
sullen at the time, but thought nothing
of it until Gertz was killed.
It was a blustering night and the rain
was coming down in sheets. Gertz
had gone into town, and had come I
home late, after dark. From the


RHEUMATISM
PAIN IN THE JOINTS
Decide that yon must and yon will get rid of
that pain in your joints and you have taken the
first big step along the road to recovery.
The remainder of the way is easy. No pur-
gative salts, no harmful drugs, no embrocations
or rubbing oils. Just an inexpensive box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from your
chemist. Two pills taken with a drink of water
at night, and then, freedom from pain.
When you think of all you have suffered you
may find it hard to believe that such a simple
method of treatment can accomplish so much in
such a short space of time. Here is the reason.
De Witt’s Pills Cleanse, Heal
and Strengthen your Kidneys
and thus rid your body of the harmful uric acid
that has been causing the pain in your joints.
You cannot obtain results like this by any other
means, and you cannot get rid of the pain in your
Joints whilst that harmful uric acid remains.
That is why De Witt’s Pills
s
are recommended to you. If you
are recommended to you. If you
will give them a fair trial pain
will quickly
disappear and
your health
will improve in
mi ~ ways.
xne most
convincing
proof of the
efficacy of De
Witt’s Pills is
that afforded
by the un-
solicited testi-
monials of men
and women
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
who hare actually used the remedy and by so
. doing have banished the joint pains which tor-
tured them.
You, too, can be freed from your pain. Your
nearest chemist sells and recommends De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and if only you will
take them as directed you will quickly get rid of
the swelling, the stiffness and the pains that
make walking difficult and torture you every
time you move. Your health will benefit in many
ways when you get rid of the uric acid from
your system.
RELIEF IH 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills, discolouration of the urine will
prove that they have commenced their good work.
You will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients have passed
through your kidneys and bladder. No other
medicine furnishes proof like this, and when once
you have tried De Witt’s Pills, your one regret
will be that you did not do so before.
Take them for Scalding Pains, Gravel,
Stone, Painful Joints, Stiffness, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica. Give them
to children subject to Bed-wetting and to aged
persons afflicted by Urinary Disorders, and in
every case they will give prompt relief and
lasting benefit
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold
by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger,
more economical size, 6/6. Sold only in the
blue, white and gold boxes.
Beware of imitations. Be sure you ask for,
and see you obtain, the genuine De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
ẁ
Writing from C/o. Birchup P. 0., Victoria,
Mrs. W. Sinclair says
“ Owing to a very bad attack of rheu-
matism 1 had to stay in bed for over three
months. During that time I completely
lost the use of my limbs. I tried all sorts
of remedies, without result , until I was
recommended to try De Witt’s Pills.
Then to my surprise and joy I found I
could move my limbs after taking the
first bottle of pills. Continuing with the
treatment I completely regained my
health
De Witt’
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
direction of the station he had to
cross the triangle to reach his gate.
As he walked under the old Fig, the
tree, with the help of the wind, dropped
a couple of branches on to the live
electric cables. The short-circuit, the wet
trunk and ground and Gertz’s sodden
boots did the rest, and Gertz was tossed
head over heels on to an outcropping
root. His skull was smashed and he was
killed. The little man looked perkily
at the New Member.
That gentleman blew out his cheeks,
“Oh, rubbish! Coincidence! The idea
of a tree Oh, bosh, bosh! ”
“The last killing was Latimer’s. He
was a man very much like yourself.
No, 1 m not piling it on. He was short,
plump and florid, with a rather thick
neck, but that didn’t save him.
“He bought the place after Gertz and
started in on his garden. By this time
we had all grown to respect the old Fig,
and many like myself began to see and
feel its senile vindictiveness. After it
got Gertz it put on an awful leer, so
when the usual trouble about the roots
started we all put our feet down and
demanded that the tree be left alone.
The council was only too glad to have
done with the tree, and shouldered its
survival on to us, refusing Latimer. By
this time he knew its bloodthirsty history,
but pooh-poohed it, much the same as
you are doing.
“One morning after a very wet but
still night he was found under the tree
with his neck broken and his face
burned to the bones, half in and half
out of a broken gallon-jar of sulphuric
acid. A long shipwright’s auger lay be-
side him, showing that his object had
been to bore deep into the base of the
tree, fill the holes with acid, and so kill
the tree. But the tree got in first!
“Direct action it was, sure enough.
The old murderer had broken his neck
with two of its limbs and the irresistible
strength of a Gargantua, which the old
Fig is, of course. The detective-sergeant
who came out reconstructed the murder
quite easily. Some children during
the day had tied together two of
those long, hairy aerial roots you
see hanging from the lower branches.
They had used the loop as a swing.”
The little man drew the shape in
the air with his cigar. “It rained
heavily all evening, and the weight of
water on the foliage had pressed down
the branches and the loop with them.
Latimer picked on this night to do the
deed ; it was so dark and wet no one
would be about, and he was safe, so he
thought. It's easy to picture him creep-
ing, like the criminal he was, across to
the tree, carrying his jar and auger ; and
I can imagine the tree crouching blackly
there, like a malevolent chained giant.
A root, one of the original causes of all
the trouble, twisting like a snake above
the surface, caught Latimer’s toe and
tripped him. He shot heavily forward,
his head went through the noose, the
sudden shock jerked the water off the
leaves, and the branch, relieved of the
weight, in a fraction of a second had
whipped the back of his head against
a solid intervening branch and cracked
his neck—scissors action, like this.”
Currie snipped the end off his cigar,
suggestively.
“The jar had fallen and broken on
the root that had tripped him, and as
the night wore on and the rain kept
falling the water again accumulated on
the leaves, forcing down the branch again
and releasing Latimer, who fell face
foremost into the acid-filled unbroken
bottom of the jar. It was this final
artistic touch which was so horrible.”
CURRIE lit his cigar. The smokeroom
was silent. The New Member ran a
finger round his collar.
“Well, well,” he said, “it does sound
damn’ convincing as you tell it, but 1
can't believe it’s possible—no, it’s impos-
sible! The idea of a tree —oh, bosh!”
He looked around at the expressionless
faces of the members, “However, if
that’s the superstition round here, I’ll
think about it before I take action. I’ll
think about it. Hate to run up against
public opinion, y’ know.” He rose.
“Well, it’s time for home.” He turned
at the door. “By the way, you fellers,
I hope my wife doesn’t hear anything
about the tree. You know what women
are —get the wind up. Might want to sell
out, and I like these links and this club.
Savee? Well, g’night.”
The little man looked about him. “I
think our old Fig is safe?” he said
quietly.
“I’ll say so, Currie,” chuckled another
old member. “By gosh, what a liar you
are! ”
A Yarn of the Goldfields:—
THE MANAGER'S DOG
BY-GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE state of tension which existed
between O'Leary, who worked in the
goldroom, and the manager’s dog
dated from the first appearance of the
dog on the lease, and was the result of
a misunderstanding for which it could
hardly be held responsible.
At the time, the animal was not, of
course, as well acquainted with the work-
ings of the mine as it later became. With
the manager, it had already that morn-
ing covered several interesting miles.
They had reprimanded an electrician
found roosting, half-asleep, among the
rafters of the Ball Mill. They auto-
cratically demanded to know of the store-
man what happened to so much carbide
each week. They had made a lively and
perilous inspection of a “cracker” which
threatened to crack itself instead of the
rocks between its jaws. And, by way of
independent amusement, the dog had
chased a cat and bitten the engine-
driver in the calf of the leg.
When they reached the goldroom
however, proceedings became extremely
dull.
For half an hour the manager did no-
thing but talk in conversational tones,
without a trace of passion or resentment.
Other humans talked, respectfully, and
the pup, left on the dusty floor among
a crop of legs, was bored.
But, as has been said, he was at that
time only a young and inexperienced
dog, and perhaps the breathing of so
much dust had made him dopey.
Otherwise he would have chosen a
more suitable place in which to snatch
a brief rest than that exactly twelve
inches behind O’Leary’s feet.
Hardly had he closed his eyes when
O’Leary, who was absorbed in explain-
ing to the boss a few of the many things
that were always wrong with the fur-
nace, stepped back suddenly. Then
things happened. O’Leary, feeling some-
thing unexpectedly soft beneath his foot,
and hearing a medley of sound indica-
tive of canine anguish and astonishment,
gave a startled leap and blundered
against the door of the furnace.
Furnace doors being hot things to
fondle, he didn’t keep his hand there
long, but sprang back again, cursing
fluently.
“Blast you!” he roared. “Outuvit,
you stinking little rat!”
And he completed the dog’s discom-
fiture by kicking it hard.
Now the manager was not, at that
time, very closely attached to the dog,
which had been “wished on to him by
his wife.” It was of the aristo-
cratic and fastidious breed known
as Dandie Dinmonts, and to be followed
everywhere by its ten inches of hair and
impertinence struck him as unseemly,
ridiculous and shameful. But he, like
O’Leary, was a man of powerful pas-
sions, quick to resent injury to his per-
son, property or dependants.
“Dammit, man, what do you mean
by it?” he thundered. “Leave the pup
alone.”
“But look what he done. Look what
he done,” spluttered O’Leary, hopping on
one leg like a drunken stork and waving
his scorched hand as close to his
superior’s nose as he could place it.
He looked such a comical figure in
his wrath that the manager was moved
to mirth.
“First time 1 ever heard of a dog burn-
ing a man,” he said. “There must be
more in him than I thought.”
Then he and the Dandie made a more
or less dignified exit, leaving the gold-
room crowd to the enjoyment of the joke.
BUT “bad blood” had been made. In
the years that followed O’Leary be-
came firmly convinced that the unfor-
tunate incident with the manager’s dog
was the reason that no advancement
came his way. Entrenching itself more
firmly in the manager’s affections, the
Dandie became more and more the
object of O’Leary’s distaste.
As unofficial, and somewhat unreliable,
warning of the approach of the boss, the


Pur His
ASSISTING
ENTERPRISE
The business man relies upon his bank for many
necessary services. He knows that modern production
and trade cannot flourish without the help of a sound
banking system.
he needs assistance to enlarge his operations,
a producer, manufacturer, trader, or other borrower
may receive valuable aid from advances made
against his securities. Thus his expansion is not
cramped or retarded by lack of necessary money
His use of the borrowed money leads to increased
employment, with direct advantage to the community.
The State benefits through the resulting addition to
the wealth of its people.
For seventy-six years the National Bank has been
actively associated with the production, trade and
commerce of Australia. During those years, it has
consistently encouraged and assisted development and
utilisation of national resources.
To-day, with its wealth of experience, extensive
establishment and ample resources, the Bank offers
its services to further assist production and enterprise.
c Uhe
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000.
World-wide facilities for banking business of every description.
Vd is
TEA TIME
Mm
■ N
RECIPE BOOK
FREE
Now available, giving you
lots of hints on Iced Tea.
Write for a copy to the Tea
Market Expansion Bureau,
Kyle House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney, enclosing a
Id. stamp to cover postage.
"Relax and drink
good hot tea/'
advises 'Andrea/
The notable English writer,
"When I've been working
solidly, how I welcome my
cup of tea—the best pick-
me-up that I know. It's so
grand to relax and drink good hot
tea—to feel energy flowing back
again, mental cobwebs being
whisked away with all the tense-
ness from thinking and striving
for the right phrase. Iced Tea is
another favourite of mine, too—
it's so deliciously cool and thirst-
quenching, and the next best to hot
tea for real refreshment."
or
lee#
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION
BUREAU.
* T3BH
TEA
Dandie grew old in the service of the
mine. He survived the inhalation of
many cubic yards of dust into his aristo-
cratic lungs. He curried favor with the
manager by guarding that worthy’s old
felt hat when its owner flung it near the
mouth of the shaft and made his daily
pilgrimage underground, protected by a
helmet. And so much does a man appre-
ciate having his hat guarded that, when
the engineer’s wife dramatically accused
the Dandie of being concerned in the
regular disappearance of her fowls, a
stormy scene with the boss ended in the
banishment of the hens for ever.
“He’s a fine little feller,” the manager
would say, gallantly defending the dog
against those who chose to sneer at his
appearance. “Smart as they make ’em.
And faithful! —you should see the way
he looks after my hat every morning
when I’m underground,”
Actually the dog had no appearance,
no amiability and no usefulness (apart
from hat-minding) to recommend it. A
cranky, irritable and moth-eaten disgrace
to its elegant species, it roamed the lease
like the privileged buccaneer it was. A
nuisance tolerated easily enough by
most, it was an offence and an eyesore
to O’Leary. And yet it was through
O’Leary that the admiration of the
manager for the Dandie reached its
ultimate height and that the mine and all
thereon became dog-ridden for ever.
1\ URING these years O’Leary had de-
" vised a means of compensating him-
self for the promotion he had never re-
ceived, and a brilliant inspiration, to-
gether with the luck of the goldroom
being his place of employment, made it
both easy and safe. In the furnaces and
on the benches, the precious yellow metal
ran molten and pure all day long. And
beneath a loose leg of his own table,
where it could be revealed or concealed
at a moment’s notice, O’Leary had bored
a small hole through the floor. Oppor-
tunities to drop tiny, valuable trickles of
running gold through it were plentiful,
and, once thus safely deposited on the
earth beneath the building, they could
stay there, accumulating for months if
necessary, until some moonless Sunday
night, when only the shaft was working.
Then he would come out to the lease,
squirm between the piles under the floor
and take it away.
As his bank balance grew, he became
a happier, more amiable man, even
forgetting some of his malice towards
the dog, and the existing state of
affairs was a pleasant one for every-
body except the shareholders and the
manager, who had become aware of the
leakage as its size increased, but was
quite unable to locate it.
“It’s going all the time,” said the
manager to the detective sent to assist
him. “Ounces of it a month, and quite
regularly, from the treatment end. Who-
ever the feller is, he’s too greedy, and
you should find it easy.”
But when the detective admitted him-
self baffled, and all his own theories had
been proved incorrect, yet the pilfering
continued, the manager lost confidence.
He eventually reached the stage at which
he lay awake at nights thinking about it.
His wife was heartily tired of hearing
him talk on the subject, and his reputa-
tion as a good boss was rapidly waning.
“Him and the dawg have got sour an'
lousy together,” said O’Leary to the man
at the next bench. “Neither of the irri-
table cows is worth worrying about.”
The mystery of the business seemed to
challenge the manager. Though he
would not have appreciated O’Leary’s
comparison, it began to seem to him that
the Dandie was his only true friend on
the lease. Humans, from the assayer
and the engineer to the tool-sharpeners
and the electrician’s offsider, he regarded
with suspicion.
Thus it happened that one day he and
the dog were wandering about the lease
disconsolate. The latter was vaguely
unhappy over his digestion and his teeth,
and because he felt it unfair that mine
workings should so abound with poppet
legs, posts and sheds, all eminences of
which cats, in moments of stress, were
too ready to take a mean advantage. The
man, unconcerned about his dentures
(which could be replaced at any time for
five guineas), and as yet still at peace with
his stomach, was worried over so com-
paratively insignificant a matter as this
annoying disappearance of small quan-
tities of yellow metal, which can be
neither eaten nor drunk, used as protec-
tion from cold nor made quarry for
sport, like the cats.
DOAMING down the lane between the
•'roasters, the boss regarded with a
jaundiced eye the fireman who tended
them.
“Poor old feller!” he said to the
Dandie, fondling his ears. “Beginning to
feel the heat, aren’t you? Don’t like i(
any more than I do the bottle-nosed, mis-
begotten swine who’s shifting that gold,
do you, boy? Never mind, winter’s com-
ing, pup, and he’ll be where the weather
won’t bother him if I get a glimpse of
his dirty black hide. He can play his
dirty game, and all his pals can keep
their mouths shut, but we'll have him in
the long run, dog.” Then he took an-
other drink, and the Dandie lapped up
an ounce or two of the mud that lay in
a pool beneath the bag.
The vicinity of the roasters was the
warmest spot on the mine. The dog’s
sides heaved, and his long, moist tongue
drooped nearly to his toes for a few
moments, and then he decided that if
the boss considered their present loca-
tion desirable he could have it all to
himself. After a last disgusted glance,
just to make sure that his companion
was firmly settled on the bench where
the firemen ate their “cribs,” he trotted
off languidly, followed by the sorrow-
ful gaze of his embittered owner.
Usually, the Dandie’s summer retreat
was a shady spot behind the compressor-
room where the main pipeline to the
boilers had a trifling leak and kept the
surrounding earth damp and cool. But
to-day that haven seemed a long way
away. He headed in its general direc-
tion, but got no further than the shadow
of the goldroom, where a vagrant move-
ment of air tempted him to lie down.
Then the little breeze ceased, and he
noticed that the dark, inviting depths
under the floor looked good and were
satisfactorily close. He wandered in,
and found it not bad at all, fragrant with
aged rubbish and spiderwebs. He
rooted about for a while until he located
a particularly choice spot where the soil
was soft. There he curled up with a
grunt of contentment and went to sleep.
The manager at the roasters had en-
gaged in desultory conversation with the
fireman, who had worked up the line to
the end. ,
“Hot,” said the boss.
“My oath, it’s hot on this job, Mr.
Ames,” said the fireman, mopping his
forehead and inadvertently giving his
employer an opening.
“Hotter than it ought to be,” grunted
the manager. “You’re wasting wood in
those fires, man. Throwing it away.
You’ve only got to roast the dirt, not
incinerate the blasted stuff.”
The fireman looked stubborn and re-
sentful, but he was saved a practical
demonstration by his superior which
certainly would have made it necessary
to re-lay at least one fire.
AN ear-splitting wail of misery and
** indignation from behind them made
them both jump about, startled, in time
to catch a fleeting glimpse of a small
bundle of shabby hair and acute agony
passing at rocket speed. With a turn
of pace that would have been a credit
to a whippet half his age, and making
vocal complaint on a key that testified
how little real harm several years of
dust-breathing had done to his lungs, the
Dandie had left his shelter, gained open
ground and embarked on a yowling,
somersaulting career in ever-narrowing
circles. Every few yards he flung him-
self on his back without stopping or
slowing, to cascade through the dirt and
roll to his feet again. Now and again
he leapt high in the air. There was an
insane light in his eye, and all the time
his moans rent the air.
“God help us, he’s had a fit!” yelled
the manager, and gave chase.
The fireman, with vaguely terrifying
ideas about hydrophobia, flung a long-
handled iron slice which caught the boss
across the ankles and brought him down
in a torrent of bad language. Pande-
monium reigned.
But, after all, the Dandie was an old
dog who had spent disreputable years
in ways far too strenuous for a languid
aristocrat of his breed. Soon he tired,
and the manager approached him with
caution.
“Poor pup! Poor pup!” said the
manager coaxingly.
The Dandie whimpered, and made an
unsuccessful attempt to bite himself in
the back of the neck.
Then the boss’s eyes widened, and the
expression in them changed for a fleeting
instant from concern to wild triumph.
For even at a distance of a yard or two
the dog’s back could be seen to glitter
in the sun where half an ounce of pure
gold, which had a few minutes before
been scorching liquid, had now set among
the scanty hairs.
With a cry of compassion for a heroic
comrade stricken in the course of duty,
the manager gathered the suffering Dandie
into his arms. Then, with a shout of
rage about to be satisfied, he strode pur-
posefully in the direction of the gold-
room.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life,
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “Th e Age” a congenial news-
paper, witm an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/-' per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clx mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars jrom
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
The Mail
is the big part
of S.A.’s week-end
leisure . . . .
reader interest
in Adelaide’s leading
week-end paper for the
whole family. Get the in-
dividual’s attention, and
vou’ve got the market for
your goods. Advertise in
‘The Mail.”
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House, Collins
SYDNEY—P A. Messenger. Warwtcs
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom the mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A, Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide,
SERVICE IN ADVERTISING
Advertising
service in “The
Examine r,”
L a u n ceston,
Tasmania, for
93 years.
Supplying News for NEARLY A
CENTURY is the strength of the service
offered to Advertisers in "The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), the only daily paper pub-
lished in Launceston, and the oldest
newspaper in Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN. Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, 368 Collins Street, Melbourne.
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6A>I has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
•State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
ẃ
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
company, went gaily to the kitchen. Apparently
none of thp magnificent array of maids and under-
lings had anything better to do than wheel on the
supper tray. It was left to the Little Bush Mother
to do the really domestic jobs.
The Bluff Squatter started another of the long
conversations, this time about the palatial station
which he had decided to present to the elder son.
The son was voicing a few airy words of thanks when
there was a squeal from off-left which, after a minute
or two’s indecision, the elder son decided to investi-
gate. Muttering “My God! What’s that?” he strolled
to the exit. The Bluff Squatter leant up against the
convenient whatnot with the little fern on it; and
when the stage filled with the alarmed household,
including Grandpa Traves (whose thunderous “Wil-
liam, do something, my boy,” received a round of
applause), the Bluff Squatter murmured, without
change of countenance; “I am afraid to go. I almost
believe the end has come, and she has passed to
a better world.”
Meanwhile a telephone was magically snatched
from behind the wing, and the elder son rang the
doctor, while the servitors carried in the lady and
placed her on the sofa. The audience did not see Mrs.
Mackonicull’s sweet and womanly passing. The Bluff
Squatter was standing in front of the sofa bending
over his beloved wife, and all they could see was a
back view of the squatter.
Now, in Act 11, the audience realised the
tragedy of a family bereft of a mother's love. When
the curtain rose the children were arranged round
the baronial hall discussing the prolonged visit of
their mother’s stepsister. For this villainous and
hitherto unmentioned relative they had as much wel-
come as the Bluff Squatter would have had for an
outbreak of Darling-pea. In order to relieve their
feelings they decided to have a party with all the
rouseabouts, as their father and Aunt Clara (the vil-
lainess, played by Nancy Coombes) were at the Kobo-
long Polo Ball, Thereupon all left the stage except
Miss Mackonicull, leaving the way clear for Wal, the
jackeroo, to come and tell Miss Mackonicull that he
was just a Vagabond Lover (lights dim, ballet in
costumes of scarlet-and-gold vagabonds), and ask her
if she would wed him, some day —not now. She
naturally leapt at the chance ; but, while she was still
encouraging him to build a house of dreams and
pave the floor with daisies and other damp weeds,
the Men of Kilmuckie entered, led by Old Bill, the
loyal servitor (played by Fred Olgy).
They were just in time to meet the comic Jew
(Siddy), who had forced his way into the baronial
hall in search of the Bluff Squatter. Siddy had one
of those big bowler hats pulled down over his eyes,
and he waved his hands about, hunched his shoulders
and spoke with a French accent. He cringed and
fawned and wanted his filthy money, unaffected by the
elder son’s assurance that even if the Bluff Squatter
were a month or so late with the cheque a Mackoni-
cull’s word was as good as his cheque. Finally the
man made such a pest of himself that he was thrown
out violently by the incensed rouseabouts, who were
furious that anyone should dare asperse the Master’s
honor, while the audience roared as little Tim insisted
in his sweet, childish way that the obnoxious Jew
be tarred and feathered.
The party then took a comic turn, and the audi-
ence nearly split its sides when a comedy horse
cantered on to the stage and Olgy instructed a sup-
posedly drunk Mick Harper to put on a set of harness.
Mick was so drunk-looking anyone would have
thought it was real.
He had just drawn the animal's tail through the
reins, and had been kicked for the third time by the
incensed hind legs when Aunt Clara walked in. She
immediately showed her nasty nature by objecting
strongly to the party and the comic horse, and was
very snobbish to the rouseabouts. To make matters
worse, she announced her engagement to the Bluff
Squatter, and all the children immediately decided to
leave home, taking the rouseabouts with them. Of
course, they only migrated as far as Oaklands, the
palatial station a mile or so away. This, you
will remember, had been given by the squatter to
the inaudible elder son in the first act. Aunt Clara
got in a dirty dig as they were going out about dear
little Tim being responsible for his mother's sudden
demise. This naturally gave Tim the chance to throw
a fit of hysterical love for his mother, and put the
audience all in favor of Aunt Clara’s early dismem-
berment.
After that the play abounded in shouts of “This
wedding must not take place” and "Go from my
door for ever.” Mot Willis turned up disguised as
a maid, and, while the Bluff Squatter was frenziedly
searching the countryside for him, sat on the sofa,
divested of his maid’s rigout, singing “Mother, O
Mother, Sweet Pal o’ Mine” to the accompaniment of
his little ukulele.
Olgy, who had been Old Bill, the honest servitor
in the second act, came on in the third in a dress-
syit and the part of Lord Bedford, which he had
taken over at two hours’ notice from Dr. Wcstly.
Peter Conn, who started as a rouseabout, worked
up to the part of Maurice, the French butler, and
from this to even greater heights as the clergyman
in the last scene, where he had a wonderful chance
to speak in a very throaty and hollow voice, as clergy-
men on the Tiburon stage always did. The black-
mailing crook, Ted Pew, also began as a rouseabout,
one of the Men of Kilmuckie, and worked up to
the heights of robbery and villainy. Mrs. Mackoni-
cull (the Little Bush Mother) came on again as one
of the guests at her ex-husband’s wedding ; and it
was all a little confusing. But the audience was able
to fix its eye on Tim, who had superb struggles with
the “big black sin upon his heart.” For had he
not slain his mother by wanting his pants pressed
in a hurry?
About the middle of the third act Lady Bedford
remarked to Lord Bedford: “Henry, when I heard
that poor little boy kneeling beside his bed and pray-
ing to God to stop this marriage, I realised that some-
thing must be done.” And Colbert Carfrae rose from
his reserved complimentary seat and walked out with
the look of one who has seen his false teeth smashed
before his eyes.
“He’ll take it out of Jingo for this,” Sevan mur-
mured to Bill Sinclair, the science master But no
one else noticed Colbert, for the play was working
up to its tensest situation.
Would the Bluff Squatter actually marry Aunt
Clara or not? That was the point. There were the
wedding guests all streaming in ; there was Aunt Clara
with a bouquet parading up and down showing off
her clothes; but where was the Bluff Squatter? As
a matter of fact, the Bluff Squatter was bemg urged
by a frenzied producer to get a move on h d
keeping them all waiting. The Bluff Squat
decided to change his brown socks for a ac P •
Olgy had pointed out that no one is rnarne in
socks. The result was that the Bluff Squatter
pushed on, still trying to get inside his coat an w
his hair dishevelled. He was so flustered that h
had forgotten half his part.
Following close on his heels came a heavily-
bearded personage with tortoise-shell spectacles an
the bowler hat. He announced that poor old
father had been run over on his way to the wedding.
The audience exhibited enormous disappointment.
They loved Grandfather and wanted to see more ot
him" The Squatter merely remarked: “Poor, worthy
old soul, gone to his rest at last.” The messenger
then announced that Grandpa with his last breath
had insisted that a clause of his will be read bet ore
his son's wedding took place. The assembled com-
pany, caring not that Grandfather might still c
lying in the road, shouted with one voice “Read it.
The messenger then produced a heavily-sealed piece
of notepaper and announced that half the old man s
fortune would go to Clara if she didn t marry the
Bluff Squatter.
Clara, of course, fell into the trap nicely, and
declared that nothing but the Bluff Squatter’s wealth
would have induced her to marry him anyway. At
this the bearded messenger shouted: “That, Aunt
Clara, is all we wanted to know,” and tore away the
whiskers, to reveal the handsome features of Wal, the
jackeroo. The whole company then gave a rousing
cheer as Grandpa hobbled on. He was not dead
after all! He had only pretended to be. The united
family (including the late Mrs. Mackonicull) then
sang a song despising Aunt Clara, who slunk from
the stage.
Miss Mackonicull next entered in a magnificent
wedding gown which spread all across the baronial
hall. Wal intimated that he was going to grab the
Bluff Squatter’s wedding, his daughter and half the
Mackonicull fortune. Apparently he had forgotten
all about the Little Home for the Old Folk by the
Sea. Let them starve in their rat-ridden castle! Miss
Mackonicull sang a solo about the joys of true affec-
tion, and the curtain descended, to rise again in order
that the stars might harvest boxes of chocolates and
bouquets of flowers. The company stood patriotically
singing the National Anthem while the audience
fought its way to the exits. A belated representative
from the hospital board thanked a half-empty hall
for the favor of its attendance, and the performance
concluded with three cheers.
“Funny thing,” said Bill Sinclair, “all the worst
in Jingo seems to have come out in that play. Like
being under an anaesthetic.”
“Never,” announced the “Tiburon Advertiser”
at the end of a long panegyric, “has Tiburon seen
such magnificent acting, splendid frocking and real
drama. The producer is to be congratulated on his
unearthing of talent hitherto unsuspected in Tiburon.
It is to be hoped that Tiburon will have the
benefit of more work from the pen of that talented
young playwright and producer, Mr. Eustace Barnes.
The hospital, together with the town, joins in thank-
ing him for his splendid effort.”
(To be continued next week.)


Pelmanism makes all
other education and
experience fruitful
A Personal Message from Mr. W. J. Ennever,
Founder of the Pelman Institute.
“It is because no system in the world but
Pelmanism can so surely, so speedily bring out
the strong'points of your character, and build up
those possibilities which exist in everybody s
mental equipment, that I as\ readers to find out
more about Pelmanism. If any of my readers
had occupied my position since Pelmanism was
first brought to the notice of the world, and
had seen the lives of students transformed from
mediocrity into useful, successful careers through
Pelmanism, they would not for one moment
doubt the incalculable value of this course of
training”
mm
m
Photo., Kay Vaughan,
W. J. ENNEVER,
Founder of the Pelman Institute.
Pelmaniam is the Science of Living, of
making every day a full day, a day of
enterprise and satisfaction. It deals with
fundamental personal attributes and
qualities which, when developed, establish
mental and physical health, making life
pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in
every normal man or woman- The most
important are
Self-Confidence, Judgment,
Concentration, Will-Power
Decisiveness, Tact,
Self-Control, Initiative
and a Good Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality. It is the most
successful instrument of adult education
and training, not only in the British
Empire, but throughout the world; its
record of achievement is astounding.
Thousands of students of Pelmanism
have expressed themselves in terms similar
to the following:—
A Doctor writes: “If I am asked the one great
thing that Pelmanism has taught me 1 should
say it was the way it has shown me how to
observe Instead of merely seeing. That alone
is worth the price of the course.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I started the
Course 1 was suffering from severe worries. I
have completely got over these. The lesson on
‘Aim and Purpose’ has been of great help.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “Instead of think-
ing that Psychology was something for high-
brows to dabble in I now gratefully realise
that without a sound knowledge of the prin-
ciples as set out by the Pelman Institute wo
cannot hope to make the best of ourselves. 1
myself have overcome Shyness, lack of Confi-
dence, Mind-Wandering, etc. 1 am now in a
state of mental balance which has to be pos-
sessed to realise how invaluable it is.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my powers
of Concentration and Memory. Increase in
Self-Confidence. Greater interest in people
and in my surroundings.”
A Hank Officer writes: “Self-Consciousness
has given place to Self-Confidence. I am able
to work harder and concentrate more. I have
gained more than money can buy—l am much
happier in my life.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed confi-
dence in myself and a broader outlook on
life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have a
mental and bodily health 1 did not have before,
and 1 have found something which money
could not buy, namely, a perfect joy and
happiness in living.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to Some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get a
definite aim and have abolished drifting. I
feel happier and better in myself. I can con-
centrate much better. I am losing my horrible
self-consciousness.”
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it set's out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
so are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these habits
are bad he will be ineffective personally;
if they are good he will be strong, happy
and successful.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS:
lAckc, 1930. * Geneva, 1933.
Nancy, 1933. Paris, 1933.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training. This book
will be sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. I. Write for
it to-day, and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of more
than 30 years’ standing. Its headquarters are in London.
The Melbourne Branch Institute was established 28 years ago.
The Pelman System is taught by Post. Full particulars
are sent free and post free without obligation. Fill in and
cut out the form alongside and send it to The Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Call if you can.
Name .
Address
426
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
I
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
O e e "
V* <V V V- ’V 9 O e ° < v< s '^- r^
♦ <X’ ' v i
X
*v e
*♦
VP
*\<V*
..•* ..*• ,ot
A S^A°V VV 0<


PUBLIC PROCLAMATION!
\ '/
\ v v/
w
PLUS
POPULAR PLUS gives remarkable
all round performance on all types and
sizes =€B®. of cars and
o.
trucks . • . .
c 0«
rhe trade attributes "PLUS’* popularity to its
unvarying high quality and all-the-year-round
#
suitability for every class of petrol engine . . . .
ASK THE PUMP-MAN’S
OPINION OF . . .
Papular
Plus
[Guaranteed Ist Grade Petrol 1
Sold at Standard Grade Price J
c.
0.
m
P\
HI
44 Spirit to €? m O'R
Bengal Mixture ”
C-O-R QUALITY PETROLS
010/BP
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT & ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE .... SYDNEY - - - ADELAIDE .... BRISBANE
