

THERE is poise in each new
radioplayer . . efficiency
combines with beauty and
perfect radio entertainment
is the achievement of both.
New cabinet designs take
the eye, new performance
captures the ear . . . and
you’re in love with radio at
its best , , , a radioplayer!!
Hra
$
V/
Mantel Model
(A.C, and D.C.), £l9/19/..
Console A.C. Broadcast,
£25/10/-, £27/10/-, £29/19/6,
Console A.C. Dual Wave, £39/19/6
. 1 •' I.
’ ■■■-■
V • OS
lit
I ■■[
A complete |
range of
Receivers.
■ * \
?%■
y *7
V/\
■»
*0
PHILIPS
[Advertisement oj Philips Lamps (Australasia), Ltd. (Radi* Dept.}, Head offi.ee and Showroome, cornsr Olarmoa cmd Margaret Streets, Sydney,)
MANY features go to make !?}5 radio?
players ultra modern let your dealer
demonstrate.
The full vision micro index dial is exclusive.
... convenient... and cannot go out of date.
Selective muting means noise-free tuning...
only the station you want is audible when you
are tuning around the dial. Valve equipment
. . the secret of radioplayer brilliance , . ,
includes Philips Super Series and' the remark*
able Philips Octode, which banishes back-
ground hiss and brings pure, sweet music to
your cars.
There are A.C., A.G./D.C and Battery
models in this complete range of modern
radioplayers . . . dual wave and .broadcast
models are featured for your inspection.
And when you buy a Philips . . . you know
that you ate buying radio at its best
Battery Broadcast.
Console, £33/19/6.
Batterv Dual Wave
Console, £47/17/6.
The Bulletin
“The Plane Was Overloaded”
Vol. 56.—N0. 2884.
Wednesday, May 22, 1935.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Ok mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office; P. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
IS Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
df
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Home-study Course in ENGLISH, as advertised
in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .. •
My Address
S.B. 1035 rr . ......
cP
r&f
Now in its 93rd Year
"The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
I J,-. Ro, P h * Sons Ltd., Mr. M. S. Allan, Mr, W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Paterson Street, National Bank Chambers, 56 Hunter Street,
Launceston. 271 Collins Street, Melbourne. Sydney.
“THE AGE’ ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
NEEDS OF
A GOOD
NOVEL
A Brisb a n e
woman seeks a
little help.
“What,” she asks,
“are three re-
quirements of a
good novel ?”
She does not disclose why she wants
this extraordinary information. She
might just want to know out of pure
feminine curiosity, like those outback
women who ask each other by wireless
over distances of a hundred miles how
their hens are laying. Or she might
be an intending writer, feeling that if she
knew three requirements of a good novel
she might come within their measure of
not writing a bad one.
Whatever the reason for asking, or
the doubtful profit of answering—since
no one who hasn’t the answer already
in his nature is at all likely to make
use of it, except for a crossword puzzle
—the most useful way of dealing with it
might be to take a passably good cur-
rent novel, such as Enid Bagnold’s
“National Velvet,” and examine it with
the set question as a touchstone.
Of course the question could easily
be fobbed off, without serious damage
to conscience, in three words —beginning,
end and middle ; or, not to be so flip :
pant as Aristotle, character, setting and
plot. Nobody would deny that character,
setting and plot constitute three require-
ments of a good novel; some might be
prepared to contend that they are the
only three. But the worst of novels must
have characters, however ineptly con-
structed, and place, however falsely or
crudely represented, and it must tell what
in that place those characters are doing
or having done to them, however unim-
portant, uninteresting, incredible, insig-
nificant this may be. Thus, though the
question is answered,-the issue which
is raised by the adjective good is evaded.
It is like saying that three requirements
of a good bulldog are legs, body and
head.
To apply the touchstone: no idea of
the quality of Enid Bagnold’s novel is
conveyed by saying it has those three
requirements. Measured for the first re-
quirement—character—however, it is
seen to be even more than a passably
good novel—-it is an uncommonly good
one, because it will be noticed at once
that its characters are real enough to be
significant. Therefore, if we add “of
significance” to the requirements given—•
character, setting and plot of significance
—we begin to get somewhere. Unless they
have significance the novel can have
none ; and significance and the absence
of it mark the whole difference between
a good novel and a bad one. The sig-
nificance of “National Velvet” arises
from the use the author makes of her
people in what they do towards illustrat-
ing the particular theme, or meaning, she
is bent upon giving to her pattern, and
which may be reduced to the moral:
Achievement is its own reward.
The Novel’s
Pattern
To bring that
theme into flower,
invest it for
others with the
signific an c e it
has for herself, is
the purpose with which Miss Bagnold
begins: in what degree her novel will
turn out a good one will depend, of
course, on how far she succeeds in her
aim ; and the purpose and value of all
criticism lies in measuring these degrees
and finding out why and where the
writer’s intention is unfulfilled.
Miss Bagnold, then, begins by placing
as far from achievement as she can con-
trive the character upon whom the
burden of achieving is to fall. This
character is the unfortunately-named
Velvet, youngest of four daughters of a
village butcher and a mother who swam
the Channel as a girl and retains the
fantasy of that day of glory,to prop up
her mountainous bulk behind the shop
till. There is also a handyman who lives
as one of the family and who aids and
abets Velvet in her intention towards the
achievement of riding the winner of the
Grand National. The bridging of that
gap between intention and achievement
is, of course, the* plot, and the place
of the novel is the home, where we see
flat-chested and buck-toothed little
Velvet obsessed with her passion for
horses, frustrated for the moment by
obvious circumstances; the village,
where a notorious fence-jumper is
raffled; a gymkhana, where an action
of Velvet’s sets the theme that achieve-
ment is its own reward ; and so on to
the Grand National course, where the
novel’s climax is reached; thence to
London for an anti-climax of racing in-
quiry and press sensationalism ; and then
back to the novel’s starting point, where,
with Velvet’s integrity unimpaired by
her experience, the pattern is completed.
It is not suggested that “National
Velvet” is more than a good novel.
When the action shifts to London both
the scene and the people met with there
are so lacking in reality that they make
doubtful the description “uncommonly
good.” The rest, however, balances that
lapse. These characters, the place and
the plot all contribute in their individual
reality to the forming of a pattern which
must have a degree of significance for
anyone who looks at it.
Some Deflating
of Sex
Miss Bagnold’s
novel has a sig-
nificance quite
apart from that
deliberately
aimed at. It con-
trives to deflate sex from the monstrous
position of First Essential it has occupied
in so much post-war fiction. The author
does itot produce a neuter. Sex is not
essential in bringing her theme into sig-
nificance, but it is obvious that if her
book is to hold a pattern of life it
cannot be emasculate. The position she
takes is that sex is to be taken for
granted, and so she gives just enough of
it to convey that attitude. She neither
idealises it nor makes it monstrous. It
is of the pattern, not the pattern of itself.
It is a much more emphatic statement
in the deflation of sex that we encounter
in Victoria Lincoln’s novel February
Hill, which, in the main, presents the
theme of an integrity peculiar to women
—it might be called womanliness—re-
tained through extremes of sexual and
other degradation. In the significance
the author gives to that theme, through
the reality with which she invests charac-
ters, setting and plot, the novel easily
measures up to the requirements of our
touchstone. What has been said in this
respect of Miss Bagnold’s novel applies
equally to Miss Lincoln’s ; and, curiously
enough, both authors fall short of per-
fection in the same way at almost the
same point in their books, about two-
thirds through. Miss Bagnold fails to
hold suspense through a temporary lapse
into unreality in the London scene, and
Miss Lincoln similarly fails to hold sus-
pense at the same stage of her pattern
by making the young rum-runner’s death
so obviously necessary in advance that
when it happens it has neither reality
nor significance. Both novels are saved
from badness by their author’s immediate
recovery and by the comparative unim-
portance of the events over which they
lapse.
Similarities
and
Differences
There are
other strong
points of simi-
larity bet we e n
them. The im-
portant people in
both are in a
single family and are the women of it,
especially mother and daughter. Father
in both narrowly escapes being a shadow,
and, in fact, no man in either has the
complete reality of the women, though
the boy toddler Donald in Miss Bag-
nold’s novel is a little masterpiece of
construction. To him Miss Lincoln re-
plies in quality with Grandma, a painted
old reprobate with a repertoire of ribald
songs, and the toddling girl Amy, who
enjoys Grandma on her merits and rivals
her in her performance. These and
Donald contribute the quality of humor
to the respective patterns.
Passing over these and less important
similarities, there is a world of difference
and the Atlantic Ocean between the two
novels. February Hill is situated on
the border of the United States and
Canada. There is hardly any achieve-
ment at all in it, but rather the reverse.
Miss Bagnold’s road towards climax goes
steadily upwards; Miss Lincoln’s is a
steady decline, down which, steered by
different prods of destiny, the entire
family marches. Father is the first indi-
cation of this trend, A dipsomaniac, his
course is set downhill from the start.
Mother is a practising courtesan, about
whom no one in the family has any
illusions. By the law which sometimes
turns parsons’ sons into ne’er-do-
wells, the older children, try to be virtu-
ous, but circumstance or necessity plus
heredity fouls the going. The destined
road is downhill.
One of the girls, Jenny, because she
has most nobility, qualifies for position of
heroine, but even she, when necessity de-
mands, slips easily into the calling of her
mother. It is this action of Jenny’s which
really stamps the novel with significance.
It is carried off as casually as meeting
and shaking hands ; but in spite of it
she and her mother and even Gran, who
had been a noted wanton in her day,
retain at the end such a spark of
womanly integrity that, for its sake, they
might well be called virtuous.
Of the two novels, to revert to our
touchstone. Miss Lincoln’s is the better,
not because its people, setting and plot
are individually more real, but because
the pattern the author evolves out of
them is the more significant. Miss Bag-
nold offers an ideal to which we might
aspire, but Miss Lincoln gives us a
reality in which we can believe.
CECIL MANN.
[“National Velvet,” by Enid Bagnold (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.); February Hill, by Victoria
Lincoln (Faber and Faber; 7s. 6d.)—both
from Angus and Robertson.]
Trends of
Modern Poetry
A casual glance
at. the bulk of
recent poetry sug-
gests that its great,
almost its only,
aim is to be en-
tirely unintelligible except to the poet
himself. Further, that the poet’s chief de-
sire is to call up in the mind of the reader
a series of casual images rather than
make him cognisant of any eternal idea.
Mere virtuosity in language, a popular
poetic diversion at the moment, will never
suffice to make great poetry. Some hard
core of matter is necessary for that. By
matter I do not necessarily mean “mean-
ing.” There have been great poems that
appear to have no meaning whatsoever,
such as “Mad Tom’s Song,” the meaning
of Which would be difficult to define,
though it can be said to have more than
meaning. Incomprehensible, its lines
are nevertheless entirely comprehensible.
But modern incomprehensibility has no
such hither side. It remains dark, with
no star to light it, unless by chance one
meets the poet personally and he can
explain himself.
Again, modern poetry shows itself old-
fashioned on many counts, not least
when it insists so earnestly on the neces-
sity to epater le bourgeois. A sad fallacy
this. The bourgeois is never epater-e d,
for the simple reason that he doesn’t
read poetry. So that the longed-for ex-
clamations of horror and reproach never
materialise, and the bourgeois goes on
his way unshocked and unaware of
it. Is it only since 1914 that poets
have shattered the conventions? One
seems to remember that from Catullus
to Ben Jonson, and from Ben onwards,
outrageous words and subjects have com-
monly and casually been used by poets
as their natural heritage. What new self-
consciousness is this that arrogates to the
twentieth century a peculiar capacity for
iconoclasm?
There has arisen a generation of poets
who admit no allegiance to such men,
and, who have cut the stream of time into
sections, saying, “That is past and this
present, and there is. no connection
between the two.” They lay down rigid
rules for poetry, one of the few things
that once were thought to be outside the
laws of time. Like the Soviet Union,
which insists that there are only three
suitable subjects for art—the Decadence
of the Tsarist Regime, the Revolution
that Freed the People from that Dragon
and the Emergence of the New Bolshevik
Man—our poets deal summarily with
verse.
No poem is worthy of a place in the
modern hierarchy unless it discusses some
phase of modern life—and it is
assumed that modern life consists entirely
{Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—pIain facts, open dealing.
THE SENIOR STORE."
HORDERN
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
It’s time you bought warm winter apparel —
especially when it’s reduced in price!
! !
i
life
Si
I
11
25/- Gown
at right —
-19/6
All-wool medium
weight Dressing
Gowns for men. They
are cosy and warm
without being heavy.
Plain Grey shades. . .
some have pencil
stripe effects. Con-
trast collar, cuffs and
pocket, wool cord
girdle and tassel to
match. Price . . 25/-
Anthony Horderns’
Special Price, 19/6.
SPECIAL!
at left —
“Hordura”
Pyjamas
10/6
“Hordura” (Regd.)
Pyjamas, made in our
own workrooms to
generous specifications.
Featured in soft, warm
Flannelette. . . they will
give plenty of wear.
Smaill, medium and out-
sizes.
Anthony Horderns’
Special Price, suit, 10/6.
«Ji'
# Men’s
Freight
Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street,
paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth
and railway stations in N.S.W
\\
''
I!
■
All - Wool Cardigans
It will pay you to buy a Cardigan while such a
saving is obtainable. Extra warm weight All-wool.
Dropstitch knit. Dressy Marl shades of Fawn, Blue,
Grey and Brown. Sizes 36 to 42 inch chest.
Price . 21/
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price 15/-
Illustrated at right —
“Denchene”
Py j a m a s
“Denchene” Pyjama Suits,
made of British Broadcloth in
self colours of Grey, Saxe,
Blue and Fawn with contrast
collar, cuffs and pocket.
Small, medium and outsizes.
Price, suit 17/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, suit 12/6
Dressing Gown
at right —
Soft, warm overcheck Tweed
is used to fashion this cosy
Dressing Gown. It is a
genuine bargain, being
reduced 10/-. Best finish...
wool girdle and tassel.
Price 39/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price 29/G
Jll-
m
ii
Mm,
I
m al
®8 Mm
MHi
i
m
h
If
At Left — 7/6 Striped Pyjamas 5/6
They’re most inexpensive, but they are not skimped in any way.
Men’s Striped Flannelette Pyjamas in a stout Twill Weave.
Bright colourings in small, medium and outsizes. Price . . 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, suit 5/6
m
u
! r
M
n
m
i
m
. *i
m
mm
mS'SBv:
m
m
m
m
< >.
%
l -M
IT*"!'
» %' w
mm
m ■
m
m
mm§
\
m
Wk&SS
f
mm
* sB# «*
ssgss
53SKSS
£3BB
S&SBS&I
■ s& f v>WVb
y ■•».•. <£. <\ \* -.-ft
' : .
«i:
SSP
»T«
i!»ilfflaW
m
fe*
s&mmsa
m
■
*• -c#-4
SIM
»>>
•rf
»40MI
\lk
* ft
Mf fl
41
IS
1 ■■;:■
rrr^r
A group of 1200 were bought under advantageous
circumstances, so we are able to offer this group of Men’s
Pullovers and Cardigans at really substantial reductions,
jacquard colourings in All-wool. Warm winter weight,
V-necks. Also Jerkin Jackets with Polo collars and
lightning fasteners. Sizes 36 to 38 and 40 inch chest.
Prices 17/6, 18/6, 19/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price 12/6


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
& Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[IT Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
JTT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain,the genuine product —
De WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-hlue Canister
of the machine and the doctrines of Karl
Marx. While whole-heartedly admitting
the necessity of the poet voicing his age,
I cannot help feeling that merely to
voice one or two aspects of it is
letting his age down. “The sun still
shines,” said A.E., the Irish poet, to me
when I asked him recently to comment
upon modern poetry. “The sun still
shines.” That is a sufficient epitaph upon
ephemeral versifiers.
First and foremost of the great
enemies of art seems to me to be psycho-
analysis. The practice of this curious
mental diversion is on the wane, but it
has left its black mark upon the poetry
of the twentieth century. Psychoanalysis
offers a subtle bait to the intellect of
man, and the modern poets have swal-
lowed it whole, with a good length of
line. Like the theory of Communism (as
outlined in modern Russia) it reduces all
things to their elements, but, like the
King’s horses and the King’s men, it has
shown no capacity for remaking Humpty
Dumpty. The poet takes modern life,
himself—all things, indeed, but chiefly
himself—to pieces, and then cries out in
verse that he can’t put himself together
again. He breaks up life into sections. “I
will write a poem about a steam engine,”
he cries: “that will be very modern!”
But it is not enough. A good journalist
could describe a steam engine equally
well, probably. What we want from the
poet is not an engine, but The Engine—
the whole, uncontrovertible, consummate
truth of The Engine. A complete state-
ment. If he gave us that he would be
unifying modern life, not breaking it to
pieces. For if we have spoken the truth
about, one thing we have spoken it of
all things. I remember seeing not long
ago a painting by Cezanne. The subject
was the last to inspire delight, even in the
heart of a botanist—it was a field of
cabbages. But from his own genius the
artist shed such light upon the subject
that it was no longer a field of cabbages,
but, splendidly, radiantly,without possible
argument, The Field of Cabbages—the
archetypal field of cabbages of which all
others are but poor, proletarian copies.
It may also be the fault of psycho-
analysis, as well as of the speeding-up
of mechanised invention, that modern
poetry is so enslaved to Time. Perhaps,
too, the cinema is another cause, with
its easily-gained, ephemeral and casual
effects—full of suggestion, but gone like
a flash or like a moment. We in the West,
and not least among us the poets, are
obsessed by Time as in the East they arc
obsessed by Eternity. We shall have to
make some compromise between these
two ideas if poetry is not to sink into a
morass of suggestion and casualty to
which future generations can have no
possible clue.
London.
PAMELA TRAVERS.
Among the
Abos.
When murders
by Northern Ter-
ritory aborigines
and alleged repri-
sals were being
hysterically discussed, lon L. Idriess
could easily have faked up a best-
seller in a comfortable Sydney office. He
had spent 25 years working and wander-
ing among the semi-wild myalls of the
Gulf and Cape York Peninsula, and
among the Papu-Australian tribes of the
Torres Strait islands.
That, however, did not seem to him
sufficient basis on which to build the
story of the N.T. trouble. He went
north again, wandered 11,000 miles by
horse and camel, and saw and talked
with many of the principals in the
tragedies.
In Man Tracks: With the Mounted
Police in Australian Wilds (Angus and
Robertson; 65.), Idriess tells how 40
mounted police are considered sufficient
to police the 524.000 square miles of the
N.T., an area larger than Britain, France
and Germany rolled into one. Working
mostly singly or in pairs, these men have
got marvellous results in country much
of which is still wild jungle and desert
inhabited only by wild natives. Yet
Idriess has subordinated the story of
these men to that of the wild charges
among whom they move, and if his pre-
sentment of their plots and activities is
at times a trifle theatrical it is all in
keeping with the picture, for your abo.
is an actor first and last.
As to the much-discussed killings of
Japanese trepangers and white prospec-
tors, the confessions of such killers as
Nemarluck and Takiar leave no doubt
that the only motive is loot. The theory
of the sob-brethren in the south that the
slayings are due to the strangers raping
aboriginal women fades before Nemar-
luck’s dispassionate account of how he
and his mates massacred the Japanese
crew of the Ouida, an account which
may stand as a model for all the others.
Women were offered in exchange for
tobacco, and went on board the cutter.
After a day or two to lull them into
security, tomakawks finished the men on
board, and those ashore were butchered
while shooting.
Quite the best stuff to be found in the
book is in the stories of tracking wanted
men, white or black, by the black
trackers. The best of many, perhaps, is
that of the gradual solving of the dis-
appearance of station-manager Randell
and the tracing of his murderer by a few
faint horse and camel tracks through a
maze of stony ranges. Nothing better
in the ancient story of man tracking man
has been done.
J. B. H.
Art Out
of Chaos
Poet in Exile :
The Life of Hein-
rich Heine, by
Antonina Vallen-
ti n (Gollancz ;
Booklovers, Mel-
bourne ; 165,), concerns one of those rare
writers who succeed in giving a running
commentary on topical events universal
significance. It is the most exhaustive
Life of Heine I have come across.
Plenty of men have had as many vicis-
situdes as Heine experienced, but few
have been so enriched by them. He had
as many love affairs as Casanova. He
was no sooner out of one than he was
into another. But the difference between
him and the Italian amorist 1 is that
Heine analysed his experiences ; he did
not romanticise about them. He con-
tracted syphilis early, and in his later
years in Paris suffered almost incredible
torments. But plenty of men have suf-
fered just as greatly. The difference is
that he learnt from ,his suffering. He
retained his enormous gusto for living,
his good humor, and when deaf and
nearly blind, and with his back raw with
the blisterings prescribed by the medical
science of the day, he dictated his last
poems, propping his one serviceable eye
open with his fingers. They were full
of an even rarer beauty than his previous
ones.
His political experiences were in the
same category. He joined parties and
left them so often that he was accused
of being an opportunist, but his actions
were dictated by a higher imperative, and
this embraced his recantation of his
Jewish faith as well as his subsequent
abandonment of Protestantism. His
application for a post in a German uni-
versity was frank dishonesty, and he
doubled and turned like a hunted rabbit
when the spies of Prince Metternich and
the Prussian police were after him ; but
he had to preserve his art somehow, and
the only thing that matters is that he did
preserve it. His mocking laughter
goaded the German nation to fury, and
sometimes he overreached himself, as
when he stooped to personal abuse of
his worst enemies; but the essential
Heine survived these aberrations, and he
never relapsed into self-pity. The real
logic of his life might be said to have
been better and better poetry.
Heine’s art came out of his gigantic
struggle to escape from the ghetto and
from the sense of inferiority of the Jew
surrounded by the indifference, hatred
and contempt of the Gentile. It was that
force which bent the bow. The arrow
might have sped in the direction taken by
Amschel Rothschild, the financier, also
a child of the ghetto, who helped to im-
poverish the German nation and was
thanked for it. Instead, it took the direc-
tion of poetry which has enriched the
German nation and for which that nation
rewarded Heine by a lifetime of persecu-
tion.
Madame Vallentin’s book is doubly
interesting because it reveals that Europe
round about 1830 was in the same state
of chaos as exists at present. That chaos
produced its Hitler in the shape of a
demagogic mystic who aroused the Ger-
man people momentarily by directing
their attention, like Hitler, away from
their own problems to contemplate the
wickedness of other countries. One of
his proposals was to erect a huge barrier
of rocks between France and Germany,
plant it with forest trees and loose wild
beasts in it; any German who attempted
to pass this artificial frontier would be
shot by the guards or left to the wild
beasts. Heine’s poems helped to reduce
this crusade to futility.
In his early manhood Karl Marx was
a friend of Heine, and for a while the
poet was intrigued by Communism. But
he detected the scent of a new barbarism
in a dialectic which taught that the poet
was nothing more nor less than the pro-
duct of economic conditions. He needed
no other argument to contradict that
theory than his own experience.
M. G. S.
A Satchel of Books
Through Fascist Italy, by Roland G.
Andrews (Harrap; per Angus and
Robertson ; 165.). Leaves the impression
that, however one might care to go
through Italy—or heaven, for that
matter—one would greatly prefer not to
go with Roland. A writer who can seri-
ously think an unpleasant meal he had
in a French town was served to him just
out of petty spite sounds too uncomfort-
ably like a prig for even vicarious travel-
ling. At any rate, he turns out to be a
superficial observer.
A Surgeon’s China, by Albert Gervais,
translated . from the French by Vincent
Sheean (Hamish Hamilton; Bs. 6d. net).
The author’s experiences as physician at
the Catholic Mission Hospital in Chengtu
and professor at the Chinese Medical
College there for several years. He has
the gift of dramatising what he observes ;
there is more character, incident and
narrative movement in his account than
can be found in nine novels out of ten.
All this is to the good, but the really
outstanding quality of the book is
humor. The author can see fun in almost
anything, so that the attempts to get dis-
section going in the college read as
funny as such anecdotes as that of the
Catholic missionary who keeps control
over the local bandit chief by the simple
method of acting as his banker!
Speak to the Earth, by Vivienne de
Watteville (Methuen ; Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 225. 6d). Gracefully written.
Tells of a young woman’s photograph-
ing expedition into the East African
wilds, differing from books of the kind
in that shooting the animals is strictly
taboo. By careful stalking and happy
accident Miss Watteville has sufficient
success to provide exciting material for
a closely-packed book, and her fine nar-
rative sense fuses it all into a story of
fairy-tale character. A charming book
of travel and nature lore. Photographs
are nothing wonderful. It is explained
that the best were lost.
Passenger Ticket, by Derek Drabble
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson ; 18s. net).
The author starts from England per
tourist-cruise liner; leaves it, like the
sensible man he is, at Copenhagen ; goes
on a sailer to South Africa ; meets Smuts
there, and gives a neat picture of him ;
goes by cargo boat up the coast, and then
inland a bit; and eventually over to
South America, up the Amazon, and
away home. He looks at things in a solid,
commonsense way ; he has enthusiasm ;
and he has the gift of selecting from the
mass of things seen those that have sig-
nificance for others besides himself.
Time's Door, by Esther Meynell
(Chapman and Hall; Bs. 6d. net). In
the manner of Quintet and Grave Fairy-
tale, with similar romantic atmosphere
contained chiefly in musical small talk.
Tells a fantastic tale of a pupil of violin-
ist Paganini who becomes a Bach de-
votee and conjures up Bach and Bach’s
daughter from the dead. Quaintly naive in
the telling, but has delicacy and charm.
Additions to Everyman’s. Having
drawn on the past for more than 900
volumes, Everyman’s Library is now be-
ing further enlarged with selections from
living or recent writers. First additions
in this departure are Galsworthy’s The
Country House, Wells’s The Time
Machine and The Wheels of Chance (one
vol.), Meredith’s The Ordeal of Richard
Fever el, Henry James’s The Turn of the
Screw and The Aspern Papers (one vol.)
and a representative volume of Chester-
ton, including stories, essays and poems.
A revolutionary change of format is also
made. The old stiff volumes give way
to flexible cloth binding, simple gilt
lettering and neat get-up generally.
People of Importance, by J. H. Dowd
and Brenda Spender (Country Life;
10s. 6d. net). The Country Life press
people turn out admirable illustrated
books, and this is One of their best, a
collection of Dowd’s exquisite child-
study drawings, helped along with little
stories by his collaborator. An idea of
the quality of Dowd’s work is given
through reproduction on “Sundry Shows”
in this issue. The book is one that
artists will relish and anyone of the
faintest appreciation must enjoy. Wins
this Page’s whole-hearted recommen-
dation.
Gone Rambling, by Cecil Roberts
(Hodder and Stoughton; copy from
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Breezy gossip in
the author’s Pilgrim Cottage vein. An
inveterate finder-out regarding little
things most people take for granted, he
chats away about why English country
homes have sunken floors, cottage cook-
ery, ghosts, people past and present.
Between chapters he breaks into verse,
like the rest of it lightly entertaining.
Quaint colored illustrations enhance the
old-fashioned air which probably more
than anything else makes Roberts so
popular. He is certainly an antidote to
sophistication.


Hli
:
■
■
mm.
: : ■
H
:
■
H
H
■
: H
s
■
■
■
11
B
K
mm
“IT’S WHITE HORSE’
.
Quite right, mg bog !
B
m
m
■
1111
H
usa
w
r :
; v. : /.
mm
M
w^ ; :SiS
iSais* >i>
I
■
m
.
■
!' ■■.
Hi
m
m
m
s'
n
n
■
? : .V :
m
.“It's equal
to a fine
liqueur.”
Without a moment’s hesitation
the expert recognises the rich and
abundant aroma of White Horse.
He knows instantly that this
delightful bouquet denotes the
heather and peat flavor, the
smoothness and mellowed per-
fection of Scotland’s Senior
Whisky. Millions of gallons of
White Horse are matured and
maturing for those who appre-
ciate Real Old Scotch.
Insist on White Horse—and see that you get it
tfiiiTE Horse
" SCOTCH WHISKY
Small Flasks on Sale —Insist on White Horse
v


FAMOUS
WINES
:
i &'T' V * '
PW 1
m
m
»
jtj
i
■
%
i
W
m
m
mm
rf:
■
m
j i
■
i
mm
mm
m
I
&
... JP®fi
• y J
m
i
‘V
/
HP
. .. , . ...
m *
■i •
■
■Hi
■
w-:
:
■
I
m
m
i
i
*r v
mmi
iiiii
■
:
: '
cdae Add lid sv?ri/iedt<ddtw7id


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2884.
May 22, 1935.
THE POST OFFICE MUST HAVE ITS STUNT.
“It doesn’t look much of a bus for an ocean crossing.”
“Oh, the Post Office’ll O.K. it. Flying men need bread, so we are expected to give ’em circus stuff—something like the Daredevil Dive from the
Top of the Tent.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘AH Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
REFORM BY CONSENT.
Australia has seven Governors and 616 members
of Parliament, of whom 74 are Ministers. Sixty of
the Ministers and 505 of the members hang out in
the States, three of which are increasingly maintained,
although they never make ends meet, by Common-
wealth tax-revenue. That revenue is drawn princi-
pally from people in other States, and it is spent as
easy money is always spent, regardless of responsi-
bility to those who find it.
Yet these three States do considerable taxing on
their own account. South Australia levies an income
tax which is so stiff that because of it the State is
threatened with the loss of its one considerable
manufacturing enterprise, motor-body building. West-
ralia taxes income and dividends, and has withal
a goldmining tax, a financial-emergency tax and a
hospital tax, all falling on income, though these four
taxes are not nearly equal to the one imposed by
South Australia. Tasmania has an “ordinary” income
tax, a wages tax and a “special” tax on incomes for
unemployed-relief. “Ordinary” and unemployed-
relief taxes are also taken from income in N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Queensland. The Commonwealth itself
taxes income from personal exertion and property,
and claps a 6 per cent, super-tax on property income.
Throughout the depression the N.S.W. Govern-
ment applied its unemployed-relief tax, generally at
the rate of Is. in the £, to income from other States,
and also to the amount of the taxes paid on it in those
States and to the Commonwealth. The Victorian
Government retaliated by taxing Victorian income
from other States. Last year these Governments
unctuously arrived at an agreement based on the
vicious principle that each should tax the income of
residents from all sources, in effect taking money for
the Crown for services not rendered. They offered
to conclude similar treaties with other State Govern-
ments which do a bit of double taxing on their own
account; but the invitation has been ignored.
The general effect of these arrangements is that
taxpayers are carrying burdens greater than they can
bear, and that industry is seriously handicapped in its
struggle to exist and expand, while Government
finance is drunk and disorderly. The Commonwealth
has a large annual surplus ; the States have large
annual deficits, and in the case of the three small
States, the Commonwealth grants notwithstanding,
they have become chronic. The Commonwealth has
100 little to do for the money it gets ; the revenues
of the States, though increased by legalised robbery,
are unequal to the tasks imposed upon them. Clearly
there will have to be a redistribution of taxes and
functions, otherwise the country will drift into
further trouble. It can’t be done in a day, but it
can be tackled piecemeal ; nor is the tedious process
of Constitutional reform necessary.
The Bulletin’s proposal is that the States should
transfer control of education to the Commonwealth
and with it taxation of incomes, the Commonwealth
taking over all current debts on school properties and
making up the difference between education expen-
diture and income-tax revenue. There is no great
difference in the mass. The latest Commonwealth
Year-Book shows that in 1932-33 tax-revenue spent
on “education, science and art” in the six States
amounted to £9,511,000, whereas their ordinary
income and dividend taxes yielded £9,607,200. Some
States spent more on education than they collected
from income tax ; others spent less. In N. S. Wales
expenditure was £3,844,800 and income-tax revenue
£3,870.600 ; the Westralian figures were £607,400 and
£336,000.
Manifestly it would be good business for
Westralia to surrender its income tax to the national
authority in consideration of the latter taking over the
Westralian schools. The thing could be done without a
referendum by virtue of the State’s supremacy in its
own sphere and of the legislative powers of the
Commonwealth, as embodied in Section 51 of the
Constitution and Subsection xxxvii (“Matters referred
to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the
Parliament or Parliaments of any State or States”),
and the offer ought to be made —to Westralia and to
all the other States. It might, and probably would,
be refused, but refusal would place the State Govern-
ments in an awkward position when seeking greater
Commonwealth grants or a larger part of the income-
tax field (“complete evacuation” is demanded of the
Commonwealth by provincialists) or both.
Transfer of income tax to the Commonwealth
would remove shackles from industry and enable
justice to be meted out alike to victims of cold-blooded
extortion and to those who, because they spread their
investments or travel between State and State, pay
less than their fair share. Commonwealth control
of education would place five Ministers and their
personal staffs on the superfluous list. It would bring
greater opportunities in wider domains to teachers and
remove causes of their present discontents, of which
so much is heard. It would result in increased atten-
tion being given to technical training, and put an
end to such shameful spectacles as were witnessed
in Victoria recently, when hundreds of lads were
turned from the doors of technical schools. Under
Commonwealth control there would necessarily have
to be a great measure of decentralisation, and there
would be no repetition of such monkey tricks as were
played in N. S. Wales in Mr. Lang’s time, according
to the present .Education Minister, Mr. Drummond:
Twenty-four Government schools were used as
Communist headquarters, and 171 for A.L.P. meetings.
Arrangements were made for N. S. Wales school history
textbooks to be rewritten, and Communists were engaged
to do the rewriting.
No Commonwealth Minister of Education would dare
to do anything of the kind, even if his sentiments ran
that way. He would be restrained by the thought
that, though it might go down in his own State, it
would assuredly encompass the defeat of his party
at the next Commonwealth elections.
“OVERLOADED” AND OUT OF DATE.
The latter-day history of aviation, civil and military,
in Australia is a sorry record of sins of commission
and omission on the part of constituted authority.
Inert for the most part, with the result that the
country is without modern machines and is
short of aerodromes and trained men (though the
material available is the best in the world), it is
even more foolish in its rare bursts of energy.
There was no room in the R.A.A.F. or the Civil
Aviation Department for Charles Ulm or Charles
Kingsford Smith, but Ulm was received with open
arms when he proposed to fly the Pacific in a twin-
engined ’plane and asked for a Commonwealth guar-
antee. As a Minister put it, Canberra was convinced
that the “flight would have a very favorable influence
towards establishing a trans-Pacific air service,” and a
guarantee of £BOOO was given—without Parliamentary
authority. The machine was of a type which no mail
contractor would use over a 400-mile sea route on a
regular service. It did not reach Honolulu.
Afterwards a measure was introduced granting
Ulm’s widow £5OOO. That was not the only bill
the Commonwealth had to meet, and the cost would
have been far greater had the U.S. Navy charged for
the very elaborate search it made. As it was, many
gallant Americans took great risks in the effort to
save the three valuable Australian lives that were lost.
Undeterred by this experience, the Post Office
backed and the Civil Aviation Department sanctioned
a mail flight to Maoriland by Kingsford Smith and
party in the Southern Cross. Again there was no good
purpose to be served. The Tasman has been flown
several times. Mail ’planes with double the speed of
the Southern Cross make nightly journeys across the
U.S.A. in all weathers. There is a regular mail run
from Africa to S. America over water as turbulent
and a course as long.
The venture nevertheless had a good press and
made a strong popular appeal, especially to collectors
of stamps and curios. A second machine, Ulm’s
Faith in Australia, was requisitioned to carry the excess
mail. She and her sister ship were seven years old —
out of date, according to long-distance mail-carrying
standards. At the last moment the flight was delayed
because a storm at sea was reported. Another hitch
occurred —in the time available no competent navi-
gator could be found for the second machine. It
was thereupon decided, presumably with official
permission, to let the Southern Cross take a double
load. According to a newspaper, “it was found that
the Southern Cross could accommodate the whole
of the mail and freight without overloading.” Kings-
ford Smith’s own words after the event were: “She
was overloaded with mail and freight.”
Six hundred miles out an exhaust pipe broke, and
flying metal smashed the starboard propeller. The
port and centre engines began to fail. For hours
Australia was in danger of losing two of its finest
pilots and a wireless operator. Twenty-seven thousand
letters had to be thrown overboard, the Post Office
concurring. The A.W.A. rose to the occasion, as
always, but it had to double its operating staff
for the day. N. S. Wales was put to the cost
and inconvenience of sending the Sydney pilot steamer
on a search mission. The Commonwealth ordered
steam to be got up on H.M.A.S. Sussex, a 10,000-ton
cruiser. The Air Board “found itself almost power-
less to help.” The “almost” is redundant.
Nerve and skill were exhibited by Kingsford
Smith in bringing the injured ’plane back to Mascot
over 600 miles of sea ; resourcefulness and intrepidity
by P. G. Taylor in climbing along an oil-soaked spar
to feed the limping engines with oil. But Australia
knows these men, and it did not require an unneces-
sary hazard to demonstrate that such qualities were
at their command. Sensational papers lard them with
praise and familiar impertinences. To sober-minded
Australians it is a lamentable thing that such men
should be officially encouraged to engage in a perilous
adventure in an obsolete and “overloaded” machine
when there is so much to be done in the legitimate
field of civil aviation, and when Australia does not
possess a naval ’plane which it is reasonably safe to
send a couple of hundred miles off the coast, or a
fighting squadron which could get within 80 m.p.h
of the speed at which Germans, Russians, French and
Italians are trained to fight.
CANCER.
In the march of medical science, diseases once
dreaded have been shorn of most of their terrors.
Scarlet fever, for example; N. S. Wales statistics
show that it killed 1.3 persons per 10,000 of popula-
tion during five years to the end of 1888 and 0.21
per 10,000 during five years to the end of 1933.
Other N. S. Wales mortality-rates for the same periods
reveal still more striking reductions —whooping cough,
from 1.66 to 0.1 ; diphtheria, from 4.25 to 0.65;
tuberculosis, from 10.69 to 3.65. Bright’s disease is
an exception ; it claimed 5.36 victims where 50 years
ago it destroyed 2.1.
But cancer has far and away the grimmest
record. In 1933 it sent 11.1 N. S. Wales citizens to
their graves, compared with 3.3 half a century ago.
In 1904 the Westralian cancer death-rate was 3.5 per
10,000; it is now 6.8. The Australian rate, nearly
the lowest in the world 30 years ago, is now higher
than those of Japan, Spain, Italy, France, Belgium,
Canada and U.S.A. ; and this doesn’t tell the whole
tragic story. There must have been a far greater-
increase in infection, since accessible cancer, as fatal a
generation ago as any other form —diagnosis methods
were still crude, and the knife was the only remedy
—is in 90 p.c. of cases now curable ; in 30 p.c., the
severer internal forms are successfully treated when
taken in time.
Yet the Australian death-rate grows. One death
in every eight is now caused by cancer. Radium, deep
X-ray therapy and improved surgery have not prevented
an advance of 10 p.c. in mortality per 10,000 during
the past five years. Every big hospital now has its
deep X-ray therapy plant and its streams of waiting
patients. Almost every month develops new tech-
niques, without which deaths would be increased by
dozens. There is increasing expenditure on research.
A conference representative of every State meets
annually at Canberra to discuss cancer alone. An
Institute of Radiology has been formed to handle
technical problems. It is all necessary, but it is not
enough.
Co-ordination of research is needed, and the
Canberra conference strongly recommended it. Sydney
does not profit as it should from the brilliant work of
young Melbourne physicists. Melbourne is 500 miles
away from the big deep X-ray therapy plants which
are a feature of Sydney technique. Sydney Univer-
sity, with ample funds, is a thing apart; though it
may not be “immersed in academic abstractions,” as
someone has written, it seems to regard hospital
research as none of its business. Yet it is in the
hospitals that there is most chance of saving the
7000 Commonwealth citizens whom the scourge kills
every year. The Brisbane system, controlled by a
cancer trust, is the best; but Brisbane has neither the
funds nor the concentrated field that other States
possess. In Queensland nearly 40 p.c. of victims
is classified as “industrial” and another 20 p.c. as
“engaged in commerce and transport.”
According to Dr. M. I. Holmes, the senior Com-
monwealth Medical Officer, existing clinics, though
working satisfactorily within their limits, are over-
burdened.
Overburdening leads to deferment of treatment, and
also to insufficient opportunity for the study of cancer
in cases treated.
Dr. Holmes calls for more clinics, more minute
records, a follow-up system on cases, a periodical
post-graduate course for general practitioners and the
training of medical students to greater proficiency
in diagnosis of the disease in its early stages —a matter
of the first importance. He demands that the handling
of the whole problem should be centralised in a
committee working in close co-operation with the
B.M.A. State organisations he criticised for “insuffi-
cient co-ordination and lack of general policy.”
Dr. F. P. Sandes, formerly Professor of Surgery
at Sydney University and Director of Cancer
Research, put forward a practical scheme of co-ordi-
nation. He recommends the formation of a Cancer
Commission —independent, with statutory endowment
—to brigade treatment, research and education. He
says Australia need feel no sense of technical
inferiority compared with other countries ; its efforts
to improve treatment are modern, and Australian
surgery has attained a high standard in operative
treatment of malignant disease.
Mr. W. M. Hughes entered into the Canberra
discussions with his usual energy:
Let conference shout from the housetops a warning
that early examination by specialists would in many
cases save a patient’s life.
And he called the delegates “soldiers in a war in
which there is no Armageddon, no armistice and no
treaty of peace,”
Oratory always sounds better when it is backed
by action. Cancer, mainly a disease which affects
those who have reached middle life, becomes every
year more serious in its incidence as the birth-rate falls
and the expectation of life normally lengthens. Every
year it eats up the savings made by the conquest ot
four or five other maladies. Mr. Hughes might try
some of his eloquence on Cabinet. If the facts were
put to it forcibly enough, a Ministry with a medical
Acting Prime Minister would surely realise that for
the equivalent of the cost of this year’s Ministerial pil-
grimage to London, and of the last rise in Parliamen-
tary salaries, half a dozen deep X-ray therapy plants
could be added to those now operating, Dr. Sandes s
co-ordination committee could be established and
the Institute of Radiology put on its feet. A few more
fiery words might compel the proper authorities to
realise that cities like Melbourne and Sydney do not
possess separate cancer hospitals, and that no hospital
in Australia now owns a properly-equipped research
department.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Under False Colors.
The 30-year-old claim that Consuls in Australia
should be accorded an ambassadorial status which
they are denied everywhere else was given another
airing in Victoria when some Consuls “boycotted the
State Governor’s levee because they were not given
the right of private entry.”
To say that Consuls are Ambassadors is absurd on
the face of it. Ambassadors represent sovereigns or
Presidents in the precise sense that Dominion Gover-
nors represent George V. They and their embassies
are above the laws of the countries to which they
are accredited, and their official status is propor-
tionately important. Consuls are trade agents whose
exequaturs may be withdrawn at short notice by the
countries in which they function without giving rise
to international complications. To quote the Minister
for External Affairs:
Their appointments do not entitle them to be
specially received at public functions or to be given
precedence over local officials.
Some Consuls report to their Governments on
political questions, some have been in the diplomatic
services of their countries, some are destined to
become diplomats when they cease to be Consuls. It
has nothing to do with the point, which is that in
the Commonwealth, a country without diplomatic
representation, they are merely Consuls. Attempts
to surround them with the pomp and circumstance
of Ambassadors are on a par with attempts to give
senior militia officers the standing of regulars. They
should be firmly discouraged for the sake of Aus-
tralia’s reputation as a democratic country with a
sense of humor.
■ * *
Commercial Air Travel.
Slow' as the present service is compared with U.S.A.
services, air travel to London has become a commer-
cial proposition for Australian businessmen.
Going by ship, they spend upwards of two
months at sea, and the lowest cost at which they can
make the double voyage on a liner —exchange must be
allowed for on fares and expenses—is about £350.
The air-mail fare is £4BB return; the difference in
time is at least seven weeks. In the case of a
£2O-a-week man travelling by air the saving in fares
and exchange would be quite £l4O. * For men above
the thousand-a-year class, air travel already is cheaper.
And if speed were increased to save another fort-
night, fares remaining at the present figure, air travel
would easily become more economical for all business
travellers.
From India the air-mail ships to London are
usually full, as is the case on the trans-U.S.A. run.
When night-flying becomes the vogue, as it is in
America, the time should not be far off when dozens
of Australian firms will follow the pioneers who have
been selling Australian horses and Australian bever-
ages and soaps all the way from Sydney to the Medi-
terranean, and turn the Australia-London run into
a regular commercial travellers’ route.
Furthermore, many a London financier to whom
time means money would hop over to Australia to
look at the chances of making an honest copper or
two —or tucking away a hundred thousand or so —
if he could do the journey within a month, including
a fortnight in the capital cities.
«
Which Friend?
Dear Bulletin,—Sir lan Hamilton’s Anzac Day
message was ominous:
At present things here seem moving towards zero
hour on much the same lines as they were moving
21 years ago. Now, as then, we are being tempted to
enter into a. military coalition.
His conclusion —that we should ignore France and
side with “our old enemies” —won’t appeal to many
Australians who know Germany and France. Evi-
dently it doesn’t appeal to Sir Roger Keyes, M.P.,
who on Thursday urged a defence loan similar to the
one in 1899 which “enabled the decaying navy to
develop a fleet to defeat Germany.”
Germany’s pocket battleships, which can outstrip
all capital ships except Britain’s three battle-cruisers,
are capable of destroying any existing cruiser. Its
20,000-ton battle-cruisers, at present being built, will
be capable of escaping from our battle-cruisers and
of overhauling and destroying almost any British
cruiser.
To know the Germans is to respect them, but respect
is akin to fear. Hitler’s policy is the Kaiser’s brought
up to date, and with the headsman’s axe or exile
substituted for imprisonment for lese-majeste.
To judge Hitler’s strength it is only necessary
to consider some of the feats he has accomplished
of late —virtually silenced the Protestant Evangelical
and Catholic Churches, outraged the sensibilities of
Judaism all over the world, denounced the military
clauses of the Versailles Treaty and imposed con-
scription. Any one of them would have brought
about the downfall of most Governments; they have
left his stronger than ever. So he represents the will
of Germany.
It is Britain’s traditional policy in Europe to
side with the weak against the strong, or potentially
strong. Not as a matter of chivalry, but of business.
If Britain hadn’t entered into a military coalition
21 years ago the French would have been over-
whelmed. The British didn’t fight to the last ditch out
of affection for the French, with whom, in fact, they
have little in common. They had at the back of their
minds Winston Churchill’s famous warning to the
Americans: “You’re next.”
The Germans talk vaguely of colonies in the
Ukraine and on the Baltic, and no doubt they would
take them if Japan went to war with Russia. However,
the ultimate objective remains the same, and always
must: the only places in the sun that are worth a
great seagoing nation’s attention —South-west and
South-east Africa, New Guinea, Maoriland and
Australia.
If Germany invaded France again, and Britain
didn’t intervene, France would go down. Britain
might survive; the Empire couldn’t. That is why
most Australians feel that in the European war which
so many authorities say is near the Empire—if it
means to remain an empire—can neither keep out
nor change friends. —Yours etc., Second Divvy.
*
Freedom with a Vengeance.
A German has been sentenced to 12 months’ hard
labor for “possessing and reading a foreign news-
paper”-—to wit, a Dutch journal which printed its own
version of the Reichstag fire, for starting which a
half-witted Dutch citizen was beheaded.. One of
Australia’s Great Dailies calls it a “savage sentence,”
but the case is no worse than that of the Prague
man who got eight days for “national libel” because
he sent a postcard to his bankers asking them not
to communicate with him in Czech, which he did not
understand. He gave them the option of German,
French, Italian and Spanish, and obligingly declared
that if he knew Czech he would willingly exchange
views with them in it.
Australia has droves of people who would be
in gaol if German or Czech law ran here. For years
they have been receiving and reading and advocating
the views of foreign newspapers with a scorn of our
Constitution. The “Communist,” the “Moscow News”
and the U.S.A. “Worker” have been favorites.
Mr. J. S. Garden for years published a paper
which held the Moscow view that the “King of
England is a superfluity, an ornament, a mouthpiece.”
He has fallen as low as it is possible for a king to
fall. To fall lower would be to cease to be a king
and become a jester.
The worst that befel him was a sentence of three
years in the Federal Parliament. Mr, Donald Grant
was characterised by a Labor Premier, John Storey,
as a “man who dreams of blood, talks of blood and
wants to wallow in blood.” He also has been given
several years in Parliament and a gold pass. And
each of these worthies has received a King’s jubilee
medal.
♦
Dunstan’s Unfinished Symphony.
Vic. Premier Dunstan has decided that public works
of beautification shall stand over until utilitarian and
“reproductive” works are completed, which is an order
so big that it means postponement of all beautifica-
tion until the arrival of the Greek kalends. Though
he does not admit it, this decision is subject to the
approval of Csesar the Labor party and it is
possible that the definition of beauty may be severely
amended before finality is reached. In the meantime,
Mr. Dunstan has shut down on the completion of the
Yarra Boulevard scheme and other works which he
has defined tentatively as beautification.
On the face of it, it would appear logical that the
State should be provided with its necessities before it
thinks of its luxuries, though it is questionable whether
certain projects of beautification may not be necessi-
ties to a civilised community. But some of these
postponed works would serve purposes strictly utili-
tarian as well as being incidentally a development of
civic beauty.
The Yarra Boulevard scheme is a case in point.
For several miles the work has been done, except for
surfacing, and any efficient contractor would guaran-
tee to have it open for use within a week, provided
there were no limit on the labor needed. It has
many more miles in various stages of unbeautifi-
cation, ranging from deep and dangerous holes to
heaps of mullock piled end on end to make
a picturesque park look like a new rush. What
Premier Dunstan does not recognise is that the
moment that Boulevard or any part of it is com-
pleted it immediately commences to pay dividends—
not dividends of money but dividends of conveni-
ence and civic efficiency, leaving beautification out
of the question. While it lies unfinished, it is a
liability, every minute of its idleness ticking off some
pounds in interest to be charged against the people
of Victoria in taxation.
That roadway has been constructed on the lay-by
principle. The public has been contributing day by
day for years, and has not defaulted in its payments.
Now the trustee repossesses the property. He is a
defaulter just as much as the agent who can’t hand
you over the gramophone or the radio set you have
been buying on the lay-by principle. The main differ-
ence is that you can sue the agent and you can’t sue
Premier Dunstan.
*
Men of the Comboyne.
“El V.”: I have just come from the big timber at
the back of the Comboyne (N.S.W.).
Some of the wildest lands in Australia lie in that
region. Dark mountains spill themselves into terri-
fying valleys. Trees are trees: huge box, coachwood,
beech, maple and cedars —worth £3OO apiece.
On top of one valley is a man with a winch.
He lives in a two-roomed hut —slab, with plenty of
ventilation. There are bunks round the wall, and a
side of bacon hanging on a nail. A big fireplace fills
half one room, for it can be very cold and wet there.
A bonny 17-year-old daughter drives the winch;
a son looks after the logs and the rope; the father
is axeman, mechanic and general manager. There
is no water, no sewerage; the nearest dance hall is
miles away; the papers and the basic wage don’t
seem to worry them. Somewhere in the mountains
they have a farm home. The only ambition they
have is to get back to it.
A few miles off is a young Australian, a
mechanical genius, who found himself during the
depression with scarcely any assets except a young
family. He got together enough to pay a deposit on a
£45 internal-combustion engine. It was a type which
was built sparingly during the war for big-gun
haulage, and nobody had much use for it in times of
peace. From that nucleus, with a gang of hardy lads
who scorned the dole, he built up in two years what
is probably the most powerful timber-hauling plant
in N. S. Wales. It uses a quarter of a mile of the
heaviest Canadian steel lumber rope made.
There are no thrills short of battle like seeing it
haul a 75ft. x 4ft. diameter log through tall timber
as easily as a boy drags a scooter. Lesser timber
comes down before the big logs with an artillery
fire of crashes. Huge rocks go rumbling into the
gorge a thousand feet below, and, behind, a groove
like a young canal opens up. When the ton rope
breaks, as it sometimes does, it smashes trees a foot
thick.
There is not a man on wages in this gang—all
are paid on piecework on a per-100ft. basis. They
have not a suit of clothes among them which a
Labor politician would wear. But they live well and
heartily, refuse to take holidays—they celebrated
jubilee day with their own artillery—and they are far
better off than city industrialists who have to find
evening dress in which to attend Mr. Lang’s dances.
Yet some of them scarcely knew that there was
a place like the Comboyne before the depression sent
them out.
«
Transport “Regulation.”
“X-roads”: The excuse for the N.S.W. Transport
Act is that it is necessary to “regulate” competition
with railways and tramways. Atrocious abuses are
being practised in the name of “regulation.” Take
the case of our mailman.
He serves a township distant 13 miles, almost at
right-angles, from the nearest railway. Twelve years
ago the journey was by coach, and it took several hours
along villainous roads. Passengers sometimes had to
grab the reins after the driver of those days had passed
the half-way pub. The present mailman has changed
all that. A decade ago he started off with a two-horse
coach; then he bought a Ford, then a four-cylinder
Buick, then a bigger model, then a Reo char-a-banc.
And then the Government, which has badly neglected
the community as far as roads, railways and schools
are concerned, decided through its Transport Commis-
sion that the mailman must put a duly approved bus
on the run. The alternative was apparently to resur-
rect the two-horse coach; the commission doesn’t
control horses.
The unhappy mailman has put on a bus. He
pays taxes on receipts, has to obtain permission to
take a party to the picture show 13 miles away, and is
not allowed to carry out-of-the-way passengers a few
miles further on. He is afraid to complain. The
people whom he serves get their children up at six
in the morning to go via the bus to high school nearly
30 miles away. The youngsters return about six at
night.
The inhabitants are nearly all farmers. They
work long hours for small returns. The same applies
to the busman. He has been of more service to our
little community than half the civil servants in the
country .; but apparently the bureaucracy won’t be
satisfied till he is starved out.
. » ♦
Butter and Mathematics.
“Things equal to the same things are equal to one
another” —but not in the London butter market. At
a Melbourne conference of people interested in dairy
factories, the chairman, J. F. Kittson, stated that,
although Australia was assured that its first-grade
butter was equal to Danish, it was impossible to secure
anything like the same price for it. When asked
whether the Australian product was inferior, Tooley-
street admitted that it wasn’t; when asked why it
should not give the same price for Australian, Tooley-
street just shrugged its shoulders.
There ought to be fortunes awaiting unscrupulous
persons who will buy Australian butter and pass it
off as Danish ; but perhaps aspiring millionaires would
find all the parking places occupied.
In the judgment of scientists, Australian butter is
superior to Danish butter. Danish butter is obtained
from the cream of cows kept indoors for seven or
eight months of the year. The Australian cow grazes
out of doors the whole year; for the greater part
of that time it is beneath the brilliant sunlight, and is
eating grass which luxuriates under the same sunlight.
Australian butter is filled with vitamins, and the
existence of vitamins in butter is largely what makes
it such a valuable food.
This is the particular appeal which Australian
butter interests should make to the British public.
Adequate publicity should be given to the superiority
of Australian butter, fortified by the opinions of
such admitted authorities as Dr. Arbuthnot Lane. The
British consumer should be shown that a pound of
Australian butter will do him and his family more
good than a pound of Danish butter. That fact made
manifest by capable press agency and efficient man-
agement, it should not be long before Australian
butter tops the market and Denmark is fitting all
its cowsheds with electrical appliances for artificial
sunlight.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Fiona”; Our charlady carried the
weight of many years of matrimonial
turmoil on her shoulders, and
liked to give us a detailed ac-
count of it when she paused for
a cuppa tea. In her youth, she
assured us, she had been a
favorite of the gods—had always
been in service in good places
and possessed a retinue of in-
fatuated followers. Asked how
she had finally selected an en-
tirely worthless partner, who
was content to leave to her
effort's the support and upbring-
ing of a large family, she
sighed and took another swig of tea.
Then she said: “Well, I s’pose me luck
had t’ turn at last. Y’ see, I married a
gentleman !”
“A.S.A.”: I can tell “Lytton Fort” (B.
1/5/’35) that in the ’seventies the steamer
Emu, Captain Burns, did hit an over-
hanging tree in the Brisbane River. She
had taken cadets down the bay to visit
the warship Wolverine, and was return-
ing about nine o’clock at night when the
accident happened. I was sitting on the
deck with my chum, Frank Mort, and
some other boys. We rushed to the side ;
it is difficult to say what happened, but
the roll was called and Mort was miss-
ing. His body was found later floating
in the river near the scene of the acci-
dent. I had to give evidence at the
inquiry.
“Raffles”: After N.S.W. Governor
Hore-Ruthven’s reception on Jubilee
night had vanished into the limbo of the
past it was discovered that three valuable
cigarette-boxes had accompanied it. They
had previously been thoughtfully re-
moved from the public rooms to the
Governor’s private office, but disappeared
just the same. Two were surreptitiously
returned; so things might have been
worse. At Sydney before the war the
great silver punchbowl of an American
battleship vanished in the middle of a
swarry.
“Grasspan”: In the days when gold
was plentiful and abos. strolled around
Collins-street requesting “tickpen,” a
Mayor of Melbourne hit upon the notion
of having a gold chain to display the
dignity of the office. He paid for the
first link himself —a heavy lump of gold
well designed and “suitably inscribed” —
and wore it until he retired. The next
Mayor thought it up to him to follow
suit, and so did succeeding Mayors, with
the result that the chain has now 47
medallions weighing 81b., together with
a larger and more handsome pendant
presented by Town Clerk Fitz Gibbon. It
goes twice round the shoulders of
the present Mayor, and in a few more
years the Mayor of the day promises to
look like the statue of Laocoon. Nobody
wishes to perpetuate this experiment in
progressive dignity, but nobody is game
to say that the whole business should be
scrapped. Yet the time must come when
it will not be possible to find anybody
sufficiently strong to carry the chain. It
will probably finish in the museum if
someone doesn’t get away with it, as
someone got away with the mace from
the Vic. Parliament House a generation
ago.
* * * *
“G.M.”: The dome of Melbourne Law
Courts, which caught fire the other day
—no great damage was done —is one
of the architectural triumphs of the
city. It is a deceptive dome ; seen from
the level, it is lanky and ungraceful, and
in the original drawings must have
appeared a horror to the uninitiated.
But, situated as it is, on the summit of
a hill, it stands as one of the most grace-
ful and beautifully proportioned domes
in civilisation. The pity of it is that the
fapade of the building is not in keeping ;
“The mirror, quick! There's a man in the room."
"W hat do you Want it for?"
“To powder my nose, silly!"
it represents all that is abominable in the
degraded Renaissance style popular in
the reign of Queen Victoria.
❖ * ❖ *
“Kell”; Depression talk of repudia-
tion has not spread to the outback. An
accountant who audited a storekeeper’s
books in far W.Q. found several amounts
of £5OO and more owing for longer than
12 months, including one standing in a
teamster’s name. Accustomed to places
where a teamster might be worth £2OO
and “good for” credit to not more than
half that amount, he said it was risky
business. The reply was that the
teamster could be depended upon not
only to pay the £7OO for which
he was on the books but also to
collect other big accounts. At the
end of 15 months, perhaps two years
in a run of bad seasons, he would roll
in with a bundle of creased notes and
cheques and an order for a couple of
thousand pounds’ worth of goods—
partly for himself, but mostly for the
stations he called at. The plan had
worked for nearly 20 years, and the store-
keeper wasn’t going to change his sys-
tem to suit an accountant who didn’t
know the ropes.
* * * *
“Coif”: Sydney police and the B.M.A.
have been in holts. The police wanted
some information about a woman patient
in a suburban hospital. The doctor re-
sponsible declined to give it, and the
hospital board referred the Hops’
complaint to the B.M.A. That body
backed its man, of course, and in
doing so arrogated to itself a juris-
diction to which it has no right.
The inquiries were said to be in the
interests of justice, and the information
should have been given. In the courts
there would have been no question.
The only persons who may decline to
give confidential evidence are lawyers
with their clients’ interests in mind and
witnesses afraid of incriminating them-
selves.
$ * * $
“Hug”: Holiday seasons, Christ-
mas especially, are responsible for
most remarkable social promotions.
Counter-jumpers suddenly turn depart-
mental managers, plain clerks become
accountants, even navvies may be squat-
ters for “the duration.” To be a mere
artisan is to court disaster, and evidently
waitresses and domestics do not have
holidays, for I have never met a girl on
“vac.” who was anything less genteel
than a stenographer or a school-teacher.
At one Queensland resort I encountered
the owner of a S’African diamond mine.
He was selling vacuum-cleaners the fol-
lowing week. On another occasion
I fraternised with an M.P. (genuine),
and the number of ingratiating “mill
managers” and “station-owners” that
gravitated toward that man made me
sigh for the company of a few honest
proletarians like Vanderbilt. The one
bright spot in the party occurred when
the Parliamentarian introduced a young
chap he had met in the pub. The eyes
of the squattocracy and big business ran
over him in an effort to gauge his status.
Then a casual voice was heard to in-
quire: “And—er —what are you in, Mr.
Bloggs?” “In?” —for an instant he was
perplexed. Then his face lit up with
comprehension. “Me?” he said in-
genuously—“Oh, Fm on relief work.”
* * * *
“Aileron”: Every now and then one
hears of some queer gadgets in the shape
of aeroplanes. The latest is a Bristol
fighter carrying a q.-f. gun firing lib.
shell “through the propeller boss.” There
have been many attempts to fit a heavier
arm than the machine-gun to ’planes;
taking up the recoil has been the hurdle.
If the gun in this case fires through the
propeller boss, which is at the end of
the shaft, then the shell must traverse
the shaft, which has become the tube of
the gun. Just here about a thousand
problems crop up, and it is a fair bet
that in sending out the message the
cableman got mixed.
*.* * *
“10-2-4”: If “Squadron Leader” (B.
15/5/’35) went through the World War
without seeing people “dodging the
firing-line in field officers’ uniforms” it’s
a wonder he passed the eyesight test.
Transport C.Os. did it in the guise of
temporary colonels. Training brigades
on Salisbury Plain and elsewhere had
majors and colonels who kept home-
service mess fires burning for years on
end. All the best French bases from Le
Havre to Rouen had fit young A.I.F.
officers of high rank doing office work,
and some of them wangled fighting deco-
rations. There were plenty of embusques,
as the French call them, in all the armies.
The A.I.F. was said by a plain-spoken
London weekly which Edgar Wallace
was editing in 1917-18 to have fewer,
relatively to numbers, than any army
the alleged reason being that the Aussies
were volunteers. But the A.I.F. had its
quota, and most of them were majors or
better.
A ❖
“King’s Bench” discusses desperadoes;
The Bulletin was right (15/5/’35) about
the melodramatic unreality of the convict Mag-
witch in the film “Great Expectations.” All
criminals of this type on stage and screen
are portrayed as palpably terrifying persons,
in real life one of the chief difficulties that
the police have to contend with is the de-
ceptive gentleness of the utterly ruthless.
Dickens knew this. With one or two excep-
tions, such as Bill Sikes, his vilest creations
are suave, oily men. Observe that Magwitch
doesn’t threaten little Pip personally in the
book; it is some unspecified third party who
is ready to cut the child’s heart out.
1 have been waiting all my life for an actor
to show me the kind of desperado I have often
defended. He should have an undernourished
body and a small, asymmetrical head. A tic of
sorts —a twitching mouth or hand, say—would
be in order. Eyes large, gentle, doglike and
preferably dark brown. Hair sparse and fine.
Voice low, and manner courteous and ingrati-
ating. His genius as a ready and inveterate
liar should be stressed; also his utter lack of
imagination and of all capacity for remorse or
sentimentalism. Almost the only human trait
which the true killer possesses is vanity —a
vanity which leaves that of film stars far
behind.
Any mummer who creates a character of
this description will give his audiences more
creeps than they would get from scores of noisy
stereotypes roaring threats or moaning for
Heaven’s forgiveness in ruined clothes and gro-
tesquely-made-up faces.
“Fi Fa”: Times do change. Forty
years ago the favorite descriptive epithet
of the" ultra-Tory press for manual
workers as a class was “the Great
Unwashed.” Now we have the
Electric Trades Union demanding
that Brisbane City Council shall
allow its members 15 minutes to
wash their hands before ceasing
work and before meals. There
are other demands, such as 12s. a
week more pay, reduction of
weekly working hours from 44 to
40 and an extra week’s holiday
yearly. Any Tory leader-writer
of old days might have survived
these latter, certainly with howls
of rage, but with blood pressure
more or less undamaged. But he would
inevitably have been carried off by an
apoplectic stroke over the hand-washing
demand.
“Dick Tafone”: The toughest job con-
nected with the Queensland elections was
that of the inquiry-men at the Brisbane
booths. There were old ladies whose
names had been transferred to other elec-
torates during the redistribution, and who
stated at great length that they never
would vote for anyone but their old
member. There were electors who had
overlooked the principle of closing pubs
on polling day, and described election
rollsh as no berrer than sausage rollsh—
“ ’aven’t got me name on any of ’em.”
But the star turn was a shearer from
Winton. “You don’t need to vote,” he
was told ; “the seat isn’t contested.” “No
good to me!” he replied. “Contested or
not, I ain’t goin’ to be pinched fer not
votin’. Gripes, I’ll get the member fer
our districk t’ put you blokes in y'r
place.” He spat viciously. “My oath, I
will! Known ’im since we was kids,
and he’ll deal with you lazy lizards!”
“G.M.”: Officials of the Scouts’ jam-
boree at Frankston (Vic.) have recom-
mended that in future affairs of the sort
women should not be allowed to take
part. During the last shivoo lady
Scouters were allotted an area on which
males were not permitted to trespass;
but there was no ban on girls going
where boys were camped. Said one
official, “The presence of women was
disturbing, human nature being what it
is” —particularly “disturbing,” it seems, to
lads whose costuming, out of visiting
hours, was free and easy. The lack of
dress didn’t seem to bother the girls one
scrap, but their presence embarrassed the
boys. It would be a pity if the embargo
were applied. Nobody wishes to see a
Scouts’ camp made into a replica of an
American university, as presented on the
screen, but the more the sexes mingle,
especially in times of adolescence, the
more healthy, will be their relations. That
is Australia’s conviction after 20 years’
experience of beach costumes and
manners.
A FOOL DESIRES.
“Whoso desireth the fewest things is nearest to
the gods.’’ —From the Greek.
When Eddington and Einstein dream their
astrophysic dreams.
This “too, too solid flesh” of ours dissolved
to them, it seems
All matter is a quality, a kind of kink, that
haps
When space and time and “vim” combine,
creating whirling gaps;
And life’s a ferment in the slime, a maze each
mortal plods . . .
But, still —who wants the fewest things is
nearest to the gods!
When Eddington pontificates on quantums
quaint and queer,
Or space, cylindro-spherical, I shed a foolish
tear
For faded youth and hope that was, and love
that these may know,
For roses which Time burned like flame, and
stars of long ago . . .
We dream and delve our restless hour while
cynic Wisdom nods
And sighs: Who wants the fewest things is
nearest to the gods!
To each and all his fit reward! For Einstein
I foretell
A heaven of pure co-ordinates, a geometric
hell,
An Aidenn of equations linked and lumi-
niferous,
A Cosmos comprehended in one perfect
calculus.
But if at last our Universe prove nothingness—
what odds?
Since he who wants the fewest things is
nearest to the gods!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Vic”: It was Anzac night. The three
Diggers reached the platform just as the
Forbes (N.S.W.) mail was leaving.
“Hurry on!” shouted the guard. Two,
with sympathetic help, scrambled through
the door. The third made three dives
at it and missed. Then he stood watch-
ing the disappearing tail-light of the mail
and burst into a roar of laughter. “Well,
you don’t seem to have much to laugh
about—left behind like this,” said a dis-
gusted-looking bystander. “Don’t 1?”
chuckled the tardy one. “Those chaps
came t’ see me off!”
% % %
“Bisi”: “G.M.” on detonators (B.
15/5/’35) reminds me of a marvellous
catch made at Kokopo, New Guinea, by
a man who could not play cricket or
even bowls. Stores were unloaded from
a lorry into the Government store, and
for the finale the storeman (and gaoler)
asked the driver to pass him a packet
which had travelled on the seat so as to
be out of mischief. The driver, being of
the Stone Age, could not read the label
“High Explosive,” and threw the pack-
age to the storeman, then 15 yards from
him and standing on the concrete floor.
That storeman out-Bradmanned Bradman
in the outfield. Legs apart, a sickly smile
on his face, fear and murder in his
heart, he caught the package in a way
that would have brought down a dozen
grandstands with cheering. It contained
•200 detonators, enough to blow the store
out like a balloon of galvanised-iron!
Stone Age stepped on the accelerator
and disappeared into the scenery long
before the storeman’s language had fin-
ished re-echoing through the jungle.
$ * * *
“Erua”: The two stout ladies at the
tea-room table next to us collected their
bill-tickets and hurried to the cash
register. Their trouble was two small
slips which seemed to suggest an addi-
tional charge, and with one voice they
made inquiries. The girl at the desk
explained that the slips were for ice-
cream. “But we didn’t have ice-cream,”
they said indignantly—“we jist had the
usual;. an’ we’re not goin’ to pay for
wot we didn’t get.” The desk damsel,
without the flicker of an eyelid, remarked
that the small tickets did not represent
any charge. “Then wot did they give
them to us for?” asked the complainants
in duet. “For ice-cream,” said the im-
perturbable one. “Ice-cream’s free —free
after tea and cakes or sandwiches.”
“Free,” they shrieked. “Don’t cost
no think?” Assured that such was the
case, the ladies grabbed the slips, brushed
past the queue that had formed and hur-
ried back to their table at the far end of
the room. As they passed they explained
loudly that they really didn’t want ice-
cream, but it was a pity to miss any-
think that could be had for nothink.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; The veritable
spirit of babu-India breathes across the
Pacific with the cabled news that Indian
law-clerks have issued writs against the
Chief Justice of Fiji for saying that evi-
dence-manufacturing and legal touting
•were rampant. Also, for preparing a list
of those who were to be refused admis-
sion to any court registry or allowed to
interpret legal documents. Often
have I viewed the cloud of wit-
nesses waiting outside ah Indian
court. They were not there for
any particular case, but for cases
in general—prepared, any man
or woman of them, to swear anything for
or against anyone, in consideration of
the recognised fee. And fees were very
reasonable —the entire evidence in a
murder case, including the corpse,
worked out at only 50 rupees. Of course,
this did not include the bribe if a native
magistrate tried the cause, but in that
case evidence didn’t matter. Decent
babu beaks returned the smaller (loser’s)
bribe, but most stuck to both.
“Lex”: The most fruitful source of
minor car accidents is the motor hog
who asserts his legal
rights in all circum-
stances. As a case
in point I was com-
ing down one of
those hills like the
side of a house
which prevail in the
Lindfield (N.S.W.)
sector. Out of a
side street on my
right crawled ?
limousine contain-
ing an owner-driver
and a female com-
panion. He could
have stopped dead
without any trouble;
it was impossible
for me to stop,
though I wasn’t
doing more than six
or seven m.p.h. By
driving into a bank
and nearly turning
my car over I missed
driving into the hog
on his near side.
We were both tra-
velling so slowly
that the odds against anybody being
hurt were enormous, but there would
have been two bills for car repairs. The
insurance companies lose tens of thou-
sands of pounds every year because
many motorists, while skilful, sober and
all the rest, have boorish manners.
“Subbub”: There are still people who
take the flicks seriously. At a Chats-
wood (Sydney) pitcher palace on an
evening when the purplest patch was
“Bright Eyes,” the stage was reached
where the ’plane pilot, with the pre-
cocious Shirley Temple as passenger,
finds his petrol pipe has sprung a leak,
makes sure his parachute pack is all
there, and leaps into space with the
youngster clasped to his manly breast.
A woman’s shriek rent the atmosphere. It
sounded like a battleship’s syren. The
pitcher went on, the parachute bellied
out, the aviator and Shirley were shown
safe on land, and then—after being as
quiet as mice for 20 seconds —the audi-
ence sent up a mighty shout of laughter
that nearly eclipsed the shriek for volume
and suddenness. I don’t suppose there
has been such a display of emotion in
that theatre since the first dreary days
of the silents.
:I; * * * ,
“Dick Tafone”; Those Victorian
ladies who resented the official refusal to
arrange for their reception at a vice-
regal levee were probably not aware that
at the original kind of levee they might
have been seriously embarrassed. The
petit lever, invented in French monarchi-
cal days, took place just after the king
had got out of bed, washed (or whatever
passed for washing then) and said his
prayers. While he was being shaved and
his underlinen changed, the grand levee
was held. Both were attended by men
only. Ladies were not admitted until
royalty was properly dressed to receive
them, and, even in those days of easy-
going sex ideas, it would have been con-
“When I married you I had to take a chance, but nowadays a young
fella can SEE what he's getiin'!"
“Go on, Beil — it’s your turn I snatch it."
sidered highly improper for a woman
to glide into Majesty’s bedroom before
the royal small clothes were fairly on.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: What humanity wins on
the swings it sometimes loses on the
roundabouts. Miss Lee Appleby, of
Kenya, told the Women’s Missionary
Council in Melbourne that the advance of
Christianity with its medical services had
brought hardship to negro women.
The abolition of polygamy had led to
one woman having to live laborious
hours working in the fields, while under
the good old days she shared the labor
Vith half a dozen wives. Christianity
was further inflicting trouble on her by
teaching her to preserve the lives of her
infants, with the result that a bride of
10 years’ standing would have to care for
six or eight little nigs, where dirt and
disease used to kill off all but one or two.
* * * *
“Keg”: Possibly “Lex” (B. 8/5/’35),
is correct about absent-mindedness, but it
will be hard to. convince us Sydney tram
conductors. We average about six miss-
fares or overlaps a year —at least that
is what the ticket-examiners find; but
they miss hundreds. So bad has the
“absent-mindedness” become that the
department has repeatedly stationed two
plainclothes officials one stop past a sec-
tion to ask passengers to show their
tickets after alighting; this, however
doubtful from a legal viewpoint, has
benefited the revenue considerably. In
one month 28,000 N.S.W. railway pas-
sengers were absent-minded enough to
forget to pay their fare or portion of it;
no figures are published by the tramway
department. Nevertheless, the public is
honest, taken by and large. Every con-
ductor handles over 100,000 passengers
per year, and the percentage of lack
of honesty is remarkably low.
* t- * *
“J.D.”: The Americanisation of the
language is proceeding at an astonishing
pace in Australia. In every talkie palace.
In the movie magazines, local and Holly-
wooden. Over the air. .1 picked up
this the other night: “Well, fowks, it
sure wuz one gryte partee with Clurk
Gyble un Town Crorfud un orl the other
boys un gurls doin’ their stuff” An
announcer evidently who had decided to
charm by blending the accent of Wool-
loomooloo with the phraseology of
N’York’s Bowery. The stunt press is
doing its bit in the form of syndicated
U.S.A. adventure-strips. The dialogue of
a recent imbecility ran: “Tim, I’ve got
a feeling. Get your knapsack. We’re
goin’ places.” “Aw, Spud, you don’t
intend for us to follow that gang of
monks!” “We’re out to find Weaver,
an’ we’re headed in the right direction,”
etc. A result is that children and moron
adults are developing a new form of
speech. It isn’t American, it isn’t Aus-
tralian, and it emphatically isn’t English.
My name for it is Bogus.
* $ * *
“D.J.” on a social phenomenon:
The machine system which has been, adopted
by every political party that counts is pro-
ducing some queer results. A member falls
out with the caucus bosses, is refused the
party nomination, and loses his seat. Or
perhaps he loses the seat through no fault of
his own when his party is temporarily out of
favor. He may be a useful man from the
public point of view; one whose years in
Parliament have taught him not only how to
identify legitimate grievances but also how to
get them redressed. It makes his exclusion
from ever again participating in the affairs of
the nation all the more certain. For him to get
back to the House might be as much as the
job of one of those who have superseded him
was worth. In this sense it may be said of
politicians even more truly than of pugs that
they never come back; yet “once a politician,
always a politician,” is no less axiomatic than
“once a Mason,” etc.
Every Australian city is, in consequence, be-
coming infested with ex-politicians; embittered
persons who talk at great length in measured
polysyllables, and are unfitted by their years
in the nation’s service for any other form of
toil. I only know of one prominent politician
who, having been well and truly ousted by
rivals, and having fought influential members
of his party doughtily both above and below
ground, giving no quarter and asking none,
was nevertheless able to force his way back
into a Cabinet. Need I say that 1 refer to the
nonpareil, the exception that proves my case,
William Morris Hughes?
* * * =:=
“Pitt St.”: A man stood in Railway-
square, Sydney, offering bunches of roses
for sale. To him came a drunk, who
teetered on his heels, owlishly regarded
the man and his roses, and went on
teetering. After some time he advanced
on the flower-seller and held out his
hand, at the same time fishing in his vest
for a coin. The flower-seller handed him
a bunch of roses, the drunk went on fish-
ing with his disengaged hand. Suddenly
he paused, teetered a little, gravely
looked from his bunch of roses to the
seller, then gave the bunch a gentle
shake. Fully half the petals fell to the
pavement. The drunk handed the bunch
back, winked at nobody in particular and
walked uncertainly away. The flower-
seller looked after him, then hastily
gathered up the suspicious petals. Not
a. word passed from either man.
* * *
“Jachris”: Add Souter’s typewriter to
the list of everyday articles libelled by
black-and-white men. And Souter, jour-
nalist as well as artist, should know
more about typewriters than most of his
kind. He couldn’t turn out a punctua-
tion mark on the machine he pictures
B. 15/5/’35; the carriage, as in the
earliest models, is immediately behind
the keys, but even were it a relic there’s
no room for the type rods to come up
underneath.
THE WINNER.
He lost his father as a lad;
Poor chap, he also lost his mother.
He lost such uncles as he had,
Aunts, sisters and his only brother:
No relatives were left at all
When he was one-foot-seven small.
Did he despair? He didn’t. No;
He lost his dummy and his pinny;
He lost his first teeth in a row.
With them the love of little Winnie:
And then, at school, his only fight
He lost, through awkwardness and fright.
To manhood grown, he lost his heart,
And single status very shortly;
He saw his straggled hair depart,
And lost against becoming portly:
So many things, in fact, he lost,
His whole life must be dubbed a frost.
And yet one thing remains unspent,
One precious thing he has to cosset —
(Of course, he stood for Parliament,
And lost a “pony,” his deposit)—
For nothing ever will defeat
Or shake his pompous self-conceit.
N.S.W.
SIZZLE.


[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dalicy 2*>2 George-
street, Sydney,]
“1 have smoked 44,0 during the past j
years and have never suff wed any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from ail irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
CRAVENA
ess
I
POLITICAL POINTS
In a good week for the Irish, three
N.S.W. Assembly seats marked “doubt-
ful” were won by Tully (Goulburn),
Cahill (Arncliffe) and Kelly (Bathurst).
This means that, in a 90-member House,
there will be 29 votes for the Lang dic-
tatorship if the owners of 28 votes are
abject enough to stand it. Indications
are that they will.
On Saturday, May 11, Acting-Premier
Dwyer-Gray, “on behalf of the Tas-
manian Government and the Tasmanian
Labor party,” again urged the N.S.W.
electors “to return a Labor Government
under the leadership of Mr. Lang,” and
E. J. Ogilvie, the Attorney-General,
issued an appeal on his own account.
This crowd got in last year by re-
pudiating Lang and all his works. Tas-
manians can now see where its real sen-
timents lie, and what it would do if it
dared.
The next State election is due in, Wes-
tralia nine or ten months hence. Like
Forgan Smith in Queensland, Collier got
a majority that astonished himself —10
in a House of 50 members —but the by-
elections on May 4 indicate that unless
public feeling changes in the meantime
he will be lucky to have any majority at
all. The one thing in the Government’s
favor is the return of population to the
goldfields. In Westralia, as elsewhere,
miners generally vote Labor, though
not in the same proportion as before
1917.
Queensland Ms.L.A. were paid £750
p.a. in McCormack’s time. Moore made
it £5OO p.a., and Forgan Smith left it at
that. An increase to £650 is now sug-
gested. The subject was not mentioned
in the Premier’s policy speech, and with
drought raging a general increase
would be iniquitous, though £lOO p.a.
might well be taken from the salaries of
city members for distribution among
country members. As things are,
Queensland Assemblymen get more pay
for less work than Assemblymen in
States with Second Chambers.
Some of the 20 Brisbane aldermen,
who get £3OO p.a., also want a rise—
to £4OO in their case. One alderman
called his opponents “howling hyenas”
the other day, so it might be contended
that the standard of debate is reaching
the Parliamentary level.
Evidently the White Star Co.’s debt to
the Commonwealth in respect of the Bay
liners (£718,868 on June 30, with interest
to be added) will have to be written off
as a total loss. It looks a bad deal for
Canberra, but it could have been worse-
The £1,100,000-odd it actually received
for the ships was probably nearly as
much as they were worth in a depressed
market; and it would have lost a lot
more than £718,868 had it kept them and
run them.
Some sacrilegious crook with a sense
of humor slipped into the Robing Room
at Melbourne Town Hall and pinched
an alderman’s uniform, tossing it into a
lane off “Little Bourke.” Solomon in all
his glory was a dowdy figure compared
with the Melbourne alderman, tricked
out in his knee-breeches, his cocked hat
radiant with plumes and his ornate coat,
and, bearing the sword with which he
defends himself against the Bolshevik
hordes. When the last American squadron
was in Australia one of the officers hap-
pened across the council in full display.
“Gee!” he cried, “you’ve got more
admirals in that little navy of yours than
we have in the whole United States.”
Strangers reading a Melbourne poli-
tical daily might easily imagine that Vic-
torians spend no small part of their lives
going into ecstasies over “the splendid
leading articles in that great paper the
‘Age’ ” and leaping with rage at the “con-
servatism” of parties that don’t join in
the transports. “The negative resistance
policy of stale, flat and selfish conser-
vatism,” it seems, blighted “the U.A.P.
in Victoria and its political twin-brother,
the Country Nat. organisation in
Queensland.” Really the Country Nats,
were licked so horribly because they
tried to graft motherhood endowment on
the wage-fixing system, a proceeding
which in America would be called
“radical.” It was the winners who prac-
tised the “negative resistance policy.”
The defeat of King, Taylor, Bayley
and Fadden leaves Moore sadly short of
lieutenants in the Queensland Parliament.
H. M. Russell, who succeeded Andrew
Petrie in Toombul (now Hamilton), is
tipped to succeed King as Moore’s
deputy. He has been president of the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce since
1932.
“Governments with lavish ‘works’ programmes—and that means
the lot —are looking forward eagerly to the Loan Council meetings.”
“All in , brothers — there's sure to be enough for all."
With the heads of nearly all the
departmental organisations whooping for
him, Lang was sure he would get the
civil-service vote. Obviously it failed
him, as it did Tunnecliffe in Victoria.
In Queensland public-service associations
pay fees to the A.L.P., and their mem-
bers march in Labor Day processions.
Government clerks, teachers and the like
are not organised to this extent in the
two bigger States, and evidently they re-
fuse to let their Winsors and McGuin-
nesses do their political thinking for
them.
By leading the U.A.P.-U.C.P. to vic-
tory at two general elections, Premier
Stevens has performed a feat rare in Aus-
tralian politics and unprecedented in
N. S. Wales. G. H. Reid (1894-1899) was
the last N.S.W. Premier to win two gen-
eral elections as leader of the same party.
Stevens’s Premiership seems good for
six years at least, Holman’s lasted seven
years (June 30, 1913, to April 13, 1920),
but only because his old political
enemies, the Liberals, coalesced with his
Labor remnant in 1917 and helped it to
sweep the polls that year.
Pilsudski, one of the European dic-
tators, and in some respects the most
successful of them, has died in his bed.
He did more than any other man to
save his country when it was invaded by
Red armies, and in later years his strong
hand was necessary to the Poles—a
charming but politically unstable people
with insecure frontiers and ambitious
racial minorities —so his death may have
important consequences. For the present
the Polish Government will no doubt
continue his foreign policy, which was
to have an understanding with Germany
and not to be involved in the latter-day
diplomacy of France,
It is grossly unfair to local U.A.P.
electors to leave the Newcastle Federal
seat to Labor factionists and a Douglas
Credit man, as has been done. Most of
the Hamilton and Waratah State electo-
rates and all of Newcastle are in the
Federal division. A U.A.P. man got
9000-odd primary votes in Hamilton,
and went very close to winning; and
other U.A.P. men would have done as
well, if not better, in the Waratah and
Newcastle subdivi-
visions, but neither
was contested,
though three years
ago 7208 votes
were cast for a
U.A.P. candidate
in Waratah and
6904 No. Is for an-
other in Newcastle.
Now this pusillani-
mous policy has
been extended to
the Commonwealth
electorate. It gains
for the U.A.P.
only the contempt
of supporters, many
of whom are in-
creasingly writing
their protests on
ballot-papers.
The Post Office
hates Amalga-
mated Wireless,
from which Aus-
tralia gets divi-
dends and tax-
re ven u e which
make up some of
the losses on the
P.O.’s telegraph
and telephone
branches, and is
always urging the
politicians to
“ nationalise ” it.
After the jubilee
mail stunt it will
get support only
from legislators
whose heads are
all bone. “Over-
loaded” (the pilot’s expression) or not,
the old machine was packed so clumsily
that bags of registered letters con-
taining valuables were thrown over-
board while ordinary mail matter was
preserved. No one thought of using
waterproof covers or small buoys. To
crown it all, senders of jettisoned regis-
tered letters are not to be compensated.
If this had been made plain beforehand
the number of letters lost would have
been nearer 270 than 27,000.
Though the pilgrimage to London will
be excessively costly, and the meat nego-
tiations have been a failure, it is deli-
cately suggested that the money won’t be
wasted, since the Prime Minister and
Mrs. Lyons have made a social hit
abroad, A Buckingham Palace ball was
held up while the King and Queen
“joked with Mr. and Mrs. Lyons, and
asked about all the children” ; and, going
over to Dublin, the P.M. was royally
entertained by the Government in the
Throne Room of the Castle, Fianna Fail
and Cumann na nGaedheal gathering
round the board and fraternising after-
wards, for the first time since “the
throubles.” If Joseph were as able a:s
he is amiable, his name might go ring-
ing down the ages.
When Forgan Smith was not engaged
in Queensland Labor affairs he gave
what help he could to the Laborites who
have been contending against Langism in
N. S. Wales. From Federal members,
to whom they had a right to look for
assistance, they received none. A veteran
of the movement expresses his feelings:
At every meeting I addressed in favor
of A.L.P. candidates, I was asked the
same question, evidently inspired by the
Lang headquarters; “You say your A.L.P.
is a continent-wide movement. How is it
then that none of your Federal members
is speaking for your men —even for their
old colleague, Chifley, who is fighting
Jack Lang? Are they afraid Lang might
retaliate in their electorates?” As 1
never try to evade a fair question, I had
to admit that I knew of no other reason.-
No party can get forward on cold feet.
During 10 months of the financial
year Forgan Smith collected £12,394,118
and spent £12,394,768. , If he winds up
the year with a surplus he may perhaps
hand back some of the special Com-
monwealth grant of £286,000. Perhaps!
From T. J. Whelan, “secretary of the
Paddington branch, A.L.P.,” with a re-
quest for publication of “the following
resolution, carried unanimously at a
meeting of the branch”:' —
That >we pay a tribute of homage to our
undaunted leader, whose toil aiflJ effort to
unite the workers must of necessity triumph
because of its very necessity and insistence.
The manner in which he strives for what
he knows to be right and the impersonal
ear that he turns to personal abuse show
his high-souled purpose, and give us a sweet
vision of what society would be like under
his just and equitable regime.
Two organisations claim to be “the Pad-
dington branch, A.L.P.,” and “our un-
daunted leader” is not named ; but pre-
sumably the impersonation of Sweetness
and Light is Lang. Well, it’s something
to remain loyal in adverse circumstances,
and to retain illusions.
Descriptions of the entertainments
given to Laval, the French Foreign
Minister, in Moscow read like slabs out
of Sassiety columns. Glittering lights,
flowers, Paris models, turkey and
champagne—evidently the boss-comrades
are going the way of Napoleon’s marshals
and generals (“I made them out of
mud,” he said), who became the new
aristocrats of France. Times have
changed quickly in Russia. It is only
two years since Stalin was prevailed
upon to wear a collar to do honor to
visiting statesmen. Now white shirts and
swallow-tailed coats have become de
rigger among the commissars, while the
distribution of titles is going strong.
There are almost as many “Honored
Workers” in Russia to-day as there are
jubilee medallists in Australia.
Growl from a student;
Sydney newspapers report general elections
very badly. They have an exasperating habit
of misapplying the word “Complete” when
there are thousands of votes to be counted,
and they never provide separate returns
from polling places, though their Melbourne
and Brisbane contemporaries make a point
of doing it. The late elections were on
a Saturday; on the Monday the “Courier-
Mail” came out with details of the voting in
40 electorates —50 to 60 boxes in most cases.
It took “S. M. Herald” another 24 hours to
publish scrappy figures from subdivisions (two
to seven) in 32 electorates; progressive totals
sufficed for the rest. The “Courier-Mail”
had backed the wrong horse, but its enterprise
in giving precise and detailed local information
was appreciated on both sides; who doesn't
want to know how his neighborhood voted?
One would think the Sydney dailies would
collect the easily-ascertainable facts for the
instruction of their staff men who discuss the
chances in this and that electorate. Lacking
this knowledge, their speculations are frequently
ridiculous


'/ /
Of course voure comisig, to our
LABOR VOUNQER SET DLUCE TDMIQKT "?
Every body 'll. be ik\ Evehihg, dress. nn
YOU SEE I WONT BE OAMCIKG, ACAIM. FOR THREE TEARS
AT LEAST NV
You Better marfOeyv Dow si A. Bob orSo'!'
'f '
Ah Somebody
still loves me.
Wever mimd Jachl . You've
/ w
G*OT YOuR vJUB»ILEE MEDAL- .
END OF THE CHAPTER.


sf
A
4ss
I " /Waiting for You. S IP N^ Y
The Brilliant Atmosphere; the Notable Social
Life; the Convenient Location; the World-
famous Cuisine; and the
NEW “ROOM-ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.
m
dsfd
PERSONAL ITEMS
The selection of R. E. Hitchcock, of
No. 1 A.D., Laverton, for a 12 months’
flying course at Point Cook is Australia’s
first example of heredity in aviation. His
father was Bob Hitchcock, who, with
Keith Anderson, perished in the desert
in 1929 when taking part in the search
for Kingsford Smith and Ulm.
The new U.A.P. M.L.A. for Burwood
in succession to Tom Henley is Gordon
Jacfcett. Jackett is a native of South
H. G. JACKETT, M.L.A.
Australia —he was born at Laura 47
years ago—and as a lad he joined his
father’s flour-milling business. To-day he
is managing director of Jackett Bros., of
Stfathfield, and with Gillespie and
Brunton one of the “Big Three” among
N.S.W. flour-millers. Though he has
been a member of the Burwood Council
for 12 years—he is at present Mayor —he
never previously ran for Parliament. He
has as good a figure as his Parliamentary
leader and is a better mixer.
E. A. Leask is a Sydney solicitor with
an unusual specialty. He acts in Aus-
tralia for overseas interests, necessitating
correspondence in foreign languages. He
has several times, at the request of the
Commonwealth Government, translated
foreign land laws for the use of New
Guinea Judges, and his evidence on
questions of foreign law was recently ac-
cepted in the Supreme Court of S.A.
He is also retained by leading foreign
newspapers in the Commonwealth.
Though he first graduated B.A, at Syd-
ney Uni. in 1924, he took another degree,
M.A. (French and German), this month.
Longfield Lloyd, our new Trade Com-
missioner in Tokio, is a dark, mys-
terious-looking person who has been in
charge of a section of the Attorney-
General’s Department for years. He
was J. G. Latham’s cicerone during the
goodwill tour last year, and his main
advantage, a knowledge of the Japanese
language and character, fully offsets his
lack of commercial experience. He gets
on well with all Orientals, and is highly
popular with the Japanese in Australia.
Thomas Henley, who fell from a
Manly steamer last week and was picked
up dead, arrived in Sydney from his
native Wiltshire in 1883. He was 23 at the
time. Starting as a builder and contractor,
he soon made money. In 1904 he won
Burwood as a Liberal and State Righter,
and the district stuck to him for the rest
of his political life. Henley was one of
George Fuller’s Ministers for a couple
of months, and then resigned. His
nature was such 'that he couldn’t sink a
principle, as every member of a Cabinet
has to do now and then ; anyhow, criti-
cism was his strong point. He believed
in Freetrade, economy, honesty and the
British Empire, and he battled for them
in Parliament and out with furious vigor.
A sturdy, bald-headed, vociferous little
man with strongly-marked eyebrows, a
nutcracker jaw and a penchant for
shabby bowler hats, there was something
comic about all his public activities. The
Diggers grinned when he arrived in
Cairo as a lieut.-colonel and ministered to
their comforts in full uniform. But every-
body liked and respected him; he took
the death in action of a son of whom
he was immensely proud like the man
he was. He had been an alderman of
Drummoyne, where he lived, for 36 years
when he retired last year.
From one who worked for him:
Though Tom Henley disliked union bosses
he got on surprisingly well with his employees,
He was Tom to them, just as they were Bill,
Jack and Harry to him. When he was busy
building Drummoyne (portion of which he
tried characteristically to have named Henley-
ville) his men had virtually permanent jobs.
Herbert Taylor, who died recently at
Launceston, aged 66, was the youngest
of 10 brothers, all of whom held masters’
tickets. Tasmanian-born, he was a lead-
ing yachtsman as well*as an identity in
the local coastal trade. At one period
he ruled as master of the Launceston
Marine Board’s fleet.
Peter Loughlin’s narrow defeat in
Goulbufn by Tully, a former Langite
Minister for Lands, whom he unseated
in ’32, was his second experience of the
sort. After breaking with Lang in ’26,
he got within 86 votes of victory in
Young as an Independent. The electors
were so impressed with his game show-
ing that they subscribed a testimonial of
over £3OOO. Though industrious, depen-
dable and as straight as a gun-barrel,
Peter can’t be described as a “good” can-
didate. He prefers boarding-houses to
hotels, is no patron of sport, can’t dance
and told his constituents that if they
wanted a member to kiss their babies
they could class him as a vegetarian.
Judge Billy Williams, who died last
week in Melbourne—“ Everybody calls
me Billy,” he once said from the Bench
—came into the limelight as a law
student of 20, when he harangued a
meeting called at his home suburb, Wil-
liamstown, to protest against the dis-
qualification of “Jasper” Jones, a local
footballer. Billy called upon the people
to rise and appeal, “if need be, to the
Privy Council.” The Association just
smiled, and “Jasper” had to work out
his period of disqualification; but the
shindy put Billy on the map, and two
years later he stood for the State seat
and was defeated by only two votes.
Later, he became member for St. Kilda.
As a young man, Williams looked the
perfect barrister; and in middle-age he
looked so like a Judge that he had to be
made one. He was a breezy human
occupant of the Bench, and always com-
monsense in his decisions. A generation
back, two of his sisters were remarkably
beautiful members of the J.C.W. opera
company.
“Historicus” holds forth:
The late Marshal Pilsudski was a strange
contrast to Paderewski, whom he deposed from
the Prime Ministership of Poland in 1919.
Paderewski, though of humble birth, has ex-
quisite manners; Pilsudski, though of noble
birth, was a boor whose military oaths and
blue yarns scandalised the gentle, religious
musician. Pilsudski was a fighter; Paderewski
isn’t. Pilsudski was a socialist and revolution-
ary who had been imprisoned by royal admirers
of Paderewski. He was a passionate nationalist,
one who never wanted to be outside Poland;
Paderewski is the typical internationalist —he
was living at Riond Bosson, his home in
Switzerland, when the World War began, he
went back after his downfall, and he is
there still.
Pilsudski was the real founder of the
Polish Republic. He stirred up the Polish
masses against Czarism, and after his return
from a Siberian prison became leader of the
Polish Socialist party and organised the
Bojowki —bands of raiders similar to those
led by Stalin at the time: they robbed trains
and banks for party funds. A great man;
his name should live as long as Kosciusko’s.
Few present-day Australians had
heard of Varney Parkes, son of Syd-
ney’s bewhiskered G.0.M., but he was a
N. S. Wales politician of some conse-
quence in the ’eighties, and George Reid,
who had been helped by old Henry,
made him his P.M.G. in 1898. A kindly,
likeable character, Varney Parkes lacked
the mental vigor and ribald humor of his
famous father. He was an architect by
profession, but he never practised to any
extent; he devoted his declining yeai;s
to geology. He was 78 when he died last
week.
From London:
Hugh D. Mclntosh looks like staging a
comeback here. The story of his hectic life is
to appear in the “People” (a Sunday paper
with a huge circulation), and he is talked of as
controller of the revivified National Sporting
Club. The historic institution in Covent
Garden was too small and exclusive. The new
one off Oxford Circus will hold 1300, and will
lay itself out to attract champions from every
country. As London is now the luxury city
of the world, the promoters shouldn’t find it
hard to attract the pugs.
This is the Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church of N. S. Wales, who
pointed out recently that on figures an
investor in “a certain” lottery has a 16
times better chance of being dead before
the drawing than he has of winning
first prize. In addition to being an
authority on social reform and raathe-*
matics and the possessor of a sense of
The Right Hon.
VICTOR CLARK-DUFF.
humor, the Moderator is a powerful and
eloquent preacher.
Major-General Sir Winston Dugan,
Governor of S. Aus., is an Irishman who,
till he retired last year, had been soldier-
ing as a regular for 34 years. He served
right through the S’ African War, and
went to France in T 5 in command of
the 2nd Royal Irish Regiment. He
finished the war as a temp, brigadier,
Sir WINSTON DUGAN, Governor
of S.A.
and achieved his present rank as A.A.G.
Southern Command. His wife, like him-
self, is a transplanted Hibernian. Her
people belonged to Co. Cork.
“El V.’s” vignette:
T. E. Lawrence (alias Shaw), dead following
a motor-cycle accident in which he swerved to
avoid a pair of cycling boys, was 47. Cars and
motor-cycles had always been his passion. He
revelled in his Rolls-Royces during the war.
For the past 12 years he had had a new high-
powered motor-cycle every year to test, and
when I remarked once that a man at 38 was
getting past the stage where 55 m.p.h. on busy
English roads seemed worth while his comment
was that “certainly in an emergency your hair
stands on end a second longer than it did at
30.”
Lawrence, though tiny, was strong. A tee-
totaller and non-smoker, he had a clear, fresh
complexion and a jaw like a kauri stump.
An odd habit of standing with his hands
loosely clasped in front of him and his head
on one side gave him the air of a sleek, atten-
tive bird. My last picture of him is of a
small, trim Air Force mechanic cocking his
head over a battered car and remarking:
“Except for her engine and gearbox and back
axle, she is a good car. You might get
safely to Scotland in her.” He might have
earned a good living at any job, but he gave
the impression of thinking and acting a good
jump ahead of most people, and, therefore,
of being intellectually lonely. He genu-
inely hated publicity, and outside a little
circle—Doughty, Hardy, Robert Graves
and his wife Nancy—he had few friends,
and wanted nothing better than to be
left alone with his books and his
engines.
Lawrence always discounted his
Arabian adventures: “I was one of the
few who knew something of the region
and the people. I did not even speak
Arabic properly—only a mixture of dia-
lects. I was fed up with Cairo and
pompous brass-hats who looked on the
Arab as some of them looked on Aus-
tralians —as something from a different
planet. I asked nothing afterwards
but to have our promises to the
Arabs kept. Instead, they broke them
and offered me a Governorship. Then my
work was done and I was free to get back to
my books. I never want to see a red tab or a
Cabinet Minister again.” And so, occasionally,
bishops were scandalised to see a small, fair
Air Force mechanic in full fig solemnly stroll-
ing into the Athenaeum, in which no private’s
uniform ever had been seen. He had a high
admiration for the Diggers, and particularly
for Chauvel, who (he said) “did a lot more to
end the war in the East than I did.”


I
m
i
1
10
Ifirl
to
it s a
CAPSTAN
-
■
■f
.
ii
~; v a.
HHHHHM
:
"1
■
mm
■1
■
B
«MH|
•> *«
I
fflrarai
H H
&M& j|
as *£s
* $ <*
rIM
■ :
i
II
Hill
IBi


&OTt*£K CORDIALS
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, C/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC JOINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, , combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet , sent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND p. N. YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
i. W. BARNES, Manager, E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
rah
■PUMPMOBIL
L
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profit. (10 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 040,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
(84 p.c.).
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
(6 p.c.)
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
(5 p.c.)
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
For over 60 years the National was little
known outside Vic., its home State.
Then it adopted a vigorous policy of ex-
pansion by amalgamation and otherwise,
and, judged by the size of its advances
and deposits, it now occupies third place
among the 10 big associated trading
banks in Australia. This achievement
has been due largely to the vision, energy
and enterprise of E, H. Wreford, who sat
in the chief manager’s chair since 1912.
After the close of last accounts he handed
it over to L. J. McConnan, who enjoys
both a wide experience and a high repu-
tation as a banker.
Still, there is not the profit in banking
that there used to be. As the value of
turnover contracted in both primary and
secondary industries, so did the banks’
advances, charges for which have also
been reduced. In the exchange market
there has been a big shrinkage in the
volume of business handled, too ; here
earnings during the boom years were
swollen by overseas borrowing. Also,
the cheapening of money has reduced
returns from Government securities, etc.,
including Treasury bills. Although the
price paid for fixed deposits has been re-
duced, savings in this respect have been
partly offset by the continued growth of
these deposits, due largely to Treasury-
bill finance. Taxation has pressed
heavily upon the attenuated earnings, and
the call for contingencies has been loud,
especially in the wheat areas.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a larger volume of busi-
ness was handled at a cost of £752,468,
up £10,735; the tax bill was £12,672
lighter at £58,939. Gross earnings
(£1,086,999, down £370) were the lowest
for 13 years. The net result was a mere
3.2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), or 5.5 p.c. on
capital alone, as against 5.4, 5.8, 5.5, 11.2,
13.1 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c.
The market, doubtful of a speedy re-
covery of earning power, prices the fully-
paid £lO shares at £l2 13s. and the £8
shares paid to £5 at £6 65., as against £l3
6s. and £6 10s. respectively a year ago.
The return at the lower prices is 3.9 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 4.8 p.c. on a 6
p.c. distribution. Visibly the net tangible
cover is 335. lOd. per pound of paid
capital.
Movements in balance-sheet figures are
encouraging:
1920. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes . . .. 49,809 47,599 47,590
Bills, etc. . . 962,908 418,761 623,948
Free deposits. . 11,926,167 12,020,952 12,448,036
Fixed deposits 11,472,035 24,191,928 24,601,379
Liquid assets.. 13,194,160 13,947,772 14,549,672
Advances . . 13,903,139 30,671,114 31,182,973
Premises, etc... 643,636 1,306,739 1,292,644
The tendency of free money to in-
crease at a faster rate than fixed deposits,
coupled with the growth in lending, is
indicative of trade recovery. Still, more
than half the extra deposits, etc., was
added to liquids, raising them to 38.5 p.c.
of total liabilities to the public, or 110.9
p.c. of the co.’s call obligations. When
the books closed the co. was holding £4
9s. 2d, of the public’s money for every
pound of its own.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1960.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1925.. 251.689 568,113 226,659 2,047 ( ... „ 7 „
Superannuation Fund, £13,000 ..1 ’
Policies of Mutual Life Co. of N.Y. taken over.
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 ) , no
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..) ’
1931.. 2561.145.843 338,960 50,909 ) ...
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ’
1932.. 911.243 1,225,812 367,822 5,169 )
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO u
1933- 1,159,531 406,192 3,358 )
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ( ’
Trans, from Accident Dept., £lO,OOO ]
Profit revaluation securities, £495,357 [ , -iro ir?
1934- 408,116 3,703 ( ’ 01
Superanuation Fund, £lOOO ..]
Industria i. Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ C £ £
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1930 .. 631,293 209,684 184,429 ]
Written off, £53,184.. ..1 2,143,093
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..J
1931 .. 592,230 213,173 169,159 ]
Written off, £21,995 .. ..) 2,330,096
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1932 . . 592,052 140,114 170,458 |
Written off', £24,380 .. ..] 2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. )
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767]
Written off, £556 .. .. [ 2,876,923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
Profit revaluation securities, £116,779]
1934 .. 715,779 178,463 203,517 1 Q oon
Written off, £438 .. .. I
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
*lncludos contingency funds, etc.
Outstanding features of the latest ac-
counts are (1) an increase of £2,054,907
in the amount of new business put on
the books in the Ordinary and Industrial
departments combined; (2) growth of
£4,614,624 in the amount of business in
force (£61,011,169, including bonus addi-
tions) ; (3) reduction of the basis of valua-
tion from 31 p.c. to 3 p.c. in the Ordi-
nary department; (4) disclosure of
£614,625 of inner reserves upon revalua-
tion of Government and other securities,
all of which still appear in the books
“well below present market value” ; (5)
a shrinkage of £68,593 in the tax bill
(£45,371), and (6) increase in the surplus
available for distribution in each depart-
ment.
Securities were revalued for the pur-
pose of providing the extra reserves
(amount unspecified) necessary to
strengthen the basis of valuation already
referred to —it is intended also to
lower’ the basis in the Industrial
branch from 31 p.c. to 3 p.c. at the end
of the current year. In the Ordinary
section £1,162,187 (£447,649 more than
in the previous year) was added to funds,
raising them to £13,225,373. Of the
£1,162,187, £495,357 came from inner
reserves, £lO,OOO from the Accident de-
partment and the balance from excess
revenue. The Assurance fund
(£12,872,922) was strengthened by
£1,017,199, the contingency account
(£351,500) by £145,000, and the
fidelity guarantee reserve (£951) was
drawn upon for £l2. In the Indus-
trial section £449,240 was added to
funds, making them £3,326,163. Of
the increase, £116,779 came from the
revaluation of securities, and the balance
from excess revenue. The addition to
the Life fund (£3,274,986) was £448,564,
and to the guarantee reserve (£9176)
£676 ; the contingency account was un-
changed at £42,000.
The amount of surplus available for
distribution among policy-holders (there
are no shareholders) expanded by £49,632
in the Ordinary and by £115,202 in the
Industrial section;
Gross
yurplus:—• 1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Ordinary .. £442,427 £328,179 £434,769 £484,401
Industrial . . 100,184 89,521 97.719 212,921
Accident . . 16,822 21,367 86,080 90,772
Total .. £559,433 £439,067 £618,568 £788,094
Without encroaching upon profits from
realisations or from the revaluation of
securities, the amount distributed in the
Ordinary branch was £459,490, or 26.5
p.c. of the year’s net premiums as
against 24.8 p.c. in the previous year.
The £100,347 distributed among Indus-
trial policy-holders provided reversionary
bonuses on the same scale as in the previ-
ous year. Of the undistributed surplus
£32,861 from the Ordinary and Accident
and £111,674 from the Industrial depart-
ment are to be added to contingency re-
serves, raising them to £384,361 and
£153,674 respectively.
It is from interest, etc., that the co.
scores most. After deducting income
and other taxes, the net return on the
mean fund in the Ordinary branch was
4.1 p.c. last year as against 4 p.c. for
the preceding term. But the margin be-
tween actual and assumed rates was a
shade over 1 p.c. as against half of 1 p.c.
in 1933, thanks to the lower basis of
valuation. In the Industrial section the
net rate realised was 4.2 p.c. as against
3.8 p.c. in 1933.
Leaving taxes out of the reckoning,
exes, took 25.1 p.c. of the net premiums
in the Ordinary and 33.8 p.c. in the
Industrial branch, as against 24 p.c. and
33.3 p.c. respectively in 1933. The in-
crease in the rate is due to the growth
of new business. Industrial exes, include
£5115 (up £213) for welfare service to
policy-holders. The actuary’s allowance
for exes., etc., is not stated in the report.
Funds are invested in this way:
Public securities 1933. p.c. 1934. p.c.
and debentures. . £8,041,944 52.5 £8,844,479 52.2
Mortgages .. .. 2,688,208 17.5 3,327,151 19.6
Freeholds .. .. 1,896,472 12.4 2,111,042 12.5
Loans on policies.. 1,605,808 10.5 1,534,14% 9.0
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 361,635 2.4 299,008 1.8
Cash and deposits 632,413 4.1 722,952 4.3
Other assets . . 92,066 .6 102,147 .6
How much of the growth of £802,535
in public securities, £638,943 in mort-
gages and £214,570 in the book value
of freeholds was on account of revalua-
tion can only be guessed at from the
published figures. However, policy-
holders have the board’s assurance that
assets are worth more than their book
value.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, selves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 32,834 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ ~ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ ~22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 83,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ ~ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 124 „ ~31,250 242,596
1931.. 1,181 7.4,, ~18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 6 ~ ~ 15.000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 —■ 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ ~17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 ~ „ 15,000 225,911
For the ten months to the end of April
last wool sold in Australia fetched
£31,547,400, or £17,942,500 less than for
the corresponding period of the previous
season, the average per bale being £8
lower at £l2 18s. 4d. Although this co.
—it has been in the wool, grain, pro-
duce and livestock business in Vic. and
southern N. S. Wales for close on half
a century—received more of the staple,
it put 9926 fewer bales under the
hammer, due to extension of the selling
season. There was marked improvement
in the livestock section, and a fair in-
crease iff the quantity of produce sold.
After providing for contingencies,
which have received careful consideration,
the board says, gross earnings were only
£3091 lighter:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 ’
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74 6
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76.838 98.4
1932.. 75.464 92,315 73,138 79 2
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 ”
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 ’,
The growth of £3867 in exes, is due
mainly to non-recurring expenditure
(£2330) in connection with a new branch
at Wagga (N.S.W.). The net result was
thus £6958 lighter at 4.9 p.c. on capital
as against 7.7, 4, 7.6, 0.4, 11.6 and 20.8
p.c. back to 1929, when the Australian
clip averaged over £2l a bale, and
margins everywhere were a lot wider
than they are now.
A point was chipped off the div., re-
ducing it to 6 p.c., and visibly reserves
were tapped for £2666 to make the dis-
tribution. Still, the immediate outlook
is brighter than at any time during the
last 12 months. The market, therefore,
prices the fully-paid pound shares at 325.,
at which figure the return is 3.7 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 4.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
distribution. The cover is 38s. in net
tangibles; so total funds (capital and
reserves combined) need net only 3.7 p.c.
to show 7 p.c. on capital alone.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
heavy carry-over, due to extension of
the selling season:
1922. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 364,582 198,961 329,371
Premises and
plant . . 77,839 141,235 160,620 162,298
Book debts, etc. 235,652 722,077 514,245 638,262
Investments,
cash, etc. . . 30,520 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise . . 3,380 3,610 3,669 3,217
To carry an extra £124,017 net of ad-
vances, etc., the co. added £87,029 to the
overdraft (£141,589) and £43,381 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£187,782). The year’s contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£321,113)
was £6845.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 5,600 5 p.c. = 18,491 41,589
1926.. 10,982 24 „ „ 9,240 1,736 43,325
Added to reserves .. .. 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.e. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
1928.. 29,158 74 „ ~ 27,736 1,422 57,118
Plant written down £183,305 —7s. 9d.
struck off each share, balance ( £40,000)
taken from reserves. 2.5. 3d. per share
returned in cash . . . . .. 17,118
1929.. 22,615 10 p.c. = 18,491 4,124 21,242
1930.. 9,720 5 „ „ 9,246 474 21,716
Loss.
1931.. 589 Nil 21,127
6s. Bd. per share returned in cash or investments.
1932.. 4,168 Nil 16,959
Profit.
1933.. 396 Nil 17,355
Loss.
1934.. 11,720 Nil 5.635
Profit.
1935.. 49 Nil 5,684
The £123,273 of capital is in 184,910
shares fully paid to 13s. 4d. each. At
4s. 3d. a share the market values the
undertaking at £39,293, or £89,664 less
than its net book value. Here is the
position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1928. 1931. . 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £369,820 £184,910 £123,273 £123,273
Debentures . . 33,400
Sundry creditors 37,882 26,689 14,814 17,143
Property . . 190,000 ). „o 9qq og gpp qg 710
Plant .. 90,000 J iu - J >- uu yD > JW yd, ' iu
Stock. . . . 84,726 34,020 19,097 20,076
Subsidiaries and
investments. 47,107 71,000 8,203 5,899
Book debts . . 98,144 23,492 18,857 23,453
Cash, etc. . . 6,734 408 466 962
Including stocks, but not shares in the
subsidiary (Lift Inspection and Insur-
ance, Ltd.), the more or less liquid sur-
plus was £30,548. The market thus
values the remaining assets, which have
an aggregate book value of £98,409, at
£8745, or Is. 9d. in the pound. These
comprise freehold and works at Clyde
(cost over £260,000), £79,460 ; Waterloo
freehold, £15,000; Pyrmont workshop
(leasehold), £1250 ; shares in subsidiary,
£2699.
In a going concern, plant is worth
what it can earn. The co. came to grief
because the Government failed to give
the support promised, despite the effi-
ciency of the co.’s turbo-alternators and
other products. The board now sum-
up the position as follows:
The directors are satisfied that it is un-
economic to continue running the Clyde
plant under present conditions. We are no
longer handling machinery of which the
component parts require cranes of 30
and 40 tons capacity. Our foundry has
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


BISMARCK RANGE (LUCKNOW) GOLD EXPLORATION
NO LIABILITY.
Registered Office: MENDES CHAMBERS, 8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
Alexander Marshall, Chairman; Francis H. Galloway; William A. J. Marshall;
William MacH. Black; Abraham H. Crowther; Frank S. Black; Ernest Graham
(Deputy for Claude H. Willmott, absent in London).
Allan Wiseman Marshall, Mine Manager; Henry Taylor, Deputy Mine Manager.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Ordinary General Meeting of Share-
holders will be held at the Rooms of the Real Estate Institute of New South
Wales, Bull's Chambers, 30a Martin Place, Sydney, at 2.30 p.m., on Tuesday,
the twenty-eighth day of May, 1935.
BUSINESS:
1. —Adoption of Reports and Balance Sheet.
2. —Election of Directors and fixing their remunera-
tion. Messrs. W. A. J. awl A. Marshall retire in
accordance with the rules of the Company, and
are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
3. —Appointment of an Auditor for the ensuing year.
Mr. H. F. Holder, F.O.A. (Aust.), retiring
Auditor, offers himself for re-election.
4. —To transact any other business which may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with
the Buies of the Company.
DATED the ninth day of May, 1935.
By Order of the Board,
ALEXANDER MARSHALL,
Chairman.
TRANSFER BOOKS. The Share Transfer Books
will be closed from the 24th day of May to the
28th day of May, 1935, both days inclusive.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
REPORT of Directors for presentation to the
Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting to
be held at 30a Martin Place, Sydney, on Tuesday,
the twenty-eighth day of May, 1935, at 2.30 p.m.,
and Balance Sheet for term ended 28th February,
1935.
YOUR DIRECTORS have much pleasure in here-
with presenting to Shareholders their Report for the
term ended 28th February, 1935, and Supplementary
Report to date.
Since our last Annual Meeting held this month
last year the policy of development then outined
to Shareholders for the Lucknow Mine has been
vigorously pushed ahead, and the resultant profit-
able gold production has for the period established
several records of which Shareholders may feel justly
proud, and, despite a gold output for a year of
well over twice the nominal capital of your Company
and actual dividend payments to Shareholders of
150 per cent., the rich gold ore reserves in the
mine, instead of being depleted, have been materially
increased.
A full resume of the work at Lucknow, as also
the several subsidiary activities of your Company,
is herein explained under separate headings.
BISMARCK LUCKNOW MINE.
Since March of last year, when your Company
reached its dividend paying stage, Shareholders have
received £70,000 in Dividends and £5OOO in a
Bonus, equal to 150 per cent, on the total nominal
Capital of the Company, and the gold production
has been sufficient to also develop the underground
workings to the 125 ft. level and equip the property
with a suitable 12-head Stamper Battery and Con-
centrating and Cyaniding Plant, also Winding Engine
and Air Compressing Plant, all suitably housed.
During the year gold production has been added
to by the locating of a make of very rich gold ore
in the Golden Link Shaft and a similar make in the
As the sulphide ore is the permanent ore in depth
in all lodes, these wonderfully rich assays augur well
for the future of the Company’s deep ground opera-
tions, and as some of the richest gold ore of this
famous Goldfield was won at and below the 600 feet
level, the present year’s operations, good as they are,
should be excelled as the sulphide zone is developed.
For the year 1934 your Company produced gold worth
£76,146/14/8; the Royalty payable to the Crown
(1 per cent.) on the total gold won amounted to
£761/9/5. which is a record Gold Royalty payment.
The total gold output of the State for the year
1934 amounted to £291,000, so that your mine
produced one-fourth of the gold of the whole State.
Already your production of gold for the first
quarter of this year amounts to £33,654, and every-
thing points to last year’s record being greatly
exceeded.
Compared with other Goldfields: On the Bendigo
(Victoria) Goldfield, forty Companies working pro-
duced 30,091 ounces of gold; there were only two
dividend payers—Hercules £21,000 and Little 180
£2500. Mt. Morgan (Queensland) dividends for the
year fell short of £55,000.
During the year three Bonus payments of £5 each
were made to all employees of the Company.
The total ore mined to date amounts to 2642 tons,
which realised £109,800, and enabled your Company
to pay £75,000 in dividends, so that if geld returns
to its old price the mine can still continue paying-
dividends ; but gold will no doubt retain its present
high price for a long time.
In addition to the holding of several Mining Titles
in their entirety your Company now holds the follow--
ing share interests in subsidiary Companies.
These are as follows: —
Lucknow Central Gold Mines N.L., 8000
Fully Paid Shares of 4/- each.
Mount Marshall Gold Mines NX., 20,000
Fully Paid S'hares of 4/- each.
North Bismarck (Lucknow) Gold Mines NX.,
10.000 Fully Paid Shares of 2/6 each.
Bismarck Deeps (Lucknow) Gold Mines NX.,
150.000 Fully Paid Shares of 2/- each.
Lucknow Gold Recoveries NX., 10,000 Fully
Paid Shares of 4/- each.
In addition to these share interests in these sub-
sidiary Companies your Company received as addi-
tional consideration an amount of cash approximately
equal to the amount of its outlay on the Various
properties prior to their flotation into the different
Companies.
These Fully Paid-up Share Interests in these
Companies were received as consideration for areas
which your Company had acquired, but w-hich could
not be put to their full use without the expenditure
of considerable sums of w-orking Capital.
All of these subsidiary Companies are now being
vigorously developed with the working Capital pro-
vided by their individual flotations, your Company
not being- called upon to contribute anything towards
the work, which is herein set out in detail, and which
in every case shows indications of early success.
The other holdings of your Company are also
described.
The most important of these from present show-ing
would appear to be an option Title, held in con-
junction with the Lucknow Great Northern Gold
Mines, NX., over a group of Leases on the old
London line of lode, near Parkes, N.S.W., adjoining
a property recently taken over by Rackham's
Reward Company.
The work so far done on this property has the
appearance of proving an even greater tonnage of
payable ore than is proved on your Mount Marshall
subsidiary Company’s mine, and if present tests bear
out anticipations your Board will consider the
formation of a large Company to equip and mine
the area on a large scale, in which Company
they will again figure as Vendors, as in the case of
Mount Marshall Mines No Liability, receiving
Fully Paid Shares as consideration, and a cash pay-
ment recouping their outlay to the date of flotation.
MOUNT MARSHALL. MINES.
The following extract is from the Annual Report
of that Company.
This Company was formed to acquire Mining Titles
at Mineral Hills, where a big lode outcrop had been
opened up and tested by the Bismarck Range and
Lucknow Great Northern Coys, of Lucknow and the
Prospectors.
As mentioned in the Company’s Prospectus, a test
crushing of 110 tons of ore for a return of 12dwt.
per ton over the Plates and Bdwt. per ton un-
recovered had been put through by the Prospectors.
To cheek this trial crushing, 5 tons was taken
by the Bismarck Range Company to its Battery at
Lucknow, and this crushing gave a return of 22dwi.
per ton. Since the formation of your Company a
vigorous policy of mine development has been pursued.
A main shaft has been sunk in the lode formation
to a depth of 125 feet, and one of the Prospectors’
shafts also sunk in lode deepened to 100 feet.
These shafts have been connected by a level driven
in lode, exposing several cross enrichments. Two of
these enrichments have been cross-cutted for a
width of 80 feet without reaching either wall, and
have shown the values in these enrichments to be
very consistent, while also proving considerable
bodies of high grade ore.
The work done to date has proved the lode to a
depth of 100 feet, suitable for cheap opencut mining,
and exposed enormous bodies of low grade ore,
W'hich, taken in bulk with the cross enrichments,
will show handsome profits when treated under the
large scale operations, suitable plant for which is
now being installed.
Considerable experimental work has been done to
ascertain the most suitable treatment, and your
Directors are now quite satisfied that a high recovery
of the gold content of the ore can be made at a
very low all-in cost.
With the present high price of gold, and with
the enormous proved tonnage of ore available, your
Directors feel confident that the Company will enter
the dividend paying list during the current year,
LUCKNOW CENTRAL GOLD MINES.
Mining operations at Mount* Lindsay Mine, vide
Report 7th May, 1935:
“Purchased 8 tons of light steel rails and have
commenced laying them and reconditioning tunnel,
preparatory to opening out on ore body.
“First trial shipment of ore will be sent to smelt-
ing works during the present month.”
An assay taken from this lode during the week
was as follows:
Gold 12dwt. and Silver 570 z. per ton. Lead, 39
per cent.; Sulphur, 33 per cent.; Copper, 5 per cent.;
and Antimony a trace.
This lode formation is in virgin country in the
direct line of the Lucknow belt, and, being a big,
well-defined body of ore, with a total metallic value
of over £l5 per ton, a bright future is in store for
this subsidiary Company.
BISMARCK DEEPS GOLD MINES.
Extract from Annual Report of the Company:—
From the inception of the Company during the
current year your Directors’ principal objective has
been centred on carrying out the objects as outlined
in the Company’s Prospectus, and giving full effect
to the recommendations therein outlined by the late
Mr. Duncan M. Marshall regarding the prospecting
and development of the deep ground of this area.
The extension shaft, 820 ft. vertical, has been re-
conditioned to the surface in three compartments,
and, other than replacement of Runners as the water
is lowered, is now in perfect order for an eight
hundred and twenty feet pullway.
Poppet Heads have been erected, giving a clearance
of 66ft. over Hie brace of shaft. Two powerful
Boilers, with a chimney stack 75ft. high, and a very
powerfully-geared Winding Engine have been in-
stalled, and a complete air compressing plant and
pumps are ready to be added to the plant.
Tenders lodged with the Water Conservation and
Irrigation Commission for Government Buildings
at the Wyangala Dam, and no longer required by
them, have been accepted, and these buildings are
now being transported to the mine, and will provide
ample and suitable housing for all the machinery
and staff.
Already the water has been easily lowered to the
206 ft. level by steam pump, and the deeper unwater-
ing should present no great difficulty in bailing with
the very big tanks we have now ready for com-
mission.
As your Company’s area is entirely within the
sulphide zone, it is of the utmost significance to it
that the adjoining mines, particularly its parent
Company—Bismarck Range (Lucknow) Gold Explora-
tion, N.L.-—have recently located sulphide ore carry-
ing gold contents assaying up to Six Thousand Ounces
of Gold per ton.
As your Company owns the deeper levels of these
actual lodes from which these wonderful returns
are being won, Shareholders can look forward with
confidence to their Company being in the same
happy dividend paying position as the parent Com-
pany is at the present time with its £75,000 of
Dividends paid in a year on a capital of £50,000.
The same prospecting theories propounded by the
late Mr. Duncan Marshall, and which were definitely
responsible for the wonderful success of the parent
mine, are being strictly followed in this deeper
ground project, and your Directors have no hesita-
tion in forecasting similar results.
NORTH BISMARCK COMPANY.
Tlie principal operations for the year of this
subsidiary Company have been at the famous Hawkins
Hill mine at Hill End.
What is known as Consolidated Tunnel has been
reconditioned, and extended 200 feet to reach the
Frenchmen’s Reef, worked in the higher levels to a
width of 60 feet.
Latest advices from the Manager state that he
has reached the Frenchmen’s Reef formation, showing
coarse gold, samples of which are now at the office.
The two large Boilers have been retuhed, and
crushing operations commenced with the 20-head
Stamper Battery at the mouth of the tunnel.
LUCKNOW GOLD RECOVERIES.
Extract from Prospectus.
“The first operations of the Company will be
centred on acquiring and treating several large dumps
of gold tailings on the Lucknow Goldfield. In the
first dump to be acquired there is approximately
12'0,000 tons of battery tailings, with an average
recovery value of 25/- per ton. The average cost
of treatment and realisation should not exceed 5/-
per ton.
“A considerable tonnage within this first dump was
deposited from the earliest treatments on the field
md from plants which in their operations predated
any form of concentration other than simple copper-
I plate amalgamation. This portion of the dumps has
never been subject to any further treatment.
“It is well known that treatment losses occurred
with Lucknow ore in two principal ways:—
“(1) In the oxidised ore (Brown Vein) the
very fine gold particles in the slimes
which form as a result of the soft decom-
posed matter are lost.
“(2) In the sulphide ore the pyrites, unless
subjected to some form of concentration,
carry off a considerable percentage of gold.
“With methods which for some time past have
been very successfully employed by the Bismarck
Company in the treatment of its ore, it has demon-
strated that it is quite possible to make goad re-
coveries in spite of the existence of both the above
conditions without heavy expenditure in equipment
or running costs.
“The earlier plants undoubtedly suffered heavy
recovery losses through one or other of the above
causes. 'This is amply proved by the high gold
values still left in the tailings.
“It is anticipated that, as work progresses, some
very high grade tailings will be met with from
time to time, namely, those which have never been
treated before, and these will cost no more to treat
than the lower- grade material. From these tailings
some very profitable runs should be made.”
As the product (Battery Sands) to be treated by
this subsidiary Company has already been mined
and milled, immediate gold production can be antici-
pated, and, as bigger plant is installed, handsome
profits should be paid out to Shareholders during the
current year.
OPHIR TEL, LI) RIDE AREAS.
As your Company’s Titles have .not yet been
fronted, no work has been done by it on this new
ine.
Recent developments at the Eastern Lucknow
'oy.’s property on this line of lode are of a very
'noouraging nature, developments to date having
justified the erection of a 10-head Stamper Battery,
•vhich is now being installed.
Your Company also holds an area adjoining the
iVingello Coy.’s Lease on which active operations
ire being conducted by that Company on a recently
discovered body of conglomerate gold ore, a satis-
factory trial crushing of which was put through the
Bismarck Battery. Amalgamation of these areas has
been suggested with a view to installing the Eureka
Mill Process of treating conglomerate ore, and an
early move may be made in this direction, of which
you will be advised. Other conglomerate areas of
your Company are being protected.
It is with much regret that your Board records the
loss of one of its members, the late Mr. D. R.
McCartie. To fill the vacancy your Board appointed
Mr. William Machattie Black, and you will be asked
at this meeting to confirm this appointment.
The retiring Directors are the Messrs. William A.
and Alexander Marshall, who retire by rotation,
and are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
The election of an Auditor will also take place.
Mr. H. F. Holder, F.C.A. (Aust), retires, and is
eligible for re-election.
For and on behalf of the Board,
A. MARSHALL,
SYDNEY, 9th May, 1935. Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 28th FEBRUARY, 1935.
ASSETS.
Mine Consideration—
Balance brought for-
ward . . . . £25,31.', 17 1
Less: Consideration for
areas sold to Bismarck
Lucknow Central G.M.N.L., 8000
paid-up shares at 4/- ..
North Bismarck (Lucknow) G.M.N.L.
10,000 paid-up shares at 2/6 ..
Mount Marshall Mines N.L. 20,000
paid-up shares at 4/- ..
Bismarck Deeps (Lucknow)
G.M.N.L. 150,000 paid-up shares
at 2/-
Balance at Bankers,
£10,115 17 1
9,135 19 10
51 4 11
187 10 0
9,820 8 0
199 16 9
11,172 15 0
837 10 0
£04,556 13 1
LIABILITIES.
Nominal Capital—
-400,000 shares at 2/6 each.. .. £50,000 0
Viz.: 170,000 fully paid shares.
130.000 contributing shares paid
in full.
100.000 contributing shares paid
to 1/6 each.
Total :400,00'0. Shares.
Less: 1/ per share uncalled on
100,000 shares
Add Calls paid in advance ..
Paid-up Capital
Forfeited Shares
Sundry Creditors—
AVages owing at Mine
at date
Accounts owing at
Mine at date
Accrued Koyalty at
date
Sundry amounts to
be refunded for
payment rendered
on behalf of the
Company
5,000 0
£45,000 0
1.722 10
. £46.722 10
44 7
£326 5 0
225 1 5
136 16 3
540 15
Uncollected Dividends at date
Reserve Account
Profit or Loss Appro-
priation Account. £13,424 8
Less Debit Balance
brought forward.. 1,444 18
1.228 18
838 10
3,442 17
£12,270 10
PRO KIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
£82,908 5 0
'lv Gold Proceeds
. . £82,90? 5 0
£82,908 5 0
APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT.
To Debit Balance from Profit and
Loss Account brought forward
from previous period .. .. £1,144 18 6
~ Ten Dividends of 3d. per share .. 50,000 0 0
„ One Bonus of 3d. per share .. 5,000 0 0
„ Balance carried forward . . .. 12,279 10 1
£68,424 8 7
By Net Profit transferred
..£68,424 8 7
£68.424 8 7
Having audited the Books of Account and Vouchers of Bismarck Range (Lucknow) Gold Explora-
tion, No Liability, for the year ended 28th February. 1935, and all my requirements as Auditor having
been satisfied, I certify that the foregoing Balance Sheet sets out the position of the Company in accord-
ance therewith to the best of my information and explanations furnished me. I have signed same subject
to my separate report.
Endorsed 9th May, 1935.
A. MARSHALL, Chairman.
SYDNEY. 9th May, 1935.
Directors.
F. H. GALLOWAY 1
W. A. .T. MARSHALL |
\V. MacH. BLACK | ,
A. H. CROWTIIER f J
F. S. BLACK |
E. GRAHAM
H. F. HELDER, F.C.A. (Aust.),
Auditor.
SYDNEY, 9th May, 1935.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Colli son and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, ‘ 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— -Advt.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
SUBSTANTIAL MINING
propositi6n
Available at "MOUNT LEYSHON,” near
CHARTERS TOWERS, North Queensland.
OPEN FOR 2 WEEKS.
Worked 1912 by Opencuts and Tunnels.
Total cost, ton. Average Assay, 4|dwt.
Fifty acres, mainly Porphyry Ore. ONE
MILLION tons proved assayed 2|dwt. to lOdwt.
Further three million tons provable. Also
adjoining free percolation SAND DUMP,
approximately 120,000 tons, assayed Ifdwt.
Respective Water Rights secured.
Communicate JAMES McGUINNESS, Royal
Hotel, Charters Towers.
Mining.
A MINING COMPANY requires competent
Engineer capable of running and maintaining
suction-gas plant. Must also be able supervise
tunnel on contract. Bonus and prospects of
permanent position to successful applicant if
work completed within specified time. Apply
by letter, stating salary required and enclosing
copies of references, to F. J. CLARK & CO.,
Box 2508 MM, G.P.0., Sydney.
ASSISTANT MINE MANAGER required by
Mining Company in New South Wales, now
producing. Must be competent assayer and
able to take charge of recovery plant. Apply
by letter, stating salary required and enclosing
copies of references, to MacBRIDE, HINTON
& CO., 72 King Street, Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
Or AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFIXERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates
««^rPr.^u Pe^ Cyani(ie Slags ’ and o£ all “aterials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
I IvilJJ IJ CJiiJLvo OJb
„J?. eda ® d G ? ld ’ Silver and c °PP er . “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestonei.
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula! or Buyers’ owir specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 35 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance covered at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 74-76 Eagle Street. Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns,
W. G. BROWN. Geheral Manager.
NOBEL;
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
raaoN!
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, AY. A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.; Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
been closed down, and arrangements are
being made to vacate our leasehold
premises in Harris-street when the lease
expires in October... .As opportunity
offers it is proposed to sell our heavy
electrical cranes and large tools —if the
Clyde works cannot be sold as a going
concern.
Last year’s earnings barely covered
exes. What the future holds for the co.
it is difficult to say. Much will depend
upon what new lines, if any, it is able
to develop.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 7,749 10 p.e. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ ~ 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928 . 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 ( ....
Provident fund, £lOOO ( rf ' >l4 ii6 ’ 084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 ~ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,704 10 „ „ 9000 ) 17ft ,
Provident fund, £lOOO 1 1/04
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ ~ 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12,210 10 „ „ 9000 3210 53,714
1935.. 12,186 10 „ „ 9000 3186 56,900
This solid little Adelaide concern was
launched 25 years ago by Elder, Smith
and Co., and its shareholders have en-
joyed an uninterrupted run of 10 p.c.
diys. for the last 17 years. It has no-
thing invested in bricks and mortar, and
the continued expansion of the business,
thanks partly to the influence of the
parent, whose name is a household word
in S. Aus., has largely offset the effects
of the fall in interest rates and in values,
which affected corpus and other commis-
sion earnings, etc.
How the business has stepped along
and the cost of handling it are seen in
the following table:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Profit. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24,120 69.9 „
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932. . 11,124,002 . 40,252 29,092 72.2 ,
1933.. 11,614,705 39,496 29,283 74.1 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the net growth in the volume
of trusts on the books was £232,370
as against £662,003 and £490,703 for the
two preceding terms. Exes, took the
whole of the increase of £2361 in gross
earnings and a trifle more, leaving the
net result at 13.5 p.c. on the £90,000 of.
paid capital, compared with 13.5, 11.3,
12.4, 13 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1930.
Interest and rents alone (£8915) were
9.9 p.c. on capital, which gives the 10
p.c. div. a secure appearance. In
addition, there is the net return from
the trust business, the growth of which
can be expected to continue.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to ss. at 15s. as against 13s. 6d. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. In the
past the policy has been to keep the div.
steady and issue new shares as the growth
of the business warrants. These issues
have been in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, because the scrip has
always commanded a high premium in
the market.
Pine Creek Enterprise, a Sydney co,
which is opening up an auriferous de-
posit in the Northern Territory that now
calls for extensive exploration, has
accepted the provisional offer of a
London group to come in and finance
the work. Subject to a satisfactory re-
port by the group’s engineer, a new co.
is to be formed in which London will
hold p.c. of the shares, payable in
cash, and Enterprise shareholders the
balance. The minimum London sub-
scription is to be £30,000 (Australian
currency), or an amount equal to that
spent by the co. to the date on which
London may decide to come in. It is
prov ided that the board of the new co.
shall consist of six directors—three repre-
senting Australian interests and the
other three? including the chairman, the
London group, which would thus have
control. Among the advantages claimed
are provision of a trained technical
staff as well as adequate capital. The
deposit Consists of a series of lodes,
probably in the form of saddle reefs,
traceable for not less than three-quarters
of a mile on the surface. Sulphides
extend almost to the prucc roots in
extend almost to me grass roots m
places, and the deepest workings (250 ft.)
are massiv e quartzose sulphide ore,
carrying payable values with gold at its
price. A 72-ton parcel treated
at th e Government battery returned an
average of Bdwt, with more than 30dwt.
in the sands. This together with splashes
of galena and blende and traces of
copper, suggests that the ore may prove
to be complex enough to require special
treatment
*‘* * *
Oriomo Explorations has sunk nine
p it Sj average depth 33ft,, on terraces
forming part of its 140-acre option on
the Bulol.o, New Guinea. Average values
were yoff. per c .y., with gold at £6 an
ounce, London
’* * * *
“O.B.”; Graphite is causing treatment
trouble at Lancefield (W.A.), but steps
are being taken to overcome the diffi-
culty. It is the old story of making a
hurried start and trying to suit the ore
to the plant, instead of designing the
pl a nt to suit the ore. The shoot is stated
to be poorer going north at the bottom
level and a known eranite bar mav
’ dUU , Ddl may
menace values m a little deeper ground.
* * * *
rw Ro nf tn AmfllramMM rironf’o
UFa . oanua Amaigamatect, Grants
Patch (W.A.), has struck trouble in the
filtration portion of its new plant, opened
last month. The filtrate receiver is too
small; technical advice has been ob-
tained, and a larger one is to be
installed. When the necessary altera-
tions have been completed between 35
and 40 tons of ore a day will be treated,
The inflow of water into the mine is also
proving a problem.
* * * *
Good borehole developments at depth
continue in Gold Fields Australian Co.’s
Moonlight group at Wiluna (W.A.). In-
dications are that payable ore extends at
least 250 ft. north of the present face of
the 270 ft. level and to a depth of over
400 ft. below this level. The new vertical
shaft is in this section. During the last
12 months the co. has spent ’ £50,000
on diamond drilling. A separate unit
for the treatment of Moonlight ore,
which may give a little extraction trouble
90 account of the antimony in it, is be-
ing installed at the Wiluna Co.’s big
mine.
v * * * . *
„ retlowdine Gold Options, one of
Berth s floats during the Yellowdine
boom at the beginning of this year, had
banfaV/he^ndt/“ th H
SgSj denosif on onbnnf’nvT? 17 ’ P
““ & Sd'SZnS
, t
a’ka
rmi m i, P
So" S “S
n ° W n t gotia,in « for a sh . ow
Swan Bitter, boomed by interested
persons as one of the best things dis-
covered on the Westralian goldfields,
recently crushed 130 tons for
It will have to do a great deal better to
justify the boomsters.
* * * *
Golden Valley, a Westralian co.
formed last October, with a large share
issue to acquire a Kanowna show for
£13,000, plus a big wad of paid scrip, is
being tempted to buy the King of
Creation mine, near Laverton. A num-
ber of shareholders, headed by one of
the three directors, object to the pur-
chase on the grounds that the vendors
want too much (£lOOO cash, plus 80,000
fully-paids in Golden Valley), and that
the co. hasn’t sufficient cash to provide
a second string to its bow. Years ago
Gt. Boulder took an option on King of
Creation, but abandoned it. That, how-
ever, was when gold was fetching 84s.
an ounce. The property is of the big
low-grade variety,
* * * *
Ora Banda United, which the B.A.N.Z.
Co. had some difficulty in floating in
London recently, has taken over the
Mopoke and Gimlet South at Ora Banda
(.W.A.). Both properties adjoin the old
Associated Northern group. Pellew
Harvey, director and an ex-president of
the British Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy, is on the spot making pre-
parations for installation of equipment,
etc.
* He * *
After dipping deeply into its pocket to
keep its Westralian venture at Wilson’s
Patch going, Chapmans Co. announces
good values over good widths. This
show was once profitably worked by an
English crowd, which ultimately became
homesick and left. No one did anything
for years, and then someone made a
start and induced Chapmans to carry on,
* * * *
Western Mining Corporation has con-
verted the Phoenix, Norseman (W.A.),
reservations into goldmining leases, and
is getting ready for their flotation as
Central Norseman. Meantime, , more
boring, recommended by co.’s experts, is
being done. •: , , '
* * * *
; Gold Mines of Australia has met with
an important development in the old
Iron Duke lease, at the-northern end of
the Golden Mile (W.A.). A crosscut
east from the No. 11 level of tire Kal-
gurli shaft into the Iron Duke lease has
disclosed 27dwt. ore for a distance of
27ft. This is probably a continuation of
the Hinchcliffe lode, which has been
worked to the 300 ft. level. The cross-
cut is being extended.
# * * *
The vendors of She’s Right Mine,
Laverton (W.A.), have arranged to give
White Anchor a free extension of its
option for another six months. They
have also agreed to reduce the balance
of the purchase price to £5OO cash and
4000 fully-paid shares. The considera-
tion to the Ives Prop. Co., from which
the option was received, has been re-
duced to 5000 fully-paid shares.
* * * H=
Three mining options in Westralia
were abandoned recently. The Ora
Banda Co. withdrew from the Barton
property, Nullagine, the Groundlark Co.
abandoned its option on the Groundlark,
at Larkinville, and an adverse report on
the Sugar Gum leases, Higginsville, re-
sulted in Slavin’s Block 8 Co. removing
its goods and chattels.
# * * *
The Kunanalling Co. has had another
small but rich clean-up from its claims
at Kunanalling (W r .A.). A parcel of
180 tons, including 53 from the Melva
Maie, yielded 198 oz. 15dwt. An addi-
tional 640 z. was secured from cyanida-
_tion of 140 tons. _The sands assayed
Bdwt. Bgr.
ifc # %
South Kalgurli has again turned to the
Lake View lode, formerly the backbone
of the mine. At depth it showed a fall-
ing off in value, and became unpayable
at the old price of the metal. With gold
at its present figure the lode holds pros-
pects. For the year to March 31 last the
profit will probably be a little lower than
for the preceding 12 months, but the
usual final div. and bonus of 4s. a share
are expected.
* * * *
Timoni (W.A.) hopes to have its gold-
extraction plant in operation this month.
Later it intends lowering the water to
enable development to proceed at the
200 ft. level. The address of the mine
is Mt. Isa, north-west of Menzies.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.D.G.: A gamble at long odds; everything
depends upon both widths and values improv-
ing at depth... .V.F.O’C.: Charles Ruwolt
Proprietary, Victoria-street, Richmond, Vic.,
can supply the information required... .8.M.;
(1) Send samples of the stone to the Mines
Department, Sydney. (2) and (4) Both market
and price depend upon the type and quality
of stone. (3) Building stones are marketed
at so much per cubic foot T.M.: At present
there are two batteries operating on the field,
and some of the leaseholders are considering
the erection of another. (2) Charles Ruwolt
Proprietary, Victoria-street, Richmond, Vic.


me
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Special Features
of the Directors’ Report to be presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
to be held on Wednesday, 29th May, 1935, at 2.30 p.m., at the offices of the
Society, No. 316 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
RECORD NEW BUSINESS PRODUCTION
SUBSTANTIAL INCREASE IN BONUS RATE
Ordinary Department
ALL POLICIES VALUED ON BASIS OF 3% INTEREST INSTEAD OF 3i%
New Business —excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed
Income Policies and Reassurances (16,551) Policies, Assuring £9,329,830 17 5
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £12,872,922/12/0) 1,017,199 5 8
Total Income for the year 2,285,731 11 2
Claims by Death (death-rate low —only 58% of expectation) . . 388,828 14 5
Bonuses (EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR)—SURPLUS 484,401 0 0
This SURPLUS exceeds the previous year’s by 49,632 0 0
Combined Ordinary, Industrial and Accident Departments
New Pol c'.es issued during the year .. .. .. 70,393
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaran-
teed Income Policies, Reassurances and Accident
and Sickness Benefits) .. £11,256,453 0 0
Total Income for the year 1934 . „ ~ .. 3,068,536 5 0
Interest Income .. . . . . .. . . 701,984 7 0
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1934 .. . . 16,697,584 17 4
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policy-
holders only.
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses and provision for the
growing liability of policy contracts to the following extent: —
SURPLUSES FOR THE YEAR - - - £788,093
Contingency Reserves (in addition to actuarial reserves) stand at £393,560, and will be further
increased out of the year’s surplus to £538,035,
INTEREST EARN ED-ALL DEPARTMENTS
(after elimination of all doubtful overdue interest and rent)
£4 iO 4 per cent.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional and unexcelled service to
the assuring public .
PURELY MUTUAL—NO SHAREHOLDERS
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
Arthur Bonville Were, J.P., Chairman.
Senator the Hon. Sir Harry Lawson, K.C.M.G.; Geo. E. Emery, C.M.G., J.P.; C. J. Henderson, J.P.;
General Sir Harry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
Cecil B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary, ,C. E. Melville, Inspector General.
F. C. McPhail, A.1.A., Actuary. A. E. Rowden White, M.D., 8.5., Chief Medical Officer.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Toni Venuti” (Innisfail, Q.): Me
been hear by read your paper plenty talk
him trouble, the Mistar Lion, the Prime
for Australia, Melbourne, straightway the
embargo make long. Ver’ bad, ver’ bad ;
for people Sydney no derstand the mani-
fact for sugar to cane-farmer into
Queenslant Nord. What you think? Me
tell you. Me one farma, small 40-acres
permit, Badilla-Clark seeding, me been
grow ver’ hard altogader tons 800. Cane
sugar for grow, must manure me buy.
Put drill by hand, espanse too much.
For plant one paddock, two mens cut
the other cane six inches long, two eyes
for good grow, quick, no trouble. Now,
man for cut 16s. Bd. one day; horse for
feed, one day, 6s. Chop-chop no good ;
eat cornchaff. Harness oil, keep soft;
wheel grease for pull easy, ground ver’
soft; heavy, you know. Cane put drill
by hand in bag cut half. Cover up the
ground. Bymeby the missis no grow.
Cut more ; plant again. Chip, scarify, on
top drill cotton king me work, two horse,
kill grass small. Altime look, work, chip
sometime. Bastia, too much troubla, too
much. Rain come, for pullup the creek
paddock to flood over ground make soft.
Bymeby capsize the ground truck ; use
jack-wallaby the line again to put the
wheels on top. Devel-devel for fillem
up bog, fixem curbes for wheel truck
run straight, for no come off too many
times. File me buy for knife sharp, for
not the mens cutter he no cry plenty
for trouble. No derstand south people
Sydney, Melbourne ebrywhere what no
grow like me, the cane plent espanse, no
profit at all into Queenslant. Please
thank you, Mistar Bultin. Somebody
read, ebryding all right, finish trouble.
I give the hand plenty shake the salute
to.
“Notaden”: Brisbane is getting all
excited over the news that a fox has been
seen at the Victoria Park golf links, less
than two miles from the G.P.O. Not
four miles from that dreary and incon-
venient structure, and far within the city
limits, I helped not long ago to dig out
a fox-earth which yielded a vixen with
three cubs. Next day my bull-terrier
killed the dog fox after a merry scrap.
The family had been raiding hen roosts
for miles round during the previous
month. Foxes are not at all unusual in
the thickly-brushed country back of
Oxley and its vicinity, as poultry-keepers
know to their cost.
* * # *
“Cuffer”: Some queer things happen
on the Dorrigo (N.S.W.). A local
citizen heard a row in his fowlyard, and
investigated. The family magpie had a
large hawk penned in a corner of the
yard, and was daring it .to move a
blankety feather. Whenever Maggie
stopped for breath an immense con-
course of other maggies sitting on the
fowlyard fence with peewits, kooka-
burras and many other assorted fowls
of the air applauded at the top of their
voices, while the fool-chooks ran round
in circles and added their shrieks to the
din. Once or twice when the magpie
wilted on its job the hawk made a dash
for freedom, but each time the concourse
of barrackers buffeted it back. The
boss ended the trouble with a stick, and
Maggie is to be recommended for the
jubilee medal or something.
* * * *
“Como”: A bald-coot is one of the
patients at the Animal Welfare League
Hospital at Parkville (Vic.). It was
found in the city with a broken wing,
but is now doing well. An official of
the league says the bald-coot is confused
with the bandicoot. ‘‘Both are melan-
choly creatures,” he explains —"one, no
doubt, because it is bald and the other
because it is bandy. But the coot is
really a blue-feathered water-hen with a
shiny bald head.”
* ❖ * *
“Cabbage Tree”: The attempt to have
the waratah adopted as the Australian
national flower has cropped up again in
N.S.W., which has always regarded itself
as the whole Australian team and the
little yellow dog under the waggon. The
waratah as known to the man in the
sti'eet is confined to a very limited area
of the Ma State. Two other species are
found in Victoria and Tassie, but no
one but a botanist would take (hem for
waratahs. The universal wattle is the
national flower. Someone has objected
that S’Africa claims the wattle. It has
never been formally done, and in any
case that country has no right of any
kind to claim an introduced plant from
Australia. The Africans have magnifi-
cent flowers of their own.
* * * *
“Semaj”: News that even the trees
are dying in the drought-stricken areas
of Queensland reminds me of the big
dead trees 1 saw in the Burnett district a
few years ago. I watched for ring-
“Y' call him Bucko? What's that short for?"
“ Buckin'ham Palace jubilee George, boss."
bark marks until I was told that the
trees had died during a drought years
previously, and then I noticed that the
green timber, with the exception of iron-
bark-trees, was very young and of no
great height. To a southerner the dead
trees were a reminder of what droughts
are.
;J: 6
“F.Y.7”: Melbourne celebrated Wool
Week by a procession which included a
wool-laden bullock-waggon. A press
photograph shows half a dozen bales
neatly arranged side by side with one on
top, the whole fastened down by a piece
of clothesline. Six bullocks comprised
the team, and by them walked a bullocky
wearing braces! As a youth I passed
through the golden age of the bullock
teams, and knew most of the great men
of the bullocky profession who affected
the Barcoo stations, including W. G.
Grace’s double (jet-black beard and all)
—Jim Currant. Not one of these even
wore a belt —anyone suggesting braces to
them would have been boiled down and
used to grease the wheels. By some art
and mystery peculiar to the craft the
trousers of these men hung, apparently
precariously, from the hips. Whenever
one of them raised his arms with the
whip the unsophisticated gasped in
terror, but needlessly—nothing ever hap-
pened. The bifurcation —to be polite—
of the trousers was down somewhere
about the knees, which gave them the
shuffling walk peculiar to your true bul-
locky. The bottoms of the legs were
frayed in ribbons by contact with the
ground, and collected burrs and grass-
seed in quantity. In the townships and
on Sundays the moleskins of these kings
of transport were spotless. I never saw
one of them in a decently-clean pair
when working, even if it was Monday
morning.
* * * *
“Lost Chord”: Listening-in to the
wistful Maori singers 1 was struck by
the manner in which the plaintive South
Sea Island lilt had been blended with the
pakeha’s hymn music. For tuneful
melodious unison on the grand scale give
me the unspoilt Papuan singing in his
primitive setting. A cathedral organ
never produced more harmonious notes
than those heard in any mountain village
in the Owen Stanleys when the bucks
roll up for a sing-song. I often thought
of the furore such singing would create
in civilised centres. But the setting
would be absent, and the effect would
not be the same. A wild bird doesn’t
sing in captivity.
“G.G.6”: The curl shot (B. 8/5/’35)
will answer with horse or bullock if the
beast is holding his head up, the bullet or
shot travelling upward and finding the
brain. With a lowered head the shot
will probably fetch up in the back of the
throat somewhere. To a man on foot
it is not difficult to get the head raised
high enough, unless the beast is all in.
* * * *
“Notaden”: As I write, sea-mullet
are in full migration along the S.Q. coast,
attended by a hungry retinue of sharks,
porpoises and predatory fish. To fisher-
men the arrival of big flocks of Blue
Mountain parrots presages a good mullet
season. Every river estuary contributes
to the travelling hordes, receiving in
return a full-roed complement making
for the brackish waters which possess
the only proper salinity for the fertilisa-
tion of the eggs. Like our timber, the
sea-mullet is one of our wastages. It
is a first-grade food fish, eminently suit-
able for tinning (as has been proved at
Port Stephens, N.S.W.), and the roes
have a fancy export value in Asia.
A good haul is anything up to 12 tons.
With organisation and system, 10 tons
(400 cases) should bring to the netsmen
at least £l5O cash. As things are, they
are lucky if they clear £2O.
“Peter”: The connection between Blue
Mountain parrots and mullet was known
to the aboriginals ; in his reminiscences,
Tom Petrie makes special mention of it.
Anyway, though there is no scientific ex-
planation for it, if the parrots are few so
are the mullet, and vice versa.
*
“.Spare Taylor”: “De Bee’s” system of
training goannas for scrub-lopping (B.
8/ 5 /’35) is in sad need of an efficiency
expert. Consider the ghastly waste of
time in training goannas to drag scrub-
fellers up trees to lop the branches when
they could be trained to do the lop-
ping themselves. I am forming a com-
pany with this end in view, and if “De
Bee” has any capital lying loose I should
be glad to have a talk with him. My pre-
liminary experiments have taught me
goannas find a difficulty in lopping
some limbs with their bare jaws. I am
overcoming this by fitting the gos. with
dentures of sharpened steel which are to
be made for me by a leading firm of
Sydney cutlers. These can be had for
3s. 6d. plain steel and ss. stainless—my
experience has been that the gos. prefer
stainless. When the loppers walk off the
job the dentures are removed and re-
sharpened.
* * t- *
“Findy”; The girl who won back
the postman by means of the en-
velope trick (B. 8/5/’35) reminds me.
The engagement of Mabel and Harold
threatened to go on for ever. They
lived in towns 20 miles apart, but
Harold used to migrate every week-end.
Mabel was a friendly soul; Harold
morose and, even after seven years of
true love, intensely jealous. On a birth-
day, at Christmas or on some other
occasion demanding the giving and re-
ceiving of gifts, Harold would come to
light with an expensive box of stationery,
every envelope addressed to himself.
More years have rolled by. Mabel is
married. Harold isn’t.
"Bray Rock”: “P.R.’s” Tasmanian
tunny of 251 b. (B. 8/5/’35) would not
have interested Zane Grey. Every
autumn and winter tunny are common oft
the south Queensland coast, and can be
caught in dozens by trailing a strip of
mullet just under the surface, 20 feet or
so behind a motor-boat, in the neighbor-
hood of the sprat-shoals on which they
feed. Tunny of any size are wonderful
fighters, and are amongst the fastest-
swimming fish of the world. They grow
up to 15001 b. or more, and have been
taken on the rod up to 9001 b. after com-
bats lasting for hours. About 1907 large
shoals of the southern tunny ( Thynnus
maccoyi ) visited the N.S.W. coast about
Port Jackson and Port Hacking, indi-
viduals averaging from sft. to 7ft. long
and of great bulk. The flesh is red and
beefy, with an unpleasant flavor—
although in Europe an allied species is
an important sea food.
;{; * * *
“Red O’M.”: In November I added
a pair of zebra-finches to my aviary. By
February the offspring numbered nine,
which tally included two of the third
generation,
* * * *
“Bungool”: The 'hoppers had done
their worst and departed when I came
across him outside Trangie (N.S.W.). He
was leaning over the fence, surveying
the stubble of a devastated wheat crop.
“Yairs,” said he, “the cows has ate me
right out. S’pose it can't be ’elped. They
cleaned up old Riley’s oats, and ’e was
gittin’ ready for the Show. Tried poison-
in’ ’em, and burnin’ firebreaks and
diggin’ trenches —no good. The cows
flew into Trangie and got in a
man’s beer, too. They put a vanilla
flavor in it and made a cove feel like one
o’ the blarsted new ’ands eatin’ ice-
cream. Yairs, they was fair cows. Any-
way, s’pose it can’t be ’elped.”
“Ymar”: The rabbits have their griev-
ance against the grasshoppers, robbers of
potential food supplies; but Bunny
has found, a way of “passing the buck.”
When his usual provender failed in parts
of Vic. he turned to the nearest orchards.
Having cleaned up the windfalls, he
sampled the bark —and liked it. From
the ground as high as he can reach
he has gnawed until trunks up to
Sin. in diameter have been ringbarked.
And for years well-established trees had
been counted safe from such attacks.
%
“Ryte”: Hot on the scent as he is, the
bush leech (B. 10/4/’35) can’t head the
kangaroo tick by much. Stopped for a
dry lunch in western N.S.W. at the only
decent shady tree for miles. ’Roos had
camped there, but not for some time ;
so, taking a very careful look around
and seeing nothing, I decided to chance
it. Glancing idly down a couple of
minutes later, I saw a tick coming. Closer
inspection revealed a score or so with
their mouths open jostling one another
in their haste to the feast.
“K.K.”: Calf-branding time, smoke-oh
and swopping of lies about cattle-dogs.
Old “Grab” came in for his share. He’d
suffered the rips of wild pigs, trampling
of cattle and stockwhips of men, but
he’d never been known to whimper. The
new shepherd reckoned he’d make him
howl “with this” —one of the two brand-
ing irons still lying in the embers in the
oil-drum used for heating them. He stood
up, and. bending over, jabbed the old
dog on the nose —just as the dog’s owner
applied the other iron to the temptingly-
tightened dungarees. It was the cur that
yelped. He was bigger than I was, but
the boss intervened. It might be a bad
burn ; he’d better have a look at it. He
did, and applied Stockholm tar, plus a
cheque in lieu of notice.
ROADS.
I think I’Jl never wish to go the “road to
Knockalong,”
Where “scented winds from wattles blow'’
and “birds burst into song,”
Where hills are “purpler than a dream” and
“wine-like is the air,”
And ev'ry creek’s “a crystal stream” —and yet
I do not care.
The “winding road” to Thereanback has “lured
a million feet,”
For there are “blossoms by the track” and
fields of “sighing wheat.”
Ah, not for me this “magic way,” where
“every lass is fair,”
And life is always “full and gay”—but think
not that I care.
It is not that I’m growing old and will not
wander more,
Nor has my “youthful blood gone cold” . . .
I’m merely “sick and sore”
That everything that I might see is just a lyric
there,
Paid for already—not to me —and, so, why
should I care?
N.S.W.
P. T. F.


“Ped O’M.”: That outlaw the sul-
phur-crested cockatoo is not the only
bird to post a “nit-keeper” when trans-
gressing against society. On the veran-
dah of my shack at Beltana (Flinders
Range, S.A.) I made my bunk near a
flat-topped rain-water tank. Each morn-
ing I was awakened soon after daybreak
by a mob of feathered revellers rowdily
playing ring games on the top of the
tank. A hurried pitter-patter near the
edge told of the approach of one of
their number who, on reaching a point
of vantage, inclined his head, and gazed
intently at my dial. The moment I
blinked my eyes he sharply whistled
“coat.” The gang then vanished into
a near-by tree. They consisted of ring-
necks and many-colored parrots.
* * *.
“K.T.”: Binghi is no stoic about
’skeeters ; he will just about crawl into a
fire to avoid them. The dusky body of
the abo. is the epicurean delight of the
pest, dark bodies being preferred to light.
In attacking, mosquitoes choose their vic-
tims in the color order of dark blue, dark
red, brown, red, black, grey and violet;
azure, ochre and white are distasteful,
and yellow extremely so.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Another bush illusion (B.
1/5/’35). A N.S.W, businessman who
had acquired an outback property de-
cided to visit it one week-end, travel-
ling alone by car. All went well
until he left main roads and began
his journey over the north - west
plains, where a puncture delayed him
until after dark. He was getting
along comfortably at about 9 p.m.,
when, mounting a slight rise, he saw
away to his left the lights of a city. Panic
seized him. He was assuredly leagues
off his course. No city of such size was
marked anywhere on his plan, and the
village at which he intended to spend the
night should have been a few miles
farther on. His petrol was low, so, resign-
ing himself to a night in the open, he
parked in the scrub and went to sleep. A
windstorm awoke him, and he saw his
city in flames. The remains of a bush-
fire in the distance had appeared to be
a large well-lighted town until the rising
wind fanned the burnt trees and removed
the illusion.
* * *
“G. Trotter”; Australian chips are at
last awakening to the fact that in the
Westralian flowering gum they possess
the finest decorative medium
for civic purposes that Nature
has provided. The Americans
were not so slow ; every town
worthy of the name in Cali-
fornia is lined with these
gums, most of the population
being convinced that they are
indigenous to the State. Aus-
tralian cities generally imagine
they have done great things
when they plant a flowering
gum here and there. Mel-
bourne has now decided to
mass a whole forest of scarlet
gums in front of the Prince
Henry Hospital on St. Kilda-
road. It will be something
like 10 years before they come
into proper bloom ; but when
they do St. Kilda-road, which
is Melbourne’s pride, will be improved
100 per cent.
* * * *
“Bluegum”: Most dogs, I think, go
pold on the job of tracking snakes (B.
17/4/’35) as soon as they realise what
they are following. But some, with en-
couragement, will carry on. I once
owned a crossbred Smithfield which
would run any scent, snakes included.
Usually he worked more eagerly as he
drew up on the quarry, but in the case
of browns, tigers and the rest caution
wats his watchword. He would advance
a few paces at a time, pausing often,
with bristles up and ears a-quiver, until
he located the wriggler’s hiding place.
He’d hold the line in any sort of going
and, in his time, assisted in the destruc-
tion of many of the venomous tribe.
•J* *l* H 5
“Mimrac”; “Fitzwilliam’s” “jackie-
lamps” (B. 17/4/’35) recall the “Min
Min Light,” seen on the open downs
on the Boulia-Winton road (Q.),
near the Min Min Hotel (now burnt
down), and not far from Lucknow sta-
tion. It is essentially of the same nature
as the jackie-lamps, and as far as I
know it is of electrical origin. It cer-
tainly couldn’t be due to marsh gas. As
it usually appears about dusk, I suggest
it is something in the nature of a minia-
ture “dry thunderstorm,” the electrical
effect being too small to produce any
sound.
“Wagga”: A party of fishermen work-
ing round Kangaroo Island (S.A.) had
a feed of seal liver, then developed symp-
toms which culminated in the skin peel-
ing from most parts of the body, just as
though the victims had been badly
burned or scalded. Inflammation and
swelling of the feet made one man un-
able to remove his socks for four days.
“Oh, boss, I just remember —a pfeller tol' me you likely to get bogged
alonga here.”
Doctors declare that the flaking of the
skin is a symptom of arsenical poison-
ing, but were unable to diagnose this
trouble exactly. Aboliars know any-
thing?
“How Would YOU like it, sir? In the Ronald Colman or the Warner
Baxter style?”
“Ekib”: Long Harry and Red Victor
were rabbiters of note who used their
rifles almost as much as their traps, and
there was keen rivalry as to their marks-
manship. Harry bet Victor a pound he
couldn’t hit a bottle with three shots at
15 yards. It seemed too good to be true
to Victor, who smashed the bottle first
shot. “Pay up,” he ordered, “I win.”
Harry grinned. “No you don’t,” he said ;
“you’ve got two more shots yet, and
where’s the bottle for them?”
:i= * # $
“Kotuku”: Read a thrilling yarn in
which a character was imprisoned in an
old river barge along with a charge of
gelignite, the fuse of which had been lit.
When it looked like the hero making a
hurried exit to Kingdom Come a river
steamer happened along ; the wash sub-
merged the charge, and the character was
saved from a nasty end. If the author
had used powder—yes ; but not gelignite.
Ordinary fuse and gelignite will function
under water.
“Billabong”: Was forced to give the
verdict of “suicide in self-defence” at
an inquest recently, I found several
sheep drowned in water scarcely deep
burying themselves. When the next spell
came they came up, fully grown, to
puzzle “Sixbeight,” Nature has to work
fast out beyond the Paroo.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: My mate and I were out
later than usual, prospecting over a
locality that had been well worked about
.40 years previously. There were many
abandoned shafts on the hillsides that
had been “filled in” by laying two boards
crosswise over the top and then throw-
ing a couple of shovelfuls of earth over
them. We were taking a short cut across
enough to submerge an
ant. Investigation
showed they had be-
come bogged in silt
beneath the shallow
water. Every raven
north of Bourke soon
received a gidya-gram
of their plight and
attempted to attack
their eyes. The sheep
preferred to keep their
heads under the water,
with the aforemen-
tioned result.
* * *
“Oruncha”: “S i x-
beight’s” froggies (B.
1/5/’35) were fully de-
veloped before the rain
came, only they were
underground. They
took a long drink while
they had the chance,
until they looked like
balloons, then buried
themselves. The water
in their marys kept their earth-chambers
moist, even when the mud had baked
hard all around them. The next rain-
fall released them, and they came out
to lay their eggs in a hurry. Within a
matter of weeks mumma and dadda were
pushing up daisies, but the youngsters
had grown up, and they repeated the trick,
bloating themselves out with water and
unfamiliar ground to reach camp before
dark when my mate’s foot sank into the
ground behind him. A couple of yards
further on I broke through another
shaft. Nervy, but not relishing the
prospect of camping all night in that cold
spot, we crawled on hands and knees
and struck off to the left, feeling our way
with infinite care. A few paces further
we found another drop—Lord knows
how deep. Then I had the earth fall
away from under me, and only saved
myself by grabbing a stump. We stuck
where we were for the night. With day -
light we found old shafts all around us.
sH * * H:
“Pick”; If the Crippled Dog Stakes
hasn’t been run, let me lead out the tyke
that once guarded a hotel yard at
Jugiong (N.S.W.). His near foreleg
had been crushed off by a waggon wheel
when a pup. The other front limb grew
inwards, and seemed to sprout from the
middle of his brisket. Though only a
mong. he was the best duck or platypus
retriever on the river. And in spite of
his deformity he could give a kangaroo
rat or a rabbit the chivvy of his life,
H: * * *
“Lanky”: There’s no accounting for
tastes, as the old woman said when she
kissed the cow, and if “Curly” says he
likes dugong meat (B. 8/5/’35) he can
have it. In the same vein I have heard
respectable citizens aver they adore
smoked mutton-bird, though rubber tyres
boiled in whale-oil would be more palat-
able to me. It isn’t that I haven’t tried
dugong; once I rushed it when I hadn’t
tasted meat, fresh or tinned, for a week,
but even then I couldn’t stomach it. It
was my lot on occasion fo dine with an
old great-uncle in Dorsetshire who used
to have his grouse sent him from York-
shire. These birds were hung up in the
larder by their tail-feathers, and only
those found on the floor in the morning
were considered ready for the table.
These and many other dainties I have
sampled in my time, but, like the Yankee
who ate the crow for an election bet,
“D n me if I hanker after ’em.”
* * * *
Jewell, Vic. M.L.A., has put
up a suggestion that the “coo-ee” call
should be reserved for emergencies, and
treated as a cry for assistance. Recently
at Trentham (Vic.) a youth injured in
the bush died before discovery, his re-
peated coo-ees having been heard but re-
garded as calls from hikers to each other.
Jewell relates he once sought the origin
of a coo-ee against his inclination, and
found an injured man who had fallen
over a cliff. If it were used only as an
emergency ciy, he contends, everybody
would know it was an SOS message and
seek the sufferer.
CRACKERS.
“The jubilee celebrations included alfresco tea and
the lotting- off of a box of crackers, presented by
the Mayor.” —Country press item.
They tell me the Mare —which is one of the
sights . ,
That they’ve added up there, in a bearskin an
tights,
Or some other kit of that kidney-
lias been takin’ a hand in the King’s jubilee,
With flags an’ a band an’ a handout of tea
An’ a boxful of crackers from Sydney.
Caesar’s cat! An’ they say that the bush hasn’t
gone
To th’ pack since the day when Queen Vic.
sat upon
Th’ throne over there in th’ palace;
When the blokes cuttin’ scrub an’ the road-
makin’ gang
An’ the rest in the pub on her jubilee sang
Till they might’ve been heard out at Alice!
Which ain’t sayin’, of course, that the songs
was the sort
That Queen Vic. would endorse, unless she was
a sport,
Which 1 gather is open to doubtin’ —
But the fact is they come from the bush far
an’ wide,
An’ they drank her in rum, like they’d drink
to a bride,
An’ without any flag-waggin’ spoutin’.
Excep’ for th’ toast to her health now an'
then,
Which we drunk at th’ most ev’ry now an’
again,
An’ between whiles to keep us from fastin’;
An’ crackers —Gawstruth, they have slipped
right enough!—-
Why, we let off that day half a ton of the
stuff
What we ord’nary used there for blastin’!
An’ save for th’ fact that a bloke lost an eye,
An’ some shinbones got cracked, an’ a wit
chanced to shy
A lit plug at a bunch of Kanakas —
There was no call for wings from Queen Vic.’s
jubilee,
Which I doubt of the King’s, now they’ve taken
to tea
An’ crackers—Law love a duck, crackers!
N.S.W.
TOP RAIL.


HITS
LYS
&
ROOF
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughoyt the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
*
lH -j a v ■■*,. ■£ ; i .
| Mg
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Lead ufflce: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGUTTS LINSEED MEAL.
Breeding-out Flybait.
“Sheepo”: The Mules method, where-
by the folds of the crutch are removed
by pinching them with Burdizzo pincers
and then cutting them off inside the jaws
with a sharp knife, is being tested on
10,000 ewes at Noondoo (S.Q.).
Mr. Mules claims that the removal of
the folds makes for cleanliness and
destroys the blowflies’ playground.
Tests under supervision of the C.S.LR
tended to prove that the method could
render a big percentage of treated sheep
immune from hind strike.
If folds predispose to strike, however,
why bother about surgery when right
breeding can provide a remedy? Every
wrinkle in the country could be mated
out of existence.
“Dead Finish”: Given suitable climatic
conditions, the blowfly will strike any
type of merino sheep on almost any
portion of the fleece. Muggy weather,
especially cloudy, is tailor-made for the
pest. Bushmen keep their blankets out
of sight during this kind of weather.
Open-woolled sheep can be as suscep-
tible as a “fatty”-wool led one. I have
seen sheep housed in a shed and treated
with an excellent dressing struck twice
in the one day in dull, moist weather.
Apart from climatic vagaries, there are
sheep which are more prone to fly-strike
than others, as noted by “Hortus” (B.
24/4/’35),
A heavy-conditioned fleece frequently
goes with body wrinkles which produce
“sweaty” pockets.
A N.S.W. grazier working with the
C.S.LR. has for two seasons been keep-
ing note of the type of sheep struck.
These are gradually being eliminated,
and the results so far have been encour-
aging. It is necessarily a long job to
prove the method. If this experiment
proves that, as many growers believe,
certain classes of sheep are “flybaits,” a
few years should see the pest in check.
Willeying for Queensland
“Jumbuck”: With -little prospect of
freight reductions on wool, a movement
is on foot in Queensland to establish dis-
trict willeying plants.
The depressed market of recent years
has resulted in hundreds of bales of locks
and stained pieces being thrown away.
Distances from central scouring plants
made transit costs too high to allow these
lower sorts to be treated.
The main argument growers will use
against consignment for willeying will be
that “it’d pay better to send it along to
a scouring plant.” But most big stations
and most groups of half a dozen small
ones could pay for a plant in a season.
Also, there’s a good living in the process
for contractors with a portable plant.
Willeying has proved payable in other
States ; it should and would be a god-
send to outback Queensland graziers.
Inspecting Flock Rams
“Right Angle”: “Corriedale’s” asser-
tion (B. 1/5/’35) that a purchaser rarely
asks to see the ewes bought rams come
from raises again the fertile argument
as to whether a buyer of flock rams
should personally inspect them before
purchase or rely on reputation.
A buyer must thoroughly understand
the fine points of breeding if he intends
to personally inspect. Most flock sheen-
men arc content to let the owners or
their experts pick the ram draft.
It is questionable whether the stud-
sheep breeder would, except in a special
case, arrange to have valuable ewes mus-
tered up for a buyer’s benefit.
The average buyer sees only that the
ram stands “four square” and has no
“devil’s grip” before he concentrates on
wool values. It is here that many buyers
who insist on inspection fall in.
A man may ask for a pick of the yard.
In some instances he gets it, but the
expert looking on, who knows how often
a really good flock ram is turned down,
smiles. 1 have seen a prospective buyer
become so confused that in the end he
would take what was in the first place
offered him.
Generally speaking, it will be found,
with regard to frame especially, that the
draft are as even as peas, but it is only
the trained eye that can pick those flock
rams showing slight superiority in wool.
Rugging Sheep.
“Valerin”: Experiments arc being
carried out at Roseworthy College and
Turretfield Experiment Farm (S.A.), also
on farms in the S.A, mid-north areas
where fallow dust and burr are preva-
lent.
In the Balaclava district, one of the
worst in S.A. for dirt and burr, 20 sheep
were rugged from October till June. The
wool from these realised 11s. lid. per
head, as against ss. 6d. for unrugged
sheep running under the same conditions.
Lambs rugged for four weeks sold at
the markets at 21s. 10d., while 17s. Id.
was standard price for unrugged lambs
from the same flock.
The rugs are discarded super, bags,
cut to fit and fastened around the neck
and above the hock on each hind leg.
Cost is practically mV.
Show- ring preparation experience
proves that covering brings up the yolk
to the tip, giving it an attractive “slaty”
appearance. The wool is kept bngnt,
clean and well nourished.
The practice has great possibilities in
small flocks on fallow and burr-infested
country. For lambs nothing is better
for putting the bloom on, and that is
what sells ’em.
There’s nothing new about the idea.
Centuries b.c. the Israelites and Greeks
kept their sheep covered. In some of the
dustier parts of Asia Minor it is still a
summer habit. In the snow season, how-
ever, the rugs are needed for the farmer,
and he finds the bit of lanoline which
has got into them no disadvantage.
Twinning Influences.
“Winfield”: The test results mentioned
by “Jass” (B. 1 /5/’35) to suggest that the
feeding of sheep at the time of mating
may produce double ovulations are con-
firmed by my own experience.
Last year, after a difficult harvest,
there was a lot of grain on the straw to
mix with the self-sown wheat. Although
the ewes were poor at lambing time 70
dropped twins. Later two mares had
twins —a rare occurrence —and a cow on
an adjoining property dropped a pair.
Another Dip.
“Glencoe”: Add this one to the dip
list (B. 3/4/’35):
The floor of a long race is divided
into three sections. The far end will hold
only a few sheep. Next to this slant a
sheet of iron back to a trapdoor which
is just heavy enough to give way to the
weight of a sheep. As they run up the
long race the sheep will jump to get with
the few at the end. But, with not enough
room to land, they fall on the slant and
slip to the door. The grade must be
gradual.
Dead-wool Ownership.
“B-gar”: The ownership of dead
wool on the stock routes in Queensland
this year will be more than “the vexed
question” “Mulgo” says it is (B.
17/4/’35).
Invariably Queensland routes are not
fenced off. Stock often feed along out-
side the one-mile limit. The suggestion,
therefore, that ownership be vested in
pasture protection boards or (in Queens-
land) in D.I. boards, if the wool is un-
claimed after 14 days, won’t work.
In any case, it is doubtful if the boards
would go to the expense of engaging
men to collect it.
Of course, the wool belongs to the
owners of the dead sheep, but not \ p.c.
of them bother to gather it.
Few owners, although not wanting it
themselves, would give permission to
dead-wool gatherers to collect. Last year
two unemployed were fined for gather-
ing dead wool on the unfenced route
through a station.
Thousands of half- to threequarter-
woolled sheep have died on the Queens-
land trails during the past few months,
and with much wool going begging the
problem might be settled if the Govern-
ment evolved a scheme to allow unem-
ployed to gather what no one seems to
want.
As it stands at present 99 p.c. of dead
wool will be wasted.
Rib-branding.
“Win”; Rib-branding (B. 24/4/’35),
properly done, will not damage the hide,
but most men jamb the iron on hard and
hold it until the beast can hardly be
seen for smoke.
That kind of branding not only dam-
ages the hide, but is extremely cruel. It
results in a blotched and festered brand.
A beast can be well branded while you
count three. My father always insisted
that the iron be off before the beast
bellowed.
Still, there is a 28-year-old horse on
this place, (Gunnedah, N.S.W.) with our
brand beautifully . planted on his
shoulder.
Pasture Improvement.
“Lion”; To make the best of the super,
bounty sow sub. clover and Wimmera
rye to the limit—a favorite mixture in
the Riverina. Eat the paddocks down,
then sow at once, using about 21b. sub.
clover, 41b. early strain s.c. and sib. rye,
with at least lewt. super, through the
manure box. Drag wire-netting harrows
behind the drill.
They are made as follows:
Cut three pieces of 4 x 1 squared
timber the length of drill, measuring
from wheel to wheel. Stretch the netting
across and secure tightly to each of the
three lengths of timber. Attach long light
chains to each end of the harrow, and
fasten to the standing board of the drill.
Sheep will spread the seeds after they
have matured. Stock as soon as the
growth is strong enough to withstand
being pulled out. Sheep should be
taken off during the actual seeding period
only.
Don’t worry if nothing much comes
up the first year. The pasture may take
two years to get moving in some seasons.
This mixture will choke out barley-
grass, and is said to deal with stinkwort
too. It is suitable for rough and hilly
country. An adjustable broadcaster,
strapped to the back and holding about
401 b. super, and seed mixed, can be
bought for sowing.
Paspalum.
“Hortus”: Early May is a good time
to plough paspalum pastures. Do this
every fourth or fifth year. Turn iur-
rows about 6in. wide with a mould-
board plough. Work down with disc
cultivators, disc or tine harrows. To ob-
tain more seed variety broadcast a good
mixture of other grasses and clovers, par-
ticularly winter growers, and top-dress.
The following mixture has proved very
successful:
Perennial rye (certified seed), 71b.
Wimmera rye, 41b.
Italian rye, 41b.
Perennial red clover, 21b.
White clover (certified seed), 11b. per acre.
If soil is friable and deep add lib.
lucerne. Ploughing induces a better root
system —it opens up the soil and enables
it to receive a more uniform supply of
rain. It also allows the plants to take
full advantage of top-dressing.
If ploughing is impossible the grass
mixture should be broadcast amongst
the paspalum during late autumn. Where
possible the paspalum cultivator, disc or
grass harrow should be used to work the
seed in and around the crowns of the
plants.
Weed-killer Technique™
“Stump Jump”; The difficulty about
cultivating to eradicate skeleton weed,
hoary cress and St. John’s wort is that
dismembered portions left in the ground
may have enough plant food to be dan-
gerous for up to two years. Even then,
cultivation must be continuous to
succeed.
To get rid of the weeds more quickly,
applications of salt or sodium chlorate
on the crowns of the plant are in
common use. When affected areas are
large, this has the disadvantage of sterilis-
ing the soil against all plant growth for
12 to 18 months.
Penetration sprays are becoming
more common —concentrated arsenic or
chlorate solutions applied to the leaves
only. Pressures of 1001 b. are needed to
secure fine division of the spray, together
with the addition of sulphuric acid to
help the mixture enter the skin.
The time to spray and age of the
plant are important. The poison is
taken into the system and travels to the
root through the leaves only. This
makes it futile to treat except at the
leafiest stage.
High transpiration is also a necessary
factor. Therefore, hot days with the
soil on the dry side are best.
Spraying should be done toward even-
ing, and should not be so intense or con-
tinued as to cause dripping. Six to ten
per cent, solutions are best.
Sowing Preparations.
“The 0.D.”: Before starting to sow
wheat, see that the drill is set according
to the condition and variety of the seed.
All seed doesn’t flow with the same
speed. A drill set to sow, say, 501 b. of
Nabawa per acre will sow as much as
601 b. if the seed is small or shotty. Tak-
ing an average sample of Nabawa at
501 b. to the acre as a guide, it is safe
to set the drill at 401 b. for small seed.
Grain is affected by the seasonal con-
ditions at harvest time. That taken off
after rain is apt to be swollen and less
shotty than that harvested before rain.
The wise farmer weighs the seed sown
over a certain area, thus accurately fore-
casting the seed requirement for the
whole paddock.
Burning Grass.
“Vesta”; Here are a few general rules
about burning grass:
On sour coastal country with a big
rainfall, burn for short, sweet feed.
Leave last year’s grass as a carry-over.
Then, no matter how green and wet the
standing pasture may be, fire will go
through it cleanly. If firing is done about
{“Man on the Land” continued on
. page 24.)


INE
.. is far less
fatiguing if your
health is
RIGHT!
m
m
mm
«)Uft
|ra?s£
*COt™
SHEAF STOUT ENSURES GOOD HEALTH
If you feel “all in” at the
end of the day... if you fesl
that the tasks ahead of you
are overpowering ... it’s time
you started a course of Sheaf
Stout. The rich barley-malt
IN THREE SIZES: BOTTLES,
HALF BOTTLES, BABY BOTTLES
from which Tooth’s Sheaf Stout is brewed will give
you strength and energy and make a new man of you.
SHEAF
TO OTH ’S
.■VU
JS
STOUT
Stick to “Sheaf" and your health mast benefit


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
fjM
v
Four special leathers
For this Abbey Shoe you have
choice of four flawless leathers,
perfectly tanned . . . each the best
in its class. It is a shoe of super-
fine quality, pliant, easy-fitting and
with soles of the hardest-wearing
leather obtainable. This shoe lasts
longer and better!
ORDER BY POST.
Every half-size is available in three
fittings —narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf. . . . 50/-
Glace Kid 457-
Black Box Calf . . 47/6
Patent Leather ... . . 52/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS;
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 435.
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews,
Household Page, Children’s Section and
Special Articles for the Pastoralist and Farmer.
On Sale All States. Price, fid.
L€£jjPßUf
HORSE
wmßmm rugs
df
df
Saddler-made
Better
m every way
No. KA, Khaki “Feakpruf” Duck Horse
Kug, with warm fleecy wool lining and
the popular “Stays-on” fixing.
sft. Gin., 43/-; sft. 91n., 43/6; 6ft., 44/6.
No. A, Super Heavy All-flax Canvas Rug,
with fleecy lining and “Stays-on” fixing;
sft. Gin., 42/-; sft. 9in., 43/6.
No. CSG, Strong Heavy Navy Canvas Rug,
with grey wool lining and hind leg strap
fixing.
sft. Gin., 38/6; sft. 9in., 29/6; 6ft., 30/6.
Freight or Postage, 2/9 extra.
We send back any change.
WRITE FOR FUFF RUG PRICE FIST.
WE HAVE RUGS AS FOW AS 8/-.
d
No. 45, Saddle Pouch.
Medium, 6/9; Large, 7/9.
Postage 1/-.
Bound or Oval Bush Pot
and Case 9/9
Postage 1/-.
Write for 96-page
Catalogue No. 8388.
WALTHES & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, .SYDNEY.
THE
IlftllTCn INSURANCE
Uill I til COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
11. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
On. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
G
M
%
.0
ill
O
m
w
Rufls Radio
Elec. Iron for P's u/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an- D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details iron any of the following:
SYDNEY. —Moffat Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLA ND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturer'.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BV
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY BRISBANE- ~
L
■
m
n
%IH
m
® Mffereht
COUNTRY
m
100% PENNSYLVANIA
AT ITS BEST
NEPTUNE OILC?
LIMITED ALL STATES
'THAT Veedol Motor Oil has
gained fame all over the
world is reflected in the fact
that Veedol can be secured in
over 65 different countries—
Veedol is the choice of mil-
lions of motorists, because
they themselves have made
comparisons and discovered
its superior performance.
If you want complete
motor protection
economy smoothness of
operation easy starting
then use Veedol! It
costs no more than other
oils.
100% Pure Pennsylvania
At Its Best.
April the following feed will continue to
grow all the year, no matter how often
it is cropped, and it will never attain the
coarse growth which follows a wet
season.
On Mitchell plains don’t burn when
the ground is dry and open. Mitchell
grass will stand any amount of fire, and
come every time after the next rain, pro-
vided the ground is tight when the burn
is made. If the ground is cracked and
dry, then flames or heat scorch the
roots, even when deep—as Mitchell roots
often are.
And if the top roots of the Mitchell
are scorched the plant can kiss itself
good-bye.
Rusted Tools.
“Pick”; To renovate any tool badly
pitted with rust fasten a plate of zinc
to the rusted surface with tight wire
binding.
To a can of water add a little sul-
phuric acid. To avoid generating of heat
pour the acid into the water, not water
into the acid.
Immerse the tool and leave it a week,
occasionally adding a little more acid.
After taking out the tool polish the
blackened surface with mixed paraffin
oil and kerosene.
Treat the Horses Well.
“Horsey”: Horses are too often
worked until dusk. They should always
be unharnessed in time to get the sweat
dry before sunset. Otherwise, they
remain wet all night, and soon lose con-
dition. Coughs and kindred troubles
follow.
When pushed get up early, feed them
well and work them until about 4 p.m.
at latest.
Give yourself enough time to brush
the shoulders of every horse in the team
before putting on their collars. Don’t
feed them at dinner time with their
collars on. They don’t get dry, and the
collars irritate them. Loss of condition
again.
A little extra trouble has saved many
a good team.
Soil Erosion.
“Kirby”: “Spring’s” method (B.
27/2/’35) of overcoming soil erosion is
antiquated.
The branches he lays in the washed-
out gullies will be denuded of their soil
coverings and leave gullies as big as ever.
The modern method is to keep the
cultivated ground in a cloddy condition
— i.e., not to have too fine a tilth —to
grow green manure crops or to make
contour banks.
Leguminous crops enrich the ground
as well as giving protection against
erosion.
The contour-bank system is very suc-
cessful. Banks are easy to build, and
with very little maintenance are per-
manent.
Details of their construction and about
erosion control generally can be had
from the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s bulletin “Control of Soil Erosion,”
by E. S, Clayton.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wrash”: Cut a flat bat with an Sin.
handle and a 6in. blade. Below the
handle bore a hole and through it pull
a thong. Tack one end to the back of
the bat and the other to another board
that fits the bat-face neatly for 4in, You
now have a clapper that will always keep
sheep moving along a race or into the
pens.
“Tockilly”: When using weather-
boards which are not fully seasoned give
them at least Hin. overlap. Otherwise
cracks will appear as they shrink.
“S.J.”: A good habit at milking time
is to draw the first few teatfuls of milk
into a phenyle or Condy’s solution. The
first drops contain nearly 100 p.c. of the
germs that may be in the udder. Killed
by germicides they cannot be carried
about by dirt, hands or clothes to infect
other cows or milk.
“J.D.H.”: Old washing-tubs make ex-
cellent feeding-boxes for horses and
cattle. There are no corners for the
feed to get into, and a bagging screen
stops the wind. For yard feeding nail
them to a post dr tree.
“Wrash”: To cut a round leather
washer for a pump plunger twist a loop
at the end of a piece of firm wire exactly
the size of the required circle. At the
other end bend inwards at right-angles.
Nail the loop to a board under the
leather. Then, holding the point of a
sharp knife in the angle and carefully
drawing around the wire, scribe out the
disc.
“Bushy”: It is fitting too tight on
the handle side which often causes axe
handles to break. Put in with an easy
fit, and wedge with well-seasoned hard-
wood coated with glue. To remove cut
off about Sin. from the axe, pare down
and drive through. There is no need to
burn or bore holes in the headpiece.
“Mangaratta”: Bore a hole |in. from
each end of an Sin. or lOin. length
of broken-off axe handle. Pass a
length of eight-gauge galvanised wire
through each hole, and you have a
sturdy kerosene-bucket handle,
“Saltbush”: To deal with leaking
pump-buckets on a mill, caused by the
well drying out, secure a piece of wire
at one end to the ordinary automatic
shut-off gear. Extend it to the bottom
of the well. To its lower end attach a
wooden float. Adjust the wire to pull the
mill out of action when still a few inches
of water remains. As the water accumu-
lates the float rises and releases the mill.
With a little ingenuity the idea can be
adapted to any type of shut-off or pull-
out mill-fitting.
“Yacca”: Leading chainlinks often
wear out and break at the spreader.
This is because the chain hinges on the
big link which is held rigid by the
spreader-bar become undone. When re-
pairing, use a size larger iron on the big
link and also on one small link on each
side.
“Granova”; Sow oats for greenfeed
quickly and early. Fulgrum is the best
variety, but seed is hard to obtain. Mulga
will provide good early grazing, but use
Algerian for late-spring feed. On light,
friable soil sow straight in with a com-
bine. On hard soil use a combined disc-
cultivator and drill. If this is not avail-
able; fasten a drill behind a disc or scari-
fier and do the job in one operation.
“Harraini”: To tell if a cow which
fails to come into oestoum is pregnant let.
a drop of her milk fall into a tumbler of
clear water. If she is not in calf the
milk at once mixes with the water with
a flocculent cloudiness. If she is the
drop falls to the bottom of the glass,
mixing scarcely at all.
“H.”: To lift an old fence take a stout
forked stick (with a slight bend, for pre-
ference) about 4fl, high. Cut a V in top,
and in this insert a headless spike. Place
the fulcrum about 2ft. from the post and,
securely fastening a chain to bottom of
the post, pass it over the V-shaped niche
with a spike through one of its links. A
horse on the other end will quickly root
up the post. A man and a good horse
will lift a mile of fence a day.
“Eureka”: If your matches get wet
rub them softly through your hair (pro-
vided your hair isn’t wet, too). After a
few minutes they will' be dry enough to
strike.
“0.W.W.”: Facial eczema is prevalent
among sheep around Gisborne and
Nuhaka (M.L.) following wet autumn
weather and a long, dry summer. All
classes are affected, and many have died.
A scab formation around the lips pre-
vents the animals from eating and breath-
ing. The treatment advised is Epsom
salts—4oz. in pure water for every patient.
Sheep on native-grass country are not
affected. The disease is reported to be
non-contagious.
“Glencoe”: It is usually preached (1)
that ensilage is not for horses, and (2)
that it should be put in the pit green and
sappy. Owing to my hayshed not being
fully-roofed, last September I threw a
few tons of hay (black oats and a little
wheat) into a pit. Last week I opened
it. Sheep and cattle will not touch the
product, but I find that horses will leave
the hay from the shed and go to the
ensilaae nit. Have I discovered some-
thing new?


SMOKE-OH!
Of all those who pursue hobbies, none
covers a wider field than the mushroom
collector.
•2* *2- *2* -2*
“Police Arrest Sleepers.”— “Sun” poster.
Who said our police weren’t wide
awake?
•2* I *2* *2*
Said Counsel for the Defence.
“Gentlemen of the jury, you have
heard the evidence of both witnesses. My
client admits that at the time he was
alleged to have committed this crime
he was wearing a soft ’white shirt
and a tweed suit. The first witness stated
that to the best of his recollection the
thug who punched his wife in the face
and grabbed at her purse was wearing a
white sort of shirt and a light-colored
suit. The second witness, the victim of
the assault, gave evidence that the
robber was wearing a fawn-colored felt
hat with a slight tear on the band, a
black knitted tie, a fuji silk, pencil-striped
shirt, a puce-colored worsted suit and
black patent shoes. Now, gentlemen, as
married men (I understand you are all
married), whose evidence are you to
accept? Ah, gentlemen, I thought so.
M’Lud, I believe the jury will give their
verdict without retiring.”
Somnus.
•2* .j. q.
“Novelist claims he gets themes for his books
by watching cabaret girls.”
Just the bare outlines, of course.
•2* I* -2* *2*,
How to Enjoy Winter.
Early rising is the great secret of the
enjoyment of this beautiful crisp winter
weather. A little good exercise with an
axe (after a splash under the shower) is
a wonderful
thing, and useful
if a cheerful
winter fire is de-
si re d. Nobody
who really under-
stands its glow-
ing cheerfulness
will grudge a
little trouble in
order to have a
wood fire rather
than one of the
artificial substi-
tutes.
Then see that
the windows are
opened wide to
let in the cold
health-giving air.
They can be
closed later. And
there is the bustle
of preparing
breakfast. How
appealing is some-
thing warm and
appetising for the
whetted appetite
—the smell of
hot coffee and
toast! The man
who really knows
how to enjoy
winter should see
to it that fish
fresh caught
from the sea are
available.
That when
the appetising breakfast is ready, the
windows closed, keeping the warmth
of the glowing fire in the fresh-
ened room —that is the time for a man
to rise. The early rising and all the rest
are, of course, done by others.
H. M.
Good Advice.
As the winning horse passed the post,
the youth who had been cheering so
volubly in the stand became suddenly
silent. He found himself gazing into the
austere face of his father.
The old man frowned. “What are you
doing here?” he asked.
“1 was —er—just having a bet,” stam-
mered the youth.
"Just having a bet, eh? Well, haven't
1 told you not to bet? Haven’t I shown
you that betting is one of our worst
national sins, and the curse of the rising
generation? Don’t you realise that if
you continue betting you’ll be morally
as well as financially ruined?”
“Er —yes,” answered the youth. “But
this was —a certainty.”
“Listen!” growled his father, “Do
you remember what I threatened to do
that day I found you betting at the
cricket match?”
“You mean at —at the football
match?”
“I said cricket match!”
“I —I think it was a football match,
father.”
“Damn it all!” roared the old man.
“I said cricket match—and I’ll bet you
five to one I’m right!”
T. W. N.
* T -2- *
“‘Driving with one arm has brought many
rften to the courts,’ says an official.”
Yes, and it’s brought many more into
the church.
*2* * -2- *
Circumstances Alter Cases.
“What’s the use of a man slavin’ from
daylight till dark t’ grow corn when the
best price he can get is three bob a
bushel?” growled Farmer Dobson.
“It is a bit tough,” replied Brown, his
neighbor.
“A man has to allow for what the
flamin’ cockatoos and parrots eat, pay
for havin’ it pulled and shelled, buy
bags and string, and then all he gets is
three bob. It’s enough t’ make a man
give up farmin’,” concluded Dobson.
The following week there was a rise
in the market, and he sold the crop at
3s. 6d. Two months later he regretted
it; there had been no rain, and his cattle
were in a bad way.
“How much are y’ askin’ for corn?”
he said to Brown.
“I’m not too particular about sellin’
any of it,” Brown replied. “But I won’t
see you stuck. I’ll let y’ have some at
three bob a bushel.”
“Three bob?” roared Dobson. “Want
t’ make y’ fortune robbin’ y’ neighbors?
I’ll let the stock starve before I pay three
bob for corn that any fool can grow.
The Government ought t’ pass a law t’
stop this profiteerin’.”
W. T.
“SHE'S nobody, Mrs. ’Iggins. Why, you or I 'ud
make two or three of ’er."
“Furnished balcony room, lovely view, fire-
place, running water, electric cooking; one
lady, 15s. —“Mosman Daily.”
All modern conveniences, in fact.
•2* *2* *2*
“He had a good knowledge of the building’s
entrances and exits .’’—“Herald.”
Knew the ins and outs of the place.
Fair Play.
Speed Gawkin defiantly faced the
editor.
“That’s definite,” he said. “I’m
through unless”
“But, Speed,” pleaded the editor, “our
wonderful serial couldn’t do without
you. What’s wrong anyhow?”
Speed snorted, “It’s the conditions
I work under,” he explained. “You
expect me to strangle an average of 20
birdmen, a dozen jaguarmen, six hippo-
potamusmen and three goannamen each
week. It’s darned hard work ; yet that
miserable upstart, Wildduck the Wizard,
on the rival paper, just makes them
vanish with a wave of his wand. If I
don’t get a wand I’m quitting right now.”
S. Esq.
'2* *2- *2* v
“Would the average man commit murder,
whatever the temptation?”— “S.M.H.”
He’d be hanged if he would!
•h *2* 4*
“ ‘ln any place but America the people
would be horrified at the wave of banditry,’
says a cable message.”
Well, even in America a good many
people hold their hands up over it.
“Three of a kind, eh? Well, that beats Jones's two pair!"
The Genius.
The brilliant inventor was explaining
his latest contraption.
“You see, the moment the sun rises it
heats this plate,” he said. “When the
plate gets heated it sets fire to a fuse
which fires a rocket straight at a rooster
in the fowlyard two blocks away. It hits
the rooster, which immediately starts to
crow. He flaps his wings and turns on
a microphone. There’s a transmitting
set down there and a receiving set in my
bedroom; so when my loudspeaker
starts to crow I know that it’s time to
get up.”
“My word, that’s marvellous,” said the
visitor. “But why not use an alarm
clock?”
“Good heavens!” moaned the in-
ventor ; “I never thought of it.”
Sef.
“I* -2* -I*
“The plant is useful for destroying such
noxious weeds as blackberry, lantana and grass-
hoppers.” — Talkie gazelle.
Noxious insects would no doubt in-
clude parrots, rabbits and prickly pear.
*l* *l* *2* *2*
“For most of the voyage from London to
Sydney she was in tears.” — “Sun.'
That’s rather a far cry.
.t. a, .j.
A Wise Bird.
In spite of the numerous large offers
I have had for Archie, my parrot, I still
refuse to sell him.
Dogs may be useful when burglars are
about, but wait till you hear what Archie
did.
One night, hearing a noise in my room,
1 sat up in bed, and was horrified to
perceive a burglar. He was placing my
gold-plated sleeve-links in a sack, and as
soon as he realised I was awake he
pointed a gun at me.
I was beginning to break out in a
sweat when I heard a voice outside the
door say “Stick ’em up!” It was Archie.
A look of astonishment crossed the
burglar’s face, and he slowly raised his
hands.
“Drop that gun!” ordered Archie. The
burglar dropped it, and I picked it up.
I was just wondering what to do next
when I heard someone dialling a number
on the ’phone. And—well, you needn’t
believe it if you don’t want to, but, bless
my heart, if that parrot wasn’t ringing
up the police!
Nat.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XII. — Caught in the Catacombs.
You can’t mistake Italy, particularly if
you go there in the garlic season. As
for Rome —well, you simply can’t avoid
it, as all roads lead there. This is rather
annoying if you happen to want to get
to Genoa or Florence.
“Excuse me,” you say in as near as
you can manage to the Italian tongue,
“which is the road to Genoa?” “This
one,” replies the polite peasant appealed
to. You hand him a couple of lire, and
off you go. The next thing you know
you’re in Rome. It’s just the same if
you wish to get to Palermo, Bologna or
Vallombrosa. You finish up in Rome
every time.
Not that I’ve got anything against
Rome, with the exception of that silly
custom they have of insisting on every-
one in Rome doing as the Romans do.
I don’t object to the principle of the
thing, but it is so hard to find out just
what the Romans do.
When I was there they didn’t seem to
do anything in particular except stay
there, and 1 didn’t want to do that. I
got over the difficulty by just going
wherever I felt inclined and throwing
a Fascist salute at anyone who looked
like interfering.' It worked pretty well.
It was in this way that I got lost in
the catacombs. I wanted to explore
these catacombs, but no one was pre-
pared to act as guide. Apparently
Romans don’t do such things.
At last I got an American tourist
called Sam to go with me. Knowing
how easy it was to get lost, and remem-
bering my fairy tales, I evolved what I
considered (and still consider) a clever
plan.
I took a spool of macaroni with me,
which I unwound as 1 went along. Sam
stood at the entrance holding the loose
end. The idea.was that when I came
to the end of the spool 1 should turn
round and eat my way out.
In due course I came to the end of
my tether, so to speak, and turned to
retrace my steps. I started swallowing
the macaroni. Step by step I proceeded.
All of a sudden I collided with some-
thing soft. It was Sam.
Either he had grown alarmed at my
protracted absence or else the pangs of
hunger had been too much for him.
Anyway, he had eaten his way towards
me, and we were separated by a mere
few inches of macaroni.
I was nonplussed. It was the first
time I’d ever actually been nonplussed,
although I’d read about it in books. I
sniffed. What was that? Surely it
was the smell of garlic!
“Follow on,” I said to Sam, “there’s
someone having lunch just outside the
entrance.”
By dint of keeping on when the trail
was strong, and retracing our steps when
it grew fainter, we at last found the
entrance, where, sure enough, a Roman
family party was swallowing garlic at
the rate of knots.
As we drew near the scent became
stronger and stronger. We debated
whether it wouldn’t be better, after all,
to perish in the catacombs, but taking
our courage and our noses in both hands
we dashed past.
Sam reckoned Rome, Georgia. U.S.A.,
would do him after that. “There’s no
garlic there,” he said ; “only niggers.”
Jasby.
Wisdom Applied to Practice.
When you preferred another cove
To me, and lightly spurned my love,
I learned to my extreme despair
That faint hearts never win the fair.
1 realised, alas! too late
That they are lost who hesitate.
Bat after I had nursed my grief
1 felt some measure of relief
To find (though deep my pride was stung)
There’s wisdom in a silent tongue.
And now to me it’s manifest
That second thoughts are often best!
P. O. M. C.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
’Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mining engineer, 30 years’ exp. all classes
mining and mining machinery, assayer, familiar
with cyanide ore treatment, School of Mines
training, has crushing plant 10-head, wants
employment as manager, anywhere. Refs. —
6847.
To buy copy of Bushman and Buccaneer,
by Harry Morant (“The Breaker’;. —6816.
Information Sought.
/ wish to settle in one of the Pacific islands.
Assets are £5O and plenty of clothes. (1)
What is the most suitable place regarding amia-
bility of inhabitants, possibility of growing
vegetables, and freedom from missionaries and
excessive Governmental intrusion. (2) Would
a person he prohibited from having a native
wife 3—6810.
(I) Cannot advise as to locality, but your
capital is insufficient. Every traveller to the
islands, in addition to paying the fare, is re-
quired to put up a £5O landing bond, and any-
one not under contract of employment to
one of the established commercial houses, or
who does not introduce sufficient capital to
become a property-owner with adequate visible
means of support, would not be permitted to
take up residence. Moreover, it is not possible
to live in the islands outside the influence of
Government officials or missionaries. (2) Any
act prejudicial to the prestige of the European
race, such as an alliance with a female native
or half-caste, is likely to lead to deportation.
;|; $ ;|i *
Is there authentic record of the Dutch having
discovered gold in Australia prior to the Eng-
lish settlement in 1788 3—6870.
Cannot trace any well-known record, but
there may be something of the sort in the Mit-
chell Library, Sydney, which has extensive
records of Dutch voyages to Australia.
=i= * * *
In a recent issue you gave an answer regard-
ing the sale of water-rat skins to Sydney fur-
riers. How does your reply fit in with the fact
that water-rats are protected, and have been
for at least two and a half years 3—6670.
The Chief Secretary’s Department states that
water-rats are not protected. The department,
however, does not wish unlimited slaughtering
of the animals, as they are of interest to
scientists, and also there is the danger that
platypuses may be caught.
* * * *
In a recent book I read a reference to can-
nibalism in Scotland, and the name of Sawney
Beane was mentioned in this connection. Any
information about him 3 —6853.
Of peasant origin, Beane was born about
1390 in an East Lothian village not far from
Edinburgh. As a youth he ran away, accom-
panied by a girl. They established themselves
in a cave, extending one mile under the sea
on the rocky Galloway coast, and robbed,
murdered and devoured travellers falling into
their clutches. In due course children
were born to the , pair, and the band
reached large proportions,, all its members be-
coming cannibals. For nearly 25 years the
surrounding country was terrorised, and many
innocent persons were executed as the supposed
culprits. Finally an expedition of 400 soldiers',
led by King James I. and accompanied by
bloodhounds, tracked the criminals to their
lair and surprised them in the middle of a
cannibal orgy. They were taken to Edinburgh,
tortured, mutilated and executed era masse ■ out-
side the Tolbooth. It is estimated that not
fewer than 1000 people met death at the hands
of Sawney Beane and his descendants. The
facts are related in a book, Twelve Mon-
strous Criminals, by Philip Beaufoy Barry
(Rich and Cowan, Ltd.).
* * * *
How is the game of solitaire played; number
of holes in board, and number of marbles,
moves and object ? —6783.
. Basis is somewhat similar to draughts.
Board contains 33 hemispherical hollows,
aranged in cross form —two rows of three,
three rows of seven, and then two more rows
of three. In the usual form of the game every
hollow but one is occupied by a marble.
The object is to remove all save one of the
marbles from the board by “taking,” as in
draughts—when a marble passes over another
to a vacant hollow beyond it the passed-over
marble is removed. Moves can be made
vertically, horizontally or diagonally.
* * # §
(1) Under the Q’land Station Hands Award,
what is the wage for a married couple in (a)
North Q’land, (b) South Q’land ? (2) How is
the wage arrived at ? Is it stockman’s wage
plus housekeeper’s wage ? —6822.
There is no provision for married couples.
The rate for a general station hand in the
Southern Division is £2 4s. per week with
keep, and in the Northern Division £2 9s. per
week with keep. If the wife is employed as a
housemaid, laundress or cook cooking for
the owner, manager, overseer and members
of the owner’s or manager’s household only
she would not be covered by any award. If she
is employed to cook for employees covered by
the Station Hands Award she would be entitled
in the Southern Division to £1 ss. Bd. per
week, and 6s. sd. per week extra if required
to work on the seventh day; in the Northern
Division to £1 Bs. 6d. per week and 7s. per
week extra if required to work on the seventh
day. A female who cooks for an average
of seven or more employees is paid the rate
prescribed for a male cook, which in the
Southern Division is £2 4s. per week and 11s.
per week extra if required to work on the
seventh day; in the Northern Division, £2 9s.
per week and 12s. 3d.
(1) Can you tell me something about a
botanist named Charles Moore who died in
Sydney about 30 years ago ? (2) Did he design
the Sydney Botanic Gardens ? —6764.
(1), Charles Moore was Director ol the
Botanic Gardens from Jan. 14, 1848, to May
5, 1896,- apd .is commemorated in Australian
botany by numerous species. He was born at
Dundee, May 10, 1820, and was trained at
Kew and Dublin. Prior to coming to Aus-
tralia he was botanist to the Ordnance Geo-
logical Survey of Ireland. He died at Sydney
on April 30,. 1905, and was buried at Rook-
wood Cemetery. (2) It would not be correct
to say that he designed the gardens. His pre-
decessors, especially Charles Fraser and Richard
and Allan Cunningham, had a large share in
the designing. But Moore remodelled the
greater part of the gardens, and under his
supervision in 1869-70 the harbor frontage was
reclaimed and the semicircular stone wall
erected.
* * * *
A friend has an old violin with the following
inscription written inside: “Antonins Amati
fecit Cremonae 1632.” (1) Could you give
me anv information regarding this maker?
(2) Is it possible that this inscription is genu-
ine? (3) If so, is instrument 'valuable ? (4)
How is Haydn’s No. 1 Symphony regarded
musically? —662l.
(1) Antonio Amati, son of Andrea, worked
in partnership with his brother Girolamo until
the death of the latter in 1630. Antonio con-
tinued to make instruments until after 1648.
(2) The chance of its being genuine is remote.
(3) Genuine instruments are of considerable
value. (4) Haydn’s Symphony in D (1759) is
usually regarded as his first symphony, but a
symphony in B flat, precisely similar in form,
was produced in 1755, when Haydn was at the
house of Count Furnberg. This was one of
the early works built upon the structural plan
derived from C. P. E. Bach, and was scored
for. strings, oboes and horns. Both are inferior
to later Haydn symphonies.
* * * *
I am thinking of making a hydro-glider
powered with a 6-h.p. motor-cycle engine. (1)
What size and pitch ,of airscrew will be most
efficient for use with a 6-h.p. Indian engine ?
(2) Where obtainable, and cost ? (3) Suitable
wood if I decide to make one myself? —6BBl.
(1) Can’t prescribe without full details of
glider and of engine performance at various
r.p.m. full throttle. Consult an aeronautical
engineer, (2) G. Adams, Epping, N.S.W.,
Tugan Aircraft Co-, Cook-street, Mascot,
N.S.W., or F. Fitzsimmons, 25 Cole-street,
Williamstown, Vic., would manufacture a screw
to specifications. Cost approximately £lO. (3)
Selected Queensland maple.
* * * *
Information regarding the name Mat-
tingley ? —6760.
The name does not appear in any of the
lists of surnames of the United Kingdom, and
is perhaps a corruption of a form of Mat-
thew or Matthewson (such as Matts, Mattey,
Matson); of Mathwin (meaning “power-
friend,” Anglo-Saxon moethwine); of Mater or
Mather, meaning mower; of the Welsh Madur,
a benevolent man; or a variant of the local
cognomen of Matley, from the township of
that name in the parish of Mottram in Cheshire.
* * * *
What is the monsoon period round about
Ceylon on the way to England ? —6662.
Approximately from early May to the end
of September.
% * * *
What English kings and queens reigned
longer than George V. has up to the date of
his jubilee? —6B6l.
Alfred the Great (871-901), 30 years; Ethel-
red 11. (979-1016), 37; Henry I. (1100-1135),
35; Henry 11. (1154-1189), 35; Henry 111.
(1216-1272), 56; Edward 1. (1272-1307), 35 ;
Edward 111. (1327-1377), 50; Henry VI. (1422-
1461), 39 (deposed); Henry VIII. (1509-1547),
38; Elizabeth (1558-1603), 44: George 11.
(1727-1760), 33: George HI. (1760-1820), 59;
and Victoria (1837-1901), 63 years.
* * *
(1) At what period were spectacles first used ?
(2) What are bifocals ? (3) When were they
first made ? —6750.
(1) As early as 1266 Roger Bacon, in his
Opus Majus, demonstrated the use of a seg-
ment of a glass sphere for magnifying writing.
A portrait of Cardinal Ugone in a church at
Treviso, painted in 1352, shows two mounted
lenses with their handles riveted together fixed
in front of his eyes. The invention of print-
ing in the middle of the fifteenth century
stimulated the demand for spectacles, _ and the
trade in them grew rapidly, especially in North
Italy and South Germany. No record is avail-
able of the beginning of the optical trade in
England, but a charter was granted by_ Charles
I. to the Spectacle Makers’ Guild in 1629.
(2) Lenses of which one portion has a higher
power than the remainder. (3) About 1760, for
Benjamin Franklin.
♦ ■ ♦ * *
What is buff leather ? —6809.
Leather of a dull, pale-yellow color made
from South American ox and cow hides, so-
called because it used to be made from
buffalo skins. The best part only of the hide
is used, and the leather is very soft and
pliant, and not liable to crack or rot. It is
much used in the army for soldiers’ belts,
facings and other purposes—the East Kent
Regiment is called the “Buffs” and the
second battalion of the Seaforth Highlanders
the “Ross-shire Buffs” from the buff color
of their facings. The hides undergo a long
and complicated process of salting and drying,
cutting and scraping, treatment with cod-oil,
dressing, heating, scouring, soaking in carbon-
ate of potash and finally of rubbing with
pumice and sand.
* * * *
What can be used as a solvent for gall-
stones ? —6675.
There is no specific solvent, and operative
removal of the gall bladder is usually advised.
This course may be postponed if definite symp-
toms fail to recur.
# * * *
Is there any treatment for cataract of the
eyes, other than bv operation, that is likely to
effect a cure ? —6773.
Though temporary improvement is possible
with drops (for dilatation of pupil) and suit-
able tinted glasses, operation affords the only
exact cure. In skilled hands, any danger is
reduced to a minimum.
* * * *
Reliable permanent black dye for fair eye-
lashes ? —6761.
Permanent dyes are liable to cause eye
irritation, and otherwise are unsuitable. For
temporary effect, water cosmetic or pencil is
permissible. Some benefit is to be gained by
the application of yellow vaseline at night.
* * * *
Formula for lime cream, a preparation for
the hair 3—6567.
This is rather difficult for the home-worker
to make. Soak 4 parts quillaia bark in 36
parts water for several days, mix the percolate
with 4 parts alcohol, and filter after having
settled. Agitate 40 parts of the filtrate at a
temperature at which lanolin becomes liquid,
with 12 parts anhydrous lanolin, and fill up
with water to which 15 p.c. spirit of wine
has been added, to 300 parts. A small quan-
tity each of oil of rosemary and oil of lemon
(lime) is finally added, and the whole mass
beaten to a smooth, creamy appearance.
* * * *
Spanish name meaning “house among trees 3
—6763.
The Spanish equivalent for “house among
trees” is casa entre los drboles or casita
entre los drboles (little house amid the trees);
as these are too long to be suitable for names,
probably one of the following suggestions would
serve your purpose better: “El Nido,” the
nest; “La Arbolada,” clump of trees; and
“Mi Bosquecito,” my little forest or thicket.
* * * *
My gerberas are afflicted with a reddish-
brown, rusty disease which covers all the leaves
and causes them to wither. The plants often
recover, but the new growth, though at first
clean, becomes infected. The trouble is not
confined to one. bed or to one garden. On
several occasions zinnias which were apparently
healthy and flowering well wilted and slowly
died from the bottom up. —6712.
The trouble is what is known as rust, and is
difficult to deal with. Remove all the affected
leaves and spray the plants with Bordeaux
mixture, two or three applications, at intervals
of two or three weeks. To promote healthy
growth, care should be taken that the plants
are not planted too deeply; the crowns should
be above the surface of the soil. There is no
known remedy. Usually only one or two
plants are affected in each bed. These should
be pulled up and burnt at once.
* * * *
Can macrocapra-trees five years old and
eight feet high be transplanted; if so, what is
the best way to go about it? The trees are
growing at Collaroy, N.S.W. —-6730.
Would not advise attempting it unless you
are prepared to go to a lot of trouble.
It would be necessary to trench around them
and to remove each tree with quite a large ball
of earth attached to the roots, disturbing the
roots as little as possible. This would need
expert handling. These trees when grown near
the coast are not very long livers.
*'■ * * *
I have a small kurrajong-tree (trunk diameter
about four inches ) which has, owing to dry
weather, developed a large vertical crack ex-
tending almost right through the trunk. Now
that the rain has come, 1 would like to save
the tree. Can you advise me ? —6793.
The crack may be due to dry weather or to
some soil condition the tree does not like.
With the rain and better growing conditions
it may callous over. It would probably assist
it to heal if it were cleaned out and pasted
over well with clay. Keep the tree, as far as
possible, in a healthy condition.
* * $ *
(1) Words of poem “What My Lover Said,”
which commences “By the merest chance in
the twilight gloom” ? (2) Author ? (3) Was
there ever a dispute over who was author; if
so, circumstances ? —6699.
(1) There are five stanzas, too long to print
here. The poem is included in several Ameri-
can anthologies of minor poets, sometimes
under the title of “In the Orchard Path,” and
usually three stanzas only are quoted. See
One Hundred Second-best Poems. (2) Homer
Greene. (3) The verses were first published
in the New York “Evening Post” in 1875,
signed “H.G.” (Greene was at the time a stu-
dent at Union College), and were considered in
some quarters to be a youthful effusion of
Horace Greeley’s, although the attributing of
their authorship to the famous editor was prob-
ably originally intended as a joke.
* :S *
Words of patriotic quotation starting “Tell
Sparta” ? —6791.
Cannot trace one commencing with just those
words. It is possible you mean the lines:
Go, tell the Spartans, thou that passeth by,
That here, obedient to their laws, we lie.
This is the epitaph on the monument to the
300 Spartans who fell at Thermopylae.
* * * *
How can I fill up cracks in a cement floor ?
—6754.
The cracks should be chipped out to a
width of about |in., cleaned and wetted. Mix
Portland cement and sand with water so that
mixture will remain set in the hand when
squeezed; ram into cracks, smooth off surface
and cover with bags, kept wet for at least
14 days.
* * * *
How to nickel-plate and chromium-plate iron
bars ? —6767.
The iron should first be given a deposit of
copper to fill cracks and blemishes. Chromium
is a difficult metal to deposit owing to the diffi-
culty in obtaining a uniform layer as well as
to brittleness, which precludes the deposition
of thick coats, and is usually deposited on a
coat of nickel. Consult Electro-plating
(Amateur Mechanics and Work Handbooks),
price 2s. 6d., or Electro-plating, by Field
and Weill, 11s. 7d. post free ; from Dymock’s,
Sydney.
Does Anybody Know?
How to treat duck skins for use as decoys?—•
6549.
Brief Answers.
F.A : “The cranes of lbycus” is a prover-
bial expression for natural revelation of crime.
According to tradition, lbycus, a Greek lyric
poet of about 540 b.c., was murdered at sea
near Corinth. The crime was traced by means
of cranes which had followed the ship. The
story is the subject of one of Schiller's poems.
... .D.E.: Halley’s Comet takes its name from
Edmund Halley, an English astronomer, who,
in 1705, predicted that the comet of 1692 would
return in 1759. This prediction proved true.
The comet returned also in 1853 and 1910....
P.R.: Wells’s Outline of History, Breasted’s
Conquest of Civilisation (18s.) (ancient history),
and J. H. Robinson’s Ordeal of Civilisation
(18s.) (mediaeval and modern history) are very
readable. There is also a very good outline of
European history (1066-1918), edited by J.
Hampden Jackson, in six vols., 3s. 6d. each.
Cambridge Modern History comprises 13 vols.,
published at £4 10s. All are English published
prices S.M.R.: A pamphlet has been posted
giving general information with respect to the
N.S.W. local .government clerks’ examination.
Copies of previous examination papers are
obtainable at the Government Printing Office,
Sydney; price 6d. per set, per post 7d.
Vacant positions are usually advertised in the
daily press. Salaries are governed by arbi-
tration awards, copies, of which are available
at the Government Printing Office
S.S.; Ingra is a W.A. abo. word meaning
“rat-holes” W.N.: It is from Cicero’s
Paradoxa, and in English reads, “In virtue are
riches” A. 8.: The arms of the State of
Queensland were granted by Queen Victoria
on April 29, 1893 G.H.: The Pericles was
an Aberdeen White Star clipper, launched in
1877, She carried passengers to Australia,
and also made voyages to San Francisco. She
was sold to Norway in 1904 for the timber
trade to Melbourne; later she was renamed
Sjuroo. She was broken up in 1923
W. 8.: The picayune was an old copper coin
of Piedmont. ’ The name was also given in
Louisiana and Florida to the Spanish half-
real (value 6j cents or 3d.), and sometimes
to the U.S.A. five-cent piece H.C.:
Chiaroscuro, in painting, is a term used to
express the art of reproducing color in light
and in shadow, so that the one is always present
in the other. It is chiaroscuro which gives
perfect proportion to a picture T.S.: “Bessy
Bell” and “Farewell to Lochaber” were both
written by Allan Ramsay, an early eighteenth-
century Scottish poet 8.G.: Buckskin is a
twilled cloth, made of wool, with the nap
cropped off very finely. Buckskin breeches
are made of this material. It is also a soft
leather made from sheep or deerskin K.G.:
Palmer’s Narrative of the Sufferings of T. F.
Palmer and W. Skirving was published in
London in 1797. The Trial of the Rev. Thomas
Fyshe Palmer before the Circuit of Justiciary,
etc., was printed at Edinburgh for Skirving in
October, 1793 T. 8.; According to records
compiled in the Dept, of Records and Research
of the Tuskegee Institute, 28 persons were
lynched in the United States in 1933. Four
were white and 24 were negro... .C.C.N.:
Write T. C. Roughley, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney... .R.G.: It is called
“The Australian” and appears in Ogilvie’s
“The Australian’’ and Other Verses....
J.C.D.: Cannot trace R.M.W.: Write to the
Balmain Motor and Engineering Works, 534
Jones-street, Ultimo, N.S.W E.M.R.: Cloth-
ing which is in daily use, hanging in the light,
is rarely attacked; the insects like darkness and
quiet. Shake the gown daily, and if you fear
moth attacks spray once a week with a good
insecticide through an atomising spray, then
hang in the sunshine D.T.H.M.: (1) Yes.
(2) Yes, at the age of 16. (3) Yes, during her
lifetime only. (4) Yes, by leaving it by will
to trustees on trust for the children.,. .B.B.:
Seek examination as an out-patient at any
public hospital, or at the Sydney Eye Clinic,
267-69 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Cost is
nominal. Hours of attendance at clinic are
I. p.m. and 6.30 p.m J.A.: No arrange-
ments exist in Australia for the entry of arti-
ficers into the navy. Applicants would need
to apply in England. Artificers are of three
main classes, engine-room, electrical and ord-
nance, and must be tradesmen —fitters and
turners, moulders, boilermakers, smiths, etc.
Their highest rating is chief petty officer
W.E.R.: (1) See The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook. (2) (a) Cannot say without
knowing what the information was about, (b)
Yes, at the local Children’s Court, (c) Her
husband is responsible if the Court decides
that his wife was justified in leaving him. id)
He may do so. (e) Yes. (/) Yes, by having him
bound over at the Police Court A. 8.: (1)
Yes, but if other children consider themselves
unfairly treated they may apply to the Court
for an increase in their share. (2) Yes. (3) No.
(4) About £3OO J. 8.: (1) Holding such an
entertainment without the consent of the Chief
Secretary is an offence. The sale of tickets is
not in itself illegal. (2) No L.W.L.; The
phrase apparently refers to unclaimed funds
in a deceased estate administered by the
Chancery Division of the High Court ol
Justice. A claim to such funds would probably
be expensive... .D.S.A.: Do not think you
have any claim, but consult a solicitor....
J. ; Registration is unnecessary C.S.:
(1) About £l5 if a solicitor is employed, but
if the executor applies to the Registrar ot
Probates, Sydney, it could be done much more
cheaply. (2) About £5 if land is Torrens title.
If title is old system no transmission is neces-
sary W.A.: (1) Before submitting an in-
vention to anybody but a registered patent
attorney, it is advisable to protect it by an
application for a patent in Australia. (2) A
patent attorney’s fee for securing provisional
protection is £5 ss. (3) There is no such thing
as a world’s patent. Each important country
will grant a patent for a new invention. £5OO
would cover cost of application for patents,
in, say, 16 principal countries. (4) A patent
attorney would not be likely to assist in regard
to finance, but might, after home protection is
obtained, submit your invention to parties
likely to be interested in it M.M.: (1) The
youngest age for graduation as M.B. in the
Faculty of Medicine at Sydney Uni., is 21.
(2) Students are attached to hospitals in their
fourth, fifth and sixth years, and they reside
at home or at college, with the exception that
residence at hospital is compulsory during
obstetrics courses W. 8.: Gordon Carkeet,
c/o Mrs. L. Hoskins, 88 Walker-street West,
Townsville A.M.: The winner was F.
Giltrow P.A.: Write the “Times” Aus-
tralasian office, 255a' George-street, Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


/
/
•M
mm
i
mm
7*5
z 6 i
Z S 5
What you need is a cup of good TEA ... There
is nothing so stimulating ... so heartening.
It is a beverage to be enjoyed at any time . . .
The early morning cup to start the day right
. . . the breakfast cup to "zest" the meal . . .
Again at 11 a.m. to "pep-up" energy in home,
office or workshop ...
It's the friendly drink with lunch . . . the
correct thing to serve in the afternoon. It's the
restorative with the evening meal . . . the
beneficial "night-cap."
Any time is time for good tea . . . but be sure
the tea IS good . . . because only then will
you get the most out of it ... in cups ... in
energy ... in flavour ... in pleasure.
How to make £ oocf TEA
Select a GOOD quality
tea.
Boil fresh water.
Warm up a clean
earthenware teapot.
4. Put in one teaspooniul
of tea for each person
and one for the pot.
5. The moment the water
comes to the boil pour
it on to the tea.
6. Let the tea brew for
five minutes.
What you need cup
J gpod J
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU
f-Hai 35
Fixed
di
EPOSITS
A Fixed Deposit in tHe Rural Bank is a law-
ful investment lor trust funds. The capital sum
is constant, the yield uniform and certain.
Interest is paid at current Bank rates, viz:—
1 per cent per annum for 3 months
1| 6
2\ 12
2-J- .. ~ 24
Fixed deposits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of the com-
munity at all Branches.
RURAL BANK
o F NEW SOUTH W A LES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
fds
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken ie
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.A.C.: Try Fowlers’ The King’s English.
M.B.: Dangerous metre, that; nearly
always leads to sing-song F.C.M.: Most
of your rhyme doesn’t... .Harry L.:
We have no preferences in style; it’s all
a matter of quality, and your verse
doesn’t fit the measure J.W.; No use for
the verse which begins by asking a question
and ends without answering it... .T.E.McC.:
As usual, germs of ideas, but the treatment, to
put it mildly, is dead crook R.N.: Have
another shot at it. Thought too good to waste
on such a rum-ti-tum metre... .Wilhelm
Meister: Good lines in it, but it’s awkward
as a wh01e.... Bellerive: It ought to soar —it
has feathers:—
DORKINS’ ROOSTER.
Working owned a rooster,
A forcefut fighting bird.
'Victor of fierce battles,
A fiend upon my word.
Out to seek for combat
One breezy morn in May,
1! ■ charged a feathered rival
In his usual savage way.
A quick encounter followed.
They leapt from left to right.
The rival was the younger
And a stayer in a fight.
They spurred with rapid fury,
The idol writhed in pain,
Rut gamely wagered battle
Till he was fiercely slain. .
“The skunk,” retorted Dorkins;
“I’d like to see him roped.
‘Bottles’ swore he’d fix him,
My gallant bird’s been doped.”
. ...Dymphna: You don’t make more than
melodrama of it.... Orient: That sort of verse
• to k e packed tight as an egg. You
tall into the usual trap of letting the rhymes
write it W.M.D.: Yes; too long for what
it has to say. Read tons of good verse and
try to get at how the other bloke does it....
P R-: No punch in it G.S.R.: Reads like
so many unrelated lines, though some of them
are fairish.... Mits: Just meanders... .L.N.:
You might place it elsewhere H.W.: Bumps
about too much.... Maorilander: Glad to hear
of all your likes, but no use for the list
P.S.M.: Sailing one went closest S.M.E.:
£L ™ ss > *i ut , points in the light stuff....
8.H.R.: You’ll need to improve past present
Promise H.H.J.; Pretty old theme E.L.:
Well, it doesn’t tempt us to order you to the
rack, but still it’s a long way off... .P.S.M.:
Didn t like Lionel or Dick any more than when
we last saw them. “Kindlings” hardly worth
a match... .C.A.G.: You certainly believe in
making your villains bad and your heroines
good. ...J.H.Mcp.: Doesn’t make the grade,
i c c T ry on a Maoriland journal....
J.b.r.: 1 hanks for the compliments. Article
oh our beat.. .. F.G.; Rosetta’s naughtiness
doesn t appeal... .G.S.C.: None of them comes
quite up to standard... .E.R.R.: Still don’t
lll<e i.b.C.: Passed on as requested....
A.D.: It shows a cheery optimism, but it isn’t
a yarn 80P.: Sorry to have to return an-
other batch F.I.W.: A long way off
E.N.V.: Try a women’s paper G.H.T.:
Has some merit, but lacks finish... .P.G.H.:
We’ve no objection to “serious prose.” We
welcome it. Sample submitted doesn’t appeal.
O.D.: Convict No. 74,765 leaves us with-
out a stain on his character... .Toppy: None
of the yarns is up to publication standard....
L. : Phrases such as “a watery path
to complete forgetfulness” will get you no-
where. .. .Wigwag: Riley spits in the fire, and
Amos gets drunk on the last of the whisky —
neither feat is new J.T.R.: The opening is
stereotyped and dull, and the little man’s lie
is not exciting enough to succeed as a lie....
E. : After all, why should a man be ashamed
of being a butcher?... .V.E.: It doesn’t grip
the interest of the reader sufficiently R.A.:
After reading it we went to an auction-room
and ripped open every antique chair in the
place, but we didn’t find any sovereigns. We
are therefore returning your story... .A.R.:
You are dealing with a country type of a
previous generation... .G.B.: Try it on the
local paper C.H.S.: Still adrift G.T.F.
and H.L.B.H.: Two more racing yarns that
weighed in light... .J.V.W.: A burlesque should
be funny, not merely ridiculous P.T.: A
shade too much melodrama in it T.L.: The
type of article is not in our line, but it’s
worth a venture elsewhere... .B.P.: Not suit-
able. .. .C.B.: Too ■ slight... .K.D.M.: An
artificial yarn. Give us something with a ring
of probability.... R.R.: Really, Holmes, that’s
a bit tall....I.S.: Misses; but is worth trying
elsewhere... .E.E.R.: Both a good way off.
Subjects aren’t particularly good ones....
M. : Not quite good enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.B.: Send no more of those smudgy
atrocities.... M.V.W.: Man with swollen left
leg won’t limp into these pages.. . .D.C.:
Chestnut... .F.S.: A feeble effort executed with
a nib that needs scrapping... .W.H.T.: Jubilee
'’artoon was not only wretchedly drawn but
it arrived too late C.S.; Can’t judge from
copies. Slend original work... .A.R.N.: Those
skinny flappers!... .O.S.: More like some pre-
historic monster than a horse G.H.: Has
a little merit M.S.T.: A full list of your
artistic sins would take half a day to com-
pile. .. .N.C.: The boy has a slick line for
his age, but no other artistic assets... .H.J.R.:
Stiff and angular drawings, pointless gags....
F. : All below standard. Even the care-
fully-drawn fashion-plate against a decorative
background failed to excite T.A.J.: Con-
centrate on your studies W.B.: Society
belles look as if they had just emerged from
a duckpond... .P.Q.: It never got away from
the barrier... .R.M.C.: More polish required:
also brighter jokes E.M.: A sorry batch.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Sandys”: Why should “Cherrywood”
(B. 17/4/’35) be so surprised that the
Japanese should export cherrywood
sticks when Japan is the home of the
cherry-tree?
* * * j[i
“Centurion”: “Ex - Cavalryman” is
within his ground in saying (B. 8/5/’35)
that there were no British war medals
before 1845, if he refers to a general
issue to all ranks. But special war
medals were issued to leading officers
and others in high places long before
that. For example, a noble oval medal
commemorating the defeat of the
Armada, and (very rare, I admit) one
issued to certain officers for Waterloo.
“Aigburth”: Rumbles of the world
revolution are making themselves heard
in Merrie England. London “Daily
Mail,” which has usually assumed a sort
of piebald Conservative tinge, launches a
violent attack on the M.C.C. —talks of
open rebellion against the club’s authority
and asserts that it is stifling England’s
self-respect. The Rothermere journal de-
mands the “erasure” of the line between
amateur and professional. That will
come when the professionals want it
done. Some of them are far more par-
ticular about the people they mix with
than some amateurs.
* * * *
“Medic” ; Of all the useless discoveries
made by scientists commend me to that
which enables l 3 rofessor Berstein, of
Columbia University, to learn “by peer-
ing into the eye of a person how many
years of life he may expect, barring acci-
dents or bacterial disease.” The profes-
sor’s device is alleged to reveal" “how
fast the subject is ageing.” Blood-
pressure tests do that already. But no
test can Jell when a seemingly healthy
individual will develop pneumonia with
fatal results, or cancer, or diabetes, or
meningitis, or pleurisy, or appendicitis,
or Bright’s disease or a hundred other
afflictions that kill millions every year.
Age in itself takes an unconscionable
time to kill anybody. Exclude accidents,
bacterial disease, and the troubles that
are unconnected, or only remotely con-
nected, with either, and most of us would
have a sporting chance of becoming
Methuselahs.
* * * *
“Jumrud”: 1 sympathise with that un-
fortunate Pathan (B. 8/5/’35) who vainly
pleaded tribal custom in defence of a
charge of murder. He was either carry-
ing on an inherited blood feud or aveng-
ing some slight on his family honor,
duties imperative in his social circle. So
well is this recognised in India by the
Sirkar that leave is always granted to a
soldier of one of the N.-W. Frontier
tribes if he pleads urgent private affairs
at home. His commanding officer knows
it is a guinea to a gooseberry that murder
is the objective, but that is not his bun-
clobast. The only desideratum is that the
deed must be carried out on the Afghan
side of the frontier. Sometimes the holi-
day-maker gets a bit mixed in his
geography, and carries out his business
in Indian territory. In that case it is
the gallows for him, though his miscal-
culation may have only been a matter
of half a mile or so.
* * * *
“M.G.”: W. C. Fields, one of the
most popular comedians on the movies,
did a juggling turn under Harry Rickards
at Melbourne Opera House. He told
the writer that he had learned his art
through playing with billiard balls as a
boy in an American saloon. He juggled
as the birds sing. One day he was out-
side the Royal Mail Hotel in Bourke-
street talking to an acquaintance. As he
toyed with the springy cane he carried
he absent-mindedly made it bounce from
the pavement from time to time and
caught it as it spun in the air. Suddenly
he realised that a crowd of 50 or 60
people had gathered to enjoy the free
show. Never a poseur, he promptly
ducked off. It was as a juggler that he
first broke into the movies.
* * $ *
“Mont’s” grisly memories;—-
Dead in Perth at 69, Billy Salter, one of
Bendigo’s noblest sons. Salter began his
career on a Bendigo paper, went to Melbourne
“Herald,” to the “Argus” and back to the
“Herald.” He was probably the most capable
crime reporter that Australia has known. For
years he w’as first aid to the Detective Office,
and many a criminal went to gaol—some to the
gallows—owing to his shrewd work. Had it
not been for him Deeming might still be reduc-
ing the population in his old age. Salter was
responsible for perhaps the biggest crime scoop
of the century —the discovery that Deeming, in
addition to his murder in Victoria, had pre-
viously killed his first wife and two children
in Rainhill, England. Searching the house
at Windsor (Vic.) where Deeming had buried
his second wife under the hearthstone, Salter
noticed, behind the mantel, a ticket to some
function at Rainhill. When the identity of the
fate tenant of the vacant cottage was found
to be Deeming Salter got the Argus • to cable
its London man to investigate. He went to
Rainhill, consulted the local police and secured
sufficient suspicious facts to induce them to
raise the hearthstone. Three bodies were un-
earthed, and, as the “Argus” had its own ser-
vice in those days, its group of papers were
the only ones in Australia which printed the
news ’
* * * .
!he retirement of Dr. Chaim Weiz-
mann, president of the English Zionist
Federation, has been announced at last,
At every Zionist Congress a militant sec-
tion harried him; and this seems to be
his final protest. His services as director
* A t „i *■ • , .
Admiralty Laboratories during the
war were such that Balfour asked him
t 0 name his own rewa rd. His only re-
. c , c • 3 c
c f was . e fulfilment of a promise for
the restoration of Palestine to the Jewish
people as a national home. In spite of
princely spendings on his enthusiasm, he
is a rich man as a result of his control
Q f many chemical patents and organisa-
tions ; and he intends to devote his entire
energies to the development of these.
including big chemical works in the land
for which he has done so much.


a»'itjS*£
A
C
H
N
R
MADE IN
Y
AUSTRALIA
Representatives; McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE (7 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd,, London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt 6c Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
The Steering Column.
SERVICE, MAINTENANCE AND
WARRANTY
SUBTLE POINTS EVERY MOTORIST SHOULD KNOW.
By FRED BERRY.
IN the glamor and excitement of purchasing a new car
motorists are, as a general rule, chiefly concerned with price,
color and equipment, and, while they have listened with half an
ear to salesmen talking glibly of service, few fully understand
the true significance of the word. As a consequence, mis-
understanding frequently arises between owner and distributor.
Service must be divided into two dis-
tinct groups—that given by well-organised
distributors in respect to prompt supply
of authentic component parts or in the
employment of highly-specialised opera-
tives to conduct mechanical overhauls or
adjustments, and, in the second group,
free service, granted for a specified
period (usually 90 days), wherein the
adjustment of controls and accessories
and assembly defects such as loose
body bolts arc attended to without
charge.
Generally, however, the position is not
usually so simple or straightforward as
appears at first sight, for complications
in individual cases are certain to arise.
New-car owners are most often involved
in these unfortunate misunderstandings,
and to safeguard against such happenings
the exact position as to rights and obliga-
tions of owner and distributor is here
set out.
Three Soria of Service.
Service in respect to repairs, overhauls
and supply of parts for cars outside the
terms of the guarantee can be dis-
regarded. The motorist knows he must
simply make the best deal possible in the
circumstances. It is under the three gen-
eral headings of “free service,” “main-
tenance” and “warranty” that discussion
may arise. Broadly speaking, “free ser-
vice” is the initial adjustment of controls
and tightening of nuts for a specified
period—cost to be borne by agent or dis-
tributor. “Maintenance” expenses are
those due to legitimate wear and tear —
cost to be borne by the owner, “War-
ranty” is the making good or replace-
ment of defective material and parts—
labor cost to be borne by the purchaser
of the car.
After a new car has been driven a
couple of hundred miles it should be
given a careful general inspection.
Everything has, more or less, settled
down in running, so that quite a number
of nuts can be tightened up. Clutch
and brakes may need adjustnient, and the
fuel line and vacuum tank should be
examined to see that no particle of
foreign matter has entered. Oil in the
crankcase can, with advantage, be
changed, the electrical system examined
and many other minor details looked
into. This detailed examination, together
with further inspections at 500 and 1000
miles, is to the mutual advantage of both
owner and distributor. Skilled labor to
do this work is provided free of charge
by the distributor, and is classified under
the heading of free service.
Where the Owner Is Responsible.
Take now the case of an owner who
one cold morning treads on the self-
starter pedal for half an hour in a vain
endeavor to start his engine, only to find
he has failed to turn the ignition switch
on, Naturally, the battery will be
rendered unserviceable, and, as the fault
is entirely his own, he cannot expect the
agent to supply him with a new battery
free of charge.
Another driver may seize his engine
through failure to replenish water in the
radiator or oil in the crankcase. The
same argument will apply in this case.
Careless drivers have been known to
strip a gear in making a faulty change,
but by no stretch of imagination can
repairs of this kind be classified as free
service.
Mileage a Factor.
There is a further aspect tending to
complicate matters in relation to free
service, and that
is the great dif-
ference in mile-
age done by indi-
vidual cars over
the service period.
A fair average
estimate of three
months’ running
would be 2000
miles, but in
many cases,
where the motor
is driven for long
periods daily, the
speedometer may
register 5000
miles. Within
this distance it is
quite on the
cards that the
motor will need
decarbonising and
the valves grind-
ing in. Certainly
it will be so if
the owner has
any regard for
the future life of
the machin e.
Labor and male-
rial for this work are definitely a main-
tenance charge, and must be borne by
the owner.
It must then be clear that before
mutual satisfaction can be arrived at be-
tween owner and agent the line of de-
marcation between free service and main-
tenance must be fully appreciated.
Free service does not take into account
repairs or replacements due to miles of
running—that is fair wear and tear, or
is due to the carelessness or ignorance
of the owner.
As would be expected in all keenly-
competitive commercial enterprises, the
various distributors adopt different
methods of supplying “free service.”
Usually a service card is issued with each
new vehicle giving details of work to
be done, the onus of submitting the car
for examination at definite periods lying
with the owner. Failure to comply with
these conditions may render the service
contract void.
Again, when higher-priced cars are
under consideration, showing, as they do.
a greater margin of profit, certain service
work may be done as a matter of policy
only, but with the majority of mod-
erately-priced machines free service is de-
fined as explained in this article.
It is a matter for regret, however, that,
while most “free-service” squabbles can
be traced to ignorance or carelessness on
the part of new owners, yet service
managers, in a misdirected attempt to
lower costs, occasionally charge the un-
sophisticated motorist with service jobs
that morally, if not legally, should be
done gratis.
The responsibility for payment for
service after the time for ‘“free service”
is expired is on the owner, and, as this
aspect of maintenance has a distinct
bearing upon both efficiency and
economy, together with a marked effect
upon resale value at any time, it should
not be treated lightly.
Service Under Warranty.
“Warranty,” as must be expected if the
matter is given careful consideration, is in
a different category altogether, the period
during which defective components will
be replaced usually being one year after
date of delivery. Any of the components
of a motor-car, whatever the price or
type, is liable to break down at any time.
Not that it often happens, but when it
MOTORIMPRESSIONS.
Power!
does it is a matter for the makers, through
their agents, to make good. Here, again,
one very important fact must be kept in
mind. The breakage of a faulty unit
must be definitely proved to have been
due to defect before the terms of the
warranty apply, and within some speci-
fied period.
A broken axle after a fortnight’s use
is not prima facie evidence of a faulty
part; it may have been due to unskilful
driving on the part of the owner, and,
therefore, outside the warranty guaran-
tee. In addition, it must be again em-
phasised that, while manufacturers are
ever ready—for their own sake —to re-
place faulty material, labor charges in
doing this work are to be borne by the
owner.
After the “Free Service” Period.
Every distributor endeavors, or should
endeavor, during the life of the car he
has sold to be of service to the owner
in whatever direction he can. If the
motorist is thrown entirely upon his own
resources immediately free service has
expired there is every possibility that
he may be victimised in many directions,-
and the position would not be conducive
to mutual satisfaction.
It is in the distributor’s interest to make
sure that the car is giving good service,
and, if at the completion of 10,000 miles
running you receive a note stating that
in all probability the machine should be
sent in for decarbonising and grinding
of valves, don’t think the distributor is
merely touting for work. Any car after
running this distance can do with a top
overhaul; it is good policy and sound
economy to have the job done.
The worst possible attitude a motorist
can adopt is to wait until something goes
wrong before consulting the service-
station staff. This haphazard method
will increase the annual running-expense
account, for many charges will be in-
curred that would otherwise be avoided.
The habit must be cultivated of visit-
ing the service station at definite and
regular intervals, having the car tested
by experts and a quotation obtained for
any work to be done. This estimate can
be considered at leisure, and perhaps
some of the items postponed for future
consideration. But certainly it will pay
in the long run to keep the machine con-
tinually under the eye of the service sta-
tion, and thus in first-class condition.
To prove the wisdom of this policy
we will take a hypothetical case —that
of a motorist who three or four times
a year runs his machine in for a day’s
overhaul, at a cost of £3 to £5 each time.
He will never —except in rare cases —ex-
perience a major breakdown, and thus
can be confident of carrying on through
the year without trouble. On the other
hand, the haphazard motorist who merely
trusts to luck may during this period
have a major breakdown entailing a week
in the repair shop, and that at a time
when it will cause him very great incon-
venience. In addition, there will be a bill
of £2O or so to face at the completion of
the work.
Briefly, then, any motorist with the
welfare of his car at heart, and who has
any regard for its resale value, must aid
the distributor in his policy of service
after sales. It is entirely one’s own fault
if one does not at regular intervals get
a quotation for any work necessary on
the car. Postponing a£2 job to-day may
easily mean a wrecked car a month
hence.
Advantages of Distributor Service.
The necessity for co-operation between
owner and service station having been
explained, let us see just what advantage
is gained by adopting this practice.
Firstly, the terms of warranty—that
is, guarantee of replacing faulty or de-
fective material over a period of one or
more years, as the case may be —are
contingent upon work being done by
the duly authorised service station.
Mechanics working on the same type
of car year in and year out, and
having at their disposal special tools
and gear expressly designed for particu-
lar operations, must be able to complete
the repairs more quickly and more effi-
ciently than is possible with a less-
specialised organisation. Each man in a
distributor’s service station automatically
becomes a specialist at his particular
work, and thus faults are located and
remedied in much shorter time than
would be taken even by highly-skilled
workmen who were not used to that
particular machine. Finally, the resale
or trade-in value of a car is influenced
to some extent by whether repairs and
adjustments have been carried out by the


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly ,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
r
r
n
/
\
%
A Kinder Light for Children's Eyes!
Many are the hours which your children must spend, reading or
doing home lessons, with artificial light.
For the sake of their eyes, and their future, be sure that you
give them a perfect light.
With “Light of the Age” Kerosene in your lamp, you can
always be assured of a steady, brilliant light, yet restful and
kind to the eyes.
Careful refining makes “Light of the Age” really pure and that
is why it is so clean and so free from smoke or odour.
Ask for “Light of the Age” by name. Obtainable everywhere.
k
TEmCO
Only one Grade ■—
FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality
FIRST QUALITY!
Vw
TEXACO
LIGHT OF THE AGE
KtROSE
LOA 1.485
service station or otherwise, and especi-
ally does this apply where a trade-in for
a new model of the same make is under
consideration. The agent who knows
the history of the car from the beginning
will give the maximum allowance pos-
sible, and in some cases this may mean a
saving of 5 p.c. on the purchase of the
new car.
The foregoing remarks must not be
taken by motorists to imply that no
other organisation but a service station
can capably handle repair work. But it
is only logical to expect that a well-
organised service station, equipped with
special tools and appliances and staffed
by experts, will do more satisfactory
work on the make of car it is used to
than anyone else could hope to do.
The Trouble Lamp.
A.H.L. (Ayr, N.Q.). —(1) I hear a sharp crack
when starting from rest in my ’2B model Oak-
land, the noise apparently emanating from the
differential. What’s wrong ? (2) Oil flow to
sump is continuous and strong, but pressure
gauge scarcely shows a reading when motor is
hot. Does this affect operation ? (3) What
mileage should be obtained from this car?
(1) Thrust race in diff. housing is apparently
badly worn and requires replacing. Wear in
spline shafts on tail shaft and rear axles may
also be responsible for the noise mentioned
and the slight jerk when starting off. (2)
Low pressure reading is due to wear in main
and connecting-rod bearings permitting oil to
flow freely without resistance. No occasion for
worry. (3) 16/20 m.p.g.
* * * *
W.N.R.H. (Warwick, Q.) asks for further
information regarding a car operated by spring
power.
Nothing further available.
£
W.F.D. (Balfe’s Creek, Q.) writes asking for
advice on various points.
Oil in circulating water is probably due to a
faulty cylinder gasket, but, as the motor is old,
a crack might have developed in the cylinder
wall or valve seating. A leaky impellor gland
will also give similar symptoms. If the gasket
blows again examine the cylinder head for
truth of face —it may be warped, in which case
the only remedy is to have it machined. When
reassembling, tighten the cylinder-head nuts
from the centre outwards. Inside foil from a
Capstan tin is approximately correct for valve
clearance, and two thicknesses for points of
plugs.
6
/ka -i u i x. . *
(Mogil Mogil, N.S.W.).—/ am using
three tmt generators to charge three batteries
IX) feet away, and am not getting good re-
suits. Diagram of installation enclosed. What's
wrong?
(1) Have you tested insulation of armature
winding? That is most likely the trouble
(2) Steel wire is useless for this purpose; use
12-gauge copper. (3) One common earth re
turn of 12-gauge copper wire will do. The
generators will deliver independent amperage
by this method.
* * * *
D.M.D. (Merewether, N.S.VV.). — Please advise
as to method of tuning a ’26 model Morris »
Cowley. I don’t require racing performance,
hut general pepping up.
Advise leaving the old bus severely alone,
for once you begin the pepping-up business
troubles begin. If you persist with the idea,
full details as to improving performance in
stock cars have already been published on this
page.
t- * * *
T.R.N. (Swan Hill, N.S.W.).—/ am in
trouble with the back axle of my ’29 model
Triumph. Performance generally is good, but
the diff. gets as hot as the radiator after a
long run at 40 m.p.h. Oil has been replaced
by that specified by makers without improve-
ment. Clutch is fierce, and presumably re-
sponsible for jilting a new axle some time ago.
Obviously there is a serious defect in align-
ment somewhere. It may be due to wear in
the axle or diff. bearings or in the thrust race.
Advise a careful inspection of rear-end trans-
mission, for, although a cursory examination of
ci own-wheel-and-pinion assembly may give
o Continued on page 30.)


MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
rw/A/£
CLU£.
QL/A>
HOSE
On old-model engines it is
sometimes difficult to make a
watertight joint of the hose con-
nection. Illustration shows how
three turns of hempen twine
saturated with glue or shellac
solve the problem.
“This is
the most
powerful
car battery
I of its size
I ever built”
f
SEE
YOUR
NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
T T’S Willard’s new WST-1-15
—with 15 plates per cell in-
stead of 13, and consequently
Greater Reserve Power!
It’s the battery for emergencies
—for quicker starts and more
of them —for the extra power
reserve winter starting re-
quires !
Every Willard dealer will
show you the WST-1-15.
Willard
.
HUMBER
TWELVE SNIPE 80 PULLMAN
The Humber Snipe "80” custom-
built saloon is now available in
three distinctive body styles exem-
plifying the highest degree of
craftsmanship throughout.
You are cordially invited to inspect this
model, also the Humber Pullman, of which
immediate deliveries can be given. Full
details are also available of the new
Humber Twelve.
We have for sale one Humber Snipe and
one Humber Pullman, both of which have
been only slightly used. Immediate de-
livery can be given of either at a most
attractive price.
155 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY '
and at 234-44 Hunter St. West, Newcastle
Simoniz Your Car
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kleenex makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
negative results, faulty alignment due to either
wear or overloading will give the symptoms
indicated.
* * * ♦
F. (Perth, W.A.).—(l) Should I expect
better than 20 m.p.g. from my ’3O model De
Soto Six ? (2) Would it be practical and worth
while to fit an air-cleaner and silencer; if so,
what kind ? (3) Lifting the heads recently and
bringing pistons to top of stroke, I noticed
side play. Oil consumption is correct, and
performance good. Do I require a rebore or
only new rings ? (4) Can I fill the shock
absorbers by removing top cover plate ?
(1) 20/22 m.p.g. is about right for the sedan.
(2) Yes. This would increase engine life and
give freedom from bearing overheauls. Reput-
able makes are stocked by accessory houses.
(3) Only means of determining with certainty
is to dismantle motor and measure wear. If
found excessive, new rings are only a waste of
money. If within reasonable limits, new rings
might be of some use. (4) Yes. Withdraw
screws and lift tops. Rear set must first be un-
bolted from chassis, as they are set at a dif-
ferent angle.
* * * *
D.B. (Bigga, N.S.W.). —(1) The starter on my
’26 Olds, is out of action through dirt in the
Bendix drive. The starter revolves, but won’t
mesh with the ring gear. Remedy? (2) The
'Solex fixed-jet carburettor is too rich. Can 1
get new jets, are they difficult to instal, and
where can they be obtained ? (3) Can adjust-
able jets be fitted, and is the Solex suitable for
an Olds. ?
(1) Faulty starting is probably due to weak
battery or dirty contacts on battery or starter
motor. (2) Solex jets can be changed in a
few seconds. Get the next smallest size from
Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue, Sydney. (3)
Solex is not fitted originally to Olds., and it
would be impracticable to fit adjustable jets.
* * * *
G. (Warwick, Q.). — Motor of my ’2B Buick
Light Six starts easily but will not idle, and even
at 700 revs, running is uneven. At 15 m.p.h.
full extra air can he given, and if the car is
driven up a steep ramp engine speed will sud-
denly alter. Is there a remedy, and, if so, where
can spares he obtained ?
Indications point to a burnt-out heat riser
tube in the induction manifold, in which case
exhaust gases are entering the intake system.
Spares obtainable from Eager and Sons, Bris-
bane. As a temporary remedy bo(h sides of
manifold adjacent to heat riser can’be packed
with a thin strip of tin, which will prevent
gases entering intake manifold.
* * * *
G.A.B. (Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.). — I am
experiencing trouble with oil from the differ-
ential housing passing through felt washers and
reaching the brake linings. Vent hole has been
drilled in casing and new oil retaining washers
fitted without curing trouble. What can be
done ?
Suggest that as the car has done 35,000 miles
rear axle bearings have worn to such an extent
that felt washers are unable to cope with the
How of oil. Only remedy is renewal of bearings.
* * * *
F.S. (Palmwoods, Q.). — Where can I gel
information as to my 1933 Chev. beyond that
given in instruction book ?
Apply General Motors-Holden’s head office,
Melbourne.
* * * *
R.E.L, (Hawthorn, Vic.). — Since overhaul,
my ’27 Overland motor overheats on long grades
or when driven at speed. Ignition timing, radiator
and hose connections, carburettor setting and
valve adjustment have been checked without
locating trouble. Engine pulls well and shows
no signs of oiling up. Cause and cure ?
Advisable to remove cylinder head and
examine gasket, particularly if old one was re-
placed during overhaul. Failing a cure, water-
circulating system must be at fault, and flush-
ing out with water from street mains is useless.
Take the car to a city service station specialis-
ing in the high-pressure system of clearing
radiator cores and water passages in cylinder
block.
* * ❖ *
E.E.G. (Goondiwindi, Q.). — I intend buying
a second-hand car, which must be good, as I
expect to keep it for some years. Please tell
me how best to examine a car for wear, faults,
etc.
A special article on this subject will appear
on this page at an early date. Suggest you
arrange with qualified mechanic to make an
examination on your behalf.
* * * *
W.G.E. (Cobar, N.S.W.). — What is wrong
with the starting gear of my Whippet Four.
Battery is fully charged, and all connections
clean and tight, yet the starter motor will not
turn the engine fast enough to start when hot
and barely moves it from cold. One him
of the handle will always do the trick.
Assuming all electrical contacts are in order,
symptoms indicate breakdown of insulation or
defective brush gear. It’s a job for a service
station.
* * * *
A.L.F. (Te Anga, M.L.). — Is the gadget
(cuttings and illustration enclosed) worth the
money asked, or are the claims exaggerated if
No price is shown, so can't speak as to
value, but the principle is quite sound. Claims
made for economy should be tested personally.
# * * *
L.E. (Morwell, Vic.). — Name of a good book
on motor-cycling and motor-cycle mechanism ?
Write Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne, for
Motor Cycling Manual.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Coobong”: One wonders under what
name some of the cars to be seen on
the roads since the depression are regis-
tered. One which has given good service
in the Parkes (N.S.W.) district for five
years or more has a Carnation engine,
Talbot chassis out of an ancient Talbot,
Ford radiator, lighting system out of the
scrapheap and steering wheel and clutch-
and brake-pedals of obscure ancestry
located on the left side.
* * * *
“Alpha.”; The main stock route from
Mount George to Armidale (N.S.W.)
crosses numerous streams which a
car can only ford during drought,
Coming up with cattle after rain
I struck a motorist marooned be-
tween Rocks Crossing and Coopra-
curbra. Eighteen months later his car
was still there. To preserve the body
and hood the owner had come back on
horseback and built a galvanised-iron
lean-to to cover it. A drought eventually
, , • , tt* & 1 • . ‘
got him out His mam complain was
that the water was too low to soak the
shnveiled spokes in his wooden wheels
as he crossed the rivers that had held him
up. Motor-cyclists have an easier pas-
sage over this stretch. They usually
travel in pairs, and give each other a
hand carrying the machines over. One
I struck had lost all his petrol when the
machine capsized, and was walking 40
miles to bring back a refill,
* * * *
“Spare Spanner”: “Bogaduck” writes
of puncturing a spare tyre (B. 17/4/’35).
That’s nothing. I’ve had ’em torn to
pieces. About ’2O, when H. G. Lamond
was managing Walgra station (W.Q.), his
head-stockrnan had some slap-up cattle-
dogs. Those fellows almost lived for
the joys which a passing car gave
them. One, old Stepper, could heel
the back wheels of
a car going at 25
miles an hour. His
many sons and
daughters weren’t
quite so good—they
could catch hold
and let go at about
20. And if a water-
bag or a spare tyre
was hanging on be-
hind that was just
Christmas to those
dogs! To have a
full bag of water
burst in his mouth
seemed to delight
old Stepper above everything else.
To catch hold of a spare tyre,
hang on and rip it to ribbons
seemed to be the main object in life, of
his sons and daughters. Those Walgra
dogs were hated by all motor men. Many
attempts were made to run over them.
Few succeeded. I did get one, and I put
a notch on my steering-wheel to mark
that victory. I got him at night, when
he was flummoxed by the glare of the
lights in his eyes, and, though a momen-
tary pang of pity shot through me. I
gloated for days over the “click” of the
front axle as it put paid to that fiend's
account.


RADIOTR
Distributors: AMALGAMATED WIRELESS <A/sia} LTD. 47 York Street, Sydiey; ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD. 93-5 Clarence Street, Sydney
f Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited)
WIRELESS
VALVE
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
RADIO NEWS.
Broadcasting
the Blooming
Tower
Who, I wonder,
draws the line
between what is
safe and seemly
and what is—er,
indelicate in
broadcasting? In
the U.S.A. recently a big wireless cor-
poration arranged a series of health talks
by famous American doctors, all speak-
ing anonymously, of course. Doctor
No. 1 arrived, as scheduled, at the studio.
“What is your subject to-night,
doctor?” asked an important function-
ary.
The doctor was blunt. “I am about,”
he said, “to tell these ginks a few little
things concerning syphilis.”
“But, doctor,” cried the
functionary, “you can’t use
that word on our network.
It’s a nas —it’s a horrible word.
Think of our advertisers!”
“I’m thinking of ’em, all
right,” said the doctor. “I’m
thinking of ’em as I realise that
you won’t let me talk about a
disease which kills some hun-
dreds of thousands a year
while you, all the time, are
putting your smutty little
vaudeville acts over the air.”
And so they parted, with
evil in their hearts.
Ridiculous, all of it; but are
things any better in Australia?
Patently, no. A recorded
song by comedian Stanley Hol-
loway has just been released
—a pleasant, humorous thing
about Anne Boleyn; “With
her head tooked oonderneath
her arr-m, she waaa-lks the
Bloody Tower.” I listened to
this ditty sung a few nights
ago—and sung very indiffer-
ently—from a Sydney station.
The artist called it (I suppose
Ihe censor had been busy with him) the
Blooming Tower.
PONS.
Gallon of
Radio in the
Pint-pot
A people no
doubt deserves,
or wants, the
radio that it gets.
If this is so, we
must be one of
the hung r iest
people on earth, for nowhere else that I
know of is radio keyed up to the degree
of intensity that we seem to require of
ours.
A quality that must strike everyone
who listens to an overseas broadcast is
its comparative leisureliness. I found
this most forcibly brought home in a
recent national re-broadcast of a horse-
race run in England. It started before
the rugs were off the horses; described
the exact position and private feelings
of the broadcasters on top of the stand,
which they had reached by ladder;
dipped into history for the parallel of
the adjoining town’s walls having been
similarly scaled; repeated the list of
17 runners and their owners a couple of
times ; gave the horses’ names once more
to be on the safe side; gave them and
the barrier positions again twice; told
of the individual performances of the
starters; these including an American
horse led to some reminiscences of
horses from overseas that had performed
in England, among them an Australian ;
and eventually the running of the race
was described, and some more talk
after it.
The actual describing of the race
could not be compared with Eric Welsh’s
race descriptions, or, in fact, with de-
scriptions by any one of half a dozen
other Australian racing announcers.
Nevertheless, the broadcast had a quality
—it could almost be called a literary
quality—that cannot be found in our
broadcasting. There was a complete air
of leisureliness about it. It was as if
that race was the only thing that would
ever be broadcast in England. It was
no way tiresome, but you could not help
thinking: “How they take their time
over there!”
In other words, they did not seem to
regard broadcasting as a modern busi-
ness run on the principle of always try-
ing to get more than the pint into a pint-
At have a mess-age heah from one who
saigns himself “Well-wishah.” If Mr. — er —
Smith, who is celebrating his fortai-nainth
birthday anniversary at faive hundred and
fortai-faive Hector-avenue , Adel-aide, will
plaise follow the — er —string from the front
doorknob to the garrargh-
pot. Here there is always the impres-
sion that radio has taken on so much
more than it can manage in the day.
Even records seem to be played in haste
to get on to the next item. News-read-
ing is apparently a continual striving
after the speed-reading record. As for
racing, it is designed to give the punter
away from the course exactly the infor-
mation that is essential to him, and no
more. There is no attempt to make such
things pure entertainment.
There may be something in our
national character other than hungriness
which demands all this precision ; but.
whatever the cause, the result, as far as
entertainment goes, is a bare and harsh
diet -
C.M.
Radio
Retarding
Culture?
That radio has
proved beneficial
in very many re-
spects is unques-
tionable, but I
seriously doubt
the claim often
made that it must advance culture.
It is asserted that the performance of
real music will lead to a wider apprecia-
tion and understanding of its beauty;
also other cultural and educational items
form part of the programmes with the
idea of benefiting the public. What does
the listening majority do? It cuts out or
ignores what it doesn’t understand (or
wish to understand) and confines its
attention mainly to items which provide
entertainment requiring the exercise of
a minimum of mental effort, plus sport-
ing news, and particularly anything con-
cerned with horseracing.
Apropos of horseracing, since radio
sets have become common in homes the
percentage of married women and young
people who bet on the races regularly
has increased tremendously. Previously a
few women occasionally backed their
fancies, surreptitiously through trusted
tradesmen calling on ordinary business;
now, in suburbs within three miles of
the city, runners call at the homes for
bets (from Is. 3d. upwards) before each
race if required, working on reports com-
ing through by radio. In one street it is
estimated that two runners call for bets
at not less than 70 p.c. of the houses!
But, apart from that, it is a fact that,
while nearly every home has a wireless
set, few have a decent piano or other
musical instrument, and in few'er still do
we meet people who are even fair musi-
cians or singers. The same applies to
cultural books, pictures and so forth. The
fact is that the majority of listeners take
what they want from radio, and the
claims that it is advancing culture are
considerably overdone.
P. J. B.
All Round
the Dial
“Top Rail”;
A point over-
looked by “Globe
Trotter” in fore-
seeing radio’s
effects on pro-
fessional sport (B. 24/4/’35) is the
stand that such sport itself must take.
If crowds fall away radio will be the
he will find — er —that his motah-cah has been
— er —completely... stol-en.
first thing blamed, and boxers and others
have expressed their suspicions already
in emphatic taboo. Incidentally, Sydney
at time of writing is suffering a particu-
larly atrocious form of broadcasting as
a result of the A.B.C.’s kowtowing
to professional football. The Rugby
League gave permission for the broad-
casting of portions only of matches,
and so the A.8.C., which could
give—as it did throughout last season
—a whole Rugby Union match and
make good sporting entertainment
Si n °mf^e„ C ff it'K
N.S.W. v. Queensland match, leaving
that inter-State fixture ten minutes before
full time in order to cross over to the
Cricket Ground to finish off a League
club game, returning to the other ground
after the inter-State match was over,
“G.T.”: Marjorie Stedeford, a youthful
and easily-scrutinised member of an old
St. Kilda (Vic.) family, blew into radio
reason of having visited a record fac-
tory in Melbourne to see the business.
While she was there the manager, as a
compliment to the fair visitor, asked her
to give them a song. She astonished him
by her vocal suitability for purposes of
records, and this led to her singing into
the mike being a feature of the Rex pro-
gramme when that cabaret was running.
Other radio experiences led her to try
her luck abroad, and she went off only
a few weeks back, announcing that she
was going to sell her voice to somebody.
Now comes the cabled news that, after
three weeks in London, she has pulled
off an important job in the British Broad-
casting; Co.
“A.G.R.”: In stating that the A.B.C.
should substitute recorded opera in favor
of the real stuff relayed from the theatre,
\B.L.” (B. 17/4/’35) gets nearer the mark
than most of The Bulletin contributors
on the subject, for in this way listeners
would hear opera in as nearly a perfect
way as it is at present possible—that is.
supposing all static noises were reduced
to nil. Opera, a combination of many
arts, should, if heard in an ideal way,
arouse the various artistic senses to an
enormous extent, which, of course, at
present it doesn’t. But, as far as civilisa-
tion and science have so far progressed,
this ideal is not yet obtainable, and we
must for the time being take the next
best thing—a perfect recording. In this
way poor production, bad stage appear-
ance or lack of histrionic capacity in the
artists does not in any way distract from
the sensations of hearing stimulated when
a record is played. Perfect opera will be
enacted when the talkie
becomes more developed, for
then we will be able to
superimpose the exquisite
voice of an opera star over
the beauty of form and his-
trionic ability of a talented
film actor, and surround this
by the creations of a master
producer and his expert col-
leagues.
“L.L.L.”: In bagging en-
tertainers from other stations
the radio people pursue tac-
tics familiar enough from the
old days of vaudeville oppo-
sitions. Albert Russell and
Reg Morgan, now with 2GB,
arrived from Maoriland with
letters of recommendation to
the A.B.C. Hearing of their
coming, a representative
from 2GB met them at the
boat and suggested they
should interview 2GB before
deciding. Then at their trial
appearance for the A.B.C. at
a community singing concert
2GB scouts were again present to
see how they appealed to Sydney
audiences. They appealed well enough
to send the 2GB reps, in haste
back to headquarters, after which
signing-up was only a matter of time,
Russell, the humorist, actor and cohi-
munity-singing leader of the duo, hails
originally from England; Morgan, who
does the singing, accompanying and solo-
playing, is from Wales. Morgan has the
worse past to live down—he has played
wurlitzers.
“L”: Btoadcas.ing dtags .hcnt all in.
Even our old friend Piddo becomes one
of its lights. He has been telling -G B
listeners all about Soviet Russia, includ-
ing the assurance that the churches have
not vanished from Moscow they have
been put to other uses.


Si.
Bft. 9in.
Bft. 7£in.
Bft. sjin.
Bft. 4in.
Bft. ,2±in.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
- S. V. Colville, M.Inst.R.E. (Aust.)» —
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operate
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: B2261
]
/J.HOI3H •">/ SSOM
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
Icilent. age 191, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
„ „ ‘2l ..5 ~ in 5 mths.
„ „ 20, 3J .. in 16 days.
„ 30, 2. „ in 4 weeks.
„ 40, „ li ~ in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. Sjins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over Hut world.
Fee £2 2a. complete. Details Free. Write now
► A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist,
1 Scarborough, Eng. iP.O. Box 15.)
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to youi
corn —it will stick readily. Follow ycur usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again:
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn>
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
whether big or little, hard or soft. ALI
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA43S7.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
METAL DETECTOR FOR BATTERY SETS.
Not the least interesting problems in
radio are connected with the battery-
operated receiver. Radio engineers are
continually striving to perfect improve-
ments that will give the battery user the
utmost value for his money. Valves
are the big snag. To-day they are
reasonably economical in filament and
plate-voltage requirements, but there still
appears to be room for development of
a valve with little or no filament voltage
Fig 1. —Showing the construction of the
Westector, consisting of alternate copper
discs and similar discs faced with oxide
to obtain rectification.
and current consumption. This sounds
unreasonable, but it is by no means so.
Only the other day a high-souled inven-
tor blithely suggested special valves with
small gas jets for heating the cathode.
The trouble is that gas has to be paid
for, and the plan has other obvious dis-
advantages, If some constant heat-
radiating substance wejre to be discovered
on earth in profusion the infinitely-
active valve might materialise, but mean-
while other methods must be considered.
The stage of eliminating all the valves
requiring electrical heat in a radio re-
ceiver has not been reached, but at least
one can be dispensed with in the case
of the detector. A year or so ago the
Westector made its appearance, spon-
sored in N.S.W. by Amnlidn (A’sia),
Ltd., Sydney. This is nothing more or
less than our old friend the copper-oxide
rectifier in a new form for R.F. circuits.
Fig. 2. —Showing how a metal detector
may be used. The following valve is the
first audio stage.
In appearance it is very much like a grid
leak with terminals at the ends. There
are two types, W 4 and WX6. The
former is quite unsuitable for high-
frequency circuits, such as the 200- to
500-metre broadcast range, owing to the
high internal capacity. It is, however,
suitable at somewhat lower frequencies,
and is therefore applicable as the second
detector in a superhet, preferably with an
I.F. of 175 kc.
It must be remembered that the metal
detector is just a plain diode; it rectifies
without any amplification, and is there-
fore less efficient, in this respect than the
valve. With sufficient pre-amplification
this slight disadvantage is nullified. The
WX6 type Westector is specially designed
for high-frequency circuits, and is thus
suitable as the detector in a tuned R.F.
receiver on the 200- to 550-metre broad-
cast range.
In the case of the T.R.F. receiver par-
ticularly, the fact of non-amplification
of the metal detector is an advantage.
Three, or even four, tuned stages can be
used ahead of the detector, so that there
is no ground for complaint regard-
ing insensitivity. It is well known
that' the usual leaky grid-valve de-
tector, by reason of its action as
rectifier and amplifier, introduces a
certain amount of distortion. Because
the valve has to be worked on the
bend of its curve, undistorted ampli-
fication cannot be obtained.
By using the WX6 detector the interests
of quality reproduction are conserved,
and the ordinary triode valve can be
used as an audio stage following the de-
tector. In actual practice it has been
proved that a simple three-valve affair,
with R.F., WX6, audio and pentode out-
Fig. 3. —An audio, transformer can be
used as the coupling with the metal de-
tector, as illustrated here.
put, gives a somewhat higher degree of
amplification than the ordinary R.F., de-
tector and audio combination, and the
quality of reproduction is better into the
bargain.
Regeneration cannot be applied in the
usual way when the Westector is used,
but some form of reaction can be
arranged by introducing an oscillation
control on one of the R.F. stages. This
procedure, however, should not be at all
necessary with a good cascade R.F. am-
plifier. A simple trick to introduce con-
trollable R.F. oscillation is to connect
a very small condenser between grid and
plate of one of the stages or to connect a
loop of wire from the plate of one stage
around the preceding grid coil. With
R.F, pentodes of the 34 or KF2 type,
oscillation can be controlled by a vari-
able-MU potentiometer bias control.
In a receiver with low R.F. arnplifica-
tion the Westector should be biased to
a point of optimum rectification, usually
at H-volt negative, the method of. doing
this being shown in Fig 2, If more
audio volume is required an audio trans-
former connected as in Fig. 3 can be
used, but, because of the high impedance
of the detector, the usual transformer
step-up coupling is not advisable.
AN EFFICIENT ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE AERIAL SYSTEM.
During tests undertaken by the Sydney
group of experimenters of ultra-short-
wave propagation on the experimental
56-megacycle (five-metre) band, the
writer has had the opportunity to erect
and test thoroughly practically every
known form of aerial system for radia-
tion and reception. The system dia-
grammed here has proved to be by far
the most efficient from every point of
view, and is strongly recommended to
all interested in this increasingly impor-
tant phase of radio communication.
Ample proof of the effectiveness of
this array was afforded during a long-
distance test on 5/5/’35, when Mr.
O’Donnell, of VK2OD, erected a port-
able transmitter and receiver on Mt.
Boyce, 73 miles west of the Sydney
coastline. With this array erected inside
the roof of a house in Mosman (N.S.W.)
and a transmitter using only eight watts
input, operating under the writer’s port-
able callsign, VK2NU, the signal from
this station was the only one heard from
Sydney at the Mt. Boyce location. This
despite the fact that much higher-
powered stations, including the writer’s
home station, VK2NO, and using ex-
ternal and well-elevated aerials, were on
the air in Sydney.
The system is sim-
plicity itself, and,
provided the aerial
lengths are cut cor-
rectly for the fre-
quency used, no
trouble should be
experienced. The
important point for
transmission is that
the feeder line must
be coupled to the
tra n s mitter at a
point of low R.F.
potential. With a
push-pull oscillator,
the line is therefore
coupled to the tank
circuit by a single-
turn loop around
and at the centre of
the tank. For recep-
turn, the line terminates at a small tuned
circuit (five turns 14 copper lin. in
diameter tuned by a five-plate midget),
and a small coupling condenser to the
detector grid circuit of the receiver is
tapped to the coil at the most suitable
point, this being determined by trial on
a signal.
The aerials are of 17-gauge copper,
with the feeders of the same gauge,
spaced \\ inches. The feeder line
is any convenient length. Resonance
is easily determined for transmission
by noting the transference load on
the oscillator plate milliameter, and
a further check can be taken by holding
an absorption wave-meter with lamp in-
dicator in proximity to the aerials. With
eight watts input to two 45 valves in the
oscillator the wave-meter lamp lights
brilliantly an inch or so away from the
radiators when the transmitter is cor-
rectly tuned to the radiators. The insu-
lators in the centre of each radiator are
Hin. long, and can be of the small por-
celain egg-type. The lengths of wire
for the radiators in the table given
below are the actual lengths required, and
do not include the insulator in the over-
all length.
Such an aerial assembly
is not difficult to erect,
and will be a useful type
for the average garden
or roof space. The plane
of the aerials must always
face in the direction of
the required station for
best results. By approxi-
mately halving dimensions given this
aerial system is applicable to 2\ metres,
D. B. K.
Short-wave Diallings.
The broadcast from London of the
jubilee celebrations was well worth the
trouble of rising early to hear. The
writer found the original broadcast
better for clarity than the recording sent
over next day in the No. 1 transmission
from the 8.8. C. The first of the pro-
ceedings was picked up at 9 p.m. from
CJA in Canada, which was relaying to
Melbourne. Direct reception from Eng-
land was impossible at that hour, and
several Americans were also relaying,
but at strength too weak to be of use
here. CJA was on 27.15 m., and although
received here at only fair strength the
noise level was very low and speech
was word-perfect. This station is nor-
mally on telegraph transmissions.
At 3 a.m. GSB was excellent, with
GSD only fair. The London jubilee
ceremony was broadcast by the former,
but by the time Rudyard Kipling was
due to speak strength was falling
quickly, and he was hard to follow at
6 a.m.
PHI has disappeared, and will prob-
ably not be heard for some months, as
the 16.88 m. wave-length is inaudible
here.
Yet another new transmission has come
to light. Between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. on
Mondays WIXAL (25.45 m.) now trans-
mits an educational session. WIXAL is
also on 49m., but is not at present
audible on that wave-length. The sig-
nal has been only ’phone strength, but
was quite easily followed,
Japan on the 28m. wave-length has
been good recently, but changes so often
one never knows where to look. FYA
has made a change, and now closes down
at 3 p.m. sharp. This is unfortunate
from our point of view, as strength is
then at the best in Australia, but FYA
is often quite strong, except for about
two hours after 9 a.m. in the morning.
The 8.8. C. No. 1 transmission con-
tinues at splendid strength, with very little
difference now between GSD and GSB.
Russia seems to have practically
abandoned the 49m. transmission, and
RNE comes on in the 25m, band at
almost maximum volume from about
7.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m., when strength
drops. 2RO is only fair in the morning
and quite inaudible at night. WBXK
has not yet come up to last year’s
strength on Sundays,
A surprise recently was very loud
music heard at 6 p.m, in the amateur
20m. band. This turned out to be
W6VH testing. It is an unusual hour
for that band, and is midnight in San
Francisco, where W6VH is located.
The amateur 20ra. band has been
erratic, as that wave-length always is, but
signals from all parts of the world have
been coming in throughout the 24 hours.
U.S.A. amateur station W9AA is an
example of how a modern short-wave
transmitter is designed efficiently, but in
as little space as possible.
The 49m. band has been poor at night,
although the noise level has dropped
considerably. It looks as if this band
will not be worth much until conditions
change again.
NIGGHTOWL.


YOD Will NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy wilt protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO.. LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House. St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the Slates.
WnH
m P ■
Stop and consider these facts . . ,
Your own judgment should tell you that ordinary
non-medicated confections and gum drops are quite
useless in dealing with the germs that attack the throat,
chest and lungs—whereas
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
because of their high medicinal value, have been pro-
tecting the health of millions of people for over 40
years, and to-day enjoy the largest sale of any prepara-
tion of their kind in the world.
It is a fact worth knowing too, that a Hudson’s
Kumenthol Jujube, taken after meals, prevents indiges-
A The Liirjnx ot Organ u! Voice
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of •
dissected Lung.
D —The lobe of one of the Lung*
tion.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. Ain
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE.
16 tin
BUY BOTH SIZES—USE LARGE TIN AS REFILL FOE SMALL ONE
Amateur Chatter.
Last week saw a succession of aerial
experiments by several of the VK2 56mc.
men. A matched impedance system was
tried at VK2BP with indifferent success,
hut VK2NO finds a similar system gives
Maoriland amateur station ZL2QM sports a fine collection
of QSL cards behind the operating position, making bizarre
but interesting wallpaper.
excellent multi-directional results, whilst
possessing decided concentration in a
direction in the plane of the aerial. Re-
flectors in the usual beam arrangement
are not effective where two doublets are
linked by a twisted pair fed from a 600-
ohm line. VK2BP tried a “straight”
56mc. receiver, and heard the carriers of
several Sydney stations strongly, but fre-
quency modulation of self-excited trans-
mitters rendered intelligent speech hope-
less. There is much to be done in trans-
mitter and receiver design as the number
of stations increases on the band.
VK2OD has left Katoomba, and has
aroused ultra-short enthusiasm around
Lakemba. It is reported that in this dis-
trict VKs 2QX, 2EY and 2PY are pre-
paring for an onslaught on the 56mc.
band.
A new station is VK2XM, who worked
VK2BP on 56mc., using a 20m. doublet,
at R 6! VKs 2XK and 2WJ have been
testing directive arrays with good results,
although 2WJ appears to work all sta-
tions well, using an Bft. copper rod in-
side the shack. VK2WD is active, but
2CG has forsaken amateur radio tem-
porarily in favor of a new lathe.
VK2MW has moved to Parramatta, and
is erecting a beam facing Sydney.
VK2SR, once an active early-morning
40m. ’phone station, spoke from VK2UG
to VK2NO-2NU on 5m., and is now
working on the gear for sm. from
his Lake Illawarra location ; being well
attacked by the ultra-s.w. bug!
By far the finest ultra-s.w. location in
Sydney appears to be Mosman, where
the writer’s portable station, VK2NU, is
under test. Here, with an indoor
matched-impedance aerial, everything on
the air on 56mc. is hearable and work-
able. The heights of Mosman have a
commanding view over Sydney and
suburbs in all directions.
VK2UG is busy on ne,w aerials and
is getting excellent results with the super-
het described B. 24/4/’35. He is almost
ready for 112mc. tests.
The 20m. band is very lively, and: DX
from Europe and U.S.A. is much in evi-
dence during the afternoons. On 80m.
the winter gang is appearing, and VK-
ZL QSOs are in good swing. 40 metres
is very much the “punishment band.”
It is little short of torture to try to
do any sensible work through the welter
of interference from the “back-fence”
'phone merchants. One thanks the
powers that be for the blessing in dis-
guise of ultra-shorts and room to breathe
whilst indulging in genuine experimenta-
tion.
VK2NO.
R.F. Stage Coupling.
“Querex”: There is a number of
methods of connecting a radio frequency
amplifier, tuned or untuned, to the detec-
tor-grid circuit of a short-wave receiver.
The most popular is the circuit which
includes an R.F.
choke in the plate
circuit of the am-
plifier. The choke
and plate circuit
are coupled to the
tuned detector cir-
cu i t through a
small condenser,
examples being the
Wide-World Four
(B. 2/1/’35) and
Electronic Four
(B. 15/5/’35). This
method of coup-
ling has the advan-
tage that no plate
voitage is applied
to the detector-
grid circuit, the
small condenser isolating this circuit. It
is, however, of importance to ensure
that the condenser is not likely to be
shorted. A safety measure is to include
a fixed condenser of .00025 mfd. capa-
city in series with the coupling con-
denser. The most important component
is the R.F. choke, as reference to the
circuit diagram will show that this is
actually connected across the tuned
circuit through the plate supply. Any
losses in this component will therefore
affect the tun-
ing and cause
loss of R.F.
gain. The small
single section
honeycomb
chokes are
therefore little
better than use-
less for this pur-
pose. A choke
with plenty of
inductance is re-
quir e d, and
either the multi-
section honeycombs or high-inductance,
slot-wound types should be used for
coupling R.F. stages in this manner.
What’s What in Radio.
It is reported that the Alexandra Palace
at Wood Green, London, may be used
as the first official television h.q. for the
8.8. C.
* * * *
A super cinema, equipped for televi-
sion, is being built at Everton Valley,
Liverpool (Eng.).
* * * *
Germany lost no time in securing a lead
over England in television. On March
14 last the first public high-definition
sound and sight station using ultra-short
waves was opened in Berlin.
* * * *
From France comes news of an en-
tirely new television system by M. Chau-
viere, a Paris engineer. The system is
reported to have considerably impressed
experts who attended a demonstration at
Lyons.
* * * *
Northwood (England) fire brigade is
using ultra-short-wave radio to facilitate
operations. Much time in necessary
communication is saved by using sm.
radio equipment between fire engines
and headquarters, instead of depending
upon the ordinary telephone service.
The transmitters and receivers on the
mobile units are very compact, and stow
away neatly into special lockers.
* * * *
According to the president of the
National Broadcasting Co. (U.S.A.), one
of the biggest television studios in the
world is to be erected in Hollywood.
The film business apparently intends to
be well in the running with the newer
screen art, the idea being to permit stars
at work on the film sets to be put on
the air without loss of time and with a
minimum of trouble. Judging by some
of the recent musical extravaganzas,
Hollywood screen-scanners are going to
get a good eyeful!
Casual Comment.
“Warscare”: The 8.8. C. is pondering
over the action of the German broad-
casting authorities in removing the con-
trol-room, which is the nerve centre,
from its previous position in Berlin to
a bomb-proof cellar. The Teuton mind
realises that a single bomb might put the
entire system hors de combat just when
it might be urgently needed to assist in
subduing panic. As a contrast, the
control-room in Broadcasting House,
London, is the most exposed part of the
building. It is on the eighth floor, and
has a sloping glass roof!
*
“Spotlight”: Theories often go by the
board in radio, as in other things. “Never”
is a dangerous word without the backing
of centuries of personal experience! For
example, last year they put up a new
bridge over the Snowy River (N.S.W.)
at a level the water would never reach.
It never had done so in 70 years. But
it did, and the theory went; also the
£12,000 bridge, which had never been
used. A few short years ago 10m. for
general communication purposes was con-
demned by those who should know
as useless. Wave-lengths below 12m.
would never be suitable for long-
distance communication. Since then
there have been many instances of ama-
teurs covering continents and oceans
with comparative fly-power. In three
week-ends of March, 1935, amateur sig-
nals from U.S.A., Japan, Mexico, Chile
and even Belgium were heard (and
worked with) in Australia with astonish-
ing punch. Such wave-lengths may
have erratic properties, but should not
be ruled out as useless. Radio is far
too young for such hasty conclusions.
* * * *
“Squegger”: Strikes me there will be
some heartburnings in these “all-wave”
sets when the 15m. band comes back to
favorable long-distance conditions simi-
lar to 1928-29, as is sure to happen. The
American designer makes his all-waver
to cover completely 12m. to 600 m. (some
start at 10m.), and thus noi possibility is
excluded. In winter evenings the chats
between Australia and Maoriland ama-
teurs on the 75m. to 85m. band afford
a fair amount of amusement for many
listeners. This is not really broadcast
entertainment, of course, but listeners
may just as well have the advantage of
being able to get anything there is to get
out of the air.
[The dual-wave receiver was made to
satisfy existing entertainment conditions,
and as such does a remarkably good job.
There is no technical objection to the pro-
duction of all-wave models proper, but
production cost for the factory is a dif-
ferent matter. The selling price would
consequently be higher in proportion.
A really efficient all-wave receiver cannot
be mass-produced, and calls for consider-
able individual care. It is a question of
time in production, and the manufac-
turer has provided a good alternative
receiver in the Australian dual-wave
models at a selling price very little above
that of a one-range broadcast model.
—Ed.]
* * *
“Xgee”: In the 8.8.C.'s chief en-
gineer's article, No. 3, on “Technical Ad-
vance in Broadcasting,” referring to short-
wave broadcasting, he mentions that “the
Australian station VK2ME has recently
been coming in very well on Sunday
afternoons, so that if we had a few more
such stations all over the Empire no
doubt short-wave interest would rapidly
grow.” Australia can justly lay claim
to having played an important part in
the popularising of short-wave broad-
casting. VK2ME was one of the first
stations to commence a regular overseas-
broadcast service anywhere in the world,
and overseas magazines for years have
contained references to the station and
its kookaburra introduction.
Latest in the Trade.
» Dn „ x . »
R 9, a monthly publication from Los
An B eles (U.S.A.), and one which should
S race the bookshelf of every amateur
[ ransm itter, has many excellent features
, issue for April, 1935. They in-
c*u<~ Simplifying Radio Calculations, ’
hrst anaesthetic being the use of the
/A 4 / 11 . o .’ ... A Versatile 685 Amplifier” ;
Bias Modulation ; A Transmit-
OJ ' *he Experimenter” ; “A Two-stage
Pf e- ; An Overmodulation In-
[ The 2A3 for R.F. Lise”;
J Antenna for Five Metres,” and
A Better Neutralising Procedure.
High-voltage condensers for filtering
P U7 P oses m radio transmitters were, until
~ Y ear a § 0 > expensive imported luxuries,
.day there are available at reasonable
P nces high-voltage-high-frequency con-
c*®nsers m ade 111 Australia. They bear
tae name of Ducon, and arc
r £ ai k e t e d; a s an experiment, but with
, backing or years of experience in
ma of condensers. The type
"} 15 in this form
tbe ia *)g e UII ! S Imfd. at 1000 volts
to 4mrd. at 15,000 volts. Such <a range
? a * ers well for power-amplifier special-
-18b). an , ex P en mental and commercial
rac ho-telephony transmitters. The makers
are Tricon Condenser Pty., Ltd., 73-83
Bourke-street, Waterloo (N.S.W.), also
manufacturers of the well-known Chanex
condenser and resistor products.
The Q. and A. Column.
/ have several good two-volt Iriodes of the
PM2DX and 30 type, and would like to use
these in a portable battery broadcast receiver.
(1) Could an effective four- or five-valve set
be made in this way ? (2) Can you provide
a circuit diagram ? —265.
(1) Yes, but as a portable it will be limited
in range. (2) The circuit illustrated is from an
old overseas magazine and is self-explanatory.
One tuned R.F. stage is used with an untuned
buffer and detector. Regeneration is used on
the R.F. stage in which circuit is the frame
aerial. About 18 turns of 26 D.S.C. on an
18in. frame, with seven turns in continuation
for regeneration, will do. The tuning condenser
will be .0005mfd. and regeneration condenser
.00015mfd. Use a two-volt power triode such
as the PM2A in the output. This receiver idea
is ancient but workable.
•i* 'i*
(1) How does the Wide-World Four com-
pare with the Regenerative Reflex All-wave
Superhet in fa) performance, (b) ease of con-
trol ? (2) Which is the easier to construct
and line up ? (3) Could the all-wave super-
het be used on 600 metres ? If so, what size
coils should be used ? —264.
(1) The superhet is naturally more selective
than the straight receiver, but the noise level
is lower on the latter. Performance is about
equal: likewise ease of control. (2) The Wide-
World Four. (3) Yes, by adding 35 to 40
turns to the usual broadcast-coil specifications.
With the condensers used, the grid coils would
have about 140 turns of 34 enamelled on Uin.
diameter formers. Oscillator plate and aerial-
coupling coils would remain the same as
for the 200- to 550-metre coils.


Take a Holiday
from worn]...
FORGET all workaday worries. Take a holiday in
sunny Fiji. A bracing sea trip via beautiful Auck-
land, N.Z. on a luxurious Union or Matson liner
quickly brings you to this island Paradise,
Fiji offers delights for every holiday-maker. Marvellous
fishing in lagoons and seas of magic colour; hiking and
driving in mountainous scenery through picturesque
native villages; trips to the outlying islands, Levuka and
beautiful Taveuni; an enchanting 250 mile motor drive
over good roads on the lovely island of Vanua Levu ;
swimming, boating, golf, tennis, bowls and the best of
hotel accommodation.
Fiji will be at her best during the coming months. Get
an extra month of summer this year. Post the coupon
and plan your holiday now.
... in fair
FIJI
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT
%
■ Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
i UNION S.S. CO. LTD.,Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
I Please send me booklets and pamphlets on
1 Fiji and all information regarding travelling
1 to, and holidays in Fiji.
I
i Name
Address
say
• • *
9*r
Hotels everywhere now have Vat
69, for years favourite whisky of
the connoisseurs abroad. Genuine
Scotch. Matured in wood at least
7 years. Mellow, smooth and
distinctive. Costs no more. Try it.
VAT oo
Pure Liqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, £,eith,
.'Gotland. Distillers since 1863.
1 f>g.2
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Hiding the People's Pictures
Melbourne National Gallery owns a
lot of pictures, bought many years back
when Victoria had more money than
artistic discrimination. According to
modern judgment, they are second-rate
pictures, and the trustees, having limited
wall space, have hidden a lot of them in
back rooms and cellars. Now a number
has been transferred to Government
House.
Of course, Government House is
a better place than the gallery cellars;
but why should not country towns have
these paintings —on loan at least? Euro-
pean countries follow this practice
almost invariably. In fact, the Luxem-
bourg gallery in Paris retains its pic-
tures only until 10 years after the death
of the artist, when they are distributed
—not as loans but as gifts—to the
various provincial galleries. There are
many country towns quite capable of
housing the pictures safely.—M. G.
(Vic.).
“Must It Be a Policeman?"
I remember Lord Trenchard when he
was major in the 2nd Battalion Royal
Scots Fusiliers, about 1911-12. He was
a martinet, and would occasionally roar
up his subalterns on parade in the pres-
ence of the troops. Anyone of inferior
rank addressing him would be met with
a glare and a bellowed “What?” His
work in the R.F.C. and the Air Force
was mostly administrative.
No, I don’t think he’d suit Australia,
—J. McCraw (S.A.).
To Help Australian Writers
Queensland School of Arts Associa-
tion has asked the Government to
restore the subsidies cut off four years
ago. I am in favor of it, with this pro-
viso: Restoration should be made con-
ditional on 75 per cent, of the subsidy
being spent on Australian publications
which accept contributions and pay for
them at AJ.A. rates, and on the publi-
cations being kept on free reading-room
tables. Schools of Arts, Miners’ Insti-
tutes and the like should help to intro-
duce Australian writers to readers. With
this sort of encouragement magazines
like “Aussie” and the “Lone Hand”
would have lived. —L. A. S. (Q.).
City Halls
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Jones proudly
announces that Perth (W.A.) may copy
his city in the matter of its proposed new
civic structure. 1 recommend Perth not
to imitate the cost, £1,000,000, or to deal
with its disused hall as Brisbane has
done, leaving broken, dust-begrimed
windows and the old clock (handless) to
become an eyesore.
I, for one, will regret the passing of
Perth’s Town Hall. Governor Hampton
laid the foundation stone on May 24,
1867. His successor, Weld, opened the
building on the colony’s 21st birthday,
June 1, 1870, when Perth had 4500
people, as compared with a present
population of 220,000. The windows in
the, tower, shaped like inverted broad-
arrows, perpetuate the architect’s idea of
a joke. His plans got past the authori-
ties without the blot being noticed, and
they are the cause of much neck-craning
to-day— Hotel de V. (Q.).
An Expert cn Meat Export
The Commonwealth veterinary officer
in London has given the politicians who
urge expansion of meat-export quotas a
knock in the eye. Australia and Maori-
land on April 4 had afloat for Britain
620,000 carcasses of mutton, 2,300,000
of lamb and 71,000 of frozen beef,
whereas South American totals were
41,000, 281,000 and 1500 respectively.
Only in chilled beef —232,000 carcasses
out of 255,000 were South American—
have the Argentines anything on us, and
of chilled beef we have not the supplies
to send.
Mr. Hey wood adds:
When S. America is only shipping its best
mutton because of the severe restrictions
imposed by the British Government, and
while M.L. mutton is superior to Aus-
tralian, it seems most desirable that the
shipment by Australia of second-quality-
mutton should be rigidly curtailed.
. He goes on to say that there are large
quantities of frozen lamb in store in the
U.K. and that if even one of the largest
holders unloaded prices would fall to a
very low level. But “supplies to arrive
are causing the real nervousness in the
trade.”
As The Bulletin has preached, it is
time that we turned a lot more atten-
tion to quality and less to quantity.—
E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
The Hitler Touch
One thing in which Hitler beats the
world is in the conciseness of his legis-
lation. His new law' introducing con-
scription reads: —
The following law is hereby promulgated:
1. Defence-force service is based on general
conscription. .
2. The German peace army, including
absorbed military police, is organised as
12 corps commands and 36 divisions.
3. Supplementary laws on the organisation
of general conscription shall be drafted
by the Reichswehr Minister for approval
by • the Reich Cabinet.
And no dashed nonsense about Parlia-
mentary discussion. The “law’’ was just
“promulgated,” and it stands. —El V.
(N.S.W.).
When Recruiting Flagged
Though unaware of what transpired in
the course of the conversation between
Senator Pearce and Mr. Holman (B.
10/4/’35), 1 am in a position to say that
the late ex-Premier’s complaint about the
slackness of the Federal authorities re-
garding recruiting in 1915, and the reason
given for it, is substantially correct.
The Defence authorities were making
the rounds of a vicious circle. They de-
clared that recruiting was limited by the
output of rifles, and in the next breath
that the rifle supply was quite equal to
the number of recruits offering. Members
of the House of Representatives com-
plained bitterly about the unsatisfactory
situation, but could get no improvement.
Then the Public Accounts Committee
visited the Small Arms Factory at Lith-
gow, and it was found that a second shift
was quite practicable. On my return I
spoke strongly in the House on the sub-
ject, and later the second shift was estab-
lished. But recruiting did not recover, in
spite of the efforts made by voluntary
committees,— J. M. Fowler (Vic,).
“Assisted” Farmers
S.A.’s F.A.B. consists of a Judge,
an accountant, a civil servant and a
“representative” of the farmers (not
nominated by them); its decisions are
final: there is no appeal. It “assists”
farmers by retaining all rebates and. dis-
counts, and by deducting 2-\ p.c, from
gross receipts, including matured _ life
policy, wheat bounty and, of all things,
the maternity bonus.
A farmer’s sons get no encouragement
to help the old man. Generally, no wages
are available for a son, and his tucker
allowance is 3s. 6d. per week, whereas
a hired man may get wages up to 20s.
per week, with a tucker allowance of 10s.
per week. In allotting districts to super-
visors (or whatever they are called) care
was taken that none was appointed to a
district: which he knew. Their function
is to detect.
All this explains why farmers are in-
creasingly preferring bankruptcy to Gov-
ernment assistance. — Minapre (S.A.).
Results of Tree-destruction
I was interested to read in B. 1/5/ 35
that thoughtless destruction of trees m
Victoria had aggravated flood damage ,
In the Royal Society’s “Journal for 19U.-
appears a pointed warning to farmers on
the Hunter (N.S.W.) about the same
matter. The writer urged protection of
trees and retention of grass or some sort
of cultivation on the hillsides at the head
of the river. Instead of that, farmers
ran sheep and cut down or nngbarked
tlic trees.
The sheep bared the land of grass and
pulverised the soil. Every time heavy
rains came a few inches of the soil was
swept away, and a farmer lower down
the river might find a deep layer of good
loam on his land after the subsidence of
the flood. The trouble was that the good
soil in the upper reaches was not of un-
limited depth. I knew a farmer who
committed suicide when he saw his farm
after a flood ; it was covered with use-
less sand. That prophecy of 1902 has
come true with a vengeance. —A. G. M.
(N.S.W.).
A Bishop on Railway Matters
The Bishop of Willochra (S.A.), refer-
ring to the proposed Red Hill-Port
Augusta railway, says:
It is obvious to any disinterested per-
son that the building of the line will be
to the advantage of S.A. as well as to the
Commonwealth.
His Grace has been living in the diocese
for upwards of eight years, and should
be aware of the poor nature of the
country to be traversed. It is rather sur-
prising to find him at variance with
expert opinion. South Australians laugh
at the suggestion that the State would
gain anything at all from the project,
while the idea of the rest of the Com-
monwealth benefiting to any marked
degree by the cutting of a few hours off
the Ferth-Sydney journey is ludicrous.
His Grace again:
The line will pass through or near Crystal
Brook. I wonder why a line from a point
near the last-named place across to the
Burra and from thence to Hay in N.S.W.
has not been proposed. This would open
up immense tracts of new country, and
would shorten the journey from W.A. to
Sydney by nearly 24 hours. With the
exception of 20 miles or less of moun-
tainous country between Spalding and the
Burra, the engineering difficulties would be
inconsiderable.-
The “immense tracts of new country”
are, as far as the S.A. portion is con-
cerned, all inside the lOin. rainfall line,
while the N.S.W. country is not much
better endowed.
The “24-hours” argument has a some-
what stronger basis, but the same pur-
pose could be served at a fraction of the
cost by linking up the present East-West
line with Broken Hill.
As for lack of “engineering difficul-
ties” —well, of course, the cost of bridg-
ing the Darling and Lachlan rivers would
be “inconsiderable.” — Findy (S.AA


FOR SATURDAY’S EVENTS.
Moorefield Maiden: Magnus.
Moorefield Handicap: Cabalist
or Volwood; next, Nachara.
Moorefield Welter: Ca-balist or
Cid ; next, Visage.
Hurstville Mile: Wicklow ; next,
After Money.
Newcastle Cup: Braeburn ; next,
Foxhunter.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Though fields were small, all the
favorites were defeated in the six races
at Rosehill. The attendance was pretty
good, though rather light in the paddock
—an effect of the rout of backers at
Randwick. Randwick trainer Jack King
won a double with Cognac and Gothlin,
but the failures of stable-mates Oro and
Turbine were costly to many.
Why the Cercello party persists in try-
ing to win six-furlong races in good com-
pany with the washy chestnut is a
mystery. Made favorite for the Auburn
Handicap, he could only run fourth.
High, unluckily beaten by Hall Mark
in the Doncaster, was allowed to go out
at sixes; favored by a walk-in start and
a firm track, he won as he liked from
Silver Jubilee and Turbine, who ran his
race in patches. Bouyeo tried to steal
the thing, as he had done at Randwick,
but this time the going was no assistance.
He tired, and was beaten a furlong
from home.
Because he had worked well during the
week, Oro was backed from sixes to
threes in the Rosehill Handicap. It
proved one of his “off” days. McCarten
allowed him to bowl along in front for
half a mile ; then Pytheus took the lead,
and at the turn Pytheus was just in front
of Turbulent, who had been rushed up
Bert . Im oust cokisideriU<^' n
Gert "vJhao - 2 v
Bert '" Whact to put in the garden"
Gert " Id surest a i_rr-n_e work'
rather quickly. Le Legion (5 to 1) at
this stage was on the extreme outside, and
lost a bit of ground. Oro was definitely
beaten at the Leger, where Foxhunter (9
to 2) and Le Legion took charge, Le
Legion winning by two lengths, with
Tremayne a length away. Oro, rather
distressed, was fourth, and then came
Turbulent and Bill Wedgewood.
Gothlin (8 to 1), a handsome son of
the late Gothic, put up an impressive
performance in the Highweight. Duke
Caledon led into the straight, but the
big chestnut tired and moved out in the
final furlong, over which Gothlin came
with a convincing run. Duke Caledon
looked burly, and under the high scale
of weights he should make amends be-
fore long. Talkie was third. Highboy
essayed to lead throughout, tired at the
distance and missed a place. Unwise
tactics in the case of an animal noted
for good finishes.
Form did not suggest Cognac (7 to 1)
as the winner of the Maiden Juvenile,
and the son of Tippler, though McCarten
was up (the Maorilander also rode Goth-
lin), was not seriously considered by the
majority of backers. Viceroy, Fair Diana
and Rio Grande, who had beaten the
Randwick winner Cascade in a trial,
were preferred to him. Cognac, carrying
his nine stone in tradesmanlike style, got
a nice run on the rails at the top of the
straight when Diatter and Rio Grande
lugged out He finished gamely, to beat
Diatter and Viceroy. Viceroy, a big son
of Limond, should be seen to advantage
at a mile.
Gallant Knight, from M.L., a stable-
mate of Silver Jubilee, was a strong tip
for the Trial Stakes. He tired to no-
thing over the last couple of furlongs.
It was a thrilling finish; Lapthorne (7
to 1) and Musician (15 to 1) could not
be separated. King Charles, as sore as
a boil, was tailed off most of the way;
he warmed up in the straight, and ran
third.
*-* $ *
Williamstown handicapper W. C. Hill
triumphed over critics at the meeting on
the seaside course. In the Bay View
Handicap he allotted Gordon’s Leap
7st. 111 b., the impost which Holt’s candi-
date carried to easy victory in the Final
Handicap at the A.J.C. autumn* meeting.
On paper Gordon’s Leap looked to be
thrown in, the field being poorer than
that at Randwick ; but the son of Heroic
wasn’t rushed when betting opened: he
drifted from 4’s to 6’s, but firmed a
point at the end. Perhaps Holt reckoned
that 11 furlongs would be too far for
Gordon’s Leap, notwithstanding that he
had come home strongly at 1 \ miles.
Voitre, who has done a lot of riding
for Holt’s stable, was not available for
Gordon’s Leap because of a prior
engagement to pilot Takakua. Accord-
ingly Bailey weighed out for Gordon’s
; Leap, The two horses were together in
front from barrier-rise until the straight
was entered ; Gordon’s Leap then quitted
in the most pronounced fashion, finish-
ing in the ruck. Takakua deserved to be
left in first place after that protracted
struggle, but Free Wheel immediately
joined issue, and Voit're was obliged to
keep the 2 to 1 favorite going for all he
was worth. Free Wheel (25 to 1) actually
gained control a few strides from the
post. Exerting skill and vigor reminis-
cent of Duncan in his palmiest days, the
boy from Maoriland pulled punters
through by a head. Plus Fours, a vastly
improved three-year-old, was only half
a head farther off, and would have
gained the spoils if he had not become
squeezed on the rails, where Wilson
could not use his whip,
Takakua has had four outings in
Victoria for three successive wins and
£1625 in stakes. The owner, Jameson,
a steward of the Masterton (M.L.)
Jockey Club, is gleeful over his good
fortune. W. R. Kemball intends to move
the whole of his racing team from
Maoriland to Melbourne, and it will not
be surprising if Jameson strengthens his
turf interests there.
Takakua is trained by M. T. McGrath.
McGrath’s younger brother, Peter,
landed the Gellibrand Handicap with
Nellie Thrice. Punters went bald-headed
for Titanium, about whom the best odds
obtainable were 6to 4. Your Honor
(8 to 1) pressed the favorite so hotly
that both knocked up at the end of five
furlongs. Panax, a 33 to 1 chance, was
left at the head of affairs. He seemed
home and dry, but Nellie Thrice (5 to 1)
and Cinetheon (33 to 1) swooped down
with whirlwind speed. Voitre again
earned the cheers of onlookers by lifting
Nellie Thrice over the judge’s line of
vision by half a head from Panax and
Cinetheon, who dead-heated for second.
Nellie Thrice had lost many lengths at
the start, Panax is owned by H. Engle-
bert, who was a leading member of the
Melbourne ring in the days of conces-
sion betting.
Now located in Melbourne and filling
the dual roles of jockey and trainer,
L. J. Hynes was in the limelight at
Williamstown by riding the winner of
each jumping race. He took the Koro-
roit Hurdle on Ben David and the
Autumn Steeplechase on Oldhome. The
former is trained by his owner, Roy
McCormick, while Oldhome belongs to
P. G. Hay, the brewer, and is in the
stable of G. Bewsher. Though Hynes
has several leppers in hand for Hay,
Oldhome isn’t one of them.
Fine horsemanship was exhibited by
Hynes. He allowed each mount plenty
of time to settle down, but placed the
issue beyond doubt a long way from
home. Ben David must be seriously
reckoned with in the G. N. Hurdle ; next
to Full Charge, he is the most promising
Victorian recruit to service over the bat-
tens. Oldhome may not be seasoned
enough for a G. N. Steeple. Akanree,
trained by P. K. Padfield, who had Sir
Prim, was backed for a ton of money
in the Kororoit Hurdle. He shaped un-
generously and old Nyerimilang cut him
out of second place.
Holt took the Juvenile Handicap with
Mooramong, a Ronsard colt belonging
to L. K. S. Mackinnon. Getting a lucky
run on the rails, Mooramone scored bv
several lengths from Devon Cross, with
the M.L.-owned East Cape mird.
Royalty, the favorite, was carried off the
course at the home turn when forging
to the front.
• • • • • I
The Beach Welter was brilliantly an-
nexed by Watchful, an undersized
stallion by Drake. Purchased for 45
guineas as a yearling, Watchful has won
over £2400 in stakes for his amateur
trainer.
Pamelus is now the “boom” horse in
Queensland. Bought for 25 guineas as a
yearling (he is by Bullhead —Tango
Lass), and successful recently at Armi-
dale (in the Cup), at Toowoomba and
at Ascot, Pamelus was made favorite for
the Doomben Newmarket as soon as the
weights came out, though Bst. 131 b. is a
rather unusual burden for .a three-year-
old, and retained his position on the
course, closing at 4 to 1. He was in front
with two furlongs to go, and after that it
was no race. Regular Bachelor, .receiv-
ing 131 b., was second, two lengths away,
and Thalwyn was third, Pamelus, who
is owned and trained by Duke, and was
ridden by Tebb, cut the Queensland
record for six furlongs to Imin. llfsec.
Regular Bachelor figured in a scrim-
mage, and so did Lough Neagh ; but it
made no difference to the result.
* * * *
“Ellerslie”: For 35 years there have
been no bookmakers on Maoriland race-
courses, though there have been multi-
tudes in streets and shops. Auckland
R.C. is to ask the N.Z. Racing Confer-
ence at its next meeting to allow them
back into the fold.
C Continued on next page.)
Foolbrawl
After a series of surprises, Saturday’s
League matches in Melbourne settled
down to normal. South and Carlton pro-
vided the closest result, 13-19 to 14-6,
and this was the one match in which the
issue was in doubt for a while. Carlton
led in points up to half-time, but South’s
aggregation of behinds was tremendous,
and at three-quarter time the scores stood
11-14 to 11-3, It was this lead which
won South the game, for Carlton’s accu-
rate kicking failed to suffice. Fitzroy
had little difficulty in disposing of North
by 18-16 to 10-14. Melbourne put up a
bitter fight against Richmond, but was
beaten by better combination —18-20 to
14-8. St. Kilda got 16 goals out of 24
shots against Hawthorn, winning by 16-6
to 6-17, and Collingwood downed Gee-
long on its own ground by 17-13 to 14-17,
the veteran Gordon Coventry account-
ing for seven of Collingwood’s goals.
Footscray v. Essendon was used as an
educative force for State Governor
Hunfingfield, who saw the Australian
game for the first time. Essendon
won well, but had to fight for it, finish-
ing with 16-5 to 7-8 —in Essendon’s case,
as in that of St. Kilda, a wonderful pro-
portion of goals to behinds.
* * -1! *
In the leading Adelaide match on
Saturday Norwood defeated Port Adel-
aide by 11 points (122 to 111) and moved
up into top place, being now the only
undefeated side. It is rather early to
make forecasts, but these two teams seem
certain to keep near the head of the list.
The rest of the field is remarkably even,
and, although Glenelg has unaccountably
failed to record a win so far, it is un-
likely that last year’s premiers will re-
main at the bottom for long,
* =l= * 4>
Manly, which draws larger crowds
than any other Rugby Union side, suf-
fered another defeat on Saturday—its
fourth in five matches —Randwick beat-
ing it 18-9. Larnach-Jones’s three fine
goals had a lot to do with it; Manly’s
kicking for goal was very poor. Also,
Hodgson tried to do too much on his
own account, and Kelaher got few
opportunities. At North Sydney the
solidity of the Northern Suburbs defence
and Leach’s kicking just failed to beat
the leaders, University. At spell-oh
Norths led 9-8, three penalty goals by
Leach to a penalty goal and a converted
try. Leach added another p.g., and the
students another try, and with 60 seconds
to go it was 12-11. Then Leggett, at
centre for University, crossed from the
twenty-five. In the other matches Eastern
Suburbs (a try and a p.g.) and Western
Suburbs (two p.gs.) played a 6-all draw,
and Drummoyne 25 (three tries, two con-
verted, and four p.gs.) beat Parramatta
22 (three tries, two converted, and three
p.gs.).
* * * *
“ “ e Rugby League’s Sydney Cricket
Ground encounter on Saturday Western
Suburbs downed Balmain by playing
consistently throughout. Balmain gave
a patchy display. It began well, pinned
West to its 25 and nearly scored a
couple of times, but two strongly-run
h" les by Ridley acted as a steadier. A
classy try by Busch stirred up Balmain’s
enthusiasm in the second go ; but ’Main
Bugged again, and the bigger Western
men wei *® holding a 20-13 lead very
comfortably at the end.
* u i *» j
J* 2 ' c h ray ; ™f r Coulter law, de-
f , , y r, t 0 °verpay-
“S,* Irs . and under-the-lap
... 7 m - ts regarded m foot-
ball circles as an excellent exercise in the
°f what the A.I.F. used to call
Idodging 1 dodging Pompey.” If a motion now
League becomes law there
should be alarums and excursions; it
Provides that all club books relating to
"nance be audited by the V.F.L. an-
nually. The effect when introduced to
Jhe rneeting was as if an addled roc’s egg
had been dropped through the skylight.
Glub delegates could only look at each
other with a wild surmise.
t£t) „ * ~ * .. * „ * .
, Brass Tacks ; Vague talk continues
TT °- ut organisln g cu
n nioa senes on Sheffield Shield lines,
t ne lnsu P era hl e objection is that the
p aycrs ap e wUI-paid professionals,
as a ,'f Sheffield cricketers, and would be
una ■ , to | taad dle expense of a contmu-
t^l er ' S l at \ SeaSO % apar^ fr . om . l he
| ■°^ a ! )Se m Ce f ror [l i^ ei a
A nod ' er 18 that, though all the Austra-
! an Sl . ates have , n ? w L established Unions,
™ cen + tral ?ody like the cricket
? oard of Contr °i to +I mn thin § s -. Th f :
day has <?ome when the assumption of
I™*?} - he gam f “Australia by the
hkb.W. Union must end.
o Continued on next page.)


Winchester
TRADE MARK
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight. AC I
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/3 *K)/“
.22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long,
Long Rifle. Carriage Paid.
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
Carriage Paid.
Above Rifles are all adapted to
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
SPEED —, POWER LONGER RANGE
Short, 2/8 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100,
Long, 3/6 100.
Long H.P., 3/9 100.
Long Rifle, 4/- 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDiNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Under the Whip
“S.G.”: William Kelso is leaving on a
visit to California at the end of the
month. His horse Babili won a race at
Rosebery (Sydney) on Wednesday, but
as the first prize was only £7O and the
price 5 to 2 (the veteran rarely has more
than a tenner on) the proceeds would
scarcely pay his expenses to the moving-
picture State and back. Babili is a hand-
some five-year-old by Promised Land —
Babylon, but he is not nearly as good as
he looks. He it was who dead-heated
with Peter Pan in the Novice Handicap
at Warwick Farm in the spring of 1932
the chestnut’s second race and first suc-
cessful appearance on any track. It was
one of the greatest flukes in racing his-
tory. Babili has never shown anything
like that form since.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Sydney racegoers have cause
to envy Melbourne its fine amateur clubs.
Leaving the A.J.C. out of the argument,
the Bridge City has nothing like Moonee
Valley, Williamstown or the V.A.T.C.
Last year Moonee Valley, for its own
part, staged 11 meetings, for which it gave
£32,300 in stakes ; with Hunt Club, com-
pensation and charity meetings added, the
total was £46,490. Yet W. S. Cox, the
honorary treasurer, reported a profit of
£4575. During the coming season the
daily average of prize-money is expected
to exceed £3OOO. And
Moonee Valley has not
stinted expenditure on
course improvements for
the convenience of owners
and trainers and the public.
Neither have the amateur
bodies in control at Wil-
liamstown and Caulfield.
Within three months there
will be a new brick and
concrete stand, capable of
sheltering 3000 spectators,
at Caulfield. Last week the
V.A.T.C. sanctioned a
£17,000 tender.
M.Q. (and Rafferty)
Rules
Before beating Varner
last October Blandon was
a pretty good boxer; he
has since become an all-in
fighter like the Texan, and
there is now very little
attractiveness about his
ringwork. Opposed to
Leonard at Leichhardt Blan-
don was rougher than the Bay of Biscay.
Leonard was outfought in the first five
rounds, but he outboxed his man in the
sixth and seventh. A right to the chin
rocked Leonard in the eighth, and he
afterwards took such punishment without
attempting to retaliate that the referee
called a halt half-way through the tenth.
The pair are featherweights.
Footbrawl
“G.M.”: Is there any sport which
attracts the public year in and year out
to the same extent as football? With a
total population of a million, Melbourne
harbors fully 150,000 steady followers
of the Australian game. Every Saturday
League contests draw 120,000 or so and
Association about 10,000; adding the
junior clubs that play on every park and
vacant allotment and the followers of
Rugby and Soccer, the total must cer-
tainly near the second hundred thousand.
Adelaide statistics are proportionately
even more surprising. Apart from those
who go racing and hanging round bet-
ting shops and mental defectives and in-
valids, the entire population of the once-
Holy City seems to put in its Saturday
afternoons at the football.
* * $ *
All codes of football could well
adopt the “time-to-go” dial found on
every American ground. It is used on
Melbourne Cricket Ground for the
V.F.L. semi-final and final matches, but
for the rest of the season is apparently
left in cold storage. In America they
have a huge dial near the scoring-board
visible to the whole of the spectators,
and during the last five minutes of the
game it moves over four divisions until
it reaches the nadir. The left side of
the clock face is divided into 60 divi-
sions, and the seconds are slowly ticked
off until the bell rings. In a closely-
contested match the excitement is inten-
sified tenfold by the efforts of the con-
testing teams to beat the clock.
jJj ’!•
“Fitzcray”: A keen chap is Kerr, the
South Melbourne footballer, who has
been waiting on a clearance from Fitz-
roy. He was in the country, 250 miles
away, when he got a wire to face the
“If y' don't stop buttin' I'll disqualify y'!"
“Gee, ain't a guy allowed t' use his brains in this burg?"
permits committee in Melbourne the
same night. He dashed by motor to the
city, saw the committee, got his transfer
and scooted back again to the tall timber
in time to start work next morning.
.** * *
“Bash”: A Sydney football scribe
wrote with a wild surprise that an Ameri-
can friend had told him Australian
Rugby was faster than his homeland’s
brand of footer. It could easily be that.
No one who has seen an American game
in Australia —there was plenty of it
when the last U.S.A. squadron was here
—will doubt it after watching five
minutes’ heaving, struggling and fighting
for what is called “a four yards’ gain.”
Pace is out of the question, as a glance
at the armor worn shows. You just pack
round the man with the ball and keep
the opposition off by any agency outside
actual lethal weapons.
t- * . =;■: *
“Bowen Bridge”: Some Sydney Rugby
Unionists consider that representative
honors are too easily gained nowadays,
and suggest that only players who figure
in at least one-half of the inter-State
matches for the season be included in
the official list. A better way would be
to return to the method of playing only
two matches with Queensland instead of
four. With Victoria now figuring in
these games an absurd number of players
gains selection, some as substitutes for
men who cannot go. When there were
two games a season competition for a
place was so keen that only men at their
top were considered. Another absurdity
is the selection of anything up to 20
men for home matches. Writer once
toured M.L. with a team of 18 players.
Some of the critics were indignant at
the extravagance. One pointed out how
beautifully soft the M.L. turf was to be
bumped on.
* * sit s|:
“Poultice”: What is known as Group
6 in N.S.W. country Rugby League has
struck an unusual idea for football.
Senior clubs having been reduced to two,
it was resolved to include them with
teams of lesser calibre and play matches
under a handicap system. Polo is about
the only team game I know where clubs
carry a handicap, though something of
the sort was tried in the N.S.W. South
Coast Leagues. The head body in Syd-
ney might do worse than introduce handi-
capping. Clubs like University and
Canterbury-Bankstown could do with a
bit.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Goodna”: A Queensland golfer, J. L.
Green, got info a bit of a tangle after
finishing first in the Oxley open cup with
a net 63. His card was handed in un-
signed, and a search for the marker did
not locate him until the evening. The
club disqualified him, but the matter has
been referred to the Q.G.C. The St.
Andrews note on the rule under which
disqualification fell advises committees
to interpret it liberally and not to dis-
qualify if a reasonable attempt has been
made to get the marker’s signature. On
the evidence, Green should thus retain
his trophy.
“Divot Digger”: The Ma State’s golf
handicappers have finished the stiff job
of handing out handicaps to 260 city
and country players. Ferrier, McKay
and Hattersley are bracketed on mark
1 ; the lowest-handicapped countryman
is R. B. Davidson on 4. The job
has been done on 1934 performances, but
seems to meet general approval.
# * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers seem
to be drawing a good entry for their open
and amateur championships, which begin
in Brisbane early next month. Two star
entries among the professionals are
Bolger and Kelly, the Australian open
and professional champions. Jim Fer-
rier, of Sydney, will defend his open and
amateur titles, as well as the foursomes
championship which he took last year
in partnership with Healy. Several Vic-
torians are hoped for, but nothing defi-
nite is to hand as yet.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: A rare old barge has
been going on in the South of England.
One Anderson played for Surrey in a
match against Middlesex at Sudbury,
and afterwards wrote in a golfing journal
that a better course might have been
found for a county match. Sudbury flew
off the handle, and, though the sinner
repented and apologised, reported him
to the Surrey union. This tried him
in absentia, and declared him black.
Anderson now wants to know why he
received no notification of his punish-
ment and by what right the Surrey
union has barred him from competitions
for which he has not entered. The point
is a fine one, and at last advices the union
is pondering the situation and wishing
it hadn’t rushed in so precipitately.
* :Ic * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian pro-
fessional golf championships are to be
played this year at Riversdale for five
days from July 27. For some reason
or other this competition seldom attracts
players from other States, though the
quality of the golf-is good enough for
anything and prizes are liberal. On his
form in the big tournaments last year at
least one Victorian, Naismith, has a
chance of catching the Australian team
for America, and his marble would be
extra good if Victorian players and clubs
came along with contributions to the
fund for the trip. So far the affair is
being regarded here as a purely N.S.W.
stunt.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cover”; England is following Aus-
tralia’s example and insuring its players
—one never knows in these days of tennis
cannibals. The five representing the Old
Dart in the French championships are
protected against accident for £lOOO
each. Whether Perry appreciates being
lumped at the same value as Austin,
Wilde and the Scriven and Stammers
girls is another story.
* :i! # *
“Cash Amateur”: The talepitchers are
busy with Perry again. Martin Plaa
asserts that what brought Perry home at
a canter from Hollywood was a present
of £5OOO from a wealthy British sup-
porter of tennis, conditionally on his
remaining an amateur for this season at
least. It seems a darned waste of money,
if one may put it brutally. Plaa is more
credible when he tips that Perry and
Crawford will turn professionals after
Australia has won the Davis Cup, and


The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
: J
• Note the smartly S
V-eed non - glare f!
windshield and
the twin electric .....
windshield wipers.
■
m
MM
Hil
m
W?®
“ . . . So little more
QM to travel First - class”
2S*i*SiiiiißiPbp
Ml-
iHk
■
plated centre
♦
grille of the radia-
.... .....I
tor sweeps up and £
over the bonnet. s
.. -x :* K V
11111 l
sii
' ' ill
' lil
Ksssss
lift
WWW
iiiiiiiiiiiiii
■ i i
I'i ' v ' V-
i *
.. ’ ♦ J*
II
... J
Ki;;*
mm.
*?s ' v r ***&s H
.-=«—. >
% f f / - i i w- ' Wwm?& I
| 11
i I 8
■ w* '
(lillll ■ ■ ■ iliili
• Petrol gauge,
' ammeter, oil and :?
'- p \ heat gauges are |
, ~ mounted with the i
■ '/§% Radio dial type |
< ; ,x. %■ f 4 speedometer.
ill
t II
m
m <
w
ma
S • Both a capacious
5 luggage boot and
s a separate com-
Spartment for
I stowing the spare
i; tyre are provided.
THE
produces
MOST BEAUTIFUL
A BRILLIANT SIX .. .
THING ON WHEELS”
A SUPERB NEW EIGHT
To-day Pontiac makes the most brilliant debut
of the year ... with two great new cars prophetic
of 1935-6 design ... in which Pontiac’s designers
and engineers have carried streamlining to new
heights of development. Take, for example, how
the chromium-plated centre-grille of the radiator
sweeps up and over the bonnet in gleaming
parallel lines to meet the cowl. Note the smart-
ly V-eed non-glare windshield, unmistakable
feature of this year’s distinguished cars. See how
closely front and rear guards approach true tear-
drop design . . . how even the head lamps sup-
ported on tear-shaped brackets, barely escape
becoming part of the shell. From the side
F ontiac presents a perfect speed-lined silhouette,
from the front a low projectile-like appearance
that hints of its speed . . . And—every bit as im-
portant—Pontiac’s speed-lining is as practical as
it is beautiful. Bodies are actually roomier and
seats wider ... doors exceptionally large for easy
entrance . . . while the body design allows of
both a capacious luggage boot and a separate
tyre compartment in which the spare is stowed
away out of sight as well as out of the weather.
And Style is only Half the Story of the Neiv Pontiacs!
You will find feature after feature, from the double
thickness K-Y frame upwards. The Hydraulic Brakes,
for instance, are triple sealed against dirt and water.
There is a separate mechanical brake that acts on the
drums themselves . . . Knee-action front suspension (at
no extra cost) ... a new, smoother cushion Clutch . . .
a five-point mounted engine with harmonic balancer . . .
a dynamically and statically balanced, counterweighted
crankshaft and uniform weight connecting rods and
pistons . . . Silver Alloy bearings . . . Electro-plated
Pistons . . . full-pressure, Metered lubrication . . . and
Vacuumatic Spark Control with an Octane Selector and
fuel pre-heater for extra power and mileage.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOL DEN’S LIMITED
Pontiac presents
THE COMMONSENSE COUPE
In Pontiac’s Coupe casual passengers
are no longer literally “left out in
the cold,” emergency seating being
provided inside the car, where
driver and passengers can talk in
comfort. There is also amazing
luggage space.
Consult your local authorised Pontiac Dealer.
Emergency Seats in
Place. Note the
Generous Luggage
Space (/I).
Emergency Seats
Stowed. Truly Re-
markable Luggage
Capacity (B).
C224D
will make their bow at a professional
tourney at Wembley in September.
♦ * * *
“Top Spin”: The China-U.S.A. Davis
Cup farce ended as expected, a third-
rate American team winning ail matches.
At Eastbourne the Australians clinched
their defeat of the Maorilanders in the
first two singles with a victory in the
doubles, Quist, whose selection by Brookes
to partner Crawford annoyed N.S.W.
“experts,” justifying the choice. The next
Cup match will be against France at
Paris early in June. If our lads win, a
chase to Rome or Berlin to meet the
winners of the German-Italian draw will
follow: that hurdle jumped, they will
fight out the European zone final after
the Wimbledon tamasha.
Miscellaneous
Geelong Grammar is Head-of-the-
Yarra again—for the twentieth time and
for the second year in succession. Its suc-
cess was presaged by an easy defeat of
Geelong College in their heat; in the
others Melbourne Grammar ousted
Wesley, and Scotch beat Xavier by
quarter of a length. In the final Gee-
long Grammar, rowing a modified Fair-
bairn, led Melbourne Grammar all the
way, finishing three-quarters of a length
to the good ; Scotch—quarter of a pound
heavier per lad than the winners —was
another length away. Time for the mile
was smin. 35sec., slower than any of
the heats.
* * * *
“Blade”: Commenting on the King’s
Cup race, a Sydney journal remarked
that it was the greatest of all amateur
eight-oar rowing championships. Has
anyone ever heard of professional eight-
oar rowing? This is not written in a
carping spirit, but in a genuine desire
for information. I have heard mys-
terious tales of rowing matches for money
in the remote fastnesses of the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers. Do they occur or is
it just a tale?
* * * $
“Toowong”: Queensland R.A. has
announced thus early it will not be
represented at the King’s Cup race in
Perth next May. For one thing, it is
broke to the wide; for another, it is
specially exempted from crossing the
continent if it so desires. The rule holds
good in the case of Westralia when the
race is held in Brisbane.
* * * *
“Blade”: Before Turner’s fine per-
formance on the Nepean the Australian
Rowing Council discussed the sending
of oarsmen to the Olympiad, and unani-
mously agreed that the search for a
sculler could not go past Turner. West-
ralia was emphatic on the subject of the
Olympic levy. Its delegate said it had
raised money, but would not release it
unless assured that it would go to the
rowing fund. The Jarrahlanders will part
up if Turner is sent, though the dispatch
of an eight is its main objective, and a
dashed good one. Australia should
always be represented in the rowing.
* * * *
“Mardi”: British cricket is develop-
ing another inferiority complex over the
Afrikanders, though the latter have only
played a few county games. The tour-
ists’ bowling strength seems to have come
as a surprise, and some of the new bats-
men are of class, notably Rowan, an
effective stylist, and Nourse, son of our
old friend David of the mighty paws,
and himself a healthy smiter who has
made three centuries in a row. The
truth is that the adoption of grass wickets
in South Africa promises to lift
cricket there to equality with the best
to be found in Britain and Australia. It
is surprising, considering that all their
play had been on matting, that earlier
African teams did so well under the
changed conditions of grass in Australia
and England.
*s* . *
“Blue Chalk”: English billiardists are
determined to clip Lindrum’s comb some-
how. Davis, Newman and Smith have
asked the British billiards control board
to further limit cannon sequences so as
to make it almost impossible to get, to-
gether more than 90 consecutive cannons.
No attempt' was made to consult Lin-
drum. The champion, now touring M.L.
with McConachy, says he will not defend
his world title in Melbourne this year
nor is he likely to go to Britain.


®$ re v | I
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A,
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO., tTD„
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
Bi
Hi
•P
r
m.
m
11
m mm
CA'UNION
Men’s D.B. Velour
O’COATS
;
TPHEY’RE made from sturdy Navy
Blue Velour—and a better look-
ing, better wearing material could
not be found at anything near the
price. Cut on smart tailored lines
and styled as illustration, with square
shoulders, wide roll lapels, vertical
pockets and six-button fronts.
MURDOCHS “MILL TO WEARER”
PRICE 42/6
Men’s D.B. /t fTf
POLOS 40 -
All the features desirable in an
Overcoat. Broad shoulders, set-in
sleeves, stitched edges, full belt and
buckle. MURDOCH’S PRICE 4S/-
Pullovers and Coat
SWEATE R S
df
Examine the splen-
did quality and you
will realise the won-
i
Jer value here. Made
from pure wool in
fancy jacquard de-
wm.
signs in Fawns, Greys, Browns, and
Blues. Coat Sweaters or Pullover
either style for 10/6
We pay freight. Write to Desk ‘R’
mm
I I
LTD., PARK & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l, AUSTRALIA.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C.. Vice-Chairman.
T. C. Alston; Sir Henry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.8.; H. G. Darling;
D. York Syme; E. H. Wreford.
BOARDS OF ADVICE:
LONDON —The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, P.C., Chairman; Sir James
Leigh-Wood, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G.; The Right Hon. Lord
Luke of Pavenham, K.B.E.
BRISBANE —Sir Edward H. Macartney, T. F. Moxon, De Burgh B. B.
Persse. .
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan. Chief Inspector: E. J. Osborne.
Branches throughout Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New
South Wales and Queensland, and at Hobart and Launceston in Tasmania.
Agents in all parts of Australasia, the United Kingdom and throughout the World.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
Sub-Branch: Australia House, Strand.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET DATED 31st MARCH, 1935.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200.000 £lO Shares fully paid up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
600.000 £8 Shares paid up to £5 per Share 3,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) . . .. .. .. 3,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business) .. .. 300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. .. .. . . .. .. 282,509 13 7
Total Shareholders’ Funds .. .. .. .. ..
Customers’ Deposits
Other Liabilities
£8,582,509 13
37,049,415 5
1,393,363 8
7
0
2
Total £47,025,288 6 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, balances at other banks, cheques and bills in
transitu, Government and Municipal Stocks and Bonds, and other
liquid assets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £14,549,671 11 6
Advances to Customers and Bills Discounted .. .. .. .. .. 31,182,972 19 7
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,292,643 15 8
Total
.. £47.025,288 6 9
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’ Report and
Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear on the original
Balance Sheet, and are printed in the Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to
each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of five per cent, per annum. This amounts to nearly
three per cent, on the total of shareholders’ funds, as shown above.
The ORDINARY GENERAL ANNUAL MEETING of Shareholders will be held at the
Head Office of the Bank, 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, on WEDNESDAY, the 29th day
of MAY, 1935, at 11.30 a.m.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
FREE!
A copy of our 250-page book, “Tools and
Hardware for Farm and Home,” just published.
I® i.'>''4
mm
m
o
B
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
It has been brought right up to date. Hundreds of lines are
described, illustrated, and priced. A new feature is a section giving
illustrations and particulars of numerous useful ideas for the Home,
Farm, and Workshop. Farmers, Carpenters, all Tool Users,
Motorists, etc., should make sure of their copy.
I
Please send me, POST FREE, your new Catalogue
for Farm, Home and Workshop.
Name
Address
ersons
Proprietary limited
51 BATHURST ST SYDNEY
582 COLLINS ST. . . MELBOURNE
116 WAYMOUTH ST. . .ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY ST PERTH


Obtainable Everywhere.
WIDDIB \
DIAMOND \
DRY CELLS \
PT¥„ LTD., \ 1
119 Hawke St.\
West Melbonrne.X
C. 3; Cnr. Dalgety\
Road and Towns '
Place, Miller’s Point,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Still Keep
Working when
Others Have
Stopped . . .
The P 5 has the great ability to deliver
efficient current down to the lowest
voltage stage. There is no overnight col-
lapse with Ps’s. See your dealer to-day!
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT,
TO enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press will
this month publish an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative
handbook —
INCOME-TAX RETURNS'
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This will be the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price will be only
FIVE SHILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation who handles his
own affairs can afford to be without this book. Those who now pay to
have their returns compiled by professional men will find Income-Tax
Returns a simple and comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants
themselves will find this book indispensable.
To be published shortly by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Mining Progress
All kinds of mining activity through-
out Australasia have picked up recently.
The higher prices for silver, lead and
zinc—silver at 2s. lid., lead at £l4 and
zinc at £l4 15s. last week-end —will
mean a great deal to the Barrier mines.
Every increase in price of the metals
should represent profit to those concerns
that were operating on the right side
when prices were so low a few months
back. Until recently only the exchange
made silver-lead-mining a paying pro-
position in Australia.
The shares in Broken Hill companies
have responded in the market. Since
January Souths have risen 10s. to 86s.
6d., and Norths 21s. 6d. to 121 s. 6d.
Copper has improved, too. Electrolytic
fetches £37 a ton in London at the
moment, though it will need to rise con-
siderably further before there is much
in it for Mt. Lyell. Tin has been up
and down, with prices firming at present.
Malayan tin companies, as well as the
few Australian tinmines, are doing
much better, and many have returned to
the div. list.
Nevertheless, investment interest still
centres in gold. There is a lot of
money represented in this part of the
share-list, though it makes a ragged
showing at the moment.
The Avoca field in Victoria and the
Tavua shows in Fiji are most in the
public eye. Placer Development has two
options at Avoca, an alluvial and deep-
lead field between Bendigo and Ballarat,
lying somewhat to the west. The Middle
Creek property represents one option;
if Placer exercises it (and the market
seems to think it will) the consideration
is £30,000 cash, 20 p.c. of the issued
capital (to be not less than £500,000) in
the co. formed to work the properties,
and the right to take 25 p.c. of the con-
tributing shares (not less than £325,000)
in cash.
Placer’s other option here is over the
property of New Pyrenees Alluvials,
N.L. The purchase price is £20,000 cash,
20 p.c. (fully-paid) of the issued ’ capital
of the development co. formed, and the
right- to take up 25 p.c. of the subscribed
capital in cash.
Overseas capital is already interested
in the Avoca field. First in was Oroville
Dredging, of London, which assisted in
forming three cos. to work 32 miles of
the Bet Bet leads on a large scale. Oro-
ville put £106,000 into its Avoca interests,
and Dr. Malcolm Maclaren has “reported
favorably” on the properties.
In Fiji the Mt. Kasi people and E. G.
Theodore were on the job bright and
early. Mt. Kasi is on the Yanawai field,
Vanua Levu ; E. G. Theodore’s shows
and those which have followed him are at
Tavua, on Viti Levu. The market has
been spectacular, and rich values are
reported, but to outsiders the position is
still speculative.
Mount Morgan, in Queensland, is one
of the impressive mines of Australia. At
£8 10s. an ounce the estimated gold con-
tent of the co.’s ore reserves is over 11
millions. Improvements in quarrying
and treatment are hoped to make the
whole of these ore reserves profitable.
Meantime new bodies of payable dirt
are being located.
Westralian mines, in many cases less
handy to fuel and water than mines in
the Eastern States, range from proved
producers like Lake View and Star to a
motley collection of has-beens and might-
bes. By far the largest share-market in-
terest is directed towards W.A., though,
following the miners’ strike and plant
and other difficulties with some shows
approaching production, the interest has
become somewhat apprehensive. Shares
in Ora Banda Amalgamated, at Grant’s
Patch, have fallen from around 30s. to
17s. There are doubts about persistency
of values at depth, though the manage-
ment appears confident. Lady
at Menzies, reports 2oz. and 3oz. ore,
but the scrip has weakened to 7s. lid.
Lancefield, at Beria, looks promising if
extraction difficulties can be overcome ;
shares may be bought at 16s.
Several concerns, such as Triton and
Rothsay, shortly to make their debut
amongst the gold-producers, are easier
in the market. The speculative side of
such stocks should give way to some-
thing more concrete as the possibilities
of the mines themselves become better
established. When definite ideas of
what may be expected from the reopen-
"Thou'st do no good there, lad—ore dont live in that sort o’ country.”
ing of old mines in the West are known,
they should act as a stabiliser to the
industry generally.
Gold was weaker in London last week,
due to a fear that France, Holland and
Switzerland may devalue their currencies.
In France many industries appear to be
in favor of a departure from the gold
standard. As a result, nervous people
are buying sterling with francs, thus send-
ing the pound up and the price of gold
(in sterling) down. There has been a
similar -flight from the Swiss franc and
the Dutch guilder. As far as the price
of the yellow metal is concerned, the
downward movement should be tem-
porary.
* * * *
Australian banks are estimated to have
a credit pool of £72,000,000 sterling in
London, built up as a buffer against
violent capital movements from the Com-
monwealth and adverse trade balances.
The fund may be drawn upon to the ex-
tent of £20,000,000 sterling this year.
Unless our trade balance increases sub-
stantially in 1935-36 there may be further
calls upon the pool to meet overseas in-
terest obligations. Wool prices are more
favorable now, though imports are still
at a high level.
* * * *
So far N. S. Wales and South Aus.
are the only States to make legislative
provision for distributing the Common-
wealth farm-relief money, of which
£1,500,000 is being made available.
Twelve millions is to be found altogether,
and most of this, as Dr. Page recently
said, “has to be raised by loan.” It is
one of the items which will have to be
provided for in part when the Loan
Council next approaches the market, and
the market is not exactly welcoming the
prospect.
The wool marxet in Brisbane aim over-
seas remains steady, with large clear-
ances. Japanese buying is predominant.
There should be no carry-over of size at
any centres when the new season opens
on Julv 1.
❖ * & $
During 1934 over three million gallons
of Australian and a million gallons of
S’African wines were consumed in
Britain —out of a total British consump-
tion of 14} million gallons. Authorities
in London predict a great future for
Empire wines if present trade relations
between the Dominions and the Old
Country continue. In N. S. Wales Cald-
well’s Wines is offering 25,000 £1 prefs.
to help finance its business.
❖ * * %
The Auckland correspondent of the
“Times” Trade and Engineering Sup-
lement, mentioning the “glowing future
prophesied for the tung-oil industry”
seven or eight years ago, has doubts
about the eventual success of tung-nut
culture in Maoriland. “Some... .plan-
tations have now passed the stage at
which early promises indicated that they
would be bearing nuts, but only in iso-
lated instances has any sign of satisfac-
tory development been shown. In gen-
eral the climate and soil are not as
favorable to the trees as was at first
thought.”
The U.S. Government, through Mr.
Morgenthau, Secretary to the Treasury,
has offered to co-operate with other
nations in currency stabilisation. The
U.S.A., however, will not act on its own,
nor will Britain. It is a matter for deli-
cate negotiation among all countries, and,
unfortunately, a matter closely wrapped
up with politics.
* * * *
“Social control of industry, trade and
finance in the United States has achieved
for itself in its past two years of inten-
sive application more dread than respect”
—so runs a New York opinion on the
operation of the N.R.A. Uncertainty has
sapped business confidence. The dollar
may be further devalued overnight; the
operation of the N.R.A. is continually
being altered ; the effect, good or bad, of
dozens of economic experiments is indis-
cernible in the confusion; nobody
knows when Budgets are to be balanced,
if ever ; and even legislators support pre-
posterous schemes like the Townsend
“Plan.”
'l* -! : * *
Sir Josiah Stamp, a director of the
Bank of England, has expressed doubts
about the eventual results of Roose-
velt’s silver-boosting plan. “If the in-
crease is purely political and made to
help the silver-producing States, perhaps
it will be all right,” he says. Countries
on a silver standard, outside the U.S.A.,
are not at all in favor of the higher world
price which has resulted. China and,
to some extent, India are principally
affected:
* * * *
To meet the demand for galvanised-
iron in the Commonwealth —partly due
to mining and similar activity—Lysaghts
have been extending their plant. Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel is also going into,
the business; it recently completed a
galvanised-iron plant at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.).
* * * *
The rebate on the sugar content of
Australian fruit products exported to
Maoriland during May has been fixed at
£6 18s. a ton, and on other food pro-
ducts at £9 2s. On exports to other
countries the rebates are £l9 16s. and
£22 a ton respectively. These conces-
sions to Australian fruit-processers and
sweet-manufacturers, calculated so as to
place them on an equal footing with
overseas factories which get their sugar
at world parity, are slightly lower than
in April. A strengthened world price
for sugar is the cause.
* * * *
Australian butter realised a better
price in London last week, showing a
rise of from Is. to 3s. a hundredweight.
Unsalted brought 765., over which
Danish, somewhat weaker in the market,
commanded a premium of 15s. Recently
about a quarter of Australian butter
production has been used in the home
market, with a price to the producer of
140 s. a hundredweight. The rest has
been sent overseas, mainly to London.
Averaged, the return lately has been
about 100 s. in Australian currency.
Even at Is. wholesale (as against
lOd. Australian in London), butter in
this country is fairly cheap compared
with a half-dozen years back.
* * * *
Locally, tallow prices fell slightly last
week owing to larger offerings, lower
grades being most affected. Prime tallow
still brought between £3l and £32 a ton
in Melbourne, however, as against £2B
to £2B 10s. a fortnight earlier.
* * * *
London “Economist” recently noted
that Australia had passed from a period
of dear money to one of cheap money.
Interest rates are “now low for a
primary-producing country,” and no fur-
ther concessions to borrowers should be
relied upon. As has been mentioned
here frequently of late, somewhat higher
charges for accommodation are likely.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Danny Boy”
A well-drawn but inadequate sob-story,
deficient in action and humor. A musi-
cal genius, estranged from the wife who
loves him, wanders forth with their boy
of 12 to fiddle in the streets. The streets
treat him as they usually treat geniuses ;
meantime, the wife has become a Great
Star. Her continued efforts to find her
husband and child failing, she is tempted
to love another man, when suddenly
somebody finds the husband, tells every-
body he is a genius and everybody be-
lieves it. All are happy, except the noble-
minded lover, who goes forth like the
Boy Scout, content with his day’s good
deed. The acting is worthy of a better
Joey Porter in "Paris en Fete,” at Sydney New Tiv.
story. Frank Forbes Robertson never
faults as the genius. Ronnie Hepworth
is another of those wonderful child per-
formers who have come into the lime-
light of late. Archie Pitt as the tough
proprietor of the penny doss-house is the
real thing. Jane Kaye looks well- as the
heroine. Cyril Ritchard, as the lover
who wasn’t, has little to do, but does it
well.
“While the Patient Slept”
This Plaza film centres in the type
of murder that experienced filmgoers
expect when relations are invited to the
deathbed of an elderly eccentric. There
are the usual suspicions attaching to
everyone in the house in almost equal
quantities, the usual thrills and the usual
anticlimax. There is one difference, how-
ever. Half of it is Guy Kibbee, the other
half Aline McMahon. As a detective
and trained nurse respectively they make
the film an amusing comedy.
“Happiness Ahead”
Also at the Plaza. Josephine Hutchi-
son is tired of being merely a rich man’s
daughter, so she walks out on her
mother’s New Year guests, goes to a
dance hall and gets mixed up with a
party which is conveniently “one girl
short.” Her new friends are window-
cleaners, and include Dick Powell, who,
of course, is no ordinary window-cleaner,
but the “ahfice manager” of the concern,
with ambitions. After that it’s all plain
sailing except for misunderstandings,
quarrels, Powellian songs and reconcilia-
tions.
Josephine Hutchison is pretty and
vivacious as the girl, and John Halliday
is sympathetic and helpful as her father.
“The Pursuit of Happiness”
At Sydney Prince Edward. Francis
Lederer is a Hessian mercenary pressed
to fight against America in the War of
Independence. An outstanding attrac-
tion is the period stuff; the shots of
eighteenth-century Germany, the New
York Battery and the Connecticut town-
ship where most of the action occurs
are unusually pretty, and they look
authentic. Lederer deserts in Freedom’s
name, and is detained near Joan Bennett’s
home pending inquiries. They fall in
love, and she introduces him to bundling,
which we have already heard denounced
by a contemporary wowser. Bundling
originated in poverty ; young people got
into bed together with their
clothes on, when courting,
to keep warm. There is no
scarcity of firewood in Joan
Bennett’s affluent home ; in
fact, Lederer offers to make
a fire; however, she insists
on the rigor of the game,
and, after argument, he gets
into bed with her. Bund-
ling is new to him, and the
idea strikes him as comic,
but there is no shadow of
baseness in his merriment.
The writer realised here
for the first time what a
fine actor Lederer is;
almost any British or
American star might have
made a sad mess of the
delicate episode. Joan Ben-
nett is admirable too; a
touching epitome of girlish
innocence. The only other
character not out of stock
is the wowser mentioned
above, but the name of the
man who plays him is
wrapt in mystery. The
Prince Edward has issued
an elaborate souvenir pro-
gramme in honor of its
hundredth bill which is characteristic of
the movie business; no names that
matter are on it.
“The Gilded Lily”
The story of this Prince Edward
feature is almost identical with that
of “Forsaking All Others,” but it
is much less plausibly told. Claud-
ette Colbert is the girl, a N’York
stenog. who falls in love with Lord
Gray (Ray Milland), son of the
Duke of Loamshire (C. Aubrey
Smith). Fred Mac Murray is Mr.
Right, an American journalist who
registers rugged worth by devour-
ing popcorns and easing his feet by
taking off his shoes in public.
When the duke’s son leaves for
England meaning to break off his
engagement there, and return to
marry the heroine, the pressman
tells the world in screaming head-
lines that the democratic American
working-girl has rejected the effete
British aristo. She becomes a
female Lindbergh, the nation’s
adored “No Girl.” Showers of
diamonds, vaudeville engagements
and marriage offers descend on
her; and always the devoted pop-
corn wolfer awaits his chance in
the background. It comes when
the abominably treated Britisher takes
the inevitable false moral step.
All are adequately picturesque and
completely incredible. Interest is detracted
from by the fact that there are really
only three people in the cast, but they
function in perennially acceptable en-
vironments, such as expensive night clubs
and Coney Island.
°‘Sweet Adeline”
Another musicomedy transferred to
the screen. Period, the ’nineties.
Adeline Schmidt (Irene Dunne) is
the daughter of a beer-garden proprietor.
She sings to the patrons, in the
parlor, in the backyard, and to her
young man (Donald Woods), who is a
song-composer. Adeline is pursued by a
wicked major (Louis Calhern) who
finances her Broadway debut in D.
Woods’s operetta. When the major un-
cloaks his illicit designs she flies back to
her first love, but not before a rival
soprano has attempted to assassinate her
by cutting the rope of a swing that soars
over the audience.
Period details include an appearance of
A 1 Jolson at the age of 10, a pre-Ford
automobile, a bicycle made for three
and one of those Edison phonographs
that sprouted rubber tubes and ear-
pipes. Miss Dunne sings almost without
cessation, frequent close-ups facilitating
inspection of her larynx. That she en-
chanted Broadway with her vocal exer-
cises is hard to believe; some of her top
notes are harrowing. Musically the hit
of the piece is a song by an Irish tenor,
Phil Regan, who uses the brogue as
prettily as McCormack did in his prime.
The Kern lyrics are poor, and so are
Hammerstein’s words. At Sydney State.
“Home on the Range”
A horse opera in which are paraded
the usual Zane Grey props—hard-riding
rancher with heart of gold (Randolph
Scott); hard-boiled card-sharping hero-
ine, also with heart of gold (Evelyn
Brent); several assorted villains, black-
hearted, and Jackie Coogan, grown 10
years older in a night, who weeps over
horses. A race is chucked in for good
measure. After all hands have galloped
about for an hour and a half villainy is
foiled and virtue rewarded. At Sydney
Capitol.
“A Night at the Ritz”
William Gargan is “exploitation direc-
tor” of a classy pub in Cleveland, O.
Being fired, he turns his energies to ex-
ploiting a mentally deranged young man
(Eric Rhodes) who imagines he is a
great chef. Gargan sells him to the Ritz
at a thousand dahlers a week. It is then
discovered that Eric cannot cook. He
can invent delicious dishes, but they
turn to concrete in the human system. All
efforts to convince the manager of the
Alec Foster in “Paris en Fete,” at Sydney
New Tiv.
Ritz (Burton Churchill) that this is so
fail, and Eric is in charge of the catering
for a dinner at which 2000 bankers are
entertained. Eric’s mother saves the
situation by doing the chefftng herself.
A 1 Jenkins assists with the somewhat
labored comedy sequences, and Patricia
Ellis and Dorothy Lee provide such
romance as is going. At Sydney Capitol,
Some First Nights
“High Jinks,” which had a season in
Sydney a couple of decades back, has
been resurrected by the Firm. FrimL
wrote most of the original music , the
new version owes more to Kern than to
Friml. The piece had a good reception
at Sydney Royal on Saturday night, the
American doctor and his wife, the
amorous Frenchman, the homely lumber
king and the tippling colonel proving as
interesting as ever. Some of the old
songs were recalled by those who had
seen the show in its original form, and
the more venturesome essayed humming
Alec Pleon in “Paris en Fete.”
accompaniments. Madge Elliott as
Sylvia Dale showed that the improve-
ment in her singing noticeable in
“Roberta” was not evanescent. Her
dancing partner, Cyril Ritchard, had
one of his usual happy-go-lucky parts,
and romped through it gracefully. Cecil
Kellaway, Leo Franklin, Frank Leigh-
ton and Ethel Morrison were well in
the picture. Marie Le Varre was the
most spontaneous fun-maker on the
stage. She is one of the few female
humorists in Australia capable of hold-
ing a show together. Settings were smart
and colorful, the frocking elaborate and
the ballet up to the mark. Cyril Ritchard
was the producer, George Upward de-
signed the scenery and Andrew Mac-
Cunn’s baton kept the orchestra in time.
Menuhin said his au revoir to Sydney
—he will be back next month to play
concertos with orchestra —with the Bach
Chaconne, the “Symphonic Espagnole”
of Lalo and other violin classics, and the
Town Hall audience was so loath to let
him go that a considerable section of the
crowd waited outside after the concert
to give the youngster a final cheer. No
instrumentalist or singer in recent years
has captured musical Sydney’s imagina-
tion to the extent Menuhin has achieved.
Extreme youth and a pleasant manner
have played their part in this.
* * *
The scene throughout Edward Woolfs
“Libel,” staged by the Sydney Players’
Club at St. James’s Hall, is at King’s
Bench Court, London, where an action
for libel is being heard. The plaintiff is
Sir Mark Loddon, Bart., M.P. During
the war he was wounded and captured by
the Germans; with two Canadians he
escaped through Belgium on the eve of
the Armistice. The defendant news-
paper had alleged that one of the Can-
adians, Weldy, had murdered Loddon
and married his victim’s sweetheart. The
witnesses for the defence include a con-
fessed blackmailer and a lady of doubt-
ful morals. William Wines played
Loddon with understanding. Arthur
O’Keefe as counsel for defendants and
John Rhodes as counsel for the plaintiff
were convincing. Doris Williams made
an acceptable Lady Loddon, and Kit
Climpson fitted the role of Sarah Carle-
ton. John Appleton was the producer.


The Hunt.
Runs into lair the wind, in a tangle of
yellow grasses;
He is a fox, prick-eared, and he scents
the huntsman afar.
Here he may lie, quick-breathed, while
the scarlet noonday passes.
Till the hounds of the sun are checked
at the watercourse of a star.
And the weary muzzles drop, as that
frail tide drowns the warning
Of crushed thyme keen to the scent,
gorse on a sun-steeped hill,
And a flurry of tossing broom, where he
rolled in silk of the morning —
Deep in the fern he lies. And the view
halloo falls still.
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Gregan
McMahon
As an inveterate
playgoer, allow
me to add my
tribute to the
work of Gregan
M c Mahon (B.
1/5/’35). Without him Melbourne’s
dramatic record would be sad indeed.
There are other actor-producers in the
repertory field, but their resources are in
inverse proportion to their enthusiasm,
and, as Nurse Cavell said of patriotism,
enthusiasm is not enough. It is fairer to
a playwright to read him than to see him
indifferently performed.
A feature about McMahon that has
not been sufficiently stressed is that,
owing to his habit of producing plays
on which the printer’s ink is scarcely
dry, he has to start from zero, so to
speak. This is not so with the pro-
ducers of the commercial stage, who
receive far larger bouquets than they
are usually entitled to. The commercial
entrepreneur seldom backs a dark horse.
He waits till a play has been a resound-
ing success in London or New York.
His producer gets to work with a script
heavily scored with instructions about
how the thing ought to be done. He
even has photographs to show him what
the scenery should be like. If his own
hand appears in the work at all it is
generally as a censor charged with the
job of toning things down to suit local
susceptibilities, and sometimes he does
it so well that he defeats his own ends
and dulness covers- all, as in the Aus-
tralian presentation of Noel Coward’s
“This Year of Grace.” Therefore the
extravagant praise he so often receives
from local critics is a tribute to a careful
copyist.
Not so in the case of McMahon. Half
a century ago he was putting on Shaw’s
plays as fast as they came to hand, and
he is still doing the same thing. His
productions of G.B.S. are extraordinarily
good, surpassing, in my opinion, some
of the London presentations I have seen.
The Shaw plays he did last year were
better on all counts than Sybil Thorn-
dike’s productions of “St. Joan” and
“Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,”
which were more spectacular than real,
and more star-spangled than lit by the
sun of intelligence. His production of
O’Neill’s “Days Without End” was so
original that it bewildered the critics,
who could make neither head nor tail
of it.
McMahon’s casting shows the same
qualities of commonsense. If he some-
times commits a faux pas it can be put
down to lack of suitable material. I
doubt if the commercial producer, who
thinks in terms of academic stereotypes,
would regard Thomas Skewes as an
actor at all; but anybody who remem-
bers this ex-schoolmaster’s performances
in “The Doctor’s Dilemma” some years
ago and his appearances last year will
recognise casting of the highest order.
All that the commercial entrepreneurs
could do with that majestic lady. Coral
Brown, was to use her as a clothes-rack
and to put her in a series of the manne-
quin parades they are pleased to call plays.
McMahon turned her into an actress
capable of handling such a sombre part
as the Prussian school-teacher in “Chil-
in Uniform,” and she is now making
a hit in serious plays in London town.
The helpless mediocrity of the com-
mercial stage is due to its lack of a con-
scious policy. Goaded by criticism, it
occasionally puts on an “Our Betters”
or a “Green Hat” or an “Other Men’s
Wives” or a “Diplomacy” or a “Victory,”
with a Margaret Bannerman or a Judith
Anderson in command, under the im-
pression that Sardou and B. MacDonald
Hastings must be great playwrights be-
cause they are so seldom performed;
and when the result is an egregious
flop they throw up their hands and say.
Sketch from J. H. Dowd’s collection of
child-studies reviewed in “Satchel” in
this issue.
“There now, what do the highbrows
want?” Then they go back to their
vomit, full of virtuous indignation. Mc-
Mahon has sometimes worked with
them, but it is doubtful if he was ever
given a free hand.
CAUBOY.
“It’s Pretty ,
But Is It
Vulgar?”
Vice-master H.
W. Allen, Ormond
College, Me 1-
bourne, delivered
a breezy denun-
ciation of modem
vulgarity at the
local Lyceum Club the other night.
“The first thing that we may learn
from the Greeks,” he said, “is the mean-
ing of restraint, decency and good taste
Can you see the Propylasa outlined ip
neon lights? Can you picture
Socrates at a meeting of the
Boosters’ Club being slapped on
the back and called ‘Soc.’?”
The only criticisms which can
be levelled against Allen’s
preaching generally are, first, that
people who think as he does
will be likely to look somewhat
askance at the verbiage of the speecli
itself, and, second, that, considered seri-
ously, his arguments are all wrong.
Vulgarity does not belong to the
twentieth century. It is something eter-
nal, like romance. If we were trans-
ported back to the Athens and the Sparta
he reveres we would probably find things
just as vulgar as the Boosters’ Clubs of
to-day. The comedies of Aristophanes,
for instance, would be deemed suffi-
ciently vulgar —apart altogether from
the impropriety, which would give
Colonel White hardened arteries —to
merit reams of stodgy letters to the local
press. The bleacher seats on the plains
of Olympia were probably filled with
youths very like the barrackers at one of
our own football matches, and the
famous 300 of Thermopylae, apart from
costume and language, would probably
be indistinguishable from the vulgarians
who stormed the heights at the Landing
20 years ago.
As for the neon lights, an artist such
as the Greeks would entrust with the
job would have made the whole Acropolis
a thing of rare beauty, outlining every
temple every night with brilliant har-
monising color visible to the galleys har-
boring at the Pirams.
And nothing in the modern world ever
reached the limit of vulgarity which
many persons ascribe to the Greeks—the
painting of their marble temples in garish
colors like a modern freak cabaret. It
is highly unlikely that the Greeks ever
committed such an outrage, but large
numbers of perfectly respectable Hellen-
ists believe that they did. There is prob-
ably no more vulgarity in the life we
now live than in the life that Pericles
lived ; and when vice-master Allen sneers,
very cleverly, at the nation which can
travel 60 m.p.h. being no more civilised
than the nation which can travel at only
10 m.p.h., it impels me to retort some-
thing which I believe but cannot prove:
that if Henry Ford had lived in 300 b.c.
he would have been as highly respected
in Greece as he is in U.S. now, and that
Pericles would not have hesitated when
Aspasia suggested that he should step
on it. The Greeks were too brainy, too
enterprising a race to despise the advan-
tages of latter-day mechanisation. They
were the modernists of their time.
M. G.
Thinking in
the Wrong
Medium
Of course Ep-
stein is a symbol-
ist (B. 1/ 5 / ’35).
He is certainly
not a realist, his
efforts in that
direction being
very poor indeed, as can be seen when
one compares his “Mrs. McEvoy,” with
goitre all complete, with Rodin’s “Min-
erva Sans Casque,” both of which are
in the Melbourne National Gallery.
Let the observer stand off from these
two casts and, thinking in terms of
human flesh, contrast the two. In the
Rodin the flesh positively seems to move;
one expects the face to be suffused with
a blush when an attendant hangs the
latest purchase of the Felton Trustees on
the opposite wall. The “Mrs. McEvoy,”
on the other hand, scarcely suggests flesh
at all. If this is the extent of Epstein’s
knowledge of appearances he is far be-
hind his master Rodin.
Where, then, does Epstein stand? He
is a literary man who has elected to do
his thinking in terms of the plastic art.
He stands in the same relation to sculp-
ture as, say, Will Dyson does to depic-
tive art. Dyson is a thinker who en-
deavors to convey his ideas in the form
of forcible cartoons. When his thinking
is good his ideas are conveyed with the
force of a blow. Epstein does the same
Another of the gems of drawing in
Dowd’s collection.
thing with his gigantic effigies. If people
don’t like his ideas they are outraged,
and say that he is nothing but an exhi-
bitionist ; but they seldom attempt to
controvert his ideas. That the quality of
Epstein’s thinking is good is shown by
his retort to the Archbishop of Liver-
pool, who expressed a hope that there
would be nothing Epsteinish about his
new cathedral in that right-thinking
town. “Why,” asked Epstein, “would
an Epsteinish conception of Christianity
be at variance with our late exhibition
of Christianity in the Great War?” To
which there was no adequate reply.
The question arises, however, as to
whether literary ideas can be as well con-
veyed in clay as they can in words, and
the answer is emphatically “No!” Art
is analysis, and if we seek for a more
complete analysis of Epstein’s ideas we
are obliged to go to Shakspeare, Anatole
France, Shaw or some other artist in
words. The literary artist and the sculp-
tor deal with different realities, and the
artist who endeavors to go outside his
medium ends by limiting himself.
Asking Too
Much of
Films
“Parakeelia” (B.
1 / 5/’35) asks,
“Why don’t Aus-
tral i a n film-
makers learn
something about
Australia?” Film-
making is a business, and films, whether
they collect a prize award or not, are
intended exclusively for entertainment
and company dividends. If he had asked,
“Why did not the powers give the prize
to something more worthy?” I should
reply that the film he mentions was the
best of a bad lot.
After all, do' we catch American,
English or Continental producers priding
themselves that they have given the
public something “as it is”? We do not.
They give it “as it isn’t.” “As it is” is
too often uninteresting and repulsive!
If the authorities had made the picture
and presented it as an authentic histori-
cal epic “Parakeelia” would have had
something to moan about. “Parakeelia”
takes exception to several N.T. scenes.
Admitted they are not true to life, but,
then, we do not accept American gang-
ster and newspaper films as a true depict-
ment of American life. Is the American
worried? Of course he isn’t, and neither
should we be.
G. A. L.
Modernising
Gilbert
Actor Stroud,
who comes with
the new Gilbert
and Sullivan com-
pany, mentions
that these operas
have been given a new lease of life in
London by modernising the productions.
Australian producers would do well
to leave such modernising severely alone.
There is really very little of Gilbert’s
work which bears date—“ Patience” is the
only opera which as a whole is outside
post-war understanding. As far back as
during Gilbert’s lifetime attempts were
made in this direction, and one revival
of “The Mikado” was scarcely recognis-
able as the original—crude, vulgar and
filled with horseplay. At the time Aus-
tralia was told it was an absolute replica
of the Savoy production. What Aus-
tralia was not told was that W. S. Gil-
bert himself saw that Savoy production, ,
and the same night wrote a letter to the
“Times” repudiating the whole thing.
Modernised, G. and S. is just about as
artistic as Shakspeare in plus-fours.
M. G.
Current
Arthursts
An admirable,
even show is that
of John Elder-
shaw at Melb.
Athenaeum.
Eldershaw, a Syd-
ney man who has been living for
years in Tasmania, visited Europe
not long back, and his exhibits —all
water-colors—include French, Spanish
and Italian scenes, as well as those
depicting parts of the Commonwealth.
It is difficult to pick the most striking
from such a large number of striking
pictures, but possibly most attention
will centre around the delightful color
and composition in the giant bridge
which was thrown centuries back across
the chasm at Rhonda, Spain. Beauti-
fully balanced and exquisitely colored,
it is an excellent example of all a water-
color should be. Eldershaw loves
bridges. He has many examples of
those left as monuments by early settlers
in Tasmania. The best of these deal
with “Pontville Bridge,” of which there
are two pictures, done from different
angles and under different lights, both
with masterly handling of the light
effects on the massive piers. “The Blue
River” at Tunbridge (Tas.) is a delight
for its color, and “Cradle Mountain”
and “The Pier Head” show that Elder-
shaw is no less dextrous in handling
sombre themes. Several of the pictures
deal with Sydney outskirts, the bays
around Middle Harbor forming the texts
of several of his most attractive works,
the best of which is possibly a view from
the heights overlooking the Spit. But
Eldershaw is more than a craftsman ; he
is an experimenter. In addition to the
pictures in which the search for com-
position and light and color is foremost
are others in which he has aimed first
at design, the most daring of which
shows the paper roughly divided into
two parts diagonally, one half being blue
and the other brown. But it is more
than this; it resolves itself into an ex-
quisite seascape.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS: „ .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
£
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and s
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at I
Double Rates) 1
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
All last week the Presbyterian
Assembly was in conclave, even lunch
being eaten on the spot. This was pre-
sided over each day by new Moderator
Clark-Duff, and one day the Governor
and Lady Hore-Ruthven broke bread
with the clerics. Shortly after noon his
Ex. arrived, and was presented by the
Assembly with a loyal address to their
Majesties which will be forwarded to the
King. Then came lunch with the vice-
regal, the Moderator and a group of
kirk potentates sitting, a little apart, on
a dais. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s place was
marked with a bunch of roses.
There are never enough readers for
the blind. The “dark” men and women,
as the Irish call them, have been in the
past dependent either on their Braille
books or on the eyes and voices of
others, kindly souls who gather a small
company around them while they read
for an hour or two. Now there is a new
invention —a book talking machine. The
big. factor in this, of course, is the phono-
graph record. The records read aloud
a whole novel or drama and have advan-
tages over the Braille system, at which
some never become very adept. The in-
vention was demonstrated at the recep-
tion to Lady Hore-Ruthven given at the
Hotel Australia by the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Industrial Blind Insti-
tution.
The books and the machines for re-
cording them are the invention of the
American Foundation for the Blind.
Each of the phonograph discs will play
for more than half an hour, and an
average novel may be recorded on a
dozen discs. Lady Hore-Ruthven, the
auxiliary’s new president, was intensely
interested. Later, pianist Marcus Burkitt
and singer James Griffiths (both artists
are sightless) so pleased her with their
music that she engaged them on the spot
for her King’s Birthday party. Mrs.
A. V. Roberts received the vice-regal
lady, and Mayoress Parker offered words
of welcome. After that there was tea.
Stanley Hedger., of the R.V.1.8., demon-
strated the machine, the only one in Aus-
tralia.
Czecho-Slovakia’s Consul Kuraz, his
wife and daughters said farewell to about
200 Sydney friends at the Australia on
Friday. The hostess’s crepe frock was
dark brown and wore a deep-gold lame
collar, daughter Eva sparkled in hunts-
man’s-green spotted in gold, while the
younger Dagmar clasped a small pink
posy against the deep blues of her dress.
Neither of the girls seemed at all per-
turbed at the thought that when they
return to Prague they will be addressed
as “sletsinka” (that’s the closest we can
get to it), which means “Miss.” They
seem intensely interested in the thought
of Prague the Golden, with its old, old
cathedral to St. Wenceslaus, the kindly
king of the English carol.
The room, with its small flower-decked
tables, .fairly bristled with Consuls and
their wives ; the Mayoral Parkers looked
in, and so did the Ministers for Defence
and Education and the Comptroller-
General of Customs. Hugh Poynter’s
lady added wine-reds and Mark Sheldon’s
wife rich furs to the assemblage. North
Shore-liners turned up in force—
the Kuraz home was at Killara—and
every neighbor bewailed the going of the
popular family. If one half the letters
are written that have been promised the
Prague post office will need an extension.
Violinist Yehudi Menuhin is indeed the
darling of his family. Mother, father
and two sisters hover around him in the
artists’ room after the concerts, and then
act as a sort of unofficial bodyguard as
the young man makes for the entrance.
Yehudi, incidentally, has a brisk rub-
down and a complete change of clothes
immediately after the final encore.
Watching him playing you realise what
a drain it must be on the youth’s physical
energy.
Not the whole of the P.E.N. Club
but a good many of its most active quills
gathered around Ralph Connor last
Friday at Giro’s. The long table was
placed in the small dance-room at the
back of the establishment. Here the
scenery on the walls suggested a trip to
anywhere, even Montreal or Quebec.
Daughter Ruth, in colorings that sug-
gested the maple-leaf in autumn, accom-
panied father. Vice-president Elliot
Napier was the host; Dorothea Mac-
kellar, her tweeds set off by the most
fascinating floppy neck bow of yellow,
was on the Canadian’s right hand ; Ruth
Bedford, Fisher Librarian Green, John
Dailey, Violet Roche and Dr. Temple
Smith were others who paid their respects
to the president of Canada’s Society of
Authors.
Sheila Agar (daughter of comedian
Dan) will play Juno in “The Tempest.’’
This is being produced by Dr. Car-
damatis, and will occupy the stage of
the Savoy every Wednesday (commenc-
ing from to-night) till June 12. Albert
Cazabon has specially composed the in-
cidental music. Photo, from Monte Luke.
Allied to his kindly heart padre S. G.
Drummond must have a good business
head. In a few years his scheme of
bringing health to children of the
Far West by bringing them to the sea
has become an established social-wel-
fare scheme. On Saturday the new build-
ing at Manly, the Drummond Far West
Home, was opened by the Governor and
Lady Hore-Ruthven —he made the
speech, and she turned the gold key in
the door'. There was a tremendous roll-
up, for the home has many friends. A
pretty touch was the guard of honor
formed by the baby guests for the vice-
regals. Alderman and Mrs. J. H. Cross,
Manly’s Mayoral couple, did the honors,
and among the warmly-welcomed was
Mrs. Kingsford Smith—the airman’s
mother. The Kingsford Smith com-
memorative tablet was unveiled during
the afternoon by knight John Butters.
Friday will be Quarterly Clothes
Day at old St. James’s, King-street,
when workers will be in the crypt to
receive parcels of clothing, boots or
shoes. Boots, boots, boots! is the crying
need of almost every less fortunate
brother and sister.
Quiet but interesting was the recep-
tion given in honor of Lady Hore-
Ruthven by the metropolitan group of
the C.W.A. This was held at the Went-
worth, and the vice-reine turned up at
three o’clock, though just about seven
that morning she had been the other side
of Goulburn. Stone-marten furs finished
off the guest’s beige tweed ensemble, and
her loot for the afternoon was a large
box of carnations and a great bunch of
gladioli. The group president, Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, gave the life-story of
Keera House, the C.W.A. holiday home,
and told of the group’s manifold in-
terests. Nearly 400 joined in this tea-
drinking, and Lady Hore-Ruthven, who
declared herself a country woman,
moved about among the guests, saying
“How d’you?” to the various office-
bearers.
The atmosphere of the Town Hall on
Saturday was electric ; quite a noticeable
feature of this last concert of Yehudi
Menuhin was the masses of youth it had
drawn. Apart from his music the girls
have gone crazy over the violinist s
shapely hands, his shy and rare smile.
Also they like to watch mother (who
bears a great resemblance to Mrs. Vert,
the mother of Dean Talbot’s wife) and
the two sisters with their fair wavy top-
knots and pink frocks. On Saturday
Mrs. Menuhin changed from her usual
white satin to powder-blue moires. At
the close of the concert the back-seaters
surged up to the front of the hall, and
the organ-lofters got so close to the
player that there was room only for him
to stand in. He gave six encores, and
still the crowds clamored and cheered,
not stopping till he came out coated
and gloved to wave a final good night.
Then the audience poured on to the
Town Hall steps, where it became set
like a jelly, until the family procession
emerged. Yehudi may wield magic in
the hall, but in the car going home he
is just the young son of the family, and
takes his place modestly on the extra
little seat. He was still waving to his
admirers when the car turned into Park-
street.
A Silver Jubilee Ball is to be the chief
function of the 400 dances being organ-
ised throughout N.S.W. to raise funds
for the immediate relief of t.b. soldiers.
May 24, Empire night, is the date. This
association, 50 p.c. of the members of
which do not receive war pensions, is
desperately in need of funds. The ball
promises to be a very spectacular affair.
The Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
will be present. N.B.—Every purchaser
of a ticket will have an opportunity of
winning either a white ermine wrap or
a case of whisky.
Will young Peter Osborn (son of Prof.
Osborn), who goes off to England,
eventually give London’s young pro-
ducer and actor John Gielgud a run for
his money? Peter goes off primarily to
study. He has a brand-new 8.A., having
gained first-class honors in history and
shared the Uni. medal and the Fraser
scholarship for history with Gordon
Greenwood. But Peter is a very good
actor, and plays adolescent parts with
great success. He first appeared with
the Independents in “Caprice.”
Here’s an enterprising girl who saw
no reason why her sex shouldn’t step
out with the procession, so she formed
the .Sydney Ladies’ Brass Band. The
name of this youthful leader is Hilda
Tansey. Her achievement is the more
remarkable as from nine till five she is
a busy unit of the city’s commercial life.
Picture from Melba Studios.
Six hundred girls are rushing about to-
day in last-minute rehearsals and prepara-
tions for the Jubilee Cavalcade of Empire.
The Town Hall is nearly booked out for
the affair, which is on almost as am-
bitious a scale as the Pageant of Parlia-
ment staged last year in London’s
I
Albert Hall. Lawrence Campbell is the
John Bull of the piece, and against a
London setting he is seen inviting Aus-
tralia to join in the Silver Jubilee fes-
tivities. After that the thing is a riot
of the lovely women of the Empire.
Handsome Alice Prowse is Britannia,
who will sing “Land of Hope and Glory,”
and Jean Mort is cast for Australia,
while Alix Lamb is Tasmania. Mrs. F.
J. Davy’s lovely complexion does credit
to the trailing robes of Helen of
Provence ; her friend Mrs. Lashmar is a
dignified Catherine of Aragon. Actor
Claude Flemming brings all his art to
the part of narrator. The beneficiaries
are the Kindergarten Union, the Day
Nurseries, the Rachel Forster Hospital
and the Y.A.L.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Association
rang out a chime of gladness (in an
otherwise dull week) with its Jubilee Ball.
This filled the Blaxland Galleries with
the scarlet of military and the blue of
Air Force uniforms, the fanfare of
trumpets and the black-and-white of the
Sydney Swords Club, whose girl
members, very erect and alert, formed
a guard of honor for the Governor and
his lady.
The Hugh Poynters were deeply in-
volved in this junketing, Lady Poynter
being president of the committee. She
was in deep-blue satins that flashed
scarlet at the shoulders and the train.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s lovely dress was
of stiffened black lace, sashed in rose-
red and silver. Col. McFarlane was
among the dancers; so were Wing-Com-
mander Bostock and his wife, who wore
greens and golds.
The night launched ten debs., white-
clad, and carrying silver-edged posies.
The blue uniforms of their Air Force
partners added the right note of color.
Mrs. Blair Wark’s Persian reds pat-
terned in gold held attraction ; so did the
blue lace frock with its rosy lining worn
by Judith Campbell, from Melbourne.
Black and silver were allied in Rita Fox’s
raiment.
After its fortnight of good times Syd-
ney has settled down to a week of good
deeds —in short, high thinks instead of
high jinks. Maybe the children home for
the holidays have something to do with
the slowing down of the night life. Meet-
ings and debates, however, have raged ;
so have school dances. One of the
brightest of these was that of the ex-
pupils of Loreto in the Blaxland Gab
leries. Dr. Theresa Carmichael, presi-
dent of the Old Girls’ Union, acted as
hostess, her moires gleaming hibiscus
red. A posy of debs, bloomed under the
smile of Tom Bavin’s lady. Kathleen
O’Neill was lissome in silver lame.
Neville Smith, the latest appointee to
the Con. staff, is responsible for the en-
rolling of the first student to come speci-
ally from the U.S.A. to study at the
Macquarie-street music factory. Vernon
Breithaupt, of Louisiana, an operatic
baritone whom the Australian had been
coaching,- arrived last week, having de-
cided to follow his old teacher. Now
Vernon, with his wife and mother-in-
law, is settled in a cottage at Rose Bay.
The three were among the guests when
Mrs. Selkirk, of Killara, gave her party
for Neville’s old and new pupils.
Sydney theatre-goers are already won-
dering what the new theatre J. C. Wil-
liamson promises will be like; and the
general hope is that the decorations will
be light and graceful, rather than heavy
and fussy. Women are tired of sitting
in theatres where the effect of rich and
careful frocking is completely lost. A
color and lighting scheme that will
throw up and not deaden the lustre of
rich fabric, the gleam of jewels, while it
yet aids the not so dazzling complexion,
is what a female audience longs for.
The closest answer to this prayer seen
by this Letter was the Savoy Theatre in
i London —a dainty bandbox, all greys
and golds and rose.


Your home is .. .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Bunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manaoer for full particulars.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO ETHEL McARTHUR formerly of Bonn
dary Street Valley Brisbane in the State
of Queensland but whose present where’
abouts are unknown (wife of ARCHIBALD
McARTHUR).
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane No. 175 of 1935
by ARCHIBALD McARTHUR your husband
in which he claims a dissolution of his mar-
riage with you and by his petition filed herein
he alleges that since the Second day of
ber 1929 you without cause deserted him and
have continuously so deserted him up to the
presentation of the said petition and it has been
ordered that service of the writ of summons
and petition on you be effected by filing and
sticking up on the notice board in the regis-
try of the said court a copy of the said writ
and an office copy of the said petition and by
the insertion Of this notice once in the “Courier-
Mail” a newspaper published at Brisbane
aforesaid and in the Sydney Bulletin a news-
paper published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales and by posting a copy of this
notice and of the said order in a prepaid
registered letter addressed to you King’s Cross
Post Office vSydney New South Wales and by
posting to you copies of the said notice in
prepaid registered letters addressed to you care
of Alfred Lamb King’s Cross Post Office Sydney
aforesaid and care of Charles Thornton King’s
Cross Post Office Sydney aforesaid IF YOU
DESIRE TO DEFEND this action you must
within sixty days from the date of the last
act done as aforesaid enter an appearance at
the said registry and in default of such appear-
ance judgment may be entered against you.
DATED this Thirteenth day of May, 1935.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy-Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, 236
George Street, Brisbane.
Re MARION ISABEL PATISON, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice, dated
the 14th day of January, 1935, and made in
an action in the matter of the Estate and
Trusts of the Will dated the 11th November,
1933, of MARION ISABEL PATISON, de-
ceased (late of Osmington Cottage, Osming-
ton, in the County of Dorset, who died on
the 16th day of July, 1934), Wood against
Harvey 1934 P. No. 2526, whereby the fol-
lowing inquiry was directed, viz.:—
1. An inquiry who upon the death of the
abovenamed Testatrix MARION ISABEL
PATISON on the 16th July 1934 became
beneficially entitled to any property of hers
as to which she died intestate and for what
estate and interests and in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are
since deceased and if they died entitled to
any vested share or interest who are their
personal representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are, on or before the 15th day of September,
1935, to send by post prepaid to MR. ATHRO
CHARLES KNIGHT (a member of the firm of
Mackrell, Ward and Knight, Solicitors), of
33 Walbrook, London, E.C.4, their full
Christian and surnames, addresses and descrip-
tions, and full particulars of their claims, or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders. Wed-
nesday, the 16th day of October, 1935, at 12
o’clock noon is the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims before Master
H. W. Jelf, at the Chambers of the Judge,
Room 157, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom Notices to the claimant can
be sent.
DATED this 4th day of April, 1935.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
Note. —The persons more particularly in-
quired after are the brothers and sisters of
James Clerk Patison, the father of the above-
named Marion Isabel Patison, and their issue.
It is believed that such brothers and sisters
were named William, Marion, John and Chris-
tiana. The said John Patison went to Aus-
tralia some time between the years 1840 and
1850, and is stated to have died there.
MACKRELL, WARD & KNIGHT, 33 Wal-
brook. London, E.C.4, Agents for FULLER,
WHITTINGTON & ROGERS, Bath, Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
Evening bodices are nothing at all
these nights. The scanty corsage of last
season has become scantier. A fancy for
pushing the shoulder strap off the line
or making the top of a frock look like
an up-to-date bathing-suit has turned
dances into bare-backed parades. The
girls who went to the Old Xaverians’
dance on Boatrace Night were so smart
that one could not see the chiffons for
the backs. The exposure did not make
for artistic effect, because pretty backs
are rare. Mrs. T. M. Burke, not one
of the bare-backers, held up her son
Marcus as president of the Old
Xaverians.
A very happy contrast to the frocks
with the hiatuses was introduced with
the lavender taffetas of Sheila Carrig,
carrying a fichu shawl fastened with
a massive jewelled brooch not un-
like the ornaments favored in Queen
Victoria’s time. Marie Skinner also cap-
tured a pleasing old-world air dancing
in powder-blue taffetas with balloon
sleeves, a padded hem holding down her
billowy skirt. A dark-blue rose plastered
to the jacket bodice gave this style of
other days a 1935 Paris stamp. Jean
Perelle, with diamente earrings dangling
and her dark hair a mass of ruffled
waves and curls, was caped in mist-
blue. Just back from a tour abroad
Aileen Mclnerny topped a black lace
frock wiih an ermine tippet. The Victor
Lansells’ daughter, Marie, who spends
every spare moment cutting figures on
the ice, showed a sparkling back with
pebble rhinestone massed on cinder-
grey chiffon. The college colors were so
well woven into the decorative scheme
that dancers wiped their mouths with
red-and-black serviettes.
Tribute was paid both in sentiment
and cash to Mrs. Bolitho by her political
cronies when she untied the sailor’s knot
that had held her fast to the A.W.N.L.
for 25 years. Remembering the little
lady’s fighting weight in past election
campaigns, Parliamentarians sitting in
high places came to kiss the hand that
fed them. Along with the parting
bouquet in the league’s colors, purple
and gold, went a cheque running into
three figures. Eva Hughes, who reigned
as league president for years, sent bless-
ings by proxy from a sick bed. Frail
and feeble now, Elizabeth Boyd, a
sturdy stalwart when this first women’s
political organisation was cutting its
teeth, had the honor of occupying a
front seat along with another foundation
member, Mrs. A. E. Clarke. The best
speech of the day was made by the
president, Mrs. Couchman.
The girls’ college on Victoria Parade,
East Melbourne, that shelters under the
wing of the Presbyterian Church has
been celebrating its diamond jubilee.
With a keen sense of the fitness of things,
old collegians have elected as their leader
this year a daughter of a headmaster
who grew grey in the service, Mrs. L. S.
Latham, who used to answer the roll-
call as Ida Wilson. There have been
many bright doings this month to cele-
brate the school’s sixtieth birthday. A
real Scottish atmosphere was captured
one day by letting a band of pipers
loose in the grounds. At a reception the
Moderator shook hands with an opening-
day scholar, who joined the teaching
staff in 1887 and remained in the ser-
vice for 32 years—Josephine Patterson,
to her students “Miss Pat.” The old
name stuck when the Moderator stretched
forth a dignified arm to welcome her.
Many distinguished Australian women
were educated at the P.L.C., among them
“Henry Handel Richardson,” who came
into literary fame with Ultima Thule.
Her second novel, The Getting of Wis-
dom, published in 1910, satirised the
social atmosphere of a girls’ school in
a way that displeased the authorities of
the P.L.C.
When the old blue, stone church that
is being removed from its original site
adjoining the Queen Victoria Hospital to
the outer suburb of Kew is put together
again, a memorial window to naturalist
Archie Campbell will decorate the walls
in their new setting. The extra inlet of
stained glass will testify that Archibald
James Campbell was an early elder of
the kirk in Victoria, and also a pioneer
of Australian natural history. Campbell,
who died about five years ago, was
among the first to make a scientific study
of Australian birds and flowers. It was
through his love for the yellow blossom
that the wattle became our national
emblem. From his garden at Armadale
the old gentleman could produce a bit of
wattle blossom all the year round. There
was always a blob of yellow in his coat
lapel.
Daughter Elizabeth, a distinguished
organist, has so much affection for
the national flower that when she
was presented at Buckingham Palace last
year golden wattle formed her court
bouquet. The blooms came out of an
English hot-house, but the species was
that of the little scrub wattle that
flourishes in the Dandenongs. Elizabeth
Campbell was the first woman, and also
the first Australian, to play on the organ
installed in London for radio service by
the 8.8. C.
More patriotic than gay was the show
staged at His Majesty’s to link the theatre
with the jubilee celebrations. The man-
agement kindled the festive spirit, but
the audience failed to keep it alight. The
house carried the dead weight of a circle
filled to overflowing with “leading repre-
sentatives in the community”— not
exactly the kind of tinder for a gala
conflagration. The patriotic note was
worked up into a frenzied crescendo
at the close of the performance with
colored tableaux and choral singing, but
the enthusiasm was all behind the foot-
lights. Since the opening night of “Vik-
toria and Her Hussar,” Sylvia Welling
has discarded her coronet plait, and her
Titian thatch appears to have become
several shades darker. Premier Dun-
stan and the Wales civic pair rubbed
shoulders with vice-royalty behind a
floral barricade. Forgetting the lean
years, the management threw thrift to
the winds and served many glasses of
bubbly during the intervals.
“No heirloom veils for me,” decided
Enid Murdoch, most modern of the
moderns, when she chose the raiment to
wear for the ceremony at which she
changed her name to Mrs. Norman Car-
lyon. Her elbow-length wedding veil of
stiffened tulle stood out like a lampshade
from a gardenia-decked head. Silver
stripes glistened among the snowflake
whiteness of the wedding robe, which
trailed its pleats for nearly six yards,
when Jeanette Scott and Margaret Car-
lyon gave up holding it. Cellophane
bands and bows set the bridesmaids’
frocks sparkling. The ’maids wreathed
their heads in white azaleas and tucked
their hands into azalea muffs. With Mrs.
King Lloyd, the bride’s sister Kathleen,
leading, six figures in very full skirts of
stiffened tulle, the shade of white chalk,
with flyaway capes, swayed down Scots
Church aisle after Enid. Colonel Tom
Murdoch and his wife invited about 200
friends to their daughter’s cake-cutting at
the Windsor. This is a picture of the bride,
taken a few days before the wedding by
Athol Shmith. Mrs. Norman was able to
make use of one of her wedding presents
on the honeymoon tour, a lovely fur
coat, a gift from hubby.
The late Tom Carlyon, who amassed
a lot of money running residential hotels
in various parts of Victoria, had his sons
trained to follow in his footsteps.
Norman, who married Enid Murdoch
last week, served his apprenticeship in
one of New York’s most exclusive hotels —-
the ten - dollars - a - minute - to - breathe
kind. He started as bellhop after a col-
lege education and a life of comparative
luxury. In his lowly job the young Aus-
tralian’s most embarrassing moment
came on his first day of duty, when he
hopped from hotel to sidewalk and found
himself clutching the suitcases of a jolly
group of travellers with whom he had
struck up a friendship on the liner while
crossing from England to America. The
new arrivals were good sports. Taking
in the situation at a glance they insisted
on helping Norman to carry in the lug-
gage. Many times Carlyon had to eat
humble pie, but the hardest thing to
swallow was “The guest is always
right,”
The wave of the wand that banished,
for the time being anyway, the financial
troubles of Gregan McMahon and his
Players was directed by Mrs. Henry
Marks, once Phoebe Barnett', who bustled
through the recent testimonial perform-
ances to Gregan as the mother of a
grown-up selfish family in “The Mait-
lands.” Actresses belonging to the old
school learnt the knack of failing in old
women’s parts, to save themselves drift-
ing into this line of business. If Phoebe
Marks followed this lead she might get
a chance of making an attractive appear-
ance sometimes, instead of always hiding
her comeliness under bonnets and
shawls. By this Jack Cato picture Reper-
tory Theatre patrons will see that Phoebe
Marks is not the aged figure she so often
pretends to be. This matron, mother of
five young sons, migrated to the amateur
stage from Claude Hall’s dramatic
classes.
Mr. McMahon’s luck has turned. The
money raised by the complimentary per-
formances will save him, for a while,
from the anxiety of depending on the
support of the general public to make up
the income to keep his Little Theatre
movement going. What with the diffi-
culty of getting suitable plays, trying to
please everybody with his ultimate
choice and finding the money for copy-
right fees, poor Gregan’s life has not
been a bed of roses.
Wooed and wedded within a month,
Anne McAuley is now on her way to
South Africa as the wife of Peter Solo-
veicikas. Trade Envoy for Lithuania, a
country which the atlas shows as a little
pink spot hugging the Baltic Sea. This
whirlwind romance started at Los
Angeles, and ripened on board the Mari-
posa. The six-foot Lithuanian, who is
24, became so enamored of Anne that
he did not tranship. Instead of going to
China and Japan, as intended, he came
on to Australia. Then the money and
the ’planes began to fly. He loaded
Anne with jewels, and chartered an aero-
plane in Sydney to bring his rapidly-
acquired fiancee back to Melbourne. He
was such an impetuous wooer that a few
hours after he had landed on the return
trip he was in the air again winging his
way back to Melbourne to persuade
Anne to be married straightway. In
case a coupe sports car was too paltry
for a wedding gift, he threw in a ruby-
and-diamond necklace with earrings to
match. A diamond solitaire followed
quickly on the presentation of the en-
gagement ring, a costly sapphire em-
bedded in diamonds. Nearly £7OO was
paid for one of the wedding-gift jewels.
Peter with the name so difficult to re-
member was educated at Zurich, and
won a gold medal for electrical engineer-
ing. While Trade Envoy for the Gov-
ernment of his country in Washington
the Legion of Honor came his way. The
young people are on board the Ulysses.
They will drop off at South Africa, where
Peter may pick up a few more diamonds
for his bride. The dark and dashing
Anne looks a little foreign herself, so
she will always be in the picture if
hubby should have official duties on the
Continent at any time. Anne and Peter
will stay in South Africa for a couple
of months, and then go on to England.
Everything is settled: Margery Press
is going to marry “F.P.N..” otherwise
Frederick Patrick Newell, whom she met
on shipboard when returning from a trip
to England about six-months ago. They
said good-bye at Ceylon, where Paddy
has put in 11 years managing one of
the island’s biggest estates, a tea and
rubber plantation at Ingiriya. A. H.
Press would not give his consent until
he had cast a critical eye over the young
man. Paddy came to the Brighton home,
and was given a favorable clearance.
The marriage date has been fixed for
September, and as the young Irishman
cannot make another trip to Australia
in such a short space of time the wed-
ding will be celebrated in Ceylon. When
she settles down in her new home Mar-
gery will be about 40 miles from
Colombo.
Amid the luggage carried off an ocean
liner when Jean Cuming disembarked
some time ago was a case with contents
so precious that the box was lined with
lead to withstand any oceanic tarnish-
ing. Inside was an Isobel model frock
of uncrushable chiffon velvet beaded
with seed pearls. Jean, who is tall and
very smart, will wear the creation on her
wedding day. Friends are reserving the
evening of June 5 to attend the ceremony
at Scotch College chapel. Neil Lees, of
Cootamundra station, a son of Mrs
Gordon Paton, who lives at Albury, is
the lucky man. Mrs. W. P. Vine and
her daughter Leslie are on their way
to England. Mrs. Vine’s son married
Jean’s sister Bessie.


YOU LL APPRECIATE THIS /
/
m
-e
3$ «» 100
//£ the neiv
FDH 19 3 3
F T 4
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
ft
£
Jfi
s
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Legal Notice*
TO MARGARET McGETTRICK (stated to
have married Martin Rochford), JOHN
McGETTRICK, ELEANOR BATCHELOR
(nee McGettrick), ANNE McGETTRICK
(stated to have married one Lombar),
WINIFRED BYRNE (nee McGettrick),
ELIZABETH CAMPBELL (ne'e McGet-
trick), formerly of Kilterra, Co. Sligo, in
the Irish Free State, and their respective
children or grandchildren.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court
of Justice in the Irish Free State, made in the
matter of the estate of Edward Joseph
Ormsby Cooke, deceased, Ellen Monson and
Christina Shouldice, Plaintiffs, John Ander-
son and Daniel C. Devine, Defendants, all
persons claiming to be next-of-kin to the said
Edward Joseph Ormsby Cooke, late of Tubber-
curry, in the County of Sligo, Ireland, de-
ceased, who died on the Sixth day of May,
1933, and in particular the persons above-
named or their respective children or grand-
children, are on or before the 15th day of
July, 1935, to come in and prove their claims
at the Office of the Examiner at the Four
Courts, Dublin, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order.
The 17th day of July, 1935, at the Examiner s
Office, Four Courts, Dublin, is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating on the claims.
DATED this 11th day of April, 1935.
JOHN HEALY,
Examiner.
MICHAEL E. FITZGERALD, Solicitor for
the Plaintiffs, Ellen Monson and Christina
Shouldice, Strokestown, Co. Roscommon, and
27 Molesworth Street, Dublin.
Missing Relatives.
MARGARET QUIRK (believed to have mar-
ried one Matheson), sister of John Quirk, late
of Ward, Marlborough, New Zealand, or any
person claiming through her, please communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Blenheim, New Zealand.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
At the Karrakatta Club Ball 29 debs,
spread snowy wings of tulle, taffeta,
satin or lace, fluttered curtsies before
the v.-r. couple over pastel Victorian
posies, and floated off into the lancers.
Vice-presidents Mrs. F. Dempster, who
skilfully combined black georgette and
lace for her gown, and Mrs, W. H. Vin-
cent (her black georgettes were agog with
glittering jet beads) waved the guests
into the ballroom. A shower of
silver beads fell on Mrs. W. H. Taylor’s
silver-striped black satins ; Lesley Everett
tied a black velvet sash around bitter-
sweet organdie, to watch sister Joan
emerge from her chrysalis; silver lame
glistened on Mrs. Percy Howard’s hand-
some black Chantillies, and Mrs. Freeth’s
woodland-green laces hovered near
daughter Elizabeth’s posy.
In spite of dirty weather, rakings from
the Manoora ball made a welcome addi-
tion to the coffers of the Fairbridge Farm
School. Mabel Leather went patriotic
with red and blue stripes on white taf-
feta ; the Nathan lady was girt with
black chiffon velvet; gold stripes and
green speckles ran riot over Rita Mc-
Gibbon’s black taffetas ; Jeans Herbert
and Loton adorned their oatmeal laces
with brown fur.
The Rep. Soc.’s presentation of Barrie’s
“Admirable Crichton” had a capacity
house at every performance. Producer
Mrs. Miller had her cast working well
together, with Peggy Nunn, Gwenyth
Ambrose and Margaret Giles looking as
charming in their castaway attire as in
their modern gowns.
The jarrah panelling of St. George’s
College reflected a colorful array of
gowns when the students held their
dance. ’Gainst the chrysanthemums and
palms on the dais, Mrs. H. E. Whitfeld’s
sherry laces were seen next Mrs. Beas-
ley’s splashings of green and black on
atmosphere georgette, and Mrs. C. L.
Riley’s pervenche lace and nets. Vans
and Dora Anderson brought individual
touches to their white matt crepes;
Valmai Wood’s satins introduced season-
able autumn tints.
The Royal Schools’ Music Club and
the Music Teachers’ Assoc, joined forces
to welcome examiner Lloyd Powell at
the Karrakatta Club hall. Florence
Hodd, decked with warm brown laces,
and the two secretaries, Ada Doonan
and Jean Young, formed the reception
trio.
Back in Australia after four years’
caravanning through the British Isles and
the Continent are Joan and Betty Ray-
nor, who arrived at Fremantle in the
Thermopylte. The sisters’ first caravan,
in which they toured Australia with their
programmes of folk-lore, was christened
by Lady de Chair, who was debarred
from allowing their recent tour to start
from the De Chair estate in England by
an ancient law prohibiting caravans on
the grounds.
Gertie Hosking and John Blatchford
slipped into matrimony at Perth College
chapel after Gertie had run the gamut
of bride-elect parties. Another to do
the deed without much ado was Nancy
Martin, whose new visiting-cards read
“Mrs. James Hyde, Dalwallinu.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Aero Club Ball at the Palais
Royal was attended by the Governor
and Lady Dugan, who were received by
president Murray Fowler and the com-
mittee, and escorted to a box decorated
in autumn tints. Lady Dugan’s apple-
green chiffon clung to the figure and
flared at the feet, the back showing a
deep V of gold lame. Mrs. Murray
Fowler’s powder-blue chiffon had trim-
mings of diamente. Acting-Premier
Ritchie’s wife chose beige satin pat-
terned in brown, daughter Isobel sport-
ing oyster-toned taffeta with leaf-brown
velvet on the corsage.
The same night Mr. and Mrs. Alwyn
Shearer gave a dance for 200 at Mount
Osmond Country Club to launch their
only daughter Barbara into the social
whirl. The deb. looked dainty in a period
frock of pale-gold lame, veiled in three
layers of white tulle, full from the waist
and opening down the front to show the
lame. The hostess received in hyacinth-
blue triple chiffon, the tunic beaded in
silver, and a silver cord girdle.
There was a big attendance at the
dance given by the Uni. basketball club
in the refectory. Prof. R. R. P- Bar-
bour, president of the sports club, re-
ceived with his wife, who was gowned
in pervenche-blue stiffened chiffon. Mrs.
Menz (president of the basketball club)
chose black chiffon velvet, with touch
of silver lame on the bodice. Margaret
Hargrave (captain) was in green georg-
ette flaring from the knees. The supper
table was arranged with red roses, and
autumn flowers decorated the refectory.
The engagement is announced of
Katherine, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Wemyss, of Hackney, to Ivor
Bull, of Pollibetta, South India. Wedding
bells are to ring in Colombo.
News is to hand of the marriage of
Laurence Power, operatically Lorenso
Poerio, son of Mr. and Mrs. N. J.
Power, North Adelaide, to Annunciata,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Gar-
rotto, of Omaha, U.S.A., at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, New York, on March 5. The
couple have been associated for two
years or so as principals in the Chicago
Opera Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Duncan gave a
ball at their home, Parkside, to cele-
brate the debut of their second daughter,
Jean. The color scheme was pink, thou-
sands of Madame Abel Chateney roses
being used. The hostess was gowned in
deep-maize angel-skin lace, a spray of
lilies-of-the-valley worn on the corsage.
Jean Duncan wore white silk net pat-
terned with pearl drops fitting to the
knees, whence a double flounce flared
to the feet. The bodice had small puffed
sleeves.
TASMANIA.
The Old Boys’ Association (it repre-
sents all the schools) spread itself to
some purpose at the Rowing Club Ball
after St. Virgil’s had become Head of
the River. The memorial hall of Clemes
College was gay with flags and balloons,
and the dining-room, where supper was
served, flaunted sprays of scarlet vine
and masses of golden marigolds. Two
hundred danced, and older folk played
bridge.
Betty, only daughter of the late E. A.
Bennison and Mrs. Bennison, Battery
Point, exchanged vows with Tom
Stephens at St. George’s. Her frock was
of soft-blue wool crepe, with a longish
tunic; a row of little silver buttons
ran down the back, and the waist had a
silver girdle. The blue velour hat, match-
ing the frock exactly, had a little silver
quill and a stiff eye-veil. The only ’maid,
Lily Ivey, wore an off-white wool crepe
frock, with velour hat to match.
The Red Cross Society’s drive for
funds opened with a Paddy’s Market at
the Town Hall on the • 106th anniversary
of Florence Nightingale’s birthday.
Financial results were substantial.
The committee of the Queen Victoria
Hospital, Launceston, said its farewells
to Mrs. Hogg, bound for London, at the
Brisbane. Mayoress von Bibra received
the guest of honor in the lounge, and
music, tea and talk made up a pleasant
afternoon. Mrs. Hogg was also enter-
tained at a morning-tea party by Miss
Flora Collins. The spacious music-
room at Ila House was decorated with
Easter lilies.
Mrs. G. H. Butler and daughter
Evelyn have returned from England.
They broke their journey at Sydney,
where they put in a little time with Mrs.
Butler’s son-in-law, Major Percy Dobson.
The chrysanthemum show at Hobart
City Hall was opened by the Governor,
Lady Clark accompanying him. Masses
of color made an eyeful for the spec-
tator, but the blooms were not up to
Tasmania’s best standard, the season hav-
ing been unfavorable.


• Go/fors ! The placing of the boom-
erang-shaped, non-clogging studs grip the
ground and stay steady there is no slip-
ping. To wear the Flexible type “Niblick”
Golf Shoe will be a new sensation for you.
Water-resisting, but light and comfortable.
All sizes for Men and Women at better-
class stores.
Golf Shoe
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
Patents.
IMPROVED PROCESS OF HEAT-
TREATING HYDROCARBON OILS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
13623/28 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
KANGAROO
H IDE
Aviv Vv
mi Vi
A belt is a very personal
thing to a man.
Experience a new idea in
trouser comfort by
wearing one of Pike
Brothers 10-strand
hand ridge-piaited
Kangaroo Hide Belts.
The finest and strongest
made.
d
PIKES
o/QUEEN street,
/ BRISBANE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Backyard War
“F.A.4”: This from a N.G. pilot: “I
have just returned from a private war
200 miles inland. Some of the local lads
at Chinubra (Mandated Territory) de-
cided to clean up the missionaries, and
had bumped off two when a ’plane landed
with supplies. It got away and brought
the news to Salamaua. The local ‘army’
requisitioned two ’planes, and we arrived
at the scene of action in time to save a
couple more missionaries.
“The enemy numbered 15,000, and
our force consisted of four whites and
four police boys. We sent for reserves.
As the weather went bad, our reinforcing
’plane could not get in. Neither could
we get out, so we stayed put for four
days, fraternising with our foes and
being royally entertained by them.
“As it was the local scrapping season
they had their own little ‘dust-ups’ to
attend to, and anyhow I don’t think any
of ’em was in love with our two ’planes
and guns. A truce was declared.
“Their own scraps are carried out
strictly according to Marquess of Ramu
rules, far more civilised than those in
force in European wars. When a neigh-
boring mob is to be socked, the attackers
send a messenger to announce the time
they expect to be on deck. The defenders
fall in and the opposing forces line up
face to face a la Dettingen.
“They may number from 700 to 1000.
Spear and shield men are in front (the
equivalent of our P. 8.1.) and bow-and-
arrow men behind (artillery).
“The idea seems to be for the shield
men to protect the ‘artillery’ while they
keep enemy heads down with an arrow
barrage as the spear men advance. Spears
are 12 to 15 feet long, with three prongs
like a pitchfork, and are used much as
Roman gladiators used a similar weapon.
“When the issue has been decided—
the attackers generally land the bacon —
the winners help themselves first to the
contents of the locals’ gardens ; second,
to a sufficiency of ladies. Then they maf-
fick, burning down huts and churches,
and return home singing their equivalent
of ‘A Hot Time in the Old Town To-
night.’ Nobody can teach them anything
about celebrating Armistice Day—they
get a lot of practice.
“While the battles rage, the females
of both sides cheer on their boy friends.
“These niggers are easily the toughest-
looking lot I have seen, and emphasise
the remark which should be impressed
on all young pilots: ‘Fly safe, young
man.’ A forced landing among them
would be an event.
“A D.O. has now arrived, and I am
going back to the comparatively safe job
of hoisting three-ton loads inland from
the coast.”
“X.T.”: Following the opening of a
new battery Tennant’s Creek (N.T.) has
sent away its largest parcel of gold,
which went to Alice Springs under police
escort. Seeing that the Territory pro-
duced 570 z. in the first year of the
depression and that last year The
Granites and other fields scraped up
14000 z., it is not going so badly. But
there are no Golcondas in the offing, so
far. Most of the shows are only meat for
small syndicates.
'!■ 'l* -I- '!•
“Vic”: The first non-human living
things to travel out of Australia by
’plane were a few goannas going to a
zoo, and the first non-stowaway insects
were a consignment of queen and
worker bees, sent from Goodna (Q.) to
Sourabaya (East Indies). It would have
been worth while to be able to hear their
opinion of their vocal competitors, the
D.H.86 engines.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”: Professor Nariman,
from India, suggests that in the Cairns
flood area irrigation is surprisingly slow
in developing. The floods .usually come
early in the sugar season, and, although
it may rain like fury for 40 days and
40 nights, the dampness soon gets away.
A damaging drought may come any
“Out o' juice?"
“No, thanks; got plenty."
season just as the young cane is growing
—one is all too well remembered. Mr.
Nariman also foretells soil exhaustion if
crop rotation is not resorted to as a
policy. That has been talked about, too
—and dropped.
»J” 4* *5”
“X.”: The quiet little Moreton Bay
settlement of Amity Point has been dis-
turbed by a pig which, after taking a
dislike to the local prad, which it even-
tually vanquished, turned a purposeful
eye on a resident or two. The owner of
the local kiosk spent two hours on the
roof admiring it, and the campers around
the settlement showed a turn of speed
which would do credit to Bishop. When
the last bulletin arrived from the front
they were sleeping fitfully o’ nights with
their rifles in the hollows of their arms.
Nobody seems to have thought of a few
apples and some grains of strychnine—a
very useful remedy for overdeveloped
energy in swine.
* * * *
“Kaloa”; He was from Cape York or
the Headingly or somewhere. “Sydney,”
he snorted to the bar at large. “Y’ never
see the blasted place! Everything travels
like a Cape scrubber. If y’re not on the
trams they go so fast y’ can’t get near
’em, and if y’ are on ’em y’re so scared
the dashed things’ll bolt you don’t dare
to look out. An’ th’ beer!” he snorted.
“Wish-wash! Y’ pour it in and y’ pour
it in! And what does it do? Dishwater!
Why, in Burketown me last drink knocked
me out dead, strike me it did. An’ when
me dorg licked the pot he died of the
staggers.” Taking another schooner of
the “wish-wash” firmly in his right hand
he abolished it with a gesture, pushed
the empty vessel across the bar for re-
plenishment, reduced it again to a state
of emptiness, staggered slightly, and then,
pointing suddenly to the less covered
parts of the large barmaid who was serv-
ing him, ejaculated loudly: “Y’ couldn’t
go about like that in th’ Gulf, me girl.
The skeeters ud get ye.” Swaying to the
door, he moaned: “Buildings, buildings,
buildings! Takes a blooming fortnight
to get tight here.” A moment later we
saw him struggling hopelessly into an-
other bar.
* * * *
“L.”: Queensland revision of electoral
boundaries effectually divided one family.
The boundaries of Fitzroy and Keppel
(C.Q.) passed through a house in Kabra.
One half of the couple living in the
house is enrolled in Keppel and the other
in Fitzroy. Not that that is anything-
once, years ago, an enthusiastic voter
was fined for apparently living in several
electorates at once.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Nurses’ Ball, first of the formal
dances of the season, took place at the
City Hall. Dr. A. D. D. Pye and his
wife and Matron Sorensen were the
official host and hostesses, and led C.J.
Blair and his lady to the special alcove
reserved for them. There were no
debs. —one sister explained that the
youngsters in the profession were too
busy making their debut in the operating
theatre to go in for social appearances.
There seems to be a dearth of buds all
round this season —so many insisted on
making their bow to the Duke. The
Naval and Military Ball, which usually
produces the largest crop of the year,
has only four on the list —Amy Jean-
ette Thompson (daughter of Canon
Walter Thompson), Merle Woodward,
Evelyn Rae Webster and Marjorie
Taylor.
A small eight-year-old Queenslander,
Valerie Blackwood, won at Sydney Eis-
teddfod the silver cup offered for the
best humorous recitation (21 years and
under).
Mrs. Hunter Brown (one of the Drury
girls), who has been in the Cold Country
for some years, is visiting Brisbane to
hold a reunion with sisters whom she
had not met for over 30 years.
Minna Hogarth, daughter of the Bob
Hogarths, of Toowoomba and Bal-
gownie, is off for a trip to China with
her aunt, Mrs. Dave McWilliam, as a
prelude to her marriage. Either
November or December is to be the
month. Other Downs residents who have
heard the Orient calling are Mrs. W. J.
Lloyd, of Harrow, and daughter Shirley.
Alison McPhie, only unmarried mem-
ber of Alex. McPhie’s family of four, is
trousseau-gathering to marry Andrew
McWilliam on September 1,
The Ormonde carried a heavy contin-
gent of Queenslanders bound for Eng-
land. Mrs. J. H. Peel was among them,
farewelled by a party of cronies at a
bridge party at Finney’s.
Mrs. V. Lewis, of Lota, is another
Ormonde tourist. Mrs. Norman Laws
gathered a party of guests at the Bris-
bane Women’s Club in her honor.
Phyllis White, eldest daughter of the
H. A. Whites, of Riverview, Surat,
was married in the old drawing-room
there to Archie Telford, of Ellupna,
Goondiwindi, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs.
G. Telford, Melbourne. The bride wore
a tailored suit of grey duvetyn and a
velour hat to match. Joan Hall, of
Marion Vale, ’maided, and Wally White
was best man.
Florence Austral and husband John
Amadio had two receptions in one day.
The first was in the Lady Mayoress’s
room; Lord Mayor Jones and daugh-
ter Dorothy did the honors, and pre-
sented Florence with roses. In the even-
ing the Musical Association had a party
at the Hotel Canberra. Jean Pollack
gave the singer a great armful of gladioli,
gerberas and gumtips.
Dr. Hedley Brown, who owns a de-
lightful Tudor house set in lovely
gardens at Nundah, has just announced
his engagement. Dr. Phyllis Wedlick, of
Melbourne, is the lady of his choice.
“Ralph Connor,” his daughter and
their hostess, Miss Philp, were guests of
honor of the Press Institute at luncheon.
Mr. W. H. Cummins presided, and
social sec. Mrs. W. Young looked after
arrangements.
When Madeline McGuire stepped up
the aisle at St. Stephen’s Cathedral to
keep an important appointment with
John Magee, three cherry-clad ’maids—
Marie Magee, Marjorie Sapsford and
Betty Hugall—walked behind. Madeline
is a B.A. of Sydney Uni., has published
books in verse and prose and is writing
a novel. Also, she owns a horse
that has captured both the Brisbane
and the Toowoomba Cups. She is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jim
McGuire, and bridegroom is a son of
the Commissioner of Taxation.
So thrilled was Canungra that it had
been put on the map in “Heritage” that
the township got in early and booked a
special train so that the inhabitants
could attend the opening night of the
picture. Peggy Maguire made a per-
sonal appearance on the stage.


rx
M« st
a* 1
£J!
y
Btoo
. l’ l '
-49?
BSfO**X
«sb*°
•I*
B
3
y-tf
m
-^vJI
s'#
R
-3T
\v
4.
£
»)
r
X
nw
x
aKfl)
■vi
SS>
n
Become an ARTIST —Quickly
Let Brodie Mack Teach
You at Home!
AX last you are able to learn all branches
of the black and white art under the
supervision of this famous Australian Ai-tist.
This amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you have an
inclination for drawing, an inclination that
many of us possess, then why compete with
the crowd in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for this
fascinating accomplishment. Thousands of
pounds are paid every year for drawings
for advertising, catalogues, pamphlets, books,
comic strips, cartoons, etc. Successful artists
are well paid—have the best of homes, have
their own cars, and get the best out of life.
Why remain a stick-in-the-mud . Get out ot
the rut now—this minute!
Make Money in Your
Spare Time!
BRODIE MACK has made it possible
by means of this remarkable
course for yon to earn money in your
spare hours. He shows you how to
“cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop
your latent ability so that you are
able to produce striking illustrations
and art work. The fact of you read-
ing this announcement points to you
having a desire to be an artist —then
send for this amazing book and let
us prove that we can make you a
skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy Rapid Way!
BRODIE MACK can teach you to draw by
easy, natural stages from the simple
outline to the finished drawing—the draw-
ings that bring in good £ s. d. Brodie Mack
can teach you to draw by post successfully,
the letters Mr. Mack receives daily are
ample proof of this. Many famous illus-
trators learnt this way—they were not born
famous. This is your opportunity to become
a real artist capable of making faithful
sketches that will surprise your friends,
delight yourself, and take you out of the
small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity —are you going to pass it by.
Then get that coupon into the mail —this
moment. NOW!
FREE BOOK COUPON-POST NOW! “HOW TO BE AN ARTIST” IS FREE
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 45, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
Dear Sir—Please send me FREE and without
<khiio-‘iHnn ttiv cody of youi* famous book, ‘iLIOW i-0
if An Art“t y ” I encdose Cd. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
TNJEVER before has a book of this nature been offered free; that
is why you should send for your copy now. This brand-new
book shows you how to draw—develop your talent how to
cartoon, the secret of illustrating, and how money can be made
even while learning. Fill in your coupon and get it into the
post now—at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 45, 107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Comedy with a Laugh in It:—
FINDING BILL FRANKS.
By VICTOR KENNEDY.
THE little man in the corner drank
his beer in silence, furtively looking
around the small, dingy bar as he
sipped. He held the glass mug as if he
wished to make the drink last all night.
tie sought no one’s company, and the
hard-boiled-looking lot gathered from
various parts of the tiny settlement
sought his only half-heartedly. He
chilled and repelled; and, although he
was a slight, very small man, apparently
wasted in years as well as health, the
big-chested, browned and hairy timber-
getters were slightly in awe of him.
Personal silence was new to them.
They did not like it, and, in the manner
of primitives, resented what they could
not fathom. Besides, strangers were rare
in that out-of-the-way spot, which also
helped to make him suspect. So, after
they had shouted him thirteen drinks
among them without his returning even
one of them, no one intended to make
it fourteen.
The stranger at last pushed the mug
back and went out to sit pensively on
the plank form beside the bar door. It
was a moonlit night. The long, straggling
street that was all the township ran into
the bush-misty distance as though eager
to get away from something and not car-
ing where it went. The stranger’s mourn-
ful eyes straggled after it, and he stroked
the two hanging peaks of his moustache
as they tried to wriggle into his shirt-
collar even as the road wriggled into
nothing. .
One by one the men m the bar came
out. Some wandered away; others
drifted into the billiard barn, where a
young chap was flashing a cue with a
grunting old sneezer of eighty-five or so.
One or two sat on their heels and spat;
one, braver than the others, sat beside
the stranger, who took no notice of him.
The pub-keepers daughter came out
with a lighted kerosene lamp to hang
above the bar door. She essayed to
stand upon the form, but failed. The
dreary-looking stranger darted a look at
her and the lamp, grabbed her suddenly
around the thighs and held her up as
though she were four instead of twenty-
four. The girl went hot along the collar-
bones, made a frantic effort, hung the
lamp and literally tumbled down all
aheap. The stranger sat back again as
though he had never moved.
The fellow next him essayed a con-
versation without the slightest success.
Then, without warning, the stranger
himself broke silence, and the men sit-
ting on their heels sat suddenly upon the
ground.
“Ever seen Bill Franks?”
“Can’t say as I have.”
“I haven’t neither,” said the stranger,
and the discussion dropped.
OUT of the wriggle of road came an-
other stranger. He had a swag and
a melancholy face that was square and
flat. His girth was enormous. To match
it he had a mighty voice; when he
turned it on to say “Good night, boys,
the horses in the stalls snorted.
Everybody said “Good night,” too, as
though eager to forestall another greet-
ing. They were so much unsteadied by
his appearance that they didn’t think to
ask who he was, where he had come
from, or how the hell he got there, though
that was the stock formula in local
greeting.
“I ain’t had nothing to wet me wind-
pipe these forty mile,” said the second
stranger, with a threatening attempt at
good humor.
So the call was on the house, and all
the friends of the house considered it a
good idea. Dick Longlegs, the pub man,
looked across at the second stranger:
“What’s yours, mate?”
The large man with the square tace
folded his bottom lip carefully over the
top one before diving to the bottom of
his swag. After a moment’s fumbling
he produced what appeared to be an
aluminium cup about seven inches deep
and four across the top. As Dick Long-
legs gazed, the big man held it at arm’s
length and gave it a sudden jerk. The
cup extended itself as though by magic
until it was three times its apparent
depth- ' . . ,
“This here,” Stranger No. 2 explained,
“is a collapsible affair. I got it in a
castle where I lived till I came here, and
I carries it with me. I got an objection
to drinking with anybody’s flies.’
He gave it a twist to tighten it and
handed it to the open-mouthed filler of
mugs. , ,
The drinks were lifted, and the new-
comer had just started on his gallon
when his arm was jerked aside. The first
miserable stranger bobbed his head under
the arm of the second ditto.
“Say, are you Bill Franks?’
“No, I ain’t; I’m drinking, and me
name’s Henery. You aint this Bill
Franks yourself, be any chance?”
The first stranger shook his head
sadly: “No. I’m Timothy.”
Dick Longlegs was still gazing at the
vessel from which Henery gobbled.
Henery saw him.
“See here, mate” —when he winked his
eyelid seemed to come from undei a
massive shelf of furry brown and drop
down his face—“this here is all right.
You just measure it up be these marks.
Each one represents a pot as others see
’em.” He pointed to a scale of marks
crawling up the side of his aluminium
telescope.
THEREAFTER Henery spoke to no
one ; but when the hours were creep-
ing into the next day he stirred on his
bed. The mournful sound of horse bells
clanging around the shack would have
made anything stir on such a night, but
Henery decided that he wanted to stir
anyway. Clad only in a pair of pyjamas
that fitted so closely that he bulged, he
clattered into a neighbor’s room and
demanded:
“Where’s that Timothy?”
“Go and ask your grandmother, y’
dirty little shrimp!” roared the awak-
ened one violently.
The searcher went on until he found
Timothy curled up in a complete circle
on the middle of his bunk.
“I say,” he said, in a whisper that shook
the floor, “you ain’t Bill Franks, are you ?
“No,” groaned Timothy, as though re-
gretting the admission.
The big man, satisfied, turned to leave,
but hesitated and turned back to the bed.
“I got a feeling for you, mate,” he
said, “but I’m not for you. See here,
I killed two men.”
He groaned deeply as he left.
He was getting into his bed again
after taking off his pyjamas and putting
on a hat and a waistcoat when his door
opened silently and Timothy glided in.
With a catch in his voice Timothy put
out his hand.
“Mate,” he said, “me and you is ter
be friends. I got blood on me head, too.
I killed two women.”
Their hands met in the dark, and
that’s how the friendship began.
NEXT day a dray drew up at the door,
and from the midst of its load of
eucalyptus bushes tumbled something
that looked like part of a man. When it
had finished arriving they agreed that
it was a man, all of it. It was seven feet
high and so narrow that it could have
come over the telephone wires if there
were any to that forsaken cranny.
He pushed past everybody and called
for an ice-cream.
“A-a-a-a-a wh-what?” asked Dick,
with eyes bulging out like doorknobs.
“What did he say?” echoed the little
mob at the door.
Timothy looked more miserable than
ever.
“Henery,” he muttered, “that feller in
there, he said ice-cream.”
“I had a feeling like that meself,
Timothy.” Turning to the third stranger
Henery asked: “Is me feeling right,
mate? Did you say”
The elongated one turned rapidly from
the counter and blazed down upon
Henery ; then he transferred his search-
ing gaze to Timothy. He extended his
thumb and index finger to the point of
Timothy’s moustache and lifted it gently.
“Is one of yous him?”
There was a tremor of hope in his
voice, not unmixed with apprehension.
“Which of who’s what?” responded
Timothy.
“Who is it, mate?” Henery’s query was
cast in a terrible pitch of uncertainty.
“Who do you want me and him to be?”
“I’m wanting to meet Bill Franks. Is
you it?”
The new stranger’s thin voice faded
like vapor in his anxiety. Two sighs of
relief and two voices beat as one:
“No.”
The long one stamped out, looked
wildly about and set off down the road
at a rapid pace despite the heat. He
returned about an hour later at the same
pace.
“Been for a litle stroll,” he volunteered.
“When you want to call me, say ‘Wil-
liam.’ ”
“Little Willie,” breathed a bush
worker.
But Henery and Timothy took a kindly
interest in the blithe newcomer ; and he
reciprocated. Suddenly, however, in the
midst of a confidence, he stopped, closed
his lips and sank into himself. They
allowed him to enjoy his misery for
some time. When he emerged he said
in a suffocated voice:
“Mates, you must know it. I ain’t what
I seem and I ain’t one to impose upon
yous. We can’t be no friends ; you see,
I killed a man and a woman.”
His friends sighed for his sorrows, and
the fellowship was sealed.
“It’s like this,” said both; “I am a
marked man myself” (still as one voice).
“I am a shedder of human blood.”
The voices did not separate for even
a syllable. And the air was charged with
sighs.
They were called the Three Curios, and
they became inseparable for two days.
They were ill-assorted, but happily they
were united in the bonds of a common,
horror.
ANOTHER newcomer drew up in a
car and he was surrounded at once.
The Three Curios pinned themselves
to him and charged him with searching
glances and penetrating questions with
the ultimate object of finding the missing
Bill Franks. The negative reply was re-
ceived with a mixture of relief and dis-
appointment. But the latest newcomer
voiced a question that had at last formed
in the slow-moving minds of the isolated
little pub population:
“I say, gentlemen, I think we ought
to know something from you. What do
you want Bill Franks for, anyway?”


<■
i V
A
0\
o
v\-
ii
fe>
I^^,/f
ad
4
UJ-V
J Many happy returns
of the day bu teleqmm
AU
Your message should be phrased
to express your own sentiments.
It will be delivered on a gaily
decorated form, appropriate to
the occasion, and will bring happy
memories to the recipient.
Ornamental Telegram Forms may
also be used for ail congratulatory
and seasonal greeting messages.
If you are a telephone subscriber,
simply dictate your message to
"TELEGRAMS." and the charges
will be debited to your next
account.
Messages are accepted for issue
on ornamental telegram forms at
the usual low telegraph rates,
viz.:—
WITHIN THE STATE Not exceeding
16 words
Not exceeding 15 miles radius, 9d.
Elsewhere in the State 1 /-=•
INTERSTATE 1/4
Each additional word, Id.
m
mm
"■-m
*
w
m
SPECIAL CONGRATULATORY
TELEGRAM FORMS
are available for such
occasions as
Sporting Triumphs
Business Successes
Visits of the Stork
etc., etc.
There was a gap before William
replied, with a cunning leer:
“list because, mister.”
Henery said: “Ter look at fer a bit.”
Timothy tried to twist the buckle of
his belt around to his back before saying:
“To hold in the holler of our hands.”
All of which suggested that, at least,
the Three Curios had come to a common
understanding respecting Bill Franks.
They walked off while the newcomer
went into the bar. In the privacy of
Henery’s room Timothy sprang a sur-
prise.
“Boys,” he chattered in a terrible
whisper, “that was Bill Franks.”
Faces blanched ; Henery straightened
until he appeared to be six feet tall;
William’s head shrank into his shoulders
and his shoulders into his diaphragm
until he seemed half his normal height.
Timothy, swayed with the importance of
a bearer of information, threw his head
back and giggled. Then, with unnatural
suddenness, his brows knit and he bared
his teeth like a stage villain.
“It’s him, that feller that came here.
There is' only one thing to do.” Tim’s
mind was working now. “We gotter
turn King’s evidence. We have to get
that Bill Franks and take him back.
Then we get a free pardon.”
The others didn’t quite see, although
they screwed up their eyes. William
twisted a long grey lock round and round
his left ear in an agony of thought, and
Henery began feverishly to chew the toe
of his boot. Timothy alone was calm,
although his hair would not lie down
and his eyebrows seemed to be struggling
to the top of his head. He outlined his
scheme:
“We get this Bill Franks into his
motor-car. You fellers hold him down
tight and I’ll drive the engine.”
“But,” reasoned William, ceasing the
twirling of the lock, “has Bill Franks
killed a woman?”
“No,” replied Timothy, with a fear-
ful look around and dropping his voice
to a whisper. “No, but I been watching
him. He’s worse than all that; he’s
dangerous; he’s not sound.”
“Not sound?” Henery was breathing
like a balloon going down.
“No ; I kin see it,” asserted Timothy,
excitedly. “He is not sound mentally. I
think he is a dangerous lunatic.”
Henery and William both shuddered.
“You don’t mean he’s mad; off his
head?”
“Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,” nodded Tim
vehemently, his arms working like a level-
crossing railway signal gone erratic.
HIS head was still nodding back and
forth an hour later when they crept
into Bill Franks’s bedroom. William and
Timothy lifted’ their victim bodily from
the bed, while Henery clapped a broad
heavy paw over his face, completely
gagging him. They dumped him into
the car and, Timothy at the wheel,
started off down the road. By the time
the noise had awakened the rest of the
little community, the car was careering
onwards like a drunken kangaroo.
And for seventy-two miles it didn’t
stop, although several times it came
perilously hear to stopping as it climbed
a bank or hovered over an incline on
the opposite side as it sought to regain
the roadway. Timothy, grinning all over
his face, was gaily singing snippets of
music-hall songs, popular thirty years
before. The unwilling passenger in the
back seat was quiet now from very
fear. Henery and William leered at him
with what they intended to be good
humor, but which he, misguided man,
interpreted as homicidal mania.
Timothy pounded on the horn as a
long grey wall appeared from the thin-
ning bush ahead. It was the River Bend
Asylum, and it looked as though the car
was going to crash right into it. Just
in time the massive gates were swung
open from inside and the car screeched
through to stop dead in a potato patch
as Timothy shut off the juice and stood
up on the footbrake. They were sur-
rounded at once by the uniformed army
who had seen the car coming.
Timothy struck a Napoleonic attitude
and pointed with dramatic modesty to
the prisoner.
“Here is a very dangerous man;
arrest him at once!”
The dangerous man only muttered:
“The three men. Treat them diplomatic-
ally.”
Going up to the Three Curios, the
head warder extended his hand.
“You are to be congratulated; you
have performed a greater service to your
country than you can even imagine.
Will you come in, gentlemen?”
They were ushered in with ceremony.
“Smart piece of work, sir,” remarked
the head warder.
Superintendent Franks grinned, and
let it go at that.
Vivid , Convincing Sketch of Low-life Character:-
AN ANGEL STRALIGHT
FROM HEAVEN
By-HAZEL HALCROW.
BLUEY slipped along the pavement,
disgust in his bleared eyes. He was
sick of life, anyhow. What was
the good of anything?
As he progressed, his eyes lighted on
a long bumper, and he bent over and
picked it up. Then he pulled a tin from
his pocket and placed the find among
the collection already there.
He resumed his gloomy meditations.
A man had to have a drink sometimes ;
he wasn’t a man if he didn’t. Only sis-
sies didn’t drink. Perhaps he had had
too much the other night, but the missus
needn’t nag a man so much. It wasn’t
his fault if he couldn’t get work. Didn’t
he read the papers every morning and
look to see if a job was going within
walking distance of where he lived? Was
it his fault if there never was? Of
course not. He didn’t like his wife
going out charring, and if he did take
small coins from her purse whenever he
got the chance it was because he wanted
a few pence in his pockets. He was no
stiff.
He spat in the gutter derisively and
loafed along. He was untidy, not over-
clean. An unprepossessing person.
HE came to the corner of Riley’s
saloon and saw old Bill Middows
leaning against the facade.
Bill was a gentle character who smiled
at insults and laughed at sneers. He was
utterly incapable of realising that any
person had an unpleasant side ; all men
were heroes to him. He greeted Bluey
with a sweet, blurred smile.
“ ’Ullo, Bluey,” he said.
“ ’Lo, Bill,” said Bluey, propping him-
self up beside the old man.
“Nice mornin’,” said Bill conversa-
tionally.
Bluey grunted.
“Mornin’s all right,” he said surlily.
“Why, what’s wrong with you this
mornin’, Bluey?” queried Bill, His
voice was thick from much imbibing,
and his nose veined with purple and
bulbous.
“Nothin’,” said Bluey.
“There must be somethin’. Can’t you
confide in a pal?” Bill’s face wore an
anxious expression.
“It’s the women that’s got me,” burst
out Bluey savagely. “Because a man
has a few drinks, they’re on to him like
a pack of hell cats. If he don’t go to
work, they say he’s a loafer. They’re
watching every bite he puts in his mouth
and thinking how much it costs. They’re
the meanest lot of misunderstanding
things Gawd ever made.” He hunched
his shoulders and spat again.
“Now, Bluey,” said Bill soothingly.
“They ain’t that bad. If you take ’em
the right way, they’re all right. They’ll
mend your clothes and cook you a nice
tasty meal. If you’re sick they put their
cool hands on your forehead and talk
gentle to you. If you’re good to them
they’ll go through anything for you, and
love you no matter what you do. But
you gotta treat ’em right. If you do,
they’re angels straight from heaven.”
“You’re nuts,” said Bluey irritably, as
he prepared to move off.
Mooching
along he saw a
bumper near the
gutter and went to
retrieve it. His eyes
travelling further, he
saw a crumpled bit
of paper, and when
he realised what it
was he pounced.
A ten - shilling
note! His luck was in,
Within a few minutes he was back at
Riley’s, and grasping old Bill Middows
by the arm he led him into the bar and
called for drinks. With the first drink
life became rosier, and it continued to
brighten with every round. In an hour
he hadn’t a care in the world.
He was put out at six o’clock, and
began to wend his way homewards. Feel-
ing in his pocket, he found he had six-
pence left. More than enough to buy
cigarette-papers, and to-night he would
re-roll his bumpers.
He thought of his wife. What mood
would Annie be in? Good old Annie ;
not a bad sort, after all. Used to be
pretty once. Perhaps he hadn’t treated
her right; shouldn’t have pinched that
money out of her purse—not a thing
a gentleman would do. She’d had a
hard time; cried for a week when the
kid died —never got over it. He’d be
good to her from now on ; pet her a bit
and take her to listen to the band in the
park on Sunday night. Dear old Annie.
He came to a flower-stall, and inspira-
tion lighted upon hirp. He’d buy her
a bunch of flowers. She’d appreciate
that'. He hadn’t bought her a present
for years, but now she’d know that
everything was going to be different.
She’d forget to nag, and become —what
was it old Bill said? —“an angel straight
from heaven.”
Weaving along with a bunch of zin-
nias in his hand he reached his own
front gate at last. No light to be seen ;
perhaps Annie wasn’t in. He pushed the
door open and entered. No voice greeted
him as he stumbled out to the kitchen.
How still and quiet it was in the house!
(Continued on next page.)


Park
Hyd
Barracks
U
i
MACQUARIt
m a
> ■.
W"
a
-V
The old Hyde Park Barracks, situated at the top of King
Street, Sydney, and now occupied by the District Court,
is one of the few surviving buildings of early Sydney.
This building was erected in 1817 during the term ol
Governor Macquarie, and the same year saw the estab-
lishment of the Bank of New South Wales as a result
of a meeting of citizens called by the Governor.
In the 118 years since its establishment, the Bank has
played an important part in the development of all the
Australian States, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands,
and in these territories has established over 720 branches.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 8.
111 a
fd
Keener and longer life
by electrical tempering
Two tempers in one blade —that's made possible by Gillette's new
electrical-tempering process; soft at the ends to let the blade bend
to the razor and the edges harder than ever before to allow for extra
sharpening. That is why these new blades not only give a cleaner,
closer shave but stay keen longer and give more shaves per blade.
© Try these new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they’re worth it .
FIVE FOR 2/-
OF ALL DEALERS
BLUE
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
made in England ■■■■■■■■hbhb
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Lave, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne. Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern, Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
| He found a glass jar and stuck the zin-
-1 nias in. Then he sat down at the table
Ito wait for Annie, and presently fell
asleep, making weird choking noises as
he breathed.
HIS slumber was disturbed by loud
knockings on the door, and half-
asleep, his brain bemused, he went and
opened it. A policeman stood on the
step.
j “Your name Adams?”
Bluey nodded.
“Well, I’m very sorry, old man,” said
I the policeman, “but there’s been an acci-
dent. Your wife’s been hurt. Run over
by a car in Oxford-street.”
“Annie’s been hurt,” said Bluey, still
fuddled. “Is she badly hurt?”
“Yes, badly hurt. In fact, though I
hate to have to tell you, she’s been killed.
She’s lying at St. Vincent’s.”
Bluey began to weep, the easy tears
of alcoholism, as his brain began to
grasp the significance of the words.
“Annie, been killed,” he repeated.
He looked at the policeman earnestly,
then said:
“I brought her home some flowers.
She’ll never see them now.”
He sat down on the step, and put his
aching head in his hands. Some memory
stirred within his clouded brain as he
evoked Annie’s features. Suddenly he
knew what it was. Raising his eyes to
the policeman, he said, from
She was an angel straight from
heaven, officer.
He felt triumphant, as if, with me
uttering of the words, he had done jus-
tice to the dead.
“Sure she was,” responded the pohce-
man. “But aren’t you going along to
see her?”
“of course I’m going to see her. I’ll
take the flowers with me. She’ll get
them, after all.”
jj e struggled to his feet and went in-
§ide for his hat and the flowers . He did
nQt notice that the z i nn i as were already
withered, for he had forgotten to put
wa(er in the jar.
wen t , the £ront gate
and down toi stree,disappearing at last
over a^ata“
“An angel straight from heaven, that’s
what she was.
Sketches a Perilous Adventure
THE MESSAGE.
By-ARTHUR FALK.
FOR four days and nights Braddock
had clung to the ledge of rock which
jutted out a short way down the
abyss. It seemed to him much longer
since he had foolishly separated from
his two mates while crossing the ranges,
had slipped when climbing a slope, and
had rolled down that almost perpendi-
cular wall of rock and found himself on
the narrow ledge. When he had tried
to move, a fiery pain had shot through
his right thigh. During the fall, his
waterbag had snapped from it's strap. It
now lay just discernible on the rocks
below him.
For four days and nights he had
listened for the voices or tread of the
other two, cursing the gnawing ache in
his leg. He had eaten sparingly from
his pack, and had smoked to soothe his
nerves. And he had shouted until his
dry throat had become hoarse.
When he awoke on this fifth morning
and stared at the patch of sky showing
above, and at the rugged barriers of rock
which closed him in, despair gripped
him. He began to doubt if he could last
another day. Thirst was driving him to
a desire to slip over the edge of the shelf,
roll down the rock despite danger of
death and the fierce pain in his limb, and
clutch at the waterbag. He knew that if
he continued to look towards the bag
he would do this.
He made a breakfast of a few stale
pieces of bread and biscuit. Then he
groped in his pocket for cigarettes and
matches. Only one cigarette remained.
He placed it with trembling fingers
between his lips; carefully lit it and drew
in the soothing smoke.
Lying back, resting his head on his
arm and enjoying this luxury, he won-
dered where the other two men were just
then —whether they had given up search-
ing for him and had gone on, or were
still combing the mountain. They might
have been within a few yards of him at
that moment!
IT was then than an idea suddenly came
to him.
He had returned the matches to his
pocket, but was still fumbling absently
with the cigarette packet. When he had
sucked the last possible draw from the
stub of cigarette, he sat up and turned
the empty box over in his hand. One
side of it was covered with print, but
the other was almost blank. He took a
match and began laboriously to scratch
with it on the packet, tracing several
words into the surface of the cardboard.
They were clumsy but legible. He read
them over to himself, his voice a hoarse
whisper;
“Fell down in these rocks, Harry.”
Then for some time he exercised his
arm, swinging it up and down, gathering
more and more force. He took the
cigarette packet in his hand and swept
his arm vigorously upward. The piece
of cardboard went skyward, fluttered
over the brink of the topmost rocks and
disappeared.
Braddock laughed hysterically. He
was delighted at his feat, realising he had
done something decisive towards a
rescue. This mood lasted until his eyes
again strayed to the waterbag lying be-
low him. The laugh trailed off to a
croak, a feverish, parched sound.
If only they could find that message
before he sprawled over the edge of his
rock!
He almost went over at that instant,
but a stab in his thigh sent him back
against the wall. Next time he would be
bold, ignore that wrench and satisfy his
craving . . .
THE next time, as he was leaning over
to swing himself down from the
ledge, he heard a distinct sound.
He paused, breathless. It came again
—a faint scraping, as of something
against a rock surface. It continued for
about a minute. Looking down, Brad-
dock saw, emerging from a barely
noticeable crevice, the flat head of a
snake. As the reptile crawled into view,
he estimated its black body’s length at
seven feet. He watched, horror tingling
his blood, as it wound itself into coils
and settled down in the warm sunlight.
“Ugh!”
He found it impossible to take his
gaze from the snake, which had com-
pletely distracted his attention from the
waterbag.
At last it raised its head drowsily and
glided back through the opefting.
When it had gone, and the scraping
on the rocks had ceased, Braddock lay
back and sank into a doze.
The snake became a frequent visitor.
Several times that day it squirmed in
and out through the crevice. Braddock
became accustomed to it: even waited
expectantly for the gentle sound which
would announce its approach.
His want of food and drink was mad-
dening. His small store of eatables had
given out, and to tumble down to the
waterbag now seemed out of the
question. Any movement of his leg
caused him to writhe in agony.
He lay awake all that night, ears alert
for sounds from above, brain sharply
alive. When the sun rose, the snake
returned and curled up in the warm rays.
Watching its movements, Braddock
would grin as if amused, but would stop
suddenly, clutch at his throat and brush
burning tears from his eyes.
He had bouts of slight delirium. Dur-
ing one of these, he snatched his box of
matches from his pocket and flung it at
the snake. It struck the rock, unnoticed,
and fell directly at the mouth of the
fissure which had admitted the long black
body.
He awaited the moment when the snake
would uncoil and make for the. exit;
speculated mentally upon the effect the
matchbox would have.
He laughed huskily as the snake stirred
and crawled to the crevice. It lifted its
head at sight of the obstruction, hesitated
slightly, then wriggled into the opening.
The box was dragged and squeezed into
the narrow passage until Braddock could
see it no longer.


CHEVROLET
The Worlds Most Popular Truck
1 /•>**•>
Why Chevrolet uses the
Famous Six Cylinder
Valve-in-Head Engine
Experience proves that the best type
of truck engine is a low revving "six.”
High-speed multi-cylinder power units
—which are really intended for pas-
senger cars—cannot stand up to the
severe strain of heavy haulage, and
only develop maximum potver at
abnormally high road speeds.
The Chevrolet engine uses Cast Iron
Pistons —an assurance of long life
and freedom from maintenance. Its
pulling power, is greatest at normal
running speeds, and is maintained over
« wide range.
Accessible Rear Axle .. 4 Semi-Elliptic Springs . •
6 Cylinder Valve-in-Head Engine . . Cast Iron Pistons
Low Engine Revolutions . .
These are but a few of the many features which have
made Chevrolet the World's MOST POPULAR TRUCK
Why does Chevrolet lead in world truck sales? . . . Why do more than 2 million
truck owners use Chevrolet today?
Because Chevrolet is a REAL TRUCK in the true sense of the word! . . .
Every detail of its rugged chassis, engine and frame has been designed to meet
a specific condition of service. The engine—a low revving "six" with cast iron
pistons—develops maximum power at normal running speeds. The full-length
frame is rigidly braced, while four sturdy springs of finest alloy steel protect
chassis and load from strain and vibration.
Valves are placed to permit quick firing and exhaust . . . Temperature of the inlet
manifold is thermostatically controlled. Exhaust valve seats are spray cooled . . .
The drive pinion is straddle-mounted .. . The back axle is the sturdiest built, and
the most accessible . . . The 16" brakes are fully enclosed and the clutch—although
remarkably powerful in engagement—responds instantly to light pedal pressure.
But the best way to prove Chevrolet value is to test it. See your local Authorised
dealer and arrange for a demonstration.
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN'S LTD.
CHEVROLET TRUCKS
BUILT ON SOUND ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES FOR LASTING EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY
Consult Your Local Authorised Chevrolet Truck Dealer.
V..B9JSt
THAT day —the sixth —the snake’s
visits became more frequent. At
each passing to and fro Braddock could
hear the box being scraped along the
rock. That sound ceased at last; the
gentle rubbing of the snake’s skin on the
rock was once more all he could hear.
His fevered brain strove a long while to
calculate exactly where the little box
might be.
That night there was little sleep for
him. He pondered on the likelihood of
the message on the cigarette packet ever
being picked up. His thigh ached dully
and incessantly. Although his thirst had
nearly reached a state of numbness, his
eyes would rove longingly towards where
the waterbag had fallen.
OE was startled from dozing by a
** curious sensation, as if something
had moved near by. He opened his eyes.
It was already bright day, and the sun
was up. He could hear a strange rustle—-
and a human voice!
He sat up and tried to shout ; a
wheeze was all he achieved. There was
that voice again—and above him! He
stared upward, his mouth open and his
chest heaving in an attempt to make
himself heard.
Then, dimly, he saw a man’s face at
the rim of the abyss. He heard an ex-
clamation of surprise, and waved his arm
frantically. In a few minutes a rope
with knotted end came dangling down
towards him, nearer and nearer, until he
was able to grasp it, fasten it desperately
about him.
His thigh hurt and throbbed viciously
as he was lifted from the ledge and
hauled up over the face of the rock wall.
Two pairs of hands grasped him and
lifted him over the edge.
“Harry, old boy! You’ve been
through hell!”
Later, he was able to wheeze out:
“You got my message?”
His two mates looked at him, puzzled.
“Message?”
“On the cigarette packet.”
“No. Never got any cigarette packet.
But look ’ere —we found this down there
in the grass. That was message enough.
We nosed around then till we saw
you.”
Braddock stared at what they were
showing him. It was the matchbox, con-
taining a few matches, which he dimly
remembered having hurled at the snake.
Reality.
Boring the darkness, these eyes burn
into reality, return
from the somnambulist
life-in-a-mist
of long imprisonment behind
masonry caging-in the mind,
impervious and dense—
the walls of sense —
wherein there is only matter such
as the sight tells of and the touch :
dream-woven filmy veil,
flower-like and frail.
Now the eyes imaging one face
lead life beyond its living-place
through this fair shadow-screen
of touched and seen.
I turn to the darkness where there
shine
grave other eyes that look in mine—
black mirrors overcast
by an old past.
And there’s a clashing of arms, a
shout
far from these years; a ship puts out;
lost to that hour and this,
doomed lovers kiss.
From night’s tower-window leaning
down
there’s a soft mouth that meets my own,
bright as on ancient scar
from that old war;
and through some dawn’s pale light
aspire .
to the fadeless stars of all desire
unperishing hunger-cries
of flesh that dies ...
So I pass outward, and beyond
thought’s reckoning, where time’s a pond
unrippled by any stone
knowledge has thrown.
N.s.w.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Conjures a Figure from the Past:—
THE ROAD TO
BALLARAT
By. ROBERT H BLACKMORE.
AS Bill Mason leaned over his garden
gate he was assailed by a sensation
of utter discontent. Nothing was
going smoothly. It was Saturday even-
ing, his wife was visiting friends, he had
had to make his own tea. Worse, he
had spent the afternoon watching his
favorite football team being severely
handled.
Then there was the business. Not too
bad, he grudgingly admitted, but capable
of being improved a hundred per cent,
if only he was allowed to do as he
wished. That was the trouble! There
was too much interference these days.
What with slack trade, and politicians,
and restrictions, and things like that, a
man hadn’t a chance.
In the old times a fellow might have
made money hand over fist, and nobody
to stop him, but now Viciously he
flicked the stub of his cigarette over
into the road in expression of his disgust.
Take this road itself! It had been
the diggers’ track to Ballarat in the days
of the gold rush. Think of the thousands
who had passed along here to oppor-
tunity and fortune!
There it lay, stretching away into the
west. It would not have been so straight
in 1851, he reflected, nor would its sur-
face have been so level and unbroken
as that over which the speeding cars
were now returning to the city from
Sunshine and Deerpark.
FORGOTTEN things crept back into
his mind. There was his grandfather,
for instance. Vaguely he remembered
old Grandad Mason as a tall, thin but
erect old fellow who used to take him
out for walks when he was just a kid. He
recollected how the old man would buy
his silence with a pennyworth of lollies,
and then how the pair of them would
slip into the bar of some quiet hotel
where grandad could enjoy a drink and
a yarn with other antique flotsam and
jetsam.
As a boy he used to puzzle over the
matters discussed by these old men:
mining, the crops, the weather, and in-
evitably what they called the good old
days. He had formed the belief that
life in their day had been more spacious,
more adventurous.
A series of outstanding characters
would appear in these narrations.
Marauders of the bush, such as the
Kellys, figured prominently, but there
were other no less heroic figures, who,
in their own way, had been heroes of
their age ;
There was a certain Red Maloney:
in the western mining areas he had been
known as the “Lucky Digger.” Wherever
he had appeared the gold had seemed
to flow towards him. The money so
easily earned was as easily spent. Many
of the tales current to-day of digger
prodigality, of fabulously priced cham-
pagne, of currency notes used for cigar-
lighters and (what impressed young Bill
most of all) of horses shod with golden
shoes originated in some wild freak of
Red Maloney.
To the old-timers he had been the
beau ideal of the lawless miner. Bill’s
grandfather had known him personally ;
a giant of a man, he used to declare, with
whiskers and beard as red as the ace of
diamonds.
It was less romantic that the “Lucky
Digger” had ended his days in a lunatic
asylum, led there by his excesses; but
his fate did nothing to dim the popu-
larity of his memory.
THESE and other recollections swept
through the mind of the man leaning
on the gate. Queer old coot, that Red
Maloney! Wonder what he’d think of
the place nowadays! Many’s the time
he must have tramped down this very
road, making his way to the diggings or
fetching his money back to burn in Mel-
bourne. Wonder whether he’d recog-
nise the place to-night! Probably the
(Continued on next page.)


PROTECT YOUR SKIN
WITH CUTICURA
Use the Soap every day and see
how much it helps your skin. It
contains the same delicate medi-
cation that makes Cutlcura
Ointment the first thought in
treating pimples, eczema and other
skin ailments —healing cases that
seemed almost hopeless. Cuti*
cnra Products, including the
soothing, refreshing Cuticura
Talcum Powder, are known
and sold everywhere.
CUTICURA
For Skin Health and Beauty
f
wrmrm
- j j
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with-guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and sin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration.in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
When planning your
Advertising Campaign
in
Western Australia
remember the
ISlmes
is the Home paper of
the people with the
money to spend.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
/‘The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. .These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
■ homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
;to the .New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
' information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, Pi \:t
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEKI'ItST,
17 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*OMAc*
• PAIN **
GOES:
You Eat What You
Like Withoat Upset
—~ Your Stomach Wins iiacu
Youthful, Healthy Vigour, Neert-
ing No More Help!
AGIO STOMACH is unpleasant and
dangerous. Gas, heartburn, palpitation—
thes S e are bad. But ulceration (maybe
needing operation), is worse. Kill tne
harmful acid—heal the ulcer conditions,
by taking Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder, the remedy made famous by
the work of Prof. H. Maclean, of St.
Thomas’s Hospital, London. Proven an
millions of cases of stomach disordei,
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder is
unbeatable for putting upset stomachs
in young or old, to rights- A short
course of Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder not only means stomach peace,
but general well-being and the end,
usually of perpetual reliance on med-
icine for relief from pain after eating.
2/6d. a package, at better-class chemists
but beware of
substitutes. Genuine
Harrison - Maclean
Stomach Powder
comes in White
packages, with
red - and - black
printing. ★ A ?tr,.u
stomach is the basis
of all success and
popularity End
YOUR stomach
weakness by taking
NOW—D-
\
HARRISON
MACLEAN
antacid
StomacK Ponder
III—I
FRED BERRY’S
M OTOR
MANUAL
1 QIA (SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW GARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it .
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct , from The Bulletin,
252 George Street, Sydney, ad. extra
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
first car that passed would run over him
before he recognised what it was.
With almost an air of expectancy Bill
Mason peered up and down the road.
Then he pulled himself together with a
shiver ; it was getting cold. But as he
made his way back into the house the
thought recurred. Suppose some old-
timer could return, and tell him what he
thought of things! Red Maloney, for
instance. In this dream-romance he was
so quickly erecting the red-bearded
miner had become a kind of symbol of
his bygone age.
As he sat reading his evening paper
he found his mind still playing with the
idea, and only by an effort could he
focus his attention. He felt slightly irri-
tated. What a mad idea! Only ghosts
could come back through the years like
that —and Bill Mason was no believer
in bunk of that sort.
Yet somehow he could not settle in
comfort. The house seemed strangely
quiet. He hoped his wife would not be
too late getting home.
Half-past ten struck, and he became
more restless than ever. What about
having a look down the road to see
whether she was coming? He unlatched
the front door and wandered towards
the gate.
ALIGHT mist was swirling down the
road. There was a luminous quality
about it which seemed at , times to
lighten whole patches of the pathway
beyond the shorn hedge.
He folded his arms on top of the
gate and waited. The road was empty
of movement; not even a straying cat
came within his sight. The strange feel-
ing of expectancy thrilled through him
again; more positive, more insistent
than before.
Something was about to happen. He
had an uneasy sensation of personal
responsibility, of having evoked forces
outside the normal run of life.
Then, witfi appalling swiftness, the
thing happened.
A figure appeared to crystallise from
one of the fog patches, and, as he held
his breath, it lurched towards him.
It was wearing a broad-brimmed hat,
and the lower part of its face was
swathed in a thick beard. The figure
was but a few paces from him now, and
there could be no mistake. This was
no prowling swaggie, nor, indeed, any-
thing which had walked the Ballarat
road in the twentieth century. An aura
from the ’fifties hung about it.
A couple of steps away it halted and
peered towards him. Bill Mason got a
shocked impression of staring eyes, sal-
low skin and a flaming red beard.
The thought struck home to him that
this thing was dead —had been dead for
more than fifty years.
A ghastly feeling of having tampered
with forbidden matters gripped him.
Fear surged over him. As he watched,
tfie figure grimaced and opened a mouth
filled with blackened teeth ; it was pre-
paring to speak, and like one in a night-
mare he waited.
“Hey, Dig.! How did Fitzroy get on
this afternoon?”
' The prosaic words hit him like a blow
in the face. A wave of disgust and anger
swept over him. His dream, horrible as
it had become, was shattered.
“Go to hell!” he snarled, and strode
quickly back into the house.
IN a somewhat uncomfortable corner
of Hades Red Maloney picked himself
up and fingered his bumps.
“Bedad, an’ that’s the last toime I go
hauntin’ for any livin’ man.” He cursed
freely. “An’ it was not as though I had
tried to froighten the crathur at all.
Did I not speak him aisy, just as one
of the man’s own neighbors moight have
done? Sure, it is not loike Paddy
Maloney to wish to hurt one hair of the
head of a bhoy who has been wantin’
to make his acquaintance the whole long
evenin’. An’ phwat does the ingrate do?
He has not aven the dacency to give me
an answer. No ; he just ups and sends
me back here without so much as a by
your lave!”
He paused ; complaint crept into his
voice.
“Ordered me back, he did—me phwat’s
mortgaged me immortal sowl another
foive hundred years of purgatory for
just one more night on the owld road
to Ballarat!”
The Winter-crazed.
Frost has opaqued the mirrors of the
morning
That held the world’s reflection as lake
a swan,
Whose cold-plumed image in the water’s
mirror
Than the warm snowy bird itself is
clearer.
Now one who peers at sky’s grey glazy
swoon,
Seeking the silver image of his soul.
Might see (as the brown sailormen saw
swine )
A face that’s not his own, and howl
with terror.
The land’s bewitched, as silly as a sheep,
And watched, if watched at all, by vast
inanes.
All day persists the rainy light of dawn,
And stupid cocks, not knowing night is
gone,
Crow like mad bells, and maze the
mooning noons,
So gradual the slope from sleep to
slumber
We dope and daydream, never up to
nines,
Our limbs night-slack, our faces water-
wan.
Grey shadows in a shadowy grey world,
We clutch grey stony air to find it vanish.
Something forbids ( Medusa’s boding
stare).
The clearer exploration of the air
Lest we should see ourselves and freeze
and finish.
Even the simple fields, thick cattle, are
forbidden
Lest we should find grass glass and leaves
a varnish,
And cattle ghosts and something mon-
strous there.
If hedge is beast, and hills like tigers
purr,
And stones like old men cough or moan
like shells;
If grass like water chuckles at our knees,
We hardly know : for more than bodies
freeze.
Whether the fishy light that round us
shoals
Exists at all, or will exist, and whether
It drapes our day in silver shrouds or
shawls,
We dare not know. Our wives are weird
as trees.
Only the fiickerlands of books or talkies’
More vivid shadows give us sense of
living.
Our eyes prefer the easier illusion
To morning’s mistiness and day’s con-
fusion.
There in the black-and-white we do our
loving.
Murder and laugh and cry with great
content,
Assured of life, since living we are
leaving
For ghostland, safe from land or ghosts’
intrusion.
To make our comrades real, if not our-
selves,
Each evening we bethrong the beer-
slopped bar,
Until with copper light and shag’s rank
plumes
Each wolfing, guzzling, wavering sot
assumes
A Mohawk realness, burnished through
the beer.
But each must have his mantle of thick
murk,
And, at the least attempt to strip him
hare,
Swirls and is gone amidst the drifting
fumes.
So night has comfort; evening has its
Mohawks
That disappear like warriors in leaves,
Like genii in sudden clouds of smoke;
But still the gods must have their clumsy
joke —
Impending revelation haunts our lives,
The certainty that something huge will
happen
Blocks every man from everything he
loves,
And makes us goggle-eyed as crazy folk.
The trees stand limp and still, expecting
rain,
And birds and crickets make a timid
note
As though they fear it sacrilege to call.
This threat and something more is over
: all, ' '
But nothing comes; all watchfulness is.
for naught, ■ •
And dusk skulks‘down, ns thick and grey
and heavy
As if it were not rain but furtive night
That all day hangs in sky but does not
fall.
MAORILAND. DOUGLAS
A. STEWART.


.... •• ■■'Yl ■
■
mmm
mMmm
im
mm.
mm
mm
6 " x^
mmMk.
m
VM
m
wm
m
m
m
mm
H
n
■I
f)) c Gxilunv
IlcU^y
ft s>cuti COViibUvjl
mm
it«
’ I
i
mmm
wmm
'mm
m
■
mmm
wm.
wmm
m
mm
mm
■
m
m
m
m
w/mm.
m.
m.
wm.
i
m.
■
m
I
■
■
■
■
■Hi
H
1
m
m
m
Wm
mm
W-h
U
m
m
wm
m
m
wm
mmm
m
m:mm
mm.
wmm
m/w.
m.
y ,
9.
m.
mm
eJydJnejs
f
jAe (JOA/sAi
W
/SKU IS
O rv
33-2
DISTRIBUTORS
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Zlfflk
TO THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
.Jcv e
3*
A*
• . rt .<& sS ,A W
oaf
A e V'\i<* &<VS
*\^t;
FV
»jrf & v a 6^
■V AA-a'A A’ 0 c tj~’,\G„ <vs. e
» Q v* “V* °*
At^ce'fT%* 6
A'*
s e U* 6 .-••■
o°
.• ‘ .• * ,-,^ v O of
■’ „«s%<!


REALISM
%
RADIOS LATEST
DEVELO PM E N T>• -THE
OL
BAND-SPREAD
DIAL
WITH THE TASMA
ii < ’ .
psim
%w&.
m
i p
*■ f \ >.vs<-s ; i
' • v
; ■
1 • tf&rlfAp 3
•■v.
, t >
1 .
I S p
, • ... , o ’• . i- : ;
iiiii
ill 1
A
m
m
m
m
I :
m
m
(Illustrated Above.)
OUT! .. . you hear the jaw . . you know
what has happened even V |peaksl So life-like is
TASMA reception that you almost S||Tthe . • it creates mental
television. And that is the
usual kind of reception , . . a mew radio thrill offered through each of a
remarkable series of receivers, fjij the TASMA Rqogeare receivers designed
lor every place; priced lor everf pocket; perfected lo< every purpose - -
receivers for All-Wave and Shop-Wave, for country, city or your motor car
*, . miniature sets of astoundjeg power . . consoles ~ . all giving,
irrespective of price the same dramatic RIALISM.
235: A Universal A.C-D.C.
Midget for Town or Country,
£l5/1916.
295: A Dual-Wave Electric
Set for Overseas or Australian
reception ....... £27 / 10/-
210: The most popular Car
Radio. Can he installed in
any car ........ £29 / 17/6
aatinta
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
MODEL 290* TASMA’S Latests The out-
standing set of the year. A 5-valve quality
superheterodyne, incorporating Automatic
Volume Control (which practically eliminates
fading); the new Ocfode Valve, sloping panel,
piano-finish Cabinet, and the TASMA Band-
Spread Dial £l9/19/-
A PRODUCT OF THOU & SMITH. LTD.. 55 Dowling Street. East Sydney.
N.S.W. COUNTRY INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
DISTRIBUTORS .
ERIC CUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative,
C. R. DONNELLY, 45 Cathcart Street,
Lismore.
Northern Representative ,
QUEENSLAND:
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-02 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at Rockhampton, Cairns,
Mackay, Townsville.
ROSENSTENGELS PTY.. LTD,,
Ruthven Street. Toowoomba.
VICTORIA:
WARBUETON FRANKI (MELB.),
LTD., SBO Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 597 Lonsdale Street;
Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 89 Grenfell Street. Adelaide,
MILLER ANDERSON. LTD.,
Hindley Street, Adelaide.
CHARLES BIRRS CO.. LTD.,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
UNBKHAU.N fc JOHNSTONE, W.A.,
LTD., 381 Murray Street, Perth.
THOMSON’S*. LTD., 671 Hay Street,
Perth.
