

!
s=r:
3
52a
Sf*
sr
/sit'.
--
£
5T
I
SMmi
m
r==.-£
'
■S^fc:
c
J
!W
W:
1
m
PROTECTION
Who holds the Kyber Pass holds India.
Backed by the might of an Empire, the
Bengal Lancer stands on guard, protective,
watchful, part of that impregnable barrier
of the Himalayas, behind which the peoples
of India build their civilisations, secure from
the warlike races of Eastern Asia.
Who holds the Cranwell Policy holds like-
wise the certainty of sound'investment. Pro-
tection is the keynote of Cranwells’ principle
of , offering shareholdings in ESTABLISHED
companies only.
Cranwells (Australasia) Ltd. believes that
balance sheets and full information about
an investment should always be available
to the investor, and so offers its free service
to clients covering such information. This
policy has earned for Cranwells its outstand-
ing reputation for stability, integrity and
probity.
Inquiries are invited to
CRANWELLS (Australasia) LTD*
Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers.
’Phones: 87888, 87889.
Head Office:
Barrack House,
Barrack Street,
Sydney
Branch Offices at
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,
Auckland, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Elections in Two States
Vol. 56—No. 2882.
Wednesday, May 8, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YOUR APPROPRIATION
should include the
Western Australia’s
Leading Weekly—
the journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION,
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
■
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Study
Wireless
lIOMF
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
- ~ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation. particulars of your
Special Home-Stud)/ Short RATIO CORPSE' as
advertised in the Sydney ‘'Bulletin.”
My- Name
My Address
S.B. 933 . ....
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 93rd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Thursday.
"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
England 's
Country
Half-wits
If «"■ are to
accept that T. F.
Powys, in his col-
lection of tales
called Captain
Patch, depicts the
society about
him, then we have to accept that the
country and the country places of Eng-
land must be largely populated by half-
wits.
In almost every one of these tales
somebody is half-witted. They are not
merely primitives, brooding and intro-
spective, as peasant types are often de-
picted. They simply haven’t the brains
to be brooding and introspective with.
There is something pathologically wrong
with them. They are gangling, sub-
normal creatures, awkward even among
themselves. Suicide is frequently the
end of them, and, though Powys seems
to try to have it otherwise, it is not
heroic suicide: They kill themselves for
reasons as empty as their skulls.
To take the least simple-minded of all
the examples, even the father in the good,
if melodramatic, story, “The Gong,” does
not kill himself because he realises that
his sadistic, imbecile tyranny had first
T. E. Powys.
turned his son into an idiot and then
led to the death of both son and daugh-
ter. He does not shoot himself, as well
he might, to inflict the punishment God
has absent-mindedly delayed. He does
it from no other motive than childish
selfishness. In this he acts in character,
as do all these Powys people ; but that
is not the point. The point is that the
character he acts in, that nearly all these
people act in, is that of the half-witted.
If it were true there would be a seri-
ous job here for the eugenists. It prob-
ably isn’t. Probably these are the sort
of people who stir Powys’s sensitive sym-
pathy, and the impression that he is
depicting a society is merely accidental,
a result of tales written at odd times
being taken and read together. Accepted
simply as tales, or as fairy tales, which
better describes them, they are excellent.
They are written in such fine prose, with
such a blending of humor and allusion,
that they can be read for the mere
pleasure of reading with no other end
in view ; the sort of reading that is en-
joyable from sentence to sentence for
the character that is in it. It becomes
unimportant that these people are sub-
normal. The only character in the book
who matters is the author himself,
friendly, benign, benevolent; a Little Eng-
lander, no doubt; giving the impression
that these people are his own, and that
this is how he would have them, as they
are.
Primitives of
West Ireland
Every one of
those tales of
Powys contains a
quality singularly
lacking in our
own story - writ-
ing. Here, with very rare exceptions,
writers seem to have no regard at all
for any beauty a sentence may be made
to contain. We have hardly any prose
that has quality as prose. The dictum,
taught, encouraged and followed, is that
the whole business of .the story-writer is
to get his story told. The end is every-
thing ; the means are of no account. It
is the rarest thing to find in our writing
sentences that tempt you to return to
them and read them for their own sake.
There are passages that bear re-reading,
such as the descriptions of the shoaling
fish in Vance Palmer’s The Passage; but
nowhere do we get that sense of words
continuously used in pattern which is
the refinement of prose. Powys has that
as his everyday natural expression. His
sentences flow one into another in a con-
tinuous current, and yet may be taken
out anywhere and enjoyed for their indi-
viduaT beauty.
Another fair example of that intensive
writing at hand is Monk Gibbon’s curi-
ously beautiful fragment called The Seals,
Here, as in Powys, the character who
really matters is the writer himself, as
we meet him revealed in his thoughts
and the expression he otherwise gives to
nis personality. The book is an enlarge-
ment on notes made while on a holiday
visit to the West Ireland coast. The
people Gibbon there mingles with are, in
(heir means of existence, even more
primitive than those of Powys. They
are poor folk, but there is, as Gibbon
sees them, some dignity in their poverty,
and they are anything but half-wits.
Like PowyS, Gibbon is in sympathy
with them as they are. He pities them
in their superstitions, but he at once
thinks with hate of the hard, pagan,
sterile modern spirit which sees no cause
for wonder in anything and reviles all,
even life itself, for its emptiness. A poet,
and a true one, he sees, beyond the rags
and the poverty of appearance, the cen-
tral simplicity of these people’s lives,
the gnarled, inarticulate dignity that
clothes do not affect. He paints their
setting sensitively and with a sense of
color and general descriptiveness that
conveys the sensation of actual experi-
ence to the reader, who may feel that
he has been there watching the hunting
of the seals and the shooting of the cliff
pigeons. It is a human and humanitarian
book, for Gibbon is sensitive to any
taking of life and to the mystery of
suffering, though he reaches the conclu-
sion that man’s basic instinct is possibly
kindness.
The Simple
Life in
Norway
Powys, con-
cerned with the
pathos 6f the
English p rim i-
tives, and Gib-
bon, seeing dig-
nity in Irish rags.
have each a different outlook from that
which Knut Hamsun, dealing with vir-
tually identical people of Norway, adopts
in The Road Leads On,
The trio provides an in-
teresting study of the
creative power at work.
Powys would have
seen both Gibbon’s
people and Hamsun’s
as he sees his own *, so
would Gibbon have
seen those of Powys
and Hamsun; and
Hamsun would have
found in the people of
Powys and Gibbon
material for much the
same sort of rolling
comedy that he makes
out of these fisherfolk
Norwegians. It is a
cruel sort of study: it
indicates a trifle too
sharply the limitations
even of creative genius. None of
them is to be taken as a substitute for
life: at its best, their work is only the
measure of their limitations.
Happily, those limitations can be
extensive enough to be at least beyond
our attainment, or at the Worst sufficient
for our entertainment. Hamsun’s novel
is all of that. In its setting, its people,
its construction altogether, it is so like
any other Hamsun novel that it would
be wasting words to describe it. It makes
real a Norwegian hamlet and the sur-
rounding country and apparently every
single soul of the community. Small
wealth is here great riches ; the hills are
high and stark, and yet beautiful; a new
pair of trousers, a colored skirt, a horse
are fine possessipns ; the building of a
road, the going out for fish are big under-
takings ; the coming of a Baptist is a
stirring and contagious event; the smok-
ing of salmon is a science.
No different, in these particulars, from
any other Hamsun novel. No different,
either, in the quality of its humor The
difference is in the quantity of that
humor. It is not, as in the other Ham-
sun work, a steady undercurrent. It is
as near to being overflowing as one could
imagine the generally sombre literature
of the North approaching. It rolls out
chiefly from the profound liar August,
who has been in other parts of the world,
ay, in Fiji and God knows where, but
it belongs to the whole substance of
the work. It is comedy on a grand scale.
Even the death of August, carried over
the cliff in the torrent of sheep with
which, he had populated the mountain-
top, is a huge gesture of comedy. There
is no slapstick ; hardly a quick laugh at
all. It makes for the sort of laughter
Hamsun.
that is not so much uttered as heard
rumbling among hills.
Cecil Mann.
[Captain Patch, bv T. F. Powys (Chatto and
Windus; 7s. 6d.); the Seats, by Monk Gibbon
(Cape: Moore's Bookshop: 11s. 3d.); The
Road Leads On, by Knut Hamsun (Dymock's;
I Is. 6d.).]
Australians,
Talkers or
Novelists
Over a pot of
beer with a couple
of men who
had had books
published “G. 8.”
(R.P. 17/4/’35)
discovered that,
although his friends couldn’t write for
nuts, they could spin a yarn orally along
with the best.
The story is perfectly credible, but it
furnishes rather insecure ground from
which to launch an attack on Australian
fiction writers generally. The first thing
required of a critic is
that he shall establish
his credentials by dis-
closing a knowledge
of his subject sufficient
to carry the burden of
his argument. “G. 8.”
fails in this. On a pin-
point of evidence he
constructs an inverted
pyramid of generali-
ties. He says that the
Australian fiction
writer, with one or two
exceptions, fails to hold
his own with the
second-raters of other
countries, and the
workmanship in our
novels is, to put it
mildly, a reflection on
the powers of our
writers to take pains.
It seems to me that this is a case of
trying to form an estimation of the
occupants of a house by inspecting the
contents of (heir rubbish-tin. The
greater part of the literary output of any
country is of negligible quality. Why
not discount it, and move on to the dis-
cussion of books that are books?
A literature is most profitably judged
by the best (hat it has to offer. The
remainder may be safely regarded as
waste product. No Australian in his
senses would think of discussing Eng-
lish or American literature in terms of
tripe-—and each of those countries pro-
duces plenty—so why should he do so
with his own literature?
Notwithstanding “G. 8.” to the con-
trary, there are careful and sound writers
in Australia. The reader-critic—and
“G. 8.” is one—might, instead of wasting
energy over books that don’t count, give
some attention to those that do. He
might, for instance—if he knows anything
of them—have discussed the authenticity
dr otherwise of the character of Richard
Lome in John Dailey’s satirical novel
Only the Morning; the effectiveness or
otherwise of the experiments in short-
story form to be found in Katharine
Susannah Prichard's volume Kiss on the
Lips; whether Marcel Aurousseau took
Australian eyes with him on that walk
from Paris to Madrid which he describes
so well in The Highway into Spain;
whether Randolph Bedford, in Explora-
tions in Civilisations, really wrote what
an eminent American critic has de-
scribed as “A book of travels much
finer and more truly critical than
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN A D VER TI SIN G"—the conscience
business.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
X
Every department in the
store is offering mer-
chandise of Anthony
Horderns’ regular quality
at genuinely reduced
sale prices. Years of
fine service, low prices
and keen value have
built an undeniable
public confidence in “The
Senior Store/’ and we
reward this confidence
with genuine bargains
in regular quality goods.
Mail Your Order
THE D, P. S.
EXTENDS THE
SALE FOR YOU
SPECIAL OFFER TO HORSEMEN!
Wm
You save
8/6
on the
outfit
illustrated
Anthony Horderns' High Cra de
SADDLERY
at a substantial Discount
Saddlery sold by Anthony Horderns’ has earned the respect and admiration
of horsemen from all over Australia, for the good leather, the good
craftsmanship and the neat designs merit first preference. Buy your
Saddlery at these genuinely reduced prices.
6/- Quart Pot
Cover at 5/6
Quart Pot Covers. Price, ea., 6/-.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 5/6
• Saddlery Lower Ground
Floor, Pitt Street. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs
only.
Kemp Pattern Park Saddle. Allover selected kip leather, steel-plated tree, Victoria
facings, extended girth straps. Price, each 90/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 84/-
Barcoo or Ring Head Bridle. Nickel-plated buckles, 1 in. Price, 9/9. Sale Price, 9/3.
Also fin. Price, each, 8/9. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 8/3
Bradoon Bits. Price, each, 1/6. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 1/-
Breastplate and Martingale. Price, 8/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 7/6
Saddle Bags. Prices, each, 7/9, 9/9. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each, 7/3, 9/3.
Fittings for Saddle, including Folded Leather Girth, I fin. Stirrup Leather and Four-bar
Stirrup Irons. Price, extra 13/9
Farming Tools for long service at low prices!
£4/5/- John Deere “Bantam” Plough
Made by John Deere & Co. A Strong, Light All-steel One-horse Plough, designed
for use in mixed lands. High beam gives ample clearance. Cut, 7m.; weight, 541 b.
Price £4/5/- Sale Price
Cut, 9in.; weight, 841 b. Price £5/15/- Sale Price £5/7/6
Single Standard Land Wheels. Price, extra .... 12/6 Knife Coulter .... 10/6
Disc Coulter 36/-
dsf
9 Agricultural Fourth
Floor. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.
£B/7/6 John Deere “Red Jacket” Plough, £7/17/6
A Sturdy All-steel Plough, with mould-
board of hardened, soft-centre steel and
shares of crucible steel. The beam is of
special steel with high curve. Body is
one-piece steel, with steel handles.
dsf
Cut, in.: 9 10 12
Weight, lb.: 89 94 108
Prices... £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Sale Prices: £7/17/6 £B/10/- £lO
Single Standard Land Wheels, 12/6 extra.
Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc Coulter, 36/-.
Ploughshares
Genuine John Deere Steel Shares
are stamped in the steel on the
under side. All sizes are stocked:
F 6, X 9, FI 0, Ul 2, 037, 251, 278,
295, 302, 303.
dfs
29/6 “Beatrice”
Corn Sheller,
27/6
Heavy Hand Corn Sheller.
Price 29/0
Sale Price 27/6
Fits on to box, tub, etc.
dsfds
No. I “Uni” Cutter, made
by Anthony Horderns’. The
“Uni” Chaff Cutter, with
7 Jin. mouth, cuts two
lengths, Jin. and Jin.
Sturdily built on three
steel legs. Price, £6/17/6.
Sale Price £6/7/6
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons, Ltd.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[j| Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
J Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
[]T Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder-
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
De WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
anything Mark Twain ever did
from the American point of view” ;
whether the stories in Vance Palmer’s
Sea and Spinifex show development
W'hen compared with those in Separate
Lives; whether the genius of Tom Col-
lins, who wrote Such Is Life, suffered or
gained from its apparent limitations. Any
of these books, and many others, are
worthy of critical examination. Can
anything more be said of the best books
of any country? If the best of our books
were eagerly discussed, the number of our
books that are worthy of being discussed
would speedily increase. The others may
be quite safely ignored.
On the strength of a bar-room inci-
dent, “G. 8.” asserts that the Australian
fiction writer, like Arthur Adams’s old-
time Australian, is content to “slouch
down the centuries.” It would be as
reasonable to assert, on the strength of
“G.B.’s” remarks, that Australian litera-
ture never meets with adequate criticism.
Of course it does, but not with as much
as would be useful.
F.D.D.
Evolution
of an
Essayist
I cone luded
Professor Walter
Murdoch’s latest
co 11 e ction of
essays, The Wild
Planet, with a
feeling that this
writer had undergone a subtle meta-
morphosis. The mock apologetic manner
in which he loved to preface his
earlier essays is still strongly in
evidence, but gone is the essayist of
Speaking Personally, whose antidote for
overdoses of high-flown nonsense or
complex scientific utterances was to
murmur to himself “Tripe and Onions”
and regain thereby his composure.
Now he reveals himself as a critic of
the world who has been rattled by what
he observes, but who refuses to calm
himself with the once infallible for-
mula of “debunkism.” He Sees poverty
in the midst of plenty; he sees inter-
national hatred in a presumably civi-
lised age ; and he has lost the will and
the ability to pull the wool of a daintily
ironic philosophy over his eyes. He feels
the urge to lead the world out of its
troubles, but his preaching is of Isaiah
rather than of Christ —there is a note of
warning, not of hope, in his voice.
Because he obviously thinks that his
preaching will fall on ears that hear not,
he has subconsciously become bitter.
It is that bitterness, the biting instead
of the gentle irony, that marks the new
Murdoch. In one essay the gods of
classical mythology look into the future
and see their most treasured secrets in
the hands of mortals. The god of han-
dicrafts foresees the industrial revolu-
tion ; the god of the winged sandals
foresees wireless ; the god of travel fore-
sees the ocean liner; the god of war
foresees the aeroplane, the submarine
and the torpedo ; the god of the woods
foresees rubber and all its uses ; the god
of healing foresees the microscope and
advances in medical treatment. All
lament the imminent loss of their power
until the god of mockery foresees gold,
and the goddess of wisdom foresees the
difficulty of inducing mortals to accept
her gifts. And the gods are happy.
In an allegorical essay. Genus
Humanum is stretched on a torture rack
while a chaplain, a minstrel, a philo-
sopher, a moralist, a Coue-ist, a finan-
cier and a hater of the “system” assure
him that his pain is all for his own good.
When a herald tells him that he will be
released in a great war which will re-
quire the services of all men, a Court
fool proclaims that at last the sufferer
should be happy, that “he has turned
the corner,” nbw that he knows that his
arms and legs will be blown off in
mortal battle. A dozen other examples
of this bitter irony will be found in the
book ; nothing of the same kind in his
earlier essays.
It is rather disconcerting to find that
this one-time apologist for human frail-
ties has changed into a disillusioned
idealist; it tends to make one hot around
the collar when it is realised that Mur-
doch shoots with remarkable accuracy,
but with small hope of achieving results.
But then the real idealist has always de-
lighted in flinging his didactic self
against the hard walls of complacency,
or humbug or greed or stupidity or
whatever it is that surrounds us. But
even if the Professor’s essays won’t do
much towards improving things in
general, and his own transposition, con-
scious or subconscious as it may be,
proves that he himself admits as much,
he has added a worth-while contribu-
tion to literary achievement in Australia.
As his essays are still continuing to
appear in the daily press, it is certain
that his idealistic bitterness has not pro-
gressed towards the next stage of exas-
perated despair represented by the volun-
tary destruction of his typewriter. For
which we should be very grateful: for
all their newly-acquired cynicism, his
essays are still delightfully refreshing.
PHILIP MASEL.
Book-buyers
and
-Borrowers
A. H. Spencer
(R.P. 17/4/’35)
is “tempted to
ask: If the nation
is to be lent
books, then why
not wireless sets,
motor-cars.... bread and all other sorts
of food?” The answer is surely that
books, or some books, are not mere toys
or comforts or primal crude necessities,
but means for cultivating the mind and
spirit; that such means are often too
costly (especially in Australia) for the
peoole who need them most and would
make the best use of
them ; and, finally, that
a good mind uncultivated
is a loss to the nation
no less than to the mute
inglorious Milton him-
self.
Mr. Spencer does not
help his case by the
statement (which I be-
lieve to be true) that
“Maoriland is the best
book-buying country in
the world per head of
population... .with Aus-
tralia occupying a second
place.” Maoriland is
also one of the best
countries in the world
from a librarian’s point
of view. The central
Municipal Lending
Library in Auckland
(population about
220,000) has a much
larger stock and is far
better housed than the
Municipal Library in
Sydney or the lending
department of the Vic-
torian National Library ;
and, besides that, the
Auckland City Council
controls good smaller
libraries in most of the
suburbs. Much the same
story can be told of the
three other “provincial capitals.” Even
country towns like Hamilton (the centre
of the Waikato cow-country—pop.
18,000), Wanganui (pop. 27,000) and In-
vercargill (pop. 20,000) have libraries
that awaken envy and amazement in a
visiting Australian—libraries better be-
yond comparison than those in Brisbane
and the smaller Australian cities that 1
know. The four M.L. university colleges
have large and fine libraries of their
own, the W.E.A. has a library service,
there are commercial circulating libraries
in every town—and yet the booksellers
made a pretty decent living before the
bottom fell out of the butter-box.
So far as the English-speaking peoples
are concerned, it seems to be established
that good free libraries and good book-
sales go together. The big U.S. and
Canadian cities have the best free library
service in the world—and some of the
best bookshops. The illiterate belts in
the southern and western States have
neither libraries nor bookshops worth
the name. England now has more free
libraries than ever before, and probably
more book-buyers. Scotland does better
still, both in buying and in borrowing.
Ireland, until the Carnegie Foundation
came in a few years ago, had no decent
libraries outside Dublin and Belfast, and
a poor show of bookshops.
As to most of the European countries
1 am not qualified to speak. France has
very few libraries and very many book-
shops, but perhaps the French are not
quite such exemplary buyers as they
seem ; I have been told that whoops of
“50-ieme Edition!” may mean a sale of
no more than 5000 copies or a publisher
with a hopeful imagination. Anyhow,
books are so cheap in France (as in
Germany, Italy and Spain)—so much
cheaper than they are in England and
America—that comparisons of sales may
be misleading.
We come back to the painful point
that Australia, with its inadequate libra-
ries and its expensive bookshops, is a
hard country for poor scholars.
R. I. B.
A Choice of Verse:—
PERIOD PIECE.
I have been standing here, considering things :
A rusting Bendix drive and battered wings
That have come to rest in the yard, in the tangled grass,
Where the bro\en bric\s of the chimney sprawl: they pass,
The ghosts of factory inspectors, directors, and wan
Suggestions of ancient dividends passed and gone.
This was a Rolls that stood at the door of the Ritz,
Tibula femur and humerus : time has cried quits,
And the chauffeurs are gone with the snows of yesteryear,
With the bullocky drowned in Roper, the charioteer
Smashed on the Punic seawall, the Grecian boy
Who neighed from the wooden mouth at the gate of Troy.
This was a spring that a millionaire s weight san\ on :
The padded hams are withered and wrung, and gone
The bland rotundities; fallen the millionaires
Who romped with the bulls when Morgan was playing at bears.
Here are the butts of innumerable coupons, clipped ;
Old petrol-tins, spilled oil, a treasury shipped
From ancient coasts, Tyre, Sidon : ,A.-P. and Shell
Feed a long pipe-line running by Mosel;
The brother of this Heinz tin is in Samarkand ;
The last of the sea-borne Dons conducts a band,
While the passengers dance in the tourist and saloon.
Till some sot’s clawing hands burst the balloon.
S.A
D. P. McGUIRE.
A Satchel of Books
PROVING THE BIBLE TRUE. — The Bible
Is True, by Sir Charles Marston (Angus and
Robertson; 7s. 6d.), and The Accuracy of the
Bible, by Dr. A. S. Yahuda (Hememann;
10s. 6d. net), have, allowing certain qualifica-
tions, the one object indicated by their titles.
The most important qualification is that,
whereas Sir Charles Marston seeks, on the
strength of evidence produced by modern
excavations, to prove that stories in the Old
Testament are true in fact, Dr. Yahuda, on
like evidence, seeks to establish rather (1) that
they are true in spirit; (2) that whoever wrote
them actually knew, and knew very thoroughly,
the place of their setting.
Dr. Yahuda’s work is the more readable
and convincing. It is logical, persuasive and
quite evidently the fruit of the kind of brain
which seeks without prejudice to get at the
truth. He attacks the Higher Critics of the
Bible quite as readily as does Sir Charles
Marston, but he does it with a quiet severity,
whereas Sir Charles has the sound of pulpit-
thumping. The Bible Is True might be recom-
mended to those who already believe or wish
to believe what it postulates. The Accuracy
of the Bible is for those who pursue literary
rather than theological truth, or who prefer
clear learning and logical argument to enthu-
siastic gospelling. Both books inspire a fresh
and taking interest in the discoveries of
excavation.
* * * *
DISCOVERING THE ENGLISH.—This
begins to look like becoming the most popular
of literary sports, and it seems to offer an
unlimited variety of approach. There is the
friendly approach, of which a good example
is Paul Cohen-Portheim’s The Spirit of London
(being published here by Angus and Robert-
son at 8s. 6d.). It is highly enthusiastic and
highly contagious; good reading for anyone
who does his travelling vicariously, and to one
on the way to England a capital shipboard
book. In spite of having spent some of the
war in captivity in England, Cohen-Portheim
retained a love for the place second to no
Englishman's and more knowledgeable than
most. Close on 150 photographs, many of
them arranged to get striking effects of con-
trast, illustrate the friendly and happy book.
More critical of manners and appearances,
though none the less friendly, is Odette Keun’s
lightly amusing l Discover the English (Bodley
Head; 6s. net). Mme. Keun also restricts her
observing to London, and hands out bouquets
and brickbats with nice discrimination.
Frances Douglas and Thelma LeCocq, in
Britannia Waives the Rules (Dent; 5s. net), take
the approach of pointed malice. They are
Canadians, and anyone in the Empire outside
of Britain will probably appreciate their fun-
poking as a good-humored revenge on those
hit-and-run visitors from whom Canada has
evidently suffered as much as Australia has.
The work, also, might make us question our
own sense of humor, since there is probably
nothing taken quite so seriously in Australia
as criticism of ourselves, and
no .one here has ever had
either the humor or the
good-humor to retort in
such terms. The book is
an uproar—that swift and
cutting thing, the feminine
sense of humor, working at
its brightest.
MAGAZINE OF
VERSE. —The publishers of
“Thyrsus: An Australian
Magazine of Verse” invite
comparative criticism of
their publication, and ask
the reviewer to keep in mind
the best European and
American prototypes. To
do this would be hardly fair
until the publishers them-
selves note a little more
carefully the general stan-
dard of overseas sister-
productions. To begin with,
it does not make for easy
and intelligent reading to
find that the pagination runs
1, 2, 5, 6, 3, 4, 9, 10, and
so on; though that may be
deliberate, since the spirit of
“Thyrsus” is a spirit of
tolerance and liberty, and
since possibly the contribu-
tors agreed to make a sort
of mayonnaise of their work.
One contributor can be men-
tioned with honest approval
—Ross Gollan —and even
he spoils the real beauty of
his “Duel for Love, 1680”
by the fragments tossed in,
as it were, afterwards, as
though the “Duel for Love”
did not quite fill the pot.


I
I
I
I
■
•*>
Si
&
V
m
m
si
m
s
i
5*
1
1
1
i
r
i
m*?-
■
wm : $
m'
r-s
t: #li
»JF i
\\
Checkskid" TYRES
like tkh DEEPER CUT
TREAD
TYRE
Barnet Glass “Checkskid” is a tyre designed especially for today’s
gruelling traffic conditions —of high speed travel over harder,
smoother road surfaces.
Its extra breadth of tread, which contains more actual rubber, gives
extra road grip . , , extra safety . . . extra mileage. Its extra
depth of tread gives longer non-skid tyre-life . . . increased
economy . . . immunity from skids and slipping.
In Barnet Glass “Checkskid,” you also get the advantages of
heat resisting design, which reduces the tendency to generated
heat, the main cause of tyre destruction; unique carcase
construction, which gives extra sidewall flexibility; and superimposed
buttresses which strengthen the shoulders and support this new
“more-rubber” tread.
New tyres call for New
BARNET GLASS
dfds
TUBES
for Endurance
M 54-75 24


Wll ■:
.
* tfi *•*-
-«« "-4*.
\
i.
11111*
■
■
m
M
. m :
HB
Great W^!
m "i
Hi
&nSSj
" - 11
v -i
... v< • j
r\
&
.
mm m
'•iiwj
i
E
c/ #


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2882.
May 8, 1935.
ANOTHER AWKWARD APPARITION.
“Mr. Lang’s assertion that he led ‘the only high-wage Government’ in 1930-31, and was refused Loan Council accommodation on that account, has been indignantly refuted
by Mr. Hogan, then Labor Premier of Victoria, and now a member of the Dunstan Government, whose favor Mr. Lang is courting.”
JOHN THOMAS MACBETH:
“Thou art too like the spirit of a Banker. Down!
Why do you show me this? I’ll see no more;
For the now-bolted Hogan frowns on me.
Horrible sight! Let this pernicious hour
Stand aye accursed in the calendar.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, 8s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ELECTIONS IN TWO STATES.
Three years ago come June 11 N. S. Wales broke
the Lang party, reducing its numbers in the Assembly
from 56 to 24, and Queensland rejected the Adminis-
tration headed by Mr. A. E. Moore, Neither State
has had cause to regret its decision, and each is
expected to renew it next Saturday ; for, in pursuance
of an unwritten agreement which, among other useful
features, prevents tedious interruptions from outsiders,
the elections are again to be held on the same day.
Although Mr. Stevens is U.A.P. and Mr. Forgan
Smith is Labor, they have a great deal more in
common than either has with Mr. Lang. This remains
true though the Stevens Government set up a Second
Chamber on the Irish Free State model and the
Forgan Smith Government is trying to prevent the
establishment of any sort of Upper House. Each
Premier is a moderate in the best sense of a much-
abused term, and they have worked together amicably
on the Loan Council and at Premiers’ Conferences.
What is more, the relations of the States under their
control have been uniformly good.
While the general situation has improved, Mr.
Forgan Smith’s Government has effected no radical
changes, and it would probably make no great differ-
ence to Queensland if he were turned out. But it
would make a great difference to N. S. Wales if Mr.
Lang were brought back; and Queensland would
feel the effects, together with all the other States and
the Commonwealth. Mr. Lang stands for strife and
uncertainty, for “the class war” and repudiation of
contracts, for pyramids of broken pledges. Loan-
drunk while the spree lasted (he did more than any
other State politician of his time to fasten the curse
of overseas debt and interest on the country), he
has plunged into madder forms of political inebriety.
Since the luckless day when he became a leader he
has never been able to get on with anyone except
those who pander to his vanity or are overawed by
his control of the party machine, caucus, funds, news-
paper and radio station. And he has been associated
with the most humiliating and disastrous incidents
in Australian political history. On his ghastly record are
interest-default abroad (he cheated the British and paid
the Americans); the wrecking of the Savings Bank ;
the attempted capital levy on mortgagees, himself
excluded; the effort to smash the Premiers’ Plan,
though his signature was on it; default to the national
Government, which had answered his distracted appeals
for assistance; a deficit of £14,000,000 in one year ;
the greatest number of unemployed on record; Black
Thursday in the civil service; finally, his dismissal
from office by the Governor because he had tried to
involve the King in his defiance of Australian law,
the consequence of his having, as he called it, “deleted
that iniquitous sanctity of the written contract.”
Because Australia is a Federal Commonwealth
and N. S. Wales is the leading State, this Sydney
politician dragged the rest of Australia into his wild
vortex, without the slightest regard for its feelings
or necessities. He tarnished Australia’s good name,
and menaced it with bankruptcy and disruption. And
if returned to office he could do it again. For he
has learned nothing in adversity, and forgotten only
what he thought it convenient for him to forget. It is
not in his nature to confess mistakes, much less
profit by them. He alone is right, and has been right
all along; his opponents are all wrong, and are
actuated by the basest motives. He is too cunning
to tell the people that he will begin again where he
left off in 1932, and of course he is not candid enough
to admit that he may not be able to get sufficient
quantities of other people’s money, on which his
lavish promises to the needy and the covetous are
always based. He now says he will go back to the
old borrowing policy, only this time he will borrow
through the Loan Council, which he derided and
tried to smash in 1930 —get nine millions a year
with the help of the Queensland, Westralian and
Tasmanian Labor Governments and “Mr. Dunstan’s
Government in Victoria.” He asserts that he would
have received all he wanted in 1931 had the Loan
Council been similarly constituted then ; as it was,
N. S. Wales was the only high-wage Government
in a council that stood for low wages, and on every
question N. S. Wales was outvoted 7 to 1.
Mr. Hogan, then Labor Premier of Victoria and
now a member of the Dunstan Government (he will
probably represent it on the Loan Council), gives this
clumsy fellow the lie direct. He points out that when
Mr Lang went to the Loan Council in November,
1930, there was a Labor majority on it, and that even
when Mr. Lang quitted it because of its refusal
to give him a virtual monopoly of the market —
it would have been equivalent to abandoning its
functions and tearing up the last part of the Consti-
tution —Labor still had a preponderance of votes.
He recalls also that “N. S. Wales was outvoted 7 to
1” only “on the Lang Plan to repudiate overseas
interest” ; and that was at the Premiers’ Conference
at Canberra. Mr. Lang must have forgotten Mr.
Hogan, but Mr. Hogan did not forget Mr. Lang.
It has been no easy task to redeem Australia’s
reputation abroad and bring about a position in
which .it could ask for interest-reduction as a right.
No simple matter to restore confidence among our
own people and get the wheels of industry moving
again and bring recovery within measurable distance.
Another year or two of Mr. Lang —not only impenitent
but more arrogant than ever; since his dictatorship
over his party has been made complete—would undo
all the good that has been done. Back with him
would come the blight that fell on enterprise in 1931,
the transfer of funds for safety, the worry that kills,
the blind floundering from one crazy expedient to
another, the danger of retaliation,, the brooding fear
of civil war. Unity is this nation’s greatest need.
There can be none with Mr. Lang in power. Aus-
tralians in other States will feel that N. S. Wales has
let them down if it turns this unmitigated disaster
loose on the country again.
MORE JAY PEAS THAN SOLDIERS.
The proposal to inflict more unprofitable railways
on South Australia, whose railway deficits for the
five years 1929-34 inclusive amounted to £5,921,500,
has driven the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce to
suggest in the periodical it issues that the rulers of
the Commonwealth should mind their own business.
Their most important business is defence, yet this is
how defence is attended to in South Australia:
Our militia remains pacifically few —about 55 p.c.
of the number of Js.P. There are 2214 militiamen;
there were 4000 Js.P. when the directory ceased to
publish the list.
The writer caustically adds that, while “a J.P. may
be a nobler work of man than a warrior, and may
typify a higher civilisation, he is usually too old to
defend ours.”
Other States could furnish parallels as grotesque.
The multiplication of Js.P. never ceases, but there are
fewer soldiers in training than when, the Common-
wealth took over the military forces in 1901 —there
were 28,886 then, 27,462 on March 30. Reduction of
the “peace nucleus” of the army from 48,000 to
30,000 was complacently accepted by politicians
of all parties, and the Defence estimates are
voted a bore. Last session they were put
through in an hour and three-quarters. Mr. Park-
hill, the Minister of Defence (he qualified by
being “secretary and campaign director of the Liberal
and National parties in N.S.W., 1903-27”), said he
was “reluctant to occupy the limited time allotted” for
the debate on the estimates in outlining his policy,
especially as Senator Pearce had outlined it. at a
Sydney club dinner; but the five months’ holiday
arranged for members need not be interrupted thereby.
If I relate the policy now, time may be saved later.
His plan is “designed to rehabilitate the national
defences from the considerably weakened condition
into which they have fallen.” So far the programme
has materialised in expenditure on big guns, parts of
a cruiser and a sloop, oil tanks and etceteras.
And by way of introducing “Part I of the Salmond
Scheme” —now several years old —the Air Force is
to be increased by three and a half permanent squad-
rons and a citizen-force squadron at Perth. They
are all to be located below the 35th degree, so that
in case of an attack in the north they would have to
fly a couple of thousand miles and probably fight in
a location where there are no bases. It is to be
hoped that the new squadrons will arrive soon.
Within a recent week two machines —one-eighteenth
of the present effective force —were destroyed in
accidents. One fell to pieces in the air at Werribee
(Vic.). There is a theory that it was exceeding the
speed limit for R.A.A.F. ’planes, which is two-thirds
the speed of the most modern fighters. Incidentally,
the R.A.A.F. has a personnel of 890. We have 617
members of Parliament.
There is a lot to be learned from the war going
on in the Gran Chaco between two original members
of the League. Military observers report that it is
war of a kind that was undreamed of in 1913.
Machine-guns and machine-pistols are the staple
weapons. Mortars and field-guns are seldom
employed. German mass-attack theories have been
developed to a point involving shorter training and
less skill among infantrymen; and aeroplane bombing
plays a larger part than ever before. Australians
are quick to learn. Hateful as the thought of carnage
is, they could readily adapt themselves to that sort
of warfare. At the very least the Commonwealth
should possess modern arms for an army the size
of the A.1.F., and sufficient highly-trained men to
instruct citizen soldiers in the use of them.
THE FLAPPER VOTE.
Last week ladies active in Lang Labor Younger Sets
advanced the claim that Sydney women workers were
entitled to “a higher standard of living” ; their social
duties demanded it. It had become the fashion to
arrange “functions” to which Mr. Lang or Mr. Beasley
or both would be invited ; for these evening frocks
and silk stockings were required, together with a
never-failing supply of necessities, once considered
luxuries, from permanent waves to cigarettes. Unless
a girl could afford evening dress she “would not be
asked to dance.”
It is hard to believe that the young men who
attend these “functions” are such disgusting snobs
that they discriminate between girls in day and even-
ing clothes. But, even if they do, what concern is it
of the taxpayers, who, in the last resort, would have
to meet the cost of these Langite sumptuary conven-
tions? And why should there be discrimination
between girls who work in industries or shops and
girls who stay at home and help their mothers, or
between city girls and those who live up-country and
are not members of Lang Labor Younger Sets?
Why indeed shouldn’t male members be provided
with dress suits, stiff shirts and white waistcoats?
Would the sister of a youth who declined to lower
himself by dancing with a girl in a day frock disgrace
the family by taking the floor with a worker in a
sac suit?
During the same week Mr. Lang came out with
a full-page election advertisement, adorned with
photographs of himself and nine expensively-dressed
young women, and with the legend “Help the Girls to
Get Higher Wages! ” The explanation of both
manoeuvres, and of his sudden passion for the dance,
is to be found in the 1933 census returns. Relatively
to the rest of the State the population of the metro-
politan area increased from 43.2 p.c. in 1921
to 47 p.c. in 1933. In this area females now
outnumber males by 157,456 —100 females to 90
males. The marriage rate has declined from 9.6 to
7.0 per 1000 ; the number of those never married has
increased by 15.4 p.c., and of those divorced by 148
p.c. In the case of females it is chiefly the unmarried
who become wage-earners.
Between ’2l and ’33 women employed in pro-
fessions and public administration increased from
39.0 p.c. to 46.1 p.c. ; in commerce and finance, from
21.8 p.c. to 24.9 p.c. ; in entertainment, sport and
recreation, from 13.1 p.c. to 16.4 p.c. Taking all
occupations and both sexes:
Since the 1921 census the total of male bread-
winners, including pensioners, has increased by 25.8
p.c. and of female breadwinners by 68.7 p.c.
Old Labor stalwarts might argue that the more
young women concentrate on getting jobs in which
wages may be fixed with reference to the social status
of the dances they attend, the less work there will be
for males. But what is that to Mr. Lang? He is
after the flapper vote, which has become a power.
JUBILEE.
It was the second day of the Test match at Lord’s,
and most of the spectators seemed tired. Many had
sat all night on camp stools outside the gates.
Others, in the Australian pavilion especially, were
feeling the effects of the English luncheon, and
wondering whether they should blame the
salmon or the brown sherry. Not even Bardsley,
steadily piling up a couple of hundred against a
hurtling Larwood, could stir up the ghosts of Sydney
barracking. The June sun beat down on the huge
crowd; the players strolled to the pavilion; top-
hats circulated decorously.
The Australian Labor Minister beside me was
half asleep. The Queensland station-owner on the
other side sat idly watching the groundsmen at work.
There were glimpses through the open pavilion
window of players having tea; of Collins talking
to a lord, who looked as if he had stepped out of
“Punch” ; of Mailey joking with Hobbs. A man in a
morning-coat, with a white camellia in his buttonhole,
strolled across the window opening and spoke with
Bardsley. Bardsley said something, and the pleasant,
quiet, bearded man laughed.
A rustle went round the ground. The Australian
Labor Minister sat up very straight. Somebody
behind me whispered “The King.” All eyes were
on that window. His Majesty smiled, and the crowd,
unhearing, smiled with him. As he moved away a
cheer slapped against the stands. Presently Bardsley
came out and went on pasting Larwood, but to the
crowd he did not seem to be the same Bardsley.
He had shaken hands with royalty.
A scene typical of England, and of the King
and his people, and very pleasant to Australians
witnessing it for the first time. As revealing in its
way, though sentiment is not so deeply stirred, as
the scene on Armistice Day, when the royal family
drives in a simple open carriage, the King and his
four sons in plain khaki, to the Cenotaph, and acres
of hats come off among the million or so Londoners
who crowd Whitehall and the Parade and all the
roads round Westminster and down the Mall and
Birdcage Walk, as the carriage goes slowly by.
Five and twenty years King George has been on
the throne. They have been some of the most
troublesome in the world’s history ; there has scarcely
been a moment when the King has not had turmoil on
his hands: Agadir and a recalcitrant Kaiser ; the suffra-
gettes ; Carson and Ulster; the Great War; the Irish
wars ; Amritsar ; the Ruhr ; the advent of Labor ; the
general strike; the depression. There has been a
revolution in the Empire—in industry, in thought and
outlook, in Governmental policies, in the relations
between the Dominions and the Motherland —but it
has been a bloodless revolution, thanks in no small
degree to the King. Where it seemed to be needed,
George V. has not been afraid to take a stand and
speak his mind, but he has succeeded in doing it
without partisanship and without raising rancor.
Of those others who were fellow-sovereigns
when he became king, few remain. The Romanoffs,
the Hapsburgs and the Hohenzollerns are gone, and
with them all the princes of Germany. Spain has lost
its Bourbons, Turkey its sultan, China its emperor.
The House of Windsor stands, because it is for
service and peace, and because its princes have been
taught to think as the plain man thinks.
The world is full of clever men, but this age has
learned that mere cleverness doesn’t matter very
much. Character does; and King George has it.
EL V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Passing of the Spruiker.
It is always possible to gauge the place that Mr.
Lang holds in the hearts of “his people” by his Great
Outdoor Demonstration on the Sunday before polling
day. In 1930 the crowd numbered perhaps 80,000 ;
two years later it was estimated at 5000; last
Sunday it amounted to about 3000, and there seemed
to be more enthusiasm among the thousand or so
who watched a near-by vigoro match than among
those surrounding Mr. Lang’s loudspeakers. Even
so, it was largely a regimented crowd.
There are more reasons, however, than Inner
Group discipline why people go to have a look at
Mr. Lang. He is an exponent of a once-popular art
—that of mouth-fighting—which is fast being killed
by universal education and the radio. The backward
southern States of America still have Huey Long.
Horatio Bottomley was the last of the tribe in Eng-
land. Mr. Lang can’t be compared as a spellbinder
with Bottomley, who, at the top of his form, could
draw audiences from Cabinet Ministers. But as a
sensational promiser he is equal to Long. He will
promise anything—bigger profits for farmers and
higher wages for industrialists, together with lower
prices for consumers ; decreased taxation and more
pensions; reduction of mortgages and lavish
borrowing.
Such methods win votes in illiterate communi-
ties and among people who have had no experience
of depressions. In the Australia of 1935, for every
elector who is deluded by Mr. Lang’s will-o’-the-wisps
ten learn the cold facts from non-political economists
over the wireless or read them in articles which deal
objectively with the world’s bleak position.
Mr. Lang is very much the burst windbag these
days, but anybody who is interested in social types
should make a point of seeing him before it is too
late. He is the last of the political Barnums.
4
Money to Bum.
Chief Judge Dethridge struck a great truth last
week when he asked whether some system could not
be devised whereby seamen could be paid weekly,
adding that money burns in the pocket of the man
away from home.
Regularity of payment is the greatest incentive
to orderly domestic finance. The man who makes
money in big punches has to be a very exceptional
character to resist the temptation to spend more than
his average earnings justify. In rushes of work with
big pay for overtime, the wharf-laborer of the past
used to find himself at rare intervals with £2O in his
pocket. Often a large proportion of that £2O found its
way to the pubs or the ponies or the two-up school,
and when it was gone its former possessor lived like
a coolie till he had caught up. It was the same with
coalminers in the days when they had sudden acces-
sions of wealth.
In the professional classes it is the same, too.
The businessman who makes a regular income or
the salaried man —no matter how high his salary
may be—does not, as a class, reveal the spending
qualities of the surgeon who has just carried out
half a dozen high-priced operations, the barrister who
has won a case with big fees or the architect who
has just drawn his commission for a city block.
Regularity is the secret of stability in finance,
and what is true of the individual and the firm is true
of the Government. Sudden prosperity is often as
dangerous as sudden slump.
4 ■
Worth Trying For.
The Commonwealth Government, which gives prizes
for talkie pictures and scenarios, might well encourage
the development of an Australian entry for the
£25,000 aeroplane competition which the British
Government has sponsored. It is hoped that the
competition will produce a 22-passenger aeroplane,
with a cruising speed of 225 m.p.h. and a top speed
of 280 m.p.h. This outfit would put the American
Douglases in the shade.
If any man can plan such a machine he should
be found in a country which has produced Hargrave,
Hawker, Percival, Ross Smith, Kingsford Smith,
Dallas, Ulm, Taylor, Pentland, Parer, Mclntosh,
Holden, Hill, Melrose, Hudson Fysh and a dozen
more.
The job of building an entry is too expensive
for one individual, but a national organisation could
face it without a qualm. The annual fees which we
fritter away in Geneva every year would be better
spent on such an objective.
- ♦
White’s Silent Service.
In uncivilised portions of the globe it is not
uncommon for Governments to arrest people, push
them into a cell, and, when they ask what they are
charged with, say, “You’ll know soon enough.”
Customs Minister White pursues a similar course
regarding censored books.
No lists of these are circulated or made public.
The first thing the bookseller knows is when a detach-
ment of White’s Ogpu sweeps into his premises
and seizes a consignment of books he has imported.
Sometimes they are not even recent importations, but
books which he has had for six months or a year,
the unsold remnants of which are scattered all over
his premises.
During a debate in the House of Representatives,
Mr. White stated that it was “not in the public interest
to publish a list of the books banned,” but that any
bona fide bookseller could obtain particulars by asking
for them. Melbourne booksellers have arisen with
instances of abortive inquiries instituted by them —
inquiries which led to the department’s acknowledging
the letter sent but doing nothing further.
As things stand, booksellers don’t know what
books are banned, but they do know that they may be
fined £lOO for having a banned book in their posses-
sion. And they begin to feel that Mr. White may
swoop down on them if they exhibit an unexpurgated
edition of Mrs. Hemans’s poems.
4
Lost Causes.
The Douglas Crediters and the Centrists, who staged
demonstrations in Sydney last week, have a number
of points in common. They advocate policies which
have been widely derided; they hate democracy
and bankers, and they assume a monopoly of the
power to think deeply and penetratingly, which
assumption is only found, as a rule, in the very young
and cocksure.
“Money,” said Mr. Bondeson at the Town Hall,
“is the simplest of all things to produce.” It is not
being produced because, to quote the Major, “profes-
sional bankers.... are quite ignorant” or because
“deposits of money in the bank are only a smoke-
screen for the major operations of the bank” ;
because, in short, bankers are fools or rogues. The
Douglas policy of “dividends for all” (only to be
effectuated, admittedly, by selling goods cheaply) is
peculiarly bad business for a country which depends
so much on its export trade.
Mr. Campbell was equally unrealistic at Longue-
ville regarding the corporative State. Mussolini
invented it in 1927, when he seemed less secure in
the dictatorial saddle than now. Corporativism was
to have harmonised relations between employers and
employees after democracy had been disposed of. In
Italy strikes and lockouts are illegal, and Arbitration
Courts settle industrial disputes, as here ; the main
difference is that the Fascists who run the 22 cor-
porations are responsible to Mussolini instead of to
a Parliament. Corporativism may suit a country which
owns a Mussolini; it isn’t practical politics in one
that wouldn’t be dictated to by a Mussolini if it owned
one.
4
Nazis in Australia?
Professor Mannhardt, of Marburg (East Prussia),
“propounds a plan to unite German citizens in the
Australian Commonwealth by imbuing them with the
Nazi spirit.”
German blood has been associated with Australia
since its foundation. Governor Phillip had it; so
had Monash. But most of the “40,000 German
migrants since 1838” on whom the professor has
his eye never were “German citizens” in the Imperial
sense. They began to dribble in from Saxony on
the heels of the Brackers, who brought out the first
Saxon sheep for the Bettingtons in 1828. Harry,
son of the original Bracker, died only last year ; the
second white child born on the Darling Downs, he
saw a dozen or so relatives killed and wounded during
the war against Germany.
The first big tidal wave of Teutonic blood flowed
into Australia after ’48 —the year of revolutions.
Those Germans were too early to know much about
Pan-Germanism — their Deutschland was an aggre-
gation of small kingdoms. Many of those who came
in the next generation hailed from Professor Mann-
hardt’s district —they called the capital of their pro-
vince in Queensland Marburg. Their Queensland
countryside looked like a bit of Germany, with its
white villages, its Herr Pfarrers enforcing a strict
Protestantism and ringing church bells on Sunday
evenings which sounded just like German church bells.
Through broad districts in South Australia, in
southern N. S. Wales and in Queensland one could
travel miles without speaking anything but German
—but a German which became more and more
Australianised. Old and young gathered at typically
German picnics in May or listened stolidly to talks
about “Vaterland,” washed down with oceans of beer
and “Du, du liegst mir im Herzen” and “Wacht am
Rhein” in various Turn Vereins for a generation or so.
When the Great War broke out the authorities
were nervous of them, of their newspapers and of
their pastors. But officers who went to investigate
found that their language had so changed from its
original that local interpreters were needed, and when
the call for volunteers came Bruder Schwetzoenstein
was not behindhand. Among the Germans of Queens-
land enlistments were heavy, and subscriptions to
war loans were continuous and bountiful. Round
about 1919 five electorates in which the German vote
predominated were full of walking wounded.
At the last Commonwealth elections one of the
cleverest and most incisive pamphlets in the U.A.P.
interest was written by an Australian of German
descent in S.A. It was addressed to that grand old
Australian Junker “August von der Skrupp” (Scrub),
but Herr Hitler would not have understood it because
it was full of quaint idioms and carefree humor and
translated Diggerisms—written in a language which
regularised such phrases as “Veil, ennihau,” and repre-
sented, in German type, Mr. Lang before his weed-
grown Savings Bank, staving off farmer depositors
with “Nau, veht a minnit, schentlemen.”
Professor Mannhardt is bumping his face against
a stone wall. The German-Australians know when
they are well off.
4
The Craze for Speed.
“Q.E.D.”: “A Death a Day” (B. 24/4/’35) casts a
sidelight on the illogical behavior of our politicians. In
every State, particularly N. S. Wales, they hamper
road transport by vexatious and often inequitable
regulations and taxes. Simultaneously, every Govern-
ment, particularly the Victorian, is trying to lure
travellers out of motor-cars and back to trains by
speeding up the railways. Railway Commissioner
Clapp has already got results by this policy on the
Bendigo, Daylesford and other lines.
On many N. S. Wales lines, under present speed
conditions, trains would have no hope of competing
against motors if the Government made it twice
as difficult and expensive for motorists to use the
roads. The distance from Sydney to Springwood,
for example, is 47 miles. A modern car can do it
under the hour; the fastest train takes an hour and
three-quarters. A good deal of the Great Western-
road from Sydney to Katoomba passes through what
are defined for the purposes of England’s new Road
Traffic Act as built-up areas. If N. S. Wales had a
30-m.p.h. speed limit for Sydney and suburbs and
country towns the Government would not need to
discriminate against road transport on behalf of the
railways ; travellers in a hurry would use the trains.
The English speed limit was imposed because the
Government realised that fast driving was to blame
for practically all the worst car accidents. Speed
limits are opposed on principle in Australia by such
organisations as the N.R.M.A., as they were opposed
in England by the A.A. and the R.A.C.; but the presi-
dent of the N.R.M.A. (J. C. Watson) has never denied
the part played by speed in producing accidents. He
remarked in the last issue of his association’s paper:
It is disturbing to find that speed was a factor in a
big percentage of the [fatal] cases.
If a craze for speed is to be indulged in by any
section of the motoring community it must not constitute
a danger to other road-users. If youth cannot use speed
sanely, then youth must be restrained.
The first State Government that restrains motorists
with a craze for speeding in populous areas will kill
two evils with one Act: diminish both the unpopu-
larity of train travel and the toll of the road.
• ♦
A Somewhat Different Cato.
Australia is rather short of benefactors, but Victoria
has a notable one in F. J. Cato. Cato started in
a small way as a grocer, and later became so famous
in conjunction with his partner, Moran, that Moran
and Cato have come to be bracketed among Vic-
torians with David and Jonathan, Damon and
Pythias, Young and Jackson and other great friend-
ships of history.
Both Moran and Cato were exceptional business-
men and born leaders. Cato has a remarkable gift
for handling a meeting, and he has been an undoubted
loss to the politics of the country. But he cared
nothing for politics. He just went on his way making
money and giving it away. Since he started his good
work he has distributed between £150,000 and
£200,000. Charity and the. church have benefited
most, but education and beautification have not been
forgotten.
Cato turned 77 the other day, and in place
of receiving a birthday present he gave one. Victoria
might have been told to look behind the kitchen
door and it would find something that would give
it great joy—that something was a little gift of
£30,000. Out of this Methodist Church institutions
get £20,000 ; the other £lO,OOO is cut up among a
multitude of deserving causes. Victoria is wishing
Cato many more birthdays, even if they don’t return
another penny in dividends.
4
The Moral of Holman’s Memoirs.
From Simon Hickey, who was N.S.W. Labor’s
Parliamentary secretary in W. A. Holman’s time, and
subsequently Speaker and M.L.C.:
The lesson to political Labor (if it can take a lesson) in
Holman’s memoirs, published in The Bulletin, is the proved
incapacity, and worse, of outside control. In politics men
rise on stepping-stones of their dead fellows to higher things,
and the controllers are generally those who expect to go
in first wicket down. It is quite possible that somebody
might monkey with the wicket in order to give the game
a touch of variety.
The censure on the Holman Labor party in 1916 was a
most unjust act. It broke the hearts of many who, like
Holman, had by this time placed “the movement” on an
altitude never before or since reached. Conscription was not
an issue at the time.
Outside control has steadily gone on in the N.S.W.
Labor party since 1916.' For many years no member of
Parliament has been eligible for a seat on the party executive,
yet from the vantage-point of Parliament such a member
should be able to'sense desirable political action as well as,
say, the secretary of the Billposters’ Union. The latest is
that the Easter Conference is to select the Parliamentary
leader. Well, several years ago the central executive selected a
Lord Mayor and made a botch of it, the central executive
being supposed to be the pick of the conference. Meantime,
conferences’ judicial-mindedness and public-spiritedness are
believed to have not improved.
—4
Bombay.
Bombay —the city, not the presidency—has been
included in the British India which it is proposed to
hand over to Indian control. Presumably it is none of
Australia’s business, but Father Bull is being exceed-
ingly generous with what he has good warrant for
regarding as his own property.
Bombay, when an island mud flat supporting a
few fishermen, had the Portuguese for first tenants. It
passed to the Crown as part of the dowry of Catherine
of Braganza, wife of Charles 11. The English occupied
and developed it, and in the hands of “John Com-
pany,” to which it was sold by Charles for an annual
payment, it began its development to a great trading
city. It returned to the Crown in 1858 after the
Mutiny, and has been in European hands for over 400
years, having grown to one of the great cities of the
Empire.
The British India to which the Constitution,
so-called, is to be granted has no more right to the
British island of Bombay than it has to the Indian
Native States or the Portuguese and French settlements
of Goa and Pondicherry. It is imperative that Britain
should retain a base for action when disruption
between Moslem and Hindu India takes place, and
Bombay is ideal for the purpose. If absorbed into the
Indian Federation at all it should be on the same basis
as the Native States, by its own consent as a British
colony.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Say 99”: An item on the list of
requisites published by one of the
Sydney ladies who have taken up the
cause of the pore working girl left me
puzzled. Evening dresses, evening coats,
“perms.,” “resets,” perfume, vanishing
cream, rouge and lipsticks—these I could
understand ; but “a pair of bed-socks a
year”! For 17 years I’ve practised medi-
cine without seeing a solitary patient,
male or female, wearing bed-socks. An
old dame once gave me a set, the size of
pillow-slips ; I couldn’t do without them
—for polishing my car. I asked my
secretary about it. “Bed-socks?” she said
perkily. “Of course, I wear them. No,
not those great, huge grey things with
tassels. Just the darlingest little ones
like Joan Hartigan and Dorothy Round
put on for tennis.” I suppose those
ladies know their job, after all.
* * * *
“Charnceit”: Australian casualness got
another advertisement when a woman
waiting for a train on a platform of
Sydney Central station suddenly stopped
a bullet with her leg. Local Sherlocks
who had heard a bang followed the trail
to a brown-paper parcel on a heap of
luggage, from which smoke was faintly
issuing. In the parcel was a rifle with a
recently discharged shell in the barrel
and half a dozen cartridges in the maga-
zine.
* * *
“Becks”: Hospital addicts and dispen-
sary regulars, you say (B. 10/4/’35)?
What about patent-medicine cranks? I
roomed with one. His dressing-table
and washstand contained a collection of
bottles sufficient to stock a small shop,
and he dipped into them as the spirit
moved him with the gusto of a connois-
seur of old wines. When I moved into
the diggings I had a touch of ’flu and
was dosing myself with some quinine and
flat-iron mixture. It was apparently new
to him, and his eyes lit up with envy
at the sight. He managed to withstand
the temptation the first day, but the
second night found him offering me the
choice of a dose from any of his store
in return for a tablespoon of my mix-
ture. I presented him with the rest of
the bottle.
* ❖ $
“Old Navy”: Two recent cases of
parting hawsers on Brisbane wharves
stress the urgency of more prominent
warnings to the public. I know no more
concentrated and venomous form of
sudden death than a snapping cable can
inflict. I saw one part in a confined
space aboard a man-o’-war. The next
morning we landed three hospital cases
with only two sound legs amongst them.
Seven others were in the ship’s sick bay.
H* $
“Findy”: Sightseers at Coogee (Syd-
ney) Aquarium got a nasty jar recently
when the star exhibit, a shark, captured
some days before, suddenly disgorged a
human arm. So far no one has
claimed the limb, which, judg-
ing by its tattoo marks, was
formerly the property of a
sailor. I’m reminded of a tall
yarn of Mark Twain’s wherein
a shark caught in Sydney Har-
bor is found to contain the
record book and diary of a
young German soldier recalled
from a London holiday to join
the colors, and devoured by a
shark in the Thames. (Are
there sharks in the Thames?) The diary
is the first hint of the Franco-Prussian
War to reach Australia, and the finder
takes advantage of his knowledge to buy
wool heavily and clean up a fortune.
* * * *
“Slinga”: If anything comes of the
suggestion that a special medal be issued
for Anzac (B. 24/4/’35) it is to be hoped
that it will be reserved for those who
actually landed on Gallipoli—descen-
dants, of course, included in the case of
the dead. When approval was given for
“A” to be worn on the color patch it
was sported by multitudes who never
saw the peninsula. One Aussie who
had landed early on April 25 found on
being invalided to Cairo that the gallant
defenders of the offices in the Rond
Pont Suarez were adorned with “As” ;
he took his pair and presented them to
the chief clerk, with explicit instructions
as to what to do with them. By the
way, the ribbon for the suggested medal
was designed, and some yards of it, at
least, were woven. R. H. Peacock, the
Defence Librarian, Melbourne, should
have some of it.
$ * :-i
“Miro”: Another case of ingenuity in
a bad cause. In. a Maoriland warehouse
the boss began to have his suspicions
regarding members of the staff who,
missing when he arrived on the different
floors, invariably returned and set to
work briskly while he remained. He
often tried to steal softly to the large
recreation room, but all he ever discov-
ered was a youth or two brushing hair
or arranging ties. Long afterwards a
nephew, who had succeeded him as
manager, revealed to his retired uncle
that a creaking board, carefully loosened
and adjusted, had given ample notice of
his arrival or that of a stranger, as all
the staff knew exactly how to avoid the
“Put that cigarette out! Cant y see the notice?”
creak. The recreation room, designed
to have an uplifting effect on the staff,
housed a combined two-up, s:p. and
poker club, which functioned merrily
until the nephew received unexpected
promotion and found it necessary to
become an example to his employees.
The scout whose duty it was to listen for
the creak ended up as a parson.
“Lex”; Beattie wouldn’t have written
of “the sweets of forgetfulness” if there
had been trams in the eighteenth cen-
tury. In perhaps 50 p.c. of cases in
which “action is taken on behalf of the
"Don't Wander too far away, dear. Dinner'll soon
be ready.”
Commissioner for Transport” against
persons \£ho have got off trams without
paying absent-mindedness rather than
absence of honesty is responsible. I have
done it while holding my tuppence in
readiness for the conductor, and only
realised when the tram was disappear-
ing that I had technically defrauded the
Government. The worst jolt I ever ex-
perienced in this connection was outside
one of those London restaurants (the
Troc. grillroom, to be explicit) where
you pay at a desk on leaving. As I
stood in Shaftesbury-avenue waiting for
a bus I noticed something sticking to
the sleeve of my overcoat. The check
for the meal I had just eaten! To tear
back and proffer the money was the
work of a panic-stricken instant. As
showing the suspicion that such errors
arouse the manager of the restaurant
was called, and long explanations had
to be given before the cashier would
accept the money. If I had been bowled
out, not by myself but by somebody con-
nected with the restaurant, nothing would
have saved me from being held up to
obloquy in a police court as a petty
swindler.
* * * *
“Fiona”: We had tied up for the day
at Ebenezer wharf, on the Hawkesbury,
when we heard a splash
near the launch anchored
in midstream. Immedi-
ately after a voice uprose
from inside: “How many
times have I told you,
George, that it’s danger-
ous to bathe just after
dinner!” A moment later
the voice was heard again:
“George,” it screamed,
“you’ve gone in with all
your clothes on!” Our
languid interest became
focused on a dark object
that bobbed up, appar-
ently embracing a killick,
and rapidly sank again.
The men of our party
took in the situation while
the lady still complained,
and dashed to the rescue.
Still attached to the kil-
lick, George was hauled,
half drowned, from the
river. A misfire on his
part had hitched the killick to his shirt,
and he and the anchor went down to-
gether.
“O. W. Waireki”: “Como’s” par.
about the Yallourn church hall (B.
3/4/’35) reminds me that the Sabbath
services at the recent Nuhaka (M.L.)
Mormon Hui were held in a talkie
theatre. Sermons were delivered by
speakers who stood only a yard or so
from a poster, “You’ve Said a Mouth-
ful.” The speakers were apparently
mindful of it; their discourses were sur-
prisingly brief.
“Como”: Demolition of Melbourne’s
out-of-date buildings is bringing to light
wells and pumps in
wholly unexpected
places ; rooms fitted
with loopholes for
rifles in houses
which, seemingly,
had nothing to pro-
tect ; also under-
ground passages
leading nowhere for
no ostensible pur-
pose. Below Buc-
cleugh Cottage, in
Cardiga n-street,
Carlton, not a mile
from Collins-street,
wreckers have
stumbled on a whole
catacomb of under-
ground rooms, acces-
sible through a large
trapdoor on the
ground level. In a
maze of recesses
and corners is what
appears to be a
miniature blast fur-
nace, and beside it,
set in cement and
tamped clay, is a
heavy safe, so
secretly placed that
it would never be
noticed by a
stranger. These
mysteries of old
houses cannot be
explained by recent
occupants, and evi-
dently go back to
the early days of the
city. Possibly they
were built to store
valuables against a
possible raid by
bushr angers ; or
they may have been
the safe-d epo s i t
banks wherein criminals kept their loot
pending an opportunity of getting it
safely away.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: If the best Malapropism
has a germ of truth in its distortion the
one I caught in a tram conversation is
a good one. One of the ladies was
evidently a servant in a house where
Death had been a visitor. “His will made
arrangements for his recrimination,” she
said.
Jji Ijl if
“Spare Corp.”: During the Digger in-
vasion of Sydney 1 encountered four
dead men ; some may have had larger
tallies. In France we didn’t scan casualty
lists, but got the news of what had hap-
pened to mates in other units —even in
other platoons—from other Diggers.
Frequently the information was inaccu-
rate, so I was not unduly surprised at
being hailed by these ghosts. Two of
them had figured as killed in casualty
lists; one had been mourned for a year
before his return from Germany, where
he had been a prisoner of war. A fight-
ing patrol had been caught by a barrage
when near the German lines ; the officer
in charge decided that my friend, who
had been hit, was so dead that there was
no necessity to try to bring him back.
But the Germans found a flicker of life
in him, and careful treatment and a
robust constitution did the rest.
;|c * * *
“All Sirgarnio”: What is the deriva-
tion of “0.K.” (B. 24/4/’35), anyway?
The Yankee idea that it was President
Andrew Jackson’s symbol for “orl k’rect,”
“Old Hickory’s” genius running rather
to affairs than spelling, was ruled out of
court long ago. One school says it was
derived from the old-time telegraph
machines, which had a dial on which
were the letters of the alphabet, messages
being sent by depressing them. “O” and
“K” were next each other—as they are
on my typewriter—and were thus the
easiest for an operator to send back when
acknowledging a call, just as a sema-
phore signaller uses “R.D.” when accept-
ing a message. The French have it that
the phrase is a transliteration of “au quai,”
a commercial term signifying that goods
are delivered on the wharf and are there-
fore in order. Perhaps some pundit can
lighten the darkness without having to
fall back on the dictionary for trite
explanations.
THAT.
It isn’t that your voice appals the night—
We’re used to that.
What’s one more burst of microphonic skite
Through any hat?
What’s one more dervish with his shirt alight,
Or acrobat upon the greasy height,
Or huckster (shall we say?) chock-full of
fright?
It isn’t that;
No, Jack, it isn’t that.
It isn’t that your dancing says that you’d
Lead us a dance:
That all you need to do us nicely stewed
Is just this chance
To strip again your purpose to its crude,
Distorted nakedness, that fright-imbued
Despair tries decking as a dancing dude,
That you may prance
In swan-song dalliance.
Well, prance, poor comrade, till your shoe-
soles crack—
No harm in that.
Prance down the corridors that echo back:
“The Big Chief’s flat!
Cripes, they’ve declared his Star of Glory
black!”
Or, cutting out the Trades Hall urgers’ tack,
Mocks merrily: “They could not trust you,
Jack! ”
No more than that:
“They could not trust you!” that.
N.S.W.
SIZZLE.


“Morita”: Who but a Digger amongst
Diggers could delicately put this over?
Into our circle as we strove to get some-
one to ladle out drinks for us in the
Anzac Day stampede he butted. “Give
us a bob for a feed,” he asked one of
the mob—“haven’t had a bite all day.”
“Rats ; it’s for booze! ” was the reply ;
then, sighting his badge, we invited him
to hop in with us. “No, I can’t hum on
you,” he told the one that he had but-
toned on to. “Bit sensitive, you know;
and, anyway, it is for a feed.” He got
his bob, and with a contented smile
wriggled through the pack towards the
bar. “Come on,” he whispered to the
donor, “I’m a sport. Let me shout you
a booze out of it.”
❖ * *
“M.L.C.”: “Hobartian” is not quite
correct in saying that the word “brumby”
originated in Tasmania (B. 17/4/’35).
Major Brumby arrived in N. S. Wales
with his regiment in 1795, and there
started horse-breeding. In 1803 he went
over to the Speck, and in moving his
horses naturally failed to muster them
all. Those left behind were referred to as
“brumbies,” and the name stuck to their
wild progeny. So really the term origi-
nally came from the plains of N.S.W.
* =:= *
“Sydneyite’s” plaint:
I expect to have my leg pulled in the political
columns of the dailies. So when I read in an
anti-Lang publication on Wednesday that
“many seats on the platform and in the body
of the hall were unoccupied at Mr. Lang’s
Dubbo meeting, while little enthusiasm was dis-
played,” I felt no surprise, though I had
just read in Mr. Lang’s paper that the A.L.P.
leader “opened at Dubbo to a densely-packed
hall, while rousing cheers greeted his appear-
ance.”
But why should the papers go out of their
way to make a fool of me over the pyjama
murder? These items appeared in three dif-
ferent dailies on Wednesday:
(1) Countess Coudenhove-Kalergi, formerly
of Sydney, is believed by the N. S.
Wales police to be the Albury murder
victim.
(2) Countess Coudenhove-Kalergi died in
Parjs in 1931.
(3) Countess Coudenhove-Kalergi is alive,
and living with the Count in Vienna.
Fresh from these shocks to my credulity, I
walked into a club, picked up London
“Tatler,” and, under a portrait of Hilaire
Belloc, read that he had served with the French
Artillery as a driver in 1870. It would make
him 83 or over!
* * *
“Com«”; “The workingman is so
apathetic that he won’t vote at his union
meetings, so crooked agitators get
control.” Heard that before? 1 have—
so often that I’ve taken a mali-
cious delight in setting a trap for those
who echo it. Doctors are the easiest,
and as I know a fair number I’ve been
enjoying myself lately. I lure the medico
on till he makes the time-honored re-
mark ; then I change the subject, work
round to his own profession, and ask
him who is the president of the B.M.A.
Out of the first six I experimented with,
five replied “Damned if I know.” My
next question is: “When did you vote
last for the council of the 8.M.A.?” Up
to the present 1 haven’t encountered one
doctor who has troubled to record a
vote since he joined.
i\z ±
“M.G.”: Apropos of swan songs on
the scaffold (B. 1/5 / ’35), Westralia had
a notable case 20 or 30 years ago, when
“Stones that shape must take some finding!”
a Pathan was hanged for killing a Sleep-
ing compatriot. His defence was that
he had acted in accordance with tribal
custom, and that it was only his vigil-
ance and alertness which prevented his
being the victim. Exhaustive examina-
tion of other Pathans—all obviously
biased in favor of killer or killed—as to
whether it was according to tribal custom
left the Crown in a quandary. It decided
to let the law take its course. This
"Don't you disapprove of your husband painting girls in the nude?'
“Of course not! I'm his model.”
didn’t satisfy the gentleman on the drop,
so he told the Crown and the popula-
tion and Australia and the Empire gener-
ally precisely what he thought of British
justice, concluding by stating that his
friends and relatives had bumped off
large numbers of the British race in the
vicinity of the Khyber Pass, and “it was
a pity they hadn’t bumped off the lot.”
That concluded the speech, and the
ensuing bumping-off scored one to the
hated British.
* * * *
“Hlangwane”: In saying four V.Cs.
were awarded to the 2nd Batt. S. W.
Borderers I was correct. The fifth, men-
tioned by “Thrune” (B. 1/5/’35), went
to Assist.-Commissary Dalton, who was
not a Borderer. In all, the first and
second battalions got nine V.Cs. out of
Rorke’s Drift and Isandhlwana; two
were granted posthumously to Lieut's.
Melville and Coghill, killed in a success-
ful attempt to save the Ist Battalion
colors. They threw them into the river,
on the banks of which they turned at
bay against the pursuing Zulus.
“10-2-4” in derogation of bromides:
In spirit I salute Neville Cardus, who has
pointed out in the Manchester “Guardian” that
cricket never was cricket, so to speak; that
sharp practice has always characterised what
Jardine smugly called “the beautiful game,” and
that W. G. Grace would have “pulled his
whiskers with impatience and bewilderment”
at cant to the contrary. One of the few ser-
vices the World War did for the Empire was
to kill for all time the superstition embodied
in a saying, falsely attributed to Wellington,
“Waterloo was won on the playing-fields of
Eton.” The British upper classes turned out
to be no better or braver as fighting soldiers
than the lower classes. “Noblesse oblige”
got it in the neck, too. Many aristos. dodged
the firing-line in field officers’ uniforms (vide
Montague’s classic Honors Easy), and the
same thing happened here and in other parts of
the Empire. The forces which proved that
gentlemen were not necessarily officers proved
also that the public-school spirit was no
different from the board-school spirit; and
millions of Britons learned for the first time
that Continental nations talk not of the honest
but of the perfidious Englishman, and that
what Englishmen regard as un-English French-
men regard as un-French. Let me debunk the
nation’s bromides and 1 care not who makes
its songs.
“Ibn el Issar”: Mention of that tram
conductor who silenced an infuriated
taxi-driver with the simple word
“brother” (B. 24/4/’35) recalls some ad-
vice given me years ago by a Hindu
friend. Like the Arab, the Indian, Hindu
or Moslem, excels in vituperative abuse.
This invariably takes the form of appal-
ling statements about one’s ancestry, es-
pecially the female side. The tip was
to get in quickly with the simple phrase,
“Your mother.” Nothing more was
necessary, the reviler’s vivid imagination
supplying the rest without waste of time
or breath to the reviled, who might know
no other words of the vernacular.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Anzac morning was
spoilt for me when I turned on the wire-
less and heard a band crash into “Sol-
diers of the Queen.” In earlier
times, when one went forth to war
openly and unashamed, this accursed
tune haunted the dreams of every
Australian warrior departing to
seek the bubble reputation at the
Mauser’s mouth. Queenslanders
suffered most, since they had to run
the gauntlet of it not only in Bris-
bane during various marches and
“banquets,” but also in Sydney and
Melbourne. Almost as soul-destroy-
ing was the singing or reciting of
“The Absent-minded Beggar,” but
this was inflicted only at the ban-
quets aforesaid or at municipal fare-
wells. A cherished memory is the
singing of it in Melbourne by a fat
old gentleman named Napoleon Boffard,
who had once been a vocalist of note.
It was endurable because the old gentle-
man knew little English.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Reading of the intrepid
earlier airmen who climbed 15,000 feet
and more, and were stopped only by
failure of their machines to achieve
greater heights, one is apt to forget their
real mental condition. Above about
12,000 feet judgment is seriously im-
paired by deficiency of oxygen in the
blood supply to the brain ; in effect, the
airman who attains such heights without
oxygen apparatus is more than a little
drunk. Above 16,000 feet he is, from the
point of view of judgment and mental
balance, well and truly “shot.” At a
little higher he will behave like a luna-
tic—as, indeed, he temporarily is. One
of man’s troubles in such matters is that
he is too adaptable to oxygen deficiency.
Cats die at 14,000 feet; cows give no
milk at heights above 13,000 feet in the
Andes.
* ❖ #
“Notaden”: Every year Australians
die, or narrowly escape death, for the
want of an hour or
so per annum of
school - teaching in
the barest essentials
of self-preservation.
The latest was a
Queensland m a n
who accidentally cut
an artery in his
hand on a jagged
tumbler. Despite
attempts at first aid,
he was nearly dead
of haemorrhage
when he arrived,
half an hour later,
at an ambulance
centre. Had any-
one possessed the
elementary sense to
put a finger or
thumb on the spout-
ing blood-vessel and
shut it off by pres-
sure against the-*
nearest bone, the
patient need not
have lost an ounce
more of blood.
There is no need to
wait for or worry
about ligatures or
tourniquets with a
spouting arte r y—
treat it as you would
a broken petrol pipe.
and stop it off with a finger or thumb
against the nearest firm object that will
hold it steady. If another starts, use an-
other finger. Then see about shutting off
the main supply at your leisure.
* * * *
“Becks”: When a steamer gets up
around the twenties people begin to refer
to her affectionately as “the old” ; by the
time she reaches the thirties she is “the
dear old,” and everyone is suggesting that
it is high time she was replaced. If she
touches 40, she finds most of her pas-
sengers have long since deserted her,
while at 50—well, who’d travel on a boat
half a century old? Yet the Edina still
gets her quota of passengers, and she has
been travelling from Melbourne to Gee-
long since 1880. Remarkable? Not a 4
all! That’s only 55 years of her life.
For some years before that she was
trading outside Port Phillip on the Vic-
torian coast. Before that she put in more
years on the trans-Tasman service. And
she didn’t start there, either. Her first
job was as British transport in the
Crimean War, which my history book
dates as 1854. At 81 she is the only
octogenarian screw steamer in the world.
A paddle steamer (the Premier) in Eng-
land is eight years older and carries Wey-
mouth trippers in the summer months,
but the Edina enters and leaves the Yarra
every day of the year.
:}C jfj ; ! C
“Senescent”: Can’t agree with “Senex”
(B. 1/5/’35) that good performance in
sport is a handicap in the professions.
In N.S.W. Charles Wade was Premier
and Chief Justice in spite of the fact
that he played Rugby for Oxford and
England, as well as his native State.
Judge White, of the District Court, is
another who was a mighty footballer in
other days. Evatt, J., of the High Court,
though never much of a player, founded
the Rugby League club in Sydney Uni.
Other Rugby men high up in their pro-
fessions are Bullmore, Moran and Bul-
lock, all shining lights in Macquarie-
street; and many other examples could
be quoted. In the Old Country the list
of K.Cs. and Judges who have rowed
for Oxford or Cambridge must be as
long as the commination service. One
Chief Justice of England at least, “Dick”
Webster, was one of the most noted
amateur runners of his time.
* * * *
“D.”; We all have our phobias as
ineradicable as the stereotypy which im-
pelled Dr. Johnson to step on different
pavements as he walked down Fleet-
street. Mine is the spectacle of an
elderly skull with a few lank hairs
trailed across it in an ostrich-like
attempt to camouflage its nakedness.
This is my chief objection to the leader
of the N. S. Wales Labor party. His
political plan may be wrong: to me it
is not half so fraudulent as his cranial
plan.


M
mk
m
•aw*-
mmmm
mmmm
FACTORY-FRESH
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keep-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”—10 for 9 d> and 20 for 1/6
««
Made specially to prevent sore throats
POLITICAL POINTS
In N. S. Wales three years ago the
U.A.P.-U.C.P. won 66 Assembly seats and
Lang Labor 24. In Queensland Labor
won 33 and the Country Nats. 28 ; the
remaining seat, Fassifern, went to an In-
dependent, Arnold Weinholt, who is not
standing again. By-elections did not alter
the party situation in either State.
Success for the Country Nats, is a remote
probability, for the Langsters a remote
possibility —growing remoter every time
the Leader brays.
A Langster said it at Marrickville:
If Stevens is returned there will be no
more dole; you’ll have to either work or
starve.
And the gentleman was perfectly serious.
Moscow celebrated May Day by flaunt-
ing “an enormous serpent, typifying im-
perialism, which had a Japanese cap over
a pig’s snout and was marked with a
swastika.” In Berlin, on the other hand.
Hitler said:
We desire only peace for the world. We
have neither colonies, raw materials nor
foreign exchange; we have only our people.
That holds the attention and invites an
examination of the German case. The
other is just ill-bred Communist cheek.
The changed attitude of the Reds, who
were mortally scared a few weeks ago,
is an effect of their Government’s alli-
ance with France. Called a “pact based
on the Covenant of the League,” it pro-
vides for “mutual consultation in the
event of danger of aggression, and
mutual assistance in the event of un-
provoked aggression.” Britain stands out
of the arrangement, and the Dominions
will never want to be in it.
Four years ago Lang said he could
borrow in contempt of the Loan
Council. Three years ago he was posi-
tive that he could default in interest on
loans taken over by the Commonwealth
in spite of the indemnification ex-
pressed in the Financial Agreement.
Now he says:
According to the Constitution, N. S.
Wales is guaranteed two-fifths of all the
moneys raised by the Loan Council.
There is no such guarantee in the Con-
stitution proper or in the Financial
Agreement. Apparently, the lazy fellow
has never read either.
Lang is a clumsy ass. One would think
that when he decided to make a bid for
Dunstan’s support on the Loan Council
he would be careful to say nothing to
provoke Dunstan or any of Dunstan’s
Ministers. Yet he chose to attack ex-
comrade Hogan, now Dunstan’s Minister
of Mines, at his tenderest point—in effect,
called him a leader of “a low-wage Gov-
ernment” who had sided with “the
Tories” on the Loan Council in 1930,
Hogan promptly fell on him with cold
fury, and straightway Lang’s chance of
getting Victorian support for his new
loan policy faded into thin air.
Dwyer-Gray, the 64-year-old represen-
tative of the Youth Movement in the
Tas. Labor Ministry, sent a characteris-
tically verbose message to Lang on the
night that worthy delivered his. policy
speech, and his Government has since ad-
vised N.S.W. workers to vote for his
hero. But he is not coming over to
stump the country for the Langsters, ex-
plaining that he is “too busy.” That’s
a comfort. Tasmanians were beginning
to think the old gentleman was more in-
terested in the Sydney Labor dogfight
than in his job.
In the two Assembly by-elections held
in Westralia on Saturday Labor re-
tained South Fremantle but failed to
gain Avon. In South Fremantle two
years ago McCallum, who was to be-
come Minister of Works and then a
bankah, had a majority of 3911 over
an Ind. Nat. and a Communist; there
were 6857 effective votes. Avon (3494
effective votes) gave the C.P. man (Grif-
fiths, lately dead) a majority of 68.
This has soared to several hundreds,
while the Labor majority in South Fre-
mantle has slumped to 750 or so.
There is a vacancy (though no neces-
sity) for a Commonwealth Conciliation
Commissioner, Coneybeer having re-
signed “on the ground of ill-health.”
He is by no means the only Common-
wealth man who lost his head and
lived beyond his income when with-
drawn from the steadying environment
of Adelaide.
J. S. Teasdale, president of the West-
ralian P.P.A., estimates that the rough-
and-ready bulk-handling plant installed
by Westralian Farmers has in two years
saved the wheatgrowers £250,000 on 23
million bushels of wheat handled,
roughly 2}d. a bushel. Naturally, they
want an installation capable of serving
the whole industry. Labor, prompted
“Very fortunately for Mr. Forgan Smith, who has an election on his hands, the
Queensland deficit is receding. For 10 months of the current financial year it amounted
to £650.”
Ah just got a cabin;
You don't need ma cabin —
Ribber, recede from ma door.
I ain't breakin' your heart,
So don't go breakin' ma heart —
Ribber, gang awo' from ma door.
by the Fremantle wharf-laborers, de-
murs, though it has graciously set up a
royal commission, hoping for a hostile
report.
Asked at Toowoomba whether his
Government was for State aid to church
schools, Premier Forgan Smith replied
that it was not on the Queensland Labor
programme. It is on Lang’s, though
nothing is being said about it.
Redistribution of seats preceded the
Queensland elections to be held on
Saturday. In the Commonwealth, in
other States, and in Queensland itself
when “the Tories” were in, redistribution
has generally been fatal to the Govern-
ment introducing it, but Queensland
Labor has managed to thrive on the thing.
On paper the new boundaries have im-
proved its prospects in a number of elec-
Sion “of" Baroona, an“ Opposition
chances have ift no wise been improved
by the retreat of Fadden from Kennedy
to Mirani and of Kenny from Cook
to Sandgate.
Tas. Senator Sampson, who served in
South Africa and throughout the Great
War, sometimes says a quotable thing,
Ridiculing the contention that the Port
Augusta-Red Hill railway would be of
assistance to the military, he suggested
that the military mind is conservative,
and is incapable of perceiving that railway
transport of armies is passing. “In any
case,” he added, what s the use of talk-
have no troops?”
Another heart-rending example of
Commonwealth oppression. During the
five years to April 1, 1934, Westralian
Airways received just on £200,000 in
subsidies (£198,668, to be exact) for
operating its Perth-Adelaide service,
During the whole period it was carry-
ing passengers as well as mails in
competition with the Commonwealth’s
own Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta railway, the
losBes on which for four years to June
30, 1933 amounted to £117,590, exclu-
sive of intei est.
The A.M.P. paid £288,000 in taxes
last year, compared with £744,000 in
1933. True to an undertaking given to
the Lyons and Stevens Governments,
the great Australian office passed on
every penny of the reduction to mort-
gagors. Lang would requite it by not
only lowering mortgage interest by
means of one of his rotten laws, but
also by “writing down the principal of
the mortgage debt” (the A.M.P. has
£27,800,000 out on mortgage) “according
to a judicial plan” — i.e., another Lang
Plan. At the same time he would expect
the A.M.P, to continue to support Gov-
ernment loans; and he demands
£9,000,000 a year.
Surprisingly large was the audience at
Melbourne Town Hall to hear the
addresses of protest against the book cen-
sorship, and surprisingly mixed. When
Stalin’s name was mentioned Reds
cheered lustily; when Aldous Huxley’s
satire on Communism was quoted Whites
likewise . signified their approval; but
they sank all differences without a trace
to kick against the censorship. Minister
White had lifted the ban from a couple
of books after it had been announced
that they would be analysed before the
meeting. Speakers substituted others and
made their points just as effectively.
Little has been heard of Gosling, the
former Minister for Tin Hares, but he is
standing again for Kogarah, which re-
jected him three years ago, giving J. C.
Ross a majority of 1692. Kogarah is not
exactly a U.A.P. electorate, and perhaps
Ross talks too much.. But no member
has worked harder for his constituents
within the House and without; more-
over, he is a returned soldier. That is
helping him in a district which has many
Diggers.
It is queer to find A. G. Enticknap,
president of the Australian Fruit-canners
and chairman of the Leeton Fruit-
growers’ Co-op., standing for Murrum-
bidgee as a Langster. He ought to know
how dependent his clients are on the
British market and how precarious that
market may become if Lang goes off his
head again. It was British preference that
put Australian dried and canned fruits
on the export map—in fact, Baldwin lost
a general election trying to establish it —
and those industries couldn’t afford to be
involved in another Lang “Plan,” perhaps
worse than the first, *
Put it to the credit of Tasmania that
it has had returned-soldier preference in
the State public service since 1918. Of
540 male officers on the permanent staff,
201 were Diggers, and of 37 appointed
in the last two years reported on 21
had war service ; for other jobs filled,
“almost entirely professional and tech-
nical,” returned-soldiers did not apply.
There is no age limit for ex-warriors,
and, according to the Public Service
Commissioner, there will be no interfer-
ence with the preference principle. But
he suggests that there are Diggers who
have grown too old for posts like those
of gaol warders and mental-hospital
attendants.
The comparative tax-revenue returns
published by the Federated Taxpayers’
Association are useful, but it should be
emphasised that the U.S.A. figures for
1934 —£5 19s. per head, compared with
£l3 13s. Id. for Commonwealth and States
—are Federal only. And, calculating the
dollar at five to the pound sterling and
the population at 125,000,000, they don’t
tally with a statement in the “Saturday
Evening Post”:
During the last fiscal year Federal taxes
yielded $3,115,000,000.
“The lowest'of several estimates” is that
the total American tax bill for the year
was $10,000,000,000.
From the drought region:
A Queensland sheep-grazier with a Kos-
ciusko overdraft, I spend sleepless nights
thinking of the thousands of stinking carcasses
that litter the paddocks for miles. When
I remember that I am paying 6 p.c. interest
on money borrowed for relief tax on income
that I have not yet earned, and probably ifever
will earn, I am reduced to a condition where
I might easily murder my aged maiden aunt.
Ned Kelly, Hart and co. must squirm in then-
graves when they look back and remember the
modesty of their demands compared with
present-day legalised extortion.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


IT ALL DEPENDS ON THE GIRL.
“At Lang Labor functions a girl who was not wearing evening dress would not be asked to dance."


m
Vi ' - «
ss® 6
dsdff
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne.
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
b-r-zoui**
ALL THE ADVANTAGES OF A “SAFETY”
And no blades to renew!
ds ƒ
dsf
sdf
Save money...a Plum Razor with guard com-
bines the advantages of a safety razor without
renewal of blades. The keenness of the hollow-
ground blade is preserved, giving always a
velvety smooth, comfortable shave.
All Plum Razors are set ready for use,
guaranteed, and kept in order for two years
free of charge.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each, 13/(5
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle, each, 15/(5
Keal Ivory Grain Handle, each, 21/-
7-day sets (7 razors in Oak Case),
85/-, 100/- and 140/-, post free.
Plum Razor Guards to fit fin., fin.
and Jin. blades, 3/6 extra.
All post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*4
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD.
•VALLEY ; • • BRISBANE • • .
PERSONAL ITEMS
Mrs. Musgrave, Australia’s oldest
woman, celebrated her 105th birthday
in Auburn (Sydney) last week. She was
born at Lambing Flat (now Young), saw
the goldfield riots and met one or two
eminent bushrangers. Like all really
old people, she is spare; there has never
been a fat centenarian.
This drawing of Dubois suggests the
rather aloof eye that E. B. Harkness will
keep on the N.S.W. elections at the
An Eminent Civil Servant.
week-end. Electoral proceedings, over
which he presided as Chief Electoral
Officer from 1916 to 1929, are now under
control of H. V. Gould, though Hark-
ness holds the indirectly-interested post
of departmental head. Christened
Edward Burns, Harkness narrowly
missed the fate of Earle Page in having
the name of his native Grafton fastened
to him. He went into the public ser-
vice in 1891, and from 1902 was con-
fidential secretary to sundry Premiers,
until, in T 6, he became Under-Secretary
of the Chief Secretary’s and Public
Health departments. His only vices are
horticulture and golf.
Among the 22 new barristers admitted
to practice in Melbourne last week was
Jewel Okno, a Pole with only eight
years’ residence in Australia. Studying
first at Warsaw and then in Paris, young
Okno reached this country without
knowing a word of English. Others
called were R. G. MacFarlan, son of
Justice MacFarlan, who did the admitting,
and two girls, Miss Scheele and Miss
Hull.
“M.G.”: The English Melbourne is
famous as the birthplace of Thomas
Cook, of T. Cook and Sons; and Cook
organised his first travel stunt there—
Melbourne, Derbyshire. His native town
got into the news lately with a
request that Melbourne, Australia, should
shout it a new set of bell apparatus for
its Anglican church.
Correction by “El V.”:
The dailies made a curious mistake in
recording the death of “Lord Gladstone, the
first Governor-General of South Africa.”
That member of the family—he forced on the
Peter Wright libel case nine years ago when the
latter was expelled from the Bath Club following
a book which contained aspersions on the Grand
Old Man—died in 1930. The Gladstone just
dead was the first baron, the last surviving
son of the statesman, and he carried on the
business tradition of his grandfather in Liver-
pool. He kept out of politics, though for a
brief term he was private secretary to his
father. In the ’seventies and ’eighties he spent
15 years in Asia, and was an authority on
Indian finance and currency and a director
of the P. and O. and other big companies.
He was 83 when he died —six years younger
than his father—but he leaves no heir to the
barony, which he received in 1932. A curious
fact known to few is that until the G.O.M.
entered politics the name of the family was
spelt with an “s” on the end —Gladstones.
Alexander Mackenzie, leader of the
revival of British music in the ’eighties,
who is dead at 87, had many relatives in
Australia. His brother was the leading
medico in Mt. Morgan (Q.) during the
boom days of 30 years ago, and a
nephew, afterwards manager of Ayrshire
Downs, was wounded with the 12th
Machine Gun Company, A.1.F., in which
he served as a private.
J. P. McKinney, whose “Over the Top”
won first prize in the war-novel competi-
tion conducted by the Vic. branch of
the R. S. and S. League, is a Bulletin
contributor who lives at Surfers’ Para-
dise (Q.). McKinney was born at
Numurkah (Vic.), and is in his early
forties. Educated at Melbourne Scotch,
he joined the Port Melbourne “Standard”
as a youth, but ill-health sent him out-
back. In turn he was a miner at Broken
Hill, an opal-gouger at White Cliffs
(N.S.W.), a boundary-rider, a bullocky
and a horse-breaker in various States,
He served with the Bth Light Horse in
Egypt, and was attached to the Cyclists’
Corps in France, first as corporal, then
as company sergeant-major. Upon his
return to Australia he took up mixed
farming in the Kingaroy (Q.) district.
Nerve trouble, the result of shellshock,
compelled him to give up farming. J. F.
Archibald was his second cousin.
“H.T.’s” analysis:
Violent changes of secretaries may be
nothing new in the life of W. M. Hughes (B.
1/5/’35), but at least the prospective door-
mat knows what lies before him. I nearly
became secretary to the human volcano when
he was a private member in the throes of
producing a volume about the advantages of
the British Empire. I faced him across a
table in Bligh-street, and he opened cryptically
about someone who was a “temperamental
person” wanting a secretary. I had a job,
so it was suggested I might apply for a week’s
leave and have a “try-out” for a week with
the temperamental one. At the second inter-
view the truth came out. “Suppose you try it
for a week,” said Billy, “and see how we get
on?” But it struck me as too complicated,
and I let the chance go. W.M.H. is like scores
of war-time O.Cs. Amiable enough by
nature, but spoiled as a social being by power.
Adjutants can’t resign; secretaries can.
“Ralph Connor,” the novelist, who
arrived in Sydney to begin a lecture tour
of Australia last week, is a Scotchby-
terian missionary who began writing
40 years ago because his church in
Canada (Ontario) was broke. The
Rev. Charles Gordon, D.D., is his
name. He wrote his church out of
debt, and went on to become a best-
seller. The Sky Pilot has been read
by adults all over the Empire, and
every Scotch-Canadian schoolboy
knows his Glengarry School Days.
“Mime”: Knight Alexander Herdman
has decided to leave the M.L. Bench ahead
of the retiring age ; he is 66. As a poli-
tician Herdman made the anti-shouting
law his particular care, but it was easily
circumvented, and had to be withdrawn.
A Sydney actor tells how at Wellington
he adjourned to the Empire Hotel with
three friends. Pints had been snnolied
when a policeman pounced. “You’ve
nothing on me,” said the actor. “Those
four pints are for myself.” “I’ll stand
here while you drink them,” said the
John Hop grimly. The actor says the
fourth pint was the worst.
“Sydneysider” protests:
The N. S. Wales list of Jubilee Medallists
provided about the weirdest example of official
imbecility in the history of the State. Scores
of ex-civil servants, male and female, including
ex-police officers, ex-firemen, etc., got medals;
P. V. Storkey and Blair Wark, V.Cs. both, and
a Crown Prosecutor and prominent quantity
surveyor and N.R.M.A. director respectively,
didn’t. Scores of obscure ex-
Ms.L.A. and Ms.L.C. were
recognised; Henry Willis,
who made N. S. Wales
history as Speaker in the
first Holman Government,
was ignored. Dozens of
aged Federal politicians
whom most people thought
dead, were remembered;
J. C. Watson, an ex-Prime
Minister, who did more
than any one politician to
give Australia the C.M.F.
and R.A.N., and who is
now president of the
N.R.MA., was forgotten.
Practically every well-
known artist was issued
with a medal except Syd-
ney Ure Smith, president
of the Society of Artists,
and James MacDonald,
Director of the National
Gallery. Several solicitors
were decorated as such;
no Allens (Allen, Allen
and Hcmsley) were. One
Goddard, a suburban
mayor, landed a medal;
H. A. Goddard, who com-
manded a battalion on the
Peninsula and a brigade in
France (C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
C. de G., etc.), and who
represents London “Times”
in Sydney, didn’t. Some
graziers were honored, but
no Osbornes or Falkiners;
and Mrs. R. Dangar was
the only member of her
family not overlooked. Yet
the owner of Peter Pan
has done more for charity
than half the “charity
workers” who figure in
N. S. Wales’s preposterous
Jubilee list. Commercial
magnates received nearly
as many awards as shire
councillors, but P- H.
Goldfinch, general man-
ager of the C.S.R. since
1928, was passed by, and no member of the
Knox family figures among the 2300, though
E.R. is chairman of the "reat concern.
Harry F. Rowe, dead in Gawler (S.A.)
at 71, spent his working life building
locomotives and mining machinery. He
was under Martin’s in the boom times of
last century; moved to Maryborough
(Q.) under Walker’s ; returned to Gawler
and Dutton, and finished under Perry.
Dr. Charles Duguid (the title is medi-
cal), the first lay member of the Presby-
terian Church to become Moderator in
South Australia, is an ex-Digger. He is
Author of “The Sky Pilot.”
leading a movement now to start a mis-
s j on on same ji nes as that of the
A I m < —medical in objective—to look
after the north of South Australia. The
headquarters of the.station is to be 200
Oodnadatta
miles trom (JOdnadatta.
“L.T.”: The descendants of young
tv* killed in Smith Africa in a
Lord Hyde, killed in South Air
shooting accident, will be well provided
. ... . , j t ear ldom
for. His heir will indent me eanuoi
“Veil, did you ged a jubilee medal, Cohen?"
“No, my Doy; but I eggspect to ged lods before de
end of de mont'."
of Clarendon and a considerable part of
the Villiers and Hyde money, together
with one of the finest collections of
Old Masters owned privately in Eng-
land and an estate which includes the
ruined Kenilworth Castle. If that source
fails he still will have some of his
mother’s money to fall back on. She
is a daughter of the fourth Baron Wol-
verton, one of the banking Glyns. Any-
how, no head of the Clarendon family,
either Hyde or Villiers, has lacked a
job since early Stuart days; they form
one of the most enduring races of diplo-
matists and proconsuls yet bred in
England.
Eric Clegg, who was called to the N. S.
Wales Bar last week, is a son of Thomas
Bailey Clegg, barrister and novelist.
Eric, who is in his early thirties, was
born at Mosman (Sydney), and is now
an alderman of that suburb. He served
his articles with the late A. C. Gill, and
has practised as a solicitor for 12 years
with Gill, Oxlade and Clegg. His father,
a Ballarat native, who is in his 77th year,
was called to the English Bar in 1891,
and has been a P.M. and on the staff
of the “S. M. Herald,” the “Echo” —
which he edited for a period —and The
Bulletin.
“Uramao”: M.L. will have a repre-
sentative in the 1936 attempt on Mt.
Everest. L. V. Bryant, formerly a master
at Waitaki High School, Oamaru, and
now of Matangi, Waikato, left the other
day for Darjeeling, which he will leave
with his fellow-adventurers to undergo
acclimatisation and engage in reconnais-
sance work preparatory to the big effort.
The London Alpine Club recognised
Bryant’s mountaineering in M.L. and
latterly in Switzerland by making him a
member.


I
'
- ■
111111
m
3 •
m
k
wmmmmmMß
i
A
M
' ___ :
:
>■ -
- 4$ | /I
■ .
mm
. ix
■»
II
iiplliiiiiiliiiiiili
.
..
■
they will
tell you ,
7/z
discriminating
people
e•• • ®
• # •
part
of their life is
Countni
Life *
Cigarette
100% PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
Tins of 14-1/-; 21-1/6
■■■ ■■
mm
Also Flat 50’s and
Round Airtight 50’s,
100’s, etc.
m
BBS
:fc :
m
■
: :
mm
■ill
i ■
■
w**
I
H
■
mm
i
o|kV
cv
:
7740-5*5


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Kcdy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p in.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably
only give as much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), if appointed as your Executor, Trustee or
Agent, will attend to the affairs of your Estate all the time
—your friend can probably only attend to part of them
for part of the time.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Donglass, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion. Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
*05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ) ' 7
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 ) 800,1,4 ‘
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
'15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 K,,, ni(!
Provision for taxation, £237,635 J ’
'31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 1 . R 77 , fiR
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1925.-1,397,888 227,059 362,824 ) 7Q7 IQ .
Written off, £lO,Bll ) '
1930. 717,377 490,8801
Written off, £64,047 \ 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931. . 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 1
To con’t’cy fund, etc., £164,477 ) 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635 J
1932.. 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) 7fio IHO
Written off, £3461 .. .. J /b8 ’ 18! '
1933. . 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 )
Written off. £7359 .. .. 1 8iu ’ 490
1934. . 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 ) Ql7 or .
Written off, £5051 .. .. J 9J '’ Bol
Owing to the wide range of needs it
covers and the security and returns it
offers, a life policy in a sound regular-
bonus-payirig office has long been a
necessity for most people, and now the
cheapening of money has further added
tb the attractiveness of these contracts
as investments.
The latest figures of the A.M.P., Aus-
tralia’s biggest life office, disclose a
vigorous expansion of the business, to-
gether with a sound financial structure
and satisfactory margins in those matters
upon which profits, and therefore bonuses,
depend. In the two departments com-
bined, the business in force (£279,001,012,
including bonuses) was £9,487,547 more
than at the previous balance. The net
amount of new business written
(£17,961,484) increased by £2,345,395.
The growth in total income (£12,024,741)
was £531,100, of which net premiums,
etc. (£7,771,468), accounted for £459,621
and interest, etc. (£4,253,273), for the
balance. The amount added to the Assur-
ance funds was £4,209,106 (£868,721 more
than in the previous year), raising them to
£93,807,602. In addition there is
£2,368,106 (up £1959) set aside for con-
tingencies and taxation.
After strengthening the basis of valua-
tion in the Ordinary department at an
extra cost of £BO,OOO, and providing for
interim bonuses, etc., £2,962,721 (up
£119,623) was distributed in bonuses
among policy-holders:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934. . 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
In the Ordinary branch the amount dis-
tributed was 47 p.c. of the premiums on
participating policies as against 46.8 p.c.
and 45.8 p : c. in the two preceding years.
On whole-of-life policies the reversionary
additions ranged from 425. p.c. to 82s.
p.c. In the Industrial section, bonuses
were at the uniform rate of 355. 6d. p.c.
Bonuses depend mainly upon surplus
interest, the cost of conducting the busi-
ness and the mortality experience. The
office assumes that its funds will turn in
a uniform 3 p.c. After deducting taxes
(£287,963, down £455,894), the net return
on the mean Life fund was 4.3 p.c. and
4.2 p.c. in the Ordinary and Industrial
departments as against 3.9 p.c. and 3.9
' p.c. respectively in 1933. Excluding
taxes, exes, took 13 p.c. of the Ordinary
and 27.2 p.c. of the Industrial premiums,
whereas the amount allowed by the
Actuary was 18.7 p.c. and 26.6 p.c. re-
spectively. The mortality experience was
only 53 p.c. of what was provided for
when the premiums were figured. It is
obvious, therefore, that handsome
bonuses are assured.
The £97,352,519 of assets (up
£4,278,711) is invested as follows:
1933. p.c. 1934. p.c.
Public securities. £51,639,984 55.5 £55,044,719 56.5
Mortgages . . 20,822,377 22.4 21,742,196 22.3
Loans on policies 16,034,259 17.3 16,135,307 16.0
Premises.. .. 1,639,280 1.7 1,718.767 1.8
Other assets .. 2,937,907 3.1 2,711,530 2.8
The increase in Government securities
was £3,404,735, mortgages £919,819, loans
on policies £101,048 and premises
£79,487. Other assets, mainly cash and
accrued interest, were drawn upon for
£226,377.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924 . . 115,823 10 p.c. = 87,500 28,323 778,024
1925 .. 117,217 10 „ „ 87,500 29,717 807,741
1920 . . 104,733 10 „ „ 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927 . . 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928.- 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 .. 145,410 10 ~,, 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930.. 138,108 9 „ „ 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931 .. 91,813 7 „ „ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 . . 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933 .. 53,727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934.. 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 „ „ 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
Although the soundness of the banks
has been one of the pillars of our
strength, the disclosed earnings of these
institutions have exhibited a stubborn-
ness overcome by most other traders.
Briefly, that is because returns from ad-
vances, exchange, Consols, Treasury
bills, call money, etc., have contracted
faster than the cost of deposits and
overhead, including the allowance for
bad and doubtful debts. The call in
this respect is still loud, due largely to
the position in the wheat industry ; £25,000
was whisked away to inner reserves
during the last term. Also, when the
books closed, the Adelaide was holding
only £2 18s. of outside money for every
pound of its own, and a shade over
half the liabilities to the public was in
low-interest-bearing liquids. It is a very
strong position, but it means small
earning power.
The improvement in conditions gen-
erally in S. Aus., where most of the
bank’s business is done, was better than
the growth of £704 in declared net earn-
ings suggests. There was enough to
show only 2.4 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
or 4.4 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of capital
alone as against 4.3, 4.2, 5.3, 7.3, 11 and
11.6 p.c. back to 1929. The div. was
kept at 4 p.c.
In the market the £lO shares paid to
£5 (the other £5 is a contingent liability
callable only in the event of liquidation)
are fairly steady around £6. The return
at £6 is 3.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis ;
so the investor who looks for a shade
over 4 p.c. on his money counts on a
5 p.c. div., which would call for only
£7299 more profit than was claimed last
year. The cover is visibly £9 2s. 4d. in
net tangibles. The Federal Government’s
proposal to appoint a committee to in-
quire into the Australian monetary sys-
tem and banking is another factor that
has tended to weaken the support for
bank scrip in the market.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows;
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Notes.. £0,713 £6,603 £6,597 £6,592
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 338,753 242,734
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 6,197,488 6,372,594
Liquid
assets.. 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,441,772 3,320,280
Advances 5,949,107 5,108,010 5,075,518 5,252,802
Premises,
etc. . . 347,434 343,117 349,344 352,837
The most encouraging movements there
are a growth of £177,284 in advances
(that was after providing for contingen-
cies) and a net reduction of £121,492 in
liquids—call money and Treasury bills
(now £595,700) were down £119,300.
Deposits, of which over 66 p.c. was in-
terest-bearing during the December
quarter, were up £175,106.
Burns, Philo and Co., Lid.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 182,357 10 p.c.= 125,000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ „ 125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,688 10 „ ~ 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10 ~ ~ 137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~ 150,000 94,381 1,221,504
i 930. . 247,946 10 „ ~ 150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ ~ 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~ 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 ~ ~ 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
The foundations of this big shipping
and merchandising organisation were
laid by the far-sighted James Burns in
the sixties of last century. The business,
which extends round the Australian
coast, out over the Pacific and north to
Java, Singapore, Manila, Hong Kong
and elsewhere, keeps on expanding; and
for the last 16 years a steady 10 p.c. div.
has been paid with comfortable margins.
For the five years to the end of March
last, net earnings averaged 14.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 16.1 p.c. for
the preceding quinquennium. Since 1920
£1,758,000 has been openly struck off
depreciation, bad debts, etc., and
£2,589,134 net has been added to the
book value of fixed assets, etc. The last-
mentioned etcetera consists of an un-
specified amount of investments, which
include 8.-P. South Seas, Queensland
Insurance, A.U.S.N. Co., Solomon
Islands Development, Choiseul and
Shortland Islands Plantations and Jantzen
(Aust.), Ltd.
During the last term the parent’s ship-
ping interests were “satisfactorily main-
tained,” and there was a “substantial
increase” in merchandising sales, not-
withstanding the low price of copra,
which affected the co.’s New Guinea and
other island trade. - Gross earnings
(£792,841) were £57,254 better. Man-
agement charges (£459,840) took £32,053
of the increase, an extra £17,452 was set
aside for depreciation, etc. (£121,995), and
the net unexplained addition to reserves
was £18,375 less at £1356. The net
result was thus £10,626 lighter at 14.1
p.c. on capital, and the div. was kept
at 10 p.c. Of the £62,362 that remained,
£25,000 (making £75,000 over the last
three years) was struck off the book value
of plantations.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1915. 1925. 1934. 1935.
£££>£,
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 261,095 1,361,444 1,511,492 1,726,912
Properties,
shipping, in-
vestments,
etc. . . 575,790 2,030,836 3,060,819 3,215,211
Stocks, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 707,867 715,427
Book debts 382,624 781,838 739,261 788,286
Cash . . 47.018 123,955 123,047 164,853
Two new ships were commissioned—one
in the New Guinea-Hong Kong and the
other in the Java-Singapore trade—and
£154,392 net was added to the book value
of fixed assets and investments. To do
this, carry an extra £7560 of stocks,
£49,025 more book debts and increase
the cash holding by £41,806, liabilities
were increased by £215,420.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the
pound shares at 625. 6d. (they were never
higher) as against 575. a year ago. Allow-
ing for the final div, (Is.), the return at
the higher figure is 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
approximately A\ p.c. on his money
counts on a 13 p.c. div., or, what seems
more likely, a one-for-three gift issue
and maintenance of a 10 p.c. div. Only
twice during the last decade has the co.
netted less than £200,000.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
r Dividends Towards
Dec., Profit. Pref. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1927.. 16,717 16,717 Nil' 4,649
1928.. 13,815 27,557 Nil 18,391
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 | no-
-1930.. 15,887 28,000 Nil ) i4 ’ uy<
Overprovision for taxation, £2692.. 9,405
Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 ) , r , q o
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil 15,590 J 10 ’
Written off parent’s debt, £9308.. 6,185
Overprovision for taxation, £1741.. 7,926
1932.. 3,845 Nil Nil 3,845 11,771
5 p.c.
1933.. 15,964 17,500 Nil 10,235
1934.. 16,053 17,500 Nil 8,788
Like others of the Union group, this one
is overcapitalised. Just before the boom
burst it built the elaborate State Theatre
and a shopping block of 11 floors on
the old “Evening News” site in Market-
street, Sydney. The land, together with
an adjoining property fronting George -
street, was taken over from the old
Union co. (in liq.) for £273,500 (cost) —
£128,500 in ords., and transfer of a mort-
gage covered the balance. The building,
equipment, etc., originally estimated to
cost £397,000, ran off with over £729,000.
Union, which took half a million ords.
altogether, put up the extra money, which
in turn was found mostly by share-
holders in the holding cos. —Amalga-
mated, Spencers, Wests and Greater J. D.
Williams. The public directly subscribed
£350,000 in 8 p.c. cum. prefs., largely
on the strength of a guarantee as to
capital and divs. by Union and Austra-
lasian Films.
Before the co. could get into its stride
the guarantors, who had to find £22,537
to cover pref. divs. for the two years to
the close of accounts in 1930, went into
liquidation. This wiped out the guaran-
tee, and the prefs. were passed by for the
two years to the end of 1932. The out-
look changed when General Theatres
Gorp. (it amalgamated the city houses of
U.T. and Hoyts) took a five-year lease
of the theatre at £3.1,200 p.a., and the
pref. div. was lowered from 8 p.c. to 5
p.c., with the right to advance with the
ords, after the latter have had 1 p.c.
Last year all available space, includ-
ing a new milk-bar on the ground floor,
was let. Still, reserves had to be tapped
for £1447 to pay the reduced pref. div.
No mention is made of any allowance
for renovations and repairs. The figures
suggest that £ll4B more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets.
The new coffee lounge and ballroom
in the basement, to be opened this month,
should help earnings a little. But the
market, which does not think the par-
ticipating rights are likely to be worth
much, prices the scrip at 17s. 6d. The
return at that figure is 5.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The book value of the net
tangible cover is 495.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1927. 1933. 1934.
Pref. capital .. .. £245,425 £350,000'£350,000
Ord. capital , . . . 128,500 500,000 500,000
Mortgages . . . . 145,000 146,909 145,876
Sundry creditors . . 87,333. 21,404 11,208
Land and buildings . . 328,296 1,002,894 1,001,746
Book debts, cash, etc. 283,058 24,654 22,876
The floating debt is well covered. To
clip £10,196 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, book debts and cash
were reduced by £ll7B ; the year’s earn-
ings provided the balance.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


On 'Polling Dan ntnum6eb ifua. .
a LEOPARD
cannot change his spots!
\
//
>4
:#f'|
A comparison of what Mr. Lang said in his
policy speech in 1930 and what he did after-
wards forms a dismal catalogue of false
promises and broken pledges, and indi-
cates the absolute futility of accepting any
policy undertakings made by him.
LANG promised BUT this
this before .... what he did .
LISTEN IN EACH NIGHT AT
7.15 P.M.
Every night at 7.15 p.m. (except Sundays),
the Premier, the Hon. B. S. B. Stevens, talks
lor five minutes through the following
stations:—
2GB, 2UE, 2UW, 2CH, 2SM
2GN (Goulburn), 2HD (Newcastle),
2WL (Wollongong), 2KO (Newcastle).
VOTING IS COMPULSORY
"The Australian Labor movement would not permit
any of its leaders to be associated with a policy of
repudiation." t
"The pledge to the people from a Labor man is as
binding as his pledges to a bondholder."
**A vigorous policy of road construction will absorb
many thousands of our unemployed."
"The Labor Government will find the money to com-
plete all those incompleted public works in which
many millions of borrowed money are lying idle."
"Labor Party will view the Unemployment Relief
Act and also the incidence of the tax imposed by it."
"Return Labor and restore the State to the prosperity
of 1925 and 1927. We promised, and we paid, 7/6 a
bushel for wheat. What we did then we can do
now."
"The railways and tramways can be made pros-
perous, and a Labor Government, if returned to
power, will take the necessary steps to rehabilitate
the finances of these undertakings."
"If returned, a Labor Government will restore the
widows' pensions and the family endowment."
"By abolishing the Legislative Council we will dis-
pense with the services of 93 members of that
chamber."
Public Service Salaries: "We will remove the legisla-
tion by which salaries were reduced."
He embraced Repudiation and defaulted in State
payments and services, including obligations to the
Government Savings Bank.
His pledges to the people and to the bondholder were
dishonoured. He defaulted in widows' pensions,
family endowment. Public Service Salaries and other
payments.
Thousands more unemployed commenced to walk the
roads soon after the advent of the Socialist Govern-
ment and had to keep on walking.
He reached a deficit of over £23,000,000 in the State s
accounts and made it impossible for the State to raise
credit either overseas or in Australia while he re-
mained in power.
He increased the tax from 3d. to 1/- in the £ and in-
creased the unemployed army to over 200,000.
Instead of 7/6 a bushel, the farmer received less than
2/- for his wheat, and his markets were damaged by
the Repudiation policy of Mr, Lang.
The State railways losses in his last financial year
totalled 4| million. The omnibus industry was
smashed and 5-000 men thrown out of work.
Payments to widows and mothers were deliberately
stopped by Mr. Lang during April. 1932.
The Government increased the membership of the
Legislative Council by 25 members, appointed by the
Governor.
The Public Servants' salaries were still further re
duced by as much as 32£ per cent.
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIELD, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


Mi
immKßh. ■
H
l -£a 'ifiSis ■
m
kiZM^n
PM
:/*
USKII S
\w.
1,1
bn£
Sv oney & me*-®® 0
.. rwt< i»c*»
mm
■-...
&
mm
sVSilhi.,,.
GIVE YOUR DRINK A SPARKLE
*.. The serving of
Schweppes Table
Waters exclusively
is a sure sign of
the standing of any
hotel or restaurant.
for c
6*
DRY
GINGER ALE
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl,
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS Oi di gilver and Copper> « BSA> , br and of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphiue, Plastic, Babbit and otner
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.: —
Smelting Works and Refineries; PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W .
Svdney Office: 23 O’Connell Street „ Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Fort Kemblm
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current
ulus exchange and wiU settle in full within seven oays of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Re-
Dec., Profit Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
21,856
1925.. 2239 Nil 2239 19,617
1926.. 6309 Nil 6309 13,308
Pref. 8 p.c. Ord.
1927.. 7405 5286 8 p.c. = 4600 15,789
Reserves disclosed, £948 .. .. 14,841
1928.. 9658 1344 8 p.c. = 4600 3714 11,127
1929.. 6972 1343 8 „ „ 4600 1029 10,098
Loss.
1930.. 332 Nil 10,430
1931.. 728 Nil 11,158
Written off, £2OOO . , . . . . 13,158
1932.. 5695 Nil 18,853
1933.. 2116 Nil 20,969
1934.. 689 Nil 21,658
At the start —the co. took over Luke
Muras’s structural steel and engineering
business in 1923—a rush of foreign im-
ports, followed by falling prices and
mounting costs, spoiled financial results,
and it was not until the tariff brought the
co. a little relief that shareholders got
into the picture. Then slump brought
a fresh crop of troubles, and both prefs.
and ords. have gone without for the
last five years, for each of which the co.
has balanced on the wrong side.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business it is difficult to say. Much
depends upon the extent to which the
chief earning asset, the plant, can be
kept employed. Last year it worked to
about one-fourth capacity. After allow-
ing for depreciation on plant and stocks,
the loss on the year’s operations was
£689.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances:
1929. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. £74,292 £74,292 £74,292 £74,292
Overdraft ~ .. 18,591 18,321 15,810 15,382
Creditors .. .. 12,814 2,046 4,596 7,567
Freehold and build-
ings .. . . 25,516 25,109 25,004 24,845
Plant .. . . 21,757 17,051 16,258 15,209
Furniture .. .. 726 676 667 633
Debtors ” } 60,044 j W 31,659 34,623
Gash, etc... .. 231 141 273
To carry an extra £2964 of stocks and
debtors’ balances, the co. leant upon
sundry. creditors for a further £2971.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£12,580) was £519, thanks
to the allowance for depreciation.
The fully-paid £1 prefs., in which the
public is interested, have not an active
market. There are 16,792 of them in a
paid capital of £74,292; they carry a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c. less statutory cut
(22y p.c.), calling for £lO4l p.a. The
net tangible cover is 625. Bd., of which
14s. lid. is surplus liquids and the
balance fixed assets, worth what they can
earn.
Primary Producers’ Bank (in llq.)
Considering the obstacles with which
moratorium legislation and other diffi-
culties have littered the path, the liqui-
dators, who took control in Sept., 1931,
have done good work. Last year they
gathered £156,486, and distributed
£143,812 of it (2s. 6d. in the £) to credi-
tors, who have thus received payments
totalling 16s. 3d. in the pound. The posi-
tion at Sept. 30 last compares with that
four years earlier as follows:—•
Liabilities,
Creditors:— 28/9/’3l. 28/9/’34.
Secured (mtgo.). . .. £40,000 •
Preferential .. .. 153,515 £4,990
Ordinary . . . . 1,205,105 227,520
Total £1,358,620t £232,519
Assets.
Debtors; —-
Other banks . . . . £154,818 £1,351
Customers, etc. . . . . 1,423,301 575,995
Cash, Consols, etc. . . 130,341 140
Equipment . . .. 19,261 4,282
Premises .. .. 83,169 37,182
£1,810,890 £618,950
Less Reserve .. .. 78,594 78,594
Book value assets.. ..£1,732,296* £540,356*
*Subjeot to realisation and costs of liquidation.
tExcluding mortgage.
The apparent surplus of the book value
of assets over liabilities has shrunk by
£65,839, of which £35,044 was due to
loss on sale of the co.’s Sydney
premises; bad debts, etc., account for
the balance.
Although there is still an apparent
surplus of £307,837, it is doubtful
whether shareholders are likely to rescue
much, if anything, from the wreck.
That is because many of the remaining
assets are “frozen,” and their liquida-
tion in the ordinary way promises to be
a lengthy process. To avoid the possi-
bility of a call later on, shareholders
have decided to sell remaining assets as
soon as possible, provided the amount
realised covers total liabilities to creditors
plus the liquidators’ exes.
Film Players Corp., Ltd.
The Film Quota Act in N. S. Wales
has given local motion-picture producers
new opportunities. Chief of these is the
compulsory screening in N. S. Wales of
Australian-made pictures equal to 5 p.c.
of the total films shown for the first year,
and increasing by 2\ p.c. until a maxi-
mum of 15 p.c. is reached. This means
production of about 19 Australian-made
films in the first year. Provided a local
film is passed by the Quota Board, its
release by the British authorities follows
automatically, thus widening the market.
Film Players Corp. has been formed in
Sydney for the purpose of winning its
share of the quota. Nominal capital is
£50,000 in 10s. shares, of which 60,000
are offered; the vendor and promoters
take 5000 paids for rights and services,
and the other 35,000 shares are in pickle.
The idea is to produce feature films and
shorts according to demand. The co.’s
first picture is to be “The Bells,” a
former stage success, adapted to the
screen as a silent in Belgium by Harry
Southwell in 1925. He is now the co.’s
director of productions; his last Aus-
tralian effort was “When the Kellys
Rode.” The estimated cost of the pro-
duction is £5OOO, and, subject to the film
being passed by the Quota Board,
arrangements have been made for its
release here and in Britain. The inten-
tion is to hire studios, leaving the whole
of the cash-paid capital available to meet
preliminary exes, and production costs.
If the co. succeeds, it will, of course.
need to build its own studios, and more
money will be required.
The co. has yet to prove itself; its
success or otherwise will depend upon
whether its pictures satisfy the public
taste, and whether they can be turned
out at the right cost. A lot therefore
rests upon technical direction. All that
can be said definitely at the moment is
that opportunity knocks at the industry’s
local door, and that some Australian-
made pictures have yielded handsome
returns.
On the board are John Butters, W. J.
Bradley, G. H. Rayner, H. R. Diamond
and D. M. Evans.
Oroville, London, has asked Misima
Gold Reefs, over whose Misima Island
(New Guinea) property it holds an
option, to agree to the underwriting in
Melbourne of a co. with a capital of not
less than £lOO,OOO to work the deposit.
The vendor gets £4OOO cash plus £lO,OOO
in fully-paids. In conjunction with
Placer Development, Oroville is also in-
terested in two properties in Colombia,
S. America, and together with New Con-
solidated Goldfields, Camp Bird and Mt.
Elliott it recently formed three cos. to
work long stretches of the Avoca deep
leads, Vic.
*
Equatorial Gold Exploration, a Mel-
bourne-controlled prospecting concern,
has taken an option over a sulphur
deposit on Lolobau Island, Mandated
Territory. The area includes the crater
of an extinct volcano, 3000 ft. up and
within two miles of a deep-water anchor-
age. Samples assayed 97.4 p.c. pure
sulphur; there was no silenium, and
only a trace of arsenic. Australian con-
sumption of sulphur is approximately
70,000 tons p.a. The stuff is worth about
£5 ss. a ton. The co, also has a six
months’ option over about eight miles of
sluicing ground on the banks of the
Ramu River, New Guinea. Here it is
estimated there are about 7,000,000 c.y,
of wash, portion of which yielded dish
values from ss. to 30s. a yard, with gold
at £6 10s. an ounce. The area calls for
thorough and systematic testing before
it is offered.
* * * $
Sukulaki Gold Development is an-
other prospecting concern launched in
Melbourne to hunt for gold in Fiji,
Nominal capital is £30,000 in £lO shares,
of which 2000, to be paid to £2 each on
allotment, are offered. The idea is to test
a 494-acre lease, about two miles east
of the Emperor, on the Tavua field.
Loaming has disclosed payable values
on a small portion of the ground, and
one trench has cut the cap of a reef
showing 13dwt. stone. On the board are
W. H. Smith, H. C. Tucker and R. B.
Randell.
* Hi * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) continues to get good
results from the treatment of over-
burden, which is outside the limits of
measured ore reserves and about which
it says little in its reports. There are in-
dications, too, that the co. is preparing
to handle a larger tonnage.
* ♦ *
From the two main reefs of Lawrence
and Stack Bros.’ Hidden Star, about
eight miles out of Rockhampton (Q.), 65
tons averaged 34dwt. of gold. Five feet
is the greatest width yet exposed, and
the mean is less than half that. Indica-
tions are that 400 tons, averaging 35dwt.,
is available. Prospects of a substantial
increase in ore reserves are not encour-
aging.
* * * *
Further examination of the Batlow
field (N.S.W.) by E. J. Kenny, one of
the Government geologists, shows that,
apart from alluvial ground and that por-
tion being investigated by White Hope
Consols, the deposit offers no prospect
of profitable development. Of 26 samples
taken from Walsh’s Dyke, 24 showed
only traces, and the dyke does not per-
sist either to the north or to the south
of the opencut. At White Hope Consols
prospects justify systematic exploration
of the extent and value of the formation
exposed.
To hasten the testing of some 2300
acres of alluvial in the Ringarooma dis-
trict (Tas.), Melbourne-controlled Pera
Flats Syndicate is sending a power plant
on to the ground. The job is expected
to take about three months. The best
values are anticipated at the upper end
of the leases; work has commenced at
the lower end.
* * * *
“O.B.”; Several of the new small West-
ralian goldmining ventures whose shares
have slumped, and which haven’t visible
ore reserves to speak of, are hurrying the
installation of treatment plants. In this
respect we have something to learn from
the U.S.A. There the chief aim and object
of the small mineowner is to develop his
show, and, when sufficient ore has been
exposed to make it valuable, sell out to
the Guggenheims or some other buyer of
proved gold-carrying mines. I saw
several properties disposed of in this
way in California, Utah and Colorado.
$ * *
Several personages of big tonnage in
the mining world, including J. H. Curie
and Donald McLaughlin, Professor of
Geology at Harvard University (U.S.A.),
have visited the Westralian goldfields.
Curie had nothing to say, but McLaugh-
lin told interviewers that he saw no
reason why the principal gold deposits
there should not go down to great depths,
as in Canada, where rock formations are
similar. No ore is being produced in
the West below a vertical depth of 3400 ft.
In the Kirkland Lake district, Canada,
where the ore is very like that of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, shafts have
gone down 5000 ft., with payable values
still in the bottom. It takes courage
to do things like that; also mining
and technical knowledge. Still the price
of gold and its outlook make the risk
worth while, McLaughlin says.
* * * *
North Kalguri will pay a ninepenny
div. (the best to date) on June 28. Of the
proposed 200,000 new shares of 2s.
each, 100,000 are to be issued at 10s.
(a premium of Bs.) sterling, or 12s. 6d.
in Australian currency. The new money,
or most of it, is wanted for plant
additions. Co.’s original capital was
£35,000 in 350,000 2s. shares. In April,
1928, the figure increased to £75,000 by
the issue of fully-paids for the property
and plant, together with investments
valued at £lB,OOO, of Oroya Links. It
rose to £lOO,OOO, the present figure, in
1933, when 250,000 new shares were
snapped at a premium of 3s. each. To-
gether with Boulder Perseverance, the co.
formed the Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.,
to handle the stone from both mines.
There is talk of the treatment co. switch-
ing over from the bromo-cyanide to the
flotation process ; maybe this is holding
up the crushing of bigger tonnages.
* * Ns *
A geophysical survey having disclosed
numerous shears in country to the north,
Sons of G walia has pegged 12 additional
leases in that direction, and intends to
spend a bit of money prospecting. Addi-
tions lately made to the co.’s treatment
plant are reported to “indicate full real-
isation of anticipations.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.E.R.: (1) and (2) Ye5....W.G.: (1) Im :
possible to say what the merits or demerits of
the proposal are without examination of the
supplemental trust deed and balance sheet.
These are available for inspection only to early-
marketing contract certificate-holders. (2) The
shares have no open market S.C.D.; It
safety of capital is important, leave it a10ne....
H.C.A.; Sit tight R.D.8.: During the week
preceding issue of prospectus the fully-paid
pound shares sold at 17s. 6d J.K.McD.:
If the facts are as you state them, you are
eneitled to have your name erased from the
register and your application money returned.
.J.S.W.: There is no good reason for sup-
posing that the co. will not be able to meet
claims as they fall due, but bonuses are no-
where in sight... .H.J.F.: What is the name of
the co. in which you own the shares?


m
:/^v.
r-
-5' 'fK
;:; 5^
v
m=EP
-■ •■ "V.fs, .»*
«r
11
SST
A
I
K-
a?
5?
“£l/
XT: I
iv
'{r \A?
1 V >?
•>
f)Y -
a
GLAMIS CASTLE
(Forfarshire)
'Where the grim grey towers of Glamis
Keep their watch above Strathmore.”
N what stirring events have the lofty towers of
Glamis looked down in the course of centuries. A
Scottish sovereign, mortally wounded by a traitor’s steel,
who staggers into the castle to die. Macbeth, the usurper
whose hands were later stained with the blood of his King.
A prince who fought a futile battle for his rightful home.
And - in our own time - another prince who claimed a
bride from Glamis. Ffistory is written in the vale of
Strathmore ... not many miles from the home of Dewar’s,
the whisky with a heritage that is held most precious.
D E WAR’S
"24 SCOTCH WHISKY


ABORIGINALITIES
“Notaden”: A few nights ago the boat
was curtsying to the breathing of the
Pacific’s bosom 10 miles off shore ; the
near-full moon swung high in an in-
verted sky-bowl of deepest indigo. Sud-
denly the shadows lost their clear-cut
intensity. The white foam overside ceased
to sparkle, although a quarter-mile away
the glittering diamond rivers still ran
along the breeze-stirred ripple crests.
Those who go down upon the sea in
small ships leave nothing to chance, and
seawise eyes swept the sky from
horizon to zenith. “Birds!” said the
skipper. “Look at ’em across the moon.”
Like a thin drift of cloud the flock
dimmed the silver; in the binoculars
myriads of tiny shadows fled across it,
always to the northward. It lasted for an
hour, that strange cloud of living things
making the long passage from our shores
which ends in China, Siberia or further
north still. And in our spring they will
return from the chill of a northern
autumn.
$ *l'
“Snore”: Nothing annoys a Tas-
manian more than to tell him his island
is a garden of sleep.
Confirmation of a kind
was supplied the other
day when workmen,
on their way to toil,
found a 10ft. sea-lion
fast asleep in the
middle of a street at
New Norfolk. While
the local citizens were
considering the proper
action the animal rose,
yawned and, brushing aside attempts at
interference, climbed a high paling fence
and disappeared in the river.
* ’ * * :|c
“Currumbede”: On a Gunnedah
(N.S.W.) property there is a pig with back
wheels. Though seemingly healthy and
fat, the sow somehow lost the use of her
hindquarters, and dragged herself about
in a sitting position for weeks. Then
one of the owner’s sons thought of put-
ting her on wheels. Truly a mechanical
age!
j’c Jj« ❖ $
“Kariah”; Despite lipstick, powder,
peroxide, patent-leather shoes and a
talkie-acquired American accent, the
abos. in our N.S.W. district retain one
characteristic of their ancestors. There
is not a wattle-tree within miles that
doesn’t show signs of recent search for
the much-relished white wood-grub.
“Western”: More evolution of the lan-
guage! Back in the early days of the
Golden Mile the writer, then a “shov-
eller,” was frequently urged to “bog” his
frame into a big heap of mullock or ore.
Now, 35 yetirs later, from the verb “to
bog” has descended the noun “bogger.”
Even such staid journals as the “West
Australian” use it, and about the only
place you will find “shovellers” referred
to is in an Arbitration award.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I put in a night net-fishing ;
next day I made up the arrears of sleep
in an upstairs bedroom. I awakened to
hear a hen clucking just outside the
window. Then a turkey gobbling, fol-
lowed by the carking of a seagull, the
whining and yapping of a puppy, the
whirr of a lawnmower and a squeaking
which 1 later identified as an imitation ot
a near-by kiddy’s tricycle. A pause, then
came the cricking of a sail, more fowls,
a klaxon horn and the noise of a circular
saw. I stepped out of bed and peeped
out. Upon the eave of a gable sat an old
starling, his beak pointed at the sky and
his throat feathers trembling as he gave
adife-like imitation of a rooster calling
up the hens.
;j; : ! ; *!•
“W.P.T.”: At Merimbula Lake, South
Coast (N.S.W.), I watched two kooka-
burras fishing. They sat on an overhang-
ing limb and watched the water intently,
their heads held on one side. Sud-
denly one would dive like a stone. I
watched them for half an hour ; then one
rose from the water with a fish —the only
catch —about a foot long in his beak.
Both birds flew back into the bush,
evidently to dine.
* =i= * *
“Huon”: Tasmanians are to have
another try at acclimatising the lyre-
bird, which doesn’t live in the Apple Isle,
though thick enough over the water in
Victoria. Last year a pair were taken
over the Strait in an aeroplane, but
the cock bird died soon after landing.
A couple more are to be trapped in the
Dandenongs and taken to Tassie for
liberation on a one-day journey. Con-
ditions in the Speck are ideal for the
birds, and with luck and time they should
establish themselves strongly.
* * * *
“Cooie-bird”: “Scent’s” olfactory
organs must be badly out of order if
he can’t smell a snake (B. 17/4/’35).
Snakes have an odor that is entirely their
“ Hey , never mind about his number. What about this language y're
using?”
own. A couple of tree-climbing wrigglers
got into our Queensland house, and when
Ihc trespassers were being evicted they
left such a horrible smell behind that
the room was untenable for hours after-
wards. Like the frog, a snake, when
alarmed, seems to be able to emit an
offensive odor, which is so persistent that
ir takes days to wear away when the
reptile has been in an enclosed room of
any sort. The flesh of a snake has a
fish-like smell, as well as a fish-like
appearance.
* * * *
“Pieces of Eight”: Muffled cursing
issuing from a sailor’s pocket served to
disclose in England that parrot-smuggling
has become an established industry. Since
importation was forbidden five years ago
owing to psittacosis, parrots have gone
up tremendously in price, young birds
selling at £l2 each and talkers at any-
thing up to £5O. Bristol and Swansea
are the chief ports of entry, and birds
from West Africa and the South
Americas have been coming in in large
numbers.
* * * *
“Red Dog”; A party hunting foxes
with beagles at Holdsworthy (N.S.W.)
were annoyed to find one morning
that wild dogs had eaten one of
their faithful hounds. Considering that it
is only a few miles from Liverpool,
which in its turn is close to Sydney,
there is as wild and rough coun-
try close about Holdsworthy as anyone
could wish for, as Light Horsemen
in training for the Great War were
not long in finding out. Even then
the thick scrub held numbers of tykes
gone bush which had lost or abandoned
their masters, and these were always be-
ing flushed when the horsemen took a
sweep through their country. It will
be recalled that the murderer Moxley’s
dogs went to the wilds when their master,
a timber-getter thereabout, was taken
away, and became such a pest that a
special drive had to be made to wipe
them out. Bushmen know that there
is no more cunning and dangerous beast
than the civilised dog who has reverted
to savagery, the dingo being a mere mug
beside him.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: One of the humors of
Thursday Island quarter of a century ago
was a document pasted in the window
of old John Martin, the island’s only
bootmaker. It ran:
NOTECE—Shop Orders
Ladies Shoes Will Be Repaired here If the
Ladies that is the Wearer of the Shoes
Brings them to Me And Intimates if I
will Repair her Shoes I will tell her When
her Shoes Will Be Repaired And that Will
Be the only Ladies that wilt Get the Shoes
When Repaired
Ladies Shoes Wont Be Repaired here if
they sends them to Me by their Acquaint-
ances or Servants
There Are so Many Ladies Wishes to
Buy their Shoes Elsewhare but they Like
to get their Shoes repaired Here When
they Get Some Body More Forward than
themselves to come in Here All of this
Class of Ladies Are requested to Keep
their Shoes out of My Shop
* * * *
“Curly”; I don’t know who “G.
Trotter” is, but I’m satisfied he’s a gentle-
man of learning and discernment in his
praise of the dugong as meat (B.
10/4/’35). I’ve passed up my plate for
a helping of what had been a prize steer
at the exhibition; I’ve done the same
with Maoriland choice lamb ; to both
1 prefer a young and fat dugong.
That’s beef, as distinct from mutton or
fowl, and a man brings out its flavor
with mustard. One of the main troubles
is to get a dugong in the right condi-
tion. Running native as they do, they
commence to breed when quite small
and what must be an early age. A
breeding cow isn’t good meat in any
class of animal, and a bull is a thing to
be shunned.
“P.R.”: One of “J.B.J.’s” tunny (B.
17/4/’35) wandered across to the Speck
recently and was hooked by a yachting
cobber fishing for barracouta off the
east coast. The tiddler weighed 251 b.,
and put up a battle that would have
excited Zane Grey to two chapters at
least.
“Old-timer”: “Sticky” Peters, who
lived by fishing, wood-cutting and bee-
hunting in the Ninety-Mile Bend, was
on a spree in Mjldura. One night he
entered a cafe and ordered a feed.
Before he got it, the automatic refrigera-
tor under the counter began to purr.
“Bees!” yelled “Sticky”; and he ran
nearly a mile to the punt, got himself
pulled over the river, and tried to get an
apiarist there to help capture the prize.
The apiarist refusing, “Sticky” rushed
back to his boarding-house, took a sheet
and returned to the cafe. The refrigerator
had cut out. “Blast it! ” mumbled
“Sticky”—“the swarm’s got away.” He
started on his meal, but leapt for the
counter and spread the sheet as the buzz-
ing began again. Searching, and cursing
those who interfered, he had not found
the swarm when the buzzing ceased.
“Sticky” stood up, looked suspiciously
at the cafe proprietor, said “Garn! ” and
faded into the night.
“C.H.F.”: Otago Harbor (M.L.) at
one time provided good fishing. If is
rare now to get even a bite, especially in
the upper reaches. Continual dredging
is necessary to permit vessels drawing
the maximum 22ft. (high tide) to
approach Dunedin wharves. This dredg-
ing has resulted in the depositing of a
thick sludge over the bottom of the
harbor in which the best brought-up fish
positively refuse to set up home.
:]i * * *
“N7Y”: A mob of budgerigars came
along on the aerial express. They swept
over a bank and did a swing over the
water; but while they were poising to
drop a brown clod of mud on the bank
shot out among those waiting parrots.
It took its pick ; the other scare-laden
little birds fled for the lick of their lives.
The brown sparrowhawk sank back into
his pose of immobility and became a
clod of mud again as he waited for his
next meal to come to him. It did! I
saw the ring of feathers about where he
was sitting, and the next thing that
fellow digested was a drop of lead from
a .22.
“Tripod”: Those owners of allotments
on Amity Point (Moreton Bay) are not
the only ones to find their real estate
disappearing into the bay (B. 10/4/’35).
On the south end of Stradbroke Island
land owned by a Southport man is now
under the Southport bar. Allowing for
a process which seems general enough
among the river-bars of southern Q., the
Southport bar is steadily moving north-
wards (it has shifted about 200 yards
since the ’93 flood). The owner of the
land, on which he still pays rates, is
wondering whether his descendants will
be able to claim it when it is once more
above sea-level.
* * * *
“Daydreamer”: How long can a tern
remain under water? I was out fishing
in Whitsunday Passage (N.Q.); it was
flat calm. I could see fish swimming in
the coral below. So could a tern that
was flying about overhead. He saw a
fish and dived for it. That was five days
ago, and he hasn’t come up since. Is that
a record long dive for a tern, and, if not,
what is?
* * * *
“Kotuku”: Miss Seventeen from next
door brought over half a packet of en-
velopes which she asked me to address,
in a firm masculine hand, to her. When
I inquired the reason she told me she had
quarrelled with Harry (Harry is the post-
boy), and that she was going to post one
of the envelopes each day to make him
jealous. Without fail Harry called at her
home each day for a fortnight. As
my letters have formed that habit of
arriving about an hour late again, the
dodge must have worked.
* * * *
“Little Prill”: We were listening to a
gramophone one night on a Riverina
station when the hut door burst open
and “Carl the Swede” stood on the thres-
hold. He was half-drunk, there was
blood on his cheek and a glare in his
China-blue eyes. “Ye vill der shtufling
oudt of you belt, ja!” he screamed, and
vanished into the night. We put it down
to booze—until next morning, when we
learned there had been a war on for two
days. Carl saw out the duration in a Vic-
torian concentration camp.
* * * $
“J.R.L.”: A decorative eucalypt un-
known outside its native habitat, the
Dividing Range of C.Q., is the yellowback,
or painted-bark. It grows on the poorest
soil, mostly a mixture of sand and rock,
and its brilliant yellow bark, which
causes the trunk to appear freshly
painted, makes it a mark anywhere. It
carries a fair head of foliage, making it
a valuable shade tree. Another tree of
this area worthy of a place is Bauhinia
carroni, a hardy, spreading tree with
dainty leaves and scarlet flowers, also a
valuable fodder for sheep in time of
drought. It has many relatives in South
America.
$ # $ $
“Jayaren”: It isn’t the usual habit of
the brolga to scratch a shallow nest on
the edge of water (B. 20/3/’35).
It makes a nest of mud and weeds
trampled down. The nest is generally in
a swamp, and when finished is about 6in.
above water, nearly round, and about
Min. across, with a slope from the centre
to the edge. It is nearly impossible for
the egg to roll off, as it has a very
sharp point on one end and when
pushed just rolls round and round the
middle of the nest.
THE WHEAT-SHIPS.
I saw the sun go sinking through a haze of
golden rain.
And far the ships lay off the leads, great argosies
of grain.
To beat around from Wallaroo and take the
great west wind,
With one huge barque to show the way and
three grey shapes behind;
To face the fierce Antarctic seas, the bitter cold
and snow —
Far down below the southern sky I watched
the wheat-ships go.
Oh, how I longed to go with them, and how
my heart was sore
To take the way the wheat-ships went, and stay
for evermore,
A-threshing down the westerlies and beating
round the Horn,
The decks awash knee-deep above six thousand
tons of corn;
With thirty hands to climb aloft and fill the
frowning skies
With cloud on cloud of snowy cloth until the
cordage cries!
O God Who made the argosies and all the
sea and sky,
O You Who know the eagerness and yearn-
ing in my cry;
Before I face that voyage strange upon the
unknown sea,
With ne’er a lead nor light to guide nor friend
to come with me,
Give me to take a load of wheat and thirty
valiant men
A-plunging down the western gales and round
the Horn again!
VICTORIA.
RALPH W. ADENEY.


“Streamlining may be the fashion. Miss Bunny , but it's awfully
uncomfortable !”
“De Bee”: That goanna par. (B.
3/4/’35) recalls the use we made of
goannas in the last bad drought. In lop-
ping for sheep-feed climbing the trees is
the greatest difficulty. Various methods
were adopted, but none was so success-
ful as our goanna team —two or four of
the lizards, according to weight. Soon I
was making money breaking gos. in for
neighboring graziers. Even old 17-stone
Flanigan, who hadn’t been olf the earth
for years, drove up the stringy-barks con-
fidently behind the six biggest goannas
in N.S.W. They had to be mouthed care-
fully, and driven straight up the tree in-
stead of circling round it', as is the
natural habit. They could also be taught
to stand among the branches, without
being tied up, while a tree was being
lopped. Care, of course, had to be taken
not to cut any of their tails off by a slip
of the axe ; there is nothing that looks
stupider in a team than a bob-tailed
goanna.
* H= * *
“Eureka”: Quite good pipes can be
carved out of a fungus known as “black-
fellow’s bread,” which can be dug up
almost anywhere on the far South Coast
of N.S.W. Miners about Pambula,
Wolumla and Nethercote made some fine
pipes out of it; they reckoned they were
very cool smoking. Some of these pipes
took the shape of horses’ legs, women’s
legs and heads, birds’ claws and dogs’
heads. The fungus polishes like amber
and lasts for years. When first dug up
it is soft and easily shaped with a pocket-
knife, but once exposed to the sun and
air for a few hours it becomes as hard
as a stone.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: I’m with “A.E.Y.” all
the way in his disapproval of Tom Mix
fashions amongst our stockmen (B.
3/4/’35). A few years back it was simple
enough to discriminate between shep-
herds and stockmen. The former in-
variably wore leggings and at least three
belt-pouches, and had a couple of sheep-
dogs at heel. The “ringer” out among
the “hornies” might have worn a knife-
pouch if he possessed a belt—few did —•
and his hall-mark was moleskin trousers
and elastic-side boots ; he scorned leg-
gings, referring to them as “snake-
proofs.” The advent of four-gallon hats
and loud-checked shirts has brought both
shepherds and ringers into line.
$-$ # #
“Far North”: “Murlonga” (B.
20/ 3/ ’35) says the, mainland abo. doesn’t
know his own district. Let me inform
him that the N.Q. abo. can tell what tribe
each waterhole or bit of scrub belongs
to, and the same with hunting-grounds.
“Billy” knows just who is the right
“owner” of an area, and will not burn the
grass when hunting unless the “owner”
says he may. The only killing is for
breaches of abo. law. For example, if
a man steals another man’s gin and gets
caught he is speared.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; Old Tom and I came to
a clearing in the scrub where 20 horses
had been destroyed. Tom examined the
skulls expertly. “There’s hardly one of
them killed with a single shot,” he
growled. “Three or four is the average.
Here’s one with six holes in it. It’s all due
to aiming too low. Some fool once said
you should shoot a horse in the curl in
the forehead, and everyone has since
followed his advice. The curl is below
the brain; the right place is the base
of the forelock. I shot hundreds of the
poor brutes during the Boer War and the
last scrap; I never had to use more than
one shot. I’ve seen others use eight or
nine, and then have to call in someone
else to finish the job. And it’s all due to
aiming too low.”
* * * *
“S.”: The Duke of Gloucester may be
the only living member of a royal family
who has been saluted with bursts of
dynamite (B. 15/12/’34), but the thing
happened before Gloucester’s time. In
April, 1919, King George Tubou 11., of
Tonga, died and went to his ancestors in
Bulotu. Powder for firing the Tongan
artillery was then unprocurable, yet 45
guns had to be fired, one for each year
the monarch had spent on earth.
To get over the difficulty the fore-
man of works prepared 45 sticks
of dynamite with caps and even
lengths of fuse. When the royal cata-
falque left the palace for the place of
interment these charges were fired one
minute after the other, suspended on
bamboo poles. The only damage done
was to the mantles of the lamps in the
Nukualofa Club.
* * * *
“Geoloin”: Best use made of boundary
lines I have seen was at Rosedale (Q.)
in the days when settlers were allowed
to select an agricultural homestead at
2s. 6d. an acre, with freehold in five
years. One condition of selection rigidly
enforced was continuous occupation,
which meant that a habitation of
some sort had to be erected. A
German selector and his three sons
selected four lots in one square
block. They built a four-roomed
house in the exact centre of the
block, where the boundary-lines
intersected. There was a room on
each selection, so the one house enabled
each selector to fulfil the residential con-
ditions and live together.
* * * *
“Iluka”: Phosphorescent fungi (B.
10/4/’35)? In the tropical scrubs of the
Blackall Range (Q.) I have often seen
large specimens. Luminosity is common
to numerous kinds of fungi; the light
emitted may vary from yellow and green
to bluish. It is caused by bacteria,
which multiply rapidly under warm,
moist atmospheric conditions. Photo-
bacterium phosphorescens absorbs mal-
tose and becomes luminous when sugar
is present. Micrococcus phosphorescens,
another fellow, is responsible for the
ghostly glow sometimes observed on meat
and fish. It is sometimes associated with
marine creatures. The giant pyrosoma,
measuring perhaps 4ft. long and lOin.
in diameter, presents a weirdly beautiful
appearance, completely illuminated by a
glow of pale-green light. Some flowers,
including nasturtiums, marigolds and
sunflowers, emit tiny intermittent sparks
on warm, still evenings.
;'c sj: ❖ #
“Kieta”: Tammit station is probably
on its own as regards water frontage.
Old-man Murray winds his tortuous way
through the property (32,000 acres) for
35 miles.
# * * *
“C.H.F.”: At least one M.L. resident
has much to say against the nude cult.
He was a prospector who buried himself
away in the backblocks in search of gold.
One day he baked himself a batch of
scones and placed them outside his tent
to cool off. The day was sweltering, and
while waiting he stripped and went down
to a mountain stream, likewise to cool
off. Twenty minutes later he glanced up
towards his camp-site. Smoke! He
reached camp and found that tent, swag,
clothing and all had gone up ; one miser-
able scone remained. There was nothing
else for it but to head back for the
settlement, 15 miles distant. Without a
stitch on and no footwear he suffered
fearfully.
“The 0.D.”; Feel sorry for “Brach”
in his horror-stricken condition (B.
10/4/’35), but he ought to know that
staghounds they are in Australia, and
staghounds they’ll be so long as there is
one of the long, lean, hungry, powerful
blokes with whiskers on his mouth to
run. Even if The Bulletin published
pictures of deer- and staghounds side by
side it would make no difference.
❖ ;J: 5k
“Runa”: William Wagtail is the imp of
birdland. Courage is his other charac-
teristic. I have wrenched him from
the jaws of a cat, only to find
him, after getting his second wind, again
at his favorite pastime of cat-baiting.
He’ll tackle a bird ten times his size if
his nest is in danger, and when bereft
of his missus he’ll get in and work early
and late to bring up the family on his
own. But he is never too busy to pause
and chatter impertinently when a human
admirer comes into view, and when
passing in the vicinity of his nest at
night it is no uncommon thing to hear
a few disapproving comments from
Willie.
* * * *
“M.G.”: That denial that there are
half-caste Amerindians in Argentina
(B. 17/4/’35) may be true, but it cer-
tainly is new. In the Four Horsemen of
the Apocalypse, which has been accepted
as an accurate picture of backblock
Argentine life, the mestizo is thrown in as
one of the customary furnishings. Any-
how, if the Spaniard in this republic de-
clines to mix with the Indian, he differs
greatly from all the other, Spaniards of
South and Central America. Mexico is
regarded as being Spanish in basis, but
ethnologists and local historians declare
that the Spanish blood does not amount
to 10 p.c.; the vast majority of Mexicans
—including several past Presidents of the
Republic—are 100 p.c. Indian. Because
the Mexican nearly always bears a name
like the hero of a grand opera, outsiders
assume that his forebears came from
Cordoba or Seville, whereas his ancestor
was most probably an Aztec named
Quexacapapetl, or words to that effect.
-1= ❖ * *
“Tripod”; A few days ago I helped an
old-timer down the steps of a Brisbane
bank. Blind in one eye he was, and
the sight in the other was impaired ; yet
once he had the finest eyesight in the
Queensland police force —eyesight which
enabled its owner to pick out tracks and
run them on horseback. It was
Nathaniel Irvine King, lauded through-
out Australia 40 years ago, when the
two rogue abos., the Dora-Doras, were
out. King brought them in. He caught
one near Bundaberg, and landed the
other between Mackay and Bowen, 400-
odd miles north of Bundaberg.
“Kariah”: Tom claimed to have been
in the deepest mine in the world. “What
kind of light did you use?” we asked him,
suitably impressed. “There was no need
fer lights,” he replied. “It was daytime
when I went down.”
* * *
“Lofty”; Rabaul pidgin can be either
terse or longwinded enough to be the
national language of Canberra. Reading
under the mosquito net, I was disturbed
by a discreet cough from without. To
my “Oozat?” I heard “Me, master —me
got sick.” I asked the nature of the
“sick,” and there was a short silence while
he prepared his oration. Then, “Master,
me cuttum dewhai [firewood] ’long akis
[axe] ; now akis he fightum leg belong
me; now copper [toenail] belong
finger belong leg belong me, he pain.”
(Whilst cutting firewood the axe slipped
and cut his big toenail.) Sculling my
dinghy one moonlight night the same boy
passed close to a whaleboat manned by
seven or eight “one-talk” (members of
his tribe). Instead of addressing each
by name, he conformed to the ameni-
ties with a polite “Goos-night, alageta!”
“Hullo, my men. Working ?"
“No, missus — we're celebrating the Kings jubilee."
THE CRINGING COOTS.
“I’m sick of the cringing coots who whine
that the world is out of joint,
And spend the bulk of their worthless time in
trying to work a point;
Who, instead of going and bogging in, stay
doing their dough on mokes,
Then snivel' a treat for the sympathy despised
by better blokes.
You take my tip and keep as far as you can
from that kind of man;
And I’m getting on, and I’ve seen a bit, and 1
know my marks,” said Dan.
“You meet them in ev’ry walk of life —or
crawl, it should mostly be:
I know them pat, and it isn’t much of a hear-
ing they get from me.
And though, perhaps, it’s a bit too late to give
them the guts they lack,
The kindest thing that a chap can do is keep
on knocking them back;
For maybe there’s just one here and there who
might grow into a man,
But I have my doubts, and I’m getting on, and
I’ve seen a bit,” said Dan.
“I’m not as spry as I used to be, but I still
can pay my way,
And when I can’t then I’ll take what comes —
content to call it a day.
Perhaps it shows that I’m out of date, but
that doesn’t worry me;
I’d rather be out of date than like a lot of
these coots I see.
They’re mighty clever till things go wrong, and
then they whine to a man—
No; it mightn’t be very much I know, but
I know what I know,” said Dan.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


HTS
LYS
K
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting,
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
rn «S>
£*ifcSK *
•‘ * 4
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Breeding Fat Lambs.
“Granova”: Roland McKee, the Riv-
erina sheep and wool expert, after a trip
to M.L. advocates the use by fat-lamb
breeders of high-class longwool and Cor-
riedale cross merino ewes.
He says, however, that Riverina sheep-
men should copy M.L. methods of pro-
viding fodder crops for their lambs.
Rape, kale and turnips can be grown in
favored areas in the Tumut, Harden and
Cootamundra districts. In other areas
he advises the sowing of oats and lucerne.
On well-established lucerne stands l\
bushels of early-maturing oats, drilled in
during early autumn with lewt. of super.,
will provide wonderful winter feed for
the lambs.
If feed supplies permit, allow the re-
sultant crop to grow up in the late spring.
Cut with a binder when 18in. high, it will
provide excellent hay for sheep during
dry spells.
“Upilio”: Farmers producing prime
suckers in N.S.W. get good returns. My
experience proves that dual-purpose
lambs cannot compete with those bred
for early maturity, irrespective of wool.
The best sire for successful fat-lamb
raising is a pure-bred ram of an accepted
fat-lamb English breed. On a first cross-
bred or comeback ewe he produces a
good lamb, which on right pastures
should reach export weight (341 b.) at 12
to 15 weeks old.
Good results are also got from buying
a good line of large-framed ewes
and joining them with pedigree Dorset
Horn rams. This cross gets an early-
autumn drop, marketable in early winter
when supplies are light. It may pay, cull-
ing out the roughest-haired, to keep the
ewe drop and join with pedigree Dorsets.
The lambs produced are hardy and
easily fattened on indifferent pastures.
The carcass of these threequarter-breds
is low-set and chubby and favored by
butchers. But to act successfully along
these lines pure-bred rams are essential.
A first-cross Dorset-merino ewe will also,
like the merino, mate at any time of the
year.
Improved pastures are important. It
takes time and good management to get
them, but fat lambs pay. I find lucerne
with oat crops the best staple winter feed.
Spiring and Autumn Lambing.
“Valerin”: Some western N.S.W.
stations get satisfactory results with
spring lambings. It is claimed that
autumn mating gives a higher percentage
of lambs, that losses due to dry autumn
conditions, cold snaps and flies are mini-
mised, and that generally the lambs thrive
better.
In corkscrew-grass country it hardly
seems likely the lambs could escape seed.
I should like to hear more from
M.O.L. readers who practise the method.
Crutch and Jet.
“Mahn-Raff”: My experience is that
jetting can only be carried out success-
fully (when the wool has reached three
or four months’ growth) after crutching.
I have jetted nine-months-woolled
sheep, and, using 1201 b. pressure, have
sent the mixture to the skin on those
that were rather loose-woolled ; but on
the denser types I have had to put the
pressure up to 2001 b.
Of course, this pressure used on open-
woolled sheep would break the skin.
My advice is: Jet by all means, but
not on sheep carrying more than four
months’ wool around the breech.
Sheep in the Drought.
“Walkabout”: Thousands of sheep
have been removed from Queensland’s
drought areas into the Gulf country,
where feed in places is abundant. The
move, compulsory though it be, may be
fraught with direful consequences. The
coastal areas are not adaptable for
western-bred animals.
During the 1926 drought sheep were
sent from the west to coastal country
north and south of Townsville. That
experience was more than enough for
many graziers. Rank grasses, lice and
spear grass took deadly toll.
It’s an optimistic owner who reckons
on 50 per cent, of his Gulf agistment
sheep returning to their home pastures.
Crutching Technique.
“Dead Finish”; Crutching is a job that
must be done thoroughly or left alone.
Insist that sheep be sat up and the
crutch cleaned, as in shearing operations.
This paves the way for a clean job. Next
see that the hindquarters are pulled well
over on to the offside and that the
crutcher runs his machine up to and
over the tail. Watch that enough wool
is removed from the leg; it is here-
abouts that ideal conditions for a strike
are set up. If this is neglected the job
will only be half done.
The sheep is next slewed on to the
other side, and the operator picks up
again from where he left off at the tail,
running out on the leg.
Watch again that enough depth of
wool is removed on this leg.
The sheep now is in a natural position
to go out the chute without any undue
handling. The wool adhering to the un-
shorn part of the fleece must be pulled
off by hand before letting go. At least
a comb’s width should be removed from
above the tail.
A slipshod method which some fast
crutchers will adopt if not checked is
“back-scuttling.” The operators neglect
to sit the sheep up first, turn the jumbuck
on to its side and after cleaning the leg
give a blow inside the opposite leg as it
lies turned up to them, treating the
other side similarly when turned over.
This style leaves a fringe of “danglers”
in the crutch, and nothing looks worse
when counting out.
Breaks for Marking.
“S.G.”: Where yards in each paddock
aren’t practicable (B. 3/4/’35), a tem-
porary break is a good substitute. Wire-
netting tied to iron standards makes a
good one. It takes little time to erect in
a corner or on a fence. In S. America
the break system is used extensively.
A break is of special value for lamb-
marking, as it can be erected in a fresh
spot each year, thus minimising the
blood-poisoning risks. The lambs, be-
sides being saved the journey to the yards
proper, are on familiar ground.
A break is also useful (B. 27/3/’35) at
mating time. By working the rams quietly
towards the break in the late afternoon
and yarding them at sundown good re-
suits are usually assured. Even a short,
quick journey will disturb rams.
The Cage Dip.
“Cockyson”: How about the cage
dip for sheep? Settlers on the Queens-
land coast used the type freely till 20
years ago, handling up to ICO head of
cattle at a dipping.
The pit to hold the wash may be either
square or oblong, and 4ft. would be quite
deep enough for sheep. The platform
on which the animals to be dipped are
stood is lowered and raised by windlass,
perpendicular or horizontal, and there is
no danger of injuring a beast. Cattle
and horses are dipped singly, but with
young stock or sheep as many animals
could be treated as the platform would
accommodate. A 6ft. x 6ft. or a 6ft. x
Bft. platform would permit more than
half a dozen sheep to go in at once, and
the dipping would be thorough, because
the animals could be left to “soak” until
the dip fluid had touched every external
part barring the head. A bucket is used
to treat the latter.
The work is not easy, but its effective-
ness and safety more than compensate.
Forward pregnant animals are safely
handled with a cage dip.
Fire-branding.
“Beefo”: “S. Pendam’s” (B. 27/ 3/’35)
instance of jaw-branded fats not realising
more than similar weight and quality
rib-branded ones has little bearing on
the sane-branding question.
Butchers value their purchases in terms
of beef, not hide.
Recently in Melbourne a line of clean-
skins realised one half-penny per pound
more than did the best of the fire-
branded lots. Tanners evidently appreci-
ated the notice appearing in the cata-
logue that the line mentioned was un-
branded.
The tanners, the only end of the indus-
try interested, have time and again
made representations for the alteration
of the present orthodox system of brand-
ing, but neither Governments nor
graziers’ associations appear interested.
Until all parties concerned realise the
extent of the yearly losses, tanners
must get out of their losses by passing
them on to the public.
W.A. Wheats.
“A.P.D.”: Victoria district (W.A.)
wheatgrowers will not accept without
demur “Curragh’s” remarks (B. 27/ 3/’35)
about Bencubbin and Gluclub.
The 1934 season brought a rust epi-
demic to the district, and no variety so
thoroughly showed its incapacity to stand
up to it as did Bencubbin. At the present
time a heated argument is being carried
on between Agriculture Commissioner
Sutton and general president J. S. Teas-
dale, of the P.P.A. and the W.A. wheat
pool, as to the alleged inferiority of Glu-
club. Evidence is being produced show-
ing that Gluclub is as acceptable to
British millers as other W.A. varieties
of wheat.
Surface Sowing.
“Winfield”: Surface sowing, as sug-
gested by “Stump Jump” (B. 10/4/’35),
cost me a heavy loss in’ lucerne seed. I
sowed on well-worked land in wet-season
rain. The seed struck, but a few dry
days followed, and the young sprout
seemed as if it could not make its way
into the ground. Then came a windy
day. The seed disappeared altogether.
“Upilio”; Dry-weather conditions in
N.S.W. this autumn are favorable for
broadcasting lucerne. I do not use
plough or cultivator. On average loamy
soils the land is fenced into 30-acre pad-
docks, and in the early autumn pad-
docks are crowded with stock until the
ground is bare and dusty. Half the
area (the other half being left as natural
pastures) is harrowed both ways, and
51b. of seed per acre is broadcast. * This
is followed by a third harrowing, and the
lucerne comes away with the first rain.
During the first two years, whenever
the plants show a tendency to flower,
enough sheep are put in to eat them off
within three days. When the plants are
established the paddocks are grazed
rotationally.
In establishing strong stands for graz-
ing on light loams where there is no
moisture beneath I find it a mistake to
sow heavily—3lb. of seed to the acre is
ample, unless the rainfall is considerable.
The roots cannot get down deeply, and
if crowded without sufficient surface
moisture the plants wither with the first
dry spell.
On small areas of deep alluvial soil
with moisture beneath I broadcast 101 b.
of seed per acre, and use for hay pur-
poses only.
The best seed comes from plants that
are not down to permanent moisture.
As they do not live so long, it is inadvis-
able to let them set seed too soon. On
shallow loams they are three years old
before I allow them to seed, and I re-
place them after five years.
Producing my own seed I broadcast
freely without harrowing under newly-
ringbarked timber, where leaves, bark,
twigs and timber protect the young plants
from stock. Valuable stands are thus
established.
My methods are crude and simple ; but
1 have not yet had a failure, even when the
seed has been sown three months before
rain.
Noxious-weed Land.
“Albarmount”: The reclaiming of
noxious-weed-infested land by ploughing
and establishing pastures, such as lucerne,
sub.-clover, etc., is not as simple as made
out.
For years plentiful early-summer rains
will germinate the seed of Bathurst burr,
Mother Gunther, St. John’s wort, saffron
thistle and others.
I still hoe Bathurst burr out of lucerne
established 10 years ago. The seed will
germinate after lying dormant for 20
years.
Again, except in more fertile soils, dry
weather may cause the newly-sown pas-
tures to fail. And weeds which plough-
ing invigorates are apt to reappear and
take command, unless a mat of pasture
has choked them.
Drought-resistant Grasses.
“Hortus”: In some areas of W. Queens-
land where Mitchell grass once was
thriving there are now either only spear
grasses and wire grasses or mere deserts.
What is needed to hold back the en-
croaching sand is a grass which will send
out runners, and so form a good, solid
mat. Woolly-finger grass seems to fill
the bill, if it can be acclimatised.
It comes from Bechuanaland (S’Africa),
on the edge of the Kalahari.
Its main qualities are that it is satisfied
with scant rainfall it sends out runners
feet long and it mats well.
Experiments are already being made
in Queensland, and the results so far
are satisfactory. At Bybera it is thriving
on sandy patches. At the wheat experi-
mental farm at Roma it also is successful.
Another valuable grass for central
areas is Flinders grass. It is more suit-
able than any other for making hay in
dry districts. At Bybera acres were
sown with it, seed being obtained
from Hughenden. A quarter of an acre
cut with the scythe returned 48 chaff-
bagfuls of hay and seed. Samples sub-
mitted were adjudicated equal to Vic-
torian oaten hay.
Flinders grass grows naturally in the
rainy months of west Queensland. It is
rich in grain, and produces a thicker
stool than Mitchell grass.
The best way to combat drought is
with local drought-resistant fodder.
(“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


£32
THE BANDMASTER
“GRENADIER
This de luxe broadcast
receiver uses five valves in a
reflex superheterodyne circuit.
Many refinements, such as the
new and recently-developed
high fidelity audio system, are
incorporated.
A.C. Model 26gns.
Battery Model 33gns.
mi BP
THE BANDMASTER
“COLDSTREAM
This is an outstanding 6-
valve battery receiver, using
the new 2-volt Micro-Sensitive
Radiotron valves.
A particularly delightful full
console cabinet houses this
receiver.
34gn c.
&
THE BANDMASTER
“MOZART.”
The “Mozart” is a table-type
receiver, with all the portable
features which have made the
Midget electric set so popular.
A powerful 4-valve super-
heterodyne circuit gives that
range and tone so essential
for good country reception.
22gns.
I N T R\o D U
BflllD
T H E
k
C I N
S 111 E S
*
*
A RADICALLY
M U/^74S>.
NEW RANGE O:
) | *
RADIO RECEIVERS
IV
HE pioneers of every notable advance in the science
of radio reception for the home announce the
outstanding result of concentrated research by their
engineers . . . the A.G.E. “Bandmaster.”
The “Bandmaster” series of receivers is not merely a
range of new models depending on superficial changes
for their appeal. A.G.E. introduces—not “new models”
of orthodox receivers—but an entirely new form of
radio—radio made micro-sensitive; radio under perfect
control; radio with high fidelity qualities raised to the
last degree—AMAZING radio! The “Bandmaster”
series naturally features cabinets of remarkable beauty
and artistry—the finest cabinets that Australia can
produce. When you examine these cabinets, look at
the dial. It is correct for present wave-lengths, yet
on September Ist a few moments’ work removes it,
revealing a dial, permanently and accurately in place,
showing the new station positions.
HEAR ONE OF THESE REMARKABLE INSTRUMENTS
AT YOUR NEAREST A.G.E. DEALER .
M
THE BANDMASTER
"CLARION.”
This modern radio brings the
thrill of Bandmaster reception
within the reach of everyone.
The cabinet is finished in
choice Australian veneers and
features the new sloping con-
trol panel.
5-Valve A .C. Model .. 20gns.
4-Valve D.C. Model .. 22gns.
4-Valve Battery Model, 26gns.
Q
THE BANDMASTER
“MARITANA.”
In addition to receiving all the
Australian programmes, these
radios, at a turn of a switch,
are converted to short-wave
receivers and bring in pro-
grammes from every corner
of the globe.
6- A.C. Model .. 37gns.
5-Valve Battery Model, 39gns.
7- A.C. Model .. 42gno.
® -r
m
THE BANDMASTER
“DUETTE
This multum in parvo receiver
uses a 5-valve reflex super-
heterodyne circuit in conjunc-
tion with a host of modern
features.
15gns.
fsd
D
n
G
'/
Lr iJ
D
r
$
m
////.
fs
ADVERTISE!
Sydney .
ENT OF ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUST
Melbourne .. Brisbane .. Adelaide .. Hobart. W.A. AGENT: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.. 891 Hay Street.
RIE S, LTD.
Perth.
R 24


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
Tfie'^'allelxm.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For harder and longer
working wear
You’ll get amazing length of service
out ot, this double-soled Abbey
Cossack. Its tough leather upper,
lined with soft calf, gives greater
comfort and wear and makes the
boot more waterproof. The Abbey
Cossack is an exceptionally strong
boot, built for rough country use.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or
tan, at 2/6. This is splendid for
working and riding boots —it
softens the leather, makes it water-
proof and increases its wearing
qualities.
Australian Kip . . . . 457-
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 40/-
Black Box Calf .... 37/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY,
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from tne mmes alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Huilding, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
£l2/18/6
Double-rigged with two
cord cinchas and wood
stirrups.
This No. 98 “Texas Banger” Cowboy
Saddle, is our most popular line, ana
Johnny Schneider, leader of the American
cowboy team now in Australia, says it is
quite equal to saddles of the same class
made in U.S.A.
Write for our 9C-page Saddlery Catalogue
No. 338—T0 Australian and Texas Saddles
to choose from. Saddles as low as oJ/h
Whips from 9/-. Also write for our
Horse Rug List with samples of canvas
and hints on choosing a rug.
MTTTrr7'ry^7r^ 7 TTTf r W‘
SAY GOOD-BYE
SORE BACKS
Use cm’
years, 31/
No. 300 Hair Cloth, lasts for
Post; I/O N.S.W.; 3/6 Q’laxifl
and Vic.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VAT
"sat/ 69
w ] «
in town
'M
(n m
ri'T 1
W 69
at home
setve 69 |||^
Next time you have a glass or
buy a bottle of whisky switch to
Vat 69. Find out how smooth
and mellow a pure liqueur
Scotch Whisky can really be.
It’s better but costs no more.
VAT 69
P ure\jt(fueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
CROWN LAND
AoaDAIRYINOsMIXEDFARMINO
M
%
EUNGELLA LANDSMACKAY DISTRICT
45 portions ranging in area from 162
to 318 acres. Capital values from
12/6 to £2/5/- per acre. Situated
from 7 to 16 miles from Netherdale
Railway Station, which is distant 45
miles from Mackay Butter Factory.
Mostly dense tropical scrub with good
soil. Permanently watered by Broken
River and several creeks.
Applications on the prescribed form
restricted to landless men with dairy-
farm experience and capital. Priority-
decided by ballot.
Approved applicants wishing to inspect
will be granted half-fare concession rates
on the Queensland Railways. Inspection
fares paid by successful applicants
will be refunded after selection.
Applications will be received at LANDS
DEPARTMENT, BRISBANE, and
LAND OFFICE, MACKAY, up to 17th
JUNE, 1935.
For Plans, Application Forms and
further particulars, apply to
LAN D SETT LEM ENT INQUIRYOFFICE
LANDS DEPT BRISBANE-: LAHD OFFICE-MACK AY,
Making a Pig Farm.
“E.E.”: Four years ago (during the
worst of the depression) we bought a
small holding—nine acres —a bit beyond
Parramatta, about acres being
arable. Only one of us working full
time on the place and the other three
working only at week-ends, in six months
we had some four acres under cultivation
and a substantial show of fencing, hous-
ing and so on. Only our own labor has
been employed on the farm.
Our first purchase was a pure-bred
Berkshire sow, in pig to one of the best
boars in the Commonwealth. From this
sow we had our first litter—lo splendid
pigs, which were to be the foundation
of our stock.
A few months later we bought a
boar, also of first-class stock and utility,
and, soon after, two excellent sows, both
with litter.
Until the Royal Show of Easter, 1934,
we made no further addition to our
stud, but bred from our original herd,
improving by selection.
The farm was never run with any idea
of making it a model one, or even ex-
perimental. The chief intention was
profit through good pork.
Our stock was not fed on offal. A
balanced ration, including every neces-
sary vitamin, was mixed from prepared
foods. A fair grade of wheat was bought
and stored in large quantities, to be boiled
or crushed before feeding.
Sows before farrowing were fed on
special foods, and careful note was made
of general condition, weight, etc. Crops—
maize, oats, lucerne, cow-peas, Egyptian
clover—were grown for green food.
The result was that the quality of our
pork became known to the buyers, and
even in the worst of markets a fair price
at least was assured.
For the first year and a half the
farm paid its way in additions and gen-
eral expenses, and hardly any further
capital outlay was made.
In 1934, at our first showing at the
R.A.S., we secured, from eight entries,
a first in the class for gilts of six to nine
months, a first in the class for gilts under
four months and a second in the class
for gilts under six months.
In actual working hours for four men
the farm has taken about 18 months to
build up to its present condition. We
have passed successfully through the de-
pression. From a few sows and a boar
we have built an outstanding stock of
some 40 sows and a dozen gilts ready
for breeding.
Which goes to show that care and com-
monsense can do quite a lot without
extensive outlay in the pig business, pro-
vided commonsense methods are used
along with sound foundation stock.
Preventing Erosion.
“Spring”: If filling gutters with boughs
and ploughing earth over them is care-
fully done, tell “The 0.D.” (B. 10/4/’35)
that it will check erosion. The water
does not run underneath, as the leaves
of the green houghs catch the silt.
Some soils erode faster than others,
which accounts for different opinions.
We have used the cultivator on sheep-
tracks with good results. Ploughing in
the final headland furrow is also effec-
tive. Contour-banking sown with Kikuyu
where it will grow is certainly best,
but is expensive and beyond many a
wheatgrower’s pocket. It also adds to
working expenses of the farm. Other
methods will keep erosion in check until
possible to go further.
Kikuyu does well in parts of South
Africa where erosion is bad, notably
the High Veld. It is bought by the
root, and most Government experiment
farms stock it. Hawkesbury Agricultural
College also sells it—at about £1 per
1000 roots f.o.r.
Bait-poisoning of Rabbits.
“Upilio”: Rabbiters on the N.S.W.
tablelands would think “Doitnow’s”
method (B. 10/4/’35) of poisoning rabbits
slow and awkward. Here the method
given in The Bulletin’s Handy Hints
for the Farm is most used: Take Scotch
thistles, well grown, but not shot up to
flower. Put the roots in a kerosene-tin
holed as a colander and thoroughly wash
in water. Slice into chips lin. long. Add
half-cup of brown sugar to a gallon of
prepared roots. After two hours drain
the liquid off, spread the roots in the
sun on a sheet of iron for 45 minutes and
put into a container.
Add five teaspoons of ground strych-
nine separately, and shake the con-
tainer thoroughly after each teaspoon.
Add one teaspoon of essence of vanilla
and, just before the trail is laid, six drops
of oil of cummin.
An ordinary poison-cart can be used
with a funnel extended through the floor,
one man driving and another feeding
baits to the funnel. Use one bait to
each turn of the wheel.
“Doitnow’s” recipe for
poisoning rabbits with apples (B.
10/4/’35) is too slow.
One kerosene-tin nearly full will do
one mile of furrow. A plough is not
necessary. I use a fairly heavy horse-
pulled forked log. Where the fork com-
mences, mortise a hole and fit an old
axe blade into it on an angle. Board
over the fork to stand on, and fasten a
wire to its head to hold on by.
Free-feed for two days and poison on
the third. Apples will quickly ferment,
so mix just before using. Always use a
box to mix in, and after the first handling
do not touch the apples with the bare
hands. Use a glove or old sock when
laying feed.
Chop first helping of apples up fine
with a spade, dust with strychnine and
mix up with the spade. Add more
apples, chop up and again poison. Con-
tinue till you have enough for furrow.
Add a small cup of sugar, another dust-
ing of poison and remix the lot well. Lay
the unpoisoned baits thinly the first night,
thicker the second night and thicker still
when you poison. Be sure to move all
stock off run before you operate.
Hints for the Farm.
“Chook”: Take 6ft, or 7ft. of stiff
fencing-wire. Bend one end to form a
handle. Turn the other end to form a
hook 6in. deep, yin. or so at the apex
and with a wide-spreading lip. With
this implement a fowl can be snicked
round the scaly part of the leg and culled
from the flock without any of the flutter-
ing, bruising and loss of temper usually
suffered.
“Girder”: To make a handy kitchen
ash-shovel cut about two inches off the
front of an old iron fryingpan and
straighten the sides for about 2in. back.
“Pinto Pete”: When making C hooks
overlap the ends about Hin., and open
wide enough to allow the eyebolt to pass
through. Made this way the hooks will
not release the eyebolts when the draught
slackens, as the ordinary kind are apt
to do. . , ~ , .
“Mangaratta”: Onion-seed which has
been kept for a year or longer should not
be sown without first being tested. Throw
the seed into water. What sinks should
give good germination ; that which floats
goes to the discard.
“Murrawong”: To prevent rusting and
to prolong the life of a kerosene wall
lamp occasionally used, put a small quan-
tity of lead shot into the container. The
movement of the shot prevents forma-
tion of rust and leaves a protective
deposit of lead on the tin.
“Granova”: As “Upilio” (B. 17/4/’35)
writes, coarse pastures on poor soil can
be greatly improved, but his methods are
slow. In heavy-rainfall districts on N.S.W.
slopes graziers who own wheat-farming
plants use combines for improvement
work. With narrow points they work the
pasture lightly, sowing in 21b. sub. Clevel-
and lewt. of super, per acre. In two or
three years the clover is sometimes in
complete possession.
“Pick”: Discarded rails and worn
sleepers cast out by railway re-laying
gangs make cheap and serviceable cul-
verts. On each bank place a squared log
horizontally in the ground and level. To
these spike a pair of rails, with the wider
flange to the log. Set them parallel at
a distance apart that the sleepers will
just slide between. Adze the sleeper-
ends to fit between the flanges, and one
by one push them into their places. To
prevent their slipping back or forward
under traffic sink a post flush at each
corner.


SMOKE-OH!
“A businessman of Cardiff has invented a
telephone device which may take the place of
the office-boy.”— “Argus.”
Its great advantage is that it has no
grandmother.
-I- *3* -I’
“It is interesting to know that goalas still
exist in the Womerah district.”
Also koannas, gangaroos and gooka-
burras.
-I- -I* -I* -I*
“The accommodation provided for Mr. Lyons
and other members of the delegation is
princely.”
They’re enjoying the suites of office.
•b *2* *2- *2*
“Her mother smacked my face in the street.
I did not see her father for fear of a fight.”
—“Sun.”
He felt he might “go” father and fare
worse.
-I- -I- -I- *
The Light Fantastic.
The Lang Dancing Academy opened
with an exhibition of the Dole-time
Waltz by Professor Jack and pupils. With
his inimitable adroitness the professor
added an artistic interpretation of the
subtle movements in his new arranging
of the May Poll dance.
The goosestep and shuffle lately intro-
duced by the professor into the Ballot-
box Rumba were expertly illustrated, as
also were the quick backward movements
in the Auburn Blues.
In a short talk, the professor explained
that his new book, Lang’s Bawlroom
Guide, would include a special chapter
entitled “Ragtime Memories.”
And he won’t have to go back far to
memorise the raggy times we had with
him.
McM.
4* v -I- *2-
“Spiders stopped a courthouse clock by
spinning webs inside the works.” —News Hem.
The Judge, however, continued to
supply the “time.”
*2* *2* *l* *2*
“Doris finally consented to take a tiny drop
of port wine.” —Short story.
Just a wee drop—and Doris.
*l* *l*
“Many of these modern novels appear to
have been written in haste without any correc-
tions or revision.” —Literary critic.
Simply reeled off on a tripe-writer.
*2* -I* -I- -2*
His Error.
Somehow he gathered the impression
that it was nearly six o’clock, and the
vital urge for more alcohol quickened his
erratic steps.
Unable to cope with the increased
speed, his equilibrium was soon upset,
and he found himself floundering in the
gutter.
Kindly hands raised him up, and he
continued his journey, making cour-
ageous endeavors to walk straight. Now
reeling into a shop window, now into
a lamp-post, and sometimes brought to
a dizzy standstill, he at last found him-
self beside a bar. A look of satisfaction
spread over his face as he heard
the hum of conversa-
tion arising from the
assembled drinkers.
“Mug o’ beer!” he
shouted, slamming six-
pence on the bar.
The barmaid looked
at him resentfully, but
took no further
notice.
“Hey! ” he yelled.
“Givesh a mug o’
beer!”
The barmaid
frowned at him.
“This is a milk
bar,” she said frigidly.
Nat.
The Gambler’s Doom.
“‘Big sums have been won and lost,’ says
the writer of an article upon gambling,/‘even
upon single-handed games like patience.’ ”
It reminds me of the sad case of Screw,
who was an inveterate gambler but hated
to lose money. This hatred finally in-
duced him to cut out strangers and play
games with himself, always for large
stakes.
It was nothing for him to lose £1000
to himself in a single night’s sitting.
One night he went seriously into his
accounts and found that he owed himself
£37,527 15s. 6d.
He was appalled. Such a sum meant
absolute ruin. He was desperate, and,
“Any idea o' the time, Bert?”
concealing from himself his bankrupt
condition, he arranged with himself to
cover the accumulated losses with bills,
which he duly handed over in an airy
fashion as if a trifling sum like that
didn’t really matter to one in his posi-
tion.
That night, determined to win back
some of his losses, he plunged heavily,
but luck again was unkind.
He felt that if he placed his whole
position before himself he would be
merciful. But he wasn’t.
“I want my money,” he retorted
hotly. “Do you mean that you are going
to renege, you dirty crook?”
The argument ended in another row.
In the cold hours of the morning Screw
shot himself dead. Too late he realised
that in taking this step to rid himself of
his implacable creditor he would not be
able to recover the incriminating docu-
ment from his pocket.
The lawyers found it. It was right
into their hands. The heirs said that it
didn’t matter; they would be satisfied
with a cut-up of the realisable estate,
which, net, amounted to £572 10s. 2d.,
the tuppence being a stamp found in de-
ceased’s pocket-book.
The lawyers knew better than that.
Learned Judges were asked to consider
whether the bills for £37,000-odd were
part of his estate. A special Court had
also to consider the question whether a
gambling debt was recoverable, but
found that there was no evidence that the
transaction in point arose out of a gam-
bling debt. Whenever a Court gave a de-
cision the matter was taken on appeal
to a higher Court.
The case was settled the other day, but
nobody appears to know the precise
terms of settlement. As a matter of fact,
the entire tangible estate having been
eaten up in costs, it doesn’t matter much.
H. M.
*l* -I* *2*
A Matter of Sentiment.
Anyone who considers marrying a soft-
hearted woman should profit by my ex-
perience.
My wife suggested a duck for Easter,
so I bought one. It looked just a nor-
mal bird to me, appealing to my grosser
appetite in the usual way of poultry, but
my wife took a kind of spiritual interest
in it. She called it Totsy.
Soon Totsy became the chief member
of our household. I could go without
my breakfast, but if Totsy was underfed
it was a crime.
Frequently my wife would call me into
the yard to “look at what Totsy’s doing.”
I would find her intrigued over some
stupid action of the bird, and when I
would remark on its fine condition and
what a delectable meal it would make
she would call me a beast.
Our neighbors must have been very
amused that fatal morning when we had
the struggle for the axe. Anyhow, we
did not eat duck over Easter. And
Totsy is still roaming about our back-
yard, where she has made friends with
the two fowls I bought for last Christ-
mas and the turkey I foolishly purchased
when my wife took a fancy to the fowls.
Han.
-2* *2- -I* *2*
“When arrested the accused was in posses-
sion of three watches. In his lodgings 47 others
were found.” — Telegraph.
Can this be our old friend Procras-
tination?
“Take no notice, Harold. They Were round me jist the same when I got MY second teeth."
Glimpses at the Globe.
X. — Waltzing from Vienna.
The casual visitor to Vienna will at
once be impressed by the spirit of gaiety
that pervades the place. No one ever
dreams of talking in Vienna. Everything
is said in song.
“One pint, two pints, three or four?”
sings the milkman in a mellifluous tenor,
and a duet in which a deep sonorous bass
blends perfectly with a radiant soprano
is heard in reply, “One to-day and two
to-morrow. Leave the bill till Saturday.”
It’s the same with the baker. In any
other city he’d be on the concert plat-
form. As for the butcher —well, it seems
almost an insult to ask him for a pound
of sausages, and even the iceman man-
ages to infuse such a warmth of feeling
into his singing that it is a marvel he
doesn’t melt his stock.
In the streets no one ever thinks of
walking. Everybody dances. Dance
music pops out from everywhere. People
are seen dancing to work, children to
school, mothers to the sewing circle and
old folk to the pension office.
One of the most spectacular sights
imaginable is to see two policemen waltz-
ing a drunk along to the lockup, all
three keeping perfect time to the rhythm
of a dreamy Strauss waltz.
The majority of the male population
consists of students and soldiers, all of
whom dance and sing with more than
ordinary skill. The rest of the citizens
are pastrycooks, waiters, wine merchants
and professional musicians.
The girls are nearly all employed in
beer-gardens, tea-gardens and eating-
houses, but their duties are light and do
not interfere with their singing and
dancing.
1 had a most unfortunate experience
in Vienna once. It has always been the
greatest sorrow of my life that I cannot
sing. Not a note! Well, perhaps a note,
but not two consecutive notes, or even
the same note twice.
Accordingly, when a young fraulein
with blue eyes, flaxen hair and a voice
like Melba in her prime came up to me
in a restaurant and inquired my wants,
I replied tunelessly “Ham and eggs,
please.” She shuddered like a timid
fawn, and sang her piece again. Once
more I grunted “Hamaneggsplease.”
She shrieked and fainted. In a trice
1 was surrounded. In thrice I was seized
by rough though musical hands. In
force they foxtrotted me to the city gaol.
In court I was confronted with a long
list of charges (set to music), beginning
with espionage (, pianissimo ) and treason
(con spirito ) and leading up to drunk and
disorderly ( rallentando ). At that stage
they dallied awhile with variations in
several minor charges, and then worked
up to a crescendo with the terrifying
charge of “Not singing in a public place.”
Things looked black, but fortunately
I recollected my musical cigarette-case,
a gift from an old admirer —it played the
first bar of “The Blue Danube.”
I whipped it out.
“Da-da-da-cto-da-Jtf”.... it began.
It was enough. In a moment the whole
crowd was rocking to the strains, which
had been taken up by Judge, jury, officials
and spectators.
I was saved. I waltzed out of the court
and out of the city and didn’t stop till
I was well across the border.
Jasby.
*1- -h -I*
“ ‘S.L.’ (Giru): It is very evident that your
fowls were poisoned by an excess of salt in
the rice pudding you gave them.”
—Townsville “Daily Bulletin.”
We understand. We’ve lived in
boarding-houses.
■J* *f* 4*
Rose was fair and full of life.
She was gay; her flat was cosy.
Word about it reached my wife —
Now my life is far from Rosie.
-I* -I*
The Hunter.
Tensely crouched, he waited, weapon
in hand, for the first appearance of his
prey. From his eyes peering into the
emerald-green depths shone the eager
gleam of the ardent hunter. Soon now
—ah! There! Gliding slowly along the
bottom—twisting, turning.
Striking muscles
taut, he rose slowly,
carefully—then lunged
with vicious speed.
A gasp of triumph
escaped him, quickly
succeeded by a
mournful sigh.
“Dashed if I know,”
complained little Sub-
bubs to his wife,
pushing away the
bottle. “If I want
an onion I get a
gherkin, and if 1 want
a gherkin I get an
onion!”
C. E. D.
Constancy.
Even my wife admits that 1
Am constant. Other men may be
As changeful as the wind or sky,
Weak toys of wayward destiny;
But / am different —nothing steers
My steps from their intended way.
1 haven’t failed for fifteen years
To reel home shot on Saturday!
T. W. N.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,'this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The glass-like covering of a SIMONIZED car
protects it from exposure.
That is why it is so easy to keep new.
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Refined widow (40), N.S.W.*, requires posi-
tion, any post; thorough business and house-
keeping exp. Refs. —6640.
Young man (27), N.S.W., seeks job as
lorry-driver or overseer on sheep station, 84-
years last place, Q’land. —6683.
English journalist, Sydney, will undertake to
edit manuscripts. —6625.
Educated Scot (34), ten years sheep station,
Q’land, overseer six years, exp. travelling stock,
etc., can repair windmills and cars, wife good
cook or secretary if required, no family, wants
position of trust, Queensland preferred. Refs.
—6653.
Jackeroo (20), N.S.W., good horseman, exp.
sheep and cattle, can drive car, milk and kill,
wants employment. Refs. —6645.
To get in touch with anyone well acquainted
with the Port Eyrie district of Canada; if
returning there, so much the better. —6644.
To buy Victor Hughes’s Lady’s Man. —6682.
To buy, second-hand, Round the Horn
Before the Mast, The Log of the Cutty Sark
and The China Clippers. —6696.
Words of verse “Girl # of the. Northland”
beginning: —
You have never heard a magpie call,
Or smelt the bushland alter rain.
—6697.
Words of Digger verse “Spotty.” —6681.
Words of verse beginning : —
Here’s the bleedin’ Push, me covey.
—6666.
Information Sought.
(1) What is “bulldogging”? (2) Is it prac-
tised in this country, or what is the Australian
equivalent ? —6678.
(1) A method of throwing wild cattle prac-
tised by American cowboys. Two horsemen
are necessary. One gallops on the off side of
the bullock and keeps it running straight. The
“bulldogger” gallops up on the near side of
the beast, throws himself from his horse on to
the bullock’s neck and head and brings it to
a standstill by his weight. He then twists its
head by horns and, jaw till animal, topples
on its side. It must fall flat on the near side
for fall to be -considered complete.- (2) The
method hap been copied from visiting cowboys
by local stockmen, but it is purely a show
stunt and of no practical value. The Aus-
tralian method of throwing and tying is a one-
man job.
*=!=**
Wliat are the rules and conditions of camp-
drafting competitions ? —6669.
These vary according to local ideas and con-
ditions. Generally speaking, the rider has to
cut out a steer designated by the judge or
steward from a mob held in a yard or in the
open. Clear of the mob, he has to work the
animal over a set course, usually marked out
by flags, involving sharp turns on both hands.
The allocation of points at Sydney Show is:
Cut out, 26; first flag, 1; second flag, 1;
third flag, 2; horsemanship, 70 —total, 100.
A competitor loses all points for the round
if his bullock gets away and rejoins the mob.
Points are deducted for missed opportunities
in cutting out, failure to keep control of steer,
bad turning, poor shouldering, etc.
* * * *
What is the significance of the word “jack”
in connection with the Union Jack?— 6388.
Strictly speaking, it is only a “jack” when
flown from the jack-staff of a ship of war; the
correct name is Great Union.
* * * #
Who said “Sherry for boys, port for men,
but brandy for heroes” ? —6289.
You have the quotation slightly mixed.
Samuel Johnson, while dining at the house of
Sir Joshua Reynolds, on being asked to par-
take of claret, of which he had just spoken
disparagingly, replied: “Poor stuff. No, sir.
Claret is the liquor for boys; port for men;
but he who aspires to be a hero must drink
brandy.”
* * * *
Is trout a natural fish of Maoriland? —6301.
No. The whole of the stocks of the various
species now found in M.L. are the result of
importations, the progeny of the introduced
fish having been protected by regulations
under the Fisheries Act. A fish, the kokopu,
native to Maoriland, is sometimes erroneously
referred to as the “native trout,” but it is a
galaxid fish, and not one of the Salmonidce,
to which group all the species of trout belong.
sjc sic
Recipe for claret cup ? —6566.
One bottle claret, 1 wineglass Curasao, 4
wineglass brandy, 2 bottles lemonade, 2 bottles
soda-water, 4 tablespoons sifted sugar, \
lemon-peel finely pared, a spray of borage",
lib. ice. Mix all together. Stand in ice for
quarter-hour. The ice used in the mixture
should be partly crushed into rough pieces.
* * * *
How can I remove an ink spot from a cloth
coat ? —6262.
Make up a very weak solution of oxalic
acid and cold water. Stretch the material
over a towel, take a camel-hair brush and wet
the ink with clean water, then paint on the
acid solution, and in a few moments blot it
with blotting paper and dab with clean water.
Repeat until clean, but do not allow the acid
to remain on the spot longer than necessary,
as it is destructive to fabrics.
* * * *
What play of Marlowe’s was acted the night
before the rebellion of Essex ? —6288.
There is no record of any play of Mar-
lowe's having been performed on that date
(February 7, 1601). On the afternoon pre-
ceding the Earl’s appeal to the people of
London, one of the men in the plot. Sir
Gilley Merrick or Meyrick, went to the Globe
Theatre at Southwark, and, by paying a fee
of 40s. to Augustus Phillips, ensured the per-
formance the same evening of a play entitled
“The Deposing of King Richard II.” Shak-
speare’s players, it seems, were reluctant to put
the piece on, saying it was old and they
would probably lose on it. The play is under-
stood to have been Shakspeare’s. Although
the scene of the deposition and killing of
Richard did not appear until the third quarto
edition, printed five years after the death of
Elizabeth, it must have been in existence and
presented on this occasion, when Merrick and
a party of other conspirators attended.
* * * *
What was the fabled “golden city” of the
Spaniards, referred to in . a recent novel ?
6394.
El Dorado, otherwise known as Manoa or
Omoa, to which many unsuccessful expeditions
were made in search of the treasure it was
reputed to contain. In 1595 Sir Walter Raleigh
described Manoa as situated on the shores of
Lake Parima, in Guiana; this lake was marked
on maps until its existence was disproved by
Humboldt. The name El Dorado was originally
applied to a king or priest of Manoa who
was reputed to cover himself with gold-dust—
“ The Gilded One.” Later the term was used
in reference to the city itself. It is now applied
to any country where gold or wealth is easily
acquired.
* * * *
A recent criticism of the talkie “House of
Rothschild” stated that the incident of carrier-
pigeons conveying the news of Waterloo was
incorrect, as they were not used until some
years later. In the film “Cleopatra” Octavius
is made to send a message from Rome to
Egypt by carrier-pigeon. Did the Romans use
this means of communication ? —6577.
According to The Encyclopcedia Briiannica,
the use of homing-pigeons for the carriage of
messages is as old as Solomon; the ancient
Greeks, who probably acquired the art of
training the birds from the Persians, used them
to convey the names of victors at the Olympic
games to the various cities. The method seems
to have fallen into disuse until just before the
introduction of the telegraph, when it had a
considerable vogue among stockbrokers and
financiers.
# . ♦ * *
What is the legend of the Well of St. Keyne ?
—6408.
St. Keyne was a Celtic saint of the fifth
century, daughter of Brychan, King of
Brecknock, and the well of that name is
situated near Liskeard, Cornwall. It is said
that if a bridegroom drinks l therefrom before
his bride he will be’ master of the house, but
if the bride has the first draught he will have
to play second fiddle. Southey wrote a ballad
on the tradition, in which it is related that
the man left his wife at the church porch and
raced to the well to get the first draught, and
on his return was told by her that she had
brought a bottle to church.
* * H: *
(1) Does the lion belong to the cat or to the
dog family ? (2) To what family does the tiger
belong ? —6218.
(1) and (2) To the cat family (family Felidce).
Large cats include the lion ( Felis leo ), tiger
( Felis tigris), leopard {Felis hengalensis), jaguar
{Felis onca ), ocelot {Felis pardalis), puma {Felis
concolor) and cheetah {Cyncelurus jubatus).
The animals are mostly distinguished by the
possession of completely retractile claws, except
in the cheetah, and by the dentition. There
are three pairs of incisor teeth in each jaw,
the canines are exceptionally long and conical
and are finely serrated on the inner edge, and
the cheek teeth are of the carnassial or cutting
type.
* * * #
What is silver lustre ware; how is it made?
—6320.
A kind of pottery in which a design, usually
in white or yellow, shows in relief against a
background of silver. After the pottery is
glazed in the ordinary way a design is applied
with brushes steeped in an adhesive mixture,
generally shellac. When dry it acts as a
resistant to the lustre-bath, a solution of
platinum, in which the pottery is placed. The
bath causes a thin, smooth coating of silvery
metal to adhere to the article. On completion
of this process the shellac or “resist” is washed
off with alcohol, thus leaving the design show-
ing clearly in the original glaze against a back-
ground of silver.
* * * *
What is curare, or “arrow poison” ? Is it
given medicinally ? —6698.
It is a herbal extract prepared as an arrow
poison by certain tribes of South American
Indians. In the several kinds of curare, six
alkaloids have been isolated; of these, curarine
and curine are the chief. Curare is a sedative
poison antagonistic to strychnine. It paralyses
the motor-nerve endings in striped muscle and
causes death from respiratory failure. If the
victim can be kept alive by artificial respira-
tion and the limb is ligatured between the
wound and the heart gradual recovery is pos-
sible. Suitable stimulants must be adminis-
tered. Curare has been given in the treatment
of spasmodic diseases, as hydrophobia and lock-
jaw (hypodermic injection). It is also used in
epilepsy and chorea.
* * * *
What is the cause and treatment of
onychauxis of the toenail ? —6709.
Malformation of the nail plate is recognised
under the medical term of onychauxis. The
condition may be congenital or acquired, the
latter, with some disturbance of the nail
matrix, being a frequent cause of trouble in
this respect. By way of treatment avoid uneven
pressure of the footwear, apply castor oil on
a well-oiled rag at night, and occasionally thin
the upper surface of the nail with a corn-file
or -rasp. Attention must be given to ulcerative
conditions of the nail-bed, if present.
* * * *
What is “normal saline solution” ? —6649.
A solution of common salt in distilled water
of a strength of 0.9 per cent, is described as
a normal saline or physiological salt solution.
A sufficient approximation to this percentage
is obtained by dissolving 80 grains of salt in
a pint of water. Because the proportion of
salt contained resembles that of the blood
plasma, normal saline is the most suitable
means of introducing fluid into the circulation
and tissues of the body; it can also be used
as a solvent for drugs to be introduced through
this medium. In conjunction with other medica-
ments, normal saline may be used after severe
haemorrhage, in collapse and in toxic states.
* * *
What is “pink disease,” and can it be con-
tracted by adults ? —6576.
The complaint is practically confined to
infants and young children; adult cases are
not recorded. Although its occurrence at
irregular intervals had been noted for years,
the disease was first described in detail by
Dr. Swift (Adelaide) in 1914. Symptoms
are variable, but usually there is loss of appe-
tite and weight, progressive muscular weakness,
nervousr irritability, skin rash, etc. Hospital
treatment, with careful nursing over a period
of several weeks, is essential. Exact cause is
unknown.
* * * K-
Definition and cause of ptosis ( eyelid) ? Can
it be cured ? —6652.
Derived from a Greek word meaning “fall,”
the term ptosis is applied to a dropping of
the upper lid, which may be partial or com-
plete. In the latter case the sight of the eye
is practically obscured. If present at birth the
defect may be due to a developmental weak-
ness or absence Of the elevator muscle of the
lid; paralysis of this muscle may precipitate
the trouble in adult life. Some early cases of
the paralytic type can be cured by medicinal
treatment, whereas congenital cases require
surgical attention. Partial ptosis is also seen
when the upper lid is thickened by a chronic
conjunctivitis.
* * * *
What is rheumatoid arthritis, and its treat-
ment ? —6659.
It is an inflammatory disease of the joints,
the tissues and bones of the affected part being
influenced by pronounced destructive changes.
Rheumatic tendencies are usually associated
with the development. With treatment of the
latter and elimination of uric acid from the
system some relief may be obtained, though
the inherited form tends to persist. Hot
foments and vapor baths, gentle frictional mas-
sage with oil inunction, and diathermy under
medical supervision are local remedies of
repute ; citrate of potash may be taken inter-
nally as a diuretic. In toxic cases iodine in
an assimilable form is prescribed.
»f» H' if* H*
My weight has become 28 lb. above normal
during the last 18 months {age 45, male).
What is cause, also suggested diet ? —6661.
Increase in weight is due to organic changes,
at the stated age always possible in health.
Although thyroid-gland substance, iodine, etc.,
may be prescribed, your diet demands atten-
tion as a preliminary to treatment. Permissible
foods include all meats except fats, pork and
bacon; apples, oranges, and all fresh fruits
except bananas and grapes; all vegetables
except potatoes, peas, beans, carrots and
parsnips; boiled fish, poultry, lean meat
(mutton and beef). The following are forbidden:
Sweets, sugar, sweetened drinks, ice-cream,
white bread, butter and milk. Brown and
wholemeal bread are allowed ; also skim milk
in moderation. Water may be taken between
but not with meals; a hot lemon drink night
and morning is of value. Moderate exercise
daily is essential.
* * =H
Any information about Frank Weitzell, an
artist who exhibited in Sydney some years ago ?
■ —6663.
He was born in Maoriland, but went to
the U.S.A. at an early age, winning an art
scholarship in San Francisco which took him
to Munich to study. Arrived in Sydney when
he was about 18, and took a studio near Cir-
cular Quay, in which he did sculpture, batiks
and woodcuts. Had little success in Sydney,
and went to Germany for further study; came
back to N.S.W. for a short period, exhibited
his work and then went to London. Here he
was very well received by the modern groups.
He died shortly afterwards. A posthumous
exhibition of his work was held in Sydney in
1932, but nothing was acquired for any per-
manent public collection.
* * * *
(1) What were the early English and Dutch
miniatures painted, on ? (2) Who were the best
of the early miniaturists? (3) What Holbein
miniatures were painted in England ? —6674.
(1) Almost always- vellum laid on to card-
board, usually part of a playing-card. Some
few were painted direct on to the card. (2)
Giulio Clovio, John Siferwas, Jean Clouet, Hol-
bein, Nicholas Hilliard, Isaac and Peter Oliver,
Lavina Teerlinck, Gervase Spencer, Andrew
Plimer, Cosway, Engleheart, Samuel Cooper
and John Hoskiiis. (3) Those of Jane Sey-
mour, Henry VIIL> Anne of Gleves, the Earl
of Essex and Baron Abergavenny, a self-
portrait and sundry portraits of unknown men.
Brief Answers.
G.L.: (1) Oppenheimer (“Jew Suss”) actually
lived. He was a great financier, gallant and
adventurer of the eighteenth century, and a
life of him has been written by Dr. Kurt
Elwenspoek. (2) Most of the events in the
talkie have a historical basis, but the con-
versations are, of course, imaginary D.F.:
Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney A.C.; Main qualification for invalid
pension is total and permanent incapacity. The
Act also provides that a pensioner’s income,
including all pension, must not exceed £7B p.a.,
and that in the case of husband and wife the
income of each is deemed to be possessed by
both in equal shares. Only way to test your
eligibility is by making application for pension.
. ...M.J.L.: Depends on the capability of the
person and the position he holds. He might
earn anything from £2OO p.a. to £2OOO p.a.
E.H.P.: Aladdin Industries, Ltd., 63
William-street, Sydney J.R.T.: Any sub-
stance that will dissolve in water without dis-
solving in petrol may be used. Burnt sugar
will be found suitable... .A.R.: Pigs’ skins
are not available in Australia for the produc-
tion of leather. Leaving the skin on the
carcass makes the latter more attractive and
easier to handle R.H.D.: Obtainable from
leading booksellers J.D.: For purposes of
imposing and collecting rates board has same
powers as shire or municipal councils, with which
rates remain a charge on the land. Probably
you are responsible for arrears of water rates,
but it might be worth while to consult a solici-
tor.... C.G.; Communicate with Gilchrist,
Watt and Sanderson or Dalgety and Co. —
both Sydney—agents for the Blue Funnel and
White Star-Aberdeen joint service to England
via South Africa... .C.R.8.: (1) J. Capell,
Rushcutter Bay, Sydney. (2) A 63-h.p. three-
cyl. 500-r.p.m. crude-oil engine will cost about
£9BO. For particulars write Buzacott and Co.,
7 Market-street, Sydney. (3) Small Boat
Building, by E. Monk (165.), and Motor Boat
Manual (7s. 6d.), from Dymock’s, Sydney....
A.J.S.: (1) Average expectation of life for
Australia is, for males, 59 years; females,
63 years. Separate figures for Tas. not available.
(2) There were 23,902 people in Tas. over the
age of 60 at the 1933 census—males, 12,252;
females, 11,650. (3) Number of males seek-
ing employment in Tas. at June 30, 1934, was
9414... .J.D.G.; (1) The Herald of the Morn-
ing made the following voyages in the ’fifties:
About middle of 1854, from Liverpool (Capt.
Atteridge); March, 1857, from London (Capt.
Hillman); Nov., 1859, from Glasgow (Capt.
Henderson); and another voyage under Capt.
Randolph, date not precisely known. (2) No.
(3) John Dalton was licensee of the Railway
Hotel, Cecil-street, Williamstown, in 1861....
J.K.: Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co., 90
William-street, and Federal Shearing Co.,
504 Little Collins-street, both, Melbourne;
Haffett and Fowler, Breakwater, and James
Brown, Brown-street, both Geelong; J. A.
Forsyth, Corryong West; Telford and Stratt,
Main-street, Belgrave; and Eucla Jarrett,
Kyneton D.U.: Apply to Superintendent,
Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo, Syd-
ney. At the rate of two nights a week the
cost of tuition is 16s. a term. There is a
waiting list, so submit your application as soon
as possible.,. .D.H.: It is possible that recent
injury has precipitated a latent keratitis. This
is a deep-seated inflammation of the cornea, or
transparent tissue of the eye; defective vision
gradually results if untreated. Though it’s more
insidious than ulcer of the cornea, the same
intolerance to light is absent in this lesion.
Home treatment is out of question... .N.E.A.:
If you give the trade-name, name and address
of manufacturer may be traceable... .A.H.:
(1) Depends upon the type of rule used. The
best of them give only approximate readings.
(2) Any large bookseller will supply you with
a list of books dealing with the slide-rule.
An elementary work on algebra, including the
use of logarithms, should first be studied....
T.P.: (1) December 28, 1879. (2) Between
70 and 80. (3) June 20, 1887. (4) £350,000.
. ...L.R.: Ned Kelly was born in 1854 near
Wallan (Vic.), and was hanged on November 11,
1880, at Melbourne. A brief account of his
career appears in The Australian Encylcopcedia.
. ...H.R.E.: The quotation is from “Hamlet,”
Act IT, Scene 2... .T.H.K.: Yes, quite in order.
. ...F.R.F.: Prizes in lotteries or sweepstakes
are not subject to either Federal or N.S.W.
income tax... .G.C.F.: The only available
information concerning the murder of detec-
tives Walsh and Pitman is to be found in the
newspaper accounts of the trial. The Liebglid
case is referred to in an article which
appeared in the “Daily News” of July 1, 1933.
. ...C.C.C.: Membership qualification of the
societies mentioned can be ascertained by writ-
ing to the secretaries... .W.F.; Unable to
trace... .N.C.L.: Brabant and Co., 147 Char-
lotte-street, Brisbane. Price, 21s. 4d. per dozen.
. ...H.S.: A person over the age of 21 cannot
be legally adopted... .H.H.C.: Broom corn is
allowed to be imported into the U.S.A. only
under permit. The duty is 20 dollars per
20001 b. Freight from Sydney to San Francisco
on broom millet is approximately 355. per ton
of 22401 b. Trade information might be
obtained from Balfour, Guthrie and Co., 351
California-street; F. K. Baxter and Co., 311
California-street; or Hammer and Co., 310
Clay-street—all San Francisco, Cal A.A.:
The extent to which water is brackish depends
upon its mineral or saline content. If the
salinity is high, water cannot be used for
watering plants. Unless the degree of salinity
is known it is dangerous to use brackish water
for irrigation. There is no practical economical
means of removing salinity from water for
irrigation purposes.... B.B.: It is not neces-
sary to license a fishing-boat unless it is used
for the capture of fish , for sale. The annual
fee is ss. Drum nets are lawful for use in
all N.S.W. waters beyond the influence of
tides; also fresh-water lakes, lagoons and ponds,
except waters in which the use of nets
generally, or only drum nets, is specifically
prohibited W.N.W.: Question too vague.
... .8.F.: Guide to Stamp Collecting, by Mel-
ville (Is. 6d.), and Splendid Book of Stamps,
by Phillip (3s. 6d.), should be helpful
J.G.8.: The books have ho commercial value.
(Many others mailed.)


Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
REDUCE YOUR
WAISTLINE
3TO 6 INCHES
• without drugs
• without dieting
o without exercises
INSTEAD OF RISKING YOUR HEALTH BY
WEAKENING DIETS, EXHAUSTING EXERCISES
AND DRUG-TAKING IN AN EFFORT TO GET
RID OF A BULGING WAISTLINE TRY THE
GOVERNA CORRECTIVE HEALTH BELT FOR 7
DAYS — AT OUR EXPENSE.
k
\
%
A Tailored Support
The Corrective Health Belt is NOT a corset. It is a tailored
abdominal support for men. Immediately it is put on it
reduces the girth 2 to 4 inches without the slightest sensation
of discomfort. On the contrary, the wearer feels a most com-
forting support, due to the restoration of a better and more
natural bodily balance.
How the Governa Works
The Governa Corrective Health Belt is fitted to your individual
measure, without laces, hooks or buttons. Its elastic action
causes a gentle changing pressure on the abdomen, causing
fat to be absorbed and eliminated, and bringing results formerly
obtained only by regular massage and exercise.
Daily after the first day’s wear the wearer will find it pos-
sible to further ‘‘draw in” the automatically self-locking
buckles, thus securing a progressive reduction-restoration to
the normal figure.
The Governa Belt is a necessity for men who desire to
avoid the physical deformity of ‘‘an outsize stomach”—for
men who can understand and appreciate how proper control
of abdominal girth must conduce to and conserve that manly
appearance which itself is the physical indication of good
health—and for men who do not believe in losing their figure
and thereby sacrificing health and strength, with the further
loss of their powers, privileges and pleasures.
The easy, constant, alternating action of the Governa Belt
increases elimination and regularity in a normal way, without
the use of harsh, irritating medicines.
Improve Your Appearance
The Governa Corrective Belt will make you appear inches
slimmer AT ONCE and in 7 short days your waistline will
actually be 3 Inches smaller—3 inches of fat and “bulge”
gone —or it won’t cost you a
penny.
The Belt supports the abdominal
wall and keeps the digestive
organs in place— it quickly gives
you an erect, athletic carriage
and greatly increases your vigor
and endurance. Note how much
better your clothes fit and look
without a heavy waistline to pull
them out of shape.
TEST
THE
corrective
HEALTH BEIT I
FOR DAYS
IF .-I
.T DOES NOT
REDUCE!
YOUR W t , iiS
3 inches in,
seven oays
Specialist Advises
Abdominal Support
IFrom Daily Sun, Sydney, Sept. 11th, 1934.1
“According to his obvious mechanism,” said the
specialist, “man is a creature built on the
quadruped pattern. By evolution he has managed
to rear himself into a permanently erect position.
Having chosen this position, he has to experience
some of the penalties attached to it.
‘‘Some sort of bandaged support is required in
order to assist an abdominal mechanism that is
unsuited for biped progression.
“The development of ‘bow-windows’ by men who
do not trouble to develop their abdominal muscles
indicates where lies the weakness in the human
frame..
“This was recognised in classical times,” said
the specialist, “when women’s flowing garments
did not permit display of figure outline, but the
women wore corsets because experience had
shown they were conducive to health and service-
able in exertion.
“Experiments conducted upon men—and animals
—have shown that a gentle compression of the
abdomen caused a greater flow of blood to other
parts of the body, with increased mental and
muscular activity.”
In support of his contention, the specialist pointed
out that the Elizabethan adventurers favored
corsets and, for active enterprise, they set stan-
dards that have rarely been surpassed since.
SENT ON
DAYS' TRIAL #
We’ll send you a Governa Corrective
Health Belt ON TRIAL. If you don’t get
results, the trial costs you nothing. For
the sake of your health and appearance
take advantage of this Trial Offer at once.
Post the Coupon TO-DAY.
POST THIS 7-DAY TRIAL
OFFER COUPON TO-DAY
Governa Corrective Belt Company,
International House,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gentlemen; Without obligation on my part send me your illustrated folder describing the Governa
Corrective Health Belt, and also give me full details of your 7-Day Trial Offer, I enclose 2d,
in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS • ‘ U 1
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.BJ.: Your ancient Maori orator seems
to have pinched Jack Lang’s thunder
A.M.W.: You owe for two bottles of brandy
used in reviving sundry cypher experts floored
by:
High above the heavens rest,
Earth’s growth bowering Nature’s crest,
Anointed so in creeds lines....
.... J.R.McC.: Worn theme... .C.E.G.: You
make heavy going of it... .T.C.McC.: Should
think not, indeed:
Oh, 1 fell in love with a bally girl;
I thought she was a queen;
She was all my fancy painted her;
She was a lovely dream.
I’d take her out to suppers,
And fill her with champeign;
I’d buy her all she wanted,
S'he only had to name:
Dimond rings or sapphires,
Pug dogs or pussy cats.
But when she wanted more husbands
Well, I could not stand for that!
. ...F.S.: “Adventure” starts well, but goes to
pieces... .S.M.E.: Feel better now? ... .G.H.:
Sad spirit, searching song, sinks. Should soar.
... .A.W. (or something): Try it out on
Daisy, if you think she deserves it....Aga-
panthus: One line,
Two years with the blacks is a jolly long time,
seems to come straight from the heart
H.M.: Do something drastic to the ending
and fire it in again next year... .Greenhide:
Catchy rhymes, but you let them lead you into
saying little... .W.E.P.; Repeats too-familiar
things... .0.E.D.: “Outed” is what happened
to it, but it has its points... .M.K.H.: Passable
as a description exercise; now write a poem.
.... A.A.S.F.; The title, “Low Tide,” flatters
it.... W.M.D.: Stanza three the best, but even
its rhymes are forced... .M.L.8.: “Alchemy”
fails to turn accountant’s stony heart to gold.
. ...Byson: No hope for the “Enigma” sort
of verse... .Cluny : Du 11... .M.R.: Too late,
but in good spirit and not badly done....
E.W.8.: We never accept matter already
published elsewhere... .Q.P.: More suitable
for a daily paper K.N.G.: “Hats” off
W.A.K.: Still a good way to go R.F.:
Treatment tolerable, but you haven’t struck the
right subjects yet.. ..8.C.; Don’t like the
refrain... .E.W.C.: Your boys seem more
like Cockneys than Sydney toughs... .0.L.;
Closer than usual... .K.T.; The aboriginal
Clan Macdoo is heading for the Queensland
border again... .M.W.: Horse story blew out
at the two-furlong p05t,...W.5.5.: Murder
can’t be as simple as that, surely... .C.D.W.;
That first car trip has been described a thou-
sand times... .M.E.M.: Exaggerated farce of
a type that has been out of date for 30 years.
J.E.S.: The first part of the yarn is too
clumsy a framework to support the climax....
J.H.L.: You’ve expanded a brief anecdote
into a short story, and it has gained nothing
in the process... .G. 8.: The Murphys are
rather overdrawn... .Nicklin: Humor of situa-
tion isn’t brought out sufficiently....
P.K.P.: Not suitable.... Ratio: The author’s
mistakes have already been commented on.
. ...C.E.D.: You should know better than
to go camping with a man named George.
Le Masque : Doesn’t hold the interest
C.L.: Fact that wallet turned out to be his
own didn’t make hero’s action any more justi-
fiable .... Dry; Not enough humor in it....
A.D.: All’s well that ends we 11... .P.H.E.: Is
there a prize for the best solution? ... .A.N.L.:
Style 0.K., but theme doesn’t appeal....
L.A.H.: Even a humorous story has to be con-
vincing, within its limits... .1.M.R.: Amusing,
but it treads a beaten track... .J.T.McN.:
Unless your articles “with plenty of humor”
have considerably more of it than the one sub-
mitted, you’ll be wiser to save the postage....
E.R.: Better let Gauguin rest... .M.H.H.:
Sorry we couldn’t appreciate the self-revelation
of the repressed budgerigar.... SOP.: Doesn’t
ring the be 11... .1.H.: It’s a long way off the
course.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.K.: A slick line and a sense of charac-
terisation, but the drawings are badly balanced.
... .M.J.W.: Highly glazed surfaces are unsuit-
able for crayon-work... .T.M.: Leave the
Cousin Jacks to Oswald Pryor... .L.H.:
Apart from a little stiffness, they are quite
presentable... .B.B.: You are making no pro-
gress P.F.C.: Signs of improvement, but
jokes need to be brightened... .E.R.J.: Draw-
ing is a libel on the poet if the gag isn’t
R.8.L.: Nothing like him.... J. 8.: Still in
the kindergarten stage W.S.: Furs, are
they? No flapper would believe it... .W.H.J.:
Pre-Federation... .C.A.K.; Ant-heap is fairly
well done, but the fellow sitting on it looks
like nothing on earth... .T.J.W.: Wait until
you can draw Hitler, Stalin and the rest
before trying that sort of cartoon J.E.S.:
Suspect that the freak style is adopted to con-
ceal artistic shortcomings... .C.D.: Distinctly
promising. .. .0.H.: Scratch less and you’ll
climb higher... .S.P.: Old 8.E.K.W.:
Won’t d0....C.H.: Stiff fashion-plates
A.L.M.: Adam and drunk are eyesores
A.E.L.: Wretched effort in green paint
A.H.; Childish... .8.D.: Four dull specimens.
.... A.G.A.: Work is surprisingly uneven —
compare the two you sent... .M.G.: Hopeless.
B.B. (Highett): Untidy and insignificant.
Spectacular Science.
(By “S.W.K.”)
“An extract from the thymus glands of
calves, administered to rats, has given marvel-
lous results in stimulating growth. Philadel-
phian scientists state that, if the extract affects
human beings the same way, babies may grow
into prizefighters at six.” — Cable.
These Yanks amuse me with their
alleged “discoveries.” / obtained startling
results from the thymus gland many
years ago.
I experimented at first on earwigs,
and succeeded in enlarging those in-
sects so fast that in half a day
two of them, in a fight to the
death, completely blocked up the trades-
men’s entrance.
Deciding that the first human being
experimented on should be a member of
my own family I administered a pint
to my newly-born offspring. I had occa-
sion to be away for about a week after
that, picking up some scientific degree or
other at an outlying university, and on
returning home found my wife cuddling
a hefty, heavily-bearded stranger. Angered
beyond words, I made to attack him, and
in self-defence my infant son, for he it
was, hurled me out of my own door,
breaking my leg.
I put him in an old-men’s home. Un-
fortunately his education had not pro-
gressed commensurately with his magnifi-
cent physique, and suspicion was aroused
when he answered all questions with a
“glug-ga” and insisted on trying to suck
his toe. When he developed the thrush
and then snatched a rattle from a visitor’s
baby I was compelled to take him away.
He was three weeks old then, and took
a size-11 boot, had a 48in. chest and
biceps as big as the calf of my leg.
I was desperate as to what to do
until his mental faculties caught up. with
his physical perfection. The thing was to
get him a job where he wouldn’t need
any grey matter at all. Then I had a
brainwave. I wangled a pre-selection for
him.
it was a “safe” seat, and he has been a
really good party hack ever since For
his first few years his expression in Par-
fiament was perhaps a little blank, but
not noticeably at variance with those of
fellow-legislators. 1
But it was enough. I never experi-
mented with the thymus-gland extract
again,
“Ex-Cavalryman”: Tell “Centurion”
u•
* hat . th " his great-
® . r J* enmsula medal did not
amve dll 40 years later was that there
were no such things before. About 1846
medals were issued for the first Afghan
War, and at the same time soldiers still
serving received medals for the Penin-
sula. This was the first British issue of
war medals.


HOOD DRESSING
••SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RAYBESTOS-BLLACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
A o*2 A. (SECOND
edition)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin
252 George Street, Sydney. 3d. extra
The Steering Column.
THE RULE OF THE ROAD.
INFLUENCE OF LEGISLATION UPON HIGHWAY
CASUALTIES.
BY FRED BERRY.
A V 7ITH registrations of automobiles now equal to those of the
W pre-depression peak period and the prospect in the
immediate future of extensive replacement of older-model cars
by modern high-performance types, traffic authorities in this
country are searching diligently for some means to relieve
traffic congestion and (of still greater moment) to check the
alarming increase in highway accidents in which motors are
involved.
The matter is one of national import-
ance, and any plan whereby damage to
life and property can be lessened should
be worth a trial ; yet, as every experi-
enced motorist must realise, legisla-
tion, however drastic, cannot alone
achieve the desired benefits. The crux
of present evils lies in the behavior and
acts of individual motorists.
The position can be viewed in true
perspective only after a careful study of
existing machinery for regulation and
control of traffic. Whilst details may
vary in each State, the principles in-
volved in contemporary Australian legis-
lation are identical.
Driving Tests.
When a citizen decides for the first
time to operate a car on the public high-
ways he is required, as a first step, to
pass a practical test of more or less com-
prehensive character before a license to
drive is issued by the traffic authorities.
Then, on being handed the license and
a “book of words,” he is, in the eyes of
the Law, a fully-qualified driver, conver-
sant with the Act and numberless regula-
tions, even though they have been
gazetted after the license was issued.
In these initial stages of a driver’s
career two weaknesses in present methods
are at once apparent. First, except for
a casual eyesight test, no effort is made
to discover if the applicant for a driving
license is in a suitable physical
condition to handle the car in
a safe manner or to carry out
the regulations. Secondly, every
holder of a license is presup-
posed to know everything and
to do everything correctly
according to the “book.” But
though these defects in control
are obvious, it seems almost
impossible to improve matters save at a
prohibitive cost.
On the first count, that of physical fit-
ness, the eyesight test involves read-
ing a series of letters, placed directly
before the applicant, the percentage of
failures being very low. There is
no test for color-blindness. Yet in
some cities drivers must obey automatic
signals involving the use of colored lights.
Many motorists are color-blind. Again,
some individuals are affected by “tunnel
vision,” their field of vision being re-
stricted to objects directly ahead.
Defective Eyesight.
Any driver with normal sight should
be able to look through the windscreen
and, without altering the focus of his
eyes, detect major movements of objects
on either side, thus giving a more or less
effective field of vision of up to 180
degrees —some people have an even wider
range.
Innumerable accidents have happened
to drivers afflicted with tunnel vision
simply because they were not aware of
the disability. In this regard a simple
test can be made in order to determine
exactly one’s field of vision. Select some
object immediately in front, and look
at it intently, then slowly raise the hands
on either side of the head, keeping them
approximately two feet from the body ;
the greatest angle at which both hands
and the object selected can be plainly
seen gives the effective angle of vision,
which, for purposes of safety, should
never be less than 140 degrees,
Of almost equal importance to perfect
vision is the faculty of estimating with
precision problems involving distance
and speed, statistics proving that the
greater number of roadside casualties are
primarily due to failure in this connec-
tion. Particularly does this apply to a
motorist who, after some years at the
wheel of an old-type car, takes over one
0 f the later tvpes. in which acceleration
MOTORIMPRESSIONS.
Average home garage and ultra-modern sedan.
and maximum speed are vastly superior,
and in which the engine is quieter.
Individual Character.
In respect to the legal fiction that
drivers .have an encyclopaedic knowledge
of the rules and regulations of the road,
legislation cannot possibly transform the
fiction into fact. The amount he knows
about his duties and responsibilities de-
pends solely on the character and tem-
perament of the man at the wheel.
After almost 30 years of motoring, the
writer’s considered opinion is that all
highway accidents can be put in two
groups—those due to road-hoggishness
and those due to lack of experience or
knowledge on the part of the driver. In
dealing with the offenders of the first
group, laws and regulations, while power-
less to prevent accidents, are salutary in
so far as they provide penalties and tend
to discourage repetition ; but the only
cure for limited knowledge is a scheme
of graded licenses or a comprehensive
educational campaign by traffic authori-
ties, the cost of either of which would
be prohibitive.
It is possible, however, to offer help-
ful advice to motorists who are law-
abiding citizens and who desire to pro-
tect themselves, their passengers and
other road-users.
Overconfidence.
For a little while after the motoring
novice has secured his license and is
thrown upon his own resources, he is,
as a general rule, particularly careful,
and concentrates wholeheartedly upon the
safe manipulation of his car. He rightly
assumes that the law of self-preservation,
both for his car and for himself, de-
mands full-time attention when at the
wheel.
Sooner or later, however, there comes
a time when he emerges from the stage
of intense conscious concentration into
the less anxious condition of semi-auto-
matic control. At this particular time
there is grave danger of overconfidence,
and the novice is quite likely to attempt
some manoeuvre that he cannot complete
successfully. While this class of driving
can scarcely be termed discourteous, yet
the fact remains that overconfident
novices are responsible for a number of
thrills and close calls that older and more
staid drivers could well do without.
Now comes the case of* the experi-
enced driver, who should have better
sense than to indulge in stupid and poten-
tially dangerous practices. Were the
motoring fraternity composed entirely of
people of equable temperament and per-
feet manners—granting, of course, aver-
age skill—safety-first tactics would be
automatically applied, and, if accidents
and irritating incidents were not alto-
gether eliminated, they would be lessened
to a very great extent. Unfortunately,
this ideal condition does not exist, and
the number of impetuous and short-tem-
pered drivers is increasing every day.
Of course, some men are inherently bad,
and they will persist in despicable actions
while at the wheel until someone drags
them from their seat and gives them a
thorougn hiding. Moral suasion and
logical arguments in such a case are
equally futile.
On the other hand, there is a huge
army of motorists who, otherwise quite
rational, occasionally irritate and incon-
venience other road-users, and it is to
these people an appeal is made. Greater
tolerance, especially by city motorists,
must be shown than at present. The
fact that one is in a hurry is no excuse
for an exhibition of bad manners ; other
people, though better behaved, may be in
quite as great a hurry. If you were
waiting for an elevator you would not
dream of pushing in front of those al-
ready at the door ; and yet at tram stops
and traffic blocks one regularly sees
drivers forcing their way up to the head
of the queue. Is it the absence of fear
of personal violence that allows this kind
of action from the driving seat, but
never in a crowd of people? Whatever
may be the reason, it is to be hoped
that those who make a practice of this
type of driving will in future exercise
more restraint and set a better example.
Irritating Tactics.
Another dangerous practice is that of
speeding-up when being overtaken. The
mere fact that you have been caught
proves that the other fellow is travelling
at a higher average speed. He may or
may not be driving too fast, and he may
be in a cheap flivver and you in a costly
sedan, but whatever the case he gives
you no excuse for complicating matters.
On the other hand, should you find it
necessary to pass another be sure of the
state of traffic ahead. Await a favorable
opportunity ; and after passing keep up
the same speed until well clear before
pulling in front. Don’t slow down at
once and make someone swallow your
dust —it’s not good manners.
Approaching intersections always re-
duce pace sufficiently to be able to stop
within the distance of your vision, and
remember the man on the right has the
right of way. Briefly, this means that,
when two vehicles are approaching an
intersection or converging
courses and by reason of their
speed and direction may be ex-
pected to collide, the man on
the driver’s left must give way.
It must be admitted that in most
instances there may be some
doubt as to who would, in
normal circumstances, arrive
first at the intersection, but
there must be no indecision, the
correct attitude being invariably to allow
the man on the right to pass ahead.
Blind Spots.
Possibly one of the gravest risks one
may take is to overtake another vehicle
on a blind spot, whether it be on the
crest of a hill or on an acute bend. Here
the offending driver is sometimes lulled
into a sense of security by reason of the
fact that, except for the car ahead, the
road seems deserted; but the motor-
ist should be warned that, however great
the hurry, he must, in the interests of
safety, sit in behind until the road ahead
is in full view.
In connection with night driving there
are still a number of motorists who show
little consideration for others in the
method of using their headlight switches.
The practice of switching off or on when
right under the nose of an approaching
car is not only discourteous, but fraught
with danger to both parties. If the head-
lights comply with the requirements of
traffic regulations it is a much safer prac-
tice to keep them on when passing. Slow
down and watch the inside kerb, and keep
as far towards your correct side as pos-
sible. Then there will be no danger or
inconvenience whatever. Should lights be
switched off at close range the exact
location of the approaching car, as well
as all other objects on the road, becomes
largely guesswork, and a source of grave


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
. \ \
Full Power From Your Tractor!
TtXfACO
Only One Grade of
Super-Power Kero-
s e n e
FIRST GRADE!
Even though it’s a job which calls for all the power your
engine has to give . . . don’t worry so long as the tank is filled
with Texaco Super Power Kerosene,
This specialised Texaco product is refined to vapourise quickly
and completely. It develops full power at every stroke and sus-
tains it in a smooth, even surge that is equal to every emergency.
There are no carbon-forming elements in Texaco. It keeps your
engine clean and cool, reducing breakdown risks to a minimum.
For power—for economy too —standardise on Texaco Super
Power Kerosene!
TEXACO
mP£R-POW£R
KEROSENE
5P1.485
danger to every road-user in the vicinity
is created.
The final matter in which drivers might
well show greater consideration is in the
application of brakes. Although brakes
on all four wheels are now almost uni-
versal in modern cars, there are still on
the roads a large number of older models
not so equipped. Drivers of these older
cars are hard pressed to dodge trouble
if one happens to jamb- the four-wheel
set hard on when immediately in front;
so keep a sharp lookout and give as much
room as possible.
The Trouble Lamp.
W.B.C. (Omeo, Vic.). —My ’3l Chev. cannot
be driven at more than 40 m.p.h. without
missing badly. Running the engine up to this
speed on the hand throttle in the garage, regu-
lar firing can be obtained by flooding the
carburettor. Ignition is not at fault, as new
coil, plugs and wiring have recently been fitted.
Any suggestions ?
If even firing is restored after flooding, it
seems likely that either the float lever has bent
and reauires adjusting or the bottom screw
holding the bowl of the carburettor in place
is in too far, partly closing the high-speed
opening. Dismantle bowl, check level and fit
a cork gasket under the bowl to prevent screw
entering so far.
* * * *
C. (Capertee, N.S.W.). —My motor-cycle is
fitted with a six-volt magneto and generator
for spark plugs and headlights. Would it be
possible to run a six-volt high-frequency D.C.
horn with this unit ?
D. current must be used for your head-
light lamp, and the horn can be coupled to
this circuit.
* * * *
D. (Yeppoon, C.Q.).—/ have a T Ford
which makes a great deal of noise through
the exhaust-pipe. Would this he reduced by
disconnecting the existing muffler and replac-
ing by one taken from a six- or eight-cylinder
car ?
Yes, a larger muffler would be more effi-
cient, but the mechanical noise of the old car
is such that little improvement would result.
* * * *
E. (Innisfail, N.Q.). —What is the cause
and method of remedying wheel-wobble in my
’2B Chev. ? Wobble is particularly had when
travelling at low speeds, rounding curves or
decelerating. Bearings seem to be in order,
and all bolts are tight.
Cause is impossible to determine without
use of special instruments. Toe-in, camber,
wheel alignment, angle of kingpins and align-
ment of wheels and axle might each separately
or collectively be responsible for the trouble.
Uneven tyre pressures or heavy sleeves in
casings can also cause similar symptoms.
W.B. (Narromine, N.S.W.). —Who are the
Sydney agents for Oldsmobile, and where
could I get an instruction-book for ’29 model ?
Write W. H. Lober and Co., William-street,
Sydney.
* * !S *
J.R. (Gordonvale, N.S.W.). —(1) Is there
some device for keeping the windscreen on
Model A Ford open at whatever angle is
desired ? If so, where can it be ob-
tained ? (2) Would you recommend adding
flake graphite to gearbox and differential oil ?
(3) Instructions for use of colloidal graphite
warn against use with compound oils. I have
been using an oil (named). Is it compounded ?
(4) Can the screen round Ford A pump be
removed without lowering sump ?
(1) Write Ford Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Geelong,
Vic. (2) No. Flake graphite is unsuitable
where oilways are fitted on shafts. Suggest
colloidal graphite. (3) Yes, it is a compounded
oil, but colloidal graphite can with advantage
be used in this case. (4) No.
* * * *
J.W.C. (Mareeba, N.Q.). —In my ’29
Plymouth the tappet guide of No. 8 cylinder
has worn, resulting in an irritating click when
idling. Is there any way of removing the tappet
without the expense of dismantling the motor ?
No. Sump must be dropped in order to
replace tappet guide, but, as efficiency is not
in any way affected, this is hardly worth the
outlay. Better wait till bearings require
attention.
* $ * *
R.T.F. (Manly, N.S.W.). —The windscreen
wiper on my ’34 Terra plane is out of order.
Is there any garage specialising in this type of
work ?
Refer it to Dalgety’s service station. The
defect should be located without delay.
(Continued on page 30.)


Make of Car.
(F.W. lirniiii'M Five-wheeling.)
R.A.C.,
Jnp.
Weight,
( ,'wts.
Coasted
from
Ifi in.p.h
\ ards.
Maximum
, Speed,
m.p.li.
Kurrajong
Hill Climb.
Accel ei'aticui
fi'i'mi 10 to SO m.p.li.
(Time in Seconds).
Top Gear. Tluril. Second.
From
0 to no
m.p.li..
Second-.
<Rie-flhh Mil'
Tup-goat
Slow Acceleration
Running, Average,
m.p.li. m.p.li.
Stopped from
£5, m.p.li.
Turning
Circle. Feet,
l.cfl. Rigid.
Average
Speed,
m.p.h.
Petrol
Con-
sumption,
m.p.g.
Ford *‘V8” Sedan
30.00
32.25
704
76.3
3min. 1 8sec.
7.6
4.8
12.4
3,3
38-0
28ft.
Oin.
37
37
35.5
22.5
Pontiac “8" Sedan
32.60
36.50
690
73.6
3min. 36sec.
7.4
4.8
13.4
3.1
36.4
23ft.
Oin.
40
40
35.5
1 7.3
Rover "14" Sedan (F.W.) . .
13.84
29.25
706
62.0
4min. 25sec.
12.8
8.8
6.0
19.8
5.0
30.0
19ft.
Oin.
39
39
35.0
25.3
Chevrolet "Master Sedan . .
26.30
35.75
654
75.3
3min. 39sec.
9.4
6.0
14.8
2.8
36.3
24ft.
Oin.
39
34
36.6
2 1.0
Triumph "Gloria" Sedan (F.W.)
0.3 7
26.50
688
62.7
4min. 25sec.
1 7.2
10.4
7.0
22.0
5.0
28.8
21ft.
Oin.
38
44
39.0
29.0
Dodge D.R. Sedan (F.W.)
25.35
31.75
680
75.0
3min. 1 Bsec.
7.0
4.6
12.6
1.9
46.1
2 1 ft.
6 in.
4 1
41
39.0
23.6
Graham "6" Sedan (F.W.)
25.35
33.00
720
75.0
3 min. 22sec.
6.0
3.8
1 2.0
2.8
47.4
24ft.
Oin.
54
60
3 5.4
23.7
Chrysler Plymouth Sedan (F.W )
23.44
33.00
685
75.0
3min. 2 1 sec.
7.0
4.8
12.8
2.3
42.3
20ft.
Oin.
41
41
39.0
22.8
Ford 8-h.p. Sedan
7.96
17.25
614
53.7
5 min. 1 bsec.
12.8
6.4
22.4
6.0
32.7
26ft.
Oin.
31
29
35.7
4 1.4
Vauxhall "Big 6" Sedan . .
26.30
36.50
635
68.0
4min. 33sec.
10.2
7.2
5.4
18.6
4.8
35.9
24ft.
Oin.
38
38
34.3
20.9
Standard "20" Sedan (F.W.) . .
10.84
32.00
700
67.4
4min. 16sec.
9.6
7.8
5.8
20.6
6.0
37.9
28ft.
Oin.
38
38
34.4
23.8
Chrysler Airflow (F.W.) . .
33.80
39.50
744
88.2
2min. 59sec.
7.4
5.0
10,0
3.0
45.5
23ft.
Oin.
38
24
45.1
1 6.4
Vauxhall "Light 6" Sedan . .
14.07
25.25
690
64.3
4min. 1 2sec.
9.6
7.6
4.8
24.0
4.5
30.0
20ft.
Oin.
36
36
33.5
3 1.2
Willys "77” Sedan
15.63
24.50
725
72.8
3rnin. 33sec.
9.0
5.8
13.4
6.8
42.3
25 ft.
9in.
34
34
35.4
35.0
Chrysler "6" Sedan (F.W.) .
27.34
37.25
726
77.6
3min. 1 8sec.
9.4
5.4
14.4
1.9
45.5
25ft.
9in.
48
48
35.5
21.4
Hudson "8” Sedan
28.80
32.50
734
84.9
3min. 3sec.
6.6
4.2
9.8
4.9
48.0
27ft.
6in.
41
41
36.0
20.3
Buick "8” Sedan . . . .
30.60
36.25
676
80.0
3min. 34scc.
7.8
5.4
14.8
5.0
43.9
23 ft.
6in.
38
38
35.3
1 8.3
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
“SEND OUT
A WILLARD-
no more ordinary
batteries for me”
m
Battery dead —a cold rainy night and miles from
home. The few shillings saved Buying a battery of
unknown make and quality turned out to be expen-
sive economy.
That’s why every year more and more motorists
buy Willards —they’re dependable. Willatds have
a world-wide reputation for quality and cost no
more than many less dependable batteries.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
LIFE OR DEATH IN OILCANS
Saf ~ im I
on
9
m
/ S.
»' V
MOTOR. OIL
after the most searching
investigations as to the most
suitable oil, Admiral Byrd selected
Veedol Motor Oil for use in his
Monoplane, Biplane, Autogiro,
Snowmobile, and Tractor for his
two famous expeditions to the
South Polar regions. The success
of these expeditions was in no
small measure due to the unfailing
quality of Veedol—the finest oil
produced in the world. Veedol is
tested Heat-proof and Cold-proof,
and costs no more than other oils.
100 per cent. Pure Pennsylvania.
a
i V
Tfffl
r On
O'L
mmm®
All States
NEPTUNE OIL CP LIMITED??:
E.J.S. (Hughenden, N.Q.) submits names of
three utility trucks, and asks for particulars
and recommendation.
Rated horse-powers vary, but, under given
conditions of operation and with equal load-
fuel consumption should be almost iden-
tical. Each has standard track. Carrying
capacity is in the order A, C and B, and they
arc recommended in that order.
* jfc
J.W.H. (Manjimup, W.A.). —Within three
months two pistons in my 1924 car have col-
lapsed. They were of aluminium alloy. Are
there any special conditions likely to cause
this, or is it just bad luck ? Both were in the
same cylinder, but there are no mechanical
faults apparent.
Probably first piston collapsed owing to wear
in wrist pin, and more than likely the” connect-
ing rod has been bent in the smash, resulting
in failure of the replacement. Have connect-
ing rods carefully lined up before any further
replacements are made.
N.B.E. (Blayney, N.S.W.). —■/ have done
7500 miles since reboring my four-cylinder
car, and now 1 am having considerable trouble
with the ignition. Car is difficult to start
whether hot or cold. Plug points are wet
when pulled out, and require cleaning every
three or four weeks. Compression is good, and
tappets are set at correct clearances. What’s
the remedy ?
Suggest a magneto overhaul, as symptoms
point to faulty condenser. Have this tested
before going to further expense.
❖ ❖ ❖
Rolls-Ford (Colac, Vic.). —My ’26 Model T
Ford gives 23 m.p.g. and averages 28-30 m.p.h.
Could I, without damage to car, tow a trailer,
2cwt. of luggage and two passengers ?
This load can be pulled without difficulty,
but make certain the universal coupling of
the trailer is of robust construction.
* * * *
W.H.T. (Nyngan, N.S.W.). —Where can I
get an instruction-book for the 1926 four-
cylinder Morris ?
Apply York Motors, William-street, Sydney.
* * * *
I.W. (Ballina, N.S.W.). —Requiring the use
of my side curtains recently, I found them to
be so badly scratched after storing during the
summer that it was impossible to see clearly
through them. Is there any way in which they
can be renovated ?
If scratches are not too deep they may be
removed by vigorously rubbing with metal-
polish. Even then objects will not be sharply
visible, and a far better plan would be to
purchase strip celluloid, cut the old panels out
Plymouth discards independent front-wheel suspension in 1935 series. New
system embodies tubular axle semi-elliptic springs, hydraulic shock absorbers
and an anti-rolling torsion gear, as illustrated.
about an inch from the fabric, and cement
new sections in place. Acetone will make a
perfect joint.
# $ * *
E.M.A. (Semaphore, S.A .). —Since my four-
cylinder cur has been overhauled it is easy to
start from cold, but, once stopped after a long
run, is very difficult to get going again. What’s
the trouble ?
Symptoms point to over-rich mixture. When
engine is warm, slack off the Jock nut on the
slow-running tube and unscrew the knurled
nut a little at a time until the motor runs
evenly. Should the nut be taken back too
far the engine will stall, but correct adjust-
ment is simply arrived at by experiment.
PERFORMANCE DATA OF CARS TESTED OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
1934 Series.
Motor Oddities.
“Seenitall”: Whilst riding an Indian
motor-cycle over a very bad track a chap
I know had a small hole knocked in the
bottom of its sump. It looked like a 20-
mile walk to the nearest town. Ingenu-
ity came to his rescue whilst eating some
caramels he had bought for his wife.
These were moulded together by the
warmth of the hands and stuffed into
the hole. Fortunately a passing motor-
ist obliged with a pint of oil. The 20
miles were covered without the caramels
melting. Cold weather helped.
* * * *
“Eureka”: An inner tube burst beyond
repair, no spare but a brand-new tyre,
was the position we found ourselves in
on a lonely road. A sapling about the
diameter of the normal inflated inner
tube was cut down,
cut into sections Sin.
in length and placed
inside the cover,
which was then re-
placed on the rim.
We travelled about
50-odd miles like
that, and didn’t dam-
age the cover. Have
seen wet wheat,
grass, gum-leaves
and even an old
overcoat used for
such an emergency.
Give me a sapling
every time.
“Crash”; Driving home with a
late at night the petrol supply taile..
Blockage was somewhere between vac.
tank and carburettor, for I found tna
by blowing in the vac.-tank filler hois
petrol was forced into the carburettor.
We had no torch to investigate further,
but my mate solved the problem. He
sat on the back-turned bonnet with the
tyre pump, pushed the rubber (minus
connection) down the vac.-tank filler
hole and pumped steadily. I drove
on.
* * * *
“R. de C.”: Coincidences? Recently
at Tunbridge (Tas.) a resident found on
the main road a N.S.W. car registration
plate and took it to the police station.
A few days later another resident came
upon a Tas. registration plate in almost
the same place, and it, too, was handed
to the trooper. The finds were reported
to police headquarters, and it was dis-
covered that both plates had been
lost on separate occasions by the
same individual, a resident of Pyen-
gana (n.-e. coast), who had purchased
the two cars within a few days of each
other.


RADIO NEWS.
Why Musical
Broadcasts
Miss
“B.L.’s” root-
and-branch con-
demnation of
from-the-theatre
opera broadcasts
(B. 17/4/’35) hits
the nail on the
head, but the spike could, and should,
be driven in a good deal further.
The fact is that there is not a single
Australian broadcasting station capable
of sending out any sort of music save
recordings in a satisfactory manner, and,
even if they all did possess the extremely
expensive and elaborate equipment neces-
sary, there isn’t a receiving set in the
country (outside research laboratories)
that could do justice to the transmission.
In the first place, most Australian
stations are separated on the frequency
scale by only lOkc. —some are much
closer than that —and a separation of at
least 20kc. is necessary to give scope to
the harmonics and overtones that give
each musical instrument its characteris-
tic. Furthermore, most Australian
studios are connected with the transmit-
ting stations by land-lines which place
undue restrictions on the frequency
range, and they are comparatively so
low-powered that, even if they didn’t
suffer under their other handicaps, recep-
tion would be badly affected by fading
at distances of 50 miles or over from
the transmitting station.
As to receivers, to take advantage of
approximately perfect musical transmis-
sion (perfection is not yet attainable),
the mechanism in the home would have
to be very much more complex and ex-
pensive than anything at present on the
market. What Australia is getting at
present in the way of musical broadcast-
ing (always excepting records, which are
fairly well adapted to present facilities)
as conditioned by a hotch-potch of slip-
shod compromises at both ends of the
air-line. The broadcasting technicians
and the more conscientious receiver-
manufacturers are quite well aware of
the limitations that encompass them, and
are doing their best to improve matters.
But as things stand I’d sooner hear
Beethoven’s Ninth performed in my pre-
sence on a mouth-organ than listen to
what contemporary
radio equipment would
do to a complete and
competent symphony
orchestra engaged in
the same exercise.
Until broadcasting
transmission and recep-
tion has advanced
about a thousand miles
along the road to what
Yankee blah-mer-
chants call “h ig h
fidelity” Australia
would be well advised
to can its music (per
gramophone process)
before letting it loose in the ether.
ALKALI IKE.
Broadcast:
“Session for
Little Ones”
Well, well, well
now. That’s three
wells, isn’t it?
Why, if we put
them all together,
end to end, we’d
have a river,
wouldn’t we? And, of course, that’s what
you’re all waiting for, isn’t it? Our new
serial story, “The Pink-eyed Kaffir of
Skeleton River,” brought to us by
courtesy of Thickstrength Castoroil, Ltd.
You all know the slogan, don’t you?
Thickstrength: the Flavor Lasts.
Well now, all ready for a jolly old,
ripping old evening, eh? All gathered
round together, happy and jolly and
whatnot? That’s the idea! Why, look
at Mother there, smiling away, with her
feet up on the mantelpiece. Well now,
wasn’t that silly of me! Of course it’s
Father! We all know where Mother
is, don’t we?
I tell you. Uncle Alf, she has done
nothing of the kind! Do you know
what, children? That bad old Uncle Alf
has just come into the studio, and he’s
made a most shock-ing remark! He said:
“I’ll bet she’s ducked up to the corner
for a quick ’un before six o’clock.” Don’t
you know. Uncle Alf, what day this is?
Well, well, WELL, children! He’d for-
gotten it’s the day before the Thick-
strength Castoroil First Coupon Com-
petition closes! Fancy you not know-
ing that, Uncle Alf! I’m surprised at
you! You deserve to be spanked! I’d
ask Mother to do it,
too, only she’s so
busy out in the
kitchen ... No,
she is not washing-
up! Uncle Alf, you
are simply impos-
sible to-night! Of
course she is not
washing-up! This is
not the day for it.
She is counting
again for the umpty-
umpth time her col-
lection of Thick-
strength Castoroil
Coupons.
Mr. Ah Kong
Loo.
And how many has she got? Oh, but
we can’t tell that, can we? That’s our
secret, isn’t it, children? But here’s
something just between ourselves that I
want you to make a special note of so
that you can tell Mother when she comes
in. You know, I was having lunch at
the Australia to-day, when who should
come in but Mr. Ah Kong Loo, the
Bill Splice.
Managing Director
of Thick strength
Castoroil, Ltd., and
you’ll never guess
what he told me.
No, Uncle Alf, he
did not tell me to
put my shirt on any-
thing. Look, we’ll
never get on with
the serial if you
keep on interrupting
like this! Your
Uncle Alf seems to
be bubbling over to-
night, doesn’t he,
children? And no
wonder! Like
everyone else at Station OIC, he takes
his tablespoonful of Thickstrength every
morning. Don’t forget the name, will
you? But I’m sure you won’t. Thick-
strength, the really-thick Castoroil.
And, oh, I nearly forgot to tell you
what Mr. Ah Kong Loo told me at lunch.
He told me that this week Thickstrength
Castoroil, Ltd., is putting a new, extra-
large, family-size bottle of their famous
They were attacking the canoe!
product on the market. Now that’s
wonderful news, isn’t it? Don’t forget
the name. It is on every bottle. Thick-
strength : the Flavor Lasts.
Well, well, well! And so we come to
the first instalment of our great serial
story. “The Pink-eyed Kaffir of Skeleton
River”:
1 “Ahoy, there,” cried Bill Splice the
Bosun.
From the camp on the river-bank the
reply split the welkin :
“Go and get your hair cut!”
For a moment Bill Splice was con-
torted with rage. Had he negotiated 300
tortuous miles of the Skeleton River to
be addressed in this cavalier fashion?
But only for a moment. A second
later he was paddling his canoe madly
to the shore. Again the cry rang out:
“Your old man’s a hairy ape!”
Whooping with joy, a smile splitting
his face from ear to ear. Bill Splice
spurred the canoe onwards with power-
ful sweeps of his toughened arms. He
knew, none better than he, the welcome
that awaited him. Three hundred miles
he had paddled alone in his search for
young Jack Beltane, and here was Jack’s
boon companion Polly the Parrot call-
ing to him across the turbulent water.
‘‘Where there’s smoke there’s fire,”
thought Bill Splice. “My search is ended.
I can take Jack home to. his mother and
father” . . .
Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!
Bill Splice turned his head in time to
see a Kaffir hurtle through the bushes
and fall headlong into the gaping jaws
of a man-eating crocodile. There was
one bloodcurdling yell. Hardened
though he was. Bill Splice closed his eyes
at the awful sight. Drifting further and
further apart, the two severed halves of
the man’s body floated on the blood-
stained water.
As if it had been a signal, Bill Splice
now saw a sight which made even his
stout heart shudder and tremble with
horror. The whole surface of the river
had suddenly become a moving, slimy
mass of black bodies, hideous to behold.
Smash! He felt the paddle snatched
from his hand, and saw it disappear
down the evil red maw of one of the
monsters.
Crunch! He
leapt to his feet.
They were attack-
ing the canoe!
With a cry of
terror he felt one
of them ripping
the flesh from his
leg. He could feel
the blood gushing
as he leapt.
Jack, Beltane.
It was like a horrible nightmare. He
could hear their jaws clashing together
as they snapped at him while he ran
over their scaly backs. Would he reach
the shore?
Since those four startling shots there
had been. an eerie silence. Had Jack
Beltane been transfixed by an assagai?
At last he was at the bank, clambering
wildly up. Gathering up his strength, he
plunged through the bushes to the cleared
space about the camp.
About him all was wrapped in ominous
silence. Even Polly the Parrot was not
to be seen or heard.
Now Nature joined in to make the
terrifying position he was in tenfold more
horrible. He had
just time to note
the pool of sticky,
thick blood at the
door of the tent
when the eclipse of
the sun plunged
the jungle about
him into inky
darkness.
How long he
stood there in the
Polly.
dark he did not know. But as he stood he
saw coming towards him through the
inky blackness a large, hideous, dripping
eye, which burned like moist fire. Four
feet from him it stopped, hanging in
mid-air, glaring evilly with staring, hyp-
notic power.
A piercing scream rent the night.
“Ob. ,my God! Oh, my God! Mother!
Mother!”
It was the voice of Jack Beltane. Some-
where in the hidden darkness the fiends
were torturing him. Only too well did
Bill Splice know the methods of these
cruel fiends. He did not need to see
what they were doing to poor little Jack.
Standing there in the dark with the cruel
eye burning into his very brain, he could
almost feel that knife point that was
creeping . . . creeping . . . creeping! It
would cut in through Jack’s neck to
sever the intelligence tendon and leave
him a gibbering lunatic!
Would he reach the shore ?
Another scream, mounting to a terrible
shriek!
He knew the knife had gone home . . .
Well, good-night, now, little ones. This
new serial is brought to you by courtesy
of Thickstrength Castoroil, Ltd. Now,
off you all go to bye-bye. Sleep well.
Go-o-o-o-ood night. Pleasant dreams.
SIZZLE AND A.
That
Syndicated
Twaddle
“John Kent-
well” exposes a
particularly unde-
sirable importa-
tion in his article
(B. 10/4/’35) on
“Syndicated
American Twaddle.” The B-class stations
are rapidly increasing their use of
American transcriptions (15-minute
records of serial plays, etc.).
In one station I have noted eight dif-
ferent transcriptions, and, as most of
these sessions are on several times a
week, some idea of the amount of work
this denies Australian authors and artists
can be readily gathered.
We know that B-class stations must
mainly subsist on records for their enter-
tainment—this is all well and good ; but
why permit American transcriptions of
plays, etc., to be used for their special
sessions? It has been amply proved that
Australian authors and artists can put
on highly-successful plays and so forth.
In fact, with the stage so badly hit by the
talkies, many Australian artists have
turned to the radio and demonstrated
that they can produce first-rate enter-
tainment.
To their credit, one big American firm
is using Australian artists in a session to
boost its products ; so what about the
others—including the British—coming
into line! Or must legislation be intro-
duced to protect authors and artists?
INTERESTED LISTENER.
All Round
the Dial
“Lupan”: For
the life of me I
cannot under-
stand the dis-
like for B-class
stations expressed
by Alexander Lippmann (B. 13/3/’35). I
have been a listener for over 11 years, and
cannot see anything wrong with what he
calls “B-class blah.” The B-class people
supply very good programmes consider-
ing they do not receive a fat slice of the
license fees and make £87,000 profit
at the end of the year, so surely we can
put up with a little advertising. The
popularity of these stations would be
proved if the P.M.G. ever made the
ghastly mistake of prohibiting advertise-
ments. As for pronunciation and enun-
ciation, one hears words that would make
Webster shiver from both A- and B-class
stations. But where is faultless English
spoken, and what is faultless English? I
have yet to hear it.
“L.L.L.”: One of the most solid per-
sonalities in 8.8. C. programmes is an
Australian girl, Jean Melville, a member
of the big station’s variety department.
She is available for any production, and
is really the nucleus around which many
of the variety programmes are built.
A Sydney girl, Jean migrated to the
Royal Academy of Music with the
Emmeline Woolley Scholarship, made a
favorite of Liszt, and was readily taken
on by the 8.8. C., from which she has
performed for seven years.
“Way”: Engaged by the A.B.C. to
tour broadcasting over the national net-
work, Lorna Sydney-Smith and Edward
Black are well-known Westralian artists.
The lady, though only 21, already
has to her credit as a dramatic soprano
concert and grand opera successes. She
looks to have a future. Black, pianist
and Adelaide Conservatorium Mus.Bac.,
has also studied the violin sufficiently to
win the State and national prizes for
best violin compositions in last year’s
A.B.C. Composers’ Competition.
“Cam Cove”: The pneumatic drill is
nothing to a loudspeaker throwing the
air into a frenzy of sound, and the
trouble is that there is no recognised anti-
noise craft to combat it. However, pend-
ing introduction of a law to teach wire-
less owners better manners, a cobber of
mine has a corrective of his own —crude,
but satisfactory. A battered saucepan
with a lumpy bottom is put into the
kitchen sink; in the saucepan is placed a
rattly colander, and when the high-pres-
sure water-tap is turned on full tilt the
counter-noise made by the “invention”
puts the wireless out of business for a
radius of 50 yards.
“Ascoltante”: A recent 2UW Sunday
session of annotated recorded music pro-
duced a genuine novelty—a recording of
Debussy’s “Moonlight” played by John
Hunt on a Neo-Bechstein piano, the chief
feature of which instrument is a device
which sustains the tone in organ fashion.
As revealed in this broadcast, pianoforte
tone so sustained is remarkably beautiful
in effect, restrainedly used. The effect is
not unlike that of a ’cello and pianoforte
played together. What with double key-
boards, sustaining devices and what not,
it seems as though the pianist of the
future will have to cultivate the acrobatic
agility of the wurlitzer player.


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
" S. Y. Colville, N.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), 'Ti
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con- ||
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 822G1 I
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
GEOPHYSICAL PROSPECTING BY RADIO.
Radio science is assisting considerably towards unravelling the mysteries
of the almost unknown crust of the earth, and research is being devoted
to devising new means for assisting the mining engineer.
Various electrical investigating methods
are employed, and they are mostly based
on electro-magnetic effects and radiation,
penetrating into the earth, sometimes to
a considerable depth. The extent depends
upon the character of the electro-magnetic
disturbance and upon the nature of the
material penetrated. The depth to which
these waves can be detected or measured
involves the further question of the sen-
sitivity of the receiving device. All
methods of electrical prospecting, how-
ever, are based upon the fact that the
homogeneity of the field of electro-mag-
Fig. 1. —Field distorted by a conducting
body.
netic power is immediately disturbed if
a body lies within this field that has elec-
trical constants different from the sur-
rounding medium.
Good conductors of electricity, such
as silver and copper, tend to absorb elec-
trical disturbances and act as electric
screens, whilst highly permeable sub-
stances, such as permalloy, are good ab-
sorbers of magnetic effects. Rock free
from conducting or magnetic materials
should therefore be penetrated by the
electro-magnetic effects to great depths,
and it is on this account that electrical
detection of conducting ore-bodies is
possible to depths of many hundred feet.
In usual practice high-frequency cur-
rents are set up in a small transmitter
giving a constant signal and situated at
a predetermined spot. The ground party
then proceeds with a receiving device to
note and chart intensity signal measure-
ments over a large area of the surround -
Fig. 2. —An insulating body has the
opposite effect upon the signal intensity.
ing countryside. The radio waves, as is
well known, follow two different paths.
One set travels upwards and eventually
is reflected back by the Kennelly-Heavi-
side layer, so important for long-distance
reception. The other set is known as
the ground wave, and has characteristics
that become of the utmost value in ex-
periments of this type.
By experiments in ordinary radio com-
munication it has been established that
the penetration and extent of these
ground waves are dependent upon their
frequency. With very short wave-lengths
the ground wave dies out rapidly, and
distant' communication is dependent upon
the sky wave, but with the very long
wave-lengths the ground wave has great
penetrative power. It propagates with the
greatest difficulty through desert areas,
but a good conducting body such as salt
water attenuates it very much less.
Radio prospecting is done by means
of a portable transmitter and receiver,
and field-strength measurements are
plotted in the form of a graph.- Some-
thing like the illustrations shown may
form the field-strength chart. It will be
seen that the lines of equal intensity
have been distorted by the presence of
some large body of metal or body of
good conductivity acting upon the re-
ceived signals. This may be a metallic
deposit or an ore deposit, a lake or an
underground river. On the other hand,
as illustrated, the signals may be bent
back to miss insulating or high-resistance
bodies that have the opposite effect, in-
dicated by the irregularity of the plotted
curve. In this case it may be deduced
that there is very dry sand or perhaps an
oil deposit indicated by the difference
from normal.
It does not have to be a very large
deposit to show effect upon propagation,
as has been proved by field-strength
measurements of broadcasting stations in
and around large cities, where the pres-
Fig. 3. —Illustrating one form of
geophysical detector device.
ence of buildings with steel framework
has been indicated in the results.
Whilst the method outlined and its
many variations are suitable for a gen-
eral survey of large areas and big de-
posits, the actual location of smaller in-
dividual deposits can best be ascertained
by different methods. The newer short-
wave detectors use the subterranean
body itself as the agent for determina-
tion. Wave-lengths used in this case are
in the region of 1.6 m.
The resistance of the ground to the
propagation of electro-magnetic waves
becomes greater the higher the frequency,
but only a certain percentage of the
energy is absorbed, and if it is possible
to send a concentrated beam of high in-
tensity into the ground it can penetrate
to a considerable depth.
Bodies in their path will eventually de-
flect and reflect them, so that if a re-
ceiver sensitive enough is carried over the
grpund a reflected wave will be received
from below the ground. The problem
of using ultra-short waves in prospecting
therefore resolves itself into providing a
transmitter of sufficiently high power
coupled with a receiver of extremely high
sensitivity. Although considerable re-
search work has been undertaken, theory,
so far, seems to have outstripped experi-
ments, and undoubtedly further research
is required to determine the laws govern-
ing the absorption of radiation by the
earth.
But a basis of investigation holding
out great possibilities has been developed,
and already is of great assistance. Like
many of the other new geophysicai
methods of prospecting it is dependent
upon principles which are still imperfectly
defined and understood. What has been
done, however, provides yet another
illustration of the application of radio
science to spheres other than that of
communication with beneficial results.
D. N. L.
SHORT-WAVE RECEIVERS.
Dead Spots in Tuning.
At the natural or fundamental fre-
quency of an aerial connected to a short-
wave receiver, also at certain harmonics,
the damping of the aerial is greater than
can be compensated for by the amount
of reaction generally available. Accord-
ingly, as the tuning dial is rotated, it will
be found necessary to increase regenera-
tion very considerably at certain points
on the scale, and at the actual “dead
spots” no amount of manipulation will
produce oscillation.
There are several methods by which
the difficulty may be overcome. As the
transfer of energy depends upon the de-
gree of coupling existing between the
aerial and the grid circuit of the receiver,
the adoption of a very loose
coupling will minimise, and
may completely cure, the
trouble. Undue weaken-
ing of the coupling, how-
ever, may result in loss of
signal strength, so it is
always desirable to deter-
mine the best value of coup-
ling experimentally. For
this purpose a small variable
condenser of the compres-
sion type —maximum capa-
city about o.ooo2mfd. —
may be connected in series
with the aerial, or a small
two-turn or three-turn coil,
untuned, may be used as an
aerial coupling coil, and
mounted so that it may be
moved, mechanically, with
respect to the grid coil, until
the desired degree of coupling is obtained.
Another alternative is to connect a
two-turn or three-turn coil in series with
the aerial and fitting a clip-connector or
switch so that the coil can be short-cir-
cuited when desired. The change thus
caused in the natural wave-length of the
aerial has the effect of moving the dead
spot to another and less important part
of the tuning dial.
Amateur Chatter.
The importance of ultra-short-wave
experiments cannot be overstressed in
view of the imminence of television.
Apart from directive tests with the bridg-
ing of unusual distances as an object, the
question of the design of suitable re-
ceivers abounds with interesting prob-
lems. The superhet described B.
24/4/’35 provides an introduction to a
more desirable type of receiver than the
familiar super-regenerator. The latter is
entirely unsuitable for television.' When
television arrives on the air in Australian
cities, as it inevitably will, amateurs with
a working knowledge of ultra-s.-w. pro-
pagation and reception will have obvious
advantages over those to whom the ultra-
shorts are yet unknown. As the work
being done on the five-metre band in all
States is still confined to limited groups
the formation of ultra-s.-w. clubs would
do much to attract those who are yet
Rotating ultra-short-wave aerial array
used at experimental station VK2NO,
Waverley ( N.S.W.).
unaware of the possibilities of the bands
below 10 metres.
VK2UG is using the superhet described
B. 24/4/’35, and is enthusiastic about its
superiority over the super-regenerator.
Ross Hull, of “Q.5.T.,” in a letter to the
writer remarks that the humidity of the
Australian coastal regions should con-
tribute to world records in distances on
ultra-shorts. VK’s 2UC and 2AZ have
been advertising the five-metre band to
inter-State amateurs by relaying 2UC’s
five-metre telephony on 40 metres, via
2AZ. VK2OD took a portable to
Hazelbrook (N.S.W.), and hooked it to
2BP’s beams. He has heard nearly all
the Sydney 56mc. stations on a vertical
doublet aerial in Katoomba. No reports
of QSO’s are to hand as this is written.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Amateur Radio Club
is reported to be taking up ultra-shorts
in earnest.
“T. and R. Bulletin,” England, men-
tions in district notes that Jack Scott, ex-
VK2NR, is now G6JB at Bexley Heath,
London.
The 40-metre band each week-end
sounds more and more like a tea-fight,
and back-fence telephonic merchants
monopolise the suffering 300 kilocycles.
Many of these ’phones are passable, but
too many new licensees appear to inflict
their presence by breaking into amateur
radio with loop-modulated raw A.C. car
A cartwheel and axle are the basis of the five-metre
rotatable aerial system used at experimental station
VK2NO.
riers. The ambition of some people seems
to be to hash up the air with an apology
for the human voice, regardless of un-
willing listeners. This state of affairs,
also (in some instances) the “second OP”
farce, is due for a clean-up. If would-
be ’phone exponents are not capable of
taking the A.0.C.P., they have no right
to masquerade on the air at licensed
stations.
Whereas the 10-metre band is again
silent, 20 metres is alive with strong
American ’phones from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.,
S.M.T. Many “W” ’phones also break
through between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m.
Except for a few weak Russian amateurs,
Europeans are virtually missing.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
The question is often asked, “How will
television be used when it is estab-
lished?” The observations of the British
committee on television are illuminating
in this respect: “The time may come
when a sound-broadcasting service en-
tirely unaccompanied by television will
be almost as rare as the silent cinema
film is to-day. We think, however, that,
in general, sound will always be the more
important factor in broadcasting. No
doubt the evolution of television will
gradually demonstrate the possibility of
its application for many purposes
We can conceive its potential application
—as distinct from existing practice in
picture transmission —to public tele-
graphic and telephonic services, to the
transmission of lists of prices or of fac-
simile signatures of documents, and to
its use by the police and the forces of the
Crown or as an aid to navigation.”
* * * *
Port Moresby is to have its own
broadcasting station, the equipment hav-
ing been dispatched from Sydney by
A.W.A. Residents of Papua and the
Mandated Territory will thus be enabled
to hear radio programmes without ex-
cessive atmospheric interference. The
new station, to be known as 4PM, will
be conducted by A.W.A., by which com-
pany the plant was designed and manu-
factured. The transmitter is of the
latest “high-fidelity” type, and will have
a power of 100 watts in the aerial, operat-
ing on a wave-length of 221 m. The
Moresby station will be the first broad-
caster in the South Pacific islands.
* * *
“Spotlight”: A prominent B-battery
manufacturer in England recently threw
a spark into a powder factory by launch-
ing on the market a very cheap line of
B batteries bearing his name. 120 volts
for 6s. is attractive to the average pocket,
but there is another side to the question.
The repercussion may be that the most


m
AIRZONE
MODEL 5»1
5 - Valve All - Electric
Console Superheterodyne
I
i
C ASH
RADIO’S . . .
RICHEST VOICE
RADIO’S . . .
FINEST VALUE
A splendid example of
Airzone’s supreme crafts-
manship . . . both cabinet
and chassis are of highest possible
workmanship . . . the set, itself, a musical instrument
whose tone is pure gold. 5 very latest valves; full
automatic volume control; continuously variable tone
control; direct vision dial altered to suit new wave lengths
of stations; SPECIAL MAGNAVOX SPEAKER WITH
“TROPIK” TRANSFORMER, a new development in
transformers which eliminates chance of breakdown in the
speaker. EASIEST TERMS ARE AVAILABLE
Obtainable from all leading radio dealers, departmental
stores and music houses throughout the Commonwealth.
Dealers in Country Districts, apply direct to Airzone for
particulars of franchise.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise.
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited, Camperdown, Sydney. 5.35-S1
essential and well-established high-capa-
city B battery may be unsaleable. The
new low-priced battery is obviously a
light-duty product, and, as such, only
suitable for use with small and very eco-
nomical battery receivers. Such bat-
teries would be of little use to the Aus-
tralian listener outback, where long ser-
vice is essential. With a B battery of
adequate capacity, the modern battery
receiver can be every bit as good in per-
formance as its A.C. operated counter-
part, but, if radio designers are called
li: upon to base their receivers on the small
and cheap battery, battery receivers will
J become less instead of more useful. The
bigger the batteries for Australia the better.
; \< # * * *
A welcome addition to the special
Radiotron 955 Acorn valve for ultra-
short waves is announced in U.S.A. This
is an R.F. pentode with a voltage amplifi-
cation of 10 at 3.5ra. Such valves will
eventually play an important part in the
development of ultra-short-wave receivers
for television. A.W.A. is expecting stocks
of the new Acorn in the near future.
* * * *
Seven-metre television was recently
received in Germany 200 kilometres
from Berlin in an experimental truck—
a still further proof that the very short
waves are by no means restricted to the
optical range.
❖ * i|i *
“Cathray”: “Wireless World” (Eng.),
in the issue for March 8, 1935, features
a section devoted to “components
and accessories for television sets.”
The products of various cos. are re-
viewed, and the impressive list includes
A.C./D.C. motors for driving discs or
mirrors at 20s. and 30s, each, mirror
drums at 555. each, viewing tunnels,
Ediswan cathode-ray tubes at £8 Bs. and
£lO 10s., lenses, neon lamps, synchronis-
ing gear, ultra-short-wave coils and con-
densers, photoelectric cells and exciter
lamps. England is indeed a paradise for
the scientific hobbyist, while in Austra-
lia we haven’t yet even the modern iron-
core coil on the market!
Casual Comment.
“Enno”: Television in its 1935 ultra-
short-wave dress owes something to an
Australian, Ross A. Hull,
of “QST” staff, U.S.A.
Experimental work on
waves in the region of
five metres had been done
by amateurs of varying
degrees of activity since
1925 or before. In 1931,
Hull gave an entirely dif-
ferent outlook to five
metres by designing new
apparatus featuring old
ideas. The immediate success of com-
paratively easy telephonic communica-
tion over fair distanc.es attracted the
whole experimental radio world. By
1933 ultra-short-waxe telephony had
taken on commercial possibilities, and it
was realised that here was an ideal
medium for local television. Hull is at
present engaged in pioneer experimental
work with 2\- and waves
MR. ROSS A. HULL, of “QST” ( U.S.A. ).
between points radiating from Hartford,
Connecticut, over 100-mile distances. In
a letter to the editor of this page he says
he considers Australian conditions ideal
for ultra-short-wave propagation.
* * * *
“Alpha”: One of television’s by-
products that have suffered neglect is elec-
trical recording of pictures to be repro-
duced as sound. The idea is to scan the
object, boost the current from the photo-
electric cell and record in the usual way.
When played through a speaker the
objects scanned are found to have a
characteristic note. It is quite possible
to recognise, for example, the sound
made by one’s nose. Two lines of re-
search that suggest themselves are adver-
tising and sight for the blind. In the
first case an identifying record of a firm’s
premises might preface announcements,
giving a little individuality. In the second,
a blind man, equipped faith portable
scanning gear, might recognise objects
with which he had become familiar by
recordings of their characteristic sounds.
The apparatus would, of course, require
earphones for transient use. Possibly
cumbrous Braille might be superseded by
scanning methods.
Latest in the Trade.
The name “Ferranti” means something
in radio, being symbolic of exceptionally-
high quality in audio-coupling equipment
and measuring instruments. The latest
list of Ferranti products has been re-
ceived from the sole agents for Austra-
lia, Noyes Bros. Sydney, Ltd. The
24in. scale-meter is a familiar Ferranti
product, and is available in all types of
milliameters, voltmeters and ammeters.
New ranges of interest to radio en-
gineers are the moving-iron, metal-recti-
fier, thermal- and electrostatic-voltmeter
types. In the Ferranti audio-transformer
range there are now the quiescent-type
0PM12.C., with ratios of 1.7 to 1 and
40 to 1 ; also Class-B input and output
models and cheaper bakelite-cased trans-
formers. Noyes Bros, also handle the
well-known line of Seyon radio receiver.
Following on the recent introduction
of a new range of variable midget con-
densers for short-wave purposes, the Wet-
less Co. has now produced ganged types
for use in short-wave superhets or re-
ceivers with a tuned R.F. stage before
the detector. The sample illustrated is a
35mmfd. twin-gang model with the usual
one-hole front mounting. The assembly
is particularly rigid, being of |in. steel,
and the rotor action is smooth and noise-
less, the shaft and bearings being of
generous proportions. Insulation is high-
grade moulded bakelite. Condensers of
this type are useful to ultra-short-wave
experimenters for split-stator tuning of
low-power transmitter tank circuits. Any
size up to lOOmmfd. is obtainable. The
address of Wetless Electric Manufactur-
ing Co. is 281 King-street, St. Peters,
N.S.W.
* * 'jf t-
An innovation for the battery user is
the Mullard Master Unit, Mkl, just re-
leased by Mullard Radio Co. (Aust.),
Ltd., 35 Clarence-street, Sydney. It is a
seven-valve superheterodyne arrangement
in a sealed heavy-gauge steel case with
glossy black enamel finish. The back of
the casing is easily removed by loosening
two thumbscrews, thus exposing the
valves in a separate compartment. The
circuit incorporates A.V.C., diode detec-
tion and class B output, the valves being
two-volt VP2, SP2, TDD 2, PM2DX and
PM2B types. All coils, I,F. transformers,
class B transformers, padding condenser
and other vital units are specially treated
against humid conditions. The complete
unit is easily fitted in a cabinet, and
readily removable for examination if re-
quired. A comprehensive outline of
specifications, etc., is available to Bulle-
tin readers on application to Mullard
Radio Co.
“Cluny”: Right from the jump radio
textbooks advised by-passing the aerial
to earth through an arrestor*, outside the
house, to minimise the danger of light-
ning. In 10 years at the game I have
never heard of a case of a set being hit
by lightning, here or abroad. The ques-
tion is whether we’ve wasted time and
money guarding against a remote con-
tingency, like the red flag before the
early motor, or whether the precautions
proved 100 p.c. effective.
[There have been several cases re-
corded of sets being affected by light-
ning, and the writer saw one case of a
direct hit. It was displayed in a window
in Leeds (Eng.) in 1925, and looked as if
a Mills grenade had been lobbed inside
the cabinet. The ebonite front panel had
melted in places, and inductances were
just a mass of fused copper surrounded
by charred odds and ends that once were
paper dielectric condensers, etc. After
the novelty of the exhibit had waned,
the manager of the radio department
realised that such a display was
likely to scare prospective listeners
off (broadcasting was yet young), and
apprehensively removed it. The arrestor
is by no means a complete pro-
tection against a lightning discharge
in the immediate vicinity, but it has
the advantage of leaking away heavy
static charges from a well-insulated
aerial. Quite an unpleasant shock can
be obtained from a well-insulated and
elevated aerial for some time after
heavily-charged clouds have moved on,
and the arrestor plays its part by re-
moving the accumulated charges from
the aerial, as may be seen and heard by
the discharges across the gap. The re-
assuring effect of the presence of the
humble arrestor should not be over-
looked,—Ed.]
The Q. and A. Column.
My set is a five-valve S.T.C. tuned R.F.
A picture-rail aerial is used here ( Grenfell,
N.S.W.), and in daylight -2CO only is heard,
and at night any station I require. The volume
control must be turned full, otherwise stations
are inaudible. (1) Is this in order, and is the
set functioning properly ? (2) When the valves
have been used for a while, will reception fall
off ? (3) Would 1 get better reception with an
outdoor aerial ? —260.
(1) The set is functioning normally, but the
inside aerial limits the signal pickup. (2)
Eventually, but this may be years, or it may be
months. Have valves tested every few months.
(3) Emphatically yes. A good external aerial,
about 60 feet in total length (including the
lead-in) and properly insulated at a good eleva-
tion clear of the house or trees, will make a
vast difference.


Wy>.
wZmm&t-*
'mmM
mm.
W/di!:
m
KWyA
RJW!
%
mmL
M
WMmm.
' ' y v*.
mmm.
»$ v>
«
>;•.-•
SSs^;
wjV v *'' /,/
s«
1®
UW,S
mmmm^
\m
SgSsiSsjf*/! & " , WP
iaas::
wws
';i/
SAFETY MATCHES r
vvwa
ia,i
y
i
xMtt V'.’
11.1
tM'li'i
fi
<BB
»
I I
w,W
/ » > i, «
h. 11
Vi\ • VaV
mr
mb' .
t m
/■"
wr • i
i
i m
(7/i
Ulti
The SMOKER
prefers Bryant & Mays
because
-the heads flare to a strong flame so swiftly-
-the paraffined splints ignite so thoroughly and give such a
long-sustained light even in a breeze-
-the splints are so straight-grained and tough
-the box is so strong, not losing shape in the pocket- 3
-and the striking sides of the box are so well surfaced, nevef
crinkled or soft, so that every match in every box strikes every time.
BRYANT..MAYS
MATCHES
J
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Mead Office:
“The Dominion" Bids., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESI.EHTTRST,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY—
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical—
are reviewed by experts iu the Literary Pages
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories,
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
$2
«sa?
sg
i
1
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circul-
ation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Showman”: “V.G.’s” par. regarding
the inappropriate slogan on his envelope
(B. 3/4/’35) brings to mind the experi-
ence of a friend of mine in New York.
When away on business he was apprised
by telegram of a happy event: “Mar-
garet gave birth to a little girl this morn-
ing. Both doing well.” On the message
was a slogan reading “When you want
a boy call Western Union.”
* * * *
“Salamis”: The brief Greek insurrec-
tion has knocked back the claims of those
who look to bombing from the air to
destroy the hostile fleets of the future —a
good many Australians embrace this
comfortable theory. In the attack on the
rebel warships anchored off Crete, 20
machines dropped 12 tons of large
bombs; the ships were only slightly
damaged and five men were wounded. In
addition to presenting a good target at
anchor, most of the vessels had^nc. anti
aircraft guns. Evidently Greeks
bombs are not as dangerous as they weie
reputed to be bearing gifts.
* * * *.
“Blue and W.”: Diehard Tories in
Britain are perturbed because exams, for
admission to the more select branches
G f the civil service, whi;h used to be the
monopoly of the public schools, are now
being topped by youngsters from the
elementary and secondary schools, helped
by scholarships and State grants. At a
recent exam, for the administrative class
the public schools won only six of
31 vacancies. Rugby, usually well
represented, didn’t have a winner;
Eton, the Charterhouse and Winchester
had only one each. Time will tell how
the new order of things pans out. A
successful exam.-wallah does not neces-
sarily make an ideal’diplomatist or ad-
ministrator. The Bengali babu is the most
consistently successful exam.-passer in the
world. He is by common consent the most
futile or corrupt of officials when placed
in positions of responsibility or trust.
* * * *
“Ballistics”: Mention of the four-
barrelled Lancaster pistol (B. 17/4/’35)
reminds me that the Birmingham firm
once evolved a new method of giving a
twist to projectiles. This could not be
called rifling, because it consisted in the
barrel being given an ovoid cross section,
the queerly-shaped bore imparting the
necessary spin. I never saw a rifle or
gun of this type, but mid-Victorian books
on ballistics contained descriptions and
illustrations. Another queer system of
“rifling” was the Whitworth hexagonal. I
saw this at Liverpool exhibition in 1887,
and was much struck with a six-sided
steel solid shot which had pierced a
steel plate, a foot or two in thickness, with
little damage but a bent nose. This
method, I believe, was only for cannon,
but both it and the Lancaster failed to
supersede the old grooved rifling, which
dates back at least 400 years.
* * * *
“Little Jim”: Reconstruction of history
on popular lines is all the go just now,
but one esteemed contemporary is stretch-
ing it a bit. Telling of the French Gov-
ernment’s decision to name a new sub-
marine after Casabianca, the youth who
stood on the burning deck with fatal
consequences, it says: “The young hero
remained on the bridge, swept by Eng-
lish quick-firing guns, in spite of the
appeals of the sailors who wanted to
save him.” That hits Mrs. Hemans, with
her “burst of thunder sound, the boy,
oh where was he?” to leg for a sixer.
Her verse will have to be rewritten
something like this:
There came a burst of Q.F. shell;
The boy was shreds of tissue.
The surgeon’s mate just said “Oh, well,
He’s got his ruddy issue.”
I fancy that second line is quite in the
best realistic vein.


FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Flying Handicap: Emily Rose;
next, Mafoota.
Novice Handicap: Magnus.
James Barnes Plate: Braeburn ;
next, First Son.
Welter: Archmel; next, After
Money.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Despite the boatrace and the football,
the A..J.C. had an excellent crowd at
Warwick Farm. Backers began pretty
well, but finished badly as a result of
the Royal Stakes and the Edensor Park
Handicap. In the former race, Sally
and Frassadale, 20 to 1 apiece, ran first
and third, the tearaway Bombus (6 to 1)
being second. In the Edensor Park Han-
dicap Cool Spell (15 to 1) beat all the
well-backed horses.
Cool Spell is a four-year-old gelding
by Spelthorne—Coolante. In previous
races he had tried to win all the way;
on this occasion, the apprentice McEvoy
was ordered to sit in behind the leaders
and wait for a final run. He carried out
his instructions to the letter, and at the
Leger Cool Spell gathered up the pace-
maker, Heritor, and won, running away,
from the Heroic gelding and the top-
weight, Cabalist. The latter began slowly,
and his effort will keep him in the lime-
light. Porcia, the favorite, is only a
pony, and her 9s. 31b. anchored her when
it came to racing. Emily Rose showed
up well, but Visage was in the ruck all
the way,
Major Kerr Smiley was not present to
see Persian, backed from tens to sixes,
win the Sandringham Handicap, but
_ t //
DERTl Ore op MV TROPHIES OF THE
hurt "
Qert’. "did vou rill him ? "
_ U , \\
Bert: /\lone ' did it.;
G|£k>t: " CYA.K1DE OR ACiD^
doubtless he was not forgotten when the
commission was placed. Confab’s jockey
tried to get a break on the field, but
Bartle, on Persian, did not permit it, and
had Confab covered turning for home.
The rest was easy, though Le Legion
struggled on gamely, to beat Confab for
second place. Kuvera was a strong tip ;
he again ran sourly after making up his
ground rather rapidly at the turn.
Nachara was another to disappoint.
Persian is trained by Jamieson, who had
been out of luck,
Warren pastoralist G. J. Perry owns
a hardy-looking chestnut in Toriwa.
Eight to one for the Farm Novice,
Toriwa’s task yvas severe, as he was on
the extreme outside at the barrier, and
had to be ridden hard by McCarten for
several furlongs. However, he was able
to make his own pace when he got clear,
and he hung on gamely, to beat Fluent
and the favorite, Magnus—not sighted
till the finish.
Ex-jockey Albert Wood has a good
one in Gibson, previous showings not-
withstanding. The big Constant Son colt
had worked well during the week at
Warwick Farm, and found solid backing
at fives for the May Nursery. He just
scraped home ahead of the consistent
Cognac, but would have scored easily
had he got out of the ruck at the top
of the straight. Here’s Luck, a Tippler
filly, after leading to the Leger, ran third.
She was badly stripped on the hind leg,
and will be out of action for some weeks.
Treasure Trove, a smart-looking daugh-
ter of Desert Gold, was fourth.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy is in luck. He
won the Sydney Cup with Akuna, and the
stable had a good win on Sine Cera
(5 to 1), another of his breeding, in the
Maiden Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap. Sine Cera is a chestnut gelding by
Silverado —Sincere.
* * * ♦
At Randwick on Monday Peter Pan
added the Jubilee Cup to R. R. Dangar’s
collection; in heavy going he carried
9st. 71b. to another gallant victory.
Akuna and Satmoth chased the cham-
pion home. Both went out at long
prices; Peter was at evens.
* * * *
Voitre, who rode three winners at
Randwick, kept in conquering vein on
returning to Victoria. After winning the
Warrnambool Cup with Takakua on
May 2 he landed a double at Ascot two
days later. The Ascot successes came
through the medium of Maid of Oaks
(second division of the juvenile race) and
Your Honor (Gloucester Handicap).
Maid of Oaks had shown no form
in her previous five starts, and was
allowed to go out at 12 to 1. The riding
skill of Voitre enabled her to wear down
the leaders in the straight and score by
half a length from Underbank, with
Finch a close third. Though on the
small side, Maid of Oaks is very shapely.
She was bred at Sunbury by Les
Aldridge, and is by Manfred from Lady
Priscilla. In the Gloucester Handicap
there never was any doubt as to the
result, Your Honor leading throughout.
He belongs to A. G. Barlow.
Dazzlement, a Dark Fox colt, let his
backers down very badly in the first divi-
sion of the handicap for youngsters.
Sent out a 6-to-4 favorite, he gave Skid-
more a most unpleasant ride, and, despite
salutary punishment, finished a poor
fourth. Dazzlement is a brother to
Dandalla, for whom Jack Holt paid
900gns. at the break-up of F. W. Kit-
chen’s racing stud.
The event in which Dazzlement failed
went to Captain Ball, a 25-to-l chance.
This colt is trained by Stan Reid, the
former champion cross-country jockey,
for his breeder, T. E. Gorman, of
Wagga. Captain Ball is by Treclare from
Air Woman, the Bright Steel mare that
produced Green Moth to Greenstead,
Finishing gamely, Captain Ball wore
down Bon Spiel inside the distance and
gained the judge’s verdict by half a neck,
the Drake filly Nissa being only a head
farther off.
The Trial Hurdle at Ascot went to
Alleviate (Legionnaire—Sweet Land),
who belongs to Flemington trainer
W. Burke and W. H. McLaughlin, a
baker at Newcastle; the friendship of
Burke and McLaughlin extends back
into the distant past. Taking charge
when the hot favorite, Golden Swan,
compounded in the straight. Alleviate
scored impressively from Basking and
Bon, Fleur. The runner-up is owned by
T. J, Confoy, whose jumpers have regis-
tered 13 seconds and seven thirds in three
years without once winning.
Calulu King proved himself a very
speedy horse by carrying the Sydney
jockey Lightfoot to victory in the Stand-
ish Handicap at Flemington on New
Year’s Day, 1934, but he did not enjoy
success again until Saturday, when he
annexed the York Handicap at Ascot.
Revealing much of his old form, the
Harvest King gelding had the opposition
settled at the home turn, and vanquished
the favorite, Te Huon, by two lengths.
Araunah, next in demand to Te Huon,
had a bleeding attack in the race, and
was eased up to finish last. Gallibrook,
bred by E. A. Connolly, but owned and
trained by Joe Hayward, comfortably
accounted for Thrawn and Sindicad in
the Kent Handicap. Hayward may take
Gallibrook back to Westralia, where he
did well on a former occasion.
* * * *
A considerable section of Islam re-
joiced when its pontifical head, the Aga
Khan, took the first classic of the Eng-
lish season, the 2000 Guineas, with
Bahram, a colt by the Aga Khan’s pet
sire, Blandford. Blandford has just
died ; he was nearing the record as a
getter of winners which has stood to
St. Simon’s credit for half a century.
There are many promising Blandford
youngsters racing and coming on, so it
is possible that he may beat the Galopin
horse’s record posthumously.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
One of the most satisfactory features
about Melbourne League football is that
every year the teams grow more and
more even. For some seasons now it
has been difficult to forecast any match
with certainty, and the opening of the
present season indicates a possibility of
everybody finishing nearly abreast—
which is just as it should be. The open-
ing day showed that Essendon and Fitz-
roy, neither of which was regarded seri-
ously, had sent first-class teams into the
field. Saturday’s results revealed little
between the scores of winners and losers,
and leave the wiseacres in a quandary
about the prospects of the next series.
The biggest surprise of the day was
the fight put up by the losing clubs.
Footscray, generally regarded as medi-
ocre, looked easy for South Melbourne
on the latter’s ground. South won by
scoring 113 points, but ’Scray contrived
to get 99, and fought the premiers every
inch of the way in a ding-dong battle.
St. Kilda, visiting Essendon, seemed un-
likely to have a chance, seeing that Essen-
don on the previous Saturday had kicked
the remarkable number of 25 goals. Yet
St. Kilda was beaten by only three
points—9s to 92 —after leading for
three quarters. Melbourne, the only
club which on the first day seemed hope-
lessly inferior before Essendon, had to
meet Geelong, one of the most-fancied
clubs. Instead of Melbourne’s chances
being hopeless, it scored no fewer than
102 points to Geelong’s 104 —an aggre-
gate won on behinds, 14-20 to 16-6.
The fourth match was between Rich-
mond and North Melbourne. For years
Richmond has finished near the top and
North hear the bottom. Though the
game was at Richmond, the sturdy
Norsemen came with a rush and kicked
six goals in the last quarter, Richmond
winning by only 95 to 72. The star
kicker of the day was Gibb, of Mel-
bourne, with nine goals.
* * * *
“Black an’ White”: Adelaide League
games this season have been notable for
high scoring and runaway victories. In
the first two series of matches the
smallest winning margin was 35 points.
Farmer, North’s champion goalsneak,
opened the season with 12 goals against
Glenelg when his team defeated last
year’s premiers by 22-19 to 11-11, and
followed this up with 16 goals against
South in a game in which the final
scores were 23 goals 5 behinds to
12-10. Twenty-eight goals in two
matches is good going, even for a
champion.
* * * *
Down 6-8 at the interval, Queensland
made an exhibition of N. S. Wales in the
second half of the Rugby Union match
at North Sydney, and finished 13 points
to the good, 24 to 11. Half-back Ben-
nett, with the forwards giving him plenty
of the ball, did much as he liked ; and
forwards did all the scoring, Whyatt (2),
Bermingham and Suter getting tries, and
Donelly kicking four goals, a couple
from near the half-way. The Ma State
pack was woeful, and the backs rarely
saw the ball, though Richards’s try was
a fine piece of lone-hand work. Cerutti
snapped another right at the finish.
* * * *
A crowd officially returned at 24,495
got its money’s worth of bright, open
football in the East-West clash at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday, Inside a
couple of minutes Ridley was over for
West, and soon after Beaton, with only
feet to swerve in, scored a pretty one
down the line for East. At spell-oh last
year’s premiers led by a point—l 2-11—
but East piled on points steadily in
the second half, and ran out winners of
a sterling match, 23-16.
* * * *
“Clemmed Oop”: When the Austra-
lian League footballers were last in the
North of England the Tykes and the
doggers took their periodical davy that
they would entice no more Australians
away to play with English professional
clubs. As usual, the undertaking has
come unstuck. A Queensland three-
quarter named Hunt has been offered
and has accepted a job on the usual
terms of a lump sum down and so much
a week. Under an agreement of some
years ago, the English club will have to
pay £2OO blood money to the Queens-
land League.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Not often a man sparkles
in two codes of football at once. J. Stiff
played League Rugby with South Sydney
reserves and an hour or so afterwards
was helping his old Australian-rules club.
South Sydney, at Erskineville. C. B. Fry,
while at Oxford, played both Rugby
and Soccer. He was only prevented from
bringing off the unique feat of winning
a double football blue by a minor acci-
dent which kept him out of the Rugby
match with Cambridge.
“Stand Off”: The Ma State Rugby
Union and League seem to have settled
their difference over Cricket Ground
dates. The Union was asked to give up
August 3 to the Australian Rulers, who
wanted it to stage a Collingwood-South
Melbourne match. The Union had a
Maori match down for that date, but
agreed to let the Australians in, if it got
August 10. To this the League objected,
but as it had nothing striking itself to
put up it at last agreed.
(Continued on next page.)
Whiskered athletes are rare nowadays,
and Melbourne hockey barrackers were
inclined to smile when they saw the In-
dian team come down the gangplank of
the Largs Bay, heads swathed in turbans
and faces bearded as the Meldrumites
are. This astounding body got off the boat
in the morning, and drove out to the Albert
Ground the same afternoon to wipe the
floor with the Victorians, 15 to 4.
* * * *
In the final for the Sydney head-of-the-
river race were Scots, Grammar, King’s
and “Shore” (Church of England Gram-
mar). Scots, averaging 12st. 31b.—a
heavier crew than some in the inter-
state affair for the King’s Cup—ha‘d
beaten King’s easily in the first heat; in
the second, “Shore” had been defeated
by Grammar. “Shore” turned the tables
with a great effort, getting up in time to
beat Grammar, which had done all the
leading, by six feet, with Scots six
lengths back third. It was “Shore’s”
fifteenth win, and it covered the mile
and a half on slack water against a light
headwind in Bmin. 56ysec. First and
second fours both went to St. Joseph’s.
In Adelaide, St. Peter’s is head-of-the-
river ; in Perth, Scotch.


3 mNCHzmk
TRADE MARK
s©a
MODEL 53.—LEVER-ACTION 7-SHOT REPEATING RIFLE.
In calibres .25/20 and .32, Model 92 action with 22-inch round tapered barrel,
walnut shotgun-type stock with scored steel butt plate and straight grip.
Lyman gold bead front sight and adjustable rear sight with sliding elevator,
solid frame, half magazine. Weight, about 6J lb.
PRICE
CARRIAGE PAID.
Jlllg CICVOLUI.
£9/5/-
MODEL 65, SIMILAR TO ABOVE, but with PISTOL-GRIP
STOCK
MODELS 53 and 65 adapted for Super-speed Cartridges.
£9/10/-
CARRIAGE PAID.
25/20 AND .32 BLACK OR SUPER-SPEED STAYNLESS.
25/20 and .32 Centre-fire Super-speed Staynless Cartridges. Per 100, 21/-
25/20 and .32 Black Powder Cartridges. Per 100 17/-
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
YARDS
LONGER
THIS YEAR.
—and still guaranteed for 72 holes of play
It’s the toughest, long-driving ball you can
buy! Ten yards longer than any "Kro-Flite”
we have ever made... and still backed by
our unconditional guarantee for 72 holes
play. Multi - dot, in Mesh and /
sDimple markings each m
r
r
flue
D
m
r
i
n
MftCPFUTE
Under the Whip
“G.S.”: When 22 yearlings by an
Australian-bred sire can bring 14,455
guineas these times, there ought to be
opportunities for small companies to
start breeding thoroughbreds. Suitable
land can be got at reasonable prices in
most of the States—l have had my eye
for years on a bit of limestone country
in South Westralia—and Australian-
bred sires and mares have been going
cheap —for Chatham a mere 500 guineas
was bid the other day. Of course, a
small company or syndicate couldn’t
reckon on getting what the Heroic
draught realised in Sydney, or anything
like it, but it would not need four-figure
prices for yearlings to make a shrewdly
capitalised venture pay. Breeding of
polo ponies and remounts might be
profitable sidelines ; there is a good local
demand, together with a reviving over-
seas market within easy reach.
* * * *
“Roodee”: England has taken the tote
to its bosom. Last year the Racecourse
Betting Control Board opened “off-the-
course” totes in 20 towns outside
London. Twenty more were opened at
the start of the flat-racing season, and
it is expected that a nation-wide chain of
totes will be working within a couple of
years.
“Jachris”; A two - bob -in - the - slot
machine is being experimented with at
Newmarket. The affair issues s.-o. and
place tickets. You put in your money,
pull a lever to get your ticket and you’re
“on.” Beautifully simple; and it will
revolutionise tote betting—if it works.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There are distinct possibilities in
“Young” Arthur Campbell, a 12-stoner
from Newcastle. A tall, rugged-looking
fellow, he can punch and “take it,”
though, of course, he has a lot to learn. Of
recent weeks he has knocked out Tealey
and Thornton in a round apiece, and
at Leichhardt on Wednesday he did what
Palmer and Richards had failed to
do—put Georgi on the floor for the
count. The Italian-American’s greater
experience enabled him to win each of
the first six rounds, though not by much.
A left swing on the chin sent him down
soon after the seventh started, and “out”
was pronounced before his hands had
left the floor. He protested that he
had beaten the count, and some spec-
tators thought he had, but others were
convinced that the referee (Haines) was
right.
* % ❖ *
George Thompson is back in the ring
at Perth, and has won a couple of fights.
Thompson was a Digger, and must be
quite the oldest pug in the business. He
is certainly older than Cook, though
that bruiser was boxing in the last war
year or two.
Footbrawl
For the first time in Melbourne foot-
ball history, clubs have started to ex-
change players. One team is short of
a capable forward; another has for-
wards to burn, so it trades off one of its
goal-kickers and strengthens its ruck out
of the spare followers of the other. Thus
is the balance of trade preserved. Before
many seasons we may have a foot-
ballers’ exchange in full swing, with
market quotations published each even-
ing : “Prime fullbacks hardened to 425.;
but wingers were easy .at 255. Odd lots
of followers found buyers at 165,”
“Richmond”: Melbourne’s Wednes-
day Football League is in difficulties. It
includes teams from fire brigades, cab
companies and branches of the civil ser-
vice, but interest has been waning for
some seasons, with the result that clubs
have no funds. Worse still, League
grounds that used to be available are
now closed to the Wednesdays, and
teams have to go to remote suburban
grounds.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne football circles
have been exercised lately by the intro-
duction of a rubber-covered ball. The
new gadget was pronounced a success
in wet weather but not so good in dry;
and after much discussion the League
put it under a ban until further notice.
It seems that 60,000 ox hides and 1000
dozen sheepskins are annually used in
Australian ball-making—the sheepskins
for the little flap which covers the slit
through which the bladder is introduced
when the ball is blown up.
* * * *
“Lilywhite”: When it was announced
that circumstances necessitated the re-
turn of the Manly-Wallaby forward
Hodgson to his country birthplace, it
was feared that this fine player would
be snapped up by one of the League
country teams. Fortunately Hodgson
has been saved for amateurism ; he has
been able to find employment with a
Sydney firm. In addition to his ordinary
job his services will be available for
coaching primary-school teams return-
ing to the R.U. fold.
* * * $
“Piebald”: The football public of
Darwin was stirred to its depths by a
Rugby Union match between Garrison
and Wallabies, the first ever seen there ;
but the crowd was disappointed to find
the players wore ordinary football cos-
tume. It had been told that Union
Rugby was identical with the dark and
bloody American game repeatedly seen
on the flicks, in which the players are
armor-clad from head to heel. When
the Rugby Union made its first start in
Tassie last season the same yarn about
its playing the American game was sent
the rounds.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Treasurer Breckenridge, of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union, had some hard
but truthful remarks to make lately about
veiled professionalism. This has always
existed, the principal method employed
being to find a job for the player—a
gross act of professionalism under the
R.U. laws. I once belonged to a Bris-
bane club which liked itself so much
that it practically had its members
elected by the committee, A visiting
Maoriland side contained a forward of
just the type we were looking for: a
great player and a charming chap, and
withal keen on staying in Brisbane. He
was asked to parade before the com-
mittee, and finally was questioned as to
his profession. “Me?” he said brightly.
“Oh, I’m a sewer-cleaner.” The com-
mittee stood up to the shock nobly, and
said it would consider matters. Later
the applicant was informed that as there
were no sewers in Brisbane a job could
not be found for him.
* * * *
“Everton”; Sheffield Wednesday’s win
in the final of the British Association
Cup is its first since 1907. “Wednesday”
was one of the old original North Coun-
try clubs which had the Cup to them-
selves for years before the Southrons
butted in and, thanks to their huge gates
from London matches, bought players
from the North and Scotland.
“Outside Left”: Queensland Soccer-
ites have invited a N.S.W. team to play
there for the week from June 15, and
the side may go on as far as Bundaberg.
One of the Brisbane matches may be
played under electric light. For the first
time, also, Brisbane proposes to send a
Soccer team to tour the North, going as
far as Cairns, and taking in the sugar
districts. The North mostly plays League,
though years ago Townsville ran a couple
of round-ball teams, the players being
mostly drawn from the meatworks at
Ross River and Alligator Creek.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Pinkeye”: The American millionaire
who keeps a private golf coach in the
servants’ hall, along with the chauffeurs
and other minions of the great, is as
common as kidnappers in Chicago. The
first Australian to take on a job of the
kind is Jim Grace, who has been pro-
fessional at the Peninsula club in Vic-
toria ; his job will be to coach Grant
Hay, a Melbourne brewer, and the
family. Grace spent several years in
America, and held one or two jobs of
the kind there. Whether he will make
champions out of his clients is another
story. American experience of the sys-
tem is to the contrary.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s big annual
golf meeting will be held on the Bris-
bane club’s links at Yeerongpilly from
June 12 to 22. The star turns will be the
open and amateur championships ; both
titles are held by Jim Ferrier, of N.S.W.
There will be handicap events, entries
for which close on June 7, and, in addi-
tion to the open championship, profes-
sionals will find plenty of scope for swell-
ing their bank accounts ; £230, presented
in purses of from £l2 to £4O by various
clubs, is waiting for them.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: In spite of proposals for
the alteration of the Ryder Cup rule
that players shall be living in the country
for which they play, Henry Cotton, the
British open champion, says he will not
play with the British Cup team in
America this year. He is domiciled in
Brussels, and has always been a bit diffi-
cult since he got such an unmerciful
barracking from the crowd in the final
of the Southport £lOOO three years ago.
Cotton is a bit of a showman on the
lines of Perry, and his temperamen-
tal exhibition at Southport earned him
the dislike of the Lancashire onlookers
—a nasty lot to cross.
Racquet and Bawl
“Slobber”: British sports writers are
always swift to burble over some new
discovery, especially if the find is a
foreigner and not just a beastly colonial.
Joan Hartigan’s fine showing thus early
in England has not raised a peep of
admiration, but a Chilean damsel, Anita
Lizana, who has appeared at Birming-
ham, is being boomed as another Leng-
len. Beyond proclaiming her so good that
in Chile she plays only with men, the
gushers haven’t much to say about her
game, but are drivelling about her good
looks, grace and beautiful footwork. One
recalls they turned on the same guff
about lovely, flashing-eyed Alvarez years
ago, though the Spaniard soon dropped
into her proper class —down the course.
* * *
“Top Spin”: American Elizabeth
Ryan, perhaps the finest woman doubles
player that ever gave a linesman the
glacial eye, says she is out and will not
defend her title at Wimbledon. Eliza-
beth used to be known as “the player
without a country.” Somehow she fell
foul of the Yanks over living largely
abroad; they refused to recognise her,
and under the I.T.F. rules she could play
for no other country without becoming
a naturalised European of some sort.
Lizzie jibbed at this, and for some time
was a feminine Hal o’ th’ Wynd, fight-
ing for her own hand. She says she will
not turn professional, but will “adopt a
new career.” Evidently amateur tennis
is regarded as a career.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The A.L.T.A. is running
no risks with its Davis Cup consignment.
Not only have £lOOO policies against per-
manent disablement been taken out for
each player, but they have been insured
against certain illnesses and disablement
for from £4 to £6 per week for a year.
The Americans are asking for games
against the returning tourists, but they
are coming back via South Africa.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”; The N.S.W. dis-
trict tennis scheme whereby the lion of
the hard courts and the lamb of the grass
ditto were to amalgamate has blown up
with a bang. Objections came from the
turfers, who alleged that the more num-
erous hard-courters would devour them,
they being Menzelian cannibals, in a
way of speaking. The turfers passed a
resolution throwing out the scheme, and
instructed their delegates to fight it tooth
and nail in the L.T. Council. But the
hard-courters comprise the great majority
of players, and mean to get control.
jjj j{c <i>
“Whampoa”; China’s entry for the
Davis Cup this year is the Flowery
Land’s fourth appearance. Australia
administered the first k.o. in 1924 ; the
1928 team went down to the U.S.A. That
year Gordon Lum, the old Melbourne
Scotch College boy, was a member of
the Chinese side.
H* H*
“Amateur Pro.”: Palmieri, who was
Menzel’s opponent in the flare-up at
Rome and was beaten in the Italian
singles final by the American Hines,
occupies a unique position in the tennis
world. He can claim to be the only pro-
fessional forcibly declared an amateur —
it was not a case of reinstatement, for
he had never played save as a profes-
sional. When a doubles partner for De
Morpurgo in the Davis Cup was needed,
M ussolini ordered that Palmieri, the most
likely proposition in sight, be dragged out
and whitewashed at once. This was done,
and Palmieri is still going strong.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian cricket
team for S’Africa practically picked itself.
The dropping-out of Bradman, not yet
fit, let Richardson in as skipper—a sound
choice, though the South Australian is 40.
He will help to infuse some spirit into
the batting— at least three lads picked are
on the stodgy side. His men are: Grim-
mett, Ebeling, Darling, McCormick, F.-
Smith, Barnett, O’Brien, McCabe, Brown,
Fingleton, Chipperfield, O’Reilly and Old-
field. They will find the South Africans
well tuned-up by their tour of England,
which began with an innings defeat of
Worcester.
“Allemachtig”: Bradman’s inability
to make the South African trip is a facer
for the Afrikanders. The young man is
now one of the world’s greatest “gate”-
draggers in any sport. There seems to be
a tendency to blame Bradman ; but the
truth is that he came very near the
pearly gates after the English tour,
though the real danger he was in was


The Prontac
C Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string: it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
As English
sdf
as England
To every
who has said
Naturally I’d buy
an English Car . . . if I
could get full-power and
full -size at a competitive
price”
VAUXHALL’S 27 h.p. BIG SIX has I
SAME H.P. as the leading* 6 (American)
1.0 H.P. MORE than the 2nd 6 (American)
2.9 H.P. MORE than the 3rd 6 (American)
5.6 H.P. MORE than the 4th 6 (American)
(*Flgures based on Jan.-Dee., 1934, registrations)
V
i
:
m
fir
illllllllllllllllllll
ini
m
Big Six Roadster = . „ . £345
Big Six Tourer £375
Big Six Coupe £4lO
Big Six Saloon .... £425
There is also a handsome, luxur-
ious 7-passenger f3C-inch wheeioase
model at £sBi.
{A ll prices plus Sales Tax)
HERE is a car—specifically designed for those overseas
motorists who desire a full-sized powerful English car
—that exceeds in power all but 7 of all the 44 six-cylinder
cars sold in Australia . . . that is, as shown above, equal
in power to or more powerful than the four most popular
Sixes . . . that is exceeded in power by only five
Sixes and then only by 1 H.P. though the prices of these
competitors are £lOO and more higher. . . .
This 27 H.P. Yauxhall is really full powered. Handle it
on the road yourself and feel its responsiveness. As you
drive you will experience a sense of absolute security and
confidence. For the Yauxhall Big Six holds the road like
its famous forbears, steers with the same delightful
certainty, and stops at the lightest touch on the semi-servo
brake pedal.
A new scientific arrangement of the seating gives, in the
Saloon, 12 inches more room than the conventional Sedan,
which means that five full-sized people have room to relax
and stretch their legs and that six can be accommodated
without discomfort.
Priced as low as £365 v generously proportioned and
powered by one of the finest engines that ever came out of
England, Vauxhall’s 27 H.P. Big Six will meet your every
demand for a full-sized, full-powered, economical English
car. Furthermore, wherever you travel throughout Aus-
tralia you will find skilled Vauxhall Service and unexcelled
availability of spare parts at prices which bear favourable
comparison. See it and drive it to-day.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
VAUXHALL BIG SIX . .
PRICES
FROM
£365
Plus
Tax
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
D29ID
glossed over. He is still a long way from
?? r a tmg, and will have to watch
himself tor some time yet. Fortunately
he has the levellest of heads, and is not
to be stampeded by the yellowest
journals.
* « * *
“Tenakoe”; Maoriland seems to have
at last grasped the fact that the way to
put its cricket on the plane of its foot-
ball is to invite all the overseas competi-
tion possible. Australia in this respect
has proved an untrustworthy ally, and
the All-Blacks are looking elsewhere. In
addition to the English side which will
tour M.L. next season after a few matches
in Australia, the next M.C.C. team to
come this way will spend some weeks in
M.L. on the way home. In 1936-37 an
Indian eleven is to invade the Shivery
I s^es -
* 4 „ * T * , *
Claremont : The Indian hockey team
sportingly stepped off the boat at Fre-
mantle and took on a Westrahan side at
Claremont Showground. It won easily,
its combination and stickwork being
superb. The skipper, Dyan Chand, here
in 1926 with the Indian Army team, and
his co-forward, Rup Singh, got most
of the team’s 11 goals. The Westralians
are not abashed, having scored twice
against players who have come through
numberless games without a mark against
them. Going on to Adelaide, the Indians
routed a local team, 10 to 1.
* * * *
“Downing”: Inter-State rowing bodies
are in a dither as to how to raise money
each year to send their crews to the con-
vincing water. As conducted at present,
rowing cannot be held in enclosed areas,
and “gates” like those rewarding
cricketers and footballers are out of the
question. I offer the suggestion that the
races be rowed on a circular canal dug
round each of the principal football
arenas, in place of the cycle tracks which
at present adorn some of them. The
race could be decided by “bumping,” as
at Cambridge, where the river is too
narrow to permit boats passing each
other. The difficulty of getting a racing
eight to negotiate the small circle could
be overcome by building the boats
boomerang shape, with the curve facing
inwards. It would be a great scheme for
the barrackers, who would be able to tell
their fancies what they thought of them,
certain that every word would be heard,
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The feud between the
Queensland and N.S.W. 18ft. sailing
bodies which led to the suspension of
the Australian championships, after many
years, has been healed, the Sydney body
having seen the error of its ways. The
championships will be renewed at Bris-
bane next January; each State is to be
entitled to four representatives, though
the State controlling the racing may make
the number up to eight if necessary. A
cup, to be competed for in perpetuity,
has been put up, and the winning State
will hold it for 12 months.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The proposed tour
of South Africa by a team of Australian
bowlers has been hung up for the pres-
ent unless the shipping co. concerned can
alter the present schedule in order to
allow the tourists to get back to Perth
for the All-Australian bowling tourney
next Easter. As the trip will mean close
on £4OOO in fares, it will probably fall
in with the bowlers. In any case, the
Australian council insists that the team
must be at Fremantle before Easter ;
otherwise it won’t be allowed to go.
* =i= *
“Colors”: This unhappy country has
suffered for some years past from a rash
of be-badged school and club blazers of
all kinds and descriptions. Sydney Uni-
versity, which has done a lot to cheapen
the distinction of the sports blue by
granting one for all sorts of footling
sports, has now plumbed the depths of
fatuity by deciding to bestow Blues on
women athletes. About the only distinc-
tion a Sydney Uni. athlete can now
achieve is failure to have a blue of any
description hung on him.


Do you realise that
your kidneys may be the
cause of your poor health?
M ost people do not realise
how much work the kidneys
are required to do every day.
Every drop of blood in the
body must pass through and be
filtered by the kidneys hundreds
of times a day.
Flow can they do their work
well if they are sick?
If your kidneys need treat-
ment, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
the reliable Kidney Remedy, will
prove to be just the medicine
you need.
Take 2 Gin Pills
to-night you’ll feel
better to-morrow.
Hear
“The Sheldon Follies”
2SM, Sundays, 8.30—9
2TM, Mondays, 8.30—9
SAW, Mondays, 8.30—9
4BH, Mondays, 9—9.30
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
to
n
Joint Pains and Rheumatism
are caused by WEAK KIDNEYS
When the kidneys cease to filter all impurities from the
bloodstreams, Uric Acid accumulates and causes Joint Pains and
Rheumatism. Vitality will be lowered, and your general health will
suffer.
One Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pill taken after every meal will
quickly remove any inflammation or soreness, leaving the
kidneys in a strong, healthy state.
Excess Uric Acid will be banished from the system, and, with
healthy kidneys keeping your bloodstreams pure, Joint Pains,
Rheumatism and Backache will disappear, good health will return,
and you will face each day with renewed life and vigor.
Have the health that can be yours- begin
taking Or, Sheldon 9 s Gin Pills to-day.
k
LUMBAGO
W
1
KIDNEY
AND
bladder
TROUBLE
27 Pills, 1
60 Pills, 2/9


For Sale
FOR QUICK SALE—WeII-established Dairy
Farm, Atherton Tableland, North Queensland,
176 acres fully grassed, permanent creeks,
70 head pure-bred Jerseys, 2 Registered Jersey
Bulls, Buildings, Equipment. Situated H mile
station. The lot £2OOO. No agent.. Interests
other State. Anxious to sell. —No. 266,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING TO
THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
2765/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“A state of affairs analogous
to that of 1930 is imminent
in Australia,”
is the opinion recently expressed in one
section of the London Stock Market.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
Australia’s Leading Journal for Investors,
does not share this opinion, and lucidly
sets out the position as it exists.
sdf
DON'T MISS THE MA Y ISSUE, NOW ON SALE
Company Notes and Reviews; Mining; Silver, Steel and Now—Paper; The
Romance of Broken Hill Prop.; Basis of Prosperity.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
A “BULLETIN " PUBLICATION
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, I
from 7/- per day; I
Double Room at i
Double Rates) 1
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Borrowing Outlook
The 15-million loan raised by the
Loan Council last November carried 3
p.c., and was issued at £99 15s. The
previous issue carried 3£ p.c., and the
one before that 3£ p.c. The 3 p.c. loan
is now below £99 on the market; the
3£ p.c. is a shade over par; the p.c.
issue is around 102.
Australian Consols represent —among
other things—a capital of around 475
millions to Australian investors, large
and small. The rate of income obtain-
able on Consols is a measure by which
many other classes of investments are
appraised. While bad Governments
were in power and public securities were
at a heavy discount, there was a period
of enforced abstinence in the public loan
market by Treasurers. To finance Budget
deficits and essential works they had
recourse to Treasury bills, a form of
accommodation first made available by
the Commonwealth Bank in 1927. This
debt, largely unnoticed by the man in the
street, grew quickly during the depres-
sion to nearly 90 millions, including
overdrafts.
The Commonwealth Bank has shut
down on this form of borrowing,
except that it has agreed to finance tern
porary shortages of Government funds,
hypothecating anticipated revenue so
that the advances will not become fix-
tures, like the present 82£ millions owing
on bills.
With this fount of finance now
stopped, the Loan Council has to raise
its requirements in the open market, and,
with the reversion to pre-depression
methods of borrowing, trends in the
money market have become a great deal
more sensitive.
While the central bank was supplying
most of the required Government funds
there was a comparative shortage of
other outlets for the private investor.
When a few new loans were put on the
market they went like hot cakes at very
low rates of interest. But investors have
meantime found other avenues for their
savings; so, with an average of 30 mil-
lions a year taken from them in public
loans lately, they haven’t got so much
idle money that they are going to rush
even p.c. It looks as though the next
loan will carry that rate at an attractive
discount, or quite likely 3 \ p.c.
The position is one to give Treasurers
a slight headache. It has been proposed
that, within the term ending June 30
next, another 19 millions be raised, in-
cluding millions for the first instal-
ment of the rural rehabilitation scheme,
and 15 millions for the balance of the
Commonwealth and State works pro-
grammes. Advisers to the Loan Council,
it has been suggested, will urge that in
1935-36 Government borrowings be
limited to 25 millions a year. Even bor-
rowing on that scale will make itself
felt in money-market conditions and
interest rates.
It has been the policy of those respon-
sible for the Premiers’ Plan to keep in-
terest rates down in order to assist in-
dustrial rehabilitation. To the end of
1934 the aim succeeded remarkably well.
But the fact that Governments can no
longer rely upon short-term borrowing
looks like having a profound effect on
monetary conditions in the future. And,
as mentioned before, the yield on
Consols is often used as a gauge to
measure the return that should be appro-
priate to other classes of- investments.
Last week there was a sustained rise in
the price of all industrials, the share
market being quick to capitalise the im-
proved wool outlook and the way the
elections appear to be going. Broken
Hill Props, touched over 545., and David
Jones ords. sold to 41s. 6d. Bank shares
are still weak, and the gold market, after
a noticeable revival early in the week,
sagged again towards the week-end,
* * * *
The trend of mortgage interest in N. S.
Wales, after swinging definitely into the
4\ p.c. and under category during Feb-
ruary, veered towards the p.c. class
during March. Property transfers under
the R.P.A, during the quarter ended
March 31 totalled 6.1 millions, as against
4.9 millions in 1934, while the amount of
mortgages registered during the same
periods have risen from 4 millions to 4.1
millions.
* * * *
Britain has many things to think about
in its trade policy. John Bull has been
an international banker long enough to
know that if his debtors have little or
no gold wherewith to pay their interest
to him he must assist them in establish-
“For heaven's sake, don't crash! If I'm late getting to town the wife'll
give me beans."
ing credits in Britain, and he does so by
taking a quota of their products. By
this means he is paid. The U.S.A. in
its absurdity refuses to accept goods
and services in payment of debts;
Britain’s gold is a fleabite on its liability
to the U.S.A. The whole question of
war-debt payments to the United States
has become a howling farce.
❖ * * *
Australia, despite all that has been
said by some disgruntled British ex-
porters, is the Old Country’s third-largest
market. Only India and S’Africa rank
ahead of us in their purchases ; Canada
and Ireland are behind us, as are the
U.S.A., France, Argentina and the rest
of the world.
* * * *
The Primary Producers’ Bank —which
suspended a little while before the
Federal Deposit in Brisbane closed its
doors and the A.B.C. merged with the
’Wales —has so far paid its ordinary
creditors 16s, 3d. in the £l, reducing
them from £1,205,105 to £227,520. There
remain assets with a book value of
£618,950; after deducting reserves there
is a paper surplus of £307,837 —mostly
represented by “frozen” book debts,
still very hard to collect. Nevertheless,
the liquidators have handled the job
very ably so far.
>:= * * *
Including gold bullion and specie, Aus-
tralia’s favorable trade balance for the
nine months to March was just short of
11 millions sterling, compared with 37
millions in 1934. , The commodity
balance was 5.9 millions, as against 31.8
millions. Merchandise exports are down
13.5 millions, while imports are up 12.2
millions.
:jc ;Jc *
The value (Australian currency) of
wool exported during the nine months v
was 28.5 millions, compared with 51.5
millions in 1934. Among the imports,
textiles, machinery, motor chassis and
timber showed substantial increases.
H* * *
N. S. Wales Rural Bank, incorporat-
ing the Advances for Homes Department
of the old G. 5.8., completed its first year
under the new Act of 1932 at June 30,
1934. In the Rural Department a profit
of £27,231 was claimed and added to
reserves (£634,013) ; in the Homes
Department the surplus was £28,868,
bringing the lay-by in this branch up to
£655,654. The arrears owing by bor-
rowers in this section totalled £737,505
out of an aggregate indebtedness of
£11,678,797. In the Rural Department
arrears totalled £1,171,246, and total
loans £13,883,897. The maximum bor-
rowing rate was reduced to 4\ p.c. in
October, and as it receives interest con-
cessions the bank is passing them on to
borrowers. In the Rural Department
“losses on the realisation of certain secu-
rities have been provided for by adequate
reserves.”
* * * *
The site of the Criterion Theatre, one
of the few remaining untalkified shows in
Sydney, and the adjoining hotel were
sold last week at auction for £BO,OOO.
Tooth’s Brewery was buyer from the
City Council, which resumed the prop-
erty in its Park-street widening scheme.
The Cri. buildings have to go within six
months —a condition of the sale.
Imperial Chemical Industries’ Austra-
lian soda-ash plant has yet to have its
site defined ; South Aus. expects that it
will be at Wingfield, but Westralia should
also receive consideration, as it, too, is a
potential supplier of the basic materials.
* * * *
Life assurance is a form of saving still
not fully recognised. Endowment assur-
ance is as much an investment as cover
against death—-it provides for both, A
policy a few years in force hasn’t much
cash value, but if it has run for half its
term in a good office there is usually
little loss on surrender, and if the full
term is negotiated it is generally a
very profitable investment. It is a shame,
though, that there aren’t standard life-
assurance laws covering surrender values
and other conditions of policy contracts.
Industrial assurers often have vague
ideas about what their policies really
represent, and there should be definite
legislation on the subject.
* * * *
The average return to the Queensland
No. 1 growers and millers’ sugar pool
last year was £l6 10s. lid. a ton of raws.
No. 2 pool, which represents sugar pro-
duced in excess of the peak-year quota
of each district, receives payment at the
rate of £7 11s. 3d. a ton —the net value
of the export surplus. The average for
the whole crop works out at £l5 10s. 9d.
a ton. Of the 1934 crop, 54 2-3 p.c.
was used for home consumption.
* * * *
Genera] Motors-Holden’s is considering
decentralising some of its body-building
activities, and a suitable site for a 20-
acre factory in Sydney or Melbourne is
being searched for. Remembering Lang,
the management leans to Melbourne,
though with Queensland growing increas-
ingly important in the motor industry
Sydney would be a more central site.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s pig-iron output for
the four weeks to April 14 was 2762 tons
lower, but steel production was up nearly
1000 tons. The financial year ends on
May 31.
* * * *
The Sydney average wool price for
April was 11. Id. a pound, as against
9.7 d. in March. It is the best figure since
August last.
* * * *
The London base-metal market con-
tinues to strengthen ; lead, at £l3 ss. last
week, was the highest for some
years, and about 30s. a ton above
the best price in 1934. Silver,
spelter, copper and tin have also
shown substantial rises.
* * * *
Commonwealth Government’s
scheme to lease the Barkly Table-
lands (N.T.) to a chartered co. has
been hung on the peg because of
the uncertainty in our overseas markets,
fhe proposal is “definitely not aban-
doned,” but the scheme must result in
increased meat production, and at the
moment there is difficulty in getting rid
of what is already available for export.
♦ # * #
The anticipated 1934-35 Argentine
wheat yield is put at 238 million bushels,
48 millions less than for 1933-34, The
London price for the Australian grain is
around 3s. sd. (stg.), and locally the
market is steady at 3s. 6d. (Aust.). These
are the best prices for a long while.
* * * *
Exports of mutton carcasses from
Maoriland during the six months to
March 31 increased 27 p.c.; lamb ex-
ports were TO p.c. higher. But because
of drought in the Shivery Isles the con-
dition of sheep and cattle slaughtered was
not so good, and on a poundage basis
the exports may not be as favorable as
they seem.
* * * *
Rockhampton (Q.) has decided to ask
for permission to borrow £265,000, a
subsidy of a like amount being expected
from the Government, for the purpose
of sewering the city.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Great Expectations”
This film at Sydney Plaza emphasises
the difficulty of filming Dickens. Story
and characters are there, but the
characters don’t come to life and the
story fails to excite. Dickens got his
effects by piling words upon magical
words; the filmic art consists in
eliminating words. The children do
best —though Young Pip (George Break-
ston) is an American —chiefly because
they haven’t much to say. Miss Havi-
sham’s priggish little ward (Ann Howard),
with her insolently staccato “This way,
boy!” and the miserable Sarah Pocket
(Eily Malyon) are Dickensian; so, to
an extent, is the grown-up Estella, whom
Jane Wyatt presents as a lovely girl with
no stage mannerisms. But Forrester Har-
vey’s Pumblechook is a nonentity, and
Alan Hale’s Gargery is any moon-faced
rustic of old-time melodrama. The
v/eakest of the fantastics is the Miss
Havisham of Florence Read, and it
isn’t the actress’s fault. The mid-Vic-
torians believed in one-man women
whose hearts broke when they were de-
serted and who lived wretchedly ever
afterwards in their bridal finery amid
the cobwebbed remains of the wedding
feast that never took place; and the
true lover of Dickens takes them in his
stride. On a screen they are as hard
to swallow as “The Silver King” would be.
Francis L. Sullivan plays Jaggers as a
suave family solicitor. Though Henry
Hull looks horrible as Magwitch, he ;
fails to live up to his appearance.
Charles Laughton might have agonised
credibly as the sentimental convict,
but even he would have been hard
put to it to make us see this strange
creation on the screen as we see him in
the novel. George Barraud and Phil-
lips Holmes are a conventional villain
and hero respectively as Compeyson and
the grown-up Pip.
“Cheating Cheaters”
An amusing crook fantasia with some
ever-pppular situations. Fay Wray is
Henry Hull as Magwitch in “Great
Expectations,’’ at Sydney Plaza.
associated with a gang of jewel-thieves
which contains such accomplished wrong-
doers as Minna Gombell, Henry Armetta
and Hugh O’Connell. There is an oppo-
sition gang consisting of Cesar Romero
(in love with Miss Wray), Wallis Clark,
Anne Shoemaker and George Barraud.
Each gang believes that the members of
the other gang are rolling in dollars and
diamonds. After the perpetration of
ineffable idiocies on both sides all parties
are arrested. Fay Wray is, of course,
the mysterious sleuth whom all have
been trying to avoid, and she and
Romero pair off. Why the young man
wasn’t gaoled with the others present
critic couldn’t make out.
“Dames”
A song-and-dance at Sydney Regent.
“The Girl at the Ironing Board”
is melodious, and it goes with a swing.
The dancing is average musical-comedy
stuff, and there are the cus-
tomary huge ballets, which
strike one as representing
the genius of a sar’-major
rather than that of an
imaginative ballet - master.
The story concerns the
bamboozling of Puritans by
bright young things. Hugh
Herbert as an eccentric
millionaire, Guy Kibbee as
a made-for-trouble middle-
aged fool, and Zasu Pitts as
Kibbee’s screen-wife live up
to their reputation as laugh-
getters. Dick Powell, Ruby
Keeler and Joan Blondell
are also in the cast.
“The Florentine Dagger”
Who slabbed to death
with an ancient Florentine
dagger the rascally Victor
Ballau (Henry O’Neill), a
Viennese play producer?
Could it have been Juan
Cesare (Donald Woods), a
young dramatist who could
trace his ancestry back to
the Borgias? Juan is con-
vinced that he inherited his
ancestors’ homicidal habits,
and he is in Vienna under
the care of an English
psychiatrist (C. Aubrey
Smith), who has prescribed
play-writing as a remedy.
Was the assassin Florence Ballau (Mar-
garet Lindsay), Ballau’s stepdaughter,
who is playing the part of Lucrezia
Borgia in a play written by Juan?
She does some stabbing with a simi-
lar dagger in the play, and also has
reasons to hate her stepfather. Obvi-
ously it was not the elderly psychiatrist,
though it might have been the peculiar-
looking housekeeper (Florence Fair) or
the mysterious mask-maker (Eily Mal-
yon). Such are the problems which con-
front Sydney Regent audiences this week.
All the principals are intelligent, parti-
cularly Robert Barrat as a flirtatious
Austrian detective.
“The White Cockatoo”
A gloomy old hotel on a cliff in
France, perpetually resounding with a
howling gale and equipped with a secret
chamber and a villainous proprietor, is
the scene of this romance. As soon as
an American civil engineer from Russia
(Ricardo Cortez) comes to stay, murders
begin. First victim is a mysterious Rus-
sian count; second a porter; third an
American who travels under a false
name and pretends to be a doctor. Cortez
is arrested and released. Suspicion is
cast upon a young American heiress (Jean
Muir) who is waiting for her long-lost
brother, whom she has never seen, to
turn up with her share of a fortune of
two million dahlers. Alleged brother
arrives, but is proved to be an impostor.
Finally it turns out that all the murders
were committed by an American lawyer,
also a guest in the house, and that the
deceased pseudo-doctor behaved so sus-
piciously, prowling into people’s rooms
and searching their luggage, because he
was really the long-lost brother. Miss
Muir is cleared of suspicion by the dis-
covery on the premises of her double, a
confederate of the plotters. All the white
cockatoo has to do is to register hatred
of the wicked lawyer. How the pre-
tended brother, who had never seen the
hotel before, knew it contained a secret
room, and why the rightful brother
paddled round like a cat burglar, remain,
with about three dozen other thrilling
circumstances, impenetrable mysteries.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Royal Cavalcade”
This is a ninety minutes’ skim of the
cream of the last 25 years of British
history and progress, with King George
in the centre of the picture. There is a
subdued attempt to bind the thing to-
gether with a connected story, a la
Coward’s play; though the thread is
slender it serves it's purpose well enough.
Some historic scenes in the House of
Commons and elsewhere have been re-
enacted, not very convincingly—Lloyd
George looks more like Briand;
Sir Cedric Hardwicke and Anne Neagle in “Nell
Gwyn,” at Sydney Mayfair.
Churchill, Foch, Haig and Sir Edward
Grey are scarcely recognisable likenesses.
The march of science and invention is
well indicated, and there are little scenes
in pubs, music halls, cafes and skating
rinks that capture the Cockney atmo-
sphere so long as the people don’t talk.
Dialogue is made up mostly of demon-
strations of affection for the royal
family, which appear awkward and
artificial by reason of their sloppiness.
Indeed, the acting throughout is poor. On
the other hand, the procession of great
events is marshalled with a keen eye to
pictorial values and with painstaking
attention to accuracy of detail, and the
survey is comprehensive and well-
balanced. It is a British International
production, seen at Sydney Capitol.
“The Great Hotel Murder”
Victor McLaglen and Edmund Lowe
resume their friendly rivalry. This time
Victor is a thick-witted house detective,
Edmund a Warner-Baxterish sleuth who
writes thrillers for a living. Exactly why
a wealthy banker was poisoned; why
the poisoner, a medical man, pooh-
poohed the verdict of two other physi-
cians that death was due to natural
causes; why the murderer was later
found lying wounded in the home of the
dead man’s widow, where she was pre-
paring to elope with a drug-addicted
banker, one of the suspects, and why
the real culprit should leap into a motor-
car and drive to a mangled death as soon
as sleuth Lowe had convincingly pinned
the crime on someone else —these are
problems that evade solution. But the
piece is full of thrilling incidents and
jolly wisecracks, and you can’t have
everything. Seen at a Fox Theatrette
preview,
“Wings in the Dark”
A Prince Edward picture which drags
somewhat despite good acting by Myrna
Loy and Carey Grant. It is the lach-
rymose story of an aviator who acci-
dentally loses his sight as he is about to
start on an epoch-making “blind” flight.
His girl, a stunt aviatrix, sticks to him
nobly through his consequent troubles.
Hobart Cavanough is the loyal friend —
a Scottish mechanic on this occasion —
who stands dumbly by until the happy
ending. The same occurs when the hero
unexpectedly regains his sight after
rescuing his girl in her sensational flight
from Moscow to New York. Roscoe
Kafns is his usual cheery, vulgar self as
a high-pressure press agent, and there
are some excellent bits of ’plane photo-
graphy.
“College Harmony”
A collegiate, also at the Prince
Edward, with Jack Oakie bounding about
as a bumptious youth who introduces
the combined technique of football field
and musical-comedy stage into the busi-
ness of running a departmental store.
Lanny Ross, though an unashamed
crooner, is endurable as Piccolo Pete.
For the rest, there are occasional passages
of uproarious fun, well-drilled ballets
weaving strange patterns of shapely legs
and gleaming teeth, and Joe Penner and
his celebrated Duck. The plot is even
thinner than in most works of the sort,
but it moves too quickly for the spectator
to get bored.
Some First Nights
The highlights in Menuhin’s recitals at
Sydney Town Hall, all well attended,
have been the Mendelssohn Concerto,
Mozart’s “Adelaide” Concerto, Lalo’s
“Symphony Espagnole,” the Cesar Franck
Sonata and the Bach B Minor Partita.
For sweets there have been judicious
sprinklings of Sarasate, Paganini, Wieni-
awski, and suchlike. Particularly in the
Mendelssohn and Mozart numbers there
was a feeling that composer and execu-
tant were completely in sympathy.
Menuhin’s programmes are compara-
tively short, and, allowing for the four
or five little encore pieces at the end
which Sydney demands of every musi-
cian, the audience is outside the hall by
10.30 p.m.
y. n’- «
At the Civic, Sydney, a company
headed by Joe Lawman, Joe Valli and
Stella Lamond has embarked on old-
time slap-stick vaudeville—with gags
making up in breadth for what they lack
in point. There is a balancing act (a
clever turn of its kind), and there are, of
course, dancing damsels. Joe Lawman can
be funny, and some political references
were appreciated by the audience. A
South Sea dance and setting were attrac-
tive, as were also some gyrations de-
Florence Read as Miss Havisham
in “Great Expectations.”
scr i bed as an “Eastern phantasy.” The
show has no claim to high artistic rating,
but it manages to create the atmosphere
of comfortable understanding between
performers and audience which no other
sort of entertainment seems capable of
supplying.


]
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
iClient, age 19J, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks. No Appliances
f „ „21 „ 5 „in 5 mths. —No Drugs.
\ ~ „ 20, „ 3$ in 16 days. No Dieting.
•. » 30, „ 2. „In 4 weeks. 11 11,11
„ 40, „ U .» ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 Jins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from aU over the world.
Fee £2 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now:—
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, . J
* Scarborough, Eng. iP.O. Uox 16. j
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin.” Id. extra.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885>
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:-
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always availab'*
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
RECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Rraddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
C WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
COME to Sydney
and STAY
I at
\0
<9
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors j
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Australian
Film Exports
From this end
of the world one
feels that the film
censor in Aus-
tralia would be
better employed
in preventing local products from get-
ting out rather than the reverse pro-
cedure.
The latest arrival is “South Sea Varie-
ties,” which was trade-shown recently
and which the very mildly spoken “Daily
Film Renter” (possibly the most impor-
tant trade journal) subsequently described
as “a crude screen revue with a
travelogue extolling Sydney Harbor in-
congruously introduced, complete with
conventional commentator.” The paper
went on to tell its readers, all of whom
are in the picture trade, that “this is
only a film for non-critical patrons, and
is undistinguished in almost every de-
partment of its production and presen-
tation.”
With every respect to those blazing
out a difficult path, it is increasingly ob-
vious that Australian films need an
expert producer with one or two extra
technicians in tow. Basil Dean is due
to arrive before Christmas, and, although
he is not the world’s best director, his
presentations are generally above re-
proach. But even the best English pro-
ducers have yet to learn that the two
most important things in a film are
dialogue and direction —in that order.
Not the best director in the world can
make a first-class picture if the dialogue
lags and the plot is infantile.
LONDON.
KEITH BARRY.
Juliet .
A h, Juliet,
you kindled with your beauty
a world grown weary of little perishable
loves,
and set the bright seal of your imperish-
able story
across the unconquering darkness of the
tomb.
But all the quiet dead stirred and
wakened
and their dry hearts beat with a swift
amaze
that you, whose brief life was so filled
with wonder,
should have so strange and terrible a
faith in death.
N.S.W.
DYMPNA CUSACK.
Subsidies
for
Playwrights
Applause for
Harold Mercer’s
article, “The
Stage Can Help
Australia”
(B. 17/4/ ’35). It’s
time the Federal
Government did something to encour-
age our creative workers or our writers
and artists did the arise-and-awake busi-
ness to get results.
The creative worker in Australia has
sat by and listened to everyone, from
the plumber’s assistant upwards, cry for
more and get it. Latest is the oyster-
growers getting State assistance by way
of an Act. In Australia Governmental
assistance is more important to the
creative worker than in more heavily
populated countries. Certainly the Fed-
eral Government has given a few literary
pensions of the quid-a-week variety, but
these do little or nothing to assist the
growth of our novelists, playwrights and
poets.
The Federal Government should be
asked to spend a few thousands a year
on literary prizes, and by literary I don’t
mean scenario competitions in which the
judges are likely to know less than the
competitors about the work to be judged.
A couple of thousand a year for Aus-
tralian literary competitions would mean
better Australian literature, and a
national theatre is even more important
than Commonwealth prizes for novels,
because an Australian novelist can see
his work in print. He may not get much
or anything out of it, but at least he can
see something more than typewritten
pages for his work, and get some criti-
cism. Unless to-day’s Australian play-
wright is willing to stage his show on
his own account in some inadequate hall
or get somebody else to stage it in an
“A door —Palazzo Grimani, Venice,” one of the choice bits in Lionel Lindsay’s exhibition at
Melbourne Fine Arts Gallery. It has been selected for the Victorian National Gallery under
terms of the Felton Bequest.
equally inadequate hall, flatteringly
termed a “repertory theatre,” he has no
chance of hearing whether he writes dia-
logue or literary jargon, no opportunity
of seeing whether he knows anything
about play-construction or whether he
had better turn to writing for the radio.
As Mercer says, a national theatre need
not be a further crime on the national-
debt sheet. An intimate theatre, seating
about 600 people with modern seating,
such as the Liberty Theatre, Sydney, but
with an adequate stage, should be able
to run at a profit, provide a fair living
for producer and actors, and small royal-
ties for the authors. Our national theatre
is not only necessary to pat the egos of
our budding playwrights (as a form of
encouragement), but it is necessary for
the criticism that is essential to any art.
There is a movement in England at
the moment for a national theatre, and
the fight for it in the Cold Country has
gone on for generations. London has its
three or four first nights every week in
the season, but still, it is believed, a
national theatre is necessary.
I have amused myself writing 10 three-
act plays in the past four years. I have
not expected to get any more than the
pleasure of writing them. I haven’t.
ERIC BEDFORD.
Melbourne’s
Best Show
for Years
Mastery of
light is outstand-
ing in Lionel
Lindsay’s exhibi-
ti o n at'. Mel-
bourne Fine Arts
Soc i e ty’s gal-
leries. Especially have his water-colors
—5l in number—captured that elusive
phenomenon reflected light, and that
without impairing the glowing colors
which compose his harmonies. On the
whole, his pictures of Spanish landscape,
Spanish architecture and Spanish life
stand out above the Indian and Algerian
and Venetian compositions; though,
strangely enough, his own pick of the
collection is “Lake Udiapur,” a striking,
highly-colored view of an Indian valley,
but one which might have been done
by a dozen water-colorists of lesser
merit.
It is difficult to award the palm to
any particular picture. Full of life and
brilliance and with its colors gleaming
in incandescent intensity is “The Riva,
Venice.” This picture is painted over-
looking an esplanade on a canal, with
architectural beauty massed on one side
and with crowds of people, evidently
holiday-making, hurrying along the foot-
paths. Wonderfully composed, even to
the curves of the flying banners, and
with sunlight bombarding the flat sur-
faces, if is a splendid piece of water-
color. “Titian’s Place,” on the Grand
Canal, is another of his triumphs around
Venice, though it fails to reach the
heights of “The Riva.” Two of the
larger Indian pictures treat of palaces
at Benares, and both are excellent,
especially that which shows the brown
building rising from a succession of
stone steps along the waterfront.
The Spanish and Algerian pictures
are not large, but they strike a note of
rare beauty. “The Blue Street, Con-
stantine,” “Blue Doors,” “Door of the
Coup d’Evantail,” “Pink Farmhouse,”
“In the Oasis, Bousada,” “Pottery
Works, Malaga” and the “Mosque with
Three Doors” are a few of those which
linger longest in the memory.
Only half a dozen etchings are shown,
the most striking being Jerez de los
Caballeros. Of the same number of
woodcuts, in Lindsay’s characteristic
style, “Hornbill” and “The Crab” are
particularly fine, though the marvellous
virtuosity of “Polar Bear” and “Rhodo-
dendrons” will probably attract more
public attention. The show is one of
the best that Melbourne has had for
years.
M.G.
Current
Arthursts
Time was
when the Vic-
tor i a n Artists’
Society staged the
art event of the
year, when the
very cream of the best work comprised
the exhibits. Of recent years, the standard
has steadily declined, until at times it
appeared to consist largely of the by-
products of individual shows.
In this year’s exhibition the average is
lower than that of the best one-
man exhibitions and the supermen of
Victorian painting stand aloof in con-
siderable numbers. It is a sane show
—too sane a show. It would be better
if the artistic cranks were let loose, as
they are at the Paris Autumn Salon.
Among them are to be found originality of
outlook, originality of handling—things
almost entirely missing from this exhibi-
tion.
Possibly the most striking of the
few pictures which have cut away from
tradition is John Rowell’s self-portrait,
painted in the blazing sunlight, with
color luminous but well-placed and well-
restrained. Rowell also shows some
satisfactory landscapes, but in these he
does nothing that is artistically “not
done.” Isabel Tweddle’s “Solomon
Islands” is another picture well out of
the rut —a riot of tropical foliage rising
from the water’s edge painted modernis-
tically without trespassing into freakdom.
L. M. Fairley is another painter whom
modernism has touched so lightly as to
be inoffensive.
The show includes
many portraits. W.
B. Mclnnes shows a
soundly painted and
imaginative picture
of a child; Charles
Wheeler depicts Dr.
Mailer with such
care that he re-
sembles some digni-
fied Buddha ; Harry
B. Harrison has a
full-length life-size
picture of a beauty
girl, well - painted
and lighted but con-
juring up memories
of illustrations in
the social columns of
the press; Aileen
Dent’s “Mother” is
a satisfactory piece
of work; W. A.
Dargie fails with his
“Phyllis,” but makes
amends in an excel-
lent sketch, “The
Visit”; Marion
Montford does jus-
tice to an attractive
model in “The
Artist’s Daughter,”
and E. Buckmaster
contributes a strik-
ing portrait of a
fellow-artist, Miss A. M. E. Bale.
In still-life Clewin Harcourfs collec-
tion of orange and tange blooms stands
supreme.
Among the landscapes, Syd Long’s half-
dozen strike the note of greatest origi-
nality. Their design is Long design ; their
color is Long color ; they identify the
artist like finger-prints, and are equal to
anything he has done. Nora Gurdon’s
“Spring in the Mountains” is excellent,
as is A. E. Newbury’s Corot-like “Trees
by the Sea.” Buckmaster is seen again in
“A Sunlit Coast,” colorful and brilliant
with light, and Alfred Coleman’s
“Lagoon” is far above average. Harold
Herbert, dexterous as ever, has three
water-colors, all of them in his best
style and one, “Sand Slope,” equal to
the best of his French works. Other
water-colors of note are from A. T. Ber-
naldo, J. W. Roach, A. Montgomery
and J. S. Loxton.
Edward Heffernan shows some excel-
lent pencil sketches, and Marguerite
Mahobd a few of her clever ceramics.
The sculpture generally is weak, and in-
cludes a bronze tablet by Wallace Ander-
son to be placed in Yarra Glen State
school as a memorial to the late Tom
Collins, author of Such Is Life.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF,
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .. . . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
n
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield. S.E.B. Melbourno
Missing Friends.
BATHGATE. —Relatives of MAR CARET
BATHGATE, who died on November 5, 1934,
aged about 63 years, and who was for some
nine years in the employment of Sir Alex-
ander and Lady Walker, of Piersland, Troon,
Ayrshire, and 73 Brook Street, London, are
requested to communicate with MESSRS. A.
& A. F. CAIRNS SMITH, Solicitors, Wal-
lace Chambers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
A WOMAN'S
LATTER
In spite of the deluge that nearly
washed away Monday morning, the mili-
tary review happened to schedule.
Through a blur of rain Major-General
Rosenthal could be seen directing the
proceedings; then the Governor rode
out to inspect the parade. At the saluting
base there stood, among the blue and
gold of the military, naval and air forces,
a tall admiral who endured the sloshing
as long as he could, and then called for
his cape, a sumptuous affair lined with
white silk fo save the epaulettes. Mrs.
Bundock, who wore her sapphire-blue
hat at the right angle, hoped that the
elements would spare her colonel’s tunic
(they cost at least £2O). On a dais, pro-
tected by a red-and-white awning,
notables sat; these included Lady Hore-
Ruthven, Japan’s Consul and visiting
princes, Minister of Defence Parkhill,
Premier Stevens and his wife, the Kelso
Kings and Joseph Cook and his Dame.
Archbishop Mowll and a group of re-
presentative ministers of religion offered
a Thanksgiving service on a hillock a
little apart from the review ground.
Fourteen acres of the old parade
ground at Centennial Park, which had
no: been used since about 1908, was occu-
pied with the glitter and movement of
the navy, the army and the air force, in
a parade of jubilation. Eight thou-
sand stalwarts, armed with rifle and
sword, with machine-guns, tanks and
what Caesar would have classed as other
impedimenta, wheeled and turned and
marched under the discerning eye of Sir
Alexander Hore-Ruthven, V.C., who
took the salute.
The inspiring and altogether exciting
moment came with the firing of the feu
de foie. The Royal Australian Artillery
opened up with seven rounds of gun
fire ; then every man with a rifle fired.
Then came six bars of the National
Anthem; more gun and rifle lire ; an-
other six bars of the Anthem. While
the rifles were cracking gaily, the Union
Jack was lowered, up flew the Royal
Standard, and the bands (14 of them)
played the whole of the National
Anthem. Then the throats of the 8000
men on parade opened as one, and split
the air with three cheers for the King.
Throughout the royal salute a squadron
of the air force roared across the sky-
ways in V formation.
The cadets from the Royal Military
College made a brave show in the slow
march past; and who will forget the
exhilaration of the half-hour that seemed
a few seconds while the 8000 soldiers and
sailors marched past in column? An-
other hip-hip-hooray moment came with
the handing over by his Ex. of a
tank (a lovely example of the silver-
smith’s art) to the Australian Tank Corps
from the men of the Royal Tank Corps
in “friendship and appreciation.”
Gentlemen, the King! Sydney has
been wearing George V.’s silver jubilee
like a proud coronet in her hair for the
past week. The Governor and his lady
started the jubilations with a dance at
Government House —a decorative, dazz-
ling and definitely young dance. The
house was brilliant with lights, drenched
with the scent of flowers (the lawns be-
yond the terrace alas! were drenched
with rain) and radiant with the gleam of
rich fabrics and jewels—many of them,
even in these days of art jewellery, the
real thing. A fire burned in the entrance
hall; from large crystal bowls leaped the
blaze of scarlet zinnia, of yellow dahlia.
Here and there hydrangea thrust its cool
blues. Rosy japonica was on the mantel;
ferns lent their soft greenery to the room
where Sir Alexander and Lady Hore-
Ruthven received. The hostess’s frock
was leaf-green in tone, long in train, and
was served with pearls and diamonds;
her fan was of long green ostrich plumes.
Lady Isaacs, who had first been to
hear Yehudi Menuhin, arrived about
half-past ten. Her silver tissues, woven
with hyacinth blues, were beyond re-
proach ; so were her diamonds. Quite
a younger generation of Horderns was
among the dancers. Dinah was in white ;
black satin and orchids were worn by
sister Mary ; Mrs. Sam Hordern’s frock
was of powder-blue moire, long and
full. Blue, perhaps in compliment
to Queen Mary, seemed the popular
shade, and the off-the-shoulder line both
a favorite and favorable. Frances
Angus’s rose taffeta, sprinkled with silver,
was a good example. Mrs. Pat Rothe’s
blue moires cascaded to a train ; Mrs.
Michael King was vivid in red and black.
Among the smart and young was Mel-
bourne’s Mrs. M. L. Baillieu. Blue was
worn by Admiral Ford’s wife ; gold and
green were mingled cunningly in Mimi
Healy’s frock, and she danced with the
Governor. Ivie Price, Patsy Little and
Priscilla Feilden were a decorative
trio. Eileen Bell, of Coochin Coochin
(Q.), and Lady Forteviot hobnobbed.
Elise and Sadie Budge, Joan Sterling
Levis and Faith Macarthur Onslow
added color to the dress parade.
By half-past eight on Monday night
heroic attempts were being made to ring
the harbor with a chain of blazing
torches. Scout fires, too, were built high,
and rockets waited for their doom, while
searchlights from warship and ’plane
pierced the harbor from shore to shore
with their blades of light. The warships
lying at their moorings blazed with elec-
trics from bow to stern, and up at Gov-
ernment House the vice-regals held court
to the glory of King George and his
Queen.
At the Savoy Theatre “The Distaff
Side,” Sybil Thorndike’s London suc-
cess, is the bill of fare. Hope Suttor is
the senior lead, and Flora Danciger, the
girl whose wistful expression Falk shows
herewith, one of the attractive young-
sters in the cast.
Cabarita, Mortlake and Putney, clam-
orous with their thousands, were the hot
spots of interest for the G.P.S. boatrace.
And what a day it was, with “Joeys”
snatching first and second fours almost
on the post; with luck handing out a
dirty last-minute smack to “Shore” in the
fours, and then smiling them on to vic-
tory in the head-of-the-river race! What
raucous cheers and shouts and siren
tootings blasted the afternoon air! How
gay the craft of the water laneway
looked, canoes and yachts, their colors
nailed to the mast, jostling one another
at the exciting moments! There were
the ferries, seven of them, enormous
whales, top-heavy with flappers and their
boy friends. The police launch was
busy—lucky for the collapsed rower in
the “Shore” four. Aeroplanes, like fly-
ing-fish, leaped in the sky; streaming
ribbons, girl cries, boy cheers, mega-
phone roars, a blue afternoon shot
through with a freshening breeze. In
short, a perfect boatrace day.
The two dances that lured most of
the young things on Saturday night were
the G.P.S. Regatta Ball at David Jones’s
and the Prince Alfred’s junior auxiliary
dance in the new State ballroom. The
Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven came
to this joy-making, she very handsome
in mauve-and-silver lame wrapped in
ermine. The Mayoral Parkers were civic
guests. Hundreds (more than 700 at
the first) danced gaily into the new day
in an atmosphere of flags, flowers and
school colors.
Meet Marjorie Fletcher, the sculptor
whose group “Outcast,” an aborigine
mother with babes, is an outstanding
piece of work in the Women’s Industrial
Arts Show. Marjorie is a Tech. College
student, and is in the diploma class. She
hails from the North Shore line.
Everybody who could wangle an invi-
tation turned up at the Menuhin flat
last Sunday to hear Yehudi play the
Enesco Sonata. The big room that runs
the length of the flat was crowded with
musical and theatrical Sydney, presided
over by Mrs. Menuhin —in a quaint
black velvet bodice that buttoned down
the front and a long, very much
gathered white satin skirt. Marcel
Gazelle radiated smiles. Father helped
to place everybody, and presently the
girls came in—Hephzibah, straight from
tennis, in a full cream skirt and reefer
jacket, Yaltah in a sprigged muslin.
Yehudi came last, in tennis flannels.
Everything was jolly and informal, and
the Sonata, brilliant and powerful, with
its compelling rhythmic beat and under-
tone of untrammelled things, held the
listeners in thrall.
Esner Macleod became Mrs. Archibald
Raymond (“Peter”) Shaw last Wednes-
day evening. The bride, the ’groom and
Father P. J. Murphy, who blessed the
vows, are Mosmanites, but they all tra-
velled over to St. Mary’s Cathedral for
the ceremony. The sheen of the bridal
magnolia satin was misted over by a
double veil of tulle, the under one pleated
and edged with silver lace, the upper
one blowing free from the clusters of
orange-blossom that caught it to the
head. Apple-green moires sashed in
primrose were worn by the three ’maids:
bride’s sister Audrey, Brenda Parkhill
and Win Carew. Their heads were
wreathed in shasta daisies, and they car-
ried bunches of the same simple flower.
The reception at Quambi, the Maclcod
Mosman home, was a handsome affair,
rounded off with dancing.
There’s art for art’s sake, there’s art
for commerce, there are altar pieces,
church vestments, there are pottery,
sculpture and group pieces suggesting
that a cruise might be jolly, in the Indus-
trial Arts Exhibition. This has packed
the Education Galleries with examples
of what woman can do when let loose
with brush and pencil. Let it be said
that she uses not these implements
always to torture, but often to charm the
onlooker. The arrangement of this vast
output places organiser Mrs. Clinton
(Frank Payne) right in the front rank
when haloes are given out.
Lady Hore-Ruthven made the opening
speech, her frock, hat and furs in wood-
land browns. Here came Grace Crow-
ley, Rah Fizelle, Dora Jarret, Miss
Shillito, the Hinders, Mary Edwards
and Syd Ure Smith. Padre Micklem’s
wife and Mrs. A. T. Anderson were
busied with the church vestments
exhibit. Here arose the colorful trip-
tych depicting a very white-and-gold
angel leading a native chief, shield and
feathers and all, to salvation. This is
to go to a church in Arawe, and is the
work of the Turramurra wall painters.
The new home at Manly for the Far
West kiddies will be opened on May 18
by the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruth-
ven, who were at the ball in aid of the
building fund. They came attended by
Commander Gilford, and an overflowing
house marked their passage with en-
thusiasm. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s deep-
red romaines were caped in ermine. The
glitter of diamonds and the pale pink
of roses —her presentation posy —were
notable still-life bits in the composition.
David Jones’s ballroom just about
coped with the cohorts gleaming in
purple and gold, green and silver, pink
and blue that descended on it last Wed-
nesday —dancing their object. For the
first time the University Settlement dance
was held away from academic surround-
ings, but dons and undergrads, were just
as much in evidence. Lady Hore-
Ruthven (while her husband was being
toasted at the University Club dinner)
was receiving the eight debs. —all under-
grads. and all white-frocked.
The vice-reine wore mist blue and
silver lame, flower-patterned, its epau-
lettes of blue tulle. With her came Cap-
tain Ponsonby and Patsy Little —her
yellow frock cascading frills. Miss I. M.
Fidler, president of the ball committee,
was distinguished-looking in black lace
and tulle; Mrs. Harold Dew, who
brought her professor, did her job of
presenting the social fledglings in a frock
of softest pink lace. The Mungo Mac-
Callums were there; also Dr. and Mrs. A.
H. Martin and the Professor Lovell and
Mills couples; Aubrey Halloran with
his Enid, lovely in blue. Eiise Dettmann,
gay in plaids; Mrs. Greg McGirr, keep-
ing an eye on deb. daughter Beatrice ;
the Justice Maxwells; Thora Hawkes, of
Melbourne, flashing turquoise moires,
and Rosamund Docker, of the University
Settlement, in water-green chiffons.
While the rain turned to sleet and
spattered last Thursday night with chilly
gouts, about 60 girls and boys made for
the A. E. Grace home at Vaucluse. The
party was a torch lit to the glory of
Greek drama. Lute Drummond and
Greek Consul Cocotakis were the night’s
speakers. Lute, very slim in white satin,
her back to the three tall windows that
gazed across the waters and reflected the
lights on the bridge, fold the story of
Euripides. The Consul followed with a
history of the Greek drama. Between
them they held their listeners spellbound
for an hour. Then came songs from
Alice Prowse, Charles Nicis and Mrs. A.
Montgomery in German, Russian, French
and Italian. Mrs. Grace (graceful in
trained moonlight blues) alone carried
the English tongue into the aviary.
A bunch of Sydney’s high-incomed and
best-dressed women is going into the old-
clothes business. The members of the
group are quite blithe and outspoken
about it, and they crowded into the Raw-
son Institute the other morning to dis-
cuss the details. Alexander Gordon’s
wife was chief spokesman, and the Hugh
Denison, Stephen and McKelvey ladies
were among a chorus that included Mrs.
Walter Swinson, Mrs. Jimmy Dickson
and Mrs. Penfold Hyland. The Rawson
Institute will benefit from the shop-
keeping.
Popular Susie Williams having de-
cided to withdraw herself and her
degrees from the Women’s College within
the Uni., where she has been principal
for some years, Camilla Wedgwood,
M.A. (Cantab.), has been appointed in
succession. Camilla lectured on anthro-
pology at .Sydney Uni. in 1928-29 and in
1934. She’s a graduate of Newnham,
and is at present on the Nauru adminis-
trative staff.


Legal Notice.
DANIEL FRANCIS CLEARY, late of Peter-
sham, New South Wales, Retired Police
Officer, died August 27, 1932, and Administra-
tion of his estate was granted to the Public
Trustee on April 7, 1933. He was born at
West Maitland on November 1, 1853, a son of
Patrick Cleary and Bridget Meehan. He had
a brother, Michael Cleary, born at West Mait-
land on August 16, 1844. If the said Michael
Cleary was alive on August 27, 1932, he would
be entitled to 1 a one-ninth share in the distribu-
tion of the estate, and if he died before
that date leaving a child or children living on
August 27, 1932, such child or children would
be entitled to such share. Michael Cleary went
to Queensland, and, according to a Certificate
of Death obtained, he died there before the
death of Daniel Francis Cleary and without
having married. LET the said Michael Cleary
(brother of the deceased) or his Legal Personal
Representative, or the child or children (if
any) of the said Michael Cleary, or his, her
or their Legal Personal Representatives TAKE
NOTICE that unless a claim from them or one
of them is received by the Public Trustee,
Sydney, New South Wales, on or before
August 25, 1935, the Public Trustee will pro-
ceed to distribute the one-ninth share of the
estate now held for the said Michael Cleary or
his child or children as if the said Michael
Cleary had died a bachelor before August 27,
1932.—M. C. NOTT, Public Trustee, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Legal Noticei
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 707 of 1935.
BETWEEN CORALIE VERNA ROGERS
Petitioner
And RALPH ROGERS Respondent.
TO RALPH ROGERS late of Young in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CORALIE
VERNA ROGERS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion by you for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Thirty-first day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Third day of May, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. MASON, Solicitor for Petitioner, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TO RICHARD O’CONNOR, JOHN J.
O’CONNOR and EDWARD PATRICK
O’CONNOR, sons of David O’Connor,
formerly of Tralee, Co. Kerry, Ireland,
or their respective children, if any.
THE above persons, or, if they are dead,
heir personal representatives or children re-
spectively, are entitled to shares in certain
funds standing in Court in the Irish Free State,
and are requested to communicate with
MESSRS. COLLIS & WARD, 13 Clare Street,
Dublin, the Solicitors having carriage of the
proceedings, on or before the 15th July, 1935,
after which date said funds shall be distributed
amongst the claimants whose claims are proved.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 518 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARGARET ELIZABETH LEE
(formerly Margaret Elizabeth Waterworth)
Petitioner
And MAURICE CHRISTOPHER LEE
Respondent.
TO MAURICE CHRISTOPHER LEE
late of Watkin Street Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET'
ELIZABETH LEE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirtieth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Second day of May, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chaffer
Money was spent freely in Warrnam-
bool last week. The A.T.C. winter meet-
ing speeded up business. Picking winners
was easier for homestead hostesses than
trying to find room for all the friends
clamoring to be put up for the carnival.
Mrs. M. T. Whiting, of Merrilodge, and
sister Mrs. J. L. Davey, of Hawkesdale,
set the social ball rolling by serving tea to
a large number of visitors on the course
at the opening meeting. On the second
day president James Slattery’s wife
played the hostess in the Manifold
tea-house. Much gayer than many of
the jockeys’ colors was a jumper, green
as a parrot’s wing, sported by Mrs. Jack
Hawkes, wife of the Geelong tennis
champion. Mrs. John Twomey, of
Langulac, Penshurst, wearing dark blue
lighted up with white, upheld the hospi-
tality of the district by filling the tea-
kiosk to overflowing after the steeple-
chase. Taking a leaf out of the smart
London hostess’s book, Dorothy and
Agnes Ardlie staged a buffet dinner at
Aroonah. Another bright event was the
late-afternoon party given by Mrs. J. F.
Patrick, Mrs. A. R. Garrett and Ina
Newton. The Colin Whiteheads, just
returned from their honeymoon tour,
were among the guests at a luncheon
party given on the last day of the meet-
ing, at which Mrs. Charles Kelly, of
Barwidgee, and June Moffatt, of Chats-
worth House, acted as hostesses on be-
half of their mothers, whose plans suf-
fered a last-moment upset. At all the
festivities president J. G. Officer and his
wife were conspicuous figures.
The popularity of the modern girl can
be measured by the number of parties
arranged in her honor as the date of her
marriage approaches. But the more like-
able she is, the greater the penalty.
Nowadays it is not unusual for an after-
noon-tea, a cocktail party and a dinner-
and-dance or theatre party to be squeezed
into one day’s doings. Mrs. lan Mann,
as Audrey Poolman, was feted to the
point of fatigue before her wedding on
the last day of April.
Rural industry was represented in full
strength at the Poolman-Mann wedding.
The bridegroom belongs to Caramut,
and many friends who watch the wool
growing on the sheep’s back came to
town. Upholding in decorative fashion
a fine old name in Victorian pastoral life
w'ere the elegant Mrs. Osborne Fairbairn,
Mrs. Jim Fairbairn (Feggy Forrester that
was) and Mrs. Pat Fairbairn, formerly
Mary Stuart Murray, The event gained
eclat by the presence of the Lieut-Gov-
ernor of N. S. Wales, Philip Street, and
his wife, an aunt of the bride.
On a day when one needed wading-
boots to get about in comfort, the
Admiral of the Japanese training squad-
ron and his officers invited a crowd of
notable citizens to sample hospitality
aboard the Asama. It was an on-and-
off party. Sheltered from the wind and
rain by tarpaulin curtains, guest's spent
most of the afternoon on the pier watch-
ing the antics of sturdy sailors engaged
in national games. With the Admiral
sitting by her side interpreting the spirit
of the sport, Lady Huntingfield got more
of a kick out of the show than those
who had to gape politely and work out
their own impressions. By the time the
last visitor had got aboard to sip sake
out of a saucer people were packed as
close as sardines. Just to show that the
hygienic handling of food is not a
monopoly of the Western races, nimble
attendants distributed wooden forks and
knives in sealed wrappers—“ For-e the-e
sandwich-e.” Japanese, tea-party dainties
are an acquired taste. They all seem to
be flavored with seaweed. Officially the
party finished at four o’clock, but the
guests were so long in getting aboard
that they lingered until after five. Now,
was the ship’s band paying a compliment
or dropping a gentle hint when it tootled
“Home, Sweet Home”?
A lost fiddle sent Mrs. H. J. Robert-
son, a limb of the Robert Reid family
tree, on the warpath, bombarding her
friends with tickets for a benefit concert
she gave at the Austral Salon to help
Hamilton Bateman replace his stolen
violin. A sneak thief took the instru-
ment out of a sedan car left locked in
Collins-street a few weeks ago. While
Hamilton was sampling the good things
at a gala supper, someone was making
off with his most precious possession, a
violin, made of wood 300 years old and
valued at £lOOO. A good friend lent the
violinist a Guarnerius to play at the
concert.
The great open spaces are now within
earshot. Within an hour after Esther
Levy had chatted about the latest books
over the air she received a telegram from
a friend who had listened-in on a N.S.
Wales homestead a thousand miles from
Melbourne. Esther is one of this city’s
intellectual personalities, a Uni. gradu-
ate and a French honors scholarship
winner. She earns butter for her bread
these days by running a library for high-
brows and those who like to think they
are. For a long time she lent a helping
hand to the Million Shilling Fund
launched to rake in coin for a perma-
nent orchestra.
Mrs. E. Delany would rather give up
her flat in Marne-street, South Yarra,
than face a Melbourne winter. She has
booked for a three months’ cruise that
will enable her to cast an eye over New
Guinea and scatter yen throughout Japan.
The travelling trunks will go aboard in
June. On a dull grey day of wind-swept
rain last week “Mummy,” as she is called
by her friends, realised that she had left
her run too late. With the speed spirit
of the age, Old Man Winter had over-
taken fleeting Autumn, and the cold
season was in full blast.
When is a bargain not a bargain?
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, widow of a former
Melbourne City Councillor, can answer
the question; wicker deck-lounges
bought in Japan cost more to get
through the Australian Customs than
the price she paid for them. More
wily passengers bequeath such pur-
chases to the deck steward. Wel-
fare work gives Mrs. Ward many
sordid glimpses of life’s seamy side, so
that when she went cruising among the
Pacific Isles she was more than ordi-
narily impressed by the happiness and
contentment of the natives. The most
charming spectacle she saw on a long
cruise that finished at Honolulu was
Hong Kong harbor at night, with its
myriads of twinkling lights and illumi-
nated aeroplanes flitting like jewelled
comets across the sky.
Family ties have drawn Mrs. Charles
Russell Gabb, who has been living in
London, back to Melbourne. Although
she arrived several weeks ago, few
of her old friends have set eyes
on her yet. Daughter Jean, Mrs.
Jervis Carnegie, who had become a
wife and mother since Mrs. Gabb said
good-bye to her in London, bagged the
new arrival first. The youthful-looking
grandmamma barely had time to make
the acquaintance of Jean’s first-born be-
fore the Keith Aikman couple whirled
her away to Mt. Martha to see three more
grandchildren. Later she went off to
Menindie, her son-in-law’s station in
N. S. Wales. Mrs. Gabb owns one of
the attractive cottages in the grounds of
the Emerald Country Club, and her 14-
year-old son John, with some of his
Geelong Grammar chums, will spend
his midwinter vacation there with her.
She is a member of one of London’s
most exclusive women’s clubs, the
Empress, and through this has made
many happy friendships on the other
side. Always a smart dresser, Mrs Gabb
these days favors the daytime fashion
blend of the best-dressed women over-
seas —black and furs.
Jo Sweatman, who goes into re-
treat among the bluegums at Warran-
dyte most of the year, deserted her rural
home last week to decorate the Athenaeum
gallery with some of her canvases. Open-
ing day was launched without speechi-
fying. The artist, coated in brown-
flecked tweed, with a soft brown felt
hat shading her dark eyes, kept well in
the background. “I have been chided
for not painting with the times,” mused
this figure in brown, “but to me there is
no beauty in ugliness. Art was made
for beauty. They say I am a disgrace
to the progressive movement, that I am
behind the times. I don’t care ; I only
want to express beauty.” In this exhibi-
tion the nearest Jo Sweatman gets to the
moderns is with a still-life study of a
gaily-dressed doll and a bowl of mari-
golds, picking up a bright gold splash in
the toy’s dress. On her own initiative
this craftswoman would not have had
the courage to have blended jade-green,
yellow and orange, but Lenci, the Italian
doll-maker, won her over to seeing
attractiveness in bold contrasts of pri-
mary colors.
Felicity Syme, who has just changed
her name to Mrs. Maxwell Clemons, is
pictured here by a Ronald Esler camera.
This May bride appeared at the altar in a
trailing robe of ice-green satin, with four
bridesmaids and two trainbearers dressed
to match. Probably this breaking away
from convention was due to the bride’s
appreciation of color values gleaned
while handling palette and brush. Orders
were cabled from London by some of
those who have an admiration for Feli-
city’s art to express their good wishes in
flowers. A delicately-wrought chaplet of
diamente kept in place the bridal veil.
a family heirloom, passed on by the
bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Garnett, now
living in the South of England.
Friends whom Felicity chose to see her
through the ceremony were Barbara, the
Herbert Symes’ youngest daughter, Leila
Burgess, Nell Healy and Bunty Govett.
Baby-sister Veronica and Geoffrey, the
wee son of the Geoffrey Haggards, were
at the end of the yards of flowing satin.
Dr. Clemons had Dr. Reginald Crisp to
support him. There was a party for 500 at
the bride’s home, Blythswood, Kew, after
the wedding. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme wore
for her daughter’s marriage a robe of
uncrushable bottle-green velvet and a
dark-green picture hat. Dr. Clemons and
his young wife will settle in Launceston h
one of those delightful old homes tha
lend themselves to chintzes, calendared
quilts and quaint cottage furniture.
These days Mrs. M. R. McMillan, of
the International Club, is busy getting
ready another Pageant of All Nations.
This will be bigger than the centenary
affair. Paul O’Loughlin is gathering
fresh nosegays to make up his news bou-
quet when he announces the advent oi
the South American republics, Palestine,
Spain, Lebanon and Syria—fresh groups
which are to be incorporated in the pro-
cession, timed to strut through the Mel-
bourne Town Hall in a blaze of color
one night in June. Mrs. McMillan got
her first lessons in organising when run-
ning a free refreshment buffet for soldiers
on St. Kilda-road with Mrs. Alfred
Deakin.
Mrs. John Seigenberg is dead in Mel-
bourne. Domesticated and a born busi-
ness-woman, Mrs. Seigenberg saw the
advisability of extending the scope of
tea-rooms long before others in the trade
realised that there was anything more
in it than tea, cakes and Sandwiches.
More than 30 years ago she began serv-
ing hot meals in her tea-rooms ; until
then the hotels had had a monopoly.
Many young women who did very
well for themselves in later life
carried trays in the Seigenberg Winter
Garden. The pioneer made money and
lost it with equal composure. Nothing
disturbed her serenity. Dignified, gentle
and beloved, this daughter of an old Ben-
digonian, Henry Cohn, passed out at 75,
leaving eight grandchildren.
Since milliners have taken to sticking
quills in their customers’ hats there has
been no dearth of dressed poultry. Barn-
yard fowls are being killed off to supply
feathers for the new season’s hats. A
dip in the dye-pot can work wonders with
a leghorn’s feather, and these days in the
chain stores a customer has to fight her
way through to get served at any of the
tables strewn with lacquered quills.
“Sumner Locke made books and
friends.” Such is the inscription on
handmade bookends fashioned in
bronze and Australian wood which will
complete a memorial tribute to an Aus-
tralian writer of frail physique but in-
domitable spirit who wrested a liveli-
hood from literature in very lean times,
and passed out just as ripe plums were
about to fall into her lap. The book-
ends will find a place in the den of her
son, Sumner Locke Elliott, a Sydney
lad who has already shown a taste for
playwriting and acting. The memorial to
Sumner Locke was commenced soon
after the war by Katharine Susannah
Prichard and a group of Melbourne
journalists. Subscriptions were spent in
bringing out a memorial magazine and
buying a war bond for the motherless
babe. The bond was left long enough
to double its value, and the book-ends
have been purchased from a small sum
that was left over.
John Amadio’s golden flute was at the
service of the Vic. Liedertafelists for
their concert at Melb. Town Hall. The
distinguished husband of the distin-
guished Austral was so much at
home with Bach and Mozart that one
felt he could have performed them
equally well standing on his head. The
choristers worked through a programme
of mainly popular appeal, plus some en-
trancing pieces by Grieg, and soloists
Ernest Wilson and Molly Hislop gave a
good account of themselves.


Oi a
D
\\\\\
nxn
\ T~rn
i
<8
m
*0
8 73315-11 V
THERE'S
SOMETHING
NEW ,
HERE TOO/
wait for
the 1935
HERE SOON
Positions Vacant.
Marine Board of Launceston, Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of Consulting Engineer to the Marine Boara
of Launceston. Applicants to state terms ana
conditions under which they are prepared to
accept the position, and also furnish particulars
of qualifications and previous experience m
Harbour Works, together with Copy ot Cre-
addressed to the Secretary and
endorsed “Consulting Engineer,” must reacn
this Office not later than noon on the liui
day of June, 1935. g meredixH>
Secretary.
3rd May, 1935. |
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
{near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Undergrads, started their week or
revels with the best torchlight procession
in the Uni.’s brief history. Giant Crus-
tacea and lepidoptera towered above
cowering professors and students ; maids
in “The Little Dutch Milk Bar” served
weird and wonderful drinks; “The
Private Life of Don Jo Lyons” was de-
picted in 12 acts by a dozen bawling
youngsters, and Kisch underwent the
“garlic” test. At the Eccentric Dance
which followed the procession, no one
was allowed admission wearing orthodox
costume.
The climax of the festivities was the
Graduation Ball, a more decorous affair,
in Winthrop Hall, Palms were cunningly
arranged lattice-wise, and flowers and
ferns tumbled from the galleries. Supper
was served in the undercroft overlooking
the pond and court of honor, with artistic
decorations lending protection from the
weather. Vice-Chancellor Prof. Whit-
feld stood by his better-half’s graceful
black georgettes; Mrs. Battye and Mrs.
A. D. Ross both chose black Chantillies ;
black followed black in Mrs, Beasley’s
shimmering chiffon velvets, Mrs.
Blakey’s lace-adorned velvets and Mrs.
Paul Hasluck’s matt crepe skirt, with its
corsage of crimson and gold lame.
Dorothy McClemens brightened the pic-
ture with daffodil velvet; silver lace
sleeves were attached to Lorn a New-
man’s blue matelasse; Mrs. Wilfred
Campion draped a bustle effect on her
wine taffetas, and Ruth Fleming’s ivory
satins were warmed with fur.
King’s Park Tennis Club wound up its
tournament with a well-attended dance
in the club pavilion. An orchestra was
tucked into a palm-concealed alcove, the
one bright spot in a room of shaded
lights. President Basil Bruce’s wife
touched her black matt crepes with
white; Molly Noble’s black satin skirt
hung from a floral lame corsage; Peter
Smith caught the eye with emerald-green
velvet; Deborah Ambrose ran a silver
stripe down her pink organdies.
For her coming-of-age party at the
Guildford Council Chambers, Joy King
decked her powder-blue matelasse with
diamente. Michaelmas daisies and
dahlias decorated tables where sat 130
guests bidden to the feast by a brown-
floral-marocain-clad Mrs. King.
The Northam C. of E. ball at the local
Town Hall attracted a number of resi-
dents from outlying districts as well as
visitors from the city. Mrs. Gloucester s
black Chantillies occupied the official
chair, and she was responsible for the
arrangement of the riot of autumnal
flowers on the supper-tables. Black was
popular with both young and old.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Toe H Ball in the Manoora at
Port Adelaide was a huge success. The
Adelaide Steamship Co. provided every-
thing, and though tickets cost 10s. they
sold like hot cakes. The floral decora-
tions were all yellow, except the captain’s
table, where the vice-regal party was en-
tertained. That was arranged with
hydrangeas in green and brown toning.
His Ex. was received by Captain Irvine
and Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith,
the latter representing Toe H. Mrs.
Barr Smith wore an amethyst ring
velvet toilette with scalloped cape effect
over the shoulders; the Buckland lady’s
black romaine had a gold thread run-
ning through it; Mrs. W. T. Mortlock
was in black chiffon velvet with diamond
ornaments; Mrs. H. C. Cave was gowned
in wine-toned ring velvet and a grey
squirrel coat; Mrs. J. Lavington Bony-
thon wore black flowered romaine with
a deep flounce of black chiffon, over it
a black net jacket. Mrs. George Ritchie
chose beige-and-brown-figured satin and
a natural musquash fur coat. There
were about 400 present.
Very delightful was the dance given
by Mr. and Mrs. Ross Sawers at their
home, Hyde Park, for the debut of their
daughter Helen and her friend Elizabeth
Robertson. Two large reception-rooms
were thrown into one, and hydrangeas,
delphiniums and dahlias were banked on
the mantelpieces and window-seats. Mr.
and Mrs. Sawers received in the ball-
room, the hostess smartly gowned in
black silk net with soft frills on the skirt
and bodice. Helen Sawers chose a close-
fitting slightly-trained white silk mate-
lasse with a fine gold thread and a raised
diagonal stripe. The other deb. was
frocked in ivory taffeta with flared skirt,
and cape effect over each shoulder. The
new idea of a dark skirt and contrasting
bodice was worn by several of the
maidens.
In the Lady Symon Hall at the Uni.
the Uni. Women’s Union entertained at
afternoon-tea members of the Uni.
Wives’ Club and members of the teach-
ing staff. The president of the union,
Jean Gilmour, and vice-president Aileen
Cherry received about 50 guests. After
tea there was music.
A very successful two days’ .fete was
held at Rostrevor College, opened by
Lady Dugan, who was received by Dr.
Killian, the principal (Brother _ Mackey),
the head of the women’s committee, Mrs.
H. A. Lewis, and the acting-Mayoress,
Mrs. H. Dunsfan. The official party had
tea in the reception-room, which was
decorated with red gladioli and roses.
Alan Harkness and Kester Baruch, of
Adelaide, who have for several years
done good experimental work in their
Ab Intra Theatre, have gone to Lon-
don for further experience; the Bony-
thon family did much to make their
going possible. Brenda Kekwick (who
now lectures also on drama) gave at the
Torch two shows by her “Junior
Theatre,” steadied by her own clever
work, but revealing also a lot of coming
dramatic —as opposed to merely elocu-
tionary—young people. The Little
Theatre produced the unearthly “Out-
ward Bound,” the experience of Frank
Gunnell telling in the difficult part of
the Examiner. The still more experienced
Agnes Dobson, now settled in Adelaide,
was producer for this W.E.A. venture.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark, with Miss J. McLennan in
attendance, was at the Child Welfare
Ball at the Continental. The show was
run in conjunction with the Old Hobart
Association, and deserved a better
attendance, for it was well engineered.
An “Ugly Man” contest was won by
Charlie Eady. The Nicholls lady an-
nounced the results and thanked the
O.H.A. for its help.
Mrs. M. Page hostessed a big sherry
party at Hadley’s before daughter Jill’s
wedding with Tom Riggall. The lounge
was gay with vivid dahlias, and a big
fire made guests forget the dirty weather
outside. The hostess wore black-and-
white with a black velvet hat, and the
bride-to-be was in a smart turnout of
black and red, the tunic (of red) worn
over a black skirt, slightly trained.
Enid, eldest daughter of Col. J. E. C.
and Mrs. Lord, Derwentwater, Sandy
Bay, exchanged promises at St. George’s,
Battery Point, with Frank Penn
O’Meagher. The wedding was an even-
ing one, and the frocking looked bril-
liant under electric light. The bridal
gown of pure-white satin was cut in long
straight lines, with a slight train. Two
veils of fine tulle were caught by a little
halo of pearls and orange-blossoms.
Phyllis and Topsy Lord (sisters) fol-
lowed in turquoise-blue flat crepe dresses,
with little tulle veils fastened with dark-
red roses.
Gwenneth Mary Winch wore peach-
pink silk, with fish-tail train, high neck-
line a!nd cowl-back effect, when she
married Harry Crisp. The bride’s pink
picture-hat had a silver cord round the
crown. Her sister Margaret ’maided in
pink floral lame with a big taffeta bow
on the hip, and a velour hat.
Details from England of the wedding
of Dr. Tim Hogg and Margaret Gillett
at the ancient church of Ashby-de-la
Zouch, Leicestershire: The bride’s dress
(made in Melbourne) was of champagne-
tinted brocade, the slit skirt showing kill-
ings of brocade, and the veil being of
the same colored tulle, anchored by a
wreath of wee shell-flowers. Ishbell
Hogg and Mary Gillett were the ’maids.
Wattle-blossoms decorated the church,
and at the wedding breakfast a Tas-
manian-made cake sat alongside a
champagne-tinted English one.
Mabel Gibson’s exhibition of handi-
craft pottery, held at her own home,
High-street, Launceston, was an interest-
ing show. Her designs are artistic and
original, and she works on her own,
being self-taught and independent ot
tradition.


mGolfers! Improve your game by
wearing “Niblick” Golf Shoes. The speci-
ally designed non-clogging, non-skid soles
make it almost impossible for your feet to
slip The soles are guaranteed not to crack;
they are water-resisting in both construction
and materials. Full and half-sizes for Men
and Women on comfortable, roomy lasts.
Carubo
Golf Shoe
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
WNERSHIP !
Homes and iarms, objects of
national pride and symbols of
progress. What a valuable, help-
ful part the Rural Bank . . . your
Bank ... is playing in their
development! Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that
by so doing they are enabling it
to increase its useful services.
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
fds
r/te RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office:
14 Casflereagh Street, Sydney
IN PLAIN BLUE
BLUE. WITM WHITSE
STRIPE
BLUE with Black.
STRIPE
OR. PLAIN FAWN
y
KCNGUOLD
A STURDY
SHIRT FOR A
STURDY JOB l
THREE FOR,
50-
OR,
f (IBACM
m
P IKE
BROTHERS LTD.
in. Queen. St. Brisbane
*llllllll
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EICHT
Our Intrepid Explorers
“Kaloa”: The prize for the year’s best
.newspaper tale should go to the epic
which relates the progress of the
Ministerial party in Central Aus-
tralia. With only three utility trucks
and a touring car the handful of daunt-
less fellows have been pushing on from
Alice Springs to the Tennant, a journey
which in these days is almost as danger-
ous and uncomfortable as the car-ride
from Bourke to Wilcannia.
The picture of the party wending its
way along the lonely cut-line, sun-
blinded eyes eagerly peering ahead into
•the mulga for the Barrow Creek pub ;
of the camp on the lonely plain with the
waggons laagered in a circle round a big
fire (presumably as a protection against
share salesmen) ; of the Minister between
blankets on the ground under a car-
bonnet, with a towel round his head,
should rank among the great Australian
stories of exploration. Then the frozen
dawn, the council of war which de-
cided to push on with only about
-one conveyance to three expedition-
aries instead of one to two, and the
wild wallaroo which the Minister dis-
patched with a revolver as it lay wounded
by the roadside after attacking his car.
It was a relief to hear that the expedi-
tion had reached Tennant’s Creek. > I
was in deadly fear as I opened my morn-
ing paper that I should see under large,
black headlines a telegram somewhat as
follows:
Tennant’s Creek, Wednesday: A limping
aborigine was discovered beside an ant-
hill on the outskirts of the settlement this
morning: he bore an urgent message from
the Minister for the Interior written in
charcoal on the back of a Royal Commis-
sion report: “Send help at once. Bed-
socks and Frigidaire stolen by cannibals.
Have eaten ‘S. M. Herald’ correspondent.”
Luckily the party—still suffering—•
was by that time camped in a hut “with-
out windows and door” in the centre of
Australia’s newest town.
The Word's of “Maskee Mike”
Translations of “Maskee Mike’s” com-
plaint against the rendering of pidgin in
Bulletin jokes (B. 20/3/’35) left the
impression that even people who fancy
themselves experts do not understand the
nuances of true beche-de-mer.
Most aspirants fell down on four
phrases. “Throim away” was rendered
variously as “chuck out,” “heave out,”
“discard,” “give.” Actually it means just
what it says: “When you throw me the
paper.” Translations of “godamea”
ranged from the most awful and profane
cuss words to “bother.” If is really a per-
suasive phrase uttered with varying de-
grees of emphasis, almost untranslatable,
but only less useful than the all-pervad-
ing “maskee,” which means anything
you want it to mean. Only one entrant
hit on a perfect rendering of “Bell be-
long me e ot too mush” —“It makes me
boil inside” ; and “I tink more better you
makim one fella pass long No 1 belong
Bullebin” was a snag which sank a
platoon of competitors, “Tell,” “write
a letter to,” “communicate with,” “in-
form” —none is so good as “I think you
ought to pass this on to the editor.”
The prize of a Bulletin drawing for
the best translation goes to “Namanula,”
Kaevieng, Mandated Territory.
“Old Boy”: Brisbane loses a useful
and self-effacing citizen in J. J. Walsh.
Son of a mounted-police sergeant, he
was one of a brilliant group of scholars
and athletes who came out of Brisbane
Grammar School in the mid-’nineties.
With the Cockle and Lilley prizes and
an exhibition and classical scholarship,
he entered Sydney University in 1896,
took a first in classics each year and went
to the Bar. He and the late Justice Wool-
cock were the two most assiduous
workers for the foundation of the Queens-
land University. Walsh represented
“Old Sam Mitchell died last night—passed away in his sleep."
“In his sleep? Py korry, then, he don know ’bout it yet."
Queensland at Rugby from 1900 to 1903,
was an Australian R.U. selector, cap-
tained the Brisbane Rowing Club and
rowed in the Queensland champion four.
He twice stood for the State Parliament,
but had not much taste for the hustings.
After his last campaign he remarked:
“Give me Rugby every time. In that
game the worst you can do is to stand
on a man’s face.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: W. M. Hughes made a
bloomer in crediting Queensland with an
increase of 17 p.c. in cancer deaths for
the past five years, as compared with an
average of 7 p.c. for all Australia. With
746 cancer deaths, 1930 was a year of par-
ticularly low cancer mortality in Queens-
land. But 1931 was the highest on record,
with 881. Had the Canberra figures been
based on the last four years instead of
five Queensland would have shown a
decrease of nearly 3 p.c. As a matter of
fact, except for 1931, the figures vary
very little, and, worked out since 1929,
register with the Australian averages.
The Queensland Cancer Trust has re-
cently made the reassuring statement that
fully 95 p.c. of all early cases of skin
cancer are being cured by treatment, to-
gether with a high proportion of more
advanced cases.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
The Ulysses brought back from South
Africa Mr. and Mrs. Firmin McKinnon,
both looking fit and well after their tour
with the Press Conference. Mrs. Mac,
remarked that they literally had eaten
their way through Africa, for no fewer
than 70 banquets and luncheons were
arranged for the delegates and their
wives.
Harry Sunderland, plump and rosy
after his long stay in England, is a proud
man these days. His only son Sydney
has joined the staff of the Melbourne
Women’s Hospital. At Melb. Uni. Syd-
ney won three out of four scholarships,
passed his final in medicine with honors,
and has the right to the letters F.R.C.S.
Mrs. Sunderland is in the southern capi-
tal with the lad at present.
When the Lady Mayoress went along
to open the new basketball courts at the
Spring Hill playground, she was so fas-
cinated that she stayed for the whole
afternoon, and got to know just what the
work being done there means for young
Queenslanders. The mothers and chil-
dren had worked hard the previous day,
and had made a garden in which were
flowering plants and ferns and foliage
plants. Florence Gallagher, director of
the girls’ side, had reason to be a proud
woman, for all the visitors remarked on
her work and found it good.
The University celebrated its twenty-
fifth anniversary last week. A reception
by Chancellor James Blair opened the
celebrations, an evening affair, with the
old Uni. buildings flood-lit and the green
lawns and huge trees looking quite Rack-
hamish in the illuminations.
On the following day, the Uni. students
held their procession, and truth compels
the remark that it was a very dull show.
Degrees were conferred on Friday.
There also were an afternoon garden
party and a students’ dinner-dance.
Contralto Muriel Brunskill won the
affections of Brisbane by appearing at
a concert at the City Hall, and uplifting
her creamy contralto for the benefit ot
Diggers gathered there. She also has
sung at Ardoyne, where the Red Cross
looks after t.b. cases, and gave a concert
to the nuns at All Hallows’. Lena Ham-
mond motored the lady through the
prettiest parts of Brisbane; Barbara
Sisley buttered scones for her at a small
party, and various other tea-drinkings
were arranged in her honor.
Nancy Giffard, an old Glennie girl,
who has been on the teaching staff of St.
Ann’s School, Townsville, wears a new
diamond ring, the gift of Dick Walker,
who is with the Shell Co. in Townsville.
Nancy, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. C. Macnish, was married to
Francis Adrian Sweet at St. John’s
Cathedral, Father gave her away, and
the bridal trappings were an afternoon
frock of white georgette and a large white
hat. Mrs. Charlie Frith, of Tainton,
Dalby, was matron of honor —Nancy was
her bridesmaid —wearing dusty-pink
georgette and a pink hat. She carried
blue water-lilies.
Ray Moni, Barbara Hart and Kath-
leen Macgregor, in cherry-pink and
wearing quaint Tudor headdresses of
starched chiffon to match, ’maided for
Mary, only daughter of the late Harry
Luya and of Mrs. Luya, when she ex-
changed vows with Geoffrey Gregory,
who hails from Victoria. The bride wore
white, beautifully cut and with hardly
any trimmings. Her headdress was the
same shape as the ’maids’, with the veil
flowing from it.
Elsie, daughter of Mrs. J. I. Fuller,
Cooktown, became Mrs. Edwin Marsden
Tooth at St. John’s Cathedral. Both
bride and ’groom can claim Samuel
Marsden as an ancestor. A moulded
gown of magnolia satin draped the bride,
and she wore a long tulle veil and car-
ried stephanotis and lillies. Florence
Fuller and Audrey Tooth ’maided.
Two well-known Queensland pastoral-
ist families were linked when Elsie,
daughter of the D. A. Camerons, of
Woodlands, Mitchell, was married to
James, younger son of the A. B. Nagels,
of Charleville. The Cameron clan has
offshoots all over Australia; Mrs.
W. Ross Munro, Mrs. Jack Ross and
Mrs. L’Estrange are members of it.
Oyster-white satin draped the bride, who
had Marjorie Cameron, Jean Mawhinhey
and Sheila Egan as ’maids, wearing un-
usual frocks of red damask velvet and
carrying muffs of cream roses.
Freda Pines and Elsie Kohler leave by
the Baradine on the 29th for Ireland and
the Continent to attend world camps of
the Girl Guides.


The “Miss Australia,” £35.
White gold, diamonds and pure
platinum are combined most
beautifully in this fine ring. The
cut-corner settings are the last
word. The filigree under-rail is
dainty in the extreme.
Xhe “Killara/’
A rich three-stone ring of
18ct. white gold. The dia-
monds are set in platinum
and the shoulders are
diamond-studded.
The “Eugenie,” £l7/10/-.
Exquisitely beautiful white gold
ring with three sparkling
diamonds in platinum settings.
Charming carving and filigree.
ANGUS & COOTE’S
Diamond Ring Values Cannot Be Eclipsed.
These lovely two- and three-diamond styles were designed and
made on the premises. The quality of every gem is guaranteed.
The security of every setting is Angus & Coote s responsibility.
Wsssms
The “lieruice,” £l3/10/-.
Very popular three—stone
diamond ring. The new
square setting is platinum.
Mount is 18ct. white gold.
The “Zara,” £7/10/-.
A neat and good little ring
of 18ct. gold. Three bright
diamonds in latest platinum
setting.
A dear little ring and mar-
vellous value! Three bright
diamonds in centre, and
diamond—set shoulders.
The “Belle/’ £27/10/-.
Magnificent t w 0-diamond
ring with rich, diamond-
studded shoulders. 18ct.
gold with platinum settings.
The “Countess,” £l7/10/-.
Two well-matched diamonds
in platinum hexagonal set-
tings. Diamond—set shoulders.
Solid 18ot. gold.
The “Kowena,” £5/5/-.
Wonderful value! Two-
diamond ring of 18ct. gold
with diamond-studded
shoulders.
The “Jill,” £lO/10/-.
Popular ring of 18ct. gold
with three diamonds skil-
fully set in platinum.
The “Clarice,” £6/10/-.
Secure hexagonal settings of
platinum are employed in
this ring. The mount is
solid 18ct. gold.
The “Dawn,” £l5.
A lovely ring with glittering
diamonds in very secure
settings of latest style.
Platinum and 18ct. gold.
The “Judy,” £9/10/-.
Particularly pretty ring of
18ct. gold, with three dia-
monds in high modem
settings of platinum.
The “Elina,” £lO.
Newest square settings are
featured in this delightful
18ct. white gold ring. Dia-
monds set in platinum.
The “Sally,” £2O.
A real favorite, and extra
good value, too! Two beau-
tiful diamonds in 18ct.
white gold and platinum.
The Pair, £lO.
They match —this modem three-
stone diamond ring and the
richly-engraved wedding ring.
They are white gold of 18ct.
quality, and the two together
are wonderful value for £lO.
The “Baroness/’ £3O.
Superior white gold ring of
18ct. quality, with three
platinum-set flashing dia-
monds of special brilliance
and beauty.
sc
*
70/-
The “Ruth/’ 70/-.
Sydney’s greatest value 1 Two
genuine diamonds in hexagonal
settings, aiid one'in each pretty
shoulder. Handsomely carved
9ct. gold.
Call and Enquire about Angus &
Free Diamond Wedding King
Coote’s
Offer.
Mention “The Bulletin” if you live out of town,
and a Book of Bings will be posted to you.
ANGUS & COOTE, 500 George St., SYDNEY
(Wfew*
V Ointmerit
Talcum Powder
ILEJLI
TO YOUR SKIN/
Daily use of this pure, medi-
cated Soap, containing emol-
lient and cleansing properties,
protects, as well as cleanses,
the skin. The Ointment
quickly relieves and heals any
rash or pimple that may ap-
pear. The Talcum over-
comes excessive perspiration
and adds a finishing touch to
the toilet.
Cuticnra Preparations
can be depended on to preserve
a clear and lovely complexion.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ougjit to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co ,
252 Seorge Street, Sydney.
Records the Veracious Comedy of Peter Tancred, Esq.:-
DE MORTUIS
By J. H.M.ABBOTT.
“But he must have been mad—Lord, he must have been mad! In the last
five years of his life he did the rummest things you ever heard of.’’
PETER TANCRED had first arrived
in New South Wales in Governor
Macquarie’s time, under a sentence
of seven years’ transportation. But do
not, if you please, connect Peter in any
fashion with the indignity of fetters, the
terrors of the triangles or the slavery of
the road gangs. He was quite a different
sort of convict.
It is true that he had taken a man’s
life ; but he owed the manner of his
arrival in the colony rather to the per-
sonal idiosyncrasies of a Judge who was
something of a faddist than to any real
fault of his own. He had had the mis-
fortune to slay his opponent in a duel,
and the still greater misfortune to be
tried by Mr. Justice Phillibert. When
you come to consider that he was the
nephew of an earl, the brother of a
member of Parliament, and the close
friend of a friend of the Prince Regent,
it is truly surprising that he came here
at all. If Sir Andrew Phillibert had not
had his prejudices he would certainly not
have done so.
That learned Judge, for the entirely in-
adequate reason that his father had been
killed somewhat dishonorably in an
affair of honor, used to consider that it
was his mission in life to suppress duel-
ling. The jury found Mr. Tancred merely
guilty of manslaughter, but, in the face
of the strongest recommendation to
mercy that it could make, he was
awarded seven years of exile to New
South Wales. He had to come here on
board a convict transport, but he tra-
velled rather as a passenger than as a
prisoner, well provided with letters of
introduction to the Governor, plentifully
equipped with funds, and with as little
indignity and inconvenience as the pos-
session of highly influential relatives and
friends could ensure.
WITHIN a week of his setting foot
ashore in Sydney Cove he had his
ticket-of-leave, within three months
he had received a conditional pardon.
At the end of six he had a grant of 2000
acres in the newly-discovered district of
Bathurst Plains. So agreeable did he
find his lot that, when in the fourth year
of his sentence a free pardon arrived
for him, he had no difficulty in deciding
to remain a settler in New South Wales.
He returned to England in 1820, realised
his patrimony, and came back to Sydney
in ’22, with even higher recommendations
to Sir Thomas Brisbane’s kindly con-
sideration than he had brought to Mac-
quarie.
IN 1827 we find him a prosperous
station-holder in the rich district of
the Upper Hunter, with the freehold of
25,000 acres of the magnificent St. Mar-
tin’s country in his possession and sixty
assigned servants, prisoners of the
Crown, to assist him in their develop-
ment.
As to how successfully Peter Tancred
developed St. Martin’s the history of the
Hunter Valley bears eloquent testimony.
As to his methods of development, tradi-
tion is still likewise eloquent. More than
80 years have passed by since his un-
lamented demise, but twenty years ago
there lived a toothless old gentleman in
Muswellbrook who knew all about him,
and seemed to be prolonging a long life
for the especial purpose of indulging a
senile hatred of his memory. Whatever
else he might have forgotten, he did not
fail to remember everything about the
first owner of St. Martin’s. Peter Tan-
cred was the great incident of his life.
Almost with his last breath, it is said, he
expressed a pious hope that he might
find Peter frying in hell when he should
have crossed over to the Other Side.
«T|E was a devil,” this old man used
O to say—“a perfect devil out of
hell. I don’t mean he was one o’ those
hearty, rough fellows who’d do anything
because they were game for it, and liked
the sport of doing it, whatever it might
be. He wasn’t like that—though he was
game enough. Look how he captured
Tom Keneely, the bushranger, in ’39.
He was mean, d d mean —and cruel.
And as clever as a bagful of snakes. But
’twas his vanity was the main thing
about him. He was as conceited and
vain as he was cunning—and that’s say-
ing a good bit. He thought”
Here the fine old fellow would make
use of a certain scurrilous expression,
which cannot be repeated, that exactly
described in six words the quality of
Peter Tancred’s vanity.
N him,” he would say, spitting
U into the fire. “That’s what he
thought of himself. He was just like that.
If it hadn’t been for what a lot he thought
of himself he’d most likely have devel-
oped into a miser, or something of that
sort. ’Twas the great opinion he had
of Peter Tancred, Esquire, Justice o’ the
Peace, of St. Martin’s, that made him
live in the style he did. I’m sure he
hated spending the money the upkeep
of his fine house cost him, an’ the car-
riages, and livery for his butler and foot-
men, an’ his flash wife, an’ his race-
horses, an’ his pedigree bulls an’ blood
mares, an’ all. An’, dammit, what was
he but a lag, after all! An’ he
should ha’ been lagged again a dozen
times over for the villainous things he
did and the way he cheated every one
he could, and oppressed better men than
himself.
“His wife! Oh, yes—she was a lady,
she was! Something uncommon grand.
He only got her to be an ornament to
St. Martin’s —that’s all. And he deserved
all she did to him, and a lot more be-
sides. Man, she was nothing but a
d d harlot, when all’s said and done
—just as he was a blasted lag. Nothing’d
ever get over that about ’em. Nothing.
Be rights he should have done his time
in a chain gang, same’s many a poor
fellow was a better man had to do. An’
she’d ha’ been better for a spell in th’
Factory at Parramatta.
“An ‘Honorable,’ she was —the Honor-
able Mrs. Lucy Tancred, who came out
from England to marry him, him havin’
bought her as a filly when he’d gone
back home after getting his free pardon.
But if ever a woman was dis-honorable
’twas that same lovely Lucy.
«ANE thing —she made Peter spend
v/ his money. I doubt whether as
much style was kept up at Government
House in Sydney as they put on at St.
Martin’s. And then one day she ups
and runs away with young Dr. Hunting-
ton, who hadn’t long stuck up his brass-
plate and hung out his red lamp in this
place. Clear away they went to South
America, ’tis said, and were never heard
of again.
“She left a note nailed up on Dr,
Huntington’s front door to say that Peter
Tancred was a fool and a humbug —and
the people who found it hadn’t love
enough for Peter to keep it quiet. Every-
body seen it —most insulting—and every-
body laughed at Peter, and most felt
sorry for young Huntington, who wasn’t
a bad sort of fellow, and didn’t deserve
such a fate.
“You’d think that Peter would have
been a little humiliated by this, but he
wasn’t. He became prouder of himself
than ever, and more objectionable to
everybody else. I could keep on telling
till cockcrow about the queer things he
did. ’Twas quite a sight to see him
arrive in here on days the Bench of mag-,
istrates used to sit. Four horses with
postilions lugging the big covered state
coach he used to use on special occasions
along the road from St. Martin’s to Mus-
well brook, with two footmen in livery
hanging on behind, and —you’ll hardly
credit it —two armed outriders, with pistols
and carbines and swords, going ahead of
him. And Peter, in a top-hat, sitting up
inside with his arms folded, thinking he
looked like the Duke of Wellington or
Governor Darling or the Lord knows*
who.
<<ANE day a little boy whose father
he’d had flogged for insolence —•
that is, for not falling flat on his face
when Peter went by, him being an
assigned servant of Peter’s—this little
fellow flings a stone at the carriage and
breaks a window of it as Peter’s a-driv-
ing in to the courthouse. What does
Peter do but send his cavalry escort —•
the men were the two farm constables
at St. Martin’s —back to arrest this ter-
rible villain, has him lugged into the
lockup, and actually charged before the
Bench with bushranging! Fortunately
Denny Day, the police magistrate, was
up from Maitland that time, and of
course was presiding over the court, and
he makes ’em alter the charge to one
of common assault, and sentences the
little boy —he was nine years old—to
one hour’s imprisonment. Peter was
furious, and never spoke to Mr. Day
again.
“Now if, as often happened, Peter
had been the only magistrate in attend-
ance that day, the kiddie would have
been committed for trial, without a
doubt, and sent down to Maitland, in
irons, to the Quarter Sessions to stand
his trial. And, by gad, it wouldn’t have
been at all outside the bounds of possi-
bility that the urchin would have been
found guilty and sent off down to Nor-
folk Island. Stranger things than that
were done by the Courts in those days.
Why, I’ve seen two young fellows, seven-
teen and eighteen, hanged one morning
outside the gaol at East Maitland for
firing off a gun as one of the mounted
police rode by their father’s hut on
Ravensworth. The fellow swore that


o
Marks the important
points of lubrica-
tion in most types of
modern motor ve-
hicles for which
ALEMITE affords
the greatest meas-
ure of protection.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
w
m
LEMITE
7 IXytCj'IZCtAJC.I
Haphazard greasing is the
chief cause of old age in
young motor cars. Highly
specialized lubricants, ap-
plied under great pres-
sure, are the contributions
of ALEMITE to the effi-
ciency and increased econ-
omy of modern motoring.
Clutch Release Bearing
Performing important duties, special lu-
brication is required for different types.
ALEMITE SERVICE covers ALL types.
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 384 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 133 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—T-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
Now is the Time to Paint
UaSS
/i
BUY DIRECT FROM US
AT WHOLESALE PRICES
AND BANK THE
DIFFERENCE.
WE OFFER!
Blundell Spence’s World-famous
Ready-mixed Paint, I 7/6 per gallon.
Also Crown Brand, Non-poisonous,
at 11/6 per gallon.
Cement Red and. Green Paint, for
Roofs, Tanks, Ironwork. It never
flakes. Price, 17/6 per gallon.
Blundell Spence’s Linseed Oil:
Raw, 4/8 gal.; Boiled, 4/10 gal.
White Lead, in 281 b. kegs, 10/6.
CIBRO CEMENT SHEETS—Q.P.S. Price, 2/6 sq. yard, less 3 per ccut.
ANKABOARD —Latest Building Board, for walls, partitions, insulating, etc., -}iu.
thick, 35/- per 100 sq. feet.
STANDARD DOVER STOVES. —No. 7, 60/-; No. S, 70/-; with 4ft. piping free.
AND NO SALES TAX TO PAY ON ANY OF OUR GOODS.
QUEEN HEATING STOVES—No. 6, 39/-; No. 7, 45/-.
GALV. CORR. IRON —New B Grade, 6ft. 2/- and Sft. 2/6 per sheet.
JOINERY —Made in our own factory. Do«rs, 6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. x liiu., M. and X.
and Moulded, 17/6 each
BEST OAK SASHES OR WINDOWS—3ft. lOin. x 2ft. tin 15/-
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. lOin 17/-
Lowest also for Casements and all Joinery, Tank Material and Troughing.
FENCING —Just landed, another shipment of 121 g. Galv. High Tension Wire. 1500
yards to the coil, 11401 b. Breaking Strain, 20/- coil. Saves freight and goes
further.
SPECIAL OFFER.—A limited quantity of Bg. Galv. Wire, slightly damaged by
fresh water. Price, while it lasts 15/- cwt.
WE FULLY GUARANTEE THIS.
SOLIDIFIED MOLASSES —In tins about 641 b. each. Price, per tin 7/6
Saves freight. 1 tin makes 3 tins liquid molasses,
HORSE AND COW RUGS —Standard Canvas, Kersey Lining, all sizes, 15/- each.
Unlined, 10/- each.
LOWEST ALSO FOB—All Furniture (for instance, Exhibition Stretcher, with Mattress
and Pillow complete, 21/-); New Era Separators and Cream Cans; Water
Piping; Licks; Threeply; Hose; Pibro Cement Sheets, 2/6 sq. yard, less
3 per cent.; Chemicals; Sprays; Arsenic Carbide, 31/- cwt.; Cement, £5/10/-
ton or 4/9 bag; Lamps and Lanterns, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG CATALOGUE. IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen St. (between Fire Brigade and Ambulance), BRISBANE.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
they tried to stick him up, and they were
capitally charged, convicted and duly
scragged at Maitland.
«HNCE Governor Gipps came up here
V/ on his way to New England and
stayed the night at St. Martin’s, where
Peter gave a dinner party. My father
was at it, and his description of the pomp
and ceremony carried on by Peter would
ha’ made ye die laughing. Twas said
that Sir George rode down from the
Tableland to Port Macquarie and went
back to Sydney by sea simply to avoid
having to go through another of Peter’s
entertainments on the return journey.
“But there’s no doubt that, with all his
exalted opinion of himself, Peter Tan-
cred was a solid businessman. He made
a fortune out of St. Martin’s at a time
when other people were going broke, and
even fellows like Ben Boyd went to the
wall. There was nothing too mean for
him to do, so long as he could make
money. Time and again he must have
sailed only just inside the law. Not long
after his death it came out that Sandy
McAlister’s gang of cattle-stealers was
in his pay, Sandy giving the whole thing
away at his trial for murdering a sheriff’s
officer called Donohoe, up about the
Tomalo Tops, above Belltrees. Every-
body was sincerely sorry then for Peter’s
death —there’d been nothing but thank-
fulness before. It seemed such hard luck
that he didn’t live long enough to do a
stretch in Berrima.
<<DUT he must have been mad—Lord,
he must have been mad! In the
last five years of his life he did the rum-
mest things you ever heard of. You’ve
seen that monument over his grave on
the hill at the back of old St. Martin’s
homestead? No! I thought everybody’d
seen that. A magnificent piece of
statuary —a Christ on the cross, life-size
an’ all —that he imported from Italy.
Well, he had that rigged up on top of
the hill, over a tile-lined vault, for quite
four years before he pegged out, with an
inscription on its base saying what a fine
fellow he was. You see that framed
piece of writing above the mantelpiece?
Well, hand it down to me and I’ll read
you Peter Tancred on Peter Tancred.
Tis a copy of the inscription I made
myself in eighteen-sixty. This is how
it goes. Listen.
“ ‘Sacred to the memory of Peter
Tancred, Esq., Magistrate of this Terri-
tory, who departed this life’ —he’d left
a blank here to be filled in afterwards
—‘on the 11th of July, 1851.’ There’s
all about where he came from and who
he was related to, and then he gives him-
self a character like this. ‘One of the
earliest settlers in this district, he was
ever distinguished for his uprightness,
public spirit and wide charity. His bene-
volence was unbounded, his generosity
unexcelled, and his liberality of mind
beyond compare. No labor on behalf
of his fellow r -men was too severe or
exacting to be undertaken willingly by
this large-hearted Christian. He turned
no man hungry from his door’ —the in-
fernal liar! —‘he refused his bounty in
no deserving cause. Loved, honored
and respected by all who enjoyed the
blessing of his friendship, it may truly
be said of him that he had no enemies
and that he has gone to that reward
which a lifetime of merit has richly en-
titled him to. Stranger, gaze upon this
tomb with respect. It holds all that is
mortal of a man who was an example
to his generation.’
“Did you ever hear anything like it!
You ought to go and see that tomb.
But, if you do, you will find another line
engraved below that lettering. I think I
know who carved it there. Oh, yes—l
think I could tell you. Yes. A long
time ago. A very long time ago. It’s
there still. Not quite such neat lettering
as the rest of the epitaph—but cut deep,
so that it will last while the tomb lasts.
This is what is carved there:
‘De mortuis nil nisi optissimum.’
And underneath that—l was never able
to find out which of his mourners did
this honor to Peter Tancred —there is
rudely, but also deeply chiselled the
single word
‘liar:
<<DUT I want to tell you the most ex-
D traordinary thing that Peter did,
the year before he died.
“He had such a tremendous opinion
of himself, you know, that he really
believed all the rest of the world were
in entire agreement with him. Quite in-
conceivable that they should not be, it
was to him. I think that he really
thought it was no exaggeration of the
true state of affairs, when he had carved
in that inscription I’ve just read you
that he was ‘loved, honored and respected
by all who enjoyed the blessing of his
friendship.’
“But one thing, apparently, he hated
to think of. He couldn’t bear to reflect
that when he was dead he mightn’t be
able to hear all the splendid things
people would be saying about him, and
that he knew he deserved. It worried
him exceedingly. What was the use of
having been such a splendid character
as he had if he was not to have the
satisfaction of enjoying the tribute that
must inevitably be paid upon his de-
cease! So what does the cranky fool
do? Why, makes all arrangements to
die before his time came. You see? He
meant to sham dead, so he could make
sure of enjoying the chorus of praise his
reported death would call forth whilst
he was still alive. Oh, mad —he was as
mad as a hatter,
“His butler was taken into his confi-
dence. It was him who kept the Royal
Hotel here for years—Tom Wiggles-
worth. He often told me about the queer
business. Peter went to Sydney and
had a cast taken of his face —like they
take death masks, you know —by some
fellow who had a waxworks show in
King-street. It was done in wax and
painted to resemble the complexion of
a corpse, and mounted on a headpiece
that was adorned with a white wig like
Peter’s own thatch. He brought it back
to St. Martin’s, and soon after that the
news is given out suddenly that he’s
found dead in bed one morning. It
seems that he’d also taken the coroner —
a drunken old dog named Charlie Bartle
—into his confidence, so there was no
talk of post-mortems or inquests, or
anything like that. His lawyer’s sent for
from Maitland —old Jimmy Paulet—and
everybody round about’s invited to his
funeral, and to hear the will read. And
nearly everybody in the district’s so in-
fernally glad to hear that he’s turned up
his toes that all hands and the cook ride
and drive and walk out to St. Martin’s
to see the old scoundrel safely planted
underground.
«THERE was a young nephew—a j
* son of a brother who’d been in
the House of Commons —hadn’t been
long out in the colony, and had been
stopping with Peter, whom it was sup-
posed he intended making his heir.
“This chap had been sent to Maitland,
with a mob of fat cattle to be sold at
Campbell’s Hill, just before Peter was to
bring off his ante-mortem death. And,
of course, he hurries back with the
lawyer to St. Martin’s. A very decent
young fellow, this George Tancred —he
only died quite recently in Rockhamp-
ton. He had no room at all for his
uncle —could see through him as well
as anyone else, and had no illusions
whatever about' him.
“Well, you know, amusement was
scarce in those days up here in the bush,
and, as it promised to be a very amusing
thing seeing Peter planted, I went out
myself to St. Martin’s. There’s no doubt
that the funeral arrangements had been
done very handsomely—plenty of re-
freshment, and all that, you know, for
man and beast —and altogether there
must have been nearly a hundred people
turned up.
“After a very good dinner, Jimmy
Paulet gets up and says: ‘Well, gentle-
men, our dear friend’—Jimmy could be
very sarcastic when he choose —‘our dear
friend has expressed a hope in his last
will and testament that all his good
friends who might have come to see him
buried would go in and take a last look
at him before the coffin lid’s screwed
down. After the burial,’ says Jimmy,
‘l’ll be happy to read the will to you
all.’ So in we trooped to Peter’s bed-
room, which was a very large apartment.
“The curtains were nearly drawn
across the windows, and the room’s
pretty dark, and the coffin’s resting on
the big four-poster bed, which had a
rope railing round it so that you couldn’t
go closer than about five feet. Well,
there’s what looks like Peter lying in
the coffin, and we all crowded up and
had a squint at the waxy face of the
corpse —which, of course, really was
waxy.
“And then the parson, Soapy Sam
Clayton, thinks it’s up to him to say a
word or two. ‘Ah,’ says Sam, patting
young George Tancred on the back—‘my
bereaved friend, you have the heartfelt
sympathy of us all.’ He was going on,
when young Tancred interrupted him.
“ ‘Oh, for heaven’s sake, Mr. Clayton,
he says,‘don’t talk such d d nonsense.
I’m as heartily glad as any of the rest of
you are that the old villain’s dead. I
Know there isn’t a man in the room isn’t
glad to see the last of him. What’s the
use of hypocritical pretence? I think
myself that my uncle is now in the most
suitable situation he’s ever been in.’
o Continued on next page.)


/ !
fm
w*>
L\
■ i
OTPS*
%
'iveper jzent
is the Maximum Overdraft Rate!”
The rate of interest now charged on overdrafts
by the Bank of New South Wales does not
exceed 5% per annum.
This is the lowest maximum rate in the 118
years' history of the Bank.
Producers, Manufacturers and others who can
profitably use money to extend their activities
are invited to discuss their financial problems
with the Manager of any of the Bank's 725
branches.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank
in Australasia
125 A. 1935
Qvefree
■
m :
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
2i7 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
CA^UNION
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
C. DARVALL,
General Manager.
“There were several subdued ‘hear-
hears’ from the mob —it was an echo of
everybody’s private sentiment. But Mr.
Clayton thinks it’s his duty to enter a
formal protest —if only for the honor of
his cloth.
“ i De rnortuis, Mister George,’ he
says—‘De rnortuis, you know!’
“ ‘De rnortuis be d d! ’ says George.
‘Come, gentlemen—let’s get him under
ground, for the love of God!’
“And then, with a roar like a tiger,
and perfectly livid with rage, Peter Tan-
cred crawls out from under the bed.
The old man laughed heartily at the
memory.
“Of course,” he chuckled, “Peter saw
no reason to alter the inscription at the
base of the crucifix. But poor George
Tancred lost a fortune. All Peters
pence went to the London Missionary
Society.”
A Cameo Sharply Cut from Life:—
T HE LITTLE WOMAN
BY - MARVYN SKIPPER
“Of course you have,’’ says Mrs. Mac-
guire, and her voice becomes wheedling.
“He deserves to be severely punished.
But this time I am sure he has learned
his lesson.”
44 I’M sorry, I’m sorry, Mrs. Macguire.
I really am sorry. But this is the
A last straw. It really is. Four
times in the one month, and he has been
warned repeatedly.”
The speaker is Robertson, the super-
intendent of the cable station, a tall, thin
Scotchman with kindly eyes but the severe
i expression of a responsible official. He
! is talking to a plump little woman with
a soft oval face and a drooping mouth
who is sitting beside him staring up at
his face with her large dark eyes wide
with terror.
“Oh, Mr. Robertson, how terrible!”
cries the lady, wiping her eyes. “What
is to be done, what is to be done? What
will happen to me now with a husband
unemployed and two children? Oh, how
terrible life is, how terrible!”
j Robertson jumps up from his desk,
goes ’to the window and stares at the pass-
ing traffic.
I “Your husband ought to have thought
of that,” he says. “He has been given
one chance after another. My company
! isn’t a charitable institution, Mrs. Mac-
guire.”
“I know, I know! ” says Mrs. Mac-
-1 guire. “You are only doing your duty.
I’m not blaming you. You have been so
good to us —oh, too good. But, really,
he has tried so hard not to do it. He
has, Mr. Robertson. Nobody could have
tried harder.”
“Well, and look at the result,” says
Robertson. He goes over to his desk,
picks up a sheaf of papers and waves
them dramatically.
“Do you know what those are? Com-
plaints from all the stations from here to
London! You can’t leave a man on
duty by himself on the main channel of
communications if he comes on in an in-
toxicated condition and falls asleep as
soon as his relief is out of the office. I
have my duty to consider.”
“Of course you have,” says Mrs. Mac-
guire, and her voice becomes wheedling.
“He deserves to be severely punished.
But this time I am sure he has learned his
lesson. He won’t do it again, Mr.
Robertson, I give you my word for it.
Only this morning he said to me: ‘Little
woman, I swear it! ’ ”
ROBERTSON shakes his head helplessly
and presses a button. The clerk-in-
charge enters. He is a rotund little man
with the fresh face of a baby.
“It’s the old story, Starke,” says
Robertson. “Drunk on duty again.
Another mess-up like this and I shall
be in Queer-street.”
Starke looks sympathetically at Mrs.
Macguire ; also shakes his head and pon-
ders.
“Well, you know, Robertson, we were
young ourselves once,” he says at length.
“And not always sober.”
“Oh, thank you, Mr. Starke ; thank you
so much! ” cries Mrs. Macguire,
“Really, I have tried so hard to keep him
off it. And he has tried, too, oh, so hard ;
he has, really. And this time he knows
what to expect. I have told him how
naughty he has been, just like a spoilt
child, and that next time you won’t show
him any mercy. And why should you,
why should you?”
The two men look at one another.
“Any suggestions, Starke?” says Rob-
ertson.
“Well, we might put Jackson on with
him,” says Starke. “He’s a reliable chap.
He’ll look after him.”
The superintendent rings for Jackson.
A thin, nervous-looking man with an ex-
pression of acute pessimism enters,
glances at Mrs. Macguire and for the rest
of the interview keeps his eyes fixed on
his superior officers.
“Look here, Jackson,” says Starke.
“We’re in a bit of a fix over Macguire.
The poor devil has got us into another
mess, and he ought to get the sack for
it. But it’s hard on his little woman here
and the two children. He’s promised
to pull himself together, and the super-
intendent wants to give him another
chance. What do you think? You’re
the most reliable man on the station. If
we put him on duty with you do you
think you can look after him?”
“Oh, Mr. Jackson,” cries Mrs, Mac-
guire, clasping her hands as if she were
praying. “I’m sure you could. Bill is
so fond of you. He often says that you
are the only one of* his friends who has
any influence over him. And he really is
frightened this time; he is terrified to
death, and so disgusted with himself he
has been crying like a baby.”
Jackson hasn’t the slightest interest in
Macguire, whose maudlin conversation
bores him. He thinks him a waster, and
hates the idea of having to spend night
after night in the office with this degen-
erate ; but he feels sorry that such a
pretty woman should be tied up to a
drunkard. <
“I’ll do my best,” he says to the super-
intendent.
“Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you,
Mr. Jackson!” says Mrs. Macguire.
“Now I can go home happy. I’ll tell Bill
at once how nice and considerate
you have all been, and that if he ever
abuses your confidence again I won’t care
what you do to him. Oh, thank you,
gentlemen, thank you! I’m so happy!”
And she jumps up, shakes hands gaily
with the three men in the order of their
seniority and runs out with her face cov-
ered with smiles.
THAT evening Macguire comes on duty
punctually at midnight. He is a
little black-browed man of thirty with a
sullen expression. He gives a nod to
Jackson, who is sitting at the supervisor’s
table, goes to his instrument and com-
mences working sulkily. A few minutes
later there is a knock on the door, and
Mrs. Macguire enters with a hamper on
her arm.
“Oh, good evening, Mr, Jackson,” she
says, timidly placing the basket on his
table. “Oh, I hope you won’t mind, but
Bill gets so peckish. So I thought I
would bring along some supper. Here
is some cold fowl and some ham and
some bread and butter. And here are
two bottles of beer and half a bottle of
whisky. The poor boy gets so down if
he doesn’t have a drop occasionally. I’ll
leave them in your charge, Mr. Jackson,
and you can have some, too, if you want
to. But don’t let him take too much,
please, Mr. Jackson. Just a taste, that’s
all, Mr. Jackson!”
BushFire.
The fields lie sprawled and gasping in
the sun,
Collapsing at the feet of faded hills.
The tawny bursts of flame uprise and run
Before the rough, relentless wind which
fills
The thirsty copper goblet of the sky
With smoky nectar for the gods. The
trees,
In exquisite unwillingness to die,
Lift arms to pray. They feel the terror
seize
Their slender throats and scorch their
life away.
The night shuts down, and kindly
darkness weaves
Great blankets of oblivion which bring
A brief repose. Yet, with the new-born
day,
Behind it in its blackened wake it leaves
The shy, bewildered plaintiveness of
spring.
W.A. N. Kirkham.


•JUJU- !. I HUIL
If
Modern Banking Services
The National Bank offers to all who make use of
its services a wide range of financial facilities, covering
all banking needs. To all its clients it extends the
benefits which attach to its
EXPERIENCE accumulated through seventy-six
years of close contact with the development,
production, and trade of Australia.
ESTABLISHMENT, comprising 430 branches and
receiving offices spread through the cities and
country districts of the various States, two offices in
London, and agents in all cities of commercial
importance abroad.
GREAT RESOURCES, indicated by its Paid-up
Capital, £5,000,000; Reserve Fund, £3,000,000
(used in the business), and Total Assets
£45,000,000.
TRAVEL SERVICE DEPARTMENTS, at the Head
Office, Melbourne, and at Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London Offices. Information and
advice freely given about tours, fares, bookings,
financial arrangements, passport and taxation
requirements.
Facilities are provided for all classes of Foreign
Exchange business, including prompt and forward
settlements.
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
ef wr.-. rrrrrp
iiiiisr:.
SI
u<
Scots (lJni»V |(
OS
yAeAkmeis-
ClKollums
y/\e (U/iisAy
15-4
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobarr
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A Strong Portrayal of a Woman:-
THE RIVER FLATS
OF JILDEE.
By DOROTHY BLEWETT.
THERE was no friendliness about
Jildee.
The house stood in gaunt naked-
ness on the summit of a little eminence,
and directly behind it Yellow Cliff
reared its brown and ochre-streaked raw-
ness. The Cliff bore no smoothness any-
where on its precipitous face. Above,
the grass grew down to its very margin,
where a tangle of exposed tree-roots
completed the uncanny illusion that some
giant blunt instrument had only just
recently cloven the hill, pushing the off-
cut into an untidy heap a hundred yards
or so in front of it.
From the road, the straggling cluster
of iron-roofed, many-gabled buildings
was dwarfed to insignificance by the
massy cliff, so that it was a shock to find
the house looming above one when the
end of the long, evenly-graded drive was
reached. Seven high, narrow steps led
up to the front verandah, and, though
evergreen shrubs grew thickly about the
house, they were severely trimmed at
verandah level, leaving unbroken the
right-angular lines of the main house
building. Dark-green blinds, drawn to
precisely the same height in the windows
on either side of the front door, disclosed
twelve inches of starched white lace cur-
tains, like half-closed lids over blind
eyes.
There was no friendliness about Jildee
and none about its mistress as she stood
watching the departure of those who had
come to pay their last respects to her
father. Almost exactly thus had she
stood a few hours before when, in the
still, blankety heat of a January noon,
they had carried old Adam Steed for
the last time through the doorway of
Jildee. Down the seven steep steps they
carried him, four of his neighbors in un-
accustomed dark clothes, their calloused
hands steadying the light burden which
any one of them might easily have man-
aged alone. Down the long, winding
drive they followed him, in smart sedan,
in homely tourer, in jinker and buggy,
on horseback and afoot; a little way
along the main metalled road, across the
river bridge, up the steep pinch on the
other side and so to his six-foot bed
between a blue-gum sapling and a lilly-
pilly heavy with unreal mauve berries.
There had been neither welcome nor
rebuff in Polly Steed’s appraising eyes
on their arrival; she watched them go
evidently without regret. There was none
of that pathetic craving for companion-
ship understandable under such condi-
tions, neither was there any hint of
hysteria in her composure.
Her neighbors felt, in fact, that her
self-control was unfilial; after all, Adam
was her father and her last surviving
relative. She was a queer woman, Polly
Steed, a baffling, inscrutable woman,
whose presence was subduing. Yet she
drew the eye. She was tall and built on
generous lines which in a softer woman
might have blurred to plumpness. Black
hair framed her broad face in heavy regu-
lar waves, the line of her high cheek-
bones was softened by a faint pinkness
under the skin and, above her square
chin, her full lips set in curves of un-
expected sensuousness.
She was subtly different from the other
women of the district, and, though they
themselves would have attributed most
of the difference to the cut and quality
of her unobtrusive clothes, they too
would have added the comment, “There’s
something about Polly Steed.”
They were gone at last, a procession
of varying speed that kept within de-
corous limits inside the fences of Jildee,
but that threw off its restraining influ-
ence once its gates were reached.
Polly lingered at the top of the veran-
dah steps long after the last echo of
them had died away, her secret gaze
resting quietly on the acre after acre of
the river flats beneath her. The sun was
still terribly hot, and so motionless the
air that the dust hung in a golden haze
above the road minutes after the last
vehicle had disappeared. Far back in
the hills, a scrub fire upflung dense
clouds .of sulphur-colored smoke that,
rolling across the sun, transformed it to
an angry blood-red ball.
Polly had been only too conscious of
the envy that underlay the sympathy
and respect profferred to her that after-
noon ; as she looked down on her in-
heritance, she understood it. Beneath
her, from Yellow Cliff to Tambo and
for a mile in either direction, stretched
the verdant beauty of the river flats of
Jildee. A hundred thousand years ago,
perhaps, old Tambo had covered them
before he had betaken himself to his
narrow bed nearly a mile away. Every
winter even now, as though loth to re-
linquish his sovereignty, he possessed the
flats again for a few weeks, and when
once again he retired to his own place
he left them coated with rich silt.
She understood the envy and bitter-
ness that lurked beneath the grudging
respect these land-hungry Gippsland
farmers had paid her father, the most
successful of them all. Each acre added
to a holding represented a colossal
achievement, the reward of untold
economy, of unending hard work and
unremitting self-denial.
Polly’s finely-balanced mind acceded
the justice of her father’s success. Land
had been his god. For it he had striven
early and late ; on its altar had offered
up the sacrifice of family affection, of
health and pain-free old age, of all the
softnesses and beauties of life. He had
been hard, hard—no one but Polly and
her twenty-years-dead mother had
known how hard—and mean, so mean
that they had frequently lacked the
barest necessities.
For one thing only there had always
been money, for land and yet more land.
Grudgingly Polly had admired his
single-mindedness ; she had condoned his
ruthlessness, for she, too, loved the river
flats of Jildee —loved them, not with her
father’s absorbing passion for posses-
sion, but with joy in their beauty, their
generous fruitfulness, their recurring
miracle of verdure.
She lingered there, savoring the deli-
cate ecstasy of possession, worshipping
the ordered beauty of the precise rows
of bright-green maize that already topped
an average-height man, the acres of pas-
ture that were almost too rich for the
grazing cows that dotted them. She
loved them, loved them, more than she
had ever loved anything else, except per-
haps Ambrose Payne.
A MBROSE was waiting for her in the
house. He had been her father’s
solicitor, and was probably waiting now
to make known to her her father’s testa-
mentary dispositions.
Polly knew them already ; the short
document, typed in faint purple on shiny
grey-blue paper, had been shown to her
before Adam signed it. She knew the
words of it by heart: “All real and
personal property of which I shall die
possessed to my daughter Eliza for her
own use absolutely.” It made the river
flats hers.
Polly dragged her eyes away from the
contemplation of her land and, turning,
entered the house.
Ambrose was waiting for her in the
kitchen, where his interviews with Adam
Steed had always taken place. He was
seated on a straight-backed wooden
chair on the opposite side of the fire-
place from her father’s old rocking-
chair, and as she entered the room it
was almost as if, at any moment, the
old man might set the chair rocking
again with that unceasing “creak-creak”
that had taken the place of his active
life of earlier years.
The next second must surely bring
the sound of his querulous high-pitched
voice with its incessant demands, “Poll,
has the mail come? Poll, I want my
boots. Poll, where’s my pipe? Poll —
Poll”
She could see his grizzled old head
outlined against the dark wall, catch a
glimpse of his gnarled, rheumaticky hands
grasping a paper, hear his mumbling as
with infinite difficulty he spelt out the
market news.
“I’ll miss him,” she said to herself,
but with no deep rush of overwhelming
grief. There was an elemental, almost
animal, fatalism in her acceptance of
the facts of life and death: the bond
between them had been the passionless
admiration of one single-minded person
for another.
Ambrose Payne’s voice recalled her to
reality and to a sudden realisation of
the access of importance his presence
betokened.
“You won’t be feeling much like busi-
ness to-day, I suppose, Polly,” he said.
“I just stayed to let you know there’s no
particular hurry for a week or so. You
are the sole executrix and the sole lega-
tee, and there aren’t any debts to speak
(Continued on next page,)


“A ustra lia’s Premier
Sports Organisation "
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simmons’ Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
NEW!
Modern Small-bore
Man-sized Rifles
ensuring a New Degree
of Power and Accuracy!
fdsfds
MODEL 14— MOSSBERG 32-CALIBRE
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, bolt action.
24in. steel barrel, special flat top gold
blade hooded ramp front sight
and peep receiver rear sight, pistol-
grip stock with new “bulge” fore-
end, fitted with leather sling and
swivels. Takes 22 Short, Long or Long-
rifle new Super-speed Cartridges, go In
Weight, 51b. Price D£if O
Carriage Paid.
No. 12—LATEST MODEL WIN-
CHESTER SINGLE SHOT RIFLE.
MODEL 68, for 22 Short, Long or Long
rifle Rimflre Cartridges; 27in. round
steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip stock,
latest Mauser type safety bolt action,
hooded front sight, adjustable aperture
rear sight. Weight, about ee /
441 b ~
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 12A—WINCHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 60, for 22 Short,
Long or Long-rifle Rimflre Cart-
ridges; 27in. round steel barrel, one-
piece pistol-grip stock, bolt action,
ladder rear and metal bead front
sight. Weight, about 1C /
4Jib "
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 15—W INCHESTER
REPEATING R I F L E.
MODEL 63. 22-cal., 20-shot.
23in. round barrel, plain
trigger, straight grip, ladder
rear sights, slide action; maga-
zine handles 20 Short, 16 Long-
er 14 Long-rifle Cartridges.
Weight, about
sflb.
Carriage Paid.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, .MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder rear
sight. Weight, about 4flb.
Price
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
35/-
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
No
No. I—GREENER1 —GREENER D.8.8.L. HAMMERIESS
GUN, 13G., treble wedge, fast action, rebound-
ing, “Siemen’s” special steel barrels, both full
choke, shooting guaranteed. Splendid pigeon
gun. With 30 or 32 inch .£27 /IQ/
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G.j top lever, bar action, 32in. steel
barrels, both choke, rebounding locks, cross
bolt, snap fore-end, half pistol fIK/IC/
grip, walnut stock S.lO/ lu/ -
Carriage Raid.
No. 35— AMERICAN D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 13G M 32in. barrels, both choke, bar locks,
top lever cross bolt, Anson and Deeley action,
tested for nitro. Weight, about 7Jlb. no
Price
Carriage Paid.
No. 38—WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 13G., 30iu. steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2|in. cart-
ridges. Weight, about 7ilb. £lB/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son. H. K. Prior,
has provided £ 100 per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information, to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
Ihe trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
‘The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
the mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service..
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
16 Hamilton Street.
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. 'Phone: F 3348.
of. I’ll just go ahead with the applica-
tion for probate, and when the papers
are ready for your signature 1 * bring
them out.”
There seemed to be nothing to answer
to that, but there was something Polly
wanted to know.
“How much was my father worth,
Ambrose?”
She knew from the flash of his eyes
that her question would be retailed as yet
another evidence of her inhuman lack of
feeling.
“I can’t say offhand, Polly. The river
flats alone are worth nearly ten thou-
sand pounds. I should say you’ll have
anything up to twenty thousand to play
about with.”
“Twenty thousand!” The words beat
in Polly’s brain, but she could not at
once grasp the significance of them.
“It’s a lot of money for one person,
I Polly—it means a lot of worry and a lot
of power.”
Ambrose’s speculative gaze bent on
| her, and as she met his eyes Polly saw
clearly many things.
CHE saw Ambrose, a widower with a
growing family, a poor solicitor with
a decreasing, unremunerative practice in
a failing town. All her life Polly had
loved him, but she saw him neverthe-
less as he really was ; she could follow
the convolutions of his mind now as he
watched her. He was wondering
whether he could pull it off, whether, in
fact, he wanted to ; whether the money
was worth putting up with her crudities
—for, in spite of her flair for clothes and
her painfully-acquired correctness of
speech, Polly knew that her habit of
silence was a thin cloak only for the
rawness that lurked just beneath ; and
Ambrose knew it, too.
She knew also that she would marry
him, that in his presence she would be
soft-spoken and womanly. She remem-
bered how her mother had managed the
old man, how other girls in the district
had soft-soaped the men of their choice
—she had despised them for it a hundred
times ; yet she would do it too.
But only until she was his wife. She
would possess him then, body and soul,
as she possessed the river flats. All her
conscious life she had longed for this
man, dreamed of the touch of his hands,
of his lips, in her waking and sleeping
dreams, felt the beat of his heart against
hers, cradled his head against her breasts.
All this she would have, and more.
She would waken him, bathe him in the
warmth of her passion until he gave
back her ardor; he would be hers, hers!
It needed this to wipe out one twenty-
year-old memory.
Her mother had been alive then, a
gaunt woman with leather-colored skin
and wispy hair. In all Polly’s memory
of her, she had never worn anything but
brown calico, except for church and
funerals. Yet it was she who had bought
Polly the blue muslin dress, a lovely
dress with elbow-length puffed sleeves
and a yoke of transparent lace.
Polly had tried it on, and, even with
her lace-up boots and the flannel petti-
coat that showed through the lace, she
knew that the dress transformed her.
Polly was going to a ball. . She had no
idea what a ball would be like; the
twenty-five miles that separated the farm
from the town were an effective barrier
between her and any social life; their
three-roomed house was a cold, inhos-
pitable place to which very few people
dared venture a second visit, and Polly
could not return visits, for there was no
horse but old Robin, a weary draught
horse who took two days for the trip to
town and back, and needed a third day
to recover afterwards.
It wasn’t likely that dad would spare
Robin for three days from the endless
round of work on the farm. But he had
promised to buy her a horse. He had
gone across to Harris’s to look at a roan
old Harris wanted to sell; he had pro-
mised to bring the horse back with him
so that Polly could ride in to the ball.
She would take her beautiful blue dress
in a box on the saddle in front of her;
would change into it in the bedroom
of the schoolmaster’s wife, who, feeling
sorry for the isolated girl, had invited
her to stay the night at the schoolhouse.
POLLY had milked and separated and
cooked and cleaned and looked at
frequent intervals at the blue dress, with
her eighteen-year-old head in a whirl
of romantic dreams.
For Ambrose Payne was to be at the
ball. Ambrose was home on vacation
from his first year at the university—the
fortunate youth of the town, with his
handsome, fair head, his gay self-con-
fidence and all the weight of his father’s
wealth and professional importance be-
hind him.
Polly’s adoration of him had begun
when they were children at school in the
township—there was no reason for it;
it was just there, a part of Polly, more
natural than breathing. Then dad had
bought the outback farm, and Polly’s
glimpses of Ambrose had been few and
far between ; but there was no one to
oust him from his place in her dreams.
He was her Prince Charming, a being
from another world.
So Polly dreamed about him, her
thoughts interwoven with anxieties about
the horse. She put anxious questions to
her mother a dozen times, and mum
answered tartly: “Don’t be worryin’ me
the whole time, Polly. Of course dad’ll
get you some kind of a ’orse. I’ve give
him my egg money for a ’orse for you,
and a ’orse you’ll get or I’ll know the
reason why.”
But dad came back without the roan
horse. He was seething with suppressed
excitement; but Polly, her heart so
frozen with disappointment that her
breath hurt, scarcely heard his explana-
tion when the torrent of his wife’s abuse
had subsided.
“I tell you, old Secomb’s selling Jildee,
selling his river flats —his river flats— will
you understand, woman! What’s Polly
want with a horse, anyhow? She can
stay at home. It’s the best place for her.
Your egg money! I tell you we’ll need
your egg money and every penny we
can scrape together, every penny we can
borrow, to buy that land. Every man in
the town with a farthing to his name is
after it; but I’m going to have it, I am,
I say—me, Adam Steed.”
POLLY could hear the rising scream
of his voice as though the echo of
it still lingered in the air. He had been
mad that day; she thought he had prob-
ably been a bit mad all his life, with
that restless, ruthless passion for land.
She had never worn the blue muslin
dress, had looked at it with dull eyes that
could discover no beauty in it. Even
when she heard months after of Am-
brose’s engagement to the storekeeper’s
daughter she felt nothing.
The river flats had taken the light from
her life then —it was only justice that
they should give it back to her now.
So she thought as she sat there in the
kitchen, her black head dusky against
the dark-red cushions of old Adam’s
rocking-chair.
Of what was she thinking, Ambrose
wondered, or did she not think or feel
at all, this shrewd, close, hard farm
woman? Just for a moment something
attractive, subtle, elusive had gleamed
in her face, and then was gone. Would
she never speak? Perhaps she was stunned
at so much wealth.
Ambrose repeated the words slowly,
mouthing them a little, rolling them on
his tongue as though to savor the full
significance of their power. “Twenty
thousand pounds,” he said, and waited
for her reaction.
“Twenty thousand pounds,” she re-
peated after him. It would give him to
her ; and yet
She thought of the Ambrose of twenty
years ago, clean-limbed and clear-eyed,
straight as a die, laughing and cocksure.
She saw before her the Ambrose of to-
day—his rounded shoulders, the lines of
peevishness and worry about his mouth,
the wariness of his eyes, the pouches of
self-indulgence beneath them. Her care-
fully-applied veneer of culture dis-
appeared, a mask removed that showed
the primitive woman beneath it. It was
the Polly of twenty years ago who
answered him.
“I wisht dad ’ad bought old ’Arris’s
roan ’orse,” she said.


I 1 MU I / £*/ 7
id A "“ 1 ' r'
i I m
I J
4 \
m m
\
\
t
\
ii ’«*
\
to
V: « Ji
_RICH
AND POOR.
Both Use Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are to-day more
extensively used by all classes of the community than
any other such remedy sold in Australasia. Male
and female, rich and poor, town and country dwellers,
all use them. The merchant, the miner, the lady
of society, and the girl in the factory—they all find
in this remedy just what is required to keep the
system in proper working order.
Headaches —Biliousness
Indigestion—Constipation
caused by improper or too much food or drink, are
quickly banished by a dose or two of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They are a safe and reliable
remedy sold at a moderate price.
k
PILLS
WORMS
HOW TO TREAT.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
! Nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The Bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
Dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The Abdomen is
often hard, swollen arid tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious „ flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend,
beyond the Alimentary Canal, and
various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the
disordered digestion which they occa-
sion. Among the most common of these
are nervous affections, such as fretful-
ness, irritation of temper, wakefulness,
or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of
sleep, as if from fright, dizziness, spas-
modic movements of the eyelids, dilated
pupils, perverted vision and deafness.
• Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
have worms, are suffering intense pain
and distress, and are practically irrespon-
sible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and, until some
more serious symptoms appear, nothing
is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease arc somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char-
acteristic that no mother need have any
doubts. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of
the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford
ample proof.
NEW PACK
4°c
P
cow
PRICE
2/-
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of Stomach
and Thread worrns. They contain
specific properties which destroy the
worms, but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have
no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney. Price, 2/- per Box (6 boxes
11 / 6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
a
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- f plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in. full payment.
NAME ,
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
A O°V e e.
k <v v^-v*^
.v
. *vw v „
\\* v
AC 01 .r>
e o #'
0?
iV # s
#•’
# s ‘
..** s o?
■•■*' A
As*L. .? e 1
.■•■ o$ vo 6 ‘


280: Universal A.C. and D-C.
5-valve Console, with Auto-
matic Volume Control,
£22/1916.
250: 4n All-Wave Battery Set
for the man outback,
£4B/101-.
28’-': Low in price — economi-
cal to maintain: 4-vohe Bat-
tery Set. Complete, £25/10/-
PERFECT TONE
WITH
TASMA
K#
i iT
Mi
RADIOS LATEST
D EVELO PME NT^THE
BAND-SPREAD
Df
*'.Vl
... Crooks .., Tauber. yomwm inJfteir. presence with a
TASMA. They Live ... all the n/'^^phei^qjces comes through the
TASMA as though the artist were/n ihLmom. ifhp is the TASMA ideal of
radio— perfect tone. And in mdqpt a remarkdole range of receivers that
ideal has been achieved . . . m battery receivers far country dwellers; in All-
Wave and Short-Wave sets; in receivers for the qfotorist, the large home or
the small flat; for those who car|afford luxury gS well as for those who desire
luxury at low price. No family, rfo individualTn this country need be without
a TASMA. Radio's latest development—the TASMA Band-Spread Dial.
. V '
11 mm
(Illustrated Above.)
uaJma
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
MODEL 295: A Detail-Built quality Dual-
Wave Receiver with the new TASMA Band-
Spread Dial—-London, Paris, Berlin, Petrograd
or ANY Australian Station at your finger-
tips. Has Automatic Volume Control (which
practically eliminates fading) and attractive
piano-finished Cabinet; with every modem
feature £27/10/-
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH, LTD., 55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
/NTEliSTA TE DTSTRl Ji UTOBS.
X.S. W. COUNTRY
DISTRIBUTORS.
ERIC CUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative.
C. R. DONNELLY, 45 Cathcart Street,
Lismore.
Northern Representative.
QUEENSLAND:
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at, Rockhampton, Cairns,
Mackay, Townsville.
ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
VICTORIA:
R. J. S. BRYCE, Room 710,
7th Floor, London Stores Build-
ing, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Factor // Represenlati »c.
i
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
NOTES BROS; (MELBA PTV..
LTD.. 89 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
MILLER ANDERSON. LTD.,
Bindley Street, Adelaide.
CHARLES BIRRS CO., LTD.,
Randle Street. Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
UNBKHAUN & JOHNSTONE. W.A.,
LTD., 381 Murray Street, Perth.
THOMSON’S', LTD., 674 Hay Street,
Perth.
