

'> V
AMAZING NEW
EXTRA MILD B.D.V. BLEND
fla clmJrt aUmCt tt-
it’s a great
smoke”
...
- 'a
mm
■
mmm
'/■< i:
mm
y't
■\ m %
i
v;
i
I
&
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
Iof.r6<*- 20 for I/-
POCKET TINS OF
THIRTY f.r 1/6
Never before have Aus-
tralian smokers welcomed
a cigarette as whole-
heartedly as the new
Extra Mild B.D.V. The
blend is the reason! Not
only is it mellow, cool
and mild, but it is richly
satisfying as well.
Only the finest Virginian
tobaccos are used in
these new cigarettes
tobaccos that have grown
old gracefully gathering
added smoothness with
years.
There is no doubt about it
—Extra Mild B.D.V. Cigar-
ettes are a great smoke!
'
r
j
j
r
VIRGINIAS
The Bulletin
The Meat Muddle
Vol. 56. _No. 2875.
Wednesday, March 20, 1935.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DO YCITWRITE?
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS HAVE NOW A
GREATER OPPORTUNITY THAN EVER!
Napier, Gardiner and Co. read, and advise
on, all classes of literary work—books, serials,
short stories, articles and verse—and arrange
for publication.
They also advise on and arrange local and
world copyrights, picture and stage rights.
Advice given to aspiring authors.
.Particulars on application to:
-NAPIER, GARDINER & CO., Literary Agents,
Telephone ; BWSIBB. 79 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original
*S6mA&>
r
This
Wa 55
Start using Cnticura Soap today.
See how much it helps! Through its
use many thousands have found relief
from apparently hopeless skin troubles.
Cutlcura Soap contains the same
delicate medication that has made
Cuticura Ointment the first thought in
treating pimples, eczema and other
skin ailments. Make Cuticura your
daily toilet soap and enjoy a clear,
healthy skin
Cuticura
Quick Safe Economical
Learn
Commc
rcial Art
at HOME
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
OUT HERE ANI> MAIE -
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home-Study Course in COMMERCIAL ART, as
adrertisid in the Sydney Bulletin
My Marne ,
My A ddress ......................
S.H. 7.17
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
BRISBANE,
m
*
'
■
WM
ms.
AM*
LEADS THE WAY
ADVERTISERS
use more space in the
u Telegraph” than in any
other newspaper .
More genuine “Want Ads ” appear
in the “Telegraph” than in any
other Brisbane newspaper ,
Why do Brisbane people con-
sistently show this preference for
the “Telegraph”?
Many NATIONAL ADVER-
TISERS have found the answer
——others will be wise to seek it.
Information available from
Telegraph Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane, and from
Mervyn Allan,
271 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C. 1
or
Wm. C. Hubble,
15 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
The Red Page
THE DEVIL,
POOR DEVIL!
The Week’s Best:—
The author of
Proud Man, Mur-
ray Constantine,
has brought forth
another, unusual
in theme, treat-
ment and narrative development, extrava-
gantly peopled, and, in the patches where
it rises to brilliance, of a fine and sincere
brightness. He calls it The Devil, Poor
Devil!
The patch in which the glow is at its
clearest is the second chapter, and, as
the chapters are long ones and few, it’s
a fairish patch. The most responsible
star, she who holds the whole firmament
together, is an English country lass, illegi-
timate Fenella. Her like will take hunt-
ing for in the entire lot of English fiction
over the last year or two.
She is a spontaneous creation. She
represents clearly the writer’s ideal of
womanhood. It might be complained
that he over-idealises her, but it would
be a hasty sort of criticism —that sort
which is based on the undying fallacy
that that which is true to life must neces-
sarily be true to fiction, or even that it
possibly can be true to fiction. Of course
it cannot, since all art is a selection and
a filtration from life: but the fallacious
“I tell you it must be true; it actually
happened!” is hurled back at the critic
of .this sort of artistic falsity, and doubt-
less it always will be.
Constantine does over-idealise his
Fenella, but that does not call for cen-
sure. Fenella is a bit above herself and
her crude upbringing and circumstances
in some of her utterances, but shear these
away and she would be a clodhopper
and a flop ; maybe “true to life,” but
utterly false to her surroundings, which
are not life but the book in which she
lives. As it is, she is so finely done that
that usually so difficult a thing to read,
English dialect, comes from her with a
music in it that only the totally tone-
deaf could possibly fail to enjoy. She
appears—to the novel’s great good—else-
where than in this second chapter. When
she does the whole scene rises to a differ-
ent plane, even though it is at the expense
of the other characters.
These others are not an unrespectable
lot either. The writer obviously set out
to make his leading character the Devil,
stalking through the book in human
shape. In few words, the theme of the
satire is that the Old Boy has so fallen
in human esteem and respect since Mil-
ton wrote of him that he looks likely to
die from sheer lack of our spiritual sup-
port. Constantine falls in the opposite
direction from Milton, whose Satan, of
course, took charge and became hero.
Constantine’s Devil is a bewildered weak-
ling. The author might reply that such
was his intention. Even so, this sort of
Devil still makes a devilish poor char-
acter for a book.
The novel’s development is curious. It
begins with extravaganza, turns to
romance—very fine romance, shot
through with reality—and ends in melo-
drama. The Devil is discovered couched
on the narrow bed of men’s thoughts.
His discoverer is a character called the
Independent (doubtless to avoid blas-
phemy). They inhabit, respectively, the
body of a young man of some appear-
ance and no intelligence, and the body
of the young man’s grandmother. They
look London over, find it has gone to
the pack so far as live interest in the
Devil is concerned—they can’t even find
any in the churches —and so they descend
upon the country, there to become in-
volved in Fenella’s involved love-affair,
she being pursued by (1) her master,
aged ; (2) a poet; (3) the Devil. From
here on the writer slights his beginning
satiric theme ; it remains, but as a thread.
Fenella has taken charge, even of the
author, who might have added another
to the mass of those weak and worth-
less essays in the satiric manner of which
Priestley’s Wonder Hero is sufficient
horrific example, but who has instead
represented, at any rate, a figure strangely
like a woman.
HOW LIKE
AN ANGEL
Of slightly
earlier vintage,
too good
a thing not to be
mentioned in this
present company,
is A. G. Macdonell’s latest shot at satire.
How Like an Angel. Far more of it is
farce and slapstick than was his excel-
lent England, Their England, and there
is nothing in it quite so uproarious as
the cricket match of that work—prob-
ably the funniest account of a cricket
match ever written —but it is packed with
the stuff that makes laughter, neverthe-
less. It tempts one to pray that the
Devil, poor devil! may lure Mr. Mac-
donell into visiting these shores, with
malice intent—as Mr. Macdonell would
be if he did come here, since he never
once refers to Australia, without con-
tempt. Perhaps we could swap our Jack,
our Joe or our Earle for him, and the
bargain be ours.
Mr. Macdonell need not be dismayed
at the prospect. He would find that all
are not thugs who come from Ballarat;
that the local argot is not “’Ere, why
not start the blinkin’ game again? We’ll
'oof that blighter hout, and start fair.
Wotchersay?” (ours is equally good, but
it isn’t Cockney: any Australian caught
using in public such filthy language as
“blighter” and “blinkin’ ” would be sent
back to Wesley or St. Andrew’s to finish
his education). Also Mr. Macdonell
would find plenty here to support his side
of the bodyline argument (which, in the
local speech, might be rendered: “Get
the cows out somehow, but fer Gorsake
get ’em out!”).
A. G. MACDONELL.
As for the important reason for the
invitation—that Mr. Macdonell is one
of the few men alive who could write the
satire on this cultural backwater that it
so badly deserves and so urgently needs
—well, the Devil, poor devil! knows that
Mr. Macdonell would not lack for sitters.
He might not find so grand a scope as
in this latest book he finds in tearing into
the cinema-made sensation mania, the
snobbery, Test matches and the like of
current England ; but our racing and all
its works, our press and all its works,
and our politics and all its absence of
works ought to be enough to go on with.
As an additional attraction, he might
attend the literary societies or walk
through Melbourne on a Sunday morn-
ing, and really enjoy himself.
Cecil Mann.
[The Devil, Poor Devil I by Murray Con-
stantine (Boriswood; 7s. 6d.); How Like an
Angel (Macmillan; 7s. 6d.), from Moore’s
Bookshop and Angus and Robertson respec-
tively.}
Ruth
Fitter’s
Poetry
Sp e a king of
Cobbett, Chester-
ton remarked
once that it had
become the cus-
tom to describe
him as a neglected writer —a custom that
showed he was no longer being neglected.
Any lime these last 20 years, the poet
Ruth Fitter, in her native England, has
been heavily neglected. She is now sur-
rounded by a solid choir of those who
say that some day the neglecters will be
proven wrong. Her newest book of
poems, A Mad Lady’s Garland (Cresset
Press, London), is prefaced, like her
First and Second Poems of seven years
ago, with an emphatic appreciation by
Hilaire Belloc, its jacket decorated with
praise by A. E. and Robert Nichols;
but her rare quality, her quiet and subtle
beauty, shone securely out from her
earliest verse, published in the “New
Age’ 20 years ago. Many a girl in her
early teens writes what is mysteriously
promising—and then forgets to keep her
promise. At 13 Ruth Fitter wrote an
archaic poem beginning
/ have a brother cleped Fairy Gold,
Who dwelleth not in housen nor with
men, v f
and to-day, even surer of her Tudor
cadences, in an amazing, complex lyric
to 'Fowls, Celestial and Terrestrial,” she
addresses the Phoenix, called of Arabia
Felix:
Where may I find
Thee? Only in the aspiring mind.
What is thy food ?
A fire, that burns in solitude.
In the which flame
I my own child and parent am.
This new collection of poems, however,
has been gleaned chiefly among Ruth
Fitter’s experiments in the comic. Look
at the titles in this Garland —“The Kit-
ten's Eclogue,” “The Matron-Cat’s
Song,” ' Ecclesiasticella, or the Church
(Continued on page 5.)


< (
Tree” Brand Footwear
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
ji
.... *
"Tree" Brand super Shoes, in Tar
Willow, Havana Brown and Bon
Calf. Made in fhe new Bespoke
model, as illustrated. Full and
half sixes. Also Box-Calf Boots.
Price, per pair,.... 2b/-
Mi
"Tree" Brand Super Brogues in
Tan Willow, Havana Brown and
Box Calf. Extra stout genuine
welted soles. Ideal for walking or
golf. Full and half sizes. Price,
per pairjt, 25/-
mmsmt
“TRUTH IN
ADVERTISING”—
the conscience of
business .
/Tree" Brand Shoes in Tan Calf,
Black Box Calf, Brown Calf, Glace
Kid and Patent Leather. Fifteen
'styles to choose from, in full and
half sizes. Anthony , Horderns
Price, per pair 20/-
wm.
A high-grade make of men s
viceable Shoes, in Tan
and Black Box Calf. Available in
all smart styles. All fittings and
sizes. Anthony Horderns’ Price,
per pair 27/6
fKKBa&Sk
'A* '• *■' * ;
■* .
Jm
[' Bi
i‘ -
Ji r
m
m
•«>'
j
Men’s Footwear
.—Ground Floor
George St.—
Freight paid to
all seaports in
the Common-
wealth and rail-
way stations in
N.S.W.
I
/.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
' "X
f /M
\ imm
A
The famous Saxone Scotch Shoes
are the best imported. In Tar
Calf. Black Calf and GJace Kid.
Also, Boots in Glace Kid and Box
Calf. FulLand. half, sizes. Price,
per pair, „ - 55/ '
“Tree” Brand Shoes are made for the man who cares,
and are obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’. They
are built in many smart styles on comfortable lasts from
good materials, and every boot and shoe is guaranteed
to give real satisfaction. The price is right, too!
USE OUR D.P.S.
If inconvenient to pay cash, leave a
deposit and pay off the balance in easy
instalments. There is no extra charge for
this service, so why not use it?
ANTHONY
HORDERN
& Sons, Ltd.
SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


aI>C ,C * a H|
Jones gets
20 M.P.G.
Brown gets
only 18!
That’s because Jones uses Atlantic Ethyl and Brown does not!
If you use Atlantic Ethyl your car too will generate the maximum horsepower its engine vr&§
designed to develop, with absolute freedom from engine knock or strain. This sustained high
power output guarantees you permanent mileage improvement and constant peak performance!
ATLANTIC
ETHYL GASOLINE
CORPORATION
FTHYI
FD
Even better performance is yours when your engine is
specially tuned for Atlantic Ethyl. It costs a few shillings
only. See your garage-man!
* Don’t jail to hear "JANE EYRE,” Atlantic’s Dramatic
Radio Feature, Every Tuesday Night, 8.30-9 p.m .
2 LJW and Country Stations.
E 4-48-35
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., AUSTRALIA AND: NEW ZEALAND


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
A MODERN NOVEL OF AUSTRALIAN CITY LIFE
FORTY-fiX
A MOVE!
PRICE 6/-
Plus 3d. Postage.
FORTY - SIX
By STEWART HOWARD.
A modem novel of Australian city life, set in Sydney at the present day,
it states the problem of a normal, active, virile man whose amatory excursions
catch him enmeshed in a closing net of feminine possessiveness. Three women—
his wife, his mistress and a new flame —have their hands to the net; the problem
of Dick Westring is how he might cut the painter and escape.
The author is a young writer who has seen this aspect of modern Sydney life.
Its hectic atmosphere, cocktail parties, promiscuous amorousness, are as actual
and true to life as that sunlit scene of its near coast which makes a moderating
splash of beauty in the novel’s texture.
All Booksellers, or from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mouse,” “Timelie Tydinges for Loveles
Ladies” (an impression of an advert,
for face cream), and “Jeanstruck.” This
last composite word soon explains itself.
Jeans in his books on the universe takes
a busy woman away from the world of
manufacture and trade in which Ruth
Fitter’s days pass, and into the fourth
dimension or thereabouts:
My mind’s astray ; amid the general hum
I chew the notion of continuum.
At most times, though, it is no such re-
moteness that claims her exact and eager
attention. She is by turns an earwig, a
tadpole growing up at the bottom of an
all-but-empty well, Sahara, the unhappy
performing flea, a cockroach, a coffin-
worm, a pious lady trout; and in each
case she feels an appropriate world of
impressions, decorating it in curious,
witty verse patterns.
Armed Earwig I, that erst in prideful
plight
Swanked in my mail and only swore by
Mars. .. .
The hopeless, almost bodiless frog is
rescued:
A tactful hand (no paw of murderous
lout,
But kind Ruth Ritter’s ) plucks the suf-
ferer out,
And to a pond where she may soon be fat
She takes the wizen creature in her hat.
The performing flea yearns for some
simpler life:
Or as a buxom sheep-tick I would lie
Safe in the wool,
Sleep sound and breathe a soft and quiet
air.
As for the cockroach, he speaks as a
harsh modern poet, aware of science and
proud of his inherited ways:
Only such a lot of blokes
Steal my thunder and pinch my jokes.
Take stink.
Only think,
A million years I stank alone,
Speciality de la maison
A family monopoly
If you wanted stink you came to me.
And now look at the competition,
... .each edition
Of the evening papers
Stinks with such a pleasant voice
Making all the vales rejoice,
Cutting all my cockroach capers.
The coffin-worm is more gently, more
earnestly, ironic:
Men in their lives full solitary be:
We are their last and kindest company.
Sometimes it happens that Ruth Fitter's
characters are aware of one another. If
the Lady Trout ends her glittering
stanzas:
So piously I purge the gentle sky
Of nasty atomies that dare to fly,
then the next lyric is the dancing utter-
ance of an atomy, a may fly, the trout’s
victim.
But the ironies of this book are not
confined to creatures other than man.
The poet meditates also on the cream
of things, depicting one Pyrrha, a
modern maid completed by art. Even
in winter she can be decorated by
flowers, in the pastoral mode:
The leathern lily, paper daffodil,
Rare taffeta carnation, linen squill,
With well-feigned heartsease and feigned
honesty ....
Lines as sure and pungent as that last
one occur on every page and are bound
up with their theme. Ruth Fitter is im-
mensely cunning and adept; yet she is
never hobbled by her skill, she can rise
whenever she wishes:
Even for Earwig comfort there can be :
Lo ! from beneath my mail I spread my
wings !
In other books, in First and Second
Poems and a heroic poem “Persephone
in Hades,” she has superbly spread her
wings.
Nettie Palmer.
Winners in the
Humor Story
Competition
So many en-
tries were received
for The Bulletin
Humor Story
Compe tition —
more than 400 of
them —that the
three judges took a week longer than
was anticipated in finding their way to
the bottom of the stack. The judges,
D. H. Souter, Tom Mutch and J. C.
Bancks, have now issued the following
verdict: —
FIRST PRIZE (£l5), “Ernie,” by “Peter
Nixon” (Alfred Charles Headley),
4 Egan-street, Newtown, Sydney.
(“Ernie” was published in B.
14/11/’34.)
SECOND PRIZE (£7), “I Tell All,” by
“Gloria Gilded” (P. A. Darbyshire),
Coolabong, Moulamein, N.S.W. (“I
Tell All” appears in this present
issue.)
THIRD PRIZE (£3), “Beneath Their
Skins,” by Harry Pauli, 155 Dorcas-
street, South Melbourne. (“Beneath
Their Skins” was published in B.
19/12/’34.)
Apart from the encouragement the
competition gave to writers —many of
them young, and some of them new to
The Bulletin —the competition proved
successful in every respect.
Stories which missed a place, but which
The Bulletin manuscript readers recall
having especially enjoyed, include “Deep-
Sea Memories,” by “S.W.K.” (B.
24/10/’34); “Long Soup,” by “Freeman
Sandom” (B. 2/1 / ’35), and “Nobody’s
Goat,” by Gavin S. Casey (B. 13/2/’35).
The writers represent, respectively,
N.S.W., Queensland and W.A. Entries
were received from every State and from
Maoriland.
Humorous stories, with genuine laughs
in them —especially stories of the kind
represented in the above wide selection of
models—will be welcomed by The Bulle-
tin. One a week is required. The length
is left to the writer: it can range up to
3500 or so words. About 3000 is a very
handy length.
Freelances,
Editors and
Dodgers
H. A. Lindsay,
commenting on
my A ustralian
A uthors and
Artists’ Hand-
book (B. 6 / 3 / ’35),
rebukes me
for not blacklisting newspapers which
offend against freelances. Mr. Lindsay
is guilty of the same reticence.
He gives three instances of newspapers
which do not practise what they
promise without revealing their identity.
Mr. Lindsay, as an experienced free-
lance, probably has a deep respect for
the law of libel; is aware that even
truthful statements are sometimes diffi-
cult to prove and always costly to defend
in a law court. (I don’t think his reti-
cence was due to a desire not to anger
newspapers with which he might do
business again: on his evidence not one
of them is worth a tinker’s curse to the
professional freelance.) So Mr. Lindsay
takes the pretty stand of inviting me to
do what he is not game to do himself.
If I had the power to investigate and
the protection against libel actions which
a Royal Commissioner enjoys, I would
be able to catalogue in a report (£2 2s.
to subscribers, as against the half-crown
which my Handbook now costs) the
manifold sins and wickedness of Aus-
tralian newspapers in their relations with
contributors. Not possessing such power
and protection, I am compelled to con-
tent myself with my present method of
collecting and presenting information
regarding editorial requirements a
method employed by the editors of simi-
lar publications in England, Canada and
America.
Incidentally, why should offending
newspapers alone be blacklisted in
“future issues of Fitz Henry’s useful little
book”? Why not offending freelances
as well?
My Handbook is intended to be a
work of reference and direction to the
freelance. It also aims to be a bridge
of connection between editors and free-
lances. In its pages I have permitted
editors to state their requirements, and
it is my object to help find for them con-
tributors who will give them exactly what
•hey-ek. So. if I am .0 telljreelances
of the sms of those that sit in editorial
judgment, I should in fairness to editors
publish particulars of contributors who
are not trustworthy.
What opinion, for instance, would any
of these recent paper-slaters have o os,.
contributors who sell an editor copy
stolen from another journal, w o up i-
cate work, who are notorious y care ess
in important facts and dates. re y
not just as deserving of exposure as a
editor who underpays or who n? s Y '
manuscript. In my opinion sue
and thieves take as many pennies
the pockets of honest and capable f ee-
lances as are filched y s y •
No, as much as I would like to pil-
lory the offenders on both sides, 1 realise
that such is not within the scope of a
specialised press directory and manual
of instruction.
An organisation which could, it it had
the courage and vision, remedy most of
the abuses that these recent writers on
the Red Page so bitterly complain about
is the Australian Journalists Association.
It has a power that no <directory can
ever hope to possess (the backing of the
Arbitration Courts), and could produce
a remedy within three months if it was
pushed into doing so by the freelances
•n,- -f v S
within its ranks.
W. E. Etrz henry.
W. E. Fitz Henry in his Handbook
might consider running a sort of literary
Dunn’s Agency, which would be a clear-
ing-house for the confidential exchange
of information between freelances. For
a modest yearly fee a member would be
entitled to so many inquiries, and would
in his turn supply information from his
own experience. Such a system would
soon save him much more that the sub-
scription in time, stamps, worry and lost
MSS. Eventually we might witness the
spectacle of terrified but repentant editors
of the “encouragement” school begging
at the offices of the I.C.F. (Institute of
Competent Freelances) for the impnma-
tur of the organisation,
Angus O’Cohen.
A Choice of Verse:—
AT LEAST.
If I should die to-night—
should death strip the festoon
twisted for brief delight
and slung from wall to wall
of my time’s banquet-hall —
at least 1 have seen the moon.
Thus grown aware, intent,
who probes this hour shall find
every supreme event,
flux of enduring things,
all that life ta\es or brings
or mind mirrors on mind.
For there lives no instant else
than that, barbaric, which breads
into the citadels
of being, and issues thence
stabbing each stagnant sense
till the whole city wakes.
This is to ma\e a bold
provision against what land
the hiding dark may enfold;
since who, having watched prevail
the moon’s curved sword, could quail,
knowing it to his hand ?
Fiji.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD
A Plea For
Slang
Dear Bulle
. rTM r wnn ifi
L,, y r j nted this
Y P
Q j d j p man
domiciled in England since 1921.
I am engaged on a Dictionary of
Slang, Colloquialisms and Catch Phrases
of the British Empire from the fifteenth
century onwards. For the period since
1921 I’m rather at a loss (except for
lice Doone’s book, published about
1926); if any of your readers feel in-
clined to send me a list of relevant words
and phrases, I shall be glad to acknow-
ledge the debt in my book, which, D.V.,
is to appear early in 1936. —Eric Par-
tridge, c/o Routledge and Sons, 68-74
Carter-lane, London, E.C.4.
——-—♦ —; -
A Satchel of Books
Heritage, by Charles Chauvel (Angus
and Robertson ; 4s. 6d.), is the story of
the film of the same name, shortly to be
released. It makes no claim to literary
greatness, but is a plain tale of pioneer-
ing in N.S.W.
Indispensable to bailiffs, debt-collectors,
writ-servers, tradesmen and others of
Sydney whose calling makes them sally
forth at all hours into unknown places
is Wilson’s Sydney and Suburban Street
Guide (Wilson’s Publishing Co.; 4s. 6d.).
There are 147 maps and enough informa-
tion to help even a lunatic to find his
way home.
The Street of Shadows, by Elizabeth
Coxhead (Cassell ; 7s. 6d.). The main
characters, born in Wardour-street, see
that thoroughfare become the centre of
the English film world, and most of them
are drawn into the industry. Readable;
and the picture industry’s all there, from
slapstick to talkies.
Anyone attracted by the telegraphic
style of utterance and the hor-
rific sort of novel will find I Am
Your Brother, by G. S. Mar-
lowe (Collins ; 7s. 6d.) absolutely
to taste. Most of it, one of its
characters in particular, is grue-
somely horrible. It filthily drips.
That is, if read —as maybe it
mostly will be —only as a
shudder-thriller. On the other
hand, it is possible to take it as a
sort of literary jazz-allegory, re-
presenting the tortured inner-life
of artistic genius, deuced un-
pleasant to read, but in its jerky
progress a ruthless and savage
study. The publisher bears the
responsibility for calling it an
autobiography.
Either the English Book
Society’s standards have come
down with a rattle or London
must have been bankrupt in
works of literary quality in the
first month of this year. The
society’s choice for January was
Claude Haughton’s novel This
Was Ivor Trent, a work which
gives a definite impression that it
could not possibly have been
written in any other way than on
a typewriter. It is, in fact, an in-
justice to it to have been so
chosen. Such choice puts an em-
phasis on a work, whether you
think much of the society or not,
and all that’s wrong with Haugh-
ton’s work is that it cannot bear
that emphasis. It is entertain-
ment', pure and simple; very
good as suspense fiction goes ; a
rapid action thriller, without the
usual gore.


m
V':
I
■" ‘ >•*
. »•:,. <4. js
r t
II
Bii
n I
■ I
ilili
■ : i ,' -
: :
:
B •
|W
> C*w
• «£, *H '


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2575.
March 20, 1935.
ARRANGED.
“Mr Baldwin’s account of the immense foreign military preparations which have compelled his Government to increase its defence expenditure was followed an
announcement from Canberra that, disappointing as the voluntary system has been, compulsory training will remain suspended for another two years at least.
“Now we may all sleep comfortably in our beds.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“MILKING” THE MOTORIST.
The Commonwealth Government takes nearly
£6,000,000 p.a. from Australian motorists in the
form of a petrol tax, which was intended originally
for road construction and reconstruction. It returns
£2,500,000 to the States. During last year the Com-
monwealth collected £1,758,939 from N. S. Wales
and handed back £627,657, the balance going into
consolidated revenue.
Nor do motorists benefit in better roads from
the whole of the fractions allocated to the States.
Under the Lang regime £341,000 was diverted in
a single year from the Main Roads Board—“defraying
the cost of police supervision of traffic” was the excuse.
At Wagga recently 12 drivers were convicted
of “driving motor vehicles greater distances than 50
miles in competition with the Government railways.”
Fines amounting to £630 were imposed. Witnesses’
expenses and costs brought the amount to £Bl5.
The use of police courts by Governments to
preserve obsolescent forms of transport at the expense
of one which is popular because it is economic has
evoked many protests. Early in the month Professor
Shann, now in the Chair of Economics at Adelaide
University, “vigorously criticised proposals for the
extension of railway systems,” and about the same
time Sydney’s Haymarket-Broadway Association
decided to petition the Stevens Government “to
remove the 50-mile limit imposed by the Transport
Regulation Act.” It also decided “to support only
candidates who are willing to carry out the terms of
the resolution. This association has been inspired by
the example of Victoria’s Transport Defence Council,
which conducted a very effective election campaign
last month.
The trouble is that all the parties—Common-
wealth and State, Labor and anti-Labor—are in the
ramp. Penalties for motoring offences are so adjusted
that, in at least 90 p.c. of cases, they don’t act as
deterrents. The attitude of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment towards parking in Sydney is a case in point.
The regulation forbidding parking is an unwanted
law, like those which forbid motors to compete with
railways and trams. But six o’clock closing was also
unwanted, and it is enforced. If a motorist were
liable to lose his license for repeated parking offences
the practice would soon end. Apparently Govern-
ments don’t want it to end.
Conditions in Sydney forcibly illustrate the
humbug of this business. A few regions display signs
marked, without qualification, “No Parking,” and
nobody parks there. Elsewhere are signs forbidding
parking between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. The areas which
contain them are crowded with cars from morning
till night. Finally, there are little-frequented back
streets and lanes which have no Verboten notices,
and . which, therefore, are impliedly available for
parking. Not so. One of the policemen who spend
their working lives plodding about the city taking
the numbers of cars which are technically obstructing
the traffic may decide to tour a remote thoroughfare.
If he does, those who have left cars in it will suffer
equally with those guilty of leaving cars in a populous
part of the city.
The penalty is small; 4s. 6d. fine and ss. 6d.
“transport expenses” to begin with. Where the
Government scores is in the colossal number of fines
inflicted week after week throughout the year, many
of them on motorists who must park somewhere if
their businesses are not to suffer.
The motorist has a grievance in the capacity of
citizen as well as in that of car-owner. The Govern-
ment’s unending crusade means that hordes of hefty
policemen waste their time signing up cars, typing
summonses and delivering them by hand in the city
and suburbs. They would be much more usefully
employed arresting criminals, intercepting dangerous
or drunken drivers, frustrating car thieves, proceeding
against drivers of cars with blinding headlights, defec-
tive brakes and the like, safeguarding children and old
people in the streets, and generally doing work for
which they are fitted by training and physique. As
it is, they perform many of the functions of the
soldiers who were used by spendthrift monarchs of
the Dark Ages to wring money from Jews.
WESTRALIA SCORES.
The Westralian census shows that whatever else
Federation has done it has not retarded growth of
population by comparison with eastern States. N. S.
Wales’s population between the 1921 and 1933
enumerations increased 23.8 p.c. to 2,600,847 ; West-
ralia’s, 31.5 p.c. to 438,852. Of the Mother State’s
population at June 30, 1933, 105,256 were pensioners.
There were 16,102 pensioners in Westralia, the
percentage being about the same. With few excep-
tions, the Westralians received their pensions from
the Federal octopus, whereas a fair proportion of
their congeners in N. S. Wales, widows especially,
were paid by the State.
The proportion of breadwinners in the Westralian
male population increased from 69 p.c. in 1921 to 71.8
p.c. in 1933 ; in actual numbers, by 28.1 p.c.—to
168,000. The corresponding figures for N. S. Wales
were: Proportional increase from 67 p.c. to 69.2 p.c.;
number increase, 15.1 p.c.—to 912,591. Percentage
increases in the number of female earners were
28.6 p.c. in N. S. Wales and 37 p.c. in Westralia ;
actual numbers were 297,214 and 34,901.
The occupation groups run reasonably parallel.
N. S. Wales had a 7.2 p.c. increase in numbers
employed in public administration and the profes-
sions ; Westralia, an 8 p.c. increase. In “personal and
domestic service” 3.8 p.c. more people were engaged
in N. S. Wales, 2.8 p.c. more in Westralia. Enter-
tainment and sport found occupation for a few more
N. S. Wales people (4.6 p.c. on the 1921 figure), but
there was a 1 p.c. decrease in Westralia, which has no
Stuart Doyle. The wage-earning group in each State
constituted exactly 32.3 p.c. of the population.
Unemployment figures—a cardinal test of pros-
perity—can therefore be compared on an even basis:
r 1933 ,
N.S.W. W.A.
Wage-earners in full-time employment 64.4 p.c. 70.9 p.c.
Unemployed 26.5 p.c. 18.0 p.c.
Unemployed for more than 24 weeks,
p.c. of total 81.3 p.c. 67.8 p.c.
Of those employed, the percentage that received
more than £3 a week was almost exactly the same
in both States ; but the percentage of those earning
over £4 per week was higher in Westralia than in
N. S. Wales.
In taxes (exclusive of customs and excise and
miscellaneous collections at Commonwealth central
offices) Westralians paid £3 12s. per head in 1933-34,
N. S. Welshmen £6 19s. 4d; In special grants from the
Commonwealth Westralia received £600,000 last year,
and it is getting £733,000 this year (say, £1 13s. per
head). The N. S. Wales taxpayer furnished and is
furnishing a considerable proportion of this money,
and he has also contributed substantially to the cost
of constructing and maintaining Westralian roads.
For the six years to June 30, 1933, the Octopus
distributed £13,734,187 for Federal-aid roads: to
Westralia went £2,636,964 ; to N. S. Wales, with nearly
six times the population, £3,790,635.
Though secessionists are whales for figures, they
never try to buttress their case with comparative
statistics. The reasons are fairly obvious.
THE MEAT MUDDLE.
Figures best tell the story of the meat-export business.
In 1932, the year of Ottawa, Australia exported
63,240 tons of beef, 48,000 tons of which went to
the United Kingdom ; in 1934 it exported 88,260 tons,
of which the U.K. took 80,415 tons. In effect, British
purchases increased from 76.7 p.c. to 91.1 p.c.
Ottawa gets the credit for this, but the movement
towards an all-British trade had begun already. In
1929 only 51 p.c. of our beef exports had Britain for
destination. British imports of foreign beef have
declined 30 p.c. since 1928. New protective policies
have restricted other overseas markets. Germany
now buys only 3000 tons per annum of foreign-grown
beef; five years ago it bought 145,000 tons.
Australian lamb and mutton have been equally
affected in quantity, though not in destination. For
nine of the last ten years—l 929 was the odd twelve-
month —over 90 p.c, of Australian exports has gone
to Britain ; last year the proportion was 98.1 p.c. Our
total overseas sales have increased from 33,287 tons
in 1928 to 85,677 tons in 1934.
All this has been achieved in competition with
produce in part superior in quality. Last year, accord-
ing to the Queensland Bureau of Industry, chilled
Argentine hinds averaged 5.33 d. per pound; Australian
frozen hinds only 3.41 d. But Australian mutton and
lamb have improved so much that the price of the
former stood at 4.18 d. per pound in 1934 against
2.98 d. per pound in 1932 ; the price of lamb at 6.49 d.
per pound compared with 4.94 d.
The development of new methods of chilling
and transport has definitely placed Australia in a
position to compete with Argentina—when it gets
the cattle. It was apparently recognised at Ottawa
that this would take some years. Meanwhile, having
regard to its great investments in South America,
Britain signed an agreement with Argentina, termin-
able in November, 1936, under which British imports
of Argentine chilled beef may not fall below the
1931-32 level unless it is necessary to raise prices.
It was provided that in special circumstances there
should be consultations as to a general reduction of
all British meat imports, frozen included.
The Ottawa agreement is held up as the greatest
step forward which the Australian meat industry has
made. Actually, the new chilling processes have done
more than all the politicians, because without them
such firms as/Vesteys would never have thought of
entering actively into the Australian trade, as they
now propose to do.
In luly last year the British Government, mindful
of its ovm cattle-growers, and responsive to an agita-
tion aiming at increased consumption of British beef
at better prices, issued a White Paper on the subject.
It canvassed three proposals—(l) a drastic reduction
of imports, (2) a levy to finance a home subsidy, (3)
a joint levy and subsidy scheme, plus regulation of
supplies. This year it suggested a duty of Id. per
pound foreign andTd. per pound Empire, with restric-
tion of Empire supplies to the 1932 level. It proposed
to raise £3,000,000 for the benefit of the British
producer. Argentina was agreeable ; so were Canada,
Maoriland and S’Africa; Australia demurred. The
Meat Advisory Committee, over which Dr. Earle Page
presides, would not agree to suspension of slaughter-
ing for export during November and December. It
did not oppose suspension of frozen-beef exports
from December 1 to January 15, except in the case
of army contracts, but stipulated that “chilled exports
should not be affected.”
Ultimately, after a lot of humbugging, the Gov-
ernment at Canberra resigned itself to a temporary
scheme “limiting shipments for the first quarter of
this year to 187,000 cwt. of beef and veal, 450,000 cwt.
of mutton and lamb and 16,700 cwt. of pork, including
baconers.” This arrangement was hailed by the
Government press as a “triumph.” Producers were
led to believe that an unlimited open market would
be secured. “Actual arrivals” of Australian beef for
the second quarter were estimated at 400,000 cwt. The
British suggest a quota of 231,084 cwt. Canberra’s
estimate of mutton and lamb arrivals was 700,000 cwt.;
the British propose a quota of 286,324 cwt. Dr. Page
is apparently willing to accept a British import duty
on Australian beef rather than accept restriction.
Nevertheless, faced with the probability of restriction,
his Government has suddenly refused export permits
to shippers of mutton and lamb, explaining that it is
“compelled to keep control of the local position.”
It has no control of the local position. British
necessities dominate British policy, and the British
Government, as even Dr. Page allows, may “impose
definite limitations on what will be permitted entry
into the U.K.” Mr. Lyons is hurrying to the rescue,
but he can achieve little.
There is only one way in which more of the
British market can be captured for our meat —by dis-
placing more of the foreign import. We can do that
only when we produce large quantities of stan-
dardised beef and mutton equal both in quality and
treatment to the produce of our competitors. Pending
the expiry of the British agreement with Argentina,
everything possible should be done to improve the
quality of stock, increase the proportion of chillers
and reorganise meatworks for the chilling trade.
Governments can help, but their sphere of action is
circumscribed. Pools, politics and talk only add to the
tangle.
THE LONG PLAN.
Roosevelt’s position as virtual dictator of the U.S.A.
is threatened by Huey Long, a Senator from
Louisiana. Louisiana is a southern State which has
remained practically unchanged since the Civil War,
the explanation given to tourists being that “the
Yankees devastated our country 60 years ago.”
In Louisiana lynching is a popular sport, prisoners
toil in factories and fields, and child labor is rampant.
Huey Long is one of those rare politicians who
recognise the great truth that the first essential of
their craft is to be a good actor. He is actually an
educated man, by profession a barrister; but
when he talks over the radio he hands out volumes of
rough, whimsical humor. He is slangy and ungram-
matical, realising that slang and lack of grammar add
to the quaintness of his delivery and are apt to persuade
the ignorant that they have in him a great tribune—
another Lincoln.” The whole nation is his audience,
and an increasing proportion of it swallows his stuff,
hook, line and sinker.
Long is obviously a mountebank, but a brainy
mountebank. He knows mass psychology to its
tiniest details. In effect, he is an American counter-
part of J. T. Lang, save that “Labor’s Great Leader”
is not interesting at a microphone and has no humor.
The Long Plan and the Lang Plan are based on the
same fallacious principle—that the poor are poor
because the rich have cornered all the good things
of life, and that it is only necessary to dispossess the
rich of their ill-gotten gains and divide the spoils to
make everyone happy.
Statistics of individual wealth in Australia are
not to be got; taxgatherers regard such information
as infringing the secrecy of their offices. But it is ques-
tionable whether confiscation of all incomes over, say,
£lOOO a year and redistribution of the aggregate sum
raised would, if it could be carried out without an
immediate and unholy crash, give the mass of lowly-
paid workers an extra five shillings a week. The
same is probably true of the U.S.A.
Neither Lang nor Long wants to see the com-
petitive system destroyed, but both demand that it
should be damaged. How the people are to profit
by such a procedure baffles conjecture. It may
be possible to adduce arguments for demolition;
there can be no logical reason to anticipate improve-
ment by mere destruction of parts. The Communist
is at least logical, however much he may be mistaken.
The Longs and Langs are really out of date.
Their preaching of the hate-complex against the
capitalist, their loud intimations that he is to be
stripped of his massed wealth and that everybody
is to be made prosperous by dividing it up, comprise
tactics which were beginning to be regarded as old-
fashioned in the days when Gladstone and Garfield
and Graham Berry were leaders. To-day they belong
to an era that is ancient history, and should be thrust
into the museum of obsolete illusions with witches
and werewolves and the divine right of kings. It is
only in such a place as Louisiana, which still thinks
in the terms of 1865, that such a policy could be
taken seriously and get a start. The trouble is that,
having got a start, it may accumulate speed. A car
which stalls at a slight rise, starting from nothing, will
scoot over the top if you come along with a dash of
30 m.p.h.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Next .Governor-General.
Kite-flying reports continue to reach Australia from
London about “the desire of the Commonwealth for
a royal Governor-General.” There is no likelihood
of a royalty being appointed ; there is a likelihood
of some more or less obscure peer getting the refusal
of the job. At least one member of the present Com-
monwealth Government is so revolted at the idea
of an Australian being Governor-General of Australia
that he has consistently refused to go near Govern-
ment House in Canberra.
Every Governor-General from overseas has been
handicapped by ignorance of local conditions and the
local Outlook (outside “Government House circles”),
and, above all, by the intricacies of our precious
Constitution Act. An Act which is constantly respon-
sible for conflicting interpretations by High Court
Judges is not likely to be understood by the kind of
peer who accepts overseas appointments.
Governor-General Isaacs brought no social
prestige to Canberra. His contribution consisted of
a judicial mind, a vast capacity for office work and
the fruits of years of study of Australia, Australians
and the Constitution. Such a man is unlikely to
make a serious mistake; critics of the Aus-
tralian-born Governor-General cannot point to
one that he has made. Equally important is the fact
that the actions of such a man are not likely to be
challenged by members of any party. If an imported
Governor —ipso facto a stranger—rules against Labor,
Laborites conclude that he has been “got at” by the
capitalists, and say so ; if he sides with Labor, anti-
Laborites argue that he must be a Bolshie, and scratch
their names off his book. Sir Philip Game had both
experiences inside 12 months.
The right kind of Australian Governor-General
is not liable to be placed in such positions. The
electors know all about him ; know that he is an
expert at his work, and that even if he gave a dis-
puted ruling it wouldn’t be because he had been
nobbled by the other side. His Australian career
would be sufficient answer.
— ♦
What of Wollstra?
Four months ago specimens of Germany’s new
artificial fabrics, wollstra and vistra, were received in
Australia. They ranged from the finest imitation
crepes and muslins to heavy army uniform materials.
The Bulletin pronounced them a century ahead of
the artificial wools and cottons of 1926. They have
been pooh-poohed in other quarters.
After a visit to Leipzig Fair, A. E. Heath, the
N. S. Wales Commissioner in London, a level-headed
businessman, agrees with The Bulletin' Nobody,
he says, pretends that wollstra —which is from 30 p.c.
to 70 p.c. wool, combined with pulp produce—is as
good as wool, but he was impressed by the extent
to which a nation under stress uses it willingly. The
demand, he declares, is so heavy that if supplies were
available merchants could be sold out six months
ahead. Furthermore, the new materials are attracting
attention in France and Italy, and their use may
seriously affect Australian wool sales within five or
ten years:
There is no immediate menace, but the seeds of
menace are there.
Germany, Mr. Heath reports, would prefer buying
our wool to using artificial material; but with its
exports to Australia standing at £2,000,000 and its
imports at £7,250,000, it cannot do so. South Africa
has made a wool-trade agreement which enables an
exchange of products.
The Germans’ imports of wool from Australia
fell off materially during the past season. We shipped
to them direct only 15,600,0001 b. between July and
December, against 74,700,0001 b. for the corresponding
period of 1933.
At the same time their general import balance
of wool for 1934 was 306,300,0001 b., which was greater
than in 1932. Even allowing for particularly heavy
buying at the tail of the 1933 season, they must have
been getting fair quantities of Australian wool
indirectly. Their buyers have been active in London,
South Africa and Argentina.
A control board for wool exists in the Reich, and
all purchases are upon permit, export factories being
allowed to buy 50 p.c. more than others, A law
passed at the end of last year provides for financial
guarantees to companies producing imported-material
substitutes, and it is stated by the Konjunkturfor-
schung (Business Opportunity Research) Institute that
“finished manufactured goods now in hand will tide
over the winter.” Wool-top stocks are only 10 p.c.
below those of last year.
Evidently, as Mr. Heath says, there is no cause for
immediate panic; but if it can be arranged for
Germany to buy more wool direct without hurting
industries necessary to Australia the arrangement
should be made.
♦
Commission Required.
No Commonwealth Government has lifted a finger to
protect the Commonwealth citizens who, in defiance
of the spirit if not the letter of the Constitution, have
been taxed by the States in which they live on income
from other States, already taxed three or four times
by those States and by the Commonwealth. No Com-
monwealth Government has spent a penny in vindi-
cating the rights of the Commonwealth citizens who
have been heavily fined for driving motor vehicles
from one State into another, although Common-
wealth money, in part at least, built and maintains
the roads and the Constitution says that “Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States shall
be absolutely free.”
But the present Commonwealth Government is
bringing in legislation and entering upon costly liti-
gation to force the unwanted Port Augusta-Red Hill
railway upon South Australia in spite of a Constitu-
tional interdict on the building of railways in any
State without its consent. It is taking its stand on
an agreement with the S. Aus. Government made in
1926, when Governments did not know what to do
with the loan money that was pouring in upon them,
and fancied that the boom would last for ever. It
has the face to impute repudiation to the Adelaide
Government, though it and its predecessors have for
24 years repudiated the vital clause of the agreement
by virtue of which the Commonwealth received the
Northern Territory from Si Aus. —that it would con-
struct a direct railway from north to south.
Considered from all points of the compass, this
Port Augusta-Red Hill railway is the craziest project
ever hatched in a cracked political brain. Three
hundred and thirty millions have been sunk in Aus-
tralian Government railways, and the admitted losses
for 11 years amount to £52,800,000. It is alleged that
Port Augusta-Red Hill would cost 1J millions (rail-
way-construction estimates are always exceeded); a
committee of South Australians headed by . a very
capable engineer, William Goodman, estimated the
annual loss to Commonwealth and the State at
£130,000 —equivalent to the entire annual revenue
from passengers carried from Perth to Adelaide,
An air service with a Commonwealth subsidy
already cuts into the railway passenger traffic. As
the taste for travel by air grows, as it assuredly will,
and faster machines are placed on the route, it must
be an increasing competitor, with or without a
subsidy. So it is ludicrous to argue that Port
Augusta-Red Hill would “effect a saving of five
hours,” and even its advocates at Canberra do not
pretend that it would open up new country worth
settling on.
It is urged that the connection would “partly
solve the problem of unifying the gauges.” But if
troop trains had to be sent from N. S. Wales to West-
ralia there would still be a break of gauge at Albury,
another at Red Hill and a third at Kalgoorlie.
Expenditure of half the money on strengthen-
ing the R.A.A.F. in personnel and equipment,
on the construction of aerodromes and the intro-
duction of troop-carriers would, as Professor
Shann suggests, engender an immeasurably greater
feeling of security. Talk of unification of gauges
being now necessary for the defence of Australia only
impresses children and politicians with infantile minds.
There is a strong separatist feeling in S. Aus.,
as there is in Westralia and Tasmania. Imposition
on the State of a line which would be an additional
handicap in its struggle against insolvency, and to
which all sections of opinion, from the Butler Govern-
ment down, are opposed, could only exacerbate this
feeling and widen it.
In the last of the raking reports which he has
sent to Canberra, Auditor-General Cerutty mentions
that £21,500 was spent on royal commissions last year.
The Bulletin suggests that another commission
should be appointed, and that the account should then
be closed. The commission it has in mind would
consist of one representative alienist armed with
power to track down the politician actually respon-
sible for the Port Augusta-Red Hill lunacy and have
him placed under restraint —not necessarily in an
institution.
* .
‘‘Brilliant Minds.”
N. S. Wales Attorney-General Manning, speaking
in the Sydney suburb of Crow’s Nest, asked his
audience whether
any other part of the Empire has a legislative Chamber
in which there are so many brilliant minds as are found
in the present Legislative Council.
The prominent Councillors are a few lawyers (Messrs.
Peden, Mitchell, Hemsley and Manning himself),
businessmen such as Messrs. Braddon, Kneeshaw and
Playfair, a few representatives of land industries
and a doctor or two. There are also Mr. Trautwein,
Mr. Alam, Mr. Culbert and a lot of other gentlemen
whose most “brilliant” observation is that “Lang is
right.”
Compare the half-dozen best in the Council with
British Ms.P. of the intellectual stature of Lord Hugh
Cecil, Winston Churchill, Baldwin, Lloyd George,
Buchan and Amery —not to mention the lawyers and
business magnates. And the House of Lords has
three or four first-class minds to the Commons’ one.
Most Australians grin indifferently When politi-
cians or journalists bombinate about our great men ;
they understand. What they don’t understand,
or refuse to worry about, is the harm such
Babbittries do overseas. Leading New Yorkers
went on in this way when Dickens was getting material
for “Martin Chuzzlewit” and “American Notes,” and
it led him to saddle the nation with a reputation for
provincial self-satisfaction and humorless bragga-
docio which it hasn’t got over to this day.
The British example is a much better one to
follow. The typical Englishman probably has as good
a conceit of himself and his country as the next man,
but he is chary of applying words like “brilliant,”
“great,” “genius” to himself or his public men; he
leaves them to the publicity hounds of theatrical and
movie stars. A result is the British are credited by
foreigners with more virtues than they actually
possess. Reticence pays.
*
Wheat-farmers’ Costs.
Wheat for export is now about 3s. Id. a bushel at
Sydney and Melbourne. In the second of its very
informative reports, the Wheat Commission gives
the costs of 524 farmers —“a representative sample”—
in five wheatgrowing States. Including an allowance
for their own labor, only 191 produced wheat at less
than 3s. Id, a bushel at ports.
In 178 cases costs exceeded 45.; in 86, they were
over 55.; in nearly 10 p.c., over 6s. In Victoria’s No. 2
Mallee two farmers pioduced at ss. 3d., one at 65.,
one at 11s. 6d., one at 145., one at 17s. 6d. and one
at 19s. lid. The last had about 6d. per bushel to
meet for railway charges; his working costs were
about 15s. 6d.; his interest alone, 3s. lid. Over 80
p.c. of Wimmera farmers were producing at more
than the siding price; 98 p.c. in Mallee No. 1,
100, p.c. in Mallee No. 2, Mallee No. 3 and Moira,
and 70 p.c. in the North Central-West, But one man
in the North Central-West showed production costs
of about Is, and freight at 6d. He had no interest
to meet, so he should be doing pretty well.
Another gave freight charges at about 6d., production
costs at 4d. and interest at lid. In the same
district there was a man whose working costs were
about 6s. lid. a bushel and interest another 7s. 6d.
N. S. Wales has a grower whose costs of produc-
tion outside freight are over 13s. a bushel, and he has
about 2s. per bushel interest to meet on top of that.
Few of the 161 examples taken in N. S. Wales were
within the market price with their costs.
In S.A. things were a bit better—37 farmers out
of 126 were producing at under 3s. per bushel. But
the graph shows that 165.-a-bushel wheat is still
grown. In Westralia, of 75 farms investigated, no one
had costs above 6s. 10d., but only 26 came below
the 3s. mark.
The debt structure is highly interesting. In
Queensland, the bulk of debts is carried by financial
institutions. In N. S. Wales, the proportion of Gov-
ernment lending runs from 20 p.c. to 30 p.c. ; in
Victoria’s Northern Mallee, about 93 p.c. Total debts
of farmers are placed at £151,000,000, one-third being
owed to the Government. The successful farmers, the
commission found, are those who occupied their
farms during long periods of high prices.
The commission concludes that there is “definite
need for the reconstruction of the industry,”
which “must lead to restriction of acreage by the
abandonment of wheatgrowing in unsuitable areas.”
It is not hopeful of export expansion. It proposes
continued Commonwealth assistance through flour
excise, compulsory marketing, tackling of debt adjust-
ment, consideration of rate-of-exchange increase,
abandonment of the f.a.q. system and campaigns
against overcropping and pests.
One member, T. S. Cheadle, dissents from the
proposal to set up a compulsory pool, from which,
he says, “neither the farmer nor the consumer” would
“benefit in the long run.” Many farmers and nearly
all consumers will agree with him. Neither will there
be any general enthusiasm for exchange-increase.
Apart from these particular recommendations, the
commission has made some interesting suggestions and
collected a lot of very useful information.
*
Empire Freetrade.
It was a piquant coincidence that Lord Nuffield and
Mr. William Vestey should have careered through
Sydney within a few days of one another on their
way to Maoriland. Both stand for Empire freetrade.
There are at least two reasons why Australia
will have nothing to do with Empire freetrade. At
the best, if the Commonwealth became dependent to
a great extent on British imports, its cost of living
would become proportionately dependent on the price
London decided to put on the Australian pound;
and, at the worst (in the event of war, for example),
Australia might find itself suddenly deprived of
necessaries and no longer in a position to manufac-
ture them.
There is a much solider reason than Empire
sentiment why Britain should take our primary
products irrespective of how many cars we may buy
from Lord Nuffield’s firm and of the amount of
capital Vestey’s have put into Argentina. Every year
the Commonwealth and the States have to pay
£30,000,000 sterling in London as interest on loans.
They pay it chiefly in wool, wheat, meat and butter.
• #
The Sydney C.G. Monopoly.
Dear Bulletin, —The writer of the article on the
above subject (B. 13/3/’35) obviously supports Union
Rugby. I barrack for the Australian game, so I
fancy I can look on the League-Union dispute impar-
tially. League Rugby succeeded in Sydney, not
because it was a professional game, but because it
was a better game.
The League was formed by an appeal to the
leading footballers, who wanted to get something
out of a game in which they risked their limbs Satur-
day after Saturday. Chief among the tempters was
Ted Larkin, policeman, M.L.A. and all-round splendid
fellow, who lies among the dead of the First Division
on Gallipoli. They offered a game in every respect
superior to the tiresome mass of scrums and out-of-
bounds play which made the public yawn at Union
matches.
The Union mandarins took action worthy of
Hitler in his less punctilious moments ; they induced
the Amateur Sports Federation to declare the League
game “black.” Yet before the League was thought
of, professional athletes —Arthur Cripps, for one —
had been playing in Union matches for years. Right
through the history of English sport, team games
have been placed on a different footing from indivi-
dual sports. The amateur and the pro. mingle in the
same cricket teams, and the position is accepted by all.
Later, when League football had unquestionably
captured the public. University youths wished to form
a team for competition. “If you do,” said the man-
darins, “we’ll disqualify the lot.” For a couple of
seasons the University lads feared to incur the wrath
of the mandarins. Then, largely due to the advice and
influence of a student who is now a Justice of the
High Court, they decided to call the bluff, and
University teams took the field.
As for the merits of handing over a public ground
to any one body, I prefer to express no opinion. Such
long-distance commitments need most careful scrutiny,
not from a sporting but from a public point of view.
But between the League and the Union in the amateur-
pro. dispute all the merits go to the League, and all
the blame for lack of sportsmanship to the Union. —
Yours etc., Bondi-ite (Vic.).


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Shep.”: We were in the throng that
moved forward in the bar to see “wot'’
had “won the larst.” So was a bare-
legged urchin, and after one look at the
board he began to whimper. “What’s
up, son?” asked one of our crowd. “Put
two bob of mum’s change on an also-
ran,” he sobbed, “ ’n’ I’m frightened to go
’ome.” He left us with two bob and a
promise that he would never again have
a flutter with mum’s cash. We managed
to squeeze alongside another bar just
before 6 p.m., and saw familiar grimy
legs amongst the “sports” scanning the
race results there. Drawing closer, we
heard bemoanings of mum’s cash going
west again—this time on the Flyin’. I
don’t know how many pubs this embryo
urger worked, but all he got at this one
was a flying kick.
* * * *
“Lytton Fort”: An ancient mariner,
interviewed in Sydney the other day,
told the reporter that when his ship
ascended the Brisbane River 45 years
ago the crew had to stand by with axes
to chop branches of trees out of the
rigging. The Brisbane is anything over
a mile wide at the Lytton entrance, and
from there to Victoria Bridge continues
so wide that even the mainyard of
Noah’s Ark would have had plenty of
clearance. If axes were really produced
for the purpose stated, someone must
have taken a hearty tug at the Old Man’s
leg as he was leaving Sydney.
“You cant do shorthand or typing. What experience HAVE you had ?”
“ To, too THRILLING for Words, Mr. Carper !”
“Retired Hop”: In the deafening roars
of press approbation for the outgoing
N.S.W. Police Commissioner and his
successor I almost hesitate to men-
tion a case which throws no pleasant
light on police methods. It reached the
State Full Court, which dismissed the
appeal of two detectives against a judg-
ment awarding £4OO damages to a young
woman for trespass, false imprisonment
and wrongful arrest. Her flat had been
searched without her consent; she was
taken to a police station and there held
'and cross-examined—all on suspicion.
The Court laid it down that no one is
entitled to impose any physical restraint
on another except as authorised by law,
adding that this applied as much to the
person in blue as to any other member
of the community. There have been
other cases in which N.S.W. police
officers have abused their powers and
involved the country in considerable
loss. Adoring newspapers have said little
about them, but “Hansard” has not been
so reticent. I can’t help thinking that the
hard-boiled detective of Yankee films,
with his passion for keeping his hat on
under all conditions and being snapped
by press photographers at every oppor-
tunity, has been the mould of form for a
certain type of Australian John Hop.
* * * 5^
“Cap’n Bells”: Bankers in Maoriland
are perturbed, and rightly so, because the
Reserve Bank, which of recent months
took over from the trading banks the
right of note issue, has printed both its
ten-shilling and its fifty-pound notes in
red. Given plenty of time and a fair
light one can easily distinguish between
the light red of the smaller denomination
and the carmine of the larger ; and, of
course, the values are indicated by words
and figures. But, with a dismal light, a
queue of impatient customers and a
bundle of dirty notes to be flicked over
in a hurry, there are pretty certain to be
mistakes. With all the colors of the rain-
bow available the Reserve Bank could
easily have followed the excellent
example of the trading banks, which
used to issue notes in a different and dis-
tinctive color for each denomination.
* * * t-
“Jindivick”: “O. I. Saye” (B. 6/3/’35)
has apparently been studying an ordinary
atlas when he suggests that my pub bar is
too long to be believed. A large-scale map
would show him that the boundaries of
English counties do not follow rivers or
any other natural feature rigidly. Near
Maidenhead a deviation carries the
Thames through Buckinghamshire, and
the boundary passes through the out-
skirts of the town. The pub which is
partly in Bucks and partly in Berks
stands quite close to Maidenhead bridge,
and the county line goes through the bar.
& % ❖ Jfc
“Rokko”: Another way of brightening
a weary road. Riding in the back seat of
a car I noticed that the attention of the
two lads in front was not entirely
focused on the bitumen. They, with the
driver, were enjoying a pleasant game
of show poker, each five-figured car that
passed providing the “hand.” The tally
“Like me to give you a price , sir?”
“No; but I'd like you to give me the address of the model."
was kept mentally, winnings being
reckoned in threepences. A Sydney car
with the five sevens swept past. Declar-
ing that it was happenings such as these
that made road poker so much more ex-
citing than the five-card variety, the
“holder” of five of a kind insisted on col-
lecting a shilling all round.
* * * *
“Right and Left”: Reference to
Colonel Colt and his revolver (B.
6/3/’35) reminds me that this year is the
100th anniversary of the death of Joe
Manton, the man who made the English
shotgun supreme among its kind. Joe
revolutionised mechanisms, and first
recognised the importance of the perfect
balance which brings a gun to the shoul-
der apparently of its own volition. Many
of Manton’s muzzle-loading flintlocks
are still in existence, some in Australia,
and are said to shoot as well to-day as
when they were made. He was the first
man to popularise the double-barrel,
which quickly supplanted the single, and
he first devised the elevated rib between
the barrels which wiped out that ten-
dency to shoot under the mark which
many users of modern single-barrels have
noticed. Also, he was the first to put the
sight at the extreme end of the barrels.
He affected small bores, 14, 16, 22'and
24, and never seems to have made a 12.
* -Je * #
“Schnorrer”: Although some of the
Os and Macs in the lists of bookmakers
may be suspected of
being Abrahams, call-
ing the odds has virtu-
ally ceased to be one of
the habitual callings of
the Chosen. Pawnbrok-
ing is another tradi-
tional Jewish occupa-
tion in which to-day the
ticket is as likely to be
made out by a Smith
or a Murphy as by a
Levy. A note in a Jew-
ish publication—a com-
ment on the difficulty
of maintaining touch
with members of the
congregation—calls at-
tention to the number
who have gone on the
land. Hotelkeeping has
also become a surpris-
ingly common Israelit-
ish occupation. The
proportion of Hebrews
engaged in musical and
theatrical enterprises is
as high as ever; and
Jews are still thick in
the clothing trade—
and are dominated still
by a passion for making
lawyers and doctors of their sons. Other-
wise the old basis of Yiddish humor has
been upset.
“Largesse”: More than one touring
potentate has had the habit attributed to
the Duke of Edinburgh (B. 6/ 3 / ’35) of
issuing lavish gifts and having them
charged up to his hosts. The champion
of the lot was King Abdullah of
Afghanistan during his European tour.
He ran up tremendous bills in London
for all sorts of things, and told the trades-
people to send them to the Govern-
ment. Britain, anxious to keep sweet
with the Durani chief, meekly paid up.
The French Government paid the first
batch of Abdullah’s bills which was pre-
sented to it in Paris, but quickly shut
down on any more. The news had
spread by the time Ab. and the missus
had reached Berlin and Rome, and there-
after terms were strictly cash on the nail.
“Groper”; But was the Duke of Edin-
burgh mean (B. 27/2/’35)? He visited
Perth in February, 1869, staying for four
days ; on departing he left behind £IOO
for the C. of E. and R.C. orphanages.
My authority is the “Perth Gazette”
(now the “West Australian”) of that date.
And his generosity wasn’t confined to
gifts of money. A party of convicts who
had helped the Galatea’s barge off a
sandbank in the Swan were remembered
even in the hurried hour of departure ;
at the Duke’s request, each received a
remission of the major portion of his
sentence.
* * $ *
“Mulga Mick”: During the last 42
years, spent in many parts of Australia,
I’ve seen The Bulletin used for various
purposes. In the early days of the West-
ralian goldfields it gained me many
friends amongst the isolated dryblowers
to whom I passed on my weekly copy.
The cosmopolitan crews of the pearling
fleets of Broome and Thursday Island
were equally appreciative. The Arunta
tribes of the Macdonnell Ranges never
seemed to tire of looking at the carica-
tures and sketches. I’ve used the paper as
a camp-oven to make a damper amongst
the drifting sandhills of nor’-west New
South Wales, and I’ve decorated with it
the inside of numerous bark humpies
throughout the tin and osmiridium fields
of the Speck. But I suspect that the red-
covered journal has never been put to a
more helpful use than one day recently
when two workers on the Pinnacle-road,
Mt. Wellington, were injured by a prema-
ture explosion and conveyed to the
Hobart Hospital. No red flag being
available to ensure for the motor-car a
clear course over the eight miles of wind-
ing road to Hobart, somebody thought
of The Bulletin ; and the first-aid man
who travelled with the injured workers
held a copy of the paper out of the
window of the car. It acted like magic.
ALL THE TALENTS.
“Attorney-General Manning asked if any Parlia-
mentary body in the British Empire could show as
many brilliant minds as the present N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council.”
Viewed in the rough or mirrored in the dailies.
They may not seem to you a little bit
Like embryotic Gladstones and Disraelis,
With here a Talleyrand and there a Pitt.
It shows the risk of cursory impressions.
Take it from one of them, for nip and nous.
There’s nothing in Britannia’s wide possessions
To match our Upper House.
We’ve rated them, it seems, a lot too lightly
Who never heard their scintillating wit.
They never fell upon our ears, the sprightly
Ripostes that tickled, or the barbs that bit.
Like gods on high Olympus they might thunder,
For all their bolts we had no time to spare
Except, perhaps, now and again to wonder
Why some of them were there.
Yet where exist their peers for sterling
brilliance?
Emphatically not in Canberra’s halls,
Though Billy Hughes displays his old resilience
Once more, and Page orates, and Scullin
squalls.
Not yet where Ramsay Mac. agilely ambles.
And, helped by Baldwin and by Thomas,
picks
His way between the bushes and the brambles
Of Empire politics.
Yours are the driving punch, the solid virtue
That ever goes with wisdom and with brain;
No cheap disparagement need ever hurt you
While testimonials like this remain.
You are our Sixty Kings, whoever chose you,
But not to bray or blare, to bleat or buzz.
And, incontestably, there’s no one knows you
As Mr. Manning does.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Keg”: One swallow does not make a
summer in England or Australia. An
hour after digesting “Whitehall” (B.
6/3/’35) my attention was attracted by
a perfect traffic jamb at one of Sydney’s
busiest intersections. Trams were held
up and a line of motor cars had stopped
dead. The policeman on point duty, with
a worried look at north-south and east-
west traffic, all nicely bunched, left his
post and arrested a mongrel pup that
was wandering aimlessly across George-
street. Placing the pup gently on the
footpath, he resumed his post, and the
traffic quickly got back to normal. It is,
of course, quite possible that all the par-
ticipants in the incident were English.
•S’ v 5k
“Col. Bungstarter’ : Ulm’s posthumous
memoirs contain some interesting tributes
to the outlook of Australian politicians
and officials upon aviation pioneers.
After the 1928 Pacific flight he and Kings-
ford Smith offered the Southern Cross
to Canberra as a gift to the nation. The
sole acknowledgment was a letter saying
that the Government was concerned
about the cost of maintaining so large a
machine. While they were waiting to take
off for their subsequent flight to England
the Randwick station was instructed by
radio to collect payment for topping
the propellers and to make sure it got
the money before the airmen left.
They were also charged for hangar space
at Richmond, and billed 8s. an hour
for the services of Air Force mechanics.
Ulm’s conclusion was that there is “some-
thing in the psychology” of our clerical
rulers “which gives rise to a definite sus-
picion of any man who refuses to operate
affairs on strictly orthodox or humdrum
lines.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A Sydney mother who
recently contributed triplets to Austra-
lasia was beaten on the post by a Maori-
land matron who produced quadruplets
aggregating 171b. 7oz. The triplets were
the first among 16,000 births at the
Royal Hospital for Women. Quadrup-
lets approaching normal weights, and all
“Oo, come and have a look at Pansy's operation!"
surviving, are exceedingly rare. Ail mul-
tiple births are, to some extent, premature
—the well-advertised Canadian quintup-
lets were far below normal full-term
weights and measurements. Of twins
there are two kinds. “Identical” twins
occur from a double impregnation of a
single ovum; they are alike, and
are, in fact, halves of an individual.
Sometimes they are united physically,
like the so-called Siamese twins. The
other kind result from fertilisation of
two ripe ova, and may vary as much as
any two children of the same family ;
indeed, they may have separate fathers.
Triplets may consist of identical twins,
plus a separate fertilisation. Other com-
binations occur with higher numbers.
Heredity doesn’t seem to have anything
to do with higher multiple impregnations.
X-ray examination during later months
of pregnancy enables multiple births to
be foreseen and allowed for.
* * 5K
“P.R.”: The biggest stack of
military “left-behinds” I ever
saw was at Liverpool-street sta-
tion on a Saturday afternoon
after the Armistice. A mob of
us had come down from Salis-
bury Plain for the Empire
march through London, and we
were supposed to catch the
train back immediately after-
wards ; but a cobber and I de-
cided to make a week-end of it.
The idea must have struck every
other Aussie down for the
march, for when we arrived at
the station to deposit our
rifles and other dunnage we
found a frantic stationmaster
trying to explain to the A.I.F-
that it simply couldn’t be done.
Addressing the five divvies, one
hard-faced Digger said “Bother
the old gentleman” (or words to
that effect)-; with that everyone
shed his gear where he stood.
When we went back on Monday
morning we found our dis-
carded equipment neatly sorted
out for us. In lots of ways Eng-
lish officialdom was very lenient
with the A.I.F.
:jc jJj i'fi
“Rouge Dragon”: “Inaha”
falls into a popular error when
he refers (B. 13 /3 / ’35) to
the “three lions” in the British
coat of arms. They are the three
leopards of the Plantagenets, the lion
having always been sacred to Scotland.
The ancient arms of England quartering
the fleur-de-lis and the leopards are still
borne. A notable instance is the arms
of Shrewsbury School, granted, with a
difference, by Edward VI.
* :|c * ❖
“Nestor”: Venizelos the Cretan has
been so long in the public eye —his Par-
liamentary life began 47 years ago—that
there is a tendency to regard him as a
venerable person. I still recall a letter
from a wounded Anzac who had put
in over six months in hospital on one of
the yEgean islands. Before he was dis-
charged Greece had a general election,
and the Digger remarked that he had
serious thoughts of applying for a vote
on his residential qualification—he didn’t
like to miss a chance of doing a good
turn for “old Venizelos.” Actually
Eleutherios was little past the 50 mark
then.
-k •!■ *i :
“F.C.W.”: No doubt about Holman’s
right to be regarded as a master-strategist
(B. 13/3/’35). When Hall was A.-G. the
P.S.A. secretary got a message that
the Premier wished to see him. Said
Holman: “Write to me for an interview
to urge that public servants be allowed
to contest political elections without
having to give up their jobs.” The
letter was duly sent, along with a list
of half a dozen other reforms desired
by public servants. Came a reply: “The
Premier regrets that pressure of public
business prevents him from receiving
the deputation, but he has requested
the Attorney-General to do so.”
Wherefore a delegation of public ser-
vants tore themselves away from their
desks and called on Davy Hall. The little
A.-G. was entirely sympathetic, and
undertook to submit all the representa-
tions to Cabinet, and so on. All save
one, that is—the question of civil servants
standing for Parliament without resigning
their jobs. About this he said: “This
seems to me a most reasonable request,
and I think I can safely commit the
Government by promising the necessary
“ Please , mister, 'andcuff me while the gang's lookin'!"
legislation”; and before long it went
through. That was all the P.S.A. got out
of the interview. The irony of the inci-
dent was that, although the law was
altered, the individual for whom the engi-
neering was done left the service before
it operated.
* * * *
“Hoondi”: People who relieve their
feelings by writing on banknotes are not
uncommon, but the law dug up some-
thing new in this line at Wollongong
(N.S.W.). A solicitor sued a farmer for
damages for libel, alleged to be contained
in an endorsement by the defendant on
a cheque given in payment of an account.
Counsel for the defence contended that
there had been “no publication”; and
the Court concurred.
* t- * *
“M. de Paris”: That reference to the
death by the guillotine— not the sword,
as stated—of a beauteous German pre-
war flapper (B. 6/3/‘35) recalls the crime
for which she suffered as being one of
the most skittish on record. The lady
was Crete Bauer, of Baden, and the
corpse had been her lover. He was a
dentist. Appearing in his surgery one
summer morning Crete playfully pushed
him into his own chair and told him to
shut his eyes and open his mouth and
see what heaven would send him. He
complied, and the lady put the muzzle of
a revolver into his mouth and blew his
head off.
* * * *
“B. Blazes”: Hell having been abolished
by several Judges and eminent divines, I
submit that the laws dealing with pro-
fane and insult-
ing language
ought to be re-
vised. If there is
no such place as
hell—in the sense
of a bottomless
pit of fire and a
place of eternal
torment —there is
nothing blas-
phemous in tell-
ing anybody to
go there. It is
no worse than
telling him to go
to Jericho in-
deed, not so bad,
for there is such a place as Jericho.
Also, it occurs to me that the words
“damn” and “damnation” lose most of
their punch once it is admitted that there
is no such thing as the dooming of lost
souls to everlasting punishment. I
suppose they will linger on in literature
and on the stage until efficient substi-
tutes are found, but for police-court pur-
poses it is time they were ruled out as
meaningless inanities.
“Bill CPC”: If “jay-walker” does not
derive from the “Jubilee Juggins”
(B. 27 /2 / ’35), still less has it any
connection with our Australian bird the
chough (B. 6/ 3 / ’35). The term isn’t
of English or Australian coinage;
we borrowed it ready-made from
Yankeeland, where it has been in use
ever since the motor-pedestrian problem
became a serious one in U.S. cities. This
may be easily verified by reference to
American literature of over 30 years
ago, especially satirical papers like
“Puck,” “Life” and “Judge.” The human
“jay” had his origin in the North Ameri-
can blue jaybird, always popular there,
as our kookaburra is with us. The jay is
a garrulus, or chatterer (which, by the
way, our chough is not; he is a corcorax ),
and his garrulity, plus a habit of seem-
ingly irresponsible movement, was passed
on to his human counterpart. Travelling
in the U.S.A. in 1897 I heard Yankee
uni. students sing a song with the refrain
“He’ll never come back any more.” One
enlightening verse:
A jay came up to New York once to see the
sights of town;
He registered at Smith’s Hotel as Mr. Hayseed
Brown.
He walked into his bedroom there with whiskers
green as grass,
Pulled off his boots, jumped into bed and then
blew out the gas.
And he’ll never come back, etc.
If that song has any vogue still, that “jay”
is now made to cross Fifth-avenue with-
out looking at the traffic.
sic * *
“Bondi-ite”: There are public-spirited
men who get no credit for their efforts.
During a trip to Sydney, I met a wealthy
person with a mansion fronting the
harbor. Waving his hand over the
garden, just as Moses might have
waved his from Pisgah, he said: “When
I bought this place it was simply awful.
Nothing all along the waterfront but a
lot of old rocks and trees. I had them
cleared away, and put up that brick wall.
Cost me three thousand quid, it did.
You can’t say I haven’t done my part
towards beautifying the harbor.”
* * * *
“Q.M.I.”:The British military authori-
ties developed that “snout” on Aus-
tralian hats long before 1915. When
Roberts’s army reached Bloemfontein in
1900 and stopped to refit and have
typhoid, the staff which couldn’t find
clean water for the troops got a brain-
wave and substituted helmets for the
felts. These were not the helmets of
the last war, decent-looking and com-
paratively light, but hideous, misshapen
beehives which fell off on the least pro-
vocation. They were no protection from
sun or rain, and it was impossible to
sight a rifle in one without turning the
thing back to front first. One injustice
felt by the Australian and M.L. troops
was that no attempt was made to deprive
the South African regiments of their fell
hats. As in Palestine, the innovation died
young. But in South Africa quarter-
masters and spare clothing were as rare
as bristles on a billiard ball, and some
of the replacements were things to
wonder at.
THE PRETTY GIRLS ALL PASS ME BY.
’Tis pleasant in the sun-lit street
To watch the merry, tripping feet,
The twinkling ankles, silken clad,
And rounded limbs; but, oh! how sad
The thought that all this joyous throng
To younger men than I belong.
The “frail,” the “fat and forty” sigh,
But pretty girls all pass me by.
Dear Lady Clara! Cunning art
Still captures my responsive heart,
With cheeks more fragrant than a rose,
And, white as snow, a powdered nose.
Time was your lips, incarnadine,
Were vehemently pressed to mine,
Some twenty years ago. But why
Do pretty girls now pass me by?
And heartless Arabella Anne,
Who scorned the yoke of any man,
Goes tripping by in merry glee;
She bows, and gaily smiles at me —
An autumn smile, alas! Poor thing,
She wears the foliage of spring.
Though winter comes. Can I deny
That pretty girls all pass me by?
What though the hair is tinged with snow,
If hot the blood, and strong its flow?
Sweet Cleopatra, oft engaged,
Did not eschew the middle-aged;
And Helen from an old man fled,
To bring disaster on her head.
And yet, no matter how I try,
The pretty girls all pass me by.
s.a.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGRE.


CRAVEN A
CELLOPHANE
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE”’ keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under ail
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
HIOS7M/A
9 d
10/
or
20 for 1/6
3/9
50 f 0
TO
OPEN
just a touch
with the
right thumb
breaks the
Freshncea
teal.
o
il
POLITICAL POINTS
The politicians are still trying hard to
restore prosperity by borrowing ; in three
years to June 30, 1934, £66,522,000 was
added to the public debt. It mostly
went in unemployed-relief. Half the
amount devoted to remission of taxes, to
be earned by the giving of jobs, would
have yielded immeasurably better results.
Premier Stevens reckons that his Gov-
ernment has made tax-concessions
amounting to £6,289,000 compared with
1931-32, and claims that this policy has
contributed to “the remarkable improve-
ment in employment statistics.” This is
true, but reduction of taxes to promote
employment has not gone far enough.
W, A. Watt is one who thinks it should
be tried on a bold scale in all the States
and in the Commonwealth.
With all the Young Nats, behind him,
Kent Hughes defeated Macfarlan for the
deputy-leadership of the Vic. U.A.P. He
was active for his party during the elec-
tion campaign, though his propensity for
saying more than he means did it more
harm than good ; but Macfarlan rarely
moved outside his electorate, even to
yelp. So smack! went Mac.
The Vic. Cocky party has also made
a change. It went to the country with
Bourchier as leader; when its Parlia-
mentary hands met last week, Dunstan,
the Minister of Lands, was elevated to
the leadership, Bourchier being appointed
deputy. Now Argyle has named Dunstan
Deputy Premier, and the Premiership is
not beyond his reach.
After a month’s stoppage the union-
ists at Brisbane abattoirs are back on
the job. It belatedly occurred to the
Industrial Court that it could summon
the parties to confer, and after the com-
pulsory conference it ordered the strikers
to return to work by March 21. Why it
did not take this action when the strike
had lasted a day is one of the many un-
fathomable mysteries of industrial arbi-
tration.
During the strike of Brisbane slaughter-
men Queensland Labor did nothing but
talk ; still, it seems that things said by
"Mossy” Hynes, the Minister of In-
dustry, wounded the strikers to the soul.
Vowing they would get his scalp, they
sent a nomination paper along to the
gentlemen controlling the party ballots
with the name of a Townsville butcher
on it—Hynes is M.L.A. for Townsville.
The gentlemen were equal to the occa-
sion ; they struck out the butcher’s name.
Last year, according to the Auditor-
General, Australia spent £21,500 on royal
commissions—£67oo on Petrol, £4020 on
Taxation and £10,850 on Wheat. Add-
ing the expenditure on the Grants Com-
mission (not classified as “royal”), and
on the preparation of the reply to
the case for secession, the total cost
was not far short of £50,000. And ail
to save Lyons and co. the trouble of
conducting inquiries on their own
account and making up what they are
pleased to call their minds.
For once a Venizelos insurrection has
fizzled out, and the restless old lawyer-
politician has had to quit Crete to save
his head. In the past he could always
count on a measure of British support;
but at the time of the royal marriage
last year the Venizelist press, as an
English monthly puts it, “published
disgraceful libels on Princess Marina.”
That was the end of Venizelos, as far as
the English were concerned.
The Strathaird, setting out on a luxury
tour to Maoriland, carried 286 through
passengers from Fremantle, besides 49
bound for Sydney and intermediate ports.
A pleasant prelude to the arrival of the
Commonwealth Grants Commission,
which has apparently become a perman-
ency, and which was forthwith told that
Westralia must have £1,500,000 to get
it out of its immediate difficulties.
On his way across the Pacific Lord
Nuffield called at Suva and left £5OOO
for the crippled children of Fiji. It must
then have dawned on him that this bene-
faction and the gift of £60,000 to Maori-
land constituted a reflection on Aus-
tralia, accompanied as the MX. dona-
tion was by nasty remarks about Aus-
tralian policy, for by radio from the
Mariposa—yes, the Mariposa—he be-
latedly offered £50,000 Australian “to
help the crippled children of Australia.”
The present was accepted. It should have
been refused until the motor millionaire
withdrew the nasty remarks.
Before the N.S.W. Parliament closes
down the soldier-preference law is to be
“tightened up.” The Government will, of
course, be exempt, and it is the worst
offender; when it
has plums to dis-
tribute it reserves
the juiciest for
non-warrior s.
There are many
returned - soldier
policemen and
many more re-
turned - soldier
railwaymen ; but
Mr. Mackay has
been put at the
head of the
Force, just as Mr.
Hartigan was put
at the head of
the Railways.
In a Defence
debate in the
Commons Bald-
win gave some
astonishing parti-
cul a rs of the
military prepara-
tions of other
Powers.
Japan’s naval
personnel has
increased from
72.000 to 88,000
in four years,
and it has a far
more modern
navy than we
have. During
the same four
years its regu-
lar army has
more than
doubled. Rus-
sia’s has in-
creased from
600.000 to
940,000, and
Russia has over
2000 aeroplanes. x
The Canberra
Government’s re-
action to these
revelations was a decision to suspend
compulsory military training “for at
least another two years,” though it is
admitted that the voluntary system has
failed.
There are between 17,000 and 18,000
electors in Ashfield (N.S.W.) and in June,
1932, 11,658 voted for Jarvie, the U.A.P.
member. If 15 members of the local
organisation and 10 or 12 at the head
office have their way, Jarvie will not be
allowed to stand again as a U.A.P. can-
didate. He is alleged to have forfeited
confidence by something or other he has
done or omitted to do in connection with
the McArthur trust cos.; but his con-
stituents should be the best judges of
that. The incident exhibits pre-selection
in an ugly light; but then it has no lights
that are lovely,
Westralian separatists will do anything
for secession bar making sacrifices for it.
Lovekin, one of the early leaders, sold
his newspaper, the “Daily News,” to
financiers in Melbourne, then the head-
quarters of the Federal Octopus, and in-
vested the proceeds in Britain. As a
director of the W.A. Bank, MacCallum
Smith, M.L.A., assisted to hand it over
to the ’Wales. Now he has sold a con-
trolling interest in his newspaper, the
“Sunday Times,” to Federalists.
Remarkable things were said in the
House of Representatives last week dur-
ing a debate on goldmining in the N.T.
From one of the concerns mentioned
The Bulletin some weeks ago received
a writ. But it is free to record the ad-
mitted fact that the Minister for the
Interior, a well-meaning cow-farmer, has
promised a subsidy of £3OOO to one
Chapman, of The Granites, and that his
department has given its blessing to a plan
for employing city lads on Chapman’s
show. Perhaps before long the Govern-
ment will be sending out parties to look
for “Lasseter’s lost reef.”
The Methodists have set an example
of good Australianism to other churches
and other public bodies. Their Vic-
torian conference decided that the posi-
“In contempt of the Peace Treaty, Germany is setting Up
an air force and reviving conscription for all arms.”
“Schtep on id, boys!”
tion of Professor of Theology should be
confined to Australian applicants. There
was only one objector, the Rev. Albiston.
Expansive is the expenditure of Euro-
pean States on propaganda. Literature
from Germany, Italy, Russia, Danubian
countries and the League is regularly
delivered at Australian newspaper offices,
and even Kemal Pasha has entered
the lists. On paper printed in three
colors, his Agence discourses in lively
French on “Le Sport en Turquie,” Hittite
discoveries and central banking. Now
Britain, where a P.M.G. once nearly had
to resign because he had appointed a
young man to advertise his good works,
has a Ministerial committee to control
a large bureau.
C. H. Nelson, Mayor of St. Kilda
(Vic.) and unsuccessful candidate for
the local Assembly seat, paid a high
compliment to the residents at the de-
claration of the poll by saying “I lost
because of anti-Jewish propaganda”
against Michaelis, the winner. “A dirty
little illiterate pamphlet against the
Jews” was circulated in the electorate ;
and it turned fair-minded people against
Nelson, though, as he says, he had no-
thing whatever to do with it. The offal
was carried into Caulfield, with the same
result.
The most provocative bit of naval
building going on in the world is France’s
new 35,000-tonner —the biggest capital
ship to be built in Europe since the
Nelson and the Rodney were launched.
Britain won’t mind—every French ship
is an added safeguard to the Channel ;
but to Hitler it will be a strong incentive
to lay down a lot more pocket battle-
ships.
Vice-Chancellor Priestley started off at
Melb. University by justifiably criticis-
ing the obsolete buildings in which
students have to work. The trouble is
that the pioneers, with the best inten-
tions, erected replicas of structures which
England had raised in the Middle Ages
—architecturally beautiful, but lacking
in comfort, convenience and hygiene in
the modern sense.
St. John Ervine has an idea for pre-
serving the self-respect of dole-getters ;
and ideas are scarce. Return to war con-
ditions, he advises: put the married men
into camps for daily military work, grant-
ing their wives “separation allowances”
without separation. House and treat the
single men as they were housed and
treated in war-time. When industry re-
quires 10 or 1000, draft out the required
number. In this manner the physical,
educational and moral welfare of the men
would be safeguarded, and they would
not form habits of idleness liable to be-
come chronic. At the same time, the
country going in for the scheme would
acquire a reserve of fit men as big as any
standing army it could muster.
The entente between the Melbourne
archbishops established during the
Eucharistic Congress did not survive Dr.
Head’s reference to the inferiority of
church schools in England, as reported
in the “Age.” Dr. Mannix hotly re-
torted that no Catholic school had been
closed in England, though Anglican
schools had —“because the people have
not the generosity or the courage to
maintain them.”
If Dr. Head meant that the Catholic
schools were not up to standard, then he
said absolutely and deliberately something
that was not true. If he wished to convey
that the Catholic schools were not up to
the standard of the State schools, then he
deliberately and offensively and with his
eyes open said a thing that was not true.
Now, as Lang’s newspaper puts it after
every fresh Labor shindy, “The Fight
Is On!”
People in high places, animated by the
best of motives, have been saying
that, while our infant-mortality rate is
nearly the lowest in the world, our
maternal-mortality rate is nearly the
highest. Health officers and private prac-
titioners in several States are pointing
out that it only appears so because
deaths resulting from abortion are in-
cluded among the deaths from natural
causes, whereas they are excluded in
other countries with which Australia has
been compared to its disadvantage. Dr.
Arthur Wilson, of Melbourne, mentions
that criminal abortion accounted for 30
out of 150 deaths in childbirth reported
in Victoria in 1933, and for 37 out of
170 recorded in 1934. “Surely,” he
argues pertinently, “such deaths should
be included among the murders or
suicides or deaths by violence.”


,r Anglican bishops met in Sydmev last Week to elect a Primate .
Ballot aptee. ballot had to be taken "
« Church workers should have consulted.
"tKT Aoem M r Lyons
Almost collided
VnMth A camel.- TRaiM "
Jmshee I
'Male MEMBERS OP THE QA.LBY Show COMMITteENNIU
Wait okj the- Supper tables act the awmum Bal.i_ .
RELIEVIKIQ THEIf? csfr THE TA/SiK*
BETT\NG, 'S THAT THE WIN/ES WILL do IT THEMSELVES Heyt VEWS.
//
The Cinema has
MA.de THE
*. MODERW G»'RL_
\ More clothes
V Conscious
MORE ?
/ Huev . U.S A.. PROPOSES*
A CAPITAL LEW OP £3 : i ) 000 / 000000 /
AsHD OTHER E\TRA>VAsq/LKT MEASURES
Stick v em UP !
FROM ADEN TO NEW ORLEANS (VIA DALBY).


runs
runs
FACTORY worth
f
CAR worth ST
£ 500,000
500
What can
B
A’s plant is worth a thousand times B’s car. “A” dare not
buy oil by guess. He buys by test. His tests have
proved that Shell Oil lubricates best.
In fact, Australian industrial plants use more Shell Oil than any
other lubricant. What engineers do to conserve the value
of their plant you can do to conserve the value of your car.
Be guided by experts use Shell Motor Oil.
SHELL
M Oil© R
LUBRICATES^BEST
L 0.5.
"PERSONAL ITEMS
Rex Johnson, who missed a Victorian
Rhodes scholarship by a short head, has
joined the Australian colony in Shanghai
as electrical expert to the Shanghai Power
Co. —China’s biggest concern of the sort.
The oldest surviving pioneer of this
colony is probably architect Will Martin,
who, at 80-odd, is still going strong in
Sydney. He went to Shanghai to help
build the British concession, and became
a personal friend of the gigantic Li
Hung Chang.
“Sach”: F. J. Smith, of the Karoola
(B. 13 /3 / ’35), joined the A.I.F. when
the war broke out, and he returned with
a commission. After being demobbed
he entered the service of Mcllwraith,
McEacharns, and became successively
chief officer on the Ashbridge and chief
officer and skipper of the Karoola. The
Karoola, by the way, was built to a
model of the Mauretania, the famous
Cunard liner of 30 years ago.
Kenneth Attiwill, author of “Steward,”
is, like Dale Collins and Allan Villiers, a
Melbourne journalist who went to sea in
search of copy. He made his first trip
on the Archibald Russell, a Finnish
barque which did a voyage between Mel-
bourne and Queenstown (Ireland) about
three years ago. The result was “Hori-
zon,” which stung a veteran English
skipper to comment: “He shows a sailor-
man as an utterly sordid and obscene
creature, loathly in habit and expression.”
From a friend:
Bernard Freyberg, the Maorilander who
is likely to command in Assam Presidency,
one of the most turbulent areas in British Asia,
came out of the war with nine wounds,
the V.C., D.S.O. (with two bars) and many
Archbishop LE FANU, the new Anglican Primate.
foreign decorations. He has been soldiering
ever since (his latest jobs were A.Q.M.G.,
Southern Command, and G. 5.0.1., War Office),
yet such are the crazy methods of armies that
he has only just been promoted to major-
general. It gives seniority over him to alleged
soldiers who never heard a shot fired in the
last war.
Perth “Sunday Times,” founded by
F. C. B. Vosper in 1897, has changed
hands. When Vosper died in 1901, Mac-
Callum Smith, of the Kalgoorlie “Sun,”
and one or two others secured the paper
from the widow, and Smith, an MX.A.
for the past 20 years, has been the busi-
ness manager and principal shareholder
ever since. The new bosses are J. J.
Simons and Victor Courtney, who made
the “Mirror” a formidable rival to the
“Sunday Times.” Simons founded the
Y.A.L., and after one or two unsuccess-
ful shots at Parliament won the safe
Labor seat of East Perth in 1921. But
he failed to hit it with the party
bosses. Courtney is an able journal-
ist. His father was one before him, and
his uncle is Tom Courtney, one of the
most forcible daily-paper leader-writers
Sydney has known.
About a Westralian tourist:
John Michael Drew, State Secretary in the
Westralian Labor Government, has been spend-
ing a few days in Sydney. Drew has been in
the Leg. Council since 1900—except for a
gap of six years after the war. He antedates
all his colleagues in the present Ministry; he
has been a member of every Labor Govern-
ment since the first in 1904-5. Also —a rare
distinction for a Westralian Labor Minister —
he is native-born, a product of Northampton,
where the lead and copper used to come from.
Before -taking to politics John Michael had
made his name as a journalist on the Geraldton
“Express,” which he controlled and edited for
many years. Over 40 years ago he was a con-
tributor to The Bulletin, and he still treasures
a couple of letters from Archibald advising him
what were the sort of paragraphs the paper
wanted.
H. F. Le Fanu, Angli -
can Archbishop of Perth,
and now Primate, is a
fresh-faced Irishman of
the old Norman stock, of
whom Gilbert’s Bishop
Peter might have been a
caricature. Behind a
twinkling eye, he has one
of the shrewdest business
brains in the Church, and
his sense of economy was
whetted in his early days
by a period as curate of
the socialist district of
Poplar (Eng.). Donald-
son, now 95th Bishop of
Salisbury, gave him his
real start in life when he
had him raised from the
archdeaconate of Brisbane
to the coadjutor bishopric,
from which he was trans-
lated to the arch-job in
Perth. His father, an Irish
Public Works Commis-
sioner, was at one time
private secretary to Augus-
tine Birrell, the most cul-
tivated Chief Secretary
Ireland ever had.
John and James Ryan,
sons of Sub - Inspector
Ryan, of the St. Kilda
(Melbourne) police depot,
may be called hereditary
cops. Their grandfather,
the late Inspector Ryan,
joined the Vic. force in
1873 and served through
many stirring campaigns, including the
one against the Kelly gang. He had two
sons, Superintendent R, Ryan (retired)
and Sub-Inspector Ryan, and a daughter,
Mrs. Ellen Cook, who is a policewoman
at Russell-street headquarters.
t “G. Trotter”; Was emerging from a
picture show in Melbourne last week
when I overheard a Yankee voice criti-
cising the picture. The analysis struck
me as so terse and accurate that I turned
to see the speaker. It was Eddie Tolan.
Eddie is, of course, a university graduate,
but I know many white university
graduates, and I doubt if any of them
could have equalled our visitor’s effort.
Max Muspratt enlisted in
the A.I.F. as a gangling youth of 17.
After the Armistice he was variously
sailor, boxer, wrestler, stevedore, steward.
Island trader, bush settler and author.
Now he has entered a monastery in
Malta, near the first hospital he entered
as a soldier.
C, T, Wedgwood, now
visiting Melbourne, is a
direct descendant of Tom
Wedgwood, who started to
make pots in Staffordshire
in 1530. His most cele-
brated forebear was
losiah, who copied the
Portland Vase so often
that many credit him with
the original. In Burslem,
one of Arnold Bennett’s
Five Towns, Josiah as
early as 1769 anticipated
modern ideas by building
a model village round the
factory which turned out
green glaze and Catherine
of Russia’s famous dinner
service a masterpiece
which is still shown to
tourists at Leningrad.
Twentieth-century in other
departments of efficiency,
losiah was always experi-
menting with strange
clays, and brought into
the service of good pot-
tery Priestley the chemist,
Watt the engineer and
Flaxman the artist.
“Inaha”: Followers of
Rugby Union all over the
world must have heard with
regret of the death in Wellington (M.L.)
at 55 of Dr. Patrick Francis McEvedy.
He left St. Patrick’s College, one of
M.L.’s great Rugby schools, for Guy’s
Hospital in London, where he cap-
tained the fifteen. Later he led the
Kent county team in 70 matches.
In 1904 Dr. Pat toured Australia
and M.L. with a British team, and
four years afterwards he came out
again as vice-captain of an Anglo-Welsh
team. He practised in Wellington from
1909 until he died. He occupied leading
positions in the Wellington and M.L.
Rugby Unions, and at the time of his
death was president of the national body.
Cricket, boxing, golf, racing and shoot-
ing also took up his time, yet he managed
to build up one of the best practices in
the city.
“Hamer”: Arthur Bayldon (B.
13/3/’35) announced many years ago
that he would not contribute poems to
any journal in Australia or elsewhere till
payments improved. Since then, with the
exception of some verses published by
The Bulletin, he has offered nothing to
editors or publishers. His “Marlowe”
sonnet was republished practically all
over the world.
“Aerial”: Mention of pioneer tele-
graphists (B. 6/3/’35) recalls lohn
Richard Bradford, of Brisbane, now 86
and sole survivor of the party that
blazed the track for the overland tele-
graph route through the Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.). The outfit, of which
Bradford was leader, consisted of four
other white men, an abo. and a Chinese
cook. It left Cooktown on June 6, 1883,
and arrived at Cape York on August 29.
Twenty-three horses were lost on the
journey, most of them being killed by
blacks. ’ Bradford was born in Ireland,
and he joined the Queensland Telegraph
Department in 1866, his first big job
being in 1876, when he surveyed the tele-
graph route from Cooktown to the
Palmer River goldfield. He also surveyed
the cable route from Cape York to
Thursday Island.
Mabel Forrest, who died last Monday,
was a daughter of the Mills family, of
Parramatta. She was born at North
Branch on the Darling Downs, and early
began writing. In her prime she poured
out verse, short stories, novels and news-
paper articles with equal facility ; she had
more than a dozen volumes to her credit.
Much of her best work was published in
The Bulletin, for which, for some time,
she also wrote the Queensland Women’s
Letter. She was twice married; her
A VISITING POTTER.
second husband, John Forrest, of Aber-
deen, died some years ago.
“Mulgo”: Passed out recently in
north-west N. S. Wales “Peter, the
Soap King.” He had been fossicking for
half a century, and when stations in his
district were shearing he sometimes took
jobs piece-picking or dag-picking. It
was his whim to collect all the bits of
soap he could find, yet he was never
known to wash himself or his clothes.
He is said to have left his heirs and
assignees, if any, 1742 pieces of soap.
“Val”: Since the war Tasmania has
supplied the mainland with Profs.
Heaton, Copland, Brigden and Giblin —
economists all. Prof. Hytten now goes
as economic adviser to the Bank of New
South Wales. He is unique in one re-
spect. Torliev Hytten was 20 before he
left Norway. He came to Australia in
1910, and, before entering the University
of Tasmania, was a journalist. He never
called it a yob of journalism ; he speaks
English without the faintest foreign
accent. He is a naturalised British sub-
ject, and he is married to a Tasmanian.
“M.G.” on a veteran:
Dr. Maloney (“Billy” to thousands), who is
seriously ill at Canberra, _ has more friends,
probably, than any politician in Australia.
He has been making them for 80 years.
A native of Melbourne, he qualified as
a medical man in Edinburgh, and as a
youth went through the siege of Pans
in 1871. He saw the entrance of the Ger-
mans ; the outbreak and suppression of
the Commune. He represented West Mel-
bourne as a State Laborite for 14 years; then
he became M.H.R. for Melbourne, and made
it the safest seat in the Commonwealth. When
Billy first became an M.L.A. his sideboard
was crowded with rowing trophies won in
his hefty youth. One by one they disappeared
—souvenired by necessitous comrades. “They
probably needed them more than I did,” was
the former owner’s placid comment. His
favorite subject, or King Charles’s head, is
the Swiss Constitution.


w
TREAD
Checkshid" TYRE
With Deeper Cut Pattern
for Greater Safety and
Longer Service
Modern motoring conditions of higher speed
travel on smoother, harder road surfaces —demand
a tyre with a broader, deeper tread. Broader, to give
extra road grip, and so increase both safety and mile*
age. Deeper, to prolong the effective non-skid life
of the tyre. And in this improved Barnet GlassTyre,
with its broader, deeper tread, you also get a unique
carcase construction which gives extra sidewall
flexibility, while super - imposed buttresses
strengthen the shoulders and support the new tread.
*1
/
i
i
S
l
jr i • ■
f
J
A
/
i
W
m
si
i
m
m
m
£
m
m
m
i
m
Barnet Glass
Tyres for Endurance


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends v
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profit. (10 p.c.) Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
£37,495 .. 7,138
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 17J p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 224 „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
1934.. 85,552 7500 £4579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183 1
of bonus scrip distributed. Un— I 9 ; gsi
explained addition reserves, £16,088 ; f
added goodwill, £77,732. J
p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To Staff Fund. £lOOO .. .. 42,053
One of the most profitable develop-
ments of modern merchandising methods
has been the evolution of the chain sys-
tem in connection with the sale of low-
priced miscellaneous goods. Large-scale
buying and quick turnover for cash are
the pillars upon which the system rests.
Personal service is reduced to a mini-
mum ; sales depend largely upon the posi-
tion of the store and display, and there
are no deliveries and few book debts,
which means low overhead. The aim is
to clear most of the stock, pay the bill
and pocket the profit all within the time
allowed under ordinary trade credit, thus
removing much of the difficulty usually
involved in financing stocks, as well as
keeping down (Jte capital investment per
store. Thus far, cos. working closely to
these principles have enjoyed a rapid
growth of turnover, and therefore have
won some very juicy returns, despite
general depression conditions.
Still, cheap competition from the
chains is an omen of ruin for many unit
stores (especially in the suburbs and
country), which employ more adult labor
and offer more extensive service, includ-
ing the burden of credit in bad times.
As the chains gain strength, there is
a danger, too, that manufacturers may
be forced to sacrifice quality and effi-
ciency for cheapness. In some important
respects, therefore, the new system is not
a blessing, and in other countries it has
been subjected to restrictive legislation.
Woolworths was formed in Sydney to-
wards the close of 1924, and has since
spread throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland. At the end of January
last paid capital was £596,969 in 75,000
first 10 p.c. and 100,000 second 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 421,969 ords. Of the
latter 337,077 are bonus shares, issued
since the close of accounts in 1931. Last
year’s gift (£253,183, three for two) was
provided by writing up the book value
of some of the assets —shares in subsi-
diaries increased by £188,036, and £77,732
was added to the goodwill item, raising
it to £165,227, not treated as an asset
herein. One effect is to make both earn-
ings and divs. look less corpulent in rela-
tion to capital.
Turnover and the number of stores in
the chain are not disclosed. After meeting
all exes., including provision for depre-
ciation, and setting aside £50,000 (up
£10,000) for the taxgatherer, last year’s
net earnings sprang £14,866, reaching
£100,418. It was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£14,500) and show 20.3 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands. That
leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
plained addition of £16,088 to reserves.
Thq. rate of dividend was halved, yet the
£52,746 distributed was £10,799 more
than in 1934, and equal to 62.8 p.c. on
ord. capital as it stood before the gift
issue in 1931.
The rapid growth of the business and
other things are reflected in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £93,764 £242,788 £342,788 £596,969
Liabilities .. 127,525 274,911 272,188 334,396
Freeholds .. 51,667 302,819 340,989 324,813
Leaseholds .. 6,095 19,852 86,421 95,790
Plant ~ .. 37,196 98.828 130,903 197,316
Shares other cos.,
etc 9,450 102,901 116,651 304,687
Stocks . . 100,551 143,476 190,968 264,621
Debtors .. 4,159 21,957 26,710 15,643
Cash .. .. 929 41,629 1,186 3,669
More links were put in the chain last
year, and plant increased by £66,412 and
stocks by £73,653. Liabilities include a
mortgage of £182,273 (down £15,390).
The floating debt (£152,124, up £77,598)
was well covered by more or less liquids
(£283,933, including stocks but not shares
in other cos.).
On the market the firsts fetch 425. 6d.
and seconds 30s. At these figures the
returns are 4.7 p.c. in each case on the
basis of last year’s distributions. Subject
to intangibles in the subsidiaries, the net
tangible cover is £8 10s. sd. firsts and
£5 12s. lOd. seconds. The ords., held
mostly by those in the business, are not
listed.
Norco Co-op., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Oct., ’27 31,600 7 p.c. = 3225 28,499 57,301
June, ’28*47,856 7 „ „ 4477 21,314 22,065 79,366
Dec., ’2B 20,536 7 „ „ 3423 26,000 - 70,479
June, ’29 16,540 7 „ „ 3466 12,000 1,074 71,553
Dec., ’29 18,779 7 „ „ 3865 13,000 1,914 73,467
June, ’3O 36,413 7 ~ „ 3879 15,000 17,534 91,001
Dec., ’3O 13,828 5 „ „ 2723 6,000 5,105 96,106
Loss.
June,’3l 2,710 5 „ „ 2621 91,775
Profit.
Dec., ’3l 6,222 5 „ „ 2638 3,584 94,359
June,’32 9,753 5 ~ „ 2559 1,000 100,553
Dec., ’32 3,502 5 „ „ 2577 925 101,478
June,’33 6,706 5 „ „ 2524 4,182 105,660
Dec., ’33 9,312 5 „ „ 2527 3,145 3,640 109,300
Tune,’34 9,165 5 „ 2468 3,145 3,552 112,852
Dec.,’34 7,664 5 „ ~ 2519 1,258 3„887 116,739
*Eight months.
This is the big co-operative concern
through which farmers on the fertile
North Coast of N. S. Wales more or less
control the marketing of their products,
locally and overseas. The formation of
two co-operative selling houses in London
—Overseas Farmers’ Co-op. Federations
and Empire Dairies —has meant much to
Australian producers, who now sell about
75 p.c. of their butter there. With the
help of the tariff and other legislation,
the remaining 25 p.c. or thereabouts is
sold locally at 140 s. per cwt. This and
exchange have helped to take some of
the sting out of the low price obtained
overseas.
Last year suppliers averaged 8.98 d. per
pound for butter as against 8.38 d., 10.3 d.,
12.68 d. and 13.77 d. for the four preced-
ing years, and for A 1 pork 5.38 d. as
against 4.33 d. for 1933. Record quan-
tities of both commodities were handled—
butter 18,390 tons, upT994 tons, and pigs
63,121, up 3041. Takings from all sources
sprang £261,502, and suppliers got
£177,906 of the increase:
1930. 1933. 1934.
Butter sales .. £2,619,845 £1,922,168 £2,167,444
Bacon sales ~ 149,177 168,564 184,812
Sundry income .. 12,538 10,232 10,210
Total income .. £2,781,560 £2,100,964 £2,362,466
Paid to suppliers.. 2,126,542 1,500,887 1,678,793
Equalisation and other levies, which sup-
planted the Paterson plan, amounted to
£343,261 (up £75,397), while selling exes,
and usual allowances for depreciation,
etc. (£323,583, up £7328), took 13.6 p.c.
of turnover as against 15 p.c. for the
previous year. The year’s profit was £Bll
better at 16.7 p.c. on capital as
against 15.8 p.c. and 12.8 p.c. in 1933
and 1932 respectively. The div. was kept
at 5 p.c., £4403 was written off the share-
holding in Milk Industries, reducing it
to £5032, and £7439 was put on the shelf.
The quick growth of production and
other things are reflected in the next
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
0ct.,’27. Dec.,’3o. Dec.,’33. Dec.,’34.
Paid capital.. £92,047 £108,916 £101,062 £100,774
Sundry creditors 195,311 267,301 276,652 332,658
Plant, etc. . . 123,950 204,298 209,532 207,256
Shares in other
cos. . . 39,078 46,466 42,321 40,318
Stocks . . 59,201 48,455 44,313 54,024
Debtors . . 153,141 211,811 184,039 193,969
Cash, etc. . . 48,040 44,174 14,407 62,710
The year’s improvement in the financial
position was £11,338. Liabilities, mainly
amounts coming to consignors, exceeded
more or less liquids, excluding shares in
other cos., by £21,955 when the books
closed.
Since the end of 1934 the London
price of Australian choicest shot up from
765. to 895., but was back to 755. last
week-end. The movements were due
largely to American buying.
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,688 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1925 .. 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1926 .. 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 .. 1,223,364 516,202 120,903 53,351 526.848
1929 ..1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 .. 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 7 „„
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 )
1932 ..1,316,891 707,756 163,556 762 ( 9a .
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )
1933 .. 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 ) 99H rpa
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )
1934 . . 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
The apparent slip in last year’s income
was due to an alteration in the method
of presenting the accounts. In other years
claims and income were swollen by the
amount of bonuses declared and the
amount remaining in the business as
additional assurance respectively. Allow-
ing for this and for premiums refunded,
the spring in last year’s income was
£36,389. Net premiums (£691,088) were
up £18,442, the consideration for annu-
ities (£24,895) was £10,042 lighter, and
interest, dividends and rents (£323,552)
turned in an extra £27,988.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes, and striking £8356 off the book
value of some of the assets, £407,351 was
added to the Assurance fund, raising it
to £7,162,244. The addition was £178,683
more than for the previous year, when
£lOO,OOO was sent to the contingency
reserve, making it £450,000, at which
figure it still stands. There is also
£lOO,OOO earmarked for the equalisation
of bonuses. Including another reserve
of £2950, there was thus £552,950 in the
business belonging to policy-holders in
addition to the Assurance fund.
Returns from these extra reserves
supplement the earnings of the fund, and
therefore the amount available for dis-
tribution as bonuses. Again with one
eye on bonuses, the society has lowered
the rate of interest which it assumes the
fund will earn from 3+ p.c. to 3i p.c.
After deducting income tax, etc., last
year’s net interest return was 4.39 p.c.
on the mean fund as against 3.56 p.c.
and 3.27 p.c. for the two preceding years.
The co. used to pay exceptionally fat
bonuses, which were mainly the outcome
of high-interest returns (approximately
6 p.c. net in 1929), following a policy
of mortgage and property investments on
a rising market. Then slump and its
concomitants brought interest down with
a rush, and the bonuses declared in 1933
were 39.2 p.c. of the 1931 net premium
income as against 52.6 p.c. for the previ-
ous term. The rates, however, .were still
handsome ; they ranged from £2 17s. 6d.
to £4 ss. p.c. on whole-of-life and from
£2 to £3 10s. p.c. on endowment assur-
ances. The amount distributed among
policy-holders last year is not disclosed
in the published accounts.
An extra £476,146 of new business
was put on the books:
1911. 1933. 1934.
Policies .. . . 3,379 3,630 4,737
Assuring .. .. £599,361 £1,180,904 £1,657,050
First premiums . . 40,406 36,688 54,387
Renewal premiums 79,826 635,958 636,701
Annuities ~ .. 400 34,937 24,895
Interest, etc. . 30,722 295,564 323,552,
Exes, took 10.7 p.c. of the year’s income,
compared with 14.9, 16.5, 15.7, 12.9, 14.5
and 13.4 p.c. back to 1928.
Funds are invested in this way:
1933. p.c. 1934. p.c.
Govt, securities.. £1,577,036 21.2 £1,590,179 20.8
Mortgages . . 3,383,174 45.6 3,293,750 42.0
Loans on policies 1,055,932 14.2 1,125,806 14.4
Properties . . 667,058 9.0 883,267 11.3
Shares and
debentures, etc. 484,942 6.5 497,093 6.3
Cash and sundries 258,016 3.5 449,525 5.7
Four years ago over 55 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total was represented by
mortgages and 14.8 p.c. by Government
securities.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividends , To Re-
Dec., Loss. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
(8 p.c.)
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249.357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
1930.. 83,595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334,937
(8 p.c.)
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
(16 p.c.)
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 ~ 116,775
(12 p.c.)
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,770
This eight-year-old offshoot of the big
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron,
U.S.A.—the parent decided to manufac-
ture locally owing to pressure of the
tariff—looks like a money-spinner. Hav-
ing stepped into a ready-made trade con-
nection, developed by an importing
agency, the co.’s output soon doubled, to
the benefit of costs ; more plant, etc.,
had to be installed, and the parent found
the money (over half a million at the
end of 1930), since repaid. Though slump
gave earnings a nasty jolt, finances were
snug, and, with everything right on the
technical side, earnings put on another
spurt when the general situation
improved.
At June 30 last there were 28,112 more
motor vehicles on the road in Australia
than there were a year earlier. Imports
of chassis during 1934 about doubled,
and the demand for replacement tyres
strengthened, while primage and the duty
on raw rubber were halved, and sales,
income and other taxes were reduced a
trifle. So, despite the continued rise in
the price of raw rubber, the spring in
declared net earnings was £82,181. Most
of the increase, however, appears to have
been due to less liberal provision for
depreciation—£37,B44 as against £95,453
for the previous term, making the total
provision £509,612, approximately half
the aggregate cost of all fixed assets.
Allowing for the pref. div., enough re-
mained to show 39.8 p.c. on the half-mil-
lion of ord. capital (it is all held by the
parent) as against 23.3, 6.8, 2.4, 11.9, 45
and 21.2 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was dropped from 16 p.c. to 12 p.c.,
making the average 4.5 p.c. over the last
eight years.
Although the ords. received no div. for
the first five years (the money was wanted
in the business), they have been well
rewarded since. Just before the close of
last accounts they were handed £250,000
of bonus scrip, one for two. That lifted
paid capital to £1,050,000, of which the
public is interested in £300,000, carrying
a fixed cumulative 8 p.c. The market
prices these prefs. at 325. 9d. as against
265. 9d. two years ago. At the higher
figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is £4 7s. in net tan-
gibles, of which more than half was
represented by surplus- liquids.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it;
1930. 1933. 1934.
Pref. capital .. ... £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital .. .. 500,000 500,000 750,000
Owing parent co. .. 549,420 4,978
Other liabilities .. 111,942 160,893 139,323
Freeholds, plant, etc..'. 811,437 518,387 517,188
Stocks . . . . . . 443,464 304,168 566,443
Book debts . . . . 226,756 205,540 217,306
Cash, etc 314,575 298,573 148,140
To carry an extra £262,275 of stocks,
add £11,766 to debtors’ balances
and clip £21,570 off the amount com-
ing to silndry creditors, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £150,433. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£787,588, including
stocks) was £140,200. Since the close of
account's the co. has become interested
in a new Goodyear factory at Buiten-
zong, Java, which is expected to be in
production by the end of June next.
Manly Gas Co.
To Be- Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924 .. 9,864 8 p.c. = 10,344 - 771
Premiums on shares, £BO4 .. 1,575
1925 .. 13,130 8 p.c. = 11,700 1430 3,005
1926 .. 12,040 8 „ ~ 13,200 1,845
Premiums on shares, £2847 .. .. 4,692
1927 . . 14,427 8 p.c. = 14,639 4,480
Premiums on shares, £5023 .. .. 9,503
1928 • - 18,549 8 p.c. = 17,189 1360 10,863
1929 . . 20,155 8 „ „ 20,800 10,218
1930 .. 20 371 8 „ ~20,800 9,789
1931 . . 17,849 7 ~ ~ 18,200 9,438
1932 .. 16,131 6 ~ „ 15,600 531 9,969
1933 .. 15,996 6 „ „ 15,-600 396 10,365
1934 . . 19,885 6 „ „ 15,600 4285 14,650
Owing to the drop in interest rates,
and because the market has become a
little apprehensive concerning the future
of equities, there is a strong demand for
gas scrip in Sydney. Over the last 34-
years this co.’s pound shares have ad-
vanced from 16s. 6d. to 265., a shilling
of the increase being in respect of the last
term. At 265. (the figure was never
higher) the return is 4.6 p.c. on a more
or less assured 6 p.c. div, basis.
Under the N. S. Wales Gas and Elec-
tricity Act of 1932, which placed the in-
dustry under control of a commission-
one member represents the Government,
another the cos. and a third the em-
ployees—the div. was lowered from 8
p.c. to 6 p.c., with the right to an extra
quarter of one per cent, for every fifth
of a penny by which the standard price
of gas to the consumer is reduced,
provided the reduction has been in
operation for 12 months. It is doubtful
whether this right is ever likely to
amount to much; and new shares
have to be offered at auction, so there
are no sweets to be had in that way.
Last year the quantity of gas sold by
this co. (183.1 million c.f.) increased by
5.4 p.c. Revenue therefrom was £1095
lighter, owing to two cuts, totalling 0.026 d.
per gas unit (= 4d. per 1000 c.f.), in the
price charged to the consumer (now
6s. 9d. per 1000 c.f.). Sales of residuals,
etc., turned in an extra £1469:
t -Y ear ended Dec. ,
Per Per
1600 c.f. 1600 c.f.
Sales;— 1933. s. d. 1934. s. d.
Gas .. ..£64,041 7 4J £62,946 6 101
Besiduals .. 6,619 0 9 8,088 0 101
Total ..£70,660 8 11 £71,034 7 9
Manufacturing:—
Exes., etc. . . 34,252 3 llj 32,708 3 6J
Other charges.. 20,412 2 4J 18,441 2 0J
Total outgo. £54,664 6 31 £51,149 5 7
Despite , a rise of Is. per week in the
basic wage, outgoings were got back
£3514, leaving the net result £3889 better
at 7.6 p.c. on the £260,000 of share capi-
tal. If the present price to the con-
sumer had operated over the full period
covered by the accounts, the margin be-
have been no, more than £ll9O, the
chairman says. k
When the books closed shareholders’
funds, etc., were supplemented by £32,000
of 4j p.c. debentures and £9900 of 4 p.c.
temporary loans. There was £9648 com-
ing to sundry creditors. Including stock-
in-trade, more or less liquids totalled
£15,443 ; plant, £293,996 ; freehold and
leasehold, £43,704.


Are You Getting Clear Water?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
EE
Filler
Cylinder
FLUTE R
If you are having trouble with your water
supply, either for household or industrial
purposes, we can help you. We manu-
facture water filters of all descriptions.
Our ABBOT pressure and drip type
filters used throughout the Common-
wealth and the East. Our pressure
filters used for Butter Factories, Ice
Works, Cordial Factories, Hospitals and
wherever pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
For Sale.
COMPLETE ROASTING, CYANIDE AND
ASSAY PLANT, capacity 40 tons per week.
About 10,000 tons Sands and Slimes, averaging
about sdwt. Good extractions can be obtained
by capable man. Particulars from A. C.
CHAPPEL, Peak Hill, N.S.W.
A SUKE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
1
m
■ >! mi:
Not a Care in the
WORLD.
THERE are thousands of women in this country (aye, and
men, too) who haven’t a care in the world, who can enjoy
the evenings of their lives, safe and secure in the
knowledge that their finances are in order; that they will have
sufficient incomes to provide their simple needs to the end of
their days. A.M.P. assurance has taken all the anxiety out of
their lives.
Young husbands who want to take the anxiety out of their
later years should talk over their affairs with the nearest
A.M.P. counsellor and learn how small is the investment
necessary to provide adequate assurance for this purpose. The
younger a man is the less the annual or quarterly investment,
so the wise young husband takes out as much A.M.P. assurance
as his income will permit, and devises a plan that will expand
as his income expands. His Plan may provide that part of his
assurance shall be payable bn his death and part when he is due
to retire so that he and his wife may make a trip round the
world or indulge in some other ambition dear to their hearts.
There is an A.M.P. policy, calling for very little higher
investment, under which a man may arrange that he shall cease
to pay premiums at any chosen age; at 60, for instance, when
he is due to retire. There are A.M.P. policies to suit every need.
No man has been fair to himself or his family until he has
investigated them. That is why we say: Talk over your affairs
with the nearest A.M.P. counsellor. Take him into your con-
fidence and hear his advice. There is no obligation on you to
take it, but you owe it to yourself to hear it.
If you prefer, send for a copy of “Investing in Happiness,”
a book that may give you a new outlook on life.
AMP. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.. A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,'
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
The Midas at Lolworth, near Charters
Towers (Q.), has given its owner 688 oz.
gold, worth £5200, from 307 tons of ore
during the last six months. It is still
keeping up the 2oz. grade in sinking, and
promises to make the Mons Meg line
worth company investigation. It is the
best claim discovered in the Towersi dis-
trict for 20 years. In the past the Mons
Meg produced roughly 600 oz. from
what is supposed to be the same line of
lode.
* * * *
About 200 miners are engaged on the
Clermont alluvial leads (C.Q.), but only
a few are on paydirt, and the ground is
getting too deep for prospectors with
small capital. The Mines Minister has
promised a free drilling campaign to
try to trace the leads in the deeper
ground, and so cut out a lot of expensive
wild-catting. It is part of the new re-
vival scheme, in which the Common-
wealth Government is giving financial
aid.
* * * *
Active operations have been resumed
at Hawkwood Gold Mine (C.Q.), where
from 300 to 400 tons of 2oz. ore re-
mained to be cleaned up without touch-
ing any of the stone developed in the
south level. In Narayan South, over
which an option is held, there is a 3ft.
reef that so far averages around 6dwt.
It is in the balance yet whether the bulk
of it will pay to cart and crush.
* * -i: *
Gold and silver telluride has been
discovered in a lode by a party of pros-
pectors on the Don River, Mt. Morgan
district (C.Q.). The ore has a width of
18in. down to 50ft. So far values are
not high, but the show is promising
enough to develop to the 100 ft. level.
% sfc % %
The Imperial Co., Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
owns two mines not far apart but very
different in their geology. The Idaho has
a reputation for rich irregular shoots at
the junction of the greenstone and por-
phyry. In the Aberdare, to the nor’-east,
the occurrence is similar to the regular
lodes of the Golden Mile. Here ore
showing patches of telluride, and assay-
ing from 6dwt. to 9dwt. per ton, has been
proved for a length of 200 ft., over a
width of 15ft., and is still being driven
upon. What is believed to be the north-
ern extension of this lode is being
developed at 500 ft. by the adjoining Lake
View South Extended, which recently
crushed 176 tons for an average of
84dwt. It is the possibilities of this body in
Imperial’s ground that have attracted
attention locally and in London.
jjs jji H*
The Boulder Perseverance and North
Kalgurli joint treatment plant is tipped
to swap bromo-cyanidation ffor flota-
tion before long. The main reason for
the change is said to be trouble in treat-
ing North Kalgurli ore. Perseverance’s
main lodes are reported to have lost
some of their gilt at depth, and there is
talk of the tonnage being substantially
increased in order to keep profits some-
where near the present level. North Kal-
gurli is on the eve of sending 6500 tons
instead of 5000 tons a month to the mill.
Considering the distance the mine is
ahead of the mill and the good develop-
ments reported, the surprising thing is
that 10,000 tons or more a month is
not being treated. In mining circles it
is believed that Gold Exploration re-
cently made a bid for North Kalgurli
and Perseverance, and would like to buy
South Kalgurli as well, for inclusion in
a big London float.
* * * *
North Kalgurli Central, at the north-
ern end of the Golden Mile (W.A.), is
not having much success with its de-
velopments. On the 200 ft. level, 4dwt.
17gr. was secured over sft. in the north
drive off the west crosscut; opposite, in
the south drive, 3dwt. values were struck
over 4yft. On the 300 ft. level, south
drive, values were over sft. On
the 400 ft. level the diamond-drill was
in calc schist.
* * * *
The Neta leases, Edjudina (W.A.), held
by H. Mandelstamm on behalf of the
Paget Syndicate, are to be worked by
a London co. with a half-million of
capital in 2s. shares, of which 2,790,000
are to be offered at par. The property
is low grade, and inclined to be patchy ;
much will depend upon what the drill
discloses at depth. The vendors get
£48,600 in cash plus 1,410,000 shares
without options. Early production is
anticipated.
$ # 3ft #
At Spargo’s Find, 28 miles south of
Coolgardie (W.A.), an important de-
velopment is reported in No. 1 winze at a
depth of 110 ft., where the sulphides come
in. Free gold is showing ; one sample
assayed 2oz. Good loams have been
obtained on this property from the out-
set. Water may prove to be a problem
in connection with large-scale develop-
ment.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., has
arranged with Lake View to test from the
Associated workings its Blue Cap lease at
depth, and with North Kalgurli to ex-
tend drives into the old Associated
Northern’s Iron Duke mine. Compre-
hensive diamond-drilling will shortly be
commenced at the old Brownhill and at
other resuscitated shows near by. The
Brownhill used to be one of the richest
producers on the Golden Mile.
He H= * *
E. Bails, with E. T. Victor, has recom-
mended the Havelock and Great Western
cos. to abandon their option over the
Radio, Manxman (W.A.). Winzes dis-
closed that the reef was too small and
too low grade to justify the purchase
price.
He He H= He
The Yellowdine Co. (W.A.) has started
a main shaft, and is awaiting the advent
of a winder and rock-drilling plant to
hasten progress. Boring the fifth hole,
with a drill bigger than that which
stabbed the first four, is about to com-
mence.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is credited with
a rich strike on or near the 1500 ft. level,
but won’t admit it. The alleged find is
believed to have some connection with
the rich patch in the higher levels which
sweetened returns for years, and which
is expected to continue doing so for a
few years yet.
* * * H=
Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, Ltd., has been formed by
Claude de Bernales to take over from
Aust. Machinery and Investment Co. the
control and management in Westralia
of all the De Bernales cos. registered or
to be registered but not yet operating.
On the board are Claude de Bernales
(chairman) and friends.
* * H= *
Westralia’s State gold-prospecting
scheme continues to flourish. At the
end of last month it showed a credit
balance of £26,318 in Australian cur-
rency. There were 600 gold-seekers on
sustenance, 630 were working with equip-
ment on loan, while 400 had advanced
to the stage of working their own shows
without further assistance. Total value
of the gold produced to date is £86,400,
and the cost, less £8994 refunded for sus-
tenance by successful diggers, is £60,082.
❖
Mt. Bowie, floated in Westralia some
months ago on glowing reports of a
Murchison show, has hoisted signals of
distress. The reefs are now stated to be
very narrow veins. The co. raised
£22,500, of which the vendors took
£lO,OOO.
H: He * #
British interests, represented by J. D.
Connolly, are reported to be anxious to
test the iron deposits on Koolan Island,
Yampi Sound (W.A.). These deposits
first interested co. promoters about 20
years ago. They have passed through
several hands, and been offered more
than once to the Japs.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.S.: (1) There are no known deposits
of chalk in Australia. (2) Diatomite, •an
earthy substance or soft rock composed of
silica and the frustules of microscopic plants
called diatoms... .McR.: For first-class risk,
aged 29 next birthday, A.M.P. premiums on
£5OO policy, payable at expiration of 31 years
or prior death, with annual bonuses added, are
£l6 yearly, £8 4s. 2d. half-yearly and £4 3s. 4d.
quarterly; without participation in bonuses,
£l2 14s. 7d. yearly, £6 10s. lOd. half-yearly
and £3 6s. 3d. quarterly... .1.R.M.: The 10
p.c. cum. prefs,, which, while N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act remains in force, are entitled to
advance with ords. from 7f p.c. to 10 p.c
A.C.G.: (1) Last sale 17s. At this figure
they appear to be fully priced under existing
conditions. (2) Looks like a 12 months’ wait.
... .A.T. (1) Yes. Present weakness of market
due largely to overspeculation. (2) and (3)
In what class —fixed-interest-bearing, industrial
or gold or other mining? Is safety of
capital first consideration?... .J.A.R.: Few
offices in the world can show policy-holders
better results. Management has to earn £4 or
more for policy-holders before £1 can be taken
for shareholders. Last div. 80 p.c.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or, Yorjc and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Go, (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
li. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (.Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators. All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* ; * i.,
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony,, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T. LEM-
PRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAI BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Outcast Lady”
This version of “The Green Hat,” at
Sydney St. James, is marred by the cast-
ing. Herbert Marshall is about a quarter
of a century too old to be starting in
the Diplomatic Service, and Constance
Bennett is unfitted by appearance, voice
and all else to represent the promiscuous
post-war Mayfair product whom Arlen
drew. She registers the charm that
caused her to be “loved by half the men
in Europe” after the manner of a high-
spirited Coney Islander. Her kittenish
smirkings and languishings, her ceaseless
eye- and mouth-work and her flying mop
of hair are as un-English as her accent.
The others are remarkably good. Par-
ticularly Hugh Williams, who shows the
detrimental Gerald first as a smart young
man-about-town, next as a drink-crazed
wreck, and Henry Stephenson, who
makes the hero’s father a well-bred old
Briton. He and C. Aubrey Smith are
about the only two in Hollywood who
can perform this feat.
“Evelyn Prentice”
Also at the St. James. Myrna Loy and
William Powell are happily married. A
leading criminal defender, he yields to
the blandishments of a lady whose
acquittal he has secured on a murder
charge. (It was a near thing ; but the
lady was beautiful, and there were
doubts, and, as Powell tells her in his
racy way, “A jury in doubt is a jury in
the bag.”) By one of those strokes of
bad luck which often befall philanderers
Powell’s liaison is discovered, and Myrna
Loy starts an affair with Harvey
Stephens, blackmailer, Stephens gets a
well-earned bullet in a lethal spot at
about the time Miss Loy has called to
recover her compromising letters. Who
shot him? The woman he was living
with (Isabel Jewell), who is put on her
trial and is defended by Powell, or
Powell’s wife? It opens the way for
some exciting situations, which are made
the most of by all concerned.
A great change has come over Myrna
Loy. From being one of the most arti-
ficial of Hollywoodites she has become
perhaps the most naturalistic. She under-
plays consistently, wears clothes that the
Gary Cooper in “Lives of a Bengal
Lancer," at Sydney Prince Edward.
mannequin stars wouldn’t be seen dead
in, and uses the minimum of make-up.
As Evelyn Prentice she makes melodrama
credible and moving. William Powell is
suave, slick, efficient, as usual; and
there are parts for Una Merkel (heart
of gold, voice of tin) and Cora Sue Col-
lins, aged five or thereabouts, who brings
her estranged parents together again.
Isabel Jewell plays the deserted mistress
in the unrelievedly lugubrious tradition
of old-time bellowdrama.
, “County Chairman”
George Ade’s name is used in connec-
tion with this not very inspiring effort
to reproduce the atmosphere of 1900.
The heroine wears leg-o’-mutton sleeves.
and all the encouragement she gives her
young man is an occasional frosty smile.
She’s a schoolmarm, and her dad is an
oleaginous old humbug who has been
District Attorney in those parts for too
many years. Schooled by County Chair-
man Will Rogers, Will’s junior law part-
ner, a very wooden young man, puts it
all over the opposition mainly by kissing
babies with marked distaste and being
accompanied everywhere by a soprano
negro. Mr. Rogers delivers aphorisms
about politics which were bewhiskered
when Demosthenes commenced to
brighten up the subject.
Action begins to brighten up in the last
10 minutes when a minor villain’s motor-
Aubrey Smith in “Lives of a Bengal
Lancer.”
car catches fire outside the preacher’s
dwelling at midnight, enabling the
wooden young man to take minor vil-
lain’s place as bridegroom.
If Ade had anything to do with it he
isn’t the man he was when he wrote
“Fables in Slang.” Seen at a Fox pre-
view.
“This Is the Life”
At Sydney Mayfair. This is the vener-
able farce about the Cockneys, suddenly
showered with wealth, who try to i ape
their sponging “betters,” and commit
various gaucheries while riding, dining
and entertaining. Binnie Hale and
Gordon Marker, who have inherited from
an uncle in Sydney, are the comic pro-
letarians. So local are the references to
the uncle’s gold-lined sheep stations at
Woolloomooloo, etc., that one concludes
that when the film is shown in S’Africa
uncle will be a former resident of
Jo’burg, and so on around the Empire.
“The Broken Melody”
A musical romance, at Sydney May-
fair, starring John Garrick. He is a
Parisian composer unaware that his land-
lord’s daughter, Germaine, loves him. So
he marries the reigning soprano. A year
later he is constrained to murder the
lady’s lover, is sent to Devil’s Island, and
incredibly manages to escape. Return-
ing to Paris and Germaine, he composes
an opera, using his life story, but setting
it in the Middle Ages, During its per-
formance (he and Germaine singing
leads), the prison commandant recog-
nises him. The question is: Shall the
lovers take the way out chosen by the
lovers in the opera, poison, or shall the
commandant relent and keep their secret?
Tasmanian Merle Oberon is Germaine.
This fairy godchild of the film, has little
to do but wait around hopefully for her
straying lover to return. This she does
in a manner to wring all hearts.
“Death on the Diamond”
Contains some interesting sidelights on
America’s national game. The “ ’ballmen”
take their bright young lives in their
hands when they approach the diamond.
Even after three of them have been mur-
dered—one shot through the heart a
few yards from home-base, one strangled
in a cupboard and the other the victim of
a poisoned hot-dog—the team’s manager,
and prospective father-in-law of the star
pitcher, refuses the request of a police
officer to call off the final game: “We
can’t do that; it’s bigger than individuals.
The great American people will have
their baseball in spite of you or I.”
The highlight comes when the pitcher-
hero (Robert Young), who is doing his
utmost to win the match and his lady-
love (Madge Evans), notices someone in
the pavilion putting a time-bomb in his
(Robert’s) coat pocket. With admirable
presence of mind he hurls the ball at
the assassin, and that’s that. The villain
is ostensibly the kindliest fellow in the
cast. At the Civic. •
“King of the Ritz”
A bad English imitation of an Ameri-
can musicomedy. Stanley Lupino is
featured: sometimes he’s amusing;
almost as often he is nothing of the sort.
The others are appalling. Also at the
Civic.
“Babbitt”
One of the nearest approaches to a
“stock company” Hollywood possesses
is the First National team. Guy Kibbee
and Aline MacMahon are sometimes
uncle and niece; the baldhead has been
the lady’s grandfather. In “Babbitt” he’s
her husband. Sinclair Lewis’s satire on
smug middle-west, small-town society
wasn’t found any more suitable for the
films than any other biting work of its
genre, and the scenarioists have turned it
into a snappy little story with an O.
Henry ending. Babbitt is equipped with
a heart of gold; his wife with the ser-
pentine wisdom that is expected of all
wives in the talkies.
The result is what Grainger would call
a “free ramble” on a very small part of
Lewis’s theme, but Kibbee, Miss Mac-
Mahon, Minna Gombell (she’s the nag-
ging wife whose husband shot her), Claire
Dodd as the hard-boiled Mrs. Junique,
and Glen Boles, who is young Ted Bab-
bitt, play their parts so competently and
sympathetically that good entertainment
is provided. At Sydney Capitol.
“Private Scandal”
Whether the general public can fully
appreciate this picture is questionable,
but newspapermen accustomed to deal
with crime will rejoice over the
investigation info the murder. Allow-
ing for the exaggerations of art,
the detectives are real detectives, the
witnesses are real witnesses and the con-
fident arrogance of the first and the fear-
ful prevarication of the second are abso-
lutely true to life. The situations and
the dialogue have plenty of humor, and
the characterisation is excellent. Ned
Sparks, as the detective, and Charles
Sellon, as a nervous book-keeper, take
Guy Kibbee in “Babbitt,” at Sydney
Capitol.
the greater part of the fat. Zasu Pitts
is good as a scared secretary. Mary
Brian and June Brewster are the remain-
ing players whose work stands out.
Some First Nights
“The Cedar Tree’’ (by Varney Monk
and Edmund Barclay), which seems to
have been at some time unduly familiar
with a hoary chestnut, raised its leafy
arms at Sydney Cri. on Saturday. The
tree is the centre of a story that runs on
time-honored lines to a foregone conclu-
sion, but is otherwise pleasant enough.
Period, 1840 ; setting, a shipyard on the
Hawkesbury. Bush scenes, timber-cutters
Robert Woolsey in “Kentucky Kernels,”
at Sydney Plaza.
and a bird ballet deepen the Australian
atmosphere. The music is melodic. The
proprietor of the shipyard is the beaute-
ous Dianella Weston (Gladys Mon-
crieff), who is loved by Lieut. Peter
Verners (Russell Scott), of the Queen's
Own Regiment, and rich merchant Roger
Carstairs (Claude Flemming). Under the
cedar tree they gather: soldiers in red
coats, gold lace and shakos ; residents,
more soberly garbed ; girls in crinolines,
and Gladys in her riding-habit. They
sing sweetly and loudly of love and
friendship and childhood memories.
There is a hollow half-way up the trunk
of , the tree. Yes, you have guessed it.
Into this a fateful letter is popped by
Carvell, Dianella’s lovable but weak
young brother, and not discovered for
two years. This, of course, gives splendid
opportunity for Fate, aided by Captain
Grudgeon (Lou Vernon), to separate two
loving hearts, for Gladys to sing heart-
breaking songs leaning against the dear
old tree, and for Peter to pour out
marching songs about the pioneers. Miss
Mdncrieff’s pleasant voice gives charm
to the love lyrics and breadth to the
Coo-ee song. Claude Flemming, hand-
some and dominating, does his best bit of
work when, like the gallant gentleman
he is, he gives Gladys back her lover
and her lover his reputation. Frith’s
work is all fun, and his “Ed Like to Be
a Statue in the Park,” in which he was
supported by Susan (Phyllis Baker), is
a real laugh-raiser. Byrl Walkley’s Pru-
nella is one of the prettiest cameos in the
play., Flonorable mention is due to Alma
Palmer for her bird-ballet music.
* * *
Sydney will remember “Roberta”
(book and lyrics by Otto Harbach;
music by Jerome Kern), presented at the
Royal, more for its scenery and dressing
than for the story, music, acting or danc-
ing. The settings, executed by George
Upward, are a skilful combination of
gorgeous fabrics, novel furniture and
tasteful lighting. No less pleasing to the
eye are the frocks which adorn the
ladies. As the action mostly takes place
in a fashionable Parisian ragshop this
was to be expected, but the first-night
audience gasped at the display.
The story is a sugary lightweight, and
concerns the adventures in society of
John Kent (Frank Leighton), a tongue-
tied American college footballer, and his
sweetheart, the beautiful Stephanie
(Madge Elliott), an exiled Russian
princess who has been bossing the seam-
stresses and mannequins for Madame
Roberta (Ethel Morrison). Chaperoning
the footballer in Paris are Huckleberry
Haines (Cyril Ritchard) and Bill Boyden
o Continued on page 40.)


-H HE IX -E * S
T O
’ •€
HOPS* ••
SUGAR - '
V EAST •
t
THAT IS
THE ENERGIZING
POWER YOU NEED
When ordering
Pii.SE ME ft
SAV
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
pflH m
I • -;• .*V
M 2 >j'
J I pHMtI 4 v 1
;■
Im- :
Aim •If| * **
JSliSi
%.r
■
S'
'si
■Hi
■
S :
*1
TOSSa - #
>
,-, ' *<. $
■ •_...
■
I *
: c|
m
■
Biyi :;:i;
tooheys
1-:
4
; a :
;
m
M
r\
: «
! :» ;
i>^milnu l ui\imnimin l i\iiiiiii!ii:iiii
:
K * t P -N ~
Cool Bi »CE
*% mm
- • •• . •
Mil B II
i I
/
m
i v
mmm
f : m
n
i
m 2
II
%
m
w
a
:;
Hi
E
■
i 1 / H a « £ „
I
: i
mmm
-S,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mary Gloster”: A strange steer got
into a paddock with our milkers. Ob-
serving dust and profanity rising from
the stockyard, I went thither, to find
Choom tearing round it trying to separ-
ate the intruder from our purebred Jer-
seys in a manner calculated to reduce
the cream cheque in grievous fashion.
“Don’t worry about the bullock,” I told
him. “Just leave him in the paddock till
they send over for him.” Choom looked
at me with deepest reproach. “It’s a
very mature bullock, miss,” he said.
* * * $
“What-O!”: Don’t know whether it
is the usual habit of the brolga to scratch
a shallow nest and lay her egg on the
very edge of the water, but out Charle-
ville (Q.) way they do. It seems rather
ridiculous, as the water has only to rise
an inch or so and the egg is washed in.
* * * *
“Barklee” (Rabaul, N.G.): Every
full moon whitebait show up en masse
at the mouth of the Warrengoey River
(New Britain). This is the signal for
sharks to appear in dozens. These white-
bait, which are similar to the Maoriland
species, are much in demand by Euro-
peans and natives alike.
* # * *
“Airline”: Include the camel in the
list of animals that just simply cannot
resist the ladies (B. 27/2/’35). Old
Johnno, our whip camel, was an arrant
rogue. Probably due to ill-treatment
by the ’Ghans in the hoary days
of his youth, he had become soured to
everything in pants. Not one white-
pfeller in a hundred could bring him in,
but send out a lubra or a piccaninny,
and Johnno, looking a trifle disgusted
with himself withal, would line up for
duty in no time.
* * * *
“Kaapai” (Kavieng, N.G.): The saurian
mind is inscrutable to me. A couple of
months ago several native children were
playing in the Lossuk River (New
Ireland), when a Mary came down with
a plate of rice to wash before cooking.
She had been squatting down two
minutes when a puk-puk (crocodile)
broke the water about 10 yards away.
He came straight for the Mary, disre-
garding the children, and removed one of
her legs. The piccaninnies had been in
the water for over an hour, had played
there every day, but had never seen the
puk-puk.
* * * .*
“Mako”: It had been a dull day in our
village until Henare Wairoa came steer-
ing a dizzy course down the main street
in an ancient car. The local man in blue
held up his hand. Henare comes from
the next township, but is well known
down our way. “I didn’t know you had
a car, Henare,” observed the Law. “No
more I have,” said Henare, grinning
cheerfully. “I porrow him.” “And who
owns it?” asked the p.c., interestedly. “I
tunno,” said Henare. “I see him in town,
so I take him come down here see te
sports.” The p.c. didn’t bother to explain
it wasn’t sports day, but he did begin to
put a few leading questions about a
license. Henare was unperturbed.
“Whaffor I want te ricense?” he de-
manded. “I no got any car. I trive
petter without te ricense. Peta have te
ricense, an’ he ko over te pank into te
river.” The argument might have been
going on yet had not the p.c. ended it
by driving Henare the 10 miles back and
seeing the car returned to its rightful and
resentful owner.
“B’kali”: I have my own barometer.
Seven years ago I bade farewell to “the
East,” and in doing so dropped my topee
into Banyuwangi Harbor. An obliging
Javanese fished it out for me, and it now
hangs on the wall of my writing-room.
Although it has had numerous coats of
pipeclay it faithfully records any change
in the weather by showing irregular
splotches of grey. An hour or so
before the actual rain the dark patches
become more definite. It has yet to tell
a lie, and has been working overtime
lately owing to the sudden thunderstorms
and rain that Sydney has experienced.
:jc * * #
“Titun”; Asa model of perseverance
a black cormorant at Mario (Vic.) is
hard to beat. Fishing at
the mouth of the Snowy a
lady angler was hauling in
a flathead when the shag
grabbed the fish and hung
on. Both fish and shag
were safely landed in the
boat. The bird then
thought it better to depart
elsewhere for the moment
—but only for the moment.
“ ’Course We Wont be able to afford a fam’ly at first."
No sooner was, everyone fishing quietly
again than he sailed down, picked up the
flathead and departed, this time for
keeps.
♦ * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Six-fingered
people (B. 27/2/’35) were objects of great
reverence in the Solomons in old days—
maybe are still. It was the shooting of
a wounded six-fingered Bouka lad—to
make him sink after being thrown over-
board from the brig Carl in 1871 —that
set the talk going which scared that preci-
ous rascal Dr. James Patrick Murray
into turning Queen’s evidence against his
fellow-kidnappers. The skipper and mate
were sentenced to death in Sydney, the
sentence being commuted to 15 years’
hard labor. Murray got off scot-free
under the promise of the Consul at Apia,
to whom he confessed on condition of
Consular protection. A few years later
he was petitioning the General Medical
Council in England to restore him to the
Medical Register—in vain.
* * * *
“Titun”: Having been under canvas
during the big blow that skittled the Boy
Scouts’ tents at the Frankston (Vic.)
jamboree, I must support “Noel R.’s”
way (B. 30/1/’35) of pitching a tent as
against that of “Bogaduck” (B. 20/2/’35).
Our 6xß tent, pitched with good round
saplings, with other saplings at the sides
to take the ropes from tent and fly, stood
up to the worst of the gale. Tents with
side supports, as advocated by “Boga-
duck,” soon reminded me of a windy
washing day. The trouble with side sup-
ports is that they cannot be guyed suffi-
ciently taut to prevent them lifting, and
once the wind gets under a tent some-
thing’s got to go. And, by the way, where
does “Bogaduck” fix his fly? Does he
have another series of short poles with
spikes or does he trust in Providence and
go without one?
* * * t
“R.L.”: Nature has some rare secret's
beside that of electricity. Contractor
Stewart, on the Cracow (C.Q.) main-road
job, had been cursing his picks; they
snapped like cast-iron after a few hits.
“Try a tin of rain water,” an old smith
said. It did the trick. Dawson River water
can grow fine cotton at Theodore and
sluice the wealth out at the Golden
Plateau, but it won’t temper steel. At
least, no man in Cracow has persuaded
it to do so yet.
* * * *
“Pituri Joe”; “Kwa’s” reference to
old pipes (B. 13/2/”35) reminds me of
“Painkiller Mick,” who used to roam
the back-country on the Barcoo and
Thompson (Q.) when those areas
were back-counCry. Mick got his name
through his liking for raw painkiller, and
a man who could down it had a throat
like a hungry alligator. Anything hot
and strong suited Mick’s palate. He’d
run a mile and mortgage his soul to get
an old pipe that was foul with tobacco-
juice. Mick delighted to smash that pipe
to powder, soak it, boil it and make a
drink of the proceeds. Anything with a
bite in it suited old Mick down to the
ground—bluestone, a concoction of
spirits of salts, anything that would grip.
The old man has long since been gathered
unto his fathers, and if his fathers hap-
pen to be in the other place Old Nick
had better keep an eye on his store of
brimstone, else Mick will sneak odd
pieces of it to eat when in the humor
for a bit of a spree.
* * * *
“Regent St.”: Tell those who have
been arguing as to whether kangaroo-
tail soup is anything but an empty dream
that Fortnum and Mason, the London
caterers, put it up in tins. A catalogue
shows that they are prepared to supply
not only the alleged Australian joy but
beche-de-mer, shark-fin and bird’s-nest
soups, with many delicacies more familiar
to the multitude.
“Sniff”: Mention of the disappear-
ance of the fragrant smoked mutton-
bird from Sydney menus (B. 20/2/’35)
reminds me that the delicacy is likely to be
scarce even in places like Melbourne,
which seem particularly addicted to the
fowl. The past year has seen a tremen-
dous mortality among the birds from the
islands of the Barrier Reef down to the
better-known rookeries off the Victorian
coast. Many thousands were washed
ashore in a dying condition ; investiga-
tion showed that starvation was the
trouble. The birds feed on the wing at
sea, and for some unaccountable reason
their staple food has vanished off the
map along all the eastern and south-
eastern coastline. What that food is no
one seems to know exactly, though the
birds are popularly supposed to subsist
on small shoal fish, and have often been
watched gathering them in.
* * • * *
“Bradish”: A newchum at Wolfram
(N.Q.) used his own method of carrying
gelignite. He wandered up to where
we were working with the remark
that he must have got a touch of the
sun, as he had “the very devil of a head-
ache.” As he came into the shade he
pulled off his hat, and two plugs of frac-
ture fell to the ground. He had been
carrying them on his head.
“Koolpinya”: How about this for
judgment? Some years ago, when I was
partner in a cattle station in the N.T.,
a little mob of bullocks was driven off
the run into Darwin for shipment to
Manila. While they were waiting to be
entrained the local butcher, F. E. Holmes,
came and examined them. There were
53 in the mob, and Holmes said that
they would average 11381 b. on the hoof,
while one big bullock would go 14101 b.
When they were put over the weigh-
bridge that afternoon the mob averaged
11281 b., and the big bullock touched
14051 b.
* * # Jfc
“32 x 40”: Ask “Saltbush Bill” (B.
13/2/’35) if he has never heard of Paddy
and Mick Durack. Alongside their drov-
ing trip of 1883-85 the Canadian trek of
reindeer fades into insignificance. Leav-
ing Mt. Marlow (Q.) station with 2000
cows, the Durack brothers with their
plant and men commenced a journey of
2500 miles to Nor’-Westralia. Travel-
ling over practically unknown country,
menaced for the greater part of the jour-
ney by hostile blacks, stricken down re-
peatedly by beri-beri and fever, and en-
countering such minor troubles as pleuro
and redwater in their cattle, long dry
stages without water and hungry crocs,
waiting for them at every river crossing,
the brothers eventually arrived at their
destination, the Ord River, just two and
a half years after leaving Mt. Marlow—
and with the greater part of their herd
intact. This undoubtedly ranks as the
greatest droving feat of all time.
* * * *
“M.G.”: The old proverb Ex Nihil
nihil fit will have to be revised. A Nhill
(Vic.) woman found a strange snake
wandering about the main street and,
forwarding it to the Australian Museum
for identification, was told it was a
genuine sea snake, which had somehow
covered the 200 miles between the coast
and Nhill. How it reached this distant
Wimmera town is a mystery ; snakes —
especially sea snakes—aren’t given to little
strolls of 200 miles. There are salt lakes
not far from Nhill, and if that snake
came from one of these many zoological
possibilities are ahead. Bathers at Ood-
nadatta may yet be complaining about
the shark menace.
*** * N
“Blazeaway”: I had yarded a mob of
sheep at Walthro (Q.) in drizzling rain,
with a fair bit of lightning doing its stuff.
I cantered to the hut to let my horse go.
There was a sliprail, about three feet
high, in a gateway ; instead of getting off
to let it down I decided to push Bluey
over it. Just as he was gathering himself
together to take the jump a flash of light
ran along that rail, blazing everything
with a weird green. Bluey never rose
to the jump; he slid along on his
haunches, all brakes on hard, he and I
both with our mouths open and our eyes
staring. He hit that rail with his chest
and smashed it. Bluey might have got
a bit of a shock —I did. It was mental
and moral rather than physical.
-t- * *
“Ume”: The open-air zoo at Whip-
snade in England has helped to upset a lot
of preconceived notions about birds and
animals from overseas. The emus, com-
ing from the allegedly blazing deserts of
Australia, were always carefully coddled
at Regent’s Park in cold weather and
kept under shelter. At Whipsnade they
have shown that the bitterest weather
makes no difference to them; they
wade about in deep snow far more freely
than the polar bears, for instance. In
one respect they live up to their Austra-
lian reputation for damphoolishness.
They make their nests and lay their eggs
according to the Australian calendar.
The penguin is about the only bird
which can hatch its eggs on ice or snow,
so the emu eggs are collected and kept
in warm storage until a clutch is got
together. Then the lot is handed over to
papa emu, who proceeds to hatch them
out-of-doors, and has now made a suc-
cess of the job for a couple of years
running.
“BACK OF BOURKE."
The speaker sketches distant scenes
And waves his hand; his hearers soar
Across the space that intervenes
Between them and some far-off shore.
So writers anxious to impart
A touch of distance to their work
Bring vagueness to the aid of art
With captions such as “Back of Bourke.”
I wonder if these writers knew
The township which I used to know,
The Dugans, Gales, Joe Donohue—
Those Bungs of forty years ago.
1 wonder if they ever stood
At Tcjttersall’s long-gone “bush bar,”
And yarried and drank when times were good
With station-hands from near and far.
I wonder if these writers knew
Those river-liners, trim and pert,
The Florence Annie, Wandering Jew,
The Cumberoona and the Sturt;
Or heard the bustle and the din,
The “Whoa, boys, whoa!” —the shepherd’s
shout
When droves of cattle coming in
Met sheep in thousands going out.
The hours were long, the food was rough,
In those old days, you can’t deny;
Yet life was fair and full enough
The most of us to satisfy.
Small wonder, then, that, in among
My memories; regrets still lurk
That times have changed since I was young
And earned my living “Back of Bourke.”
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


“Kwakprak”: The banning of Austra-
lian parrots in M.L. has puzzled some
people, and caused others to denounce
it as a parochial and petty action. In
reality it is due to the existence amongst
Australian parrakeets of psittacosis,
which is transmissible to humans, and
a nasty job at that. The causative germ
is related to the typhoid group. Maori-
land has had previous trouble from par-
rots of its own, one species of which, the
kea, took to pulling the kidney-fat out of
sheep. Lots of sheepfarmers would
gladly see the kea exterminated by psit-
tacosis, but it is a hardy and cantanker-
ous fowl which would probably con-
trive to pass the disease on to the sheep
or the sheepowner and itself remain free
to carry on its nephrotomy operations.
♦ * ♦ $
“W.P.T.”: Saw an old abo. wearing a
felt hat of very ancient vintage. As I
had bought a new one I gave him my
left-off, a fairly good one. He thanked
me profusely. Next day I saw him wear-
ing the new hat I had given him —
crammed down over the dirty and torn
old one.
$ $ * *
“The O.D.”: Add to the common
enemies of man Pediculoides ventricosus,
an abomination making its presence felt
in western N.S.W. this year. P.V. is a
mite invisible to the naked eye which
lives among hay, and its appearance is
probably another of the manifestations
following a season of erratic weather.
“The luckiest day of your life Was when you won me.
“ Gawn—I once won a suckin'-pig in a raffle.”
Workers, horses and cattle on 11
farms in the Trundle district were
attacked by the mite, which caused
slight swellings, irritation and blisters up
to iin. in diameter. Cattle and horses
showed marked aversion to feeding on
the hay from which they were infected.
P.V. is a parasite of many insects,
notably the grain moth, and the ladies
produce fully-developed offspring alive.
These attach themselves to insects like
ticks to dogs, and engorge ; but, in a year
when population is heavy, wandering
females, like their human sisters, will
take any port in a storm. It is probable
that man is not an ideal host, but it is
certain that he suffers when the itch
starts, and the trouble may last as long
as 72 hours. A hot bath and methy-
lated spirits externally are recommended.
» # * *
“L. de F.”: A red-backed spider
appeared to be having some sparring
practice with a slater beetle in his web.
Though the slater was apparently dead
the spider administered heavy pugilistic
clouts to its body, using various limbs in
shifts. Perhaps it’s the recognised rule
for making slater steaks tender. After
ten minutes or so he took a grip of
the joint and, going into reverse gear,
ran up the web. Then in a sheltered spot
he appeared to go into a trance of glut-
tony over his meat.
$ * * *
“Speewaa”: East and West did meet
at Underbool (Vic.) the other day.
Mahomet Anwar, an Afghan cameleer
and farmer, had his uninsured house
burned down and his children suffo-
cated. The white settlers surrounding
him —people who have just faced a
Mallee summer filled with dust and grass-
hoppers and low prices—raised £3O in
cash to give him a new outfit, and by
voluntary labor erected him a new cot-
tage.
* * * #
“Kali”: Those Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
gobies (B. 20)2/’35) can’t claim the
record for Australia’s smallest fish. That
distinction belongs to the demoiselles,
brilliantly-colored finny atoms that in-
habit the coral branches of all reefs
along the Barrier. One species is fully
grown at half an inch, and is consid-
ered to be the smallest vertebrate fish
known to science. These little chaps can
be captured only by lifting a piece of
coral and shaking it over a basin filled
with water. The demoiselles fall from
their haven and can then be easily picked
up by hand, becoming confused in the
coral-free water.
'S I
“Tom Willie”: Talking about sharks
in fresh water and fish wearing boots,
has any Aboliar seen a whale high and
dry inland, 500 ft. above sea-level? At
Glenbrook (N.S.W.) there is one em-
bedded in the cutting at the railway
station. The whale may have been left
behind during the great subsidence when
the ocean fell away from the mountains,
but how did it become part of the
present-day rock? When the cutting was
made the whale was cut clean in two
along its full length from head to tail,
and anyone can see it there, although it
is only half the animal it used to be.
“What-O! ”; Newchums
do have some queer brain-
waves. The boss told Her-
bert to ride straight from
the hill he was on to one
about a mile away and
pick up any strays on the
way over. The country
was very scrubby, so to be
sure of going straight
"I teach you fool round with Mary!”
“You leabit alone—Mary bin teach this pheller already!”
Herbert tied a stick to the pommel of
his saddle. He reckoned that if he
always kept that stick straight in front
of him he couldn’t go wrong. Need-
. less to say he never reached the
hill, and one of the musterers had to go
and find him.
* * *
“Findy”: That Melbourne cockatoo
(B. 6/3/’35) must have been made of
better-insulated stuff than its Adelaide
cousin who also had an argument with
high-tension wires. An eyewitness de-
scribed the episode to me thus; Cocky
hopped along from hedge to hedge
dangling his chain. His owner followed,
trying to coax him back. All of a sudden
the bird flew up and across the street
towards the h.-t. wires. Followed a
bright flash and a wisp of smoke. Then
the chain fell down in three pieces—
without any sign of cocky.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”; That ancient Greek custom
of throwing flour-cakes into a pond (B,
20/2/’35) brings back memories of the
culinary efforts of Big Jack the Swede.
He used to knock
about the Barkly
Tableland (N.T.) be-
fore the war, and,
though I will admit
that he never claimed
to be other than a
fencer, when fencing
was scarce he would
tackle anything. When
cooks were scarcer
even than fencing con-
tracts, Jack got the
job of babbler to our
cattle camp. One
morning we were rid-
ing out with a cattle-
buyer ; and as we
crossed the creek at
the top of the camp
hole the buyer re-
marked, “The water
must have dried up a
lot since yesterday, I
never noticed those
rocks uncovered be-
fore.” We stared hard
—rocks were as scarce
as polar bears in that
creek—till old Andy,
riding ahead, turned
and snapped, “Rocks
be darned! They’re
Big Jack’s dampers!”
As they had reversed
expectations and mira-
culously floated, the Grecian oracle was
vindicated, and Jack moved on to spoil
someone else’s tucker. The boss wasn’t
worrying about the strain on our diges-
tions ; flour was too scarce to stand a
continuation of the Swede’s experiments.
“Monto”: On the Gin Gin-Bundaberg
(Q.) road there is a gum-tree, 60ft. high,
growing without roots in the ground.
Many years ago it must have developed
a severe list, and finally it rested itself
in the fork of a neighboring gum of the
same species. The two trees continued
to grow thus, one leaning on the other,
and in process of time the forked tree
spread an enveloping layer of bark over
its companion at the point of fusion.
Some eight or nine years ago road repairs
required the digging out of the roots of
the leaning tree, it was sawn through
about four feet from the ground, the
butt being uprooted, but it continues to
grow. The trunk, suspended now several
feet above the ground, is dying very
slowly, but there is still a quantity of
sappy bark on it. Above the point of
fusion with the other tree there is a mass
of healthy foliage.
# * *
“Airline”; “Kooragai” knows his
’Bidgee whalers pretty well (B. 6/3/’35).
The old type —swaggie, whaler, battler—
is rapidly dying out. You will still meet
odd members of the fraternity camped
in the old familiar bends, but the roarin’,
te%rin’ old boys of the ’nineties, with their
hair-raising tales of strikes, shed-burn-
ings, gold rushes, big droving trips, fever,
blacks and booze, will soon be but a
memory. In the last year or so I have
seen a dozen pass on their last tramp.
With the pension keeping the bags com-
fortably full to the end, in most cases it
was a pleasant trip, the only fear being,
as the time to depart drew nigh: “I hope
they don’t send me down to that blasted
Home!” With an ingrained hatred of
discipline in any form and a lifetime of
far horizons behind them, their fear of
that and all it entailed was pathetic.
* * * *
“Matlow”; I am afraid that sheep-
dog who worked to nautical phrases like
“port” and “starboard” (B. 6/3/’35)
would be flummoxed if he had to take
commands as laid down by the Board of
Trade in accordance with international
agreement. All the hardy mariners of the
earth now give the order “helm right” or
“helm left,” as the case may be, adding
the number of points as may be neces-
sary,
* * * *
“Runa”: The godwit {kuaka in M.L.),
like the curlew, does not breed entirely
in Siberia. Ornithologists who make the
pilgrimage to the northern beaches of
Auckland Province to witness the great
annual migration of the kuakas always
report a proportion of birds left behind.
Many of the non-voyagers are old, but
among them are young birds whose wing-
power is not equal to the tremendous
journey. They probably fly with the
company next season.
THE CITY PROSPECTORS.
They never know the thrills that come to those
who blaze the track
(Though freely I admit that thrills were rare
with me outback); .
They’ve never shared the spacious life that s
known to hardier men
(Though I confess I’ve found it bore me sadly,
now and then);
But I would like to say, before the price ot
gold goes down:
I hand it to the men who do their mining in
the town.
They may not know the rare delight—of which
you might have read —•
That’s felt by those whose big dream-lode is
somewhere on ahead.
They cannot share the wild surmise of him
who seeks and delves,
But still, whomever else they trick, they seldom
trick themselves.
They never see the far blue hills turn to a
thirsty brov/n,
Yet I extol each gallant soul who prospects
round the town.
Although they never go outback in search of
something new,
They bear, for all their confidence, a load of
worry, too.
From day to day they can but guess, for never
can they know
How much the mugs will,stand and just how
far it’s safe to go,
Or whether the supply of such will fail and
let them down.
Uneasy goes the way of those who prospect
round the town.
Maybe the greenstone country calls to higher,
nobler ends,
But there is something to be said for those
whose dividends
Are from the flagstone country won by endless
enterprise,
And who sell wisdom, of a kind, to those who
think they’re wise.
So I would like to say, before the price of
gold goes down:
They also serve who have the nerve to mine
around the town.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


m
MADE IM
AUSTRALIA
BY
<omz-xo>2:
mmm
□nr-zoui-p*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Gauge and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams. “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
m
Gives a
u/Kole daif's
running for sixpence
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: ITovver, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
■ MADE Itt QUEEAJSLAAJO BV
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEY' BRIS.BA/NE - VXM
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGIŢS LINSEED MEAL.
THE SUCCESS COMPETITION.
FROM £4OO TO £4OOO.
This story, by “Jack Track,” The
Stream, via Mudgee (N.S.W.), won a
Bulletin drawing :
I turned £4OO into £4OOO in eight years,
phis capital value, which has increased to
£BOOO in stock and land assets, without
dealing. I know this can be bettered by
many farmers. The land responds
readily to faithful and hard work.
In 1920 sheep-dealing sent me “up
King-street,” and although disheartened
I called on my 20 years’ experience with
stock and land to give me another start.
In 1926, with £4OO saved, there were
three avenues open to me: share-farm-
ing, small blocks for intense culture, or
an abandoned, unimproved, rabbit-
stricken area of 3000 acres. I chose the
last, half of which was freehold and the
balance Crown lease. The equity of the
chap who had been chased off it by the
rabbits was bought for £5O, and the
£lOOO mortgage was transferred to me.
It adjoined large areas of scrub Crown
lands, and was bare of grass: a desolate,
windswept, rabbit-riddled waste. The
neighbors were sceptical, but allowed that
without the rabbits it would carry stock.
I knew that rabbits are reliable judges
of good country. I bought 400 aged
ewes for £240, and two miles of wire-
netting for £lOO. This left £lO for us
(a family of four) to carry on with, plus
an advance against my wool clip. That
year the true struggle came. We lived
on the barest of necessities: home-made
bread and butter (we fed two cows in
exchange for their milk), mutton and a
few home-grown vegetables. For sup-
plies we bought only tea, sugar, salt and
flour. The three-roomed, iron-roofed hut
was unbearably hot in summer, and the
wind whistled through the slabs in winter.
We had no car or conveyance other than
horses to cover the 25 miles over pack-
horse roads to the supply centre.
In the first 12 months my son and I
put up two miles of netting fence, dug
out rabbits and burnt up their harbor
on 200 acres, and put in 10 acres of
lucerne, there being a single-furrow
plough and a harrow on the place. We
fed a neighbor’s draught horses for the
ploughing. That year and the two suc-
ceeding ones were above the average for
the wool and stock market, and this
helped us to get gradually on our feet.
We spent our money carefully, and made
a practice of buying only those goods and
materials that we could pay cash for,
which has proved a golden rule.
' Thus in 1928 we were prepared to
spend our surplus income on wages and
materials for improvements.
From then to 1934 I have built a shear-
ing-shed and bought machinery costing
£5OO ; erected 20 miles of netting fence
costing £2OOO in material and wages;
ringbarked, suckered, picked-up and
burnt off 1500 acres, costing £4OO, and
cleared the rabbits out of 2800 acres,
costing approximately £B4O. It has all
come out of the proceeds of wool and
lambs over a period of eight years.
This farm is now carrying 2000 sheep
and 100 cattle, and there are yet only 20
acres under cultivation. Last season 1100
surplus sheep and 20 head of cattle were
sent to the fat-stock market.
I consider that my success has been
due firstly to faith in the land, followed
by the purchase of wire-netting, the
clearing-out of rabbits and ringbarking.
Many farmers about here believed that
the scrub land was not worth taking up
and fencing, but my resultant well-
grassed and richly pastured country has
altered their opinions.
I pin my faith to the larger areas
of unimproved country, which it will
pay to wire-net and clear of timber
and rabbits, then to lucerne grasses
and clovers for feeding pure-bred sheep,
cattle and horses. My homestead is still
rough, and our only conveyance is horse
and sulky or cart; but my account at
the bank is good. The pleasures of a
convenient homestead and the luxury of
a motor-car must wait until the addi-
tional Crown lands permitted me are
under production. I have set my mind
on a holding of 5000 sheep, and see no-
thing to stop me —provided my surplus
income is expended on wire-netting,
wages, materials and improved pastures.
ENTERO-TOX^EMIA.
“F.L.8.”: “Agamemnon” (B. 6/3/’35)
advocates methods of control which were
used by us eight years ago and aban-
doned as soon as e.-t. was discovered.
When “A.’s” antiquated methods were
used the disease was known as “pulpy
kidney disease.” His advice regarding
the removal of the affected sheep to
harder and coarser feed is the only point
that is correct, but this knocks the lambs
about too much for market purposes.
E.-t. is caused by the organism Bacillus
ovitoxicus (Dr. H. W. Bennett’s), which
closely resembles the common soil organ-
ism, B. welchii. Both germs live in the
soil indefinitely, and are picked up by
the sheep whilst grazing. After extensive
research, Dr. Bennett succeeded in isolat-
ing the germ. Vaccine was then made
in the ordinary way. This I used. The
idea is exactly the same as in any other
form of inoculation against any of the
human diseases.
The germ gets into the alimentary
tract, and, under excessive protein condi-
tions, multiplies rapidly. At one stage it
liberates a powerful toxin which kills the
animal. Removal from lush feed lessens
the consumption of too much protein
and so stops B. ovitoxicus from being
able to multiply. It is only a preventive,
and feeding roughage to sheep on rich
pastures, or keeping a rough stack open
in the paddock, or allowing sheep access
to grass as well as lucerne checks the
trouble also.
“Agamemnon” slips again over con-
trol sheep for my tests. The first test
was made with 25 p.c. left as controls
under the supervision of a stock inspec-
tor and a Government vet. officer. The
result conclusively proved the value of
inoculation.
Again this year over 100 sheep were
left as controls, and the result was as
definitely in favor of the vaccine as an
insurance against the disease.
Finally, the disease is always present
in the ground on infected properties. If
one does not inoculate and destroy
affected carcasses as well, it will break
out immediately excessive protein is
absorbed by the sheep.
Our property, recognised as one of the
richest in our N.S.W. district, carries 400
acres of cutting lucerne which averages
four to five cuts a year according to the
season, and in every way is an ideal place
to give the vaccine a good test. Since
using it, our losses on inoculated sheep
have practically ceased.
I suggest that in “districts where the
disease is bad, and where the stock-
owners would laugh at my results,” they
should either administer the vaccine pro-
perly or look for other troubles. E.-t.
is not the only thing which will cause
death on rich properties.
Great care has to be exercised with
the vaccine to keep it cool—away from
the sun when being used in the yards—the
container’s cork sterilised, etc. It should
not be used again after it has once been
opened. Deaths take place as freely as
ever until the second day after the second
dose. After this time immunity is
assured for one year only.
I have extensively studied e.-t. for the
last eight years, because of my past stock
losses, which were at times heavy. I gave
the vaccine a two years’ trial before
forwarding the facts to The Bulletin.
HOT-IRON LAMB-MARKING.
“Corriedale”: “Right Angle” can be
well advised by “Lion” to use the sear-
ing iron for marking (B. 27/2/’35). I
have used it, and have never lost one
lamb at marking-time. My neighbor
marked about 4000 yearly, with losses of
less than p.c.
When the tail is cut and held ’between
the fingers, three veins will be seen spurt-
ing. Sear these with a pointed iron.
Leave the main flesh untouched—it will
only bleed a little.
It is not blood loss that is usually the
trouble in tailing, but tetanus and poison-
ing. The seared veins eliminate that risk.
The chief danger lies in the undipped
knife or clam. They must be dipped at
each cut, and be used dripping with the
disinfectant. And a sharp knife has
many virtues.
BOTULISM IN SHEEP.
“B-gar”: The C.S.I.R. has come to
the conclusion that botulism in sheep is
due primarily to the eating of either
rabbit carcasses or pastures adjacent to
where rabbits have died. Heavy losses
in Westralia during the past five years
seem to point to the deductions of the
C.S.I.R. being correct. I know of one
case in W.A. where on unnetted country
mortality amongst the young sheep was
high during a dry period, yet inside the
rabbit-proof barrier, where old ewes were
grazing, deaths were only nominal.
The craving for mineral causes the
sheep to acquire epicurean tastes, and
thus in rabbit-infested country the ten-
dency is to eat bones or even rotting
carcasses. The provision of a lick con-
taining the requisite minerals will tend
to put sheep off a carcass diet, but once
the germs have become established cura-
tive measures are hopeless.
CROP ROTATION.
“Granova”; In the older wheat dis-
tricts of southern N.S.W. farmers com-
plain that land is becoming increasingly
difficult to cultivate. The heavier soils
have lost friability, and set down badly
after rain. Much land is infested with
black oats and skeleton weed, making
profitable wheatgrowing out of the ques-
tion.
These troubles are largely due to the
old system of cropping, i.e. fallow, wheat,
fallow, wheat, with an occasional stubble
crop of wheat or oats.
Now that wool and fat-lamb prices are
firm farmers should work their land on a
much wider rotation. Only first-class
wheatland should be cultivated. Any
other should be sown to pasture.
Divide the land suitable for cultiva-
tion into three equal parts, and each year
have one portion sown to wheat, one
portion fallowed for next year’s crop
and the remaining portion sown to oats.
Sow the oats on the area under wheat
the previous year, and use for grazing,
hay or sileage.
This rotation will enable a large num-
ber of sheep to be carried, and will also
restore the fertility and condition of the
soil.
Mixed farmers (sheep and wheat)
should not miss the opportunity of con-
serving adequate quantities of grain out
of the current harvest, especially grain,
below f.a.q. standard. In addition to the
ever-present threat of dry spells, we have
the unpleasant possibility of another
grasshopper invasion in the autumn.
Last autumn about £lb. wheat per head
per day fed to lambing ewes was suffi-
cient to save the lambs until green feed
was available. Some district farmers
who had sold thousands of bags of wheat
off their properties several months before
were forced to buy wheat again in order
to save their lambs. Grain is the
cheapest form of fodder (in proportion to
its feed value) to store and protect, and
also to feed.
SEASONAL MAIZE PESTS.
“The 0.D.”: Monolepta A ustralis, a
yellow beetle about -fin. long, with
four bright cerise patches, is chewing
up the tasselling and cobbing maize
on the Clarence (N.S.W.). The insect
is a native of the locality, and peri-
odically appears as a plague, the
present being the worst visitation for
many years. Best methods of con-
trol are flares made by wrapping bagging
round the end of a 6ft. pole, soaking the
torch in kerosene, lighting it and carry-
ing along the rows at night. Monolepta
flies into the flare. Dusting with a 50
p.c. lead-arsenate powder where the
beetles are thickest is good; so is
sprinkling with one part pyrethrum
powder to four parts ordinary flour.
Time of attack should be night or early
morning, when beetles are slow. Mono-
lepta will also attack citrus-, pip- and
stone-fruits, favors certain species of
wattle, and thrives on the imported
pepper-tree.
EROSION OF RICH LAND.
“Lad”: The writer of “Drifting Lands”
(B. 6/2/’35) should stand on a hilltop
of my banana plantation in S. Queens-
land, after we have had a couple of
decent thunderstorms, and cast his eyes
on the sea.
For a mile or more around the mouth
of a creek which drains the neighboring
country the ocean is discolored like the
Caribbean where the Amazon empties.
The mountainous country about the
source of this coastal stream has some of
the richest agricultural land in Australia.
When the jungle was felled bananas
were planted, and no thought was given
to soil retention. Giant logs, charred and
blackened as they are, could have easily
been thrown across the hillsides to hold
the wash, and there are often quantities
of rocks close by. No attempt is made at
terracing, such as is done in other lands.
“Land is cheap,” we say. “Why worry?”
Fifty years hence it will most certainly
be a different story.
MYCOTIC DERMATITIS.
“Sorghum”: Why wait for sheep to
get so bad as to need shearing? “The
0.D.” (B. 6/2/’35) mentions that dipping
is futile. He is wrong. This skin disease
can be effectively controlled by dipping
in copper sulphate (bluestone) in the pro-
portions of 1-500.
The general opinion that dipping is in-
effective is the result of trying to combine
(Continued on page 24.)


Ik.
Bl
Tyre dealers everywhere acclaim the“G&
the most
k
m
I
a
m
§
£
i
i
W'
H
I
m.
M
• :¥v
>v\V
ID
V
In*
SB^N
“The ‘G-3’ sells much more readily than any other tyre
, , .in fact, it is increasing my tyre sales very considerably
—C.T.S. (Dealer, S.A.)
• SAFETY—More non-skid blocks.
• TRACTION Flatter, wider
thicker tread.
• DURABlLlTY —Supertwist Cord
r—fan exclusive Goodyear
warcass feature)
• SMOOTHNESS Wider riding
ribs.
9 MILEAGE —Pounds more rubber
in the tread.
THESE FEATURES FORM THE BASIS OF GOODYEAR'S
PROMISED 43% MORE NON-SKID MILEAGE AT NO EXTRA COST
▲
■
6-CB-35
MADE-IN AUSTRALIA^*
4 ■ .it;., .
The men who sell tyres day in, day out, soon discover what tyre
the public is buying—and the public response to the "G-3" has
proved to Goodyear Dealers in city, country and outback, that
this is the most sensationally successful tyre they have ever sold.
Now that the "G-3" has been months on the road, Goodyear
Dealers’ customers are coming their mileages—
showing the tread life still left in the "G-3"—and are ordering
one, two, three or a full set on the spot.
On ail kinds of roads, in all kinds of service, the "G-3" story is
the same story of performance that has beaten everything
promised for the "G-3".
From Goodyear Dealers' own pens come hundreds of reports like
these:—
“Our Clients say the
'G-3 ’ is a big improve
ment on previous tyres,
both as regards extra
mileage and appear-
ance
.—A.G.C. (Dealer, Tas.)
“Every day the public
is increasingly demand-
ing the ‘G-3\ We have
never before experi-
enced such keen enthu-
siasm as this tyre has
created among users."'
A.T.C. (Dealer, N.S.W.)


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
m
■y..;
u
am
The boot for work
It’s strongly reinforced for hardest,
all-weather wear. It’s lined with
soft leather for extra comfort. It
is snug-fitting and practical , , . the
Abbey Cossack, a ruggedly-built,
money-saving work boot, with a
double sole of the toughest leather.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or
tan, at 2/6. This is splendid for
working and riding boots —it
softens the leather, makes it water-
proof and increases its wearing
qualities.
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY. BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 429.
STOMACH MINS
BANISHED//
74 YEARS
OLD BUT
-LIFE
WORTH
LIVING
AGAIN
m
mm. ■.
if |"J;
‘FIRST DOSE RELIEVED THE PAIN’
says Mr. E. Kelland of Exeter, who writes;*
“For a long time I suffered severe pains
in my stomach; it seemed to be getting
worse until I dreaded eating anything.
The pain got so bad I was afraid I had a
malignant growth in my stomach. I was
advised to try ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia—the
very first dose relieved the pain and now
I can eat practically anything without
any pain whatever. I am 74 years old
and life seems worth living again."
What appeared to Mr. Kelland to be a
serious disease proved to be another case
of Acidity! This condition is prevalent
among men and women of all ages and is
responsible for such ailments as indiges-
tion, gastritis, stomach ulcers, headaches,
biliousness, insomnia, etc.—all symp-
toms of acidity. It’s marvellous how
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia attacks and defeats
acidity—it’s amazing how it gives such
quick and lasting relief—the reason is
that it instantly removes the cause.
There is no more effective antacid
than ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia—that is why
doctors and hospitals have used and
recommended it for over 20 years and
still consider it has no rival.
‘OISURATED'
MAGNESIA
POWDER TABLETS
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package Pears the
oval ‘Bismag' Trade Mark -
-sv«
i
tfl/K lls ' ? •■■- ll
MFCKBITOWO
m
m
V
ll
100% PENNSYLVANIA
AT ITS BEST
NEPTUNE OILC?
LIMITED ••• ALLSTATES
TVHAT Veedol Motor Oil has
X gained fame all over the
world is reflected in the fact
that Veedol can be secured in
over 65 different countries —
Veedol is the choice of mil-
lions of motorists, because
they themselves have made
comparisons and discovered
its superior performance.
If you want complete
motor protection
economy smoothness of
operation easy starting
then use Veedol! It
costs no more than orther
oils.
100% Pure Pennsylvania
At Its Best.
.... “ALWAYS
Simoniz a New Car
The New Kieener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
in the one operation the ordinary arseni-
cal dipping against lice and tick, etc., with
the copper-sulphate dip for Mycotic der-
matitis.
Copper-sulphate and arsenic dips used
together cause the dip to sink to the
bottom owing to changes due to the
mutual action of the two chemicals.
Another factor opposed to combining
the two operations is that Mycotic der-
matitis needs treating in autumn, which
is not the time for dipping against ticks
and lice.
Where dipping is done in that month
against the disease a second treatment
a month later will complete an effective
protection.
These measures are endorsed by State
vets.
“Bundalinga”: Dips have been tried
for “lumpy wool” without success. The
only cure is to shear the affected sheep
(away from the others) and to segregate
them until the condition has disappeared.
Moisture promotes the growth of the
fungus that causes “lumpy wool,” and
keeping the sheep dry after shearing
clears it out.
NITROGEN NEGLECT.
“Stump Jump”: Superphosphate is
excellent, but its use has been inclined
to develop at the expense of a nitrogen
mind. The sudden discovery two seasons
ago that ammonia sulphate (nitrogen
manure) improved stubble-crop yields
was only definite proof that crop yields
have gone back over years of cropping,
not merely because of lack of phosphoric
acid in the soil, but also from nitrogen
deficiency.
Cereals are poor nitrogen-forming
plants. Nitrogen is stored in the soil
by bacteria, which translate it from the
roots or buried portions of good nitro-
gen-extracting plants. These get it solely
from the air. Clovers, lucerne or other
legumes are the only plants capable of
doing this. A crop of field peas or cow-
grass ploughed in would provide enough
nitrogen for four or five years of stubble
crops.
Every plant needs nitrogen. Wheat
has been bred for thousands of years in
nitrogen-rich soil.
Nitrogen can be leached from the
ground by excessive rainfall. Over-
stocking also takes a heavy toll. All
round it will pay the farmer to consider
'lack of nitrogen as a possible cause of
unexplained crop failures.
TIPPING V. DEHORNING.
“Hortus”: Dehorning is a recognised
practice to ensure a better quality of
Australian beef. It should be carried
out on the calves at branding-time. De-
horning grown cattle is asking for trouble
in States where the fly is troublesome,
as in N.S.W.
In the New England it has been found
more profitable to tip the horns of adult
cattle. Cut the tip off the horn as far
back as possible, without reaching the
cavity. Then treat the surface with a
dressing of whale oil, tetrachloride 5
p.c. and phenol crystals 4 p.c. No after-
attention is needed. The operation is
quickly performed without pain and pos-
sibility of subsequent check. Given an
efficient crush, about 40 cattle can be put
through in an hour.
The best crush is Col. H. F. White’s.
The other day five men put through 193
grown bullocks in 4? hours with it. The
animal is run into the crush, the work-
ing end of which is protected by a semi-
circular guard gate. A spring is released,
operating a clamp that securely locks the
head. The guard gate is then opened,
and the head, horns and nose are lassoed
to the crush with a rope. A wooden lever-
slips a 2|in, circle of |in. by -{in. iron
over the horn. By depressing the other
end against the head the horn is held
immovable while the operator cuts off
the tip with a fine saw. While the second
horn is being secured and tipped the
dressing is applied with a brush.
This neat and quick operation is
humane. It prevents cattle from scoring
their hides and bruising flesh, to the
detriment of their beef value.
The advocates of tipping claim that
once the apimal discovers that the points
of its horns are missing it loses fear of
injury, becomes quiet and grazes more
contentedly.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dav.”; Cover the insides and outsides
of spare petrol-tins with sump oil to pre-
vent rusting, and store for future use.
They become harder to get every year.
“Louden”; Nails with the tapered ends
cut off can easily be driven through hard-
wood weatherboards, palings, etc., close
to the ends without risk of splitting the
boards. It is easier than boring holes.
“Eureka”: Two ounces of soft-soap
dissolved in a little water and added to
the whitewash will prevent it from peel-
ing or rubbing off walls and bails.
“W.P.T.”; To make the farm-lorry seat
comfortable cut a hole about Ift.
square in the box and tack strips of old
motor inner-tube across the hole, inter-
lacing them. It’s as comfortable as a
theatre seat.
“Cockyson”: Maize when sown on
soils of volcanic origin is apt to de-
velop a destructive form of blight in
good seasons. The blight may be dodged
as a rule by sowing very early and very
late. In the warmer districts the early
crop should be sown in June and the late
crop towards the end of February. The
middle-season crop, usually sown in
October, is best left alone in parts where
the blight occurs regularly.
“A.G.T.”: A 2ft. two-fold etched steel
rule, graduated in Bths, 16ths, 32nds and
64ths, is best for the farm workshop.
Do not let the rust eat into it —rub it
occasionally on fine sandpaper or emery-
cloth,
“Eureka”: There are many reasons
for thinning potato shoots. Nip off all
shoots in excesss of three, leaving the
strongest shoots intact. You will find that
you will have fewer tiny, useless potatoes
than are usually left behind to rot. Your
plants will be healthier and free from
disease, since the sunlight can get into
the foliage. Spray will be far more
effective if the tops have been thinned
out.
“Bill R.”: A handy path weeder can
be made from an old lightning-cut saw.
Cut the blade into three equal lengths.
Heat their upper corners to soften the
steel, and drill each with a -yin. bit. To
the first section rivet a socket for the
handle. Place lengths of 2in. by lin.
board between the upper edges of the
blades, and bolt the whole firmly to-
gether. Drawn backward and forward
this implement will tear out all weeds.
“La Belle”: No matter how accom-
plished at bridle-breaking a horse may
be he has a weakness. The point is to
find it. I used to own a bay mare that
would break every class of bridle. But
throw the reins over her head, leaving
them dangle unsecured, and she would
stand like a carven image. I had many
a long walk home before I learned how
to put a stop to her funny business.
“The Breaker”: It’s a far too common
occurrence for horses to be shod on the
front feet only, but a little forethought
would prove that, whereas a horse can
see where it puts its front feet, it is un-
able to pick spots for its hind ones. If
a horse is worth shoeing, shoe it all
around. No horse being worked over
rough country can keep its condition un-
shod.
“Jayaren”: With all due respect to
“Catchpenny” (B. 6/2/’35), I have yet
to see the cow that will turn up her nose
at a milk-thistle. I have dished thistles
out to cows by the armful, and they
guzzled them, stems, roots and all, and
came back for more,
“Tumbe Munda”: A great deal of
lamb sickness and mortality has occurred
around Lucindale (S.A.) on lands highly
improved with clover and other soft
pastures. Graziers who had rushes in
their paddocks found that after a number
of seasons of top-dressing the rushes dis-
appeared, At first it was thought that
the super, killed them, but we are now
finding that they were eaten out. While
the rushes, which provided ration bulk,
were there the sheep were healthy. When
the rushes were gone scouring com-
menced. It seems a tip worth knowing
about.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent. Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
If
I
i: t
Ifa
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
‘METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
P.O.M.C.
It takes more than Greece to make
things run smoothly!
* *
“Last week a new type of lie-detector was
tried by its inventor on a fisherman while
he was describing a fish that got away.”
The inventor and his machine were
buried together.
“The condition of a fence shows the charac-
ter of the man who owns the property.”
— “Sun.”
You can also judge a swaggie by his
gait.
“I do feel sorry for you, George—cooped up all day
in a stuffy little office”
“Lost, Cremorne tram, 7 p.m. Wednesday,
or Spit Junction. Reward.” —“Mosman Daily.”
The tram-driver is reported to have
said that a man wearing a dark suit and
a grey felt hat “snatched it out of his
hand.”
* *
“Tropical Garb —Australian Delegates at Sea
—Sir H. Gullett’s Slip.”
What will Mr. Spooner say to this?
* *
“Stated that the motor trade indirectly finds
work for dozens of different industries not in
any way connected with # it.”
Meaning doctors, nurses and under-
takers, we presume.
* *
“Baby Thrives On Beer.” — ‘‘World’s News.”
Swallowing in father’s footsteps.
“Laundry workers are not as cheerful as
some others.”— ‘‘Telegraph.”
The iron enters their souls, perhaps.
“Any man with five figures in the bank is
always assured of plenty of attention.”
—Magazine article.
So is a girl with one good figure in
a bathing costume.
OPEN LETTER TO A MAGICIAN.
“Magician from abroad, open for engage-
ments, any capacity. No. , ‘Herald.’ ”
Dear Sir, —I shan’t embarrass you by
asking why a competent magician should
seek engagements when he is capable of
conjuring them out of thin air, but I
shall merely suggest some avenues which
might offer an outlet for your powers.
You could, of course, wave your
wand, and produce as much food and
apparel as you desire, but that, I sup-
pose, would be too simple. But why
not transform yourself into a camel? You
could then fast in comfort and would
need no clothes. Or into a spider, and
live on flies?
Better still, why not vanish altogether?
You could come back when a job was
available.
Still, if you must have a job, why not
set up as a slimming expert? You’ve
surely had plenty of experience at saw-
ing women in halves.
Producing money is an old trick, and
is probably too easy, but why not pro-
duce some old gold and sell it to a pawn-
broker for its real value? This would
surely be a task difficult enough for any
magician?
A cure for the depression? Well,
what about making one blade of wheat
grow where two grew before, thus doub-
ling the price of wheat? What! Just a
half-measure? Well, do something worth
while. Let’s see you do a large-scale
vanishing trick with our deficits, debts
and dud politicians.
Best of luck, old wizard!
Uco.
THE TOURISTS.
“As soon as the Franconia berthed, the
travellers hurried ashore with their cameras
to see as much of New South Wales as pos-
sible during their short stay here. Many of
the tourists sought accommodation at city
hotels. Three of them acted as mannequins at
a fashion parade.”— News item.
Interviewed subsequently as to their
impressions of N.S.W., the three ladies
who had acted as
mannequins said;
“We are simply
devastated. We
had no idea you
had such a cute
little country and
such an enor-
mous population.
We have, of
course, previously
heard of the vast
open faces of
Australia, but we
had simply no
idea they could
be so terribly
open until we
saw them gazing
at us —in the
fashion display.
Your flora and
fauna are amaz-
ing, particularly
the little green
shrubs with the
purple berries
that are growing
at the entrance to
the restaurant in
that big fashion
emporium. And,
say, you are up
to the minute
here, what with
those dinky little
street cars, and
that great big
bridge, and such
a fine lot of water as you’ve got in the
harbor. But there’s one thing we’ve been
puzzling about, and that is—where do
you keep all the folk that do the primary
producing? This is a real cute little
country, but it don’t seem to have any
inside to it at all.”
Dilly.
* *
PHRENOLOGY.
A little practice, and anyone can read
bumps. It’s simple. For instance, large
red lumps all over the scalp indicate a
married man of the stay-out-late variety.
So with lumps under the chin: they are
made by radio listeners’ collar-studs as
their heads nod; their ears also show
traces of the many jars received. Good
surfers usually have huge bumps right
on top of their heads. These are caused
by collisions with less expert surfers. A
combination of all the known kinds of
bumps is the hall-mark of the street
musician. He gets so many different
things thrown at him.
M. D. S.
GLIMPSES AT THE GLOBE.
111. — Bullfighting in Spain.
Bullfighting is overrated. I know —
I’ve tried it. Starting as a troubador I
graduated as a picador, tried my luck as
a matador and finished up well down the
corridor.
Oh, and I had a trial as a bandil-
lero, too. It’s a tiring game. At
the end of the first day I was a mass of
bruises from the Barcelona nuts that had
been rained upon me by the spectators,
while the skin was worn off my fingers
through waving my cloak at the bull,
and off my toes through turning with
unaccustomed speed when it looked my
way.
Picardoring, too, has its nasty side. I’d
never ridden a horse before, and my
mount guessed it. After the third fall
I pleaded to be allowed to ride the bull
instead. It seemed less risky. They mis-
understood me, and shook their heads.
I climbed on my broncho again. To
my amazement he remained steady. Then
I saw why. He was transfixed with
terror. The bull was charging towards
"It was touch and go.”
us —and not in fun, either. I closed my
eyes. - There was a sickening crash, and
bull, horse and I rolled over and over
in the dusty arena —red with the blood
of a thousand Dons.
I struggled to my feet. I could see the
dim form of my steed beside me. I
clambered aboard, dug in my spurs and
cantered round the ring. A mighty cheer
arose. Oranges, onions and nuts were
showered upon me. Beautiful senoritas,
waving their mantillas, threw diamond
brooches, strings of pearls and other
costly gems into the arena. I was be-
wildered! Had I slain the bull?
The dust cleared. I dashed the
orange juice from my eyes and looked
around. Carramba! I was riding the bull!
Three times round the Plaza de torros
we careered, killing three bandilleros,
two picadors, one monitor and a couple
of garbagors who were cleaning up the
refuse.
I was the hero of the hour, and was
immediately promoted to matador. Of
course, I was rather unpopular with the
rest of the team, but as they got most
of the jewels and nuts they couldn’t say
much.
Next day I made my debut as an
espada (that means matador, but I’ve
put it in for variety). They gave me a
short sword. It looked very sharp and
bright. I waved it at the bull. He looked
a weak, timid, undernourished specimen.
He came playfully towards me. I made
my thrust. The sword glanced off his
horns and snapped off at the hilt. He
pranced away.
Then he advanced again. Without my
sword he looked a different creature —
huge, strong and ferocious. And his
speed! ... I moved off. My eyes were
on the corridor leading to the rear of
the stand. His eyes were on the rear
of me. It was touch and go. I reached
my goal a fraction of a second after he
reached his.
That was the end of my bullfighting
career.
No, just a bit. Some years later I
attempted a comeback. It was in a small
country ring. I was the back legs of the
bull. Again I made the wrong choice.
Front legs and head did all the tossing
while I got all the spears.
No, whichever angle you try it from
there’s not much fun in bullfighting
Jasby.
* *
NATURAL COROLLARY.
Blobbs is one of life’s predestined suc-
cesses, a veritable white-haired boy of the
fickle goddess. In
one respect only
was he a failure,
and, strangely
enough, he owes
his success in life
to it. He could
never pick a
winner. A student
of form, he
burned the mid-
night oil poring
over statistics;
but the numbers
he backed were
never hoisted by
the judges. On
all the courses his
vile luck became
a legend. He
kept at it, but success was never his.
Eventually he became, through his un-
fortunate sallies with the books, a racing
celebrity. What more natural, therefore,
than that he should join the staff of the
“Howler” as its racing commissioner?
To-day he is that widely-read paper’s
racing editor, and his tips are avidly
followed by thousands of punters.
S. W. K.
* *
“Some People Are Prone to Accidents.”
— “Herald.”
And some are prone after ’em.
* *
“Mr. Lang says he is not a bad type of
Australian.”
Type? We thought him unique.
* *
THOSE RELATIVES.
“Defendant said he thought there was some
ill-feeling in the family towards him. Lydia
had returned his ring twice, and her brothers
had assaulted him.” — “Sun.”
Something of the sort happened to me
when I was courting Cynthia. She was
driving a super-de-L/xe car when I fell
in love with her. She called a police-
man to pull me off the running-board.
That, of course, was, I knew, only an
exhibition of maidenly modesty. I found
that she lived in a fine mansion. Being
thrown down the steps six or seven times
by servants, her father, her brothers and
strays called in to do the throwing did
not discourage me.
I climbed in through the coal-cellar
window, and pursued my suit. Probably
my suit didn’t look too good, covered
with coal dust and cobwebs; Cynthia
returned the ring I had bought for her
—threw it at me in fact. She passively
consented to my being given in charge
as a housebreaker.
When I came out I waited for her at
the corner of the street to explain my
position. She gave a scream and started
to run. But I caught up to her on the
edge of the cliff which stands near her
house.
I was .just telling her that this maidenly
modesty business could be carried too
far when she pushed me over the edge.
Lying in hospital I have decided, after
consideration, to let Cynthia go. There
seems to be some ill-feeling in her family
towards me, and it might influence her
even after we are married.
Why will relatives interfere in these
matters?
H. M.
CAPRICE.
I swore, of course, that we would never
part
When 1 was ardent, rash and twenty-
two;
Your peerless loveliness so touched my
heart
That l was utterly bewitched by you.
For years I felt ridiculously proud
(Though nowadays my eyes have cast
their scales)
To show your beauty off before a crowd
And watch the covert glances of the
males.
You were my only love for many a
year —-
Your many traits I’d nourish, care or
coddle —
But now the time has come to sell you,
dear,
And buy this season’s airflow, gearless
model!
MISUNDERSTOOD.
“I’m full of ‘joie de vivre,’ ” I cried,
And bounded o’er the hedge
My wife burst into tears. “Oh, John,
You said you’d signed the pledge.”
Quin.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.), Dinner from 6.30 p,m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m,),
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W, H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N S Wales, also Representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank g offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
'••Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-gunner, 7th F.A.8., wants job, N.S.W. or
Vic.—5979.
Young lady (20), Tasmanian, wants position
as nursery governess in country.—s9B9.
Youth (17), Sydney, wants position as lab.
assistant. Honors in maths, and chemistry in
leaving certificate. Refs. —5932.
Lady, Melbourne, requires position as com-
panion. middle-class home, suburbs or country.
—5949;
Lady, N.S.W., wants position as nursery-
governess, or to supervise correspondence les-
sons; willing take full charge of children.
Country preferred.—s99B.
Young lady, Vic., trained teacher, wants posi-
tion as governess or companion-secretary on
station. French, music, and can drive car. —
6015.
Maoriland woolclasser and -sorter, six years’
exp., wants position in Australia after April. —
6004.'
Whereabouts of Spencer G. Pickering, last
heard of at Sumatra. Has written for papers.
—5787.
Whereabouts of Ramsay Williams.—s9B3.
Name and address of agents for Balance
cream separator.—s63o.
Words of verse “The Prodigal Son” —not
Henry Lawson’s. —6006.
Words of following hymns, by Bernard of
Clairvaux, in the original French: “Jesus, the
Very Thought of Thee,” “O Happy Band of
Pilgrims” and “When Morning Gilds the
Skies.” —6009.
Words of poem “The Stockman’s Dream.” —
5916.
To buy latest edition of Janes’s “All-the-
World Aircraft.”—s799.
Information Sought.
I wish to join the Fellowship of Australian
Writers. What are (1) its objects, (2) qualifi-
cations for membership, (3) subscription ?
5955.
(1) The encouragement of Australian litera-
ture. Work now in hand includes the safe-
guarding of authors’ rights by an improved
form of literary agreement and the organisa-
tion of Australian Authors’ Week, to be held
in Sydney, April 8 to 12, with a view to
making known the scope of Australian litera-
ture and popularising the works of our own
authors. (2) Full membership is accorded to
journalists and authors of published works.
Associate membership is granted to aspiring
writers and those interested in the aims of
the fellowship. Monthly meetings are held
in Sydney. (3) ss. per annum. Your letter
has been forwarded to the hon. sec., Frank
Clune, Marengo, Princes-avenue, Vaucluse, who
will supply any information required.
I have been told that the speech made by
Pericles over the Athenian, dead is one of the
immortal orations of the world. (1) Why is
it so famed ? (2) Where can 1 find a good
translation ? —5953.
(1) Because of its fine peroration, including
these words: “For the whole earth is the tomb
of great men. It is not mere monuments in
their native land that proclaim their deeds, but
unwritten record in the hearts of strangers
who, not knowing them but knowing their
glory, treasure memories of them in their
hearts.” (2) In the early pages of a volume of
Thucydides. Inquire at any big library.
Is it correct to say that there are crocodiles
but no alligators in Australia ? Difference
between the two ? —5969.
Yes. The name “alligator,” often applied
to Australian crocodiles, is quite incorrect.
True alligators are only to be found in the
southern States of North America and in
China. In our crocodiles the fourth tooth on
each side of the lower jaw is much enlarged,
and fits into a notch in the upper jaw, being
thus plainly visible when the mouth is closed.
In alligators a similar tooth fits into a pit
within the border of the upper jaw; the typical
alligator, moreover, has a more rounded head,
and is more sluggish than the voracious croco-
dile with its pointed snout.
(1) Where and when was Melba born ?
(2) Principal operatic roles ? (2) Who was
the greater—Dolores or Melba ? (4) What
soprano is recognised as having had the most
perfect voice? —5771.
(1) Burnley, near Melbourne, May 18, 1861.
(2) Gilda in “Rigoletto,” Marguerite in
Gounod’s “Faust,” Mimi in “La Boheme.”
(3) Melba had a wider fame than Dolores, and
in the opinion of most contemporary judges
deserved it. (4) Impossible to compare them.
Sopranos prior to the days of gramophone
recording have left nothing by which they can
be judged.
(1) What are the respective duties of the
chairman, secretary and treasurer of a society ?
(2) The treasurer of a committee resigns. A
fresh one is elected, but the secretary retains
pass- and cheque-books and so forth. Is it
correct for the secretary to do this and to pay
accounts ? (3) Is there any general rule about
auditing ? —5862.
(1) The chairman takes the chair at every
meeting, enforces rules, deals with interrup-
tions, passes resolutions, counts votes and
announces results, signs minutes and also any
public document issued in the name of the
society, and presides generally over its business.
All correspondence passes through the hands of
the secretary, who deals with it in accordance
with the instructions of the committee; he
calls meetings and prepares business, writes
minutes, draws up the annual report, and in
short attends to all the details of the society’s
business. The treasurer is responsible for the
society’s financial affairs, checks expenditure,
collects subscriptions, pays accounts, raises
funds for special objects, etc. (2) The secre-
tary should hand over all account books, etc.,
to the incoming treasurer, whose duty it will
be to pay any outstanding accounts. The sec-
retary should not make payments. (3) It is
usual to have an annual audit.
(1) Is it true that “Evans of the Broke”,
dived into the sea in a gale and swam to the
rescue of several wrecked Chinese sailors
where not even the motor-boat could venture ?
(2) If so, where can I find an account of the
rescue ? —5950.
(1) Yes, when he was captain of the cruiser
Carlisle, stationed at Hong Kong, 1921. (2) In
“SOS: A Book of Sea Adventure,” by David
Masters (1933). The incident was recalled by
many Australian newspapers, including “S. M.
Herald,” when Evans was knighted.
(1) What are the qualifications for a librarian
of (a) a library such as the Mitchell Library,
(b) an ordinary circulating library ? (2) Where
can one qualify ? —5861.
(1) ( a ) A good pass in the leaving certificate.
Not more than 18 years of age. Application
through the Public Service Board, (b) Very
little but good address, good education and
decent personality. (2) The only training for
librarianship is employment in a library.
(1) To whom should I apply for a position
as an engineer on an overseas liner ? (2) What
should I state in my application,s, and are
personal interviews • granted ? (3) Is ship-
building-yard experience necessary ? —5812.
(1) Write to the agents of the lines trading
between England and Australia, making appli-
cation for a junior engineer’s position. (2)
State age and qualifications, and the agents
concerned, if interested, will advise regarding
any personal interview required. (3) Ship-
building-yard experience is not necessary, but
experience in a workshop engaged in the mak-
ing and repairing of marine engines is essential
if it is intended to obtain a marine engineer’s,
certificate.
/ intend selling goods from house to house
and to small shops in the suburbs of Sydney.
How much will a license cost, and where should
I apply for one ? —5933.
Application for a hawker’s license may be
made on the first ordinary sitting day of any
month to a Court of Petty Sessions in
the district where the applicant usually resides.
Licenses remain in force throughout the State
from the first of the month following the
grant to the end of the year. For a foot
license the fee is £1 per annum, or a propor-
tionate amount to Dec. 31. The applicant
must produce a certificate of good character
from two known respectable inhabitants of the
district where he applies.
When and at what rate were war gratuity pay-
ments first made to ex-members of the A.1.F.,
and what was the purpose' of the gratuity ?
5901.
Such payments were first made about May,
1920. They were “deemed to be a free gift
by the Commonwealth in recognition of honor-
able services during the war with Germany.”
Payment was made for each day of the quali-
fying period of service of the member. For
those serving overseas the rate was Is. 6d. per
day.
What percentages of the population in U.S.A.,
the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Union
of South Africa, M.L. and British India are at
present obtaining university education ? —5645.
The “Universities Year Book,” 1934, gives
the percentages of university students to the
total population as follows: U.S.A. 0.0075 p.c.,
U.K. 0.0014 p.c., Canada 0.0042 p.c., Australia
0.0015 p.c., Union of S. Africa 0.0051 p.c.,
M.L. 0.0043 p.c., B. India 0.0004 p.c.
Approximate number of words which can
be set per square inch using the more ordi-
nary sizes of type ? —5868.
6-point, solid, 47 words to square inch; 6pt.,
2pt.'leaded, 34; Bpt, solid, 32; Bpt., 2pt. leaded,
23; 10pt., solid, 21; 10pt., 2pt. leaded, 16;
12pt., solid, 14; 12pt., 2pt. leaded, 11; 14pt.,
solid, 11; 14pt., 2pt. leaded, 7; 18pt., solid,
7; 18pt., 2pt. leaded, 5.
What are the relative strengths of the British
Army in India and the British Indian Army
( native ) ? —5826.
The sanctioned strength of the Army in India
is: British troops and officers 68,900, Indian
troops and officers 155,300, Army in India Re-
serve of Officers 1600, Indian Army Reserve
40.000, Auxiliary Force 36,000, Indian State
Forces 44,700, and Indian Territorial • Force
18.000.
Conditions of the competition promoted by
the Godfrey Rivers Trust for a work of art
to be presented to the Queensland National
Gallery ?— 5867.
Entries must consist of a portrait or figure-
subject in oils, suitably framed, and must be
the work of an artist who has resided in Aus-
tralia for not less than five years, or an Aus-
tralian artist temporarily abroad. Entries should
be sent to the Trustees, c/o G. Gough and Son,
Albert-street, Brisbane, not later than June 15,
1935. Entries must be available for general
exhibition for not more than one month from
about July 1, 1935, at the expiration of which
time all works (except the prizewinner) will be
returned. The prize will amount to not less
than £l5, and the wmk of art for which the
prize is awarded will become the property
of the trustees for presentation to the National
Art Gallery. Purchases by the general public
will also be sought, a commission of 15 p.c.
being charged on sales.
(1) May a resident of N.S.W. apply for a
grazing selection in Central Queensland ? (2)
Minimum capital required? (3) Tenure con-
ditions ? (4) Procedure and cost of applying ?
(5) Where can I get application forms ? —5967.
. (1) Yes. (2) Varies, but a minimum of £2500
m cash or assets is advisable. An applicant
must satisfy the Land Commissioner that he
has capital or backing equal to two years’ rent
plus value of improvements on land before
being admitted to ballot. (3) Lease is for 28
years. A grazing homestead lease is subject
to personal-residence conditions for first seven
years. Selector must enclose his land with a
substantial fence within three years; if notifica-
tion so declares, enclosing fence or part of it
may be required to be made rabbit- or
marsupial-proof. Land must be stocked to
reasonable carrying capacity with applicant’s
own sheep within notified period (maximum,
three years). (4) and (5) Forms, lithos., etc.,
may be obtained from Clerk in Charge, Land
Settlement Inquiry Office, Department of Pub-
lic Lands, Brisbane. Absentee applicants must
be represented at Land Court. This may be
carried out by the Public Curator, c/o Clerk
of Petty Sessions, at the place where the Land
Court is being held. (Fee: 10s. 6d. for one
application, 2s. 6d. each additional for that
ballot.) In addition to power of attorney
applicant must state his pastoral experience and
means by which he intends to finance selec-
tion, and must forward banker’s cheque or
draft for one year’s rent plus one-fifth of
survey fee as notified.
(1) Where can evening instruction in sign-
writing be obtained in Sydney ? (2) Is such
instruction suited to the needs of journeymen ?
(3) Length of time necessary to become pro-
ficient ? (4) Textbooks on the subject and
where obtainable ? —5988.
(1) At Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
(2) Special attention is given in this class to
the requirements of journeymen. (3) The
period necessary to gain the desired proficiency
depends mostly upon the ability of the student.
(4) “Signs, Alphabets and Scrolls” (10s. 6d.)
and “The Modern Signwriter” (12s. 6d.),
obtainable from Bishop Bros., 15 O’Connell-
Street, Sydney, are recommended by the
college.
Does excessive smoking affect the eyesight,
and how ? —5718.
Excessive smoking may injure the sight
directly by irritating smoke contact with the
eyes and resulting inflammation. Indirectly,
the nervous system controlling the eyes is
affected by toxic action of the nicotine con-
stituent; in extreme cases it may result in dim-
ness of vision and partial paralysis of the optic
nerve. When both eyes are equally affected a
change in color perception may be involved.
What is the vaccine treatment of rheumatism,
and is it effective .''->—5760.
Though results obtained vary, an authority
observes that vaccine therapy is an import-
ant addition to other forms of treatment in
virtue of its efficacy in refractory eases. Much
depends upon the nature of the infective agent
and other conditions that aggravate the fault.
The vaccine is specially prepared for the indi-
vidual.
(1) What are military lances made of ? (2)
How are they carried by mounted troops ?
5816.
(1) Points and butt are of steel; shafts are
chiefly bamboo in Indian and British Armies,
although ash is also used for British lances.
The Uhlans of Germany and other Continental
regiments use tubular steel shafts. (2) The
off-side stirrup-iron of Lancer regiments has
a metal eye welded to it; in some cases a
small leather “bucket” is strapped to the
stirrup-iron. When the lance is not carried at
the “advance”—-across the horse, pointing for-
ward —the steel butt of the lance rests in this
eye or bucket, the lance being held perpendicu-
lar by the right hand of the trooper. When
marching at ease the right arm is slipped
through the leather sling half-way along the
pole, the lance then sloping back at an angle.
How to remove the glassy surface of a green
concrete tenn,is court? —5576.
Take 21b. commercial spirits of soda and
add water to make one gallon. Swab the
solution on the concrete and allow it to remain
until effervescence has ceased. The concrete
should then be thoroughly washed with a
hose. This treatment, which can be repeated
frequently, will give any desired degree of
roughness. It is advisable to feel the surface
of the concrete with the fingers after each
washing so as not to carry the treatment
too far.
Recipe for wax polish for floors and furni-
ture ? —5381. x
Shred some beeswax into a shallow tin and
cover it with turpentine. Place the tin in a
pot of water and warm gently over fire, when
the mixture will become a soft paste. If too
thick, add a little Rub well, use
sparingly and polish with a fresh woollen cloth.
Best method of sterilising soil to be used
for seed-boxes and pot-plants? —sB3B.
Place a sheet of iron over a fire, spread the
soil thinly on it and allow it to bake for at
least half an hour. Frequent turning is neces-
sary so that weed-seeds and eggs of vermin
will be killed. Soil taken from pasture land
is most suitable for this treatment.
(1) Who was the author of the song “Robin
Adair” ? (2) Who was the real Robin Adair,
what were his nationality, occupation, etc. ?
(3) Any connection between him and Lady
Caroline Keppel ? —5938.
(1) Lady Caroline Keppel wrote the lines
in 1750. Composer of music is unknown. (2)
A distinguished London doctor of the eight-
eenth century. Probably one of the numerous
children of Sir Robert Adair, Ballymena, Co.
Antrim, Ireland. (3) “The Grand Magazine of
Universal Intelligence,” 22/2/1758, reported
the marriage of Robert Adair, Esq., to Lady
Caroline Keppel.
Information Supplied.
5642. —In W.Q. the word “Wooroolah”
means “black, flat country,” a reference to
parts where there is black soil on the plains.
Brief Answers.
S.T.: 0) Yes. (2) Cannot trace... .C. 8.:
(1) and (2) If a pensioner possesses assets, other
than the home in which he is permanently
resident, the net capital value of which exceeds
£59, pension rate is subject to deduction of
£1 for every complete £lO by which net
capital value exceeds £5O. In the case of
husband and wife, except where they are
living apart pursuant to any decree, judgment
or order, the income and property of
each are deemed to be possessed by both in
equal shares J.T.W.: “Japanese Self Taught
and Grammar” will cost you 135., plus 4d.
postage.... A.W.Y.: Write Technological
Museum, Sydney, for a copy of Bulletin
No. 16, “Grass Tree Resin” (7d.)... .H. 8.:
(1) Yes, but the Court is not bound to pro-
nounce a decree if it considers the petitioner
has shown unreasonable delay in presenting
her petition. (2) There is no fixed cost; all
depends on the circumstances of the case. (3)
Every decree for a divorce is in the first
instance a decree nisi. At the expiration of
three months, or such other period as the
Court may fix, it is made absolute. (4) No.
. ...GJ.L.: (1) and (2) An estate tail is a
freehold of inheritance limited to a person and
the heirs of his body generally or specially,
male or female. The effect of this limitation
is to settle the descent of lands and tenements
to such heirs as may be specified so that
neither the original donee nor any subsequent
possessor can alienate or bequeath them.
Unless the provisions of the entail are known
it is not possible to trace the By
the Administration of Estates Act (1925) Eng-
land abolished this ancient form of tenure, and
its law is now practically the same as in Aus-
tralia. Here there is no heir; all the chil-
dren, male and female, have the same status.
(3) “Realty” means landed property and
“personalty" the chattels or goods which be-
long immediately to the person of the owner.
. ...G.C.L.J.: The matter of replica cups is
entirely in the hands and at the discretion of
the donor of the cup. If he also annually
provides a replica all is well, but should the
winner of the cup wish to secure one himself
that position will be governed by the club’s or
association’s rules. The name of the winner
would, however, be placed on the cup....
H.W.M.: Dummy has no part whatever in the
game except to ask declarer if he is revoking
or to answer dealer’s inquiries about which
hand has the lead. If he does draw attention
to any irregularity by opponents the declarer
(dummy’s partner) cannot exact the penalty.
. ...J.A.; No information in Sydney. Write
direct to the New History Society, 132 East
65th-street, Sydney W.G.E.: Write Timber
Distributors, Ltd., Forsyth-street, Glebe
T.H.: (1) Sulphides in the system cause tar-
nishing of plated instruments as stated. A
silver sulphide is formed at the point of con-
tact with the hands. Persons of acid or positive
type tend to negative the result by reaction of
acid perspiration. Remove by rubbing with a
soft cloth moistened with vinegar or dilute
acetic acid. (2) The cause is possible, but
improbable according to your symptoms. Hos-
pital test could be made for verification....
J.L.: “Black Opal,” 2s. 6d.; “Such Is Life,”
3s. 6d.....J.M.; Write to the Technological
Museum, Sydney, for pamphlet on the subject.
. ...L.M.C.: Manjiri means “a gum forest”;
Mooldug, “a shady place”; Quagerup, “a root
eaten by natives”; and Yerjer, “plenty water”
—all are W.A. abo. place-names... .C.S.: It
is the Greek word for God M.L.F.: The
value of the output of General Motors-
Holden’s, Ltd., factory at Woodville (S.A.)
for 1934 was £1,572,279... .E.H.: Should you
predecease your wife she would become entitled
to any benefit accruing to a widow under the
superannuation scheme. If she should pre-
decease you without having made a will you
would, after the payment of all hospital or
other debts, become entitled to half her estate,
the other half being divisible among her next-
of-kin... .D.R.: The use of lime for trapping
birds is prohibited by law A.G.: Mix to-
gether 1 drachm oil of pennyroyal, Boz. turpen-
tine and enough kerosene to make the whole
quantity up to one gallon. Halve the quanti-
ties given for a small lot W. 8.8.: There
are various recipes; these are two of the best:
(1) A dash of gin, a dash of bitters (any kind),
a little lemon-squash, then fill up with soda-
water; add ice if liked. (2) One quarter small
glass gin, one quarter lemon-juice, half cherry-
brandy ; shake well, strain into a tumbler, add
lump of ice, and fill up with soda-water
H.M.L.: None of the three artists is known.
Cannot tell value of works of art without
inspection... .R.H.K.: Lottery prizes are not
subject to N.S.W. State income tax
R.H.P.: Soap you mention is made from a
secret formula. The addition of kerosene or
ammonia to ordinary household soap recipe
will be an advantage as a cleanser, but you
must reduce the water quantity of the mixture
to allow for the additional moisture; kerosene
is inclined to retard the drying of soap, but
is an excellent dirt-remover. Turpentine may
also be mixed into such a soap recipe, watei
being slightly reduced to make way for it....
L.E.: Information is contained in “The Pacific
Islands Year Book,” obtainable most public
libraries... .HJ.D.: Ned Kelly, who was
wounded and captured during the Glenrowan
affair, was taken to Melbourne, convicted
there of the murder of the Mansfield police,
and hanged on November 11, 1880. Dan
Kelly’s body was found in the ruins of the
hotel building after the fire. It was presumed
that he committed suicide V.H.L.: Write
to Department of External Affairs, Canberra,
F.C.T C.S.W.: A lacquer such as Fascinac
(Is. 2d. per \ pint or 2s. Id. per \ pint)
should do. It is applied with a brush, and
when dry is waterproof. It is removable with
Fascinac thinner... .E.H.E.W.: (1) Write
British Chamber of Commerce, Shanghai,
China. (2) Apply to shipping cos. (3) No
F.H.: (1) Public Works Depot, The Canal, Leich-
hardt. (2) They have no 4in. pumps, petrol
engines or galvanised piping for sale. (3) and
(4) Information required can be obtained from
firms trading in thdse items... .G.A.R.: You
may be able to reach him through the “Print
Collector’s Quarterly,” 10 Bedford-street, Lon-
don, W.C.2... .C. 8.; (1) Particulars are obtain-
able from Department of External Affairs and
Territories, Canberra, F.C.T. (2) Not recom-
mended (Many others mailed.)


The Connoisseur of fine cloth, like
that of rare wines and cigars,
appreciates the importance of
maturity.
There are elderly people who still
affirm that the worsteds of today
are not as good as those produced
in pre-war days. In point of fact,
the best present day materials are
of equally fine quality, and of in-
comp ar abl e b etter design. Hud d ers-
field is producing as fine worsted
as it has ever done before, the west
of England yields Saxonies and
flannels of unsurpassed quality,
while North of the Tweed, Scotch
worsteds, Cheviots and other tweeds
have reached a higher level than
they even touched before the War.
But there is some foundation for
this elderly criticism; and it is based
on the fact that too much of the
present day materials pass almost
straight from the shrinkers to the
cutting board, pausing only, in some
cases, a few brief hours to be
invoiced in and out of the woollen
merchants. The result of this is
that the material is apt to crease
during the first few weeks of wear,
until it has properly matured. A
good cloth will always improve with
time, but it is frequently annoying
to the customer to have to wait two
MATURE MATERIALS
or three months before he can wear
his new suit with confidence.
In the spacious days of old, every
reputable woollen merchant would
lay up his materials in some large
cool cellar for at least three months
before delivering them to the Tailor.
But in this rush age, merchants do
not care to think too far ahead ;
fashions in male suitings change
slightly enough, in all conscience
but they change enough to land a
merchant with bad stock. And,
without wishing to malign those
hardworking and useful interme-
diaries, it cannot be denied that
some of them are only too acutely
aware of the cost, in interest, of a
stock which is idle for three months
or more.
POPE <Se BRADLEY insist that all
the materials which are each season
exclusively manufactured to their
own design are stored for three
months under the right conditions
before delivery. This also applies
to all dress coatings and other
standard cloths, and —as far as
possible— to all other materials.
The process of maturing is an added
expense, but it is in accordance
with our policy ; it helps to ensure
that we use only materials that are
worthy of the artistry of our cut.
LOUNGE SUITS FROM 10 GNS. DINNER SUITS
FROM 15 GNS. DRESS SUITS FROM 16 GNS.
POPE & BRADLEY
TAILORS
14, OLD BOND STREET,
LONDON
ervice .
/
1
THE RURAL BANK is a national Insti-
tution, enabling farms and homes tc
be acquired on easy terms, thus foster-
ing increased productivity and home
building, and helping to consolidate the
position of our State and Commonwealth,
o O o
The Bank is guaranteed by the State
Government against loss, but although
its activities date back to 1899, it has at
no time made a claim under this guar-
antee. In fact, from consistent but mod-
erate profits (commensurate with its
policy of maximum service at minimum
cost) it has built up reserves exceeding
£1,250,000 (invested outside the busi-
ness of the Bank).
o o
Branches are established at representa-
tive centres, where Fixed Deposits are
received and cheque accounts opened
for all sections of the community. Those
who bank with the Rural Bank appreci-
ate that by so doing they are enabling
it to increase its useful services.
7& RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Ok.
Head Office 14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George St. (opp. Wynyard St.)
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped, blame and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Lyall Rornaine: Send us your name and
address A.C.M.: The M.L. earthquake didn’t
happen in vain if it freed Paul from the clutches
of drink... .D.F.: Dog ghosts be hanged!
... .L.G.H.: Even a hoax needs to be convinc-
ing Joyken: Classroom essays. Trust you
are still young enough for your teacher to
break you of the habit of writing artificial
flamboyancies R.D.: Can only suggest that
you migrate to some place that knoweth not
the choko C.W.S. (8.5.1.): Stories ending
with lottery prizes are taboo F.A.D.: Hasn’t
the ring of probability... .G.W.S.: Fails to
amuse... .H.M.D.: The theme is not a new
one... .S.H.D. (and others): Impossible to
reply to pars. If stamps are enclosed rejected
matter is returned... .8.W.; “Whether the
story is to be credited or not remains
for the reader to decide.” We prefer to
leave it to you J.P.L.: Can’t believe that
there is a narrow pool in Rungle. Creek
(or anywhere else) where “each gentle zephyr
lingers long and faintly murmurs ‘Peace.’ ”
.... L.J.H.: Richard neither appealed nor im-
pressed P.K.P.: Not suitable E.R.N.:
If you put yourself in a cat’s skin
you must try to think like a cat, not like a
human being... .D.W.: The dream finish to a
yarn is one of the weakest possible P.J.8.:
Well done, but not quite suitable A.N.A.:
Off our beat. Try one of the dailies W.S.:
It didn’t make us laugh M.H.: Fortunately,
there are no brass paperweights in this office.
....R.R.: This should learn ’em:
On giddy wheels the Road-god reels—
He knows not whither or why.
A graceful swerve, a gentle thud,
A slip as th’ wheels had felt smooth mud,
A stain on th’ smooth screen—only blood
And death on the smooth road lie.
S.C.T.: Even poets have written worse
T.M.8.: Shadowy sort of stuff, neither good
nor bad... .T.T.M.: Would take a steel drill
to get through to what you mean N.C.E.:
Write less; say more Y.R.: ry? A.P.0.:
Last stanza ruins a pretty good thing
M. 8.: No; there’s an idea in it, but the work
is hasty and clumsy L.L.M.:—
Pleasure is of a healthy sort
Or else of theopposite kind.
It seems an unassailable proposition, but we
derived neither from your verse J.L.P.:
There’s an idea in it, but it needs defter treat-
ment. .. .DJ.G.: No sparkle in it J.A.H.:
“Will send more, if suitable.” It will be wasted
effort until you have mastered the elementary
rules of rhyme and metre R.W.D.: Such
interest as it has is entirely local W.C.:
On the crude side....J.L.C.: The attempt to
rhyme “country” with “sundry” is about the
least of your offences A.A.K.: Over 100
lines of dreadfully prosy verse H. 8.: Such
a tribute is rare indeed: —
APOSTROPHE.
Unknown, who titivates the verse
On which I’ve spent my metric strength,
And with a benison (or curse)
Have dropped into the post at length
(And I’ll admit when I have done
There still remains a lot to do).
Two heads are better far than one—
But yours is more like forty-two I
The “nailing” of the magic word
To which I cannot find a clue,
Tho’ I pursue it undeterred
By odds, seems easy work to you.
But what intrigues rue most of all.
And knocks my duck-house bandywise.
Is, from what gay Parnassian hall—
What cornucopia of the skies—
You draw, with music as sublime
As tho’ it were a seraph-song.
That multiplicity of rhyme
That lures the meanest theme along.
.... Rip; Merely a two-line wisecrack padded
out to make a story... .8.A.: Forced and un-
humorous... .G.W.S.; “The Headless Rider”
is hitting the trail for home D. 8.; Old
theme of engaged couple turning out to be
brother and sister is worn threadbare A.R.:
Not quite. Try elsewhere A.8.G.: Can’t
swallow that wireless mistake... .K.T.: When
people have visions of hell, why is it they see
only the great villains of history? Surely the
place must be cluttered up with millions of
mean, selfish, petty villains who didn’t get a
chance to be bad on a grand scale?
W.D.McC.: A rival, eh?:
Once more
Old “Bellerive” has come to light
And still can use his pen all right.
I trust these lines will catch his eye
And that his Muse will ne’er run dry.
Long may he live to write and thrive.
Good luck to “Bully” and “Bellerive.”
P.S.; I sent these lines to you before
But the W.B. was on the floor.
If they don’t “float in”—well, I won’t bite;
But you have printed wor.se. I’m sure. Good night,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.: Artistic nightmares L.F.: Give
yourself time; you cannot expect to dis-
place, proved artists at the age of 12....D.0.:
Away ! You cannot draw even a mug of beer.
.... W.K.: Why so heated about the ex-Kaiser?
No one worries about him nowadays... .P.L.:
Distorted jockey and his weird mount were
left at the p05t....A.W.M.: You belong to
the slapdash school E.V.: Gent, with legs
like cricket stumps failed to survive an over.
M.C.: Not the type of joke we are seeking.
R.B.: Absent-minded plumber’s apprentice
has no ears... .T.J.S.: You’re an unskilled
craftsman and a feeble jester E.S.F.; Wash
drawing is muddy, and the line one scratchy.
... .N.P.: Draw from the originals if you can,
rather than from photographs D.W.: Cari-
catures unrecognisable T.R.K.: Not a pas-
sable one in the bunch C.G.: You’re in the
imitative stage as yet S.M.: Jokes belong to
the Neolithic age... .M.E.: Why is dad wearing
that costermonger style of dress? R.A.C.:
Fashion-plates and hackneyed puns 8.C.:
Art is not your vocation.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Findy”: Australians visiting London
are said to have objected to one of Tex
McLeod’s stock jokes; “One good thing
about Australia is that plenty of boats
leave there.” Which merely goes to show
that the Australian abroad is more sen-
sitive than at home; feeble as the jest
is, I can’t imagine anyone resenting it
here. Some time ago the play “Fresh
Fields” was condemned by London Aus-
tralians as an insult to Australia, yet the
show fan to full houses in this country
to the enjoyment of thousands.
* * * *
“Pairth”; Recruits to the N.S.W. Scot-
tish regiment who are invited now to call
at the recruiting office and plank down
£2 as a deposit on their uniforms “must
be of Scottish descent” ; but there is no
definition of what is meant by that. An
ancestor of mine crossed the Tweed in
the train of James L, and in the course
of time established a line mainly Kent-
ish ; yet his descendants were Scottish
enough to suffer exile to the Continent
on three occasions for complicity in
Jacobite plots. Later there were mar-
riages which brought English, Welsh and
Irish blood into the stream, as well as
French and Spanish. The Scotch blood,
all told, must be a very small percentage
in my cosmopolitan breed ; nevertheless
I can trace descent from a family whose
association with the ancient capital of
Scotland, Perth, is attested by a family
tomb dated 1043 and a family monu-
ment. Who is to deny my Scottish
descent?
* * * *
“Meljs”: There is obviously no reason
why Sikhs shouldn’t be permitted to
cremate a deceased fellow-countryman in
accordance with their own religious rites.
But the two Sikhs who dealt with the
remains of Gharne Singh in this fashion
carried out the job so untidily that they
gave the police a lot of trouble. To
begin with, they didn’t reduce their sub-
ject to the .sort of ashes that can be
placed in an urn or scattered to the four
winds ; neither did they entrust them to
the Murrumbidgee, the handiest substi-
tute for the Ganges. So when a squatter
fished out a couple of sacks from a
lagoon near Wagga and found that they
contained what looked like human re-
mains, including charred bones and
teeth, he notified the police, and head-
lines suggesting that another mysterious
murder had been committed began to
appear in the dailies. It wasn’t till the
sacks and their contents had been for-
warded to Sydney for analysis that the
truth leaked out. Gharne Singh had been
cremated on his own holding, and every-
thing was more or less in order except
the lagoon part of the ceremony.
“Tenth Guru”: According to a Syd-
ney journal, cremation is essential to
the spiritual well-being of a “Hindu.”
The Sikhs are far from being Hindus,
though they practise cremation. But the
rules are relaxed when circumstances pro-
vide a reasonable excuse. If the hair
of thei body is roughly singed it suffices,
and the soul departs on its journey hav-
ing fulfilled the necessary specifications.
The Moslem compromises over his seven
daily compulsory ablutions in the same
way. When there is no water, sand or
dust will do as well for the time being.
* ;J: *
“Scribe” is still puzzled:
Some years ago I spent a year in London,
topk a flat and engaged a handmaid.
Within a day or two my wife discovered that
so many things were “not done” in English
households that the demarcation disputes on
Australian coalfields looked infantile beside
them. The damsel did her work well, but
registered more kicks than an army mule.
When anybody rang the front-door bell she
attended only under protest—“opening front
doors was butler’s work.” When she was
asked to clean the fireplace she consented only
after telling us plainly that she was conferring
a favor —“cleaning fireplaces was skiv’s work.”
She cooked the food only as a kindness be-
cause, rightly, cooking food was cook’s work,
and she swept the carpets because we had nice
faces—“sweeping carpets was housemaid’s
work.” As foreigners we accepted her com-
plaints and her favors without comment, but,
for the life of me, I can’t understand what a
“general” in England is rightly supposed to do
for people, like ourselves, who do not grind
the faces of the poor. She told us courteously
but firmly that in any decent English household
the housemaid or parlormaid who was asked to
pull a cork out of a bottle would down aprons
rather than impinge on the prerogatives of the
butler; while the butler himself would hand
m his portfolio, if he found one of a lower
caste presuming upon his privileges.


“SILVER
EDGE”
ffimbetioi,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on-
fundamental basis of
driving is in your own
—but the
all safe
hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
. ... in Good Condition.
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life,
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING
re-lining is necessary.
specify
when
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.; JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
For easiest and speediest
tyre inflation ....
The “REN RUT” pump offers remarkable service, ease ana
efiiC It ei is y the i y ump”wUh°a-quadruple compression-a doubly
obtained only with a barrel twice the sue.
. Manipulation of this large volume is ren-
rmjw dered very easy by the inner high-
The T 1 bum a„d
finished, the “Renrut Quadruple
MrWI B is the pump for speed and
K 1W JL service, to make inflation
TYRE easierthaneverb e '
Sole Manufacturers: —
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, I, ENGLAND.
Representative: — . ~
JOHN ARNOLD, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
PRICE...
60/-
With gaiure,
5/- extra.
The Steering Column.
WHEN THE ENGINE RUNS HOT.
SUMMER HEAT SELDOM TO BLAME.
CAUSES AND CURES USUALLY MECHANICAL.
BY FRED BERRY.
THOUGH the cooling systems of modern cars are so efficient
that the dashboard thermometer can seldom be goaded
above 150 deg. Fahr., overheating is a matter of grave concern
to drivers of older models. There are iraqiy drivers who say
that cars are more prone to boil in summer than in winter.
Kettles over a gas-ring boil quicker on a hot day than on a cold
one, so why not radiators, also gas-heated? And when the
driver feels hot, why shouldn’t the motor be similarly affected?
The kettle analogy is sound logic as
far as it goes, but it doesn’t solve all the
problems of car thermics. There are a
number of very good reasons why a car
cooling system will overheat more readily
in winter than it does in summer, irre-
spective of the feelings of the driver or
the reaction of a kettle.
In the first place, though a variation of
50deg. in thermometer reading will make
a vast difference to a motorist’s personal
comfort, his organism isn’t made of steel,
and neither he nor a tin-kettle could func-
tion for a split second in the temperature
Holder of the new land-speed world’s record, Sir Malcolm Campbell’s
reconstructed Blue Bird, fitted with supercharged Rolls-Royce aero engine
R.A.C. rating 173.28 h.p., developing at peak revs. 2500 b.h.p. Weight
five tons. Ratio of dual final drive 1.19 to 1.
that is normal to an internal combustion
motor’s inside when it is on duty.
Influence of Hot Air.
The function of an automobile engine’s
cooling system is to dissipate heat not
used in the production of power. The
temperature . within the combustion
chamber of a working engine is of the
order of several thousand degrees Fahr.
Section of conventional muffler. Exces-
sive carbon deposit will block holes be-
tween pressure chambers and “strangle”
the engine.
The external air temperature matters
about as much as a butterfly biting an
elephant’s big toe. The causes of over-
heating are inside, not outside, the car’s
mechanism. The villain of the piece is
most usually to be found in incorrect
carburettor setting, valve adjustment,
valve timing, ignition timing or fan-belt
adjustment; in the angle of the fan
blades; in carbon in the combustion
chamber; in defects in the exhaust sys-
tem and silencer or radiator and hose
connections ; in incorrect lubrication or
failure of the oiling system.
Right Mixture.
First, with regard to, carburettor set-
ting, a goodly proportion of motorists
insist upon tuning the carburettor for
economy. There are a number of factors
that, when placed in the balance, prove
this to be an extremely shortsighted prac-
tice. With standard fuels, for complete
combustion one pound of petrol by
weight should be mixed with fifteen
pounds of air ; and for purposes of argu-
ment we will assume that some particu-
lar car averages 20 miles per gallon on
this setting. Let us then see what happens
to the canny motorist who, in a mis-
directed effort to secure economy, varies
the mixture to a ratio of 18 to 1—
thereby reducing petrol consumption to,
say, 22 m.p.g. Operating in this lean set-
ting combustion chamber temperature is
increased to an alarming extent, and the
live burning gases, instead of doing
useful work, are blown through the ex-
haust ports.
As a consequence, although the pri-
mary object of increased mileage has
perhaps been achieved, road perform-
ance as regards pulling, acceleration and
maximum speed has been adversely
affected, and exhaust valves—unless of
special heat-resisting steel —rapidly be-
come pitted and warped. In addition,
when tuned in this fashion a motor
driven on full throttle for any consider-
able period cannot dissipate the waste
heat, and so the water in the cooling
system will quickly boil.
Exact Measurements.
Valve adjustment is responsible for
more overheating troubles than is usually
suspected. Each individual type of
engine is designed to operate at maxi-
mum efficiency with a definite valve
clearance, and whether this be four- or
thirty-thousandths of an inch one must
strictly maintain these settings or trouble
will surely follow; furthermore, the ad-
justment must be made in almost every
instance after the engine has reached a
normal working temperature. Failure to
adhere to these precise limits will mean
one of two things—a riding valve or one
whose tappet clearance is excessive.
In both cases the motor will boil on
the slightest provocation, the riding valve
by reason of the fact that the gas can-
not be effectively compressed and is leak-
ing past the seating during the complete
cycle, whilst the “easy” valve causes par-
tial strangling, with consequent lowering
of efficiency.
Though errors in valve timing are not
so frequently encountered as those of
valve adjustment, yet in
many instances they are re-
sponsible for overheating
troubles of a most elusive
character. Particularly is
this so where the camshaft
is driven by “silent chain.”
This chain, driven from the
crankshaft and housed
within the timing case, is
provided with an external adjustment in
order that compensation for wear or
stretching may be readily effected. After
some thousands of miles of running the
limit to this adjustment is reached ; and,
while a well-instructed motorist would at
this stage have the service station renew
the timing chain, there are others who,
endeavoring to save a few shillings, carry
on and trust to luck. Under these con-
ditions trouble is inevitable, for, owing
to extreme slackness, the chain will jump
a tooth ; as a consequence, the driver will
find great difficulty in surmounting any
reasonable hill on bottom gear and the
cooling system will rapidly reach the
boiling point.
Elusive Troubles.
Strangely enough this trouble is some-
times difficult to locate, for the reason
Explanation of influence of ignition point. Note that fully-
retarded position causes loss of power, overheating and
excessive carbon deposit.
that the timing chain may jump back to
its correct position during running, and
so restore pulling and acceleration; but,
at best, this relief will be temporary, and
a new chain should be fitted at the
earliest opportunity.
As the valves are designed to open
and close at exact positions in the cycle
of operations, so the spark should flash
across the plug points at a predetermined
moment, depending in some measure
upon the speed at which the engine is
running. Advanced beyond certain limits
(spark too early) the motor will be prone
Layout of cylinder, exhaust valve gear, exhaust
manifold and pipe and muffler, illustrating many
causes of overheating.
to knock on hills and at slow speeds,
while in a retarded position (spark too
late) the engine will lose its punch.
As combustion in this instance has been
unduly delayed, much useful work is lost,
and the live, hot gases, still burning
fiercely as they are blown through the
exhaust valves, cause intense local heat-
ing, which if continued for any long
period will cause the cooling water to
boil.
When seeking the cause of this trouble
much will depend on whether the ignition
system is magneto or coil-and-battery
type, advance and retard in the former
case being manually controlled from the
steering column or dashboard, whereas
coil-and-battery is almost invariably
automatic. So, although the magneto
control appears to be in full advanced
position, the motor
may overheat owing
to wear in rods and
toggles permitting
the cam gear to fall
back into a retarded
position. Obviously,
the remedy lies in
checking play
throughout the line
and making sure
that ignition point
and lever position
coincide so far as
spark advance is
concerned. Where
automatic control is
incorporated in coil-
and-battery systems
the fault will almost
invariably be due to
the centrifugal con-
trol, located in the
distributor head,
jambing in the full
retard position, and
until this has been
freed the motor will run in a most
erratic fashion.
Fan, Pump and Generator.
Possibly the simplest yet most fre-
quent cause of overheating is due to a


*
a
Discriminating motorists
always return to Muller’s!
They know they are play-
ing safe in trusting their car
to our expert hands with
the knowledge that our ex-
perience extends over a
period of nearly 30 years.
For Panel Beating or Radi-
ator Service—send it to
Muller’s.
Si cAUv^vXtd
'JtUplumi 13201 0 LINES)
'HAWK IKS P. 3.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
1934
At ail Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin, - '
252 George Street, Sydney. Sd, extra
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
This is more than
a NAME
m
i
m
..
This medallion on a battery is more
than a mark of identification —more
than a guarantee of old-fashioned
honesty. It stands so definitely for
quality that to millions of motorists
it is a guarantee of dependability!
Over 30,000,000 Willard Batteries
have given satisfaction. Quality
materials and workmanship have al-
ways maintained this standard. En-
list in the vast army of satisfied Wil-
led users—you can enroll with your
nearest Willard dealer.
Willard
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Moior Supplies Ply. Lid., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Brooklands Accessories Ply. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymoulh Service Co., Adelaide.
Westcoll Hazeil & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
slipping fan-belt. In earlier years, when
the function of the fan-belt was solely
to drive the fan behind the radiator,
trouble of this nature was seldom ex-
perienced, but to-day this drive is a much
more complicated arrangement. Almost
invariably it is designed to turn fan,
water impeller and generator, which
means that a very heavy load is imposed
upon the composition belt. Consequently
owners of modern cars should inspect the
tension of this gear at frequent intervals ;
otherwise they will find engine tempera-
ture quickly pass the danger line when
driven on full throttle. Furthermore, the
battery charging rate will, at the same
time, fall below the safety mark.
There are, of course, reasons other than
neglect of adjustments that may cause
overheating, and these are usually due to
either neglect or ignorance on the
motorist’s part. In this category must
be included fouling of the combustion
chamber due to carbon, choked exhaust
system, defects in either radiator or hose
connections and improper lubrication,
each easily rectified, but certain to cause
trouble and expense if left unattended to.
Dirty Engines.
Unfortunately few motorists fully
realise the insidious effects of excess
carbon deposit either in the combustion
chamber or exhaust line. From the first
moment a car is driven on the road
carbon commences to accumulate in the
combustion chamber, exhaust valve as-
sembly and exhaust line, and as a conse-
quence the effective area of the combus-
tion chamber is gradually reduced, as is
the area of exhaust manifold and pipes,
causing what is termed “strangling.”
If this condition of affairs is per-
mitted to continue a host of troubles
follow. The motor will lose its .punch,
valves will be prone to stick and, with
the reduced effective area of exhaust
pipes and muffler, volumetric efficiency
will be reduced to such an extent that
the cooling system will overheat and per-
formance of the car be correspondingly
impaired.
With regard to the units of the cool-
ing system, there can be no doubt that in
older model cars rusting of the iron cores
surrounding the cylinders is usually re-
sponsible for major troubles, but per-
ished hose connections, furring of
radiator cores, corrosion of tubes,
mechanical obstructions, leaky tubes and
the practice of painting radiators with
non-conducting materials will, in indi-
vidual cases, set up distressing conditions.
Perished Rubber.
Provided all passages through which
the cooling water is circulated are kept
free from obstructions the engine should
function efficiently. Rubber hose con-
nections, however, have an unhappy
knack of swelling internally, and so con-
stricting the flow. Filling the radiator
HISTORY OF TRANSPORT.
A Woodward Smith poster on the wall of Boyded, Ltd.’s showroom, Sydney.
Dates referred to are “Light Locomotive, 1851”; “Bone Shaker, 1869”;
“Penny Farthing, 1884”; “Flying Machine (Maxim’s), 1894”; “Early
Wolseley, 1895” and “6-h.p. Daimler, 1900.”
with “hard” water containing a high per-
centage of mineral salts will cause fur-
ring of tubes and excessive deposit on
the water passages surrounding the cyl-
inders and valves, whilst those motor-
ists who, in an attempt at improving ex-
terior appearance of the radiator core,
spray with some non-conducting medium,
such as black lacquer, are certainly look-
ing for trouble.
Finally, one should at all costs fill the
sump with lubricating oil of high quality
if overheating troubles are to be consis-
tently avoided. Cheap oils are definitely
false economy, as almost invariably they
break down under conditions of heavy
loading and fail to absorb heat generated
by friction. As a consequence the motor
overheats, cooling water boils and in
many instances connecting-rod and main
bearings are burned out.
Art and Salesmanship.
Boyded, Ltd., Sydney distributors of
Vauxhalls, Buicks and Bedfords, recently
looked round their large Hunter-street
showroom and decided that the walls
could be made brighter. So they com-
missioned Woodward Smith to do them
a number of posters illustrating the
evolution of transport. The artist went
into the history of the matter with great
thoroughness, and produced a series of
designs which cover all ages and most
lands, and even take a dip into the
future. The illustration lacks the color
charm of the original, but is a fail-
sample of the spirit in which these ex-
cellent murals were devised.
The Trouble Lamp.
D.E.C. (Meredith, Vic.). —My 1927 Chrysler
70 boils badly, and all efforts to cure it have
been of no avail. On a hot day it is impos-
sible to travel more than three miles at faster
than 30. Recently engine overheated badly
and burst the hose connection, necessitating
rebore and new pistons. Head was planed
down and two gaskets fitted and reassembled
by a good mechanic. Ignition, valve clearances,
fan belt, etc., have all been checked, and a
new radiator core fitted. Please advise.
If all mechanical adjustments are in apparent
good order trouble may be due to a compres-
sion leak through the double gasket into water
passages. Test by filling radiator to top, leave
cap off, and then with spark full advanced
start the engine. Compression leak will
violently agitate the water at the first kick of
the engine. Failing a cure by this means,
timing must be at fault.
W.J.A. (Griffith, N.S.W.).— My car is a
1928 11-h.p. Singer, which is giving trouble
through boiling. Tappet clearance, valve
timing, ignition timing, mixture and radiator
hose have been checked, yet she always boils
after a 10 -mile run. What can I do ?
Suggest a further thorough cleaning-out of
both radiator and cylinder block, and next
time the engine overheats feel the radiator and
make sure it is hot all over; variation in
temperature will indicate mechanical obstruc-
tion. Check tension of fan belt and increase
angle of fan blades.
G.P. (Nowra, N.S.W.). — When my ’26 Over-
land Six is driven along slowly at between
seven and ten m.p.h. it develops a jolting and
jerking sensation like a worn universal-joint,
but this has been checked. When clutch is
disengaged there is a noise resembling the
tinkling of small bells. Fitted a new crown-
wheel and pinion about three months ago, and
now below 25 m.p.h. there is a distinct inter-
mittent hum from the back-axle gear. Cause
and cure ?
Your clutch is of the multiple-disc type, and
the trouble is due to loose plates both on
spline centre and outside guide-pins. These
must be free from wear and a perfect mechani-
cal fit to avoid noise and jumping. Pinion
bearings should be carefully checked, particu-
larly the main double-row ball-race. As the
noise is intermittent the crown-wheel supports
cannot be a proper fit.
C.M. (North Beach, Repton, N.S.W.). —I
am stranded in the country with trouble in
my ’29 Chev. Here are the symptoms: Won’t
pull properly until hot, misses altogether when
accelerator is depressed quickly, and unless
foot is lifted will stall; boils after going 10
miles, and won’t stop. Pulls well on flat
(Continued on next page.)


jßfs;
5.5. NANKIN
Sails May 15.
5.5. NELLORE
Sails June 12.
5.5. TAN DA
Sails July 13.
(HINA JAPAN
for your
WINTER HOLIDAYS
What could be more attractive than to escape the winter months
in Australia and voyage through tropical seas visiting Sunny
Eastern lands?
The E. &. A. Route enables passengers to visit Queensland ports;
thence through the Great Barrier Reef Islands to glimpse New*
Guinea tropica! life at Rabaul; then to Manila, capita! of the
Philippine Islands; Hong Kong, with its magnificent harbour and
peak; Shanghai, Queen City of the East; and finally, the ancient
and beautiful Land of Japan.
The most economical trip. Fares are extremely low, and passengers
may live on board at all ports. The Australian £ is worth 25/- in
Japan.
ROUND TRIP STEAM ER
FARES. SYDNEY TO
YOKOHAMA
First ....
£9O
Second £56/15
The Ship is your Hotel throughout the Voyage
V.
gMj# ~ >f\ iy
mm
W/M
‘ IWWKOHAWIA
RKOSeJK'NAGQVA
OSAKA
MOjl
SHANGHAI
v : -3r,V ■
4 .
ONG KONG
A
MANILA
s*
*T e -VS»li-
RABAUL
O.^VSrvPv'
*S3
-xmmxK
TOWNSVILLE
w> •’ •
fP>
IrTsba
NE
-•
HEY
y:».kV/‘:r-
MELBOURNE
. HOBART
\
X J
***■
y
m
mmt
£
ww*-*
AUitR
psiiii
SSSMH
FARES ARE FREE
OF EXCHANGE
Joint Passenger Agents:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane,
\ Adelaide
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com'
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth ot
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W
Phone: 85241,
when warm, but up a slight hill 1 have to get
into second gear. Please help me out.
Trouble is definitely due to mixture. Auto-
matic mixture control in carburettor may be
worn. Mixture is altogether too lean or spark
too far retarded, or both.
Miss H.F. (Sth. Brisbane, Q.).—(l) My
seven-passenger Austin Four only gives 13-14
m.p.g. What is it supposed to do? The
engine is in good shape and has been tested
with both light and heavy loads without vary-
ing consumption. Is there any remedy ?
(2) Engine No. is 514206. What is the model
and can I get a handbook anywhere ? Bris-
bane agents can’t help.
(1) Should get 20 m.p.g. No doubt general
wear in motor and carburettor is partly
responsible. Check for transmission losses
and whether heavy lubricants are used in
gearbox and differential. (2) Write E. Allman,
Larke, Hoskins and Co., William-street, Syd-
ney, who will supply particulars of model and
handbook.
N.W. (Milford, Vic.). —I have a ’2B Plymouth
Four which ran well until the valves were
ground some months ago. Since then, a rattle
has developed, and on two occasions a piston
has collapsed. Propose fitting new pistons,
but seek your advice in case the same thing
will happen again.
The top overhaul evidently restored the
motor to its original power and so found out
the weak spots in the gudgeon-pin bearings.
Before fitting new pistons check cylinder bores
and make sure a rebore is not first necessary.
At the same time drop the sump and examine
big-end bearings.
R.L.R. (TLilly, Q.). —(1) Is there any reason
why car (named) would be unsuited for country
use ? (2) Has the ’34 model synchromesh
gears, and who are Sydney agents? (3) When
will ’35 models be available ?
(1) No. (2) Yes, silent gears; Harden and
Johnson, Elinders-street, Sydney. (3) Almost
immediately.
A.J.S. (Gore, M.L.). —Can I improve the
performance of my ’29 70S Willys-Knight by
using colloidal graphite in the lubricating oil ?
A small quantity of colloidal graphite mixed
with engine oil before filling into the sump
will help, but avoid using a heavy grade of
oil if you desire best performance.
J.C.Y. (Auckland, M.L.). —Local agents have
advised me to discontinue using the capacity
tube in the Zenith carburettor. Is this usual ?
Best results can be secured by leaving the
carburettor as makers designed it. They should
know their business.
L.L.B. (Singleton, N.S.W.).—(I) Which of
the following cars (Jour named) do you con-
sider best value for money ? (2) Price of
standard model Graham Six, and who are Syd-
ney agents? (3) Is there any truth in reports
that car {named) is not giving satisfactory ser-
vice and that bodywork has been made attrac-
tive at expense of engine ?
(1) Nos. 3 and 4 equal, next 2 and 1.
(2) £595 ; Overland Sydney, Ltd., Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. (3) No; absolutely without
foundation.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
The teeth of the starter ring on
the flywheel of older type four-
cylinder motors frequently bun-
over, preventing the bendix gear
from engaging. A simple repair
can be made by welding teeth
as shown and filing to shape.
ROAD-HOGS AND JAY-WALKERS.
The steady increase in the number of
motors used in the larger cities has
forced before all observant people the
serious problems now confronting those
in authority who seek to safely handle
this traffic.
Measures which even a short time ago
may have been efficient now call for re-
vision. The point, however, cannot be
too strongly stressed that, however good
or hovyever efficient any traffic regula-
tions may be, they must have the united
support and co-operation of both sec-
tions of road users before they can be
effectively applied.
The greatest difficulty in handling
motor traffic in congested city areas
arises from the pedestrian element, and
statistics show that 65 per cent, of acci-
dents on the city streets are due to col-
lision with or in avoiding pedestrians.
The pedestrian has as much right to
cross a roadway as the car-driver has to
proceed along it, but while the driver is
bound by certain definite rules and sig-
nals the pedestrian is usually left to his
own devices to make his way. This
naturally leads to chaos, and, however
willing each section may be to help
the other, until specific regulations as
to order and place of crossing are laid
down for the pedestrian, confusion and
delay must exist.
Under present conditions at busy in-
tersections the motorist who moves in-
stantly at the traffic constable’s call is in
grave danger of causing injury to the
pedestrians who filter slowly across in
front of the waiting motors without heed-
ing the signals given. Consequently a
rapidly-growing but unnecessary element
of illwill is caused.
These remarks deal generally with
orderly and law-abiding members of the
public. There are, however, individuals
who deliberately do acts which are
against commonsense “safety-first” prin-
ciples.
Take, for instance, the motorist —often
met on Sundays—who would lead you
to believe by his actions that his was
the road by divine right. As a friend
remarked recently on meeting several
glaring instances, “They are entitled to
a share of the road, but choose to take
theirs out of the middle.” This style of
driving forces all other road users to
do wrong if they wish to get past, for
seldom will any amount of “tooting”
cause an alteration of position. A cour-
teous suggestion to “keep over” is gener-
ally met with abuse, and the only cure
seems a severe dose of “traffic court.”
Another dangerous driver is he who
will not, either through ignorance or
sheer laziness, give the recognised signals
of direction when turning or stopping.
These signals should be made clearly,
well before the corner is reached, so as
to give those in view ample opportunity
to act accordingly. It is almost useless
and quite dangerous to shoot out a
directional signal of any description just
as a turn is being made, and those of
this tardy habit deserve all coming to
them. Unfortunately, accidents thus
caused frequently involve others who
are quite innocent of wrong but who
suffer as well.
With pedestrians it looks very much
as if familiarity has bred contempt. Time
was when a car was let pass before
attempting to cross at all, but that is now
obviously impossible. Too much faith,
however, is placed in the driver and his
capacity to stop the car. A car travel-
ling at 20 miles an hour cannot pull up
in its own length. It takes about 20
feet, and even then there is grave danger
of a skid, with possible damage to some
innocent party.
The pedestrian who continually keeps
the motorist on the jump is the jay-
walker —a pest and a menace the world
over. He —for it usually is a “he”—
delights in meandering slowly across a
busy street, and while appearing to look
straight ahead watches from the corner
of his eye an approaching car. Mentally
he so gauges his pace and direction as to
try to force the motor to swerve. If it
does not he will be missed by possibly
an inch or two. That’s a nerve-racking
ordeal for the motorist, who is faced
with this many, many times during his
daily drive.
Motor Oddities.
“Yeno Ham”: A resident of Goulburn
fN.S.W.) returning from a tennis match
had a blowout. The tube was ruined
and he had no spare. He had a couple
of dozen tennis balls, and placed these
inside the tyre, which got him home. 01
course, the idea isn’t new. The Patent
Office is full of it.
* * * *
“Gostwyck”: Travelling between Isis-
ford and Blackall (Q.) at about 35 m.p.h.
I was suddenly struck over the right eye
by some object which broke my goggles,
fell to the floor of the car and escaped
again. It was a galah which had been
camping in a small, densely-leaved gidya-
tree. Frightened by the car and unable
to escape quickly enough up through the
tree, it had dived downward.


CONVERT
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
FD
EASY installation,
EASY tuning,
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
Dill SHORT-WAVE
. W¥. CONVERTER
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow's Nest
Colville Wireless Equipment Co
S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.)> ■
4 Rowe Street. Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin'* Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams. Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: BiSSL
5
E
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H.A. ROSE &■ Ce, Ltd. King St. Sydney
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original
NEWS FOR THOSE
WITH RHEUMATISM
Quick, Easy Way to End a Painful
and Dangerous Condition.
Men and women who suffer from back-
ache, rheumatism, stiff or swollen joints,
lumbago, sciatica, muscular pains, or
bladder trouble, should not neglect the
means of sure relief now readily avail-
able. This famous means of relief is
Harrison’s Pills, the remedy ot a .Lon-
don doctor. It ends pain, stiffness and
swellings by driving out the cause. Uric
acid and kidney weakness are at the root
of those agonising and dangerous ills,
and these harmful factors must be got
rid of if permanent relief is to be ob-
tained. Uric acid crystals are “difficult,”
but Harrison’s Pills quickly dissolve and
banish them from the system. Likewise,
the kidneys are Soon restored to health
by this remedy. Hence, Harrison’s Pills
succeed in cases that have defied all
other forms of treatment, and many
users say they’re “just like magic.” Try
Harrison’s Pills yourself—your chemist
has them in three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/--
32 Pills, 3/-; or 68 Pills, 5/-. Benefit
from the first bottle or money back.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
&
\Q
at
s
m
4P
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
RADIO NEWS.
A MODULATED OSCILLATOR FOR
RECEIVER ALIGNMENT.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
A simple modulated oscillator is a very useful instrument, in fact, a
necessity for the final adjustment or servicing of modern receivers. Even
where a standard signal generator is available it is generally the custom
to use auxiliary apparatus for preliminary adjustment, the generator being
preserved as a standard.
The instrument under discussion is not
one of great precision, but it can be
constructed cheaply from materials found
in the average radio workshop, and
under practical conditions will justify the
small amount of labor expended in the
construction. It is outlined by Philips
Radio in a recent technical bulletin, and
should satisfy the needs of many service-
men and dealers. A test oscillator must
primarily be capable of generating
a weak signal at Various radio fre-
quencies, and, as this signal must be de-
tected and amplified at audio frequencies,
some means of modulating the original
oscillations must be provided. As the
power requirements of an oscillator of
this type are small, an E 415 triode was
selected as a suitable radio-frequency
oscillator, and the E 424 as modulator.
There are many applications for an in-
strument of this nature, amongst which
are; —-
1. Alignment of tuning-condenser
trimmers.
2. Alignment of intermediate-frequency
circuits.
3. Padder adjustment.
4. Measurement' of sensitivity.
5. Receiver calibration.
The frequency range of this oscillator
will meet with most requirements, the
coverage being approximately from 2000
to 120 kc. (150 to 2500 metres) in five
frequency bands which overlap. The
voltage output of radio frequencies, which
may be either modulated or unmodu-
Circuit diagram of the modulated R.F. oscillator suggested by the technical
department of Philips Radio.
lated, is practically constant on all wave-
bands, and approximates .5 volt.
A circuit diagram is shown in Fig. 1,
and it will be observed that the apparatus
consists essentially of three parts: (I)
The R.F. oscillator ; (2) the modulator ;
(3) the rectifier.
The R.F. oscillator follows the Meiss-
ner principle, and the grid coil consists
of five sections (SI to S 5), successively
shorted to earth by a five-way switch.
A variable condenser of .OOOSmfd. maxi-
mum is employed for tuning the various
frequency bands. This condenser is
shunted by a fixed capacity of .00015mfd.
The band coverage will vary in accord-
ance with the tuning condenser em-
ployed, but will approximate the follow-
ing:—
Switch Position. Frequency.
1 1900-1120 kc.
2 1150-630 kc.
3 645-3 60kc.
4 370-205 kc.
5 210-115 kc.
The feedback coil is mounted within
the grid coil, and is wound in such a
way that the optimum coupling is pro-
vided for all bands without recourse to
switching. The inclusion of a 650-ohm
resistance in the plate lead to the E 415
and the operation of the valve at 115
volts (measured across C 4) ensure a
reasonably constant oscillator output. To
prevent parasitic oscillation, and for the
suppression of harmonics, a damping re-
sistance of 1250 ohms is placed in the
grid circuit of the E 415. This valve is
not critical. A negative bias of six volts
is provided by the 1000-ohm cathode re-
sistance, and under oscillatory conditions
the plate current at 115 volts is 6ma.
The grid leak consists of two 10,000-ohm
resistors in series, and approximately 10
volts A.C. at R.F, is developed across
these.
The output to the receiver is taken
across the points A and Earth in Fig. 1.
The primary winding of a Philips 4003 N
audio transformer is employed as an
anode coil for the E 424 modulator and
the secondary as the grid coil. Under
these conditions the valve will oscillate
at a frequency in the neighborhood of
400 cycles, although this may be varied
over wide limits by an adjustment of the
value of C 5 (also to some extent C 4).
In operation the oscillator will be
modulated for the reason that the cur-
rent to both the E 415 and E 424 traverses
a common transformer winding. The
condenser C 4 acts as a short circuit for
radio frequencies. For unmodulated
output from the oscillator it is only
ne c e ssary to
connect ter-
minal M to
earth. In this
way the plate
coil of the
mo d u lator is
shorted, and the
valve ceases to
oscillate at
audio frequen-
cies. For an
audio-frequency
output from the
instrument, con-
nection is taken
between ter-
minal M and
earth.
The 506-type
rectifier, when
shunted by a
16mfd. c o n-
denser, delivers
280 volts D.C.
at 12ma. For
voltage reduc-
tion and filter-
ing a resistance
of 10,000 ohms
(R 4) is pro-
vided, and this
filtering will be
found ample for
full-wave recti-
fication.
Dime nsions
for the coils
are given in
Fig. 2, the coils being wound in sections
arranged to provide constant coupling
with the feedback winding inside the
grid coil. Coils S 4 and S 5 are jumble-
or bank-wound. If the instrument re-
fuses to oscillate at audio or radio fre-
quencies it may be necessary to reverse a
transformer winding or the connections
to coil S 6. To prevent direct pick-up in
the receiver the entire assembly should
be mounted in an airtight metal box,
and screened leads should be taken to
the respective output points. The type-
E424N valve should not be substituted
FIG.2
Dimensions of coils for the modulated oscillator.
for the E 424 for which the apparatus
was designed.
COIL DATA.
Coil. Number of Turns. Wive Gauge. Covering.
51 30 30 S.W.G. Enamelled
52 33 30 S.W.G. Enamelled
53 87 30 S.W.G. Enamelled
54 100 36 S.W.G. D.S.C.
55 100 plus 100 36 S.W.G. D.S.C.
56 16 plus 16 plus 100 42 S.W.G. Enamelled
57 700 approx. 42 S.W.G. Enamelled
(Courtesy Philips Radio.)
EXPLAINING THE ACTION OF THE
MAGNETIC PICK-UP.
A large number of radio listeners possess receivers with provision for the
electrical reproduction of records. Not all are familiar with the action of
the interesting device which “picks up” the variations in the grooves of
the record, and reproduces them, via the audio amplifier, in the form of
sound closely approximating the original. The pick-up and its modus
operandi are here briefly described.
Anybody with even a passing interest
in electrical science knows something
about’a magnet, with its trick of pick-
ing up small pieces of iron or steel. It
is noticed that the magnet has quite a
“pull,” and that it needs physical energy
to relieve it of an article in contact with
it. This is due to the “lines of force”
of the magnet localising themselves in
the attracted article, because they prefer.
like a lightning discharge, to take the
path of least resistance.
Principle of the Pick-up.
The lines of force in the magnet are
made use of in this way by the pick-up.
On the ends or poles of the magnet are
bolted pole-pieces of soft iron, usually
made in the shape of a letter U, and so
arranged that, when the ends of the pole-
pieces are facing one toward the other,
there is a gap of about 1-64 inch. Across
the gaps formed by the U pieces is a
concentration of the magnetic flux, and
in between the arms is a coil of wire
similar to those used in a telephone
receiver. This coil is wound with as
many as 10,000 turns of very fine gauge
insulated copper wire,
The Armature.
In the centre of the former carrying
the coil of wire is placed a piece of iron
of very small dimensions and provided
with a rubber-covered pivot which in
turn is clamped between the lower ends
of the pole-pieces, thereby allowing the
upper end of the armature, as this pivoted
iron is named, to move fractionally be-
tween the upper ends of the poles. The
lower end of the armature is fitted with
a socket and locking screw to take the


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
folly tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade. Sydney. MA4357
GLADSTONE
For RELIABILITY and EFFICIENCY.
Manufacturer of Audio, Transmitting and Modulation
Transformers, witli low capacity and high insulation.
Audio Chokes, Power Chokes and High-wattagc
Resistors.
GLADSTONE equipment is recommended by the
Radio Editor of “The Bulletin.”
K. H. JONES,
5 GLADSTONE ST., BEXLEY, N.S.W.
’Phone: LW4187. Special Rates to Experiments
Complete Instruction
in all branches of
Radio Engineering
THE MARCONI
SCHOOL
OF WIRELESS
(Established 21 years)
Australia’s Oldest and Best
Known Radio Training Institu-
tion conducts courses for
RADIO ENGINEERS
RADIO TECHNICIANS
RADIO OPERATORS
for Ships, Aircraft and Police
Patrols.
RADIO MECHANICS &
SERVICEMEN, also
TALKING PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Combined Home Study and
Practical Tuition or Home Study
Courses, only.
MODERN EQUIPMENT for
Practical Instruction.
Engineering and Technician sections
are under the direct control of Dr.
W. G. Baker, B.Sc., 8.E., D.Sc.E.
Write, ’Phone BW 2211, or Call for
our 40-page illustrated Prospectus.
Marconi School of
Wireless
97 Clarence Street, Sydney
Conducted under the auspices of
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia) Ltd.,
Australia’s National Wireless
Organisation.
usual type of gramophone needle. With
the needle in place and the pick-up
placed on a record the needle moves in
a line at right-angles to the movement
of the record. Therefore, when the
needle moves from side to side in the
groove, the armature also moves in a
similar manner. By so doing, it moves
up closer to one side or the other of the
upper pole-pieces. When it approaches
close to one pole-piece, the magnetic flux
flows across the lessened gap, down the
armature and through the pivot to the
opposite pole, the reason for the flow
to the opposite side being that, in mag-
netism, opposites attract each other.
When the armature moves over to the
other side, the action is the same, but
with the polarity reversed. This reversal
of action may occur several thousand
times in one second, controlled thus by
the variations in the groove of the record.
Amplification.
In the earlier days of radio good re-
production was not easily attained. The
audio side of the average radio receiver
could not do justice to the possibilities
of the pick-up. Unsuitable valves and
circuits, coupled with loudspeakers of
indifferent design, conspired to show
little or no advantage over the ordinary
sound-box method of record reproduc-
tion.
With the steady progress in high-
quality audio amplification in the last
five years, electrical reproduction of
records is a very different story. The
purchaser of a 1935 radio receiver buys
an instrument with an audio channel
capable of dealing with sound within the
range of the human ear extraordinarily
well, and most fair-sized sets have pro-
vision for pick-up input. For those who
like extra heavy volume, for use in large
rooms or open-air locations, there is the
public-address type of amplifier, and in
these days radio engineers know how to
design high-quality amplifiers.
THE AGE OF MUSICAL ELEGANCE.
The adjectives “elegant” and “refined”
faded out of the glossary of critics so
long ago that at least three generations
have never heard them applied either
to the content or the performance of
musical compositions. They seem weak
in these days of strenuous advertising,
when the dictionary has been dredged
for strong words. We depend so much
on power —stupendous dynamos, enor-
mous pumping engines and machine tools
that carry the weight of mountains in
their teeth are essentials of our civilisa-
tion—that we are apt to despise the
qualities of grace and delicacy. We even
are inclined to think, because we know
so much about dynamics and speed, that
the people, such as poets, chemists,
mathematicians, radio investigators and
the finer sorts of painters, who worry
over infinitesimal quantities for intermin-
able hours are impracticable chaps.
As a corrective let us dip into the
musical annals of England in 1838. Vic-
toria had been a year on the throne.
Mr. Canning was Prime Minister. The
Napoleonic Wars were in process of be-
ing forgotten. There were railways, but
the usual method of travel was by stage-
coach. Vienna was definitely the musical
centre of Europe ; but London was not
far behind. There was plenty of opera
in every European capital. Grisi was the
greatest prima donna and Lablache the
greatest tenor. Their refinement was
applauded. Donizetti was at the height
of his fame, but the English critics
(a very sound lot) considered him
coarse. They preferred Gluck and
Mozart, and had enthusiastic praise
for Berlioz, a young man then just
making his way. Verdi and Wagner
had not intruded. Bach and Beet-
hoven were as firmly established on
their pedestals then as they are to-day,
and, while Haydn’s symphonies were still
performed, they were becoming a little
worn. Newly-published songs of Schu-
bert (dead 10 years before) and the
etudes of Chopin (just composed) were
being given scholarly and expert appre-
ciation. The sweet and gentle qualities
of both the latter composers particularly
appealed to the England of a century
ago.
Pianoforte-playing was then, as now,
regarded as one of the supreme musical
arts. Robert Schumann, known in Eng-
land in 1838 more as a critic than a com-
poser, had just published a short review
of the merits of the four leading vir-
tuosos of his time. He tabulated them:
Passionate declamation and elevation of
spirit, Liszt 1. Refined voluptuousness
and knowledge of the world, Thalberg 1.
Ardent enthusiasm and self-respect,
Wieck 1. Delicate lyrical taste, Henselt
1. Purity of playing, Thalberg 1, Wieck
2, Henselt 3, Liszt 4. Extempore ability,
Liszt 1, Wieck 2. Depth and warmth of
feeling, Liszt 1, Henselt 2, Wieck 3, Thal-
berg 4. Beauty of design, Thalberg 1,
Henselt 2, Wieck 3, Liszt 4. A very fair
analysis by all accounts, considering that
the critic was engaged to Fraulein Wieck,
whom he married two years later. But
note the classifications. There isn’t a
word about dynamic power.
The pianofortes of the period were
mechanically poor things. A Broadwood
“square horizontal,” dated circa 1820 —
it would have graced any drawing-room
in 1838 —was shown in Sydney recently.
Its strings occupied little more space than
those of a large zither; the longest bass
string stretched a scant 45in.; the tone,
now extraordinarily thin and tinny, could
not have been very impressive when the
instrument first stood in the showroom. It
has a range of but six octaves. Many
pianos of the period had wider keys than
those of to-day, but this old Broadwood’s
ivories, though a little shorter than those
on modern keyboards, are of the \yidth
standard to-day —64in. to the octave. The
original clavichord measure varied from
6|in. to 7iin. to an octave. When heavy
reinforcement of frames became neces-
sary to stand stouter and longer strings
some makers extended the stretch to
7fin. Bertini, writer of etudes, condemn-
ing this innovation, says it is unfair to
performers who have studied a piece with
The operating position at station Y17RK, owned by Mr.
Knowles, W/T Section, R.A.F., Bagdad. The QSL cards
include several Australians.
“kangaroo passages” on an old piano
at home and have to play it in public on
one of the new instruments. That’s
the only musical reference in the period
which this writer has struck that indi-
cates any acquaintance with Australia.
But, though some of the pianofortes
of a century ago were broad in the key,
they were all' extraordinarily light in the
touch. Bertini says that the right hand,
with the fingers falling on the middle
CDEFG, should be able to sound all
five notes by its own weight, and that it
should be possible to execute 32 repeti-
tions of a single note in a common-time
bar, allegro. The old Broadwood shown
in Sydney, though it is untuned and un-
adjusted, has a touch which nearly meets
Bertini’s specification.
The touch in all modern grands is so
heavy, comparatively speaking, that frail
little chaps like Chopin would burn them-
selves out even more quickly than Fred-
eric did if they were driven by his ner-
vous force. Chopin’s last piano, a “con-
cert grand” in his day—its bass strings
were 6ft. long—is preserved. Everyone
permitted to strike its keys comments on
its feathery touch. But the virtuoso of
to-day must be an athlete. Leonard
Borwick was the last of the great players
who retained the elfin delicacy necessary
to a perfect performance of Mozart or
Chopin. Liszt and Thai berg, acclaimed
as “lions of the piano,” achieved their
great effects not in large, halls but in
comparatively small apartments.
Possibly we have paid too dearly for
tone-power in the pianoforte. It is the
instrument at which 99 out of 100 com-
posers work out their dreams, and the
dreams of composers seem to become
more strident, more explosively asser-
tive and more definitely like nightmares
as the years roll on. Every conserva-
torium should own at least one spinet
as a corrective. The radio sets, the
gramophones and the piano-playing
machines, almost always operated at full-
blast, are destroying the taste for musi-
cal elegance and refinement —and the
world cannot afford to lose it.
A. MAKPR.
Short-wave Observations.
Conditions recently have been favor-
able for overseas signals. The No 1
transmitter of the 8.8. C. has been com-
ing in at excellent strength after 5.30
p.m., both stations being good, with, as
usual, GSB (31m.) in the lead. After
7 p.m. they both dropped sharply in
strength. It looks as if we are in for
some months of good reception at hours
when most people are able to listen. The
later transmissions are not really strong
until after 11 p.m., but from then on they
are good for a prolonged period. The
German stations have fallen off until
the later hours, except that DIB (19m.)
comes in nicely about 10 p.m., but closes
at 10.30.
PHI has been very good near mid-
night, with the sister station PCI (19m.)
good strength toward the end of the
transmission (after 1 a.m.), but inclined
to fading periods. RNE has gone back
to the previous later hour, not starting
until 9 p.m., and the strength is quite
good after 9.30 p.m. According to a
recent announcement, the 50m. station
is now on the air on Sunday, Mon-
day and Wednesday mornings. Trans-
mission on Fridays is only from 6 a.m.-
Eastern Australian time. This station is
still very weak in the mornings, as are
others in that band at present, but there
should be considerable improvement
shortly unless conditions are very dis-
similar. It appears that conditions have
changed considerably during the last
two years. The 49m. band is not as good
late at night or early in the morning, but
both the 25m. and 31m. bands keep up
signal strength for a longer period.
The Russian on
70.2 m. has been
quite good, with
plenty of volume
and very low noise
level. Music trans-
mitted from this
station seems to be
more “highbrow”
than that from
other Russian sta-
tions. The D.E.I.
station on 68m. has;
also been good, but
both these stations
would be out of
tuning range of
dual-wave receiv-
ers. On a recent
Saturday night the
8.8. C. broadcast
the Army v. Navy
football match, an
excellent transmis-
sion in every way.
If last year’s programme is followed,
PHI will change down to 16m. at the
end of March, and should be inaudible
here. It is quite possible, now that PCI is
also being used, there will be a change,
and if PCJ should go up to the old 31m.
position good reception would be assured
all the winter. WBXK slipped back to
poor strength on a recent Sunday after-
noon, and has been very patchy in the
mornings.
FYA has been consistently good, and
strength is so good now that the carrier
can easily be tuned-in at about 1.50 p.m.
before the actual transmission starts.
“Radio Coloniale” must have both a
very favorable geographical location and
be well designed, being heard so con-
sistently and so well in Australia.
NIGHTOWL.
The Dutch Short-wave Station
PHI.
Of interest to Australian short-wave
listeners is the Dutch short-wave station
with the call-letters P.H.I. This station
was built and is operated by Philips
Radio at Eindhoven, Holland. The
station transmits on the wave-lengths of
25.57 m. (11,730kc./sec.) and 19.71 m.
(15,220kc./sec.), and between the times
of 13.30-16.00 G.M.T., 13.50-16.20 Ams-
terdam S.T., 11.30 p.m.-2 a.m. E.S.T.
The announcer is Edward Starz, who
speaks to the world in seven different
languages, and is able to answer lis-
teners’ reports from all over the world.
These answers are given every Monday,
30 minutes being allotted for this pur-
pose.
The programmes of this station are
published in Sydney dailies every
Monday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and
Sunday, and should be of great help to
short-wave enthusiasts.
What’s What in Radio.
Ultra-short-wave radio is now used
for educational purposes in the Com-
merce School of New York Uni. Five-
metre combined transmitter-receivers pro-
vide the medium for inter-classroom com-
munication, and lectures are delivered to
students in various classrooms by a lec-
A calibrated signal generator of simple
design, made by a Bulletin reader, Mr.
J. B. Martin. This model is for 240-volt
A.C. operation, and contains oscillator,
modulator and power unit.


The “WEEKLY COURIER”
(EST. 1901).
The
National
Weekly of
Tasmania.
Famed throughout Australia for its illus-
trations, which cover every part of beautiful
Tasmania; acknowledged to be the Social
Weekly of the Island; and recognised as the
journal of the Man on the Land. The
'Weekly Courier,” with its Tasmanian circu-
lation, is
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF THE STATE.
Full Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF TASMANIA
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “The Examiner” and. “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougun, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cig ar
dfsdfsfdsf
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
turer who sits comfortably in his own
office. The system has been further ex-
tended to link up the home of a science
master with the school. An obvious use
for ultra-short-wave apparatus is inter-
. office communication for business con-
cerns.
* * * *
Philips Radio Overseas Department
has compiled the following list of the
number of broadcast listeners in Europe’s
most heavily populated countries:
Great Britain 6,660,659
Germany 6,142,921
France 1,701,958
Sweden 714,465
Czecho-Slovakia .. .. , 671251
Belgium 591,137
Denmark 550,863
Austria ... s? 2 262
Poland ; 360 :000
Switzerland .. .. . 349 483
Hungary .. .. ” " 335*748
Norway 153,071
r inland .. . 123 SIS
Yugoslavia .. .. .! " 52375
Portugal ;; 26,260
* * * *
“T.S.F.-Programme” announces that
the French Minister of Postal, Telegraph
and Telephone Communications has
made the following statement to the
press:
With a view to being properly
acquainted with what is being spoken via
the microphones of the Government trans-
mitting stations, a special service will be
■ established whose task it will be to keep
a note of all broadcasts. It is not yet
known whether this service will function
via a receiver in some centre or other,
as, for instance, Paris, or whether a regis-
. tenng service will be established at each
station. Moreover, a permanent listening-in
service will be established for the purpose
of listening to all French and foreign
broadcasts of any importance. It is con-
sidered that this is a very important ques-
tion, since many countries already make
use of radio for foreign politics and propa-
ganda.
The French Minister has also issued in-
structions regarding a regular exchange
of foreign programmes.
Casual Comment.
Amateurs who like to keep abreast of
the latest from across the Pacific should
subscribe to “R 9,” the 100 per cent.
ham journal published in Los Angeles,
California. The issue for February, ’35,
contains the following valuable articles/
The New 685 Audio Tube” (an interest-
ing development by the Triad Mfg. Co.);
“A One KW Two-stage Transmitter,” by
C. D. Perrine, W6CUH; “A Versatile
Chassis Arrangement,” by R. S. Kruse ;
“The New Pentodes” (data on the 802
and RK23-25) ; “Amateur Receiver Con-
struction, Part 2” ; “Efficient Frequency
Doubling” ; “Radiographs Indicating Fre-
quency-wavelength Con-
version at a Glance” and
“Capacity of Two Un-
equal Condensers in
Series” ; “Hams Across
the Sea” ; “Better Tank
Inductances,” and a host
of other attractive
features.
* * *
American radio manu-
facturers believe in en-
couraging experimental
radio to the fullest by
producing those unusual
accessories that other-
wise would be home-
made. The illustration
shows an ultra-short-
wave telescopic aerial
system for 2.5 or 5
metres, to fit on the
radiator-cap of a car.
The tubing is 4in. aircraft duralumin,
and adjustment of length is a simple
matter.
Amateur Chatter.
Two week-ends have passed with con-
certed efforts on Newcastle and Wyong
without success. On 2/3/’35 a party
consisting of VK2CG, 2WD and 2XY
covered the route, and, although some-
thing which may or may not have been a
carrier wave was heard weakly, there is
no evidence that this was from Sydney.
On 9/3/’35 the writer carried out a
similar test, accompanied by C. D. Price
(G6PC), and, although net results were
disappointing, hope yet springs that it is
possible to put 56mc. signals between
Sydney and Newcastle. From Sydney
to well past Hornsby is no obstacle, but
after dropping down to the Hawkesbury
River the signal is lost.
Fifty-six megacycles is an increasing
conversational topic (and frequency) in
Sydney and suburbs, and more stations
are popping up. The latest to appear is
Doc George, of VK2UG in Mosman,
who erected a twisted pair doublet on the
roof and arrived precipitately in the
centre of the band. Being right in the
path of the writer’s directive aerial (now
north) VK2UG is very strongly heard.
VK2TX at Wyong was visited, and a
special receiver left connected to the bi-
directional beam whilst the party con-
tinued to Newcastle. Nothing was heard
in Wyong, and this fact is more dis-
appointing for the reason that VK2BP up
in Hazel brook had swung his beam
north, and was operating continuously.
The 56mc. parabolic reflector aerial
system used by Mr. O’Brien, of
VK4MM, Brisbane.
The writer considers that with a beam at
one or two suitable points around New-
castle there should be every chance of
linking up with Hazelbrook at least, and
through this key position to Sydney by
relay. A beam at both ends is quite dif-
ferent from one at one end only! Co-
operation on the part of keen experi-
menters at both ends is also necessary.
So far, the Sydney men are doing all the
spadework.
A bright spot in the test was a visit
to Mr. Chapman, VK2OC, of Wyong.
Here are a location and a station to
gladden the eyes of a radioman, and the
S.S. superhet in |in. aluminium is a work
of art. Although VK2TX and 20C are
next-door neighbors, 2TX is badly
screened for 56mc. A beam hung be-
tween the two high masts of 2QC might
tell a different story. 56mc. enthusiasts
intending to make tests in Wyong and
Newcastle directions should bear in mind
the sailing times of the last Hawkesbury
lerries, and thereby avoid the necessity
for awakening bush hotel-keepers in the
small hours, or watching dawn break
uncomfortably through the car wind-
screen after an all-night wait.
Matt O’Brien (VK4MM) sends news
of 56mc. doings around Brisbane. On
Sunday, 3/3/’35, VK’s 4WI, 4VJ, 4HR,
4AW and ,4MM tried the band, and con-
tacts were effected with ease, the long-
est distance covered being eight miles.
The car installations were powered by
genemotor supplies. 4MM decided, upon
comparative tests, that self-capacity mili-
tated against twisted feeders, and uses
spaced and tuned feeders. The aerial
array consists of a single vertical radiator
and reflectors arranged parabolically.
This structure is movable, and a peculiar
feature is that at some points the carrier
can be heard strongly, but modulation is
weak until the beam is swung dead on.
In parts of Brisbane an unusual
amount of electrical interference is
present on 56mc., and is sufficient to
override a super-regenerative receiver.
VK4GA in Quamby (N.Q.) writes to say
that he is preparing for 56mc. work with
VK4LK in Cloncurry, a distance of 28
miles, this being prompted by the large
amount of static and general interfer-
ence on the DX bands. The ultra-shorts
are undoubtedly useful in some cases for
contacts between neighboring towns, and
their utility obviously does not always
apply to city districts exclusively.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
Amplion (Australasia), Ltd., needs no
introduction. The firm makes Australia’s
highest-grade audio reproducers. For
several years a wide range of Amplion
speakers has been available to trade and
public, and a good majority of Austra-
lian-made radio receivers are fitted with
speakers bearing this well-established
name. In the search for yet better
audio reproduction, the Amplion Co.
has excelled in the development of a
new speaker known as the model “R.”
The “R” speaker is a lOin. electro-mag-
net type, available in various field wind-
ings and transformers, as required. A
similar type is available in the perman-
ent magnet series, being fitted with a
powerful Darwin four-claw magnet. This
will be known as the “L 5.” This series
of Amplion speakers is known as the
“Greater Range.” The reproduction is
delightful, of an extended frequency
range and a roundness of tone that it
will be difficult to excel. The cones, un-
like those of many types now on the
Australian market, are entirely manu-
factured in Australia, being moulded
from paper pulp, under hot presses, in
one-piece mouldings. They are non-
hygroscopic, and the voice coil is treated
with a high melting point cement which
makes them more or less impervious to
heat generated in the air-gap by over-
loading. The transformer is also en-
tirely new as far as Amplion is con-
cerned, being metal shielded, and also
having terminal strip with insulated
metal cover, to which is fitted plug
and cord. The same transformer is
also fitted on the permanent magnet
type. The appearance of this new
“Greater Range” series of Amplion
speakers will place the Amplion Com-
pany in an extremely strong position, as
the range will now comprise sin., Sin.
and lOin. electro-magnet types, two-claw
standard, two-claw large permanent
magnet Sin. types and four-claw Sin. and
four-claw lOin. permanent magnet types.
Coincident with the release of the
Amplion “Greater Range” series will also
be the Amplion improved or new “Q”
type. Whilst this speaker has been con-
siderably reduced in price, Amplion,
maintaining its original policy, instead of
reducing the intrinsic value of the
speaker to correspond with the price,
has considerably increased its value, so
much so that it is extremely difficult to
make a comparison with any other tyne
offering.
The new Amplion “Q” features: (1) A
large metal-shielded transformer with
terminal strip, insulated metal cover,
fitted with braided cord and plug. (2) A
terminal strip for voice coil leads, to
anchor and localise same. (3) Cone
housing riveted to the pole-plate, ensur-
ing absolute rigidity; furthermore, sim-
plifying change-overs where necessary.
There is still another 1935 feature
about Amplion speakers, and that is in
connection with the permanent magnet
types; From the inception of their re-
lease, Amplion permanent magnet
dynamic speakers have always featured
the exclusive Darwin patented metal
dust protectors, fitted at the base of the
air-gap. It is possible, however, for dust
particles to still get through the holes
punched in the cone housing, or spider,
of the cone. In future, therefore, all
Amplion permanent magnet dynamic
speakers will be fitted, at no extra cost,
with a special dust cover, which passes
over the front of the cone and the back
of the cone housing. The back of the
speaker, however, is still left open to
permit of easy access to the transformer,
terminal leads, etc.
The Q. and A, Column.
(1) How can I connect a 240 D.C. fan motor
for use on 240 A.C. single phase supply ?■ (2)
I understand some transmitting experimenters
connect a 240 D.C. motor to slip rings in some
way to form a rotary converter producing A.C.
Please explain how this is done ? —242.
(1) If the motor is series-wound it is suitable
for use on either supply. (2) In this form of
converter, direct current from an external
source enters the armature coil through the
brushes and the shunt field windings, causing
the armature to revolve in the usual way. Taps
taken from this winding at the commutator
segments directly underneath the brushes are
connected to the collector rings on the opposite
ends of the shaft, the circuit continuing through
the brushes to the A.C. external load. The
voltage of the A.C. is maximum when the taps
to the collector rings are beneath the brushes,
and minimum when midway between. An im-
portant point is that, if the D.C. supply is 240
volts, the effective A.C. cannot exceed 160 volts
and a small step-up transformer is required to
feed 240-volt A.C. apparatus.
Is there any method of obtaining better
economy from class-B audio, apart from the
introduction of a small negative bias to the
grids of a twin class-B valve ? —244.
Yes. The circuit illustrated shows a scheme
developed by two English engineers. A study
of the arrangement will show that when there
is a heavy signal, the voltage from the power
circuit is fed back to the grid bias battery of
the driver valve after undergoing rectification.
A Westector (Amplion, Ltd., Sydney) is useful
as the rectifier. Resistor R 2 is a 500,000-ohm
potentiometer. Considerable distortion would
normally occur with the driver valve biased
right back, but when a powerful signal comes
through the grid-bias point is changed and a
tull amplitude swing is passed without distor-
tion.


DOES THIS APPLY
TO YOU?
A MAN DOES NOT GET VERY OLD BEFORE HE
FINDS HIMSELF SAYING:
“If I had my life to live over again I would subscribe
to twice as much Life Assurance.”
GIVE YOURSELF A TREAT, SAY, IN 20 YEARS FROM
NOW—CONTRIBUTE TO TWICE AS MUCH LIFE
ASSURANCE TO-DAY, THEN IN 20 YEARS’ TIME
YOU CAN SAY:
“The finest thing I ever did was when I arranged
for twice as much Life Assurance.”
THINK IT OVER and ACT NOW!
“The National Mutual,” a purely Mutual Institu-
tion, established in 1869, was formed to protect
members and their dependents from the financial
stress caused by death and old age.
It introduced the Non-Forfeiture Principle to Life
Policies, thus saving thousands of Life Policies from
lapsing.
’Phone 86848, or write for our Special Representative to call.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
Purely Mutual. No Shareholders.
Funds Exceed; Annual Income Exceeds;
£37,000,000. £4,900,000.
OFFICES:
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Oswald St. Clair, Manager.


FOR RANDWICK.
Novice Handicap: Bundar ; next,
The Raider.
Youthful Stakes: Hadrian ; next,
Rubens.
Randwick Stakes: Peter Pan;
next, Sylvandale.
Denman Stakes: Care Free ; next,
Sir John.
City Tatt.’s Cup: Regal Son;
next, Rivalli.
Club Welter: Mystic Spell ; next,
Ranchero.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sylvandale beat Farndale pointless in
the V.R.C. St, Leger. His Torin in the
St. Kilda Handicap at Caulfield does not
give Farndale a donkey’s chance of turn-
ing the tables on Fred Williams’s repre-
sentative in the A.J.C. classic ;; yet it is
intended to send him over to Randwick.
The joint owners, A. G. Hunter and
Joseph Fell, are convinced that Farn-
dale did not do himself justice at the
week-end. That fact is indisputable.
Ridden by Voitre, the Curialis colt
started at 5 to 4 in a field of 11, but
failed to gain a place. Good jockey
though he is, Voitre may not have suited
Farndale, who lost ground at the start.
He charged the barrier, and while Voitre
was attempting to restrain him the tapes
ascended. After that the favorite was in
continual trouble. Second-last to leave
the straight, he never threatened danger.
Voitre made ineffectual attempts to get
through on the rails during the
journey, and had no better luck after
shifting to the outside. There is good
galloping material in Farndale, as witness
his second to Journal in the Caulfield
Cup ; but the colt is far from being a
model of consistency.
Outsiders shared the St. Kilda Handi-
cap stake-money. The winner, Prismatic,
BERT", 1m Off coloc to andm x
f w
<sHf3r; So I HcmCE ,
V .
DERTI I LOST THREE B/U-i-S
YESTERDAY "
n /
Sert: Oh, \sth\t vouve gome
IMTO- MO<JF?MIMG,'''
was quoted at 14 to I, Ruach (second)
at 25 to 1 and Little Queen (third) at
50 to 1. Prismatic was nominated by
J. A. Phillips, but just before the race
he was bought by Norman Robinson
(owner of Arachne) and Joseph Fell for
£4OO and half the stake. Phillips, who
did so well with Gaine Carrington and
Synagogue, won the 1934 Hurdle with
Prismatic, Recently he sent the nag
up to auction, but the reserve wasn’t
reached. The Rossendale gelding earned
£550 on Saturday ; thus Phillips is in the
position of having received £675 in all
for Prismatic. On the other side of the
picture, Robinson and Fell can con-
gratulate themselves on having acquired
a topnotch hurdler and no mean galloper
for £125, These sportsmen are members
of the V.A.T.C. committee. Fell and
the father of Norman Robinson joined
with R. E. H. Hope and E. M. Pearce
some years ago in buying Dominant as
a yearling for 6750 guineas.
Nuit d’Or and Yarramba were the only
horses backed at all solidly against Farn-
dale. At the start Nuit d’Or fared even
worse than the favorite; still, it is un-
likely that Holt will take Philip Russell’s
chestnut over to compete in the Sydney
Cup. Since he ran such a good second
to Peter Pan in the Melbourne Cup of
1932, and won the Williamstown Cup,
Yarramba has been an unsound horse.
Stan Reid patched him up for Saturday’s
race, and the Spearhead gelding looked
all over a winner when he ran up to
Prismatic at the distance. Then the
affected leg gave way again, and Yar-
ramba was beaten into fourth place.
This may mean the end of his turf career.
Very seldom are two races won on
the same afternoon by newly-acquired
horses. Following the - victory of Pris-
matic came that of Vauntry in the South
Yarra Handicap, of six furlongs. Three
seasons ago Vauntry, a son of Heroic,
carried off the Maribyrnong Plate;
since then he has ranked as a sprinter
of more than ordinary calibre, F. W.
Kitchen, the owner, being about to leave
for a trip to Europe, sent his racing stud
up for sale. Vauntry did not reach the
reserve price, but last week he was
bought for less than £SOO by P. B. Quin-
lan, who has had such a run of success
with Count Ito. Plenty of support was
forthcoming for Vauntry, and in the
hands of Voitre he scored cleverly from
Polly Speck and Press Gang, The dis-
play given by Great Legend was so dis-
appointing that his owners, St. Albans
studmasters H, G. Raymond and H. B,
Ranken, surrendered all thought of send-
ing him to Sydney for Easter.
Voitre captured the last two races on
the card at Caulfield. In the Übique
Welter he gave such a superb exhibition
of horsemanship that the crowd con-
tinued to cheer long after he returned to
scale. Voitre’s mount, the favorite, Saro-
kos, was cut down in the straight by both
Strymon and Spartan, and the hopes of
his backers sank to zero; but Voitre
used the whip with such telling effect
that the grey pulled the race out of the
fire by half a head from Strymon, who
was not a neck in advance of Spartan.
No. M.L. jockey since the days of Hewitt
has gained such a high reputation in
Melbourne as Voitre.
* * * *
G. F. Wilson has set backers a hard
task with the weights for City Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick on Saturday.
Kuvera, Rogilla, Oro, Journal, Closing
Time and Sylvandale are among the rivals
to Peter Pan in the Randwick Stakes,
but one always expects Dangar’s chest-
nut to pull a little extra out in these
weight-for-age races. Hadrian is a bril-
liant two-year-old, and 9st. 21b. may not
stop him in the Youthful Stakes. This
meeting may reveal some probabilities
for Easter. "* -
sj i % $1 $
Asa result of a fine performance in
the Moorefield Trainers’ Cup, Journal is
now favorite for the Sydney Cup. Last
away and set a severe task, the Caulfield
Cup winner made up his ground heroic-
ally, and won, running away, by a length
and a half from Ranchero (12 to 1), with
Cercello third. Ranchero also finished
well; he was last at the five-furlong post.
Journal and Silver King started at 5 to
2. Silver King was a great disappoint-
ment. He was cantering in front most
of the way, and half a mile from home
was going so easily that defeat looked
impossible. But turning for home the
three-year-old began to shorten his
stride, and he showed little resolution
when Journal tackled him on the outside.
Silver King is still in the Doncaster, but
his stocks have slumped. He looked
trained to the minute. Journal is also in
the Doncaster, and the ring is taking no
liberties with him.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy seldom makes
mistakes with his small but select team.
Nachara, carrying his colors, won the
Moorefield Handicap at 9 to 2, beating
Milantheon and Sarsign rather easily.
Sarsign, who comes from the southern
districts, was not ridden with judgment;
he raced alongside Vallage, and his rider
never let him have a breather when he
got to the front. Broccoli was fourth.
Little Bouyeo (5 to 1) finished stoutly
in the first division of the Welter, and
accounted for Povertdale—an early
winner—with Misnomer third. The
favorite, Bim Boy, was never going com-
fortably, though he met with interfer-
ence several times. The second heat was
voted a good thing for Frieze (6 to 4),
a stable-mate of Broad Arrow ; however,
Head Boy (10 to 1) beat him by a head,
with Segovia (7 to 2) a neck away.
Segovia came too late. Another fellow
with possibilities in his class.
Bungendore pastoralist T. L. F. Rut-
ledge took the first division of the Maiden
Handicap with Village Maiden (20 to 1),
a three-year-old by Cottingham, sire of
Musk Deer. She has done, little racing,
and staying seems to be her forte. The
second heat went to Beabula, whose sire
Beon was a champion 14.1. Trained at
Moorefield, Beabula was backed from
sevens to 7 to 2, on the strength of a
trial with Parcourir.
Lord Sun, who likes the Moorefield
track, as did his sire, Royal Sun, annexed
a division of the Juvenile from Cognac
and Rembrandt. He started at fours.
Bred by T. C. Trautwein, and raced by
Randwick trainer Fred Cush, Lord Sun
looks a likely stayer. The fillies’ divi-
sion went to Fred Marks’s Filoselle (7
to 1), expertly handled by Weiss, who
led Pastel and Contrast home. Fair
Diana, the favorite, missed the jump and
was never out of trouble.
* * * *
Bookmaker-owners are increasingly
prominent. In the colors of J. T. Hackett,
of the Randwick ring, Lolorua, by
Heroic- —Weela, took the first division of
the Nursery at Victoria Park, Sydney.
A very nice colt, it was his first appear-
ance on any racecourse. Hitherto, the
Hacketts have not been very successful,
except with the bag, though the family
shared an interest with Paddy Connolly,
of Perth (sometime owner of Blue Spec
and Jolly Beggar), in the English-bred
Bravado.
* * * *
Kuvera returned to the winning list by
capturing a division of the Flying Handi-
cap at Victoria Park. He beat a field of
14, and did it rather well. Now a five-
year-old, the son of Brazen—Varta
Mozzle is nicely handicapped in the Don-
caster with 9st., and in the Sydney Cup
with 8st. 91b.; and though he has done
nothing much for a long time his fine
form at three years should not be for-
gotten. He defeated Gaine Carrington
for the C. B. Fisher Plate at level weights
(7st. 91b.), and won the King’s Cup with
8st. 61b., both over a mile and a half.
(Continued on page 36.)
Footbrawl
For the first time this century Ireland
has finished at the head of the Rugby
Union competition played in the U.K.
and the neighboring isle. Its best per-
formance was a 9-3 defeat of Wales at
Belfast, playing 14 men most of the
time. Wales has shown very fine form
this season.
♦ ♦ ■ . ♦
“Shore” : It is more than likely that the
future will see a new Rugby Union first-
grade club on the northern side of the
harbor, Mosman and Roseville clubs,
both powerful units in the Kentwell Cup
competition, being likely candidates.
The Union game is very strong on that
side of the creek, and has practically
obliterated the League, which once had
quite a vogue in North Sydney. The
Rugby Union demands now that any
new club wishing to join first grade must
present itself with an enclosed ground
under its wing, but this is a difficulty
which should be easily overcome on the
north side.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. Rugby League
is to make a desperate effort to revive
its fortunes, and to that end has invited
a combined team from N.S.W. and
Queensland to play in the Shivery Isles
in September. The folk at the Austra-
lian end have suggested that the M.L.
League send a team to Sydney to play
in a triangular tourney with the two Aus-
tralian States, probably next season. A
heroic suggestion, for visits from Maori-
landers in the past have wounded the
Australian concerns in their tenderest
spot—the cashbox.
(Continued on page 36.)
“Maidan”: That private cricket team
'of Frank Tarrant’s (B 6/3/’35) may yet
go to India. Frank has dropped all with
a possible hope of going to S’Africa, and,
with the exception of one or two fairly
modern specimens he has collected a
number of venerable ruins that promise
to vie with Chitor and Ajmer and other
long-abandoned cities of Rajasthan. It is
understood the B. of C. is now prepared
to smile on the departure of the Methu-
selahs.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: President Durham, of
the Ma State Junior Cricket Union, dis-
cussing the distribution of profits from
overseas cricket tours, declared that far
too much was handed out to States like
Westralia and Tassie. “My union has
done far more for cricket than Tas-
mania,” he added. One has yet to hear
that the Juniors —a Sydney show —have
contributed an Eady, a McDonald or a
Badcock to the higher grades of the game,
as Tassie has done.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some details of the
takings in the first professional tourney
arranged by the O’Brien circus in the
U.S.A. after Lott and Stoeffen left the
amateurs explain why they departed. In
one week Lott and Stoeffen pouched
£I2OO apiece— p.c. Vines got 20 per
cent., and O’Brien and Tilden halved the
balance, about £SOOO, out of which they
had to pay expenses.
* * * *
“Kennington Oval”: Taking a last
look over things before the cricket season
starts, the Marylebone C.C. has issued
a final set of instructions to umpires
with regard to bodyline bowling.
One new ukase enjoints an umpire to
inform the M.C.C. at once if any captain
or player shows resentment at his find-
ing. This looks as if the poor old ump.,
for long despised and rejected of men,
has been given a first-class chance to get
a bit of his own back with flash bowlers
and uppish captains, against whose vag-
aries he had no redress under the old
regulations.
* * * *
“Spike”; It has been said that Tolan
is the first athlete to hold amateur and
professional championships simultane-
ously. Tosh ; many others have brought
off championships in the lilywhite and
paid ranks, notably Walker, of South
Africa, and Harry Hutchens, of Britain.
In any case, no one can claim to hold
amateur and professional titles “simul-
taneously.” When he goes over to pro-
fessionalism an amateur’s records are
automatically wiped off the books, just
as a cashiered army officer loses his
medals and decorations.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent G.O.D.
FD
Quality Secondhand English
Hammerless Ejector Pigeon Shotguns.
Purdey, with two sets of barrels .... £l2O
Holloway and N aughton Special Side Lock,
£52/10/-.
Pair of Webley and Scott Ejector Quail Guns,
£ 52/10/-.
Host of Others. Write for Special List.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and. Pishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
Special Greener Guns, the pair
Greener F.H. 50
... £75
£47/10/-
William Powell
£3O
A RISK
Too Grave fo T«Ae/
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you—or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Chairman of Director*:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
■Hi
m
ißiiie
2/ : - per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
FD
Under the Whip
Peter Pan is not likely to be knocked
about at the Easter meetings now that
the A.J.C. has arranged a fine pro-
gramme for May 6, with a Jubilee Cup
worth £1750. Then, all going well, Peter
will have another chance of win-
ning a King’s Cup in August. The
Q.T.C. is to put on a King’s Cup
race on the third day of its Exhibition
meeting, August 24. There are some
good horses in Queensland, notably Soft
Step, Rivalli, Lough Neagh and Brown
Force ; but the big chestnut, fit. and well,
will have an advantage over all of them,
in that he will have to carry no more
than 9st. 51b.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Why shouldn’t Dromos win
the Doncaster? Consider his last five
performances: —
First, with lOst. 91b., in the Rosehill
Corinthian Handicap; Sky Brightener
second and Tatyoon third; 7 furlongs in
lmin. 27sec. _
Second, with 8st. 21b., to Capns
(8st. 41b.) in the A.J.C. Highweight Handi-
cap ; Australian Bee (8st. 31b.) third;
1 mile in lmin. 37J-sec.
Second, with 8st. 41b., to Love Song
(8st. 41b.) in the A.J.C. Handicap; Turbine
(9st. 121b.) third; 9 furlongs in lmin.
Second, with 7st. 131b., to Capris
(8st. 131b.) in Tatt.’s New Year Gift;
Impasto (8st. 51b.) third; 7 furlongs in
lmin. 24sec.
First, with 7st. 101b., in the Moorefield
Gold Cup; Australia Fair (8st. 71b.)
second and Roman Spear (8st. 91b.) third;
1 mile in lmin. 41Jsec.
Good form that; and in all five races
Dromos finished fast: in two he was in-
differently ridden. A four-year-old stal-
lion by Doric —Sister Vamp, he should
be still capable of improvement. He has
only 7st. 51b. in the Doncaster.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium’s latest plan for pitting
an American against an American mis-
carried. Three nights before the thing
was to have come off Cormier damaged
a fist in outpointing Osborne in Mel-
bourne, and had to retire from the
Sydney engagement. The management
found a substitute in Mickey Miller.
A frail-looking featherweight (a bantam
really), he was thrown into the ring to
meet Varner, who has whipped the Aus-
tralian lightweight “champion” Bishop.
Poor little Miller was hustled from pillar
to post, and at the end of the eighth
round the towel went in. There were
only a few pounds in the house.
* * * *
Ron Richards has materially improved
since Ambrose Palmer stopped him at
Brisbane in a few rounds a year or two
ago. At Leichhardt on Wednesday,
coming in a stone lighter, the abo. was
the more aggressive of the pair; and,
though inferior in in-fighting, and often
a mark for Palmer’s fine left, he always
looked dangerous. A perfectly-placed
right cross nearly knocked the Victorian
over in the eighth round. Richards also
outfought his foe in the next four rounds,
but Palmer’s left landed so frequently
during the last four that he earned the
decision that went his way, though the
spectators, out of sympathy with Rich-
ards, would have been better pleased with
a draw.
* * # *
“G.J.”: The decline in the standard
of Australian boxing is chiefly attribut-
able to the disappearance of the old-time
instructor. The Jacksons, “Griffos” and
Bolands of the great age of the Ring
in Australia had men like Foley and
Hicken to teach therm; in the days of
Keys, Cripps, Dave Smith, Mehegan and
McCoy there were instructors like Wally
Weekes, Arthur Scott, Joe Goode and
Sam Gray. Men like these taught pupils
the importance of balance, the proper
way to punch, leads and counters—not
more than a dozen different moves. The
antics of even the best of the present
generation of boxers suggest that the
teaching of balance and the art of punch-
ing is neglected, evasion being the main
thing. Thus lads of whom a Foley might
have made something become merely
ungraceful dancers with bad hands. And
youngsters are so ill-matched that they
are burnt out as boxers while still boys.
The raw material is probably as good
as ever, but champions are the products
of favorable conditions, and these con-
ditions no longer exist.
* * * *
Australia has seen bruisers trom every
English-speaking country, and from every
continent withal. Portuguese, Lithuani-
ans, Mexicans, Chinese, “Cape boys”
and Filipinos have figured in Sydney and
Melbourne rings ; but hitherto there has
been no pug from the South Sea Islands.
One has shot up in Queensland, in the
person of Tom West. He is a welter, and
has knocked out opponent after opponent
in short order. Now he is reckoned
about the best man in Queensland at his
weight.
Footbrawl
Doug Nieholls, the smart little abo.
who has played a splendid game for
Fitzroy (Vic.) for a couple of seasons,
has been prevailed upon to re-enter the
arena this coming season. Nieholls was
expected to be a loss to Melbourne
football owing to his intention to become
a missionary and lead his brothers still
in the bone-pointing stage into the fold
of Christianity. It now seems that the
preparation for mission work will take
DEEP-BREATHING.
§bme time, and that the playing of foot-
ball for another season will not interfere
with it.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: A footballer is not with-
out honor in Melbourne when he retires,
whatever may be the case elsewhere. At
Collingwood club’s annual meeting Syd
Coventry, eight years captain and a
mighty kicker of goals, was handed sev-
eral gifts, among them being a 55.-piece
115 years old mounted in blackwood.
This bears for posterity the legend that
it was the actual coin used by the Col-
lingwood idol when he tossed in the cen-
tenary semi-final against South Mel-
bourne last year.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The old Victorian F.A.,
which has struck evil days, will next year
play under anew system. The competi-
tion will be divided into two sections,
approximately north and south of the
Yarra, and four new clubs will be ad-
mitted, Applications for these, two to
each section, are to be called right away.
Admission prices and season-ticket
charges have been cut with a view to
luring back vanished supporters, and a
campaign to push the game among the
schools will also be started.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union has added Ross
to its list of selectors for the season.
With Blackwood and King as colleagues,
Ma will have a front-row forward, a
centre-threequarter and a fullback to
pick her teams. Billy Hill, chairman of
the Union, Blackwood and King will be
the Australian selectors. The Maori tour
has not yet been fixed up, but it is likely
at least three matches will be played in
Sydney. Two Australian delegates have
been invited to attend an Imperial R.U.
conference in London next December.
H*
“Huon”: At the Manly club’s annual
meeting a Tasmanian visitor said the
Rugby game was well established in his
State, but the chief trouble lay in per-
suading people that it was not the Ameri-
can version of footer made familiar by
the flicks. He asked for a visit from a
N.S.W. team to help to dispel this illu-
sion. Victoria sent the Melbourne Uni.
team to Tassie last season, and Ma could
do no less. Once more we see here the
necessity for the creation of an Austra-
lian Board of Control for the Rugby
Union game.
*** ■ *
“Jolimont”: The Vic. Rugby Union
sets a good example to some of its older
sisters in the matter of getting things
done. Last year the game was encour-
aged in the schools ; this year the num-
ber of boys playing will be more than
doubled, and a fund has been started to
help in providing gear, coaching and
other aids. The annual meeting also
decided to drop the big white V on the
front of the inter-State jersey; a bunch
of wattle-blossom will take its place.
Negotiations are afoot to get a match
against the All-Blacks on their way to
England, while the axes are being sharp-
ened for the Maori side this season.
* * * *
“Coif”: Now that the Sydney Cricket
Ground has been barred to them, Union
officials have been making much of the
unfairness of it all. One point advanced
is that it was the Union in pre-war days
with its inter-State and international
matches against M.L. and Britain which
helped to build the S.C.G. as it is to-
day. That is all very well, but the
Union’s own supine attitude is greatly to
blame for the loss of the ground. It
has many verbal supporters in high
places who might well have been prodded
into activity. No one seems to have
thought, for instance, of applying for a
writ of mandamus against the trustees.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The Australian tennis
heads are shudderingly regarding the
accounts for the visit of the overseas
players, on which a loss of £2000 is
threatened. However, over £5000 has
come in from the Australian champion-
ships. Norman Brookes has been asked
to arrange about Cochet’s proposed tour
of Australia playing exhibition matches,
details of which are yet a bit foggy.
Maoriland has consented to meet Aus-
tralia in the opening round of the Davis
Cup at Eastbourne on May 11, 13, 14.
This will give our men a spell before the
French championships begin on May 19.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Details of the appear-
ance-money which our representatives
are to receive for showing at Wimbledon
and Paris are available. The All-England
club has guaranteed £500 for Wimble-
don, and the team will not be asked to
play at Bournemouth or other country
tourneys where the takings are scanty.
France has crayfished a bit. Last year
it put up 30,000 frogskins —£389 at the
then rate of exchange. This time only
25,000 are offered, equal now to £347.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Norman Brookes has given
& talkie performance before the movie
camera, demonstrating his shots and ex-
plaining just how to do them. Norman
used one of his old-time square-topped
racquets, and gave his historical cap what
may be its last airing. His opponent was
Bayley, nowadays secretary at Kooyong.
* * * # *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: All the tennis
excitement now centres in the departing
Davis Cuppers, and the customary flap-
doodle is filling the papers. The limit
came when, after Bromwich had won the
S.A. championship, a Sydney journal took
up a Duke of Plaza-Toro attitude and
insisted on his inclusion in the Cup team,
even if others had to be jettisoned. The
accounts of the Adelaide final say that
the lad practically collapsed after his
punishing go with Turnbull, but our
flapper press isn’t going to let a little
thing like that put it off its meal of
sensation.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Among the
many jobs assigned to Norman Brookes
while he is in Europe is that of trying
to get some alteration in the method of
playing European-zone matches. Euro-
pean nations play on neutral courts.
South African, Australian and other over-
seas players, save Americans, have to play
European matches on the home courts
of their opponents —not always a nice
job. Another unfair rule is that where-
by America, having won its zone against
the fifth-rate opposition, comes to Eng-
land and sits pretty preparing for the


in
SPECIAL
OFFER
OF
TROUT TACKLE
10% DISCOUNT
OFF ALL TROUT TACKLE DURING
STOCKTAKING SALE, COMMENCING
MARCH 18, ENDING APRIL 30.
A golden opportunity to secure highest-grade tackle at bargain prices.
When ordering, we would advise making a second choice, as our stocks
will not be replenished before next season. Secure the best bargains by
ordering early. Latest illustrated catalogue post free..
COWLES and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
: M 3388.
WELLINGTON
the capital city of New Zealand,
offers a unique testing ground
for manufacturers and others
seeking fresh markets for
nationally advertised products,
and this rich territory can be
completely covered by one
medium—
“ The Evening Post’
The “Evening Post” circulates
throughout the southern ex-
tremity of the North Island and
the northern portion of the
South Island, and in the
Wellington city and urban area
provides a 95% coverage.
Guaranteed larger net paid cir-
culation than any other daily
paper published within a radius
of 400 miles of Wellington.
Advertising rates and all infor-
mation may be obtained from
F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
BLUNDELL BROS., LTD.,
Proprietors.
London Office:
N.Z. Assoc. Press,. 85 Fleet Street.
Designed and Built for
Australian Conditions
■u#
The New
cnqlisf
Fordsoiv
Tractor
New Cooling, Lubrication and Ignition Systems ... New
Air Cleaning System . . . Heavy-Duty Transmission . . .
“Hot-Spot” Vaporiser . . . Governor Control . . . Easy Steering
.. . Crankcase Ventilation ... Optional Gears ... Clutch Pulley
The new English Fordson is now available for immediate delivery. A special
Fordson Finance Plan provides easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland: BUZACOTTS
(QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Victoria &. Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd. William l town Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia:
ADELAIDE CAR &
TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth St., Adelaide
Western Australia *
LYNAS MOTORS
LTD.
Hay Street, Perth
ENTIRELY MADE IN ENGLAND
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRA L I A PTY. LTD. E.T.4
inter-zone match which its opponents
have to play in after rushing, perhaps,
half across Europe. The only way to
settle the American business would be
for teams like Japan and Australia to
challenge in that zone instead of
Europe. If this had been done last year
and this, it is doubtful whether the Yanks
would have had to take the trip to
Yurrup.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Oakland”; Victorian golfing critics
are taking an interest in the proposal to
send a professional team abroad, and
suggest to the N.S.W. promoters that it
would be a graceful act to include a
player or two from other States. Rufus
Stewart has been mentioned. He was the
second Australian in the open at the
centenary championships, and beat Dens-
more Shute. All the same, he is a bit
past his prime, and a knee has given him
trouble more than once.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian women
golfers, who are running the Australian
championships at Royal Melbourne this
year, are charging 2s. a head for the
tourney or 7s. 6d. for a season ticket.
Considering the calibre of the golf and
the presence of the English players this
is pretty reasonable. Only competitors
and inter-State visitors who can obtain
special tickets will be allowed to enter
Royal Melbourne clubhouse during the
championship meeting, so intending gate-
crashers can take notice. Charges to see
the tourists in other States will be a
matter for the local authorities.
H= * * *
“Shirley”: The Australian and ML.
women golfers have been powwowing
for some time over the Tasman Cup, pre-
sented a couple of years ago for competi-
tion, and won at the outset by Oliver
Kay and co. at Melbourne. Last year
an Australian team skippered by Mrs.
Robinson, of N.S.W., unexpectedly re-
covered the trophy in Maoriland. In
future the cup is to be played for alter-
nately in each country.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: As most expected, Tolan
took the “world’s” sprint championship
in Melbourne by winning the 220 in the
good time of 21isec. In the 130 he was
third to Robertson and Roberts, the
firstnamed being clocked at 12 6-16 sec.
As Tolan had previously won the 100 and
75 events he came out with 16 points,
with Robertson holding 11 and Roberts
9. It was about the most distinguished
gathering of professional peds. since
Donaldson, Postle and Holway held their
clashes in Australia in 1911. Donaldson
was the star of that great trio, and his
times were far ahead of anything re-
corded at Melbourne Exhibition.
# $ * $
Sydney Southerton, editor of “Wis-
den’s” since 1933, died suddenly, like
his predecessor, in England last week.
He had been speaking at a club dinner
and collapsed after sitting down. He was
the founder of the Cricket Reporting
Agency, and Australians will remember
him as a press correspondent with Chap-
man’s side in 1928. On several occasions
in the past he had acted as scorer to
Australian teams in England.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: E. L. Waddy departs
shortly on his fifth tour of N.Q. with a
team which includes Grimmett and is
to play a dozen matches. These tours
have done more to improve the standard
of cricket outside Brisbane than anything
the Bananaland association has ever
attempted. They have induced north-
erners to substitute grass pitches for con-
crete and helped them to earn the money
to pay for the change ; further, they have
so improved the standard of individual
play that country players have been win-
ning their way into State teams in a
manner which was once impossible.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: A team of cyclists leaves
for Britain and the Continent in April;
Opperman is skipper, and the others are
Milliken and Stewart (Vic.), Walsh
(N.S.W.) and Eddie Smith (W.A.). The
team will compete in a series of matches
against British riders on the lines of the
motor-cyclists, and it is hoped this will
develop into an annual meeting in Eng-
land and Australia alternately. There
will be contests on the roads as well as
tracks, one of them being a race from
Land’s End to John o’ Groat’s.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: Victorian marksman
P. A. Pavey enhanced his reputation as
the finest target shot in Australia by win-
ning the Vic. King’s Prize with an Aus-
tralian record score of 346, dropping
only nine points for his 71 shots over
300, 500, 600, 700, 800 and 900 yards.
The previous best was 344 by Feltham,
of N.S.W., in 1933. It was Pavey’s fifth
King’s, the N.S.W. and Queensland
events also hanging at his belt. His
ambition is to better the record of the
late George Bradley, of Queensland, who
won six King’s Prizes.
*** * .
“Windage”: Since Bisley ordered the
use of the service rifle in many of its
events, especially in the King’s Prizes, and
overseas rifle associations followed suit,
there has been much wailing among their
members. Waiters will rejoice to hear
that another rifle, “Pattern 14,” may be
used at the next Bisley meeting in July—
it will no doubt be adopted in Australia
also. This rifle has a queer history. It
was ordered early in the war, and many
thousands were made in the U.S.A. On
delivery they were found to be short of
specification and unfit for active-service
conditions, and were incontinently
scrapped. Recently several hundred thou-
sand were found stowed away at Wool-
wich. They were found to be quite suit-
able for target-shooting and very accur-
ate, and are now available to the public
at £3 each.
* * * *
“Spike”: A Sydney hurdler named
Cooper had a queer experience after
a 120yds. spin. He has good perform-
ances to his credit, but when he ran his
race in all hands looked at one
another with a wild surmise. When the
course was measured and found correct
and the timekeepers checked each other
there were momentary visions of anew
world’s record. Then it occurred to
someone to count the hurdles. There
were only nine instead of the regulation
ten.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Reg Hellings, a
noted swimmer of long ago, recently
applied to the N.S.W. swimming heads
for reinstatement as an amateur after 35
years in the wilderness. At the worst
Hellings was only technically a pro.,
having incurred the ban by taking on
the management of baths —he was for
long in charge of the Domain pool. In
his application he wrote “I sincerely
hope that before I die the brand of pro-
fessional will be removed from me.”
Few Australian athletes have as keen a
conscience.
? * * *
“Abingdon”: Oxford has resorted to
all sorts of dodges this year to try to
beat the Cambridge rowing hoodoo (B.
13/3/’35). The conservative Dark Blues
actually tried the swivel rowlocks now
universally used by the London clubs and
most of the leading Australian crews in
place of the noisy old fixed poppets. The
experiment resulted in several swivels
being smashed on the first trial, and the
crew has gone back to the old style. Of
the Ma State G.P.S. crews, “Shore” was
the last to adhere to the fixed poppets,
but this year it has been converted to
swivels.


i
1
:
m
'i-awooat
ms
ms
i
.
mm.
* >' /V
TO FIJI
i.M.S. STRATHNAVER leaves Sydney April 5.
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO SAMARA!
R.M.S. MOOLTAN leaves Sydney July 13,
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 18 and 11 guineas respectively.
PiO
TO FIJI
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves
Sydney Aug. 23.
First Saloon and Tourist Class :
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas
respectively.
FARES ARE FREE OF EXCHANGE.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent Street, Sydney.
PLEASURE
CRUISES
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1673 of 1934.
BETWEEN WINIFRED SWEENEY Petitioner
And LIONEL WILFRED SWEENEY
Respondent.
TO LIONEL WILFRED SWEENEY late of
Pomona Road Pennant Hills.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
SWEENEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 386 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELLEN SUSANNA BEGGS Peti-
tioner
And ARCHIBALD ANGUS LIONEL
BEGGS Respondent.
TO ARCHIBALD ANGUS LIONEL BEGGS
late of Broken Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
SUSANNAH BEGGS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROBERT W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney, Agent for E. R. HUDSON,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Broken Hill.
For SPORTING NOTES
TIPS...RESULTS
and Turf Gossip from all States
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
cany your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral distncts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne: News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Swiss Way
Switzerland’s example (B. 6/3/ ’ 3 5)
might be followed in matters other than
defence. In that country the Treasurer
must be an accountant, the Minister for
Agriculture a farmer, the Minister for
Health a medical man, and so on. It is
an arrangement that might not suit our
Weaver; but the Swiss are better
off than we are. —H. M. (N.S.W.).
South Australia Leads
That the matter referred to by “Spike”
(B. 13/2/’35) has given trouble in States
other than his own is evidenced by the
amendment to the S.A. Police Act passed
recently by the Butler Government.
One of the new sections provides;
Any person who, falsely and with know-
ledge of the falsity of his statements,
represents to any member of the police
force that any act has been done or that
any circumstances have occurred which act
or circumstances as so represented are
such as reasonably call for investigation by
the police, shall be guilty of an offence....
The penalty is up to £5O, and the
Court may also order the offender to
pay a reasonable sum for expenses of
the investigation made by the police as
a result of the false statement.
There has already been a prosecution ;
it resulted in a conviction without
penalty, but the circumstances were
somewhat exceptional. — El Effay (S.A.).
He Doesn’t Like Us
In your issue of February 27 there are
two or three hostile references to the
appointment of men from Great Britain
to important posts in Australia, and they
are by no means the first attacks in your
columns. You know quite well that the
position of Vice-Chancellor of Mel-
bourne University was offered to an Aus-
tralian-born, who refused it. You also
know that many Australians hold good
appointments in Great Britain, although
that country has far greater facilities
than Australia for training men for
highly-specialised appointments. You
also probably know that the English
press prints no similar rude and con-
temptible attacks upon the appointment
of Australians.
I do not object to a paper which has
a definite policy—either that of the
“closed door” or that of “give and take.”
But I strongly object to The Bulletin’s
petty, one-sided attitude of favoring the
exclusion of Englishmen from Australian
positions while enthusiastically support-
ing the giving of English positions to
Australians. You frequently make scath-
ing comments on politicians who make
cheap bids for popularity. Why not take
your own medicine and prefer impar-
tiality to cheap bidding for popularity
amongst the unintelligent?
I am one of many Dominion-bred
men who were given appointments in
English universities without having to
read in the press rude hints that I was
an outsider, not wanted. The rude com-
ments in your columns may come from
outside contributors, but so far you have
not attempted to make a courteous or
impartial statement. —A. B. T. (Tas.).
Fascism in Britain
My attention has been drawn to a
letter (B. 21/11/ ’34) in which “F.R.H.”
describes the British Union of Fascists,
which is now a nation-wide organisation
with branches in every town, as “Wall-
street and Leadenhall-street” Fascism.
May I ask the courtesy of your columns
to issue an official denial of the absurd
suggestion that this great national move-
ment is in any way backed by the vested
interests of big business and international
finance? It is indeed against these great
vested interests, which to-day dictate to
our Government and prevent anything
like effective co-operation in trade be-
tween the mother country and the
Dominions, that the fight of Fascism is
chiefly directed.
To advocate “racial Fascism” in an
Empire such as the British, which is com-
posed of peoples of every race and color,
is to brand one’s movement as parochial,
and in opposition to the freedom and
tolerance upon which the British Empire
has been built up. What may be suit-
able for Germany may be unsuitable for
Italy, and clearly both nations have en-
tirely different conditions and problems
from our own. We have the greatest
admiration for the magnificent achieve-
ments of the two great Continental
leaders, but when Fascism comes to
Britain it will come with a British pro-
gramme for British needs, carried out in
a British way. — John A. Macnab, for
the British Union of Fascists (Eng.).
The A.W.U. in Queensland
A further impost has been placed
upon the already overburdened members
of the A.W.U. in Queensland by the
increase of the branch secretary’s salary
to £9OO p.a. District secretaries have
received substantial increases also.
Economic conditions and unabating
unemployment in the pastoral and other
industries do not warrant such increases.
They amount to nothing less than ex-
ploitation of men legally coerced into an
organisation with which they lack sym-
pathy. Even in the darkest depression
period A.W.U. membership tickets were
never lowered in price. The branch sec-
retary in his annual report boasts a 7000
increase of membership. Remove the
fetters of conscription, and those fig-
ures would melt in a month. In Charle-
ville and Barcaldine, two of the largest
wool centres in Queensland, well-attended
meetings very recently carried motions
of no confidence in the A.W.U. — Duke
Meredith (Q.).
In Queensland clerks of petty sessions
have become union organisers. A
Digger, after tramping about the country
for just on 12 months, was offered a
week’s work on a station. He was told
that before taking it he would have to
sign an order, handed over by the C.P.S.,
by which the price of an A.W.U. ticket
(255.) would be deducted from his wages
(£2 4s. and tucker). He needed boots
and trousers ; his worn-out ones were not
capable of standing up to work. So he
had to decline a job from which the
union would have got more than he
would have had for himself. — Walk-
about (Q.).


Should the Exchange
Rate Be Lifted?
Are Trade Statistics
Reliable?
Influence of Credit Upon
Interest Rates.
Outlook for Share
Prices.
These and other problems vital to the
investor are discussed in the
MARCH issue of
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal.
Now on Sale.
m IMPORTANT NOTICE A
TRADE BARTER WITH GERMANY
Numerous German Importers, whose addresses are held by the
Management Board of the Leipzig Trade Fairs, are willing to buy
Australian Wool, Hides and other Primary Products in exchange
for an equivalent value in German goods.
A Better Price for Your Wool, and Your Money Stays in Australia
Since such business by barter (which will be arranged by the Leipzig
Fair Management) can be conducted only if a corresponding value
of German products can be disposed of here, all Australian firms
willing to accept goods on these terms are respectfully asked to
communicate with the Commissioner of the Leipzig Trade Fair—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Phone: B 4006),
Stating the type ami approximate value ot the goods desired.
BRANDAUER5
sv-:
m
m.
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BRANDAUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY,ETC.
How Much Is Confidence Worth?
A sponger asks for a loan of five shil-
lings. If it is handed over at all it is
done in a spirit of resignation, and looked
upon as a levy instead of a loan. The
one who is sponged upon has no faith
in the earbiter’s capacity to repay. He
might part with five shillings that way,
but would never transact business on
similar lines.
When money is put into shares there
is no particular obligation on the com-
pany to repay any of it, except where
the enterprise is wound up through
failure or other causes and assets are
liquidated. The investor, if prompted to
part with his money, does so by reason
of possibilities in the industry which it
is intended to start; if he has no con-
fidence in its chances of success he passes
it by.
Where a man lends money on mort-
gage he does not necessarily have a great
deal of confidence in the type of busi-
ness borrowing it; first mortgages are
essentially “safe” securities, and the
mortgagee does not usually advance
money far beyond the break-up value of
the assets. He doesn’t look for so high
an interest return on his investment as
the man who takes shares and pays for
goodwill and other intangibles. But he
does rely on getting his capital back
intact whatever contingency arises.
Mortgagees, if they sought to provide
the whole of the capital of a business,
would cease to be mortgagees. And it
is only so long as they have perfect con-
fidence in their security that they can
afford to lend at 4 p.c. Once the in-
tegrity or solvency of a person or busi-
ness is questioned, up goes the borrow-
ing rate.
Unfortunately, figures of money do not
always mean the same figures of value.
The mortgagee who lent £lOOO in 1913,
if he were repaid in 1923, would not
have been able to buy anything like as
much with it. If he re-lent it again in
1924 and were repaid in 1934 it still
wouldn’t have its pre-war purchasing
parity, but it would buy a good deal
more than at the date of re-lending. What
would be more noticeable, the bor-
rower would have greater difficulty in
repaying it.
Fluctuations in the purchasing power
of money are a risk the mortgagee takes.
The fact that most money is borrowed
and lent during periods of high prices
and great business activity does not prove
cold-blooded calculation on the part of
mortgagees. It is just that money gener-
ally is free, interest rates are attractive,
and that values of the day show wide
security margins.
After good times and easy money there
is invariably a reaction the other way.
When prices start to slide confidence
receives a chill. Money becomes tighter,
and prices tend to go even lower. The
businessman, the farmer or the house-
holder who has been too venturesome in
the matter of borrowing sees the equity
in his property shrink, sometimes to
nothing. Nominally the purchasing
power of the mortgagee is increased. But
he may not be able to recover the full
value of his loan, and even if he were he
would be unable to invest it as profitably
as when he lent it. The increased pur-
chasing power is often nothing more than
a nominal benefit. But the weight added
to the borrower’s load is very real indeed.
There has been talk from time to
time of writing down the principal of
mortgages. If it can be arranged volun-
tarily between debtor and creditor it is
highly desirable. The disastrous varia-
bility in the buying power of money
(which of itself is not wholly blame-
able) is undisputed. If the burdens
which this variability casts on industry
can be removed by amicable arrange-
ment between interested parties the coun-
try generally would be much better off.
Government interference with other
people’s monetary affairs, said Arthur
Rickard at the N. S. Wales Real Estate
Institute’s luncheon last week, is always
dangerous. “Fright is the forerunner of
flight of capital. People do absurd
things when frightened about their
money.”
But, though compulsory writing-down
of debts would have dire effects on con-
fidence and business stability, voluntary
compromise should tend to improve the
outlook of all concerned, and actually
increase confidence. Prices are still very
much out of balance with costs.
Taxi fares are coming down in Mel-
bourne, where they have been far too
high. Reduction to 6d. a mile has
brought Sydney taxi-cabs heaps of busi-
ness ; over the last six months 350 to
400 new cabs, costing £4OO each on the
average, have been placed on the streets.
Though, according to one company, 6d.
"Tou c'n come out now, mister — 'e's gorn ."
a mile is not enough to cover running
costs and depreciation on these cabs,
other interests don’t want to raise the
mileage rate to 9d., as proposed at a
meeting last week. No agreement was
reached. Meantime, Yellow Cabs is to
write off 3s. 9d. a share, largely in re-
spect of obsolescence on cabs and trading
losses.
* * * *
Trade-union unemployment is now
down to 18.8 p.c. In Granville, a Sydney
industrial suburb, Premier Stevens reports
a growth of employment from 1166 in
1931-32 to 2434 in 1933-34 ; the wages
bill rose from £278,000 to £533,000.
Goodyear Tyres found jobs for an extra
509 over the period, more than doubling
its payroll. Building activity in the
Granville-Parramatta district rose from
£32,193 in 1932 to £166,018 last year.
Fords are to put up a £lOO,OOO factory
at Flemington.
❖ * *
Nothing has been heard lately of the
N. S. Wales Companies Bill, introduced
on Dec. 19. This is an urgent measure,
particularly now that new mining floats
are again coming forward in quantity.
* * * *
The National Bank in its monthly
summary acknowledges the recovery
since 1931, but points out that the
improvement is not spread widely
enough through the community, and that
the position of overseas markets is
not sufficiently hopeful to justify the op-
timistic expectations in some quarters.
Australia is still a good way below the
1928 level of prosperity. While that
is recognised by politicians and in-
vestors healthy optimism can do no
harm. But over-estimation of our pro-
gress towards better times would be
dangerous ; boomlets always shake con-
fidence in the end. Look at the gold-
share industry!
* * . * *
Seven of Newcastle’s (N.S.W.) largest
heavy industries employed 7660 hands
at Dec., 1934, as against 4454 in June,
1932. Broken Hill Prop, alone at the end
of 1934 had 4546 on its payroll, com-
pared with 2228 years earlier, and its
wages bill for February—£47,oo0 —was
the biggest on record. The development
of the steel and steel-products industries
has been a great thing for the coal city.
Japan placed an, order for 15,000 tons of
B.H.P. pig-iron the other day.
* * * *
Due to the miners’ strike, Westralian
gold production for February was down
to 21,277 fine ounces, compared with
52,9280 z. in January and 50,98 loz. in
February, 1934. The mint value of re-
ceipts at Perth for Jan.-Feb. was
£313,470, to which the premium added
£337,402.
A six months’ reservation of Koolan
Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.), has been
given to J. D. Connolly (formerly West-
ralia’s A.-G. in London) on behalf of
British interests. Sid Munsie, the Minis-
ter for Mines, is “satisfied that capital
will be forthcoming.”
* * * *
A contract for the bogies of 15 steel
corridor railway-carriage bodies (to be
made at the Clyde works) has been given
to Ritchie Bros., of Auburn. The bogies
are to be fitted with roller-bearing axle-
boxes, and the cars will be the first of
their type to be used in N. S. Wales.
* % ❖
Production of wool by the chief grow-
ing countries this season is estimated at
a higher figure than last. Despite the
embargo Germany imported 987,000 bales
from various countries during 1934, a
decrease of 8 p.c. Italy’s imports were
19 p.c. less, though its S’African pur-
chases were larger. The curtailment of
Continental buying has been apparent
in Australia, but about' 2,000,000 bales
of an estimated clip of 3,146,000 bales
have been cleared.
* * * *
The City Electric Light Co., which sup-
plies all the domestic electricity in Bris-
bane that the council’s New Farm
power-house doesn’t provide, wants to
extend its activities along the North
Coast from Caboolture to Gympie. A
42-year franchise is asked for, and cur-
rent would be charged at Ipswich rates,
plus 10 p.c. The C.E.L. has offered to
take over existing plants already operat-
ing in the area at valuation. The co.
has a capital of £1,398,226, has paid 3
p.c. on its ordinary shares since depres-
sion arrived, and reticulates juice to
Ipswich under contract with the Ipswich
Electric Co.
* * * *
With a crop of less than 130,000,000
bushels in sight—the lowest since 1929 —
wheat prices at Australian ports are con-
siderably firmer than this time last year,
the Sydney figure being around 3s. 2d.
a bushel. But there has been speculation
in futures going on, and in view of the
overseas position of the market the
present price may not be secure.
* * * *
The price of Australian butter in
London has weakened to 755. (sterling)
per cwt. for salted Kangaroo grade.
Opinion is that it should be steady
around that figure for some weeks. The
price for . Australian consumption re-
mains at 1425. 6d. a cwt.
* * * *
Victoria’s production of dairy produce
for 1933-34 showed an all-round reduc-
tion compared with the pre-
vious season. Output of butter
fell from 144 million pounds
to 135 million; cheese from
nine million pounds to eight
million, and bacon from 18.1
million pounds to 17.7 million.
Australia’s butter exports at
present are at the rate of about 2200
tons weekly, well below the average of
the past few weeks. Because of an anti-
cipated shortage of refrigerated space
later on shipments rose to 5000 tons a
few weeks back, the average being
around 3500 tons. At the end of March
Australian stocks are expected to be
down to 7000 tons, as against 9600 tons
at February 28. .
* t
Of Britain’s imports last year 37.1 p.c.
came from the Empire, an increase of
0.2 p.c. On the other hand, exports to
overseas Dominions rose from 44.4 p.c.
to 46.9 p.c. Cotton manufactures, the
biggest item in Britain’s exports, showed
a slight increase, the first for years, all
due to Empire purchases, particularly
India’s. The iron and steel trade exhibits
the greatest recovery amongst the export
industries. Australia has been a particu-
larly good customer as far as new ships
are concerned.


“Australia’s Premier
Sports Organisation”
Introducing
the Latest
Small-bore
Man-sized Rifle!
MOSSBERG
22-calibre
Single-shot
Rifle,
Model 14,
or
m
B
i
m
Price 52/6
(Carriage paid).
Bolt-action, 24-
inch steel barrel,
Special Flat Top
Gold Blade
Hooded Ramp
Front Sight and
Peep Receiver
Rear Sight; pistol-
grip stock with
New “Bulge” fore-
end ; fitted with
leather sling and
swivels. Takes 22
Short, Long or
Long-Rifle New
Super-Speed Cart-
ridges. Weight,
51b.
Other Modern
Sporting Rifles.
No. 12A—LATEST MODEL WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT BIFEE, MODEL 68, for 22
short, long or long-rifle rimfire cartridges,
27in. round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-
grip stock, latest Mauser type safety holt
action, hooded front sight, adjustable
aperture, rear sight. Weight, 55/-
about 4Jib 1
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 4—MOSSBERG S.S. 22-CAL. R.F.
RIFLE, MODEL 10, bolt action, 1 22in.
round barrel, walnut stock, bead front
and ladder rear sights. Weight, QQ /«
about 41b. < '
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 6—MOSSBERG BOLT ACTION
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL 40, 24in.
barrel, walnut stock, hooded ramp front
and peep receiver rear sight, chambered
for 22 long-rifle cartridges only, n Q/
Weight, about 51b '
Carriage Paid.
No. 8—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action,
22in. round barrel, gold bead front and
ladder rear sight. Weight, about OC/
4flb .
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 15—WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 62, 22-cal., 20-shot, 23in.
round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip,
ladder rear sights, slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, 16 long, or 14 long-rifle
cartridges. Weight, about £5/10/-
Carriage Paid.
5flb.
No. 13—WINCHESTER HAMMERLESS
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cal..
24in. round barrel, pistol grip stock, ladder
rear sight, gold bead front sight, slide
action. Magazine handles 20 short, 16 long
or 14 long-rifle cartridges. This rifle will
handle adequately and safely the new
high-power Super Speed 22 <?7/in/-
R.F. Cartridges. *// 10/
Carriage Paid.
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 3, 22-cal., 24in. round steel barrel,
bolt action; handles short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; gold bead front and
adjustable rear sight, pistol grip AO /C
stock; weight, about 4flb / u
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
sdfdsfdsfs
LIONEL B 1 B BY.
famous Rifle and Revol-
ver Shot and recognised
authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, > s
attached to M i c l
Simmons’ Shooting
Department staff. Write
him for his expert advice
on any matter pertain-
ing to firearms and
shooting.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
(Leo Franklyn). Hovering in the back-
ground is another Russian refugee
(John Dudley), who keeps a fatherly
eye on Stephanie and now and then
breaks into Slavonic love songs. Clemen-
tina Sharwenka (Marie Le Varre),
a temperamental Polish song and dance
artist, also flits through the picture. The
dialogue is racy, and a few of the quips
have the bluish tinge of a smoking-room
atmosphere. Ritchard and Miss Elliott
have only two dances. The ballet is up
to standard. Ritchard is producer,
and the principals, if they don’t add to
their reputations, do nothing to impair
them.
* * *
Percy Grainger’s two chamber-music
soirees at Sydney Con. Hall were not
repetitions of but rather appendices to
his series of 12 broadcast lectures. The
full flavor of Grainger can never be
appreciated so long as he remains un-
seen. He has a twinkle in the eye and
a capacity for suggesting that he sees the
humorous side even of his own burning
zeal that is dammed back by radio valves.
On Wednesday night he took his audi-
ence back through the time dimension of
musical evolution all the way to the
organum and the thirteenth-century Eng-
lish harmonists, demonstrated Chinese
parallels and exhibited, with actual
examples, the characteristics of Javanese
orchestration. On Saturday night he
dealt with “The Goal of Musical Pro-
gress,” enthused about the superiority of
fiddle and co. and the guitar over the
piano as voice accompanists, and trans-
lated Debussy’s “Pagodas” back to its
original percussion-instrument ingre-
dients. Throughout the two recitals Mr.
Grainger had the services of a small
army of versatile instrumentalists to pro-
vide his musical illustrations, and in such
numbers as Fickensher’s Seventh Quintet
fie sat at the piano himself. The fare was,
speaking generally, exotic where it was
not archaic, and the effects produced
scarcely seemed to justify Mr. Grainger’s
high esteem for these efforts.
¥ * *
“Dulcy,” a comedy in three acts by
George Kaufman and Marc Connelly,
presented by Doris Fitton at Sydney
Savoy, revolves round the well-inten-
tioned but misguided efforts of a hostess
to solve her husband’s business problems
and various social difficulties of her
guests during a week-end party. The
humor is light, and depends more on
situations than on witty dialogue. Dulcy
(played by Molly Brown) has the rest-
lessness of a flea and fewer brains,
coupled with a genius for saying the
wrong thing. Colin Peebles, as her hus-
band, Clive Hayter and John Alden give
capable support. Indeed, the casting has
few weak spots.
Highlights of Scott Alexander’s pro-
duction of “The Case of Lady Camber,”
presented* at Sydney’s Kursaal Theatre,
were the spirited study of Nurse Yorke
given by Grace Armstrong and John
Rybak’s nicely-balanced interpretation of
the gay Sir Bedford. Shirley Geddes
was an amusing meddling handmaid, but,
except that he walked and talked, physi-
cian Reg Wilson might have been an
Epstein marble.
* * H-
“Samson and Delilah” broke into the
grand opera repertoire at His Majesty’s
last week, and was to all practical in-
tents and purposes new to Melbourne.
Walter Widdop gave Samson the wrecker
the benefit of his beautiful tenor and a
physique which, while it might not have
put to flight at sight a regiment of
Philistines, was quite sufficiently impres-
sive to make the destruction of the
Temple of Dagon a convincing spec-
tacle, especially as the columns he de-
molished had already been divided in four
places by the scenic mechanicians. Muriel
Brunskill’s Delilah was of seduction all
compact, and her rich contralto would
have disturbed the meditations of a
hermit in the Thebiad. Horace Stevens
made a dignified High Priest, while the
singing of the chorus of Hebrews and
Philistines smacked of the nobility of
oratorio. Saint-Saen’s paraphrase of the
Old Testament story is no improvement
dramatically on the original version ; its
artistic home is nearer Elstree than Pales-
tine. . But the music is an interesting
medley of solid European styles and
Oriental modes, and Delilah’s song in
the second act is full of vitality.
The co. repeated its performance of
“Tannhauser,” with a much-improved
Sydney de Vries in the role of Wolfram
and Thea Phillips a sympathetic Eliza-
beth. Merna Stewart failed to impart
sufficient vocal warmth to Venus to
account for Ben Williams’s prolonged
dalliance in the neighborhood of the
Venusberg, but Williams’s performance
was a sustained feat of fine acting and
intelligent singing. The production was
excellent.
If Melbourne does not turn up in
force for subsequent presentations of
“La Boheme” it will be treating with less
respect than it deserves as generally meri-
torious a rendering as has been given
in local experience. Thea Philips was a
suitably pathetic Mimi, Elza Dadswell
a vivid Musette, Sydney de Vries a
vivacious Marcel and Octave Dua an
amusing Alcindoro. All the principals
pulled together to make the final tragedy
a little cameo of dramatic pathos. On
the whole, however, it was Browning
Mummery’s opera. The Sydney con-
ductor, Joseph Post, steered his barque
with a firm hand and a nimbleness that
call for an approving adjective. The worst
handicap the present co. suffers under is
its possession of mainly English names,
but it is a drawback that need carry no
weight with discriminating opera-goers.
Melb. King’s was filled with the sort
of audience musicomedy always com-
mands when “Nice Goings On” was pro-
duced. Gus Bluett’s humor was found
acceptable, and the ballets, set in pic-
turesque scenery, were admired. Phil
Smith, Lois Green and Victor Gouriet
made the most of amusing situations,
w * v
J. B. Priestley’s "Laburnum Grove,”
produced at Melb. Comedy last week, is
possibly the most remarkable of all
modern English comedies, for there is
not a note of sex struck in it. Dialogue
is bright and natural and characterisations
are excellent, but these virtues are not
sufficient to hold the play together. Good
as the lines are, Priestley gets his points
laboriously, and there are no “curtains”
to his scenes. Like old soldiers, they
simply fade away. The plot is uncon-
vincing. It is, roughly, the story of
Charles Peace, the master-criminal who
lived the life of a respectable suburban-
ite ; but why Peace should have confessed
his guilt without provocation to four
people, three of them unsympathetic and
comparative strangers, is inexplicable.
The hero’s specialty is the forging of
notes and bonds. He explains: “The
world suffers to-day for want of money.
Wq are giving it to them. We are really
helping people out of their trouble.. We’re
doing our bit.” Vernon Kelso, as the
master-criminal, scores most of the act-
ing honors.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Scribe”: The world moves, even the
academic world. Long ago, when Bent
was Premier of Victoria, he visited Eng-
land and made the prime joke of the
period at Oxford, where he told the dons
they should establish a chair of agricul-
tural science. The idea seemed so fan-
tastic that all thought Tom was trying to
be funny, and laughed uproariously. To-
day, the newly-arrived Vice-Chancellor of
Melb. University announces that Cam-
bridge— not Oxford yet —has, as a going
concern, the finest agricultural school in
the world. The joke of one generation
is the necessity of the next.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Everything you buy in
tins in Australia is sold to you in bottles
in London, adding to the cost of dis-
tribution and cluttering up a house with
junk. I bought Australian jam, a spill-
over from war stores, for tuppence a
tin and got much amusement out of the
salesman’s surprised look. Later, I en-
countered a man who had cleared a cool
thousand out of buying a dump of Aus-
tralian jams sent for the A.1.F., but un-
used ; he hired men to open them and
repack the jam in bottles. Offer the aver-
age English housewife a tin of jam and
she will recoil as if you had handed her
a tiger-snake.
* * * *
“Flick”: Among the prize-winners in
the “Australian” film competition was
“The Silence of Dean Maitland,” based
on a third-rate melodrapiatic novel of
forty-odd years ago with no hint of Aus-
tralia and things Australian in it. It has
always been a puzzle to me why no one
has tried to put that fine Australian story
“Geoffrey Hamlyn” on the celluloid. Here
we have a yarn dealing with one of the
most romantic and picturesque periods
of Australian history and full of costume
and color. It is set in the beautiful
Monaro country, and the dramatic story,
with its tragedy salted by humor, moves
with a swing sadly lacking in much of
the modern stuff. No other Australian
book has so captured the atmosphere of
that day when Port Phillip was just begin-
ing to be heard of and the English im-
migrant, the Currency Lad and the con-
vict were being moulded into a new type.
Properly done, a “Geoffrey Hamlyn” film
would include the English epilogue, so
it would be a large picture, and some-
what expensive. That, I suppose, is the
trouble.
ijc Hs
“Grasspan”: Morgenthau senior,
father of Roosevelt’s offsider and U.S.
ambassador to Turkey during part of the
war, returned from a world tour in 1924,
and, as q fellow-passenger across the
Pacific, I heard him describe the Greek
revolution of the previous year. It was
a revelation to me as showing how simply
European revolutions can be carried out
by a handful of determined men. Ac-
cording to Morgenthau, there were in
the first instance only 25 army officers
concerned. The 25 walked into the main
telegraph office of Athens late one night,
held up all the operators and forced
them to send a message to every garrison
in Greece. The wire was so worded
that each commander, when he received
it, was led to believe that his garrison
was the only one standing out of the
revolution, which had already seized
Athens; that every other garrison in
Greece had thrown in its lot with the in-
surrectos. Naturally, they did not wish
to be lonely—especially with a wall be-
hind them—so each wired back, urgent,
that he and his men were also ardent
revolutionaries. Next morning the revolu-
tion was complete. When garrison-
commanders compared notes and dis-
covered that they had been tricked it
was too late to do anything.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The news that the Dalby (Q.)
Show committeemen, clad in aprons and
draped with tea-towels, propose to wait
on their wives and daughters at this
year’s show ball proves how far away
are the hard old days when “girls and
goats and bottles” were embraced in one
line of the town’s national anthem. It
was near Dalby that I once heard an old-
timer remonstrated with because he
allowed his wife to do axe work on the
woodheap. “Axe work!” he snorted.
“Y’ don’t call that axe work! Why, it’s
only a five-pound axe!” And he moved
contentedly a little further into the shade.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Paris is in danger of
losing its prestige. The authorities, it
is cabled, intend to take action against
park-bench lovers who kiss in “the
Hollywood manner.” Only brief kisses are
to be permitted in future in the French
capital, and the local cops will presum-
ably be supplied with stop-watches to
check possible offenders. This, on top of
the prosecution of the nudists who were
sunbaking on a Seine island, makes you
wonder what has happened to the once-
gay city.
* * * *
“Gilbert de Sleuth”: The women
police do ,a great deal of good work in
an unobtrusive way, but they occasion-
ally suffer from an excess of zeal. One
of our Jenny Hops, patrolling a beach on
a heat-wave night, flashed her torch upon
a couple lying on a rug. Then she said
sternly : “Does this young girl’s mother
know that she is on this beach at mid-
night?” The man admitted that the lady
in question had no idea of the daughter’s
whereabouts. “Then take her home at
once,” he was directed. He demurred,
and argument followed. The noise
awakened suddenly a baby lying on a
car cushion, and the infant began to
cry, “Why didn’t you tell me you were a
married couple?” Jenny wailed.
♦'' * * *
“Sep.”: After Peter B. Kyne’s Gappy
Ricks, who had lucid moments, Mr.
Glencannon holds the fort as the most
outstanding maritime figure evolved by
Uncle Sam’s fictionists in the “Saturday
Evening Post.” Mr. Glencannon has a
dialect—-a sort of pigeon Aberdeen with
all the vowels misplaced. However, his
adventures in various ports are entertain-
ing, and until I read the latest instal-
ment, which records Mr. Glencannon’s
movements in Sydney, I had some faith
in the local color. But Mr. Glencannon’s
ship (a tramp addicted to Island voyagings)
drops anchor in such a location that Mr.
Glencannon, on landing, walks up Pitt-
street as far as the “Parramatta Bar,”
where he (having an uneasy conscience)
is disturbed by the piercing eye of a de-
tective who enlivens his vigil in the drink
dispensary by playing solitaire. Later
Mr. Glencannon learns that a dear friend
has been arrested and taken to the “Cir-
cular Wharf Police Station,” and discovers
in his evening newspaper that this arrest
followed a combing of the “waterfront
bars.” The Commonwealth’s biggest
bloat is described as “Sydney, New South
Wales,” whereas to sailors there’s only
one Sydney. Sydney has a waterfront,
but doesn’t call it by that name —it speaks
of “the Quay,” “Darling Harbor” or
“Woolloomooloo.” Nobody has played
solitaire in a Sydney bar since 1860 —as
a matter of fact, since the fruit machines
were cleared out the only game you can
play in a bar without interference is
dominoes. And before you can get to a
Parramatta bar you have to leave Pitt-
street about 14 miles behind you.


THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Each week prizes of original
Bulletin black-and-white drawings
are offered in respect of Society
pars., Aboriginalities, Hints for the
Farm and gags for joke-blocks. In
addition, all contributions published
are paid for at the usual rates. For
contributions to B. I 3/3 /’3 5 the
drawings go to:
GEO. W. CANE, 212 Point Nepean-
road, Gardenvale, Melbourne;
WILLIAM AUSTIN, Wombat gold-
mine, S.A.;
M. SARGOOD, 9 Glen Luna Flats,
Carrington-avenue, Strathfield,
N.S.W.; and
ROBERT HERRINGTON, Glass
House Mountains, Q.
F F
ROSS /or HEIGHT/
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
age 19}, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
’’ "Hi 5 >• >n 5 mthe.
** *’ on' •• f« in 16 days.
•> .f 30, „ 2. „in 4 weeks.
.. ~ 40, 1} „in e „ ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3Jins. NEVER FAILS
Hundredt of Tettimoniau from all over the world.
Fee ill Bi. complete. ■ Details Free. Write now
• & ROSS » Height Specialist, J
SCARBOROUGH, Eng. CP.O. Box 15.)
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Burleigh House Hotel
173 Cromwell Road,, London, 5.W.5.
Lift, 50 Bedrooms, each fitted H. and C.
Inc. Terms: 3 Gns. Single; 2J Gns. Dble.
Excellent cuisine. Beautifully appointed
Public Rooms.
Flaxman 2371. Scotch Proprietress.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Territory Policy
“Colonel Bungstarter”: As one who
has known the Territory from a period
at which Mr. A. M. Blain (B. 13/2/’35)
had not yet been born, and who has at
intervals seen it in the process of steady
descent from relative prosperity under
S.A. control to its present condition
of clerk-ridden, sodden apathy, I have
every sympathy with his desire to trans-
form it into an asset. But, as Mr.
Blain himself‘points out, the Territorians
have not even one vote in any Parlia-
ment. That should be enough to con-
vince him as a Parliamentarian, although
as yet a very young one, that the place is
dead and buried so far as Canberra is
concerned.
But suppose that by a miracle Mr.
Blain were to get his Territory com-
mittee to run the show, how does he
propose to finance its activities? If by
Federal grant, Canberra will call the tune
and send up a gang of clerks to regulate
the committee to Canberra’s wishes. He
repudiates the absentee financier, but no
sane financier would live in the Terri-
tory in preference to Sydney or Mel-
bourne or London. His Territorians are
too poor to pay for the job themselves —
in the classic words of Confucius, “How
can do, if no hab got?” Moreover, can
they be relied upon to back the scheme?
In his opening statement Mr. Blain
postulates that the first essential in deal-
ing with the N.T. is to get down to tin
tacks. Doubtless it is, but there is no
necessity to sit down
upon them, point up,
as he appears about to
do. Better put them
in the sumptuous
cushions of the costly
halls of statesmanship.
Here and there one
may startle some
member with a vote
into paying real atten-
tion when Mr. Blain
addresses the House
on the subject of his
gigantic dumb elec-
torate.
“Gain”; A quarter
of a century ago Bris-
bane, an unsewered
town much given to the accumulation of
puddles and empty jam-tins, became
mosquito conscious” when patients in
the General Hospital were discovered to
bemfected with types of filaria, a worm
which lodges in the lymphatics and causes
swelling and even elephantiasis. The
pleasant little fellow has a habit of voyag-
ing in the bloodstream, whence he is
picked up and translated by the Culex
fatigans. Hence Brisbane now has six
patrols, 25 permanent laborers as well as
anumber of relief men hunting not only
the Culex but the Stegomyia and the
Anopheles off the landscape. They found
4323 tanks breeding “mossies” last year,
and they sprayed 286 gullies, swamps and
waterholes every week without spoiling
the mosquito-net trade. Hamlyn-Harris,
the local medical authority on the sub-
ject, says mosquitoes will never be eradi-
cated while the City Council has anything
to do with the scheme.
* * * *
Kaloa”: Old prospectors wonder
exactly what the justification is for the
expenditure of £150,000 on the Common-
wealth’s proposed aerial geophysical sur-
vey. The most valuable work will prob-
ably be mapping, which, being done by
military ’planes, will have definite mili-
tary value. On the geological side, how-
ever, it will reveal very little that is new.
There is scarcely an inch of the North
which has not had dozens of miners and
geologists over it in the last 75 years.
One technical engineer, like Curie,
backed by good boring plants and test-
ing equipment, would do more in
a month than this outfit will do in
a year. For one thing, he would prob-
ably suggest means of reorganising mines
which should be productive but for the
bad and wasteful mining methods which
made them unpayable in the old days.
For another,, he might discover some deep
leads in districts which have been pro-
ductive in shallow workings. But the
ways of the Department of the Interior
are mysterious and wonderful. While
it is sending out flying caravans to make
vague surveys from the sky, and en-
gineers to report on an alleged discovery
of “Lasseter’s lost reef,” it won’t even
provide a water supply for the 400
battlers at Tennant’s Creek, where there
is gold.
* * * *
This comes from “Maskee Mike.” A
prize of a Bulletin drawing is offered
for the best translation received before
April 30.
Master, what name alta-gedder this
fella talk talk long this fella paper, name
belong im, Bullebin.
Alla time you fella master thrqim way
this fella paper long me fella long’semoke,
me lookim strong too much, now me mark
im pischur, now phosograf, now talktalk,
belong me fella. True too mush, this fella
fashion e no straight long me fella, whosat
e kissim pai long makim allasame; me
fella, no can.
Godamea, master, now what name—bell
belong me e ot too mush, about allasame
this fella pischur. Me tink tink alia
master belong place belong you, e likeim
too mush this talktalk now phosograph,
all e like sarvee' long me fella, no good
some fella master e gaminim all. I
tink more better you makim one fella pass
long No. 1 belong Bullebin, by-im-by im e
sarvee altogeddar fashion belong me fella,
e good fella too mush. Suppose No. 1
belong Bullebin e makim good fella talk
talk behind, me like you come talkim me,
all something e straight.
* * * #
“Warwick”: Bananaland North is
busy breaking water records. Up to
“Lucky young beggars! Wish I could run like that.”
9 a.m. on March 4 a solid Ift. Hin. had
deluged Cooktown in 24 hours. For
48 hours Babinda scored 2ft., while a
five-day tally gives Deeral sft. llin., with
Babinda second, sft. 6in., and Cairns
third with a modest 3ft. 7in. The top-
scorers in those five days could give Syd-
ney’s annual rain production a good
start and beat it two-thirds of the way
round the course.
* * * *
“Murlonga”; “Condah” (Vic.) is away
out of his depth (B. 13/2/’35) when try-
ing to deal with the abo. problem. Here
in N.Q. we have the last stronghold of
the blacks. Those native persons who
parade in city clothes, talk like parsons
out of a job and wear wristlet watches
aren’t abos. any more than “Condah” is
a hairy Celt. I have never seen an abo.
fit to manage his own affairs, let alone
the needs of a nation, or even with the
least idea of what a vote is—let alone
one with a desire to use it. I have never
known one even who could grasp the
physical boundaries of his own towri.
What is left of our blacks is a demoral-
ised fragment, and even those odd bits
remaining have all the old hatred of their
neighbors and the desire to kill which
has been theirs from the beginning, and
which will remain with them till the last
has been gathered in by old Cootcah.
* , * * ;J;
“Lad”: Banana-growers in Queensland
have a genuine grievance. Three years
ago, induced by remunerative prices,
many unemployed who could rake up a
few pounds went in for bananas. A year
later the politicians woke to the idea that
banana-growing might solve the unem-
ployment problem, and forthwith several
settlements were started at State expense.
To-day, through overproduction, bananas
are not worth what they cost to produce.
Many growers are not even making
tucker. The cruel part is that these men
cannot get relief unless they abandon
their farms. The city loafer can.
* * * *
“Mica”: Brisbane’s birth-rate for 1934
was the lowest in a decade. From 1925
to 1928 if produced an average of 5500
young Australians. During the four de-
pression years, the average was 4270.
Last year the number was down to 4212.
As the rate is now 13.98 per 1000 and the
death-rate is 9.25, there isn’t much mar-
ginal increase.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Ola Cohn, the Melbourne sculptress
who gave to Victorian children the fairy-
tree in the Fitzroy Gardens, passed
through Brisbane on the Strathaird.
Vida Lahey entertained the lady in her
studio, which is perched high above the
city, and asked Daphne Mayo and Janice
Lahey along to help entertain her. Miss
Cohn is taking the manuscript of her
embryo book “Castles in the Air” on
the voyage with her, and hopes to put in
lots of work on it before she returns to
Melbourne.
Mrs. T. G. Lahey’s garden at Ascot
was filled with local and visiting clergy
when a bazaar under her supervision
marked the close of the Methodist Con-
ference. Dahlias, zinnias and cannas
beautified the proceedings.
For Lucy Morris, who is to marry Rev.
James Stevens on April 18, three hos-
tesses, Doris Kelso, May Brady and
Anne Morrison, gave a party at the Can-
berra. The hostesses went back to the
’nineties for inspiration ; it was a “song
and dance” evening.
Dr. F. P. Keppel’s wife—her husband
is president of the Carnegie Corporation
of New York —spent most of her time
with us in looking round our creches and
kindergartens. Welfare work for children
is her hobby.
The Queensland Uni. Union, headed
by president H. F. McGrath, gave a
cheery little dance by way of a Freshers’
Welcome. The party was staged in the
main hall, and about 300 lads and lasses
two-stepped and rumba’d happily. There
was also an official party, including a
bunch of profs, and their wives.
The weather did its best to make the
welcome to Mr. and Mrs. Paul Harris
(he is from Chicago, and founded the
Rotary Society) a warm one. Mayoress
Jones was down with ’flu, so Mrs. W. A.
Jolly did the honors, as Mrs. Darker,
whose husband is president of Brisbane
Rotary, also was unable to be present.
Mrs. Harris is a Rotary member, too, and
crippled children, relieving sufferers from
flood, fire or accident and a girls’ school
are the welfare works in which she is
most interested. Although her home is
in Chicago, Edinburgh is her home town.
Rhoda Felgate was the producer of
the masque with which the Women’s
College helped to celebrate its 21st birth-
day. Estelle Jones and Joyce Close took
speaking parts, and the students appeared
as various historical characters. The
masque was held in the Uni. grounds,
and the trees and lights made a lovely
setting for it.
Mrs. Renato Jorio, who, as Dorothea
Hart, has a large circle of friends in Mel-
bourne, and who has spent two years
touring the North, has arrived in Bris-
bane, and will make her home there.
The Bush Nursing organisation sur-
veyed the results of its year’s work in the
Lady Mayoress’s reception-room. Presi-
dent Mrs. E. Sandford Jackson read the
report. There is a new centre at Beer-
burrum, bringing the total in the State to
12. Each centre has a nursing sister in
charge. At Bollon, once noted for sore
eyes, the blight has been abolished. The
12 branches among them attended 9093
patients at surgeries and 6094 in their
own homes. The sisters in charge
travelled 17,288 miles.
Mrs. Matthew Wallace, just returned
with her husband after a three years’
stay abroad, seems to have spent all her
spare time in bathrooms, so enthusiastic
is she about those she encountered in
England. The Ideal Homes Exhibition,
staged annually in London, attracted
her several times, and she has brought
back with her some ideas that she thinks
should be used in Australian homes.
The chapel of the Glennie Memorial
School, Toowoomba, was the setting for
the wedding of Helen, younger daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. Fancourt McDonald,
to Geoffrey, second son of the Rev.
W. G. Vennacott, Cambridge, England.
A frock cut on classic lines and a softly-
draped fichu were worn by the bride,
and two little girls, Gennifer Moore and
Mary Heather Coc, in pale-blue frocks
embroidered with rosebuds, were brides-
maids.
The Australian Institute of Interna-
tional Affairs gave a dinner-party at the
Canberra for Dr. Toyohiko Kagawa, and
later in the evening the guest,spoke on
“Japan’s Relations with Australia.” Dr.
T. P. Fry acted as host, and Mrs. F. C. P.
Curlewis, whose husband is a vice-presi-
dent, as hostess.
Mrs, J. H. Bruche, whose husband
once was State Commandant in Queens-
land, has been in India staying with her
daughter Mrs. Lawrence, whose husband
is stationed at Baroda. The other Bruche
daughter, Mrs. Aird Smith, who also
married into the military and went to
India, will visit Melbourne in May,


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
'J'HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so safe
so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
S&oJJjvrCs
WoMuxi StaMt
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
Hi
83
ji H'i
'k$&
U
U'-ii
Li 1
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
T HE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rales Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Personal and Missing Friends.
McCORMACK, ROBERT EDWARD, for-
merly of Newcastle. Information as to his
whereabouts (or his children) is required by
the Public Trustee, 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
in connection with the Intestate Estate of his
late brother, Thomas John McCormack who
died at Bathurst, New South Wales, on May 25,
1934.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Percy Grainger, as invigorating and
tonic as a high wind, tossed the per-
manent wave of the Musical Associa-
tion and left the body conventional gasp-
ing. To begin with, Percy, the guest of
honor, was also the entertainment. He
talked, wittily and instructively, about
music, with piano and vocal illustrations,
till the subject became a living thing—
something that was part of your speech,
manner of walking, was even connected
with eating. When Percy gets going, the
minims and the quavers and the semi-
breves are just so many jolly and elusive
skittles. Knocked down in some Anglo-
Saxon alley they reappear with a grin
on their faces in Central Africa or
maybe bob up in Egypt or Japan, or
both. Two bars of music will fill
Grainger with such heavenly intoxica-
tion that he’ll whisk you off on a jam-
boree that may start on the Scottish
borders, tear through the South Seas and
land you breathless among the Eskimos.
Friday night’s brew proved too heady
for some who wandered for air into the
passage. One of the listeners grumbled
“No need to persecute people” ; but this
was after 10 and the spate of words was
unabated. The association is a solid
body, not used to zipping along helter-
skelter. The time-honored thing at these
parties is a set programme played by
our own musicians for the delectation of
the visiting artist. This gives the visiting
artist a chance to say the nice
things about our musicians which we all
like to hear and which we all agree with.
The Forum Club housed the party, which,
though a bit short on chairs and males,
was strong on girlhood. Whole rows of
pearly and sunbrowned shoulders might
be broken by one pair in tailored broad-
cloth. Some rows snared as many as
three or four. But the frocking was
worthy a regiment of the Coldstream
Guards, or the whole of the Australian
Navy.
Red hair and red-gold hair were very
pervasive. Mrs. Grainger’s auburn locks
were caught back under a dark-red
velvet band that, however, allowed a
thin and rather long fringe to escape.
Only an unusual type could have worn
the vellum chiffon frock with its red dots
and handkerchief scarf of mulberry and
red tonings. Susan Davis wore a bright-
green velvet coat in contrast to her red
hair ; contralto Virginia Bassetti’s black
frock glittered with gold; Mrs. Toby
Browne and Miss J. O’Connor were
among the rapt listeners. Mrs. Brash
(Alice Prowse) dangled earrings that
blazed from ear-lobe to collarbone.
Organist Alice Bryant aired blue chiffons
and pearls, Muriel Fletcher a currant-red
belted dull satin coat; Mrs. de Cairos
Rego was picturesque in a flowing dress
of Persian red, and the Gerald Marr
Thomsons were among the enthusiasts.
Instead of calling the authors on to
the Criterion stage on Saturday night,
“The Cedar Tree” management, as names
were announced, flung a spotlight on them
as they sat in their boxes. Varney Monk
and her Cyril, with daughter Pam, were
in one box, and on the opposite side
sat the Edmund Barclays. The house
was well dressed, two attractive women
being singer Rene Maxwell and Natalie
Rosenwax. It was through Natalie that
“Collitts’ Inn,” the first success of Mrs.
Monk and T. S. Gurr, was first produced.
The Mayoral Parkers gave civic tone ;
Mrs. Maurice Gulson brought green
laces and Mrs. R. C. Traill black velvets
to the circle. One of the prettiest capes
that went to the theatre on Saturday (it
went to the Royal) was worn by Mrs.
Harry Dransfield. It was of black
chiffon that flared from a yoke which
was the source of a cascade of black
ostrich, feathers.
Off to London at the end of the week
go solicitor J. J. Mulligan and surgeon
John McKelvey. They balance each
other nicely, for J.J. is Johns man of
law, while John is J.J.’s doctor. The
two carry the usual ton or so of letters ,
one from William Morris Hughes is
worth a word. William Morris, introduc-
ing J.J. to Thomas, Minister for the
Dominions, writes:
This man is the Consul-General for Costa
Rica, but he does not travel with a war-
boat, so you needn’t fear he will blow
London up.
Alix Lamb, whose father is one of the
potentates of the P. and O. branch in
Sydney, is just newly returned from her
travels. The platinum lock that runs
like a ribbon across her naturally brown
tresses is an overseas fashion, and is
very becoming to its Australian wearer.
Alix, who has a talent for acting, is tak-
ing the part of Tilly Beamish in the scene
from Henry Handel Richardson’s
“Richard Mahony” dramatised by Jean
Ranken for the Pageant of Australian
Literature. This will take the stage in
the Blaxland Galleries every afternoon in
Authors’ Week, and some of Sydney’s
best-known and prettiest are taking part
in scenes from “A House Is Built,” Law-
son’s “Faces in the Street” and such out-
standing works. In the group with the
subject of this Raymond Sawyer nhoto-
graph, Betty Higgins and Joan Mcllrath
will appear.
Doreen Hordern quickly followed up
the announcement of her engagement
with the news of her wedding. Doreen,
the Sam Horderns’ eldest, who has been
for some time in England, was married
in Wiltshire last week to Oscar M.
Peall, of Oare Pennings, Marlborough
She is the last of the Babworth House
family to be married. The Bowral
home, too, where the family spent so
much time, will be lonely now that the
last of the fledglings has departed.
Nancy Bird and her friend Peggy
McKillop, of Orange—the only two girl
commercial pilots in N. S. Wales —are
setting out on a seven weeks’ tour of
the country districts. They are out for
business as well as for fun, and tbe
Gipsy Moth they are flying is timed to
land in the various towns on Show days
and picnic-race days. Here they will fly
passengers, take freights or any other
business they can pick up. They set out
for Tamworth on April 2, and will tarry
at a dozen or so districts before reaching
Moree, their destination. These two
enterprising teen-olds are taking a tent
with them, and will, if necessary, sleep
alongside the Moth. Nancy, who is
financing the tour, is very proud of the
’plane, which is the one in which Lady
Chayter flew from England.
In their autumn fashion show Anthony
Horderns’ have done the sensible thing,
and the parade of sylphs is punctuated
by some large-sized mannequins. The
Americans have a name for them
“stylish stout” —and these matronly
women wore their velvets, and topcoats
with an air of quiet dignity that must
have been as balm of Gilead to the
motherly onlooker. Soft, deep, furry
collars arise from the cloth coat to
cuddle the chin and tickle the ear-lobe
of the wearer. The sleeves of all the
best coats, too, are warmed with fur
cuffs —first cousins or stepsisters to the
glossy knee-length cape of kolinsky toss-
ing two rows of tails that accompanied
a ring-velvet frock on its evening
rambles. Taffetas that fell in sculptured
fullness from the waist seemed the sar-
torial expression of “The Blue Danube.’
Cinderella off to the ball might have
been proud of the full-length white
velvet coat a-dangle with ermine tails.
This was worn over white-striped
chiffons, very long and trained, the whole
reeking with femininity. Of course, the
daytime skirts have their slits (and a sen-
sible idea they are), evening frocks their
frilly capes, and felt hats their quills.
The setting for the show was rustic in
the sophisticated manner; there were
girl musicians in leafy-greens, and Kitty
Glover sang sweetly.
Who started the legend that all the
French babble English? The English of
the brave company of the sloop Amiral
Charner that has been lying at the Quay
was just about as halting as most of their
partners’ French. But they were charm-
ing partners, the girls who danced with
them declare ; and Captain Adelus was
so broad-shouldered and so jolly that
all the parties he was at went with a
zip. One night last week the little sloop
went giddy with electrics and garlands,
and about 60 guests stepped out blithely
around her decks, which were un-
awninged and open to the stilly night.
Mary Langton, though young, takes
her share of work on hospital ball com-
mittees, and is a great standby to her
mother, who is interested in many good
works. The family will soon be moving
' from Collarov tn Mudeee. where Mrs.
W. D. Langton has bought the home of
the explorer Lawson. Portrait came from
a Raymond Sawyer camera.
The Inner Wheels and Outer Wheels
of Rotary whirred happily last to
greet the Paul Harris couple of Chicago.
Paul is the founder of Rotary, and in
30 years has seen the movement percolate
through 80 countries. Now there are
3700 clubs active in the deeds of welfare
and kindness which are the Rotary rule
of life. The Inner Wheel Club of North
Sydney gave a lunch in honor of Mrs.
Harris at the Clifton Gardens Hotel,
and listened intently while she spoke
of the objects of the Women of
Rotary Club in Chicago. Their aims
are the same as those of male Rotarians,
and their special interest is the care of
crippled children. Paul, tall, lean and
rather ascetic-looking was honored at a
civic reception and was lunched in the
eyrie of the Crow’s Nest Hotel by
brother Rotarians, among whom were
America’s and China’s Consuls-General.
Afterwards Mr. Harris planted a tree in
St. Leonards Park.
Just as we get used to these Consuls
they up sticks and away. Now it is the
turn of the U.S.A.’s Caldwells. J. K.
Caldwell, who has been Consul-General
in Sydney for some years, has been
appointed to Tientsin. Son John has al-
ready gone to America, and James will
accompany his parents on their departure.
The literary and debating circle of
the Red Cross Younger Set launched
itself in jocund fashion last week. First
of all it bade all the novelists and
writers within ken to this meeting, and,
in case you might think this is not a very
gay start, let it be added that Denzil
Batchelor and Montgomerie-Stuart flung
up a nice little bubble of fun called a
debate —Talkies v. Stage. This Letter
feels sure the circle has a great future —
such savories and cake could only be
served by superior minds. The young-
sters have mapped out a comprehensive
course that takes in poetry, drama and
essay-writing.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman, author of
“Blue North,” came from the West last
week and gave Sydney writers a coo-ee.
Among other rejoicings, the Fellowship
of Australian Writers ate cold meats and
salad to her glory in Farmer’s Oak Room.
They decked her with frangipanni and
roses, and president Inglis Moore added
a chaplet' of words. Mrs. Drake-Brock-
man spoke for 12 minutes about novel-
craft, and later added an epilogue after
Mrs. Lindsay, who had known her in
infancy, had purred over her success.
Poet Will Lawson, from Maoriland, was
there, smiling over a secret he was too
happy to keep —his new novel “Laugh-
ing Buccaneer” will be out in a month
or so. He has recently experienced the
thrill of picking out a design for the
jacket cover.
Secretary Arline Waddy’s first recep-
tion since her return from foreign parts
filled the rooms of the Overseas League
to capacity. Arline, her glittering
amethyst earrings toning with the flower-
scattered lavender of her frock, recounted
her Odyssey to an avid audience; so the
talk that was to last 15 minutes ran on
for more than half an hour. Roses and
frangipanni were piled before her in
fragrant offering. Mary Charlton’s music
and Mary Bourke’s song were added
. joys of the afternoon. The singer, by
the way, is sister to the Sydney girl who
went to England and plucked off a secre-
tarial job at Sunningdale, the Prince of
Wales’s pet golf club.
The Orsova came in last Thursday
with a cargo of returning Sydneyites,
some of whom have not seen their
native city for years. Among these were
Lady Manisty, who was Florence Mc-
Cathie. With her husband, Sir W. Eldon
Manisty, she is on a visit to her sister,
Mrs. Ernest Brown, of Pymble. Their
son Peter is a midshipman in the Sussex,
so there will be a glad reunion when that
cruiser returns in three weeks or so.
Also in the Orsova were the Gatacres.
Lieut. Gatacre, R.A.N., and his wife
(she was Wendy Palmer, of Mosman)
have been away two years. He has been
on exchange with the Royal Navy, and
comes back to join the Stuart. Prof.
Bailey, of Sydney Uni., and his wife and
the Lieut.-Commander Ross Wheatleys
were other returnees.
The city churches don’t glean all the
pretty brides. St. Paul’s, Burwood, smiled
on a dazzling wearer of tulle and ivory
taffeta last week. She was Hazel
(“Nuttie”) Gilder, and her ’groom was
John Dight, of Yetman station (N.S.W.).
The long, sheath-like frock flared below
the knees and swept out to a long train.
The tulle veil which drifted down from a
Juliet cap of old lace was long and
voluminous. Lily-of-the-valley and white
yucca blooms formed the bouquet. The
bridesmaids were Corona Gilder and
Betty Dight, and their frocks of misty-
blue crepes had cross-over bodices and
the new slit skirts. Bride’s mother,
Mrs M. S. Gilder, hostessed the recep-
tion at the Pickwick Club in sapphire-
blue crepes.


o O
Ul 'family a in <~>uJtneu
r 111 / •
target It et .. . < P~re rat Imuuen,
Mtc . jtyt zaaal . .
convenience then Aau at
petty Jidel
SYDNEY
Tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
inclusive, 18/-.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
Legal Noticei
In the Estate of Michael Macnamara,
Deceased.
ALL persons claiming to be next-of-kin of the
abovenamed MICHAEL MACNAMARA who
have not already notified their claim to the
undersigned are hereby required to send to the
undersigned their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims before the Thirtieth day of
April next.
The deceased, was born about 1810 in the
County of Clare, Ireland, and came to Australia
about the year 1836, and died in Sydney on the
7th June, 1880.
LAURENCE & LAURENCE,
Solicitors for the Estate of
Michael Macnamara,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 252 of 1935.
BETWEEN JOSEPH PITCHFORD Petitioner
And LAVINIA ROBINSON PITCHFORD
Respondent.
TO LAVINIA ROBINSON PITCHFORD
late of Kembla Heights in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPH PITCHFORD
has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fourteenth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of you not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
COLIN BIGGERS, Solicitor, The Metropoli-
tan Building, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Lady Huntingfield, whose poise and
dignity are called for at so many cere-
monial functions, has an appreciation of
informal gatherings where she can relax
—for she is a very human person with a
keen sense of her own and others’ well-
being. Why crush a fluffy water-wave
with an expanse of hat which blocks the
vision of seats behind? Lady Hunting-
field’s millinery was the first to be re-
moved at the matinee for the St.
Anthony’s Home for Little Children.
Committee president Mrs. Merson
Cooper, in a crushed-strawberry suit and
small toque, saw the success of yet an-
other of her charity ventures. Mrs. Ber-
nard Nolan looked after the additions
and subtractions, and Jean Ferguson
spread the secretarial ink. Singer Kath-
leen Goodall opened the programme in
a costume that had great white organdie
fins waving up the sleeves and in a square
line across the shoulders. Strella Wilson
sang among black lace. Cis Roberts, in
tomato satin to her ankles, went a-tum-
bling with brother Buddy, and Rene Riano
did her bit between more musical items.
In the Walt Disney “China Shop” a
wicked green satyr threw plates at a
Dresden-china shepherd, and swallowed
the key of the cage where he then locked
the little shepherdess. “Jew Suss” filled
the second half of the bill.
While March rain poured down on the
Botanic Gardens a winding pathway past
the Herbarium led through tall trees,
thick, damp shrubberies and a forest of
hydrangeas heavy with blue, green and
pinky blooms to the old stone house
a-twinkle with cheery lights where the
Fred Rae couple mixed late-afternoon
cocktails. The guests of honor were Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson, whose black velvet
gown was elaborated with cream lace
sleeves and a swinging black cape.
Daughter Yvonne, who chauffeurs her
mother back to Adelaide this week, was
handsome in a black suit, her only con-
cession towards frivolity being a handful
of berries and delphiniums upon her
lapel. Doris Moore had a silver cord
knotted round her black hat, and artist
Trennia Smith, who accompanied her,
was in brown, with real raindrops giving
a glitter to her “woolly rabbit” beret.
Mrs. Charles Finn was swathed about
in purples, Wing-Commander Harrison’s
wife wore black with a toning-up of pink
chiffon and a Dolly Varden rose on the
front of her hat. Mrs. Ted Dyson had
ornamental segments cut out of her black
gown and a “Rule Britannia” headpiece
of black sequins.
David Pittendrigh and Ruth Rogers
announced their engagement at Christ-
mas, but postponed their engagement
party until the early autumn as a tail-
end to the March race-week festivities.
Mr. and Mrs. J, M. Pittendrigh re-
ceived the guests at Marathon, Toorak,
on a night when a chill in the air put
an extra kick into dancing shoes and
saxophones blared from all sorts of un-
expected places. The hostess wore black
lace, with red roses as a dash of color.
Her sister, Mrs. Charlie Stawell, was tall
and slim in black velvet, and another
sister, Miss Kennedy, was girt with floral
chiffons. The flowers were lovely; all
of them, even the superb soup-plate
dahlias, came from Mrs. Pittendrigh’s
garden. A vivid echo of the dahlias was
the enormous crimson ruffle round the
neck of Bunty Govett’s ice-blue dress.
Mrs. Jim Dodds was also ruffled, in
black to match her frock. Joyce Hayden-
Smith’s ruffle was a white-and-silver frost-
ing across the neck of her sky-blue frock,
and her sister Barbara had a crossover
back among her peach-pink chiffons.
Pen Stead wore tuber-roses in her hair,
and moored her decolletage to safety
with criss-cross silver ribbons. Something
new in haloes was introduced by Rose-
mary Downes with her coronet of shaded
blue beads. A diminutive figure dancing
with the lads she knew in her sub-deb.
days was Mrs. Angus MacLeod, in Mel-
bourne on a visit to her parents. A huge
cactus dahlia made a splash of color
upon Mrs. Tom Luxton’s white cape.
Colin Chisholm —his better-half was
swathed in creamy satin —proposed the
toast of the evening at the very old oak
table where the buffet supper was served.
The six white-and-silver ’maids came on
from the Crawford-Kimpton wedding,
with the ushers spick-and-span in morning
dress.
When Australians visit London they
don’t jib at paying high prices for
seats at Covent Garden, for it’s the thing
to do ; like pulling strings to get an in-
vitation to a royal garden party. But
they won’t patronise opera in their own
country. “Samson and Delilah’s” first
night drew only a half-filled theatre, and
other revivals of the week were played
to disappointing houses. Noticed in the
stalls at “Tannhauser” were John Ama-
dio’s two daughters—Judy, who is a
promising flautist, and Lenore, who had
a narrow, red “chocolate-box” ribbon
tied around her head. Joan Hughes, in
a squirrel coat, sat between the lasses.
Mrs. George Dickson, wearing a black-
and-gold coat, was present with her
daughter, a visitor from Kenya. Mrs.
Ben Fuller, junior, mixed green and pink
for her dress and coat. An auburn head
in the stalls belonged to a young Prit-
chard lass. Reaching to Ivan Tait’s
shoulder was the windblown bob of his
wife. Mrs. Alan Dunbar wore black, and
Joyce Young, who in the second act
made her curtsy surrounded by green
velvet in the Hall of Song, slipped into
the foyer during the last interval, her
thirteenth-century costume exchanged
for black satin and silver lame.
Mrs. Warren Clark and her niece,
Mamie, gave a party at the Alexandra
Club for Mrs. Howard Clark and her
niece, Alison, off to England this week.
The joint hostesses received the guests in
a room filled with blue and green hydran-
geas, tiger-lilies, gladioli and bright glob-
ules of zinnias. Mrs. Warren Clark’s
black gown showed a diagonal cello-
phane thread; the younger co-hostess
wore floral chiffons and a camellia in
full bloom upon the black-velvet surface
of her hat. Mrs. Howard Clark was in
black-and-white, and Alison wore gold
leaves blowing upon a background as
blue as the Mediterranean, through which
she will be sailing in a few weeks’ time.
Among the guests were Mrs. Garnet
Leary and Helen, Mrs. Lindsay Mildred,
Margaret Gumming, Janet Downie, Mrs.
Leslie Jenner, Mrs. Sam Cooke and Mrs.
J. K. Merritt,
Here is an Athol Shmith portrait of
Mr. and Mrs, George Dickenson’s
only child, Lynette. Miss Dickenson
has an inclination towards the stage,
and has done good work for two years
with Gregan McMahon. Recently a
number of representative citizens met
at Kurrajong House and formed a
committee with the idea of putting more
life into the repertory movement. Chief
instigators of the gathering were Mrs,
Frank Andrew and Mrs. Henry Marks,
and Miss Dickenson was their first recruit
among the younger people. She is busy
on secretarial work in preparation for the
production of a play in a few weeks’
time. The season will be conducted to
show appreciation of Gregan McMahon,
who has done as much for repertory as
anyone in Australia.
Mildred Shaw, only daughter of the
George Shaws, of Toorak, and Kenneth
Fabian Cox, of Malvern, turned along the
matrimonial highway from the doors of
the Toorak kirk. The bride’s camellia
satins were cut with a V-neck, a split
skirt and raglan sleeves which diminished
in width to a snug cuff. In the wake
of the bride’s cousin, Alison Davidson,
and groom’s sister, Yvonne, were satin
shoulder-wings and fish-fin frills running
down the back of their ’maids’ gowns to
form short-fluted trains. They carried
hydrangeas, roses and delphiniums, and
wreathed their hair with tiny pastel-
flowers. Tom Dickson and Alistair
Cooch supported the ’groom.
Mrs. Fred Thiel, who here a
Broothorn lens, is among the many Aus-
tralians who will go to London for the
King’s jubilee. She sails in the Strath-
aird on the 26th. Mrs. Thiel, who has
been abroad several times, is planning a
new route for her homecoming via the
Argentine, where she has friends, the
West Indies, through Panama and
across the Pacific to China and Japan.
She has a married son in England. Her
daughter is Mrs. Gordon Chirnside.
All sorts of discoveries are made
through wedding festivities —for instance,
the real Christian names of bride and
’groom. Cherry Singleton, in silver
lettering on her wedding invitations, was
Phyllis Rosemary. Gordon Laidlaw
Allard claimed a white-and-silver bride,
but there was an appropriate sprinkling
of cherry tonings in the toilettes of the
bridal retinue. Mrs. Robert Taylor and
Joan Christian wore blossom-pink corded
moire, rosebuds wreathed their hair, and
they carried lustrous roses of the same
rich hue as their cherry-red sashes.
Youngest attendant Ruth Singleton was
also in pink with fluffy puffed sleeves,
her sash and roses being an echo of her
sister’s name. She walked beside small
John Carre Riddell, very important in
his white satin suit and red silk tie. After-
wards Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Singleton
received guests at Haverbrack, Malvern,
where the lace gown worn by the bride’s
mother was of yet another shade of
cherry.
Bae Kimpton, in a glitter of willow-
wand lame with a nebula of tulle veil
whirling round an orbit of orange-
blossom, met Curteis Crawford one after-
noon at St. John’s. Preceding her up the
aisle were six tall ’maids —Leila Burgess,
Olive Rosenthal, Edna Carr, Dorothy
Rogers, Barbara Syme and Phyllis Reid
—in foaming white organza threaded in
silver, with silver leaves in their hair and
initials in seed-pearls (the ’groom’s
present) pinned to their bateau necklines.
Small Patricia Gibson attended to the
sparkling train, and Max Cooch at the
right moment produced the ring. lan
Macfarlan, Dennis Moore, Selwyn Bates,
Colin Crawford and Bruce Wenzel
ushered guests to their pews, and after-
wards escorted the bevy of beauty to
Darling-street.
Dr. James Eadie was married quietly
one afternoon to Mrs. Alys Celia Gates
and presented his bride with a firm kiss
at the conclusion of the ceremony in
Scots kirk. Mrs. Gates was given away
by her stepson, Dr. Norman Eadie, and
was attended by Mrs. John Mclntyre
Eadie, of Bendigo.
Noel Clapp is a much-talked-of bride.
The house which she and her fiance, Dr.
Geoff Smith (who to-day becomes her
bridegroom), have built in Whernside-
avenue has caused a sensation in Toorak.
It is a dazzling chalk-white, with modern
arty balconies and strange curves where
one expects angles. Within are chocolate-
brown carpets, cream and turquoise
velvet curtains, a disappearing cocktail
bar in the dining-room and a stainless-
steel kitchen with scarlet oilcloth curtains
to match the saucepan lids and the handle
of the eggbeater. So much publicity
has been given to Miss Clapp’s trousseau
that peach-pink chiffons have obliterated
from suburban sitting-rooms gossip
about murders, suicides, divorces and
newspaper competitions. Racing sur-
vives, but only by a whisker.
Parties given for Miss Clapp during
her last week of single-blessedness in-
cluded a luncheon, with Fay Robinson
as hostess, at Quality Inn; cocktails,
mixed by Lynette Dickenson, and a girls’
dinner at Menzies’ while fiance Geoff
went off to his bucks’ night; Mrs. Julian
Smith’s at-home at the Quamby Club,
and Mary Saenger’s middle-day meal at
her home in Linlithgow-avenue. The
delectable dishes for this buffet luncheon
came out of one of the finest pale-green
and rustless-steel kitchens in Melbourne.
Paddy Barnes, who leaves for America
and her wedding at the end of the month,
was feted by her aunt, Mrs. Fred
Brockoff, with cocktails and their accom-
paniments of peppery nibbles on sticks.
The old mansion in Queen’s-road is such
a commodious place for a party that the
younger element drifted off to the rear
to dance the rumba to the strains of the
Mexican band while the intelligentsia
chatted in the drawing-room among
genial Buddhas and glowing Ming vases,
collected by the hostess on her Oriental
ramblings. Miss Barnes wore a white
tunic over a black satin skirt and a dash-
ing little Cossack cap.
To write a scenario is no joke. Most
of the preliminary MSS. used by Jim
Howard and George Gill for their prize-
winning scenario has been consigned to
large smoky bonfires, but an eyeful of
what’s left convinces one that a novel is
far less trouble. The pair had nothing
much to go on for their scenarios ; the
only textbooks they could procure were
out of date. They relied principally on
developing their plot by means of a stop-
watch and on their instinct for tabulating
incidents, however small, which had some
bearing on the story and its filming.
Their winning entry was typed by «m
expert on very large thick paper, which
gave the producer at one glance the com-
mand of every concurrent happening.
“Faithful Journey” has an index with
details of theme, plot, development,
characters, etc. The actual scenario is
tabulated in columns, the largest being
used for the dialogue, others providing
for sounds (i.e., band in the distance,
voices on the racecourse), locality and
the timing of the shot in minutes and
seconds. After each reel had been pruned,
padded, split into pieces and completely
rewritten to fit exactly into 11 minutes
there were five seconds to spare within
the time-limit of the completed play.
{Continued on page 44.)


If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,”’ Id. extra.
Autumn Fashions
New thoughts for the coming season reveal a smartness
of dress for the modern Miss. The special Pattern Service
in the “Australian Woman’s Mirror” affords every woman
the opportunity of being smartly dressed at compara-
tively low cost. Eight special patterns for adults and
six for children, also a useful free pattern, give readers
an attractive range to choose from.
8535. —An evening wrap of
aquarelle velvet. Silver metal-
cloth lines the cowl collar, sleeves
tie at the wrist, adjusting its
fullness. Material, 3i yards of
54-inch chiffon velvet and 1 yard
of lame. Sizes 32, 34, 36.
Pattern, 1/-.
&
- vw
wm 8J56
*
rr
f| «m9J3B
I M
SB
Iffi
vj
m
m
w/n 8,530
t t f
i:W
T 77
8536. —This frock of brown
Angora tweed is animated by an
organdie bow attached to an
undervest, and a heavy corded
belt gives a unique touch. Allow
2* yards of 54-inch material and
1 yard of organdie. Sizes 32,
34, 36. Pattern, 1/-.
8537. —A tunic frock of navy 1
wool-de—chine shows a new idea
for trimming. Tucked bands give
the construction lines of the
design a force and chicness. Allow
3J yards of 36-inch material.
Pattern in sizes 32, 34 and 36.
Pattern, 1/-.
8538.—This two-piece suit
of finely-woven check tweed
adds a full-length frock to
its efficiency and suggests
a two-in—one equipment.
Allow 4 yards of 54-inch
tweed. Sizes 32. 34 and 36.
Pattern complete, 1/-.
A U S T R. All AN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
GOOD WEEK-END READING—ON SALE EVERY FRIDAY, 3d.
MAN-WOMAN FRIENDSHIPS
Are They Possible Between Wedded Folk?
SHORT STORY —“THE PORPOISE AND THE PEKE”
A Comedy in a Business Office.
HEALTH AND BEAUTY
After-summer Restoration.
COLD-WEATHER TIPS
A Winter Forecast —Illustrated Fashions —Letter from Paris.
IRIS FILET LACE INSET—LACY JUMPER.
Mr. Howard has been to Hollywood.
His visit was brief, but he kept his eyes
open in the studios and picked up a few
tips which came in useful. A film studio
seems the most muddled and chaotic
place imaginable. People wander about
aimlessly. No one takes any notice of
anyone else. Passionate love affairs are
enacted, and lunatics prowl with daggers
against a bit of ant-eaten wood (haunted-
house props), while carpenters go stolidly
on with their jobs just out of the range
of cameras. It’s always hot in the
studios, owing to the fierce arc-lamps,
and the eyestrain is considerable. The
film star in her gorgeous fur coat is not
nearly as comfortable as the movie fan
imagines her, and the hero who looks
so snug and capitalistic in his tweeds and
expensive overcoat dashes for ice after
every shooting to keep apoplexy at bay.
Ballarat is celebrating its centenary
with kegs of beer and speeches, while
the social element gathers at Craig’s for
repeated birthday toasts. Last week the
young folk of Ballarat had a centenary
ball at the Alexandra. It was a merry
affair, and although bridge tables were
prepared for non-dancers they were not
sought after. Committee president Jessye
Stone wore Afghan-brown crepe with
camellias encircling the throat. Secre-
tary Marjorie Dixon’s black velvet gown
had white-swathed drapery upon the
corsage.
Muriel Brunskill has never in her life
drunk a cup of tea. She takes coffee, but
avoids cocktails and other drinks which
do no good to vocal organs. For the
sake of her throat also she avoids sea
bathing. Instead of a wrist-watch Miss
Brunskill has a diminutive timepiece
clipped to the neck of her dress. The
community spirit—everybody else can see
the hands more easily than their owner.
A couple, mother and son, living in
St. Kilda-road decided to move to ex-
clusive Marne-street. Followed days of
chaos, packing, wrapping up of china
and glass, climbing about on ladders and
general spring-cleaning. After two days
of muddle in the new flat the curtains
were up, the pictures hung; then the
temperamental lady gazed at her new
home and wept. Down came curtains,
pictures and family gods. Trunks and
packing-cases were stuffed with gear;
the carriers ordered, and the couple
moved back to the flat they had
just vacated.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
“Bob” Johnston’s whirlwind round of
bride-elect parties included a morning-
tea at the Green Gate with Dorothy
Summerhayes as hostess, Peggy Watson-
Williams’s handkerchief-tea at Peg’s
home in West Perth, a luncheon at the
June Elisabeth, where Barbara Clarke
welcomed guests, and a party at the
Karrakatta Club with Mrs. Adam John-
ston’s white French voiles in the box seat.
“Bob” kept her tryst with “Bob”
James, ex-Premier Walter James’s
youngest son, at St. Luke’s, Maddington,
where Michaelmas daisies, polyanthus,
gladioli and zinnias lent color. The bridal
outfit of aquamarine sheer crepe was
softly draped at the neck with a bow at
the nape; handmade flowers finished the
belt and a transparent picture hat shaded
the sheaf of pastel asters. Matron of
honor Mrs. L. Guigeri perched a violet
ostrich plume at the side of her beige
headpiece, which topped a sleeveless
gown of beige lace, shouldered and belted
with violets.
A huge sheaf of pink Madonna lilies
rested on Myra Hackford’s arm as she
trod the aisle of St'. Paul’s, West Perth,
for her marriage to Cecil Rose. Silver
roses were traced on the blush-pink sheer
crepe which fell in soft folds from the
high neckline to the edge of the semi-
train. A halo of pink leaves crowned
her brunette curls and held in place the
misty cloud of the tulle veil.
Gwen Dean swam into citizenship at
a beach party given by her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Dean. Proceedings
started at the Ocean Beach Hotel, where
the hostess’s red and white marocains
were admired as she ushered the three
score guests into the dining-room. After
high tea and cake-cutting by the floral-
georgette-clad guest of honor, there
were swimming and dancing.
“The Prodigal Son” has come to anchor
at Perth Art Gallery. This 17cwt. terra-
cotta panel by Tinworth has been pre-
sented by L. J. E. Hooper, head of the
Doulton pottery works, and conveys the
whole parable in a grouping of 30
figures plus the fatted calf.
Pre-matrimonial shivoos for Beryl
Randall are under way. Shirley Harford
opened the run with an evening party at
her home in Nedlands, followed closely
by Ethel Diamond’s cocktail-shaking at
the Palace Hotel. Beryl’s own party in-
spired sighs of envy as her guests gazed
at the trousseau.
Bags are being packed for overseas
holidays. Dorothy Bennett farewelled
four trippers at one stroke by entertain-
ing in honor of Alys King (off to Singa-
pore), Beryl and Joan Birchley, whose
trunks are labelled “Fiji,” and Zoe
Bennett, who will cast her architectural
eye over Sydney for three months.
Mrs. M. A. Lepper, Mrs. G. Wickens
and Doris Durlacher hostessed a party at
the Karrakatta Club to bid boy voyage
to Mrs. Leighton Nanson, who leaves
shortly for England. Flag bridge kept
the guests moving, prizes being won by
Mrs. Gilbert Elliot, Mrs. G. Lefroy and
Mrs. J. Lambert
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. L. Lavington Bonython gave a
bright party at her home, St. Corantyn,
as a farewell to her sister, Mrs. H. Cod-
rington Forsyth, who left in the Nar-
kunda for England with her small son
and daughter after a visit to her mother,
Mrs. S. B. Rudall, at Stirling West.
Although the night was hot many of
the guests danced in the ballroom, while
others played bridge. Mrs. Bonython
looked smart in black satin beaute, cut on
long lines, and wore diamond ornaments.
Her sister chose a charming frock of
cherry-and-white patterned crepe de
Chine fitting to the figure with a back-
less bodice. Mrs. Rudall was gowned in
black and silver lace. Mrs. F. W. Porter
was a modish figure in white-and-flame-
figured taffeta. Mrs. John Bonython was
in a green chiffon flowered in pink. Mrs.
K. Cameron Wilson wore ice-blue crepe
with hair stripe in silver on diagonal lines.
Gladioli, delphiniums and dahlias figured
in the decorations.
The Mothers and Babies’ Health Asso-
ciation launched a Baby Week, and Mrs.
T. C. Walker lent her spacious grounds
for the kick-off, a garden fete. A sudden
change in the weather (for the worse) was
against outdoor entertainment, but the
attendance was good. The Kidman lady
made the opening speech in a smart black
marocain coat with white silk embroidery
and a black hat. She gleaned a posy ot
pink roses. Stalls were arranged under
a grape-laden trellis, and a string
orchestra made music. Tea was served at
small tables on the lawn.
Ethelwyn Robin, who has been a play-
ing member and also one of the board
of selection of our Repertory Theatre for
the last 23 years, resigned recently.
At the conclusion of the theatre’s first
show in Australia Hall a supper was held
in the clubrooms, and the members
availed themselves of the opportunity to
make a presentation to Miss Robin ot
four bridge chairs. Talbot Smith, T.
Nave and H. Sando expressed apprecia-
tion of her work, and Miss Robin made
a witty speech.
TASMANIA.
The A. J. Millers’ only girl-chick,
Margaret, was married to Alan, son of
the H. B. Whites, Holebrook Place, at
St. George’s, Battery Point. The bridal
gown was of magnolia-tinted satin, close-
fitting, with long sleeves and sweeping
train; the veil of Limerick was lent by
a friend, and had celebrated its centen-
ary some time ago. A matron of honor,
Mrs. A. Rounds (Deloraine), attended the
bride in powder-blue lace, with a tulle
halo hat to match. The A. J. Millers
entertained a big crowd afterwards at
their own home, where decorations of
deep-red dahlias and autumn foliage
made a rich effect.
Before the wedding, parties for Mar-
garet followed close on each other’s heels.
Bridge, American tennis, a “back-to-
childhood” jollo and luncheons culmi-
nated in a big at-home given by Mrs.
A. J. Miller at Montpelier-road, where
the wedding presents were on view.
Hutchins School ran a highly-success-
ful bazaar to help buy a new racing four.
Lovely weather enticed customers to the
show, and the head and Mrs. Harris re-
ceived Lady Clark and entertained her
at afternoon tea.
Golfers and their friends rallied to
the dance got up by the associates’ com-
mittee of the Claremont golf club. The
place chosen was the Lavender Tea-
gardens, where the big room was cleared
for dancing and the gardens were lit by
Chinese lanterns. A warm night made
the show doubly attractive. Supper-
tables showed a wealth of pink carnations
and sweet-peas.
Launceston Grammar School’s annual
reunion was favored by perfectly fine
weather, which made wandering under
the big trees in the spacious grounds a
joy. Tea was set out in the big dining-
hall, and a large muster of present and
past officials, boys, parents and friends
exchanged reminiscences and greetings.
The Art Society’s exhibition was voted
to be streets ahead of any in previous
years, the success being to some extent
due to the fact that the pictures were
displayed on screens in Hobart Art Gal-
lery, where the lighting is good. The
work of Harry Kelly, Ethel Nicholls,
Joseph Connor, Lily Allport and Tom
Garrett was outstanding. Marie De-
chaineux clicked with her still-life a
bowl of japonicas.
The Repertory Co.’s junior members
gave their show of four one-act pieces
to a full house at the Town Hall. Mar-
cus Gibson’s little sketch of Tasmanian
life in 1834 was interesting, and the cast-
ing excellent. In an interval Harry
Tighe, author and playwright, told of
the adventures of his soul among rep.
masterpieces in England.
Launceston drew a prize in the weather
for its Henley-on-Tamar regatta. Every
woman wore a summer frock, and copi-
ous rain had provided a background of
vividly-green grass, trees and shrubs.
Mayor and Mayoress Von Bibra were
to the fore, and crews came from all over
the island and from the mainland, Lin-
disfarne (South) won the State champion-
ship pennant.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Bernard Hall
as One
KNEW Him
When one
utters anything
about the late L.
Bernard Hall it
should at least be
fair, for that was
his chief and un-
alterable trait. Montague Grover’s
article (B. 6/3/’35) should not have
been headed “Barney Hall,” for the
nickname was one of affection for a
man whose shyness could only be dis-
torted into “superiority” when reflected
in a Grover-like mind.
Bernard Hall said “Indeed! ” only to
those who could entertain such feelings
as Grover’s article shows. And what is
this rubbish about Fred McCubbin plac-
ing the instructor and the pupil “on a
democratic basis” and “summing up
like a Judge of the High Court”? Mc-
Cubbin certainly was a lovable man;
but he could not instruct as could Hall,
nor lend the solid aid to a student that
Hall could.
Montague Grover says: “When Hall
took charge the place was run like a mili-
tary barracks.” I joined the Melbourne
Gallery School just after Hall had taken
charge. There was then nothing “mili-
tary” about it, nor was there in the 43
years following.
Hall’s old pupils of any worth re-
mained his friends, and nothing more
heartened him than the constant stream
of visiting, grateful ex-students. I know
them all, and most of them look upon
him as the best instructor they ever knew
or heard tell of. At the present day
they are Australian Art. He was strict;
yet none of his pupils paints like he did
or like each other. They are as different
as Ramsay, Meldrum, the Lindsays, Mc-
lnnes, Wheeler, the Powells, Miss Bale:
a that is enough.
Then what is wrong with a picture
called Welcome News” as long as it is
'veil painted? And who did Hall reject
m° afterwards became famous? Also,
what sort of last-resort is it to say: “One,
at least, is well known outside Australia
and has sold his work for high prices
in Europe and America”? Come on!
Let us hear from Montague Grover who
was this Hall-rejected genius who sold
ms work outside of Australia and who
distinguished himself by his imagina-
tion”?
Montague Grover denounces the crime
or Bernard Hall in not having S. T.
Gill s work in the Melbourne Gallery,
phat does he think galleries are for?
And in what gallery does he find the
forks of S. T. Gill?
h Th e fact is that Hall did more for
f here than any other man ; has more
Jtists that is to say, technicians first—
jo his credit than all the rest of the
instructors of Australia combined. He
• 1 not make the impossible effort to
ncuicate imagination into his pupils.
He knew it couldn’t be done.
J. S. MacDonald.
Black Acres.
This was the second growth, the earth’s
new hope,
A scrawny jungle of saplings and dark
fern
Profuse above an ancient charnel soil,
Gorged on the corpses from the older
burn.
Now this in turn.
With crack and hiss and suddenly shrivel-
ling leaves,
Has crumpled before a devilish lunge of
fire ;
And in the black acres seared of sheep
and birds
The wreckage seems to screech in woe
and ire.
Oh, this foul pyre
Presages beauty; will be green and
kinder . . ,
But as I pass them the murdered trees
Put their mark upon me: smear my
arms and face
In harsh reminder
That Time will burn me black as fire
has these.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Artists of
Foreign
Names
The recent de-
cree issued in
Berlin making it
compulsory for
all German-born
musicians who
have been appearing under foreign names
to revert to their own correct names
brings to mind the names of a few
British-born artists who, in order to
attract attention, rechristened themselves,
and, as “foreigners,” achieved amazing
success.
The English lutanist John Cooper, who
in the seventeenth century gained fame
as “Coperario,” was probably the insti-
gator of the fashion, and others who fol-
lowed in his artistic footsteps include the
opera-singer Foli (born Foley), the Rus-
sian dancer Anton Dolin (an Irishman
named either Dooley or Dolan) and
Madame Ethel Leginska (Ethel Liggins).
With few exceptions Australian stars who
have adopted stage-names have con-
tented themselves with cognomens indi-
cating the country or town whence they
came—Melba, Alda, Austral and Stralia.
“Wharfside, Pittwater" ( N.S.W.), one of the finest examples of Herbert
R. Gallop’s work. On show at the Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
Lionello Cecil (Cecil Sherwood) is one
of the few Australian male singers to
adopt a foreign-sounding name; John
Brownlee, Peter Dawson, Browning
Mummery, Horace Stevens and Frederick
Collier stuck to the labels presented to
them by fond parents at the christening
ceremonies.
GEE GEE.
Recipe for
Sculptural
Pre-eminence
The day has
dawned when
second - rate
monumental
masons may be
mistaken for, and
achieve fame as, great sculptors. Here’s
how.
Take a block of marble, granite or
stone measuring lift, high and weighing
seven tons, hew a huge, angular, gro-
tesque, egregious, square-featured image
upon its face, call the resultant mon-
strosity “Ecce Homo,” and you have
created a sculptural “masterpiece.” That
is the Epstein formula.
Strictly follow this prescription and
the critics, after having first prostrated
themselves before your absurd effigy,
will rush away and spout glib nonsense
about it; great newspapers like the
“Times,” “Daily Mail” and “Manchester
Guardian” will notice it (some not un-
kindly) in their august columns ; “artis-
tic” (these cranks invari-
ably having more money than sense) will
fall over themselves in their anxiety to
pay you 3000 guineas for it. Yes, it’s
an ingenious expedient if, like Epstein,
you possess the moral courage to meet
the derisive smiles of sincere artists and
the frank guffaws of laymen.
I maintain emphatically that it is as
reasonable to designate, say, a still-life
of a vase of yellow roses “Tomatoes
Rotting in the Slimy Bath” as it is fal-
lacious for Epstein to suggest that his
latest production faithfully represents
Christ. Modernist sculptors and painters
may be sharper of perception than the
rest of us, but I shall never be convinced
that Christ is rightly portrayed square of
face, flat-nosed, low of brow, colossal,
pugnacious and generally hideous.
Neither shall I be convinced that trees
grow with their roots in the air, that
sheep grazing in a field resemble pink
blotches nibbling purple grass, or that
the breasts of a woman are octagonal.
Nevertheless, that’s the sort of thing
your modern “artist,” whatever the
medium of his expression, expects one
to believe. T grant, of course, that such
extremists depend mostly on symbol-
ism, but a symbol is merely an abbrevia-
tion: an emblem representing something
else. Therefore, symbolic art is essen-
tially pseudo-art.
P. O. MACCABE.
The Color
of Music
Reading
“A.D.W.’s” de-
scription of Mr.
Hector’s re-
searches into the
color of music
(B. 6/3/’35), it occurred to me that if
people can feel blue, see red, have grey
days and wear suits described as loud ;
and if sin can suggest the color black,
chastity white and cowardice yellow—
why, there is nothing wrong with Mr.
Hector’s color music, except that it
doesn’t get us anywhere, any more than
smell music would.
If notes suggest color they should also
suggest smell, and it should be possible
to construct a piano or violin capable
of emitting odors, pleasant and, of
course, repellent too. Since music can
caress us and touch our hearts, a tactile
or tangible music should also be pos-
sible, performed in conjunction with a
feeling instrument that strokes us with
velvet or rasps us with files. Finally,
Mr. Hector’s principle ought to be re-
versible, and, if every sound has its char-
acteristic color, every color should have
its characteristic sound. It should thus
be possible to construct a machine that
will give us back the tune played by
Corot’s “Bent Tree” and the symphony
at present lying latent in the portrait
that won this year’s Archibald Prize. But
there would be no sense in doing this,
because the message of a painting is not
to the ear but to the eye, and, as
“A.D.W.” says, no order could be
brought into such a scheme, though he
does not say why.
The explanation is, it seems to me,
something like this. Musical sounds do
unquestionably conjure up colors, odors
and images, due, no doubt, to experi-
ences lodged in the unconscious mind.
But as no two individuals have had the
same experiences, the associations con-
jured up will be unlikely ever to be the
same.
The message of every art is to a par-
ticular organ, but, owing to this pheno-
menon of association, other senses are
brought into operation automatically.
Take literature. The message of words
is to the mind, but if I write “The sea
was calm” it is impossible for the reader
not to conjure up an image of a calm
sea drawn from his own visual experi-
ence or from pictures he has seen, and
that, of course, is what I want him to
do. But, as our experience of calm seas
will be widely different, the result will
only be the roughest compromise. More-
over, sea-smells and sea-sounds and sen-
sations of heat and cold might also be
conjured up by such a phrase. And this
miracle can be performed by means of
four perfectly soundless and inodorous
words printed on smell-less and sound-
less paper. There is hence no need for
the writer to bother about the limitations
of his medium and invent supplementary
machinery ; and I suspect music will get
along quite comfortably without Mr.
Hector’s color piano, which will always
remain a relatively clumsy instrument
compared with the astounding com-
plexity, dexterity, delicacy and range of
the unconscious mind.
CAUBOY.
Current
Artbursts
Strangely
enough, photo-
grapher T. Kauf-
mann, whose
name stands in
Melbourne as
Cazneaux’s does in Sydney for artistic
photography, has not held a show for
15 years, though his work has been ex-
hibited hundreds of times and his name
is known to everybody who appreciates
good photography. There is, therefore,
more than passing interest
in his current show at
Newman’s, Melbourne—a
collection of 60 pictures,
every one of which reveals
the uncanny judgment of
what makes a picture and
the superb craftsmanship
of the man who turns out
the completed work. There
are many exquisite flower
studies, a living portrait of
the late M. K. Armstrong,
vigorous landscapes and
gum-tree studies, but un-
fortunately no figure work.
Possibly the most striking
of all are the M.U. build-
ing, the National Bank,
the lighthouse and a pic-
ture of an old homestead
at Kapunda (S.A.) —almost
a complete replica of the
Irish homes which form
the backgrounds of Yeats
and Synge plays.
Queenslander Roy Park-
inson’s show of pictures
at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney—it is nine
years since he last exhi-
bited in the Harbor City
—shows a firm grasp of
essentials of water-color
technique. His landscapes
and seaside sketches are
admirable in composition,
he has a keen eye for color harmonies,
and he manages to convey a sense of
distance and of the beauty and mystery
of distances. The years that have inter-
vened since his last Sydney show have
taught him his strengths and his limita-
tions, and he uses this knowledge hon-
estly and sincerely. “Toll Bar Road,
Toowoomba,” “Morning Sky, South
West Rocks,” and “Beach, Nambucca
Heads,” particularly charmed this critic,
but every picture in the show has some-
thing to say, and says it pleasingly.
Americanised
Australia
The pictures
have become a
formidable rival
to the press as
a medium through
which public sen-
timent may be exploited. America has
abused this privilege ; most of its films
have become an avenue through which
the rights and obligations of American
citizenship are firmly ingrained on the
minds of those who see them.
The subtlety used in achieving this
cannot be doubted, but the ease with
which Australians fall prey to it is none
the less pitiable. We are being taught
to be unstinted in our praise for the
hero who casts some slur on anything
British.
We appoint supposedly skilled men
and women to censor our films, and what
do they do? Merely give added publi-
city to some of this sort by officially
endorsing them as not suitable for gen-
eral exhibition.
RONALD T. TAYLOR.


SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
MR. HAL. J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
F
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office: C. DARVALL,
343 George Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
audited circulation certifi-
cate in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted, by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
y 15 Hamilton Street.
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset. News-
paper House, Collins Street. Phone: F 3348.
Humorous Story Competition Second-prize Winner:-
I TELL ALL
BY GLORIA
GILDED
D
R
A
W
I
N
G
S
BY
A
R
I
A
# LOATHE my husband, God-
frey Gilded. God, how I
hate him. Yes, I confess it.
Often I ask myself why I
married him, why I fell for
his words of love, and
always I find the same answer: - he
tempted me with his money !
Ah, what a fool I was, what an arrant
idiot, for I was happy once, just a simple
stenographer with never a care in the
world.
I was without a position when I first
met him, having lost my situation as
typist to Gus Danglehopper, the chew-
ing-gum magnate, through his wife’s
jealousy just because I spent a week-end
with him. I tried to explain to her that
that week-end meant nothing to me ; it
was just a tribute to a great man, such a
great man as Gus was —and is.
“Listen, girlie,” I said sincerely, “be-
lieve me, it don’t mean a thing to me —
not a single thing. Forget it!”
But she wouldn’t, and at last I just
had to go. That woman ruined ray life
because it was through me leaving Gus’s
office that I met Godfrey.
1 HEARD he needed a stenographer, so
I went to see him.
“Are you fast?” he asked.
“Very,” I said simply, knowing it to
be true.
“Are you fast?” he asked.
“Well, how about coming up to my
flat to-night and showing me just how
fast you are?” he asked.
I felt that there was an insidious sug-
gestion lurking behind those apparently
simple words, and I faced him challeng-
ingly.
“Mr. Gilded,” I said, very dignified, “I
can show you as well here in your private
office as I could in any flat anywhere.”
“I guess you’ll do, sweetie,” he said,
with a coarse laugh, and then he en-
gaged me.
I have always beer, told that I do not
lack sex appeal, and to my sorrow I
know it to be true.
Before long Mr. Gilded was crazy
about me. Oh, I
know that sounds
like bragging, but
it was true. I
could tell it in so
many subtle ways.
He showered
me with pres-
ents.
One day he
threw me a price-
less chinchilla coat.
“Try that on,
beautiful, and if it
fits you it’s yours,”
he said, with a
jeering laugh.
“T cannot ac-
“Marry me, Glor.”
cept such presents, Mr. Gilded,” I said
haughtily ; “and, besides, it is too full
in the hips.”
The upshot was that he ignored my
protests, had it altered to fit me and
then forced me to take it. What else
could I do? Another day he hit me on
the nose with a gorgeous diamond soli-
taire ring.
“Try that on your mitt,” he guffawed.
Next he forced on me a string of first-
water pearls. In fact, as I have said, he
simply showered presents on me. 1 felt
as if I were being bought. The horror
of it!
HE began to be jealous of my men
friends.
I accepted a platinum and ruby
brooch —just a simple token —from
Horace Whatmore, an old pal, and God-
frey simply raved.
With insult and vile suggestion he
dragged it from my shrinking bosom, and
for a moment I feared he would strike
me, but some latent spark of manhood
prevented.
Next day he was utterly contrite, and
insisted that I should accept a much
larger and more expensive brooch. I
did so, but only because I thought that
if I did not do so he might give it to
some loose woman, but it made me feel
Finally he pestered me to marry him.
“Marry me, Glor,” he pleaded, “and
give all these other blokes the air.”
“What other guys?” I asked coldly.
“I don’t know how many there are,”
he said. “I got dizzy trying to keep
count.”
He pleaded so hard that, because I
was in financial straits, I yielded.
He had been paying me five pounds a
week, and the expensive flat he had urged
me to take so that he would not have far
to go home was four pounds fifteen, so
that I had always a struggle to make
both ends meet, and you may imagine
that after buying food I had little left.
In fact, I had had to let the landlord
wait for a few months, and he had be-
come impatient. Besides, his wife was
suspicious, and-was nagging at him about
me. So he was pressing me to pay,
although he had previously urged
me to stay on for nothing.
YES, we were married. I shall
never forget that day or how
Godfrey’s best man —George Peevish
—kept saying to Godfrey:
“Yes, but for heaven’s sake, God-
frey, old man, why marry her?”
I never let the fellow in the house
after that.
What a change there was in my life!
Previously I had known privations and
want. Often I had known what it was
to ride home in a crowded tram, because
there was nobody about to run me home
in his car.
Many simple
meals had I cooked
over the gas-jet,
and I remember
only too well how
one evening when
I was entertaining
a few friends the
ice melted and the
sparkling hock be-
came almost too
warm to drink. I
feel a flush of
shame even now
when I remember
how my friends
jeered at my pov-
erty.
Yes, there was a tremendous change.
A luxury apartment, a chef, a butler,
my own sedan, and my own chauffeur —
a handsome, dear boy whom Godfrey
dismissed summarily after I had had him
only a fortnight.
Yes, I had abundant wealth and every-
thing a woman yearns for —everything
but true love. All Godfrey gave me was
passion.
Soon I strove to soothe my aching heart
by throwing myself into a mad riot of
pleasure. I went everywhere, I saw every-
thing, and before long I was in the middle
of a fast set.
GRADUALLY I began to drink.
At first only a few cocktails before
dinner and half a dozen or so during
the evening at some wild night club, with
an occasional straight brandy and a gin-
sling or so, but eventually I was drink-
ing heavily.
Sometimes I was so fuddled that I knew
not what I was doing, and it was then
that I did things that I should not have
done —or, rather, not in public.
Yes, I drank, and sometimes, I sus-
pect, I was not faithful to Godfrey.
But worse happened ; / learned to
smoke !
I became an addict; a steady stream of
smoke poured through my lips. How I
loathed myself.
Godfrey and I drifted further and
further apart. We began to have tiffs.
One day he threw a meat-chopper at
me. Fortunately, I ducked, and I was
able to wing him with a decanter as he
was reaching for the fire-tongs, but the
little incident scarred my soul; I felt it.
Yes, previously I had been poor, but
at least I had had my self-respect. Now
I was wealthy and all that gold could
buy was mine, but I realised, too late,
that I had become a rich man’s plaything,
his toy. All that Godfrey wanted of me,
all that he had ever wanted of me,
was
I learned to smoke.
NO ; I cannot write it. Not even here
in my boudoir can I write it down.
It is too, too shameful; and, besides, 1
cannot spell some of the words. They
are not in my dictionary.
I decided to end all.
A chemist friend of mine—a sweet,
boy —gave me some poison and I put it
in a glass of wine. That evening I put
it by my bedside, intending to take it
ere mornihg broke, but when I awakened
in the broad light of day it was still
there, and so was I. I had overslept.
Next, I procured a revolver, pressed it
to my temple and pulled the trigger.
There was only a dull click ; I had for-
gotten to load it.
1 realised then that suicide was not
for me, and that I must drag out my
weary existence to the very end.
IT was then, in the very depths of my
depression, that I met my Swami.
I heard of him first through a close
friend, Cora Coe-Reigh.
“Thou art misunderstood.”
“There’s a snifter Hindu spook-artist
in Bondi,” she said. “You ought to see
him, Gloria. Every inch of six feet, the
dearest white turban with a huge diamond
in the aigrette—and what eyes! Gosh,
when he looks at me and strokes my
hand I always think: ‘Well, another
divorce wouldn’t do any harm, anyway.
I went, and the moment we saw each
other we knew, we -knew.
“Thou art misunderstood,” he said in
his deep, glamorous voice. “Thy hus-
band is wealthy, he loads thee with
presents—and yet he neglects thee, starves
thy soul,” he continued.


Film,, . crmin mwr Tmih and robs them of Sparkle
mm
overs
:
the shad
ths^pvi
elver her
n
It can be removed safely quickly by
this scientific method
YOU must know how to keep teeth
brilliant, dazzling. If you don’t, you
can’t expect to attract men by your smile.
Now there is a special way to make teeth
exquisitely lovely. It acts by removing a
stubborn, ugly coating that forms on teeth.
This coating, called film, is primarily re-
sponsible for dull, unsightly teeth. You
can feel film with your tongue. It forms
constantly—rapidly. .
This film absorbs the stains from food
—the ugly stains from smoking. In film
are the acid-producing germs that cause
decay...glued by film to teeth, where they
attack enamel and destroy the part beneath.
Thus, removing film accomplishes two
things—keeps teeth gleaming bright and
helps prevent dreaded tooth decay.
The approved way to remove film is with
PEPSODENT
•he special film - removing tooth paste
Pepsodent—urged by dentists and used by
four million people. Pepsodent contains a
special cleansing and polishing material —
more effective in removing film —softer and
therefore safer. The discovery is contained
in Pepsodent exclusively. Because of it,
Pepsodent is termed the "special film-
removing” tooth paste. Don’t expect the
same results from any other.
FREE - 10-Day Tube
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. 5.8.),
Box 48 BG, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name -
Address t
k2ossm/a Only one tube to a family.
I
m
r
m
>-
■
i
• Vio
::: I
V
SA.
AND
UN lON Rond Mail Lines
FORTNIGHTLY
SAILINGS ACROSS
THE PACIFIC
Full particulars from:
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William St., Melbourne
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Couple of double,
brandies.
“Too true,” I
whispered,
amazed at his
uncanny know-
ledge.
“I understand
thee,” he said. “I,
S w a m i Singh,
alone understand
thee. / shall
prove it.”
“Carry on,” I
gasped.
Later, he took
me into his inner-
most sanctum
and showed me reverently a goddess of
brass. Before her incense burned in a
golden censer.
“That is a replica of Katishoo, whom
I worship,” he said raptly. “She lives in
a temple in far Benares, and we faith-
ful abroad send our tribute to her.”
“Tribute?” I asked.
“Jewels,” he said ardently. “We im-
poverish ourselves gladly to adorn her
with jewels and gold. Necklaces,
brooches, rings—just such a ring as that
on thy left hand.”
I had an inspiration.
“May I present it to Katishoo?” I
asked timidly.
“On her behalf
I accept it
gladly,” he said,
taking it from my
linger.
So began my
worship of Kati-
shoo.
Next day I
took her a pearl
necklace, and
each day I found
some offering.
When I had given
as many of my
jewels as I could
spare without ex-
citing Godfrey’s
Click!
suspicions I took some odds and ends of
his.
Explaining that it was the intention
that counted more than the gift, my
Swami accepted them all. Godfrey’s
second-best diamond shirt studs, God-
frey’s old gold sleevelinks, a gold dental
plate Godfrey had discarded —all these
I gave gladly.
But at last I went empty-handed.
“I have nothing more to give,” I con-
fessed sadly.
“Art thou sure?” he asked.
“Quite,” I wept.
“Do not weep, my love,” he said ten-
derly. “I should have told thee before,
knowing thou hast a bank account.
Katishoo will take cheques!”
“Cheques?” I asked wonderingly.
“Not to cash, of course, dearest, but
to lay at her altar as a token of love,”
he explained, laughing at my stupidity.
Gladly I wrote a cheque for Katishoo.
At my Swami’s suggestion I left it un-
crossed and made it payable to bearer
just to show my faith in Katishoo and
in him. He seemed greatly touched at
my implicit trust, and gave vent to
several involuntary bursts of happy
laughter.
The next day and the next I offered
cheques to Katishoo, but the next day
after that I found bis house locked. I
rang the bell again and again, giving
the secret peal he had taught me, but
at last I left, wondering where my Swami
could be.
WHEN I arrived home —it was yester-
day—Godfrey flew at me!
“Where is your pearl necklace?” he
demanded.
I stared at him.
“And your solitaire?” he raved. “Your
solitaire ring?”
“I —I don’t know,” I gasped.
“Then I do!” he cried.
He dived into his pockets and produced
everything I had given my Swami—
everything but the cheques. My heart
sank.
“You thought I didn’t know,” he
sneered, “but I’ve had you watched for
weeks. My agent acted just as your
nigger friend was clearing out.”
“He was not a nigger,” I protested. “He
was a Swami, a Hindu Swami from the
holy city of Benares.”
“And answering to the name of Flan-
nigan, according to police records,” he
jeered. “He was as much a Hindu as I’m
a Laplander. I never thought you had
much sense, Glor, but to be taken in by
an Irishman with walnut juice on his
face”
“It isn’t true!” I cried. “He was
brown—brown all over.”
“Oh, he was, was he?” he grated.
“Well, he had a yellow streak a yard
wide, anyhow. I pasted him properly,
"believe me, and he used more Eng-
lish bad language than any Hindu 1
ever knew.”
“You brute,” I hissed.
“And those cheques,” he con-
tinued. “He cashed the first, but 1
stopped the others.”
“It’s a lie,” I sobbed.
“Look here, Glor,” he said, ignoring
my distress, “I’m so cuckoo about you
that I’m prepared to forgive and forget,
but, so help me Murphy, if I catch you
fooling about with any more niggers or
near-niggers I’ll file a divorce petition
on the spot.”
BUT all my beautiful dream castles
were falling about my ears and 1
scarcely heard him.
I dragged myself to my room, poured
myself a couple of double brandies and
threw myself on my bed to think and
think and think . . .
Do you wonder that I hate Godfrey?
What woman would stand such brutality?
He has crushed my soul.
But I can write no more ; my heart is
too full. In fact, I feel full all over.
Soon I shall don the beautiful Paris
frock I bought this morning, put on my
choicest jewels and order my limousine
to be brought round. Amy Amorous is
throwing a cocktail party this afternoon
and Gregory Tearemoff, the Russian
wrestler, is to be there. Perhaps he will
be interesting.
And if you should chance to see me
there, drinking cocktail after cocktail,
smoking cigarette after cigarette and
joining in the mad revels, do not envy
me, for I am a broken-hearted woman.
The Crickets.
Sing summer farewell. In the rank,
tangled grasses.
Where the flax-flower tosses a
tremulous bell,
From the edge of the stream that Infinity
glasses
At evening, grey evening, sing summer
farewell!
All’s ended, they strum from the far-
away thickets.
All’s over, they shrill from the tus-
socks between.
Oh, summer goes out with the song of
the crickets.
When quiet March afterglows fade into
green !
No more in the starlight the fantails
awaken
The snatch of a love song to toss from
the bough.
The brood is abroad and the nest is for-
saken.
The pine branches empty of melody
now,
The shallow creek water goes silvery,
slowly;
A mopoke begins a monotonous knell;
The bush night steals on with its strange
melancholy ;
The mist’s on the hill . . . and it’s
summer — farewell.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Conversation by a Tomb.
“Beneath this stone (which needs repair )
Lies something that has yellow hair”
“I knew him well. But ’neath that stone
There's naught but filigree of bone.”
“A thief —his hands of flesh-and-blood
Were soft as a furry willow-bud.
His fingers were so light he sinned
By plucking feathers from the wind.”
“A wanderer—twelve countries knew
His feet scarce smutched a crust of dew.
To many a city's dark old inns
He took a sound of tamborins.”
“And he died dancing. Stolen gold
Pressed yellow kisses in the cold
Clenched hand. I hate to know him
dead,
Stone-weighted, cold, uncomforted!
“Yet flowers spring out the cracking
stone
Under which he lies alone,
Each of them a silver spark
Struck from out his lonely dark.
“They leap like flames to upper air,
They feed him wind and sun down
there.”
“ Tis true. His infidelity
Could always find good company.”
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.


i mm
sgja
f
BACKACHE
WHY ENDURE THIS AGONY WHEN A SURE,
SIMPLE AND SAFE REMEDY IS AT HAND
When yon reach the stage where pain compels
you to say • — 44 1 witcst get rid of this backache I
you will commence taking De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and then, in a very short time, your
pain will disappear.
Naturally it would be better if you took De Witt’s
Pills as soon as
THE FIRST STAB OF PAIN
came to warn you, but many people make the same
mistake. They do not realise the serious nature of
Backache and so they wait, hoping the pain will
go away, or try various methods of treatment
which may give temporary relief. This cannot go
on for long. Soon the time comes when backache
compels you to neglect or give up your work. Life
is a mockery when you are always in pain, but
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will drive the
pain away and they will also protect you against
future attacks.
Read how successful De Witt’s Pills proved in
Mrs. Edmiston’s case and perhaps her experience
will persuade you to give them a trial.
Writing from “Gwen Villa,” William Street,
South Brisbane, Mrs. A. Edmiston says
“ I used to suffer terribly withbackache and,
although. I tried one thing after another, I
could not get lasting relief. The pain got
worse and worse until a friend induced me to
try De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. These
gave me ease at once. Anyone who has
as I have will understand how grateful I am.
A point you will appreciate about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills is the fact that they give
almost instant relief. You may have endured agony
all day and you feel that unless you get nd of the
pain you will not be able to endure another day.
Put your faith in De Witt’s Pills. They will not
fail you. Get a box from the chemists to-day, price
3/6 and 6/6. Sold only in the white, blue and gold
boxes. Take two just before you go to bed and m
the morning your pain will be gone.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills discolouration of the urine will prove
that they have commenced their good work. You
will be able to see that the cleansing, hcahng
and strengthening ingredients of De Witt s Pills
have passed through your kidneys arid your bladder.
No other medicine furnishes proof like this, and
once you have tried them your one regret will be
that you did not do so before. Take De Witts
Pills for Scalding Pains, Gravel, Stone \ Painful
Taints, Stiffness, Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica. Give them to children subject
to Bed-wetting, and to aged persons afflicted by
Urinary Disorders, and m every case they win
give prompt relief. Many thousands of suffering
men, women and children in all parts
of the world have already proved
this, but the best proof of all can
can be obtained by a
personal trial in your
own case.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC "ACID
«wu*a
TIME TO THINK
BY- MONTE HOLCROFT.
“Bill!” he called.
“Steady, Jo!” came the reply, in a low
and rather shaky voice. “I’m going down
for some rope.”
“Be quick, Bill!”
“I’m on my way, boy!”
THEY were painting the sheer-legs. Jo
Stevens was working from a bos’n’s
chair slung below the apex of the
poles. His mate was right on top,
straddled across the highest rung of the
steps which serrated one of the three
legs There were no rungs on the pole
against which Jo was working, and this
had been the subject of pleasantry
between the two men.
“You’ll be able to slide down to the
bottom if the rope comes to pieces, Jo,
said the man on top.
“Sure thing, Bill! And don t I know
how to do it, too! There were stairs in
the old house I grew up in, an’ us kids
used ter keep a polish on the banisters—
to say nothing of our pants.”
They could joke about these things
without uneasiness. For ropes never
broke when skilled workmen used them.
IT was nearing five o’clock, and Jo had
arranged to meet Phyllis around the
corner from the dockyards. They were
planning to join a moonlight feiry ex-
cursion on the harbor. It was going to
be a good night, too. The day had been
hot and still, and now the sky and the
harbor seemed to have come close to-
gether, and were losing the sharp dis-
tinctness of margins.
“Nice view up here, Bill.”
“Yeah,” said Bill, without looking up.
“I suppose it’s being near the water
all the time. It sort of rests your eyes
from the rooftops and the tin sheds over
yonder.”
The “tin sheds” were the great work-
shops in the dockyard. From this height
they appeared to crouch close to the
ground. Smoke hung above them, or
ebbed towards the hillside suburbs. Near
the sheer-legs was a slipway, with the
ribs of a boat painfully bared and an
insect swarm of workmen clustered about
the stern. Metallic sounds came up-
wards : the clang of boiler plates, the
thud of steam-hammers pulverising red
metal with a sullen joy, and sometimes
an outbreak of riveters, furiously assail-
ing the half-grown ship.
JO turned back to his painting. Almost
any minute now the whistles would
blow, and it was hardly worth while pull-
ing himself any higher.
He put the brush in the paintpot, and
searched in his pocket for a cigarette-
end. The bos’n’s chair oscillated as he
moved, and immediately there was a
sound as of cloth being torn asunder.
At the same moment the chair swung
inwards, so that Jo’s knees knocked
against the sheer-legs pole. He clutched
at the pole with his hands, and got his
arms about half-way round it.
The new paint was on his shirt and
dungaree trousers, and a patch of it was
on his face. But he wasn’t thinking of
that.
“Bill!” he called.
“Steady, Jo !” came the reply, in a low
and.rather shaky.voice. “I’m going down
for some rope.”
“Be quick, Bill!”
“I’m on my way, boy !”
Jo could not look up, but as he care-
fully turned his head sideways he saw
Bill swinging himself downwards, rung
by rung. Already he was level, and Jo
could see his brown face, his mouth
sagging open and his eyes round and
enlarged like those of a frightened school-
boy.
“I’m on my way,” he panted out
again ; and then he was below the level
of Jo’s shoulder, steadily descending.
Jo turned back to the pole. It would
take Bill three minutes to climb down,
two minutes to get the rope and five
minutes to climb up again. Ten minutes.
The sweat came out on his face, and
he tightened his grip around the pole.
Yet he was afraid to put out all his
strength. The angle was steep. As soon
as he began to slip there would be
nothing m save him. A few feet of sick-
ening giLjade—and then a plunge into
space.
IT was ninety feet to the wharf. He
looked down and saw where the
paint-pot htd fallen. A dark patch was
on the planking, at this height suggesting
a pool of spilt ink.
A handful of men were working at
the far end of the wharf with a stack
of boiler tubes. They had not seen the
accident, and were going about their task
with a maddening deliberateness. Near
at hand was one of the steam pinnaces
belonging to the dockyard. It was puff-
ing black smoke from a brass funnel,
and its engine was noisy. Over at the
slipway there was an outbreak of rivet-
ing, and Jo suddenly thought of the
roll of drums which sounded before they
shot a man against a wall.
A queer thought to come into his
mind. Must have been something he
saw at the pictures the other night. It
was a spy picture, he remembered. There
had been a close-up of the condemned
man’s face ; and Mavis had clutched him
by the arm and whispered chokingly that
it was too horrible, and wouldn’t he
take her out. That was the last time he
had taken Mavis anywhere. He had made
up his mind not to see her again. She
was too soft and weepy in these latter
days, always looking at him out of pale-
blue eyes with a sort of unwilling re-
proachfulness, as if she didn t want to
believe the worst about him, but was
finding it hard not to.
HIS arms were beginning to tremble
under the strain, and a trickle ot
sweat was creeping into his eyes.
He blinked furiously, and saw the dis-
tant rooftops go dim and blurred. Then
they swung together, with the dockyard
workshops in the midst of them, and the
whole composite picture began to move
round and round. This was the sort of
whirling view that smote across a man’s
dying eyes as he plunged between sky
and earth ; and he closed his lids in the
hope that the picture would leave him.
A moment more of that illusion, and his
grip would be gone altogether.
The whistles were blowing, and the
men on the wharf were hurrying down
to scramble into the pinnace and be
taken back to the yard.
Why didn’t they look up and see what
was happening?
What would they care, anyway?
Even if they watched him clinging
here, it would be only to gape until the
last horrible moment and then go home
and talk about the tragedy to their wives.
And while they sat over their meals or
smoked their pipes on front doorsteps
afterwards, he would be down there-r-
-spreadeagled and broken.
No! They would take him away.
Mavis would hear about it, and come
weeping to see the last of him.
Always Mavis. Why the devil
couldn’t he put her out of his mind? She
wasn’t the sort of person to be thinking
about now. For all he knew, the other
girl might be on the wharf at this
moment, watching him trying to hold
on —praying for him, perhaps.
At this he began to chuckle, although
his voice was high-pitched and curiously
weak. Phyllis wasn’t the girl to pray
for anyone. She simply wouldn’t know
what to say. Mavis might, though.
He wished he could put the girl from
his thoughts. It was bad enough to be
clinging here like this, without having to
think of the pale-faced girl who had been
bold-eyed and blooming only a few short
months ago. Not that she didn t have
something to cry about, of course. It
was pretty rough for her to be discarded
because something had gone wrong and
he didn’t want to settle down just yet.
He didn’t want the kind of marriage that
had to be arranged because a baby was
coming. And Phyllis had turned up just
when things were going wrong. She was
full of life, dark-eyed and sparkling.


Java—
jhr your holiday
m
1
IB
*. y\
<» i
f
c?
-Javanese butcher
Visit this wonderland of colour with its picturesque
people, strange customs, ancient temples and towering
mountains. A further attraction has been added to the
trip by the installation of talking pictures on the Burns
Philp Line t.s.s. Marella." This vessel sails regularly
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane for Java and
Singapore. The round trip occupies about seven weeks
and fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased to forward you Folder No. 25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE 8790 1
ERE THE GOOD
HATS
DF
QUALITY! Yes—and
an exceptional value , too I
Murdoch’s exclusive
Fur Felt Hats
m
A GENUINE GUINEA VALUE MODEL !
Murdoch’s famous Hats have a style of their own
—a certain indefinable air of smartness that
makes them distinctive. Study the illustration and
note the debonair blocking and the snappy tilt of the
brim. Available in greys, fawns, browns and beavers.
A style for every head—in narrow or medium width
brims. And they are silk lined, too. Australian made.
Another Model Exclusive to Murdoch's
"Stralino" Fur Felt Hats, 25'-
We pay freight . Write to Desk “tf.”
MURDOCHS
PARK AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
When he was with her it was easy to
forget the other girl.
THE trembling had spread from his
1 arms, and was causing his shoulders
to shake as if he were sobbing. A sound
of agony came between his lips. He
couldn’t hold on much longer. He dared
not look down to see what Bill was
doing.
Perhaps there was no rope. The sweat
poured anew from his face at this
thought. He could only wait, not know-
ing if these moments were the last in
which he would breathe. In a little while
his arms would grow numb. Already
one of his legs was without feeling, and
on the other side a dull pain was fasten-
ing like a living thing.
“God!” he muttered to himself.
“God!”
Then Mavis came back. He saw her
clearly. Those eyes had had a coloring
of the sea when he first knew her; now
they were faded. The mouth accused
him. Scraps of conversation worried
him: words of endearment used between
them, and parts of the plans they had
made for their life together. He had
meant to marry her, then.
“God!” he muttered again.
He would marry her if he could get out
of this alive. Yes ; that was a thought
to cling to. It came about him with
the strength of a rope. Everything would
be right. He would marry her; they
could settle down in some little place
of their own; when the kid came he
could learn to nurse it and dandle it on
his knee.
Too late. The time for making plans
was over.
There would be no chance now for
him to go to Mavis and tell her that
he wanted her, see the sudden happiness
in her eyes, hear her whisper that she
had never really doubted him.
“I’ll do it,” he thought. “If only I
can get out of this, I’ll do it!”
The sky was darkening. He could not
see the harbor waters, although the sun-
light was on them. The pain was creep-
ing inwards. His hands were beginning
slowly to slip and slide.
«CTEADY, Jo! I’m coming.”
Convulsively he clung to the sheer-
legs pole. The mist went away from his
eyes, and he saw Bill near at hand,
climbing higher with a catlike quickness
and certainty. He was almost at the top.
Another two rungs. He was there.
A rope came dangling down, and Bill
was shouting instructions.
“Get that noose under your armpits.
The other end is fastened up here. You’ve
only to swing across to this pole and get
your feet on a rung.”
The attempt had to be made. Care-
fully he freed an arm, and the blood
came prickling through his veins. Now
he was through the noose. He swung
clear, was able to get his feet upon the
step.
A moment later he was clinging to the
pole, straddled upon the rung—safe!
A SMALL crowd had gathered on the
wharf. The pinnace delayed its
departure, and the workmen hurried back
to the sheer-legs. A few outsiders had
come in from the road, and something
like a cheer was raised among them as
Jo climbed stiffly down. One or two
men patted him on the back, and there
was a general tendency to admire him.
“A cool head,” someone was saying.
“Sat up there like a bird on a pole.”
Jo began to feel better. A young
woman was trying to get to him through
the crowd. Her dark eyes were eager,
and she was flushed with excitement.
“Jo,” she said, coming to him at last,
“you’ve just frightened the wits out of
me —you reckless old thing! Why can’t
you be more careful?”
“Now ain’t that like a woman?” asked
one of the bystanders. “Here’s a man
been a sort of blanky hero, and his girl
tells him to be more careful!”
His girl! Jo looked down at her
approvingly. Men in the crowd were
admiring both of them. Youth and
beauty mated well with youth and
strength.
“All right, Phyllis,” he said. “We’ll
be getting along. I’ll scrape the worst
of this paint off me and change my
clothes. We don’t want to miss that
moonlight excursion.”
They went off together.
My Political
Life
By W.A. HOLMAN
THE ISLANDERS
SCORE
By a special
arrangement with
the Colonial
Office the Premier
of New South Wales was also the
“Minister administering the affairs of
Norfolk Island,” and I held that position
for the last year of its existence. But,
although Norfolk Island was thus a kind
of administrative Appanage of New South
Wales, it had not been included in the
Australian Federation, and its bananas
and its coffee had been for some years
subject to heavy import duties on arrival
at Sydney—its only practicable port.
This had not been so before Federation,
and the change had struck a very heavy
blow at its prosperity. I had paid a visit
to this island paradise some years earlier
(before I was in office), and was well
acquainted with its difficulties. Sir
Gerald Strickland had interested himself
greatly in the position of these now-un-
fortunate people, and, thanks, to his
familiarity with Colonial Office methods,
had been able to get a scheme sanctioned
Which, while it broke up the historic con-
nection between the island and New
South Wales, secured for the islanders
tree access to the Australian market for
their crops.
THE BRITISH
ASSOCIATION
We had a visit
from the British
Association,
which, in further
demonstration of the awakening interest
of the mother country in our affairs, had
gone out of its way to hold its annual
reunion in Australia. Professor Bateson
was the president of the year, and Sir
UJiver Lodge who had not then written
Raymond” was foremost amongst those
who supported the scientific banner. Un-
fortunately, the European war broke out
six weeks too early.
WAR
War was de-
clared while the
visiting delegates
were actually in Australia. While the
more ambitious schemes which we had
devised for securing some permanent
benefit from the visit had to be aban-
doned, the scientific leaders had no reason
to complain of any lack of cordiality on
the part of either the public or the Gov-
ernment of New South Wales. Deep
interest was taken in their meetings.
Our visitors were naturally anxious to
return, many of them rushing back to
posts of duty, all of them concerned
about the increasing difficulties of travel
in the near future; and it was sheerly
impossible to settle down to anything
like a quiet contemplation of the scien-
tific triumphs of the past few years at
a moment when the entire German Army
was advancing rapidly towards the
Marne.
War did not take us altogether un-
awares. From the moment Russia and
Austria were squarely face to face over
the ultimatum to Servia it had seemed
certam. That England would be drawn
in, and Australia with her, seemed hardly
less so. What was not certain was that
we should be called upon to play any
role beyond that of spectators.
A short and decisive struggle, ending
in the early overthrow of one of the
combatant groups, was what everybody
had been taught to expect.
CENSORSHIP
News in the
earlier days was
not only untrust-
worthy, as it always remained, but scarce
as well. The censorship was in full
swing, and the press had not yet equipped
itself with the means of supplying some-
thing else when facts were not available.
(Continued on next page.)


K
Sydney “Telegraph,” 6131’35._
‘VIVID, STUNNING’
“LANDTAKERSBY BRIAN
PENTON
(PUBLISHED IN THE "DAILY MAIL")
LONDON. Tuesday.
The “Daily Mail” selects “Land-
takers,” the Australian novel by
Brian Penton. of “The Telegraph ” as
the, best book of the month.
In a three-column review it says
that the author has chosen a mighty
theme—Australia striving to find her-
se that his pen was equal to
his vast opportunities. r; ■ <
His, gifts make memorable this
vivid and stunning story. .“Land-
takers” is a worthy picture of a
vast 'savage area which has been the
setting in which Australia’s. sons
could find her soul. ■ ■-> , • '
Its vast conception is like a pageant
of crude colors, turbulent, and some-
times violently • vigorous. , 1
LANDTAKERS
is
THE
BOOK
OF
THE
MONTH
IN
ENGLAND!
DRIAN PENTON, one 'of Australia’s best-known feature-writers ‘and a
& journalist of international repute, has written something entirely new
in Australian literature —something different. In Landtakers the author
achieves what others have attempted but never attained—the tracing up from
its roots of that hitherto elusive thing,. the Australian national character.
This great Australian novel has met with remarkable success in Australia
and is already in its third edition.
“LANDTAKERS.” by Brian Penton. A novel of 500 pages, on sale now at
all Newsagents and Booksellers. Price 7/6 (postage 6d. extra), or direct
from the Publishers; ,
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS, 252 George St, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office; ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also, FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREEi, L.t.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
- world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usua
, banking business transacted.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the J| at ®
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin for 18 y ea J s ’ 15 S g Prior
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as th • •
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fictl .
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The; trustees, who will supply aU J*—“e.lTwhh
competitors on application, will publish the su nublished
ahy others which they may deem worthy. The winu.ng noval wJI be pubh.he
within two months after the announcement of the resu s.
Royalties at the usual rale, will be paid on sales worts sojubli.hed
in which. the entrant's will retain all property rights, except world book nghts.
which will be controlled by the trustees.
i asisfes ttznrnts: : rt
previously, unpublished, either wholly or m part, m book=
Manuscript, must be submitted under a nom de pin ,J h envel w hi=h
address of the author must accompany each entrj i
wUI no. be opened until the iudge. have , made then dec.s.on.
The judges’ selection, will be final, and competitors must accept a,
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters ar.smg out of the
The trustees, whose address is 252 'r1/tu'opiZnTf the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is. in
judges, worthy of an award.
I had directed the Agent-General to
send us each day a statement of what
was officially known of the naval and
military situation, and, although all
Parliamentary work was suspended, the
House met each day and heard what
information the Government had to give.
We sent at once to Sir Joseph Cook,
the Federal Premier, putting all the re-
sources of our Government unreservedly
at his disposal, and begging him to show
us the lines along which he thought
energy could be profitably expended.
The Federal Government, however, was
mentally as unequipped as we were—-
probably even more so. I had been in
Europe within the last couple of years,
and had there heard the possibilities of
a Continental war discussed by many
prominent English and French states-
men. Federal Ministers had apparently
given no thought whatever to war, ex-,
cept perhaps to the rather crude idea of
an invasion of Australia.
MILITARY
MUDDLERS
Within a few
days it was de-
cided that an
Australian con-
tingent should be formed. Recruits
offered at once in large numbers far
larger than could be handled —and the
peculiar aptness of the professional
military mind for muddling any situation
which depends in any large degree upon
civilian effort began at once to shine
forth.
For the moment it seemed that the
main difficulty before the Commonwealth
Government would be, not to find either
men or money, but to handle them when
found. Resources of every sort abounded
if the Government could only determine
how to employ them. This, however,
was a matter on which the States could
only be observers. _
One of the special weaknesses of the
Federal system was now to reveal itself.
In England it was found easily possible
to unite in a single coalition Cabinet
ail the men of either Government or
Opposition side whose administrative
powers or whose personalities were con-
sidered of special value. In Australia
that was impossible. The two sides of
the Commonwealth Parliament might
have combined, and a proposal to do
so was made. But there was no way of
carrying over the leading spirits in the
State Houses to the national Govern-
ment, and such men as Watt, Ryan,
Vaughan, Theodore, myself and others
who were in office, and whose energies
and organising powers must have made
us valuable, to say nothing of other men
in the State Oppositions, were compelled
to look on in loyal'but tormented silence
while the great military possibilities of
Australia were frittered away before our
eyes.
LABOR
MEMBERS
ENLIST
Already two of
our members,
Braund and Lar-
kin, had enlisted
in the first con-
tingent, and were
proceeding to the Front on active service.
Lieut.-Colonel Braund held that rank in
the permanent forces, Larkin, who was
one of our new men of 1913, was a well-
known athlete. There was naturally deep
feeling all through the House over this
departure, the first concrete proof of
war’s reality that the bulk of the members
met with. A meeting was held in one
of the upper rooms at Parliament House,
at which Wade and I united in wishing
them God-speed, and some small souve-
nirs—field-glasses or pistols —were given
them, inscribed as presented by the Par-
liament, articles which were paid for by
the Government out of the public funds.
I dwell on this point, because, incredible
as it may seem, this was later, in the
period of cooling enthusiasm, made the
subject of an attack. At that time, how-
ever, there were no divisions, and our
departing comrades left us—never to re-
turn —amid heartfelt and united emotion.
A BIRTHDAY
GATHERING
On the day of
the declaration of
war members of
the Labor party,
in spite of the extreme tension of the
hour and the certainty we all felt that
the final news must arrive very shortly,
spent the morning in an atmosphere of
comparative frivolity.
August 4 is my birthday, and some of
my warmer friends in the party had de-
termined to celebrate it as the first occa-
sion upon which they had been able to
make a demonstration of a personal
nature since the electoral victory of the
previous year. A party meeting had been
called, speeches made, presents handed
over and the spirit of fraternity evoked.
In less than 10 years four-fifths of this
party had disappeared from the represen-
tative Chamber.
ENTER THE
FISHER
GOVERNMENT
To add to the
perplexities of the
times a change
in the Federal
Government now
occurred. Sir
Joseph Cook had sought to escape Con-
stitutional difficulties by way of a double
dissolution, and had sent both the House
of Representatives and the Senate to the
country. There was thus very little Fed-
eral Government in being for two or
three months after the declaration of war.
Hughes, with equal patriotism and adroit-
ness, had, so soon as war was declared,
made a proposal for the abandonment of
the election and the formation of a Coali-
tion Ministry. It is clear now that this
far-sighted offer should have | been
accepted ; but no one believed the war
could last for more than a few months,
and the Liberals decided to go on. J They
were decisively beaten, and Fisher and
Hughes returned to office.
TREASURERS’
CONFERENCE
Under pressure,
as I believe, from
the Victorian
Government, the
new Ministry made it one of its first
acts to call a conference of all the State
Treasurers to arrange some collective
system of loan operations on the London
market. To this conference I accordingly
proceeded in November.
‘ There I had renewed experience of
Fisher’s remarkable methods in power.
The State Governments —including ours
—had been dealing with the difficulties
of the war period from its commence-
ment. He had about two weeks’ experi-
ence of them, but he was prepared to
determine precisely what everyone should
do, and no doubt as to the entire satis-
factoriness of his proposals ever crossed
his mind. He insisted that every State
should put in a claim for a definite sum
and give an undertaking that no borrow-
ing beyond that sum should be effected
either in Australia or in England for the
first 12 months following. To this the
New South Wales representatives de-
murred. We pointed out what we had
done in the way of over-the-counter
financing, and explained that this must go
on. Asa. matter of fact, it had been for
months the only thing standing between
us and complete-disaster.' On this point,
: after much haggling, the new Prime
Minister gave way. But we. had another
and more important possibility available,
and here Fisher was not so accommo-
dating. , ; v 7 , • >
THE NORTON
GRIFFITHS
OFFER
The firm of Nor-
ton Griffiths had
renewed - its pro-
posal to undertake
some 1 substantial
proportion of the
public works of . the State, financing
the works itself:' I sought a private
interview with Fisher, explaining the
nature of the offer we had received, and
pointed out to him the madness of re-
jecting: it at a moment when apparently
every reservoir should be tapped and all
available supplies exploited to the utmost.
Fisher met everything I had to say
with a dull -uncomprehending obstinacy
which resisted . all’ argument or appeal.
My views' were" entirely shared by my
colleague Carmichael, Minister for Edu-
cation. Flis Scottish ingenuity, moreover,
devised a scheme for l avoiding it,V -
“Let us,” said he;-“nail-the Norton
Griffiths proposal while we have got it.
Now is the accepted time. Make the
bargain now, but make it to commence
to operate after November, 1916. We
shall thus keep the compact made at the
conference. We will actually raise no
other funds during the. prohibited 12
months, but we will make arrangements
during the 12 months for funds to be-
come available directly they are ov§r.”
These were r lhe words of an oracle. I
accepted my.. colleague’s. suggestion, and
devoted myself to the arrangements for
securing the help which this scheme
promised. The. basis was that the Norton
Griffiths people should do £10,000,000
worth of work spread over four years,
of which £4,000,000 was to be done m
the year 1916 and the remainder in the
following three. The firm was. to supply
funds and to receive a commission on
the actual outlay.
OPPOSITION TO
THE SCHEME
The opposition
to the scheme,
which was imme-
diate and furious.
was based upon thefollowing grounds:
1. That I had myself strongly condemned
any dealings with Norton Griffiths in
1913.
2. That the firm was to be recouped by
a percentage upon the total expenditure,
which thus gave it every incentive to be
wasteful.
3. That there were rumors of “bak-
sheesh” having been distributed.
These objections all struck me as
puerile. With regard to the first, my views
in 1913, when London was normal, had
nothing to do with my conduct in 1915,
when everything was overturned. As to
the way in which the firm was to be re-
couped, it was a well-established method,
well known in the English industrial
world, had been employed with great
success in some Belfast establishments,
and had recently been employed else-
where in Europe. The reputation of
the firm for efficiency was high—far
higher, in fact, than our ultimate ex-
perience of it justified.
As to the third objection, one had
simply to let it go. I was not acting as
a Court of morals, but as a practical
administrator dealing with practical diffi-
culties and available resources.
“Suppose,” I said, “that these gentle-
men have given presents to somebody.
I hope not,, and I have every reason to
believe not, but let us suppose it. In
any case, they have given no presents to
me. I have decided to recommend this
scheme to Parliament. I take full re-
sponsibility for it, and in coming to this
decision I am exercising the best judg-
ment of which lam capable. I do not
know where else we are to get money
after November, 1916, and under this
scheme we are to get £10,000,000.”
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.]


FALSE TEETH ARE A GREAT
INVENTION, BUT KEEP YOUR
OWN AS LONG AS YOU CAN
I
'
m
m
m
WM
m
m
'■ :S *
m
m
04
8^
m
n
4
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea, which comes to four people
out of five past the age of 40.
In any mouth
Pyorrhea may lurk
10 years unnoticed
disease can be more insidious than one which does not announce its
dangerous presence until real damage has been done the victim.
Such is the pernicious nature of pyorrhea, dread disease of the gums, which
is responsible for one-half of all adult teeth lost.
According to dental authority, it may infect your mouth early in life
The germs first lodge at the “tartar line,” where teeth meet gums, and then
virulent breeding may last 10 years before you become aware of your
condition.
For, in most cases, pyorrhea does not begin its real work of havoc until the
victim reaches forty, after which age four people out of five suffer for
neglecting this infection.
Don’t wail for bleeding gums to threaten
loss of teeth
Once it is established, pyorrhea cannot be cured by Forhan’s or any other
toothpaste.
So before pyorrhea strikes you with tenderness and bleeding of gums, seek
the advice of modern dentistry. See your dentist at least twice a year, And
in your home give your mouth the finest care. Twice a day brush your
teeth and massage your gums with Forhan’s.
Use the dentrifice developed by a dentist
Forhan’s is the discovery of a dentist, R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., who for
26 years specialised in the treatment of pyorrhea. It is unique in that it
contains the benefits of an ethical preparation widely used by dentists for
treating this dread disease.
For thoroughly cleansing teeth, for helping to stimulate in gums the coral
glow of health, there Is no finer dentifrice than this scientific preparation.
For that reason you can make no better investment in the health of your
mouth and the safety of your teeth.
Obtainable from all Chemists and high-class Stores, or will be sent post-free upon receipt of the
price by the Australasian Agents•—The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 131-135 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.iV.
jAjin
m
Mflfi
mi
ip*
Si
'a'
-
OS
Rfc:l«
* m
■
Small Tube, 2/-
Extra-large Tube, 3/-
Forhan’s
for the gums
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
/"
TO ‘THE BULLETIN."
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
> ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
X
*' - sy .-->-.
' ~V*' >* % ..*• ..•* J*
y'"y%P
'■foV** »»' ■-
'aU*' /
o?r^
lA'-’ ..••■ c »>


BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M THE KING
Quality rather than price has always been the guid
House of Gilbey.
Gilbey’s to be so high in quality
medicinal value, naturally costs a little more to make . . and s
ing principle of the
. so outstanding in
i little more to buy!
Gl LB EY S
DRV GIN
DcrrCt sxxxf Gisv , suuf
