

II I IHIH J J I J
II
I I 111
if
m
in in ui
/
a
m
i
w
Hi ru
*r]y
4
/
*
1
1 j
LH'IH
Jh/
2 a
L^lAi
IJPP
7i
m
VM
m
iy.
$
Mi
Vfo
I
p
»i I
tm I
in
y.t /
Ikl
1
B^-UXiN\-s;v
r
KM
DEFORE the massive doors stands the stern
custodian of untold wealth, himself within
the Security of iron grilles—none but those who
pass strict examination may gain admission. A
tiny lever actuates the mechanism which makes
available gold to stimulate the nation’s commerce.
Protecting investors stands the organisation of
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited affording
security in safe investments.
Between the investor’s funds and capital invest-
ments is the knowledge and experience of a staff
of experts who have built up the mighty barrier
which excludes all but approved stocks.
Shares in Established Companies of proved
dividend-earning capacity backed by adequate
tangible assets form the basis of offerings from
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited.
Thus a Hamilton investment may be said to be
“safe as a bank.”
An advice service is available free of any cost or
obligation.
Address enquiries to—
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
etc.
Copy of monthly Review, “Profits,” will be sent
post free on application.
HI
amiltom (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
’Phone: 8W1146 (2 lines).
(G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box; 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
n
Chamber of Manufacturers’ Bldg,,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 P.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
“Loaded” Cables
VoL 56.—N0. 2914.
Wednesday, December 18, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s New Illustrated 64-page
Christmas Catalogue for 1935 is now
ready, and will be sent Free and Post
Free to any address on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Jw I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet , explaining how to Write lor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition. Closing Tune 6. 1936.
recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son
fs' the P S 10 H h PM'n^°vi ded £ -°i°| £r ann um for a Prize, to be known
■?e a ; for a work of Pn “’ " h ' Ch be awar<M
, TJj e have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted-
fiction, biography trave , history, drama, and any other kind of
P™ s^ t wo , rk m be eligible, including short stories, essays ot
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
o h f re .he r co m m°;«Sr “ nSidered “ SUfflCtot t0r 4
Prize will' be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind With shght necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
follows?-" ° Se g0Verning the first y ear ’s competition!
, Entries for the second competition will close on June 6 1936
and will be announced within two months thereafter! The
who will supply all relevant information to intending
to£Phir?v?th * n application, Will publish the successful work,
wwkwiirfi t Ir kT W - h u- h they may deem worthy. The winning
ofiLrJLnt pu D bhsh f t d Wltbia two months after the announcement
workc U n!, S Kr - ieS at . the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, m which the entrants will retain all property
trustees CXCePt Wor d book ri S hts > which will be controlled P by P the
A b ?? a W e Australian resident or any person born in
dSle to S Z f aIan i or Bntl ? b South Pacific islands will be
oneinal work ‘ of f? 1 th< T co t m P etlt Jon, works which must be the
work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or m part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must £
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
■ tl ? e author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope
winch will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
„ o , r be . judges selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
DEPICTING
AUSTRALIA
Gradually the
Australian scene
and peculiar
qualities of the
Australian char-
re-created into a local literature, anc
with every fresh book in the tradition
the task for subsequent writers becomes
a little easier.
That tradition may have no work
masterpieces in it yet, but it is there,
clearly defined stratum, holding such
names as Lawson, Tom Collins, Louis
Stone and, to-day, such writers as
Katharine Susannah Prichard and Vance
Palmer. On its fringe is the rubble o:
a fair amount of earnest work, helping
prospecting readers to appreciate such
gold as there is, but causing others to
shudder at the mere mention of Austra-
lian literature.
In a sense these are not to be blamed
Some of them, of course, merely adver-
tise their possession of the servant-gir
mind: they do not like the firm in-
tegrity of our few traditionalists, but
want sugary, chocolate-box literature
and from a few they are getting it
Others, however, a bit above that, are
equally scared off by a curious failing
which the Lingers have in common, anc
which is undoubtedly the most popular,
and disastrous, method of attempting to
picture Australia. This is to knock off
observing when about 16 years of age,
and at some subsequent date, without
correcting the adolescent impressions,
without looking at the scene and people
as they really are, drag out a work by
that master-caricaturist Memory, gar-
nish it with sundry obsessions of the
adolescent mind, and accept the loud
laughter which greets it as a tribute to
its humor.
That Lingers write in this way is under-
standable. As soon as their exceptionally
sensitive minds become aware of their
destiny as it appears to be there about
them, compared with what they would
wish it to be, they become tortured by the
inimical surroundings standing between
them and their desires, and oppressed
with fears that they will never get out
of the net. Some never escape, nor find
an outlet of expression. Some escape
and write crude caricatures which they
fancy to be true. A few have some per-
sonal quality which enables them to rise
somehow above their surroundings. But
these are very few, and the wastage of
writers must still be very considerable
in Australia.
These are the ones for whom such an
award as the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize will work most good in the long run.
The good is not confined only to such
practical benefit as serial or book publi-
cation, though that, naturally, is the lure.
More important is the lodestar nature of
the award. It gives the young writer the
feeling that he is not writing blindly at a
hazard; carries the assurance that the
young writer’s work will be thoroughly
and sympathetically considered. Prob-
ably the great majority of the manu-
scripts in the first year’s competition was
the work of such writers, thus pro-
duced ; the winner was a very young
writer (23), and the runner-up also in
her early twenties. That may not happen
every year, but as an attraction to young
writers the prize remains, an established,
permanent part of the encouragement of
literature in Australia.
“Tiburon” in
Covers
This first year’s
winner is now
being issued in
book. form. It
would be redun-
dant to describe
it here, and critical appraisal .of it is
possibly best left to those not associated
with its placing in the competition or
its publication. As with the recently-
issued AIl-A bout, The Bulletin signs
its own name to the title page, thus
expressing that it has no doubt about
the novel’s quality. It can be added
that all those associated with its publi-
cation, both as a serial and now in book
form, have endorsed the opinion of the
competition judges that with Tiburon
Kylie Tennant worthily won the prize,
and stepped abreast with the best living
Australian writers.
The book is prefaced with the pre-
cautionary note that went along with
the serial —that the place is not an exist-
ing town but a composite of many Aus-
tralian places, and that the characters
are fictitious. To that extent —and also,
of course, in the narrative current run-
ning through it —Tiburon is fiction.
Otherwise, it is clearly fact, as dwellers
in any one of dozens of Australian towns
would be prepared to testify, naming
Tiburon for their own town, and the
characters—Dave White, Jim White,
Mrs. O’Brien, Jessica, Paul, Jingo, Blue,
Denny, Sorrell and the rest of them—
for representations of people they have
known.
If there isri’t a Warning Hill at the
back of their town, that can be put down
to the novelist’s license. Similarly with
the individual traits of the characters.
The fact is that Tiburon and its inhabi-
tants have so much in common with
most Australian towns and most Aus-
tralian people that, while few places and
not many people in our small literature
are so individual as they are, they are
yet clearly recognised as representative.
Doubtless it would be too much to say,
“Take us or leave us, but this is what
we are” .; it is not too much to say that
this is a very clear and true part of the
Australia that we see about us to-day.
As all who have read it will know, it
is a friendly and tolerant picture. The
author had no canker of unpleasant
memory to work off against the country.
She went to it fresh, without need to
have revenge on it; and she had the
additional great advantage of a natur-
ally human and tolerant mind. What
must have struck all reading it as a serial
is the author’s complete engagement
with the human element. This" is so
complete that there is hardly one depar-
ture from it anywhere in the book: that
is to say, there is hardly a scene de-
scribed for its own sake, or set down
without people in it. Human interest
is in every sentence of it, so that the
scene, the atmosphere, the action all
come about through the characters: the
stage is never vacant, not even for the
length of a paragraph.
That is one most unusual quality in
Tiburon, and one that makes it very
probable that the author, when her sense
of drama becomes more developed, will
write a great novel. As it is, she has
written one that can be called fine and
sincere, filled with a tolerant understand-
ing of human nature, thereby rich in
humor and the quality of life.
The jacket has. been finely done by
H. A. Hanke, winner of the Archibald
Prize, making, with this first S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize winner, a happily’
appropriate Bulletin combination.
The “Centre”
and
Maoriland
Two other ex-
cellent things,
product of much
the same funda-
mentally tolerant
outlook, are H.
H. Fin 1 a yson's
portrayal of the Central Australian scene,
called The Red Centre, and Alan
Mulgan’s A Pilgrim’s Way in New
Zealand.
To say that these writers are tolerant
is, however, not to say that they are
uncritical. Each criticises acutely, and
some of their criticism —such, for
example, as Mr. Finlayson’s account of
the spread of city criminals to parts of
Central Australia and their conduct there
—might well be given attention by Autho-
rity.
They both, of course, voice the com-
mon plaint about the ugliness caused by
land settlement. The idea seems to be
shared by many that this is peculiar to
settlement hereabouts; but the places
these people would most admire—the
ordered beauty of England and France,
for example— must have known the same
sort of ugliness once, just as Australia a
couple of hundred years hence, and
Maoriland somewhat earlier, will have
recovered from the necessary scars of the
settling and civilising process and be
gentler in this respect to the eye. Mean-
while, it seems hard —to say the least—
that the people who have to work from
before daylight till after dark in order
to make a crust should be liable to criti-
cism on any aesthetic grounds whatever.
However, such criticism as either of
these writers utters on those lines is com-
paratively slight, and is presented toler-
antly, anyway. Their whole outlook
upon the places they so admirably and
beautifully describe is of the same toler-
ant order. The result is that one of
them presents a portrayal of the most
misrepresented part of Australia that is
as enjoyable to read as it is accurate,
arresting and interesting in its detail’
and the other gives a picture and tells
a story of Maoriland that it is also an
enjoyable experience to have known.
Mr. Mulgan has the prefaced support
of Lord Bledisloe: “I commend this
book to all those who are proud of our
imperial heritage, and at the same time
desire accurate information about that
territorial gem of the Empire known as
New Zealand.” To which need only be
added that the book is capital as general
entertaining travel-reading as well. Mr.
Finlayson’s book has the support of Pro-
fessor Wood Jones: “When Finlayson
writes of the Centre and its fauna the
reader may be well assured that he is
reading reality—the reality of a man
who knows these things with- unassum-
ing familiarity.” To which it does not
seem necessary to add anything except
“Hear, hear! ”
[Tiburon, by Kylie Tennant (The Bulletin;
5s.); The Red. Centre, by H. H. Finlayson
(Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.); A Pilgrim’s
Way in New. Zealand, by Alan Mulgan
(Oxford University Press; from Angus and
Robertson; 18s. 6d.).]
Red Page.
Strange Case
of Jules
Remains
That there
should be such a
critical chorus as
has been raised
over M. Jules
Remains since he
began writing
Men of Good Will is frightening to any-
one who cares at all for modern stan-
dards of judgment-
M. Jules Remains, to-day a rich and
famous French novelist, is a man who
began life as the poor school-teacher
Louis Farigoule. Unremitting work,
liberal use of the notebook and a keen
sense of publicity have raised him to an
estate where he has acquired wealth
and with it a considerable opinion of
himself. With the growth of his fame
and fortune he reached the point where
he planned a work which was to be
the most considerable conception of any
novelist since Balzac, a sort of novel to
outclass all novels, a work which by its
tonnage and equipment would raise the
reputation of Remains above that of
the author of La Comedie Humaine, the
author of the Remembrances of Things
Past and the contemporary rivals Was-
sermann, Mann and Kafka all at once.
This giant novel, in a yet undeter-
mined number of books, was to be “of
very considerable dimensions,” but
nevertheless to form a single structural
whole, “its plot drafted in advance.” It
was “to present life as [the author] saw
it” and “to convey the social multi-
plicity in which we are immersed,” and
for this reason it would be written about
no single central character or even set
of characters, since it would be absurd
“to make the whole life of a city like
Paris gravitate around a single indi-
vidual.” Finally Remains was to reveal
to the Men of Good Will how they were
to recognise one another “to the end
that this world, of which they are the
salt and the merit, may not perish.”
Of this vast project, to range through
the history of a whole city and to be
peopled with the same abundant life,
eight books (issued in England as four
volumes) have so far appeared, and the
first 2000 pages give a clear enough idea
of the manner in which Remains will
handle his theme. That manner is, to
be brief and blunt, incompetent.
The matter would not be of overmuch
importance if it were not for the stun-
ning noise that has been made by our
literary guides over this windy and ram-
bling affair ; but when one eminent critic
is found saying that the book is “that
rare thing a work of genius,” when the
New York “Herald-Tribune,” one of the
most famous of American book-review-
ing mediums, declares that Men of Good
Will “has no equal in contemporary litera-
ture” and when the brightest of the
younger critics writing in English states
that “this book is denser in incident than
a year’s file of the ‘Times,’ more excit-
ing than a honeymoon, wittier than all
the plays of Mr. Coward taken together,
and in intellectual grasp and human sym-
pathy the peer -of any Continental work
since The Magic Mountain," then, I
think, it seems time for some protest.
That protest may be based on the fact
that M. Romains’s novel is not what it
seems to be. The critics have made the
mistake of considering it as one vast and
related whole whose threads, in some
way as inscrutable as Providence, are to
be spun together at the close. It is
nothing of the kind ; it is really the notes
('Continued on page 4.)


YOUR
e in
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways. “THE SENIOR STORE:
is
☆
is
is
Anthony
Horderns’
Ground Floor for
CLOVES
Second Floor for
TOYS
Second Floor for
STATIONERY
A smartly-styled Simplex glove which you can rely
upon for serviceable summer wear. In White and
Black. At Anthony Horderns’, Price, pair ... 6/11
*
m
&
II
m
SddflO
HS3W
"Z
Dainty and cool . . . yet serviceable and smart, are
these fine mesh gloves. In White, Pastel and Grey.
Price, pair 3/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price 2/11
Give Suede-finish Fabric Gloves and you can be
certain they will please. A smart, perfectly smooth-
fitting style in Fawn, White.
At Anthony Horderns’, Price, pair 4/11
V
Comfortable and smart-
fitting Fabric Gloves
in Fawn, White, Black,
also Black-and-white.
At Anthony Horderns’,
Price, pair 5/11
“Peerless” Patent
Shock-absorbing Scooter
The “Peerless” Patent Shock-absorbing Scooter No.
29. This model has the shock-absorber where it
ought to be, right over the front wheel. No more
rough riding. Finished in Green, with 9in. reinforced
disc wheels, rubber foot mat, brake, stand and
cycle handlebars. Length, 40in.; height, 36in.
Price 16/6
Special Features: —
A—New hardened steel spring.
B—Bolt for adjusting to weight of child.
C—Special strong steel bearing.
D—Note reinforced riveted wheel.
Model No. 30 is a larger size, with roller-bearing
wheels, nickel-plated handlebars and bell. Length,
42in.; height, 35in. Price 26/6
El
Baby Betty Dolls,
to-day’s most
favourite doll,
dressed in striped
organdi or floral
pattern material.
Sizes, ins... 10 12
Prices 4/9 6/9
Sizes, ins.. 14 16
Prices .... 9/0 H/9
Sizes, ins., 18 - 20
Prices ... 17/6 19/6
Sizes, in., 22 24
Prices ... 32/6 28/6
Similar doll, with
cloth arms and legs.
Sizes, ins., 14 16
Prices ... 12/6 13/9
Sizes, ins., 18 20
Prices ... 19/6 22/6
Sizes, ins., 22 24
Prices ... 25/6 32/6
//
Uiil
The Popular Pa 3
Horse. A popular
toy with the , little
ones. Price ... 5/6
MAGIC DESIGNER
The “Designoscope,” the Magic Designer. Place a
pinch of confetti or scraps of coloured material,
flower petals, etc., on base, then turn it slowly
round and view the marvellous colourful designs
produced. Price 2/6
• Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and sea-
ports in the Commonwealth.
Anyone would be pleased to receive a box of
“Revelry” stationery. The attractive box contains
24 sheets of deckle-edged notepaper and 24 envelopes.
Blue, Cream, Mauve and Buff colourings.
At Anthony Horderns’, Price, box 2/11
x*s*imni
vv
IS &
%*. Z
This handsome “Newmould” box contains 36 sheets
of high-grade linen-grained paper and matching
envelopes. The boxes are strongly made, and after-
wards can be used as work- or handkerchief-boxes.
At Anthony Horderns’, Price 10/6
at.
You’ll make no mistake if you give her one of these
smart cabinets of gift stationery. Twenty-four sheets
of notepaper and envelopes. Blue, White, Buff.
Boxes are covered with mother of pearl and gold
metal paper. At Anthony Horderns’ 4/6
• Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


X
m
... -r
. <:
A
H
Gift Cigarettes
We'll send any ol these to any address, enclosing a personal
message or card from you, without extra charge, and we'll
despatch on any date you name. Make up your Christmas
Gift list now and leave the rest to us.
100 Capstans in Bakelite Box. Post free for 8/6
50 Country Life Cigarettes in Bakelite box.
With hinged lid. Complete, post free for 6/-
100 333 s (State Express) in Xmas carton, 5/6. 50, 2/9
200 Craven A Cigarettes in padded lid box, 15/-
50 Virginians, in round Bakelite box. Price, box, 5/3
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
£
a
t
•••
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
pass-book disposes of all the money
worries that usually trouble the
traveller.
Whether the journey be undertaken
for business or pleasure purposes,
and so long as it is confined to
Australia and the Mandated Terri-
tories, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Service will operate through-
out. Money can be transferred to
any point, and withdrawn or
deposited at any one of the Bank’s
4,000 Branches and Agencies
without cost.
Ensure the utmost convenience and
safety by travelling, not with a
dangerously large amount of money
in your pocket, but with just your
pass-book to see you through.
commonwefiLTH
m'’>s
SAVINGS BANK
for half a dozen novels, with the chapters
happily dispersed to give the appearance
of concurrent events, and with the epi-
sodes lengthened by a factual and in-
tolerably dull catalogue of objects and
incidents. Such a passage as this is
typical of Remains when he is writing
of the surroundings of his characters:
The apartment, which was on the
ground floor, comprised three rooms and
a kitchen. Only the dining-room looked
out on the street. It was a room eleven
and a half feet long by ten and a half
feet wide, with a ceiling nine feet high.
One of the corners was occupied by an
old porcelain stove set in a recess....
The recess and the stylobates were
painted chocolate color. The wallpaper
presented, against a yellowish background,
a double motif in sets of five, consisting
of a little vase with stylised flowers and
a horn of plenty.
Or take the experience of Wazemmes
shortly before he is due to meet Haver-
kamp:
He drank the coffee with milk, at
fifteen centimes, which they served him,
in little sips. Just as he was on the point
of ordering a more manly drink, fie said
to himself that he was due to meet
Haverkamp in less than an hour, and that
Haverkamp would surely offer him an
aperitif before lunch. A glass of white
wine, followed at such a short interval by
an aperitif, would mean cutting his
appetite and probably indigestion or
flatulence.
There are many passages of this sort,
and they assist the story in no possible
way. All that they do, from any practi-
cal point of view, is to help to pad out
the already overlong book. This is, in
fact, the sort of writing that used to be
done by Mr. Compton Mackenzie, who
astonished the English with the pains
he took and was called “a prose Keats”
by the “Bookman” in consequence. And
the final judgment on this type of writ-
ing has been given by Proust, who de-
clared that such an author “was satis-
fied merely to describe things, to fur-
nish a miserable list of their lines and
surfaces,” a kind of writing which, by
divorcing the objects from their asso-
ciations, is, “notwithstanding its preten-
sions to realism... .the farthest removed
from reality.”
Men of Good Will is impressive only
because of its bulk and a certain facility
of invention. The writing is the work
of an assiduous note-taker, a noter
of externals. The characters are not
created but borrowed, as has been
pointed out by one critic, from Stendhal,
Balzac, Barres. The excursions into sex
and the physical phenomena of love,
which undoubtedly account for much
of Romains’s popularity, are made by a
man with the mind of a book-keeper and
the fumbling fingers of a dentist. One
does not protest against his dealing with
these themes ; it is when they are ex-
plored with the crudity of a probe in a
sensitive tooth that one recoils. The
very breadth of the canvas seems to
dismay the author, who daubs in his
characters and then seeks to fill up the
gaps with any odd pieces of informa-
tion or notations which he may have
accumulated in his journey through life.
No one, in fact, does Remains re-
semble so much as he resembles Theo-
dore Dreiser. But, whereas much of
Dreiser’s work is a catalogue, there are
emotional values which are lacking in
the Frenchman. As a historian of events
Remains has his successes ; as a tale-
teller he might have a future. As an
explorer of the human soul he is a hope-
less mediocrity ; and so, despite the fact
that Men of Good Will will shortly be
the longest novel of the Western World
and (it appears) considered the greatest
masterpiece of the greatest master, it is
safe to wager that 10 years from now
it will be as dead as the reputation of
that other cataloguing genius Compton
Mackenzie.
QUENTIN POPE.
The Case for
Deer-parks
Lord Latymer
(he’s a Money-
ed ou 11 s and a
former partner in
the family bank)
retains at 59 the
conviction that “a-chasing the red deer
and following the roe” is the king of
sports, notwithstanding that he did a
good deal of sniping at Turks on Gal-
lipoli. In Stalking in Scotland and New
Zealand (Blackwoods; Bs. 6d.), he ex-
pounds the lore of stag-shooting with
such enthusiasm and draws on such a
wealth of experience that the reader, if
at all imaginative, must be infected with
his zeal and impressed with his mastery
of his subject.
When he branches into land policy and
economics he is on more debatable
ground. It may be true, as he avers,
that the Scottish Highlands are incapable
of supporting more than their present
scanty population ; that the country can
be more profitably stocked with deer
than with sheep, and that, if “confiscatory
taxation or some other kind of Socialistic
lunacy” makes it impossible for property-
owners to conserve deer, the northern
part of Scotland will become “an unin-
habited desolation.” The folk of Aber-
deen and Inverness can be left to take
up that quarrel.
But when his lordship tells the people
of Maoriland that they ought to preserve
deer instead of following a “foolish
policy of indiscriminate slaughter” he’s
out of his bailiewick. In the period 1931-
34 100,000 deer were killed in M.L.
According to official reports a substan-
tial proportion of this vast herd was
ranging over sheep country, consuming
fodder that otherwise would have sus-
tained useful stock, while the rest were
damaging the Westland and Otago bush
to an extent that alarmed the authorities.
Forest denudation means reduced rain-
fall, and when Maoriland, essentially a
farming and grazing country, had to
choose between preserving deer and pre-
serving its main sources of wealth it
made, in the opinion of all competent
observers this side of the Equator, an
eminently sensible decision.
AVON.
The New
“Webster”
That the new
Webster (R.P.
20/11/’35) is ac-
tually in advance
of the Oxford
Dic t i o nary is
shown in its treatment of the word
avalanche. This was formerly associated
with the old French avaler, to descend ;
and this etymology is still in the Oxford
Dictionary (the earlier parts of which are
now half a century old), nor is it cor-
rected in the supplement. It is also in
Professor Wyld’s Universal Dictionary
of 1932. But the new Webster gives the
facts which have long been known to
Romance etymologists—that avalanche
is perverted by folk-etymology from the
older lavanche or lavange, an Alpine
word which goes back to Latin labi, to
glide.
Also the new Webster is abreast of the
“Addenda and Corrigenda” to the Oxford
Dictionary in its treatment of pagan.
Trench had it that it was from Latin
pagani, rustics who remained heathen
longer than the townsmen. Wyld simply
gives paganus, villager, countryman ; but
Webster shows that paganus was Roman
military slang for what Private Mul-
vaney calls “a lousy civilian”—hence, in
the slang of the early church, not a true
soldier (of Christ).
GERALD DILLON.
A Satchel of Books
Sandy, by Isobel Ann Shead (Hutchin-
son ; 4s. 6d.). An Adelaide girl who has
made a name for herself in broadcast-
ing and on the Inky Way here pre-
sents her first book. It is a book for
boys, and deals with the career from
12 to 16 of a typical Australian lad who
ran away from his home, an outback
farm, to get a job on a newspaper. A
well-written yarn, recalling in its sym-
pathetic, straightforward style Ethel
Turner’s first successes, it rings true in
atmosphere, both rural and urban. This
critic, after skimming it, handed it, over
to a 13-year-old boy who devoured it
from cover to cover, and found it all
absorbingly interesting. Sandy is no
angel, but he’s good stuff and he lives in
a real world.
Third Time Unlucky, by Laurence
Meynell (Harrap ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d ).
This thriller negatives every recognised
canon of the modern school of crime
fictioneers. It doesn’t end, after tortuous
sidetracking, with the pursuing sleuth
unmasked as the murderer; nor does a
master-criminal strut its pages. The
author has gone on the correct' assump-
tion that most murders are the work of
morons and the greed-obsessed. His
characters are a weak, flash clerk and
the money-mad, promiscuous wife of a
building contractor. The Scotland Yard
man doesn’t even elucidate the crime—
their tragic destiny is worked out by the
murderers themselves. It holds stark
realism, and the plot is almost faultless.
Certainly this year’s most convincing yarn
of its type.
Elizabeth, Empress of Austria, by
Count Corti (Thornton Butterworth;
Angus and Robertson ; 18s. 6d.). Such
a naive parading of the small beer and
gossip of Central Europe’s Court life
through most of last century and a little
of the present one that it is well worth
reading for its unconscious humor alone,
though it may leave the feeling that in
the passing of its characters and their
rule the world lost very little. The life
depicted, such as it is, is visible enough
in this account by one whose idea of
paradise would probably be a repetition
of it all.
A Time for Love, by Ramona Herd-
man (Hamish Hamilton ; 7s. 6d.). The
editor of a magazine tires of his wife
and falls in love with his secretary. At
the end of 304 pages he hasn’t done any-
thing about it, and obviously never will.
Character-drawing is fair, but the pages
upon pages devoted to the agonisings of
the always-to-be-parted lovers make
melancholy reading.
Exit Arnholt, by Gordon Latta (files;
7s. 6d.). Publishers who deal in thrillers
say they reject 999 out of every 1000 sub-
mitted. It would seem that only those
unmarred by any trace of originality
survive. Exit A rnholt, third of a trilogy,
contains no situation that has not been
exploited a thousand times. The ama-
teur detective, in the power of the master
crook, is tied up and left to die of star-
vation, and, of course, is rescued in the
next chapter. One can’t help wishing
that for once in a way the m.c. would
have a spasm of commonsense and
immediately shoot the a.d. right through
the head. Instead of which, in this as
in every other yarn of the sort, the
muddle-headed chump who can’t mind
his own business is allowed to go blun-
dering on to the last chapter, there to
enfold the heroine in his arms and lure
her into matrimony.
World Under Snow, by D. K. Broster
and G. Forester (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.).
Rich young Denzil Folyat (he drives a
Rolls-Bentley at 70 m.p.h.) thought he
had murdered a country postman. So
did his friend Hilary Severn (in the War
Office) after some painstaking amateur
sleuthing. But it is demonstrated in the
course of 276 pages, throughout which
the reader moves in the naicest circles
and only the lower orders have such
plebeian names as John or William, that
both were wrong.


t't
m
B
mm
I *
■ ■ ■-■
fS’i
{mmsf * j
Z *« ' A/
Sf **®« ' a *ram *»
*~.y $ r * A i ‘ *
m
Os
im
mm
•-
5527
'
*-v \


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
■
m
■
a
l
m
"^1
3
i
3
r=
i.
JSB
£
:
y.
v
tf
Wi
■
m
s
■
II
X
-
1
; .!
. ' ]
i i
■
; "
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2914,
December 18, 1935.
“SHE AIN’T RESPECTABLE.”
“We’re bringing you the little lady you’ve been asking for; and just before Christmas! Of course, you’ll make her welcome.
“Who said so? From the look of her, she’s no better than she should he.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
VICTORIA: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellinglon,
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
J months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months. £1 I Os.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,“ 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PROBABLY LOADED.
With every newspaper cablegram in which Italy is
mentioned, whether it refers to the actual war or the
proposed peace, should go the warning: “Take this
carefully—it is probably loaded.”
The mere crude absurdities purveyed as news by
what the Australian daily press calls a magnificent
service have been exposed here. The loaded stuff is
an entirely different matter —just as absurd, but
infinitely more dangerous. It is the stuff which inflames
fools to hatred.
The thing .it is necessary to hate is, of course,
Italy. The rights or wrongs of this matter are not now
being discussed. The prisoner in the dock is Aus-
tralia's cable service. The charge is murder. The vic-
tim, when alive, was known as Journalistic Ethics.
For the prosecution no evidence will be called from
any fantastic “special correspondent”: every word
of it will come from the service used by all the lead-
ing daily newspapers in Australia.
Hatred is not an isolated element of the human
mind. It is a parasite which feeds upon mockery,
greed, lies, slander and all base designs. It is avid
of half-truths and innuendo. It does not ask for the
core of fact; it prefers the husks of rumor. If
(Oct. 23 cable) “a wounded Abyssinian is said to
have revealed,” that is enough warrant for a spread
of horror. It is as good as gospel when (Nov. 21)
“a correspondent reveals,” or (Sept. 18) “the represen-
tative of a Paris newspaper declares.”
In journalism those phrases—vague, without
identity, patently doubtful—are perfectly well under-
stood. Instead of being what they appear to be—
guarantee of the “news” item’s authenticity—they
warn that the story they preface is probably a wild
fabrication or calculated propaganda. All items in
which they appear should be regarded at once as
thereby labelled suspect. They appear in items in
this cable service almost every day.
Over and over again those items have to be contra-
dicted. Dr. Hockman (Oct. 18) “asserts that Italians
are using chlorine-gas bombs.” Dr. Hockman (Oct.
25) “declares that he has not seen one case of gas-
poisoning.” Two days after the report—with its vile
innuendo—that “Signor Feltrinelli, a leading indus-
trialist, who had been accused of sending money out
of Italy, has died in mysterious circumstances,” this
is categorically denied, with the naive explanation
(Dec. 6): “The rumor seems to have originated in
the fact that a relative used to keep some undeclared
securities abroad.”
“Italy’s most decisive counteraction [Nov. 22
cable] is the blocking of British bank balances.” Next
day: “The Financial Editor of the ‘Times’ denies
that Signor Mussolini has ordered the blocking of
British bank balances. On the contrary, Signor Musso-
lini does not intend to sequestrate British assets.”
On November 26: “A Paris newspaper says that
the Italian Ambassador at Paris told the Premier that
oil sanctions would mean war in Europe.” On
December 2: Italian circles now assert that the
Italian Ambassador was never instructed to declare
that Italy would regard the enforcement of oil sanc-
tions as a hostile act. Only an unspecified Paris
newspaper’s word for it that the utterance was made
at all, with, on the other hand, that desperate source
of information “Italian circles.”
,9 ne oth{ ; r specimen: “Rumors from Rome [Sept.
24] hint at the downfall of Signor Mussolini. It is
reported that King Victor Emmanuel protested against
his policy, and that sharp words were exchanged
between the Prince of Piedmont, the heir apparent
and Signor Mussolini.” Evidently that was too glar-
ing a fabrication to bear contradiction. It still stands
as gospel, though (Dec. 5): “The Queen of Italy has
written to Signor Mussolini offering the King’s and
her own wedding rings ‘to the glory of our beloved
country.’ ”
Clearly a forgiving race. But there is a sinister
aspect to it, one that holds the key to the proper
reading of these cables. At the time of the September
24 cable the pap being fed to hatred was to show
Mussolini as tottering—therefore, an easy mark. The
later line is to depict the poverty-stricken nature of
the country—therefore, again, an easy mark.
Human hatred, however, needs a human object
to direct itself against. The choice here is Mussolini.
And in one loaded cable after another innuendo
works him into a monster. On October 4 he delivered
an “inflammatory speech”; another “inflammatory
speech” on November 13. On other occasions he
delivered a “fiery address” (Oct. 3), an “uncompromis-
ing speech” (Dec. 9), suffered from “mental depres-
sion” (Nov. 29), but made a “gesture of defiance”
(Nov. 30), and spoke “without a sign of megalomania”
(Sept. 20), though he had made a “defiant declara-
tion” (Sept. 18). He “intended very drastic measures,”
but was “dissuaded by officials” (Nov. 21). When
he delivered an address on November 5 “He did
not receive the usual enthusiastic response to his
remarks. The assemblage appeared pensive.”
More obvious loading in the yarns of police at
Toulouse “obliged to protect 50 Italians who were
mobbed by angry French demonstrators” (Oct. 4);
the Italian Ambassador, who, in London on the same
date, “stopped his car some distance from the club
and muffled his face with the collar of his coat” ;
and “the 1000 uniformed-police and 300 detectives
being ordered to take up special duty to prevent out-
breaks between Italians and negroes in both Harlem
and Brooklyn” (Oct. 5).
Headlines can help: “Peace Plan Rejected:
League Circles Appalled; Mussolini’s Haste Angers
Abyssinia” (Sept. 23); “Unrest in Italy: Serious Dis-
orders in Provinces Rumored” (Nov. 29). And so
on, without limit.
Rumor, hearsay, vague report. Loaded stuff.
One other aspect of the loading. Effects are
not produced only by what is told ; what is not told
is equally important. To take one example: The
service has oonveyed the words of eminent church-
men —among them the Archbishop of York (Sept. 3)
—who have spoken in favor of drastic action against
Italy. The churchman whose name comes first to mind
as most eminent in England to-day is Dean Inge. On
September 21 Dean Inge wrote in the “Times”: “I
think all friends of the League should beware of their
involuntary association with Socialists who care
nothing for Abyssinia or the League, but who wish
to embroil us with Italy because they hate and fear
Fascism. If Russia were attacking Afghanistan they
would sing a different tune.”
That is not to be found among the loading, for
the whole shameful mass of which the best that can
be said is that, if the service which contains it and
the press which publishes it are innocent of deliberate
intent to cultivate hatred and inflame the minds of
men, their innocence does not make them any the
less dangerous.
UNDEVELOPED QUEENSLAND.
Queenslanders possess a magnificent estate of
429.000. acres, and, according to the Land Board,
400.000. acres is Crown land. Nearly all the free-
hold is in the coastal belt. A tract of Crown land
11.000. acres larger than the area of England
and Wales still lies unoccupied.
Seventy-six years ago Queensland was a blank
page on which civilisation had written an initial
faintly in one corner. Now the State has as many civil
servants as there were then inhabitants, and the faint
signature “Brisbane” in the one corner has become
a large, red, absorbent blot which has sucked in
more than a third of the population. There is a
tradition that the Treasury when first opened for
the transaction of business had in the till. Now
the State owes £120,000,000, and borrowing never
ceases.
Brisbane has no factories to speak of, and its con-
tribution to Queensland wealth production is relatively
small; but it gets a great and increasing share of
the State expenditure. A central block is being deco-
rated with Government buildings ; another bridge is
going up (the bridge alone will cost the equivalent
of a year’s tax-revenue) and a vast wall of cement is
rising in another quarter. So Brisbane is enjoying a
hectic sort of prosperity. For more solid reasons,
Townsville, Cairns, Mackay and Mt. Morgan are
prospering. And there are rural districts in which the
farmers (mainly freeholders), in spite of high taxes and
bureaucratic meddling—illustrated at its worst in the
transport strangulation policy—are doing well. But
Central Queensland, though it has some of the best
.fine-wool country in Australia, does not progress. In
many cases the grazing farms are too small and
Crown rents are too high.
In Britain only peers and profiteers are 5000-acre
men. In Queensland hundreds of holders of 5000
acres are struggling, though their land may be as good
as British land. But where the Briton grows only the
best in quality and farms every suitable acre, the
Queenslander is usually unable to command the labor
and the initial capital to enable him to do this in the
primary stages of settlement.
The Land Board evidently realises the situation.
It aims at making every acre under occupation do
the work of two. Unfortunately, it is merely an
administrative board subservient to political bosses.
Three years ago it placed before the Government a
plan for financing landholders to improve their
properties along set lines, and employ idle men in
the process. The Government, which was spending
millions on concrete roads, public buildings and
sewerage, grudgingly agreed to find a little less than
£500,000 in the three-year period—this year only
£75,000 was allotted.
The money was lent on 15- to 25-year terms for
ringbarking, scrubfalling, suckering, fencing, water-
supplies and other improvements. Banks and financial
companies supplemented the loans, giving the Crown
priority of mortgage. There were 3183 borrowers
(172 have repaid their loans), and work was found
for 14,567 men.
In effect, the scheme has worked well, and it
should be extended. The extension might take the
form of helping farmers prepared to keep up certain
standards of quality—helping them to buy better stock,
to provide against drought and to reduce production
costs.
On the London market Queensland beef sells a
penny a pound below Argentine beef. The sole reason
lies in the fact that a lot of it is from scrub cattle,
whereas Argentina breeds from the best herd bulls
and breeding cows that the world can produce.
Another penny a pound would mean £629,000 p.a. to
the State. Another penny a pound for butter mar-
keted in London would mean another £500,000 p.a.
A penny a pound off costs would have the same effect.
And through stock improvement and more production
per beast, and through land improvement in the carry-
ing of more beasts to the acre, it should be possible for
the State to get the additional return both ways,
together with the same sort of expansion in trade
that came to Maoriland and Argentina when those
countries saw the light.
THOSE SPECIAL GRANTS.
K. C. Wilson, chairman of committees of the Young
Liberal League (S.A.), replies:
South Australians welcome the interest taken by The
Bulletin in the maladjustment of the financial arrangements
between the Commonwealth and the States, and, although
the remedy suggested by it falls far short of a solution, it
opens the way to a discussion out of which, it is hoped, a
remedy may be found.
That The Bulletin fails to understand the fundamental
principles of public finance is evidenced by the fact that, while
it opposes the payment of special grants which have the
effect of transferring income from the richer States to the
poorer, it quotes the Union of England and Scotland (as it
says, “the most successful partnership in political history”)
in support of its case. On the contrary, Great Britain proves
The Bulletin wrong, and furnishes an example of the prin-
ciple of transfer payments made with the very object of
maintaining a uniform standard throughout the countries
concerned.
For example, in the field of education, which is admin-
istered in England by local governing bodies, a uniform
standard is maintained by grants from the central to the
local governments, the grants varying inversely according to
the relative incomes of the local governing bodies. The poorer
the district, the greater is the grant per head.
The Bulletin asks; “Can anyone imagine Scots, York-
shiremen or Lancashiremen submitting to the principle that
the richer parts should make contributions to the poorer
parts in order to maintain a uniform standard?” The answer
is that they do, and the acceptance by the people of Great
Britain of the principle that revenue should be collected
according to “ability to pay” and paid out “according to
need” is one reason for England’s greatness and stability.
The larger portion of revenue in Great Britain is collected
in direct taxation on a progressive basis according to wealth
or income, and the same money is distributed in social services
according to need. In other words, the richer districts pay
in taxation more per head and receive in social services less
per head.
When Australian politicians and newspapers are big
enough to accept these principles, Australia, as well as Great
Britain, may be quoted as a successful partnership.
In his other letter Mr. Wilson wrote:
The richer parts of any country, whether in a
unified State or in a Federation, must make contri-
butions to the poorer parts if anything approaching
a uniform standard is to be maintained. It is from
the wealthy Eastern States that the pressure for an
Australian standard comes. For example, in the
textile industry a common rule was forced on South
Australia by pressure from the Eastern States.
That was his one “example,” and he went on
to say that “the Eastern States cannot have the advan-
tages of an Australian standard without the obliga-
tion of finding the revenue necessary to maintain that
standard.” The Bulletin replied that he was “mixing
up wages matters with matters of government,” and
that “Commonwealth grants are not applied to pay-
increases, except in the cases of politicians and ‘Crown
employees.’ ”
Our Young Liberal now shifts his ground. He
abandons his argument that “the wealthy States” may,
with perfect propriety, be levied on to prop up wage-
rates in “the poorer parts” and tries to show that
there is an exact parallel between the education grants
made in Britain and the special grants made in
Australia.
The Bulletin is far from objecting to education
grants in principle. The principle would have to be
applied in Australia if education were made a Com-
monwealth matter —as The Bulletin trusts it will
be. But in that case, as is the case in Britain, the
grants would be made for a specific purpose, and the
central Government could insist on getting full value
for its money.
No string is tied to the special grants defended
by Mr. Wilson. They are made unconditionally, and
are expended at the beneficiary’s pleasure. In South
Australia last year there was a distribution of gifts
to the unemployed from the £1,400,000 received, but
the bulk of it was taken into the State accounts, with
the result that the Government proudly claimed a
surplus of £36,000 ; N. S. Wales, from which at least
£550,000 of the £1,400,000 came, reported a deficit of
£2,298,900. This year, with £lOO,OOO added to the
£1,400,000, there has been a merry increase of allow-
ances to S.A. Government employees, and State
politicians are to share if the easy money keeps flow-
ing in. In Westralia, where annual wealth-production
is £5 14s. 7d. p.h. higher than in the most populous of
“the wealthy Eastern States,” the special grants
(£BOO,OOO this year) have been applied to reduction
of local taxes to a point below the average for the
States (“the lowest in Australia in some years,” says
the Grants Commission); to the appointment of two
superfluous Cabinet Ministers (there are eight, and
doubtfully work enough for six) and to restoration of
pay-cuts for all politicians and “Crown employees.”
It is true that “revenue” is “collected” in Britain
“according to ability to pay,” but not “the larger
portion”—customs and excise alone yield more than
income tax. And though “the richer districts”
naturally “pay more per head,” no distinction is
made between districts in one vital respect: the same
rates of tax apply to all. This is not the case under
the system championed by this Young Liberal, which
allows politicians to be so liberal with other people’s
money—to distribute £2,750,000 this year among
provincial Governments catering for at most 1,300,000
people (the British education grants amounted last
year to £51,270,000, the population being 45,500,000).
If to object to these vast sums being raised by one
authority and spent by others at their own sweet will
is “to fail to understand the fundamental principles
of public finance,” The Bulletin is guilty, and
impenitent.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Suicide Strike.
Attempts last week to interest other unions in the
shipping strike were ominously unsuccessful. One
or two organisations were whipped up to promises of
financial support, but all declined to have anything
to do with it in an active way.
Strenuous efforts to induce the wharfies to join
in were coldly turned down. Even the coalminers,
never overreluctant about a little indulgence in this
sort of amusement, showed no eagerness. What many
of the seamen themselves think of it was indicated
by two S.A. crews which returned to their ships and
took them to sea.
The truth is that it is one of the most unpopular
strikes ever started. It was engineered by a small
soviet of lawbreakers, who took the union’s business
into their own hands and forced the thing on against
the advice and direct recommendations of responsible
union officials in all the States. Passenger-steamer
crews gave notice reluctantly, obeying the lesser
loyalty, even though it involved the very existence
of their union.
By the week-end 33 ships had been manned,
enough to handle all the freight offering. Manning
of the freighters completes the first part of the recon-
struction programme under the licensing system.
Overseas vessels are carrying passengers, and unless
the strike fizzles out in the meanwhile inter-State
passenger boats will next be similarly manned.
Licensed men thus employed have the Government’s
promise that the system —and their employment with
it—is to be permanent. The suicide of the union will
then be complete.
4
A Warning to the Senate.
The Irish Free State Senate has been abolished by
vote of Dail Eireann. Without a constitutional amend-
ment our Senate could not be put out of existence in
the same fashion ; all the same, the news is unpleasant
reading for Australian Senators, especially as aboli-
tion is still on the Labor programme.
The Australian Senate has long ceased to be a
force in the counsels of the nation. Dragged at the
heels of the party system, it seems unable to take
an independent stand on anything or to initiate any
great public controversy or discussion. Senators are
relieved of a great deal of tedious letter-writing and
other work that falls to the lot of Representatives.
With few exceptions they do not apply this addi-
tional time to politics or to public questions. They
sit but rarely—only 46 days in the last 14 months—
and yet they complain that they are not taken seriously
by press and public.
There are many ways by which the Senate could
at least try to justify its existence. An obvious one
is the development of the standing-committee system.
The standing committee on statutory rules and regu-
lations has done, and is still doing, useful work for
the nation, in spite of obstacles placed in its way by
the Government. A live Senate standing committee
on international affairs might become a real force.
The same applies to standing committees on Com-
monwealth bounties, on finance, on taxation, on the
Territories, on Native affairs and on broadcasting.
By taking up important and interesting questions
dealing with the everyday lives of the people, the
Senate could do work of enormous value that is
either left undone or scamped by Governments and
bureaucrats. Passive acquiescence in its present
humiliating position is a form of slow suicide.
4
“Unreliable.”
In the House of Representatives on Dec. 3, Mr.
Brennan, M.H.R. for Batman, asked Mr. Parkhill, the
Minister for Defence, “as one expert to another,”
whether the Minister had read in The Bulletin these
words: —
All that Mr. Parkhill is doing is to complete the first
part of Air-Marshal Salmond’s plan, which is several
years old —in a word, obsolescent.
Followed an eruption—one of several recorded
by “Hansard” that week: —
Mr. Parkhill: This particular statement is about
as unreliable as every other statement which The
Bulletin has recently published.
Honorable Members: Surely not every statement.
Mr. Parkhill: Every statement. There is not a word
of truth in the statement referred to. As a matter
of fact the programme regarding air defence of the
country which Sir John Salmond laid down pro-
vided for a certain portion of it to occupy eight
years. That portion is being done wittfin the three
years’ programme now being carried out by this
Government. The rest of the article contains equally
gross misrepresentations and inaccuracies.
Mark how a plain tale can put a Parkhill down!
The present air-defence scheme was outlined in the
1934-35 estimates. It was introduced by Mr. Parkhill
in these words, as reported in “Hansard,” Dec. 4,
1934, p. 742-3: —
A statement of the Government’s policy was made
by my predecessor (Senator Pearce) in his speech
of September 25, 1933, at Sydney. The objectives
for the navy, army, air force and munitions-supply
branch were outlined therein The Minister stated
in his policy speech that the Salmond report was
the basis of the Government’s air-force policy, and
the objective in the programme is the completion of
Part I of the Salmond scheme, which aims at defence
against raids. This would entail the formation of the
following new units....
He then gave particulars of the scheme now being
put into operation, and added that “the initial steps
towards this expansion” would “involve the following
expenditure in the first year of the programme....
£294,057.”
The Salmond scheme was drawn up in 1928. The
Commonwealth Government began aiming at “the
completion of Part I” six years later. “Obsolescent” is
a mild term. When the plan was drafted foreign air
forces were so negligible that authoritative textbooks,
such as the Statesman’s Year-Book, contained no
account of them, Germany in 1928 had no fighting air
force. To-day it is said to have over 5000 aeroplanes,
and is building feverishly. Russia now has twice as
many fighting aeroplanes as there were in the world
when the Salmond report was submitted.
The Australian Government, which has for
Minister of Defence an abusive tyro with a bad
memory, is content to dawdle along years behind
the times.
*
The D.H.B6’s Fly On.
At the week-end D.H.86 ’planes had about 48 hours
off the air in Australia. Their airworthiness certi-
ficates were suspended consequent upon a crash-
landing upon a Bass Strait islet by the Lepena, flying
from Tasmania to Victoria.
Newspapers had a sensational story about a wing
crumpling in midair, and only brilliant flying saving
the lives of the eight souls aboard.
Assuming that that was true, and not merely
Abyssinian news, there was hardly any option but
to suspend the certificates. The thing had to be
considered in conjunction with the history of these
’planes in Australia. Three of them had crashed
with heavy loss of life, in circumstances almost bad
enough to support a fanatical theory of sabotage,
and certainly sufficient to warrant doubts about the
suitability of D.H.86 machines for Bass Strait
conditions.
Official inquiry showed that the accident to the
Lepena could not be ascribed to any structural defect,
and that had there been an emergency landing-ground
in the islet there would have been no crash. Even
so, the incident and the sequel constitute tough luck
for the game company which has carried on the
Tasmanian service. An equally unfortunate aspect
of it is the possible effect upon civil aviation in Aus-
tralia, which is not attracting the passenger traffic
its excellent general record of prompt and safe flying
warrants.
♦
Another Waste of Money.
N. S. Wales royal commissions are always expensive,
and they never lead to anything; nevertheless, the
public is paying for another.
One alleged ground for it is that, during the
Goulburn election campaign, Mr. Tully, who beat
Mr. Loughlin for the seat, “made a series of state-
ments which, to say the least, were most misleading,”
concerning Mr. Loughlin’s purchase of a former
soldier’s holding, by consent of the Minister. The
price was £4700, of which “£7OO was paid to the
Crown.” This is prima-facie evidence that Mr. Loughlin
was in a position to take legal action at his own
expense. An overtaxed public should not be called
upon to foot bills for probing election wrangles.
The investigator, Judge White, has also been
commissioned to ascertain how much truth, if any,
there was in “the allegations and suggestions appear-
ing in the speech of Mr, Lang, made on September
12, 1935, of misconduct and improper conduct”
relative to a Land Board decision allocating 14,140
acres withdrawn from a pastoral holding in the
Western Division. If it were a rule that “allegations
and suggestions appearing” in Mr. Lang’s Parlia-
mentary speeches were always to be referred to
royal commissions, the Judiciary and the members
of the Equity Bar would have time for nothing else.
No royal commission ever yet discouraged a
Parliamentary mudslinger or muckraker from making
“allegations and suggestions,” nor ever will. Dis-
couragement is necessary, but it should be achieved
in another way: by withdrawal of the outworn
immunity granted to these gentry, on the application
of the aspersed party, accompanied by a sworn
statement of the facts and by a legal opinion that
he has been libelled. Each House has a Standing
Orders Committee, and there are joint Library and
House Committees: appoint another joint committee
to make recommendations in these cases, and draft
an enactment with a simple formula, names and dates
being left blank, and the citizen whose character has
been damaged by some Parliamentary slanderer
could be automatically given the right to sue. Then
privileged defamation of individuals would cease to
be one of the Parliamentary pastimes.
But the Stevens Government prefers royal com-
missions.
Transport Commissars at Work.
The N.S.W. and Queensland Transport Departments
continue to supply material for a history of twentieth-
century tyranny.
Queensland has an Act under which heavy
vehicles used on prescribed routes for any kind of
carriage for which money is paid are taxed “per
power weight load unit” —whatever that may be —up
to 50s. per unit. They must be registered with the
Transport Board, and they must have special number-
plates, be insured against accidents to passengers and
be concerned in all sorts of undertakings from which
the Government Railway Department is free. The
registration fee for a 40-ton truck valued at £325 is
£4lO 12s. 6d. p.a.; the additional petrol tax is 7|d.
a gallon. Vehicles owned by the Crown and local
authorities are exempt from registration fees.
In 1934 only £ 17,000-odd in fees was collected
under the Act. Recently it was discovered that
owners of heavy vehicles were not registering, and
that others had fallen behind with their monthly
instalments. One of these latter was operating along
the Brisbane-Toowoorpba road, a route “served” by
the railway that even the G.P.O. refused to patronise
any longer. He missed an instalment and was fined.
The High Court found the Act watertight.
Then began a sort of pogrom. In some cases it
was attended with difficulties, because there is a “free”
25-mile zone round Brisbane. A Yatala man was
caught with a truck containing 33 calves and six
pigs on the way to Cannon Hill saleyard. Pugh's
Directory describes the location of Yatala;
A farming settlement on the Albert River, 25 miles
from Brisbane. Train to Stapylton, thence three-quarters
of a mile.
Defendant keeps a hotel, and it was explained
by his counsel that, though it was beyond the 25-mile
peg, there was no necessity for him to go beyond
the peg.
The P.M.: What would the registration fee be?
Counsel: About £250 per year.
Fined £3, with £2 Bs. costs. Other penalties
soared to £50 —£630 was collected in two sittings.
A Nanango woman was proceeded against. Her
son had been driving a truck. (Incidentally, Nanango
is 225 miles from Brisbane by rail and 130 miles by
road.) “My son’s great-grandfather was the first
cairier in the Kingaroy district,” she said; “he
carried goods over the same route as his great-grand-
son is doing now.” No matter; the early settler’s
granddaughter was fined.
Not the least disturbing feature of the oppression
practised by transport departments is the apparent
indifference of the public. As for newspapers, the
abolition of the old right of the citizen to use the
public roads is reckoned of less importance than the
arrival of a movie actress or a tennis-player.
♦
The Rowdy Becomes Bolder.
There has been a marked decline in the standard of
Parliamentary conduct ever since the removal to
Canberra. The fault lies in the weakness of the
standing orders.
It is no punishment for a political rowdy to be
excluded from the House for a sitting, or for a week.
He probably enjoys the publicity and thinks he is a
hero. He would think differently if he had to pay
for the privilege of misbehaving.
It would be a simple matter for the Government,
which has an overwhelming majority, to amend the
standing orders to provide that suspension for dis-
orderly conduct or defiance of the chair should be
accompanied by loss of salary during the suspension.
There could be no possible objection—except on the
part of the rowdy and his friends.
Some months ago the Ministry allowed it to be
known that it was considering the introduction of
House of Commons procedure. This would mean
a minimum suspension of five sitting days for
the rowdy, with loss of salary. The standing orders,
committee was called together, but nothing has been
done this year—nor is anything likely to be done
next year. First things should come first; but they
never do in politics.
Another way to force members to observe the
decencies of debate would be to arrange for all
important debates to be broadcast through national
stations. Broadcasting of debates is inevitable. This has
already been recognised by the new Maoriland Prime
Minister. One excuse for keeping the mike out of the
Australian Parliament is that the press is there to give
full publicity to the proceedings. But the newspapers
can print only a fraction of what is said. In any case,
by tedious repetition such statements in Parliament
as “The honorable member is a liar” have long ceased
to be news.
♦ T
Melbourne Transport Control.
From a believer in Government enterprise:
Melbourne ■ Tramways Board inherited an excellent,
smoothly-running machine from the capable company that did
the pioneering. All it had to do was to carry on, and it
carried on with the ability of the motorist who masters the
rudiments of motoring and gets no farther. It looked after
its inheritance like a conservative trustee company, taking no
chances, revealing no vision and introducing improvements
only when public opinion absolutely forced it to do so.
As one branch of public activity, it is engaged in bitter
conflict with another branch of public activity, the railways.
The result is that there are varying and anomalous fares
operating over half the surburban system. But, while compet-
ing vigorously against the Railway Department in this field,
Board and Department are allies in fighting the competition of
the motor vehicle.
What the transport situation calls for is co-ordination on
South African lines. The Chief Commissioner of Railways
should be created Chief Commissioner of Transport, with full
control over railways, tramways and commercial motor-traffic.
It would, of course, be necessary to buy out and compensate
private owners who have acquired vested interests in motor
haulage, but, that done, it would be possible to
augment railway profits and at the same time save money
£>y cutting out uselessly competing motor lines and extending
others to feed country railway stations. Victoria’s road
system is now extensive and excellent, and there need be
no longer conflict between the railways and the motor-trucks,
in which the innocent bystander suffers most.
In the metropolis the squabble over the respective merits
of tramways and motor-buses would end; each would be
used where it would prove most convenient and swift and
cheap. Existing services might be augmented by many cross-
connecting lines of buses, so that Melbourne and the other
three big cities of the State would be enmeshed in a trans-
port network.
At the moment the municipalities and the police and the
Government are arguing over uniform traffic regulations. With
one body controlling the whole system of transport it
would simplify traffic many degrees to leave regulations in
the hands of those charged with its control, just as the
Railway Department makes its own regulations now.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“0.P.H.”: At the end-of-the-season
reception given by the Canberra Press
Gallery to the Prime Minister, Treasurer
Casey unbent and told a good story of
General Evangeline Booth. On her visit
to Canberra the lady was placed along-
side Mrs. Casey in the distinguished
strangers’ gallery. Turning to her neigh-
bor, she asked, “Who is that dark, sinister-
looking person addressing the House?”
“That is my husband, the Assistant
Treasurer,” said Mrs. Casey brightly.
The General felt she must do something
to ease the slight tension, and broke
into an account of how she had had
occasion to appoint a treasurer. The
two final candidates recommended were
brilliant officers, one as unpopular as the
other was popular. She awarded the
post to the unpopular one, saying he had
nothing to lose, considering he was al-
ready the most unpopular man in the
high command of the Army. This, on
reflection, seemed a scarcely less unfor-
tunate effort on the part of the General,
and a deep silence settled down. Military
Secretary Bracegirdle unwound a stock
of naval anecdotes of the China station.
He recalled that once, when the China
squadron was returning from a long
cruise, the authorities at Hong Kong re-
ceived a signal message as the ships were
dropping anchor: “Send Admiral’s
woman at once.” Puzzled not only at
the unusual nature of the request but
because there was a perfectly charming
occupant of Admiralty House awaiting
the return of her lord, they signalled
back: “Your message mutilated; please
check.” The reply ran: “Insert washer
between Admiral and woman.”
* * * ♦
“Selma”: At a sale of the household
goods of a wealthy citizen about to retire
to England two smart matrons met in
the drawing-room. “Fancy old Blank
accumulating all this!” remarked one.
“And my grandfather knew him when
he used to travel the country carrying
a pack.” An elderly gentleman saunter-
ing near turned and inspected the
speaker. “Jt wasn’t a pack,” he said.
“It was an old leather case I picked up
in a rubbish-tip. I’ve got it yet.”
* * * *
“M.R.P.”: There is no doubt that sun-
baking encourages the growth of hair
on feminine skins of a certain type.
The fair skin blisters and freckles ; the
olive skin browns evenly; but No. 3
skin, neither fair nor dark, which is
classified as negative, will grow hair on
any exposed part as a protection—the
more the exposure the thicker the growth.
This type belongs chiefly to the mousy-
haired, but I suspect that it is growing
more common ; you may see small girls
with quite woolly arms nowadays. I
predict brighter business ahead for the
makers of depilatories and a fortune for
the man who can invent a reliable pre-
paration to make depilatories unneces-
sary.
* - * * *
“Exdig”: In the later years of the
war will-making was rendered very easy
for an A.I.F. man (B. 4/12/’35); he
merely had to fill in a space and append
“Very Well , then , I'll PROVIDE you with evidence for a
divorce. I'll spend the night in the fowlhouse next door."
a signature. I recall one Digger, how-
ever, whose efforts were repeatedly
foiled. Two days after I had helped
him sign his will news came (after we
had embarked) that the one beneficiary,
his mother, had died suddenly. He altered
the will in favor of a sister in South
Africa. She was dead when we called
at Durban. Again the will was altered
in favor of a brother in the A.1.F.; he was
killed in action just before we reached
England. An uncle, the next beneficiary,
and also a soldier, died in hospital. The
testator by this time was in an English
hospital himself with a broken leg ; when
he was discharged and certified fit for
service he was killed within a month of
his arrival in the line. From inquiries
I learned that his last will had been
made in favor of a V.A.D. who had
helped to nurse him ; she, too, had pre-
deceased him. So that, in spite of five
wills made within a year, he died in-
testate.
* * *
“Wodgil”: The first newspaper that
employed me had an old top-hatted can-
vasser who called himself “Dahl zail.”
I discovered that he spelt it “Dalziel,”
and it used to puzzle my immature mind
till, falling under the enchantment of
Scott, I found that the General Dalziel
mentioned in his greatest of short
stories was “Tam Dalyell” to Wandering
Willie ; so I concluded that Scots must
be like that. Now I read that Attorney-
General Menzies, going to Britain with
the Lyons troupe, was, to his vast
astonishment, addressed by waiters and
announced by flunkeys as Mr. “Mingies.”
In a book published before Mingies alias
Menzies set out on his travels Professor
Cowling, of Melbourne University, as-
serted that the name was originally
Minyies ; he included it in a list of words
the pronunciation of which had altered
with the alteration of spelling—in this
case to Menzies. In collaboration with
Norman Cowper, the Sydney lawyer
(“Cooper” in England), Mr. Minyies
Mingies Menzies made up a bit of jingle
which he read at a recent gathering of
Victorian Scots:
Said Mingies to Cooper, “I swear like a
trooper,
To be classed, so it seems, with the Chol-
mondcleys and Wemyss.”
Said Cooper to Mingies, “Look here, Bob,
the thing is
To alter our names to Tompkins and James.”
“This,” said the co-author pensively,
“may be my only chance of immortality.”
Nobody reminded him of the immor-
tality achieved by Cinna the poet, who
was hanged for his bad verses.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: South Africa must have
changed a lot since my time if Sydney
“Sun’s” geography is up to date. Stating
that some of the Australian cricketers
would like to go from Jo’burg to Portu-
guese Marques, “where there is
roulette,” the journal laments that the
team would have to pass through “very
wild country—barbarous Swaziland.”
When I escorted the late Paul Kruger—•
some distance behind —to Koomati
Poort, the border station between Por-
tuguese East and the Transvaal, there
was a nice modern railway, running over
rolling open downs for the most part,
some distance north of the Swazi border.
I have had considerable experience of
the Swazis at different times. They are
a peaceful, prosperous people, only fear-
ful then that they might some day cease
to be a British protectorate, and well able
to look after themselves, as cattle-lifting
Boers occasionally found out. Even 35
years ago they were nearly all Christians.
Further, our ancient allies the Portu-
guese were not obsessed with the rou-
lette curse. Their hobby in Lourengo
was chemin de fer, a pleasant pastime a
child could learn in five minutes.
* * * *
“Nore”: Cabled that cases of sabotage
have been discovered on the Royal Oak
and other men-o’-war in Devonport
dockyard. There have always been, little
troubles of the kind. I recall an
epidemic of throwing gun-sights over-
board in the days when Charley Beres-
ford was teaching that the whole duty
of a naval officer was to spend all his
money on painting his ship and keeping
up as high a social position as possible.
Still, to those who have never got over
the shock of the carefully-camouflaged
mutiny at Rosyth and elsewhere in the
North Sea a few years ago, the news will
cause uneasiness.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: A legal friend of
mine told me the other day that he
thought doctors dull dogs, interested in
nothing but diseases and pills. I sug-
gest that no other profession contains
men of such diversified interests. Take
literature. Brett Young and Somerset
Maugham are doctors ; and so are (or
were) Deeping, Robert Bridges, A. J.
Cronin, Stacpoole, Schnitzler, Conan
Doyle and Freeman, not to mention
Goldsmith, Keats, Smollett, John Locke
and Sir Thomas Browne. As adminis-
trators and politicians I present “Tiger”
Clemenceau, Dr. Jameson, “Chinese”
Morrison, William MacGregor, Leonard
Wood and Sir Auckland Geddes. Dr.
Livingstone and Mungo Park were quali-
fied practitioners as well as explorers.
And George Bass, ship’s surgeon, ex-
plored our southern coast in a cockle-
shell, and, with iron hooks strapped to
his wrists, tried to bestride the Blue
Mountains. Doctors have exhibited at
the Academy, and one, Henry Tonks, be-
came Slade professor of fine arts.
Nicholas Barbon (son of Praise-God
Barebones, and M.D. of Utrecht) rebuilt
a large part of London after the Great
Fire. Among inventions emanating
from doctors are a system of short-
hand, a street-sweeping machine, the
oxyhydrogen blowpipe, the modern
police helmet, the fingerprint method of
identification and the electric telegraph.
The surgeons John Ballett and Thomas
Dover were first-class pirates, and sailed
with Dampier and Woodes Rogers. Drs.
Crippen, Lamson and Palmer brought off
some really thrilling murders. After all,
we’re not such an uninteresting crowd.
* * * *
“Susper Coll”; Years ago a garru-
lous octogenarian assured me that in
the bad old days of Westralia, when the
facilities for executions were necessarily
crude and often
makeshift, the
hangman was
allowed an assis-
tant who, when the
drop hadn’t been
fatal, was required
to extinguish the
vital spark by haul-
ing on the quiver-
ing body, I never
believed it then,
but after reading
Lord Birkenhead’s
Famous Trials I
find there was pre-
cedent for it. The
author tells of the
fate of Major
Stran geways in
1658. Strangeways
was arraigned for
murder at the Old
Bailey, but refused
to plead, preferring
to perish by the
peine forte et dure
method, literally to
be pressed to death
—by this means a
man could save for
his family estates
which would have
been forfeited on a
conviction of
felony. The vic-
tim endured his
horrible fate with
fortitude ; his last
request was that
his friends should
add their weight to
the iron frame be-
neath which he
was stretched, so
that he should die the sooner. Accom-
modatingly, they did. “At that time,”
adds the author, “and for years after-
wards, a felon’s friends were allowed to
shorten his sufferings by clinging to his
legs as he swung from the gallows.”
* * * *
“Marsh”: “Hod el Usbeg’s” account
of the first experience the Anzac
Mounted Division had of being bombed
(B. 4/12/’35) stirs old memories. Our
mob, camped not far away from Romani,
heard of the damage the visiting Taube
had done, and, of course, details didn’t
suffer in the telling. “Y’ oughter been
there,” said a dispatch rider who had
taken part in the stampede to safety.
“After things got normal again, the
general lined up the whole of the brigade.
‘Officers and men,’ he says, ‘y’ don’t
know y’r jobs.’ list as he finishes
some bloke yells out, ‘No, but we knew
too much ter stay here like mugs
an’ get skittled.’ ” There’d have been a
28-day present for the interjector had he
been identified.
* * * *
“Mug Pirate”; Had “Auntie” seen the
contents of some of the man-wrapped
parcels forwarded to soldiers she would
have agreed that, as well as being more
sentimental than women (B. 4/12/’35),
men are more downright romantic, too.
But there were some amazingly queer
offerings. It would be hard to explain
what obscure emotion impelled a man
to include three dress shirts in a parcel
to his son battling with chats Turks
at Gallipoli. •
ACCENTS.
“Giving a list of English accents, an author
declares that the best English of all is that spoken
by the King—the speech of a country gentleman
with a slight tang of the sea. The next best is the
Empire accent, spoken by the Prince of Wales, con-
sisting of a mixture of Australia, Canada, South
Africa and Piccadilly.”
What sort of English serves you for expressing
Your views in, brother? Do you ever
think
How many kinds there are, when you’re
addressing
Attentive crowds in tones that soar or sink,
Launching a curse or pattering a blessing,
Or, maybe, merely ordering a drink?
What species of accent is it trips
(Whether or not you know it) from your lips?
Is it the Sesame that means an entry
To royal palaces with ne’er a check,
A password recognised by {iny sentry
Who otherwise might jab you in the neck,
The intonation of the landed gentry
With just a soupcon of the quarter-deck?
Is it King’s English round your path you
strew,
As Georgius Rex and Stanley Baldwin do?
The Empire brand seems more ornate and
frilly,
And comprehensive, too, you will agree.
And is it this you favor willy-nilly
For serious talk or lightsome jeu d’esprit.
The compound of the speech of Piccadilly,
Jo’burg, Niagara and Dungaree,
Blended to taste and certified for use
By Teddy Woodbine and by Stanley Bruce?
What sort of English do you bounce or
bubble in,
Proclaim your gladness or parade your woe,
Flatter your bit o’ skirt or bray your trouble
in?
The cognoscenti used to say, you know,
The most correct of all was heard in Dublin,
But that was half a century ago.
The bare suggestion in the present era
Would doubtless get the goat of De Valera.
The Oxford bleat,
the good old
Cockney argot,
The drawling, bur-
ring West of
England voice,
Over the air they
come in con-
stant cargo
To knit your brows
or make your
heart rejoice.
On these and many
more there’s no
embargo;
You pay your
money and you
take your
choice.
No, there I’m wrong.
Howe’er you
fume and fret,
You’ve got to take
exactly what
you get.
What kind of Eng-
lish do you
plank your
cash on,
The tongue that’s
yelled in camps
or cooed in
courts,
The mincing medium
of rank and
fashion,
The blurb of scholars or the blague of
sports?
Ah, well, there isn’t any need to ration
Them out. There’s quite a dozen diff’rent
sorts.
Or nearer twice the number, great and
small . . .
And radio announcers use them all.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C. G. Salis”: I was dining late
in the solitary pub of a far-western
village (N.S.W.) when an argument
arose in the kitchen, where the cook
was entertaining her boy friend. The
disputants came in and appealed to
me. When 1 explained that the Sydney
Harbor Bridge did not connect Syd-
ney and Melboufne, nor yet Sydney and
Manly, both parties looked nonplussed.
It was the cook who broke the silence.
“Well, any’ow,” she said, “I’d like to
see the bridge, and Fd like to see the
sea.” “Arr,” rejoined her cavalier,
“wadya wanter see the sea for? Ain’t
y’ seen Lake Cargellico?”
* * * *
“Mudurup”: “Mulga” Taylor, who
died in Westralia last year, was some-
thing of a humorist in his way, but it is
a pity that anachronistic stories should
be fastened on him. Some enterprising
person recalls in the “West Australian”
a Parliamentary incident of 30-odd years
ago. The late F. C. B. Vosper had re-
ferred to an opponent as “a tergiversat-
ing, tantalising, troglodyte”—a polysyl-
labic flight of which Vosper was quite
capable. When the subject of this dis-
paragement was observed to be hur-
riedly leaving his seat, somebody ex-
horted him “not to run away like a
whipped cur.” “He’s not running away,”
corrected “Mulga” ; “he’s only going to
the library to look up the dictionary.”
The only flaw in the pleasant anecdote
is that Vosper was dead before Taylor’s
Parliamentary career began.
“ Thank 'im f'r savin' 'er? W'y,
I pushed 'er in!"
“Tandy”: Cabled that
the Free State Government
is desirous of having the re-
mains of Roger Casement
removed from London to
Dublin ; it is unlikely that
the British Government will
offer any objection. There
were some subtle legal points raised
by the defence when Casement was
tried for that kind of treason which
is described as “adhering to the King's
enemies,” and much argument about
the precise meaning of musty statutes,
the first of which was drawn up
in Norman French. There was even
a doubt raised at the eleventh hour
whether execution could legally be
performed within the precincts of a
prison, for it was asserted that, when
public executions were abolished for
lesser crimes, a special exemption was in-
tended or inferred in the case of treason.
However, even this technicality was held
to be overruled by a comparatively
modern Act which gives the sheriffs
power to carry out any death sentence in
a prison within their jurisdiction. Case-
ment met his fate in Pentonville.
* * * *
“Duke of Seven Dials”: Australia, as
has been pointed out recently, has no
hereditary peer.
Canada has a single
one in Baron
Longueuil. H i s
title isn’t a British
creation, having
been originally con-
ferred by a French
king when Canada
belonged to
France, but it was
recognised by the
British Govern-
ment in compliance
with treaty obliga-
tions when the
country changed
hands. As far as
I am aware, no
other dominion or
colony or depen-
dency has a native-
grown nobleman of
its own except
Malta. This little
island has a whole
stack. There are
Maltese, Genoese,
Spanish and even
Arabic titles ; some
30 of these were
“taken over” and
recognised as the
genuine article
when Malta be-
came British. The
Maltese title-
holders, of course,
couldn’t sit in the
House of Lords,
but at the British
Court (if they ever
get that far) they
take precedence
after the lowest grade of Irish peers.
♦ * * *
“Chalfont”: The fast and up-to-date
electric-trams which run along an old
railway line between Adelaide and
Glenelg are being changed over from
trolley pickup to a skeleton hoop pickup.
Travelling in .one the other day I heard
a fellow-passenger warmly praising the
change. “Now look at this tram we’ve
come down in,” he exclaimed as we
neared Glenelg ; “it’s got the new arrange-
ment, and we must have saved about five
minutes on the trip. It’s the fastest I’ve
ever made.” When I left the tram I
looked up. Neatly folded on the top
of the tram was the new apparatus,
showing no signs of having been used,
while the trolley-pole was in its usual
place.
“Ike Hollar”: Although it is probably
one of the most prosperous towns in
N.S.W., Leeton has an “unemployed
camp”—the usual collection of bag-and-
tin humpies—a survival the slump
which hit the town when there was a
difficulty in getting rid of its fruit. “Un-
employed camp” is a misnomer, of
course, for most of the campers have
got employment again, though reluctant
to relinquish their rent-free habitations.
Locally, the camp is a monument to a
politician. The residents call it Langville.
“Must I he entirely in the altogether?"
“Well, I don't bar powder and lipstick."
“Centurion”; Interesting to note that
one centre of the rioting in Egypt was
the Turf Club, the British club of Cairo.
This excellent institution during the war
was available for 10s. a quarter to all
officers not members. It was a quiet, per-
fectly-appointed little place, and a literal
haven for officers in from the desert who
shunned the alcoholic delights of Shep-
heard’s or the Continental. Cooking and
wines were first-class, and there was an
old French cellar-master, with his chain
of office and a bulbous, purple nose,
who became the writer’s dear friend.
Only a few Australian officers used the
place, and, curiously enough, very few of
the British Yeomanry and the “New
Army,” though these, like the Austra-
lians, received the politest of welcomes.
Over the door between the dining-room
and the main hall was a huge buffalo
head. I held the floor one night telling
a small audience of soldiers and
“civilians” of buffalo-hunting in the
N.T. They were mightily interested,
though I fancy the story of shooting the
great beasts from the back of a gallop-
ing horse was a hard swallow for some
of them.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: A young man at St.
Kilda baths lies in hospital with a broken
neck through having dived into shallow
water. It is one of the com-
monest risks the swimmer
faces, and might easily be
prevented if every public bath-
ing place were provided with
proper depth marks. In some
of the older baths I have seen,
the marks have not been
changed for a generation, dur-
ing which the sand has silted
up many feet. Even the
bather who is fully aware of
the depth of water takes
chances when it is shallow. Too much
emphasis cannot be placed on the warn-
ing to make sure of the depth of water
before diving.
♦ * * *
“Hamer”: The bookshop girl who re-
ferred the inquirer for How Odd of God
to the theological counter (B. 11/12/’35)
reminds me of a story that used to be
told by Brabazon, of Melbourne. He was
in his youth a farm-worker, and his love
for literature dated from the time when
he found, tossed away among some rub-
bish on a farm run by a stern Scotch-
woman who believed in no reading but
the Bible and technical books, a copy
of Olive Schreiner’s Story of an Afri-
can Farm. He asked his employer
if he might read it, and was told scorn-
fully that he might if he had any use
for such rubbish. The lady added that
she had seen it on a bookstall when
making a business trip to Melbourne,
and had bought it because she thought
it might contain some useful hints on
agriculture.
“Fi. Fa.”; Prob-
ably the most ex-
pensive article of
underwear in the
world’s sartorial
history was a pair
of under pants
bought by an Adel-
aide doctor a
couple of years
ago. After putting
them on for the
first time, he de-
veloped severe skin
trouble. Ascribing
it to the under-
pants, he sued the
retailer and the
manufacturer. The
Supreme Court
awarded him £2450
damages; on
appeal, the High
Court reversed the
judgment. The
doctor took the
case on to the
Privy Council.
After nine days’
argument there he
obtained a decision
in his favor, with
all costs. The
whole litigation
cost in the neigh-
borhood of £20,000.
A case on all-fours
with this was heard
in the Sydney
Supreme Court last
week; in this in-
stance the plaintiff
claimed to have
contracted derma-
titis from the band of an imported hat.
Judgment for defendants.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: Almost any drawing by
Oswald Pryor would do for a model of
the old-time coalminer’s dress, if you
substituted a pit-lamp for the candle that
metal miners carry. The present-day
coalminer wears shorts and , shin-pads
only ; and for head protection a cast-
off beret of the missus’s or girl friend’s,
or a felt hat with the rim removed. The
ensemble makes for comfort in a hot
seam, but does not always enhance the
beauty of the wearer. I was reminded
of the fact the other day when my mate
at' the coal face, a rawboned chap with a
liking for dancing, executed the latest fox-
trot for my benefit among the pit-props.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: Discussing the rumor that
G.-G. Isaacs may receive an English
peerage, a Sydney daily tells us that the
Forrest precedent was so “intensely cau-
tionary” that it is not likely to be re-
peated in the Isaacs case.
Britain had to be definitely assured that
old Lord Forrest had no heir to succeed
to the title, and was not likely to beget
one; moreover he would reside in England,
so that he might excite no envy in
Australia.
Most of which is rubbish. Forrest’s last
trip towards England, which he was
destined never to reach, wasn’t made with
the intention of residing there or even
of taking his seat in the House of Lords,
though he might have done the latter if
fate had permitted. It was made in the
desperate hope that Harley-street special-
ists might do something to relieve his
sufferings and prolong his life. He died,
as everyone knows, at sea, and his re-
mains were buried at Sierra Leone, sub-
sequently to be reconveyed to his native
land. As for the suggestion that his title
might have “excited envy” in Australia,
if a baronetcy has no such effect why
in the world should a barony?
« ♦ * *
“Quayeau”: With the increasing im-
portance of the aeroplane as a weapon
of defence, inventors of all nations are
feverishly seeking a means of stopping
the internal-combustion. engine at a dis-
tance. Marconi clainis to have invented
an ultra-short-wave radio apparatus that
will do- the ,trick. Now' a Frenchman has
a scheme to saturate the air with finely
powdered pitch, discharged by motor-
driven blowers—from the ground, pre-
sumably. His idea is that the pitch,
coming in contact with the hot motors,
will melt and clog them. Those blowers
would have to work up a few million
revs, to shoot the pitch up 30,000 ft., or
whatever altitude the raiders in the next
scrap will reach. They operated at
15,000 ft. or so in the last stoush, and
’planes and equipment have improved
immeasurably since then.
SEVENPENCE.
“Parkins M.H.R., returned from a trip to Russia,
ravs the fee for either marriage or divorce there
is* the equivalent of sevenpence.’
What ho! for the land where the hammer
and sickle , , , ,
Are emblems of freedom that nobody hates,
Where lasses and lads may be equally fickle
In choosing or losing their conjugal mates.
No wonder they reckon there’s naught to be
dreaded,
No wonder their hurdles they take with a
dash, ,
When a man and a maid can be wed or
unwedded.
United or severed, for sevenpence cash.
They can marry in haste, with the rapturous
pleasure . •
Fond couples in Gretna’s facilities find,
And no ominous thought of repenting at
leisure . .
Need harbor in either participant s mind.
Though the fetters of Hymen be forged by the
hammer,
A bride and a ’groom can afford to be rash
Who know, when they’re through with the
thrill and the glamor,
The sickle will part them for sevenpence
cash.
No banns and no bridesmaids, no churchy
perspectives,
No wedding receptions and similar jigs—■
No tertiurn quids and no private detectives,
No stuffy divorce courts with lawyers in
wigs!
And Cupid, no doubt, just as busy and
breezy
And ready as ever his arrows to flash,
Where coupling and breaking are equally easy,
The only requirement being sevenpence
cash.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


%
4’
20/„ r |ffi
10/., 9*
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality .
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
tipped
CIGARETTE
T«IS GENERAT
'
M
m
i m
mm
POLITICAL POINTS
Government by newspaper is a thing
for which this newspaper never had any
use. Disquieting features of it have
appeared in Australia, and Britain is
witnessing a very rotten demonstration
of it in a press-manufactured campaign
against Hoare-Laval peace proposals,
made in pursuance of a League decision
and communicated to the parties in the
proper way. The hue-and-cry began days
before the proposals were published, and
was marked not only by wild surmise
but by hard lying, especially about the
attitude of the Dominions, which would
like to wash their hands of the whole
Abyssinian business. Pacifist newspaper
editors are becoming almost as dangerous
as dictators.
An “Argus” cablegram refers to “the
Times’ admitting” that the Hoare-Laval
peace “proposals are not yet known, but
emphasising the general opposition to
them, including that of the Dominions.”
And who gave the “Times” the right to
say that the Dominions were opposed to
proposals not yat known? “Thunderer”
or not, it is rank impudence.
Casey s first loan as full Treasurer was
3. success ; £7,500,000 was asked for and
£7,800,000 was subscribed. It will help
Bruce’s conversion plans, which have
been delayed, J. Bull having some busi-
ness of the kind to transact himself.
L E. Duggan, a young S.A.-born
Labonte, goes into the Queensland Par-
liament as member for Toowoomba,
Llewellyn having resigned. At election
and by-election there were four candi-
dates : Llewellyn’s absolute majority was
1500, Duggan’s 763.
The most interesting feature of the
Toowoomba by-election was the appear-
an,< r e , °f. L. A. G. Boyce, who frankly
called himself a Conservative, and said
the Conservative party stood for Austra-
lian union, with one Parliament instead
of seven. He got 1307 votes ; the official
Opposition (C.P.N.) candidate polled no
more than 1546.
The end of the Commonwealth sit-
tings reminded observers of a football-
club meeting that has wrangled till near
midnight and then discovers that its real
work has still to be done. The word
went forth that the Houses had to rise
on the Friday. Senators obligingly sat
all night— at one stage they put through
seven important bills in a few hours. The
Lang group crept away and caught the
ernoon train from Canberra, leaving
the others to wait for the Old Gents to
finish.
The Stevens Government introduced
a Companies Bill last year, and gave the
familiar assurance that it would be
passed this year. It also promised to
amend the “control” measure under
which siege prices are charged for milk.
Now it has adjourned Parliament for
nine weeks without passing either. Pre-
sumably a Government with a majority
of 30 in a House of 90 members thinks
it can safely take these liberties with a
public tolerant to the point of inertia.
The Senate has sat only 46- days in
14 months. No wonder it is so rarelv
heard of these days. Senators are con-
tinually wailing about the lack of pub-
licity they receive, but people who take
their duties so lightly do not deserve
publicity. Massy Greene, who would
have been Prime Minister in 1923 but
for the political miracle that deprived
him of his seat, is the most persistent
absentee.
Before the N.S.W. Parliament ad-
journed for nine weeks, Stevens and co.
put through a bill restoring Judges’
salaries to the pre-depression scale.
Lang, opposing it.(as did seven Minis-
terialists), read to the House an alleged
copy of a letter alleged to have been
addressed by a lady to Ezra Norton, of
“Terewlh,” thanking him for “Terewth’s”
championship of the cause of pre-depres-
sion pay for Judges and containing the
sentence “I should like to explain why
I agitated for a substantial rise.” It
might have caused a sensation 10 years
ago, but nowadays no one takes any
notice of Lang.
The British steamers remaining on the
San Francisco-Sydney run are to be
withdrawn, and the president of the
C.P.R., which has a half-interest in the
line running boats from Vancouver to
Sydney, says they will be withdrawn, too,
unless the situation changes for the
better very suddenly. So in travelling to
Sydney by an American luxury liner
when a half-empty British steamer was
leaving the Pacific coast about the same
time, N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
Hartigan and party were “helping to pro-
mote another transport monopoly.”
Must be takin' out a license—the scab! Well dong "im!”
Says Sampson, the Tasmanian Senator:
“One method for the defence of Australia
may be found in machines—six-wheeled
cross-country motor-lorries, together with
ordinary motor-cars and machine-guns.”
But how does he propose to get over the
opposition of the State Transport
Strangulation Departments?
France has a peck of troubles from
which Britain is free—several armed
political organisations, a flock of parties
in the Chamber, chronic instability in
the administration, a flight of gold and
fears about the franc. Also it has not
only a vast trade with Italy, but a
common frontier with that country • and
beyond the Rhine it sees the old enemy
rearming. An early peace with Rome
may conceivably be its only alternative
to civil war, if not foreign war. Yet" at
the first hint that the French and British
Governments had agreed to peace pro-
posals Sydney “D.T.” came out with the
headline
FRANCE AS TRAITOR TO LEAGUE.
Are these newspapers filled with the
“Geneva spirit” or just J.D.K.Z.?
The improvement in N.S.W. Govern-
ment railway finance is due more to
Bruce than to any other party, though he
gets no credit from the transport strangu-
lation crowd. Thanks to his loan conver-
sions, the railway interest-p/ws-exchange
bill was reduced by £503,100 in 1934-35.
Had it remained at the 1933-34 figure,
and had interest been charged on
£1,526,000 of reconditioning expenditure
advanced from the Treasury, and had the
Government withheld the annual grant
of £BOO,OOO which is coolly included in
railway revenue, the loss for the year
would have amounted to £2,646,000.
And that’s £1 a head.
From a November 22 London letter
to Melbourne “Age,” “received by Air
Mail from Our Correspondent”:
Mr. J. H. Thomas can scarcely remain
at the Dominions Office after this week’s
onslaught in the “Age,” which has caused
quite a stir of approval here.
That hapless Victorian whom the “Age”
ran for the Senate, and who nearly did
in his deposit, must marvel at this mag-
nificent example of the Power of the Pen.
The Forgan Smith Government has re-
vived the Public Works Commission, In
its last incarnation, 1920-1925, the com-
mission cost £4185 in fees. It produced
a stack of futile reports and saddled the
taxpayer with some branch railways fore-
doomed to bankruptcy from the start.
A. M. Blain, who said during his N.T.
election campaign that he would resign
if he did not get a vote in the Reps.,
is to be granted one on N.T. ordinances.
Not all he asked for, but a big step
forward.
An obscure line in Labor-leader Tunne-
cliffe’s summing-up of the Vic. Parlia-
mentary session suggests that reform of
the Leg. Council will be attempted next
session. Tunney declared that the fran-
chise should be extended and the powers
of the House curbed. On each point he
was anything but specific ; all the same,
it is highly probable that Dunstan will
hark to his master’s voice and bring in
some sort of legislation.
Clause 16 of the Vic. Income Tax
Assessment Bill provides that the assess-
able income of a taxpayer shall include
his gross income from all sources,
whether in or out of Victoria. Grossly
unfederal, and possibly unconstitutional;
but candid enough. It embodies the glad
belief of the provincial politician that
treble taxation has come to stay.
Debating the writing-off of £11,450,000
of Sydney Water and Sewerage Board
debt, Lang recalled to N.S.W. Assembly-
men that the board had wasted £915,000
on two tunnels
Instead of using cement and blue-metal
they used sandstone. Then they fired
cement into it to see if it would hold!
For once nobody contradicted him ; in-
deed, nothing but confirmation came from
the U.A.P. side. Lang went on to read
a letter saying that two Water Board
relief-workers—one a wood machinist,
the other “a badly-smashed returned
soldier” —had recently died because pick-
and-shovel work was too much for them.
Then he and all the rest voted to give the
board another £15,000,000 to play with.
As chairman of the M.C.C., Viscount
Hailsham had to deal with the bodyline
rumpus. Now, as Lord Chancellor, he
says that too many applications for
special leave to appeal are coming from
Australia, and that they will be refused
in future unless “of great public interest
and importance.” So the Privy Council
granted leave to appeal in James v. the
Commonwealth and refused it in Gilpin
v. the N.S.W. Transport Commissioner.
James v. the Commonwealth concerns
the alleged right of the latter to “control”
a merchant’s stock or a farmer’s output;
Gilpin v. the Commissioner, the alleged
right of the latter to impose pro-
hibitive fees on owners of commercial
vehicles bringing goods from another
State. Both cases involve Section 92?
1 iade, commerce and intercourse among
the States... .shall be absolutely free.
To Australians one seems as important
as the other ; but possibly bodyline got
on the Lord Chancellor’s nerves.
The refusal of leave to appeal in
Gilpin v. the Transport Commissioner
drew yells of delight from N.S.W. Deputy
Premier Bruxner, who said, in effect, it
amounted to a vindication of the trans-
poi t strangulation policy. He had pre-
viously complained that private cos.
were asking for expenditure on landing
grounds and airports—though a Com-
monwealth Government that is extract-
mg £7,000,000 p.a. by means of its petrol
tax has unexpended millions to spare for
these necessary additions to its defence
measures. The Bulletin had high hopes
or Bruxner, but is regretfully driven to
the conclusion that he has a bullock-
dray mind.
Forgan Smith is leaving for London
to attend a sugar conference, opening in
February. It is “necessary” for him to
go personally— except for a High Com-
missioner, a Commonwealth secretary,
an Agent-General and a few dozen
maiketing experts, there is nobody in
London who can be trusted to look after
Australia’s sugar interests. And Queens-
land once already in the past three
years has shown that it can govern itself
while Mr. Smith is abroad.
Anglican Bishop Stephen, delivering
the Moorhouse lecture in Melbourne, did
not mince matters in denouncing State
interference with personal liberty. Euro-
pean examples, he pointed out, are being
imitated in other lands, including Aus-
tralia , he instanced the political censor-
ship of books and the attack on Auditor-
General Cerutty. T his is a change from
the carping at “capitalism” in which so
many bishops indulge.
From Canberra;
. a K hi, i- made an awful m ? ss of the broad-
r-inhprradl^CUtSlonS ’ anC * his Colleagues at
ni-minnt) °xl uneas y when the subject is
mentioned. The stupid fellow fell foul of the
newspapers, of Amalgamated Wireless, of
2nv w a aiS li f W 5° bclieve .the Government
really was elected on a policy of sunnortine
Sm V w a a t rf ente p P i! Se an - d of fellow-Minister
farewpn f,f e ? ap « 11 - W . as his way of bidding
?hSSdi?repa S r a bi r r m ' S ' Cml ambi “° nS ’ “° W


" YOU VE WON THE TURKEY, JotslES .
Dr'Nks on you,'*
U _ / Mk
DOMT <5O WisS.T\NG, W MORE THREERENIC-E OKI (2A.FFLEa ,
THE MAN WHO WON THE TURKEY.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedv
General Secretary. Managing nir°etnV
df
sdf
sdf
Heat ter Tnydetjf-
B.V.D u3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed..
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
underwear
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Oxford must soon come to the con-
clusion that Australia is a nation of
engineers— most Commonwealth Rhodes
scholars these days either follow the pro-
fession or some branch of science allied
to it. Geoffrey A. Hillman, W.A.’s 1936
choice, is no exception—at 20, he is in
his fourth year in the engineering course
in the Westralian University.
Counihan has caught the dynamic zeal
of Melbourne’s Anglican archbishop,
F. W. Head, whose scholastic record
sent him out of Cambridge with a first-
class in history and a bagful of medals.
Before he came to Melbourne, he was
Archbishop HEAD, of Melbourne.
Sub-Dean of Liverpool Cathedral and a
chaplain to the King. Added to a bril-
liant ecclesiastical career, which made
him an archbishop at 45, he had a fine
war record —was senior chaplain to the
Guards Division and won the M.C. and
a bar to it. He has published several
biographical and historical works, and
for a time was lecturer in pastoral
theology at his old university.
Obit, knight John Field Beale, erst-
while a director of the Orient Co., who
had a keen interest in Australian de-
velopment, and visited us in 1924, Dur-
ing the war, when he was chairman of the
British Wheat Executive, he was a good
friend to the Commonwealth. Latterly
he had seats on the boards of the Lon-
don, Midland and Scottish Railway and
of the Midland Bank.
“0.W.W.”: One of the surprises in
M.L.’s recent election contest was Labor’s
success in the conservative Hawke’s Bay
electorate (it does not include Napier),
which is far-famed for its wealthy sheep-
farmers. The winning candidate, E. L.
(“Ted”) Cullen, who romped home —at
his third try—with well over a thousand
votes to spare, was born in the district,
and has lived most of his life at Nuhaka.
Cullen was the first pakeha child to go
through all the standards of the local
school. He is a farmer, and did his bit
in the war.
Death has taken a S.A. public ser-
vant of 50 years’ standing in Alfred
Searcy, who began duty in the State
Customs Department in 1873. Most of
his labors in later years had to do with
shipping, and in 1914, when the Harbor
Board was constituted, he was appointed
chairman. He drew up the Customs
tariffs of 1885-87, and saw the bills
through Parliament, and C, C. Kingston
used his work as model for the first
Commonwealth Customs Bill. Searcy
declined several offers of Commonwealth
appointments.
Dead in Melbourne, at 72, Bob
Crockett, who umpired in 32 Test
matches. Impartial and decisive, Crockett
was the ideal umpire. Born at Dayles-
ford (Vic.), he had been on the M.C.C.
ground staff since 1887. He was one of
the first to embark on the manufacture
of cricket bats in Australia.
Thirty of the 53 Maoriland Labor
members enter Parliament for the first
time. There is a good sprinkling of
Diggers among them, and there are two
parsons.
The first feature the onlooker notices
about Sydney’s new Lord Mayor, Archie
Howie, is his hat. It is the father of
all felts, worn without a dint in the
crown and at an inimitable angle.
Underneath is a shrewd, Scottish face
and a muscular rolling figure which
would be in themselves noticeable, but
the hat dominates. Once when a small
predecessor of his Worship was too
voluble at a political committee meet-
ing, somebody shouted; “For heaven’s
sake put Howie’s hat over him.” Howie
is a solid man more in line with the
London and Liverpool tradition than
the Lord Mayors that Sydney has had
for a long time. A Leg. Councillor, he
sits on U.A.P. financial committees, is a
councillor of the R.A.S., a trustee of Syd-
ney Cricket Ground and a member of a
multitude of associations. He speaks as
little as he can —his contributions to com-
mittee meetings usually consist of a few
short sentences of commonsense. And he
has made a big success of his building
business largely because he understands
the outlook of his workers and, while a
strict disciplinarian, is always ready to
see their viewpoint and meet their ideas
if possible.
When a Bulletin man called at the
Netherlands Consulate-General in Sydney
to convey the
paper’s greetings to
T. Elinck Schuur-
man, the new Con-
sul-General, he met
an alert-f ace d,
brisk young man
who in a short
space of time has
risen high in the
Consular Service of
his country. Mr.
Schuurman was
born in Rotterdam
34 years ago, and
entered the Nether-
lands Consular Ser-
vice in 1924. He
was stationed in
turn at Hamburg,
Copenhagen and
London, spent
seven years in
China and Japan
and was Acting
Consul in Singa-
pore prior to his
Australian appoint-
ment, As the
C.-G. arrived on
the Nieuw Holland only a week or so ago
he was much concerned with the prob-
lem of house-hunting when The Bulle-
tin made its visit. If he obtains a resi-
dence with as good a view of the harbor
The Consul-General for the Netherlands.
as the one from a window of the Consu-
late-General in Kembla Building he
should be happy.
A much-travelled banker is John Mar-
shall, now retiring from the Union in
Adelaide. He learned the business in
Perth. His first managerships were at
Wellington (N.S.W.) and Broken Hill.
Then he was an inspector in Tasmania
and Victoria, and he had two years in
France.
A. T. White, the R.A.S.C. major who
was responsible for the official adoption
of the word “Anzac,” is dead. A rubber
stamp bearing the letters “A. and
N.Z.A.C.” was already in use for regis-
tering correspondence, and was referred
to among the clerks who frequented the
offices in Shepheard’s Hotel, Cairo, as
the “Anzac stamp.” So one day, when
C. M. Wagstaff, an Indian-born R.E.
officer on Birdwood’s operations staff,
strolled in and asked for a suggestion
for a code word to denote the Aus-
tralasian corps, White, then an R.A.S.C.
lieutenant, said “What about Anzac?”
The combination was at once adopted.
Tradition, however, attributes the actual
invention of it to Sergt. G. C. Little,
who hailed from Fordell, M.L.
“De M.”: If Baron De Clifford wasn’t
entitled to the full pomp of a Lords trial
on a motor-manslaughter charge (his
peers acquitted him) nobody has ever
been. Of British baronies held by males
his is the fourth most crusty. He is the
26th incumbent, and his title dates from
1299. Those of Kingsale (1189), Mow-
bray (1283) and Hastings (1295) are
older, though two baronesses —De Ros
(1264) and Furnivall (1295) —are going
strong. Moreover, if heredity goes for
anything. De Clifford should be well
steeled to trouble. His direct ancestors
have been in almost every war since the
early Crusades. Once or twice the title
narrowly escaped extinction, as when,
in the Wars of the Roses, an incumbent
was slain and his heir preserved only
through the prudence of his mother, who
hid him at birth and had him brought
up as a shepherd. I wonder what that
baron would think of his successor’s job
of motor engineer—or of his marriage
to a daughter of Mrs. Meyrick, the night-
club hostess, whose family have the
peerage habit. Another daughter
espoused the 14th Earl of Kinnoull.
Alan Villiers, who is in Australia on
a world tour as the owner and master
of the last British
full-rigged ship—
she is all of 203
tons —has packed
as much adventure
into his 32 years
as any other Aus-
tralian in history.
He went to sea at
15, after a State-
school education,
and was before the
mast in half a
dozen sailing ships,
as well as in steam.
That qualified him
for a trip with Lar-
sen’s first Ross Sea
Expedition in the
whaler James
Clark Ross in
1923-24. Discover-
ing that he had
writing talent, he
spent three years
on the Hobart
“Mercury” staff,
and then began to
turn out sailing-
# ship books, of
which he has nine to his credit
and another on the way. During
1931 he joined another seadog named
De Cloux in buying the Parma, with
which they won the grain race from Aus-
tralia that year and in 1932 and again
in 1933, when they established a record
of 83 days, Melbourne to Falmouth. He
has made two long lecturing tours
through U.S.A.
L. J. Hartnett, managing director of
General Motors-Holden’s, is something
of a fairy godfather to the building trade
of Melbourne, for he has approved of
plans under which his company will
L. J. HARTNETT, of General
Motors-Holden's.
spend £400,000 and employ 1500 men in
putting up a vast office and manufactur-
ing building at Fisherman’s Bend —it will
be 960 feet long and 360 feet wide.
Though he manages an Australian-U.S.A.
concern, he is an Englishman.
When the much-loved G, C. Saxby left
the headship of Sydney High School in
1933, he enjoyed the distinction of hav-
ing risen from first pupil to principal.
J. H. Killip, his latest successor, also
establishes a record, being the youngest
man to attain to the position. Another
product of the pupil-teacher system—his
first post was in Balmain —he had barely
graduated B.A. when the war called him
away from his job. Since his return, he
has had charge of important rural
schools, Armidale being the last. He is
a sportsman to his fingertips, youthful-
looking and the antithesis of the forbid-
ding dominie of tradition.
Several of those who entered
Sydney High School in 1895 were
destined for prominence in later life.
Second on the roll is Earle Page, while
further down come L. S. Bracegirdle,
official secretary to the Governor-
General, and Prof. Vonwiller, dux of
the school four years later (Profs. Todd
and Madsen filling the position in the
meantime). The latest to make his mark
is Alderman Howie, Sydney’s new Lord
Mayor.
“Pentode” tells a Marconi yarn:
On December 14 a monument was un-
veiled to celebrate the receipt in 1918 of the
first wireless message between Australia and
England at E. T. Fisk’s laboratory at Wah-
roonga (N.S.W.). Marconi on that date
broadcast to Australia through a special gramo-
phone record made in Paris. He and Fisk are
firm friends, and carry on regular “trans-earth
conversations.” They are a strange contrast.
Fisk is a lean, active man with an extra-
ordinarily high forehead; he comes of a
numerous clan which flourishes in the soke of
Peterborough. A period at sea before he
became g.m. of Amalgamated Wireless in 1913
and particularly an adventurous year with the
sealers in the Arctic have made him a good
mixer, and he is the very opposite of the
average man’s conception of a scientist. Mar-
coni, who gave him his first wireless job in
1906, bubbles over with eagerness and curio-
sity and high spirits. “What shall I do while
Im waiting?” he asked the man in charge of
public arrangements at the Sydney Town Hall
the first time an attempt was made to broad-
cast his voice in Sydney five years ago. “You
can whistle opera and give our girls a con-
cert,” said the Australian end. “Put the dog
out of the cabin,” came the voice from the
Elettra in Genoa Harbor. And while 4000
people waited in the Town Hall, three Aus-
tralian girls linked to a panel with earphones
had a private broadcast of “Trovatore” by
the inventor of wireless.


SAFE
AHEAD
I-;-:-:-:-;-:-:-:-;-'--
x::-.
mmm
wm snmi fc;
■
#
BE SURE—
fit “CHECKSKIDS”
On winds the open road. You relax —but should you? Not
if your tyres are worn smooth of grip! They may play a nasty
trick ... a wet patch ... a loosening of the road-surface
# *. and they skid! Those old, worn covers are no friends of
yours. Discard them! Then .. . do more than just buy new
tyres ... let Barnet Glass Checkskids give you the surest grip
on motoring safety ever known.
No other tyre has a grip like a Checkskid ... a tenacious
grip which fastens on to the road and defies skid or slip.
And it is a longer-lasting grip. The Barnet Glass tread is deeper
cut and broader —there’s more of it . . . more rubber ... to
give thousands of extra miles. Extra miles which will save
you money! The nearest Barnet Glass dealer will fit Checkskids
to your wheels in a few minutes.
X
B
«
TYRES
m
r
New Tyres call for New BARNET ASS “ TUBES
M74.FP.35.
The New
Check skid”
with
MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
BROADER
TREAD.


10/6 12.30 till 2.0 p.m 10/6
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS DINNER.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call, Write or Phone (M 4601) for Reservations or Menu.
CHRISTMAS TEA—A LA CARTE—S.3O p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
W. H. RAYNER, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dieectobs —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor. Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox,
B. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
11 or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
/ Dividends Writ- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. ten Off. seizes.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 91,027 8 p.c. C p.c. =57,258 30,000 G,404
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £lO,OOO .. 3,536
1926.. 97,177 8 p.c. 7 p.c. =72,535 23,500 2,394
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves .. .. 89,107 101,057
1927.. 95,928 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 12,923 113,980
Sept.,
1928 f. 70,781 8 ~ 6 „ „ 71,390} 113,365
1929.. 28,848 8 ~ 2 „ ~36,762 105,451
1930.. 73,978 8 ~ 6 „ ~73,727 251 105,702
1931.. 68,628 8 ~ 5} „„ 71,417 102,913
1932.. 92,931 8 ~ 8 „ ~92,209 722 103,635
1933.. 100,510 8 „ 8 „ ~92,209 8,301 111,936
1934.. 107,950 8 „ 8 „ ~92,209 15,741 127,677
1935.. 103,732 8 „ 8 ~ ~92,209 11,523 139,200
fFifteen months. JDivs. to June 30, 1928.
The £1,152,618 of capital (it includes
£228,500, carrying a cumulative 8 p.c.,
with the right to advance with the ords.
to 10 p,c.), so-called reserves and £9574
coming to sundry creditors at Sept. 30
were all represented by shares in Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers, in at
£1,241,889, and £113,933 of deposits, etc.
The manufacturing co. took over the
assets of A. P. and P. and Cumberland
Board Mills (Sydney) for scrip in 1926 ;
later it clipped 4s. per share (£320,000)
off capital, reducing the figure to
£1,280,000, of which A. P. and P. owns
£993,511. No adjustment was made in
the holding co.’s books in this connec-
tion. Still, shareholders have nothing to
worry about on that score.
During the last term A. P. and P. was
able to show 9 p.c. on its capital, and for
the fourth year in succession an all-round
8 p.c., which doesn’t look like being dis-
turbed at the moment, was distributed,
free of the special income tax on prop-
erty. Since the close of accounts the
8 p.c. has been sweetened with a new
issue of 311,207 £1 ords., 27 for 100, at
a premium of ss. each. In the market
the old shares ex rights (applications
closed on Dec. 2) are at 395. prefs. and
345. 3d. ords., at which figures the re-
turns are 4.1 p.c. and 4.6 p.c. respectively
on an 8 p.c. div. basis, with possibilities
in the future.
After destruction by fire of the Sydney
mill in 1929, the operating co. put up
a more efficient plant at Botany ; ex-
change and the tariff diverted to the co.
much business formerly placed overseas,
and earnings continued to expand, while
selling prices were reduced:
Net Profit
Year, p.c. Average
June 30, Net Profit. Capital. Dividends.
1928 .. £96,147 6.2 5J p.c. = £90,826
1929 . . 45,797 2.8 2j „ „ 40,000
1930 .. 102,720 8.1 74 „ „ 96,000
1931 .. 99,372 7.8 7' „ „ 89,600
1932 .. 141,201 11 11.25,, ~ 144,000
1933 . . 153,272 f 12 11.25 „ „ 144,000
1934 . . 171,614 13.4 11.25 „ „ 144,000
1935 . . 177,115 13.8 5.5 ~ „ 70,400*
‘lnterim.
flncludes £5OOO sent to loss of profits reserves.
During the last term, gross earnings
(£358,371) sprang £26,431 ; the net result
benefited by £5501 of the increase, reach-
ing 13.8 p.c. on capital. That was after
setting aside £71,295 (= 8.6 p.c. of the
book value of fixed assets at June 30,
1934) for depreciation and £25,000 for
research and investigation—with the
assistance of overseas experts and the
Council of Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, the co. is investigating the possi-
bilities of making pulp and paper from
locally-grown timbers.
Balance-sheet movements reflect pre-
parations for larger trading:
1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital . . £1,600,000 £1,280,000 £1,280,000
Loans, etc. .. 447,704 1 Q ,
Sundry creditors.. 52,991 f 94,686 112,296
Freehold and plant 1,406,202 1,303,568 1,384,905
Shares other cos.,
etc 25,668 36,658 36.658
Stock .. .. 475,116 347,686 449,269
Book debts .. 151,593 256,570 241,698
Cash .. .. 17,311 68,725 21,956
To carry an extra £101,583 of stocks and
add £81,337 to the book value of fixed
assets, cash was reduced by £46,769,
book debts by £14,872 and £17,610 was
added to the debt; earnings provided the
balance. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£600,627, includ-
ing stocks) was £22,292.
To meet the increased demand for its
products, the co. is installing plant (capa-
city 7500 tons p.a.) for manufacture of
“machine glazed” paper, in addition to a
new 100-ton-a-day board mill. The new
equipment should be in full swing by
the middle of 1936 ; capital expenditure
involved is about half a million, hence
the call for new share capital.
Goliath Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil 4,423 17,774
8 p.c.
1930.. 15,201 5,202 Nil 9,909 7,805
1931.. 12,800 9,383' Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. .. 82,910
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,204 22,894 2i p.c. = 0,890 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. .. 19,402
7 p.c.
1984.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 9,500 39,372
This co. was formed in 1928 to take over
Tasmanian Cement Pty.’s business and
a large shale deposit at Latrobe (Tas.).
It was in a commendable effort to de-
velop the shale-oil business that it met
with trouble. About five years ago the
shale deposit was sold for £14,000 in
1 asmanite Shale Oil scrip, the immedi-
ate loss on the deal being £28,534. To
wipe out this loss and adjust the book
value of assets, £85,286 (6s. Bd. per
share) was struck off ord. capital. At
the same time the cumulative div. on
£143,092 of pref. money was reduced
from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c.
The cement side of the undertaking
appears to have made steady progress
from the start, despite curtailment of
public and other expenditure on construc-
tion work. Earnings have kept step with
the improvement in conditions generally,
and, with the deadwood out of the
accounts, the co. has been able to make
a very attractive showing. For the last
term, gross earnings (£83,017) were
£15,986 better, thanks mainly to the
marked increase, in building and other
constructional activity in Victoria. In-
cluding £20,000 (up £5000) struck off for
depreciation, exes. (£38,147) took £8499
of the increase. Allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, and the pref, div.
(£10,016), enough remained to show
20.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 18.1
p.c. and 12.8 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. So a 5 p.c. bonus was added to
the 10 p.c. div., making 15 p.c. for the
year.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
year’s brisker trading;
1931. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £367,668 £367,918 £295,266 £313,663
Overdraft . . 50,980 39,184 2,896
Sundry creditors 11,302 4,263 8,250 9,640
Freehold, leases,
plant, etc.. . 404,869 358,437 (300,390 284,860
Stocks ~ 20,033 18,460 22,179 21,813
Book debts . . 10,764 9,666 42,833 71,468
Cash, etc. . . 285 145 45 17,099
Shares in other
cos. .. 14,000 1,900 500
To wipe out the overdraft (£2896 at the
previous balance), add £28,635 to stocks,
£17,054 to debtors’ balances and £15,530
to the book value of fixed assets, £18,397
previously unpaid on the ords. was got
in. The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£100,740, including
stocks) was £46,829. Plant is reported in
excellent condition, some new equipment
is to be installed, and costs are expected
to benefit.
For the last few months plant has
been working at full capacity. Still, with
earnings largely dependent on public ex-
penditure, the market sums up the risks
by paying 335. for the ords. (fully-paid
to 13s. 4d.). Allowing for the final div.
(Is. 4d.), the return at 335. is 9.4 p.c.
on the basis of a 15 p.c. distribution. At
255. 6d. the prefs. return 5.5 p.c. on a
7 p.c, div. basis. The net tangible cover
is £2 9s. 4d. prefs. and 16s. sd. ords.,
mainly plant, worth what it can earn.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 36,620 174 p.c. = 33,162 3,458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 23,205
1926.. 44,813 174 p.c. = 39,404 5,409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 17* „ ~ 46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 ~ „ 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 12 i „ „ 39,488 12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 7* „ „ 25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
1932.. 32,538 8 „ „ 28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ „ 24,796 1,779 68,048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ ~33,300 6,182 80,490
This energetic manufacturer of canned
foods and condiments has a bright his-
tory, and is well equipped to win what-
ever profits are to be had from the trade.
If began at Richmond (Vic.) in 1910
with a capital of £lOO,OOO. Progress was
sluggish until the war ended ; but during
the decade to the close of accounts in
1929 £200,000 of fresh capital was
gathered, £25,000 of bonus scrip was
issued, and divs. averaged i 3.3 p.c. Then
slump brought about a glut of canned
foods in the local market, and a lot of
other troubles, too. Still, the div. never
dropped below 6 p.c. ; and, after a tem-
porary halt, the business kept on ex-
panding, with earnings fluctuating ac-
cording to market conditions.
During the last term sales locally con-
tinued to improve, there was less price-
cutting by Government-financed fac-
tories, and a good clearance of canned
fruits followed assistance given to the
export section of the industry by the
Sugar Control Board. The co.’s gross
earnings sprang £12,800, and exes, took
£9213 of the increase;
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
19X5 .. £44,164 £28,601 £2,240
1920 .. 05,811 44,256 5,833
1929 .. 180,982 114,990 14,625
1930 .. 148,787 110,194 10,919
1931 .. 133,013 99,637 10,102
1932 .. 143,322 97,080 13,067
1983 . . 132.241 93,928 12,307
1934 .. 143,134 96,209 11,528
1935 , . 155,934 105,422 11,409
After allowing for depreciation and an
unexplained addition of £438 to reserves,
the net result was £3620 better at 10.6
p.c. on capital as against 9.7, 7.5, 9.2, 6.9,
10, 16.3, 10.3 and 20.6 p.c. back to 1927.
The policy has been to distribute profits
as they were earned, so a point was
added to the div., lifting it to 9 p.c., and
making the average over the last decade
10.3 p.c.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:
1921. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. £125,000 £350,000 £370,000 £370,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 150,187 16,675 15,878
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 241,039 227,479 228,153
Stock.. .. 92,839 261,088 170,754 202,254
Debtors and
bills . . 55,813 76,880 76,066 73,037
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 6,263 5,007 26,285 6,224
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£265,637, including
stocks) was £9207. The growth of
£31,500 in stocks suggests preparation for
brisker trading.
Over the twelvemonth sales of the
pound shares advanced from 355. to 38s.
in the market; sellers now ask 425. At
40s. the return would be 4.5 p.c. on
a 9 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is 245. 4d., which suggests that
plant is conservatively valued in the
books.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (M.L.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1925.. 15,358 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,250 570 44,927
1926.. 20,065 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 5527 50,454
1927.. 22,533 22$ „ ~ 21,461 5,000 40,626
1928.. 22,963 10 „ „ 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Profit on sale of assets, £875 .. 49,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1452 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1634 52,912
1931.. 16,415 10 ~ „ 9,538 5,000 1877 54,789
1932.. 16,825 10 .. .. 9,538 5,000 2287 57,076
1933.. 17,305 19.3„ „ 18,470 5,000 50,901
1934.. 16,204 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 2666 53,567
1935.. 15,636 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2098 55,665
The business was founded in 1871 by a
grand-nephew of Bobbie Burns, and the
co.’s products have won awards in
Britain, Vienna, U.S.A., Canada and
Australia as well as Maoriland. Divs.
have averaged a shade over 8.5 p.c.
since the beginning, sweetened with
£11,923 of bonus scrip in 1923, and only
once, in 1876, have shareholders been
passed by. For the last eight years they
have had a steady 10 p.c., despite slump,
and a special cash bonus of 7s. 6d. a
share was added in 1933 to celebrate
the co.’s diamond jubilee.
Technical efficiency and the quality of
the co.’s products have helped greatly
in the fight against prejudice and com-
petition, and conditions generally con-
tinue to improve. Still, during the last
term, “imports of large quantities of
medium- and low-class goods, some of
the latter wrongly described as ‘woollen,’
have had a serious effect upon the sale
of this co.’s higher-class goods,” the
chairman says. The recession in gross
earnings (£32,608) was £6399 ; but exes.
(£16,972) were pulled back £5831. After
visibly striking off £4OOO for deprecia-
tion, the net result was only £568 lighter
at 12.2 p.c. on capital as against 12.7,
12.9, 12.4, 11.9, 11.7, 11.5 and 18.8 p.c.
back to 1928. So the 10 p.c. div. was re-
peated with a comfortable margin.
As for the current term, although the
new Labor Government is expected to
lower the M.L. exchange premium on
London from 25 p.c. to 10 p.c. by two
equal steps, it is also expected to pro-
tect and encourage local manufacture by
tariff and other adjustments. Further,
the co. substantially increased its stocks
of raw material before the rise in wool
prices, and sales are reported to be on
the increase.
The market, therefore, doesn’t think
that the 10 p.c. div. is likely to be inter-
fered with, and prices the £5 shares paid
to £4 at £lO 55., at which figure the return
is 3.9 p.c. on the basis of last year’s dis-
tribution. The net tangible cover is
£6 6s. Bd. per share.
Finances are comfortable:
1923. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £95,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities .. 33,626 13,011 16,792 14,209
Plant it property 51,952 44,906 34,063 34,348
Stocks . . 64,668 49,341 30,251 50,208
IBook debts, etc. 83,101 20,281 13,039 15,478
Cash and in-
vestments . . 35,505 01,813 103,107 86,075
On plant £4285 was spent and £4OOO was
written off. To add £13,957 to stocks,
£2439 to debtors’ balance and chip
£2423 off the amount coming to credi-
tors, cash was drawn upon for £17,032.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£137,492, including stocks)
was £lBB7.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
1931.. 8,968 Nil 1515
Unexplained reduction, £125 .. .. 1390
1932.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768. 5 p.c. = 14,759 7009 7002
Unexplained reduction, £282.. .. 6780
1934.. 9,733 3| p.c, = 11,028 5485
1935.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2920 8405
This co., formed in 1923, operates mills
at Albury, Orange and Goulburn, N. S.
Wales. It bought its fixed assets when
prices were at their highest. Because of
this and a host of other troubles, its pros-
pects seemed fairly hopeless for a time.
However, internal differences were
settled, and £156,105 was lopped off capi-
tal in 1929, thus enabling the deadwood
to be pruned out of the accounts. Then,
despite slump, exchange and the tariff
provided the industry with fresh oppor-
tunities, costs were reduced, and, after
a 10-year wait and loss of one-third of
their capital, shareholders got their first
div. (5 p.c.) in 1933, followed by 3| p.c.
in ’34 (the collapse of wool prices
affected earnings) and 5 p.c. for the last
term.
Prospects of the co. continuing to pay
moderate divs. are encouraging, subject,
of course, to fluctuations in trading con-
ditions, to which distributions promise to
remain sensitive until capital gets a lot
more support, visible and otherwise.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, business held well, and
the fall in wool values had been pro-
vided for out of the previous year’s tak-
ings. But competition kept margins nar-
row, and gross earnings (£36,149) were
only £lOl9 better. The drop of £6872
in exes. (£8524) was due to the previous
year’s provision for the setback in wool
prices. The net result (up £7891) was
5.9 p.c. on capital as against 3.3 p.c.
and 7.4 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
As for the current term, the co. is
now experiencing no difficulty in selling
the output of its three mills; indeed,
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


*JmM off one nudfft ?
K / K /
iiifeil 0 %/
HP
Jp- ' . :■■■ :■ ■>■ ■
:
■■
a
m
m
•V!i :
: :
SJ
11
■
&
■
■
;■*
Si
mmmm
iU
1
•S
l/i
# ®
:
Sir®
. . :■:: ;■;■ ■
but who cares
when the cigarette
is a Country Life
Superstitious?—Maybe—but not in their
choice of cigarettes. They know Country
Life to be the "correct" cigarette because
they are so consistently good, possessing
a unique blend of the world's finest
tobaccos fine flavoured and fragrant.
They are packed fresh and kept fresh by
double interior wrapping and an outer
sheath of protective English Viscacelle—
the most effective moisture and climate-
proof wrapping ever devised.
Keep on smoking Country Life—the only
shilling tin of cork-tipped Cigarettes.
MOOpURr
VIRGINIA
LTOBACCO.
Country
mm
eo/?/c
*
m
>■
■
mm
In Tins of
■\A-V- : 2hV6
Also in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
Also 50’s Round Air-tight Tins.
Ask to see the specially attractive Christmas Gift packings
9297-11-5


Said a batsman called Oliver Lees,
“This bowler aims straight at my knees.”
But Schweppes Tonic so lashed
Him to zeal that he smashed
All the scorer’s front teeth out with ease.
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- d(f£A uvu
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
S/>c
NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE
Association of Australasia, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
The first Office in the World to apply the Surrender
Value of Life Policies in Paying the Premiums, so
as to Prevent a Policy Lapsing until the Surrender
Value is exhausted.
Extracts from the
66th ANNUAL REPORT.
26,941 New Policies, assuring £10,137,325
New Annual Premiums £372,485
Income for Year £5,018,296
Payments to Policyholders £2,924,349
Added to Assurance Fund £1,619,257
Assurance Fund at 30/9/1935 £39,161,123
Amount Assured under Policies Current . . . £93,752,682
The above figures comprise ORDINARY
ASSURANCE ONLY. The Association
does not transact Industrial Assurance.
New South Wales Board;
SIR JOHN VICARS (Chairman)
W. D. STEWART, ESQ. SIR WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR (Manager)
OFFICE BUILDING: 550 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
orders on hand are sufficient to keep the
plants fully occupied for several months.
The market sums up the risks by paying
11s. 3d. for the scrip (fully paid to 13s.
4d.) as against 10s. 6d. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 5.9 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 13s, 7d.
in net tangibles, mainly plant.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances: —■
1929, 1931 1934. 1935
Paid capital.. £449,481 £293,426 £294,079 £294,079
Overdraft .. 69,625 58,877 59,941 50,700
Sundry creditors 11,161 17,533 14,386 13,819
Freeholds .. 96,123 81,778 83,543 83,085
Plant, etc. . . 223,808 120,559 100,605 93,722
Fittings .. 1,129 859 861 714
Stocks . . 119,571 143,823 152,727 158,209
Hook debts . . 35,512 22,213 46,050 48,335
Shares in other
cos. .. 10,000 ■—
Cash, etc. .. 2,603 2,243 4,768 2,889
Intangibles .. 81,240 10,517 f 0,517 10,517
To carry an extra £5482 of stocks, add
£2285 to debtors’ balances and clip £9241
off the overdraft, cash was drawn upon
for £1879. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£144,914)
was £15,696. On fixed assets £7341 more
was written off than was spent.
Upper Watut Gold Alluvials, New
Guinea, expects to begin production by
June next. Two sets of turbines and
generators, each capable of generating
620 h.p., have been ordered. The first
instalment of treatment plant will consist
of 12-inch pressure pumps and moni-
tors, and 10-inch gravel pumps mounted
on pontoons ; the lot will be capable of
handling 1,000,000 c.y. of wash annually.
H= * * *
Curnow’s Tin, Torrington (N.S.W.), is
a profitable little concern, and looks like
remaining so for the next couple of
years at any rate. Shareholders will
receive another 6d. div. (the seventh) on
Dec. 23, making 25 p.c. on face value of
the scrip for the year. An encouraging
feature is that the ore-body is improv-
ing in value and width as it goes down.
* * * *
Central Gold, a prospecting concern,
is on the stocks in Melbourne with a
nominal capital of £3750 in £lO shares,
of which 250 contribs., to be paid to
£5 each, have been underwritten by
Wallace H. Smith and Co. An option
has been obtained over 12 goldmining
leases, including the Wallamulla, at
Tanami, Centralia. A. G. Campbell and
R. W. Powell will run the rule over these
and other areas, and any considered
worth while will be passed over to one
or more working subsidiaries.
* * * *
The tin find on Morton’s station, 40
miles west of Teatree Well on the Alice
Springs-Darwin road, continues to attract
attention, and 70-odd claims have been
pegged. There is said to be a number
of lodes, the cassiterite being grey in
color, similar to that at Herberton (Q.).
* * * *
Although money has been lost in unsuc-
cessful efforts to work the oil-shale beds
at Latrobe (Tas.), these deposits may yet
prove to be a commercial proposition.
Certainly their oil yield is low—only
about 22 gallons per ton. The oil, how-
ever, is carried by the spores of some
past vegetation ; this spore content has
been christened kerogen. It has been
found that the kerogen can be separated
by the flotation process. It then be-
comes a high-grade product, and, if
heated, evolves a small amount of gas
and oil and is converted into bitumen.
Mining costs have been figured at ap-
proximately Bs. per ton for the shale.
Bitumen is worth around £5 per ton,
and the market is at the door in the road
requirements of the State,
* * * *
Details of the 1934-35 disbursements
of the two Wilunas are to hand. Wiluna
Gold Corporation (the holding co.) re-
ceived £345,285 (stg.) in divs., and dis-
tributed approximately £312,000 among
shareholders. Its carry-forward was
£19,149 (stg.). Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.
(the operating co.), after remitting the
sum mentioned to the holding co., wound
up the year with a balance forward of
£63,838 (Aust.). The report of the
operating co. foreshadows an improve-
ment in gold recovery, and records con-
tinuance of good developments on the
main lodes at depth. “A large quan-
tity” of probable ore was not included
in the recent estimate of 2,040,000 tons.
* * * *
For 1934-35 Lake View (W.A.) netted
£380,934, down £70,000 on the previous
year, owing to six weeks’ stoppage due
to the strike early in 1935. Shareholders
collected £280,000, or 2s. a share. The
co. treated 501,103 tons, assaying 265. Bd.
(gold at 84s, an ounce); average work-
ing costs were 21s. 6.3 Id. sterling ; extrac-
tion was 85.75 p.c., compared with 88.32
p.c. the previous year, the drop being
due to insufficient roasting and increased
dust loss. Ore reserves at 3,035,900 tons
are equal to about five years’ feed for the
mill at the present rate of treatment. The
directors divided £l3OO in fees and
£lO,OOO as percentage of profit. The
most important development was the
opening up in Chaffer’s lease of No. 4
lode at 3390 ft. (the deepest level in the
mine to date), where rich ore was ex-
posed in the north and south drives over
a length of 169 ft. and width of 71in.
* * * *
There has been another change in man-
agement at the Lancefield (W.A.). This
time F. Faull moves out and his prede-
cessor, J. J. Fox, steps in. Last month’s
working profit (£11,715) was the high-
est to date, but the quantity of ore
treated (8857 tons) was below the esti-
mated capacity of the plant, owing prin-
cipally to scarcity of skilled miners.
Monthly yields in 1936 with residue re-
turns added are expected to be well
above those so far obtained. Since pro-
duction commenced in March last, gold
worth approximately £150,000 (Aust.) has
been taken out. A shilling dividend (the
first) is payable in February,
* * * *
Corona (W.A.) has not been nearly
so radiant as the prospectus suggested
that it would be. Latest accounts show
a debit balance of £6668 ; the amount
due to sundry creditors is nearly three
times total liquid assets. No explana-
tion is given as to why profits have not
been earned. Something is, however,
said about suspension of operations,
owing to want of funds, and to a year’s
option having been taken over the prop-
erty by a local mining man.
* * * *
King of Creation, a well-known low-
grade proposition beyond Laverton
(W.A.), has been offered to Claude de
Bernales for inclusion in his group.
Before the present owner (a local syndi-
cate) acquired the property, options were
successively held by B.H. Prop, and the
Western Mining Corp., but neither
thought it suitable for its requirements.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. is sufficiently
impressed with results at Cox’s Find,
Laverton (W.A.), to erect a 50-ton-a-day
battery. Four shafts have been sunk,
and a lode, about 20ft. wide with vary-
ing but satisfactory values, located. The
co. has taken an option over an adjoin-
ing property, the Westralia-Tasmania
mine.
* * * *
During the last 21 months, Kunanal-
ling, which has been plugging along
quietly on a small show north of Cool-
gardie (W.A.), has won gold to the value
of £27,992 for an expenditure of £25,903.
At the end of September there was
£5366 in the till. It is not surprising that
the market is unimpressed by the small
but rich crushings of this co.
Herman Mandelstam’s star is in the
ascendant. In the last few months he has
floated Edjudina and Tindals, and it looks
as if he is going to sell the Big Bell, one
of the biggest low-grade goldmining
propositions in thtfvWest, to the Ameri-
can Smeltmg and defining Corp. and its
associates. American Co., which has
had an option over the property for some
time, has sounded the State Government
regarding the building of a 22-mile rail-
way from Cue to the property. Mandel-
stam is an old Coolgardie pioneer, now
in London.
* * * *
Goldfields Australian Development
has taken an option over Gorman and
Atkinson’s new find, Kintore, north of
Coolgardie (W.A.). This area has been
well prospected in the past, when the
ore failed to maintain values under de-
velopment. Values in the new area have
gone as high as 3oz. a ton,
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Opts., a local con-
cern which failed to pick a winner at
Yellowdine, has secured a free sampling
option for some months over the Lein-
ster, at Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.).
* * * *
Lomah, Ltd., which owns 290 auri-
ferous or supposed auriferous claims in
Southern Rhodesia, including a “golden
quarry” on tribute, has taken an option
on a Kalgoorlie property near Paringa.
The co. proposes to diamond-drill to
establish “the character, width and value
of the ore to a depth of 1000 ft., and so
form some idea as to what wealth exists
down to that point.”
* * * *
Murchison Gold Development, one of
the De Bernales Westralian group, has
extended the option given to subscribers
in July, 1934, to take up one share at
par (55.) for every two shares allotted,
from the end of 1935 to June 30, 1936.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.L.: (1) Alluvial and lode tin has been
found in the Grenfell district. (2) Chiefly
south of the town in the Welkman’s, Star
Gully, Quandong and Two Mile leads; lode
tin has, however, been found in the granite
mass from one to eight miles north of the
town. (3) Bendemeer, Deepwater, Glen Innes,
Wilson’s Downfall, Ardlethan, Emmaville,
Gunning and Torrington. (4) The water re-
sources are all that the prospector could desire.
(5) N 0... .S.S.: See B. 20/11/(35... .C.W.:
Will review in our next issue., . .W. 8.: No
record; making inquiries.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * « *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. * For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.


(!) He said to me can’t you
feel the spirit of Xmas in the
air?
iL
/
*4
ti
/
3
a
/
%
t
<n
/
5^
S'
2
4?
V
V*s.
1 said to him Yes, it goes
with the spirit of JOHNNIE
WALKER - in a bottle!
You can send your friends no better gift for Xmas than a
bottle or a case of Johnnie Walker, the famous old Scotch
Whisky; A most popular present is the Johnnie Walker Old
Master Bottle. This Ceramic Ware container holds a full 26
ozs. of Johnnie Walker.
BORN 1820-STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER & SONS LIMITED, London, Kilmarnock, Sydney.
J.W. 31 F.P.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bufo”; Those giant toads which the
Queensland Government imported to eat
up the deficit or something have entered
on a new and sinister phase which is
worrying my old friend Joe, born and
bred amongst the woollies. It now ap-
pears that the younger generation of
them won’t eat anything but decayed
sheep’s heads. “Another of them im-
ported pests!” wailed Joe. “And us
with dead sheep all over the place.
S’pose them toads was to cross with
the dingo and them there Alsatians.
Where’d the sheep industry be then?”
I suggested that the drought would settle
the toads, but Joe only went off into
reminiscences of how, in his youth, the
blacks used to dig water-swollen frogs
out of dry claypans to get a drink.
“Shouldn’t wonder if them Germans
wasn’t interadoocin’ them toads on pur-
pose,” he said—“just to roon our wool
and get in with that there sympathetic
stuff they’re makin’.” I commend the
idea to Canberra.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare was offered
a job on a dairy farm, but he declined
it. “I want te shepherd work,” he ex-
plained. “I like te sheep to work for
me ; not me work for te prooming Straw-
berrys.”
* * * *
“Shag”: The many naturalists who say
the cormorant is not a fish-destroyer are
offering the merry “ha, ha!” to a party
of those who assert he’s an absolute
danger to fisheries. Some of these last
recently held a cormorant shoot in the
Yass (N.S.W.) country. Twenty-six of
the birds’ stomachs were sent to Sydney
Museum for examination. Not one held
anything resembling a trout, Murray cod
or other game fish. There were carp
and gudgeon in plenty—both notorious
egg-eaters —as well as prawns and yab-
bies. Like old Kelly the Crow, the cor-
morant does a great deal more good than
harm.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Gins are superstitious
about dolls. I’ve seen them go for
their lives at the sight of a doll,
particularly a naked one. At Walgra
(W.Q.), when Lamond was manag-
ing that place, the old gins were
so civilised that they could almost
discuss current politics—certainly they
could hold forth on the iniquities of that
debbil-debbil the Protector. Little Amy
Lamond, aged about three, had a big
celluloid doll, among others. Any of
those dolls could break up a meeting of
the gins. If Amy wandered out with
Celli unclothed those old gins would
shriek fearfully, telling the kid to drop
the thing. Unable to stand the strain,
they would then race for the river a mile
away, and, after a view of Celli naked,
they couldn’t be induced back to the head
station for a week or more.
* * * *
“Mandeb”: A Red Sea shark had an
unpleasant experience when he was skew-
ered on the bows of the steamer Bal-
ranald about 100 miles from the barren
rocks of Aden. The beast could not or
would not get off, so got a free ride to
the fortress. When the anchors dropped
the shark took his leave and disappeared
in the depths, apparently in full working
order. It is no uncommon thing to hear
of whales, which are fond of snoozing
on top of the water, being spiked and
carried like this, but a shark as the hero
is a rarity. For one thing, unless he is
a basking shark, Squalus is rarely big
enough to be well and truly pinned and
carried.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Dacelo leachi (stage-name
of the Queensland kookaburra) is surely
one of the world’s toughest birds. Whilst
three of a kind were holding a glee party
on an electric-light pole in a Brisbane
suburb, the leader stepped on two wires
simultaneously and received a charge of
“That’ll be nice enough for the SERVANTS, but where are WE going to
live ?”
several thousand volts. He hit the
ground, apparently dead, with extensive
burns about his head and legs. A kindly
onlooker laid him down in her garden,
with intentions of decent burial. Jacky
remained out to it for several hours,
then awoke, made a wobbly flight to a
garden across the street, and went out
to it again. After first aid with vaseline
for the burns and a night’s sleep, he
made a hearty breakfast of worms,
chuckled scornfully, and flew off almost
as good as new to rejoin the company.
Judging from the shouts of laughter
which followed his account of the experi-
ence, electrocution is a joke among
kookaburras. They really are gangsters
at heart, though.
* * * *
“Mulga Jim”: Chamoeen rifle-shots?
There were only 14 ducks sitting on the
branch of a tree when Ironbark Joe let
fly with a .303 rifle. No—he missed the
lot. But he split the branch, and the rest
was dead easy. He collected them, all
in a row, caught in the branch, which had
closed on their feet.
* * * *
“Talahua”: Turtle-soup must be as
rare on “Birwurli’s” (B. 20/11/ ’35) menu
as boots on Abyssinians if his boys don’t
know a better way than this head-hold-
ing, flipper-lassoing method of snaring
the provider. Here’s a much better-way.
Arm your boy with a harpoon—a
straightened shark-hook on a boathook-
stave will do very well —and make it fast
to one end of a 60ft. cod line. Tool
your boat quietly up to the victims, and
when within six or eight feet the boy
takes off from the bows of the craft and
the weapon is driven home. Provided
you haven’t forgotten to make the in-
board end of your line fast, you’ll haul
in your catch all right. Incidentally, how
many Aboliars know that real turtle-soup
must be made from the flippers? Pre-
pared from any other portion of the
beast, it’s just soup, and poor stuff at
that.
* * * *
“Billy See”: While this talk of forest
destruction and possible replanting is go-
ing on, let us note the difference between
the imported pine and the native
eucalypt. The foliage of the pine is
brushlike, admirably adapted for the
holding of water in suspension whilst
awaiting re-evaporation. The leaf of the
eucalypt is hard, glazed, and more or less
sickle-shaped, admirably adapted for the
coalescing of even a fine mist into a
tangible drop, which, gathered at the tip
of the sickle, falls to the earth. Nature
worked all this out —the brushlike pine
for the foggy clime, where sunshine is
scanty and the ground oversupplied with
moisture ; the sickle-shaped eucalypt for
the land where sunshine is overabundant
and an ever-thirsty soil demands that
such rain as does fall shall reach it just
as expeditiously as possible. The lesson
needs no further expounding.
»■ * * *
“Erua”: Human-looking fish (B.
20/11/’35)? I admit the snapper,
but he takes second place to the
balloon-fish, which, when inflated, has
a large, round face with a pathetic
expression in his staring eyes and a
quite well-defined nose and straight
mouth. Deflated, he is merely a handful
of pulp.
“Kellick”; Perhaps some of these
“jewel-fish” merchants can enlighten me
as to the identity of the creature that
attached itself to my hook during a
recent visit to Westralia. About Min.
long, similar in color to a parrot-fish, it
had a giant tongue which I took at first
sight to be a saveloy.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: What do they know of Aus-
tralia who only George-street know?
Have just been reading Wanderings in the
Queensland Bush, by one Puxley. He
is a visitor from abroad, and tells us
much about our fauna Sydney loungers
haven’t guessed. Our magpie is really
a butcher-bird, and the native bear is a
sloth which hangs upside down from the
trees to sleep. Our parrots annually
move north in incalculable flocks to
breed, and the white-ants will bury alive
anyone so careless as to sleep in the
open where they are plentiful. The
Queensland coast teems with small sea-
snakes “about 15ft. long,” the young of
the sea-serpent; the latter itself is
frequently seen affectionately wrapped
round whales —species and size of whales
not stated. In hot weather black swans
and other aquatic birds are frequently
caught in the mud of “the lakes” owing
to rapid evaporation of the water. A
pity the lad didn’t stay in this countiy a
bit longer. He might have learned a lot
more to take back to the stately homes
of England. Six months’ study of the
Australian earbiter would have given him
matter for a separate volume, while any
bushman would have told him of our
drought-born frogs and fish which have
never learned to swim, our horses which
can buck themselves out of their skins
and back again, and our politicians who
change their coats so rapidly that the eye
cannot follow their actions. Come again.
Mister Puxley. come again!
* * * *
“C.D.I”: These “bedouries” (called
after the town of that name down in
the “Corner”) that assail us here out west
of Winton (Q.) are quaint things. Every
week or so (oftener during spring and
summer) a southerly wind is followed
next day by a fog of impalpable silvery
dust. Unlike the usual sandstorm, the
stuff is really impalpable. It doesn’t get
in your mouth and nose —much —and
there is generally no more than a breeze,
but visibility is reduced to a few hun-
dred yards or less. Though, as a matter
of form, we curse them, they really
aren’t too bad ; they are always compara-
tively cool, and that, out here, is about
eight points in their favor. They give
the “jump-up” hills from a little distance
a queer appearance, the bases disappear-
ing but the upper parts —mostly colored
a vivid red —shining through the murk
with a silvery glow. Poised in the air,
they seem as near the ghost of a hill as
you’d ever be likely to see.
* * * *
“Mug Pirate”: The largest gathering
of spur-wing plover I ever came across
was within a few miles of Melbourne’s
G.P.O. Maybe that seems a wild State-
ment to those who know of the drear
and lonesome places those wary fowls
are wont to frequent—and
there only in scant num-
bers —and just to shock
any doubters a little more
I’ll record that the birds
were in hundreds. They
flew up just as the horses
tap-danced the hurdles at
the back of the course,
and they winged away
sou’-west toward the far-off
Anakies. Yes, it was on
'ihe Williamstown race-
course, and on a race-day,
with hordes of punters
milling round.
“Flip”: If “Blue Flier” is really mak-
ing a list of birds that will enter
houses (B. 13/11/’35), I’ll add a couple.
Though peewees visit the islands off the
N.Q. coast only from April to Sep-
tember each year, while there they make
themselves thoroughly at home. I have
seen the dainty fowls walking through
Trortson’s house at Long Island, and, by
the assurance of the things, one would
imagine they’d paid their board in ad-
vance. On almost any station in W.Q.
in the season for the straw-necked ibis
these birds are to be encountered about
the head-station. Repeatedly I’ve seen
them stroll through the blacksmith’s
shop, taking it as the shortest route to
the other side, and many times I’ve seen
them come in the front door and go out
the back of the men’s huts. After about
a fortnight there isn’t any wild bird of
the open areas which gets as quiet as
Mr. Ibis. Add to the list also the mickey,
minah, soldier-bird —call him what you
will—common in W.Q. That fellow’s
strong point is the kitchen of a station,
with its wide shutters inviting entrance ;
the sugar-basin has for him a special
attraction.
!£ H: * *
“Saddle-flap”: “Sa Tiko” (B.
13/11 /’35) says goose is the second-best
table bird. Has he ever tried young
swan? Hang it for a while and you can’t
tell the difference. I know, because years
ago in Gippsland (Vic.), where swan-
shooting is legally and morally taboo,
mother used to serve us swan quite often.
Dad, a conscientious J.P. and a bush
naturalist, invariably passed his plate
back for a second helping. Had he
known that he was eating swan....
SPINIFEX.
It doesn’t seem like forty years, but time has
hastened on,
Since I came down the river and selected
Avalon.
Then I was young; now I am old—my head
has long been grey;
And here among the spinifex I’ve passed my
life away.
They say I’m not the man I was —well, that
might eas’ly be.
This life among the spinifex has not agreed
with me.
The time I brought the wire up to fence the
“Twenty-mile,”
I thought Td have a holiday and stay in
Perth a while;
But pleased was I to hurry back, for I’m
ashamed to say
I was stepping over spinifex along the
pavement way.
They say I walk a trifle queer; I do without
a doubt.
I’m stepping over spinifex when there is none
about.
To-day a little land wind sets the spinifex
a-sway,
And blue with haze the Lost-Star Range seems
vague and far away.
The desert gums are white with bloom, galahs
are on the wing,
And in the thicket by the creek the sleepy
bellbirds sing.
I never was a pious man; the prayers I’ve
said are few.
In building up a station I’ve found other
things to do.
But when 1 come to judgment in my own
defence I’ll say
“I pioneered the country round the Lost-Star
Ranges way.”
Now does the silver spinifex reach to the hazy
range,
And men will live and men will die, but this
will never change.
The big Ashburton hurries down floodwaters
to the sea;
And hills and skies and spinifex bound in the
world to me.
They say I talk a trifle queer—there’s truth
in what they say:
It’s living in the spinifex that makes a man
that way.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


“Bull-ant Bill”; Again has an inno-
cent man of the land been deprived of
his faith in human nature. A Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) cow-cocky, seeking at
crack of dawn the lair of his new hired
hand, found, to his extreme astonish-
ment, that the lad was up and dressed.
Handing him the lantern that he might
forthwith seek the bails, the gratified
employer warmly congratulated his trusty
retainer on being the first hired man in
all his experience whom he had not had
to call to start work. “Gripes!” faltered
(he startled lad, “I’m only just back
from the darnce.”
* * * *
Bogan Boy”: Central and Western
Queensland and Central Australia are lit-
tered with the small green axe-heads
(diabase), which “C.C.C.” (B. 20/11/’3sj
mentions. One of the centres from which
this stone originates is Charleville
(s.-w. Q.). It is the only place I know,
but there must be other deposits.
* * * *
“Ricky”: Bushmen may go straight
on most occasions and crooked on some,
but if the way-finding faculty is inborn
it is an example of fairly rapid inheri-
tance. In the S’African War it was soon
found out that to send an Englishman
on a trip in which the objective would
not be visible the whole time (especially
if ai } Australian was available) was sheer
foolishness. One example was that of a
Tommy who was sent off on horseback
in the early morning to carry a message
five miles. In the evening he was found,
exhausted and upon a worn-out horse,
having ridden all day within a total dis-
tance of a mile and a half of the camp.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy”: “F.CJ.” (B. 20/11/’35)
has been enjoying a long, deep sleep if
he thinks foxes have only just arrived in
the Boulia (Q.) district, and his old
“This is MY possie. You try somewhere else!”
dogger must have been out of the game
for some considerable time also. I
saw them there—and a few hundred
miles higher up—ls years ago. I don’t
know how long they were there before
that. Does anyone know how far north
the rabbit has travelled? I have seen
'em near the headwaters of the Burke.
“Old-timer”: The young bank clerk
hadn't been long in the town when the
boss’s daughters invited him to spend a
week-end on the station. He came attired
in riding-pants and leggings; which
prompted the boss,
a stern-faced old
practical joker, to
pick out Reefer,
an uncertain skew-
bald, as a mount
for him. Reefer
had a mouth like
iron and an annoy-
ing habit of pig-
rooting gently
round in circles.
He never bucked
seriously enough to
unseat an average
rider, but a stranger
could be excused
for expecting to
bite the dust any
minute. Young
Percy wasn’t much
of a rider, and
Reefer soon dis-
covered it. When
he came gently
pitching round the
horseyard on Sun-
day morning the
sleepy hands
gathered in front
of the cookhouse
wore wide grins,
for the young
man’s face was full
of alarm as he
bounced and jerked
about in the
saddle. In the end
he slipped off, ob-
viously glad to
find himself on the
solid ground,
Paddy the cook
sang out, “Hey,
don’t get on that
horse again! Wait
till I get you a
key.” “A key—
what for?” echoed
the youth blankly.
“So’s you can get inside; it’s safer
there!” replied Paddy.
* * * *
“De Aar”: According to the cables,
the Abyssinians are fooling the Italians
by mingling with them as simple civilians
during the day and, after nightfall, sneak-
ing their rifles out of the scrub and
bumping off as many as possible. Simi-
lar tactics were effectively used by the
Boers in the early part of the British
campaign in S’Africa. Jan would be
encountered ploughing his holding, a
genial, peaceful person who had no sym-
pathy with the fighting Dutchman, and
who proved it by giving advice as to
roads and hostile commandoes. But the
moment the troops had marched off to
follow his advice, Jan would get out his
rifle from where it was hidden, saddle
his horse and gallop off to arouse the
rest, upon which they would cut across
the country they knew so well and am-
bush the rooineks. This sort of thing
continued until Kitchener put all the
women and children into concentration
camps. Deprived of their bases, Jan and
his comrades were gradually worn down
and forced to surrender. Had this sys-
tem not been applied, the Boer War
might still be going strong on the front
pages of the British press.
“Caloundra”; “Groper” (B. 4/12/’35)
needn’t get fussed about catching more
than one snapper at once. Moreton Bay
amateurs in my time invariably fished
with three hooks —one dropper and two
CHRISTMAS MORNING.
rigged leger-fashion to keep the short
lines carrying the hooks clear of the
main line. Two and three fish on at
once when a good shoal was struck was
a commonplace, as anyone knowing the
biting habits of the big fish when he is
on the job will recognise. As these bouts
rarely lasted more than quarter of an
hour, the fatigue was not so much in evi-
dence as “G.” argues. Each man had a
flourbag handy at the steamer rail in
front of him, and when the fish came up
they were knocked on the head with the
light club everyone carried, and the hook
forced out with the little fork cut in
the other end of the killing-stick. It was
all over in a few seconds.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Yes, “Tockilly” wins (B.
27 /11 / 35). Under the microscope,
Ctenocephalus canis can no more be mis-
taken for Pulex irritans than Sir Walter
Raleigh in full Court costume could be
mistaken for W. M. Hughes playing
golf. Ct.c. wears heavy-spiked ruffs
where his neck would be. PA. is a
plainly-dressed little chap. Any bush flea-
argument can be settled with a 2s, 6d.
magnifying glass. Knock out your flea
with a drop of rum or metho. (he’s
no head for drink), and examine him in
a good light on a sheet of white paper.
Some Australian fleas are extraordinary-
looking beasts. The one favoring the
paddymelon would make a splendid wall-
paper pattern for a Drunks’ Home. The
porcupine has one of the largest fleas in
the world, but it isn’t a particularly orna-
mental animal, and can barely hop.
* * * *
“Quark”: Tell “Vamac” (B. 20/11/’35)
there is nothing surprising in a toad
swallowing a frog, but it might just as
easily be the other way about. Both will
try anything once. Years ago, on a
W.Q. station, there lived a large green
frog which hopped on the dining-room
table every night in summer to eat the
insects that thronged round the lamp.
One night a sizable bat hit the lamp-
chimney and fell on the table half-
stunned. In a trice the croaker was on
him, and stuffing him into his mouth
with both hands. Froggie couldn’t get
past the bat’s spread wings, but when
the squeaking mammal was twice hauled
out of the frog’s jaws the swallowing
was attempted again. As both were
valuable insect-eaters sanctions were
applied.
* * * *
“W.”: What constitutes a true bush-
man? I once had as mate a bootclicker
from Nottingham who had never seen a
gum-tree until he was nearly thirty. He
absorbed bush-lore like a sponge, and I
never knew him to get bushed. In fact,
there were times when he was able to
show this true-born Aussie short-cuts
back to the camp.
“Tidapa”; Can’t understand how
“Umpoor” (B. 30/10/’35) found the
pigmy goose hard to stalk. Out from
Darwin every waterhole and lagoon
abounds with the birds, and they can be
approached easily,
one gunshot usu-
ally sufficing to
bag at least a
dozen geese. We
shot them, how-
ever, only when
out camping. Our
q uarters were
alongside a white
concrete tennis
court, and practi-
cally every morn-
ing during the dry
season we could
pick up half a
dozen geese and
ducks from the
court. It was sur-
rounded with a
high netting fence,
and the birds, mis-
taking the concrete
for a sheet of
water, would land
at high speed, and
only discover their
mistake too late
Some would be
killed outright,
while others would
still be struggling,
either entangled in
the netting or at
the foot of it.
* *
I am
beginning to be-
lieve the much-
discredited theory
of heavy bom-
bardments causing
the abnormally wet
weather in Flan-
ders during the
war. Lately, stalk-
ing the wily black-
bird on my straw-
berry patch with a shotgun fired from
under the verandah, I have noticed
on drizzly or misty mornings that the
report is followed by a sharp, short
shower on the tin roof. It always occurs,
so can’t be a coincidence. Is there any
explanation?
* -f * >s
“Ninety Mile Beach”: “Plankton” is
right when he states (B. 30/10/’35) that
pipi are well known in M.L.; wrong
when he suggests they are a popular dish.
Even Maoris, preferring oysters, shy at
cooking them. They’re leathery. But as
baits salt-water fishermen are keen on
them. I’ve landed many a fine blue-cod
with a pipi masking a hook. Being
tough, they don’t tear easily with
nibbling.
V * * *
“Tenor”: “F.Y.7” reckons “The Wild
Colonial Boy” our only national folk-
song (B. 13/11 /’35). How about “The
Old Bark Hut”? Forty or fifty verses
are only the prelude to “The Hut.” And
how about “Willie Stone”? I heard
“Willie” once. After a couple of hours
the fellow doing the job seemed to be
getting into his stride. That was when
1 left.
“Hastings'’: A King Country (M.L.)
medical man who keeps about half a
dozen ewes and their progeny as lawn-
mowers was approached by an old-time
blade-shearer about removal of the
fleeces. The M.D. asked what his charge
would be. “Nothing, doctor,” said he
with the blades. “You can let me have
the wool; that’ll be near enough.”
* * * .1!
“T.P.”; Just as “Spes” (B. 6/11/’35)
was “cured of bathing within riding dis-
tance of a homestead,” so I was taught
not to immerse within walking distance
of a solitary Wimmera roadside pub
where I boarded as a half-time dominie.
On blazing nights I would pant to a
Water Trust miniature dam for travel-
ling stock, reduce myself to A. Ward’s
“skanderlus kostoom uv a Creak slaiv,”
pump full the trough, get in and luxuri-
ate. One night a feminine voice in the
distance sent me helter-skelter over the
fence into a corner of the small en-
closure. A Scotch thistle and I became
suddenly intimate. An engaged couple
leaned against the fence within a yard
of where I sat in agony. For a full hour
whispered but audible sugary nothings
did little to make my life more bearable.
Then a sudden and very cold change sent
them off. I scaled that fence, taking ex-
treme care not to sit on the top-rail, only
to find that I hadn’t effectually shut off
the pipe leading to the hose used to fill
water tanks. My clothes, a sodden mass,
were underneath.
THE CITY KOOKABURRAS.
The wireless-mast across the street
Is where they sit and crack their jokes;
Their peals of lusty laughter greet
My ear like clack of shrunken spokes
On scalded patch of sandy plain
That drought on drought has burned brick-
brown,
A lashing threat that all the rain
Of years to come can never drown.
Their laughter often seems to hold
A scornful note which hints that I,
Who faced the bush with courage bold,
Youth’s self-conceit and purpose high,
Hauled down Hope’s colors, after all,
Resigned a task with hardships rife,
And, listening to Discretion’s call,
Surrendered to a city life.
Well, lei them laugh. Like breeze-swept pool
The shadow quivers in the heat;
My house is comfortably cool,
The air with scent of flowers is sweet.
And someone else, with smarting eyes
And bruised hands, swings the drafting gates
And, cursing sheep, heat, dust and flies,
Endures (as I did) what he hates.
Yes, let them laugh. Soft moonlight nights
Bring wistful feelings of unrest ;
The stars are far-off city lights,
The wagtail’s call an ill-timed jest,
And discontent soon dominates
A brain that wanders in a maze
Of drab to-morrows —fitting mates
For countless dreary yesterdays.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


H7S
LYS
¥»
PROOF
100% Australian-made
From Australian! Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
- -x
m
w* =»
■
ss
as*
- ''X'zkfi
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGIŢS LINSEED MEAL.
Telling Five-year Sheep.
“Lion”: More arguments take place
over the age of sheep after four years
than need be. Country plays an im-
portant part in the wear of teeth, but
nothing can make a genuine five-year-
old look like an eight-tooth.
When mouthing sheep, always look at
the last tooth. If it is small and sharp-
edged, it is an eight-tooth ; if long and
sharp, a five-year-old; and after that
six years or more, according to the
general look of the sheep. A genuine
eight-tooth most likely will have a slight
spread in the middle teeth, due to rough
country or a bad mouth.
An obvious five-year-old with com-
pact teeth is better buying than an eight-
tooth showing signs of spread. At the
former’s age it will look more like a
six-year-old, and probably act as such.
Unless an old sheep has a good mouth
it isn’t worth entertaining at any price.
Even when the age is definitely known,
culling is best carried out on the teeth.
Sheep with loose teeth are better as
gummies. You will be surprised at the
improvement in condition after a little
dentistry.
What Is a Corried'ale?
“B-gar”: “Hortus” (B. 13 /ll/’35) is
accurate about the characteristics of a
dual-purpose sheep, but it seems a pity
the two associations concerned in
furthering the interests of the Corrie-
dale can’t overcome what to me are
trivial differences, and fall in line re-
garding type without worrying about
heritage.
Even though purity of blood may have
been the hall-mark for a century or two,
no one breed of domestic sheep in the
world has not had an infusion of ex-
traneous blood at some time or another.
The fact that the Australasian Corrie-
dale Society demands as “a funda-
mental condition of acceptance that all
flocks must have proven origin Lincoln-
merino (50 p.c. of each)” does not prove
purity of origin of the breed’s ante-
cedents. The Lincoln isn’t the true-blue
a great many are led to believe ; it owes
some of its present status to an infusion
of Bakewell’s Leicesters in the eighteenth
century. The Australian and N.Z. Asso-
ciation isn’t so fussy about origin, but its
Corriedales are standardised in type.
As to the distinctive differences be-
tween sheep registered by the various
societies, if a dozen from each were
selected and boxed I’d like to meet the
judge who could discriminate as to the
breed of the original forefathers of each
sheep.
It seems to me as if another Bakewell
were needed to put the Corriedale con-
troversy on a proper footing.
What Is Quality?
“Ghanam”: The question is a little
like that old one “What is truth?”
Quality means different things with dif-
ferent animals, and it is amazing to find
how little farmers sometimes understand
it outside their own immediate spheres.
In a horse, symmetry, breeding, tex-
ture of skin and coat, fineness of
bone and appearance count heavily. In
cattle, touch or handling plays a bigger
part —mellowness, the feel of skin and
hair, indicating the good doer which
will turn a minimum of fodder
into a maximum of prime meat or high*
test milk in the shortest possible time.
While quality in cattle is usually evi-
dent to the expert eye, the hand must
always make the final test in judging.
Sheep quality is usually to be largely
estimated from skin texture, color
of the skin and, of course, the grain of
mutton or the texture and staple of the
wool. The hand, again, is the most use-
ful meter.
Keeping an Old Bull.
“Taurus”; No bull with real preten-
sions to quality should be destroyed or
sold until enough time has elapsed to
show what his progeny is like. Some of
the ugliest bulls in history have pro-
duced the finest cattle,
Hubback and Favorite (252), the
fathers of practically all modern beef
Shorthorns, had little to recommend them
to the outward eye except a superb
quality ; and in less experienced hands
than those of A. J. Simpson, Lindenow
Duke of Derrimut 40th might have gone
to some obscure farm where there were
no females worthy to breed him with.
He was kept, but died at seven years
old.
Nobody knew exactly how great was
the revolution his blood was to work in
Australian cattle till after he died in
1916.
The practice of giving a sire a chance
to show results is just as vital with
milking cattle.
The best policy is to buy a bull which,
on ancestry, conformation, handling and
general characteristics, seems likely to
nick with the herd, and let the bucket
prove his worth.
It is far safer than the policy which
induces some breeders to flit from bull
to bull and from blood to blood with
little more incentive than the critical gos-
sip of neighbors or failure to win ribbons
in a show.
A Testing Ration.
“Zamia”: For a cow on test, as for a
man in training, the more regular the
diet the better.
You can’t beat corn silage and lucerne
hay as a basis. Let her have 301 b. of the
silage per day, and as much hay as she
cares to eat.
To this add a ration of equal parts of
cornmeal and oatmeal —or two parts
cornmeal and one of bran —and supple-
ment the silage-and-hay ration with lib.
for every of average milk produc-
tion.
This is quite enough for ordinary
yielders, but very high producers will not
hurt for 11b. linseed-meal each day.
Don’t let the animal get on to a full
diet at once —train her to it gradually.
And don’t forget plenty of fresh, clear
water. Also, that in winter even a cow
may get cold and need a rug.
Water and Dairy Cattle.
“Wundi”: I asked four farmers the
other day what quantity of water a cow
in milk would be likely to drink. Not
one of them knew. And all, having a
guess, were on the short side. No won-
der dairying is not always profitable—
any miller who did not know how much
wheat it takes to make a cental of flour
would go out of business, and adequate
water is as much a manufacturing in-
gredient when it comes to milk as wheat
is in milling.
As with humans, the water capacity
of cows varies with their size, with their
milk production and with the type of
feed. An average per day seems to be
from 111 b, (just over Ugal.) to 151 b.,
with from 21b. to 31b. additional for
every pound of milk produced.
These, however, are only rough figures.
Big milkers are far from modest drinkers.
Once 1 measured the water supply of
four heavy prize-ring matrons for a week.
The amount of liquid they tucked away
would have made a waterside barmaid
blush.
One matron who was having 1071 b. of
milk per diem squeezed out of her drank
one day 3091 b. of water, or 37ga1., with-
out a blink—the weather was hot. Even
her worst day was 2391 b.
Weak Hindquarters.
“Pappamosca”: Pigs are particularly
prone to the trouble. Long-standing con-
stipation, too much pollard, kidney-
worm or cold, hard, damp sleeping-
quarters may be the cause.
Syringe out the lower bowel with one
teaspoonful of common salt in a pint of
water once every day for three days.
Give a dose of one teaspoonful of soda
sulphate with equal quantity of pow-
dered charcoal, mixed in a little milk,
every day for 14 days. Once, at the be-
ginning of the fortnight, dose them with
one teaspoonful baking-soda and ditto
charcoal.
To sleep on, give them slabs about 3in.
or 4in. off the ground and well sheltered.
And their diet can remain nearly nor-
mal —skim-milk, a little grain, bran and
green food. But pollard should be com-
pletely cut out.
Arrowroot for Pigs.
“Oken”: Arrowroot is a good pig
ration where it will grow—the best way
is to let the pigs do the harvesting them-
selves —but its 20 p.c. of starch needs
some protein balance.
An addition of 21b. pollard with skim-
milk per pig should do the trick, if you
like work; but it is better to let the
pigs do their own labor.
If arrowroot and field-peas near
maturity are used as pasture, the animals
should be able to balance their own
ration.
The same balance serves with pig-
harvested sweet-potato crops.
Parasitic Mange.
“X.T.”: A stamping or restless horse
usually is suffering from more than tem-
per. Often the trouble is due to para-
sitic mange, which usually begins on the
lower parts of the legs and spreads to
the body if not dealt with quickly.
I once had a horse or two infected, and
the next nag I meet with the slightest
sign of the trouble will get highly dras-
tic treatment.
Isolate the patient at once, and keep
anything that touches him brushes,
cloths, etc. —well away from other
horses. And don’t hug him yourself, or
you may think you are back in Mespot.
Clip the legs, wash them well with
disinfectant soap and, after drying, rub
on sulphur ointment with a glove. If
the infection is too widespread to allow
this to be used economically, try the
following:
Mix 21b. quicklime and 11b. sulphur
in a kerosene-tin of water. Boil for a
couple of hours and let the liquor settle.
It should come out clear and golden.
Brush on with a swab, and leave for a
couple of days before washing down the
affected parts with soap and warm
water.
Using Animal Manure.
“Julius Want”: Of all the products of
the average farm animal manure is prob-
ably the most wasted.
Not so in other countries. Go to
Persia, and outside Ispahan you will find
women and children scrambling for wet
camel- and ass-dung, which goes towards
making the poppy- and wheatfields
flourish. And I can never remember see-
ing cow- or horse-dung lying, at waste,
on the surface of an English or Danish
field.
One of the difficulties in using farm
manure scientifically is the inability to
know exactly what its content is, par-
ticularly when it is moistened. In any
case, no matter what soil it is used on,
it has some advantages which artificial
fertilisers can never supply—it intro-
duces organic matter into the earth and
influences its moisture-carrying capacity
and general structure. Minerals are ren-
dered more easily available by the de-
velopment of organic acids.
Fermentation and leaching, of course,
affect fresh farm manure very quickly,
depriving it in particular of a large pro-
portion of its potash content. It should
therefore be pitted or shredded —outside
storage is no use. It pays well to gather
it regularly and stack it under shelter on
a cement floor.
Someone who imestigated thoroughly
in U.S.A. estimated that average
cattle produced 74.11 b. of manure of all
types per day per 10001 b. live weight of
beast. For sheep, the figure was 34.11 b. ;
for calves, 67.81 b.; for horses, 48.81 b.;
for pigs, 56.21 b.
It is not difficult to admit, in the face
of that, that any cow produces £1 worth
of manure per year—say £12,000,000
worth for the whole of the cattle in
Australia, if it were usable. And, re-
membering that no form of organic mat-
ter is so finely ground and doubly
charged with the materials for soil-
building, it seems a true old North Euro-
pean saying that who wastes farm
manure throws away gold.
How to Cut Straw.
“Stump Jump”: Often a crop of oats
can be stripped while the stems are still
moist and purple. If the stripping is
done in blocks, straw may be cut with
the binder in the fresh stage. Sometimes
it holds 2 p.c. protein.
For fodder reserves, the sooner straw
is cut after the stripper the more valu-
able it is.
A useful hint, if a 6ft, binder is avail-
able, is to cut straw where an Bft. har-
vester has been used. The harvester
wheels knock down 2ft. of the Bft. cut,
so that a 6ft. strip of straw, trodden down
towards the binder’s direction of travel,
is available.
Owing to this lean, produced as the
harvester works in the opposite direction
to the binder, an even, straight-packed
sheaf can be obtained. In addition, the
whole of the straw can be cut, instead
of about half, as happens when travel-
ling with the straw lean. An Bft. binder
is also the machine to follow a 10ft.
harvester or header.
If straw can be cut at home, a block
of the size needed should be stripped
separately so as to secure the advantage
of cutting against the lean.
The overuse of the reel spoils many
men’s straw sheaves. The beaters
scarcely need to touch the stalks at all,
and they should be well forward. Tech-
nique on some points is contrary to that
of hay-cutting. Slow horses are more
useful than fast.
Curing Lucerne Hay.
“Pick”; For good-quality hay, lucerne
should be mown when new shoots ap-
pear at the crown and the plants are
one-fourth in bloom. Later cutting
o Continued on page 24.)


SUNSHINE AND MASSEY HARRIS
FARM IMPLEMENTS
For Summer
Cultivation
For many years Sunshine and Massey Harris farm
implements have played a pre-eminent part in the agri-
cultural development of Australia and other parts of the
world, and are renowned for quality, dependability, and
long service. A complete line and a diversity of designs
afford a wide range from which to choose the right
implement or machine for farm, pasture, orchard, or
vineyard. Ask the local agent or write direct for the
illustrated catalogue and complete price list—free and
post free.
SUNDERCUT
Stump-jump Disc Cultivating Plough
Cultivates more soil per horse-power than any other implement—
in plain or stump-jump country—and leaves the right tilth for
moisture conservation. For lightness of draught, all-the-year-round
usefulness for work in virgin soils, in hard-set fallow covered with
stinkwort, paddymelon, heavy weed growth—in all kinds of
country—it is unexcelled. Success won by winners of Fallow
Competitions is attributed mainly to the excellent work of their
Sundercuts.
10-disc, cuts sft., team-steering gear £47/15/6
14-disc, cuts 7ft., team-steering gear £5B/10/-
Also supplied with hand-steering gear, and tractor levers in lieu
of team levers, at small extra charge. Constructional features are
fully described in the SUNDERCUT FOLDER—mailed free on
request.
SUNDUKE
Bridle-draught Stump-jump Scarifier
Light, but very strong, durable, and with extraordinary clearance.
Praised by users for its outstanding work in cutting out all weeds, and
leaving a perfect seed bed and mulch. Patented Overhead Release
Gear—an outstanding feature found only on the Sunduke—applies
the draught release so that numerous tynes may be “hung up” on
stumps before the release to the remainder is exhausted. Stump-
jump control is entirely at the top, so does not obstruct clearance
of the tynes.
14-tyne, 7ft. cut, for team £56/1/-
18-tyne, 9ft. cut, for team £65/6/6
Also supplied fully equipped for tractor working, at small extra cost.
Ask for the SUNDUKE FOLDER, which describes it fully.
MASSEY HARRIS
Certified Tractor
The New
Model 25
y
T •*'
IS,
The latest and most powerful tractor built by Massey Harris, for use
with petrol, kerosene or distillate. HORSE-POWER (Nebraska
Test—Distillate Fuel) —Rated Drawbar, 26.44; Rated Belt, 41.01;
Maximum Drawbar, 35.25; Maximum Belt, 48.25. SPEEDS—
Standard, 4 m.p.h.; Reverse, m.p.h. OVERALL
DIMENSIONS—Length, 135 inches: Width, inches; Height
over Hood, 5 7 inches. A notable advance in tractors —durable,
sturdy and compact, simple to operate, speedy and powerful in per-
formance, with low running and maintenance expense.
The TRACTOR BOOKLET describes it fully. Write for a copy—
it’s free.
Prices quoted are net cash for delivery f.o.r. Sunshine. Extended terms can be quoted at small extra
cost. For delivery at any Australian capital or Tasmanian port, prices are a little higher. Write to the
nearest address for full particulars—free and post free.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Branches: 654-664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and
King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., South Brisbane.


TTie'^'ccllelzm^
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bibli
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
'
-
FOR FOOT HEALTH
This shoe brings comfort and healthful
ease of movement to sorely-tried foot
muscles. No cramping or pinching any-
where. It fits perfectly in width as well
as length . . . you are offered choice of
narrow, medium, wide and extra-wide
fittings in each size. The sole is thick
and durable.
ORDER BY POST—State both width
and size, and ask, also, for a supply of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d. per tin),
or a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . .33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 468.
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees, or agents for
any goods or property within the Sydney Fire
District, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an
insurance company not registered in the State,
arc hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such insurance
companies during the year 1935.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1936;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
NOTE. —Returns arc required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of Mew South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of
risks against fire during the year ending 31st
December, 1935, within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, applies; less any part
of such premiums actually paid by way of
reinsurance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1936; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
thersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Quickly Relieves
Travel Sickness .
» -rJl
Attcng
This is Giobite 1858 ... a
fibre case with one-piece body
finished like smooth, glossy
leather, but lower priced. It
is rigid and extra strong,
with nickelled corner guards.
Giobite 1858 is the smartest,
lightest, and most serviceable
of travel cases.
r
-V I
r A
1
A
TO ENGLAND
1 the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
'"’T
(ttntiduwifadwlfiMuiMtiioit Ijnu
might give a bigger yield, but the stems
will be harsher, with less leaf.
Allowed to lie long in the swathes,
exposed leaves wilt and easily drop off
while the stalks are still sappy.
Rake within two hours of cutting,
using a left-hand side-delivery rake. It
goes against the heads tumbled back-
wards over the mower bar, and places
the hay in a loose winrow with much
leaf covered and stalk exposed. The
stalks then gradually dry, while the
leaves still grow.
To hasten curing, or drying after rain,
turn the winrows at intervals. This pro-
cess, if favored by weather conditions,
makes the hay fit for stacking in two
days or less. Brittle stalks show that the
hay has ripened. Carefully handled, it
goes into the stack beautifully green and
leafy.
Napier Grass.
“Ghanam”: Can anybody tell me
whether Napier grass ever has been tried
in the wetter parts of Northern Aus-
tralia? Central Africa is its native
heath, and it was first cultivated in
Rhodesia in 1909. I believe some was
imported many years ago into Queens-
land.
In Florida, where I saw it, they told
me that it was better than any grass
which they had so far imported for bulk
production of fodder. In Cuba, they
said, 275 tons per acre had been cut in
a year.
It does not grow readily from seed,
but cuttings sprout as easily as cane. In
U.S.A. —this was some years ago, and
technique may have changed — their
method was to plough and rough-harrow
the field and put down the cuttings 19in.
apart in rows 3ft. wide. Sometimes canes
were laid flat in the rows and allowed
to sprout from the joints.
The fields were kept weeded until the
grass was well sprouted. When it was
3ft. high it was cut. Six to nine cut-
tings were made in the year.
It looks a good hit to me for Arnhem
Land and the Gulf when stations be-
gin to raise cattle for chilling by farming
methods instead of following the present
popular system of “just watching ’em
grow.”
Black-end in Bananas.
“Yandina”: This is a disease common
to the banana throughout the world, and
it is a wonder to me, in view of the
extent of it, that greater efforts have
not been made to grow an immune type.
The disease — fungoid — shows only
after ripening. The finger stalk becomes
moist and black. The patch presently
spreads down the fruit, and, very shortly,
with most types, exit banana as a pulpy
mass.
There are several causal organisms—
G. musarum and fusarium, Nigrospora
muscc and a simple fellow called Thiela-
viopsis paradoxa von Hoehn.
The difficulty is for the average man
to recognise his different enemies. And
without recognition it is not easy to deal
with them. G. musarum has pinkish
spore masses scattered over its sable
face. It likes heat. Many a ripening-
room is infested with it because the tem-
perature is kept nearer 70deg. Fahr.,
which it likes, than 45deg., which it
does not. And a too moist atmosphere
accentuates the trouble.
G. fusarium is own brother to the
musarum, and is often associated with it,
but is a quicker grower. It is marked
by fluffy white at the end of the finger
stalk, and it doesn’t mind a milder tem-
perature.
Nigrospora is practically a skin disease
unless the banana is kept for long, when,
for nearly an inch, it goes soft inside —
an “end-squirter,” they call the patient
in S. Queensland.
Lastly comes Mr. von Hoehn’s pet,
which is the Tom Lurich of banana pests.
It has all the holds and clinches of the
other organisms and some more. It is
easily recognised by a smell like an over-
ripe pineapple, and it doesn’t care a toss
whether the temperature is 20deg. or
70deg. In winter it does as much damage
as in summer.
In 1934 Yandina (Q.) fruit stored in
Melbourne had a particularly bad time.
That it comes from a pineapple district
is interesting, in view of its smell and
the fact that it causes water-blister on
its prickly neighbor.
A lot of experiment has been done
at the botany department of Melbourne
University and by the C.S.I.R. with a
grant from the Commonwealth Banana
Committee.
Inoculation has been tried, but the
trouble is that spores are usually present
when fruit is brought in for treatment.
All known measures at present are pre-
ventive —the cleaning out on plantations
of leaves, bracts and other rubbish on
which the fungi grow freely, and clean-
liness and right temperatures in rooms
where ripening fruit is hung.
“Valerin”: I’m a firm believer in sub.
clover, but discretion should be used in
choosing localities for laying it down. In
country where there is a heavy rainfall,
s.c. makes a rapid and lush growth, on
low-lying parts entirely covering the
ground. The sun cannot penetrate the
mass of feed, with the result that sheep
are liable to footrot. I know places
where owners are compelled to replace
sheep with cattle.
“K.”: As a grower of white turnips
for sheep feed, I often wish that they
would develop faster. I note that the
fastest growing plants in my garden are
White Icicle radishes. So there’s a-
chance for some Burbank to cross the
radish with the turnip and get a crop
in half the time. Or perhaps it would
be possible to produce a radish that
would grow as large as a turnip and on
the top of the ground, instead of inches
down, as the Icicle variety of radish
does.
"T.F.”: It’s a bad practice in an
average-sized shed to permit your wool-
classer to take on an extra job, such as
picking bellies, locks, etc., for which he
draws wages in addition to his classing
pay. It causes trouble with the shed-
hands, who feel that a man is being de-
prived of a job by another who is well
paid for his own special work. Besides,
in an average-sized shed the classer has
enough to do.
“Out West”: Shifting sheep by motor-
truck (B. 13/11 /’35) is not a new “come-
up.” During the 1926 drought in western
Queensland dozens of trucks were cart-
ing feed, and most of their owners
had a double-decker crate built for
shifting sheep, thousands of which
were carried, often for long distances.
During the dry spells in ’27 and ’28
trucks were also frequently used ; but
since then (except in the case of rams)
they have lost favor —principally, I sup-
pose, on account of the high cost. They
had other uses as well. Early in 1927 5000
drought-stricken ewes, heavy in lamb,
came to the Thompson River, about 65
miles below Longreach. The river was
running after rain higher up, and.
although good agistment feed had been
ecured a few miles out on the opposite
3ide, the sheep were starving where they
were. An afternoon’s hard work failed
to get them to cross, so the owner en-
gaged three trucks with crates from
Longreach. The sheep were loaded be-
fore daybreak, carted across a cul-
vert lower down and detrucked on the
other side. All were across in time to
get a good fill that day.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
('Transferred from Service Department.)
My land is infested with fluke. If 1 put
bluestone in the springs on the infested area,
and bees dumped on the outside of my
property are poisoned from the water, am 1
responsible ? —9544.
It is at his own peril that a person brings
on to his property for his own purposes, and
collects and keeps there, any substance likely
to injure his neighbor if it escapes. If the
springs you propose to poison flow through
your neighbor’s property and injury be done
to his bees you will be liable, but, apparently,
not so if the poisoned water is strictly confined
to your own property. You should tell your
neighbor what you propose to do so that he
may be able to protect his bees from any
danger. .
* * * *
What is the best cure for gummy eyes in
small pigs ? They cannot open them in the
morning till washed with water.— 9620.
Try washing them with a 1-in-20 solution
of boracic twice every day. And an hour after
bathing apply a little golden ointment —you can
get it at any chemist.


For 25 years CORONA “THREE”
has made PORTABLE typewriter
history. It is the lightest of
portables, yet it is strong and a
complete typewriter, with standard
features as Backspaces Two-
color Ribbon, Automatic Ribbon
Reverse, etc.
There are other CORONAS —
CORONAS with the FAMOUS
FLOATING SHIFT and TOUCH
SELECTOR.
CORONA STANDARD— has a
list of features that will amaze
you—standard four-row keyboard,
double-margin release, and the
delightful piano-key action.
CORONA STERLING —the
machine that has many qualities
usually found only in office
machines. All CORONA
STANDARD features plus Tabu-
lator.
CORONA SILENT —the machine
that affords the luxury of restful,
quiet typing. Noise has been
eliminated as a result of scientific
engineering, and SILENCE has
been achieved without SACRIFICE.
n Suitable Christmas gift
CORTONA
“THREE”
£l2/10/-
Including Carrying Case.
Convenient terms can be arranged.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.
“Stanton House,” 131 Pitt St. Sydney.
“Penfold House,” Cr. Queen and Lit. Collins Sts.,
“Widows’ Fund Buildings,” 40 Grenfell St.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
H. Hardman, 35 Barrack St., Perth.
Macdougralls (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.. 299 Queen St., Brisbane.
SMOKE-OH!
Christmas Precautions.
Don’t make your Christmas prepara-
tions too early. Hang off for a while and
see what turns up.
If you have several invitations to
Christmas dinner, and are in doubt as
to the best to accept, ring your pros-
pective hosts incognito, posing as a wine
merchant seeking an order. Their re-
actions to such an inquiry should indi-
cate the dinner likely to be most enjoy-
able.
The astronomical situation this year is
particularly favorable for those who have
to provide their own Christmas dinner.
There is practically no moon during the
week prior to December 25, a fact which
simplifies the problem of getting cheap
poultry.
Regarding presents, it is better to give
than to receive. Tell your friends that.
Most of them will fall for it, and by the
time they realise that it has been one-
way advice Christmas will be over for
another year.
If you have any luck with presents,
a quick round of the pawnshops on
Christmas Eve should augment your
liquid assets for the occasion.
Finally, on no account lose your equity
in your Christmas bottles. If you take
any to a party insist on getting the
empties back before leaving. Remember
that you have the New Year celebrations
to face later. Make your Christ-
mas empties finance them, at least
in part.
Angus O’Cohen.
•F 4* *F *F
“Broadcasting has been responsible for the
introduction of quite a number of new words
into our language.”— Magazine item.
So have bullock-driving and golf.
»£• »•«
“ ‘A man should not suffer for his wife’s
mistakes,’ says a magistrate.”
But unless he knows of a good indiges-
tion remedy we don’t see how he can
avoid it.
“Five bombing ’planes from the R.A.A.F.
in a mock attack destroyed in theory
Parliament House and the administrative
buildings at Canberra.” — “S.M.H.”
And, as a result, the state of the coun-
try is already showing a vast improve-
ment, theoretically.
Tact!
“Usher, for dance hall, tactful, big man.
Particulars by letter. —Beach Cabaret.”
—“S.M.H.”
As soon as they gave me an interview
I knew the job was in my pocket, be-
cause I’m the biggest man alive outside
a circus, and, as for tact, nobody has
ever told me I haven’t any, or I’d have
donged them quick and lively.
“Yes, I savvy the job,” I said ; “you
want a man with a bit of size to heave
out rowdy lifesavers on Saturday
nights, and the tact to kid ’em into pay-
ing up a second time when they want
to come in again. We’ll start right
away! ”
“You’ve got it wrong,” replied the
manager. “The lifesavers are quiet
enough; it’s the flappers with a few
aboard that raise Cain here. Why we
wanted a big man was to have something
superior to local competition when it is
necessary to decoy them outside, under
pretext of starting a flirtation. You can
work off the tact on their escorts after
you’ve got them into a taxi and on their
way home.”
Cloon.
•F *F *F *F
It’s False!
“A modern son lets his mother chop and
carry the wood, and lies in bed in the morn-
ing while his father goes for cigarettes for
him.”— Judge in divorce case.
That doesn’t apply to every flaming
youth. At our place we buy the wood
already chopped, and all mum has to
do when she wants some is wheel a
barrowload in.
And it’s the old man’s fault if he has
to trot out for cigarettes so often. I
tell him he should buy me tins of fifties.
Does the Judge mean a son should get
up out of bed and go with his father?
My dad resents the insinuation that he
is incapable of walking alone in the
morning, and insists that if I went with
him I would cramp his style with the
girl at the tobacco kiosk. So there, your
Honor!
R. X. B.
“Couple who married and parted at the
church.” — News item.
A happy marriage at last!
•F *F *F *F
“When arrested he was lying dozing in
front of a big log fire with stolen goods for a
pillow.”
A cat burglar, no doubt.
•F *F *F *F
Old Swiss proverb for the guidance
of milkmen: “Don’t yodel till you’re out
of the gate.”
A Yuletide Lament.
What e’er the sorrows of the geese.
Their sojourn here will shortly cease;
And soon the turkeys, too, will be
A fading, blissful memory.
’Tis not for them we shed a tear
When this, the fading of the year,
Leaves us all a-scratching heads,
Turning and twisting in our beds,
Wond’ring how the hell we’ll do
Another year on this year’s screw.
H. R. N.
A Sure Seller.
“Poetry and poverty go hand in hand, but
need not if poets studied the psychology of
salesmanship, and adopted business methods
to sell their wares.” — Lecturer to P.E.N. Club.
Before I studied the psychology of
salesmanship I couldn’t sell enough of
my poems to keep the wolves from the
door or stop them getting in at the
windows and leaving dirty paw-marks on
the beds. Then I had five thousand
copies printed, and posted them out, en-
closing a polite note with each copy ask-
ing for a postal note for two bob to be
sent in lieu thereof. I lost the whole
edition that way. People must have ob-
jected to forking out a stamp to send the
two bob.
I had another edition printed and
posted out with the same note, but en-
closing a stamp. I lost that edition, too,
because I failed to realise that people
don’t keep postal notes af home, and
would naturally jib at going to the post
office to get one, instead of sitting in
front of the radiator and reading my
poems. That is psychology, understand-
ing what the other man thinks.
Now I am sending out another edition,
enclosing the same note, a stamp and a
postal-note for two shillings with each
copy, and can’t see how I can fail to
sell the lot.
C. SHARP.
Ceremonial Sorrows.
“The late Admiral had a dread of splinters
of glass from champagne bottles when per-
forming official ceremonies.” — “Sun.”
I’ve had the wind up over some of my
ceremonial duties, too, and I often marvel
how I’ve seen 17 years as Mayor of
Snailhurst without something really
serious happening.
I still shudder every time tree-planting
is mentioned. All told, I’ve planted
about four forests, one tree at a time.
Three centipede bites and two redbacks
is my issue to date. Almost invariably I
stamp on my fingers when treading the
roots in, and when straightening up after
planting it is unusual if I don’t catch my
ear. on a sharp twig.
I suppose I’ve laid more foundation
stones than a champion leghorn has eggs.
I only missed getting my fingers jam bed
once, and that was when the sister-hooks
holding it broke, and the 4cwt. stone
missed my foot by an inch. Even then,
I barked my shins on a damned con-
crete-mixer as I leaped aside.
Only a few weeks ago, when the local
club’s new surf boat was being launched,
and my wife performed the christening
ceremony, I bent down to inspect the
rowlocks just as she brought the cham-
pagne-bottle down. 1 got it behind the
ear. I was a bit suspicious when I came
to, as we’d had a few words that morn-
ing, but I was reluctantly convinced that
it was an accident —it was far too good a
“Are you there , Tom?”
shot by a woman to have been deliberate.
I suppose I am a bit of a mug to keep
on with these ceremonies, but there is a
glamor about the mayoral life, somehow.
I definitely barred one thing, though.
That was an invitation to open the new
crematorium in our district. You never
know !
S. W. K.
Not Playing Fair.
I read the other day that a Victorian
M.L.A. considers ticket-selling by police
officers a form of blackmail.
And so it is.
Why, I had hardly got the body
squashed into the banana-box when the
policeman entered. Luckily, the light
was dim, and 1 was able to sling a sack
over the top of the box and start whist-
ling a hymn before he saw me.
“Like to buy a ticket for the Police
Carnival?” he asked.
“Not to-day, thanks,” I said. Then
as he glanced towards the banana-box
I hastened to add: “That is, yes; I’ll
take two.”
“Only two?” he asked, and to my
horror I saw him gazing fixedly at a
big toe sticking through a crack of the
banana-box. “You’re sure you wouldn’t
like to take a few for your friends?”
“Yes ; give me six,” I said. And then,
as a gust of wind lifted a corner of the
sack and exposed the bald head of my
victim with the hatchet buried in it, I
hurriedly exclaimed: “No, twelve! Give
me twelve! Twelve will do me nicely.”
“Twelve’s no more than a dozen, you
know,” said the policeman, with one eye
on the bald head. “And I’ve only got
six and a half dozen left. Of course,
if you like to take the lot I’ve no doubt
I can get some more at headquarters.”
“Yes, certainly, yes,” I said. “Yes.
glad to have ’em. The lot, eh? Ha, ha!
But I do hope you can get some more
from headquarters. And you won’t
forget to call on me next year, will
you?”
“I’ll be seeing you later,” he told me
as he stuffed my money into his pocket
and cast a dirty look at the banana-box.
Well, he’ll be lucky if he does, for I’m
off to Abyssinia in the morning.
BRAM GEE.
My Barber on Oil Sanctions.
“A little oil, sir?” said my barber as
he spilt some on my hair without waiting
for a reply. “Freshens up the dry hair,
you know,” he added as the grease ran
down the back of my neck. “Don’t
know how us barbers’d get on without
it. An’ I don’t know how the Eye-
talians’ll get on without it, either, if the
League o’ Nations put sanctums on ’em.
Though why they want to do it / don’t
know. They can’t blame the barbers
if Mussolini starts a war.
“Oil, mind you! What good’s that
goin’ to do ’em? They’re not goin’ to
do the Abbersinians’ hair for ’em, are
they? Anyhow, from what I’ve heard
of them niggers, they don’t need oil on
their hair, they don’t. A greasy lot. So
are some of the Eyetalians, for that
matter. Take that Greek bloke that
comes in for a trim the first Wensdy
every month. Greasy as they make ’em.
“ ‘Oil, sir?’ I says to him, sarcastic.
He nods his head and shows his teeth
and grins, and I splash a few drops on
his head and rubs it in. Off he goes
pleased as Punch, thinking he’s got his
oil for nothing. He don’t know it’s *nly
water I’ve put on. Oh, no, yours is all
right, sir! That’s oil, right enough ; but
this Greek, his hair’s that greasy with-
out it’s a wonder his hat don’t slip off.
“Yes, the Eyetalians’ll be in a bad way,
all right, though 1 can’t see why the
League don’t let ’em take North China
an’ be done with it. The Chows don’t
want it, an’ it’s no good to anyone else.
I had a brother up that way once —Per-
mambucer, I think it was —an’ he told
me.”
“But it’s Japan that wants North
China, not Italy,” I put in.
“Oh, no, sir! I’m afraid you’re mis-
taken, sir. The Japs is on Abbersinia’s
side. I read it in the papers months ago.
An’, besides, the Japs get their oil out
of coconuts or bananas or something.
No, it’s Italy all right. The pore cows.
They’ll be in a bad way if their oil’s cut
off. They tell me they use it for every-
thing over there, besides greasing their
hair with it. Fry fish in it, an’ things
like that. An’, as for castor oil, they
just lap it up, kids an’ all. They’ll miss
it all right.”
I suggested that where they’d miss it
most would be in their motor-cars, lor-
ries, tanks and aeroplanes, but he gave
me a superior smile.
“Oh, no, sir! I’m afraid you’ve got
it wrong, sir. Their motor-cars an’
that’ll be all right. They don’t use oil.
They use petrol.”
JASBY.
New Address.
No longer will Santa come speeding
From those regions where Arctic winds
blow,
With icicles draped in his whiskers
And his bulbous old nose all aglow.
He’s coming this year by a steamer
From a far stranger place on the map :
Dolled up in a kimono flowery —
He bought it dirt-cheap from a Jap,
D. McM


44 SILVER
EDGE-
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd,, London, England,
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic,
ADD TO
YOUR <AR'S SPEED
..byreplacing worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
PION
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading ; -
Automotive Supply Dealers
FtVa*
m
m
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
. YEARS .
The Steering Column.
SQUEALING TYRES AND
ROAD SAFETY.
POINTS MOTORISTS SHOULD OBSERVE.
BY FRED BERRY.
In the cities audible evidence of emer-
gency situations and of faulty handling
is provided by the squealing of tyres
in contact with paved roadways. This
phase of motoring is one that should not
be taken for granted, but rather given
careful attention if mishaps are to be
avoided. When high-pressure tyres and
stiff springs were used drivers could,
with impunity, take risks that with low-
pressure tyres and soft springs become
hazardous. Contributing factors to this
altered state of affairs are tyre pressure,
tread design, spring tension and a shift-
ing of the centre of gravity.
INTENSIVE research has in recent years been responsible for
the scrapping of many formerly accepted principles and
conventional ideas in automobile construction, with the result
that, except in a general way, the modern car no longer
resembles its prototype of a decade ago. The net result of these
modifications has been to provide motorists with a car that is
easier to steer and manoeuvre, more comfortable to ride in, has
a longer potential life, and a corresponding freedom from
service troubles. But new pitfalls for the careless driver have
been created, and some of these are dealt with in the following
article.
Cutaway section of tyre, showing frac-
tured cords inside casing, due to
continuous operation in underinflated
condition.
_ . ... . ,
Tyre equipment in the period under
review has gone from one extreme to
the othei, the high-pressure, beaded-edge,
fabric cover being supplanted in succes-
sive stages by oversize high pressure,
semi-balloons, balloons and, finally, the
i.•i. • j i I i
popular straight-sided, low-pressure cord
air wheels. Obviously, the object of tyre
manufacturers in making these changes
has been to provide motorists with
equipment less liable to puncture and
from which greater mileages can be
expected. In this they have been sue-
cessful. Users of high-pressure types ex-
pected either a puncture or blowout
every few hundred miles, but the
majority of tyres to-day wear through
to the canvas without necessity for atten-
tion other than regular inflation. Mile-
ages have increased from the 3000
guarantee with high-pressure tyres to
between the 10,000 and 20,000 miles
common to-day.
Although quality of material, both in
tread and casing, has much to do with
this all-round improvement, the greatest
benefit has been secured by the additional
area of contact between tread and road,
and this latter feature is largely respon-
sible for the squealing when cornering
at speed. Comparing two cars of equal
weight and wheelbase, one fitted with
high- and the other with low-pressure
equipment, it will be found that the
former, with its narrow section cover in-
flated to from 601 b. to 801 b. pressure,
will have an effective contact with the
road of from one and a half to three
square inches, while the modern tyre,
using air pressure of 181 b. to 241 b., will
bear upon from 8 to 16 square inches of
roadway.
It follows, therefore, that drivers of
cars fitted with the modern type of equip-
ment will find that, owing to the greater
effective area of road contact, tyres will
last very much longer than when using
the older types, this being due to the
lesser weight per square inch of contact
carried by low-pressure tyres. But this
very fact produces the squealing when
the low-pressure tyre is deviated from a
straight-ahead course.
Inflation pressures when low-pressure
tyres are fitted have a very definite bear-
ing both upon squealing and safety.
For, whilst the revolutionary changes
whereby tyres have emerged from being
the most vulnerable to the most reliable
unit on the automobile are all to the
-good in so far as economy is concerned,
yet they have been responsible for much
carelessness in regard to inflation pres-
sure, and for accidents that might have
been avoided.
Efficient tyre service and safety almost
wholly depend upon correct inflation, for
the automobile does not ride on the
tyre, but rather on a column of com-
pressed air pumped into the tube as a
means of supporting the weight of the
car. Possibly the most apt illustration
that could be given as to the necessity
of correct inflation would be to take a
visiting card and, using it to represent a
tyre wall, bend it slightly to and fro. We
might assume this to be the tyre wall
operating under correct inflation pres-
sure, and this moderate flexing process
could go on indefinitely without ill-effect.
Try, now, bending the card through a
much greater arc and see what happens.
The board quickly fractures.
Knowing then that the average tyre
flexes 700 times each mile, or 7,000,000
times every thousand miles, is it little
wonder that careless drivers pay dearly
for their folly? Every motorist should
ascertain, either from his tyre dealer or
garage man, the correct pressure at which
his equipment should
be inflated. This in-
formation can also be
secured from the in-
struction-book supplied
with each car. In no
circumstances should
the pressure be allowed
to drop more than 31b.
below the recommended
figure.
An underinflated tyre,
after a severe blow,
might go flat a few
days or even a week
later. When the tyre is
removed it is usually
found that the original
break, which probably
occurred in only one
layer of cord, gradually
increased in size and
broke through the re-
maining plies, finally
chafing the tube or
pinching it, with con-
sequent disaster.
Underinflation will also
result in rapid tyre wear and squeal-
ing when the car is driven round
corners. The beads, owing to the pinch-
ing of the casing, will frequently be
chafed and cut through close to the rim,
and excessive generation of heat within
the carcass often will be the cause of
shoulder breaks and separation between
the plies of cord. A practical illustration
is given in the accompanying diagram,
showing what happens to an under-
inflated tyre when forced against the
kerb.
When low-pressure tyres are driven
forcibly against the kerb, walls are
crushed against the rims, with almost
certain rupture of cords.
Another point for motorists to keep in
mind, particularly those who have in
the past driven cars equipped with high-
pressure tyres, is that a variation of 51b
inflation pressure with the old-type equip-
ment is relatively a minor matter, but a
variation of this degree with super-
balloons or air wheels is simply looking
for trouble. First, by reason' of the fact,
as stated earlier, that undue flexing of
the walls will cause rapid disintegration
of the cords in the case, and, second,
that the very much greater area of con-
tact with the road results in steering
drag, with consequent difficulty in
handling the car in an emergency.
Uneven wear of tread caused by faulty alignment or
badly adjusted brakes.
Incidentally, there is a fear among
a number of the older school of motor-
ists that a blowout with low-pressure or
air-wheel equipment will inevitably be
accompanied by more serious conse-
quences than with the high-pressure, old-
fashioned tyre. In this they are hope-
lessly astray, for the reason that a blow-
out with the old high-pressure tyre in-
flated to from 601 b. to 801 b. pressure
was, in the first place, a considerable
shock to the driver so far as-noise was
concerned, and the tyre casing, being of
thin fabric, immediately collapsed and
left the rim wheel in contact with the
road. A blowout with the low-pressure
tyre does not convey a similar violent
sound to the driver; the large-section
cord casing acts as a cushion between
wheel and road, and, although in some
measure making steering more difficult
than would be the case under normal in-
flation, prevents the car from getting so
far out of control as to cause a serious
accident.
As a general rule to-day motorists give
little heed to tread design—taking it for
granted that leading manufacturers
provide a design most suitable for the
average type of user ; yet, should we look
back for the last few years, it will be
found that tread design has been a
factor of considerable moment in
economy, roadworthiness and silence of
operation. It is generally realised that a
tyre casing devoid of tread design im-
poses risks, particularly when driven over
wet road surfaces, that should not be
acceptable to a level-headed driver. On
the other , hand, in an effort to secure
stability', some weird designs have been
used in the past, and in one particular
instance steel-studded casings were the
fashion when providing the car- with


EVERY CAR
NEEDS
SIMONIZ
m
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STOKES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE. 5/-.
$Lf/bit!
in SUPER PLUME ETHYL are 5 types of
POWER* that mean SUPER PERFORMANCE
m
*3 POWER to sustain your Highest
Speed . . . with a COOLER engine
Super Plume, by itself a SUPER spirit, has
in addition, the anti-knock advantages of
ETHYL— suppressor of all harmful knocks.
Thus, not only is it the most POWERFUL,
but the COOLEST petrol for summer use.
Plugs are safer, valves are COOLER! Use
Super Plume Ethyl with its 5 types of Power
and get ALL the Speed and Pleasure your
car can give you—with Maximum Economy!
VACUUM OIL COMPANY Pty. Ltd
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
POWER to swing your cold engine to
a split-second start—and keep
it revving.
POWER to flash from 5 to 50 miles per
hour—in a matter of moments.
POWER to take steep hills in top gear
—and without a knock.
POWER to travel further miles fur-
ther on less petrol
Super Plume 2sSJ
THE 5-POWER PETROL /
PS3S
non-skid equipment. Only those motor-
ists who have driven a car equipped with
steel-studded tyres know the terrific
noises that emanate from these unus
when driven over a paved or concrete
When cornering, centrifugal force tends
to shift the centre of gravity, spring-ten-
sion shock-absorber adjustment and ride-
stabilisers governing the factor of safety.
srhpoth roadway, nor would they be
prepared to support non-skid claims.
So far as the genuine vulcanised-rubber
tread 1 is concerned, until the last few
years any heavy sedan with the
front wheels set on a steep camber using
lyres of one: or two particular designs
was so extremely noisy when driven
even on a straight course over good
roads that conversation inside the car
was rendered difficult, if not impossible.
If proof was necessary that the tread
design was at fault one had rnerely to
change the tyre equipment to one of a
different design or fit cases without any
tread design. •
And there were retreading designs that
were notorious in their howling prop-
erties when driven on almost any car.
With these designs a vacuum was
created when the tread was forced on
the road which, on being released as
the wheel revolved, caused a sucking
sound that, when the car was driven at
speeds of 30 miles an hour and upwards,
became extremely uncomfortable. These
particular tread designs were also
offenders in squealing when the car was
driven on corners.
Spring tension has also an influence
upon the behavior of all types of tyres,
for the reason that long, flexible springs
fitted to modern cars in an endeavor to
secure a smooth, silky ride at low speeds
cannot conceivably be as effective as the
older type of rigid spring fitted in earlier
types when the car is driven at high
speed over rough roads.
Roadworthiness is intimately connected
with the suspension system. Many an
otherwise excellent car when driven
under such conditions as to cause the
driver to swerve suddenly, and particu-
larly when the brakes have to be applied
simultaneously, behaves in a most dis-
concerting fashion.
Underslung springs and ride-stabilisers
have, fortunately, reduced the risk of
accident in such cases, but the fact re-
mains that with the high speeds possible
to-day drivers should exercise more than
average caution when driving over un-
familiar roads or in wet weather.
Suspension systems are, at best, a com-
promise. Shock-absorbing systems should
be incorporated. With the older type
of rigid springs a car could be turned
through a sharp bend in the road
without seriously affecting its lateral
stability, but with the springs
fitted to-day this manoeuvre would
be impossible unless restraining in-
fluences were introduced in the nature
of ride-stabilisers or efficient shock-
absorbers. Fortunately, both have been
perfected to such an extent that the car
of to-day maintains a reasonably even
keel even when errors of cornering are
made. The fact remains, however, that,
when a careless or unskilful driver
attempts to push a car through a sharp
corner at a speed above the safety limit,
tyres will register their protest by scruff-
ing on the road, setting up the squealing
noise already referred to.
Centre of gravity is another factor that
is intimately connected, not alone with
the squealing of tyres on the road, but
with the safety of the car and its crew.
In the era of high-pressure tyres the
majority of vehicles were either road-
sters or tourers, closed cars being the
exception rather than the rule. This
being so, the centre of gravity of these
cars was considerably lower than that
existing at the present time, and
mistakes in steering did not produce such
consequences.
The position to-day, however, is that
more than 85 per cent, of the vehicles
purchased are of the closed type, and
the added weight of the coachwork
raises the centre of gravity, compelling
drivers to exercise greater caution in
any manoeuvre at speed,
xhere is one other feature that fre-
quently causes concern to those drivers
who have graduated from high- to low-
pressure equipment, and that is the difli-
culty of skidding the modern types of
car. Both tractive effort and braking
efficiency are governed to a very great
extent by the co-efficient of friction of
the tyre and the road, and in this regard
the modern tyre is far superior to the
high-pressure type. In older cars, how-


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
LIFE OR. DEATH IN OILCANS
mt
m
on ilalliif
m
MOTOR. OIL
6V
QNLY after the most searching
Investigations as to the most
suitable oil. Admiral Byrd selected
Veedol Motor Oil for use in his
Monoplane, Biplane, Autogiro,
Snowmobile, and Tractor for his
two famous expeditions to the
South Polar regions. The success
of these expeditions was in no
small measure due to the unfailing
quality of Veedol—the finest oil
produced in the world. Veedol Is
tested Heat-proof and Cold-proof,
and costs no more than other oils.
100 per cent. Pure Pennsylvania.
/ .5 «
/
i \
Kfa>
'Oft
o, t
NEPTUNE OILCP UMITED
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorist* are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under ‘‘Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q
252 George St., Sydney, O
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
THE CAR OF
YOUR CHOICE
DESERVES THE
BEST TYRE
When You Consider Tyres . . . Consider Value
choose—
IU ill VI fJiTTgg
They cost no more to buy for less to use!
Made by
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
and (laAt^aiian^
Obtainable leading garages, tyre dealers, and service stations throughout Australia.
ever, with their high-pressure tyre and
low co-efficient of friction, careless
or reckless drivers negotiating corners
at excessive speed found that it was
possible to skid the rear wheels,
straighten up the car and avoid a serious
mishap—a fact, incidentally, used to ad-
vantagc by competition and racing
drivers -
Accidents have been due to the
higher co-efficient of friction given
by the low-pressure tyre, with the
consequent inability of the driver to
provoke a skid, the result being
thaf the vehicle either turns over or gets
so far out of control as to do some
damage.
I n this regard, it should be again men-
tioned that inflation pressures are a de-
cisive factor so far as steering general
manipulation and safety are concerned,
Where a low-pressure tyre pumped
to the recommended pressure might
safely carry the vehicle through a difficult
manoeuvre, in the hands of a care-
less operator permitting the tyre pres-
sures to get below a certain pre-deter-
mined value, the car, under the same
conditions, will probably hang on the
corner.
Many serious mishaps have been attri-
buted to steering failure when really
due to carelessness in regard to infla-
tion pressures or to attempting to nego-
tiate a corner at a higher speed than was
compatible with safety.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.M. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). —The generator
of my ’2B model is behaving erratically. Start-
ing from cold I have to run several miles
before the charge shows at the ammeter. If
the car is run for a few minutes with the
switch in no-charge position and then “cut-in,”
the charge shows. In warm weather the
trouble is not so bad, but after 20 miles the
generator gels very hot. Cause and cure ?
The trouble almost certainly is located in
the switch gear. The spiral compression spring
behind the switch loses its tension and causes
“arcing,” which slowly chars the bakelite
panel. This high-resistance contact will not
allow the current to flow until warmed. Dis-
mantle the switch, scrape bakelite panel
and fit a new spring.
Pilot (Medan, Sumatra). —Can you give me
Australian prices of cars named ?
Ford V 8 £353 and Ford 10 £291 (including
tax). Master Chev., £375; Chrysler Plymouth,
£395; Standard 20, £435; Vauxhall Light Six,
£345; Willys 77, £325; Standard 10/12, £339
(all not including tax).
* * * *
C.S.K. (Roma, Qld.).—My car has run about
not affect it. nor does altered spark-setting. It
first became apparent after changing from
ny;- to light oil. Any suggestions?
Slightly worn pistons and cylinders would
cause knocking, and such wear must be
expected after this mileage. A rcbore after,
perhaps, another 10,000 miles is advisable.
* • * * *
D.N.R. (Cunnamulla, Qld.). —Is the petrol-
saving device named effective, or will it have
a harmful effect on the engine ?
No data available as to efficiency. The
device can do no mechanical harm.
* * * *
M.O’B. (Mosman, N.S.W.). —Is it safe to
use rain water collected in a tarpaulin for the
car battery ?
Provided the tarpaulin is perfectly clean
and the water is filtered at once into glass or
porcelain containers, it should do for tapping
up batteries. Distilled water, as commercially
prepared, is always safer.
*, * * *
L.H. (Hobart). —I patched some scrapes on
the mudguard of my car with Dulux, rubbed
them down with cutting paste, and gave them
a couple of coals of No. 7, but failed to get the
same polish. It shows a dead patch under the
polish. How can I make them blend ?
Your method should have given satisfactory
results. Possibly the work was not thoroughly
cleaned beforehand, nor all grease and oil
removed.
* * * *
A.8.D.-B. (Melbourne). —I am considering
buying a new car of which there are two
models. Please advise average petrol consump-
tion, city and country, of each model; also,
what is the advantage of synchromesh gears ?
Do they make driving easier ? I am not a
particularly good driver.
Larger model, 16/18 in city, 18/20
country driving; smaller model, 18/20
city, 20/25 country. Inexperienced drivers find
no difficulty in changing gear where synchro-
mesh gears are used. They are bothered until
the knack is acquired with straight-tooth
pinions.
JJ. (Cowra, N.S.W.). —Is dimming the
lights when approaching a car at night advis-
able, or is it prohibited ? If prohibited, why is
it that all new cars are fitted with dimmer
buttons ?
Dimming is not prohibited, but it is not
advisable. You apparently confuse dimming
with dipping. New cars dip the headlight
beam when approaching, without reducing light
volume.
* * * *
J.B.R. (Forbes, N.S.W.). —The radiator of
m y ’27 model car seems partly choked, and
when the weather is unfavorable the water
boils. Is there any way this trouble can be
rectified ?
Not without proper equipment. Try a
strong solution of caustic soda; run engine a
few minutes, let stand overnight, drain out in
morning and flush repeatedly with fresh water.
If this is not effective, send radiator to a
specialist in the city.
W.R.M. (Booroorban, N.S.W.) —How long
should the shock-absorbers of my utility
truck last without attention, and what would
they cost to overhaul ?
Fill every 5000 miles with correct shock-
absorber oil. The absorbers should last with-
out overhaul 15,000 to 20,000 miles. Overhaul
should cost about 30s. per set, but if new parts
are required in the valves the cost will be
approximately 50s.
* * * *
J.D. (Cunnamulla, Qld.). —Which of the
cars named would give best all-round perform-
ance ?
Table published B. 20/11 /*35 shows per-
formance. First, No. 3; 1 and 4 equal next;
then 2.
* * * *
R.FI. (Tumut, N.S.W.). —My annual mile-
age, over reasonably good roads, is 3000-4000.
Which of the four cars named would best
suit me ?
All cars mentioned should run 10 years at
your rate without necessity for major overhaul.
F.W.L. (Uranquinty, N.S.W.). —My ’3O
model car has run 35,000 miles, and is now
giving only 10 miles to the gallon of petroL
Would fitting a smaller jet in the carburettor
improve mileage ?
No. A smaller jet would seriously affect
performance. The trouble is due to general
wear of cylinders, pistons and valves, and the
only remedy is a general engine overhaul.
* * * *
D.R. (Rowena, Q.). —Rear universal of my
four-cylinder car has become worn and noisy.
(1) Is it possible to fit a fabric joint in place
of existing one ? (2) Where can parts be
obtained ?
(1) Cheaper to fit new metal joint, as fabric
universal will involve skilled mechanical work
in redesigning propeller shaft. (2) Try any
large city accessory house for fabric joints.
* * * *
No. 9371. —(1) What is the rule of the road
in England—keep to right or left ? (2) Has
it ever been otherwise, and, if so, when has
any change been made ? Was any change made
during war period. 1914-18 ? (3) Rule of road
in Canada ?
(1) Keep to left. (2) Never varied. (3) As
in U.S.A., keep to right. Except in Victoria,
8.C., keep to left.
* * * *
R.I. (Warwick, Q.). —Using my 1928 car
with rear wheels raised and anchored firmly
on chocks, what b.h.p. would be obtained at
the take-off pulley attached to rear wheel, as
shown in sketch ? What b.h.p. would be
obtained in second gear ?
B.H.P. would depend on mechanical condi-
tion of engine and transmission, but if in
reasonable order the tractive effort at rear
wheels should be approximately 22 h.p. in
top gear and 18 to 20 h.p. in second.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Country woman, N.S.W., would act as care-
taker for gentleman’s home during holidays;
Manly preferred. Refs. —9550.
Young man (25), Vic., wants position as
radio salesman or announcer. —9595.
Gentleman (N.S.W.) wants position as
country subsidised school-teacher.—9590.
Words of verse beginning:—
Oh! I’ve been there, you needn’t skitc.
I’ve been in Sydney.
Iloulia’s a town of quite another kidney.
—9576.
To buy Twilight in a Forbidden City.— 1 9537.
To buy, second-hand, Sailor Town, by Paul
Fbx.—9653.
Information Sought.
(1) Where and when was Ambrose Palmer
born 9 (2) Where and when did he have his
first fight? (3) How many contests lias
Palmer had — wins, losses and draws ? (4) What
are his weight, height and reach ? —9566.
(1) At Footscray, Victoria, on September
19, 1911. (2) In the 1927 Vic. amateur cham-
pionships at Melbourne. Palmer won the
welterweight division of this, and was runner-
up in the same division of the Australian
championships that year. He had his first
professional fight in 1929. (3) As a profes-
sional, 55 fights for 48 wins, five losses and
two draws. (4) Weight, 12st. 61b.; height,
5ft. lOin.; reach, 72£in.
* * * *
How does a goanna descend a tree ? Does
it come down in the same way every time ?—
9386. , , ,
A goanna usually comes down backwards
for a certain distance, and then may jump the
rest of the way. Its method of descent
depends on circumstances. The creatures
have been known to jump to the ground from
a height of 15ft. when shot at.
* * * *
What salaries have been paid to members
of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly since the incep-
tion of payment to members ? —9617. _
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Representatives
Allowance Act, 1889, provided for £300 p.a.
from October. In 1912 the allowance was
increased to £500 p.a.; in 1920 further in-
creased to £875 p.a.; in 1922 reduced to £600
p.a.; in 1925 increased to £875 p.a., and in
1930 reduced to £473 15s. p.a.
* * * *
(1) Principal dimensions of a "Rob Roy”
galvanised-iron canoe ? (2) Where can l
obtain plans and instructions for building
same? —9552.
(1) Suitable measurements would be:
Length overall, 12ft. 6in.; length on load water-
line, 12ft.; beam at level of gunwale, 2ft.;
beam on load water-line, 2ft. 2in.; depth at
midship, 9in.; depth at ends, 12in.; distance
of midship from bows, 7ft. (2) In Practical
Boat Building for Amateurs, by Neilson,
Kemp and Cowper; obtainable from
Dymock’s, Sydney, 6s.
* * * *
(1) What is absinthe ? (2) How is it manu-
factured ? (3) Where is it made ? (4) Nature
of its effects ? (5) Is it still drunk in France ?
—9594.'
(1) It is a spirit flavored with the pounded
leaves and flowering tops of certain species of
artemisia, chiefly wormwood, together with
angelica-root, sweet-flag root and other
aromatics. (2) The aromatics are macerated
for about eight days in alcohol, and then
distilled, the result being a green-colored
liquor. (3) The best absinthe used to be made
in the canton of Neuchatel, but its manu-
facture is now prohibited in Switzerland. (4)
Taken in excess it deranges the digestive
system, induces bad dreams and hallucina-
tions, and may eventually produce paralysis
and idiocy. (5) Its sale was prohibited in
France in 1915.
* * * *
(1) What length is the side of a square
acre? (2) How many of those sides go to a
mile? —9510.
(1) 69.57 yards; more accurately, 2504.524
inches. (2) Approx. 25.298. In each case the
decimal continues infinitely.
* * * *
What were the terms of the Paris Treaty,
signed after the conclusion of the Franco-
Prussian War? Also the total indemnity
claimed by the Prussians, and the period it
took the French to pay it ? —9359.
Chief conditions were that the province ot
Alsace (except Belfort) and part of Lorraine
should be ceded to the German Empire, and
that France should pay an indemnity of 5000
million francs, and continue to be occupied by
German troops until the obligation was dis-
charged. The treaty was signed on May 23,
1871, and the amount was paid by September,
1873.
* * * *
What English author wrote: —
Vet this inconstancy is such
As you shall, toQ, adore;
I could not love thee, dear, so much.
Loved I not honor more.
—9356.
Richard Lovelace (1618-1658), Cavalier lyrist,
in “To Lucasta on Going to the Wars.”
* * * *
Is there a poem of Byron’s containing the
simile of the eagle seeing on the arrow that
slew him the feather from his own breast ?
If so, what is the title? —9110.
The passage is from “English Bards and
Scots Reviewers,” and runs thus: —
’Twas thine own genius gave the final blow,
And helped to plant the wound that laid thee low:
So the struck eagle, stretched upon the plain.
No more through rolling clouds to soar again,
Viewed his own feather on the fatal dart,
And winged the shaft that quivered in his heart.
In this, however, Byron paraphrases a fragment
of Aischylus, who, in turn, had quoted a
Libyan fable.
Could you tell me where I could find the
words of the poem “Buttercups and Daisies’’ ?
—9370.
Presume you refer to the fairly well-known
poem by Mary Howitt, which is included in
a number of anthologies. The Home Book
of Verse, Children’s Book of Poetry, Cam-
bridge Book of Poetry for Children and One
Thousand Poems for Children should be easily
obtainable, the first-named being in most
public libraries.
* * * *
Who wrote the following lines : —
He that is but. able to express
No sense at all iu several languages
Will pass for learneder than be that’s known
To speak the strongest reason in his own.
—9406.
Samuel Butler in “Satire Upon Human
Learning.”
* * * *
Where was Charles Harpur, the poet, buried ?
-9473.
On a hilltop at Eurobodalla, on the Bodalla-
Nerrigundah road.
* * * *
(1) When nickel-plating on iron, should the
nickel be deposited directly on the iron or
should the article be coated with copper first ?
(2) If so, is a copper sulphate solution sititable
for this purpose ? —9600.
(1) Nickel may be firmly deposited on iron
and steel direct, but the process requires con-
siderable skill. It is therefore advisable to
coat all iron and steel fittings with copper
before placing them in the nickel vat. (2) Yes.
Best results will be obtained with a solution
made by dissolving copper sulphate in
1 quart of hot rain water. When cold, add
enough liquid ammonia to throw down the
copper in the form of green mud, and then
dissolve this to form a clear, blue liquid free
from sediment. Add sufficient potassium
cyanide dissolved in rain water to turn the
solution into an old ale color. Stir well, and
allow to rest for a night, then filter through
calico, and make up to Igal. with rain water.
* * * *
(1) Did Beethoven give the name of “Moon-
light’’ to his C Sharp Minor Sonata ? (2) If
not, what was its original title ? (3) To whom
did he dedicate this work? —9365.
(1) No. The name is said to have originated
with a musician named Rellstab, who said the
first movement reminded him of moonlight on
Lake Geneva. (2) Sonata quasi una fantasia.
(3) Countess Giulietta Guicciardi. She took
music lessons of Beethoven when 17, and was
possibly the object of one of Beethoven’s
many unrequited attachments.
* * * *
Recently I found a shilling dated 1839. It
has Queen Victoria’s head on one side and
crown and wreath on the other. Is it a pecu-
liarity for the tail to be upside down, or were
they all minted like that ? Has the coin any
special value ? —9328.
This is not a peculiarity, nor has it any
special significance. It is merely an orderly
proceeding in the minting of the coins, and
occurs on many denominations of Victoria’s
and other reigns. The coin is worth one
shilling.
* * * *
Recently I read what was evidently a part
of a controversy regarding Joan of Arc in
which it was argued that Joan belonged to
the “Dianic cult." What was this cult ? —9320.
The “Dianic cult” is an expression that has
been coined to describe religious beliefs and
customs which persisted side by side with
Christianity throughout Europe until compara-
tively recent times, being a survival of pagan-
ism. The cult had 'a strong following in Nor-
thern Italy. Diana was the chief goddess, and
with her daughter Aradia (or Herodias) was
worshipped with mysterious ceremonies, Janus
(or Dianus), a sort of male counterpart of
Diana, being also a deity. The priesthood met
in assemblies of 13—“witches’ covens” —a
woman-member being known as “the Maiden.”
The ritual also seems to have involved at
certain intervals human sacrifice, which later
appears to have been left mainly to judicial
processes, the victim sometimes rushing upon
and welcoming his doom. There are on record
cases of self-accusation and voluntary martyr-
dom. The Maid of Orleans has by some been
accounted one of these “divine victims”; but
historical evidence is lacking.
* * * *
I have some old hand-painted fruit plates,
royal-blue background with flowers and fruit
in natural colors and gold border, unstamped
but numbered 3329. Can you give me an
idea as to their age and possible value ? I
have also a number of Wedgwood plates,
colored, with grape-vines and -leaves impressed.
Any idea as to their value? —9308.
The fruit plates are English. The number
is a factory batch record, giving no clue to
the maker. Such pieces, as a rule, are of no
interest to collectors. Their value depends on
the quality of the china and decoration. The
same applies to the Wedgwood plates. This
firm has been in existence for over 150 years,
and has made all grades of wares.
* * * *
Working principle of refrigerators depending
upon the application of heat for their opera-
tion. and liquid used? —9441.
One well-known type consists of two metal
spheres joined together by a pipe. One sphere,
containing liquid ammonia, is heated, the
other sphere being placed in cold water. At
a certain temperature liquefaction occurs in
the second vessel, the evaporation continuing
until sufficient ammonia has passed from one
vessel to the other. The source of heat is
then removed and a basin of cold water sub-
stituted for that used for condensing. Rapid
evaporation follows, the abstraction of heat
from the water in the surrounding vessel being
sufficient to convert the water into ice.
* * * *
I perspire very freely under the armpits.
Remedy ? —'9504.
Excessive underarm perspiration is contri-
buted to by nervous debility, and general
health demands attention. For local treatment,
bathe affected parts night and morning with
hot water and germicidal soap, lathering well.
Rinse and dry; then dab oyer wtth hquta
witch-hazel and dust freely with powdered
starch. Two teaspoons of alum dissolved in
a pint of water make a useful astringent tor
occasional application.
* * . * *
(1) What is “king’s evil" ? (2) Has it any
relation to scrofula ? (3) What treatment is
usually adopted ? —9512.
Tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands, some-
times called scrofula, was formerly knovm by
the name of “king’s evil.” Although the
disease may develop at any age, it °ccurs
most commonly in children; there is usually a
history of anaemic debility. In many cases th
trouble is limited to glands in a definite situa-
tion as the neck, but glands of the chest and
abdomen also may be affected. In the neck
separate lumps are at first noted. These tend
to unite and form an abscess that breaks tne
skin. With prompt treatment the latter stage
may be avoided. Medical supervision is
essential. The general treatment of scrofula
is similar to that of ordinary tuberculosis, but
sunliaht, real and artificial, is of special benefit
in this type. Most cases recover without
operation.
* * * *
Remedy and diet for person suffering from
a coated tongue ? —9509.
Furred or coated tongue is one of the com-
monest signs of bodily disturbance. It may
indicate a lowered condition of health, or
point specifically to stomach disorder with
toxic infection from liver or bowel. Cause
must be deterrriined and treated. Pending
examination, diet simply, curtail acids, condi-
ments and heating fooos. Add a mild saline
to . a morning glass of hot water. The
tongue should not be scraped; use an
alkaline wash as glycerin thymol compound
(one in three) with warm water alter meals
and at bedtime. If trouble persists, alternate
milk of magnesia with the aperient saline.
Excessive smoking is harmful in cases of this
kind.
# * * *
l continually perspire and my body is always
hot, even in winter. 1 take cold baths, and
wear light clothes, but with little effect. Can
you advise treatment? —9423.
In hot weather, heavy foods should be re-
stricted to a minimum, fats and starches and
sugar especially being avoided. Substitute
fresh fruit for puddings, cream and the like.
Liquids must be curtailed. Cold baths give
no lasting benefit.
* * * *
Through last winter I felt the cold very
much, especially in the right hand, which had
a purple look. Calcium is no help. What can
be done? —9401. .
Symptoms suggest faulty circulation, and
examination by a doctor is advised. Calcium
salts tend to thicken the blood, and such treat-
ment augments the lime deficiency of anasmic
debility. To stimulate circulation employ
gentle upward massage from the fingertips
and toes after a warm soda bath at night.
Avoid extremes, but indulge in moderate out-
door exercise if of sedentary occupation. A
simple, nourishing diet is best.
# * # *
Owing to wet weather my roses are covered
with mildew; what is the remedy? —9591.
Spray thoroughly both sides of the leaves
and also the stems with lime-and-sulphur
mixture (trade strength), or dust with flowers
of sulphur. Cut off badly-affected leaves or
stems and burn them. The spraying should
be repeated after the pruning next June.
Wood ashes and sulphate of potash mixed
into the soil at the base of the plant are also
a preventive of mildew. Roses which do not
respond to the treatment should be discarded.
* * * *
The best time to propagate daphne shrubs,
and how to do the work ? When to shift the
shrubs to the open garden ? —9578.
In December or January take cuttings and
place them in sandy loam, firming the soil
about the base. Cover with glass; when
growth appears the covering can be slowly
lifted. Layering is perhaps a more successful
method. Select a limb of seasoned wood, and
slit it slantwise where it is bent; then cover
with soil and peg down firmly. Where the
limbs are too high to be bent to the ground, a
box of earth raised on legs or stones can be
used. Keep the wood damp to cause root-
growth. Shrubs should be ready to shift to
the open garden in June or July.
* * * >1=
How can bulbs be grown in bowls without
soil? When should it be done? —9570.
Place sufficient charcoal to cover the bottom
of the bowl, then half-fill the vessel with peat-
fibre, moss-fibre or cocoanut-fibre (sold by
florists and seedsmen). Space six bulbs in
position around the bowl, and then pack in
more fibre between the bulbs, leaving only the
points of the bulbs projecting. Keep the fibre
damp; any surplus water should be poured
off, otherwise the bulbs are liable to rot.
Finally, place the bulbs in a semi-dark, cool
corner until growth appears, then gradually
bring them into the light. January and
February are the best months to begin the
work.
* * * *
Lineal expansion of the following metals for
each degree Fahr.: (1) Cast-iron? (2) Steel?
(3) Copper ? (4) Brass ? (5) Aluminium ?—
9607.
(1) .00000556. (2) Varies according to com-
position of steel. (3) .00000887. (4) Cast
brass .00000957, plate brass .00001052. (5)
Drawn, .0000136; cast, .00001234. To find
the amount of expansion, multiply the length
of the bar by the corresponding figure given
above, and multiply the answer by the number
of degrees Fahr. by which the bar is raised.
For example, a bar of drawn aluminium is
10ft. (120in.) long at 32 degrees Fahr. At 212
degrees its length will have increased by
120 x .0000136 x (212-32), equals .29376in.,
giving the bar an overall length of 10ft.
,29376in.
* * * *
How to rid a dog of fleas? —9319.
Bathe in a solution of loz. derris root in
two-thirds of a gallon of slightly soapy water
once a week. Spray kennel with a one-in-
three solution of crude carbolic acid or
paraffin and water. Destroy all old bedding.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word “Cooranga”?
—9031.
Brief Answers.
M.M.: You omit age, also health particu-
lars. Heating of feet at night suggests blood ten-
sion with sluggish circulation; there is usually a
tendency to rheumatism. Take a tepid soda-
bath before retiring—after drying massage feet
upwards from toes with methylated spirit.
Dust freely with talc powder during day.
Internally, take sulphate of soda as an aperient.
E.M.D.: No specific apart from elec-
trolysis. Use local bleach pending examination
by specialist. Addresses posted... .J.V.Y.:
Anything which is done to remove the green
stain will also cause the dye to run from the
trimmings again, so before you attempt clean-
ing the green material should be unpicked.
Then wash well in hot water containing am-
monia or borax; fold or tack over the edges
of material to prevent fraying during washing.
If this is not successful, the only thing is to
replace with new trimmings cut deeply enough
to cover all the stains. Choose a color which
will not run, and wash it well before placing
on the dress... .H.F.D.: Get in touch with
Commonwealth Statistician, Federal Bureau of
Census and Statistics, Canberra, F.C.T
G.L.H.: Send full address to Service Depart-
ment C.R.: (1) Always pleased to consider
humorous black-and-white drawings. (2) Draw
with Indian ink on Bristol board...-F.M.D.:
Not permitted to furnish such information under
the N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions Act....
A.M.D.: Write to the following, stating voltage
of your supply, and whether D.C. or A.C.: —
Mackenzie Bros., 221 Bridge-road, Glebe;
Capron, Carter and Co., 86 Liverpool-street;
and James Hardie Trading Co., 378 Kent-street
—all Sydney M.J.: (1) You are eligible to
apply, and should make a claim on the proper
form, obtainable at all post offices. (2) The
department no longer has a claim upon the
estates of deceased pensioners, except in cases
where a pension was paid at a higher rate than
that to which deceased was entitled. (3) Trans-
fers of property without adequate consideration
are not recognised by the department, and the
value of property so transferred must be main-
tained in the pension computation. If, how-
ever, the claimant resides permanently in the
property transferred, the rate will not be affected
by its value B.A.: Have made local inquiries
without success... .J.D.: Can trace no ink
recipe which answers your description....
D.E.T.: Cannot identify picture by the descrip-
tion R.G.: (1) Hemlock, ash, white gum
and brush. (2) Hemlock is imported from
Canada. Other timbers are obtained locally.
(3) The Secretary, Forestry Commission, 77
York-street, Sydney. (4) Robinsqn, Thomas
and Son, engineers, 192 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney W.A.T.: The setting of the soil into
hard lumps is not caused by the addition of
kopi to the water-supply N.W.F.: (1) If
the mortgage were given prior to Dec. 19, 1930,
and the interest, rates, taxes or other charges
are in default for two years, the mortgagee is
entitled to enter' into possession as of right
without reference to the Moratorium Court. The
lodgment of the deeds of a property with a bank
to secure an advance is known as an “equit-
able mortgage,” and is subject in like manner
to the N.S.W. Moratorium Act. (2) The coun-
cil may sue the mortgagor for payment of rates
whether he occupies the property as his home
or not A.A.: See Queensland Agricultural
Dept. Journal for July, 1931... .C.R.W.: Con-
sult a vet J.N.: Peter Pan, 17 hands;
Panto, 16.3 S.W.W.: Nellie II. is not in any
of the stud books. She is by Bobadil, and was
bred in Tasmania... .R.H.D.: Cannot trace
the co. Local importers of surgical supplies
would indent the line. Duty (payable at this
end) is about 45 p.c. Addresses posted....
R.M.D.: Both at 33 to 1....D.D.: Philip
O’Bryen Hoare, 270 Queen-street, and H.
Borradale, 115 Queen-street —both Brisbane.
... .D.G.M.K.: Write Dangar, Gedye and Co.,
10-14 Young-street, Sydney R.A.D.: Write
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
314 Albert-street, East Melbourne... .R.F.O.N.:
Get in touch with Buzacott and Co., 7-11
Market-street, Sydney H.J.A.: Proceedings
must be taken within six years of the happen-
ing... .J.M.O.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet “The Passion-
fruit”... .E.W.M.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet “Citrus Culture.”
... .M.G.: Jim Grahame has not published his
verses in book form G.M.D.: Allen Taylor
and Co.. Bridge-road, Pyrmont; E. D. Pike
and Co’, Elemang-avenue, Milson’s Point;
R. J. White and Co., 32 Jamieson-street; E. J.
Burnside and Co., Australia House, Carring-
ton-street —all Sydney; Newcastle Contracting
Co., 17 Bolton-street, Newcastle; J. Wolsten-
holme, Lorn, West Maitland; and Fraser and
Co., Grafton W.J.; Motor-cars were first
registered in N. S. Wales in 1910, and car-
drivers’ licenses were first issued the same
year J.L.A.: The second annual conference
of the N.S.W. Shires Association was held at
the Royal Exchange, Sydney, on May 17, 18
and 19, 1910 R.J.M.: The first State rural
school in Queensland was established at Nam-
bour in February, 1917....J.H.: The two
D.H.61 eight-passenger machines formerly used
by the Queensland and Northern Territory
Aerial Services, Ltd., in the operation of the
Brisbane-Longreach section of their Brisbane-
Camooweal route were manufactured by the
De Havilland Aircraft Co. in England
C.H.T.: (1) Renmark (S.A.) has a popula-
tion of about 1750. (2) An ad. in the “Murray
Pioneer and Australian River Record,” pub-
lished in Renmark, should help P.T.; Rates
vary, but you should be able to get it typed
for 2s. per 1000 words L.K.: Watson is
practically the old South Sydney Federal elec-
torate renamed S.G.: Write Boat Supplies,
Ltd., 7 Barrack-street, Sydney S.E.M.:
Write Director, Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney J.S.M.: Write Secretary,
Victoria Country Roads Board, Carlton, Mel-
bourne A.J.M.: (1) Approach shipping cos.
(2) Write Naval Board, Defence Department,
Melbourne P.A.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Mines, Sydney W.P.: His correct
name was Nikolai Nicolaevitch Mikluho-
Maklay. The other form was the one used
on the passport given him when he left Russia
as a student, and which was consequently used
by most European scientific bodies N.S.:
The Blue Funnel line came into Australian
waters in 1911, the Tineas (10,000 tons) reach-
ing Sydney early in January M.H.: The
Tramp was dismasted anl leaking off Smoky
Cape, July 5, 1913. All hands were rescued
by boat from the Lord Cromer while a big
sea was running. The Tramp was brought
safely into port a few days later, but was
totally wrecked at North Head, Sydney, on
January 31, 1915 (Many others mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person .]
Chapter XXIV.
JIM had been in an ugly mood earlier in the after-
noon, but there was always a soothing satisfaction
in good, clean axe-blows, the flying white chips,
the crack as the groaning heart gave way and the
plumage of leaves threshing down in the undergrowth.
He was on a little plateau that gave him a view
for miles and miles over the patchwork slopes of
fields: miles and miles of fields with perhaps two
trees to an acre. They had been all like Warning
Hill once—covered in trees, shaggy with a brown-green
fur of trees —and now they were shaven bare and
smooth for the wheat.
Warning Hill would be like that some day; not
that it would grow anything, but it would be smooth-
naked with hardly a tree. It was getting fairly thin
now. It was funny that Warning Hill had kept its
trees so long, considering the wood they burned in
Tiburon. The Royal Hotel wood bill alone was three
pounds a week all through the winter. Tiburon had
simply eaten up the trees. It had grubbed their roots
out of the fields ; it had cut them down ; it had piled
up the great trunks and burned them off. It was still
burning them off.
Jim began to speculate to himself about the time
to come, perhaps, when there would be no wood, no
last tree on the flanks of Warning Hill. What would
they dp then? Attack Warning Range behind? And
what would they do when Warning Range was naked
and bare? Go on further and further? And what
would they do when the last tree of all was cut down?
Find something else? They say trees attracted the
rain. Suppose when there were no trees there was
no rain? What would they do then?
He leaned on his axe, his eyes on those miles
and miles of sunlit chequered fields ripening with
wheat or showing grey dots like stones, which he knew
to be sheep. His eyes wandered down the gradual
slope of the track where the deep wheel-ruts of the
dray had cut into the earth. It was so very still; there
was not a murmur, it seemed, from anywhere along
the side of the Hill. Even the travellers’ camps were
silent; even the Hill, so noisy with birds, was silent,
waiting in the still afternoon. The silence made him
uneasy, as though it was gnawing at the back of his
head.
He felt confused. The sunlight and the silence
seemed to be pressing him down, mesmerising
him, weighing him into a daze, a dream. The Hill
was waiting. He felt he could not stir as he leaned
there on his axe, but there was something stirring in
his head, something that had been restless a long
time, that had been tormenting with its wriggling in
the dark. Something in his head; what he did not
know, but there was something there almost hurting
him with the intensity of its pressure.
He seized his axe and shook his head desperately.
Now that that queer daze had left him he had a head-
ache. His stomach hurt, too, as though the whole of
his body had been affected by that queer hypnotic
moment. His commonsense had come back, too. It
must be a touch of sun. Or getting in a bad temper
this morning might have upset him. He shook his
head and growled softly at the damn’ nonsense he
had been thinking.
His brain started on its usual rounds as he swung
the axe mechanically. Mary was whining and unhappy
about Bobby’s teeth. He would have to see what
could be done about it. They’d been kept awake all
night with the kid having toothache. All right; when
he took in the next load of wood he’d put aside the
money for Bobby’s teeth. But how about the baker’s
bill? The amount almost frightened him. He couldn’t
let it go on mounting up like that. Thank God, Lizzie
ought to be able to square Jeffery Harper a bit now.
There was a leak in the roof he wanted to fix while
the weather kept fine, and the horse would be out
again if he didn’t do something to their yard. Bill
could fix the horseyard up, anyway. No, he couldn’t.
He’d only bungle it. And then the police were still
looking for an excuse to move them on. Thank God,
there hadn’t been any trouble about that for a while.
He paused, not because he wanted a rest, but
because that queer daze was settling on him again,
that squirming in his head had started again. He
could hear the sound now of the dray coming up the
track, a creaking and jingling and a distant shout that
was certainly Bill’s, Jim felt vaguely irritated. Damn
Bill, coming just when he had almost grasped some-
thing important and urgent. He could see Bill now
round the bend of the track. Blasted was plodding
along peacefully. They passed under the big apple-
gum, and the sunlight flickered on them in a queer
code of dot and dash.
Bill was rolling a cigarette, and a little dribble
of yellow tobacco hung out at the end. He pulled it
off and licked the paper together casually. They
passed through a patch of shade as he lit a match and
bent his head lazily towards his cupped hands,
although there was not a breath of wind to blow it
out. In the sunshine the flame was invisible. He waved
the match out, flung it away and rolled on. A burr
on the leg of his trousers drew his attention, and he
detached it. He was like some small insect, busy with
its own antennae, moving slowly on the side of
Warning Hill, crawling so slowly, lounging along.
Soon he would be sitting on the log, talking about
Scorby and the sergeant and the beer, and cursing, not
loudly, but from force of habit.
“Hey, what’s up with you?” Bill called. It wasn’t
like Jim to be sitting with his head in his hands.
“Nothing. Shut up.”
Bill cast a sidelong glance and, whistling, began
to load the dray.
“Oh, stop it!” Jim screamed at him, and Bill’s
whistling broke off suddenly. He knew better than to go
against Jim when he was in one of his black moods. He
waited a few minutes until Jim got up, came over and
began to help him. Then he ventured to remark:
“Seen Willoughby? ’E was lookin’ f’r y’.”
Jim shook his head. He would not trust himself
to speak. The ground still heaved queerly under his
feet.
“Comes moanin’ about the sergeant tellin’ ’im to
get out. Coin’ to take ’is missus an’ kid an’ go.
Damn’ good job. We won’t ’ave ’im maggin’ about
all day any longer like a yappin’ dog.”
Jim set his teeth. He felt, if Bill didn’t get out of
his sight, he would brain him with the axe. Bill
seemed to realise that his conversation was not in
great request. They finished the loading in silence,
and Jim swung in beside Bill.
“I’m quittin’ for the day,” he said shortly.
He felt that the sooner he got home the better.
There was something wrong with him, almost frighten-
ingly and queerly wrong. Perhaps it was the sun. The
slow plodding jingle of Blasted maddened him. The
sun was hot on his flannel shirt, and he felt miserable
and prickly. The crunching and squeaking of the iron
wheels seemed to be grinding into his brain ; and, after
the silence of the Hill, the lower stretch of the track
to the camps seemed to be roaring with noise. The
barking of the dogs, the sound of Mrs. Mulver’s voice
as they passed the Mulver shanty, even the sizzle of
the onions she was frying, got on his nerves. He could
hear Mulver rustle his newspaper and grunt some
response to a question. Lynette Mulver was calling
Clinging to his arm.
the fowls to be fed, and Oscar Mulver, teasing Claudie
in the yard, suddenly provoked him into a fit of
crying. It was one of those peaceful tea-time scenes,
with the late-afternoon sun slanting across the white-
washed sacks and old tin of the Mulver residence.
About a hundred yards further Willoughby was
lounging against the door of his home. He seemed to
be waiting for the dray, and as it drew abreast he
called “Hey! ” Bill drew the reins, and Blasted stopped
thankfully. Willoughby jerked his head at Jim.
“Wanter see you.”
Jim motioned to Bill to stay where he was, and
walked over to the Willoughby shack.
“An’ what’s up with you?” he asked, not very
graciously.
“Come inside.”
Willoughby jerked his head again towards Allie,
who was sitting by the table with a sullen look on her
face. Jim hesitated, glanced towards Bill, then fol-
lowed Willoughby in and shut the door. Bill, chewing
a leaf placidly, could hear Willoughby’s voice and
then that of Allie Willoughby raised in defiance and
protest. From Jim there was no sound.
The sun was sinking, and he was wondering
whether to wait for Jim when the noise of a shout,
a crash and a smothered uproar brought him running
across from the dray. He was in time to see Jim
knock Willoughby’s head against the iron stove and
then, seizing the bedrail that they used as a poker,
proceed to smash the writhing Willoughby with it,
much as Dwyer would smash a snake. For all the
good Allie was doing by sobbing and clinging to his
arm she might as well have clung to a machine-gun.
Bill flung himself on his brother, but found it was
all he could do to hold him off the now-motionless
body of Willoughby. He shouted to Allie to run for
help, and she was out of the door in a minute, look-
ing frantically this way and that.
On Warning HiU there was no one in sight.
She sped down the track towards the travellers’ camp,
crying bitterly, and it was Blue who hastened out at
the sight of her flying figure.
“A doctor!” she gasped. “Go and get the
ambTnce. ’E’s killed. Oh”
She broke off, sobbing.
Blue did not wait to ask questions. He dashed
off towards the road, and she saw him reach it just
as a car turned the bend. He shouted, but the car
went on. Blue hesitated, and then, as another car
came in sight, sprang into the road, waving his arms.
The car slowed down and stopped. Blue leant through
the window and spoke rapidly to the driver. Then he
sprang on to the running-board, and the big limou-
sine—Mrs. Malloy’s limousine —backed, turned and
came speeding up the track.
“Where to?” Blue shouted as they overtook Mrs.
Willoughby. She pointed to her hut, and the car roared
past, the stout form of Mrs. Malloy holding on deter-
minedly in the back seat. Mrs. Malloy had the situa-
tion in hand. She waddled into the hut, inspected
Willoughby, sniffed, shook her head, and directed her
chauffeur, George Mulver, Bill and the now-sobered
Jim how to carry the still form of Willoughby out to
the car. With her own hands she draped the rug
over the limp form. She climbed in massively and
planted Willoughby’s head in her lap.
“Room for one beside George in front,” she
remarked sensibly, with a contemptuous glance to-
wards the whispering group of Mulvers, Staineses and
Whites who had come running.
Jim stepped forward and took the vacant seat.
“Eh” Bill began to protest fearfully.
“Jim!” Allie screamed. “Let go. You get off
quick.”
Her voice was sharp with fear. Jim looked at
her almost vacantly as George let in the gears, almost
as though he didn’t see her or the muttering group
of onlookers or the shadows that had come up now
the sun was behind the peak. He did not seem to
notice anything peculiar about the situation. He
turned his back on Warning Hill, riding away like
a lord in the limousine. His brain was perfectly
clear now.
“How’d it happen?” Mrs. Malloy found time to
inquire as they turned on to the road and George
threw the car into top,
“J killed him,” Jim said quietly. “’E got me
angry.”
Mrs. Malloy debated the statement, sitting very
firmly in her plum-colored silk dress.
“He ain’t dead,” Mrs. Malloy said decidedly.
“Far from it.” She looked at Jim narrowly. “What’re
y’ going to do about it?”
Jim made no reply.
“Don’t you go gettin’ Parboy to be your lawyer,”
she said contemptuously. “‘Plead Guilty’ Parboy!”
She surveyed Willoughby with pursed lips, and her
hard old eyes had no kindness in them. “Wouldn’t
be much of a loss if he did peg out,” she said. “He’s
the kind that stays alive, though, mark my word.”
“You can put me out here,” Jim said.
Mrs. Malloy poked George between the shoul-
ders —a habit she had —and he slowed the car. She
forbore to question her passenger. He must know
his business best.
“Right,” she said, “We’ll pick up
Blakely and take him to the ’ospital. Re-
member about Parboy.” Jim nodded
indifferently.
He went through the church grounds and
came out at the back of the police station,
whence he circled cautiously round to the
gaol. Apart from the police station stood
the little gaol, and alongside the gaol there
was a light in the narrow room which
Scorby occupied.
Although the faint afterglow still lingered, Scorby
had his curtains drawn, and as Jim looked through
the chink he could see Scorby sitting with his back
turned at a table littered with papers. He looked
entirely different in his grey flannel trousers and open-
necked shirt. He looked young without his helmet,
younger than Paul. He was drawing some kind of
diagram with reference to a thick book every now
and then. Jim smiled to himself as he softly stepped
to the door and knocked. He knew Scorby would
start and wonder who it was coming to visit him on
his day off. Scorby opened the door.
“I’ve got nothing to say to you, White.”
“It’s important.”
“Come in,” said Scorby in an official manner.
Jim took the chair and Scorby sat on the bed.
“I s’pose if y’ was to make an arrest for a crime,”
Jim said carelessly, “it’d make a difference in y’r
pay. Give y’ a rise an’ a bit of kudos, eh?”
Scorby looked at him narrowly and waited. “It
might,” he said deliberately. “It would all depend.”
“Now, if I put you on to somethin’ pretty good
in the p’lice line,” Jim said slowly.
Scorby lifted his eyebrows. “So you’re going to
turn informer,” he said. “Strange, that’s the last thing
I ever associated with you.” He smiled his gold-
toothed smile. “Of course, if you have any informa-
tion that would lead to the arrest of some person
or persons wanted on a criminal charge there might
be something in it for you.”
“You don’t get my meaning,” Jim said, shaking
his head. “Or, maybe, I’m bad at talkin’. I wouldn’t
give you anythin’; not if it was a mouldy cabbage. I
come t’ do y’ out of some honor an’ glory.”
Scorby knitted his brows impatiently.
“I’d ’ate to see you gettin’ anything out of an
arrest.” Jim leant back in his chair. “I come to give
myself up.”
Scorby said nothing. He was still suspecting
another trick. Jim drew a deep breath and glanced
out the open door, where the daylight was fighting
a losing battle.
“I’ll be glad to get away from the Hill,” he said
conversationally. “It’s been gettin’ me lately. I never
been away from Tiburon in me life. Never been


anywhere— only the Hill. You ought to go an’ live
out on the Hill if you want to know what”
Scorby did not speak ; he waited intently, his
eyes on Jim’s face.
Jim took olf his hat, which even in the struggle
with Willoughby had remained firmly on his head.
He wiped the sweat off his forehead, where the white
showed against the dark sunburn, and smoothed his
hair back with his fingers.
“What’s that you’ve got hangin’ over the end
of y’r bed?” he asked.
“Tapestry,” responded Scorby, never taking his
eyes off Jim’s face. He did not like the look of Jim
White. .
“You know,” Jim went on easily, I never seen
you without y’r ’elmet before. You remind me of
someone.” . , , . , „ , , ,
He looked in the mirror behind Scorby s head.
“If that ain’t funny!” he said, and chuckled,
Scorby was getting angry.
“Are you going to give me any information.
White, or are you not?”
“I guess I’m workin’ round to it,” Jim said. “I’ve
got plenty of time.” He leant across and tapped
Scorby on the knee. “A murd’rer,” he said ; “that’s
what I am—a murd’rer.” He nodded with a look of
simple pleasure. “You didn’t arrest me. I come an’
give meself up.”
He enjoyed the look on Scorby’s face, Scorby
rightly believed that Jim had not killed anyone, but
he was frightened. There was no doubt about that
from the way he had changed color and glanced
towards the door. Jim didn’t really care. Nothing
could worry him now. He felt i
as a tree might feel—very tran- i
quil, in a silent, painless daze
where nothing mattered. No Wil-
loughby, no Warning Hill, no
family, no old man. But, at the
back of his lassitude and peace,
there was a feeling of uncertainty,
as though something was escaping
him that he could not understand.
He shook his head.
“I didn’t want to kill him,”
he said in a puzzled way. “I didn’t
really want to kill him. But they
kept on gettin’ me angry.” He
paused and shook his head again
impersonally. “It was that some-
thin’ else I was wantin’. Somethin’
—I don’t know what.”
Chapter XXV.
MRS. O’BRIEN and Ella, with
a great deal of thudding and
banging, were occupying the
half-hour after tea by shifting the
furniture in Number Five when
Bill arrived.
Mrs. O’Brien didn’t like the
idea of Bill coming upstairs. She
was never sure whether she ought
to count the stair-rods after he had
gone.
“Can I see Ella a minute, Mrs.
O’Brien?” he asked.
“Why, yes. Is it anything im-
portant?”
“It’s Jim.”
“Well, go on ; what is it now?”
“They say ’e’ll be remanded
to the Quarter Sessions at Mudger’s
Flat.”
“What?” Mrs. O’Brien
screamed. “What are you talking
about?”
Bill shook his head. “I dunno
whether I’m upside or not meself.”
“Get a grip of yourself, boy ;
get a grip of yourself. Ella, come
in here.” She dragged them into
Number Five. “Now, then, don’t
get it all muddled up. Try to
explain yourself clearly.”
Bill did.
“Dear God!” said Mrs. O’Brien, aghast. “And is
the man dead?”
“ ’E’s in ’ospital. They don’t know whether ’e’ll
live yet.”
Ella threw her apron over her head and burst
into loud weeping.
“Oh, what’re we goin’ to do?” she wailed.
“WhatTe we goin’ to do?”
“Pull yourself together!” Mrs. O’Brien com-
manded sharply. “Dear, dear, this is a terrible thing.
Where is your father? Why isn’t he doing something?
Has Jim a solicitor?”
Bill shook his head.
“First time I’ve heard of such a thing. Utterly
preposterous. There’s been a mistake made. Jim must
be crazy.”
Ella continued to sob hysterically.
“Now, you go downstairs, Ella, my girl, and try
to keep calm. Don’t make all that row. Where’s
Roman?” She thrust her head over the stairs and
screeched “Roman! Come here. I want you.”
Roman put his grey head out the bar-room door.
He looked up and gesticulated towards the interior
of the bar. “Never mind. Never mind. I’ll come
down.”
She rushed down the stairs, babbling the story
as she came, with interpolations from Bill. Roman
gave no sign of having heard anything more extra-
ordinary than an order for a gin sling.
“Is there anything we can do? Bail?”
Roman shook his head.
“Well, if that’s no use, do something. You’re
not all stuffed dummies, I hope. Ella, didn’t I tell
you to go and bathe your eyes? Well, go! You go
and find out what you can, Roman. You stay here,
Bill.”
“It’s all that Scorby,” Ella moaned. “It’s all a
lie. ’E made it up.”
“You go along when you’re told, Ella. Go along.”
Ella rushed to her room. She lay on the bed in
the dark, and sobbed so loudly that at first she did not
hear when Sam Jordan called to her through the
window:
“Eh, Ella.”
Ella only moaned.
“Ella.”
“What d’ y’ want?”
“Lissen. Come ’ere. I’ve got somethin’ I want t’
say t’ you.”
“Well, what is it?” She went to the window.
“Lissen, Ella. I’m goin’ t’ Sydney on to-morrer’s
train. ’Ow about cornin’ with me? Leave ere
together, see?” Sam urged through the window. “It’s
no use us stoppin’. We can’t do any good. Only get
in the way, see? ’Ow about makin’ it up an’ cornin’
along? I’ll give y’ a good time.”
Ella glared at him. “Think I’d go off leavin’ ’em
now, like a rat jus’ when they’ll be needin’ cash an’
someone t’ stand by? Gosh, you give me a pain in
the neck! Go on. Get out if y’ want to. I’m not
scared of stayin’. I’ve ’ad people whisperin’ behind
me back ’fore this.” The words poured out of her
in a torrent. “Get out! Get out! No one wants you,
anyway.” She rushed out of the room to Mrs.
O’Brien’s little snuggery. “Mrs. O’Brien,” she wailed,
“would you let me go ’ome to-night?”
Mrs. O’Brien patted her shoulder. “There, there, my
dear,” she said. “We all have our troubles. Just regard
it as an act of God —just an act of God.”
Roman drove Ella out to Warning Hill, but she
felt that she did not want to go home. Instead, she
made for the Willoughby hut. Mrs. Willoughby heard
her coming, and came out to meet her.
“Don’t tell Wilf,” she implored. “I ain’t told
’im. ’E only knows ’is father’s in ’ospital. ’E knows
there’s something. The sergeant asked about him.
“I’ll come in an’ sit with y’ a bit,” Ella sniff-
ing. “I guess y’ could do with some company.” The
look of imploring gratitude Mrs. Willoughby gave
her made her add huskily: “I don’t want to go ’ome,
anyway.”
It was when she got inside that she realised how
terrible Mrs. Willoughby was looking. She seemed to
have shrunk and collapsed in some way, as though
the flesh had been shrivelled off her. But it wasn’t
only that. Her face had fallen in as though she were
dead. There were hollows under her eyes ; hollows
under her cheekbones.
“ ’Ave y’ ’ad any tea yet?” Ella said.
Mrs. Willoughby shook her head.
“I’ll get y’ some.” Again Mrs. Willoughby shook
her head. “Wilf’ll need somethin’.”
“I’ve had mine,” Wilfrid said. “Ella, if a bunyip
came, what would you do?”
Mrs. Willoughby smiled at him weakly.
“’E keeps on talkin’ about them things,” she
murmured. “I dunno where ’p gets it.”
“I wouldn’t do nothin’.” Ella banged the kettle
down stoutly on the iron hook that hung between two
piles of bricks to form a fireplace.
“Wouldn’t you run?”
“No.”
“Well, what would you do?”
“I told y’. Nothin’,”
Wilfrid relapsed into thought. “Clarrie Staines
said he'd take a gun and shoot it,” he announced.
“We play bunyips.”
“Silly damn’ thing to play.” Ella was recovering.
She shot a glance at Mrs. Willoughby. She was just
sitting there, with her hands in her lap, staring out
the door, seeing nothing, not even crying.
“It was an act of God,” said Ella consolingly.
Mrs. Willoughby just looked at her as though she
didn’t understand the words. She nodded her head
vaguely.
“Ella”—Wilfrid started again, eyeing them keenly
—“if a bunyip came —say, at night, when no one could
see it”
Ella’s overstrained nerves could stand no more.
“F’r God’s sake, shut up about y’r damn’ bun-
yip!” she shouted. “Things are bad enough without
any damn’ kids yappin’ about bunyips.”
Wilfrid was frightened into silence. His mother
looked out the door as though she heard nothing.
He moved round to her and began to play with her
hands in her lap. She took no notice.
“Eh, mum,” he said insistently, “what did it do
to dad?” ,
She shook her head slightly. There was no sound
in that shelter of bags and tin except a stray horse
cropping outside, the sound of someone singing faintly
round the slope near the shelter-shed, and the hiss of
the kettle as it began to boil,
“I could do with a cup o’ tea meself,” Ella said,
to encourage the other woman. Mrs. Willoughby took
the cup when it was handed to her.
“There’s some bread in the tin,” Mrs. Willoughby
said tonelessly. “An’ there’s some
butter Mrs. Malloy brought as she
come back.”
“She gave me an orange,” Wil-
frid said.
Ella was interested. “Now,
most people,” she said, “wouldn’t
care to be mixed up more’n they
could ’elp in a thing like that.
What’d she say?”
“She sent me out,” Wilfrid
‘ volunteered sullenly.
“She was good,” Mrs. Wil-
loughby said faintly. “No one’s
been ’ere ’cept you and ’er, Ella.”
“You drink your tea.”
“She’s a real nice ol’ lady.
But there ain’t nothing she can do.
I told her.”
“Ain’t Mary or any of them
been over?” Ella asked angrily.
“It’s a shame, leavin’ y’ ’ere on
y’r lonesome.”
Mrs. Willoughby shook her
head. “I s’pose they blame me for
it.”
Ella sniffed contemptuously.
“Mary always was a silly. ’Tain’t
nobody’s fault. An act of God —
that’s what Mrs. O’Brien said
about the piano failin’ into the
cellar.”
“What piano?” Wilfrid asked.
“Look ’ere, love,” Ella said
kindly, her spirits restored by the
hot cup of tea; “you go over to
our place an’ say Ella sent you an’
says you’re to stay the night. Tell
’em I’m ’ere, an’ I’m goin’ to stay
’ere,” She turned to Allie Wil-
loughby. “That’ll suit you, won’t
it?”
Allie stared out the door, nod-
ding slightly.
“Go on, Wilfrid,” Ella urged.
“There’s a good boy.” But Wil-
frid hesitated.
“A bunyip might get me,” he
objected. Ella felt that if she heard
that word again she would scream.
“It won’t,” she said. “ ’Ere,
come on. I’ll see you down the
track.”
Ella had to lead him almost to the door of the
peasey hut. When she came back she found Mrs.
Willoughby sitting just as she had left her. She had
never liked Mrs. Willoughby, Ella remembered ; but
you couldn’t leave the poor thing alone at a time
like this. She sat down and took command.
“Someone’ll ’ave to tell young Wilf,” she said,
“ ’E’ll ’ear sooner or later.”
Mrs. Willoughby shook her head. “I can’t,” she
said. „ ~ . „
“He’s too damn’ quick,” Ella said resentfully.
“He’ll guess for himself if they start talkin’ over at
the hut.” She tested the tea and found it was too
strong, and began to make some fresh.
“What’re v’ goin’ to do?” she asked.
Mrs. Willoughby shook her head.
“But you’ll ’ave to think of somethin’.”
“Wait.”
“What’re y’ goin’ to live on?”
Again Mrs. Willoughby shook her head. She put
her elbow on the table and her head on her hand, as
though she were very tired. She looked Ella in the
eyes. ~ ,
“It was my fault,” she said slowly.
Ella tried out some of the tea.
“I should’ve gone when ’e wanted me to. But I
wouldn’t go.” She looked searchingly at Ella. “Jim
—Jim worried about me. You know what ,’e was like.
’E worried. ’E wanted t’ go away. I wouldn t go.
She put both hands to her eyes and rubbed them
wearily, though she was not crying. “If I’d only
gone —but we dragged on an’ on.” She thought for
a time, then said: “I can’t cry any more. Night an’
day I been afraid. I been cryin’, I been worryin’, an’
now I don’t feel nothin’.”
(Continued on page 50.)
OUR NEW SERIAL
Alison Smith, whose
novel “ISLAND
MERIT AGE” was
placed third in the
S. H. Prior Memorial
Competition this year,
went to Fiji when a
small girl, and lived
there until about seven
years ago. Her experi-
ence of plantation life
at Kanacea stood her in
good stead in the writ-
ing of her novel. After
leaving Fiji Miss Smith
tried her hand at office
wor\, teaching, short-
story writing and free-
lance journalism.
ALISON SMITH.
Early this year she decided to enter for the S. H. Prior Memorial
Competition. With only jour months to closing date the job was a
big one, but she managed it.
The Bulletin has secured the serial rights of “Island Heritage, the
opening chapters of which will appear in the issue of January i, 1936-


mberg
■Carlson
RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
LEARN AT HOME
■fotnate
GOOD MONEY*. RADIO
Be a Radio Expert. Many men I trained at home
in their spare time make £5, £B, £lO a week
Many made £2, £3, £4 a week in their spare
time whilst learning. Get facts about Radio’s
opportunities and my method of training. A.R.C.
training makes learning easy, fascinating and
profitable. Send coupon now for free book
“Careers in Radio and Television.”
17. b 7 GRAHAM, Principal,
AUSTRALIAN RADIO COLLEGE,
BROADWAY, SYDNEY.
Please send me your free book “Careers in
Radio and Television” with no obligation on my
part.
Same
Address
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadlo Accessories at give-away prices. AH
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits!
Write (enclosing .Id, in stain)).') for the 30 x2O
inch Lavishly. Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
RADIO NEWS
HIGH-TENSION SUPPLY FOR BATTERY-OPERATED
RECEIVERS.
BY
DON. B. KNOCK.
One of the earliest popular H.T. supply
units for battery-operated receivers is
the lead-acid B battery. These batteries
consist of a large number, usually 30 or
60, of small lead-acid cells connected
together in series. As each cell pro-
duces an electromotive force of two volts
the batteries usually have a total voltage
of either 60 or 120 volts.
The cells used in these batteries are
similar to those used in the familiar
A battery or car battery, except that they
are much smaller in size and usually
consist of only one thick positive plate
of peroxide of lead and one thick nega-
tive plate of sponge lead, instead of a
number of positive plates connected in
parallel and a number of negative plates
grouped in parallel, as is the case with
A batteries.
The cells are usually enclosed in rect-
angular glass containers about 2in. wide,
1 Lin. thick and 34in. high, and employ
diluted sulphuric acid as the electrolyte.
The construction of such cells is shown
in Fig. 1.
The main disadvantages are their high
initial cost, large size and weight and
the fact that they have to be periodi-
cally replenished with distilled water and
recharged about once a month. Also,
in spite of careful handling, it is inevit-
able for some of the acid to become
spilt after a time, with the result that a
few holes appear in the best carpet.
Dry Cells.
The improvement and cheapening of
the dry-cell battery soon made it by
far the most popular of all H.T. systems
for receivers that are not mains-operated.
The cells of these batteries are much
smaller in size and weight, considerably
less than the cells of the wet type of B
battery. Construction is shown in Fig. 2.
The cells are enclosed in cardboard
covers. These surround the zinc cans
forming the negative terminal of the
cells, and prevent the cans of adjacently-
situated cells from short-circuiting to one
another. Immediately inside the zinc
can is a lining of some porous material.
The actual substance used varies with
different makes of cells. Inside the
porous lining is a moist paste which
consists of a mixture of crushed carbon,
manganese dioxide and the electrolyte
(usually a solution of sal-ammoniac in
water). Embedded in the centre of the
moist paste is a carbon rod, which is
the positive terminal of the cell. The
top of the cell is sealed with sealing-wax
or some other type of wax whch pre-
vents the moisture from evaporating.
The electromotive force of a new dry
cell is between 1.55 and 1.6 volts. Thirty
or forty of these cells are usually con-
nected together in series and placed in
a cardboard container forming a 45- or
60-volt B battery. The actual voltage
of these batteries should be in the
vicinity of and 63 volts respectively
when new.
The main disadvantages of the dry-cell
battery are the limited current capa-
city and short life. There are three
different sizes of cells used in the con-
struction of B batteries, and even the
largest size is not suitable for supplying
a steady current of over 30ma. After
a dry-cell battery has become discharged it
is of no further use, and has to be thrown
away, as it cannot be recharged. Aver-
age life is from three to six months, de-
pending on the amount of current drawn.
Another disadvantage with dry cells is
deterioration with age. A dry-cell B
battery may be completely useless after
standing for a period of from one to two
years, even if it has never been in use.
Thus it is very important when purchas-
ing dry batteries to make certain that
they are fresh.
High-tension Systems.
Two systems have been evolved in
recent years which dispense with the
necessity of B batteries of any type, and
supply high tension for the receiver by
converting power taken from the A bat-
tery or, in some cases, from 32-volt
house-lighting plants.
One of these systems employs a gene-
motor, such as the popular Carter, con-
sisting of a combination of electric
motor and generator. This device is very
similar in construction to an ordinary
electric motor, except that it has an
extra winding on the rotary armature
and an extra commutator and pair of
brushes to make contact with the ends
of the extra winding.
The two field magneis of the device
are usually connected in series with the
smaller winding of thick wire on the
armature through the commutator and
pair of brushes connected to this winding.
Current from the A battery or storage
battery supplying the device flows
through the field coils and armature and
causes the armature to rotate. As the
second winding, consisting of a large
number of turns of fine wire, is rotated
by the armature it passes through the
lines of force produced by the field
coils, and has a high voltage induced.
The high voltage, after being rectified
and filtered by a choke and condensers,
which usually form part of the device,
is suitable for applying to radio equip-
ment.
The current drawn from the A bat-
tery depends on three things: (1) The
power delivered by the high-voltage
winding, (2) the voltage of the A bat-
tery, (3) the efficiency of the genemotor.
The greater the power delivered by the
high-voltage winding the more difficult
it is for the armature to rotate and the
greater the current drawn from the A
battery to make it rotate. Power is pro-
portional to voltage multiplied by the
amperes of current. If a genemotor re-
quires 16 watts of power to drive it,
and it is to operate from a six-volt
storage battery, it will draw 16 divided
by 6 or 2.6 amps. If a genemotor re-
quiring the same amount of power is to
operate from a 32-volt source, it will
draw 16 divided by 32 or .5 of an amp.
A certain amount of the power taken
from the battery is used to make the
armature rotate ; also to overcome the
friction in the moving parts and to ener-
gise the field coils. This amount of
power will not be directly effective in
producing power in the output wind-
ings, with the consequence that the
power delivered by a genemotor will not
be much more than half as much as the
power taken from the storage battery.
The efficiency of most genemotors (the
amount of power output for a certain
power input) varies between 40 p.c. and
60 p.c.
The main advantages of a genemotor
are that it is small and light compared
with B batteries, and that it does not need
periodically replacing or recharging. Of
course, with the additional drain the A
battery will become discharged more
rapidly, but this should not present any
difficulty if a charger is readily avail-
able, or if the battery is used in an auto-
mobile, boat or as part of a home-light-
ing plant.
Vibrator-type Power Supplies.
Another system of H.T. supply with-
out B batteries employs a vibrator, which
interrupts current flowing through the
primary of a step-up transformer. The
varying lines of force produced by the
pulsating current in the primary induce
a high alternating voltage in the
secondary, which, after being rectified
and filtered, is quite suitable for applying
to radio equipment. There are many
slight variations in the arrangement of
these vibrator-type power supplies ; one
typical circuit arrangement is shown in
Fig. 3.
As the vibrator coil becomes alter-
nately magnetised and demagnetised by
the pulsations of current through it,
it causes the vibrating contact to alter-
nately make contact with terminals 1 and
2. When the arm is touching contact 1,
current flows downward through the top
half of the primary to the centre tap ;
an instant later, the arm is drawn
down to contact 2, and current then
flows upward through the bottom half
of the primary to the centre tap. As the
current flows first in one direction
through the primary and then an instant
later in the opposite direction, it is alter-
nating current. Alternating current flow-
ing through the primary winding will
induce an alternating voltage in the sec-
ondary winding. The secondary winding
usually consists of many more turns than
the primary ; in some cases the secondary
may consist of 50 or more times as
many turns as the primary. Conse-
quently, the voltage induced in the
secondary may be 50 or more times the
voltage applied to the primary.
The high secondary voltage, which, is
usually between 150 and 300 volts on
each half of the secondary winding, is
then applied to (he two anodes of a full-
wave rectifier, which changes the A.C.
back to D.C. again. If the voltage which
comes from the rectifier should be
applied straight to the receiver a loud
buzzing or humming sound would ema-
nate from the loudspeaker, but by first
passing the current through a filter con-
sisting of an iron-cored choke and two
condensers the pulsations in the current
are removed, and the output is quite
suitable for operating radio equipment.
Some models of this type of power
supply use an extra pair of contacts on
the vibrator to rectify the current in-
stead of the rectifier tube. Unless the
vibrator contacts are made of very good-
quality material they are likely to become
burnt and dirty, and this will result in
low output voltage or complete failure to
operate. The genemotor- and vibrator-
type power-supply units do not present
outstanding advantages to the ordinary
battery-set owner, unless some means of
recharging the A battery is available or
unless power can be obtained from a 32-
volt house-lighting plant. The current
drawn from a six-volt A battery is
usually in the vicinity of two amps., and
from a 32-volt source about .5 of an
amp. For use in automobile and other
portable work, the genemotor- or
vibrator-type power supplies are very
convenient.
L. B. GRAHAM.
Principal, Australian Radio College.
M. Leon Deloy, pioneer French radio
amateur, was recently made Chevalier
of the Legion of Honor in recog-
nition of his work in connection with
trans-Atlantic short-wave communica-
tion. Deloy was the first to transmit
messages across the Atlantic on wave-
lengths of less than 200 metres. His
station, FBAB, worked with UIMO in
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A., on 100 metres,
starting amateur investigation of wave-
lengths below 200 metres.


TEST CRICKET BALL -TO ■ BALL BROADCASTS
AUSTRALIA VERSUS SOUTH AFRICA .
FIRST TEST, DEC. 14 to DEC. 18, played at Durban; SECOND TEST, DEC. 24 to DEC 28, _ played at TEST,
JAN. 1 to JAN. 4, played at Cape Town; FOURTH TEST, FEB. 15 to FEB. 19, played at Johannesburg; FIFTH TEST, FEB. 28 to
MARCH 3, played at Durban.
SEE THAT YOUR SET IS IN F.RST-CLASS ORDER-REPLACE WORN VALVES WITH
Radioi ron
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Hobart.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
luelaluc . nuuan. 47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-69 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Advertisement of Amalsamated Wireless Valve Company . Limited.
“Ramblings of a Radiotron” is
the illustrated story of a Radio
valve, written in humorous verse.
It also includes items of national
interest and a complete survey of
Australian-South African Cricket
History. Write to-day for free
copy, enclosing penny stamp for
postage.
City Short-wave Diallings.
For two or three weeks prior to
December 12, 1935, peculiar atmospheric
conditions caused almost continuous
high-speed fading, with resultant weak
and broken reception. This rendered
identification difficult and uncertain. A
strong station heard after nine every
evening in the normal position of ORlv
was PMN, which for some time pre-
viously had rarely been logged except on
Sundays. The regular programmes of
this station compensate for the loss of
the familiar Japanese station on 28
metres, which has not been heard since
December 2.
At midnight on November 27 there
was a temporary cessation of fading,
and extraordinarily powerful reception
was obtained. This was reflected in the
lowest readings of the visual tuning dial
the writer has ever recorded. Brought
down to the quiet standard of “midnight”
strength—this may appear arbitrary, but
individual habit tends to make it fairly
constant —the weakest station, Radio
Coloniale, on 25 metres, gave a reading
of only two spaces above zero. GSF
gave one below zero ; DJB two below ;
while Radio Coloniale, on 19 metres,
DJA and DJN all came in so strongly
that the tuning indicator did not appear
on the dial at all. (For purposes of com-
parison, it may be mentioned that these
readings represent about six or seven
spaces below normal on a dial which is
graduated to only 20 spaces all told.)
GSE was also remarkably strong, but I
omitted to record the V.T. reading. In
point of quality, the best of all was the
French station on 19 metres, which was
wonderfully mellow and sweet in tone.
The new German station on 28. S
metres turns out to be not DJP, as was
supposed, but DJJ. It was heard very
clearly on December 12, when the
schedule was announced as 8 p.m. to
10 p.m. Central European time— i.e.,
5 a.m. to 7 a.m. Sydney time. DJP has
been located on 25.3 metres, immediately
above Radio Coloniale. It closes at n
p.m., just as FYA is striking up “The
Marseillaise” for the commencement of
the programme.
On December 4 a new station was in-
augurated in the Saar, with headquarters
near Saarbriicken. The wave-length has
not been ascertained. Speeches at the
ceremony were relayed by DJB on De-
cember 5. Dr. Goebbels was evidently
in witty vein, to judge by the roars of
laughter his sallies provoked.
The return of good conditions on the
evening of December 4 prompted an ex-
ploration of the higher bands, which
most listeners have already given up as
hopeless. Comparatively little static was
encountered, and reception generally was
up to average winter standard. ZEK
on 34.29 metres, the Manila station KPB
just above it, PMY on 58.3 metres, YDE
on 62.37 metres, RVIS on 70.2 metres
and YDA on 96.68 metres all came
through clearly, as did harmonics from
the broadcast stations 2UW and 3AK.
On December 6 the best early-morning
station was W3XAL, on 16.87 metres,
which gave a very fine rendering of Beet-
hoven’s Seventh Symphony, pr w.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been very good re-
cently, except for a few nights during
heavy rain, when static was acute right
down to 20 metres.
No. 1 8.8. C. transmission has con-
tinued excellent, but GSB developed high
noise level. The star performer has been,
and possibly will be all through the
summer, GSE in the No. 3 transmission.
If, as was done last summer, it is also
used for No. 2 there should be a long
period of excellent reception at night.
2RO has increased in strength at night,
and has sometimes given a long session
in English after 12.30 p.m.
On 31 metres in the mornings this
station has suffered from interference,
chiefly from FZR, which is very broad,
and of the type of transmission referred
to in a recent article on interference in
this page.
PCI, in the usual Wednesday trans-
mission, has been excellent until 10.30,
but lost considerably in strength
after that hour. PHI, in the 25-metre
band, has been good until 12.30.
The two Nazis in the 31-metre band,
DJA and DIN, have been good, but
under considerable static at times. DIB,
on 19 metres, has been very variable.
Mus'C from these stations is certainly
well worth listening to.
Another German, on 29.8 metres, has
been heard irregularly, but so far with
Not a mystery from another world, but
a general idea of the television aerial
tower at Alexandra Palace, London.
—from “Television.”
no English announcements. ORK has
now faded to inaudibility.
RNE made a reappearance on
December 5 after 8 p.m. with a musical
programme at splendid strength, but went
straight on to telephony at nine without
any announcements in English.
WBXK has been variable but mostly
good in the 19-metre transmission be-
tween 6 and 7 a.m., with W2XAD
weaker.
FYA, from opening at 10.30 p.m. until
about 1 a.m., in the 19-metre band, has
been excellent, but the 25-metre morning
transmission has been only fair after
6.30 a.m.
Both the D.E.I. stations on 31 and 29
metres have been good, but VK3LR and
VK2ME, which were so strong a few
weeks ago, have been inaudible on most
nights.
There is a new station between DIN
and GSB, recently audible but too weak
to identify.
The 49-metre band was explored one
morning, but although several stations
were fair strength static rendered things
unpleasant.
JVN has continued easily the best of
the Japanese. JVH, recently so strong
around 3 p.m., has not been heard at
all.
NIGTONWL.
Amateur Chatter.
The transmitting amateur is often
blamed for interference with broadcast
programmes when the cause comes from
anywhere but an amateur source. Too
often does the BCL, suffering from har-
monies of naval or shipping stations, fly
into a tantrum at “these amateurs.” Then,
again, if somebody in a near-by flat has a
faulty power plug on domestic appara-
tus, it is “that amateur up the road.”
One of the worst troubles, however, is
that of the double-spotting dual-wave
superhet which puts amateur signals
from the 20-metre band over into Daven-
try around 19 metres. The time long ago
arrived when every dual-wave superhet
should be designed to eliminate image
reception, on the short-wave as well as
the broadcast side. Not many Aus-
tralian-designed dual- or all-wave super-
hets have a tuned R.F. stage ahead of
the frequency-changer. Examination of
overseas designs will show that prac-
tically every American superhet capable
of covering the short-wave ranges has
either preselection or pre-R.F. amplifica-
tion. The manufacturer in U.S.A.
tion.
A cable message to the writer from
Los Angeles contains the news that
henceforth the magazines “Radio” and
“R 9” are to be merged, under the title
of “Radio.” No overseas publication deal-
ing with amateur requirements has been
more eagerly awaited than the unmerged
“Radio,” which during the last three
years has become increasingly popular in
Australia. The combination of these two
West Coast U.S.A. magazines will be
beneficial to all readers; for the staffs
include radio engineers of world-wide
repute.
Sydney amateurs are notified that
vacancies for 15 recruits exist in the Ist
Division Cavalry Signals of the Militia
Forces, and those desirous of applying
their capabilities to the interesting and
important work of defence communica-
tion are requested to apply to the writer
or the adjutant. Major T. Farrow,
Engineers’ Depot, Moore Park. Good
operators are needed, and service, which
is voluntary, involves complete military
training, with opportunities for advance-
ment and promotion.
A report in an Australian amateur
monthly refers to “a new station,
VK6MO.” VK6MO, at Watheroo
(W.A.), has been on the air for many
years. It is devoted to meteorological
research in conjunction with the local
observatory, and is no “new ham.”
An old Tasmanian amateur whose
signal once permeated the air in 1926,
’27 and ’2B, and who signed off indefinitely
during the latter year, has returned to
the fold. This is VK7CW, who may be
heard occasionally on the 20-metre band.
“QST” (U.S.A.) refers briefly to
Malcolm Campbell’s record speed run at
Utah, and mentions the hitherto-
unrecorded fact that five-metre communi-
cation, provided by an amateur, assisted
considerably in communication between
starting and finishing positions.
VK2NO.
Products Reviewed.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Tasma 310 Battery Dual-wave Model.
The difference in testing the product
of a manufacturer carrying a trade-
name well established and recognised as
being symbolic of the highest quality and
the product of a “backyard” assembler
of radio material is the difference be-
tween dealing with something well
planned and something that just hap-
pened. Radio to-day runs parallel with
the motor-car industry. The car with a
name behind it is built to a high stan-
dard, whereas the unknown may be in
the experimental stage; and it is much
the same with radio.
The latest creation from the factory
of Thom and Smith, carrying the reput-
able name of Tasma, is a dual-wave bat-
tery model for country use. This is
known as the 310, and both appear-
ance and performance of the sample
submitted for test are faultless. Exami-
nation of the chassis showed that a
highly efficient mixture of valves is em-
ployed, with five valves in all. Six- and
two-volt types are included with the
heaters and filaments in a series-parallel
arrangement, and comprise Philips EKI
octode frequency - changer, Mullard
PMI2M R.F. pentode as intermediate
frequency amplifier at 445 kc., type 75
duo-diode-triode as second detector,
automatic volume control and first audio
amplifier, a 19 twin triode as push-pull
audio driver and another 19 as conven-
tional Class-B audio output stage. The
audio channel is thus a double push-pull
arrangement, and is particularly effective.
The wave-length range covered is the
usual 200- to 550-metre broadcast, with
short waves between 18 and 50 metres,
including the important 19-, 25- and
49-metre international broadcast chan-
nels.
The country user of radio in particu-
larly humid climates should appreciate
Tasma productions, for all the chassis
from this factory are fitted with coils
specially impregnated to withstand
moisture-laden atmosphere.
Other points of the 310 chassis are the
well-known bandspread dial with clearly
calibrated large scale, plus a small dial
with speedy-moving indicator for short-
wave tuning, and the four controls,
wave-change, tuning and volume on the
panel and the tone control at the rear
of the chassis. The volume control is
combined with the battery switch, thus
eliminating an extra “on-off” switch.
Checking up on battery consumption
and connections revealed a very salis-
Tasma Model 310 dual-wave super-
heterodyne. Five valves — EKI, PMI2M,
75, 19, 19. A supply, 6 volts; B supply,
135 volts. Makers, Thom and Smith,
Ltd., 55-57 Dowling-street, Sydney.
factory standard of economy and fool-
proof operation. A very good method
of tagging and terminating the battery
leads is adopted, and there are only five
connections. The receiver is thus easy
to connect up, and the danger of wrong
connection is reduced to a minimum. A
six-volt accumulator feeds the valve
heaters and filaments, and three triple-
capacity 45-volt B batteries supply the
necessary total of 135 volts. Under
working conditions the static B-battery
drain is around 10 milliamperes, rising to
16 milliamperes for average room
{Continuei ' on next page.)


Kr. *
GIVE HIM
months of
LUXURY SHAVING
in the coming year!
Jk
10'-
BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
GILETTE
When you give a man genuine Blue Gillettes,
you pay a compliment to his judgment, be-
cause he knows they are the finest blades that
money can buy. To make him a present of 25
of them means that you are giving him a
smooth, silky shave every morning tor many
months perhaps for a whole year. What a
comfort to a man! During all that time he will
never have to worry about that "packet of
blades I forgot to buy yesterday" but will go
straight ahead every morning with a cool
Gillette shave! Truly, this box of 25 Blue
Gillettes is a gift worth giving. Price 10/-.
BLUE GILLETTE
Ch ristmas Box
CONTAINING 25 BLADES
Blue Gillettes fit all types of Gillette Razors — old and new.
This Seal spells Security, for it
is the Seal of the Australian
Valve Merchants’ Association.
Valves bearing the Association’s
Seal are fully licensed under
Australian patents and protect
you against patent infringe-
ments.
The latest and best' develop-
ments made possible by exten-
sive research of the World’s
foremost radio engineers are
embodied in valves bearing this
Seal. -
Protect yourself and your cus-
tomer —see that the valves you
buy bear the Association’s Seal.
THIS SEAL
IS YOUR PROLECTION j
ADVERTISEMENT OF THE AUSTRALIAN VALVE MERCHANTS’ ASSOCIATION.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived; —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS: r . „ .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vic^Chairman),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
volume. The speaker is a large-sized
Amplion permagnetic. If it is desired
to use the set as a radio-gramophone,
pickup terminals are provided on the
chassis for ready connection. Tests were
made on small indoor and large external
aerials, and the results leave no doubt as
to the excellent performance to be ex-
pected under the most strenuous country
conditions.
The receiver is as easy to handle on
short waves as on broadcast, and back-
ground noise from the operation of the
receiver itself is down to the faintest
whisper. It was found possible to hear
a few country stations
during daylight hours
on the broadcast
range, and if this can
be done in Sydney
the Sydney stations
can be heard from
country locations
with certainty in day-
light. There is ample
selectivity, proved by
using the receiver in
Sydney with a large
external aerial.
Finally, there is the cabinet, an
impressive and beautiful piece of work-
manship, well in keeping with this well-
engineered addition to the Tasma range.
A slightly sloping recessed front panel
gives a natural observation and tuning
position, and the woodwork is in a
highly finished and polished dark grain.
A large and solidly designed cabinet
plays no little part in the effect on the
human ear, and the Tasma 310 cabinet
is particularly generous in this respect.
The price, from all Tasma dealers, is
£34 17s. 6d,
The Q. and A. Column.
Please outline the various methods of con-
necting an audio transformer in order to obtain
HIGH STEP-UP
RATIO
NORMAL STEP-UP
RATIO
SMALL STEP-UP
RATIO
1.1 RATIO
(GRID CHOKE)
varying ratios when using parallel feed coup-
line.— 343. _
These diagrams show four different ways
of varying the transformer ratio, with conse-
quently different degrees-of audio amplification.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.E.S.: None so dusty, but the swan song
of a discarded mayor isn't worth half that
space T.V.T.: On the mawkish, stickily-
sentimental side... .R.M.: “Maybe you can
use these verses, maybe not.” Ihe noes have
it... .T. McC.: Trite sentiments aggravated by
split infinitives... .F.K.P.: It’s not easy to
decipher, and it’s wholly unintelligible....
B.McL.: Reads like Dr. Watts and water —■
a lot of water F.W.S.; Some good lines,
but not enough to carry it through... .P.M.:
There’s hardly the makings of a rhyme in it.
... .R.J.C.: We can't imagine a grizzled
fossicker indulging in that sort of metaphor.
.... R.C.: All right for a verse-peg, but you
havenT made the best of it....A.5.: Good
stuff in if, but Tubman’s behavior isn't con-
vincing. Fix that up and it might get by....
J. 8.: Oft our track; give it a trial elsewhere.
. ...S.J.H.: “Derelict” came very near to
making port... .V.M.: Not sufficiently con-
vincing V.J.: Verses about slum mother
and street children’s quarrel made no impres-
sion.... D.P.: Refuse to rise to the bait....
M. 8.: Article unsuitable; try a daily paper.
G.T.: Far below your standard P.H.:
Ran well, but missed a place; worth another
run S.M.K.: “Shiner’s Progress” is good
enough in atmosphere, but the plot lacks
interest... .L.W.: Quite readable, but not in
our line... .G.W.S.: Jackeroo hitting the long
trail for home A.D.G. (Eng.): “But for
this 1 should never have been able to aspire
to the hand of the woman I love.” Men who
speak like that shall never sully our columns,
even though they be carrying half a dozen
White Man’s Burdens J. 0.8.: Not quite.
R.G.R.: Not this time M.H. and L.W.:
Try a women’s paper ’Grace: Not funny
enough... .Elan : Doesn’t make the grade....
CJ.McD.: We thought at first you were go-
ing to be different—but, no! the picnicker did
get bitten by the greenhead ant.... A.W.H.:
Scorfield claims that the dancers in question
were left-handed S.D.: Nicely written;
you may not place it, but it holds hope of
better things. Try the same style on an
original p10t... .T.P.W.: Commendable, but it
scarcely does justice to the lyrebird... .C.C.;
The subjects don’t appeal C.S.: Our motor-
ing expert is prepared to give your streamlined
baby-carriage a thorough trial over the Bulle-
tin test course, provided you furnish it com-
plete with infant.... R.T.M.: Off our beat,
and far too long. Shorten it and try a
women’s paper S.C.: The best that can be
said of it is that there is no harm in it....
N.C.: Another “in-between” sonnet....
P.D.:—
And the sailoi-s are swarthy and sun-tanned
With the kiss of the wind and the raift.
And daily they think of their loved ones
Till they meet on the shores again.
Non-strikers?.... Beve: Why not have some
dreams of your own instead of visioning
“pixies, elves, and sprites” that other people
have told you about? W.H.: He may have
been a good mate, but he makes dull reading.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.W.: Man on horizontal-bar, or grass-
hopper on hairpin?... .G.R.: Your lines
straggle aimlessly over the paper.... .N.L.P.:
Not the week’s worst, but near it..-.
CJ.: Dates back to the war... .E.S.D.:
Your passion for horizontal strokes won’t
carry you far T.L.: Why give the
hostess arms that reach only to her hips?
R.W.G.: Glimmer of humor in the
pig-judging drawing; none in the others
KJF.: Has a decorative interest, but of no
use to U5....PJ.W.: Those fellows never
stepped off an Australian man-o’-war
G.H.N.: It is a toss-up which is the worse —
gag or drawing... .A.E.C.: You made your
first error when you began to put in the
human beings H. 8.: Getting tired of the
lady who confused eternity with maternity....
C.P.: The flics look realistic, but the horse is
dreadful V. 8.: Moth-eaten jests and untidy
sketches... .D.S.T.: Just a copy A.P.:
All the figures need propping up.... A.N.S.;
The soak is an anatomical disgrace... .W.C.W.:
Seamen’s-strike cartoon the most incomprehen-
sible of the week R.L.: For all her curves,
the barmaid is wretchedly drawn... .N. H.;
Boxing sketch look the count in the first round.
. ...P.C.: Little better than the last batch....
A.B.D. : The door is too small to admit even
a dwarf E.R.S.: You can’t draw a rooster.
J.N.L.: All figures seem to be suffering
from gout and goitre G.D.; You have
missed the point of the Auditor-General’s out-
cry.... J.G.: Will try to forgive y0u....
G.E.P.: Auntie looks as if she had been made
out of a couple of bolsters... .S.V.: Drawing
shows signs of cleverness —keep 0n... .R.J.T.:
You have a sense of the absurd, but you
draw poorly... .M.C.: Not a chance.


FOR RANDWICK.
December Nursery: Chaos ; next,
Spirits.
Villiers: Windbird, 1 ; Topical, 2 ;
Prittle Prattle or Bachian, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Spear Prince ;
next, Mainlaw.
Highweight: Prittle Prattle or
Raleigh ; next, Merrie Miller.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Three-year-old Handicap: Cardi-
nal ; next, Fearless Imp.
Essendon Handicap: Ruach ; next,
Warlaby.
Glenroy Plate: Belle Silhouette.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The clock in the Rosehill paddock
stopped at 2.10 onSaturday, and was not
set going again. It must have made a
difference to the volume of tote betting,
but to this Sydney proprietaries seem to
attach little importance, judging by the
unattractive forms they serve up and the
obsolete contrivances at least one of them
uses. More attention to public conveni-
ence should be insisted upon by the Gov-
ernment ; but apparently the Govern-
ment doesn’t care, either.
The outstanding performer at Rose-
hill was Windbird. Favorite for the
Dundas Handicap at 7 to 4 (the price
would have been shorter but for the
backing of Barracker), Windbird was set
a severe task from barrier-rise. He
began slowly, and appeared to be out
of the race half a mile from home,
where he was giving Dual Ratio and
Barracker lengths. But Shean was not
perturbed. He called on his mount at
the Leger, and, responding like a race-
horse, Windbird won, easing up, by a
length and a quarter from Golden
Chance (25 to 1), who also came home
well, with Cherry King (10 to 1) two
lengths away. Dual Ratio was next; Bar-
racker was fifth. He had got into a bit
of trouble, but it made no difference, and
the Windbag horse tired palpably.
GER.T ' " I WANT SOME BRAKOV FOR
the Christmas, puoonc "
Bert ' " Is - it nbcs&smrv *
Qert. Yes. vou pour, the brandy
OVER THE PUODlMG, , "THEW U&KT IT*
e>ER,Tl VJOULDMT e>E MORE
EFFECT WE-
Windbird made light of his Bst. 41b.,
and ran the “seven” in Imin. 25£sec. As
he drops to 7st. 131 b. in the Villiers. he
looks to have a mortgage on that race.
Right at the top of his form, he is a
genuine miler who will be suited by the
long stretches at Randwick.
The Corinthian Cup proved a good
thing for Goorka (8 to 1), owned and bred
by Walgett pastoralist F. L. Moore and
ridden by R. Carter, of Barraba. Goorka
led throughout, and won easily from
Cinema (16 to 1) and Tom Pinch (5 to 1).
The favorite, Fernacre, who looks a typi-
cal “picnic” horse, failed badly, as did
Sailing, who had been humping big
weights in the west. There was some
bumping in the first furlong, and they
received their fair share of it.
Despite the lack of a pipe-opening
race, Mr. Kerry (3 to 1) won the
December Handicap. Mainlaw was
favorite at 7 to 4; he was heavily
bandaged on the forelegs and was not
suited by the pace: the leader, Sally,
made it so slow that the ten furlongs
occupied 2min. 7sec. Mainlaw made up
ground turning for home, but when he
looked dangerous at the furlong pole
Munro had to check him. Mr. Kerry, on
the outside, received a clear passage ;
so did Satmoth, the runner-up. Dermid
was fourth, and then came Curator. The
latter looked big, and may not be ready
for the Summer Cup.
Dick Wootton’s Whimsey (7 to 1) put
up a rather good performance in the
first division of the Maiden Handicap.
Slow to leave the barrier, she finished
gamely to beat Rogerio and the pace-
maker, Royal Promise. The Heroic filly
Fair Diana (3 to 1) romped home in the
second division. Kalong and Gazza filled
the places.
Water Waggon, on his home track,
proved too brilliant for the opposition
in the first division o£ the Nursery. He
started at 9 to 4, beating Überous and
Stalin. The second division was an ex-
citing affair. Roma (10 to 1) and Pat
Osborne’s filly Chaos (6 to 1) could not
be separated at the judge. Chaos finished
fast from a long way back, and is
worth following. Leilagilla, who made
the pace a cracker, tired over the last
furlong.
The Bulletin got a thrill out of the
last race. It tipped Bulletin (King Moab,
its other choice, was scratched), and
Bulletin bobbed up—at twenties. Tote
divs. (there were three) were £4 18s. for
10s. in the paddock and £2 19s. for ss. in
the Leger. Bulletin made the running
with Bachian, and shook off the Villiers
winner at the Leger. Finishing stoutly,
he beat Bachian and The Brewer, who
dead-heated, by a long head. Theo was
backed for a fortune (to twos), but gal-
loped sourly, finishing fifth, after being
at the rear for most of the way. Fox-
hunter also failed badly.
Voitre’s wonderful sequence of suc-
cesses ended with the riding of Garrio in
the Williamstown Cup. At the last three
Saturday meetings in Melbourne he has
not ridden a winner, and punters who
follow jockeys are now transferring their
fickle favor to Skidmore.
Voitre had four mounts at Ascot on
Saturday for a second (Speardale, favor-
ite for the second division of the Heales-
ville Handicap) and a third (Multudo in
the Flying). Skidmore had an engage-
ment in each of the six flat races, and
got three horses home first—Fearless Imp
(5 to 2) in the first division of the Heales-
ville, Benedict (5 to 4 on) in the Bala-
clava Handicap and Marion Melton (7
to 2) in the Sandhurst Welter. It was
Benedict’s third victory with Skidmore
up.
Heros doesn’t seem quite the horse he
was last summer. Partly because Skid-
more had already ridden two winners, the
aged Heroic gelding, who had the engag-
ing youth’s services, was served up a
warm favorite for the Flying. He had
every chance, but failed to get a place
in a field of seven. L’Elite (8 to 1) flat-
tered his backers for most of the six-
furlongs journey; it was reserved for
another chestnut stallion, Titanium (9 to
2), to defeat him after a good tussle.
Multudo (12 to 1), exhibiting much of his
old pace, was a good third.
Marion Melton, a close second to
L’Elite at the Valley, was naturally
favorite for the Sandhurst Welter, but
her price was only half a point shorter
than that of Voitre’s mount, Takata.
Marion Melton won nicely, in spite of
interference, for which Booth, the rider
of Bussellton, was adjudged guilty and
retired for a month. Evening Mist (6 to
1) was second, and Earl Leicester, a 25-
to-1 shot, third.
Up 71b. for his victory at the Valley,
Sarokos was the elect of the generality
of punters for the Ascot Handicap, but
almost as many came at Villius again,
and there was good money for Akanree
and Chrysonna. Sarokos again figured
in a very interesting finish, and the un-
usual spectacle was seen of another old
grey, Chrysonna (6 to 1), battling it out
with him, Chrysonna prevailed by three-
quarters of a length. He is by Chryso-
laus, Sarokos by Sarchedon. Hot Shot
(12 to 1), a bad last with only three fur-
longs to go (the race was run over the
unusual distance of 1 mile 480 yards),
put in such strides from that point that
he finished third, only a long neck behind
Sarokos. On that showing he ought to
make things interesting in one of the big
summer handicaps.
■ ' • ; , • ' . (
There was a bad accident in Benedict’s
race; Asparagus fell and was killed; Sir
Beaufort' —he, like Benedict, is trained
by Steve Murphy—ran into the prostrate
animal and suffered damage to a
shoulder. Neither of the jockeys was
badly hurt. Asparagus, it seems, galloped
on the heels of Fair Maiden, who had
been squeezed by Stockyard, The
stewards have put Stockyard’s jockey—
also a Murphy—on the ice for two
months.
* * * *
Topical is as honest a horse as ever
looked through a bridle, and his return
to the winning list was welcomed by
punters at Rosebery, especially as he was
an even-money favorite for his race —a
division of the Flying Handicap. The
pity of it was that the owner, Robert
Miller, should have been so miserably
rewarded for his animal’s effort. He
received a whole £6O, the other prizes
being £lO second and £3 6s. Bd. third.
When Sydney racing people have to put
up with this miserable parsimony, it is
no wonder that pre-eminence in the
business has passed to Melbourne.
There was no popular welcome for
Fairoic when she became a winner
again. Twice unplaced at Warwick
Farm when heavily backed by the
public—on the second occasion only
four days before —she beat in the Rose-
bery Handicap (at 7 to 1) a much better
field than she had met on the Saturday,
The stewards held one of those retro-
spective inquiries which are becoming
fashionable since the V.R.C. stewards
established a precedent in the Country
Party case, and found there was nothing
wrong. The decision, in effect, was that
the mare had been supported by the
stable on the Saturday and on the
Wednesday had been ridden in a dif-
ferent fashion by another jockey
(O’Sullivan).
* * • * *
“Inshallah”'; Once more the Aga
Khan has headed the list of winning
owners in Britain with £49,000, most of
it due to his triple-crown winner Bahram.
The secret of the Khan’s success is that
he never sticks at paying a price for a
promising youngster. Probably if a
profit-and-lbss balance were struck the
Aga would not be much to the good.
However, he has money to burn, and
if he gets short has only to send round
the plate among the eleven millions of
the Moslem sect of which he is the living
representative of heaven on earth to get
more than enough to make up the short-
age.
* * * *
“Cat’s-meat”; A rare old row is rag-
ing in Brisbane over the proposal to in-
troduce night trotting on the Exhibition
ground. There will be no betting, it is
alleged; owners will race “for the sport
only.” It is asserted also that an “im-
portant industry” will be developed. The
“no-betting” assurance is rank impu-
dence. Nor can the breeding of trotting
horses ever be “an important industry.”
Apart from his special purpose as a
gambling medium the trotter is as use-
less to the community as his mechanical
relative the fruit machine. He is a squib
and a cocktail, a hater of hard work.
His mongrel blood is shown in every
action. For hard saddle work, I would
sooner take one of the little thorough-
bred runts we see at the now-respectable
pony tracks in the certainty that, short
of dropping under me, he would never
let me down. For the rest, the plea that
trotting is the poor man’s sport leaves
me cold. I have never heard a sport
referred to in those terms which was not
accompanied by the most sordid aspects
of gambling.
Ins and Outs
Most of the South African batsmen
were uncomfortable against the Austra-
lian slow stuff in the first Test at Durban.
Mitchell and Siedle handled the opening
bowlers easily enough, but shortly after
changes were made Siedle went l.b.w.
to O’Reilly and Fleetwood-Smith bowled
Mitchell. Rowan stayed 185 minutes to
lop-score with 66, and Nourse put on 30
in quick time ; but the only other to do
much was Crisp, who had a hit at the
finish for 35 ; all out, 248. F.-Smith
finished with 4-64, Grimmett 2 for 48 and
O’Reilly (who sent down 17 maidens out
of 33 overs) 3-55. The fielding, but for
Oldfield’s handling of F.-Smith, was
capital.
* * * *
“Binghi”: Kempsey (N.S.W.) thinks it
has an abo. cricketer to set against Gil-
bert. Named Mumbler, he is a batsman.
and a lively 116 brought his season s
aggregate to 576 in competition games.
He is a brilliant slip fieldsman. His
team is a purely abo. one, and its mana
is great in the cow country,
* * * *
“Shabash Bhai”; There was an umpire
incident in the match between Tarrant’s
men and the Indians at Bombay. Love
was given out, but the Yuvraj of Patiala
called the batsman back and told him
to carry on. The ump. again commanded
Love to i get out, and the Australian got
out. Not so long ago action of this kind
would have ended in the umpire being
introduced to the official elephant after
the match ; but nothing sticky seems to
have happened in this case.
o Continued on next page.)
Joe Louis has knocked out Paolino
Uzcudun in four rounds at New York.
But the Basque is nearer 40 than 30, and
was never much good—George Cook
once whipped him.
# * * *
A new star has arisen in the sculling
world in Cecil Pearce, a cousin of Bobby
Pearce, professional champion of the
world. With 300 yards to'go in a 2000-
metres race on the Parramatta, he was
leading Turner, the amateur champion,
by three lengths (too great a margin for
Turner to have made up) when Turner’s
craft capsized. And they had started off
scratch.
* * * *
Quist is Victorian lawn-tennis cham-
pion ; he beat Crawford decisively in
four sets at Kooyong. Miss Coyne ac-
counted for Miss Hartigan again in the
women’s championship; Misses Lewis
and Menzies won the doubles for their
sex, and the Hopmans the mixed doubles.
* * * *
Australia will be strongly represented
in the hop, step and jump at the Berlin
Olympiad. In the State championship
meeting at Sydney Sports Ground
Dickenson covered 51ft. 2|in.; then
Metcalfe did 51ft. 9fin. A world’s
record is to be claimed for Metcalfe.


SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
THAT'S
IT/
yranA
4rA
Definitely fhe
finest WHISKY
Scotland produces. , .
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Kwakprak”: A healthy young pro-
fessional boxer recently dropped dead
during a practice bout in a Brisbane gym.,
and the press burst forth into the usual
erudite explanations of the terrible solar-
plexus blow. As a matter of fact, it
is nothing more than the good old punch
to the mark, or “taking his wind,” with
which Larry Foley was wont to make his
pupils so distressingly familiar. The
cause of death was reflex respiratory
failure —in other words, the unlucky lad
didn’t get his wind back before the
breathing centre in the brain was put
permanently out of action by lack of
oxygen. Prompt artificial respiration
and some oxygen would have brought
him round. A sheer accident, it wouldn’t
happen once in a million fast bouts. The
solar plexus has nothing to do with it —
the effect comes from driving the dia-
phragm sharply up against the bases of
the lungs.
* * * *
“Parkside”: There was an unusual
interlude when the Australian cricketers
reached Jo’burg. O’Brien was challenged
to a go with the mufflers by Laurie
Stevens, lightweight champion of South
Africa. O’Brien is himself a mitt-shover
of some eminence in Victoria, and was
willing enough. Vic Richardson, how-
ever, thought one game at a time enough.
Ins and Outs
The Maryleboners went for the bowl-
ing in their second shot at Sydney, and
spanked up 207 for 9 before closing.
Hardstaff gave another fine exhibition
with 63. Ebeling’s 6-58 again made us
regret his absence from the South
African team. Faced with a fourth-
innings knock of 392 to win, Australia
made a feeble 188 (Marks 40). Sims
(4-81) and Parks (3-30) were the
destroyers. Gate for the match was
£9lO, Albion taking £3OO,
* * * *
In Jo’burg the Australians won their
match with the Transvaal by 10 wickets.
In their second try Transvaal made 247,
leaving Australia 28 to get—a feat duly
performed by Brown and Fingleton.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Maryleboners left
for M.L. at the week-end, taking with
them the good wishes of everyone. The
extra match in Sydney caused an amend-
ment of the programme in M.L., and they
will now open to-morrow against Wel-
lington. They claim they could not find
their form with bat or ball until the close
of their tour of Australia, and are greatly
bucked with their win over the combined
team in Sydney. One statement by
skipper Holmes is interesting. Asked
about the eight-ball over, which is
alleged in some quarters in England to
be a wily Australian plot to tire visiting
players to death if they can be persuaded
to use it, Holmes said he and his men
never noticed any difference.
* * * *
“Germiston”: There was some uneasi-
ness when it was cabled that O’Reilly
had been sent to a Cape Town nursing
home after the long train journey from
Durban. However, he was pronounced
fit to go to Jo’burg, and he did well
there, so fears of a repetition of Brad-
man’s experience in England have van-
ished. Anyone who knows the place will
agree that a man at his top on the Rand
is able to face anything.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Hilton Phillipson, dead
in London, came to Australia in 1891-92
with Lord Sheffield’s team, and later
with the side led by Stoddart in 1894-95.
Tall and lathy, he was an effective all-
rounder, but it was as a reliable ’keeper
that we knew him best here. With Stod-
dart he did little bowling, but for some
reason or another bore the burden of the
stumping, which L. H. Gay, of Cam-
bridge, was to have shared with him. He
did little with bat or ball in Tests, but
in all matches in Australia took 26
wickets at 22 and averaged 17 with the
bat.
* * * *
“Sitala”: The disturbing news comes
from India that Allsopp and Nagel arc
ill in hospital, the former with enteric.
Now the team has been inoculated against
enteric. It is strange that a man of Tar-
rant’s experience should have allowed his
men to tackle the tour without inocula-
tion precautions. Every soldier serving
in India must be inoculated for typhoid,
paratyphoid, smallpox, cholera and
bubonic plague. The first three inocula-
tions could have been done before leav-
ing Australia, and the others in India if
the serums were not available this side. I
have had to stand up to the whole gamut,
and, bar the paratyphoid, found none of
the shots very upsetting.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The blackout of Eddie Gil-
bert as a bowler in the match against
Marylebone was a blow to Queens-
“ 'Ow many did you make , Dig?"
, , , ..
lenders. Wiseacres had in
darkle to bowl with a longer run, though
for sor " c , y e “ s •» ha d bce, > singularly
successful with the short one he de-
veloped naturally in his ancestral wurlie.
The long list of promising batsmen,
bowlers, golfers and others who have
been persuaded by knowalls that their
style was all wrong and have laded
from the pages of sporting history would
fill a page of The Bulletin. If Eddie
reads this let him at once go back to his
old style and consign his counsellors to
the debbil-debbil.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: Asked in Sydney who
was the best wicketkeeper he had seen
in Australia, Holmes staggered the inter-
viewer by saying it was Walker, of S.A.
He had been expected to say Easton, who
has at last obtained recognition, so the
interviewer got over it by saying that “no
doubt he placed Easton second.” Walker’s
selection for a former Australian Eleven
was due to his supposed ability to take
Grimmeft better than anyone else. He
proved no better in this respect than Old-
field, and did not figure in any Test in
England,
* * * *
“Aigburth”: So England is to aim at
the Australian eagle an arrow fledged
from its own wing (B. 13/12/’35). Six
when he left Australia, G. O. Allen has
spent the rest of his life in England,
where he learned all he knows of cricket.
Pleasant-mannered and well-bred, he
made a most favorable impression on
his fellow-Australians when here with
Jardine.
* * * *
“Red and Gold”: In a recent Bulletin
discussion of the rf-lobbs memorial gates
at Kennington Oval someone asked why
it was that no visible thing of the kind
had been erected at Lord’s to “W.G.”
A cousin told me on his recent return
from England that he had been asked
this very question by an indignant clergy-
man from the country who was next
him in the crowd inspecting the wicket.
To save the old gentleman from
apoplexy my cousin pointed out to the
short-sighted cleric the big gilt Father
Time weathercock on top of the grand-
stand. “That,” he said, “is a represen-
tation of ‘W.G.’ —note the flowing beard.
The billowing robes, of course, are in
the classical convention.” Deeply grati-
fied, the old gentleman gave my cousin
his blessing, and he fled to the bar for
a stiff one.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: Speaking at a luncheon
to inter-State tennisers at Kooyong,
Norman Brookes said he was certain
Von Gramm and another German player
would be granted leave to play in Aus-
tralia next year. Brookes thinks a lot
of the Baron. Cochet avers that off his
own courts he is a bit of a false alarm.
* « 4 - *
“Cha. Lane”; I don’t know what
Cochet is getting for his syndicated stuff
appearing in Australian dailies, but I do
know that in 1927. when he was “cham-
pion of Wimbledon,” he got £35 per
article for a series of 16 contributed to
London “Evening News.” He was a
good lad to ghost for (I did the ghost-
ing), and collaborated conscientiously,
most of the time in his luxury suite in
the Mayfair Hotel in Piccadilly. The
All-England L.T.A. put him up as its
guest and sent him to Wimbledon and
back to the hotel in a posh car.
As well as giving demonstrations at
Anthony Horderns’ (and uncommonly
interesting they were) Cochet brought
out a book, Tennis ! (Shakespeare Head ;
25.), before he left Sydney. In it he
racily explains how to hold the racquet,
dilates on the importance of balance,
describes all the shots, and finishes up
with a word about training and the
necessity of concentration. Those who
know little about the game will find it
as clear a tutor as they can get; those
who know more will be inclined to dis-
regard the warning in the foreword: “I
do not advise you to do as I say; I only
say what I do.”
* * * *
“Spin’m Topside”: Sydney’s Chinese
citizens have long been addicted to ten-
nis, and when a meeting was held to
consider the formation of a Chinese
L.T.A. in Sydney over 30 clubs sent in
delegates. Early next year the first
Chinese championships will be held;
meantime, affiliation with the Ma State
L.T.A. will be sought. With the new
Pacific Davis Cup zone to be in action in
1937, there are more unlikely things
than that Chinese Cup teams will play
here and that Australian players may be
co-opted.
♦ * * ♦
“Top Spin”: According to its treas-
urer, the Ma State L.T.A. has been out-
running the constable and is financially
in “a precarious position.” After bank
charges, interest and other items had
been met, there was only £36 left at
the end of the financial year. Expense
is out of all proportion to revenue, and
the cost of court upkeep is too high
and will have to come down. It is sug-
gested that affiliation and registration
fees be doubled—fine material for a
shindy here—and that wages be reduced
—more oil for the flames. There has
always been too much swank about the
White City venture.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Though the N'.S.W.
fund for sending our golf professionals
overseas is £lOOO short of requirements
—Victoria had the sock filled for her
two lads in a few weeks—a guarantor
has been found, so all is well. There
seems little prospect of getting much of
the money back,
* * * *
“Lakeside”: All going well, Gene
Sarazen will be back in Australia next
year with “Babe” Didrikson as a partner.
He and the lady propose- to reach this
country in time for the open champion-
ship, after touring Maoriland. The Did-
rikson is now a professional golfer of
capacity. Athletes will recall her Olym-
pic triumphs: she took the javelin throw
at Los Angeles, in addition to winning
the 80-mefre hurdles in world’s record
time. Since then she has shone in base-
ball, tennis and golf. She is likely to
create a precedent here. As a professional
she will probably nominate with Sarazen
in the open and professional champion-
ships. No woman has ever attempted
to enter either competition.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: D. G. Souter, the
Peter Pan -of N.S.W. golf, walked off
with the Professional Golfers’ Cup at
Rose Bay with a par score of 70, one
ahead of Frank Eyre. There was a new
aspect about the show this year ; each
professional invited an amateur as his
guest, and events were conducted to keep
the poor mugs from getting ashamed of
themselves after watching the profes-
sionals rolling off their scores.
jjl j({ }£
“Oakleigh”: A Melbourne golf-ball
stealer ran into an unexpected bit of bad
weather at Albert Park. A ponderous-
looking person in the distance sent a
long drive to his feet. Judging he had
too much toe for the owner, the thief
picked up the pill and bolted. Presently
a thundering noise behind him made him
look round, and, to his horror, he found
the large player close on his heels. The
bereft one was a noted police athlete.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The curse of the long
driver and the far-flying golf ball is being
felt in England, where the experts say
it is spoiling the game as an exhibition
of skill as opposed to slatherumwhack.
British players have held a public trial
of a new light ball which does not carry
so far as the old one, and general
opinion, including that of Joyce
Wethered, one of the experts called in


Banish BACKACHE & BLADDER
WEAKNESS this quick new way
“Theinteitinal tract is the most prolific source of disease"
states Prof. K. Schmeidler, the famous German Doctor.
“A cruel annoyance” is prob-
ably the best way to describe
either backache or bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful and sleep at night is dis-
turbed by constantly having
to get up. You feel depressed,
you have no vitality, your
back, legs and feet ache, you
have frequent
headaches. Urina-
tion is often smart
and painful. But
these troubles are
now rapidly ban-
cioovedcoion ighed because
science has discovered that
the basic cause of backache,
kidney and bladder weakness
can be traced to the physical
reason for self-poisoning, i.e.,
a clogged colon.
The Cause of Autoxima
The colon, the most important part
of the intestinal tract, has two
functions. It must remove essen-
tial minerals from passing food,
and it must see that all waste mat-
ter is promptly ejected from the
body. Modern foods and feeding
give insufficient exercise to the
colon walls, and they lose their
power of normal movement. Soon
the walls fail to extract the essential
minerals and fail to eject the de-
caying waste. The folds become
clogged with putrefying matter.
Virulent poisons and bacteria form
and seep into the bloodstream.
The entire system is attacked —
every important organ in youi
body is undermined by autoxima
i.e., self-poisoning.
CLIP OUT
D 3.
• COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
* Please send me your FREE book on
I Autoxima. Also send me my demon-
■ stration jar of COLOSEPTIC, for
; which I enclose 1/- in penny stamps.
J ADDRESS
ds
mt
■m*.
Long Standing Case Relieved
“/ have much pleasure in telling
you tvhr.t COLOSEPTIC has
done for me. It has cured me
of long standing tceakness in
kidney and bladder. I could not
walk any distance ivith pleasure
and my rest was disturbed at
night. I\ow I can say in truth
that COLOSEPTIC has done its
work—l am cured. What joy to
go out and tcalk ivithout trouble
now.” — Mr. E.A.S., Feilding.
FREE- _ This Absorbing
Mail coupon to-day for a demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC,
and you will receive, under
plain cover, by return mail, a
book telling you all about Au-
toxima, an intimate and highly
important subject. The book is
absolutely FREE—
so fill in and mail
the coupon now.
A colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilization.
The modern foods we eat
make it more and more diffi-
cult to maintain the active
functioning of the colon.
Until your clogged colon is
cleansed and revitalised and
the cause of autoxima thus
removed, you can-
not hope for per-
manent relief from
many ills. Science
has discovered a
new and effective
remedy. It’s name
is COLOSEPTIC (Wayne’s
Improved Formula).
Vncloooed Colon
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To regain perfect health you must
remove the encrustations which
line your colon. Normal bowel
movements cannot do this, the
walls have become too sluggish,
and opening medicines only purge
the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see
how COLOSEPTIC clears your
colon. It tones up the walls, giv-
ing back their power of normal
movement, it corrects acid condi-
tions, and stimulates the action of
the pores of the skin, the respira-
tory system, and the kidneys—the
three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your sys-
tem. Remove the main cause of
disease by drinking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health ALWAYS.
'v r-,
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St.. Sydney.
The Sports Gift is
the Preferred Gift!
&" -■ o
- r.
SISsiMS
.... and, Dad, you’ve got
to get that bat at
MICK
SIMMONS
The Boys’ Bat Series De Luxe!
STAN McCABE’
AUTOGRAPH
JUNIOR BATS
śdf
Made by Slazengers (A as-
tral ia), Ltd., from finest
imported English Willow.
Treble-spring handles, fitted
with grips.
Size 3 13/6
Size 4 •. . 14/6
Size 5 16/6
Size 6 17/6
Harrow Size 25/-
“CENTURY” BOYS’
ALL-CANE
TREBLE-SPRING-
HANDLE BATS.
BOYS’ LEG GUARDS.
Tan leather, pair, 3/9, 5/9.
White Duck, pair 9/6
BOYS’ BATTING
GLOVES.
Pull-on Model, pair ... 7/6
■++H
BOYS’ SPECIAL BOXING
GLOVES
Superior Napa
Leather, laced
palms; well made
and finished.
Set of 4
8/6, 9/6,
10/6
r
AIR RIFLES
Hector, 9/6; Daisy,
10/6; Daisy 350 Re-
peater, 15/6; Daisy
500 Repeater, 18/6.
Boys’ Fishing Rod
and Outfit,
complete, 8/6.
For Seriously-minded Boys and Girls
y
MICROSCOPES
Focusing, adjusting and
scientifically accurate.
Models: Plus I 50 magni-
fication, 3/-.
Plus 250 magnification,
57-
Plus 350 magnification,
12/6.
(Complete in Wood Case)
Plus 450 magnification,
19/6.
C Complete in Wood Case )
A Microscope opens up the hitherto hidden
realms of Nature to the young mind.
MICK SIMMONS
LID.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches in City, Suburbs and
Newcastle.
to try it, is that it is a ghastly flop, hit-
ting it being like smiting a dollop of
cotton-wool. The Royal and Antient has
called for specifications of a ball
which, while preserving the character-
istics of the old ball, will not fly so far.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: One of the Olympians of
golf passed in New York when John
Park found the final bunker. He came
of a historic golfing clan, the head of
which was the semi-legendary “Auld
Willie,” winner of the first British open
in 1860 at Prestwick. A brother,
“Young Willie,” was also open cham-
pion in 1887 and 1889 ; then, like John,
he was swallowed up by America, where
he was at last advices designing courses.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Last year the writer
told The Bulletin of a rumpus caused
at the women’s athletic championships in
London by a lady competitor with
whiskers and a basso profunda voice. A
member of the Czech team, she refused
a medical examination, and, though many
weeping females declined to use the
same dressing-rooms, she survived all
protests to win the 800 metres in world’s
record time for women. It now trans-
pires that she is a man, and is to undergo
an operation which will entitle her to
assume the proud title of homo sapiens
without cavil.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland is going about
the raising of funds for its Olympic team
in characteristic fashion, the Govern-
ment having been supplicated to permit an
“art Union,” Almost all money required
for any purpose in Queensland outside
taxation is got by means of “art unions,”
and no doubt a harassed Treasurer with
all doors banged in his face may some
day raise a Government loan in that
sporting way. Failing the “art union, ’
writer suggests that the Queensland
Olympic heads bite the ear of the
Federal bodv for their share of the
Commonwealth subsidy, and give that a
flutter in the s.-p. joints.
* * * *
‘Pogrom”; Two influential sections
and a large body of independents have
been advocating an American boycott of
the Berlin Olympiad. At a big meeting
the American Athletic Union motion
against Yankee participation was de-
feated, the voting being 61-55.
* * V *
“Stand Off”: The cables continue to
carp at the performances of the All-
Blacks. One comment on the very hand-
some licking inflicted on Ireland by the
tourists (17-9) is to the effect that Ireland
was “unlucky not to win.” As the home
side crossed the All-Black line once (it
kicked two penalty goals), whilst the
visitors got three tries, one converted,
and two penalties, the hard-luck tale
doesn’t ring true. Ireland made a better
showing in 1924-25, when Porter’s men
scored only 6 to nil. In 1905-06 the All-
Blacks won 15-0.
* * # *
“Spike”; Lobban, already Victorian
champion, hit the State and Australian
figures over the fence in the long jump
at the N.S.W. championships in Sydney.
He started off with 24ft. l£in. Dickin-
son, the titleholder, bettered this by an
eighth of an inch. Coming at it again
Lobban covered 24ft. 6|in. Dickinson
(24ft. IJin.) and Metcalfe (23ft. lOJin.)
followed.
* * * *
“Cha. Lane”: W. W. Wakefield, now
Conservative M.P. for Swindon, is the
same W. W. Wakefield who got about
30 caps for England as one of its greatest
R.U. forwards and captains. Educated
at Sedbergh, he came south with a fine
school reputation, played for the Har-
lequins (1 played with him in season
1920-21), Cambridge University (which
he captained), R.A.F. and England.
“Wakers” was in the Seeling-Jim Hughes-
Frank Burge-Maurice Brownlie class,
though I would place him definitely
below each of those four masters of for-
ward play. He captained England in the
ever-memorable match against the 1924
All-Blacks, when, despite the ordering-
off of Cyril Brownlie, 10 minutes after
the start, 14 superb All-Blacks whacked
a great English XV by 17 to 11. I saw
that match with Sid Middleton and L. G.
Brown.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”; The annual
Rugby clash between Oxford and Cam-
bridge is taking on an international
aspect. This year’s game ended in a
scoreless draw at Twickenham. Cooper,
of Maoriland, was the Dark Blue
skipper, and Jan McShane, of Sydney,
worked the scrum. Pienaar, an Afri-
kander, was in the pack, and Russian
Prince Obolensky on the wing. Ob. is
said to be the fastest man in English
Rugby.
♦ * * *
“Richmond”: Like most of the States,
save Queensland, which has a bye this
year, Victoria is pondering on how the
deuce it can find the money to send an
eight to Perth for the King’s Cup. Ex-
perience has shown that asking the clubs
for subscriptions is no dashed good, the
wealthiest being invariably the tightest.
There seems to be nothing for it but the
good old levy of so much a member,
and that always raises a riot. There are
points about the suggestion that the
eight should row itself to Perth. The
weather in the Bight and round the
Leeuwin is not altogether trustworthy ;
still, such a row would be fine training,
and the lads could carry lines and hooks
to catch their food.
* * * *
“G.M.”: Melbourne Mercantile junior
eight has put up a record which implies
that it will need watching in the future.
In a clinker-built boat, estimated to be
several seconds slower than a “best”
boat, it won the double at the V.R.A.
and Henley regattas. The crew averages
12st. 61b. in weight and 21 years in age.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ~ £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000.000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary. •
VICTORIA: 476 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Teri'ace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
f ffj fj,
Jq A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
lg& address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
p? Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
mk with private bathroom, from 22/-.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A Tobacco-land Transaction
Tobacco-growing enterprises to date
have not been particularly successful in
Australia. There have been exceptions,
mainly on the part of individual farmers ;
most company flotations in which the
public was interested have been one sad
story after another.
Some aspects of the affairs of one
tobacco-growing co. were ventilated in
a recent N.S.W. Supreme Court case.
W. R. C. Bagnall, a former M.L.A., who
claimed £12,000 damages from E. S.
Moulton for breach of contract, was
awarded £5OO by the jury. A stay of
proceedings was granted.
. “The evidence,” said the Chief Jus-
tice in his summing-up, “discloses a state
of affairs that is sordid and disgraceful,”
Part of Bagnall’s evidence was to the
effect that in, 1930 a Federal Select Com-
mittee, with which he was in touch, was
investigating tobacco-growing possibilities
in Australia. He approached Moulton, told
him that there was likely to be a boom
in tobacco-growing, and was appointed
investigating officer for Amalgamated
Forests (of which Moulton was manag-
ing director) ; Bagnall was to get' 25 p.c.
of the profits of sale of land bought
through him, and £lO a week and ex-
penses.
Bagnall, on his own evidence, became
entitled to £7OOO profit from Amalga-
mated on a deal in 2700 acres of
land at Pomonal (Vic.); the
National Tobacco Corp. was then
formed to take over 2000 acres of
the land. The Judge’s comment
on this transaction was that things
were “manoeuvred in such a way
that the co. [National Tobacco]
had to pay £32,000, or £l6 an
acre, for land that they had
bought a month before for
£3500, or £1 15s. an acre, and we
know that the plaintiff’s share in the
plunder was between £6OOO and £7000.”
Bhgnall’s evidence went to show that
Amalgamated Forests had already made
one profit of £24,500 by selling it to one
person, and that person had made a
second profit of £4OOO by selling it to
National Tobacco. Bagnall agreed to
take up 4000 £1 shares in National
Tobacco as part payment; he gave 750
to Senator Foil.
According to the evidence, after the
Select Committee had presented its
report, on July 14, 1930, Bagnall wrote
to Moulton as follows:
I am disappointed at the absence of
adequate reference to Pomonal in the
Select Committee’s report. Mr. Tully, a
member of the Federal Parliament, who
was a member of the committee, assures
me that the report will go before the
House for adoption within a week or ten
days, and he will get the whole of the
stuff into his speech, so that it will
appear in “Hansard.”
On July 16 the National Tobacco Corp.
replied:
Members of the board have reviewed
the Parliamentary Select Committee’s re-
port on tobacco cultivation in Australia,
and have instructed me to express dis-
appointment because there is no reference
therein to the National Tobacco Corpora-
tion, or to that company’s tobacco land
at Pomonal in Victoria. You had
assured members of the board that the
Select Committee would boost Pomonal as
pre-eminently superior to any other district
in Victoria or New South Wales for the
cultivation of high-grade tobacco leaf.
You said also that the property secured
by our corporation would be specially
referred to in complimentary terms by
the Select Committee. The absence of
any mention of the corporation and of
the property acquired at Pomonal is re-
garded seriously by the board, in view- of
the fact that your appointment as
general manager was influenced largely by
statements to the effect that you pos-
sessed advance knowledge of the find-
ings and the proposals of the Parliamen-
tary Select Committee.
“You may think,” said the CJ. to the
jury in his summing-up, “that the letter
discloses as choice a piece of rascality as
was ever disclosed in any court of
justice.”
Senator Foil says he returned his shares
to Bagnall. When this was written no
public statement had been made by Mr.
Tully, who is no longer in Parliament.
Unusually high exports (9.5 millions
sterling) during October put a better
complexion on our trade balance ; in-
cluding bullion and specie shipments
(£3,416,000, up £567,000 for the four
months), there was an export surplus
of £480,000, as against a deficit of
£994,000 in the corresponding period of
1934. For the four months merchandise
exports were £3,784,000 higher (this time
“A fair knockout , sergeant—not a soul at 'ome!"
last year wool sales were disorganised),
while commodity imports were up
£2,878,000. Imports are still coming in
too freely, and, unfortunately, the move-
ment is being encouraged by tariff-
slashing. Perhaps those in the Treasury
know better, but it seems that there
will be a slump in export values when
this year’s short woolselling season
closes,
* * * *
Peace talk and the change in the U.S.
silver-buying policy have had a sudden
effect on the demand for Broken Hill
metals. Lead and spelter both slipped
substantially, and Barrier share prices
dropped in sympathy last week. Norths,
previously around £9 (cum div.) fell to
£8 (ex div.); Souths, in which there were
a lot of dealings at £6, relapsed to £5 Bs.
Zinc Corp. ords., previously up to 825.,
sold down to 695. in Adelaide, though
there was a good recovery later. Develop-
ments are no doubt disturbing to share-
holders, but as a long-term proposition
Barriers should be worth holding.
* * * *
The registration of Carlton and United
Breweries, Ltd. (Melbourne), in Sydney
last week as a “foreign” co. has led to a
little speculation in the sharemarket. The
address of the co. in N.S.W. is Albury,
the centre of its Riverina business.
Chief market interest centres in un-
official reports regarding possible
“arrangements” between C. and U. B.
and Castlemaine-Perkins in Brisbane. C.
and U. B. has very considerable North
Queensland business, but Castlemaine-
Perkins has the largest brewing and hotel
connections in the State. C.-P. recently
took over the remaining assets of the
old Perkins Co. It earned 11.3 p.c. on
its capital last year and paid 8 p.c. The
market has firmed steadily to 265. for
the 12s. 6d. shares, and the immediate
yield is a little over 3.8 p.c.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.) has a paid capital of
£480,000 in 960,000 10s. shares. There
are 50,000 option shares which may be
taken up until September, 1936. Present
market is around 145., giving the under-
taking a valuation of £672,000. The
crushing for November (5993 tons for
21930 z., average 7.3dwt.) was the best
to date, and should yield a good profit.
The one drawback to the show is the
price paid for the mine (Reedy’s
Mararoa, Cue); it figures in the books
at over £200,000, as against £25,000 in
the case of Lancefield. The market
acknowledges this in the small premium
on Triton scrip. It should turn out all
right for shareholders in the end, how-
ever.
* * * *
Lancefield has reached the ranks of
dividend-payers; the Is. (25 p.c.) divi-
dend promised is to come along on Feb-
ruary 7. It is a bit later than the
majority of shareholders anticipated—it
will call for £50,000, and preliminary
work has run off with cash —but it is
one of the most encouraging recent de-
velopments in Australian mining. Those
who got in at par should be on the
pig’s back ; treatment at present is less
than 100,000 tons p.a., and .there is a
long life ahead of the show on that
basis. Buyers at 15s. would get a yield
of 13.3 p.c. p.a. if 2s. a year is handed
out —which seems quite on the cards.
Fiji gold shares showed recovery last
week, especially Emperor, which on Fri-
day touched 18s. Id. in Melbourne. The
Sydney market closed at 17s. 6d. Golden
Plateau and Mt. Morgan were also in
keener demand. Triton was sought after.
The tone of dealings was generally
brisker.
* * * *
Raub, the Australian F.M.S. gold
show, crushed 4221 tons during the four
weeks to Nov. 30 for 16030 z., an aver-
age of 7.6dwt., as against 7.7dwt. and
B.4dwt. in the two preceding periods.
During the past six months 23,500 tons
of ore has been crushed for 10,092 fine
ounces, an average of B.6dwt. For
the year to March 31 last 44,000 tons
was treated for an average of 9.ldwt.,
net profit being £83,138. Dividends have
been resumed, two fourpenny distribu-
tions having been authorised within the
past 2\ months. On the basis of Is. 4d.
a year (which would call for about
£54,000) the return at 16s. for the ss.
shares is 8 1-3 p.c.
Jk * * *
Some months ago there were fears
about the price of gold. It was pointed
out on this page that the factor most
liable to affect it would be fluctuations
in commodity prices, and that, as world
trade recovery was likely to be a gradual
process, the high price should continue for
a lengthy period. It has remained steady
above £7 (stg.) per fine ounce for months
now, and there is nothing disturbing to
mining investors in the present outlook
for the metal.
* * * *
Australian Cement, Ltd,, has declared
a final div. of 6 p.c., making 10 p.c. for
the year. This co. and Kandos each
hold 1,000,000 shares in Australian Port-
land Cement, as well as some miscel-
laneous assets, Kandos, which paid 7j
p.c. last year, should be able to hand
out 10 p.c. comfortably for the current
term, despite the elimination of the Brit-
ish preferential duty (20s. a ton) on the
product. Freight on a ton of cement from
Britain would be over £3. The trade
most likely to be affected will be that
with remote ports in the northern part
of the continent, where freight even from
southern capitals would be heavy. If 10
p.c. is handed out by Kandos this year
the return at the present market price of
245. 3d. (there was a rise of Is. towards
the week-end) would be 6.6 p.c. Kandos
scrip is definitely undervalued in relation
to Australian Cement shares. On a £l-
- capital basis Kandos is cheaper
by about 3s.
* * * *
Malayan tin shares have regained
market interest to some extent. The de-
mand for the metal is strong, 9187 tons
being absorbed in world manufacturing
during November, against a production
of 10,632 tons. Visible stocks of the
metal at the end of the month (13,577
tons) were little more than five weeks’
supply. The production quota has
stepped up again, 90 p.c, of 1929 ton-
nages now being allowed. Those com-
panies able to take immediate and full
advantage of the increased quota should
be showing considerable benefit in cur-
rent earnings. The price is still around
£220 (stg.) a ton, though from a share-
holder’s point of view the future is
uncertain. Demand for the metal, how-
ever, should be fairly constant.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A little-known Com-
monwealth activity is the manufacture,
on an extensive scale, of artificial limbs
and various surgical appliances for the
relief of the war-crippled. And it is
good stuff, too —equal to the best turned
out anywhere else in the world. “Repat.”
carries on the work. Its artificial limb
factories have turned out 10,750 legs,
1090 arms, 132 wheel-chairs, 28,000 pairs
of surgical boots, 336 pairs of crutches
and 75,000 surgical appliances of various
kinds, in addition to 136,000 stock or
repair jobs.


;
v ,#8
e
OLD, OLD
WISH
in
Real Old
Scotch
i
Wmmm
|IH mt
’
P&>;
m I
■ '. jjpi:
• ■■ ,
YfflwwK-y>/. ■/%%,' S'?* /' - 1
W M\'.
lill .
V .* I
- ';’
: ■
, - ~** »*
sjgil’;;. * I ffei fc V' " '
' • V Sw. >,,...,. &. ;..;
ii#
, .'-V' '
<* A 3T?t* $ >^r
SeKSSSP^I
■ '
* **wm&
w&
Hip •, ®
■■■
ai ...
'
m i « mm
■■r wMs - i , «SS '<*
illlf
i^ppiinn^^P
:: . ;
.
* ‘ ~r,l *- y v V v
For
Au I d
c*>
Make this a White Horse
Christmas. Give your friends
this Real Old Scotch, equal to a Fine
Liqueur. It will carry a practical message
of goodwill and increase the good cheer of
all who partake of it.
Specially packed in Christmas Gift
Carton, at no extra cost, and ready
for despatch .
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Curly Top”
Considered, not with amazement as
an infant prodigy, but dispassionately as
an actress, Shirley Temple commands
admiration. Her technique improves film
by film, and in “Curly Top,” at Sydney
Regent, it reaches topnotch. The young-
ster lives on the screen, of course, in
a fairy-tale atmosphere, winning all
hearts, attended everywhere by a large
invisible orchestra in case she should
break into song. But her smile is irresis-
tible: the twinkle in her eye is the spirit
of all humor. First part of her latest
Conrad Veidt as the Stranger in “The
Passing of the Third Floor Back,” at
Sydney Lyceum.
setting recalls Daddy Longlegs. Rescued
from an orphanage, together with her
elder sister (Rochelle Hudson), by a mil-
lionaire (John Boles), Shirley leads a life
of luxury. Since she cannot be allowed to
grow up, the love interest is in the hands
of older members of the cast, but Shirley
gives the lovers aid and encouragement.
Singing by the three principal characters
whiles away a good deal of the time, but,
as Boles has one of the pleasantest voices
heard from the screen and the others are
given very cleverly written lyrics, enter-
tainment value is thereby enhanced.
“The Gay Deception”
The old fairy tales wear well, and a
retelling of “Cinderella” is always sure
of a welcome —doubly sure when the
lucky girl is as pretty as Frances Dee
and the prince has the intriguing foreign
accent of Francis Lederer. The girl, a
stenog., won 5000 dollars in a sweep-
stake and resolved to have one glorious
month in New York. She stayed at the
Waldorf-Plaza, where Prince Alexander
of Allesandria, garbed as a bell-hop, was
studying the caravansary business. To
take Cinderella to the ball he had to steal
a waiter’s shirt, a guest’s dress-suit and
the commissionaire’s medals, and though
everything fitted perfectly he was
arrested as an impostor. Believing him
to be one, Cinderella confessed her love,
to be astounded when her lover made an
official entry into New York, and Broad-
way rained paper on his Rolls-Royce.
Though the course of the story follows
the well-oiled grooves, touches of deft
comedy keep it entertaining. Also at
the Regent.
“The Big Broadcast of 1936”
Hitherto screen vaudeville shows of
the sort have been strung together on a
hair or just not strung at all, but this
olio at Sydney Prince Edward has a
well-constructed comedy as its backbone.
Turns contributed by Richard Tauber,
Bing Crosby, Charles Ruggles, the
Vienna Boys’ Choir and Ray Noble’s
Band are slipped in as incidental
television entertainment, while Jack
Oakie, Grade Allen and George Burns
endeavor to cope with a villain (C. H.
Gordon). The affair winds up with a wild
night scene in whch a coach drawn by six
horses is pursued by a troop of mounted
assassins down a precipitous road, while
seaward a U.S.A. destroyer brings a com-
pany of marines to the rescue. Oakie,
who has brought a portable transmitter,
broadcasts an account of the proceed-
ings from the top of the coach and wins
thereby a 250,000-dollars prize. Much
of the fun recalls the crudity of the early
slapstick silents. Among the variety
items a ballet of elephants, background
for Ethel Merman’s singing of “The
Animal in Me,” must be seen to be
believed.
“Two-fisted”
A boxing manager (Lee Tracy) and his
protege, a fifth-rate pug (Roscoe Karns),
both with hearts of gold, are introduced
into a great mansion as butler and foot-
man respectively. They protect the lady
of the house (Gail Patrick) from perse-
cution by her wicked husband, and en-
deavor (not quite so successfully) to keep
her brother (Kent Taylor) on the water-
waggon. A willing scrap (staged in a
drawing-room, roped off for the occa-
sion) and a frustrated attempt at kid-
napping are incidents in a comedy which
is kept interesting by Tracy, who is in
his breeziest vein, and by Grace Bradley,
a comedienne of the Grade Allen order.
Also at the Prince Edward.
“The Love Test”
At Sydney Lyceum. The setting of
this pleasant little comedy-drama is an
elaborately fitted laboratory in which
the staff is engaged in a search for a
formula to render celluloid non-inflam-
mable, Mary (Judy Gunn), good-look-
ing and totally immersed in her work,
lands the job of chief chemist. The male
staff’s dissatisfaction is fanned by the
envious Thompson (Dave Hutcheson),
who schemes to distract Mary from her
work. Hero John (Louis Hayward) is
elected to distract her by love-making,
which he so successfully pursues that
she is transmogrified from a work-grub
Frank Cellier, villain in “The Passing of
the Third Floor Back.”
into a social butterfly. Thompson spills
the beans to Mary, who sacks John. But
he works on privately, discovers the long-
sought formula, breaks into the laboratory
at night, and leaves it in Mary’s office as
a present. Immediately afterwards he is
captured and kept prisoner till morn-
ing. The formula falls into the hands of
Thompson, who claims it for his own,
but he is eventually confounded, and all
ends happily. Photography is splendidly
clear, and excellent acting puts over the
unreal story,
“Music Is Magic”
A musicomedy backstager in which
Bebe Daniels first appears as a slightly
passee “idol of the screen” on tour as a
singer and later in rehearsals for a Holly-
wood legs-and-jazz show. Through the
machinations of Ray Walker she is sup-
planted by Alice Faye, but accepts her
defeat philosophically,, since it enables
her to acknowledge a daughter who up
till then was passed off as a sister. Re-
hearsal scenes are well done, and some
flashes of knockabout humor are pro-
vided by a pair of nitwit comedians, but
backstagers begin to pall after one has
witnessed a hundred of ’em. At Sydney
Capitol.
“A Personal Maid’s Secret”
Also at the Capitol. Business-success
motif grafted on to East Lynne. Lizzie
the maidservant (Ruth Donnelly) enters
the employ of a young married couple
(Margaret Lindsay and Warren Hull).
The young man sells insurance. Inspired
by Lizzie the couple put on social frills,
entertain extensively and shift to grander
and yet grander residences, to the great
profit of the insurance business. A fre-
quent guest at the house is beautiful
Beatrix Lehmann in “The Passing of the
Third Floor Back.”
Diana Abercrombie (Anita Louise).
Lizzie watches over this young lady and
endeavors to keep her feet in the straight
and narrow path, with scant success.
Finally Lizzie informs Diana that her
interest is maternal —she is Diana’s
mother. Father, the aristocratic Aber-
crombies’ heir, married housemaid Lizzie
just before he went to his death as an
airman in the Great War. The relation-
ship is kept secret, as Lizzie intends to
marry again—a butler (Arthur Treacher)
this time. All ends happily. It is Ruth
Donnelly’s film throughout, and she
makes everything seem plausible.
“Kentucky Minstrels of 1935”
At Sydney Mayfair. This film is the
means of bringing the negro radio enter-
tainers Scott and Whaley to the screen.
It would have been kinder to their
reputations to leave them on the air.
The story opens in the days of the old
minstrel shows, with Scott and Whaley at
the top of the bill. Music halls boom ;
minstrel shows decline; the two are
offered good jobs on the halls, but their
pride won’t let them accept. Sticking to
their banjos, they are seen going down
and down the ladder. After each reverse,
Goldman, a music-hall proprietor, springs
up like a Greek chorus, and offers them
a job.
Follow poverty, sickness, sacrifice,
parting, reunion—sentiment laid on with
a trowel all through—until finally, after
about 30 years, Goldman decides to re-
vive the minstrel shows in a modern set-
ting. Scouring England for the only
two men who can save the show he dis-
covers them starving and in rags, but still
faithful to their banjos, playing outside
pubs for pennies. The show is saved,
though goodness knows why, as the two
comedians have hardly raised a laugh
throughout the dismal proceedings.
“Eighteen Minutes”
Also at the Mayfair. Nikita (Gregory
Ratoff) is a great lion-tamer. He adopts
Rene Ray as Stasia in “The Passing of
the Third Floor Back.”
as his ward Lida (Rosamund Barnes),
whose father, another lion-tamer, has
been killed by the lioness Caprice.
Nikita dominates both Lida and the
lioness. When Lida (Katherine Sergava)
grows up she marries Nikita, but later
falls in love with another member of the
circus. On discovering this, Nikita allows
the lioness to kill him.
Had the action been condensed into
the space of time promised by the title
it might have been a thrilling show. As
it is, the climax is so long postponed that
the audience gets tired of waiting for it,
and the lion almost gives up hope. The
persistence with which a big clock is
thrust upon the audience’s attention is
annoying.
“China Seas”
At Melb; Metro. Clark Gable,
slimmed down again to his old propor-
tions, is a red-blooded sea captain on
the China coast. Wallace Beery is the
financier of a gang of pirates who aim
to seize the ship and the gold it carries.
Jean Harlow is China Doll, a water-
front courtesan who falls in love with
the mariner, but joins the pirate leader
when she is scorned. Rosalind Russell
is the perfect English lady who has come
all the way to China to renew her love
affair with the captain, only to find that
they are both disappointed when they
meet. Of course, the captain discovers
that, in spite of all, he really lo /es China
Sara Allgood in “The Passing of the
Third Floor Back.”
Doll. Pure bunk, but well-presented
and well-acted. Lewis Stone gives a pic-
ture of a man, shunned as a coward,
who rises to heroism at the end, and
Aubrey Smith makes just the sort of


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1738 of 1935.
BETWEEN FRANK REGINALD COX
Petitioner
And GEORGINA EVELYN COX
Respondent.
TO GEORGINA EVELYN COX of Vulture
Street, South Brisbane.
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK REGINALD
COX has commenced a suit against you in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to this suit in the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
first day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
~ , Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1296 of 1935.
BETWEEN CONSTANCE ETHEL NEWTON
Petitioner
And JOHN ALEXANDER MUNRO
NEWTON Respondent.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER MUNRO
NEWTON late of 29 Mackenzie Street
Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CONSTANCE
ETHEL NEWTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
a JL appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Third day of March One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tlo l} undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of December,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. O. S. HARMES,
Clerk in Divorce.
ERNEST A. CLEARY, Solicitor for the
etitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
TO ANDREW MURPHY, son of Andrew
Murphy the second, and MAGGIE
STOTESBURY, daughter of Sarah Stotes-
bury, nee Murphy, grandchildren of
Andrew Murphy, Senior, late of Durrow
in the Queen’s County, Ireland.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court
of Justice, Irish Free State, made in the
Matter of the Estate . of Elizabeth Anne
Murphy, deceased, Henry Giff plaintiff and
William Willis and Richard Murphy defend-
ants. All persons claiming to be next-of-kin
of the said Elizabeth Anne Murphy, late of
Kill, Co. Kildare, and in particular the above-
named Andrew Murphy and Maggie Stotes-
bury, first cousins of said Elizabeth Anne
Murphy, are on or before the 15th day of
January, 1936, to enter and prove their claims
at the Central Office, Law Courts, Dublin, or
in default thereof they may be excluded from
the benefits of the said Order. Wednesday,
the 22nd day of January, 1936, at the
Examiner’s Office, Law Courts, Dublin, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
claims.
Dated this 22nd day of November, 1935.
JOHN HEALY,
Examiner.
DANIEL PURCELL & SON, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, 16 Dawson Street, Dublin.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO CECIL EUGENE RILEY, formerly of
“Ballarat,” Brookvale Avenue, Brookvale,
Sydney, but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MABEL
LILIAN RILEY has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of
desertion during three years and upwards.
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the Seventh day
of January, 1936, the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.
DATED this Ninth day of December, 1935.
RYLAH & ANDERSON,
70 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for Petitioner.
LARCOMBE.—If RICHARD CARNALD
WESLEY LARCOMBE, son of Richard
Larcombe, late of Echuca, will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY,
472 Bourke Street, Melbourne, he will hear
something to his distinct advantage. He was
last heard of in 1931 in the district of Gil-
gandra, New South Wales.
Positions Vacant.
APPLICATIONS INVITED POSITION
BOOKKEEPER - SECRETARY LARGE
PASTORAL COMPANY SOUTH-WESTERN
QUEENSLAND. SUCCESSFUL APPLI-
CANT MUST HAVE PASTORAL EXPERI-
ENCE AND TAKE INTEREST IN HOME-
STEAD. PERMANENT POSITION, GOOD
SALARY AND INSIDE LIVING FOR
RIGHT MAN. APPLY “BOOKKEEPER,”
BOX 247 D, G.P.0., BRISBANE.
A
PiETilßi
Mapy
MONARCH Op
MUSICAL COn EDY
ROMANCE in A
SPARKLING
WORLD
STANDARD
PRODUCTION
n
lviir/i
FAY WPAY
ME BOLD
oiIu.ACULAR SCREEN VtRSiON IF
T..E RECORD-SMASHING CLASSIC
STAGE FARCE.
Radiant romance, lilting with
laughter, in a glittering setting
of youth, gaiety and happi-
ness. Presented to the irre-
sistible rhythm of music by
that famous trio of haunt-
ing song-hit writers:
SIGLER, HOFMAN and
‘ GOODHARDT.
WORLD STfIRDRRD PRODUCTION)
chairman of directors a shipping co,
would be likely to have.
“The Bishop Misbehaves”
Edmund Gwenn is a bishop with a
firm belief that he is a born detective.
He longs for a mysterious crime to come
his way, and it does when he and his
sister find three people bound and gagged
in a wayside inn as the result of a hold-
up. The bishop goes through many ad-
ventures and commits many mistakes
before he makes the villain disgorge by
methods that smack of blackmail.
Gwenn’s bishop is a delight, completely
overshadowing Maureen O’Sullivan,
Lucille Watson, Reginald Owen and the
rest. Also at Melb. Metro,
Some First Nights
Australia’s most prolific playwright,
“Karta,” 18 of whose works have been
produced, had his latest one-acter, “Sex,”
put on by Beresford Fowler’s company
at Melbourne Art Theatre last week.
A man has met with a motor smash
which kills his lady friend and leaves him
badly hurt, without the will to live. The
surgeon sees that only woman interest
can give him the incentive to recover,
so persuades his prettiest and most
charming nurse to save a fellow-
creature’s life. Horrified at the sugges-
tion at the outset, the girl is eventually
talked over. Too late—the patient is
dead. But the girl’s instincts have been
aroused, and it is now the surgeon’s turn
to play the Good Samaritan. Mr. Fowler
appeared as the surgeon and Ruby Scott
as the nurse.
* •!« -h
Gregan McMahon’s production of
“The Late Christopher Bean” at Melb.
Comedy added one more to his long list
of creditable achievements. McMahon
took the part of the kindly old doctor.
Eileen Ragg was effective as the Welsh
maid Gwennie, though the accent
bothered her. Phoebe Marks made the
most of a thankless part, and Thelma
Besant and Wilbur Reed provided the
youthful love interest very nicely. Among
minor characters, David Reed’s sketch of
an art critic stood out.
Current Artbursts
A very eloquent pencil is wielded by
Lloyd Rees, who in some of the 30
drawings which hang on the walls of the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, says things
about Australia’s biggest city which,
while perfectly true, must be new to
most of its inhabitants. He finds
romance in the mingling of hills and
towers and discovers in Five Dock or Bal-
main scenes as picturesque as our tour-
ist painters bring back from Venice or
Seville. Also he has a strong affection
for the • sandstone on which Sydney
stands, and limns its erosions most effec-
tively. And when Rees concentrates on
foliage, as in “Tree Group” and “Study
of Gums,” he packs an authoritative essay
on botany into every square inch. Noon-
day sun, sunset, dusk, grey days, are all
within the gamut of his scale. By con-
fining himself to one medium he has per-
fected himself in it.
* * * *
S.A. Society of Arts gallery, usually
quiet in summer, has woke up with a
British poster show, ranging from Skye
to Rotten Row, from York Cathe-
dral to Torquay. Brangwyn, Wyllie,
Lamorna, Birch and other masters are
run close by men who specialise in this
kind of work. Connard and the sisters
Zinkheisen even introduce satire —which
brightens a show, but seems little likely
to attract a crowd of tourists,
4* + +
E. Warner has an exhibition of etch-
ings at the Fine Arts Gallery, Melbourne.
Most interesting are the drawings of bush
industry. “Pressing Lucerne” is an effec-
tive bit of work, while “Coachbuilders” is
a good study of sunlight and “Prospector”
is full of life and movement in a well-
chosen background. Of the landscapes
this critic liked “Bush Shadows” best.
Possibly, judged by standards of etching
only, it is the best in the exhibition.
•J* 4* + 4*
At Sedon’s Gallery, Melbourne, is an
omnibus exhibition of etchings, wood-
cuts and pencil drawings by various Aus-
tralian and English artists. Most inter-
esting feature is a collection of Lionel
Lindsay’s woodcuts, including many not
previously shown in the southern capital.
Victor Cobb is represented by some
pencil drawings that are new, and the
rest of the show is made up of well-
known examples of the work of Norman
Lindsay, Harold Herbert, Herbert Rose
and John Goodchild, with Murray Grif-
fen’s linocuts providing a colorful note.
The most striking work by an overseas
artist is the etching “Telegraph Hill,” by
Winkler. Brangwyn, Walcot and Bur-
ridge are represented, but not by their
best efforts.


XOX&
door
° olY 2 bealt oi
bo® et pe« oe
SdS*”—-
IdtaUV^part
lacing , eva ted
in e
P o6lU ° _ v #V
n 8 '
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
C orn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
EYE LOTIO
For InFlamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
MAKE MORE MONEY!
Men or women earn good incomes selling
Gilmour Products.
Highest Quality Essences, Spices, Medicines,
Soap Insecticides, Foods, Ointments, Toilet
Preparations, etc. —NECESSITIES ALWAYS
IN DEMAND —sell to friends and neighbours
NO RISK —no capital needed —we can finance
you to buy at manufacturer’s low prices—ad-
vertising. sales training, everything supplied—
PROVED SUCCESS—fuII time pays £5 TO
£lO W'EEKLY.
Own Your Own Business—
NOTHING MORE PERMANENT —state whether
interested full or part time—send your name
and address —receive illustrated booklet and full
information. Address; The John Gilmour
Coy., Ltd., Dept. 113, Corner Parramatta
and Pyrmont Bridge Roads, Camperdoffn,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ELOCUTIONISTS—Typed recitals every de-
scription, many new and original selections.
Beryl Alford, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
LUXURY SHIP
EUROPE
Empress of
Britain"
dsf
Cross the Atlantic on the
“ Empress of Britain ”...
learn what luxury travel
really means. Speed . . .
space . . . privacy. Exquisite
cuisine . . . personal service
. . . comfort . . . whole deck
for sports . . . outside light
and air to every apartment.
Rates very moderate. Write
for details and literature.
Any Tourist Booking: Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
317 George Street, Sydney.
QuuJkwQuifac
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Mayoress’s rooms at the Town
Hall are tiptoe with surmise. Who will
act as Mayoress during 1936? Nothing
was decided last week. The rooms are
so used to junketings that the damask
curtains, the tapestry chairs and the por-
trait's of former mayoresses become
quite depressed unless they are listening
to a stream of chatter from the wives of
the Military, the Church and the Judi-
ciary. Mayoress McElhone added at
least one party of size to the social
annals. This was a very swagger affair,
and netted fine feathers and fine birds.
If this Letter were asked to nominate a
civic hostess, the names on the slips
would be: Mrs. Tom Rolin, good-look-
ing, suave and interested in art; Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, amusing, a marvellous
dresser and overflowing with hospitality ;
Alexander Gordon’s lady, who’s so popu-
lar she’d probably end up by being our
first mayoress in her own right (she’s
Welsh, and she talks so well she’d hyp-
notise all the aldermen); Jeanie Ranken,
because she’d make the rooms look as
though they were lived in, and end up
by whisking aldermen, Town Hall atten-
dants and probably Town Clerks, past
and present, into a pageant, makilng
about the hundredth to her name,
Robert Garran’s lady was the guest of
the Victoria League’s before-Christmas
party. This filled the Australia with the
decorous and the decorative, and was set
about with red roses and gladioli and
other flowers in season. The V.L. takes
as kindly to Canberra setting as does
the tulip, for the guest of honor, who is
the president of the branch in the
Federal capital, told that, though started
only six months ago, it has already 160
ardent Leaguers. Red roses against a
frock in which old-rose and greens were
blurred on grey chiffons were a colorful
background for the visitor’s words.
Near by sat Miss Macarthur Onslow, in
navy silks.
Mrs. Roystone Davey’s wrap dripped
white-and-black ostrich fronds, and Mrs.
Harry Dransfield wore a smart black
cape with a frock that was white pat-
terned in black. Mrs. Norman Lowe
sported a lovely hat in blue-and-white
cellophane straw. With her were
sister Mrs. Abbott, and Mrs. Hook,
from Maoriland. Another Maorilander
was Mavis McCulloch. South Africa was
represented by Jessie Gray. Mrs. Mary
Irvine, now that everybody is talking
Christmas puddings, made a diversion by
giving a good recipe for “Murder Pie.”
That’s the name of the thriller she,
Ethel Turner, Jeanie Ranken, Elliott
Napier, the Clunies Rosses, Ruth Bed-
ford and others have written among
them. It is to be published soon. A nice
girl from Bathurst was Joy Kauter. A
bright part of her outfit was an engage-
ment ring.
In the Red Cross Younger Set’s head-
quarters one night last week, there were
giddy streamers, an iced cake of great
size, a Santa Claus who made jokes and
brought a present for everybody. Music,
a debate and a one-act play were some of
the ingredients of the night’s fun. This
being the Literary and Debating Society’s
special joy-spreader, the lions of the
evening were a group of writers: Man-
Shy Davison, Dulcie Deamer, Vera
Dwyer, Winifred Birkett among them.
The Circle’s president, Dot Wormald,
appeared in bronze laces, and just-re-
turned-from-Russia J. J. Mulligan was a
very honorable guest indeed.
St. Michael’s at Vaucluse added Bar-
bara Chapman to its list of pretty brides.
Barbara’s marriage to John Macquarie
Christian Antill was untrimmed by the
usual bridal fripperies, but managed to
be very effective. The bride’s sky-after-
rain-blue frock had sleeves and yoke of
Alen?on lace. Her hat was blue and
halo in shape. Sister Janet ’maided in
soft pinks and a brown hat. Geoffrey
Brassey was best man. Mrs. M. J.
Plomley (Barbara’s mother) mingled
mauve orchids and black chiffons in her
raiment when she hostessed the subse-
quent reception at her home in Ocean-
avenue, Edgecliff. Mrs. Sargood, the
’groom’s mother, who now lives at
Bowral, added red roses to her navy out-
fit. John’s father was Major Antill, of
Jarvisfield, Picton.
Ethleen Palmer, now showing a panel
of linocuts in the Macleod Gallery, has
a happy way with birds. Fantails, kooka-
burras and other plumed creatures
spread their fine feathers or rest with
folded wing in her delicate studies. In
this artist’s work color is faithfully re-
produced. Ethleen, who studied art at
Sydney’s Technical College, shows with
the city’s leading societies.
The International Council of Women
will don its lightweight summer frills and
meet at Calcutta in February. Mrs. A.
G. Thomas, of Wahroonga—the tall,
slender lady who’s on the Nat. Council
executive in Sydney—goes to the Land
of the Rajahs as an Australian delegate
after seeing, the Christmas pudding
through its holly trimmings. Portia
Geach, of Housewifely fame, is to attend
the same feminine jamboree.
Rod Quinn was the brightest luminary
of the Fellowship of Australian Writers’
Christmas party, and there was a record
roll-up to wish him many happy returns.
•Adam McCay came along and made a
speech extolling the lyric qualities of
the poet’s verse. Then the Fellows
handed over a pipe to the guest; and in
returning thanks Rod was at his kindly
and amusing best. He told a story of
the days when the world was very young,
and of a tall bushman who came to
Sydney to meet the poets. The old clan,
Victor Daly and Rod among them, ral-
lied around, and the sun-browned one
was introduced. Still he did not seem
satisfied. “What did you expect?” asked
Rod. “I thought I might meet Shaks-
peare,” drawled the other. “Nothing
easier,” said Rod, and, calling local Inky
Wayfarer Tom Shakespeare from the
other side of the room, introduced the
two.
Marjorie Quinn, her pink-rose-pat-
terned chiffons girdled in rose-red velvet,
had arranged a literary competition; a
visitor, Nancy Creagh, romped home
with the prize. This was half a guinea,
given by president Flora Eldershaw for
the purchase of a book. Dulcie Deamer,
in pink chiffons, celebrated a birthday.
The John Goulds came; so did the
Bartlett Adamsons and Fred Broomfield.
The Arts Club was giddy with the revels
till midnight.
Mrs. Bernard, who has done much to
brighten up musical Sydney, went off last
week in the Merkur, Java and Singapore
her destination. Her spacious cabin on
the top deck was crowded with visitors
and flowers. Among the former were
Admiral and Mrs. Stevenson, Nora Wil-
liamson, Mildred Hill, the Storey lady
and Mrs. Ivy Moore. The flowers in-
cluded a violin in red roses and carna-
tions. England may follow Asia before
the traveller returns.
All the best epaulettes sprouted in
glittering array at the graduation day of
the Royal Military College. Brigadiers,
colonels, majors and admirals gathered
around while the fifty or so R.M.C.
cadets paraded and did those things
seemly to budding major-generals. The
ground made spirited by the graduation
ceremonial was that on which in the
early days of Sydney the British regi-
ments drilled, and where the Australian
contingents paraded before they left for
the Sudan and South African wars.
The Governor-General was there to take
the salute and present the prizes and
trophies. Of these the sword of honor
went to Sergeant-Major M, F. Brogan,
while the King’s Medal was pinned on
Color-Sergeant Cruickshank, both as
nice-looking young men as ever carried
field-marshals’ batons in their knap-
sacks. The G.-G.’s speech, as usual, was
clear and concise, and its most popular
moment was the reference to the return
of the college to its old address at
Duntroon.
Ports of Call in the Pacific (in its
French title Escales Oceaniennes ) holds a
graceful tribute to Sydney from the
author, Guy Chantepleure, whom we
knew as the wife of French Consul
Dussap. The first chapter opens with a
faithful and poetic description of Our
Harbor as seen from the deck of the
La Perouse. The book deals with the
islands of New Caledonia and the New
Hebrides. The story of the voyage
there and the strange lives of the in-
habitants is vividly and poetically told.
Mrs. Dussap was so modest a stranger
in our midst that few of us knew that
some of her books have reached a dizzy-
ing number of editions.
Ink manufacturers should send a
handsomely-embossed inkwell to Brenda
Marion Dick when she marries her
Angus Garrett Brammall at All Saints’,
Brisbane, this week. As ink consumers,
the two families surely hold a record
from Hobart to the northern capital.
Brenda is a granddaughter of the late
W. H. Traill, of Bulletin associations,
her only brother is on the staff of the
Brisbane “Telegraph,” and Mrs. J.
Fotheringhame, Sydney’s doyen of
women journalists, is a great-aunt.
’Groom’s mother, Mrs. T. C. Brammall,
of Hobart, is better known as Bertha
Southey Brammall, the Tasmanian
writer; Robert Southey was her great-
grandfather. Three of the young man’s
brothers are in the writing game.
What is there in the study of anthro-
pology that lures the handsome of the
race? Another good-looking anthro-
pologist (almost equal to, or perhaps
rivalling, your favorite screen heroes)
makes his bow to Sydney. He is Mr.
Ledoux ; he comes from New York, and
his eyelashes fanned the breeze at the
P.E.N. Club dinner the other night. This
was eaten at the Forum Club, in the
odor, if not of sanctity, of mirthful
decorum and many flowers. Retiring
president Robert Garran and his lady
were the guests. Present president is
the entertaining and altogether likeable
Elliott Napier.
The only thing the Salvation Army
asks of the caller at its door is that his
need be great. Physical and spiritual
needs are the foundations on which this
great organisation has built its 1450 work
centres in Australia; 713 of them in
N.S.W. and Queensland. In the two
States ate many institutions for men,
women, boys and girls. There’s even an
aborigine colony. The distribution of
loaves and fishes and meat and sugar
from these centres is colossal. So, don’t
forget, is the bill for them, especially
about Christmas time. Commissioner
McKenzie, Box 33D, Haymarket, will
welcome pounds or pennies.
Low stone walls, white thatched
cabins with the half doors, and the grey-
blue hills of Cork were the background
against which the story of Shamus O’Brien
was presented. Sydney had not previ-
ously heard this opera, and the Con-
servatorium was crowded by the musi-
cianly on each of the four nights of the
season. Guenda Bainton, a daughter of
the Corn’s director, designed and carried
out the stage settings, which were so
realistic you could almost smell the peat.
Hilda Mulligan was responsible for the
costumes and groupings whereby the
scenes were spirited and colorful. As
for Roland Foster, he not only helped
to direct the production, but got busy
with the make-up. Shamus was a bit of
a Turk as well as a patriot of ’9B
vintage, for on Saturday and Tuesday
he had Jean Watson for his bride, Nora,
and on Monday and Wednesday Merle
Ambler took her place.
Moree lost its Mayoress last Saturday
in the happiest of circumstances. To the
peal of wedding-bells she changed from
Maureen McElhone (her father is A. T.
McElhone, Moree’s Mayor) to Mrs. Evan
Gudgeon, of Albury. St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral endorsed the contract. Sister Kath-
leen, who now becomes Mayoress of the
town with the baths that sometimes cure
and always alleviate, attended her elder
sister, her color-scheme blue and coral.
The bride wore dusty-pink marocain and
a small flower toque. The blue of the
delphinium, the pink of carnations
mingled in her flowers.
Margaret Vyner greeted her home town
with a gardenia in her hair. As man-
nequin, Margaret has worked for
Patou and Norman Hartnell, and
now is displaying frocks for a Syd-
ney firm. Another blonde good-looker
floating about Sydney ballrooms since
the arrival of the Strathaird is Mrs.
Anthony Hope Osborne. She was Prim-
rose Salt, and London gave her top
marks for looks among the debs, of her
year.
At the Red Cross literary party last
week Winifred Birkett spoke of the new
novel she is writing, though completion
of that is suffering from broken time,
like the shipping trade. The author won’t
have much trouble remembering the
names of her characters. They are
three in number. Australia’s women
novelists are becoming a small army.


IN
SYDNEY
# Petty’s Hotel is an Historical landmark of
Sydney. It is old; 100 years old; and yet to-day it
is gaining more and more guests through its atmos-
phere of restful comfort; its modern appointments;
perfect service. Tariff; Room and breakfast. 11/6*
Inclusive, 18/-.
\
PETTYS
Hotel
V
York Street. Sydney
R. J. Langley, Manager
i m
?4.
x<-% %
I
-- ~
•ItWjlKrt
REIMS
• IH
i
m
IJ 1
::
i '
i
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather held out for the Victorian
tennis championships at Kooyong, where
the size of the gallery on the final day
was a compliment to the all-Australian
competitors. Quist defeated Crawford,
who was so hard pressed that he rolled
up both his sleeves. Thelma Coyne re-
peated her Sydney victory over Joan
Hartigan, and in the final of the women’s
doubles Nancy Lewis and Peg Menzies
proved too good for Miss K. Woodward
and May Blick, a pair who had already
disposed of Joan Hartigan and Mrs.
Hopman. In the girls under 19 Sadie
Berryman and South Australia’s Miss
O’Halloran defeated Youtha Thiemeyer
and Molly Carter. On the previous day
in the final of the girls’ singles, Sadie lost
to schoolgirl Youtha, who oozes self-
confidence and moves about the court
like a flash of lighting in what looks like
a very short frock over a bathing cos-
tume. Young Sadie is a sunburned,
curly-headed lass who wears a navy-
blue stripe down the side of her tennis
shorts. She lives near Echuca, and several
times a week cycles in to the club for
practice.
There was a good deal of noisily-
voiced criticism of umpires’ decisions
on the final day at Kooyong. A
strong wind blew over the stands, but
dressing was mostly of the summer-frock
variety, with light coats and a few furs.
Many women disguised themselves behind
colored glasses, with green, red, blue or
white rims. Crowds of girls came hat-
less and wore, instead of stockings, var-
nished toenails and layers of brown sun-
burn cream rubbed well into their legs.
How long will it be before men break
down their conventional prejudices and
commence naturopathic dressing in the
summer? With her husband in the
“lifers’ ” stand was the attractive bride
who was Jean Tolley, and is now Mrs.
Tom Patterson, She wore navy and fawn
and an upturned navy hat. Another
bride, Mrs. Vincent Rouse, was in pink
linen with a black belt. Elaine and
Hersey Brookes wore no hats but ribbon
bows in their hair to match their toes
and the rims of their sunglasses. Shirley
Tolhurst chose a white hat for her red-
and-vihite dress, Mrs. Ivo Whitton was
in pale grey and white, Mrs. David
Elder wrapped herself in a white linen
coat, Shirley Ross’s brown hat matched
her brown wooden buttons and Molly
Wragg, in a floral frock, was kept busy
defending her big navy-blue hat against
sudden gusts of wind.
The prize of “two pounds” offered for
the most sensational hat worn at the Vic.
Artists’ Society’s Mad Hatters’ Ball
turned out to be 21b. of peanuts. The
dance was billed to last from “8.30 till
your hat falls off,” but it was 10 before
more than a dozen people had arrived ;
they were in no hurry, for they knew they
would still be dancing when the birds
were twittering in the trees on Saturday
morning. Adam and Eve seemed to pre-
dominate in the posters ; the pair were
outside the door of the main gallery, and
they appeared again, plus apple, in the
supper-room. The supper tables were
decorated with candles in mussel bottles
(the “marines” of other years were more
effective), bunches of radishes and piles
of Japanese plums. The usual pineapples
were absent (the reason given to the press
being fruit-fly, but one suspects that
plums make better ammunition). Pigs’
feet were as prolific as ever.
“Accommodation for Man and Beast”
was the legend nailed up outside a gal-
lery which was left in darkness. Behind
the orchestra was a poster band—a sun-
downer with a monster harp and some
derelicts playing flutes. Opposite was a
futuristic picnic with large fierce flies
buzzing about in the foreground, and on
another wall an ox-blood-red engine
puffed over bright-blue rails. All the
way up the stairs were hats, tall and
narrow, large and flat, round and square.
Pass-out chits were as usual —indelible
stamps upon the wrist.
Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Williams
gave a late-afternoon party in their flat
at Gainsborough in honor of Air-Com-
modore H. R. Nicholl, who has arrived
in Melbourne on two years’ exchange
duty. (Air-Commodore Goble left several
weeks ago for England on part of the
exchange transfer.) Mrs. Williams wore
black matelasse with elaborately flowing
sleeves ornamented with lines of faggot-
ing. Her hat was a large black crinoline.
The Air Vice-Marshal seemed to be
everywhere at once, welcoming the guests
with one hand, saying good-bye with the
other, and wielding a decanter in between
times. The Charles Turner couple were
there helping to see that no one went
short of a prune on a prong, a sandwich
or a drink. Betty Nicholas, who should
make a beautiful March bride, was
charming and vivacious in navy blue,
with cocoa fox furs, and a stiffened eye
veil, attached to her halo hat.
Clive Ross Fenner escorted his petite
wife, who wore dusty coral pink and a
black cartwheel hat with shaggy-edged
roses clustered round the crown. Mrs.
J. K. Merritt softened a black dress with
white ospreys, and Judy Campbell
jingled green-and-white bracelets to
match her green coat and white frock.
Mrs. R. L. McAdam was in black and
white ; so was Mrs. G. D. Kelly, whose
hat was in a geometrical patterning, and
whose collar was striped with thin lines.
Mrs. C. R. Cowper, wearing a navy beret
nautical with seagulls in full flight,
accompanied her sister, Miss Nyulasy.
The flowers throughout the flat were
lovely. Blue hydrangeas filled the fire-
place, bowls of Christmas lilies, del-
phiniums, larkspurs and flamboyant
gladioli made splashes of color, while a
vase of roses almost hid the Duke of
Gloucester, in an autographed photo,
presented to the host. The verandah had
gone through a metamorphosis, and
emerged a conservatory of bamboos and
palms.
The exodus to the beaches is already
under way. Here is a Broothorn photo.
of Mrs. Lucius Conolly, who, with her
husband, is at present at Frankston. The
couple will spend a country-house Christ-
mas with the Franc Falkiner couple, and
early in the New Year (having let their
house in South Yarra to the newly
married Keith Carnegies) will pack their
trunks for a tour abroad.
; There was music one afternoon last
week at The Olde Dutch in aid of the
Loreto Free Kindergarten. The concert
and formal tea were in the large room,
but habitues sipping coffee in the other
parts of the cafe also contributed towards
the charity, for the management donated
the afternoon’s profits. It was very hot,
and people who went to the party did
so in heroic vein. Mrs. Alex. Boyd was
there in a floral dress and a black hat,
Mrs. Louis Doyle wore a periwinkle-
blue hat, and Mrs. Tom King had a
pierrot ruffle of white organdie round
the neck of her black frock. Big black
hats were chosen by Mrs. J. J. Daly and
Mrs. W. J. Rennick, a smaller white
chapeau by Mrs. J. A. Coates and a little
toque of black-and-white geometrical
figures by Mrs. John Madden. Mrs. W.
Tutton was in navy with scarlet lapels
to match the band on her hat, Mrs.
Esmond Downie’s frock was sprigged
with a leafy design, and Edith Hoare was
m white with a red belt.
Here is a Broothorn picture of Mrs.
Harold Wilkinson. Major and Mrs. Wil-
kinson, their daughter Vaire and son
Dudley live in South Yarra, and have
as their guest Mrs. Wilkinson’s sister
from W.A., Mrs. Frank Murray. Mrs.
Murray lived for many years on a north-
west station out of Port Hedland where
one wears summer clothes all the year
round, so she has few complaints about
Melbourne’s sudden bursts of heat. Mrs.
Wilkinson and Mrs. Murray have many
relatives in England and Australia. The
late Earl Jellicoe was their cousin.
A warm welcome (literally, by the
thermometer) was given to guests at the
opening ceremony of Palestine Week at
the International Club. It was decided
that speeches were of more importance
than mere comfort, and all the Windows
were securely fastened to keep out the
noise of the traffic. A door opening on
to the roof was the narrow margin of
safety against suffocation en masse of
all club members.
Rabbi Brodie made an interesting
speech on Palestine, Linda Phillips
played and Estelle Mark gave delight-
ful interpretations of Hebrew folk-songs.
At supper-time there appeared Jewish
cakes and sweet biscuits, toffee filled
with nuts and a very gaily-decorated
birthday cake. Beryl McCann, wearing
golden-brown lace, followed the cake
around with a knife in a jug of water
—for a wet knife was a tip of the Jewish
confectioner who baked the cakes. One
of the most decorative people present was
Edith Payne, who wore a Bnlgarian-em-
broidered tunic over a blouse with
puffed white organdie sleeves. Reba
Shearer, in blue taffeta with frills cas-
cading down the back, helped to hand
round liqueurs and white wine, and Belle
Craig, in black net with a transparency
of cape, followed with cups of tea. Mrs.
J. G. Moylan wore black lace ; Mrs. G.
G. Hawkins’s black gown had a ribbed
feeling emphasised by gold threads; and
Mrs. D. Rankin was in slate-blue chif-
fon. Mrs. A. S. Wilkinson, in pastel
ninon, and Mrs, Tudehope, wearing black
sprinkled with cream roses, sat together
looking so alike that they were taken
for sisters.
At the Palestinian Exhibition, instead
of statistics served up as masses of dull
figures there were pictorial illustrations
of national progress. Populations, citrus-
fruit industry, manufactures and so forth
caught the eye in easily-grasped colored
diagrams, while strewn round the room
were such concrete examples of indus-
try as woodwork, toothpastes, perfumes,
jewellery (barbaric and beautiful), woolly
toy dogs and all sorts of manufactured
articles which were a surprise to people
who have not followed the expansion of
the Holy Land during the last 10 years.
Among the ancient objects on view were
lamps of 900 8.C., a two-handled long-
necked flagon which one can imagine
Rebecca carrying to the well, a brick
from the wall of Jericho and a quaint
tearbottle, green with age (Problem—
how long would a maiden of old Jeru-
salem have taken to fill that bottle?).
There were also an oil-container, a bowl
in which the Jewish housewife stored her
barley and another pot which might have
been used for rouge, for 5000 years ago
women had discovered points about aid-
ing and abetting Nature.
On the night of Melbourne’s red-dust
storm the Dramatic Art School attached
to the Albert-street Con. produced
“Iphigcnia in Tauris.” Possibly the
rumble of thunder was responsible for
only one person sitting in lonely state
at 8 p.m., when the performance was
due to commence. A little later Thomas
Brentnall was escorted to the only easy-
chair. Gradually a few stragglers drifted
in and waited patiently for something to
happen. At 8.45 a jug of water and
glass arrived, and were parked in the
prompter’s box ; then after more delay
Iphigenia, robed in royal purple and in
the person of Mrs. N. Levy, embarked
upon her plots and counterplots. G. Lee
and R. Mann would have been more
impressive in the Grecian tunics of
Orestes and Pylades if they had stood up
straighten Miss D, Hunt, H. Bridges
and Hinemoa Rosieur made up the verse-
speaking choir of captive Trojan women.
Miss E. Parnham was an elegant God-
dess Pallas Athena who patched things
up after Iphigenia had run away with
the god under her arm and her two cap-
tives, Orestes and Pylades, in chains.
For the first time since the medical
course was extended to six years a can-
didate has had a degree conferred when
aged only 21. Dr. F. J. Cahill (son of
Dr. H. J. Cahill, of Flemington), now a
Bachelor of Surgery and a Bachelor of
Medicine, embarked upon his first-year
med. when only 15. There is a rule
that all undergraduates must be at least
16, but this particular young student had
already matriculated, also under the age
limit, and an exception was made in
favor of his precocity. Five young
women —Nancy Lewis, Vivienne Mary
Newbold, Frieda Elsa Plane, March
Ermyntrude Avery and Alison McQueen
Wright—are among the 50 new members
of the medical profession.


Renowned in the Middle Ages
CELESTINS VICHY WATER
"In the year 1411, Louis 11. of Bourbon founded the
Monastery of the Celestin monks, who made known to
all the extraordinary virtues of the ivater of Vichy”
To-day* Celestins Vichy Water is known the world over, and is
recommended by leading doctors for the correct functioning
of the kidneys and liver.
Half a tumbler on waking, one or two glasses during the day,
and a glass at bedtime is the best way to take Celestins Vichy
Water. But it is also delicious with whisky, milk, lemon or wine.
Sole Australian Agent:
MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel.: BW 1017.
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
■W
143
&
m.
io
Qlto
m
Y
?50.s* ■
SS&s
The Guarantee of
the French Gov-
ernment both as to
the authenticity
and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters
is of great import-
ance to the Medi-
cal profession and
to consumers.
Miss
Jocelyn
Howarth
Famous Film Star , says :
“Studio work is fascinating—’"but it’s
strenuous, too, and I eagerly welcome
a cup of good Tea in between scenes.
Fresh and hot, it does me a world of
good, and is most soothing and
refreshing.
“On really hot days, I have Iced Tea
to quench my thirst and cool me. It’s
an excellent Summer drink and very
easy to make. Try it when you want
a long, cold drink.”
SEND FOR FREE RECIPE BOOK
containing many ideas for serving Iced Tea.
Write for your copy to the Tea
Market Expansion Bureau, Kyle
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney,
enclosing Id. stamp to cover
postage.
Issued by the Tea Market Expansion
Bureau.
op Be©#
k
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Frocking at the races gave a fair
indication of what will be worn at the
Christmas meetings. Thirty per cent, of
the men were crowned with topees, and
there was a sprinkling of ice-cream suits.
One feminine floral georgette was almost
wholly hidden by a flowing ground-
length purple taffeta coat, and was topped
with matching sunshade and violet-
encrusted toque. A double fringe of
chromium glittered on the collar of Mrs.
H. Gwynne’s black silk crepes ; the up-
standing plumes on Mrs. Harry Vincent’s
navy hat matched her bois-de-rose suit,
with its spotted navy blouse ; Mrs. John
Stoddart was trim and slim in crisp blue
linen ; big gold clasps fastened the coat
of Violet Holmes’s magpie ensemble;
Mrs. G. Mclntyre’s brown accessories
went with beige matt crepe, and drawn
threads made a pattern on Mrs. Max
Lambert’s mushroom phantom crepe.
P.L.C. old girls took “Her Husband’s
Wife” for an outing at the Assembly Hall.
Mrs. Hubert Member directed affairs,
and Dulcie Armstrong played the main
role in a brace of becoming gowns, one
rosy-pink satin and the other figured
Wedgwood-blue silk. Denise Dingwall
emerged from “Miss Ladew’s* cocoon of
drabness into a goldy-beige butterfly
belted with green.
To help the Anglican orphanages the
Rev. C. B. Law threw open the grounds
of St. George’s College for a children’s
party. Fancy costumes made a colorful
splash on the lawns of the quadrangle,
where dancers from the Gable-Williams
school cavorted with one eye on the
goldfish-pond. High-tea in the cloisters
was the crowning joy to the youngsters.
Canadian girl Grace Pattullo, of Essay-
on-Australia fame, sipped morning-tea
with Mabel Teather and a host of other
guests in the rose-and-larkspur-decked
council-rooms. The hostess buckled a
wide width of black suede around the
waist of her grey miniature-patterned
silks, and the visitor was girt with brown
tailored tweeds.
Yachtsman Basil Ferris and his
fiancee, Miss D. Claridge, were fare-
welled by friends at Royal Freshwater
Bay Club. At eight bells Commodore
C. H. Bacon, with his lady next him at
the helm, handed to the guests a silver
tea and coffee service and silver entree-
dish.
Half Perth seemed to be at Fremantle
to welcome friends who returned by the
Orama. Mrs. Frank Davies had a score
or more awaiting her. Others in the ship
were Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bunning and
daughter Gena, Betty Lee Steere and
Mary and Elsie Forrest, with Mrs. John
Forrest. The Willie Saws reclaimed
daughters Gwen, Isla and Valma.
The Oriana Ladies’ Choir wound up
its year with an at-home at the Myola
Club. President Miss Elizabeth Hamil-
ton’s pink-and-blue floral marocains were
in the box seat, with hon. sec. Mrs. Cecil
Treadgold near by. The pre-tea pro-
gramme comprised choral numbers con-
ducted by A. J. Leckie and items by
Thelma Dent, Eileen Kenniwell, Lilian
Turner and Doris Horrigan.
Thelma, the G. C. Roses’ youngest
chick, has booked a matrimonial date
with Peter St. Barbe Connor, of Cottes-
loe.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The polo at Birkalla was attended by
several of the Strathaird’s passengers, in-
cluding the Cedric Haywards, of Medin-
die. Frank Downer dispensed afternoon-
tea and cocktails, and there was an open
bar. After the men’s match there was
one for women. Among the spectators
were Mrs. Kenneth Bakewell. and her
daughter Gwen, much interested in Helen
Bakewell’s play. Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith,
in black, was there with her husband
and her daughter, the Buckland lady, the
latter in a leaf-brown ensemble with hat
to tone. Mrs. Dudley Hayward was an-
other who looked smart in brown. Mrs.
F. W. Porter combined a red straw hat
with her red-and-white-flowered frock.
Mrs. George Braund chose black crepe
de Chine patterned in colors and a black
straw hat wreathed in flowers. Mrs. H.
McGregor sported a white linen tailored
suit and a white hat, and Mrs. W. W.
McGregor relieved her white outfit with
a red-spotted scarf.
We now have choice of horseracing
(gallops and trots), polo and motor-car
speed trials on Saturdays. At a sporting-
car meeting at Buckland Park beach
Betty Corbin won the four-mile handicap
race.
About 40 members attended the
Women’s Club’s last dinner of the year,
at which president Phoebe Watson was
hostess. A short play was presented in
the lounge, with bridge to follow.
Though the weather was warm the
party arranged by the committee of the
Ladies’ Rowing Club and held in the
pavilion was a great success. The deco-
rations were in the club colors (Oxford
and Cambridge blues). At afternoon-tea
a birthday cake presented by Mrs. J.
Thomas was cut by Mrs. George L. Div.
The audience for the Creveen School
plays, a regular feature of this season
for many years, was made up of admir-
ing parents, grandmothers, aunts and
cousins The plays were “Moonbeams,’’
LnJw c V h -?K S ‘ °J ' l , ‘S w,r, r "
and W. S. Gilbert s Irresistible Impulse.
The opening of the Lucy Monce Km-
dergarten in North Adelaide attracted a
large crowd. Mrs. Monce, for 30 years
a worker in the kindergarten cause gave
£ 5OO towards the cost of the building
which bears her name. She declared the
school open, and the Bonython lady,
president of the Kindergarten Associa-
tion, made what she called a “speech of
praise and thanksgiving.”
After the Uni. Commem. ceremony
at Elder Hall, the Mawson lady (presi-
dent) and members of the Uni. Wives’
Club were at-home in the Lady Symon
Hall. Guests were received in the main
room of the hall, where afternoon-tea
was served, the tables decked with pink,
mauve and blue flowers.
The Music Salon drew a big crowd to
the Piccadilly for the final gathering of
the year. The rooms were gay with
gladioli and delphiniums, and the pro-
gramme included French songs by Harry
Wotton and Pauline Hyde. At the rate
the club is growing it will have to hire
the Exhibition Building next year.
At the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary’s
Christmas party Mrs. B. H. Morris was
presented with a handbag from the mem-
bers m recognition of her services. She
has been granted three months’ leave of
absence to enjoy a holiday after 11
years continuous work for the auxiliary,
of which she was one of the founders,
She is convener of the sewing circle, and
official recorder of the thousands of gar-
ments made and distributed.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell assembled bridge-
players at her Sandy Bay home in honor
of Lady Clark’s return from Colombo,
The hostess was in black satin, a V
Clark in blue lace. The house was
ablaze with flowers.
The L yceum Club’s welcome-home to
Lad Qark was a crowde d affair, the
new rooms being taxed to capacity. Deco-
rations wefe in s a scheme of gold; white
and pink The pres ident, Mrs. A. C.
Stourto and secret ary Mary Bisdee re-
ceived the tof honor an d presented
hef with a bouquet , the forerunner of
ma others duri the afternoon,
J
The D.N.A. summed up its year
afternoon-tea party in the Queen
Club rooms, the president, Mrs. er
Hall, being hostess. A bequest of
{>y the late Miss L. Innes was acknow-
*edBed - .
The end-of-term dance at the Uni.
was a jolly show, the library being
crowded with dancers and everyone in
the right mood for enjoyment. Apart
from the Vice-Chancellor and a few
other Uni. bigwigs, the dancers were
youthful,
Mabel Hookey, Isobel Oldham and
p>. M. Harvey held a show of their pic-
tures in the Masonic Hall. Miss Harvey’s
were all Indian scenes, delicate in tone.
xhe others ranged through many sub-
jects. Mabel Hookey’s “Bush Home”
a nd Miss Oldham’s study of derelict
ships were much admired.
Dr Orchard led off his programme
for the last syrnp hony orchestra con-
cert with Liszt « s “Hungarian Fantasie”
for piano and orchestra. Joan Orchard
scor £ d a success at the piano, and the
whole concert was well above the
average
* _ . . ... ,
J- Moore-Robmson, journalist an
authority on Tasmanian early history,
has passed over. He was strong on pre-
serving historical monuments and on
classifying and recording events which
were likely to fall into oblivion, and in
a quiet way did our little island good
service.


c
H
I
N
E
MADE IN (3
AUSTRALIA y
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
%-
2
wr' *
v*v
•* ti
V.Vw
§34
s
'■v-
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
IBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
o^o*
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat- \
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following;
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
Mac Ewan’s
AUCKLAND, N.Z.:
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
■VALLEY ... BRISBANE - -
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Bray Rock”: Sight of the Maid of
Sker, now doing her last duty as a
barge in the Brisbane River, recalls many
a hilarious party in the days when, skip-
pered by Alec McMaster or, later, the
Kleinschmidt brothers, she carried pas-
sengers and very mixed cargoes between
Brisbane, Southport and Nerang. As a
50-ton paddle-steamer, she was built in
the early ’eighties at Sargent’s foundry
in Brisbane, to bring timber from the
Logan River to Brisbane. In 1887 a big
flood spoiled the Logan for steamers, and
after some adventures she was sold for
the Southport trade. The Kleinschmidt
brothers, her owner-skippers for many
years, and friends of all southern More-
ton Bay for generations, are both alive.
Ferdinand, now 85, retired in 1913, but
Frederick, a lad of 80, stuck to the sea
and handed over command of the Maid’s
successor, to his son, only in February,
1935. The climate gets them at last!
* * * *
“Nothung”: The Cactohlastis has
reached N.Q., and is carrying on his
good work among the big monocantha
around Charters Towers,
over 1000 miles from his
starting place. Considering
that the little devil has been
eating and destroying as he
has gone he hasn’t done so
badly. There isn’t so very
much pear round that part of
the world, but what there is
of it is meeting its Waterloo.
It’s a good performance,
especially as, during his
Odyssey, he has not acquired
any perverted taste for other
vegetables. At the same time,
the Lands Department should
not forget the words of the
old song: “What will a Cac-
toblastis eat when there isn’t
any more pear?”
* * *
“Bananalander”: Winton
(W.Q.) recently held its first
tin-hare meeting. There has
been a mild boom in kangaroo dogs
this year, and, as the ’roos are
scattered since the winter rains, owners
thought to get some sport by mechani-
cal means. The “hare” was fashioned
from kangaroo hide, and propelled
by a one-man-power bicycle with
the hind wheel raised. Since most of
the dogs were uneducated, there was
trouble at the start. Fights were fre-
quent and dogs wandered. Also a stray
cat gave the best run of the afternoon.
Old Dan, who was with me, put his
money on a heat-winner for the final: the
dog ran well and led from the start;
but there were side shows, as anybody
who knows dog au naturel can realise.
By the time Dan’s favorite got going
again the race was over. The hospital
and ambulance benefited by the “gate,”
and the sport is established.
* ♦ * ♦
“Splinter”: I can tell “Mataranka” (B.
6 /11 / ’35) of a bull buffalo which was
much further off his beat than the cove
who got only to Dunmara (N.T.). My
nomination for the record wanderer is
the fellow shot on Austral Downs,
Barkly Tableland, during T 7. I even
heard of one so far south as Cork, on
the Diamantina (Q.). There was no
doubt about the bull on Austral. He
came sou’-east as far as he could until
the Queensland border fence stopped
him. He seemed satisfied to stay where
he was, and he ran peacefully with the
station cattle. That bull buffalo might
have been there yet if one of the owners
in M.L. hadn’t got married. The Queens-
land managers didn’t know what the
dickens to send him as a wedding present.
As H. B. Williams was a keen sportsman,
what better than a pair of buffalo horns
from one of his own stations? So the
wanderer became a nuptial sacrifice.
* * * *
“Kuranda”: The reference to F. C.
Urquhart’s battered visage (B. 11/12/’35)
did not go far enough. More parts of
him than his face were battered. In the
’eighties, he was struck in the groin with
a tomahawk while searching for native
murderers in the Selwyns. He had' a
200-mile ride before he could get medical
attention. He had been sent out after
the man in charge of a previous expedi-
tion had been killed with all his boys.
And two or three other times Urquhart
was badly knocked about.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: A Toowoomba (Q.)
man has become highly unpopular with
Forgan Smith’s Railway Department.
After various attempts to induce the dc-
“If’s this blarsted mass production , 'Erb, tool's put you an me on
the streets .”
partment to speed up its ridiculously
slow mail-train service between Brisbane
and Toowoomba, he decided to demon-
strate the absurdity of its methods
with a baby car of 6ft. wheelbase and
3ft. track. Leaving the Toowoomba
station simultaneously with the afternoon
mail train at 2.43 p.m., he easily reached
Central, Brisbane, at 5.54, 50 minutes
ahead of the department’s steam flier.
His trip cost 3s. lOd. in petrol, plus an
estimated 7s. in depreciation, or ss. sd.
each for the two passengers. Rail fares
are £1 first and 13s. second, single. If
the Transport Strangulation Board —of
which the Commissioner of Railways is
chairman—is worth its salt, something
will certainly be done to this contu-
macious person. It would be quite easy
to declare his perambulator a heavy
vehicle and register him off the roads.
“Colonel B.”: Queensland is feeling
nervous lest grave repercussions arise
when Signor Mussolini receives his copy
of one country newspaper. Quoting
from cables, it described the scene when
the great man gave his decorations and
his best steel helmet to his country’s cause,
winding up with a dramatic picture of
the saluting Deputies marching past II
Duce, who sat, unresponsive, toying with
a red rose. At least, that was what the
editor wrote. The slovenly composing
staff set it up, “toying with a red nose"
and thus did the masterpiece go forth
to the citizens of Cowville and the world.
* * *
“Dungeness”: Anyone who wants to
see tropical scenery at its most wonder-
ful should take a run along the new road
from Innisfail (N.Q.) to Millaa Millaa on
the Atherton Plateau. But he must
hurry up, for soon the glorious rain
forests which border it will go up in
smoke. The road is part of a plan for
the settlement of the East Palmerston
scrubs by landless men with experience
and working ability. They will receive
perpetual leases of from 152 to 258
acres; may cut and remove the timber
on payment of royalty; and may grow
anything except sugar. Thirty miles of
cross roads have been made at a cost of
£5OO per mile. Before long, another 6000
acres will be opened in the West Palmer-
ston area. The name perpetuates Christy
Palmerston, the first to win through the
vast mountain face of heavy rain-jungle
from Innisfail up to the Plateau.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
L. R. Wilson, a Canadian engineer,
has arrived in Brisbane with his attrac-
tive daughter Peg and young son Ken-
neth. Mrs. Wilson and two younger
children will come on presently. Father
has joined the Evans, Deakin, Horni-
brook Construction Pty., and Brisbane
thinks that it is going to like the new
arrivals.
Before leaving for Southport Chief
Justice Blair and his wife entertained
the Premier and Mrs. Forgan Smith at
dinner at the National. The C.J. will
stay at Southport until after the New
Year.
Our vice-regals are off to Caloundra,
where the Governor has leased two
modern bungalows which were built by
the last Lud Mayor, Mr. Greene. Every
other building in the district with a roof
to it also has been leased, and the Bruce
Highway now makes Caloundra an easy
and comfortable motor run from Bris-
bane.
The T. P. O’Briens, of Toowoomba,
will rent Huntingdon, the house at South-
port which the Governor has had every
summer for some years. In spite of the
fact that Government House, to all in-
tents and purposes, has been removed
to the North Coast, the annual trek to
Southport is as large as ever, and there
is not a vacant house to be had either
in Southport or on the Main Beach.
Everyone is living in a spate of
Christmas parties. The Ex-Servicemen’s
Guild entertained 270 kiddies —98 of
whom were nominated by the Legacy
Club —at a Christmas party in the base-
ment of the C.T.A., and gave the small
people a good time and gifts. At Mrs.
Henry Robertson’s home at New Farm
the New Farm Junior Red Cross League
staged a garden party with stalls and
dancing demonstrations and afternoon
lea to raise funds for Christmas cheer
for the kiddies of Diggers who are hav-
ing a thin time financially. Mrs. O. J.
Lansdowne opened the fete.
At the Town and Country Women’s
Club the Goethe Bund staged its Christ-
mas party, with a Christmas-tree to pro-
vide the right atmosphere, Mr. and Mrs.
R. Hulsen and Miss T. Frank looked
after the guests.
Mr. and Mrs. L. D. Edwards are back
again, after having seen a considerable
slice of the Old World.
Sylvia Murphy marries Bob McFar-
lane on Boxing Day, and Sheelah Doyle
gave a bridge party at the Criterion Hotel
in her honor. A georgette hanky was
at every guest’s place, and Christmas
bells beautified the table. Mrs. Ashton
Murphy hostessed another party on the
same day in honor of Sylvia.
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Gordon-Duff, who
came over from Colombo to spend
Christmas with Mrs. Gordon-Duff’s
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Kerwin, intend
pushing off for Scotland early next year.
The committee of Nazareth House
spread the tables at the C.D.A. rooms,
and provided a lavish supply of dainties
as a gesture of goodwill and apprecia-
tion to Mrs. Percy Pease, their president.
When Mrs. Neville Lyons entertained
in honor of her sister, Roma Sutton, who
marries Wallace Best to-day, she filled
the reception-rooms with blue hydrangea,
which looked cool, although the
weather seemed to think we were in the
middle of February.
University graduates are interested in
the engagement of Pat McGregor, daugh-
ter of the late J, C. and Mrs. McGregor.
She is a graduate of Queensland Uni.,
and has been on the teaching staff of the
Glennie School in Toowoomba. Bride-
groom-elect is F. C. Thompson, M.A.
Flora Cran, writing rapturously from
Santa Barbara (Cal.), where she is stay-
ing with Doris Drake, mentioned that she
had been the guest of Genevieve Tobin
at a party in Los Angeles.
A Brisbane girl who scatters crumbs
for the birds that visit her garden
has been warned that she must discon-
tinue this pernicious practice, because she
is “encouraging rats.” Evidently St.
Francis of Assisi has no following in
the ranks of the local municipal officials.
Cecil Bowerman, kindest and happiest
of men, met with a fatal accident when
putting a large cross into position at the
C, of E., Lutwyche. He has relatives in
many parts of Australia, and was a god-
son of Henry Parkes. Ruby D. Eve, one
of Brisbane’s best-known journalists, is
a sister.


etrvj
PU
Letters of Credit for Travellers
£L simple, safe and convenient way to arrange for funds at the
various places a traveller is visiting, within Australia or abroad,
is by means of a Bank of New South Wales Letter of Credit.
This method renders it unnecessary to take the risk of carrying
large sums on the person.
With each Letter of Credit, the Bank issues a Letter of Introduc-
tion, which bears a specimen of the traveller's signature and
provides identification.
There is an agent of the Bank of New South Wales wherever,
throughout the world, banking facilities are available.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817) 194f1. 1935
| :
mb
llllil
0
m
m:
........
ms*
'' '
There are thousands of acres of land in China where storms
have swept away the soil, leaving only stones and gravel
behind.
Lost ground is no more unproductive than the years that
are permitted to pass without making a sound investment
an investment that will provide for your future years. Trees
the lack of which has caused the destruction of so much
of China’s soil —can be your source of income.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. was organised with the object
of planting forests which, with their rapid growth and the
great demand for softwoods, would amply repay the invest-
ment. At present N.Z. Perpetual Forests has planted
163,000 acres and approximately £4,000,000 has been sub-
scribed for forestry investment, whilst (approx.) £1.000.000
is” held in reserve for maintenance and realisa-
tion. Thousands of investors have grasped the
opportunities of investing in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests Ltd.
May we send our representative to give you
facts and figures regarding this investment.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
KEMBLA BUILDING, 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
WATCH
VOURMOMSV
CROW
No connection with any other Forestry Company,
The Story of a Large but Tender Stomach:—
THE MINCEMEAT
MILLIONAIRE
By C.W. SUTTON
-f
(Jutftotl'js-
'INHERE is nothing like pulling your
I weight in a boat, against the tide, to
remind you of your superfluous
flesh, and Boodle was fifteen stone.
With a tired grunt he hoisted the kel-
lick overboard and mopped his dripping
features, while the boat swuftg in the
fishing “possie” where it had swung
every previous Sunday that summer.
He liked to fish an hour before and
an hour after the turn of the tide, and
his watch showed that he was half an
hour early. So he leisurely baited a
hook with a piece of mullet; then
dangled it over the side and let the line
slip through his fingers until the run of
the tide had taken the bait down past
the stern of the boat.
There was a tin of worm-bait in his
bag, too, but he used that only when
mullet failed. With every ounce of his
fifteen stone he loathed the sticky slime
of worms. After a day’s fishing nothing
but hot water and soap could make him
feel that their clammy fragrance was
sufficiently removed for him to enjoy a
meal in comfort. Eyen now he felt con-
taminated by the thought of worms.
“My trouble is imagination,” he
mused. “It’s too vivid. When I know
a thing I can feel it, and smell it, and
taste it.”
“U-u-ugh!” he quivered as his chain
of thought reached back to the time
he had last eaten oysters —three years
ago.
Up to that time he had loved oysters,
and had just started on a solo banquet of
two dozen when a coarse bystander
passed an unsavory remark about the
inoffensive bivalves. He had promptly
thrown away what he hadn’t eaten, and
thrown up what he had.
“The dirty cow!” he gritted with the
pent-up emotion of three years’ denial.
Then he thought of the newspaper
joke that had put him off sausages for
eight years —and then he mercifully got
a bite.
“Nice fish,” he said to himself as he
lifted a two-pound bream on board.
“Might do for the wife, but not for
me,” he mumbled in a disappointed tone.
Once he could enjoy bream, but since
he had taken up fishing he had learnt
too much about their habits and diet.
He noted the slack water of the
stream.
“Good Lord! The tide about to turn,
and only one fish!”
If he couldn’t catch any now they cer-
tainly wouldn’t bite later.
HE paused with his hand on the mullet-
bait. The only sensible thing was to
try worm. With a look of pained resig-
nation he reached for the other tin, and
hauled out two feet of writhing worm.
Its coils slid through between his fingers,
and it smeared its slime all o;ver his
hand, until he let it fall on the seat.
There he chopped its head off with
the fish-knife and looked away down-
stream till its convulsions subsided.
Then with another chop he cut off a
short length for bait.
Others did their dissecting with a
thumbnail, but not Boodle.
After casting the line he washed his
hands and scraped them hard over the
edge of the gunwale to make sure of
removing the slime; then he rinsed
once again and wiped vigorously.
For another twenty minutes he held
the line, but with ever-waning hope..
“Well, if they’re not hungry, I am,"
he growled as he raked the lunchbag
towards him with the gaff-hook.
He looked doubtfully at his hands.
“Better be sure.”
So he washed them once again, this
time drying them on his handkerchief.
Boodle’s simple rule of diet was to
eat whatever he liked and as much of
it as he could hold. A dietetic would
have called him “A Sermon in Fifteen
Stone.”
The main course in this day’s lunch
consisted of a dozen mince rolls, which,
as he once skittishly remarked to his wife,
were “his favorite fruit.” He could
be sure of home-made mince, and his
stomach suffered from none of those
upheavals that arose when one thought
of what they could put into sausages.
He cast an anxious glance towards
the slack line, and bit off half a roll. He
chewed twice with gusto, once more sus-
piciously, and then his jaw stopped.
“What was the flavor in that mince?”
Somehow, it was associated in his
mind with a day’s fishing.
He analysed it. There was a tang of
the sea, meat, fried onions, wet kelp and
—if he went on he would think of
oysters or something and spoil every-
thing
Some new flavoring that the missus
had got over the wireless, he supposed.
He would probably get to like it after
another couple of rolls; so he continued
to chew hopefully, and by the time he
had reached the fourth roll his sense of
taste had settled down to a state of pas-
sive indifference.
Suddenly he grabbed at his line as
it raced over the gunwale.
He had to grab with both hands, and
leave a roll projecting cigarlike from
his mouth. As he played the fish his
breath came noisily through his puckered
Home in triumph.
up nostrils, but he held on to both his
catch and the roll.
When he had worked the fish near
to the boat he caught a fleeting glimpse
0 f
“School jew,” he noted ; “three pounds
if he’s an ounce.”
He leant over and scooped with the
net.
“Ah!” came from his opened lips as
he got the fish but lost his roll.
For the next
few minutes he
was too ab-
sorbed in recov-
ering his hook
to notice the
gradual disinteg-
ration of the
mince roll and
its dispersal into
minute f r a g-
ments on top of
the water. His
a 11 e n tion re-
turned to it with
Chewed....sus-
piciously.
a jolt when he heard a swishing chop
as something big snapped at its food
beside the boat. He turned in time to
see a four-foot shape glide past, wheel
and make another flying snap at the
cloud of mince.
THE lust to kill burned in his fisher-
man’s heart, and he slashed at it with
the gaff.
“If that jew doesn’t weigh thirty
pound, I’ll eat my bait,’ he declaied
to the atmosphere.
He waited, poised as delicately as a
fifteen-stone man can poise in a ten-
foot boat, but the gaff had gone close
enough to scare the jew away.
As he watched the mince, a short
brown shape flitted through it.
“My God!” he whispered. “A flat-
head.” . , .'
Then his fishing mind jumped into
action.
“If mincemeat will draw a mud-
loving flathead up from the bottom and
bring a big jew within two feet of the
boat, what else will it bring?
He soon knew,
A splash and a flutter came past the
downstream end of the boat, and a


HUMOR STORY
COMPETITION.
Points to Remember-:
Closing Date: January 31, 1936.
Length:
Anything up to 3000 words.
Prizes:
1st, £15; 2nd, £7; 3rd, £3.
All entries published will be paid
for at usual rates. Prizes are addi-
tional payments.
XMAS SUGGESTIONS
n
J
I
No. 4048 R. No. 146. No. 4068.
No. 40IBR— Ring-head Bridle, with stand-
back throat, n.-p. ring-bit. Jin., 15/-;
lin., 17/-. Postage, 1/3.
No. 146—Ring-head Farm Bridle, with
ring-bit. Jin., 10/6. Postage, 1/3.
No. 406B —Double-reined Ring-head
Bridle, ring-bit, solid nickel buckles,
fin. cheek, 17/-; Jin., 18/-. Postage, 1/3.
- KOO K 'BURM WHIRS
No. 14 —16-plait handle, Oft. x 12-pJait
thong, 87/-.
No. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-plait
thong, 39/-. Postage on Whips, 1/-.
No. 4—Headstall Fly Veil: jin., 4/3;
Jin., 6/3. Postage, Od.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD,
395 George Street, Sydney.
Call
Ml
Cccfes
*
UIICIRISIS
tew feembined ‘>%AlL<ind.Hctcr Pare*.
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
BY APPOINTMENT TO H. R. H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
THE
G VOO OSE THE BBST o/J?*'**
s
\f
■a
I
tNc
IiHQUER
I
SORCON
c °ir.
1
To add distinction to your hospitality
use Gordon’s, distilled in London by
the most famous gin distillers in the
world, Tanqueray, Gordon & Co. Ltd.
T H E
BooD*rflCoC KIA I L
school of small mullet skimmed the
water. For a minute there was a minia-
ture storm in the mince-roll area be-
fore the mullet passed on, and with them
the last trace of mince. But within that
minute Boodle had received an inspira-
tion and was acting upon it.
There he sat in the bottom of the
boat, disembowelling mince rolls in
feverish haste. Without a wince, he
tore several worms into two-inch frag-
ments, and rolled them in his intended
dinner.
“It’s the taste they like, and the taste
they’ll get,” he chanted as he mixed and
sifted and remixed.
He baited his line with the flavored
worm and cast overboard.
Then he shuddered as, for the first time
since his inspiration, he realised the state
of his hands. He bent to the water for
a wash that wasn’t to come, for his line-
roller whirled in the bottom of the boat.
He landed his
fish, returned his
line to the water,
and apparently
landed it right into
the open mouth of
another mince
fiend.
Thus the after-
no o n sped on.
Sometimes he
stopped to dope
more worms, but
always there were
fish waiting and
craving for the re-
turn of the bait.
For a while the
small mullet
robbed his hook,
but the coming of the “jewies” hunted
them to other grounds.
At 4.30 the inevitable southerly
arrived and ended all fishing for that
week-end.
BOODLE’S neighbors still like to de-
scribe their vision of him as he
arrived home at the head of a string of
small boys who were hired, by finny
currency, to carry the fish.
The journey home was easily the
rosiest half-hour of Boodle’s life.
He would throw in his job and sell
magic bait. His mind teemed with
ideas and selling slogans. “Boodle’s
Wonder Worms” would be his trade
brand ; and what a selling slogan—
“ Boodle’s Bait Brings Bonzer Big
’Uns.”
From now on his wife could concen-
trate on making mince. Later they
would instal electric mincers and mixers.
Every fisherman on the coast would
want their bait. In a few years they
would be rich.
“It’d be a jolly idea to make all
arrangements first and then tell the wife
as a surprise,” thought he.
At home, as his wife was dishing up
tea, she inquired, “Are you very hungry
to-night, dear?’
“By jove! Yes, I am,” said Boodle,
thinking of his diverted lunch.
“Did you like the rolls?”
“Absolutely the best I’ve ever taken
fishing,” he chuckled, secretly enjoying
the double meaning in his answer.
“Well, if that’s the case,” she smiled,
“you won’t mind mince pie for tea.”
Boodle looked uneasily at the huge
pile of mince that she had served, but he
Was in a gracious mood, and decided to
eat the lot to please her.
“How did you like the ketchup in the
mince?” she asked.
“Ah!” He silently pondered. “So it
was ketchup that did the trick.”
She saw his thoughtful look and said:
... .Found a chair.
“Of course you wouldn’t remember
getting it! You spent that wet week-end
drinking with Toby Williams, and arrived
home with a bottle of ketchup that he
had given you.”
He laughed, remarking “Of course I
remember,” but secretly resolving to
pump Toby as soon as possible, and by
some means get that ketchup recipe.
AFTER tea he found Toby at home in
a back room, binding a fishing-rod.
“Say! ” said Boodle, too excited to
carry out pumping tactics, “who made
that ketchup you gave me? Where’d
you get it?”
“Ketchup!” said Toby, groping for
mental wind. “What ketchup? When?
Why?”
Boodle saw the need for coherence.
“That night we had the spree you”
“Aw, ketchup!” Toby laughed glee-
fully. “My oath,
you must’ve been
shot that night
There’s your ket-
chup in the gallon
tin up on the
shelf.”
Boodle dived up
at the tin that was
to make the Boodle
billions. He read
the label, and as
he read his vast
form sagged.
Almost mechani-
cally the tin found
its way to the
table, and quite
m e c h a n i cally
Boodle found a
chair.
His head bowed lower and lower to
his knees and his mind went trancelike
over the wording of that label:
KATCHEM FISH LURE.
For Soaking Artificial Bait.
Being a highly concentrated liquid compound
of
Sand-worms and Oysters.
Then his imagination got to work, and
Toby, the student of symptoms, pushed
a bucket between the parted feet and
remarked:
“I believe you’re shot again.”
Rewards.
You have not gone forth, set sail, blown by
that wind
that from a bough of spring breaks a won
rose
and carries its fragrance whither fancy goes,
mixed with a salt of seas and musk of Ind;
have not moved ever, even so far as fell
the scattered petals . . . which perhaps had
heard
in courtyards of the Khan a singing bird
or tides in Venice murmuring their spell,
and so grew taut with longing, like some wire
stretched for the note that snaps it: music
breaks
in the end the heart wherein its sweetness wakes,
whether it be a rose-branch or a lyre.
But better surely that a note should stir
the pulse of consciousness, the action of breath,
rather than beauty have no life, no death—
a mote in a moonbeam, only quieter!
It is best to make provision against the rot
of peace, which fattens harvest, but whets no
stars
in the bewildered blood, swung scimitars —
to ride out with some frenzied Lancelot
upon an exploit perilous as vain,
and in deep woods do battle with the dark
of passion’s madness, to know fear and cark,
desire and bitterness, life’s loss and gain;
and see slim towers of sunlight thrusting high
through day’s blue tissue, or more sturdy walls,
moss-grown, set among mountains, where
there, calls
a traveller’s horn blown half-way to the sky.
But you have not gone forth, poor fugitive
behind stout bars—your standards, your sure
trust.
Imprisoned and safe, you are not defiled by
dust;
unquestioning, are not constrained to live —
so have not known nor ever shall know at all
that little homes in the dusk nestling beside
protecting hills could halt you in your stride,
nor how that call can be a fatal call
for any whose feet are set on the stern way
toward what truths or half-known images
flash beyond thought; who, scourged with
purposes,
must tread defeat till nightfall, despair till day;
while the hearths cry: “Yet none would take
the sword
and go seeking, if somewhere at some end
there were not firelight, quiet of friend with
friend,
and laughter—though death ends it, the last
reward.”
fui.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


It's a grand old
English Custom!
r & v
CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS
by giving one of these
fine modern English pens
A
I
f. x "" 0
Jr t
a
v'
mm
G FT SETS
LI
M
m
m
Pens & pencils in
many styles & colours
m
\\V^
A
%%yi
ms
other
-Xnl arts
15'-
S
ront
\ %
m
m
M
m
is -
EWTciL:
3
r\
So make i t a LEVERLESS
THE PRESENT THAT everybody WANTS!
PRICES
TO SUIT EVERYONE!
The New LEVERLESS ‘ Swan * costs
25/- (black or colours, mounted) or
21/- (black only, unmounted). Other
'Swans’ from 15/-. ‘ Blackbirds’
from 10/-. ‘Jackdaws’ from 6/6.
OF ALL GOOD STATIONERS AND
JEWELLERS.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia)
Ltd., 6 Primrose Buildings, 255 A
George Street, SYDNEY.*
they’re made
In England
©
8
Always use
‘Swan’ Ink
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
December Issue, now on Sale, discusses —
THE SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS.
TRADE BALANCE AND SHARE PRICES.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES.
BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., T.td., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Out of the Past:—
THE YANKEE SKIPPER
BY S.H.M.ABBOTT.
IN these days the Lord Mayor of
Sydney, or his opposite number in
Melbourne, readily turns out and
plays the civic host to film stars, foot-
ballers, pugilists, prelates and public-
ists, and we read all about them
in next day’s newspapers. But in those
days a man like Amasa Delano could
approach quite close to Sydney and re-
ceive from Governor King no more than
deep animosity and hostile rudeness. If
ever .a “personality” descended upon
Australia it was Captain Amasa Delano,
of Boston, Mass. And yet the majority
of those who read this biographical frag-
ment will never have heard before of
that* notable and picturesque navigator.
It is therefore necessary to put him into
a sort of almost prehistoric Who’s Who
in Australia.
He was born at Boston on February
21, 1763, and was the son of one
Samuel Delano, who had been a sergeant
in that contingent of the land forces of
his Majesty King George the Second of
England which waged war in North
America against the French and the
Indians.
Young Amasa Delano, at the age of
fourteen, was a soldier in the Revo-
lutionary army, but afterwards became a
seaman and a builder of ships. He de-
signed and constructed the schooners
Pilgrim and Perseverance, and in 1804,
with his brother Samuel, he arrived at
King Island in Bass Strait. He found the
island occupied by Sydney sealers who
had nearly exterminated the seals, so he
tried his luck at Cape Barren Island. And
here something happened which must
be recorded to afford a real understand-
ing of Captain Delano. He tells of it
himself in the little autobiographical
volume he published in Boston after his
third voyage of circumnavigation.
ON a blusterous winter morning in
Kent Bay, Amasa and some of his
crew were going ashore to smoke fish in
a small boat, which was suddenly overset
in a cross sea. The waves ran high and
the water was bitterly cold, and Amasa
grabbed a floating oar and struck out for
the land. Soon he noticed that “one of
my faithful seamen,” a Swedish mariner
named Fostram, was struggling towards
him with the obvious intention of sharing
the oar. But Captain Delano managed
to keep out of his way, and presently
Fostram gave over his efforts at self-
preservation and sank. A few minutes
afterwards, William Thompson, a Nova
Scotian, also described as a “faithful and
attached seaman,” made an attempt to
reach the oar, too, and again the cautious
Amasa edged away, so that Thompson
also perished. In his book Amasa says
that during his career he had seen many
men die, but never before with such
pleasure. “So strong,” he writes, “is the
love that we have for life that we would
rather see the whole world perish than
die ourselves.”
So, with these few explanatory notes
concerning the New England seaman,
we come to the morning when his
brother Samuel called upon his Excel-
lency Captain Phillip Gidley King,
R.N., Captain-General and Governor-in-
Chief in and over his Majesty’s Territory
of New South Wales, with a letter from
Amasa dated “Kent Bay, August 4,
1804.”
The Governor frowned as he read the
following quaint composition, occasion-
ally lifting his eyes from the paper he
held in his hand to glare at the younger
Delano, who, clad in his best broad-
cloth, with his beaver top-hat resting on
his knee, sat on the edge of a chair
before his Excellency’s writing-table. A
cool-looking young gentleman, he was,
evidently well assured of his own im-
portance as a brother of Amasa Delano,
the pride of Massachusetts.
“After I had found myself disappointed
at King’s Island,” it went, “I ran down
the Straits in the hope to find something
here worth my attention but was still dis-
appointed. I here found the Integrity
Cutter Who was lying in the passage and
before we came up with her she made a
signal of Distress, we came to anchor
near her, I went on board her and found
she had lost her Rudder, the next morn-
ing I ordered the Pilgrim to take her m
tow and tow her into Kent’s Bay where
she brought her safe, I then offered her
any assistance in my Power to fit her
Rudder for her, but the Rudder Irons we
had spare on board the Schooner was so
long they would not answer Mr. Bowen
then agreed with me for £4OO to carry
the Passengers and other articles to the
Derwent, 1 unloaded the Pilgrim, took
the Freight and Passengers on board and
went with them to the Derwent. Mr.
Bowen gave me a draft on Your Excel-
lency for the £4OO which I hope will
meet with your Approbation. My Brother
will present it to Your Excellency.
Captain King laid down Amasa’s
letter, and glared even more terrifically
at his brother Samuel. That gentleman
stared back imperturbably. For a few
moments the Governor seemed to be at
a loss for words suitable to the 'occa-
sion. At length, very red in the face, he
banged his clenched fist on the table so
forcibly as to make the inkstand execute
a little alarmed hop.
“Good bless my soul!” he bellowed.
“A damnable piece of blackmail! An
imposition of the grossest sort! God
bless my soul! Hey, hey, hey,” he
grunted indignantly. “Four hundred
pounds! The fellow’s a damned rogue!”
Brother Samuel rose to his feet with
cold dignity.
“Sirree,” he said, “air you by any
chance referring to Captain Amasa
Delano?”
“Of course I am, young man. Who
the devil else would I be referring to?”
“Then let me tell you, sir, right hyar
and now, that you’re uttering a state-
ment that has no re-lation to fact. No,
sir. My brother Amasa’s a man of
honor, let me tell you, and were you to
say sich words to my brother as you’ve
spoke to me he’d up an’ confound you
utterly. Yes, sir —my brother wouldn’t
stand for sich traduction of his fair
name.”
“Fair name be damned! ” retorted Cap-
tain King wrathfully. “ Tis a piece of
barefaced robbery. I’ll not pay it—l’m
damned if I will. Lieutenant Bowen may
be a damned fool, but I’ll be hanged if
1 am, sir. The thing’s beyond all reason.
I won’t pay it.”
The younger Delano bowed stiffly.
“Sir,” he said, ‘T’ve been informed
that you represent his Britannic Majesty
the King of England. I myself represent
an esteemed citizen of the United States
of Ameriky. Sir, the case must rest
between the King of England and the
people of the United States. I need not
remind you, sir, that the people of the
United States are vurry well able to
keep their end up in any disputation
with the King of England. I wish you
good morning, sir.”
“Oh, go to the devil!” growled the
angry Governor as his visitor opened
the door and went out.
MR. SAMUEL DELANO had no
Hi notion of leaving Sydney without ob-
taining something better from Governor
King than a recommendation to join his
Satanic Majesty, and he signified his in-
tention of waiting aboard the Persever-
ance in Port Jackson until his Excellency
should have had confirmation from Van
Diemen’s Land of the validity of his
brother’s transaction with Lieutenant
Bowen. The Governor obtained a some-
what confused and lengthy explanation
from that officer, which, although it did
not soothe his temper, brought him to
see that the draft for £4OO must be
honored. So, in utter disgust, he sent
for the dignified. Samuel and informed
him that he would pay. He indicated
that the best he could do, since the local
treasury was practically empty, was to
make up the amount in kind. He would
give Amasa 7500 pounds of wheatmeal
at 2d. a pound, 1577 pounds of sugar at
7yd., 1985 of rice at 3d. and 10,000 nails,
the balance to be satisfied by bills of
exchange on his Majesty’s Treasury.
With continued grave dignity, Samuel


r\
w
n
<SF,
m
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“TRITON”
Vertical Plunger Pump
This pump has been
specially built for ser-
vices where only a small
unit is needed.
Arranged for lin. suction
and delivery pipe s.
Normal speed approx.
300 r.p.m., and at this
speed capacity is 6 gal-
lons per minute. Pump
can be operated slower
or slightly faster if re-
quired—capacity varying
accordingly. Can be
supplied for belt, chain
or gear drive.
Requires little attention;
practically noiseless.
Normal power required
to drive, up to \ h.p. i,
4
1
Piping and Fit-
tings Supplied at
Lowest Current
Rates.
A NEAT, COMPACT PUMP
Overall Height, 1 inches.
Large
Pump
Catalogue
Free on
Request
W&KNr
M
Hydraulic
RAMS
Permit Continuous
Automatic Pumping.
Our “Reliance” Rams are
self-acting Pumps which use
the momentum of a slight
fall of water to an elevated
position. Cost nothing to
run. Once started need no
further attention.
Obtainable in various sizes
and capacities.
Prices and full particulars
on request.
c
Proprietary Limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
554-566 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 VTaymoutjh Street, Adelaide.
533 Murray Street, Perth.
accepted these terms on behalf of his
brother, contenting himself by remarking
at the end of the interview with his irate
Excellency:
“As to any aspersion alluded to by Mr.
Bowen against my brother, Captain
Delano, whom I have the honor to repre-
sent to your Excellency, I can barely
say, sir, that I feel much satisfaction in
knowing that Mr. Bowen is a gentleman,
and still more by knowing Captain
Delano to being a gentleman, likewise
that he is always adequate to the task
of settling his own business to the satis-
faction of gentlemen.”
With which plain hint as to what Lieu-
tenant Bowen might do, if he so pleased,
Mr. Samuel Delano hauled up his
anchor and sailed out of Port Jackson
to rejoin Amasa in the south. He
brought the Perseverance into Kent Bay,
and went aboard the Pilgrim, to be
warmly welcomed by his elder brother.
“It seems to me, Sam’l,” observed
Delano, senior, “that this goldarned Gov-
ernor don’t know th’ vurry rudiments o’
po-liteness, let alone gratitood. Whar
would this Bowen be now if it hadn’t
been for us? He’d ha’ been hyar still,
on this God-forsaken lump <s’ rock. Does
Mr. King take me for some kind o’
floatin’ char’table institootion, a-goin’
about th’ globe looking after silly Brit-
ish sailors who don’t know enough about
a ship to hang on to the rudder? Or
what? 1 con-sider, Sam’l, that th’ job
was dirt cheap at th’ money.”
“Dirt cheap, Amasa—dirt cheap.”
“An’ then for to go a-libelling an’
sland’ring a man he’s never met by
callin’ him a blackmailer, an’ all them
other pfo-fane an’ objectionable names.
Too bad—too bad indeed! Now what
d’ye think ought to be done to this hyar
Gov’nor King for to give him something
to write home about to his goldarned
Britannic Majesty—’tis that same old
George we had all th’ bother with. What
d’ye think, Sam’l?”
“I think he ought to be taught a lesson.
What about all these sealers from Syd-
ney who are on the island? We can’t
do much to old man King—but, by
snakes, we can take it out o’ them! ”
“Exactly, Sam’l —exactly,” agreed
Amasa Delano, shoving the rum-bottle
across the cabin table. “Somebody must
pay for my injured feelin’s. And if we
take away some of his convicts he won’t
be pleased, will he?”
II7HEREFORE —sticking as much as
*• possible to documentary evidence in
this footnote to Australian history—we
may quote from a letter which was
written by Mr. Joseph Murrell, master
of Kable and Underwood’s sailing sloop
Surprize, to his owners in Sydney on
October 21, 1804. It is dated from Kent
Bay.
He relates how, at four o’clock one
morning, he was hauled out of bed by
the mate of the Perseverance, together
with “three other American ruffians.”
They struck him with their sealing-clubs
and beat one of his men so unmercifully
that he (Murrell) cried out tp ask what
they had done to deserve such usage.
The Americans replied that Murrell and
his men had swindled them out of 3000
dollars by the seals they had killed, and
that they should have kept away from
the islands in Bass Strait. The letter
goes on:
That instant a number of them seized
me, dragged me to a tree where, after
stripping me of my shirt, they seized me
up and began to sport away with their
bloody cruelties till some few English-.
men belonging to the gangs out of Port
Jackson, stung to the quick to see the
cruelties exercised upon me, without
humanity, law or justice, determined not
to suffer it, began to assemble, which
occasioned the Americans to face about,
at which instant I. got my hands loose and
ran into the sea, determined rather to be
drowned than to be tortured to death. I
was followed by a number of Americans
to the seaside, who gave my naked body
several violent blows with large stones.
They then sent into the water after me a
- Sandwich Island savage, who overtook me
and gave me a desperate blow on the head
with a club, which club I have now and
shall bring with me to Port Jackson,
please God I live. He then gave me some
violent blows on the body and a deep cut
on the right arm and my holding up that
arm to save some violent blows on the
head, with repeated blows, broke my right
arm in three places....ln this condition
he dragged me to the shore.
Murrell also charges Captain Delano
with having taken away five of Robert
Campbell’s assigned servants who were
sealers, seven of Kable and Underwood’s
and a man named Robert White.
The story is differently told in Amasa’s
book, for, although he admits that
some small “unpleasantness” occurred
on the island, he blames the Sydney
sealers for it. Murrell, he says, certainly
was “beaten up” a little, but he gave
him such medicines as he could spare,
and is somewhat surprised that the
master of the sloop was not more grate-
ful for what he did for him. And he
also complains of the number of “Botany
Bay men” who stowed away in the Pil-
grim and the Perseverance when his ships
finally departed from Bass Strait.
So passes Amasa Delano from the
Australian records.
A LTHOUGH superseded by Lieutenant-
** Colonel Collins it was not until
several months later that Lieutenant
Bowen found himself in Sydney prepar-
ing to face the Governor’s wrath—a
prospect he did not in the least relish.
He paused a moment at the front door
of the big, white, rambling edifice on the
hillside south-east of Sydney Cove to
contemplate the lovely and entrancing
view that lay below him —also, no doubt,
to gulp the final gulps of apprehension
and sick fear that a squeamish stomach
inflicted on his throat. It looked very
beautiful that morning, the tiny sixteen-
year-old capital of the British dominions
in the South Seas —very beautiful and
charming.
The little gulf of blue water pene-
trating the collection of cottages clus-
tered irregularly about its shores, and
stretching southward from the head ot
the bay, sparkled in the sunlight as a
gentle nor’-easter rippled its surface, and
made an altogether entrancing setting
for the primitive township. The white
houses planted amidst the scrub on the
slopes of the hillside across the narrow
valley stood out against the deep blue
of a cloudless sky. Mr. Bowen looked
lingeringly at all the loveliness that
surrounded him, much, he supposed,
after the manner of those who now and
again stood upon the platform of the
gallows on the other side of the town,
and saw miserably all the beauty of the
world they were about to leave. He
really felt like that this morning. Ah,
well
LIE raised his hand to the big knocker
I* —and was startled by a genial shout
from the garden behind him. Turning
hastily, he became aware of the approach-
ing portly figure of Captain King, and,
amazingly incredible, the Governor’s
pleasant features were lit by what was,
unmistakably though miraculously, a
smile of welcome.
“Hi, there, Bowen!” his Excellency
was shouting cheerily. “Don’t go inside
—come out here. Glorious day. Stroll-
ing in the garden. Saw you passing the
guardhouse. Glad to see you. Give you
welcome back to Sydney. Hey, hey,
hey—but ’tis one of the finest days I’ve
seen in Sydney. You’d swear there wasn’t
a trouble in the place, to look at the
town this morning. Looks like the
abode of all happiness, just now, doesn’t
it—instead of being, as it is, a miserable
little boil on the world’s backside.”
Astonished and bewildered, Lieutenant
Bowen stepped down from the veran-
dah, and presently came to the conclu-
sion that too much responsibility had a
little softened the Governor’s brain.
Surely this genial, smiling old seadog
couldn’t be the man who had written
the awful letters that had caused him
such trepidation in Van Diemen’s Land !
It seemed impossible. Had Captain King
become entirely unmindful of that
swindling Yankee skipper? Well, well —
and God be praised for all His mercies!
But he hadn’t. Presently the Governor,
still unaccountably smiling, clapped him
hastily upon the back.
“Bowen, my boy,” he laughed. “Don’t
look so wretched—l know whom you’re
thinking of. Hey, hey! Captain Amasa
Delano, isn’t it? Well, then, strive to
forget that accursed scoundrel—though I
never shall. Last week there turned up
here, in one of Mr. Underwood’s sailing-
vessels, a fellow named Hiram Schu-
macher, who had been Delano’s car-
penter on board his own ship, the Pil-
grim. He told Mr. Underwood, and Mr.
Underwood told me. Those rudder-irons
which wouldn’t fit the Integrity—too
long, weren’t they? Well, the carpenter
says they fitted exactly, and he could
have repaired the cutter’s rudder with
’em in half a day—only the far-seeing
Mr. Delano wouldn’t let him. What
d’ye think o’ that, Bowen! Hey, hey—
God bless my soul! The damned
Yankee sharper!”


THE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure js an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Ok Itttrciiry
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasitianian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Let the Evening
“NEWS”
Carry Your
Sales Campaign
South Australia’s
kui the time to read
. . . that’s when to tell them
about the good? you have
to sell. “The News” gets
in first with the news in
our prosperous state . • •
use it for results
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace
MELBOURNE—R, J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House, Collins
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. WarwicK
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON -F. A.. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
' columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from me mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
'
mxmt
Women’s
Supplement
‘The KvMim ner" publishes every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the woman’s own newspaper, and
rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the home, but
stays there. You can reach the women of Northern Tas-
mania only by advertising in “The Examiner’s” Womens
Supplement.
Pull Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTV. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st.. Launceston
S, ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st,, Melbourne Cl
. G. DOUGAN. 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
6AM
1000 WATTS
•
The
Happy Station
•
23 William St.,
Perih, W.A.
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
The great markets
of the West—
pastoralis ts —
miners wheat
farmers—all wait-
ing for you to
reach them
through 6AM
the station that
is received
EVERYWHERE.
Ella began to sob again. “This’ll be the end of
us,” she said. “Dad’ll never recover fr’m the dis-
grace. We ain’t never ’ad anything like this ’appen
before.” She glared defiantly. “I don’t care what
they say. Jim” She broke down. “He’s the best
brother an’ the best man an’ the finest” Her
crying choked her, and she blew her nose on her
petticoat.
“Ah,” said Mrs. Willoughby softly, “but I knew
'e couldn’t do nothin’. Not against Acky. Acky’d be
nasty alive or dead, an’ I hope ’e dies.”
Ella shivered. “Don’t go on like that,” she said.
“Y’ mustn’t speak evil of ’im.”
“I been afraid of ’im,” Mrs. Willoughby said
calmly. “I’d lie awake at night when Wilf was
asleep an’ wait to ’ear ’im com? in, creepin’ very
softly at the side of the ’ut to give me a scare. 1
’ope ’e’ll die, but I know ’e won’t. I’m not afraid
of ’im any more. I’m past bein’ frightened at anythin’.”
Ella glanced towards the door with a scared look in
her eyes. “Talk to me,” Mrs. Willoughby said ; “it
was nice of you to come an’ keep company like.”
She looked at the girl wistfully. “What will you be
doin’?”
“Lord knows,” Ella answered. “1 guess this about
settles it. I been thinkin’ uv clearin’ out for a long
time. Sam wants me t’ go t’ Sydney with ’im. I ain’t
goin’, though. I might be needed ’ere. I wouldn’t
leave ’em if they wanted me.”
“You go,” said Mrs. Willoughby unmovingly.
“Take y’r chance an’ get out.”
Ella thought in silence for a while. The fire
crackled in the grate. “You’re right,” she said. “There’s
dad now. If I put it to ’im an’ said ‘Dad, Sam’s goin’
t’ Sydney an’ ’e’ll pay me fare,’ ’e’d whine an’ rage
till I promised t’ stay or until ’e made me feel damn’
mean. ’E’d go on about me not leavin’ now, an’
waitin’ till the trial’s over an’ all the rest of it. An’
then when the trial’s over Sam’ll get rid of ’is scare
an’ settle down, an’ I’ll ’ave missed me chance.” She
sipped her tea reflectively, and went on: “Then
there’s Sam. If I go with ’im t’ Sydney ’e’ll be
expectin’ me to live with ’im, an’ I won’t. You don’t
catch me. But I guess there’s nothin’ to stop me sayin’
‘Sam, I’m cornin’ t’ Sydney with y’,’ an’ then, when
I get t’ Sydney, I can give ’im the slip. I got five
poun’ ”
She realised that Mrs. Willoughby was asleep.
She had fallen asleep quietly, with her head drooping
between her hands and her elbows on the table. Ella
looked at her pityingly, then touched her on the
shoulder. She woke with a cry.
“There, there,” Ella said soothingly. “You just
get t’ bed. I’ll sit up a bit with you.”
“Wilf,” his mother murmured —“I want ’im ’ere.”
“I’ll get ’im. Don’t you fret.”
The minute Mrs. Willoughby’s head touched the
roll of sacking that served as a pillow she was asleep
again, breathing deeply. Ella tiptoed to the door to
see who it was coming up the track in a car. The car
lights lit up the entrance to the hut as , the Mulver
dogs stopped barking. The figures of Mr. and Mrs.
Mulver could be seen against their lamplit doorway,
peering out to see who it might be. Ella went over
to the car.
“Is this where Mrs. Willoughby lives?” the driver
asked.
“Yes, Mr. Sorrell. But she’s asleep.”
The rector paused a moment, then said apolo-
getically, “I know she’s not a member of my congre-
gation, but I thought if there was anything I could
do”
“Mrs. Malloy’s been, too.” v
“Good,” he said awkwardly. “I don’t know Mrs.
Willoughby, and I didn’t want her to think that I was
intruding. It’s just if she needs any help You
will be sure to tell her that I’ll be only too glad to
do anything I can?”
“Yes, Mr. Sorrell.”
“Are you going home?” he said. “I may as well
save you the walk down the track.” And then, as he
turned the car, “I’ve just been down to your place
to see Denny Kelly. He’s leaving to-morrow. He’s
almost well enough to go, anyway. And they thought
that, with all this trouble, it will be enough without
Blue and Denny getting in the way.” He dropped
Ella at her door with a last “And you’ll be sure to
tell Mrs. Willoughby?”
She took no notice.
Ella watched the reflection of the car’s headlights
against the trees as it twisted down the track.
“Come on, Wilfrid; we’ll go back an’ keep
mummy company,” she called through the doorway.
Sam was sitting cheek by jowl with her father,
and the sight of him almost made her change her
mind about taking the chance he had offered her.
“I’ll leave it to the mornin’,” she muttered. “If
I tell ’im to-night, ’e may want to cash in on it.”
She peeped into the shed to see if she could
attract Blue’s attention ; but there were four of them
there—Paul, Standforth Roman, Blue and Denny.
“Son,” Roman was saying in his dignified way,
“when you’re as old as I am you’ll know not to go
out of your way looking for trouble.”
“Don’t ’ave t’ look f’r it,” Blue said gloomily.
“It fair walks about loose in these parts.” He reached
over for a log of wood. “Anyway, if they want my
evidence, Paul’s got the list of addresses.
“Roman’s right,” Denny said. The Magsman
looked fit, though thin and pale. He was doing his
best to encourage the sombre Paul. Yangon, lad ;
Y’ never know your luck. Somethin may turn up.
“It’s all right for you,” Paul said slowly ; “but*
the whole damn’ place shouts Jim. Hes as much par
of the landscape as Warning Hill there. As long as
I can remember there’s been Jim. Its like knocking
the foundation out of the peasey hut. He picked up
a log of wood and turned it over m his hands.
“How the devil do you think we can hang on without
him? I used to like this place. But now I hate it.
“Life, anyway,” said Blue abstractedly, is like
betting on a goat-race in Queensland when a kid as
turps on ’is mount. I remember when I was up there
contractin’ once ; I was the only white man, the rest
bein’ Yugoslavs”
“Oh,,shut up,” said Denny.
Blue looked injured, but subsided. They sat in
silence. The voice of old Dave in the hut rose as he
grumbled at Sam for wanting to leave. Only Dave
wanted Sam to stay. The others felt that, in his few
short months as star-boarder, he had been worse than
a blister on a sore heel. In the shed they sat quietly
listening to the grumble of voices Irom the hut, the
stamping of the two horses in the yard and the
crackling of wood on the fire. It might have been
a deathwatch.
Paul was wondering how Jim would stand it in
gaol. He could not imagine cat-footed Jim tramping
along those cold concrete passages, doing the same
jobs in the same way, with the same walls, the same
food, the same cell, the eternal sameness. It would
be better if he died, Paul thought. But he would not
die. The Whites, like the Willoughbys, held tenaciously
to what little they had.
'Roman was watching him intently. “I got to be
going,” he said. Paul rose with him and went out
to the sulky. Roman paused in the dark a moment to
shake hands with him. “Expenses’ll be pretty heavy,”
he said. “If you find you need a loan, I’ve got a bit
put by, son.” He paused, then said absently, “She
was a nice girl, that Miss Daunt. You might hear from
her.” It would help Paul if he could only get a letter.
Paul laughed. “That’s funny, that is,”
“Gosh, that’s funny! No, 1 ain’t had no letter.”
All the way down the track Roman could hear
him laughing. He stood in the dark and threw back
his head and laughed until the very Hill seemed
laughing with him.
“What’s up?” Blue called from the shed.
“Nothin’.” Paul came back, still with
laughter. “Something just struck me as funny.” He
sat down on a log and kicked the fire.
“Well” —Blue broke an awkward silence—“l tells
Dutch when we was cornin’ in that somethin’ was
always happenin’ in Tiburon. Last time it was a
diphtherium epidemic, an’ 1 thought that the beer
strike about took the cake; but then we ’as a real
strike, an’ now"— —
He broke otflf because Denny was frowning at
him significantly.
“I’d like t’ tell that Mrs. Blakely somethin’,” he
said ominously.
“Why? What’s up?”
“Oh, nothin’,” said Blue in a mutter. “Nothin’.
Only she jus’ knows too much fr ’er own good.”
From the hut came a mournful wheezing. It was
Dave and the> concertina.
“Damn him,” Paul said savagely. “Quit that
row,” he shouted, “or I’ll well give you some-
thing to play about.”
The concertina lapsed into silence.
(To be continued next week.)


High Living
at Xmas Time
Results in Biliousness and
Bad Heads
At this period of the year most of us are
inclined to over-indulge in both food and
drink. This, coupled with the lack of usual
exercise and other methods of living, upsets
the system. There is no need to describe the
symptoms, which are known only too well.
For disordered systems arising from such
conditions Dr, Morse s Indian Root Pills
are invaluable. They act directly, though
gently, on the liver, increasing the digestive
secretions, thus assisting nature to cope with
the surplus food. Upon the first indication
of bilious symptoms a course of Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills should be taken, or, better
still, if used regularly they will keep the
digestive organs in proper working order.
Dr. Morses
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or will be sent
post paid upon receipt of postal
notes or stamps by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street.
Wellington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s ‘ Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney. N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
II c
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30j-.')
aoV
*>w^
3*
*0
*4
&* r v#\
•# !X
e
5®
<vi
w e
&
a
*»*
•• *
5. p e i^
‘ .•••■
o'#
, v v S?^o^ c V cV


¥
Qi
jnoh si
PIA
c?
\V
¥
ff
-v
m
m
\
V/;."-
'C
>
Cool in the midst of heat. Warm in the
midst of cold. Climate yours to command!
The fast, luxurious trains which link
America’s many fascinating cities and
superb scenic objectives —at a minimum
in cost achieve a maximum in travel-
comfort. They are now air-conditioned.
"Conditioned” air is simply controlled
temperature . . . The atmosphere you
breathe is cleansed—cooled or heated
(as occasion demands) —and balanced
at correct humidity. Fresh as an ocean
breeze, it precludes the need for open
windows, permitting quiet; it banishes
dust and smoke, allowing restful travel
in summer clothing.
All cars are air-conditioned: the famous
Pullman sleepers and equally renowned
diners—the smart club cars, in which you
lounge, read or play—the observation cars,
from which you view the parade of won-
ders. In addition, complete valet service,
barber, shower baths. Schedules are fre-
quent; stopovers at no extra charge; fares
and incidental costs unusually low.
A perfect prelude to your ‘‘land cruise,’’ the
18-day trans-Pacific crossing—on the gigan-
tic new Matson-Oceanic liners “Mariposa”
or “Monterey.” With calls at the enchanting
isles of New Zealand,Fiji,SamoaandHawaii,
they bring you to either Los Angeles or San
Francisco. Then, your own choice of routes
across the continent —75 hours for the en-
tire 3,000 miles, with but one change of cars.
And along these various routes, alluring
spots to stop ...
Movies in the making, stars in person, in
glittering Hollywood ... idyllic Lake Tahoe
... relics of the glacial era in Rocky Moun-
tain National Park . . . the incomparable
Grand Canyon of the Colorado.. .the huge
mountain monument on Mt. Rushmore ...
San Francisco’s Chinatown... New Orleans’
Vieux Carre ... Chicago’s Loop ... and New
York’s brilliant climax!
This is the short, wonder-lined, economical
highroad to England ... via Matson-Oceanic
liners across the Pacific.. .America spanned
by swift, cool, comfortable railways... a wide
choice of trans-Atlantic liners. Ask for our
free illustrated booklet—“ England Across
America”, containing all the absorbing
details.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
Batson line Oceanic line
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
