

3
■n
IP' P;
5*
iiiiiili
vPI
|P-
M
Pl|P
sM
S
■ ; *l
I
*Ki i
J.
i«T w *
.
5%
tidable awe-inspiring in its majesty the Rock of
? throws a defiant shadow across the most important
world . . . Gibraltar, a monument of British courage and
truly symbolical of protective security.
the Hamilton policy of investment is building a citadel
that ensures security to the investing public.
in only, and considers that balance sheets and
full an investment should always be available to
the investor, and so offers its free service to clients covering such
information.
This policy is in keeping with the previous splendid record built up
by its predecessors—Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd.
In taking over the investment side of Cranwells* activities the house
of Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited, is following the same well-defin,ed
plans that earned for the senior organisation its outstanding repu-
tation for stability, integrity and probity.
df
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD
M
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - - £250,000.
HEAD OFFICE; KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 arid 1147.
BRANCH OFFICES: MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, AUCKLAND ( N.Z .)
The Bulletin
Sabre-rattling Clergymen
Vol. 56.—N0. 2905.
Wednesday, October 16, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 193 5 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
JJwii
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is"placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.) . ~ . ,
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows; . . ,
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees. ~ ,
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A £1000
STORY
Called after a
dog whose traits
are not all of the
best, as its
author himself
was in his native
Russia, Borzoi, by Igor Schwezoff, win-
ner of Hodder and Stoughton’s £lOOO
prize, is almost a model autobiography.
It has three qualities that can make
this sort of writing the best of reading;
the author has lived a vividly interesting
life (or, at any rate, it has been that to
him); he has an unusual and interest-
ing character ; he can write. The result
is a story lively with incident, filled with
a warmth of emotional feeling, and told
in such a way that it resembles a good
novel in construction and reads very
much like one. For colorful background
there is a general impression of Russia
over the past 20 years, and especially its
stage life, in which Schwezoff has chiefly
lived, as dancer and choreographer, hav-
ing his share of wine, women and song,
though hardly at his best as a singer.
It is from the stage that he takes his
literary craft, cleverly stage-managing
his story to invest it with continuous
suspense. Thus, in a prologue, he steps
off a train in Harbin (Manchuria) in
1930 and contrasts the gay, glittering and
well-fed life about him with the Russia
from which he has just escaped. Having
presented that little curtain-raiser, with
its suggestion of a troubled and perhaps
an exciting past, he then begins the
story leading up to it, with the reader
cleverly caught from the start in a sus-
pense of curiosity.
His life, examined closely, touches no
great extremes of emotional experience.
Born in 1904 on the fringe of the old
Russian aristocracy, he grew up to see
his family ruined and scattered by the
political changes. His father, a military
man, a general during the war, was re-
duced to selling chocolate in the
streets, eventually dying in exile. A
brother, broken in Siberia, became a
violent and wretched dipsomaniac.
Others similarly suffered, and, with a
fairness which greatly enhances the
value and interest of his story, he allows
this to have been at least partly their
own fault. The Soviet Government, for
instance, wanted to help his father, but
pride prevented the old man from
accepting its offers. Schwezoff him-
self, but for having been accidentally in
gaol a couple of times and once the
accused in a trial which is a classic of
fantastic justice, suffered nothing much
worse than the partly complimentary,
partly derogatory nickname of Borzoi.
He had a good deal of luck in getting
jobs, and eventually a good deal of
success on the stage, leading up to a
position with the national Propaganda
Studio Opera. Most of his troubles
were of the kind that occur among
theatricals in any country, arising from
jealousy and suchlike common human
failings. Even his leaving Russia was
impulsive rather than compulsory, so
that he wonders at the end why he did
leave, finding no stronger explanation
than that it was uncongenial to him as
an artist. He does not seem to have wit-
nessed any of the carnage of the revolu-
tion, and anyone who comes to him for
another chapter of Russian horrors will
be disappointed.
Taking it all through, it is not a very
wonderful life. Thousands have lived
more strangely and dangerously, and
survived to write a thousand times worse
autobiographies. The whole difference
between Schwezoff and the usual dull
recorders lies in his innate and also well-
trained sense of drama. He has the
gift of dramatising ordinary everyday
occurrences so that they become en-
larged into matters of first-rate signifi-
cance and interest, and it is his nature
to dramatise himself, some might think
rather over-emotionally. The obvious
literary value of this is that, with such
an outlook on life, everything that
happens to him or,about him becomes
invested with drama, and quite little
things take on a fresh and lively interest.
In a word, he lives every minute of his
life, and this sheer enthusiasm for living
gets willy-nilly int 6 the story.
for their food; where they ale that food at
long tables—dried codfish soup and a tew
vegetables, millet porridge, pumpkin gruel or
other even less appetising dishes —before leav-
ing the place with a corner of their bellies
still unfilled.
I looked at the shining and steamy windows
of the restaurants here, full Of Russian cavi-
are. red salmon, bottles Of vodka, colored
sweets. And the Chinese eating-houses with
their shark-fin soup, noodles, fried pigeons,
bamboo shoots and other strange and Savory
dishes. How could SUch a wealth of food be
possible? I might have believed myself dream-
ing, in the midst of this plenty, had 1 not
felt the sharp reality that lay below my mid-
riff. I was hungry, not only with the slow
hunger of years, but with the urgent hunger
of days and nights that demands to be satis-
fied. Still, even this empty gripe within seemed
preferable to that slow, penurious hunger no
more than 10 Or 12 hours’ journey away, in
Russia. What a contrast between all the
hungry and miserable there artd the sleek
inhabitants of this shop-filled town who bustled
about the streets looking so prosperous and
well-fed....
I thought of (he way people had to live in
the Russia 1 had just left; sometimes three or
four, perhaps more, huddled together in one
small room, primitively, without comfort, or
that supreme luxury—privacy I
As 1 watched and wondered and envied, I
realised that people there no longer felt the
necessity of this comfort and luxury that I
now saw everywhere round me. Those of the
new generation had never known it, and those
of the old had been for so long without any
contact with the reality of it all that they had
ceased to realise it as a factor of life. They
never thought about it except in a dim and
abstract way, if at all. ,1 myself had never
thought about it, and only now, now that I
could see, touch, smell it all, 1 realised with
a vivid pang how infinitely desirable—not only
desirable, but necessary!—was this state of
not being cold, not being ill-nourished, not
living in surroundings of poverty and squalor
—this state of individual comfort in which all
the people 1 saw afound me seemed to be
living.
If England really is ready to exchange
itself for that, there would seem to he
something rotten not so much in the
state as in the traditional commonsense
of Albion.
don literary swim. In these waters tie
has splashed about ever since, and quite
evidently has enjoyed himself immensely.
The recipe for making autobiography
Which he follows is the popular one of
talking about himself only enough to
keep the story going, and filling in the
rest with the best things he can remem-
ber, invent or say about others. It has
none of the clever craftsmanship flor an
atom of the drama of Borzoi, whose
author seems to have known hardly a
world-figure save Isadora Duncan, upon
whom his comment is whole-hearted and
scathing. Nevertheless, Goldnng’S
parade of people, from Shaw outwards,
makes very interesting reading. It is of
the nature of gossip memoirs rather
than autobiography, with a background
of the London in which literary maga-
zines sprang up thickly to the popping
of champagne corks, and eager littera-
teurs like Ford Madox Ford and others
tackled the literary game in the spirit,
as Goldring says, of “What can I do for
literature?” and not, as he hears the
present literary generation demanding,
“What can I make literature do for me ?”
Therefore it follows, perhaps, that his
finding on Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot
should be thrice emphatic: “Bogus,
bogus, bogus!” On these writers he is
more pungent than on any others except
G. K. Chesterton, for whom he has an
almost ungovernable contempt. Eliot
strikes him “as having brains without
bowels; and the same impression has
since been made on me by the whole
group of poets and critics of which he
is the acknowledged leader. Their in-
spiration comes from literature, not from
life,” As for Ezra, who “found London
irresponsive and left us in disgust”;—-
It was sad that this should have happened,
but I .cannot, honestly, see that England was
to blame. There was, for one thing, the lan-
guage difficulty. Educated Englishmen are
cither “not linguists”—in which case they
concentrate thejr attention on the study of their
own language—or else, if they are linguists,
they are thorough about it....Ezras Latin and
Greek, his “Romance Languages,” and his
Chinese found no favor in scholastic circles;
and in time his linguistic howlers became the
subject of remark. Nevertheless (for up to a
point London is always ready to take people
at their own valuation), Ezra had his measure
of fame in London’s “inner circle.”
Goldring picks as the most important
of his contemporaries D. H. Lawrence,
Norman Douglas, Wyndham Lewis,
James Joyce, Theodore Powys, Aldous
Fluxley and Richard Aldington. Not
such a bad team, either.
Red Page.
[Borzoi, by Igor Schwezoff (Hodder and
Stoughton; from Angus and Robertson; 125.);
Daughters of Albion, by Alec Brown (Boris-
wood; Bs. 6d. net); Odd Man Out, by
Douglas Goldring (Chapman and Hall; 15s.
net).]
Communists
of England
The wickedly
bourgeois Eng-
land which, of
course, is thor-
oughly satisfac-
tory to one of
Schwezoff’s outlook on life is not so
easily accepted by everybody, and the
desire to change it—as it happens, to the
very pattern of the country from which
Schwezoff fled—is the inspiration and
purpose of such works as Alec Brown’s
Daughters of Albion, one of those ex-
pansive novels which even the author
refers to as. “largish.” As pure fiction,
overlooking its obvious propaganda for
the moment, it is a very competent,
though a rather tedious, piece of work.
Its surface plan is the interwoven stories
of the five daughters of a London lawyer,
an example of the icy middle-class,
apparently more dangerous to and more
hated by the proletariat than is the aris-
tocracy, whose members are, of course,
merely a lot of bloated noodles. The
characters of the five women, their hus-
bands, lovers and the general shaping of
their lives are all capitally done, and
the strangely unreal England in which
they live has its own sort of reality.
It is most interesting for the picture the
author paints of England. The general
implication appears to be that England
is not merely heading towards Com-
munism, but is already in a state of
mind to accept that system of life at’
any moment. Very interesting, indeed,
if true. But the more one reads of Mr.
Brown, the more one suspects that his
view of England is academic and
theoretical rather than actual and real;
and it is an odd contrast to turn from
such an England to the reality of a
Russian’s Russia of as recent as 1930, as
given in the prologue to Borzoi :
Only a month ago I h*d been in Soviet
Russia, where there were no shops, no clothes
and hardly any food; and now, here I was,
walking along prosperous-looking streets full
of shops, people in smart clothes, restaurants,
food. Food —for many years now the most
urgent thought in Russian minds —seemed here
to swim before my eyes; flocks, droves, popu-
lated seas of food; a teeming multitude of
comestibles; an enchanter’s prodigal and in-
viting world of all that was edible. And every-
thing was Russian; Soviet goods crammed the
shop windows; Russian cloth, boots, cigarettes,
wine, goloshes danced past my eyes, tantalis-
ing and remote behind their plate glass.
My mouth watered angrily, and I thought
of empty Russia, and the people there, stand-
ing for hours in a queue to get their daily three-
quarter pound of bread, their weekly quarter
pound of meat, their monthly pound of sugar.
People standing there in a queue in all
weathers, waiting to get into the communal
dining-rooms, where they had to serve them-
selves with dishes and cutlery and then scramble
Another
Withess an
England
Mr. Brown’s
version of Eng-
land gets at least
some lip-service
support from an-
other acknow-
ledged propagan-
dist, Douglas Goldring, who, to make his
position perfectly clear, gives his very
interesting autobiography, Odd Man Out,
the sub-title, “The Autobiography of a
‘Propaganda Novelist.”’ His “propa-
ganda” has to do with pacifism. What
he says in Mr. Brown’s support Mr.
Brown would probably not bless him
for: “When England ‘goes Communist'
—and it is hardly possible to believe
that we can continue for another fifty
years without some drastic change in our
economic system—no doubt the party in
power will call itself the ‘Conservative
Co-operative party’ and, as usual, half
the Government will be Old Etonians.”
A page further on he makes a further
comment which Mr. Brown might be
imagined as considering downright im-
pertinent: “Meanwhile, there are many
signs that the old ‘backbone of the coun-
try’ is gradually straightening itself ouf
again.”
Like many another son of a deeply-
religious mother, Goldring is a natural-
born Bohemian. He certainly was intended
for a better life. His mother “got religion”
soon after his birth, and dedicated him
to God and the .Mission Field. For his
eighth birthday she gave him a scarlet-
bound copy of a devotional work, pro-
fiting by the inspiration and instruction
of which he knelt down in church a few
days later, smote himself three times on
the chest, and piped out in a shrill treble,
“I have committed adultery.” This may
have been accepted as evidence of zeal
and ambition rather than sin, for his re-
ligious and secular education was con-
tinued regardless of expense. Alas for
all such beautiful intentions! Instead
of growing up to decorate Abyssinia
with a brolly, he plunged straight from
the springboard of Oxford into the Lon-
BULLETT’S
BUBBLE
If Gerald
Bullett’s The
Bubble (Dent;
2s. 6d. net) has
not been through
a number of
editions, the verse-writers might as well
fold up their tents like the Arabs and
quietly steal for a living. It would mean
that verse, always a dead language to
the majority, had becqme one to every-
body. For verse has never been more
readable than this, and it has not often
been funnier.
This last quality, of course, abso-
lutely disqualifies it from the name ol
poetry. Apart from prose, which is
sometimes admitted, even by critics, to
combine humor and greatness together,
Art must, it seems, shiver in her chaste
folds at the suggestion of such a con-
tamination. And at no time more coldly
than when verse is mentioned. Verse, to
have purity, must be chaste and aloof,
as removed from crudely laughing Life
as the critical dons who have always
encouraged the poets to keep her there,
(Continued on page 4 .)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—our policy which knows no deviation.
THE SENIOR STORE”—“While I Live Til Grow ”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Phone; M 2401, Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Outerwear and Underwear for Summer
Coo est
i n
th
<r.
Hottest
Weather!
Lightweight
2-PIECE
SUITS
59'6
Smart and sturdy for active
or casual wear are these
lightweight two-piece Suits.
All Wool summerweight ma-
terials, tailored in our best
possible manner. New Grey
shades. Price, 59/6
Better qualities, 69/6, 79/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid to all
seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.
SUMMERWEICHT!
;
I
m
■
rspnisfd
rousets ! Grey Wors-
eds in newest shades
\f Grey . . all sizes,
'rice/ pair 18 / 6. B^tte r
2S 7 -, 27//6,
( Qs^
.
■
.
n
lac
k
icil
in
ailoi
I. 1 41'
at
Kee p
Fee l c
Co oil !
3 Or-
mforit
co
This
he Coal- for
lack or Grey
loreid bv
ose
a
H or
from
riy
ern:;
h Cloths.
. . . 30'
n g
i s
each
itie s-
qua
45 7 -.
6,
able!
the purp
Sicilia
Antho
be* i
Price,
Betl er
Pric
r
<T>*
NEW!
The new
Shortees:
shorter
23
than shorts and are
■favoured by young men.
Sizes 32 to 40 inch waist.
Cream, or blue Locknit
Cotton, 2/11! White
Ribbed Cotton Knit,
2/6; White Cellular 2/3.
COOL!
Shorts, 6 inch
inside leg.
Elastic at
2'6
Waist, Made of White
Ribbed Knit Cotton, pr.
2/6; White British Pop-
lin, pr. 2/11 and 3/11;
White India Gauze, 3/9;
White Cellular, 3/M.
AIRY!
Clean, cool
summer-
weight
3'9
shorts made of White
Longcloth with brace
loop at waist, pr. 3/9.
Also Horrockses' Long-
cloth, pair, 4/6; White
Cellular " Hordura"
(Trade Mark Reg.), pair,
5/6.
m
WM.
■
V'
Wm/k
'SisMii/m.
Cellular Shirt
Men's White Cellular Cot-
ton Underwear. Strong
wearing open mesh gar-
*\ /
J
ments. Sizes 34 to 44 in. Undershirts
are made with short sleeves. Price,
garment, 3/3.
Athletic Singlet
Men's White Cotton Ath-
letic Singlets. Elastic ribbed
| Q
knit. Sleeveless style. Sizes
range from 34 to 42 in. chest. Price,
1/6. Better quality, I/1 I,
# Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
SYDNEY'S GREATEST SHOE OFFER !
1,000 Pairs of the famous "Tree" Brand Shoes
"Tree" Brand Footwear is
made of just the right
leathers in the most com-
fortable styles and are
offered at the most moder-
ate prices. To clear these
1,000 pairs, the prices have
been reduced to one low
level.
1611
:20£.
Make a selection from
Glace Kid, Box Calf, Tan
Calf Shoes. Boots are in
Black Glace Kid and Box
Calf. Fifteen styles . . .
all shapes and fittings.
Prices, pair, 20/-, 22/6,
25/- and 27/6. Special
Price, pair 16/11
® Men s Footwear Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.


• t
\
17 PAGES OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
“KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG”
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the Native Tribes of Australia.
By HERBERT BASEDOW, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
OUTSTANDING SUCCESS OF THIS REMARKABLE BOOK
in less than two months the First and Second Editions of this interesting book have been disposed
of and the Third Edition is now available.
In this book Dr. Basedow relates facts that are stranger than fiction. Close association with these
remarkable nomads of the North provided countless opportunities for the writer to observe their
quaint habits and customs.
It is as one of themselves that Dr. Basedow wrote this fascinating story of the Aborigines’ lore,
tribal ceremonies and customs; pitched battle and duel; bird and animal hunt. It is a narrative
in which broad comedy, touching pathos and tragedy blend into a living and beautiful pattern.
Nobody will ever again see all that is described in “KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG.
240 PAGES. PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
NOW ON SALE.
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or from the Publishers, BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., Sydney and All
States, also New Zealand.
They can even read Chaucer, these dons,
and speak of him without a grin. Per-
haps, like the critics in The Bubble, they
never read their author. But even when
they do, and quote him by the yard in
lieu of understanding him, his humor is
the last quality they would dream of
praising.
We have moved onwards, brother pil-
grims, since Geoffrey clowned! Apart
from Pope, Suckling, Burns, Herrick,
Byron and a few other buffooning back-
sliders, such as Chesterton in recent
times, and now this fellow Bulled, we
have moved to our chosen country with
hardly a protest. To-day we look about
it and, either in a spirit of enthusiasm
or a spirit of cynicism, we agree with
our most articulate high priest that it
is Cactus Land indeed. Here, in this
land, since it is so removed from con-
tact with that common vulgarian Life,
Poetry can keep chaste as a statue and
aloof as a hilltop. From here she can
view with solemnity the inexpressible
beauty of those heaps of rusty tins down
there, and that, whatever it is, which is
flushing the gutter. That is the recipe-
be solemn, my boy, and you will be a
Poet. If you laugh, even to yourself,
then you are a poetaster, like this fellow
Bulled. And for why, brother? Because,
if you laugh, you cannot avoid being
human ; and this age of ours will some
day receive the praise it deserves as the
time when poetry was lifted to the high-
est peak, and enthroned there, above the
contaminating laughter of Life, chaste,
aloof, imperial, mysterious and, above
all, unhuman.
Then, when literary criticism has
finally been taken over by geometricians,
typographical experts, Kansas linguists
and analytical chemists, people like this
Bulled fellow, interlopers among the
arid beauties of Cactus Land, will be
kicked thoughtfully out of the country
to where they belong—among common
vulgarians who haven’t the fine taste to
know that humor is a degrading influ-
ence in life and a shocking solecism in
art. Meanwhile, Bulled, on this per-
formance, looks uncommonly like the
best light-verse satirist of these solemn
times. Roy Campbell, one of the few
rivals in sight, is in the heavyweight
class by comparison. That is to say,
though Campbell’s satire is unquestion-
ably good, it often looks like angry
bludgeoning. He has been a bullfighter
in his spare time, and, viewing the world
as a Place of Bulls, he is sometimes
(understandably) serious ; Bulled, in this
happy verse, never is.
The Bubble is a satire of contemporary
London literary life, and even its skele-
ton is a funny spectacle. Briefly, an
average healthy sort of chap named
Guy Chevenix goes from Oxenford or
Cantabrig to London, and, while toying
with thoughts of a career, is induced by
Tom Merridew, the publisher, to allow
his forthcoming novel, till then unwritten
and unthought of, to be described in
Merridew’s autumn list. It never is
written, but it is certainly thought of.
Duly described in the list, it is further
described by the enthusiastic and well-
intoxicated Merridew at a literary party.
Its next phase is to be boosted by Minoo-
ver, that great critic, in the eight papers
in which, under one name and another,
his criticisms appear. The chorus of
lesser critics take up the cry, praising or
slating the great work, which duly be-
comes the talk of the town and is even-
tually crowned by the Greatest Critics
as the supreme literary achievement of
the year. Chevenix, who has meanwhile
fled the country in a pique of love, re-
turns to find himself famous, denies the
honor in vain and settles down to await
his ultimate inevitable burial in the
Abbey.
It is a framework that could carry a
great deal worse verse than Bullett’s.
He commits the extravagance of out-
matching it with verse better than itself.
Thus, the youthful hero hears, at the
beginning of his career, the peculiar
wisdom of the age:
War was the school of character, they
said :
The gentle moralists with snow-white
head,
The female patriot, the mitred sage,
And many men past military age,
All said that warfare, God’s scholastic
whim.
Was just the thing to make a man of him.
He liked the notion and approved the
plan :
It would be splendid to he made a man.
That is as roughly as Bulled cuts: his
typical manner is that in which —to intro-
duce one of the dozens of familiar per-
sonages who decorate his landscape —he
tells
How Leonard Lank, the old Etonian,
Who was a Fascist, and a flogging-fan,
And every other inch a gentleman,
Had blown his brains out on the bed-
room floor,
And still behaved exactly as before.
Or, if you prefer a clearer identity,
The cleverest cockatoo you ever saw
(So whimsically christened Bernard
Shaw).
Which is enough filching from Bulled.
After all, if we must declare him an
outcast from Poetry, that is no excuse
to strip the poor beggar as naked as the
land we kick him from.
C. M .
A Notable
Novel
When William
Gerhardi fol-
lowed up The
Polyglots with
two very ordinary
novels, it seemed
that he might be a one-book man. But
his autobiography, The Memoirs of a
Polyglot, gave renewed hope, for this
itself was a book of great charm and
individuality. Resurrection (Cassell; 7s.
6d.), his latest novel, establishes his repu-
tation as a novelist of significance and
stature.
Its method and its subject are alike
remarkable. In line with Joyce, Wynd-
ham Lewis and other ultra-moderns, the
whole action of its 370 pages takes place
in 24 hours. It differs from those writers
in being always intelligible, though it is
fair to say that at times very concen-
trated attention is needed, so charged is
it with ideas and philosophic content.
Not all the time, however. Many pages
are devoted to the evocation of his amor-
ous and other adventures in Tunisia, and
also to pungent, but good-humored, satire
on London society, many members of
which can be easily recognised. These
pages have all the humor and lightness
of touch of The Polyglots.
The main theme is (he four-dimen-
sional life suggested in J. W. Dunne’s
Experiment with Time, published some
eight years ago. Dunne’s book is an
interesting and highly important work,
but is undeniably “tough.” Resurrection
is, in part, an attempt to display at least
some aspects of this idea in a dramatic
form instead of a geometrical one. Inci-
dentally, Gerhardi discusses very freely
his method of writing the novel. What
we do and where we go, he claims, are
unimportant. It is what we think and
feel that is significant, and which con-
stitutes our real life ; and it is with the
evocation of his past states of feeling
that much of the book deals—their resur-
rection, in fact. His own “occult” experi-
ences, which he assures us are real, and
with which the book opens and closes,
add piquancy to what is in all respects
a thought-provoking novel.
It will be caviare to the general circu-
lating-library reader, but to those who
like something to ruminate over in their
fiction, presented with all Gerhardi’s
charm of style, it will be manna indeed.
It is both an achievement and a portent
Decidedlv a book to buy.
E. T. S.
A Satchel of Books
Our Future in the Air, by Brigadier-
General P. R. C. Groves (Harrap ; 2s. 6d.
net). Into this book of hardly more than
pamphlet size the writer packs a solid
lot of information on Britain’s present
position in the air, which he regards as
dangerously weak. He makes a strong
and logical argument in favor of rising
above the inferiority, pacifist or whatever
sort of complex it is which is responsible
for this state of things: —
Last year (1934) no more than 28
machines were added to our Home Defence
Force. (Herr Hitler recently received 41
as a birthday present.) Despite our porten-
tous inferiority in the air, our new pro-
gramme envisages an addition of no more
than 300 machines in the course of the
next two years. Germany, as we have seen,
is adding at least 300 machines a month.
He contends that “the cardinal aim in
Imperial defence in the Eastern Hemi-
sphere should be to organise a system
whereby any dependency on the great
horseshoe, of which South Africa and
New Zealand are the points, and the
Middle East and India the arch, could be
reinforced by squadrons stationed in the
other dependencies.”
In Search of Love, by Francis Stuart
(Collins ; 7s. 6d). A new slant in satire
on the craze for sensation and those who
exploit it. An ordinary utterly unknown,
middle-aged woman, taking her savings
for a year and setting forth for the first
time to visit a racecourse, meets a film
star engaged in the making of an end-
less topical serial, “Twentieth Century
Illustrated,” and is shortly after under
contract to act as adviser on public taste
for this money-spinning enterprise. Thus
she enters into the inner and upper circles
of the sensation-making racket, an ex-
cellent foil for the excitable, sophisti-
cated life the author has his knife into.
Figured in the publicity as Everybody’s
Mummy, she becomes the darling of all
England’s morons of all social classes
(like Priestley’s Wonder Hero), and is very
well educated in the arts of catering for
their mushy taste. The writer does his
job lightly, leading Everybody’s Mummy
on through a series of adventures which
include a whaling trip and a visit to
Russia and, at the end, a wedding.
Innocence and Experience, by Phyllis
Bottome (Bodley Head, 7s. 6d.). The
title of this book of short stories is a
better description of the authoress’s
mental equipment than of the matters
with which she treats. Her experiences of
innocence have left charming memories
which are embodied in the eleven almost-
fairy-stories that come first. Her inno-
cence of experience lends charm also to
the nine almost-fairy-stories that complete
the volume ; their varnish of sophistication
is so beautifully transparent. She has in-
sight into the ways of women, because
she is a woman. Her men are conven-
tionally decorative (pleasantly or re-
pellently), but hardly ever credible.
However, her style has grace and wit,
and the volume is good reading for those
who wish to forget awhile the world that
is.
Sergeant O’Mara, by Murray Sanford
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.). Concerns
the exploits of a good-humored, red-
headed Irish soldier stationed with the
Antrim Rangers at the Abu Ismail camp
on the bank of the Suez. The dedica-
tion —
To that inveterate practical joker, that
cheery, cheeky, incorrigible, irreverent,
irrepressible and unsquashable optimist....
Private Thomas Atkins —
explains it all. Were the adjectives
superlatives it might as well be a de-
scription of Sergeant Patrick O’Mara
himself.
The House in Paris, by Elizabeth
Bowen (Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.). As with most
current novels of literary pretensions, the
merit of Miss Bowen’s latest is in the
writing. The novel is not so much a
piece of literature as a piece of precise
designing, like a careful supper-cloth or
a doyley. First the reader is taken to
the house in Paris, where two children,
about whose past there is a suggestion
of mystery, are temporarily in the care
of a woman who also has a past which
is in some way associated with theirs.
In Book Two the author goes back and
explains this matter, and in Book Three
returns to the house in Paris, the children
and their guardian, and completes the
design. It is not a very wonderful story
for all the care spent on its telling, and
the children, especially the nine-year-old
boy, are incredible. Even one of the
characters is driven to say to the boy,
almost as if it were the author’s own
feelings about her creation coming out:
“Leopold, Leopold, darling, be more
natural!”
Caveman to Capitalist, an Introduction
to Economic History for Australian
Readers, by G. W. Irving (Macmillan,
Melbourne, 65.). This is intended as an
Australian school textbook, but as
Irving, economics master at Scotch Col-
lege, Melbourne, is sufficient of a canny
Scot to admit that economists don’t know
everything, even about economic pro-
cesses, and is moreover most palpably a
man in love with his subject, he has
turned out a treatise that makes remark-
ably easy reading. The book could better
have been called a short history of civili-
sation, of mankind, of politics, of the
British Empire, or of Australia, to which
the last half of the book is devoted, for a
caveman could have been a capitalist
too, but Irving is quite aware of that
objection, bless you, and prepared to
argue it. Present commentator enjoyed
most the history of England that com-
mences the book ; it makes clear, while
mentioning hardly any dates at all, all
the things he should have been taught at
school (but wasn’t) about the race of
which he is a member.
John o’ the Green, by Jeffery Farnol
(Sampson Low ; Robertson and Mullens ;
7s. 6d.). The Farnol addict will need to
be told nothing of this except that in it
the author resembles himself more than
ever. It is a characteristic romance, full
of clashing armor, chivalrous men,
women with long shining tresses, shady
forest ways and all the rest of the
glorious calendar of derring-do. If only
Farnol had achieved to a style instead
of adopting a manner! Asa sheer
story-teller he is second to none of them.


GENTLEMEN SINGE
Y THE DAY OUR OLD FRIEND
FROM OVERSEAS WAS
INTRODUCED TO YOU
His ever-increasing popularity has been insured by
that old spirit of Scottish hospitality inseparable
from the name of “BELL’S”—the whisky that is
delightfully different.
Although his circle of Australian friends is already
legion he is anxious to number you all amongst-
them.
At the golf club after the strenuous round —at home
over the friendly game —on every convivial occasion
“BELL’S” will infuse the right spirit of goodfellow-
ship and good cheer everywhere.
“BELL’S,” the whisky that is known throughout the
world for its smooth, full flavour, its pleasing
bouquet, its unvarying quality.
So “Afore Ye Go” meet him to-day—we are sure it
will be the beginning of a firm and lasting friendship.
1
?[>edalJVsoJ-v
'"s£
-M.k
SCOTUNP
56
K
1
<ssjjoie,2je cj&
Sole Agents:
GIBBS BRIGHT & CO..
Sydney & Melbourne.
oo
OLD SCOTCH
dfgdfgfdg


GIFT
CASES
mam
»
■ H
LJ
m
lim
m
-••• ...
||| I I I
11
n
-
1
. ... . •
-
-
:: ■
■■■m
: ;
,
. ' ' '
mmßSm
■■ ■
W '
illil
,
One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr, Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-387 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2905.
October 16, 1935.
“TRESPASSERS WILL BE”-
“After him, boy! Bite him!”
But, m'sieur, are you sure ’e knows vich vone to bite?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street.
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street. London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I 12 months, £1 10s
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
INTERNATIONAL BOYCOTT.
When Adowa had fallen the League Council met in
Geneva and adopted the reports of its Committee
of Six and its Committee of Thirteen pronouncing
Italy the aggressor. This resolution it placed before
the League Assembly, with a reminder that “fulfil-
ment of their duties under Article XVI is required
of members by the express terms of the Covenant, and
they cannot neglect them without a breach of their
treaty obligations.” Article XVI is the “sanctions”
article:
Should any member of the League resort to war
in disregard of its Covenants it shall ipso facto
be declared to have committed an act of war against
all other members... .which hereby undertake immedi-
ately to subject it to the severance of all trade and
financial relations
At the Assembly meeting M. Laval said that
France would “fulfil all its obligations under the Cove-
nant,” but would at the same time “pursue the search
for a solution by conciliation.” Mr. Eden spoke for
Britain, and it is a pity that Mr. Baldwin was not
present: the junior Minister’s words (“action must
now be taken ; we cannot neglect our responsibilities”)
seem dry and harsh. A Swiss Minister announced
that his country would “loyally co-operate in the
application of economic sanctions within the limits
of Swiss neutrality,” which suggests that the cheese
and condensed milk will go forward as usual. “The
Haitian and Mexican delegates also promised co-
operation.” But the representatives of Austria, Hun-
gary and Albania refused it.
The sincerity of other member-nations is at least
questionable. Before the “sanctions” resolution was
put to the vote Italy signed trade treaties with Spain,
which can supply any amount of copper ; and with
Roumania, which has oil to burn. For Russia a Mr.
Potemkin said that “united action,” which has not
been secured, “was a sure means of terminating the
conflict” ; and he undertook that “the Soviet” would
“honor all its obligations.” This prompted Mr.
Holloway, M.H.R., “speaking with an intimate know-
ledge of Communist methods and philosophy,” to
declare that “the Soviet is setting a trap, tricking
Britons into a war in which they will find themselves
standing alone,” so that at the appropriate moment
“it may call upon Communists to rise and seize the
State.” And Holloway has had a great deal more
to do with Reds than the Tory editors who have
accepted their alliance so complacently.
In Britain meanwhile the Independent Labor
party declared against “sanctions,” and Mr. Lans-
bury has laid down the leadership of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, though a large majority of
“sanctionists” begged him to retain it. A straw vote
of “Daily Mail” readers has shown 25.2 p.c. for
economic “sanctions,” 16.78 p.c. for military “sanc-
tions,” 69 p.c. for resignation from the League and
95 p.c. for rearmament. And “influential Conserva-
tives,” even members of the Cabinet, though they let
Mr. Eden have his head, are reported to have “grave
misgivings,” Their misgivings are shared in Australia,
and have not been allayed by the stumbling utter-
ances of the Prime Minister, who has been singularly
unhappy in his efforts to explain what he said in
London and what Mr. Eden meant when Mr. Eden
gave the assurance that “the Dominions” would “do
whatever was required of them.”
For Australia and Maoriland the position is that
they have subscribed to a declaration that Italy has
committed an act of war against them, and have
agreed to take part in an international boycott. It
would seem that kind gentlemen at Geneva, possibly
the Haitian and Mexican delegates, have offered to
relieve them of the responsibility of deciding how
far they should go ; but this is too much; the extent
of the risks they take and the sacrifices they make
must be decided by Australians in Australia find by
Maoriianders in Maoriland. And as far as Australia
is concerned —Australia being the Dominion that has
far and away the largest trade with Italy and the
largest number of resident Italians, as well as the
only naval force that could be involved—the thing
will call for a great deal more thought than the
Government has hitherto given to the subject of
League complications, and for the most careful
handling.
It is obviously desirable that the Commonwealth
Government should keep in touch with the Govern-
ments of Britain and the other Dominions, and it is
also its right and duty to urge that no naval blockade
should be entered upon unless French, Russian, Dutch.
Spanish. Scandinavian and Yugoslavian warships are
in it. French newspapers have already suggested that
Britain may undertake a lone-hand blockade. The
possibility is appalling. It might place the peace of
mankind at the mercy of some crazy loon in a mine-
layer, or even a motor-boat.
THE SEIZING BRAKE ON PROGRESS.
In the very early days of the automobile, motoring
was a thrill for the rich, and, on the principle that
the rich should pay well for their thrills, taxes were
imposed on cars —which were not made in Australia
—and on oil —which was not found in Australia. The
taxes were both frankly for purposes of revenue ;
there was not a glimmer of Protection about either.
But the motor vehicle has long ceased to be the
toy of the rich or the moderately wealthy. It con-
stitutes first aid to the efficiency of the well-to-do, even
of the struggler ; for there are few cars indeed which
are devoted wholly to pleasure. Even the man who
uses up the greater'part of his mileage at week-ends
employs it for utilitarian purposes every day.
In time and facility of handling, the advent of
the motor vehicle must have saved Australia many
millions a year. But Governments owning transport
systems have found themselves unable to stand up
against it, so extraordinary measures have been
adopted to restrict its use. Transport Acts designed
to prevent cornpetition with the Government caravans
running on fixed lines have been passed and ruth-
lessly enforced ; the old freedom of the King’s high -
way has been withdrawn ; in N. S. Wales commercial
motor vehicles have been seized on the public roads,
and even feeder-bus services have been blotted out
without compensation.
And taxes have been multiplied and their inci-
dence has been increased. Sales tax and primage have
been tacked on to the old revenue duties to make cars
and parts dear; the petrol duty (plus primage) has been
raised to l\d. a gallon, and every State impost that
could be thought of has been added to the heap. All
in vain, as far as the darling object of the Govern-
ments is concerned, for, although trifling tramway
profits are claimed here and there, all the Govern-
ment railways continue to show huge losses. In
N. S. Wales last year, though a vast improvement is
alleged, the Josses exceeded two-thirds of the return
from the ordinary State income tax, which goes up
to 4s. 3d. in the £.
What especially galls the motorist is the fact that
a vast proportion of the revenue extracted from him
by the multitude of extortionate taxes is diverted into
channels wholly unconnected with road-construction
and -maintenance. Last week a deputation waited
on Commonwealth Treasurer Casey to protest against
the petrol duty. In his reply Mr. Casey simply
recapitulated the facts of the case which everybody
already knows. His excuse, which he did not admit
to be an excuse, was that the finances of the Com-
monwealth (which is providing more easy money for
clamorous States than they raise by local taxes) ren-
dered the duty necessary. In effect, he paraphrased
Dooley, who once remarked that if you examine
the darkest crime you will always find an adequate
motive, “such as needin’ the money.”
But in the course of his reply Mr. Casey stated
that it would be bad budgeting to earmark the petrol
tax for road-making and road-improvement; the grant
for roads came out of consolidated revenue. In other
words, the tax went into the bank, turned right round
and came right out again, having had millions rubbed
off during transit. What Mr. Casey omitted to
remember or know—for it happened before he entered
political life —is that when the petrol duty was im-
posed it was on the distinct undertaking that the
receipts should be reserved for road purposes. The
academic question of orthodox budgeting did not
occur to the legislators of that time. There was a
definite undertaking, and in passing the collections
into consolidated revenue the Commonwealth acted
just as Kaiser Wilhelm acted in 1914 and Mussolini
has acted in 1935. It tore up its scrap of paper. In
respect of the State motor taxes, States have done
the same thing.
While Mr. Casey was airing his views on orthodox
accountancy at Canberra, Vic. Premier Dunstan was
moving the second reading of a bill to pass the receipts
of motor-drivers’ licenses into consolidated revenue.
This system has been in practice since the adoption
of the Premiers’ Plan, despite the fact that the original
arrangement was that the money should go to the
Country Roads Board. On top of this tricky violation
of a definite pledge, Mr. Dunstan proposes this year
to discontinue the grant of £lO,OOO to the C.R.B.
and also the grant of £40,000 to the municipalities—
most of which was spent on the roads. The sum
raised from drivers’ fees amounts to £66,000, so
that the C.R.B. will continue to be about £lOO,OOO
worse off than it would be if promises were honored.
In customs and excise duties alone the Common-
wealth is taking from motorists £8,000,000 p.a., of
which £2,465,900 was returned to the States last year
for “Federal-aid” roads. In motor-vehicle taxes and
license fees the States are extorting another £4,500,000.
The charges imposed in other countries are puny by
comparison ; in the U.S.A. they approximate to shil-
lings where the Australian motorist is stung for
pounds. In this matter the Governments of Aus-
tralia are acting as a seizing brake on the progress
of the continent. Their anti-motor measures may
even be endangering its safety. To a large extent
motor transport saved Paris in 1914 (the precious
reinforcements that Gallieni sent to Maunoury when
he was striking at Von Kluck’s flank were carried
in Paris taxis) and Verdun in 1916. It is impossible
to imagine Government railways and tramways ever
saving Australia.
WAR AND CLERGY.
A month to a day before the world’s latest war began
the Archbishop of York was reported to have said:
“If the effectiveness of the League Covenant demands
the employment of armed forces we should be
prepared to use them. There is nothing unchristian
in that.”
Thus the Archbishop was one of the first to
suggest resort to arms as a need in this present
trouble. At the time, responsible statesmen were
trying to prevent war altogether; not our partici-
pation in war, but the more remote threat of resort
to arms by others.
Even when this war they had failed to prevent
began, they still did not at once suggest resort to
arms. They asserted that Italy had broken the Cove-
nant of the League, and, in accord with the law ol
the League and not the law of barbarians, they con-
sidered the resort to economic sanctions. They did
not rush to embrace the line of conduct so firmly
suggested to them: “The League’s employment ol
force against an aggressive member is no more war
than a baton charge by police against a destructive
mob is a police riot.”
In that, as in the whole of the Archbishop’s ill-
timed statement, there is the sound of that sabre-
rattling which never at any time becomes the clergy,
and is something worse than unbecoming when it
is so premature as to forestall even militarist fanatics.
In the last war there were many of the clergy
who kept their senses ; who, in the shadow of the
war, worked soberly, aware of its awful significance
in the history of man’s struggle towards the spiritual.
There were many who felt that, in the shadow of
massacre, of horrible death, murder, maiming and
the physical and spiritual degradation of men, it was
not theirs to either do or die, but to comfort and
hold mankind to the noblest ideal it has conceived,
striving to inspire faith and hope in that ideal at a
time when its temporary abandonment made it seem
lost for ever. There are many now who know this
as their province, and who, even if the horror which
the Archbishop envisioned were to come, would have
the courage to wait and the good sense not to make
shameful exhibitions of themselves by speaking to
the glorification of war in the name of God.
Unhappily, there are others who regard it as part
of their sacred trust always to justify and excuse
war as a Christian necessity. The Archbishop is
singular only in his haste.
Hitherto it had been the practice of the clergy
to wait until we became actually involved in war
before voicing the indefensible doctrine which
brings God in on our side as One personally
interested in the success of our miserable affairs. On
this occasion nothing is to be left to chance. To put
the matter as crudely as its own crude assumption
demands, God has already been picked for our side.
In the last war this was done only too brazenly,
but it can be said that the actual carnage had com-
menced before the picking was done. Then it was
done with fanatical thoroughness. The utterances
of the clergy in this vein would seem utterly unbeliev-
able if it were not that they are fully authenticated.
One declared: “The figure of the Great Com
mander-in-Chief is ever present.” Another: “The
gunners’ room on the battleship has become literally
the House of God.” Another: “Our God is marching
on.” To another came this vision: “We know that
the final result is assured, already decided in the
councils of Heaven. We are not unaided. We have
the companionship and support of Hosts of Unseen
Beings, fellow-servants with us, of the same Lord,
ever watching over us with intense sympathy.”
There was a clamor to join in the utterance of
a positive thankfulness for war. “Sacrifice of a kind
which involves a whole nation in mourning,” said
one, “has a side to it which should excite the deepest
thankfulness to Almighty God, and wholehearted
devotion to His most Holy Will. He is now calling
to Himself tens of thousands of soldiers and sailors.
We raise our hearts to God and bless and praise His
goodness for giving such honor to our country.”
Others were even more blatant. “What a dis-
criminator, purger, purifier war is!” cried one. “How
it detects the dross and divides it from the gold!”
Another: “And if the worst came to the worst, is
war wholly evil? It made this country.” Another:
“For the men who are young and strong the way is
plain. Surely they may thank God that they have
been born at this time.” Another: “Militarism seems
to have rediscovered Christianity. No wonder Christ
came to challenge a sloppy, insecure and hypocritical
peace, to break through this easy talk about brother-
hood and love.” One other: “This war has brought
to us a new sense of the spiritual; of the true value
of things. Don’t you think God has used Germany
for a very good purpose?” And there was still an-
other who was certain our side should win because
the Kaiser had embraced Mohammedanism and God
was sure to punish him for it.
Making every excuse possible—the time, the
demoralising influence of war —it remains a lament-
able record, this willingness to associate the immacu-
late ideal of God with the most loathsome manifes-
tation of mortal depravity. It is the strongest
testimony to the greatness of that ideal, and the truth
of it, that it should have survived such degradation
at all. The thought of a repetition should strike
dismay into the hearts of all who look to the clergy
as appointed upholders and guardians of that ideal,
not spokesmen of a cannibal chief.
C.M.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Downie Stewart.
Downie Stewart gave the Forbes Government a
nasty jolt when he resigned—he was Minister of
Finance and Attorney-General—because, in his
opinion, some of its expedients devised to avert from
Maoriland the worst effects of the depression (notably
the boosting of the exchange rate) “violated the prin-
ciples of public good faith.” He is standing for re-
election as an Independent Nationalist. If he is
returned —as is highly probable, in view of his wide
reputation and distinguished public service—and there
is with him in the new House a number of like-
minded men, it should be possible, as Stewart says,
“to fortify and re-create the National party on such
a basis as to restore principles of sound legislation.”
Though Stewart does not favor ousting the
present Government for a Labor or a Democratic
one, he is cutting across party lines, leftward as well
as rightward. That he is determined to reserve “the
same right of free criticism” he has exercised since
he left the Ministry is indicated when, speaking of
Forbes and Coates, he pronounced the Prime Minister
“too passive” and the Minister of Finance “too
active,” adding that “it is contrary to constitutional
practice that real and nominal authority should be
in different hands.”
It is undeniable that the Cabinet has needed
reconstruction for a long time. For instance, a lay-
man is nominally Attorney-General. And the
Government’s best friends have been driven to admit
that the present system of taxation, though streets
ahead of Australia’s, is overcomplex, uncertain in its
incidence and unnecessarily burdensome to industry
and commerce. The Budget remedied none of these
defects.
The weakness in Stewart’s campaign is that it
aims at re-creating the National party after the
general election. In the absence of a definite Stewart
group, people who, like Stewart, believe that a
National Ministry is preferable to any other cannot
be sure when the party will be reconstructed under
his pressure, or by whom. The end is admirable ;
the means are somewhat doubtful. Nevertheless,
Stewart is an eminent Parliamentarian, and his
speeches, in which enthusiasm is joined to sardonic
humor, are producing an obvious effect. Far worse
material has been used to fill a Prime Minister’s chair.
♦
The Onus of Proof.
One of the fundamentals of British law and justice
has always been that a man is innocent until he is
proved guilty—that the onus of proof shall be on
the prosecution, and that, if it fails to prove its case,
he is free to go his way.
Provisions of the Commonwealth Crimes Act
say farewell to all that. They reverse the whole spirit
of British justice, and cast Magna Charta itself into
the wastepaper-basket.
Section 30 sets forth that the “averments of the
prosecutor contained in the information of indictment
shall be prima facie evidence of the matter or matters
averred.” In other words, the prosecution is not
required to submit evidence or to be liable to cross-
examination ; the statement of a policeman, not made
on oath, shall be given the same value as sworn
evidence subject to cross-examination. The whole
burden of proving his innocence is thrown on the
man in the dock.
There is no provision for the prosecution of
persons who may commit perjury in the averment —
they are presumably above the law.
Prime Minister Lyons observed the other day
that it might be found necessary to amend the Crimes
Act at an early opportunity. It is necessary at once.
4 _
Britain Rearming.
Most subjects of King George will sigh with relief
at the Baldwin Government’s expressed determination
to make Britain so formidable in arms that it will
not be worth an aggressor’s while to attack it. This
is better than all the covenants and pacts; Britain
has neglected its material defences in order to build
ramparts of goodwill. Ramparts of goodwill have
never kept out an invader.
Britain has no frontier defence except on the
sea (and the sea is no longer a secure barrier) nor
any island fdrtress which the bigger European
Powers would call even moderately effective. With
the 20-inch gun in being—France’s biggest is 20.24
inches —it could be bombarded from the French coast.
And France, Germany, Russia, Italy and Poland have
among them about 25,000 fighting aeroplanes, mostly
of the latest type.
The presumed war strength of France, including
trained conscript reserves, is placed by the Armaments
Year-Book, 1935, at 5,500,000, including 60,000 on
the naval active list and 39,000 provided for the
air force by the law of April last. Its front-line
eastern defences include underground fortresses,
stocked to be self-supporting for a year, in a
line 200 miles long. The demilitarised zone which
shuts it off from Germany has every inch of ground
from which invasion might come covered by 57
intercommunicating fortresses, so deeply seated as to
be unreachable by either gunfire or gas.
Germany is hastening to put itself into a position
equally strong. The Manchester “Guardian” declares
that the Reich already has a conscript army of a
million. Belgium, with the same population as Aus-
tralia and M.L., has spent nearly £200,000,000 on
armament in the last five years. The Red Republic
possesses at least 4000 tanks and 4500 fighting ’planes,
and its second Five-year Plan provides for the con-
struction of 8000 more fighters, including 3000 heavy
bombers.
Rearming will be a costly business; but the cost
can be bome. The defences have been starved by
the very people who are crying out for drastic
measures against Italy.
♦
Maoriland Taxes and Charges.
Maoriland’s Forbes-Coates Government can show
the seven Australian Administrations a point or two
in Budget-making.
While Mr. Casey insists that Canberra cannot
afford to reduce the letter-charge of twopence or
knock anything off the telegram rates —ninepence 15
miles from the sending station, Is. to other places
within a State and Is. 4d. inter-State —Maoriland has
penny postage, and Mr. Coates is introducing six-
penny telegrams. While Mr. Stevens is maintaining
his unemployed-relief tax at lOd. in the £, and Mr.
Forgan Smith thinks he has done wonders by reduc-
ing his relief tax to lid., Mr. Coates is cutting his
from lOd. to Bd. And there is only one other tax
on income in Maoriland: people with property in-
come in N. S. Wales and Queensland are liable to
be smitten by five —two Commonwealth and three
State.
In Maoriland, moreover, none of the highways
revenue is to be diverted to other uses; indeed, pay-
ments for highways purposes are to exceed last year’s
by £454,000. This should interest Vic. Premier
Dunstan, who is taking power to spend £66,000
derived from motor-drivers’ licenses in ways which
have not even the remotest association with motoring.
The Forbes-Coates Budget has been somewhat
severely criticised. Australians, comparing Maoriland
taxes and service charges with what they have to
put up with, are of opinion that their brothers beyond
the Tasman don’t know when they are well off.
♦
A Sinfully Neglected Industry.
The last report of the N. S. Wales Fisheries Depart-
ment can be read only with dumb amazement.
Australia is a continent with 11,310 miles of coast-
line. Almost anywhere where a line is cast fish come
up on the hook. Along the N. S. Wales coast (700
miles) are a city with a million and a quarter people
and another with over 100,000 ; the general population
is mainly settled within 100 miles of the sea, and well
served with communications to fishing centres. Yet,
excluding the uncalculated catches of private fisher-
men, the State produces, from its own seas, only about
81b. of fish per head per annum —21,901,0001 b. in all
on 1934 figures, plus 1,500,0001 b. of prawns, crabs
and crayfish. Of this, 19,000,0001 b. of fish and over
1,000,0001 b. of the sundries pass through the Sydney
and Newcastle markets. Fewer than 2000 persons are
employed in fishing.
While N. S. Wales exports of sea-food, outside
re-exported ships’ stores, are worth only a few hundred
pounds p.a., imports amount to 14,000,0001 b.
Part of the situation is due to comparative failure
in large-scale effort and lack of education in fish-
eating. The mullet is esteemed by most overseas
visitors as a delicate fish ; but most Australians have
not been brought up to eat it, and there has been
no effective research into the problem of preserving
it exportably or putting it up in a form which will
allow it to be kept for domestic use for any length of
time. Perhaps the advent of new chilling methods
and dry ice will help. As it is, inspectors every year
report enormous quantities of mullet off northern
N. S. Wales and southern Queensland coasts —the sea
at times seems to be almost solid with them. Sharks
must get more than go to market.
Every now and then the Commonwealth takes
a hand in fishery investigation-—it voted £20,000 for
research not long ago. The basis of success lies
not in Government inquiry, but in proving to Aus-
tralians that the bulk of our fish is better than the
bulk of foreign fish, and that prices can be brought
down below those of beef. While the average price
of fresh fish in Sydney is 6d. per pound, as recorded
in the N. S. Wales annual report, housewives will
prefer to buy steak and lamb chops, which keep
longer.
*
Cities, Large and Small.
Lord Mayor Wales has been picturing Melbourne
in 1945. He estimates that the population will then
be a million and a quarter, and makes a number of
prophecies which appear to be tolerably safe.
St. John Ervine has been considering big cities in
general. He sees them as huge aggregations of bricks
and mortar, where transport becomes difficult, delays
add to costs and slums develop as a matter of course.
This Ulster writer lays down the law that no town
should be so large that a man cannot live within
walking distance of his place of work or his place
of amusement; and he would redistribute urban popu-
lation accordingly.
Seaports would, of course, have to be excluded
from Ervine’s limitation. Their value as points of
distribution means that they must necessarily carry
a fairly large population. Neither Sydney nor Mel-
bourne could function efficiently with 10,000 or 50,000
behind its wharves. But there is absolutely no
necessity why there should be a million people in
either of these capitals. Million cities in a continent
like this mean inevitably that portion of the million
will be a permanent charge on the rest.
Australia could do with more small towns. Fac-
tories tend to accumulate in the big cities because
those cities provide better facilities for the receipt
of raw material and the dispatch of finished products.
But there are many to which this does not apply—
or would not apply if decentralisation were promoted
by Government transport departments. For instance,
the textile factories which have arisen in Aus-
tralia in recent years could, with greater advantage
to the country, be situated in Riverina and
other wool-producing districts rather than in
Sydney and Melbourne. In Britain and the United
States some of the biggest outputs in industry come
from small towns—for years Grand Rapids held
the record as the world’s greatest producer of furni-
ture. And there, as in other countries, a large
proportion of men distinguished in all walks of life
come from small towns.
Australia should do all it can to secure the estab-
lishment of new factories which give promise of
success, but it should encourage their establishment
in country towns and ports rather than in cities already
so large that transport becomes a difficult and expen-
sive thing.
A Declining Population.
According to Mr. Martin, the N.S.W. Minister of
Justice, “modern methods of prison treatment have
been justified by the falling-off in prison population.”
Dark cells, solitary confinement and floggings are
things of the past in N. S. Wales. Where, in 1885,
one in 382 of the population was behind bars, now
there is only one in 1748.
Since 1901 the prison rate per head of population
has fallen 50 p.c. There are actually fewer N, S.
Welshmen locked up than there were when the Com-
monwealth was founded—ll4B against 1605—and
only a third of the number of women —67 against 207.
It has to be remembered that sentences are not
what they used to be. Out of 11,000 persons convicted
in 1934 only seven were given over five years, 110
between two years and five years, 278 over a year.
And a lot of these sentences were scarcely gaol sen-
tences at all, for the recipients were sent to Emu
Plains, if young, and placed on their honor there, or
to Tumbarumba and Tuncurry, where they are allowed
field sports and are fed almost as well as shearers.
In other days N. S. Wales Judges were notorious
for the punishment they meted out. In the case of
offences like coining and crimes of violence, the
pendulum has perhaps swung too far the other way.
No doubt “modern methods of prison treatment” have
had something to do with “the falling-off in prison
population,” but the effects are practically confined
to those who experience the method. The general
improvement is due far more to higher wages, better
living conditions, greater sobriety, the increased
devotion to sport and the advance of education.
*
The Game of Housing-housing.
As was feared, the Dunstan Government, aided by
its Labor allies, has plunged into the housing question
without proper preliminary consideration. Having
an area of unoccupied Crown land at Fisherman’s
Bend, Port Melbourne, it has decided to proceed with
the erection of cottages “for sustenance workers.”
The cost is estimated at £30,000, but an expert builder
considers that £lOO,OOO will be required to complete
the job. Government estimates are always distanced
by Government costs.
Some years ago the Savings Bank erected a very
fine collection of “workers’ homes,” good enough for
anyone but a profiteer, on Fisherman’s Bend land.
These houses were sold on long terms, and the occu-
pants—mostly people earning good wages—have
kept their premises in a manner which is a
model to householders. They are already objecting
to Mr. Dunstan’s planking down beside them a bat-
talion of sustenance workers who, however decent
and companionable, are not in a position to preserve
the same standard of home-maintenance, and there is
commonsense in their objection, snobbish as it may
seem.
If the idea is merely to provide sustenance
workers with habitations cleaner and more hygienic
than those which they are now forced to occupy,
it would be cheaper and less injurious to surround-
ings to remodel some of the factories now standing
idle in industrial suburbs. In building the Fisher-
man’s Bend cottages for people who are hard put to
it to live, the Government may be creating a new
slum area.
+
Death on the Road.
Australia’s roads, proportionately, are the scenes of
more deaths than Britain’s. In Australia at June 30
last year there were 644,689 motor vehicles—one
vehicle for every 10 people and one private car for
every 14. In America there is one private car for
every six people ; in Britain the figure is one for every
34. Nevertheless “the number of fatal accidents
in relation to the number of cars in use is much
higher in Britain than in America.”
Embarrassed British experts have concluded that
“the reason for this, at first surprising, difference is
probably to be found in the fact that the U.S.A. is
a far larger and more open country.” Common-
wealth authorities will have to think pretty hard to
produce some equally plausible excuse for the w'ay
Death zips and zooms along our highways.
In June, 1934, in N. S. Wales (population
2,600,000) there were 227,742 motor vehicles, 155,063
of them private cars. From January to September
of this year the number of road accidents in the
State was 6773, compared with 5995 in the correspond-
ing period of 1934. Superintendent Carter, chief of
the Traffic Branch, has said: “I wouldn’t be surprised
if the figures for this year show more than 400 killed
and at least 6000 injured.” In Britain (population
45,000,000) 6000 people are killed and upwards of
250,000 are injured by motor traffic in a twelvemonth.
The British Ministry of Transport is compiling
a colossal road census to provide data on which future
plans may be based. Other matters engaging its
attention are:
Whether the provision of a dividing line or kerb
down the centres of roads would help to avert smashes;
how far new, or wider, roads are required; to what
extent the public neglects to use marked crossing-
places; whether more definite rules for crossroads are
advisable.
In Australia the position calls for a steady enforce-
ment of existing by-laws, plus intelligently encour-
aged public co-operation, a systematic periodical
examination of cars and drastic punishment of car-
stealers, who probably constitute 95 p.c, of those
hit-and-run motorists whom the Governor-General
has been denouncing.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Findy”: In England the other day dis-
approving mention was made of a boyish
pastime which consists of putting your
head on the railway line and keeping it
there as “a nerve test” until the
approaching train is only a few
yards away. It seems to be an up-
to-date version of a game I used
to play in Pt. Augusta 25 years
ago. Instead of trains, we used
the donkey teams which hauled
waggonloads of wool into the port
for shipment. Their way took them
past the school, and spirited lads
were accustomed to prostrate
themselves in the dusty path of the
oncoming team. The boy who lay
there until the donks. were only
four or five yards distant was en-
titled to strut about like a turkey-
cock until someone lowered his record. I
draped myself on the road one morning,
determined to lower the figure to three
yards. Unfortunately the teamster had
chosen that very morning to drop a
couple of donkeys from his team and
add a few feet to his whip. As far as I
know the record is still unbroken.
* * V *
“Kanga.-Leo” (London): The British
Air Ministry is essentially tender-hearted.
When it was represented that the Gov-
ernment project for an air-bombing
range in the neighborhood of Chesil
Bank, near Weymouth, was likely “to
make the swans desert their winter
feeding grounds” officialdom offered to
arrange for targets to be moved farther
west, or, if necessary, out to sea during
the winter months. But even this course
will probably bring fresh objections. If
the targets go west, what about friendly
field mice? And if to sea, what about
fish?
“Kali”: The last of Sydney’s “fire
horses” may have gone (B. 9/10/’35),
but one of the old engines may still be
seen in the streets. Sydney’s sandstone
buildings are in constant need of clean-
ing, and one of the old horse-drawn fire
engines from the George-street station
has been impressed into this form of
public utility. The contractor claims that
the chemicals used in the formula for
compressing steam have a medicinal
value. To support his theory the same
men are working on the plant since it
began operations 15 years ago, and not
one has lost a day’s work through sick-
ness.
“M.R.P.”: The dispute between the
Vic. Railway Department and the parents
of the Melbourne girl who wasn’t 14
until 4 o’clock in the afternoon reminds
me of an experience of my own with an
Adelaide tram conductor. He declared my
school pass null and void, and demanded
twopence. I refused to pay. He took
my name and address to report me to
the trust. I took his number for a
counter-attack. In those days school
passes were not honored after 5 p.m.,
and the question at issue between us was
whether the hour was reached when the
G.P.O. clock began to strike or when it
finished. I had boarded on the third
stroke, and had witnesses to prove it;
the trust must have given me the benefit
of any doubt that existed, for I heard
no more about it.
* * * *
“Pom.”: Forde, M.H.R., had Bismarck’s
pronouncement in his mind when he con-
tended that “an Abyssinian wrangle
wasn’t worth the bones of an Australian
soldier” (P.E. 2/10/’35); but Bismark’s
picturesque assertion that “the whole
Balkans weren’t worth the bones of a
single Pomeranian grenadier” has been a
good deal misunderstood. In England I
have frequently heard it taken to imply
that the Pomeranian soldier was one of
the humblest and least-regarded parts of
the Prussian fighting machine, whereas he
was actually one of the trustworthy sec-
tions of it. An old historian describes the
race as uniformly tall, strong and well-
built, and resembling the Scots in strength
of character and capacity for endurance.
Bismarck was picking out the Pomeranian
“Good heavens. Foe married you to the bridesmaid!"
grenadier for special compliment rather
than for depreciation—much as an Eng-
lish statesman might refer to a Guards-
man as one who would be in the front
rank when the battle-drum beat. The
German Crown Prince was always sub-
titled Governor of Pomerania, and no
Prussian Junker could have afforded to
rate Pomeranian fighting capacity lightly.
* * * *
“Yusa”: It’s a separate language, all
right. A bright American miss escorted
an Aussie girl on a shopping expedition
at Manila. “It’s a bit confusing,” she
confided when she returned on board.
“We pounded those pavements for half
a day looking for a reel of cotton before
I made out that all she wanted was a
spool of thread.”
“Sacred Savoyard”; Newspaper- straw-
votes in Sydney and Melbourne have
revealed that “The Yeoman of the
Guard” is the most popular Sullivan
operetta with Australian audiences. I’m
not surprised. The credit is due to Gil-
bert rather than to Sullivan, for he drew
the characters, and two or three, beyond
being purveyors of clever jingle sung to
equally clever music, are as philosophic,
in their way, as the melancholy Jacques.
The introduction of this vein into comic
opera in 1888 was regarded by D’Oyley
Carte as a dubious experiment. However,
it reconciled to their lot one or two fine
actors and singers who, without Jack
Point as a bait, would have been unhappy
on the Savoy stage, and there was never
a Gilsullivan juvenile lead who didn’t
fancy himself as Colonel Fairfax, singing
■‘ls Life a Boon?” So far as Australasian
performances are concerned (and I’ve
sampled ’em for 40 years) “The
Yeoman” has always been better acted
than the others.
❖ * * *
“Speewaa”: The Prince of Wales Hotel
in Fitzroy-street, St. Kilda, is to be re-
placed by something modern at a cost
of £40,000, and with it one of the old
landmarks of Melbourne will disappear.
The “Prince” was built ahead of its
time in the mistaken belief that the big
ocean liners of the day would berth at
St. Kilda pier. Nevertheless, in 20 years
it had attained to such popularity that
gradually a terrace adjoining was ab-
sorbed house by house, until it became
all part of the hotel. Now the whole is
to make way for a more imposing edifice
to house the battalions of visitors who
seek the St. Kilda beaches in the summer.
* * * -I*
“Templar”: Something like a parallel
case to that of the publican who unsuc-
cessfully sued a newspaper which had
drawn attention to his respect for the
law (B. 9/10/’35) has been heard at
Newcastle. Plaintiff was an M.L.A., and
a letter in the local paper had referred
to him as “a 1917 loyalist.” Actually,
he had belonged to a union—the Rail-
way and Tramway Officers —which
hadn't been called out in the 1917 strike,
so that the phrase was hardly accurate.
But, even if it had been, according to the
C.J., he would have had no legitimate
grievance ; there would be nothing dis-
graceful or discreditable in being a
“loyalist” in such circumstances. A judg-
ment of Justice McCardie’s in England
was cited in support of this. Verdict for
defendants.
* * *
“Mudurup”: Curtin is the first of
Westralia’s contributions to the House
of Reps, to win to the leadership of the
Opposition. Only one of his predecessors
was ever in the running for the job.
That was John Forrest, who ran Joe
Cook to a short head for the distinction
22 years ago, when Deakin retired. Joe
beat John by one vote —said to have
been Deakin’s own, though Deakin and
Forrest had been colleagues and fast
friends for so long that this is hard to
credit. But the single vote, by whom-
soever cast, spoiled John’s chances of
ever becoming Prime Minister. A few
months later Cook was forming his
1913-14 Administration.
“Cleon”: Jack Curtin’s best qualifica-
tion for running a Parliamentary Labor
party is that for several years he edited
a Labor paper. He was the first stable
editor the Westralian “Worker” ever had,
the job having taxed the patience of
most of his predecessors beyond endur-
ance. There were so many bosses want-
ing to have a finger in dictating the
organ’s policy and their views were fre-
quently so widely different that the im-
possibility of pleasing or satisfying all
of them was early borne in on the aver-
age editor. So men of more or less merit
came and went with marked frequency
until the Perth Trades Hall imported
Curtin from Victoria. He looked like a
stayer from the outset, and he proved
one.
* 7 P *
“Peterborough”; It’s a small point,
perhaps, but the German-christened
townships in S. Aus. which are to have
their original names restored to them
can scarcely have got upon the map “20
or more years before William Hohen-
zollern was born” (B. 9/10/’35). The
first shipload of Prussians and Silesians
under the direction of Kavel reached
Adelaide only at the end of 1838, and it
must have taken them a little while to
shake themselves down and found
villages. Klemzig, close to the capital,
was the first German-named settlement,
and that can hardly have arisen out of
the bush before 1840. Wilhelm was born
in January, 1859.
sj* v *i ;
“Plonk”: If anybody lands the prize
of £5OOO that the English Band of Hope
Union is being urged to offer for a non-
alcoholic drink with a “kick” in it (B.
2/10/’35), the brewers and distillers
won’t be the only sufferers. Another sec-
tion of the business world likely to be
hard hit is that manufacturing “tonic”
medicines of a kind. B.M.A. “Red
Book” analyses show that some of these
contain up to 70 p.c. of pure alcohol.
Teetotallers have written reams of
testimonials to the effect that after tak-
ing two tablespoonfuls of various in-
valuable mixtures they have become new
men, all unwitting that the buck-up was
due to the demon Drink.
Jjt $ *
“Long Shore”: The two leading stores
in a N.S.W. north-western town com-
bined to give a show of women’s wear,
plus music and refreshments. After
dresses and furs had been viewed, the
men retired, front doors were locked
and the more intimate portion of
the ' display proceeded. Suddenly a
blushing mannequin, clad in the scan-
tiest of scanties and brassieres,
gasped, turned and fled for the
protection of the screens, followed
precipitately by several of her
companions. As the hall had be-
come oppressively close, the side
doors had been opened, from which
points of vantage sundry of the
lads of the village, having know-
ledge of the back ways into the
hall grounds, were enjoying an ex-
cellent view of the proceedings.
* it *
“El V.”: There are some de-
lightfully bright spots in the Italo-
Abyssinian war, but none better
than the “pictorial impressions”
of battles by artists who have never
seen one. One of the earliest of
these classics appears in a Sydney
Sunday paper, and gives a “realis-
tic” sketch of a “bombing raid
near Adowa.” The machines used
are not bombers but obsolete
British fighters. They are proceed-
ing in close order and on level
keels—five of them —at about 500 ft.,
apparently out of pure sportsmanship,
so that no Abyssinian can miss them.
Their chances of living 10 seconds in
such a position with even one anti-air-
craft gun in the vicinity would make
Buckley’s look like a certainty.
* * * *
“X.T.”: 1 did not suggest, as “L. 1.8.”
says (B. 9/10/’35), that The Australians
were mounted on “fast hamils” in Pales-
tine. And if the Australian and part of
the British Camel Corps were demobbed
and the men transferred to other
units, it was partly because the leaders
had treated them as cast-iron regi-
mental units, and partly because the
country in which camels were supremely
useful was being left behind. Lawrence
(who gives Buxton’s crowd credit after
they got free of red-tape) tells an amus-
ing yarn about how he took over 2000
army camels with Allenby’s help, the
authorities having been convinced by him
that they were only riding camels,
whereas the A.M.C. intended to use
them as beasts of burden. The Austra-
lian blooded horse was a wonder on the
agricultural ground of Syria and in other
districts, but in parts of Centralia the
camel would beat him hollow. And, in
spite of the fact that “L. 1.8.” thinks the
horse “ran the ship of the desert off his
feet,” Lawrence and his oonts were wait-
ing in Damascus to greet Chauvel and
Allenby. I did not advocate the camel
for ordinary work —only where his speed
over sand and ability to go without water
make him an incomparable guerilla
mount and load-carrier.
HOW LONG?
“How long will fleecy lining stay on bloomers?”
- -Questiun asked at Industrial Commission, Sydney.
What caused the fate of Rome? Will Time
reveal
Who was the Captive in the Iron Mask,
The star exhibit of the grim Bastille?
Is bottled beer superior to cask?
Vainly such questions as these we ask
Of grave historians and hop-consumers.
But, where our Judges in the limelight bask,
They face an infinitely tougher task:
How long will fleecy lining stay on bloomers?
Where do the flies anticipate the frost?
Is Mars inhabited, as some aver?
Where is the purple that the Tyrians lost?
And where the vanished reef of Lasseter?
Was Eden handy to Chaldean Ur
Where Father Abraham indulged his humors?
My hand at all these problems 1 defer
To just determining, without demur,
How long will fleecy lining stay on bloomers?
Was Shakspeare Bacon or himself? Who
knows?
And what (he devil boots it to discuss
The author of the stimulating prose
Our ancestors ascribed to Junius?
Their age-old puzzles needn’t bother us,
Of buried controversies no exhumers.
We’ve problems of our own as arduous;
And, here and now, I’d like to put it thus:
How long will fleecy lining stay on bloomers?
Do nimble platypuses hibernate?
And where do nesting pelicans repair?
Let learned scientists thereon debate,
For me, I cannot tell you if or where.
It’s sort of undecided, in the air;
We’ve naught to go on barring idle rumors.
And now our Judges must the burden bear
Of sending out a fiat, fair and square,
About the life of lining upon bloomers.
Prince —you should know it—tell me, if vou
may
(As one who knows the genuine coins from
“stumers”),,
Resolve the doubts that baffle us to-day,
What is the period whereon ’twill stay,
The fleecy stuff that goes inside the
bloomers ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: One of the best yarns of the
year is told by Herbert Gepp, chairman
of the Wheat Commission, at his own ex-
pense. He and his fellow-commissioners
were listening to the evidence of a Vic.
Mallee farmer, a fine type, who inter-
ested them. “Nineteen years ago,” the
cocky said, “I took up a thousand acres.
1 have cleared nine hundred with my
own hands, and now I’m broke.” “How
many children have you?” asked Gepp.
“Five,” the farmer replied—“one son and
four daughters, aged 21, 19, 17, 15 and
7.” “Eight years between the youngest
ones, eh?” said Gepp. “Yes,” returned
the agriculturist ; “those eight years I
was cutting mallee shoots.” “Strange,”
Gepp mused. “1 also have one son
and four daughters, aged 28, 26, 24. 22
and 13.” “Nine years between the young-
est ones,” the farmer said. “You must
have been on a royal commission.”
4> s|c l|: *
“Ad.”_: Adelaide has had an odd com-
pensation suit. A was trained nurse to
B’s husband when he died, and she stayed
on in the house. More than a fortnight
later she climbed a ladder to hang cur-
tains ; it cracked, and she claimed dam-
ages for a broken leg. B had a variety
of answers. A was not “a workman
within the meaning of the Act” ; even if
she had been, the contract was over;
and, anyway, the accident did not rise
out of the employment. The Court found
the three defences, together, watertight.
=l-- * * *
“S.T.S.”; S.A. police have cleared up
a mystery that had been worrying them
for 10 months. Last December the wife
and three children of W. A. Figg, a cham-
pion axeman, were found murdered in
their beds. He had left on a
bicycle, and might have been
out of the State. But the Mylor
district, though only 20 miles
from Adelaide, is very wild,
alternating between old mine-
shafts and virgin scrub by the
Onkaparinga. It has been thor-
oughly combed. The bicycle was found
in July, and now, only five miles
from his home, the searchers discovered
Figg’s remains, with a strap tied to his
gun-trigger.
❖ A' *
“Mr. Deuceace”: Reference to that
bridge-playing lady of title (B. 9/10/’35)
recalls a contemporary of my salad clays,
the Dowager Duchess of Montrose. Eng-
lish racing circles of the ’eighties and
’nineties ranked her with Abingdon Baird
as what would nowadays be termed a
“hard case.” Racing was her sole pre-
occupation, and in pursuit of that sport
she had attained to a proficiency in vitu-
peration which would have been no dis-
credit to a Thames bargee. Even King
Edward, then Prince of Wales, is said to
have flinched before her once when she
fell foul of him over the running of one
of his horses. Her parting shot was that
that sort of thing evidently ran in the
family—an obvious allusion to the Prince
Regent’s spar with the Jockey Club the
best part of a century earlier. But even
the Prince’s influence never got the
Jockey Club to warn “Corrie Red” off
its courses.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: If “Sailor” (B. 2/10/’35)
picked up conversational Japanese in a
few months it was a remarkable achieve-
ment. I found it easy to get a smat-
tering of Javanese and Malay. Chinese
was much more difficult, and Japanese
the most knotty problem of all: it took
me about a month before I was able to
say “close the door,” and another month
before I could make my boy understand
that I wanted it opened. “Sailor” is a bit
behind the times when he mentions the
thousands of characters in the Chinese
alphabet. Since 1928 most of the Chinese
publications have been using the new
alphabet, consisting of 39 symbols. The
Chinese main objection to the new script
is its strong resemblance to the Japanese
system.
jj: $
“Sixenale”: In a recent divorce it was
mentioned that for seven years of their
iives together the couple had not spoken
to one another. It seems a long period
of silence, but in a case brought not
long since under the Testators’ Family
Maintenance Act it was mentioned that
for 21 years husband and wife had not
exchanged a word. Nevertheless, the
lady had conscientiously carried on her
domestic duties, and hence she regarded
herself as entitled to a better deal than
the husband’s will had given her. i
know of an instance in which a state
of verbal aloofness had existed for 37
years before the husband died at the age
of 94. He regarded himself as insulted
by a remark of his wife, and declared
lhat he would not speak to her again
until she apologised; she never did.
Probably the most hurtful example of
domestic taciturnity was mentioned in a
divorce suit in which a medico was the
respondent. Whenever the doctor had
any remarks to make to his wife he
addressed them to the dog with a preli-
minary “Tell your mistress.” The Court
agreed with the petitioner that it was
“mental cruelty.”
* * * *
“Selma”: The seventeen-year-old
daughter of our local Methodist parson
has a strict parent, but occasionally dad has
been allowing the lass to go with strictly-
selected friends to a strictly-selected
picture-show. When she called the other
night she found them unavailable, owing
to illness in the house. Home held no
lure for her, so she decided to risk it, and
went off alone. Emerging at 11 p.m. she
looked round for company on the dark
mile-walk home, but the sole person go-
ing her way was a crusty old bachelor
whom she knew by sight only. Still, he
seemed better than nothing, so she
"This pair will do nicely, thank you.”
“ Ooh, but there's dozens more to try on yet, miss!”
pattered after him hopefully through
several side-streets. Occasionally he
looked back as if a trifle uneasy, but she
was entirely unprepared on turning a
corner to be seized by the old gent, with
a peremptory demand as to why she was
following him. Her shrieks brought the
occupants of the nearest house hurriedly
out of bed ; the girl fainted, and after a
general sorting-up dad arrived. There is
to be no more picture-going for that
young woman.
* * * *
“Ming”: Our milkman unburdened
himself to me on the tribulations of his
calling in Flatland. “Every day this
week,” he said bitterly, “I’ve had one
bottle o’ milk stolen from me cart, and
this morning 1 lost four. 1 was serving
a flat up Darling Point, and I looked
down from the third floor and sees a
taxi drawing up. Out gets the driver and
grabs four bottles, and then drives off.
See his number? I can’t see nothing but
the roof of his cab. Yesterday I chased
a bloke half a mile, and then he turned
round and threw me own bottle at me.
The day before a feller drank two bottles
and put ’em back in the cart. But another
bloke had worse luck than me. Last
Sunday he lost all his cream, and next
day somebody got away with ten pounds
o’ butter. And you can’t take the cart
upstairs or round the flats with you. The
perlice ? Huh! ”
* * * *
“O. I Saye”: All the changing of
German-sounding names during the war
wasn’t confined to individuals or places;
the Dresden Piano Co.* which was owned
by loyal subjects of King George and
had music-selling branches through the
whole of his dominions, rechristened it-
self. In a M.L. church, a few days after
the change was announced, I heard a
member of the choir in all seriousness
ask the organist whether the name of
the Dresden Amen was going to be
changed, too.
* * * *
“Bos'un’s Mate”: That “ten-foot cat”
allegedly used to keep the seamen of
Nelson's day in order (B. 9/10/’35) in-
terests me. I have seen and handled
more than one genuine relic of the old
naval flogging days, and none of them fits
that description. The official specifica-
tion of the old-timer provided for a 12in.
handle and nine whipcord thongs, these
last unknotted. The knotted variety was
known in the service as a “thieves’ cat,”
and its use for purely naval offences was
forbidden. There is a case on record
where a seaman claimed and obtained
damages from the civil authorities at
Mauritius who had convicted him of
some minor offence and ordered him to
be flogged. The dozen had mistakenly
been laid on with a “thieves’ cat,” and
not the variety to which the Silent Ser-
vice was entitled.
❖ :l« ❖ :|t
“Oxmead”; I wonder what is in the
minds of these half-baked people who
think they can advance the cause of
peace by demanding interviews with
Italian Consuls. The duties of a modern
Consul are to look after his country’s
commercial interests in a foreign land
and those of any of its citizens (seamen
particularly) who may need assistance
or advice. In some instances, of course,
he may also be called upon to transmit
communications to his Government, but
only when these are official. He can’t be
expected to concern himself with the
views of propagandists and busybodies
about his country’s policy, whatever it
may be. And, even if he is polite enough
to listen to them, the idea that any effect
could be produced on (say) Mussolini
thereby recalls Sydney Smith’s remark
about the futility of stroking the dome
of St. Paul’s to please the Dean and
Chapter.
* t- *
“Fire-bug”: What with plaster-board
construction, electric lighting and motor
fire brigades, these are hard times for
arsonists. Even petrol is a broken reed
to lean upon as a method of getting the
blaze going. It burns oft' an article, in-
stead of down into it, as kerosene would
do. It is much more dangerous, too. A
room saturated with petrol is a perilous
thing to set a match to, being likely to
go off with a bang and take the fire-bug
with it. Chemical igniters, however, still
have their possibilities; sulphuric acid,
for example. And a man can still set a
lighted candle in a saucerful of gun-
powder and take the missus and kids for
a long ride. But even then the motor-hose
reel is quite likely to get there in time
to make what the papers call “a good
save.” It’s so hard to get this plaster
board to catch alight.
* * * >K
“Yah Khan”: H. G. Wells may be
right in his assertion that the world’s
greatest military leaders have been either
young men witot receptive minds or
“amateurs” (B. 11/9/’35); nevertheless,
Washington can hardly be included in
the latter class. He was a professional
soldier who had retired young. He
fought against Indians and French (serv-
ing as A.D.C. to Braddock), and later
commanded the Virginia Militia (1755).
Admitting that age is a handicap, the
fault lies with our military system (and
that of most civilised nations), which
makes it impossible for a man to reach
high rank until he is too old for com-
mand in the field. A man’s brain may
be as active as 80 as at 40, but it is
almost impossible for him to retain the
driving force that is demanded in a
C.-in-C. French is an excellent example.
In S. Africa he had a reputation for
extraordinary energy and powers of en-
durance. He was then 48, rather young
as British generals go. In France (at
62) he naturally lacked the qualities on
which his reputation was founded.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: “Promoter” suggests
(B. 25/9/’35) that industrial concessions
generally succumb to political vicissi-
tudes, but there are plenty of instances
to the contrary. The original oil com-
panies still flourish in South American
republics, Persia and other places, in
spite of a multitude of revolutions. The
Great Northern Telegraph Co. continues
to exist, although its one line runs across
Siberian and Russian territory to Europe.
British cable companies collect dividends
from Turks, Greeks, Portuguese and
Chinamen. The Chinese Republic comes
faithfully across every year with the in-
terest on the loans spent by the non-exis-
tent Manchu dynasty. Britishers continue
to administer the salt bagelle and the
Customs in China, the landlines are run
on loan from the cable companies, and
the Shanghai-Nanking railway remains in
British hands, although generals and
bandits have changed places as rulers of
the surrounding country. One reason for
this is that the new masters lack the
technical equipment to keep a compli-
cated modern service going, and are
driven to calling in the original pro-
prietors as executants and advisers.
Many of the Czar’s concessionaires still
find no difficulty in obtaining the ear of
the commissars of the Soviet.
* # * :|:
“Croweater”; There is no doubt
about the parrot-like way in which the
untutored savage picks up intonations as
well as words from the white man (B.
2/10/’35). Travelling through Centralia
we met with natives who had recently
encountered members of a university
anthropological expedition. They were
quite ready for barter, and, with a
beautifully carved weapon held out in
offering, one of the Stone Age men, in
the silky voice of an Oxford don, in-
quired, “You want ’em spur?”
* * * *
“T.P.”: A Geelong (Vic.) party of
entertainers is periodically welcomed
heartily at the gaol. Last week the usual
expression of thanks was en-
trusted to a prisoner with a
humorous mouth and eyes
which twinkled as they fell
on a constable responsible for
his retirement. “We are
grateful to you,” he said.
“I must apologise on behalf
of the police for the paucity
of our attendance—t h e
smallest in my extensive ex-
perience. You really deserve
a bumper house. Doubtless,
after this hint, ‘crowded to the
doors’ will describe adequately the audi-
ence which, on your next visit, will cheer
your delightful efforts.”
* * * ;}:
“Oxmead”: Not all the “priceless
lines” of poesy that brighten up existence
for “S.T.S.” (B. 2/10/’35) are to be
found in the jargon of modern bards of
the Pound-Sitwell school. The “British-
Australian,” in its silver-jubilee number,
quotes with obvious appreciation a
sonnet bursting with hearty patriotism
which appeared on the leader page of the
“Times” when George V. celebrated 25
years of kingship. The author, one
learns, is “the Australian poet, Mr.
W. J. Turner,” and the effusion begins:
England, thy name has never stood so
high
Since Shakspeare sang or Milton, proud,
gave tongue.
The analogy suggested between the
“God-gifted organ voice of England”
and the eager yelp of a foxhound in
covert is surely the dead limit in ludi-
crous bathos.
Jfc sj* ♦ sft
“Cleveland Bay”: Touching the Italian
gentleman who said he was a “civilised
object” (B. 9/10/’35), many years
ago a convict named Morrell escaped
from the Brisbane settlement and
somehow or other got as far north as
the present site of Townsville, where he
settled among the blacks. After some
15 years an exploring expedition invaded
his adopted home. Morrell used to tell
how he hung about the party for days,
afraid to give himself up. At last he
took a chance, and as he came into the
white men’s camp somebody threw up a
carbine, aiming at what he took for a
spear-armed savage. “Don’t,” cried
Morrell, who had already had some ex-
perience of the white man’s readiness to
shoot first and challenge after —“don’t.
1 British object, this fellow.” Morrell
lived to a hale old age, and a hill near
Townsville used to be known as Morrell’s
Lookout.
THE ART OF SONG.
“Sing me a song!” spring poets demand,
Invoking their muse, or terrestrial lady,
While reclining like pashas in Lotusland,
Or with idle lute in a woodland shady.
Avaunt and get work, you lazy musicians
With demands upon Clio, Gloriana or Roxy
In your spineless, self-indulgent petitions!
Is all your singing mere music by proxy?
Give me but the theme, the tune and the
measure,
The little brown jug that stands on the shelf,
Ihe loaf, the old bough and the face that i
treasure;
And the song? Stand by! I’ll sing it myself.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


10 for 9 d -
-20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
“Craven“A” have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CRAVENA
Made specially to prevent sore throats
m
\N
POLITICAL POINTS
Truly this Mussolini-Haile Silassie
business has brought about some amaz-
ing combinations. Who would have
thought six months ago that Britons and
Russians, Tories and Communists, the
editors of “S. M. Herald” and the
“Workers’ Weekly” would be on the
same side? Who could have dreamed
that Italy’s only supporters at Geneva
would be Austria and Hungary, for cen-
turies its most hated enemies?
Australia has only one newspaper-
cable service now, and so much hysteri-
cal pro-Abyssinian mush appears in it
that it is hard to trace concrete and per-
tinent facts. One crept in the other day
—an admission that many British Con-
servatives had misgivings about the
policy of their Government at Geneva.
It was even suggested that all the Cab-
ineteers except Mr. Anthony Eden were
dubious.
Possibly Mr. Eden is getting on Europe’s
nerves. He is one of those self-con-
sciously just men who insist upon mak-
ing the unjust perfect and cannot con-
ceal his contempt for them in the pro-
cess. The type is as old as history,
though it has never had such expansive
opportunities as Mr. Eden is enjoying.
Wasn’t it the virtuous Aristides who
gave the Athenians a pain in the neck?
Westralian Minister Kenneally was too
ill to preside at the usual quarterly
Labor “unity” conference, and Fallon, of
Queensland, took his place. Fallon
proved even harder for the Langsters to
handle than Kenneally, though it was
urged that four States were behind their
proposals for “unity” on their own
terms. The most Fallon would agree to
—Westralians stood by him—was to
have another conference, which, of
course, will be held in January. On
returning to Brisbane he said “Labor
‘unity’ is still on the laps of the gods.”
The “Age” put it this way:
The Commonwealth Government’s plan
for assisting the wheat industry was
accepted by the Agricultural Council, it
provides for a maximum home-consump-
tion price of 4s. 9d. a bushel, f.o.r. sea-
board.
In other words, the Government pro-
poses and civil servants dispose. The
consumer was not represented.
Signor Baggio, putting the Fascist case
before the Melbourne Constitutional
Club, maintained that Abyssinia was not
a civilised nation and therefore should
not have been admitted to the League
of Nations. Then why did Italy vote
for admission? Civilised nations can’t
have it both ways.
Footscray is another of the Melbourne
suburbs with a lust for magnificence, it
is going to build a £35,000 Town Hall.
Meanwhile the council meets in the
courthouse. The first meeting, held
last week, was disturbed by howls and
grunts from the rear. These were sup-
posed to come from prisoners, but there
is a strong probability that they arose
from ratepayers who are going to be
stung.
Forgan Smith anticipates a deficit of
£1,162,300 (it will exceed last year’s dis-
grace by £597,700), and taxpayers are
told that a penny off the relief tax is the
best the Government can do for them.
The relief tax was Is. in the £. In
Maoriland, which has had a harder row
to hoe than Queensland, the Govern-
ment is taking 2d. in the £ off a relief
tax of lOd. And there are only two
income taxes in Maoriland ; in Queens-
land, on property income of, say, £lOOO,
there are five —State income tax, super
tax and relief tax ; Federal income tax
and special tax.
After vainly trying to nip the Canadian
Prime Minister’s ear for sufficient to pay
the Albertans their “national dividend”
—at least some “national dividend”—
Mr. Have-a-heart, the Douglas Credit
Premier, “proposes to secure the basis
for a dividend by taxation on beer.” He
promised them $25 a month and gives
them a beer tax! Good-bye, Mr. Have-
a-heart !
Senator Foil returned from Europe
with a contempt for the League, though
not for “the ideal,” of which, as he puts
it, “Geneva has become the burial-place.”
The present conflict has shown that mil-
lion-pound secretariats and pious resolu-
tions cannot ensure world peace. It should
teach Australia it is no use relying on out-
side power for safety from attack.
A true bill. Yet it has been argued that
we needn’t look to our defences since
League members will protect us and our
White Australia policy. France has no
color line, and Russia is half-Asiatic. A lot
they care for the White Australia policy!
“Our policy regarding public works
in country districts aims at decentralisa-
tion,” said Spooner, the Minister, at
Goulburn. Goulburn could have told
him that the policy of his ‘ Railway
Department doesn’t. From Goulburn
“Ordered to leave Addis Ababa, the Italian Minister refused, under instructions from
his Government, 'Which has protested to the League.”
“Negus, I am astonish', I am flabbergast’, dat you should vant to break off da
diplomatic relations vit’ me.”
and Bathurst, scores of railwaymen,
old residents many of them, have
been shifted to the city, where the
grand new green building which is to
house “over 1000 railway officers” is
going up. But, of course, as Stevens and
Spooner would say, “the Railway De-
partment is free from political control”
—so free that when the Commissioner
wants to increase the salaries of his head-
quarters staff he does it, though the money
comes out of tax-revenue, and when he
feels like going abroad he goes.
Kalgoorlie is likely to furnish the most
interesting contest at the Westralian
Assembly election. There has been a Labor
selection-ballot wrangle, and the gold-
fields branch of the party organisation
decided that the best way out was to let
three men nominate —Cunningham,
M.L.A., Styants and Elliott. When the
Perth executive replied that this was
against the rules the goldfielders defiantly
reaffirmed their resolution, Perth pro-
tests that the revolters are endan-
gering the seat, but only once —and
that was during the war period—did Kal-
goorlie ever waver in allegiance to
Labor. It is far more likely that an
open go would reveal that pre-selection
is more hindrance than help.
In a petition to Parliament the owners
of feeder buses which ply in Sydney by
permission of the almighty Department
of Road Transport are pleading for
“some security of tenure.” On top of “re-
strictive conditions and harassing ad-
ministrations,” they go in fear of can-
cellation of their licenses which is all too
well founded.
In many cases businesses have been
taken over by the Transport Department
without compensation.
Still, the petitioners have the assurance
of Mr. Sydney Snow, deputy-president
of the U.A.P., that the Government
which permits this sort of thing is the
soul and body of “the forces opposed
to socialism.”
As part of his neutrality policy, Presi-
dent Roosevelt has warned Americans
that they must not travel in ships belong-
ing to belligerents—which, of course,
means Italy. It greatly strengthened the
hands of the sanctionists at Geneva, and
in a measure was returning good for
evil, for the U.S.A. invited the League
Powers to join with it in preventing the
dismemberment of China and was
snubbed. One plain fact emerges from
this Geneva business. Without (as Mr.
Eden would say) “abating a jot” of their
allegiance to the British Crown, Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders will have to
draw closer to their cousins beyond the
Pacific.
Defending the appointment of the
tenth salaried Minister, Lyons attributed
Scullin’s breakdown to the excessive
burden of Ministerial toil and cares.
Scullin did overload himself by becom-
ing Minister of External Affairs and
Minister of Industry, but the probabili-
ties are that the prolonged national crisis
leading to a party split marked by
furious recrimination affected, his health
far more. Anyway, Joseph is deter-
mined that he will run no risk of being
overtasked. He is to be Prime Minister
merely.
Henry, M.L.A., who failed to interest
Stevens and co. in divorce-law reform —
his idea was to make lunacy a ground —
had his tit-for-tat when he secured the
disallowance of a new Supreme Court
rule forbidding appeals to the Judge in
Divorce from orders of the Registrar fix-
ing the amount of alimony. The Gov-
ernment was against him, but 14 of
its supporters crossed the floor, and it
was beaten by 38 to 22. When a few
thousand more rules and regulations—
particularly Transport Board regulations
—are disallowed, Australia will have re-
gained its ancient freedom.
Defence Department officials are sing-
ing the praises of Parkhill, and records
of the music are being churned out in
newspaper offices which serve the
U.A.P. as gramophones. “Keen as mus-
tard, quick on the uptake, a born ad-
ministrator” are some of the expressions
employed. Predecessors of the pane-
gyrists used to tell the same flattering
tale about Pearce, and a pressman ques-
tioned an elderly naval man on the sub-
ject. “Of course, he’s a great Minister,”
said the E.N.M. “He does everything
we tell him to do.”
Though in the twelvemonth that fol-
lowed the general election, the House of
Reps, had only 39 sittings and the Senate
19, a full staff was maintained in the
Parliamentary refreshment-rooms. There
are two stewards, two cooks, three
waiters, a slushy and a cleaner, and they
mop up £2678 (plus Commonwealth
superannuation liability). The nine will
average £3OO this year. They must be
the happiest refreshment-room staff in
the world.
Holland, M.L.A., who is also president
of the Vic. Labor party, has thrown out
a hint that there may be a general elec-
tion before long. Which indicates that
all is not so well between the Dunstan
party and Labor as appears on the sur-
face. It was only a matter of time before
they had exhausted all the subjects on
which it suited them to agree.
Victoria’s Shorter Hours Commission
has been told of a robot trouser-maker
now in operation in Melbourne factories.
Cloth, thread, buttons and lining go in at
’ one end of the machine, and the other
discharges a pair of trousers ready to
wear. As yet it can’t sew on buttons as
efficiently as human labor, but that diffi-
culty may be overcome.
Kiernan, M.L.C., has been reminding
Australians of what they pay overseas
in interest and exhange. He says the debts
aggregate £600,000,000 ; average interest
rate is 4\ p.c., and exchange brings it up
to 6 p.c. But why wasn’t Kiernan heard
from when the loans were mooted? The
Bulletin can’t remember getting any
help from Kiernan when it was contend-
ing against the borrowing craZe and being
called a calamity-howler for its pains.
Now that Lyons has ceased to be
Treasurer, his hardest administrative task
will be avoid falling over secretaries. He
is totally surrounded by nine: depart-
mental secretary and assistant secretary ;
two private secretaries for himself, and
one each for two assistant Ministers (an-
other, not counted, is abroad with Gullett),
for the Opposition-leader in each House
and “the leader of the N.S.W. Labor
party.” Then, of course, there is a flock
of secretaries to salaried Ministers
(nine besides Lyons), departments and
sub-departments. There are enough to
form a platoon.
From a workless man:
A few weeks before the N.S.W. general
election the Stevens Government removed the
“allowable-income” regulations, thereby making
all unemployed men eligible for relief work.
The thing got it heaps of unemployed votes.
Now the regulations are to be reimposed, in
the case of man, wife and three children, if
the “family income” exceeds 325. 6d. a week
the man will be ineligible for relief work. And
“family income” includes child endowment,
pension and children’s gross earnings. Accord-
ing to a Sydney daily, “Government supporters
fear that a tactical mistake has been viade.”
The unemployed are not calling it that


'' I
"They re such good company, m*? s Perkins.
/J , /
Ra_, I WISH yoUD GET OWE OR THOSE
T/MKIMG, HACHIMES LIKE FbLLy"OLLlS,
"as >"
v
//_ > .
Theres No arm in going a*.n
" A LOOK AT THEM {'
V
'OU caakj have it a week, oh approval
* .
Just put it doWM mere . please
" , '
ITS COME Ra, WE CAM
HAye some music tonight
* X Z-R-R-T-2 SN
THAT must E>e .
UPOH /L TIME THERE WAS A*
Little mouse, called show-Ball''''
BUKIG CRQ5 5EYE WILL WOW SOB,
Dosiy SWITCH ME OFF, Ml~Ml
* TETT O , THE ANTI-TETA.WUS POWDER,
\t>u o/lks get it act wy chemist "
'! \ ‘
IF you LOOK- IN THE ICE CHEST, VOULL
FISIO A. LOVELY PRESEWT PROM
Peggy . vv
n , 1 / '' N
Its MtE . There s wothimc; HERE
' // / / \\
Its a.good job didmt Buy it.
/ "
YES, SEHD A. MA.H DOWM ,
//
TakE “THE D/kMWED THING .
WHY DOESN’T HE EXERCISE IT?
"The P.M.G. has censorship powers over all broadcasting stations.”-Senator McLaclllan.


SHELL
SAVES YOU
“Si
546-0
M
l’ V , <V.
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Peden, President of the N.S.W.
Leg. Council, who has celebrated his
jubilee as .Dean of the Sydney Law
Faculty, is a tall, gaunt scholar with a
pungent wit. He was chairman of the
Royal Commission on the Common-
wealth Constitution in 1927, and when
he ends his present 12-year elective term
he will be able to celebrate another
jubilee—2s years an M.L.C.
J. G. Latham, now Chief Justice of
the High Court (his appointment coin-
cided with that of ex-Premier Bavin to
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench), owes
all his opportunities to having won a
State school scholarship when a boy.
Australia’s new Chief Justice.
This carried him to the Melb. Scotch
College, where ability won him a univer-
sity course. Another member of the
High Court Bench who owes his start to
the winning of a State school scholarship
is Starke, J.
J. M. Napier, of Adelaide, chairman
of the Royal Commission on Banking,
was born in Scotland 53 years ago, and
migrated to Adelaide. Called to the Bar
there in 1903, he was appointed K.C. in
1922 and a Judge of the Supreme Court
two years later. He was the Royal Com-
missioner who inquired into the circum-
stances of Lf.-Commander Casey’s death
last year.
Tom Bavin, who has been appointed
to the N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench,
had in public life the outward air of a
man suppressing his contempt for the
shifts and expedients of politics, but he
liked the legal and legislative side, and he
had, perhaps, the most intensive training
for a Premiership ever received by a
modern N.S.W. politician. Before he
entered politics in 1917 he had been a
fighter for Federation, an LL.B. gold
medallist, Professor of Law (Tasmania
University), private secretary to Barton
and Deakin, associate to the Chief Justice
of Australia and chairman of several
industrial boards and commissions. Dur-
ing his Premiership, 1927-30 he worked
himself almost to death. He will make a
good Judge, for behind a somewhat
formal mask is hidden a catholic know-
ledge of human nature. Bavin refused
a Judgeship during the war.
W. C. Hankinson, who will represent
the British Government at Canberra
pending the arrival of Geoffrey Whis-
kard, the first High Commissioner, next
year, is an Oxford man who joined the
Colonial Office after the war (in which
he earned the M.C.), and was transferred
to the Dominions Office five years ago.
He ranks high among the 10 “principals”
from whom future under-secretaries will
be drawn. He was in Australia as British
representative some years ago.
G. C. Mason, chairman of the Special
War Pensions Tribunal which the Com-
monwealth Government has appointed
to deal with appeals in arrear, fought in
the Boer War, and was on Lord
Methuen’s staff. In the Great War he
was with “Pompey” Elliott’s lot, at first
in command of a company of the 7th
Battalion. Though wounded at Anzac,
he progressed to the command of the
59th in France and won the D.S.O. He
is at the Bar, and was one of the legal
advisers to the British Empire Exhibi-
tion at Wembley.
“Steele Rudd” —Arthur Hoey Davis
was his real name —was a familiar figure
in Sydney streets during the years preced-
ing his death last week: a tall, gentle
man who might, with his close-clipped
moustache, have been a retired solicitor
or army officer. His lineage was deeply
rooted in Australian pioneer soil. His
father, an engineer, was with Thomas
Mitchell’s exploring expedition to the
Maranoa and afterwards with J. C. Bur-
nett’s survey party before he settled at
Drayton on the Darling Downs. There
Arthur was born in 1868. He suf-
fered most of the hardships which later
found a place in On Our Selection, and
got a scrappy education at a little school-
house at Emu Creek. Then he worked
on selections until he
was 18, teaching himself
enough to enter the
Queensland civil service,
in which he rose to be
Under-Sheriff. Mean-
while, he contributed to
the Brisbane press and
then to The Bulletin,
in which his On Our
Selection began to be
printed on Dec, 14, 1895.
In 1903 he founded
“Steele Rudd’s Maga-
zine,” but, though he
attracted many young
Queensland writers, he
had not the business
head of a publisher. In
later years, the drama-
tised versions of his tales
were popular throughout
Australia, both on stage
and film. He had not
the literary finish of
Lawson; but his tales
appealed to a generation of pioneers, a
large proportion of whom had personal
experience which enabled them to see
the basic truth behind his fiction and to
understand his philosophy and humor.
Sidney Kidman’s possessions must
have been greatly exaggerated in his life-
time or drought hit him harder than was
thought. He left £300,000. In Mel-
bourne alone there are at least a dozen
men who will cut up for more than
that.
John Waddington, who passed out
last week in England at 80, had good
cause to remember W.A. A shrewd
Yorkshireman, with a cosmopolitan edu-
cation and a civil engineer’s training, he
was one of the first to see the future of
the “colony” in practical developmental
terms. The original concession holder
for the Midland Railway, which he
floated and began to work after 10 years’
struggle, he turned to gold when the
boom came, and was a founder and
chairman of Great Boulder. He married
a sister of George Shenton, President of
the Legislative Council and chairman of
the Westralian Bank. Latterly, he lived
the life of an English country gentle-
man while retaining his chairmanship of
Great Boulder to the end and serving as
a lieutenant of the City of London. He
was High Sheriff of Sussex in 1909.
“El V.” views two monarchs:
One day in the dining-room of Brown’s
Hotel (London), which carried the air of the
mid-’fifties into a Mayfair and Grosvenor House
age, a friend pointed out a gloomy, clean-
shaven, Scandinavian sort of figure sitting by
himself in a corner patiently and meticulously
eating a chop. He cleaned that chop with
steady purposefulness, till there was not a
grain of meat left on the bone. Then he
walked out, shoulders stooping and face in-
tent, looking like Savonarola on vacation.
Outside we found him standing on the pave-
ment apparently meditating on the hopeless-
ness of the earth, when a huge Hispano-Suiza
came down Albermarle-street at hurricane
speed, to be pulled up with a wild flourish
by its driver. A dark, Mephistophelian Bour-
bon face, full of life and humor, poked itself
out and shouted “Hai!” The sad figure on
the pavement strolled across and held out his
hand. The London traffic went solemnly on,
apparently oblivious that in its midst two
Kings—Alfonso, of Spain, who will never rule
again, and George, of Greece, who may go
back to his throne —were conversing cynically
in its midst.
Federick Cowen, the conductor, had
a cosmopolitan history. He was born in
Jamaica, musically educated in Germany
and London —a pupil of Julius Benedict
—and travelled the world extensively. At
his death at 83 he had conducted more
first-class concerts than, perhaps, any other
man alive. Before he succeeded Charles
Halle in control of the great Lancashire
and Yorkshire “Philharmonics” of 40
years ago, he came to Australia as con-
ductor to the Melbourne Centennial
Exhibition. And it was in one of his
productions there that
Florence Young attracted
J.C.W.’s attention,' and
got her chance to play
her first operatic role—
Casilda in “The Gondo-
liers.”
“Steele Rudd,” as Low saw him in his prime.
Dead, at 82, E. R. James, who was
on the long-expired Melbourne “Daily
Telegraph” at the same time as
J. F. Archibald, of The Bulletin.
James, who used to be known as
“The Old Bird” —a title of which he
was particularly proud—did the “rounds”
and handled the Deeming case. He
left press life when the goldfields of
the West were discovered, and since that
date had followed mining, either on
“location,” as the movies would say, or
on the Stock Exchange.
Very few of his friends will recog-
nise this handsome visage as belonging to
Captain I. L. Lloyd, commander of the
new inter-State passenger vessel Dun-
troon, but that isn’t Frith’s fault. The
long, flowing moustache which fas-
cinated passengers on the old Dimboola
was sacrificed in mourning when that
The master of the Duntroon.
vessel was sold and Lloyd stepped un-
adorned aboard his new command. Dur-
ing his 30-odd years under the Mel-
bourne Steamship flag, I.L.L. has skip-
pered most of that company’s fleet, and
his hospitable personality and friendli-
ness always assured him of a big pas-
senger following.
J. H. Lister, one of the first Diggers to
be elected to the Commonwealth Par-
liament, died at 63 in Toowoomba (Q.).
His parents brought him from Lincoln-
shire to the Blackall Range district when
he was 14. His tall, straight figure be-
lied his poor health, but he was one of
the earliest volunteers for the A.1.F., and
got away with the 2nd L.H. Field Ambu-
lance in December, 1914, after several
tries. He was invalided home at the
end of 1916, and immediately took to the
recruiting platform. Six months after-
wards he was elected for Corio (Vic.),
and retained his seat until the debacle
of 1929. Since 1932 he had been back
on his farm at Wutul (Q.).
From the North:
Not only was the late Fred Thompson, of
Darwin, the last remaining occupant of the
old Goose Club seat (B. 9/10/ ’35), but he was
faithful to it to the end, and it formed his
Achilles’ heel. For, rearing his 17 stone oft'
it a few weeks ago, he tripped and broke a
small bone in his foot. The complications
brought about his death. Fred’s weight was
always an object of his own cynical mirth.
Once he stepped in to stop a brawl between
two diminutive youngsters. “I’ll knock his
head off!” yelled the aggressor as Fred
grasped him by the collar. “No, no!” ex-
postulated his captor in his small, high-pitched
voice; “never waste energy in the tropics, boy!
Let me sit on him for you.” And as he
solemnly pretended to move to execute his
threat the enemy left for the horizon.
Among the beneficiaries of the Howard
Smith estate of £175,000, now the subject
of litigation before the Vic. Full Court,
were Fred Krcrouse and his wife, Essie
Krcrouse. Mrs. Krcrouse was, a genera-
tion ago, one of the most popular of Aus-
tralia’s stage favorites. A tall, handsome
dancer, graceful as a sapling and built
after the lines of Madge Elliott, she
earned, as Essie Perrin, applause wherever
she appeared. In the height of her
triumph she retired and married Fred
Krcrouse, member of a well-known Mel-
bourne family, whose strangely-spelled
cognomen is pronounced Kruse.


WHAT SERVICE HAVE “G-3’s” GIVEN?... IN SEARCH
OF EVIDENCE WE SENT THESE MEN AROUND AUSTRALIA
m ft~MILEAGE INSPECTORS
We have sent them everywhere— these "G-3" Mileage Inspectors.
Their duty was to check up on "G-3 11 performance on the road,
on EVERY kind of road.
They met "G-3" users in the country,
in the city. They hailed drivers of every
type. They took treadprints of tyres,
they asked questions according to fixed
formula, and sent in authentic evidence
for analysis.
*3
&
1
>
Wk I
Js
«hi
V///.V/M
mm
vm
yX/oWy
wmmm
wm
' /
M
xfxrxwrjvx
Pi
%%
: .. :;
./
A.\
%
V^'-A
m
m
,<A
m
:>fe::::SSS
, ./■•
SWS
fl
BH
BW
mm
■*x
mmm
%
xn
.
This is what "G-3" Mileage Inspectors’ evidence proved
"G-3's" have been definitely established, after a year of trial
and test under conditions as severe as any in the world, as the
TOUGHEST. LONGEST WEARING tyre Goodyear ever built.
EVERY type of driver was sought out; safe, careful motorists;
fast-driving, hard-braking motorists; commercial drivers and taxi
men —to whom trouble-free running is a priceless asset
and both personal opinions and treadprint evidence proved that
the 43% extra non-skid mileage claimed for the new "G-3" a
year ago was an extraordinarily conservative estimate.
HERE'S WHAT YOU GET IN
WT9
Q 3
apping and the
sf more non-skid
You get the broader
road contact of a
flatter, wider, All-
Weather Tread.
You get quicker-stopping
greater road grip of more
blocks in the centre.
You get the easy steering and
smooth travel of wider riding-ribs.
You get the slow, even wear of closer-
nested non-skid blocks and ribs.
You get more rubber in the tread—
pounds more per tyre.
—all of which adds up to
mfandwore)
LONGER NON-SKID MILEAGE
at no extra cost
At left reproductions of a few of
the many hundreds of tread prints
taken on the road.
NOTE THIS EVIDENCE
CASE No. 51
Occupation —Traveller. Address —Melbourne.
Tyre Size 500-17 4 ply. Serial No.
F92824-A547. Mileage 31,105. Driving Conditions Country
roads mostly. 27,642 miles without punctures. Tyre Conditionr*~
Tread still distinct. Inspector No. 3.
a CC ly | Occupation Business Manager, Address
** ASC MO. OU Brisbane. Tyre Size— sso.2o H.D. Serial No.—
H79400A-787. Mileage —M,29o. Driving Conditions —Bad roads,
unmade and gravel. Tyre Condition —Less than one-third worn. Still
sound with full non-skid traction. Inspector No. 1.
Kl Q*> Occupation —Taxi Driver. Address —Sydney.
MO. OJ Tyre 5-50-17 H.D. Serial No.
K 409218-126. Mileage —3o,os2. Driving Conditions —Fast city work.
Very frequent stops. Also long country trips. Tyre Condition —
Non-skid tread distinct. Still few thousand safe miles remaining.
Inspector No. 2.
CASE
K
rv
mm
iw'sSr
&
1
\
-ck -Sj
a
▲
N
r^v
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


&
Mg
3i
a*
H'-:,
e
c
8? ornot cordials
,
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR'’
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney. N.S.W.
The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
ilune, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
41,388
1929.. 549.931 10 p.c. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. .. 148,373
1930.. 320.700 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 319 10 „ 2i„ ~ 187,141 138,312
1932.. 340 10 „ 3 ~ „ 205,970 1,370 139,682
1933.. 919 10 „ 4 ~,,243,626 137,975
1934.. 929 10 „ 5 ~,,.281,283 6,640 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 ..107,229
1935.. 016 10 „ Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
‘lncludes £138,301 paid on old Perdnau co.’s
shares.
What has happened here? There is
nothing to worry about in the finances,
the co. enjoys an extensive goodwill
(valued at £354,377 in the books), and
the volume of its turnover and the
quality of its products are reported to
have registered satisfactory advances.
Yet the ords. have been shown an empty
basket for the first time since the Per-
driau business was welded into the
organisation and the 550,000 £1 ords. in
Barnet Glass were bought at 325. apiece
seven years ago—the big English Dunlop
Co. took half a million ords. at 255. each
a year or so before the merger.
The year’s gross earnings (£772,493)
fell away £90,333, owing mainly to reduc-
tions in the selling prices of tyres and
shoes. Exes. (£652,477) were £77,580
heavier, of which £23,000 was reserved
for taxation ; the balance, and a lot
more, was spent on plant. The £120,016
of profit (down £167,913) was enough to
pay the pref. div. (£93,000) and show
0.7 p.c. on ord. capital, or 2.5 p.c. on the
two lots of capital combined. While the
co. nets less than 10 p.c. on total capi-
tal, the prefs. will remain a hindrance
to the ords.
It all raises the question as to what
earning capacity is likely to be in the
future. Last year’s net result does not
represent the best of which the co. is
capable. A 5 p.c. div. could have been
declared, but after a careful survey the
directors decided against it. The board
has made a thorough overhaul of the
organisation, and states that changes
made have removed the main causes of
trouble —costs and overhead generally.
The number of directors, which had
grown from five to 15, following the
share purchases and merger already re-
ferred to, was reduced to nine by
resignations and deaths; it is to be
further reduced as opportunity offers.
Attention was specially directed to fac-
tory control, personnel and plant. A
more effective budgeting system was in-
troduced, overlapping in production
between the co.’s own and associated
mills was eliminated, and a new g.-m.
(W. A. Bartlett, from England) will take
up duty next month. Plant was re-
valued, and £273,000 was written off,
partly from reserves and partly from re-
venue. In addition “substantial expendi-
ture” on reconditioning was charged
against the year’s earnings. The net
reduction in the book value of plant
was £191,484.
The Barnet Glass Co., which paid 4
p.c. on its ord. capital, also declared a
special div. and bonus, together amount-
ing to £120,000, payable out of reserves.
This special payment, plus a div. of
£27,576 in respect of 1933-34, the
Dunlop Co. sent direct to its reserves.
The lot (£147,576) and another £37,392
besides were swallowed mainly in adjust-
ing the book value of plant. These ad-
justments do not affect earning capacity
one way or the other; but additions
and reconditioning should help. Tyres,
which now account for approximately
one half of the co.’s turnover, are the
most profitable section of the business.
Rubber footwear accounts for most of
the other half, which includes practically
every remaining description of rubber
goods.
Balance-sheet movements compare as
follows;
Capital: 1929. 1934. 1935.
Ord £3,764,151 £3,765,655 £3,765,655
Prof 930,000 930,000 930,000
Liabilities.. .. 504,612 242,397 211,814
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,138,687 1,046,080 1,015,430
Plant, etc. . . 1,147,026 1,040,396 848,912
Stocks . . . . 1,433,639 1,331,567 1,454,508
Debtors . . . . 515,384 480,040 663,813
Cash , .. 154,201 20,050 76,095
Investments . . 29,163 313,565 1,110
Shares other cos.. . 1,046,052 1,085,758 1,075,792
Goodwill* . . . . 354,377 354,377 354,377
*Not treated as an asset herein.
On freeholds, etc., £30,650 more was
written off than was spent, and £30,583
was clipped off the debt. Stocks were up
£122,941. The growth in debtors’ bal-
ances and reduction in investments are
interrelated. After eliminating inter-co.
balances, the combined figures of the
parent and its associated cos. show more
or less liquids totalling £2,687,063 ;
current liabilities amount to £360,349.
At 15s. 6d. (19s. 3d. a year ago), Dun-
lop’s ords. appear to be worth considera-
tion. The return would be 5.1 p.c. on a
4 p.c. div. basis; the prefs, at 335.
yield 6 p.c. The book value of the net
tangible cover is £4 18s. 7d. prefs. and
19s. sd. ords.
Buckley and Nunn. Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
1925.. 59,583 10,500 12i p.c.=40,505 8,578 04,819
1926.. 63,117 10,500 124 „ „ 40,505 12,112 70,931
1927.. 72,025 10,500 16} „ „ 52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13},, „ 44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13},, „ 44,555 10,158 101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „ „ 32,404 3,496 104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2* „ „ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,080
1933.. 30,532 10,500 0 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2} „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1936.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
For the second year in succession, and
for the third time inside the last five
years—indeed, since the collapse of trade
following the bank crashes of the early
’nineties—this Bourke-street retailer has
suffered a severe loss. Stocks were the
trouble again. High-priced fashion goods,
especially those from overseas, in which
this co. specialises, are difficult lines.
Imported merchandise and a falling
market were mainly responsible for
the loss of £24,622 in 1931. The figures
for the two following years suggested
that the co. had overcome its problems.
When the books closed in 1933, stocks
were reported to be of the newest and
conservatively valued. A year later, a
drastic revaluation was found to be
necessary, and a loss of £17,894 was
recorded; apparently there was some
unlucky buying. During the last term
“excessive Continental and Eastern pur-
chases” were made in anticipation of
a demand which failed to materialise—
the co. counted on making more sales
during the centenary celebrations than
it did. To get rid of some of the
most unsatisfactory lines, prices had to
be cut. This and another overhaul of
stock values resulted in a trading loss
of £19,909. That leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£lO,OOO in reserves, which may have
some connection with the shrinkage of
£17,315 in the book value of plant. Re-
serves were also bitten into for a further
£10,500 to pay the pref. div., leaving
them £3628 short of the £60,741 at
which goodwill (not treated as an asset
herein) figures; altogether, the lay-by
has been reduced by £108,503 net over
the last five years. The ords., which
averaged 13.1 p.c., sweetened with
£133,221 of bonus scrip, for the decade
to the close of accounts in 1930, were
passed by.
The year’s loss is further reflected in
the financial position:
1921. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Old. capital £254,433 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref; capital 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 172,199 268,673 370,667 376,820
Premises, etc. 165,109 411,044 466,136 468,089*
Plant, etc. . . 34,234 83,465 113,635 96,320
Book debts . . 105,415 77,368 58.866 59,741
Stock.. .. 279,151 304,582 259,538 199,678
Cash . . 56,876 5,323 39,814
‘lncluding leasehold, £1045.
Liabilities, up £6153, consist of a mort-
gage (£225,000), deposits (£130,970) and
sundry creditors (£20,849). Stocks were
down £59,860, and cash, etc., up £39,814.
The excess of liabilities over more or
less liquids increased by £25,324, reach-
ing £77,587.
The ords. at 14s. (255. 9d. a year ago)
would return 4.3 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs., which have dropped
from 28s. 6d. to 235. 6d. over the twelve-
month, return 5.9 p.c. at the lower figure.
The net tangible cover is £3 2s. Bd. prefs.
and 19s. 9d. ords.
Australian Wood Pipe Co.
T Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
mo- 90*4
19 |i?" , 340 3 PC-= 3,150 5381
iy-0.. 10,04 a 7 „ „ 7,350 2695 2686
, „Res >rves.
13,814 9 » » 9,451 4363 1677
13,/24 10 „ „ 10,501 3223 4900
iqqn" 10 ” ” 10 > 501 244 5144
1930.. 9,737 9 „ „ 9,450 2 87 6431
, 514 , Nil 514 5945
looo' ■ 1,895 2} p.c. = 2,625 5215
loti" 4,1i > 3 r > .. ~ 5,250 4118
19,>4.. 4,004 24 „ „ 2,625 1439 5557
LOSS.
193.).. 1,330 Njj . 4227
Fluctuations in earnings, and therefore
m divs. and the market price of the scrip,
have made this co.’s pound shares a
tricky investment. Public spending on
water-supply schemes is the backbone of
the business; hence the sharp contrac-
tion of the figures for 1931. Much of
the subsequent recovery was due to a
contract with the Westralian Government
tor the supply of 10 miles of 24-inch
pipe between Perth and Kalgoorlie, to
make which the co. put up a new factory
at Victoria Park (W.A.). Meanwhile,
savage competition reduced both turn-
over and prices, and of recent years the
other two plants— at Lane Cove (N.S.W.) ■
and Footscray (Vic.) —have been unable
to work at anything like capacity, which,
or course, kept costs relatively high.
Ihe Westralian contract was com-
pleted about half-way through the 1934
term. Most of the business since offering
has been for small-diameter pipes, and,
although manufacture of a new line, kiln-
dried flooring, has been technically suc-
cessful, it has been impossible to keep the
three factories fully employed. Still, all
things considered, the co. has not put up
a bad performance. Last year’s loss
(£1330, after setting aside £3641 for de-
preciation) was only the second thing of
its kind in the last 20 years. No div.
was paid, the average over the last
decade being 5j p.c.
The year’s slackness is further re-
flected in balance-sheet movements:
1922. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £105,007 £105,007 £105,007 £105,007
Liabilities .. 40,368 9,114 30,409 16,353
Properties and
plant . . 57,918 70,082 85,505 83,021
Stock .. 23,126 29,171 26,274 22,408
Book debts . . 58,000 13,098 24,626 16 779
Deposits, cash, etc. 9,818 3,609 4,658 3,378
The reduction of £3866 in stocks, £7847
in debtors’ balances and £l2BO in cash,
etc., together with the allowance for
depreciation, enabled £14,146 to be
clipped off the debt. Including stocks,
the more or less liquid surplus (£26,212)
was £1153 stronger.
The value of contracts on hand was
over £30,000 when the books closed. The
pound shares, for which 13s. was asked
a year ago, can now be had at 7s. 3d.,
at which figure the return would be 51
p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
20s. 9d. in net tangibles, mostly plant,
worth what it can earn.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Prefs. Towards Re-
Juno, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 .. .. 27,089
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 „,, 14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~12,600 543 14,564'
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 ~ „ 9,000 1,162 17.382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „ „ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 6 „ „ 5,400 15,896
1934.. 12,377 4800 7 ~ „ 6,300 1,277 17,173
1935.. 5,859 4800 2i ~ „ 2,250 15,982
For more than a decade after this co.
took over George Farmer’s ham- and
bacon-curing business at Ballarat in 1919
shareholders were on the pig’s back. Two
10 p.c. divs. were followed by one of
15 p.c., another of 25 p.c. and three of 20
p.c. to the close of accounts in 1926.
From this point, at which the fatness waB
larded with a one-for-two gift issue, earn-
ings persistently slipped, and the div.
came down to 6 p.c. in 1933. As in most
other businesses, competition, which in
this case means bidding up for pigs as
well as price-cutting on the selling side,
became more aggressive with the arrival
of slump, while overhead remained obsti-
nate.
The 1934 figures suggested a welcome
turn of the tide. Though the volume
of business was reported to have held
well during the last term, continued com-
petition and a rise in the price of pigs
reduced net earnings to the lowest yet.
After paying the pref. div. there was
enough to show only 1.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 8.4, 3.7, 8.5, 11.2, 11.8,
14.6 and 18.3 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was lowered from 7 p.c. to 2\ p.c., and
reserves were tapped for £ll9l to pay
the lower rate.
Until those in the business decide to
bury the hatchet, it is difficult to say
exactly what the future holds for the co.
All that can be said definitely is that it
is well equipped for a struggle:
1922. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 1,838 6,829 3,417 2,309
Premises . . 16,105 50,248 44,457
Plant, etc. . . 15,386 30,875 28,332 28,707
Stocks . . 23,928 40,767 20,661 20,180
Book debts .. 29,416 36,609 26,431 22,(09
Cash, invest- _ no
ments, etc. 31,470 22,694 58,942 57,738
The things that catch the eye are the
smallness of the debt and the strong cash
position. The year’s shrinkage in the
more or less liquid surplus (£98,318, in-
cluding stocks) was £4299.
The market expects a better showing at
next balance, and prices the fully-paid
pound ords., covered by 235. 6d. in net
tangibles, at par or thereabouts, as
against 235. lOd. a year ago.
N.S.W. Mont de Piete
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 31,056 12ip.c. = 30,988 68 40,441
1926. . 31,989 121 „ ~ 31,250 739 41,180
1927.. 32,820 12$ „ „ 31,250 1570 42,750
1928.. 29,605 ll| „ „ 28,125 1480 44,230
1929. . 31,245 10 „ „ 29,141 2104 46,334
1930.. 31,777 10 „ „ 30,000 1777 48,111
Written off securities, £5OOO .. 43,111
1931.. 13,114 3i p.c. - 11,250 1864 44,973
Provision for doubtful debts, £7000.. 37,975
1932.. 6,919 2* p.c. = 7,500 37,394
1933.. 7,377 24 „ „ 7.500 37,271
1934.. 14,204 4.3 „ ~ 13,125 1079 38.3.10
1935.. 19,629 0 „ ~ 18,000 1629 39,979
For the 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1930 shareholders received an average
of 11| p.c. Then slump, interest-
reduction, moratorium legislation and
special taxation interfered with returns
from mortgages (they are put first among
the securities named in the sheet), while
unemployment and reduced earnings
generally thinned the queue of other bor-
rowers and increased the number of bad
debts; and there was some suspension of
interest payments to the co. Still, it was
able to pull through without showing a
loss, though reserves had to be tapped
to pay 2\ p.c. in ’32 and ’33.
As conditions generally began to
improve, mortgagors and others resumed
regular interest payments, the volume of
business commenced to expand again, a
tight hold was kept upon exes., and
declared net earnings, which the manage-
ment appears to have treated with care,
have responded nicely.
Headquarters are at Sydney, and there
are branches at Parramatta, Newcastle,
Cessnock and Wollongong (N.S.W,), and
at Brisbane (Q.), Melbourne and Geelong
(Vic.). The one at Geelong was opened
during the last term, when the spring in
gross earnings (£36,446) was £8046. Exes.
(£16,817) took £2621 of the increase,
leaving the net result £5425 better at
6.5 p.c. on capital as against 4.7, 2.4 and
2.3 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
The div. was lifted from 4.3 p.c. to 6 p.c.,
and the £1629 that remained raised
reserves to £39,979, which is none too
stout a prop for the £300,000 of paid
capital.
Finances are comfortable:
1920. 1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £147,245 £250,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 3,163 105,610 5,239 8,888
Freeholds, etc. 26,078 60,277 68,439 69,009
Advances . . 158,979 349,037 255,140 281,813
Cash . . . . 2,215 3,026 27,510 8,546
To add £26,673 to the book value of
advances, cash was drawn upon for
£18,964 and £3649 was added to liabili-
ties, which include an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation.
The immediate outlook favors a slightly
better showing at next balance. The
market, however, does not expect another
early lift in the div. ; it prices the fully-
paid pound shares, covered by 225. Bd.
in net tangibles, at 285., as against 235.
9d. a year ago. At 28s. the return is
4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


0 The Jockey Club was founded
in 1730. Before its founda-
tion, the rules of racing were
in a condition of chaos. Re-
sponsible at first for New-
market only. The Jockey Club
eventually took control of all
English racing. The high
repute of “The Sport of
Kings” is due to principles
established by The Jockey
Club.
M
m
m
m
'i * v*.
m
se
w
/T
fP
m
SIS
§
ggi
Si
m
V
I
«5l
Lord Onslow’s “Victorious,” 1732, a noted horse of the period (from an old engraving)
At the time when “Victorious” was racing, Vickers was already beginning to grow famous.
WICKERS
Amce GIN


A SUFV.E FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
mm
m
ii
* *A..
pi
mm
M
V. ' '
"There's always
TO-MORROW!"
WHEN Elizabeth Young and Robert
Taylor acted together in the making
of the picture, “There’s Always
To-morrow,’’ they little dreamed that the
A.M.P. Society would see in their photo-
graphs, and in the title of their picture, a
. useful text.
“There’s always to-morrow!” says many a young
couple, care-free, finding the world a joyous place,
happily making the most of every day, when re-
minded of the duty (the very easy duty) of pro-
viding for their old age, and for their dependents.
The wise ones act differently. They know that life has
both opportunities and responsibilities. Not wanting to be
worried about their own financial future, or that of their
dependents, they unload the responsibility on to the
broad shoulders of the A.M.P. They invest a small
part of their income to make “to-morrow safe and
sweet. The Society has over half a million such members.
What of your to-morrow? Would you like to talk it
over with an experienced adviser ? The Society will
gladly send one to you if you live within reasonable
distance of any A.M.P. office; or it will get in touch with
you by mail.
Don’t delay. See to it to-day that your TO-MORROW
(and your family’s) will be free of anxiety.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary,
A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
LEGATEES, ANNUITANTS,
REVERSIONERS.
LONDON CAPITAL available for purchase
of every class of FUTURE CONTINGENT
AND VESTED INTERESTS in estates in
England or any part of the Empire. Special
facilities enable us to offer the present en-
joyment of your capital on most attractive
terms, including the advantages of PRESENT
EXCHANGE. This Company will submit you
a cash proposal WITHOUT ANY EXPENSE
OR OBLIGATION. Send for pamphlet and
information dealing with our expert confiden-
tial service.
General Assessment Company, Limited,
P.O. Box 1022, Wellington, New Zealand.
The miners at Broken Hill are claim-
ing a basic wag© of £5 a week in place of
a minimum of £4 4s. under the existing
agreement, which runs out on Oct. 24.
The State basic wage for N. S. Wales is
£3 7s. They also want the hours worked
—now 44 on the surface and 35 under-
ground, the half hour’s crib being
counted in the bosses’ time —reduced to
40 surface and 30 underground. This
means that, after deducting the time
allowed for crib and getting to working
places from the surface, actual working
time underground would be about 25
hours a week or less. Margins claimed
for skill vary up to £2 10s. a shift; this
for winding engine-drivers. A bonus of
a shilling a shift for every pound by
which the price of lead exceeds £l3 a
ton is also demanded. The present price
of the metal would make the minimum
wage for laborers £6 ss. a week, and a
marginal increase is claimed by nearly
everybody. Since three weeks’ holiday a
year is also asked for, thus adding a
further 5i p.c. to the wages bill, the new
scale works out at a minimum of about
ss. 3d. an hour underground and 3s. 3d.
an hour on the surface for laborers. Of
course, nobody expects the full claims to
be granted, but there will almost certainly
be a rise all round, as was practically
promised by the chairman of the Zinc.
Corp. at the annual meeting in London
three months ago.
* * * *
The spurt in the price of lead has
brought hopes that work will be resumed
by B.H.P. on its old mine at the Barrier.
There is still a lot of ore available, but
it is badly placed for profitable extrac-
tion ; it was left when the fire under-
ground compelled the shutting of the
area where it is located. Appearances
are that the job could best be tackled by
Sulphide Corp. from the Central, whose
shaft is within measurable distance and
whose payable-ore reserves are nearing
exhaustion.
* * * *
The jump in the price of tin and lift
in the production quota have brightened
the investment outlook for Malayan
cos.’ scrip. Last week-end the average
spot price of the metal in London was
£240 a ton as against an average of
£227 14s. 3d. for June. At the end of
last month visible supplies showed a
further drop to approximately 10,000
tons. Since consumption (about 67,500
tons for the first half of 1935) has in-
creased, the production quota has been
stepped up another 5 p.c. (the previous
lift was in August), making it 70 p.c.
of the 1929 figure ; costs as well as earn-
ings should benefit.
* * * *
Oroville, which missed the chance of
buying New Misima (New Guinea), has
got a four months’ extension from Sept.
30 of its option over Misima Gold Reefs
property near by. About 25,000 tons
of ore, averaging 5.6dwt., has been
proved to date, values varying from
I.sdwt. in the higher to more than
an ounce at the lower levels. The inten-
tion is to further test the formation by
sinking three 100 ft. winzes from the bot-
tom level. If values and widths are right,
Oroville’s Australian representative says
he will recommend the formation of a
co. to equip and work the property,
* * * *
“Oro”: The position at Tennant
Creek, Centralia, remains much the same
as it was six months ago, notwithstand-
ing recent rich surface finds. Though
there is yet no proof, doubts exist as to
whether values are likely to live at depth,
and generally cos. are reluctant to spend
much on further development. The
deepest shaft on the field has been sunk
to !00ft., with the yellow metal still
showing. The water problem is a serious
one. The well from which the town
draws its supply has shown signs that it
will soon be forked. Carriers now do
a brisk trade selling water for 7s. 6d. a
40gal. drum. The attempts of the Fed-
eral Government to locate a new supply
by boring have not yet met with success.
The only water struck so far has been
salty.
* * * *
Discovery of gold on the Jane River
(Tas.), where prospectors got a few ounces
and some sizable nuggets, has attracted
attention. The Jane is no gentle stream.
It flows west round the southern base of
a 2000 ft. cliff at Frenchman’s Gap, and
joins the Franklin, one of the northern
tributaries of the Gordon. For natural
roughness and difficulties of access the
locality is as bad as any part of the West
Coast. The presence of gold is not sur-
prising. Around Mt. Lyell and Mounts
Huxley, Jukes and Darwin to the south
there have been quite a number of gold
finds. Fifty years ago there were some
small rushes to the fields, all of which
proved small and patchy ; nothing of im-
portance was discovered.
* * * *
Timoni, formed in Melbourne in April,
1934, to work a show near Mt. Ida, about
60 miles nor’-west of Menzies (W.A.),
is in difficulties. On the strength of an
estimated 20,000 tons of 15dwt. ore be-
tween the 200 ft. level and the surface,
with prospects of the stuff continuing at
depth, the public took 100,000 ss. shares.
The vendor’s consideration was 35,000
paids plus £5OOO cash. There was delay in
delivery of the plant, and extraction, re-
covery and other difficulties followed.
The first crushing averaged only 7dwt.,
and shortage of suitable timber has im-
peded mining operations. Also, the cost
of development at the 300 ft. level
threatens to gobble more than all profits
from higher up for the next 12 months
or so. After that, the board reckons
that the mill could run to capacity and
show a handsome profit. It has been
proposed that the old co. be wound up,
and that a new one with a capital of
£20,000 (to be subscribed in cash) be
formed to carry on. Shareholders have
appointed two of their number to search,
with the board, for another way out.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) is hurriedly in-
stalling treatment plant. The first crush-
ing is expected by January next, and the
first distribution to shareholders about
two months later. Meanwhile, two calls
of 6d. each, making the shares fully
paid, are spoken of. A bore recently
put down from the 340 ft. level, and
approximately 500 ft. south of the main
workings, was extended 236 ft. when the
drill broke down; it had stabbed lift,
of ore, worth about 16dwt. per ton.
* * # *
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated, whose
Kalgoorlie holdings comprise the old
Hannan’s Reward and Mt. Charlotte
mines, has applied for additional auri-
ferous ground, including portion of the
east end of Hannan-street, the munici-
pal baths and one or two pubs. The
town council is agreeable, provided the
co. pays for damage to roadways and
footpaths. Gold was dry-blown from
portions of the area applied for in the
early days, but gold-carrying formations
were not sighted.
* * * *
Kanowna’s Last Chance (W.A.), from
which the option-holding Kangaroo Co.
recently hopped away, is to be given an-
other trial. This time Goldfields Aus-
tralian Development, whose Westralian
mining interests also include the Moon-
light, at Wiluna, is diamond-drilling the
show from the 425 ft. level to stab reefs
on the western side of the property.
?{C ?{(
Golden Horseshoe scrip is being
supported on prospects of the co. mak-
ing a deal with Great Boulder for treat-
ment of the latter’s mountainous pile of
old residues on a profit-sharing basis,
and on the strength of divs. still to come
from the cyaniding of what remains of
the old Horseshoe tailings and from
liquid assets in hand.
* * * *
Wiluna’s final div. for year ended
March, 1935 (it was 3s. in 1934), is ex-
pected shortly. An announcement by
the board that smelting of concentrates
will be substituted for roasting, and that
mill supplies are to be increased to 50,000
tons a month, beginning about next
April, is also anticipated.
* * * *
At the end of May, Marvel Loch De-
velopment, which is interested in prop-
erty on the Yilgarn field (W.A.), had
£34,395 in the bank. Field, administra-
tion, preliminary and flotation exes,
had swallowed £18,836. Development
has disclosed 210,000 tons of ore, of
which 120,000 is blocked ; the average
grade is put at sdwt.
sj? ♦
There are still small plums for picking
by prospectors on W.A. goldfields. Re-
cently E. Curtis treated 221 b, of dirt from
a claim at Behring Pool, near Cue, for
87oz. Less than a month ago the same
area yielded 1640 z. from 2001 b. of ore.
* l * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant’s Yalgoo option
has been abandoned, and the co. is look-
ing elsewhere. Cash in hand is said
to be sufficient to develop a suitable pro-
position without asking shareholders for
more.
* * * *
Victor Edquist takes the late George
Klug’s job as general manager in Aus-
tralia for B. M. and Co. at the end of
this month. Edquist’s success in resur-
recting Sons of Gwalia and his new
process for the recovery of gold
widened his reputation as a mining en-
gineer and metallurgist. Johnny Rowe,
for years underground manager, succeeds
him as superintendent at Gwalia.
* * * *
During the four weeks to Oct. 5 the
Emperor mill (Fiji), which is capable of
handling 500 tons of ore weekly, treated
365 tons for a yield of 3600 z. fine gold.
Nothing is said about what has been
done to overcome metallurgical difficul-
ties, or from where the ore treated came.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.A.S.: (1), (2) and (3) If safety of capital
and regular divs, are important, look else-
where. (4) Yes. (5) You may be able to do
better elsewhere... .J.W.: The bonds are a
long-term speculation, and guesses as to what
returns might be aren’t worth much at the
moment.., .J.S.S.: See B. 21/7/’35... .X-Dig.:
Hold; Zinc Corp is interested in the show.
....X: Queensland Forest’s proposals will be
reviewed in our next issue.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your -free copy.—Advt.


Convincing Proof
that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will end
BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM
and KIDNEY TROUBLE
These are but a few of the many testimonials that we have received from
grateful users of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. What better proof could there
be that Gin Pills will really do what is claimed of them?
EXCELLENT FOR RHEUMATISM.
“I am sending this testimonial to let you know how wonderfully your Gin Pills have
benefited myself r wife and two grown-up children. We have found them excellent for
Backache and Rheumatism, and have been free from illmss ever since we had Gin
Pills in our medicine-chest.”
Mr. George Christie, Gilbert Street, Gilberton, S.A.
ABSOLUTE RELIEF.
“The pain I suffered with my back and kidneys for
over four years was almost unbearable. I was
advised to try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, and got abso-
lute relief, and they seemed to suit my system per-
fectly. My health has improved out of sight.”
Mrs. N. Glenn,
Ruthven Street, Waverley, N.S.W.
df
ANOTHER BACKACHE
GONE,
“For some considerable time I suffered
with very severe pains across my back,
and I had tried so many remedies that
I had lost faith in them all; but on the
advice of one who had proved their
value I commenced taking Gin Pills,
and you can add my name to the long
list of ever-grateful users.”
; Mrs. B. Moore,
Fletcher Street,
Campsie, N.S.W,
m
m
GRATEFUL
USER.
"I was a sufferer for a considerable time with
Kidney Trouble and failed to find the right remedy,
until a happy inspiration prompted me to give Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills a trial. My appreciation of
such an excellent product is beyond words. I
recommend all sufferers of Kidney Trouble to give
them a trial.”
Mr. A. Reid, Bank Street, Sth. Melbourne, V.
You, too, can get the same speedy and certain
relief from Backache, Rheumatism and Kidney
Troubles by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Take 2 Pills to-night
—you’ll feel better
to-morrow
T* /
-> > :
&
fm
;-V ; ':, : .:.V '
DE SHELDON'S
27 Pills 19; GO Pills 2>9
£ We would be glad to .send you a trial sample of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. To obtain same, fill in
and post Coupon to : day, together with Id. stamp for
postage. ' T- '
V v o^
4’ a®'
<o\<?
& *
%
-<w
<*
& &
V°
<*
N°*


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Charcoal” Jones and
“Dash-me-rags” were on Prungle, in the
heart of the whipslick- and porcupine-
covered sandhills, 40 miles n.-w. ol
Euston (N.S.W.), when C.J. went for a'
walk one day and failed to return.
“Rags” began the search next morning
on horseback, followed an erratic trail
three or four miles, and lost it on a
belar flat. He returned by moonlight to
find the hut deserted. He searched the
scrub and flats all next day, returning to
find signs that someone had eaten a meal
and decamped with the lost one’s horse.
■ “Rags” pondered on the mystery all night,
and in the morning decided that finding
his mate was the more important, so
saddled up again and set out. That night
he was still mateless, and afraid. Next
day, late, he was scouring the sandhills
east of the hut when a dust-covered
cavalcade bore down on him with sounds
of relief, headed by “Charcoal” Jones!
Out of the profane babble that ensued
emerged the fact that Jones, finding the
•hut deserted, concluded “Rags” was lost,
and rode flat out into Euston to collect
a search party. They are still mates,
though each will maintain that it was
the other who was the blanky fool.
“The 0.D.”; What “Walkabout” and
“Bill Boredrain” fail to appreciate is that
those mokes that swim a creek to get to
mill troughs for a drink (B. 2/10/’35)
do so because they find the mill water
suits their palates. How many times
have “W.” and “B.B.” passed a couple
of pubs to get to another where the beer
pleased them better? Generally, stock
like water from underground better than
surface liquid, probably because of some
mineral content. It is a known fact that
once they acquire a taste for brackish
water they’ll ignore fresh.
.I; » ... ...
“Arrah”: Who said white cockatoos
haven’t affection as well as brains?
There is one at the Maclean Hotel
(N.S.W.) so much attached to his mis-
tress that when she entered a private
hospital Cocky became disconsolate. He
took to visiting houses in search of her,
and his quest was rewarded at last.
Accommodation had to be found at the
hospital for the bird until the patient
recovered.
“Munchausen”: The season for snake-
baby stories has opened. First on the
list is an Orbost (Vic.) infant who came
into the house with a young black snake
in each fist, inviting his mother to admire
his pet “grasshopper.” After the uproar
was over it was found that the nipper
had been playing with the crawlers for
some time. Snakes, even if as young
as the Orbost “grasshoppers,” are defi-
nitely poisonous, and, though the black
is not a virulent variety, a bite or two
would probably have been enough for
the boy. The immunity of very young
children in such circumstances is a
curious fact, and every year one hears
of instances. It isn’t that the youngsters
are particularly gentle with their chance-
made friends, either. Anyone who has
seen a baby subjecting an infuriated cat
to treatment which would earn a grown-
up a father of a mauling can bear wit-
ness.
“Nordbo”; Why won’t a black snake
eat rats? Under a huge stump of a tea-
tree lives the father of black snakes,
reported by scared field workers to be
14ft. long. The stump stands near a
block of sugarcane infested by rats, and
Joe Blake has worn a clearly-defined path
into the cane, which apparently is its
favored hunting-ground. One would
expect damage from rats to be negligible
in the vicinity, but examination showed
the opposite to be true. Half-caste Harry
explained the phenomenon. A black
snake prefers a diet of grasshoppers. He
had known one to be in captivity for
six months, steadily refusing to touch
the rats placed in its cage—declining
also, by the way, to drink water ail
that lime. Rat, on the other hand, is a
favorite diet of brown snakes and carpet-
snakes.
* >l*. * *
“Berry”: Tihiiron hits the nail on the
head when it finds a lover of poetry in
Paul White. The larger and healthier a
bush family is the more certain it is to
exude poetry; and it’s a guinea to a
gooseberry that' the overflow of The
Bulletin’s waste-paper basket could be
traced to the same source.
“It’s all right , mister —they always work faster after a coupla beers.”
“Harra”: “Say what you like but sign
nothing” is sound advice. A Tweed
(N.S.W.) farmer as a joke made out a
cheque for £25,000, to which he signed
“Jack Lang.” The sequel came recently
when the farmer was invited to send his
cheque-butts along to the Taxation Com-
missioner for verification of his returns.
The butt recording the £25,000 “trans-
action” was overlooked, and the farmer
was astounded to receive a request from
the department to explain how he could
draw an amount of £25,000 from his
furnished income. Explanations were
long and entirely unappreciated by the
officials.
'i' V
“Ghealug”; “Kellick’s” theory (B,
18/9/’35) that particles of nitrogen pene-
trate the pores of divers’ skins and cause
paralysis is certainly novel, and it would
be interesting to know his authority.
Workers such as Bert, Leonard Hill
and Campbell give a more reasonable
explanation. They state that, as a diver
at depths is breathing air under pressure,
he takes an excess of nitrogen, which is
absorbed by the blood in the lungs, but
cannot be used by the tissues. If the
pressure of air breathed is quickly re-
duced, as in coming straight to the sur-
face, the blood releases nitrogen bubbles
in the tissues— hence the paralysis.
Experienced Japanese divers in Thursday
Island waters are alive to the necessity
of “staging” when coming up from deep
water. If one is “pinched” he is promptly
put into his dress again and thrown over-
board. One Jap thus treated was lowered
to 20 fathoms, and staged up from there,
three days and three nights being occu-
pied with the staging, while one or other
of his cobbers constantly visited him.
The cure was effective, and this boy is
now out on his lugger, diving daily.
* * * *
“Cradock”: Though it has been kept
quiet, a large section of the best sheep
country in the karoo, that about Graaf
Reinet, has been going under to the
prickly-pear curse for some years. In
despair the Government sent to Aus-
tralia for a consignment of Cactublastis
eggs, and the resultant hullabaloo was
interesting to an Australian observer.
The all-important farmers, largely Dutch
in personnel, wanted to know whether
or not Cacto. would eat crops and fruit
in preference to the pear, a big majority
being of the opinion that it would. Boer
War veterans will recognise a familiar
note in the protest of a diehard Dopper
section against the introduction of the
creature as deliberate interference with
the plans of De Allmachtig. There was
such a row that the cases of eggs were
hung up at Cape Town breakwater for a
week while the Union Parliament rushed
a special bill authorising their admission.
Caterpillars are now being issued to
farmers from the breeding station at
Graaf Reinet, and all hands are waiting
to see whether the newcomer is indeed
an angel of light or just a variation of
the Old Gentleman with the horns and
tail in whom every Dopper devoutly
believes.
* a ■ * *
"Rus”: An official received a message
that a Torres Strait “boy” had been
badly mauled by a shark. He boarded
a lugger where the patient was laid out
with only his head showing from under
a blanket. A sheepish grin and a cigar-
ette in his mouth conveyed the impres-
sion that the injuries were exaggerated,
and this was borne out by his reply of
“A’ right, bawss,” when asked how he
felt. However, when the blanket was
thrown back it was apparent that he
hadn’t a chance —he was disembowelled.
That sable stoic smoked a chain of
cigarettes to the end without whimper-
ing.
“Double Disc”; Tell “Bray Rock”
(B. 25/9/’35) that the jewfish (Scicena
antarctica) was, and is, often referred to
as “jewelfish” because of the otoliths, or
“earstones,” which are found in the
heads of many teleostean fishes, and
which are particularly large in the
Sciamidce species. The “jewy” is found
round our coast from southern W.A.
(kingfish). South Aus. (mulloway), Vic.
(kingfish), N.S.W. (jewfish) to Queens-
land, where it is either “jewfish” or “dew-
fish.” The jewfish and the morwong—
which is nothing like a jewy to look at —
are apt to be called “snapper” in Sydney
fishshops. Of the 150-odd species of the
family Scioenida; found in various parts
of the world, we have only three repre-
sentatives in Australian waters —the jew-
fish, the teraglin and the salmon; all
first-class food fishes.
“D.A.D.”: Cheers for “Colonel Bung-
starter” (B. 18/9/’35), who was able to
see beyond the galvanised-iron and billy-
goats of Thursday Island. T.I. at
present solely on the
ducts md Y ‘ Adelaide -“Proffv”
sor ,' T , ’ , wnn ld eladlv give
of
that his advanced years are due to the
fact that he is able to dodge the co s
and influenza of the south by staying
here from May to October. Visitors
to the Melbourne meeting of the B.M.A.
who stepped off at T.I. were charmed,
and said it had afforded the most inter-
esting excursion they had experienced in
Australia.
* * *
“M.G.”: Melbourne Aigus as
adopted the sane idea ol cutting the o
out of the word opossum. I his retorm is
long overdue ; the oldest of us cannot re-
member a lime when Australians—ex-
cept for a handful of pedants -ever re-
ferred to the little animal as anything e sc
but a possum. And they were coirect
zoologically, lor the Austiahan possum
is not an opossum any more than a
goanna is an iguana,
’*.* ’ , ,
“Joey : Scientific breeding has been
introduced into the Melb. Zoo, where
experts have succeeded m securing the
birth of a white possum by careful y
selecting its ancestors. It is hoped to
develop the breed and fix the type when
a few more arc evolved. Ihe time
appears to be within coo-ce when pink
elephants will no longer be the monopoly
of the bibulous, and will stroll about
other parts of the landscape as well as
on the ceiling,
* * * *
“Western”: The spinifex is a plant
which, through aeons of evolution, and
during the long period which witnessed
the slow desiccation of Central Australia.
has gradually adapted itself to an
existence on ■ the barest minimum of
moisture. Its func-
tion is to bind and
hold down the im-
mense wastes of
sand upon which
it grows. Without
such binding the
centre of this con-
tinent would be
like the Sahara —a
recently - elevated
ocean bed that has
had no lime to
develop any pro-
tective vegetation.
It is because of
the destruction of
the spinifex by
rabbits that the
sandhills, anchored
firmly for ages, are
now beginning to
advance. During
favorable seasons
the spinifex seeds, but killing-out the
rabbit pest is the real remedy. Unless it
is done the sand will continue its march
until areas at present considered quite
safe will be overwhelmed.
“Squalus”: Australians intending to
visit Malaya in the near future would
do well to keep out of gaol. A Sydney
firm is setting up a factory whereby
everything about a shark except his nasty
smile is to be made into something useful.
The chief article to be produced is dried
shark meat. A big and steady market
for this in the Netherlands East Indies
is already assured, the local Government
having agreed to feed the prisoners in all
its gaols on the stuff. In Abyssinia a
creditor is allowed to hang a debtor if
he cannot collect. The proposed East
Indian system of rationing its juggees
sounds a bit more drastic still.
“Vamac”; The mussel-eating cod
mentioned by “J.W.McC.” (B. 18/9/’35)
set his gastric juices an easy job when
compared with the rock cod I caught off
Magnetic Island (Q.). This fellow had
swallowed the cut-out sealing-lid of a
fobacco-tin. The blob of solder was
the only part that seemed to be offering
serious resistance to the digestive pro-
cess ; the rest had been reduced to i
barely-recognisable network of metai.
While on the subject of swallowing, let’s
see if anyone can swallow this. I was fish-
ing with a handline (not gut) beside an
old Malay when I hooked a large stinga-
ree. He sucked down on the sand, as
they always do, so I prepared to break
my line as the quickest way out of the
deadlock. Ahmat stopped me. “Rub
him plug tobacco longa line ; he come
up.” I tried it. After a few rubs the
ray made a wild dash, but soon sucked
down again. I then tried rubbing
various other things instead of the
tobacco. No go. Tried the plug again,
and up came the fish at once. Each
time it was the same, and I eventually
landed him. I have long since given up
expecting anyone to believe me, but give
ir a go, somebody, and tell us how you
get on.
WATER AND WASSAIL.
“It’s in the paper I’ve got ’ere,” remarked the
rouseabout, Long Joe,
“That some professor bloke in Sydney says— ■
an’ ’e’s supposed to know —
That beer is not a food, an’ that the reason
why it makes yer fat
Is that there’s so much water in the contents
o’ the brewer’s vat.
“1 don’t pretend to know too much about
the way these scientists
Can tell that beer is not a thing to chew while
’eld between yer fists;
Me workin’ life’s, been mostly spent between
the station an’ the pub.
But, spare me days! I’m just as good at tellin’
that the stuff ain’t grub.
“The cove that stands in sawdust by the hour
an’ keeps on moppin’ up
Until ’e’s tight as any drum an’ blown up like
a poisoned pup
May think, accordin’ to the prof., that when
with extra weight ’c’s clogged
It's somethin’ in the beer. It ain’t. It’s jus’
because ’e’s waterlogged.
"The old blokes always reckon that the beer’s
not ’arf as good as when
They sank it twenty years ago (of course, they
said the same thing then!);
It had a better kick, they say, an' they could
drink it all day long.
Professors can explain the cause—the water
these days ain’t as strong.
“Beer’s not a food! Ah, well, what odds?
What does it matter, anyhow?”
Joe swallowed thirstily. “Be cripes! I’m dry
enough to go one now.
An’, though we mightn’t get a feed when Hebe
pulls the pump, I think
That most of us won’t worry till they start to
say beer ain't a drink !”
N.S.W.
QUAYEAU.


“Walkabout”: At a recent Queensland
country show guesses at the weight of a
bullock that eventually dressed 7681 b.
ranged from 901 b. to as high as a ton and
a half. It reminded me of an incident in
the dim long ago when, accompanied by
my self-appointed second-in-charge (there
were only two of us with the cattle), I
rode across to see a mob of 1000 bul-
locks. A Melbourne buyer was riding
through the mob inspecting. “They’ll
average around 890,” he said, “About
51b. more, I’d say,” came in an authorita-
tive voice from my s.-in-c. “Don’t be a
tool,” snorted the master-butcher ; “these
are cattle—not sheep.”
* * * *
“Gelt” (Rabaul); The Mapos mum-
mies found in a cave on the New Guinea
goldfields are receiving a heapof publicity,
but much of the ballyhoo is misleading.
Alcherley no more discovered the mum-
mies than Cook discovered the North
Pole. Downing, a Government medical
assistant, found them first in 1929, and a
prospector, Hall Best, reported them early
this year. It will be a surprise to many
if the age of these dehydrated corpses is
found, when examined by experts, to be
more than 50 or 60 years old,
* * * *
“Coolibah”: The black swan of West-
ralia is the only known wild bird to
practise lifelong fidelity to its mate.
When the male swan reaches adult age
he goes courting, and if the lady is
willing they set up house. The attach-
ment lasts till death them doth part.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: “Tom Willie” errs (B.
18/9/’35); goannas do wander at night,
when away from their natural habitat.
Some years ago one scurried under the
house to escape the fierce teeth of our
cattle bitch. About midnight the whole
family was awakened by a medley of
screeching tin and scrambling boards.
The go. was found scratching for his
natural jambed between an iron wall
and the wood box.
* * *
“W.G.G.”: Can uphold “Fish-O” (B.
4/9/’35) as to the fresh-water catfish
having a forked tail like the mullet. In
most other respects it is similar to the
jew, except that it is rounder-bodied,
and also, when pulled out, gives a
darned good imitation of a distant cat
fight.
afc 9.: :J: *
“Lapwing”: The latest to join crows
and magpies in protest against the golf
obsession is the plover. A pair of nesting
birds at a place with the incredible name
of Gulargambone (N.S.W.) have made the
ninth green an uncomfortable spot for
the local players, swooping
about their heads with loud
squawks while they are put-
ting, the which is calculated to
put even Bobby Jones off his
game. As the plovers are
probably spurwings, there is
also the chance of losing an
eye by a blow from the spur-
tipped shoulders, an accident
which has happened to humans
before to-day. It is very re-
grettable, but as the protected
insect-eating plovers are more
important to N.S.W. than kill-
ing time, one would suggest a cessation of
golf at Gulargambone until Mr. and Mrs.
Plover have reared their family.
* * * *
“J.H.F.”: “Such a nice man called
to-day, looking for odd jobs to do,” said
the wife when I got home; “such a
gentleman. I got him to do this and
that, and clean the windows, but he
couldn’t do the top of the bay, as he
had no steps.” “But why didn’t he get
the steps?” I asked. “They’re down in
the tool-house, aren’t they?” “Yes,”
said wifey; “but I didn’t like to send
him down there alone. I thought he
might steal your tools.”
* * * *
“Oran”: Maoriland, which periodi-
cally arises to curse some imported pest
or other, has at last discovered a case in
which the blame can actually be sheeted
home. Some years ago the Otago Accli-
matisation Society introduced the small
German owl, which, expected to do use-
ful work by living on a diet of un-
wanted vermin, etc., has devoted its
efforts entirely to the capture of small
native birds. Unlike the morepork,
which mostly hunts by night, the German
menace attacks its prey in daylight, and
is making alarming depredations among
harmless and useful tits and fantails.
* * * *
“Bluegum”: Aboliars are making
merry argument about what it is that
“Henry, if you MUST sing, I wish you'd try something else. Anyway,
I never DID like ‘ A-hunting We Will Go.' ”
keeps a bushman unbushed. They may
call it instinct, judgment—anything they
please. Boiled down to plain words, it
is the sheer, inborn ability to strike a
line and keep to it, rain or shine, day-
light or dark, for hours, days and weeks
on end, as the case- demands. As one
who has done his whack of battling over
many types of country, in all sorts of
weathers, I say that this sense of direc-
tion is a natural part of a man’s mental
make-up. Practice improves it, and
teaches one to take advantage of local
signs direction of watercourses,
weather-side of timber, etc. —but no
amount of experience can replace the
indefinable power which is the basis of
all bushcraft.
* * * *
“Penn Street”: “D.1.C.” (B. 18/9/’35)
is correct as to the ease with which sea-
gulls are tamed in South Aus. They
seem to have a fondness, however, for
getting out and running on the hard
surfaces of surrounding roads. My old
home was something of a sanctuary for
fowls which had escaped from captivity,
and on two occasions pairs of seagulls
made their home with us. All four were
killed by motors.
* * * ♦
“W.P.T.”: A short distance from the
mouth of the Bega River (N.S.W.) there’s
a great stack of broken mussel-shells on
a big flat rock. The other morning I
“Well, Mr. Jones, I suppose we'll have to make the best of it."
“ Good-o! Which side of the island will you have?"
solved the mystery. Crows circled over-
head and dropped shells on this flat
rock, then swooped down to feast on
the contents released. The fowls proved
good bombers; they rarely missed the
rock, though up a great height. But
why this particular rock only has me
puzzled.
* * * *
“8.W.”: When collecting Neophema
parrots in the North Flinders Range
(S.A.), I entered one locality where the
elegant parrot (Neophema elegans ) was
known as the rock pebbler, the name
correctly given to a • bigger and differ-
ently-marked parrot. The only similarity
between the two is the bright orange-
colored beak of the fledgling elegant
and adult pebbler. It is possible that the
bird was first confused with its coast-
frequenting cousin the rock parrot ( N.
petrophila), which it strongly resembles,
and that from there the name grew to
rock pebbler
“Ginge”: “Old-t.” (B. 18/9/’35)
appears to be as ignorant of bush lore
as his engineering youngsters. The galah,
skinned, will cook as tender as a pigeon.
The toughness is caused by the skin
contracting and hardening when heated,
preventing the expansion and breaking
of the flesh.
“Williami”; Tough pigeons (B.
4/9/’35) are as jelly compared with the
galah. Stew that fellow for 24 hours
and you will have excellent soup ; but
you can’t tear the meat from the bones.
I’ve seen dogs eat cooked hawk, but they
can’t get their teeth into the rosy-colored
fowl.
“Talipot”: “Bill Oliffe” (B. 31/7/’35)
certainly was lucky in experiencing an
instance of genuine Binghi gratitude.
Generally any tangible expression of
appreciation of favors carries with it an
expectation of further and greater favors.
Admittedly there are exceptions ; hence
the differentiation in beche-de-mer Eng-
lish between the “present” and the
“proper present.” The former has the
usual string attached to it, whilst the
latter is given without any expectation
of quid pro quo.
!|t * $ *
“Laetitia”: Surrounding Darnley
Island (Torres Strait) are a series of fish-
traps arranged on the maze pattern, with
cement walls fashioned from rocks and
coral-lime forming the channels through
which the fish enter at the flood tide,
and, becoming lost in the convolutions,
are left stranded at the ebb. The traps,
extending over some miles in area, are
of mysterious origin—they are an engi-
neering feat beyond the Binghi inhabi-
tants of to-day. One popular theory is
that they are a relic of Torres, or pos-
sibly earlier Spanish adventurers; but
what strikes me is their similarity to the
abo. type of traps in the Darling at
Brewarrina (N.S.W.), which are a minia-
ture of the Darnley scheme. Still, the
wide divergence in type of the finely
physiqued islander from the mainlandcr
supports the anthropological contention
that there is no common root.
* * * *
“Bucks”: “Sa Tiko” is a little narrow
in experience when he says (B. 18/9/’35)
that the butcher-bird and grey thrush
are the only fowls that will enter a house
for food. The habit is comparatively
common with magpies. One maggie was
a regular visitor to my place when en-
gagements permitted. And his yearly
return to the neighborhood was always
announced by turning up in the kitchen
with loud demands for food.
* * * *
“O. Plumb”: For a tickbite, apply a
little turps to the skin surrounding the
part attacked. Even when buried quite
deeply the tick will then come out. Fail-
ing that, good tweezers and a sharp,
quick pull, being careful to take the
head.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Some of these daily
press naturalists have a lot to learn. In
a column about the peewee, one of them
said that its other name of mudlark was
applied because of its alleged fondness
for wet localities. Wrong; it got the
name through building a mud nest
The same writer says the fowl’s call
is not suggestive of the name “peewee,”
and alleges that it whistles “sweet pretty
gee gee,” repeatedly. This sounds like
the noise one might expect from a cross
between a wagtail and the man who
backed the favorite in “the larst.” Every
bushman will deny that it belongs to the
peewee, whose cry is distinctly “pee-
wee-ee, pee-wee-ee, pee-wee-ee,” gener-
ally repeated three times.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Let all those other amateur
cooks roll their swags. This is the only
real way to cook all sorts of edible fish.
Catch the fish and make a fire. When the
coals are good roll him, just as he came
out of the water, in a good caking of
mud in which a whack of clay finds its
place. Put that wet brick in the fire,
covering it with live coals. Leave it there
the requisite time, which varies according
to the size of the fish, and may be
judged by steam jets breaking through
the mud. Having done that, and done it
properly, rake the thing out. Break the
baked brick from about the body. When
that falls off —and it comes off in lumps—
it takes every scale with it, leaving the
outer skin of the fish intact. On opening
it the insides will be found shrivelled up
in one hard little ball, easily plucked out
and thrown away. The fish that remains
is the stuff on which the gods dine, and
with all its juice and flavor left in it.
* * * *
“Silentio”: A. man buying groceries
was riding a fresh young horse, and
when the storekeeper handed him half a
dozen eggs in a separate bag he demanded
to know how the blazes he was going to
carry ’em. “What’s the missus want ’em
for?” queried the grocer. “Cookin’, I
s’pose,” grumbled the other, pulling at
his frisky nag. “Right!” said the chap
behind the counter, taking a small screw-
top jar from the bulk-honey counter,
breaking the hen-fruit in and screwing
the lot down ; “you just stick it in your
pocket.”
* * * *
“William”: Isn’t it about time that
silly myth about the butting goat was
knocked on the head? It’s right enough
for kids’ comics, but in sober fact a
goat is no more addicted to butting than
is a worm. He isn’t in it with a ram for
unprovoked attack.
“El V.”: A 16-year-old boy picnick-
ing at Ashgrove (Brisbane) found himself
the other day half wrapped up in 12ft.
of carpet-snake which came out of a
hollow log. With true Australian
phlegm, he sat still while a companion
caught the reptile by the tail and dragged
it off to its death. A 12ft. carpet-snake
is a nasty customer, and I think this
must have been a mild relation of one
of the breed which 25 years ago I im-
ported, as a suckling, into the old “Daily
Mail” office as a catcher of rats. He
was evidently good at his work, which
he did so unobtrusively that we lost
sight of him for months. It was just
before a hot and jovial Christmas that
he appeared again, and as by that time
he had lengthened considerably and
waxed fat he was not so welcome as
he might have been to the cable editor,
who dwelt in a cupboard under the
stairs and who discovered him sitting on
a message about Mexico at ten o’clock
at night. Charles Hardie Buzacott, who
was spending the evening of an eventful
life as our managing director, went to
inspect and found no snake. But while
he was looking accusingly at the cable
editor, he decided to sit down on a
pile of newspapers. No Abyssinian tribe
ever rose faster than C.H.B,
OCTOBER.
The bottlebrush is touched with flame,
Boronias are in flower,
And many a wayside garden
Gleams like a scented bower.
The wool teams on the western roads
Go slowly lurching by;
The cane trucks skirt the northern roads
Beneath a flawless sky.
But down along the southern roads
The days seem half divine,
With dawns as cool as crystal
And noons as warm’ as wine.
Great silky oaks lift golden plumes
Athwart the dazzling air;
In parks the jacarandas spread
Mauve plumage everywhere.
The white roads of October,
They tell unceasingly
Of glowing beauty in the bush
And the harsh kiss of the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE JONES.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lisuiore.
VICTORIA; 47.3 Collins Street, Melbourne,
arid at Geelong - .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full 'particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,”
' SYDNEY.
A PENNY
'} AN HOUR
a?
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.”
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.:
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
Mac Ewan’s =
MADE i.Ni QUEE/iSL A,\D BY
RAPSON d DUTTON PTY LTD
•■•VALLEY BRISBANE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Is There a Way?
“The 0.D.”: The trouble with those
Queensland squatters of “Sheepo’s” (B.
2/10/'35) is that, vainly hoping for rain,
they let their sheep go too far, and then
spend “double and treble their value” in
feed when nothing could have saved
them. Too many men hang on until the
stock are falling over, then rush to the
other extreme, buy a lot of feed, and see
the stock die just the same. Then there
are the niggardly type who, forced to buy
fodder, get the cheapest, and turn out
weevily grain, musty jjiay, or mouldy
lucerne to the starved mobs.
Properly managed, fodder conserva-
tion can beat drought. Even in the
driest parts of Queensland and N.S.W.
there are runs of seasons when, either by
purchasing it or growing it on the place,
every grazier can put down a reserve of
grass hay or silage and grain. If he
works it out at scwt. of a mixed ration
per sheep over 10 dry months (21b. a
day) he can soon estimate how much he
requires to see him over even a five-year
drought.
But, once having got the fodder con-
served, good management becomes
essential. The reserve must not lie un-
touched until the sheep are weak; feed-
ing out should commence as soon as the
natural pasture shows signs of a serious
failure. Thus the sheep have a mixture
of roughage and conserved fodder, and
become used to the latter gradually,
eventually doing well on it when the
paddocks are bare as boards. In north-
west N.S.W. 1 know men who have had
a big lamb drop in a droughty time and
brought their ewes and lambs through
on conserved, fodder. It is essential that
the fodder should provide a mixed
ration.
I agree with “Sheepo” on the need for
water conservation, but it should go
hand in hand with feed.
A Dorset Horn Trial.
‘'Rambil”; In the Merriwa district
(N.S.W.), the seasons ’3l to ’34 averaged
28 inches of rain, which proved too
much for my lamb-raising pastures.
Although the lambs were reared in
lightly-stocked lucerne paddocks, it was
necessary to dose them ; and the worms
took the bloom off the suckers before
they reached market age. Beginning to
believe my country was unsuitable for
raising fat lambs, I bought 15 merino
jams to join with 1200 merino ewes for
this season ; but the thought of no ready
cash from fat lambs proved unsettling, so
I added 15 pure Dorset Horn rams to
the merinos and joined the lot with the
ewes.
The rainfall continued above the
monthly average from November till
January. Then it turned dry, and only
7 inches fell over the following seven
months. During this period 850 lambs
were dropped—33o merinos and 520
Dorset Horns. The latter are the best
suckers 1 have had over the last five
seasons, being better-grown and more
bloomy, though reared under almost
drought conditions.
Small Flocks and Big Lines.
“Granova”: Although well-classed
small lots of wool are better than large
mixed lines a big line will usually bring
about a halfpenny more than a star lot
of identical wool.
Most mi?ced farms carry several
flocks of breeding ewes and a smaller
flock of hoggets. On average-sized
properties, if each flock is classed sepa-
rately, the lines will all be small.
Shear the hoggets first, and then the
breeding ewes, beginning with the
younger sheep. The wool from the
young dry ewes will fit in with the main
hogget line. The finer, shorter hogget
fleeces can be classed with ewes; cast
lines and skirtings as coming off one
flock.
Locks, Broken and Pieces.
“Lion”: “Murrawong’s” advice about
locks is sound (B. 18/9/’35), but can be
improved upon. For the last eight years
we have put up a 100-bale clip as follows
with highly payable results.
The pickers-up remove dags before
gathering the fleece. This prevents foul-
ing underneath the table. Immediately
after sweeping the board the dags are
removed. The stained pieces are put
into a basket for special treatment. Good
pieces are picked out and thrown on to
the piece-pickers’ table. The rest, includ-
ing sweat dags only, is thrown under
the table, hut spread evenly from end
to end. Thus, second cuts can inter-
mingle with the whole, giving a brighter
appearance to the locks.
We put up skirted broken, first pieces
and locks only. All wool showing length
and quality goes into the broken, but not
topknots. The broken skirtings, unless
very short or faulty, go with the first
pieces; the rest with the locks under
the table. Leg-pieces, usually too short
for the first pieces, go into the locks.
The result is good prices for all lower
lines. If carefully done, the locks don't
contain much bulky wool. We tried
making second pieces, but it didn’t pay.
The locks look clean, are free from
dags, and should not be pressed more
heavily than 4001 b.
Care must be taken to keep every
atom of good wool picked out. We
seldom have five bales of locks in our
100 bales. They never weigh more than
about 3751 b. Therefore, little bulky wool
is “wasted.”
We attribute good lock prices to light
pressing, no dags, and dealing with each
individual shearer’s sweepings immedi-
ately.
S. Africa Gives a Lead.
“Sheepo”: Australia could with ad-
vantage follow S’Africa’s new wool-
baling regulations, which make it an
offence to offer for sale “any wool con-
taining paint or tar.”
Now that reliable branding fluids have
been evolved which scour out easily and
have no adverse effect on the staple, it
is time to prohibit the use of tar or
mineral oil for branding or as anti-fly
dressings.
Another clause in the S’African Act
might be copied—that which makes it
an offence to offer for sale unskirted
fleece wool unless the bales are branded
“unskirted.”
Offenders against the new regulations
are liable to a fine of £5 for a first
offence, and £lO on subsequent con-
victions.
Ringbarking and Breeding.
“Brebis”: The heavy ringbarking
which has been done in the last five
years in s.-w. Queensland, largely be-
tween Thallon and Cunnamulla, is being
accelerated by loans from the Country
Development Fund.
Apart from increasing the carrying
capacity of the country, this may have
the effect of converting previous breeding
selections to dry stock propositions.
Owing to the sheep’s preference for the
better grasses and the comparative
neglect of the heavy seeding wiregrass,
the latter has flourished, and large areas
are densely covered.
Lambs cannot force their way through
the grass, and are left by ewes on the way
to water, to become an easy prey to
crows and foxes.
At lamb-marking and after, losses are
heavier, through iambs being weakened
and mothering more difficult.
As burning the grass is seldom practi-
cable only two solutions seem possible:
To ring areas with narrow frontages to
water, and leave a green strip of at least
three chains between rung belts, or to
introduce other grasses, such as woolly
finger grass, which is reputed to choke
out wiregrass.
Whether breeders will have to change
to wethers remains to be seen. Once
high lambing percentages were the rule
in this district, but since ringing began
on a large scale four years ago there is
scarcely a property carrying much wire-
grass where heavy lambings have been
weaned.
More Attractive Beef.
“Ghanam”: .Somebody suggested the
other day that Britons and Australians
alike were gradually becoming a cereal-
eating people. It may be true —figures
sometimes do not -give a sound con-
spectus. But if it is so in Australia, it is
largely because of the size and quality of
our cuts.
It annoys me to notice that we think
of producing the world’s best only when
we are forced to it by export necessities
—doubly so because, if we had set the.
same policy to govern our own consump-
tion, an export trade in meat would long
ago have come to us.
However, it seems to be characteristic
of Australia that in stone-fruit districts
hotels serve wilted Fiji bananas, in
butter districts the local butter standard
is rarely up to the grade of the exported,
and the average joint where graziers
sweat to produce beef has much to shame
it.
The standardisation of joints to
modern family needs and the bestowal
of as much attention on making them
attractive in appearance as is given to
most products would sell a lot more
beef.
Sterility in Cattle.
“Silky Bag”: If all cattle could roam
under old-time range conditions little
sterility would occur. Incidence in dairy
cattle is heavier than among station
cattle. Heavy milk production, forced
and early-aged breeding and the greater
chance of picking up germs are only a
few of the reasons for this.
Overfatness is beginning to be looked
on as frequently a result rather than a
cause of barrenness. Occasionally re-
sults can be got by manipulating ovary
cysts in these cases.
Infection is a different matter. Vagi-
nitis, which even flies can spread, can be
cured with permanganate irrigations.
Deeper-seated metricitis and cervicitis
must be treated at an early stage by the
same chemical or, better, with a 1-to-
-4000 part solution of Dibromin in water.
Both diseases invade the uterus, and then
the ovaries, often causing abortion.
They are not identical with contagious
abortion. Most cows suffer uterine in-
jury and poisoning after aborting from
this disease. A normal cow, however,
may have the disease without slipping a
calf in a lifetime.
If the cow discharges for no longer
than a month or five weeks, it is prob-
ably contagious abortion. If the dis-
charge, which is yellowish or putrid,
continues indefinitely, the others can be
suspected. When vaginitis lesions are
cleaned up, the others may be detected.
In doubtful cases, the C.A. blood test
is necessary.
Most of the work of eliminating sterility
is one long grind with the irrigating tube,
but often this pays better than fattening
for the butcher.
Clean Dairies—Choice Butter.
■‘Stump Jump”: “Julius Want” (B.
18/9/’35) seems to have forgotten that
no butter factory, however good its
methods, can make a choice butter from
poor cream.
The extent of contamination deter-
mines the amount of neutralisation and
pasteurisation needed, and as this in-
creases flavor goes.
At (his year’s Melbourne R.A.S., the
judges commented strongly on the excel-
lence of factory methods, as illustrated by
products submitted from stock, and the
poorness of natural flavor.
The men who are taking pains to pro-
duce sweet cream will carry the-shiftless
type of dairyman on their backs until
factory grading becomes tighter than at
present.
If utensils and containers are kept
scrupulously clean, and yard and shed
work above reproach, all that remains is
to judge the correct ripeness of the cream
before churning. British home-made
butter, which is sold in large quantities,
is never pasteurised, and is churned only
when exactly correct acidity is reached,
giving a fine texture.
Butter thus made from clean cream
remains sweet for long periods, which is
more than the average Australian farm-
made butter usually does. Unfortunately,
we have come to lean on the pasteuriser.
N.S.W. leads the field in choicest
butter production because its system
of Government inspection is the severest.
Other States won’t discipline themselves
to the same extent.
Fodder Sorghums.
“Wagoo”: This is the season for sow-
ing sorghums over most of eastern Aus-
tralia. They are a good standby for
a long summer, withstand drought
better than maize and put up with a
poorer soil. Maize is apt to go out com-
pletely with a bad dry spell, but the sor-
ghums have remarkable power of re-
covery.
To get the best results, the land should
have been deeply ploughed in early
winter, with clods broken and weeds kept
down till just before sowing. Then a
shallow turning up should be given—
there should be extreme 'care taken
to see that the sweet surface soil is not
buried too far down. The seedbed should
be fairly fine.
On the coast, late maturers of the
sugar varieties are most suitable. They
remain green longer than other varieties.
Further west, medium late kinds have
their chance.
Fertilisers depend on locality. With
poor nitrogen content in the soil, super,
to sulphate of ammonia iewt. per
acre should be used. Normally, lewt. to
2cwt. of super, makes a good dressing.
Sorghum can be planted with a maize
planter fitted with a sorghum plate.
Furrows should be 4in. to sin. deep and
covered with a light harrow. When a
drill is used to sow on the flat—a suitable
procedure on large areas —some of the


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know
jfilTfyvlletj/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, ih a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
■r>
■
I
For outdoor work!
There’s extra strength in Abbey
Cossacks . . . double - soled,
with stoutly made uppers that
give increased protection under
all conditions. Abbey Cossacks
are ideal for work and wet-
weather wear.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or
tan, at 2/6. This is splendid for
working and riding boots —it
softens the leather, makes it water-
proof and increases its wearing
qualities,
Australian Kip . . . . 457-
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . , . . 37/6
Write for catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TKLEGBAPIIIC AUl)l£j;S>:
ABBKY, BOOTS, SVDNn.
FPL 100
m
The Answer to a Question
Many Women are Asking
Thousands of women, and men too, live
in a perpetual state of ill-health and are
at a loss to know the reason why. In
ninety-nine cases out of every hundred
the cause is acid dyspepsia. With the
stomach in a constant state of sourness
you are bound to get the following symp-
toms—Always tired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep, over-
strung nerves, loss of appetite, nausea,
flatulence and indigestion. To restore
normal health it is necessary to overcome
the habitual sourness of the stomach and
this can be most effectually accomplished
with * Bisurated ’ Magnesia, the supreme
stomach remedy with over 20 years’
reputation for unfailing efficacy. A tea-
spoonful of powder, or 2 to 4 tablets,
three times daily after meals, never fails
to work wonders. If you have the symp-
toms described above, why not try putting
your stomach right ? Get a bottle of
• Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder or tablets,
from your chemist and start your
recovery to-day by taking the first dose
after your next meal—its restorative
effect will be a revelation to you.
‘BISURATED’
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation, /fffflK
very economical. The package |»}Muf:\fl
bears the ‘Bisruag’ Trade Mark
ersi
o
SEASICK
REMEDY
Guarantees Travel Comfort
This is Globite 1858
fibre case with one-piece body
finished like smooth, glossy
leather, but lower priced. It
is rigid and extra strong,
with nickelled corner guards.
Globite 1858 is the smartest,
lightest, and most serviceable
of travel cases.
Catei
is
( i
The scenic route ”
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St.. Melbourne
UNION
ROYAL MAIL LINES
grain runs in the outfit should be blocked
so as to get the rows 3ft. apart.
On the coast, 61b. to 81b. per acre of
seed will fill the bill. If planting is in
furrows, light harrowing is needed for
cultivation when the plants are about
3in. high. When planting has been on
the fiat, a one-horse cultivator should be
used when they have reached 6in. or
thereabouts.
Tomato Canker.
“C.F.”: Bacterial canker is not easily
recognised. Many mistake it for ordinary
fusarium wilt. The main difference to an
experienced eye is plain—in canker the
stems split and form cavities. As the
disease progresses, plants become
withered and stunted. The cracking of
the stems is preceded by the forming of
yellow and brown marks. The leaves
shrivel curiously—on one side.
Young fruit stops growing and becomes
distorted, but more advanced crop shows
no sign, through its seeds are probably
infected. Sometimes a fruit spot runs
with the canker. This is usually caused
by the washing of bacteria from diseased
leaves and stem. The marks are at first
liny, snow-white and slightly raised on
the surface, but their centres soon crack'
open and become brown and coarse, a
white halo remaining.
infected seed is usually the cause of
canker. Seed should never be saved
from a crop in which there has been
canker. To treat seed, dissolve ioz. cor-
rosive sublimate in a little hot water;
then make up to 12{- pints with cold
water —remember in handling that the
chemical is a deadly poison. Put the
seed in a piece of cheesecloth or muslin
and leave steeping in the mixture for 10
minutes, making sure that all air bubbles
are removed. Then wash it thoroughly
in water apd put it out to dry in a warm
spot.
This will clean the outside of the seed
of germs, but there is no cure for the
internal infection —except to make sure
that you have seed from a clean crop.
Hints for the Faun.
“Willeroo”: To repair cracks in a
cement tank, mix liquid silicate of soda
with the cement. This dries quickly and
very hard, and serves well under water.
If you have no soda, mix the cement
with short-cut horsehair.
“Gumblegubbin”: The fowls usually
get all the stale bread on the farm,
though bread and damper are good for
working horses. A little in the chaff adds
relish and helps to keep them in good
nick.
“J. Want”: Thompson Bros., of Trida,
near Mossgiel (N.S.W.), have evolved a
new treatment for fly strike which is a
relative of that recently advocated by the
C.5.1.R.:
Add half a pint of vinegar to lib.
powdered borax and stir to a paste. Mix
in lib. honey, and add three quarts of
water.
The mixture is applied with a brush.
The inventor says that a single dressing
has proved 100 per cent, effective on his
trials. Even if it gives 50 per cent,
results, it is worth a test.
“Billy See”; When the windmill pump
rod breaks take two strands of fencing-
wire six times the length of broken rod.
Double each strand and secure the four
loose ends firmly, either by nailing to
a log or gripping in a vyce. Slip a lever
through the two loops and begin to
twist, keeping the wire taut so as to
avoid bends and kinks. The result will
be a rigid rod like the handle of a toast-
ing-fork. Do not twist too short. With-
draw the twisting lever and hammer the
loops until the end fits into the socket on
the short rod connected with plunger.
Warm the socket and end of rod and
sweat into a firm junction with a small
ladleful of anti-friction metal or solder.
This, setting around the wire, will also
grip into the screw-head and will hold
permanently. The other end of the rod
can then be cut to length and fitted into
'.he set-screw socket at the head of the
mill.
"Brebis”: A fine achievement in
scrub-feeding. of sheep stands to the
credit ot a St. George (Q.) grazier. He
rented 7000 acres carrying no grass,
placed 4448 head on it, and fed them
chiefly on mulga, but with some kurra-
jong, bungaree, supplejack, myrtle and
plum. The sheep were never without a
prepared lick, and there was a good
supply of bore water. The mixed ewes
and wethers were in good condition at
the start, but better, if anything, four
months later, when 4323 were taken off.
Of the 125 short, 25 were killers; the
rest died as stragglers in the heavily-
timbered country. The loss represents
only 2.25 per cent, for the four months.
'Tennant”: Granny Smith holds the
honors for the best prices received for
Australian apples in Britain during the
last export season —11s. 9d. per case in
London, 11s. 6d. Liverpool and 11s. 2d.
Glasgow.
“Marsh”: As “Wagoo” (B. 25/9/’35)
says, Townsville lucerne is a good bet,
but only for those areas to which the
plant takes kindly. A few years back a
western Queensland grazier tried the
stuff out. Irrigation methods were
adopted, but, although the growing plants
got plenty of creek water, free from
minerals, the experiment failed. Essen-
tially a plant of the coastal regions, wild
lucerne might be encouraged to thrive
in the more southern belts.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(lj What is the N.S.W. Government formula
for calculating the capacity of silos ? (2)
How many pounds to the bushel are usually
taken for calculations ? (3) In the calculations,
is anything allowed for pressure ? (4) What
would a bin 9ft. by 9ft. by 60//. hold ? —7886.
(1) The capacity of a silo in bushels equals the
number of cubic feet multiplied by eight. (2)
A bushel of wheat is 601 b. in engineering calcu-
lations. (3) "No increase in the capacity of a
bin for vertical pressure or depth of wheat
is taken into account. (4) A bin 9ft. square
by 60ft. high would hold 3888 bushels.
* * * *
With 15 acres of fairly good Q. soil, I am
anxious to grow crops to provide feed for
300 to 400 pigs. I have a fair amount of
slaughteryard offal to boil down, as well as
the feed which I hope to grow. Of course,
the pigs will be in different stages of growth.
There is a fairly good supply of water. Will
you advise ? —8646.
We suggest that you concentrate on forage
and grazing crops rather than on grain. Sweet
potatoes should be most valuable, and nor-
mally should provide feed throughout the year.
Planted in the spring, sweets should be ready
for harvesting by the pigs during late summer.
A later crop planted in January can be fed
during the winter, and even, left in the ground
or stored until the end of the year. If the
winter is not very wet, the roots will keep well
in the ground after maturing. Apart from the
roots, s.p. vines provide a large amount of
succulent fodder. There have been cases
of prussic-acid poisoning of pigs on the vines,
but they are so rare that the risk is not
serious. Other crops which may be used in
rotation with the s.p. are cowpeas in the
summer and field peas or rape in the winter.
Rape is very useful in that, in normal seasons,
it can be fed off in eight or ten weeks aftei
sowing, and if properly managed should pro-
vide several grazings during the winter.
Treatment for apple-tree infested with woolly
aphis ? —8835.
During the winter spray with miscible oi.
at a dilution of 1 in 20. In spring, it would
not be safe to use oil at this strength, and
therefore a spray of nicotine sulphate at a dilu
tion of 1 part in 600 parts of water, plu;
soap at the rate of lib. to 25 gallons, i:
recommended. The N.S.W. Agricultural De
partment also distributes a small wasp parasite
which is very effective in controlling woo!l>
aphis.
How is “process” cheese mode ? What is
added to make it softer than ordinary cheese ?
—8852.
Grinding mature cheese to the consistency of
sausage meat and heating it to a temperature
ranging from 130 deg. to 150 deg. F. in a
suitable apparatus in which agitation can be
maintained. During the process, chemical salt?
known as emulsifiers are sometimes added tc
adjust acidity and prevent oiling off of the
fat. Water may be added to give softness.
* * * *
Are camphor laurel trees suitable as a wind-
break ? I am told that their extensive root
development makes them unsatisfactory. Other
suitable trees ? My property is a banana farm
on the Tweed ( N.S.W. ). —8839.
Camphor laurels are unsatisfactory for the
reason mentioned. The sand pine ( Callitris
arenosa) makes a good break. Young seed-
lings may be bought from E. Williams, Bay-
view Nursery, Nudgee, via Brisbane, for Is
each. Trees should be planted sft. apart.
How to make an old 1000 -gallon tank into c.
dip ? —8859.
A tank would not make a workable sheep-
dip, as the sheep would have to be lifted out.
Write to the N.S.W. Agricultural Department
for instruction leaflet.


- . /.
,d/
EH
*T7
OfU-x. P.
• • •
Uffl^Sd
a
:v^
The recently-improved accommodation includes the re-
arranging and re-furnishing of "fl" Deck and a number of
"B" Deck Cabins and the Public Rooms have also been
considerably enlarged and tastefully re-furnished.
These improvements, combined with the low fares, excel-
lent menus, efficient service and unrestricted deck space
offer the best value in travel comfort obtainable.
FARES FROM £3B PEGS EXCHANGE
atv-
f N "
Principal Agents:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
Tel. B 6701. S Bent Street, Sydney.
Joint Passenger Agents;
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Tel. 87511. 247 George Street, Sydney.
SERVICE
BS 3


/A
vf
m
c
%
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
R 6363 (4 lines,!.
SMOKE-OH!
other day the Town Clerk mentioned a
caretaking-laboring job.
“Oh, I offered it to that constituent
of yours,” he said in reply to my ques-
tion, “but he refused to put in an appli-
cation. He said it was a backbreaking
job, on starvation wages, and he'd sooner
go to gaol than take it.”
“He won’t have an opportunity,” 1
said firmly. “We’ve got to remember
preference to soldiers, and I’m one who s
going to see that this goes to a returned
man.”
I can hardly say how pleased Iam —
on behalf of my Government, 1 may say
—to show what a stickler lam for this
great principle.
H. M .
4, A .J. 4. .
Famous.
The autograph hunter looked done in.
He had been chasing his quarry for just
on four hours.
“My word, he must be an important
person,” said a friend. “Who is he that
“Ras Kassa, with 50,000 men, is hurrying
eastward from Debra Tabor towards Aussa.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
“Ras Kassa, Abyssinia’s greatest general, is
hurrying from Gondar to the Sudan border
with 100,000 men.” — Same paper, same day.
Clever fellows, these Abyssinians.
* -I- 4* 4*
Unhooked.
“An exhibition of hooked rugs was opened
in the Congregational Lecture Hall.” — Adelaide
“Advertiser.”
After reading the above 1 thought it
would be a good idea to hold a similar
exhibition myself. It was opened by my
wife’s cousin, who is our local member,
and closed by the police-sergeant and
two plainclothes detectives.
They confiscated all my hooked rugs,
including some beautiful Persian speci-
mens I had hooked from Lady Smythe’s
summer residence at Bowden, a rare old
Axminster I hooked from Sir Arthur
Portland’s palatial shack on the upper
reaches of the Port River, and other rare
and beautiful rugs hooked from all the
leading furniture emporiums in Adelaide.
I narrowly escaped myself. “You’d
better hook it,” counselled a friend, “be-
fore they get their hooks into you.”
It seemed good advice, so I slung my
hook and got away.
But my wonderful collection of hooked
rugs was lost to me for ever.
Uco.
*1* *2* *1*
Demigod.
I desired adventure. I longed to feel
that exhilarating thrill which only men
who bravely confront death experience.
1 yearned acclamation as a hero ; to be
hailed for my sportsmanship, fortitude
and contempt for danger. I wanted the
engaging blonde in the tobacco kiosk to
realise that in me she beheld another
Hector or Hotspur of indomitable pluck,
mettle and gallantry.
So I crossed King-street at 5.45 p.m.!
P. C.
»t. a a
This Preference.
Ever since I got married —it was about
the time they were talking of bringing in
conscription—my attitude has been the
one 1 often expressed in those days:
“My boys, I’d like to go with you:
being a married man, I can’t. But it
will be my sacred duty to look after
you when you return.” I felt it, too.
So I am glad to say that the Govern-
ment with which I am associated is
devoted to soldier-preference. Look at
the Acts we have passed! Of course,
about the appointment of a solicitor for
the council on which I am an alderman,
there were other things to be considered.
A solicitor who went away to the war —
now, when you think of it, would he have
the same calm reasoning of the man who
stayed home? We had to get the best
man —duty to the ratepayers, you know!
Besides, Longjaw is a particular friend
of my cobber Aid. Cobweb.
Then, when my firm wanted an
accountant —well, my partner particu-
larly wanted the job for his nephew, who
was on his hands. A returned soldier
would hardly have been suitable. Fancy
if he sang “Mademoiselle from Armen-
tieres” during office hours? Not very
nice for the typists, you know!
You see there are definite reasons why
we have not strictly enforced the prefer-
ence. But I’m really keen on it. The
"No good arguin', miss. You HAVEN’T got time to go back for your
lipstick .”
you are so eager to gel his signature?
A famous actor or something?”
“Actor be blowed! ” said the collector.
“He’s the best-known autograph col-
lector in Australia.”
Sef.
•J* *2* *1* *5*
“He says that he is disappointed that his
once fiery temper has left him —the result ol
excessive reading.”— “San."
Too many books spoil the wrath.
a.
Self-supporting.
“Occupation?” asked the magistrate.
“Bottle-oh,” replied old Bill Blotter.
“You mean that you go round col-
lecting empty beer-bottles, then you sell
them again?”
“Well,” said Bill; “that’s half right. I
sell them again ; but I don’t collect
empty ones.”
D. S.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“Flats may one day be built without stairs.
—News item.
They have, of course, already been
built without rooms.
“He was still young, but on his left sat an
octogenarian.” — “Herald.”
So he was on the right side of 80.
b|«
“Looking at it from one angle there is no-
thing wrong with the modern bathing costume,
but then again it might be said that it would
induce immorality among weak-minded people. ’
—News Hein.
There’s nothijig much to it no matter
which angle you view it from.
Making Our Railways Pay.
111. —Changing the Administration.
( Continued .)
Another branch of the clerical staff
with which 1 shall have to dispense will
be the batch of pen-pushers who deal
with inquiries, claims and complaints.
Under my regime there will be no
inquiries. Passengers will have to find
things for themselves. This will encour-
age initiative and help to make our citi-
zens self-reliant —surely an important
thing in the national economy?
At first, no doubt, the system will be
a little confusing, but experience is a
great teacher, and after a man has been
taken a few times to Newcastle instead
of Goulburn, or Albany instead of
Geraldton, he’ll soon learn to look before
he leaps into the nearest moving train.
Every encouragement will be given to
passengers to be on the alert. For the
first six months a monthly prize will be
awarded to the person completing the
largest number of journeys without
catching a wrong train or missing a
change, and a bonus will be given to
the porter ignoring the largest number of
inquiries.
There will be no claims. Every pas-
senger will carry his own risk, and all
goods will be carried at owner’s risk.
It will be seen at once what an excel-
lent scheme this is. There’ll be no more
arguments over goods that go astray or
are damaged in transit. No more costly
lawsuits to determine responsibility.
Everyone will know exactly where he
stands.
The Complaints Department, too, I
shall abolish. This will do away with all
complaints, as (here will be no one to
complain to except the slationmasters,
guards, etc., who will be empowered to
dismiss summarily all complaints, and
will in any case be too busy to deal with
them.
Having thus disposed of the surplus
and unwanted stall’, I shall be ready to
proceed. The installa-
tion of the new admin-
istration will be sim-
plicity itself. As the
old hands walk out )
shall simply walk into
my office and sit down,
and the change will be
complete.
Of course, I won’t
be able to attend to all
the details on my own.
I shall need station-
masters, guards,
porters, engine-drivers
and firemen, gatekeepers, signalmen and
others. The others will consist of
tried and trusted men, mainly chosen
from among my cousins and uncles
and my wife's relatives. After all,
there’ll have to be some administration.
For instance, in the event of a dispute
between the engine-driver and guard,
someone 1 11 have to decide whether the
train is to go to Bourke or Bendigo.
That’s where my Uncle Claude will come
in. He’s a marvel at compromise.
“What’s this?” he'll say. “Can’t make
your mind, up? What! What! Bourke
or Bendigo? Fancy squabbling over a
little thing like that! Such a nice train,
too, and full of passengers. Well, I’ll
tell you what, boys. Let’s compromise.
Burnie’s the place you really ought to go
to. What about giving it a fly? Eh?
There! of course you will. 1 thought
so.”
And if the passengers complain he’ll
be about the place again.
“What! Don't want to go to Burnie!
Why, you don’t know what you’re miss-
ing. I’ve a good mind to come with
you myself.” And so on. Oh, it’ll work
all right. You haven’t met my Uncle
Claude. Jasby.
“The Abyssinian levies are being mustard.”
— “Telegraph.”
That’ll make things hot for the Italians.
Obvious.
Grown tired of you, / packed my grip,
And started on a solo trip.
1 left you surreptitiously
To hit the spots both high and free.
/ walked on velvet soft and thick
And, later, cheered myself on “tick."
But conscience haunted me, alack !
So, broke and sorry, I’ve come back.
And now you’re anxious, dear, to glean
Some knowledge touching where I’ve
been
For those three months. Why, dammit,
pet,
Where else would 1 be but in debt?
P.O.M.C.
“There’s Nothing New”....
“Tattooed lips is the latest craze for women."
These modern crazes, after all, are but
revivals of old customs. I ran a lip-
tattooery years ago, having picked up
the art from an old seadog.
I set up my shingle at Baccabacca,
in the Friendly Group, charging 50
cowries a touch. I did a roaring
trade. Only once among that tribe did I
have any trouble, and that was when 1
inadvertently made the chief’s favorite
wife’s lips jet back. He couldn't tell
where her mouth started until she
grinned, and she was a serious-minded
girl.
A spiked club persuaded me to re-
tattoo her lips in a brilliant carmine, free.
Just as my work was beginning to
peter out, nearly all the tribal lips hav-
ing been done, the place was captured
by another warring crowd, and I pre-
pared for fresh business. I agreed to do
the lot at a fiat rate of 40 cowries per
kisser.
But when I saw the women I went
green. They had lips stuck out in
front of them as big as dinner plates,
covering about two square feet of flesh.
I protested that it would be uneconomic,
nay, ruinous, but it was no good. They
wouldn’t allow me to raise the price. As
I had to use half a gallon of ink to do
one pair of lips instead of a quarter of
a teaspoonful, my unhappy position can
be appreciated.
I couldn’t drop the contract, either,
as the women who hadn’t been done were
jealous of those that had, and spurred on
their warrior husbands to see to it that
I was kept with my nose to the needles.
I was only allowed to let up when I had
no more material left. But worse was to
happen. Some goat from the tribe, on
a visit to another island, came back and
told the women that it was no longer
fashionable to have tattooed lips. They
all demanded to be untattooed forthwith.
1 escaped from the island in the canni-
bal king’s bathtub . ... What? There’s no
such thing? Unfortunately, no! It
sank under me just as 1 was rescued by
a passing ship 47 days out.
S.W.K.


n
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
. O lie
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY \ •
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY c- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide. - Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
sst ffifuA&itbi, v:.s
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybesfos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Me bourne, Vic.
f RED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 (SECOND
X %JOHr edition)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do ft.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/<
252 George St, Sydney, **/ 1
POST
FREE
and at all newsagents.
ROAD TEST OF THE NEW MASTER CHEV.
MECHANICAL DETAILS FULLY DESCRIBED.
BY FRED BERRY.
the first model in 1911 to the Chevrolet of to-day is
a story of regular progress. The aim has been to give
quality and service at a modest cost, and the fact that cars of
this marque have held first or second position in world sales
over a number of years is evidence of the wisdom of this policy.
Australian experience over years of
hard usage has shown motorists that
maintenance and operating costs of a
Chevrolet are always reasonable, whilst
a good resale price has been obtainable
for all models.
This year’s model, although adopt-
ing modern engineering ideas of
proved value, retains individuality,
and it is evident that the designers’
object is to maintain the Chev.
standards of performance, reliability
and long and trouble-free service.
The newly-designed body, with no-
draught ventilation, is neatly equipped
internally, mounted on a rigid KY type
chassis and further braced with a pressed-
steel flooring, providing an assembly
that at the price must make a strong
appeal to motorists, while the continued
use of independent front-wheel suspen-
sion ensures maximum riding qualities.
Though the majority of power units
fitted to modern cars are of the L-head
type, Chev. still adheres to the valve-
in-head principle, and it is
interesting to note that both
Buick and Chev., relying on
the o.h.v. principle, have
established an enviable repu-
tation both in regard to cheap
operating costs and reliability.
The Chev. motor is rated
at 26.3 h.p. R.A.C., each of
the six cylinders having a
bore of 3 5-16 in. and stroke 4in., giv-
ing a piston displacement of 206.8 cub.
in. At peak revs. 80 b.h.p. is developed.
Valves are set in cylinder head, the
stems being surrounded by generous
OILING SYSTEM OF THE CHEVROLET.
(1) Oil return pipe. (2) Oil delivery pipe. (3) Rocker-arm
shaft. (4) Crankshaft. (5) Connecting-rod dipper. (6) Oilpan
drain plug. (7) Connecting-rod oil trough. (8) Oilpan.
water passages in the block for even
cooling. Valve gear is push-rod type
driven from the camshaft in the crank-
case. Disposition of overhead valves and
spark plugs permits a combustion-
chamber design calculated to give great-
est efficiency without pinking or detona-
tion when driven under heavy load.
Valve-stem clearances with motor hot
are 6 thou, inlet, 13 thou, exhaust.
Cylinders are cast en bloc, including
Graceful, efficient and comfortable, the new Master Six Chevrolet De Luxe.
upper half of crankcase,, which is heavily
webbed to prevent torsional vibration in
the crankshaft. Pistons are grey iron,
electroplated to re-
duce friction and
wear, and are each
fitted with three-
piston rings above
the gudgeon pin.
Con. rods are I
section, with bab-
bitt bearings.
The crankshaft,
running on three
main bearings, is
c o u n terbalanced
and fitted with
harmonic vibration
damper, combined
with crankshaft
pulley on the front
end. Main bear-
ings, of generous
area, are of the
steel-backed bab-
bitt type. Cam-
shaft runs on three
bearings, centre
and rear being
steel-backed bab-
bitt-lined.
In the lubricat-
ing system a vane-
type pump inside crankcase sucks oil
through a filter and delivers it to the centre
main and centre camshaft bearings, and
through distributing pipes to front and
rear main and camshaft bearings and
valve rocker gear. The pump delivers oil
to a distributor on the left side of the
engine, where the flow is divided by
pipes connected in relays in such a
manner that the small pipes delivering
oil to each con.-rod trough act as nozzles,
and at high speed direct the stream of oil
at an angle into the dipper of the rotat-
ing con. rod. At low speeds the con.-
rod dippers scoop oil from the troughs
and so force oil to the bearings. Fuel
is held in a 12jgal. tank at the rear and
drawn to the engine by a mechanical fuel
pump incorporating a filter and settling
bowl.
Carburettor is Carter down-draught
type with accelerating pump. Provision
is made for external adjustment of idling
mixture and idling speed. Fuel mixture
is heated as it enters the intake by a
thermostatically-controlled manifold “hot
spot.” A large circular air-cleaner,
a silencer and a flame-arrester are
mounted above the cylinder block.
Electrical equipment is Delco-Remy,
with high-tension wires waterproofed.
Starter motor is controlled from dash.
Ignition is coil-and-battery type, spark
timing being controlled automatically by
vacuum from the intake manifold. Addi-
tional control is secured by means of an
octane selector mounted on the distri-
butor head. With this adjusted to its
correct setting, satisfactory performance
from a “knock” viewpoint can be ob-
tained. When cheap fuels are used the
vernier control is retarded, and when
Ethyl or;super fuels are used the control
is advanced. The generator is of the
heavy-duty, air-cooled type, with auto-
matic adjustment of charging rate to
•compensate for the heavy drain due to
radio* and other electrical accessories.
Water is circulated through the cooling
. passages by means of an impellor driven
by a belt from’ the crankshaft. Particular
attention has been given to cooling of
exhaust-valve seats, nozzles directing the
coolest water to these areas.
The engine is mounted in the chassis
on five blocks of resilient rubber to
absorb vibration. Transmission is
through a newly-designed single-plate
clutch, actuated by remarkably light
pedal pressure, to a three-speed-and-
reverse gearbox with central control
lever. Top and second gears are helical-
cut silent synchromesh type. The pro-
peller shaft, mounted inside the torque
tube, is fitted with a totally-enclosed
metal universal joint at the front end,
the worm drive for the speedo. cable being
also enclosed in this unit, while both are
lubricated from transmission.
The rear axle, fitted in a pressed-
steel banjo-type rear-axle housing, is
semi-floating type. Roller bearings are
used on the outer ends, and ball bear-
ings support differential and axle cen-
trally. Final reduction is 4.1 to 1. Chassis
is latest type KY construction of great
strength, and is fitted with five cross
members and two subframes.
Rear springs are 54in. long, and of
special flexible steel, Delco Lovejoy
shock-absorbers being fitted as auxiliaries.
Front suspension is typical Chevrolet
knee-action principle, permitting inde-
pendent movement of each front wheel
in absorbing road shocks. In design the
knee-action mechanism is similar to last
year’s mqdel, except for certain detailed
refinements. Double-action shock-ab-
sorbers are fitted on each unit. Wheel-
base is 113 in., and road clearance is Sin.
Steering gear is semi-reversible worm-
and-sector type, with provision for ad-
justing wear in the steering-box.
Brakes are four-wheel internal expand-
ing type, mechanically operated, both
service and hand brakes actuating all
four units from a central cross shaft
through independent linkage.
Bodywork of the de luxe Master
Chev. is well and neatly finished, and in
addition to the usual equipment
is provided with no-draught
ventilation, cowl ventilator, dual
electric windscreen wipers, ad-
justable sun visor, adjustable
driver’s seat and arm rests in
front and rear compartments
An improved system of door
locks is fitted, permitting out-
side door-handles to move freely
when locked, thus preventing broken
handles and locks arising from unauthor-
ised attempts to open the car. The sys-
tem also prevents the owner accidentally
locking himself out.
Dashboard instruments are neatly
arranged, . the large-diameter speed-
ometer, flanked on one side by the
combination petrol- and water-tempera-
ture gauge and on the other by the
ammeter and oil-pressure gauge, being
mounted in a raised panel immediately
Cutaway section of knee-action assembly,
showing upper and lower shock-absorbers
and coiled springs totally enclosed.
in front of the driving wheel. Wire
wheels, fitted with 5.50 x 17 balloon
tyres, are used,
The car tested was a stock model
Master Chevrolet four-door sedan
(speedometer reading, 3020 miles) driven
§ j Howland, of Larke, Neave and
Carter> Ltd N-S-W> distributors. The
we i g Ht, inclusive of driver, observer and
full fud tank> was 34 i cwt . xhe motor
was thoroughly run in, and ran smoothly


USEFUL DATA ON MASTER CHEVROLET.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 16 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 73.17 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.1 m.p.g.
gSSSssSSS
DAILY
"Nik.
■■ w
m.
'
, -y
m
..
Zt.
mmM
Hundreds of women car owners, innocent of
the dreadful ravages of the motor wrecker,
Friction, are in danger of being robbed every
day!
If your car does not start quickly or it
is sluggish on hilly roads or in hot weather,
Friction may have his fatal grip upon your
motor, robbing you of power, speed, fuel and
money.
If you have the slightest doubt, place yourself
immediately under the protection of free-
flowing, full-bodied Texaco. Friction "goes
quietly" when Texaco is in your motor.
TEXACO MOTOR OIL
Free-Flowing, Full-Bodied
Mai! this Coupon
TO-DAY for booklet
STOP THIEF!
and FREE Pistol
MO4-485 Novelty.
i ull-tsodied ..••••••
please mail me 7 0U '
FREE BooUet
Name
Address
Model
and quietly without noticeable vibration
throughout its entire speed range.
Driving through city traffic, steering
was finger-light yet positive, while the
Valve-in-head motor, showing disposition
of exhaust and inlet valve, rocker shaft,
rocker arms, push rod, and spark plug.
rapid acceleration, excellent brakes and
silent, easy-change gear rendered the
operation simple, and gave one a sense of
security and confidence in congested
areas.
After passing Parramatta, the speed-
ometer was kept around the 45 mark, all
main-road hills being surmounted in top
gear with ease and without reduction of
speed. Approaching Richmond a test
of freedom of wheel bearings and trans-
mission details was made, and beginning
from a steady 15 m.p.h., the car coasted
732yds. before before coming to a stand-
still —an excellent result.
On the measured mile with flying
start the distance was clocked in
49 l-ssec., averaging 73.17 m.p.h., and
on this section the motor ran without
noise and vibration and the car held
the road well.
Continuing through Windsor and ap-
proaching Kurrajong Mountain the un-
made by-pass road through Grose Vale
was taken, and over this difficult section
steering qualities were satisfactory, the
independent front-wheel suspension en-
abling a true course to be steered with
comfort at speed over rough surfaces.
Rear shock-absorbers might with advan-
tage be increased in tension to prevent
“bottoming” when driven fast over deep
ruts.
On Kurrajong
Mountain a standing-
start climb was made
of the last 2 1-5 miles,
including the steepest
and most*difficult sec-
tions, the time taken,
3min. 45sec., being
quite smart. Second
and top gears were
used, and the car held
the road safely and
without rolling on the
many difficult bends,
while, probably influ-
enced by independent
front-wheel suspension, it kept a true
course over the extremely loose and
rough final section. Returning down the
mountain the cross-country road via
Castlereagh to Penrith was taken, and
here further performance tests were
made.
Top-gear engine flexibility was checked
by timing the car over a distance of 350
yards, first as slowly as possible, fol-
lowed immediately by 350 yards on full
(Continued on next page.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
BATTERIES ho c m a ? .» g
Buy Batteries direct from
the maker, and avoid
HALF PRICE
middlemen. Written unconditional guarantees.
9-Plate, 22/6. 11-Plate, 25/-. 13-Plate, 26/9.
15-Plate, 29/6. 12 Volt, 34/6. Write for details,
specifications and complete price
MARSHALL BATTERY MFC. CO., LTD.,
Public Sales Depot, 29 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
XN Jk L
A
LEMITE
-yiat I
//
©Marks the important points in
a motor vehicle requiring lubri-
cation of the hightest order: From left to right below;
Wheel bearing, water pump, cylinders, universal joints,
spring and shackle. Above: gear box, clutch release
bearing, differential.
For each vital part, Alemite has developed a special
lubricant and, where needed, high pressure applica-
tion cleans bearings as Alemite lubricant is forced in.
{Differential
Proper grade and consistency
of lubricant for the rear axle is
found in Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant, developed for the several
types of differential gears and
to meet temperature variations.
♦
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT... Chicago
Full particulars from Mr. Kenneth J. G.
Smith, Resident Manager
554 George St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—4-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
"T; —"
mmmm
m v
tv i
rr\
i
vey
1 -.*v
(
m
m
8
II
m
m
OTHINO
m
TO EQUAL IT
ITS DIPFEREHT
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED ... All States
STOCKED BY ALL GAR.AGES THROUGHOUT AUST.
IV.'.V.V.’.V
throttle. Time taken for slow-running
section, 2min. 55sec., averaged 4.1 m.p.h.,
whilst the accelerated section was clocked
in 17 l-ssec., crossing the finishing line
at 60 and averaging 41.8 m.p.h.
Acceleration from a steady 10 to 30
m.p.h. occupied 8 l-ssec. in top gear
and ssec. in second, while from a stand-
ing start to 50 m.p.h. through all gears
was clocked in 16sec.
A test of the braking equipment made
from a steady 25 m.p.h. proved that the
Chev. could pull up in 19ft. 6in. This
“stopping” test, despite the short dis-
tance taken, was the smoothest and most
regular of any so far experienced in this
series of tests —a splendid recommenda-
tion for the new equipment.
Turning circle was measured at 46ft.
Fuel consumed on the complete trip
of 127 miles was sgal. 4pt. 20z., an
average of 21.1 m.p.g. (36.6 ton miles),
while the time taken, inclusive of all
tests, gave an average road speed of 36.4
m.p.h.
The compact gearbox of the Chevrolet,
showing helical-cut pinions used in the
synchromesh silent change gear.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
G.W. (Yass, N.S.W.). —(1) My ’26 English
roadster has recently been rebored, and since
then the fuel consumption has increased by
five m.p.g. Can you suggest how this can be
improved ? (2) What became of the Southern
Cross Co., which started building cars of that
name in A ustralia ?
(1) Excessive fuel consumption in old-type
cars is usually due to air leaks in the induc-
tion system, worn valve guides or to losses
due to friction caused by worn bearings in
transmission details. Check induction system,
and make sure all gaskets are a good fit and
that the carburettor is in good order. Remove
valves and note degree of wear; fit oversize
valves if necessary. In your instance it may
prove economical to pay for the extra petrol
rather than go to the expense of overhauling
the transmission, (2) This co. has put out
several cars, but as yet is not in full produc-
tion.
J.A.D. (Cohuna, Vic.). — Will you test car
named, and send me data by post ?
The car you refer to has been out of pro-
duction for some time, and is not available
lor test.
* 3= 3-. *
A.S.B. (Homebush, N.S.W.). — I own a
number of cars, and have been driving for
25 years, my only offence during that period
being for a technical breach. Now, because
I have lost the sense of hearing, I have been
called upon to show cause why my license
should not be cancelled, and I am only per-,
mitted to drive one car specially fitted with two
rear-vision mirrors. Can I successfully appeal ?
Don’t think so. Even though your record
is indicative of careful and skilful driving, the
N.S.W. Traffic Regulations force the Commis-
sioner to deal with such cases on definite rules
in the interests of public safety. See Section
9, par. 2, sub-par. C, and Section 11.
A.D.B. (Seymour, Vic.). — I have experienced
trouble with the mechanical fuel pump of my
car whenever I undertake a long, fast trip.
Garage inspection does not reveal any fault.
What’s wrong?
If the pump feeds the normal volume of
petrol when tested in the garage, the trouble
is probably due to some portion of the fuel
fine lying adjacent to the exhaust manifold or
pipe causing a vapor lock when the system
is heated on long runs.
**, * *
E.A. (Picton, N.S.W.). — There is a peculiar
grinding noise coming from some part of the
transmission of my car, but whether from gear-
box or hack axle I cannot say. This noise
is not evident on short runs, but makes its
appearance at between 25-30 m.p.h. after
driving for about half an hour. Any sugges-
tions ?
Difficult to diagnose correctly without inspec-
tion, but most likely one of the ball races in
the transmission has worn badly, and, whilst
reasonably silent when the oil is thick and
cold, begins to rattle when lubricant thins out
after running for some lime.
* 3= w *
G.R.W. (Maitland, N.S.W.). — On frequent
occasions the engine of my ’35 model car stalls
in traffic, and I find great difficulty in getting
started up again. Is this usual ?
Your car is equipped with a down-draught
carburettor incorporating an accelerating pump.
When new and stiff the idling speed should be
set on the fast side to prevent stalling after
declutching at slow road speeds. Should the
motor stop when hot, the only method in
making a quick start is to slightly open the
throttle and press the starter pedal. Never
jab at the accelerator pedal or pull out the
choke, otherwise the intake manifold will be
Hooded with petrol and the engine will not fire
until the over-rich mixture is drawn through
the intake system.
* 3: 3= *
N.F. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). — My four-cylinder
sports car, now five years old, has recently
developed an uncomfortable vibration at speeds
in excess of 40 m.p.h. The shudder ceases
when pulling up long hills, but reappears on
coasting down grades and when driven fast on
the level. Any cure ?
The fabric universal joints at front and rear
of your propeller shaft are worn, throwing the
shaft out of truth. This is responsible for the
vibration mentioned, and the only remedy will
be to refit a new pair of fabric joints and
refine the drive shaft.
* * * *
E. (West Leadervifie, W.A.). —(1) Syd-
ney price ( including tax) of 10 -h.p. Ford De
Luxe Sedan ? (2) Ford VS ? (3) Is spare wheel
provided, with a metal tyre cover, on De Luxe
model at the price ? (4) Annual license fee in
each case in Sydnev?
(1) £291 4s.' (2) £353 12s, (3) No. Cover
extra.. (4) 10 h.p.. £4 9s. 9d.; VB. £8 11s. 3d.
* * 3= *
M.M. (Shepparton, Vic.). — I wish to grind
in the valves of my ’3O Singer Junior. (1)
What precautions must I take on removing the
head to prevent altering timing ? (2) What is
correct tappet clearance ?
(1) Set crankshaft with No. 1 piston on top
dead-centre, then use white paint or lacquer
on a fine brush to mark sprocket, timing chain
and camshaft while in position. Slack off nut
in timing chain and pass a length of wire
through both free ends and tie to radiator rod.
Do the lop overhaul and replace with marks
in fine. (2) Four thou, inlet; six thou, ex-
haust, with motor hot.
3= * • jJ *
M.D. (Rockhampton, Q.). —(1) Which of
the cars named will be most reliable and eco-
nomical on petrol in rough country ? (2) Can
a radio be fitted to any of them ?
(1) Nos. 3 and 5, then 1, 2 and 4. No. 6
should give lowest petrol consumption. (2)
Yes. Radio aerials are standard fittings in most
of the cars mentioned.
* 3= * *
H.McP. (North Rockhampton, Q.). — My ’l4
Vauxhall is fitted with 920 x 120 B.E. tyres,
expensive and hard to procure. Can equipment
he converted to S.S. tyres? Approximate cost,
and where obtainable ?
Wheels will need rebuilding, total new equip-
ment costing in excess of £5O. Write to the
big rubber cos. for quotations.
* * * *
F. (Dimboola, Vic.). — My ’2B Overland
Six has developed a troublesome chatter in the
steering column, persistent at between 30 and
40 m.p.h., but lessening at higher speeds.
What’s wrong ?
Probably due to play between worm and
sector in steering box or to worn drop-arm
bushes. Only cure is to dismantle and take up
wear.
v * ;j :
L.B. (Auckland, ML.).—What Australian
firm could supply an English hodv for a 512
or 503 Fiat ?
Try Willsford, Ltd., Phillip-street, Sydney.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“1909”: An ancient Lizzie, mounted
on a platform 20ft. above road level at
the entrance to a motor-wrecking yard
and serving as a sign, is one of the sights
of Adelaide.
* * * *
“Oloc”; Left my car outside a subur-
ban post office for a few minutes. When
1 returned it would not start. I tried
the usual first-aid stuff, and then went to
a repair shop. The mechanic looked in
the petrol-tank, which he found to be
half-full, and then asked me if there had
been any kids about when I went into
the post office. “Why, yes,” I answered,
a bit mystified. I was mystified no longer
when he went round to the back of the
car and extracted a long, dirty piece of
sacking from the exhaust-pipe.
* * * *
“Jay”: Because it is hard to see and
even harder to get at the corrosion that
forms inside the terminal caps at the dis-
tributor-top can cause many ignition
troubles. Watching the wife scouring her
aluminium pans with steel wool gave me
the cure. Just stuff a wad of steel wool
into the hole, and, pushing it down with
a screwdriver as far as it will go, turn it
backwards and forwards with a grinding
motion. After several minutes, a hooked
wire can be used to retrieve the wad.
Incidentally, I have found other use for
the steel wool. It is good for cleaning
valve stems and carburettor parts, and
can be used in many cases where the
abrasive dust from either sandpaper or
emery cloth might cause much trouble.
* * * *
“0.A,”: They built them of stern
stuff in the old days. My first Lizzie had
fits of backfiring, not spasmodically but
at each rev. of the engine. On such
occasions I headed her hotfoot for home,
and all the way a continuous stream of
fire came out of her digestive system.
But after each bout she was still worth
the fiver she originally cost me. A
friend, not so wealthy as I — his Liz cost
him 30 bob—-drove the chariot for three
weeks with a broken piston. An extra
knock or so wasn’t to be noticed, and
the owner thought he had “done a coil.”
He was relieved to find it meant only
two bob for a second-hand piston.
* *:■- * *
“Inaha”: Broke an axle in almost the
same unusual circumstances as those re-
lated by “Dewey” (B. 28/8/’35). Fol-
lowing a fast second-gear climb up a
stiff Madriland hill 1 stopped on the
summit with the car as sound as a bell.
A few minutes later, after a run down-
hill, no amount of clutch juggling would
move the car in any gear, investigation
showed one of the driving axles twisted
neatly off, like “Dewey’s,” but at the
wheel end instead of at the diff.
* * * *
“Ryte”: Our Lizzie, though in rugged
health as Lizzies go, suddenly developed
a strange malady. Whilst the engine was
running anybody touching the coilbox
would receive a shock, and an imme-
diate misfire would result. As the
clutch pedal went well in and in jambing
it down the toe of the boot invariably
caught on the edge of the coilbox, low-
gsar work was uncomfortable. An in-
vestigation brought to light a large and
dead centipede which was shorting the
coils. The box being mounted on wood,
the presence of his legs caused no trouble
until earthed to the metal of the chassis.


ADAMS’ (IATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per Ray; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la fWe
Single and Rouble Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available’
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
FIViPUBLICDINIKGROOMS
Lure, .rom 12 noon (Sunday 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m )
— Ol Seats may be reserved by'phone. M4UOI.
More Motorists than Ever
Simoniz Their Cars
The New Kleener makes SIMON!ZI,\G easier than ever.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service oi Bulletin
readers. , . „ , . , •
The service is entirely free. _ All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. , , . . ,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth, N.S.W., licensed launch and car
driver, exp. with engines, wants job. —8829.
Invalid, Sydney, requires work compiling
crossword puzzles and drafting them for en-
graver.—B27o.
Young man (32), N.S.W., exp. as station
manager and com. agent, taking economics
course at Uni., wants position with city business
firm.—BB 43.
Young man (20), Vic., exp. with horses and
milking, wants job anywhere. —8800.
Young lady (25), Sydney, typist, requires
position city office. —8798.
To buy Belly Wayside, by Louis Stone.
8797.
To buy books dealing with the exploits of
Pizarro and Diego de Almago.—B77l.
To buy trout rod, by Hardy or other first-
class maker. Condition no object.—B779.
To buy “Sydney Morning Herald” indexes,
Nos. 1 to 16. —8783.
Words of songs “I Love a Lassie,” “Old
Bull and Bush,” “Lassie from Lancashire”
and “Mollie Lee.” —8782.
Words of songs “The Legion of the Lost,”
“The Deathless Army” and “Why Build a
Wall Around a Graveyard?”—BB4l.
Information Sought.
(1) Where and when was the first Test
cricket match in Australia played? (2) Result ?
(3) Players on both sides, and scores? (4)
How many are still alive ? —8372.
(1) Melbourne, March 15, 16 and 17, 1877.
(2) Won by Australia by 45 runs. (3) Aus-
tralian XI: C. Bannerman 165 and 4, N.Thomp-
son I and 7, T. Horan 12 and 20, D. W. Gregory
1 and 3, B. Cooper 15 and 3, W. Midwinter
5 and 17, E. Gregory 0 and 11, J. Blackham
17 and 6, T. Garrett 19 n.o. and 0, T. Kendall
3 and 17 n. 0., J. Hodges 0 and 8, sundries
7 and 8, totals 245 and 104. England: H.
Jupp 63 and 4, J. Selby 7 and 38, H. Chari-
wood 36 and 13, G. Ulyett 10 and 24, A.
Greenwood 1 and 5, T. Armitage 9 and 3, A.
•Shaw 10 and 2, T. Emmett 8 and 9, A. Hill
35 n.o. and 0, J. Lillywhite 10 and 4, J.
Southerton 6 and 1 n. 0., sundries 1 and 5,
totals 196 and 108. Bowling—Australia:
Garrett 2 for 31, D. Gregory 0 for 9, Hodges
3 for 34, Kendall 8 for 109, Midwinter 6 for
101, Thompson 1 for 14. England: Armitage
0 for 15, Emmett 0 for 15, Hill 1 for 60,
Lillywhite ? for 20, Shaw 8 for 89, Southerton
3 for 61, Ulyett 4 for 75. (4) T. Garrett (Aus-
tralia), who is 77, is the only known survivor
, of the 22 players.
* * * *
Does a left-handed bowler possess a natural
leg-break ball (to a right-handed batsman) ?
If so, can this be explained ?— 8615.
A left-hand bowler does not of necessity
possess a natural leg-break ball. Most left-
hand bowlers, however, have a natural swerve,
and when bowling round the wicket to a right-
hand batsman the ball continues to follow the
line of flight and appears to be a leg break.
*** * ■
(1) What are the oldest buildings standing
in Sydney, and what were they originally used
as ? (2) Which church in or around Sydney
is the oldest ? (3) Are there any relics of inter-
est at Parramatta ? (4) What years were Gov-
ernment House, Parliament House, the Mint
and the Supreme Court in Sydney erected ?
8745.
(1) The oldest house still standing in Aus-
tralia is Elizabeth Farm, Granville, built by
John Macarthur in 1793. The oldest buildings
in the city are the Commissariat Store, Circular
Quay (1810-12), built for a Government store;
the Mint and the main part of Parliament
House (built in 1811-16 for Sydney Hospital);
barracks at the top of King-street (1819);
cottage now forming part of the Sailors’
Home, George-street North, built for the Gov-
ernment Coxwain. John Cadman, in 1817. (2)
The oldest church in Australia is the Presby-
terian Church, Ebenezer, near Windsor (1809).
(3) Parramatta is full of historic interest. See
The Story of Parramatta, by James Jervis, or
get in touch with the Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society, Sydney. (4) The present Govern-
ment House was completed in 1845 ; ,the Legis-
lative Assembly Chamber was erected in 1843,
extended 1856; the Legislative Council Chamber
was erected in 1856; the Sydney branch of the
Royal Mint was established in 1855; the
Supreme Court building was completed in 1828,
first occupied in 1829.
* * * *
(1) Are the lifting vanes on an autogyro
power-driven or are they driven merely by
the blast from the propeller? (2) Can the
machine lift straight off the ground without
going forward ? (3) What is the smallest area
in which an autogyro has landed and taken
off ? —8415.
(1) In normal flight rotation of the horizon-
tal vanes is effected by the forward movement
of the aircraft. In most types of autogyros,
however, a clutch drive from the engine is in-
stalled to provide the necessary initial rate of
rotation of the rotor while the aircraft is on
the ground. The drive is disconnected before
flight is commenced. (3) The original type of
autogyro requires a short forward run before
actually leaving the ground, but the latest
“direct lift” autogyro can leave the ground
with no forward run. The incidence ot the
rotor blades of this type can be controlled
within definite limits, and energy is stored m
the rotor by speeding it up on the ground while
the blade sections are set so as to give no
lift on the rotor. When the desired rate ot
rotation is reached, the clutch drive from the
engine is released, and the blades are twisted
by the action of the incidence control. The
rotor then acts as an airscrew and enables
the aircraft to rise from the ground without
forward run. (3) A “direct lift” autogyro has
been taken off with no forward run, and
climbed at a steep angle. An autogyro has
been landed with practically no forward run,
against a moderately strong breeze, but nor-
mally a run of about 10 to 20 yards is re-
quired.
* * * *
(1) What books have been written by J. H. M
Abbott ? (2) Which of his books are collec-
tions of short stories reprinted from The
Bulletin ? —BBl3.
(1) Tommy Cornstalk, Plain and Veldt, An
Outlander in England, Letters from Queer
Street, The South Seas, The Sign of the Ser-
pent, The Story of William Dumpier, Sally,
The Governor’s Nose, Castle Vane, Ensign
Colder, Sydney Cove, Dogsnose, The King’s
School. (2) Ensign Colder and The King’s
School.
« # * *
(1) What is the greatest depth of water a
diver in diving costume has worked in, and for
how long ? (2) What is the general average
depth of water in which divers work in diving
costume, and for how long ? (3) What is the
greatest depth of water a diver without cos-
tume has worked in, and for how long ? —8487.
(1) Greatest depth, 216 ft.; on the bottom,
s|min.; time under water, 58 jmin. (2) Average
depth, 15 to 20 fathoms; time working, 35 to
40 min; time under water, 73min. (3) Depth
not known; time, 4min.
* * * *
What is pure water ? Does rain water come
under this category ? —8794.
Pure water consists solely of oxygen and
hydrogen, and does not exist in nature. The
nearest approach to pure water as an exact
chemical compound is distilled water, but this
is seldom quite pure, for it begins to absorb
gases immediately it is exposed to the air.
Melted snow and ice are, perhaps, the purest
forms of water that can be obtained naturally.
Rain water, being the condensed vapor from
seas and rivers, is the product of a natural
distillation ; it is practically pure if collected
in clean vessels. That obtained from slate and
iron roofs contains impurities, but, if filtered, is
suitable for home consumption. In cities and
thickly populated areas reservoir water is best
for ordinary use.
* * * *
Why is the nine of diamonds called the curse
of Scotland ? —8749.
The expression is believed to refer to the
arms of Dalrymple, Earl of Stair, which include
nine lozenges. The Earl was justly held in
abhorrence throughout Scotland for his part
in the massacre of Glencoe. Another version
is that the nine of diamonds was the winning
card in the game of Gomette, introduced by
Queen Mary, which became a curse through
bringing about the ruin of many Scottish
families. The theory is also put forward that
the word “curse” in the phrase is a corruption
of cross, the spots on the card being arranged
to resemble a St. Andrew’s Cross. The ex-
planation most often given, that it was the card
on which the Duke of Cumberland wrote his
cruel order after the battle of Culloden, must
be ruled out, as the expression was in common
use considerably before this period.
* * * *
(1) Composition of gunpowder ? (2) How is
it made ? (3) When was it first employed for
military purposes ? (4) Present uses ? —8845.
(1) It is a mixture of widely varying com-
position. A correct theoretical composition, to
which English military powder approximated, is
nitre 74.9 per cent., carbon 13.3 per cent, and
sulphur 11.8 per cent. On explosion, carbon
dioxide and nitrogen are the chief gases formed,
together with a little carbon monoxide. (2) By
very thoroughly mixing the ingredients and
forming them into grains which are polished by
means of a little graphite. (3) At the battle of
Cr£cy in 1346. (4) Chiefly in the manufacture
of fireworks and for blasting purposes.
* ♦ Jfc
(1) When was rubber discovered? (2) Who
invented the pneumatic tyre ? (3) When were
tyres first used ? —8837.
(1) In 1525, when the Spaniards in Mexico
saw the natives playing with balls of great
elasticity. (2) Both R. W. Thompson, an Eng-
lishman, and J. Dunlop, an Irishman, claimed
to be the inventors. Dunlop devised a rubber
tyre in 1839; it was crude and of little practi-
cal use. Thompson invented the pneumatic
tyre in 1845, and patented it on December 10
° J y ear> 0) The solid-rubber cushion tyre
and the single-tube air tyre were used con-
siderably towards the end of the last century.
Ihe double-tube pneumatic tyre did not come
into general use on cars until 1902
*** ' *
How to estimate the height of a mast or
lower by means of its shadow ? —BBl9.
Stand a straight rod in an upright position on
the ground and measure the length of its
shadow. Then measure the length of the mast’s
shadow ; multiply the length of the rod by the
length of the mast’s shadow and divide the
product by the length of the rod’s shadow For
example, the length of the rod is 10ft., and its
shadow Bft. If the mast’s shadow is 48ft. the
height of the mast will be equal to 10 multiplied
by 48 divided by B—6oft. All measurements
should be made over reasonably flat ground.
* * * *
Who was Omar Khayyam? What were his
works, and what is the meaning of Rubaiyat ?
—BBO2.
He was a'Persian mathematician and astro-
nomer whose epithet of Khayyam, “the tent-
maker,” was probably derived from his father’s
trade. He died in 1123. His works on
algebra caused him to be regarded as among
the foremost mathematicians of that age, but
in the West his fame rests almost solely on
his poetical achievements, made famous by
Fitz Gerald’s translation under the title “The
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam.” This consists
of about 500 epigrammatic quatrains. “Rubai-
yat” means quatrains or verses.
* * * *
(1) Composition of bell-metal ? (2) What is
the largest bell in the world ? (3) Weight of
Great Paul (St. Paid’s, London ) ? (4) Of Big
Ben (Westminster ) ? (5) Was the Kaiser Bell
of Cologne Cathedral recast from metal taken
from guns captured in the Franco-Prussian
war ? —8823.
(1) A mixture of copper and tin. (2) The
Czar Kolokol at Moscow —weight 200 tons,
height 26ft., circumference 22ft. It was cast
in 1735, but was broken during a fire in the
factory, and it was not until 1836 that it was
placed in the Square of the Czars. (3)
tons. (4) 13£ tons. (5) Yes.
* ~ * * *
What is the story of the Frankenstein
monster ? —8719.
Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus is
a tale of horror by Mary Godwin, daughter
of Mary Wollstonecraft and wife of the poet
Shelley, at whose suggestion it was written.
It deals with a science student who constructed
the semblance of a human being from portions
of bodies collected in chu'rchyards. The
creature was given life, was endowed with
supernatural strength, and was revolting in
appearance, inspiring loathing in whoever saw
it. Made intensely unhappy on this account,
it conceived a hatred for its creator, and took
its revenge by slaying Frankenstein’s nearest
and dearest. It also pursued Frankenstein
through various lands, finally destroying him in
the Arctic regions.
* * * sic
Did Napoleon smoke, and was he the pos-
sessor of a set of pipes? —B726.
Constant has left it on record that only once
did the Emperor attempt to smoke. One of
the Oriental Ambassadors to the French Court
had presented to the Emperor a very hand-
some pipe, and one day he decided to try it.
The smoke got into his throat and nostrils and
eyes, and he became sick. He afterwards pro-
nounced smoking “a pastime for sluggards.”
* • * * *
(1) When, where and how was Captain Les
Holden killed ? (2) Name of the airman who
lost his life in the search for Kingsford Smith
in 1929 3—8551.
(1) The monoplane in which he was travelling
crashed in a paddock six miles north of Ban-
galow, N.S.W., on September 18, 1932; the
pilot, Ralph Virtue, and Dr. G. R. Hamilton
were also killed. The accident was apparently
due to the collapse of one of the wings. (2)
Keith Anderson. His body was found near his
’plane on April 22, 1929.
* * * . •>
(1) In the case of an Australian living abroad
and having no income from any source in Aus-
tralia, is there liability for taxes on money re-
mitted to N. S. Wales for the use of his wife and
children, who reside more or less permanently
in Australia ? (2) Is his wife liable for taxes
on the funds thus received when she has no
income earned in Australia except for perhaps
a small amount of Savings Bank interest ? (3)
In the case of funds remitted by the husband
from abroad to a joint account of husband and
wife, and earning interest, should either party,
or both, furnish tax returns ? —8642.
(1) He would not be liable for State tax-
ation. As regards Federal taxation, if the
taxpayer’s domicile is in Australia and the in-
come he receives has not been taxed in the
country of origin, it would be subject to tax.
(2) Not on those funds, but the Savings Bank
interest would be subject to N.S.W. special
income tax if income exceeds £lOO. (3) Where
interest is received from a joint account, -the
interest should be apportioned, half to each
of the depositors, and will be taxable in their
hands if their taxable income exceeds £lOO. In
that case each should furnish a return.
* * * *
(1) Must a person be a licensed electrician in
N.S.W. before he can practise as a radio or
refrigerator mechanic? (2) Approximate time
required for anyone of average intelligence to
qualify as a radio service mechanic ? (3) As
a refrigerator mechanic ? (4) Cost of equip-
ment for a radio mechanic ? (5) For a re-
frigerator mechanic ? —8706.
(1) If his work does not necessitate inter-
fering with the electric-light circuits, power-
points, switches, etc., an electrician’s license
is not required. (2) About 12 months. (3)
A three months’ course of instruction may be
had at the Sydney Technical College, but
additional practical experience will also be
necessary. (4) Say £25 to start with, extra
equipment being purchased later. A car or
motor-cycle and side-car is often a necessity.
(5) Depends upon the class of repair work
undertaken. For minor repairs, about £2O to
start with, assuming spare parts are readily
available locally.
* * * *
(1) When was the S.A. Crimes Act enacted,
and for what purpose ? (2) Is there any other
law cohering the same ground ? (3) Where can
I get a copy of the Act ? —8713.
(1) and (2) The Criminal Law and Pro-
cedure Act (S.A.) consolidated and amended
legislation dealing with crime up to 1876. It
is the principal Act, and deals with felonies,
misdemeanors and criminal or quasi-criminal
conduct generally. A large body of legislation
by way of amendment or the creation of new
offences has been added since that date. Laws
concerning minipr offences may be added to
those dealing with more serious breaches. (3)
From the office of the Government Printer,
Adelaide.
Brief Answers.
R.S.h.: (1) Address contributions to the social
editress. (2) No. (3) Rates vary; they can be
obtained on application to the various stations.
. ...J.C.: W. E. Dolphin, 363 Bourke-street;
N. H. Oliver, 10 Centre-place; H. S. Sampson,
Baton’s Buildings, 115 Elizabeth-street —all Mel-
bourne... .L.W.: “Tropical Life,” 83-91 Great
Titchfield-street, London, W.l J.C.L.: A
square mile is 640 acres. A mile square is
also 640 acres. Only distinction is that, while
“mile square” denotes an equal-sided rectangle,
an area of a “square mile” may have any
shape. Two miles square, however, equals four
square miles L.W.: Assuming the £4O was a
gift and balance was paid out of your own
earnings, the whole equipment is your property
and can be disposed of by you as you think fit.
If you are earning your own livelihood, inde-
pendently of your parents, in a reputable trade
or calling, you cannot be compelled to stay at
home F.L.: Statements made by members
of Parliament in the House, however libellous
they may be, are privileged, and you have no
legal redress L.M.: Though crudely ex-
pressed, it contains the essential consideration
and promise necessary to a valid contract.
This department cannot advise you in the
choice of a solicitor W.E.D.: On the facts
stated, the principals, having recognised the
party as their agent and having admitted,
tacitly, the receipt of certain instalments of pay-
ment through him, cannot now repudiate the
agency. The principle in law is that, where a
person acts in such a manner as to lead other
persons to believe that a certain individual is
his agent, he cannot deny the agency to the
loss of someone who, in good faith, acted
in the belief of such agency... .W.A.8.: Write
Under-Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney... .R.T.8.: The award of the Mer-
cantile Marine Medal is a matter for the
Navigation Department; apply to the Deputy-
Director of Navigation, Sydney, in regard to
your eligibility.... R.H.: A candidate for entry
to the Naval College must attain the age of 13
in the calendar year during which the entrance
examination which he applies to take is held.
Particulars from the Secretary, Naval Board,
Victoria Barracks, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne.
. ...G.S.W.: Damp the skins, then give a light
coat of oil on the flesh side, and dry them.
Once dry, rub the flesh side with sandpaper
or pumice stone. If the skins are well tanned
they may not need any more oil R.S.B. ;
A large snake could easily crawl over netting
three feet high, while small ones could pass
through. A smooth surface paling fence or a
galvanised-iron one, particularly the flat sheet-
iron kind, if about 3ft. high or oyer, would
effectively prevent snakes from entering
W.P.: If Government decides upon construction
of the Eastern Suburbs (Sydney) railway, the
probability is that the line would take off from
the existing underground electric railway at St.
James station C. 8.: (1) and (2) Ford Motor
Co. of Canada was founded on 100 p.c. of
Canadian cash capital, but shares to-day are
widely distributed. (3) and (4) The original
American plant was established at Highland Park,
a suburb of Detroit, but subsequently, when
the operations reached such a scale that more
suitable premises were necessary, the activities
were removed to Dearborn, another suburb of
Detroit... .0.F.8.: The book is worth about
5s J.P.: The explosion at the Bulli
(N.S.W.) colliery occurred on March 23, 1887,
and 81 persons lost their lives; that at Mount
Kembla on July 31, 1902, the death roll being
95....A.A.; May 5 is a national holiday in
Mexico because it is the anniversary of the
battle in 1872 between the Mexican army and
the French. September 16 is the anniversary
of the Declaration of Mexican Independence,
in 1810.... W.W.0.: (1) Yes. (2) No
E.R.C.: Cannot trace F.C.T.: It was called
Out of Doors with Richard Jefferies (Dent;
3s. 6d.)... .F.C.W.: Write Under-Secretary,
Department of the Interior, Canberra,F.C.T
R.J.: Ranch, which in the United States and
Canada is the term used for a cattle station, is
derived from the Spanish rancho, which
properly means “mess,” or “messroom,” but
was applied in Mexico to a herdsman’s hut,
and finally to a grazing farm, as distinguished
from a hacienda, a plantation or cultivated
farm.... A.A.L.: The formula is a trade secret.
. ...A.M.: Cheesemakers in Queensland are
required to hold cheese-making, -grading and
-testing certificates under the Dairy Produce
Acts 1920-32. The cheese industry is not ex-
panding, and there are numbers of qualified
men already available. Award wages for
cheesemakers are £4 9s. per week; general
hands £3 145., managers by agreement....
G.C.W.: Get the young trees in pots. They
are obtainable at about 9in. high at 90s.
per 100; packing and carriage extra. You
could probably get larger trees, perhaps up
to three years old, but they would cost a
little more money, and the risk of losing some
of them would be greater F.A.; Communi-
cate with the Chief Veterinary Surgeon, Stock
and Brands Branch, Department of Agricul-
ture, Sydney... .P.T.S.: The course of training
takes two years and commences during the
second or third week of March in each year.
An applicant must produce the leaving certifi-
cate, be in good health, and be prepared to
devote all his or her time to study. The course
is conducted by the Australasian Massage
Association, by which body all enrolments are
made... .Goldpan: Your dish, on a mathe-
matical computation, runs 9.38 to the cub. yd.
Nine and a third would be about right in
practice Doubtful: The fact that a singular
noun such as “company,” “crowd” or “multi-
tude” implies more than one does not alter
grammatical usage. You are wrong on both
counts... .H.R.S.: Titles are “Tea Cult of
Japan,” “Japanese Noh Plays,” “Japanese
Cherry,” “Japanese Drama” and “Japanese
Architecture”; price, Is. 6d. each, obtainable
from leading Sydney booksellers B.B.: (1)
£7 10s. (2) Privately, if possible K.H.: It
has been computed that persons of average
education employ in their conversation from
2000 to 3000 words; illiterate people seem to
find from 250 to 300 words sufficient to express
themselves. Writers are on a different footing.
Shakspeare has been credited with the use of
at least 15,000 words, and Milton with about
8000 (Many others mailed.)


The S.H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Ai ihor’s Note. —Tibiiron
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
hear no relation to any living
person.]
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
She lives with the Dwyers,
The White family — Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tiburon’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill. Paul White works for the
Dwyers.
Others of the colony are the Willoughbys,
the Mulvers, Gran Staines and Mad Peter.
Bill Sorrell is the Anglican parson, and
“one of the best.”
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tiburon of its undesirables.
In this it is supported by Sergeant Moore
(half-heartedly) and Constable Scorby (abso-
lutely).
“Jingo” Barnes, a former teacher at Warn-
ing Hill, has lately returned to Tiburon.
Last week an unemployed “traveller” asked
Jessica whether she knew of “any girl here-
abouts who would he willing to marry him.”
She was rather startled at the request; then
she thought of Emma White. Emma, like
Barkis, was willin’.
Chapter VIII. —( Continued .)
11.
THE celebration of Emma’s wedding was on a
magnificent scale.
“One pound ten they paid for tha cake,” Mrs.
Mulver told Mrs. Willoughby incredulously. “Air
Lizzie sayin’ only tha ither dee ’ow she didn na ’ow
to buy young Bobby a pair av shoes, an’ tha boy
with his toes peepin’ oot. One pound ten for tha
cake! Why, Ah could’ve made it maself f’r fi’ bob.
That’s them Whites arl over. West not, want not,
is what Ah say.”
Beer flowed freely, and there was sherry for the
ladies, who preferred it to beer. Emma’s bridegroom
eyed the wedding reception sourly, and soon removed
his bride with an abrupt “Well, Emma, we got to
be gettin’ along. It’s twenty miles to Tooramong, an'
dole-day the day after to-morrer.”
' “Sorry, old chap,” he said to the bereaved parent.
“Come along, little feller”—this to his son.
The celebrations continued well into the night.
Old Dave refused to be consoled. He was nearly /
as bad as Jim, who did not agree with Lizzie’s dictum
that weddings didn’t happen every day of the week.
Jim was in a black rage about the waste of money,
but Dave was sulking about his lost daughter.
“Always brought me daughters up t’ be a credit
t’ me,” he mourned. “An’ then what’s she gone an
done? Gone orf with a traveller! Gawd knows
where! That damn’ schoolmarm! She started it.
Ought to ’ave ’ad more sense.”
“What are y’ whinin’ at?” Larry inquired rudely.
“As long as she’s happy. ’E’s a decent sort of bloke.
You got no kick cornin’.”
“ ’Tisn’t that.” Dave jealously reached over and
dispossessed Mr. Willoughby of his moustache cup.
Dave’s moustache cup was a thing of beauty, and
had been with him for years. It had a little ledge
to keep his upper lip dry, and was embossed all over
with pink roses and gilt scrollwork. “ ’Tisn’t that.
Marryin’s like measles. Next thing y’ know they’ll
all get it. They’ll all be married, mark me word if
I’m not right. They’ll all be goin’ away from their
ol’ father, never to return.”
“Oh, shut up,” said Bill. “Let’s all have a damn’
good time.”
“Come on”—Sam Jordan leant over and clapped
his friend Dave on the back—“how about givin’ us
a song?”
The Whites were all musically inclined. Ella
was nearly as rackety a performer on the concertina
as her father, and even Bobby could play the mouth-
organ. The old concertina had nearly burst its brown-
paper patches at many a dance in the old days, but
now, with these orchestras getting five pounds a night,
it was very seldom that it got a chance.
Even old Granny Staines brightened at the men-
tion of a song. Ella had made a rush for the con-
certina before her father had done mournfully shaking
his head, and, jumping on the table, she swung it
round, screaming “I’m going to play! I’m going
to play it!”
The concertina gave a protesting groan, and then
launched into action. Mr. Willoughby danced a jig
in the middle of the floor, punctuating the perform-
ance with long-drawn howls, and subsiding thirstily
when Dave snatched the concertina from the protest-
ing Ella. The company settled down to a sequence
of real old busker ballads, even Evie and Bobby
adding their small pipings to the chorus, while the
roof shook to the exploding volume of sound:
“No-ow all my young dukeys and duchesses,
Take heeding from what I do say;
Mind all is your own as you toucheses.
Or you’ll join us in Botany Ba-ay.
“Singing tooral-i-ooral-i-addity,
Singing tooral-i-ooral-i-ay”
The White family always preferred its emotion
laid on with a spade. All the favorite songs reeked
of deserted sweethearts and misunderstood gaolbirds.
Drinking deeper into the beer, they had reached the
sad refrain about the erring bootlegger which goes
by the somewhat mystifying title of “Moonlightin’
Skies.”
“Hi’m a prisoner that's lonely f’r me moonlightin’
skies ;
Me pal’s name was Blackie, a lad of true heart.
A robbery we planned, so de-e-cided to start.”
In the end poor Blackie had a bullet put through
him by a soulless constable, and the singer was incar-
cerated “behind these iron bars.”
“ ’E’s a prisoner ’oo’s lonely f’r ’is moonlightin’ skies.”
“Real sad song, that,” Mr. Mulver remarked.
“Ah, it makes y’ think, that does. Specially that line
about ‘Me pal's name was Blackie, a lad of true ’eart.’
There ain’t many of them about these days. Not
with true ’earts, 1 mean. They’s plenty called Blackie
that really soots the name.”
His comment was drowned in the beginning of
the next song. The White music had a quality all
its own of insistence and determination, and a selfish
disregard for all but its immediate ends,
Mrs. Mulver had to scream to make herself
heard as she detailed to Mr. Staines the trials of an
“I’m going to play it.”
anxious mother. She had been screeching the details
of her house-hunting campaign. Staines, nodding
his fat, puffy face into his cup of pinkie, agreed
silently, to save his voice, and shifted his withered
leg clumsily out of the way of the cup-fillers passing
to and fro with assorted beverages.
“Larst time I left them children alone,” Mrs.
Mulver shrieked, “they got up t’ sich mischief! Young
Bertie, ’e got ’owld av tha caat an’ pushes ’er in
tha fire, so arl ’er whiskers was singed off. Can’t
leave ’im aloan a minute ’thout he’s oop ta su’thin.
Pleyin’ with tha fire, inded!”
Staines nodded groggily. He hadn’t a very good
head for the cheap, raw wine he was drinking, and
it made him feel rather sick.
“Always been this way ever since the war,” he
explained. “They used t’ say ‘ ’Ave another, Stainie.’
but I’d say ‘You go ahead, boys. I like to see y’
appy.’ ”
The rest of the gathering had reached the seventh
verse of “Down by the Riverside.”
“ ‘D’yer think I’d go back t’ me mother, de-e-ar, to
be-e-e a disgrace an’ shame ?
I’d rather go an’ drown meself down so-ome dark,
shady lane.’
I took ’er by ’er lily white ’and, I kissed both cheek
an’ chin; , . „
I took ’er to the riverside, an’ gently pushed ’er in.
The pack bayed happily. Jim made for the door.
He found Larry on the step.
“That’s them all over,” he said in a burst of rage.
“Go on singing till the roof falls in, an’ then call f’r
another drink while it does. I’m damn’ well sick of
this family.” . , A .
But the Whites had been saying that about each
other for years.
“Well, we don’t get much fun,” Larry said toler-
antly. “Y’ll be a long time dead, you know, Jim,”
“There’s a curse on us,” old Dave was telling
the gathering. He had reached the stage when he was
tearfully drunk. “It’s that Father Flaherty! Ever
since the old woman died I ain’t ’ad no luck. An
it’s that there priest done it. ‘Hell's gapin' for y\
'e says. ‘An’ for all in this Sodom an Gomorrah, e
says. ‘The curse of the place is on y’,' e says.
‘Selfish an’ wanton. ’lgh an’ low, wrapped in y'
pride an’ sloth, all of yez,’ e says. Tiburon, that cit\
of the plains,’ ‘e says, ‘shall be wiped out in dust.' "
“It pretty near is when there’s a duststorm.
“What would yer be wantin’ t’ take ony notice
av ony owld priest for?” Mrs. Mulver inquired. The
Mulvers belonged to the Salvation Army, because
Mrs. Mulver found it profitable from the point of
view of the children’s clothes.
“An’ that there Sorrell, the Church of Inglin'
parson, ’e’s just as bad,” Staines put in. He wandered
ofi into an incoherent tale of a pair of boots he had
failed to beg, but no one heard, because Dave drowned
him out.
“Pries’,” Dave said thickly through his mous-
tache and shaking his head vaguely, ‘pries’ different
They got a lot more exper’nce cursin' than others. I
ain’t ’ad no luck since.”
“What I say about pries’ this”
“ ’Ow far can curse travel?” Dave leaned for-
ward and patted Sam Jordan’s knee. “ 'Ow tar to
be really ’armful like?”
Sara laughed. “If a few could travel into town
Scorby’d ’ave a bruise on the back of ’is neck.”
“But this,” Dave said reprovingly, “this’s serious.
Now, s’posin’. Mind you, I’m only sayin’
s’posin’ ”
“Pack of nonsense,” Mr. Mulver put in. Mr.
Mulver was a silent man. Usually he said only “Ah,”
that monosyllable doing duty for every emotion. The
general opinion was that Mrs. Mulver had trained
him that way, because otherwise, Jiving with her, he
would have had no means of expressing himself.
Dave turned on him nastily. "Oh, it’s pack uv
nonsense, eh? You think so, eh? Well, y’ jus' keep
y’r mouth shut until y’ git cursed y’self, an’ then
y’ can talk, see? Don’ y’ come talkin' about other
people's curses when”— —
"All a lot of rot,” Mulver declared pugnaciously.
“Oh, it is, is it?” Dave growled. “I’ll show y’
whether it’s rot or not.”
He reached and seized Mary’s prize jam
jar full of flowers, and with unsteady aim
launched it in Mr. Mulver's direction.
“That’ll show y’,” he roared. “That’ll
show y’ whether curses travel.”
Mulver dodged. Mrs. Mulver shrilled
angrily.
“Tha idea! Don’t yer think yer can
be’arve ta us tha way y’ do ta y’r own family!
Ah niver saw such in ma life! To treat a
guest so! Noo, Mary, Ah seen some things
in ma time, but ef yer think Ah’m goin’ ta stand ta
see me own ’usband struck at with vawses an’ arl”
Her outcry sustained the central motif of the
uproar as Dave attempted to get at Mulver. Staines
shouted as someone stumbled over his leg, and Mary
wailed over the ruins of her jam jar.
Presently the noise began to subside, and Dave
sank back in a corner with a murmured: “Curses—
that’s what it is . . . like measles ... all get married
an’ leave me.” He went peacefully to sleep.
“Now, then, Mrs. Mulver,” Sam Jordan said
soothingly, “we don’t want a little thing like this
to spoil the party f’r everybody. There’s a couple oi
bottles of Nellie’s Death I bought meself. They’re
out in the sulky. Let’s ’ave ’em in an’ keep the fun
goin’. Come on, now.” He leered at Ella. “Come
on out an’ get ’em.”
But the Mulvers left rancorously, though the
rest of the party were quite willing to fall in with
the suggestion. Ella snatched up the concertina from
beside her slumbering parent and started another
busker ballad, in which the company joined with
good heart, while Staines and Sam Jordan helped
stow Willoughby out of the way next to old Dave.
“1-hi started to ro-o-oam last summer,” the
gathering bayed in chorus.
“l-hi left [terrific high note] mi-hi mother an 'ome;
I went to gamblin’ an’ drinkin’, an’ / swore I’d awiwez
ro-hoam.
Come, lissen to my sa-ad story. Me mother fer me
did cry.
She begged me not t’ leave ’er ; fer me she would of
died.
She said ‘My so-on, remember when y’r daddy is dead
an’ gone, ( ( ..
Jus’ stay at ’ome with mother, an’ don’t leave er all-u
alone.’ ”
“There’s no doubt about it,” Staines remarked
to his mother, who, crouching by the fire, tenaciously
kept a bottle of Nellie’s Death out of circulation—
“there’s no doubt it’s good f ’ave a night out now
an’ then. I like t’ see ’em ’appy.”
He staggered to the door, and then decided not
to go out, because of the two dim figures sitting on
a log by the shed. One was Jim and the other looked
like Mrs. Willoughby. Staines grinned toothlessly at
the recumbent form of Willoughby propped against
Dave; then his eye wandered to Sam Jordan, with his
arm round Ella’s waist.
“Like t’ see everybody ’appy,” he said to no
one in particular. “ Snice t ave a good time.
Chapter IX.
I.
//T AM only waiting,” Constable Scorby said sarcas-
I tically, “for Bradman to turn up, and then 1 II
* be able to hand out relief to the whole Aus-
tralian Eleven. ’ , c ...adino
He glanced up and down the line of men waiting
on the verandah of the police station, and nearly all
shifted their eyes to their shabby boots.


“Now, then,” Scorby continued easily, “Ponsford.
Larwood, Kippax and the rest, you see that road?
Well, get on it. Get your rations somewhere else, and
keep out of my sight. Don’t come through this way
again or you’ll find yourselves in trouble. There’s
softer officers to impose on elsewhere.”
He turned his back on them, re-entered the office
and called loudly “Allen!” The first man in the
queue shuffled uneasily into his presence.
It was always an ordeal for the locals to get their
relief work, but Scorby had an unholy zeal for bait-
ing travellers. He had orders “to use his discretion,”
and he used it. Any man who looked him in the
eye, who spoke too boldly or showed too much
confidence was likely to be told to get on to the
next towm ; and there was no alternative but to go.
Scorby had just finished the squad for the fort-
night when he glanced out the door and saw the
Reverend William Sorrell coming up the path. He
turned his back and busied himself with some papers.
“May I see you for a minute, Constable Scorby?”
Scorby rose courteously. “What can I do for
you, Mr. Sorrell? The sergeant isn’t on duty this
morning.”
“I know.” There was something in the Reverend
William’s tone that brought a shadow to the police
officer’s face. “It was you 1 wanted to sec. It’s about
Mrs. Neale.”
“Ah, yes,” Scorby said easily. “Won’t you take
a seat?”
“Mrs. Neale,” the lector pursued, “is the mother
of one of my choirboys, and 1 know for a fact that
if she had not been laid up ill she would still be
supporting her children by washing. The sergeant,
when she had these difficulties, was accustomed to
allow her support for herself and the four children.”
Scorby nodded remotely. “She came to me in tears
because, 1 understand, you refused her the relief.
Is that correct?”
“1 have made a careful investigation of the case.
Mr. Sorrell,” Scorby said pleasantly, “and 1 have
come to the conclusion that this is just another im-
posture. The woman has relatives in the town. She
has a husband living, and, as I told her, it is that
husband’s duty to maintain her. She must find her
husband and lake the children to live with him."
“Charlie Neale,” said the rector
grimly, “has been in and out of gaol
for the past ten years. He is an ugly
customer, and it is utterly undesirable
that either she or the children live
with him, even if she could find him.
She has a maintenance order out
against him, of which he takes simply
no notice.”
Scorby raised his eyebrows. “She
did not tell me she had a maintenance
order out,” he remarked.
The rector smiled. “If I under-
stood her rightly, you didn’t ask her.
You merely told her to find her hus-
band and let him keep her, or else
live on her relatives. You refused to
discuss the matter further.”
Scorby shrugged. “I find that firmness pays in
these cases. Well, anyway”—he swung round in his
chair —“if her husband won’t keep her, her relatives
can. Hasn’t she a brother working here?”
“Her brother has a wife and six children,” the
rector responded patiently. “He manages to scrape
together a living, but I know that the children arc
very undernourished. He has all he can do to keep
his own family.”
Scorby was silent for a minute. “Seeing that you
have put the affair in person to me, Mr. .Sorrell, and
explained matters on which I was ignorant before, 1
shall sec what I can do. But I am still of the opinion
that Mrs. Neale should make more effort to support
herself.”
“Thank you.” Bill Sorrell rose. “Oh. by the
way, while I’m here, I was speaking to Miss Daunt,
the teacher of the little school at Warning Hill. She
would like to see you about a family out that way
who”
“Oh, the Whites!” Scorby smiled. “I’m afraid
I can’t”
“It’s not the White family.” The rector haled
being interrupted. “The name is Brennick.” Scorby
took up a pencil and tapped it meditatively on the
desk. “The Brennicks,” the lector went on, “lived
at Tiburon all their lives until about three years ago,
when George Brennick took out a traveller’s ticket
and went looking for work. He took his wife and
children in a van—a turnout, I think they call it.”
Scorby nodded. “Brennick has not been able to find
work, and the sergeant at Tcmora told him to come
hack to his home town to settle down and give the
children the chance of an education. They have not
been to school any time during the past three years.”
Scorby nodded to show that he was listening, but
kept his eyes on the point of his pencil. “Mrs. Bren-
nick is a hard-working little woman, and used to be
a member of my congregation.”
“And George Brennick,” said Scorby deliberately,
•s habitual drunkard.”
“No,” answered the rector; “only occasionally,
: »nd if he were given a chance”
“I refused to allow him to localise here,” Scorby
went on, “because I judged it best to keep a man of
that character out of Tiburon. There are enough
bad characters as it is.”
“And his wife and children?”
“I am not responsible for his wife and children.”
The rector felt his collar getting limp with his
vtlort to keep his temper. “Well, I consider I am.”
10 said shortly, “and so is every other citizen of this
’own. When those children grow up”
~ ‘’They will be bad characters like their father.”
V-orby drew r himself up. “My duty, Mr. Sorrell, is
j° perform those tasks which have been laid down
or me. I am an officer of the law, not a charitable
'Hstdution. But I tell you what I will do.” He
reached for a sheet of paper. “If you like to go out
ar >d see these children and make a complaint, I will
get in touch with the Child Welfare Department and
have them removed to a suitable institution.”
The rector went red. “I am not a spy” he said.
For a moment his temper again nearly got the best
of him, and he turned away. “Judge not,” he re-
minded himself. Scorby had taken up his pencil and
resumed his tapping. The rector sank back in his
chair and regarded Scorby almost pityingly.
“You are not used to work in the country, Mr.
Scorby?” he asked.
“No.” Scorby did not miss a tap. “I was a
member of the C. 1.8. until circumstances necessitated,
a country appointment. But now I am a country
constable”—there seemed to be even a faint note of
apology in his tone—“l intend to be the perfect
country constable.”
The rector smiled at him.
“You are succeeding,” he said. “But don’t you
think that a little more leniency Now Sergeant
Moore, for instance, has got on well with this
town”
“The sergeant is a fool,” Scorby said calmly.
“You can tell him so. He knows 1 think it.”
The rector had one of his flashes of intuition.
“You hate the job, don’t you?” he asked sym-
pathetically,
“1 hale it,” Scorby agreed, “but I intend to fulfil
every jot and tittle of my duty,”
“Pilate,” said the rector gently, “did the same.”
Scorby raised his eyes from his pencil. “He was
a very intelligent man,” he remarked. “He detested
mobs as much as I do.”
“You mean you arc afraid of them,” the rector
said.
“Perhaps,” Scorby answered.
The rector stood up. “You must be lonely living
here at the barracks,” he said. “Any time you’d like
to drop in for a pipe and a yarn I’m usually at home
in the evenings. Thank you about Mrs. Neale. I’ll
tell her to come up and see you, shall I?”
Scorby inclined his head. “If she comes up
some time to-day or to-morrow I’ll let her have her
issue.” Again his tone was faintly apologetic. “So
many of them try to impose. I’ll go out and see
Miss Daunt. I have to visit Warning Hill (his aflcr-
He glanced down the line of men.
noon, I should have gone a week ago. Thank you
for the invitation. I may lake you at your word
some evening.”
The rector walked "to the gate reproaching him-
self. “Poor young chap,” he thought. “1 suppose
old Moore has rather let things slip, but I can’t help
thinking that they went more smoothly with him than
they’ll go with Scorby.”
11.
Scorby, riding out towards Warning Hill on his
tall, black horse, summed up the rector as a well-
meaning man but weak. Scorby considered the majo-
rity of mankind weak, rather stupid and lacking in
decision. He arrived, as he meant to do, just as Miss
Daunt was shutting up the school; and, in response
to his request for a word with her, she sent the
Dwyer children on ahead.
“I hear that these travellers about here have been
bothering you with their tales of woe, Miss Daunt,”
he said as he tied his horse to the school fence. “They
are an untruthful lot, but as I happened to have
business out this way I called to see what it was
that was troubling you.”
“That was very kind of you,” Jessica said rather
impudently.
“Yes,” Scorby said, with a smile that showed all
his gold teeth. “I am a kind man. Ask anyone
about here.”
In spite of herself Jessica laughed, and Scorby
laughed with her. “He has the quietest voice of
anyone in Tiburon,” she thought, and something
whispered inside her, “He is good-looking, handsome
and rather frightening.” She outlined the Brennicks
much as Mr. Sorrell had done. Ever since Emma’s
wedding Jessica Daunt had been enjoying herself in
the part of the Angel of the Poor and Lowly. Scorby
thought for a minute.
“You know, Miss Daunt,” he said, “I can under-
stand that a girl like you may easily be deceived in
these matters. I have summed up these Brennicks
as a set of liars and thieves, and I find myself unable
to alter my opinion.”
“That must be horrible for you.” she said with
mock concern, swallowing her anger. Scorby remained
immobile under her mockery. “Seriously,” Jessica
said, “have you ever heard the saying that a wise
man can alter his mind and”
“A fool never,” he finished. “Yes,” he went
on reflectively, “it has always been my creed that
there is only one crime.”
“And that?” Jessica questioned.
Scorby nodded his head. “That crime is
stupidity,” he said slowly.
‘ Then I must be a criminal?”
“You are,” he said placidly. “You are very
stupid. You are meddling with things you don’t
understand.”
Jessica forced a smile. She had never been
insulted so calmly in her life.
“You know you are charming,” Scorby said, just
as quietly. “And you think because you are charming
you can commit my favorite crime.”
“I am sorry if I differ from you”-—Jessica was
really very angry—“but you seem to me to be a very
conceited man.”
“Not conceited”—Scorby untied his horse—“arro-
gant. Conceit is the comfort of little minds. But
1 would advise you, Miss Daunt, to keep your pretty
little head free from worry about these people who
come whining to you. I suppose my old friends the
Whites have also tried their confidence tricks. Believe
me, they know how to look after themselves. They
have a little habit of helping themselves to other
things besides sympathy. Good-bye.” He smiled
broadly. “I shall come out again and hear some
more complaints against myself and my conceit.”
He rode off before Jessica could think of a
sufficiently subtle insult. She felt like a small girl
who had been lectured by a grown-up, and she was
furious. Scorby, as he rode away, did not lose his
smile. He had been seeking an excuse to speak to
Miss Daunt for some time. On the whole he was
pleased as he rode towards the White camp.
nr.
Lizzie was bringing in the washing. She was
always washing. It was her interest in life, just as
snakes were Mick Dw'yer’s. Lizzie never quite go(
the dirt out, and the clothes were never really (it
to wear; but she kept on washing importantly. Clad
in an old black apron and a pair of sandshoes too
big for her, she would slop backwards and forwards
between the copper, standing on its pedestal of bricks,
and the tin tub on an upturned soapbox. These were
her household gods, and she served (hem with the
dumb acquiescence of Blasted pulling the sulky.
“When brains were given out,” Larry would
declare, “Lizzie was off doin’ the washin’. She ain’t
got as much sense as Willie. He knows when to
come out of the sun.”
Larry had a grouch against Lizzie, who was
always wanting water and then more water. This
had to be brought from the lagoon in oil-drums, and
mostly it was Larry who had to bring it.
“How the hell can I wash without water?” Lizzie
would cry. “You go an’ get it.”
“Oh, drown y’self with the soap,” Larry would
retort, and stroll off before Lizzie could throw it
at him.
You wouldn’t believe the Whites had so
many clothes. Flannel undershirts, still' and
grey and hard to scrub ; trousers soiled with
red clay that caked in the turned-up trouser
legs; the girls’ dresses, stained and torn, with
bits of lace hanging in shreds; woollen socks
with dirt grained into them; little napkins
and rompers, little trousers and socks and
dresses; and then more flannel undershirts—
each received the same laborious rubbing and
wringing.
Around Lizzie’s feet the two tame magpies flut-
tered, while a mother cat with her kittens blinked
in the sun and watched them lazily. Lizzie kicked
the dogs out of the way as she savagely tramped to
the clothes-line for another bundle of half-dry shirts.
The Whites had four dogs. Not that they protected
the valuables in the hut from thieves—there were no
valuables —but, as Mary said, “You like to know
when anyone’s cornin’ so you can shove anything
under the bed.”
Lizzie wiped back the hair that hung round her
face from under a man’s felt hat, leaving a halo of
half-dried soapsuds across her forehead.
“I’ll give it to you, Jacky!” she cried. “Here,
Mary, Ella, come an’ get the kid. ’E’s catin’ them
ants again.”
Jacky liked playing with ants. He would crawl
after them in the dirt, making noises of encourage-
ment and approval to himself, his dirty little blue
dress up round his waist, his fat legs kicking vigor-
ously. Jacky set up a bellow of rage when deprived
of his prey. There would be a rush of large girls
to the rescue, Jacky’s mouth would be opened forcibly
and the unhappy insect extracted. It was enough
to embitter even as happy an infant as young Jacky,
when it cost so much to lift it to his mouth in his
dirty little fist, to have it snatched from him just
when he was enjoying it. The ants must have bitten
him often, but he never gave any sign. Perhaps,
even when he chewed them, the ants knew he meant
it kindly, and that there was no real malice in Jacky.
“He’s my fav’ritc except Joe,” Lizzie would
remark fondly.
He was everybody’s favorite, for no one except
Lizzie remembered Joe, who was the first of the
Whites to leave home. Joe decided very early that
his father misunderstood him, and, at the age of
eleven, without so much as a good-bye to anyone
except Lizzie, he had wrapped up some sausages, a
half loaf of bread and a blanket and left Tiburon
for good. Lizzie could still remember him heading
bravely down the street in search of some place that
appreciated little high-spirited boys who wanted to
be bushrangers. She did not know how, when dark-
ness came, he had crouched with his back to a tree,
starting at the rustle in the bushes and licking the
tears as they rolled down his cheeks. He was afraid
of the dark, and wanted to go home, but he never
returned.
Mrs. Mulver, strolling up for an afternoon cup
of tea, regarded Jacky with the eye of maternal
prejudice.
‘ E won’t niver live ta grow oop. tha things ’e
eats,” she predicted. “Naw. when Claudie was ’is
(<Continued on page 50.)


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kaclio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
BUY A
RADIO
EC
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nes
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (encloSm- M. in stamps) for tlio 30 x 20
inch Lavishly illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
RADIO NEWS
SUPERHETERODYNE ALIGNMENT.
SOME HINTS ON CORRECT PRACTICE.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
There are two general methods of
aligning superheterodyne receivers. In
the first, the ordinary broadcasting stations
are used as sources of radio signals, and
the strength of signals emanating from
the loudspeaker is judged by ear. In the
second, which produces far more
accurate and satisfactory results, a modu-
lated oscillator is used to produce signals,
and the resulting output of the receiver
is recorded on some type of output or
A.C. voltmeter instead of being judged
by ear.
Unfortunately, the human ear is not
very sensitive in detecting small changes
in the intensity of a sound, so that some
inaccuracies must result when the first
method is used. However, as the
majority of people interested in radio do
not possess oscillators or output meters,
the method which does not necessitate
their use is first considered.
The first procedure in aligning any
superheterodyne receiver is to adjust the
condensers which tune the intermediate
frequency transformers. This is accom-
plished by turning the tuning-condenser
plates out of mesh until some fairly dis-
tant station at the high frequency end of
the broadcast band is received. A station
whose carrier frequency is about 1400 kc.
is quite satisfactory. A screwdriver is
then inserted through one of the holes in
the top or bottom of the round can hous-
ing the last intermediate frequency trans-
former. The last I.F. transformer is the
one which feeds the signals into'the grid
circuit of the second detector. The ad-
justing screw with which the screwdriver
engages is then turned imt'l the station
is received at its greatest
strength. The second adjust-
ing screw, which is reached
through the other hole in the
transformer can, is then ad-
justed in a similar manner.
After the adjustments of the
last I.F. transformer are com
pleted, turn to the preceding
I.F. transformer and adjust
it in a similar manner, turn-
ing both screws until the
signal is received at its great-
est volume.
Most receivers have only
two I.F. transformers, but if
the set being aligned happens
to have three the third should
also be adjusted in like manner to the
other two. Unfortunately, it is not
possible to ascertain the exact inter-
mediate frequency to which the trans-
formers have been aligned, but if the
trimming condensers are turned approxi-
mately half-way into mesh the I.F. will
be so near the; correct frequency that no
trouble will result. This completes the
alignment of the I.F. amplifier, and the
condensers should on no account be
altered again unless it is found necessary
to do so to remove troublesome whistles,
as explained later.
Next procedure is to adjust the trim-
ming condensers, which are mounted on
top of the tuning gang. The first step is
to screw all the trimming condensers
until they are about two-thirds of the
way in. The same high frequency station
is used for this adjustment, and the dial
should be carefully and slowly turned to
make sure that the station is completely
tuned in.
Ascertain which section of the gang
tunes the oscillator coil (this section is
usually connected to the padding con-
denser), and do not alter its trimming
condenser, but adjust the other trimmer
or trimmers until the station is heard at
its loudest. It will probably be necessary
to turn down the volume control during
these adjustments, otherwise the signals
would become too loud and distortion
and possible errors would result.
The next step is to adjust the padding
condenser, and this is perhaps the most
difficult adjustment of all. A station with
a carrier frequency of about 600 kc. is
selected and the volume adjusted until it
is being received at reasonable room
strength. Notice carefully the strength of
the signals and then give the adjusting
screw of the padding condenser a slight
turn, noting in which direction the screw
is turned. Remove the screwdriver from
the screw and tune-in the station once
more with the tuning dial. The station
will now come in at a slightly different
position on the dial. If the volume is
now greater, proceed by turning the
screw a little further in the same direc-
tion, then retuning the dial and noting
the change in volume. If the signal
strength decreased after the first adjust-
ment the screw should be turned in the
opposite direction. • Continue these trial
adjustments until a setting is reached at
which the station is heard with the
greatest volume. .
An important point to remember is that
after each alteration of the padding con-
denser the screwdriver should be removed
and the dial retuned before the change
in signal strength is judged,
The final step is to tune again to the
station at the high frequency end of the
band and readjust the trimmer or tnm-
mers on the gang, but again do not alter
the trimmer which is connected to the
section of the gang that tunes the oscil-
lator coil,
The adjustments are now completed,
and the receiver should be tried on
several stations. If whistles are noticed
when strong stations are being received
they can often be eliminated by either
increasing or decreasing the capacity ot
all adjusting condensers in the I.F. trans-
formers, and then completely realign-
ing the whole receiver once more.
If a modulated oscillator and an output
meter are available the oscillator should
be set to produce the required frequency
to which the intermediate frequency
transformers are to be aligned (usually
175 kc. or 460 kc.) and the two output
leads of the oscillator connected, one to
the earth of the receiver and the other
to the control grid cap of the first
detector tube. It is a wise precaution to
short-circuit the plates of the oscillator
section of the tuning gang during this
adjustment to prevent the production of
spurious intermediate frequencies. The
output meter should be connected to the
plate circuit of the output tube so that
the modulation of the oscillator causes
a deflection of the output meter needle.
Proceed to adjust the condensers in
the I.F. transformer cans, commencing
with the last one and working back to
the first one. The condensers should be
adjusted until the output meter needle
swings across to its highest point. Reset
the oscillator so that it produces a broad-
cast frequency of about 1400 kc. Remove
the short circuit from the oscillator sec-
tion of the tuning gang and connect the
lead from the oscillator which pre-
viously connected to the grid cap of the
first detector tube to the aerial terminal
of the receiver.
Accurately tune the receiver until the
oscillator signal is received at its great-
est strength. Adjust the trimmer or
trimmers on top of the condenser gang
until the meter needle shows greatest
deflection. The trimmer on the con-
denser section which tunes the oscil-
lator coil will be found to be very criti-
cal, so pay particular attention to the
adjustment of this trimmer. Reset the
modulated oscillator so that it produces
a frequency of 600 kc., and accurately
tune the receiver to this frequency.
Adjust the volume control of the re-
ceiver until the output meter needle rests
on some division of the scale, for
example, half-way across the scale. Make
a slight alteration (about a quarter of
a turn) to the padding condenser, re-
move the screwdriver, readjust the
tuning dial and notice whether the out-
put meter indicates a stronger or a
weaker signal strength. If the signal
strength has increased, the condenser
screw should again be turned in the same
direction and various trial adjustments
made until the needle shows the great-
est deflection. If the first adjustment re-
sulted in a decrease of signal strength,
the condenser screw must have been
turned in the wrong direction.
Finally, reset the oscillator to 1400 kc.
and tune the receiver, accurately to the
oscillator signal; then readjust all trim-
mers on the condenser gang except the
one connected to the gang section which
tunes the oscillator coil. The receiver
should now operate to the best of its
ability. , t •
Should the receiver under test contain
automatic volume control and incor-
porate a visual tuning device, the output
meter should be dispensed with and ad-
justments made for the greatest indica-
tion on the visual tuning indicator. It,
however, the receiver contains auto-
matic volume control but no tuning
meter, it will be found necessary to select
either a very weak and distant station or
a very weak signal from the oscillator
to make accurate adjustments.
L.B.G.
Dutch Short-wave Transmissions
from PHI.
Wave-length 25.57 m., 11,730kc./sec..
specification of hours in E.S.T., opens
11.30 p.m.
October 17: 11.40 p.m., music; 12.30 a.m.,
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., music; 1.30
a.m., close. . , , .
October 18: 12 a.m., music; 12.30 a.m., latest
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., music; 1.30
a.m., dose. . ..
October 19; 11.40 p.m., music; 12.10 a.m.,
news talk; 12.55 a.m., music, etc.; 1.55 a.m.,
talk on moving pictures by L. J. Jordaan;
2.10 a.m., music.
October 20: 11.40 p.m.. from mail to mail
in Holland; 12 a.m., music; 12.30 a.m., news
from Holland; 12.40 a.m., broadcast by the
R. Catholic Broadcasting Association; 1.40
a.m., light music; 2 a.m., close.
October 21: 11.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m.,
meeting of the Phohi Club; 12.10 a.m., music;
12.30 a.m., news from Holland; 12.45 a.m.,
music; 1.30 a.m., close.
October 24: 11.40 p.m., music; 12.30 a.m.,
news from Holland; 1.5 a.m., music; 1.30
a.m., close. .
October 25: 11.40 p.m., music; 11.50 p.m.,
“Short Waves —Long Distances,” talk by
W. P. L. Spruit; 12.5 a.m., music; 12.30 a.m.,
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., music; 1.30
a.m., close. . .
October 26: 11.40 p.m., music; 12.30 a.m.,
news from Holland; 1 a.m., music; 1.25 a.m.,
news talk by L. Aletrino; 2 a.m., dance pro-
gramme; 2.30 a.m., close.
Short-wave Diallings.
A considerable improvement in night
reception has been experienced lately,
with a still further swing to summer
conditions. One very noticeable differ-
ence is that far more stations on the
lowest wave-lengths are becoming
audible, much more so than for the last
five years.
’Phone stations on 16m. between 10
p.m. and 11 p.m. have been heard at
good strength, and the Argentine was
heard calling Berlin on just under 15m.
Both PHI (16.88 m.) and GSG (16.8 m.)
have been at fair strength, but they varied
considerably each night.
On a recent Sunday afternoon JVH
was heard giving the full programmes
of the various Japanese stations, but un-
fortunately strength was poor, and it
was impossible to get many of the
announcements.
From England more test transmissions
have been coming over very late at
night, in addition to the regular trans-
missions. GSI has been used, but has
been very weak here. Times have been
1.30 a.m. to 3.30 a.m.
On September 29 the two D.E.I. sta-
tions were at fine strength on 27m. and
29m. after 10 p.m., the station on 29m.
being at maximum.
The 19-metre band is good after 9 p.m.
most nights, with at times as many as
seven stations well audible, these being
two German, one French, one English,
one American, one Dutch and a Russian
’phone station.
The higher bands have been very
patchy, with bad static. Forty-nine metres
has continued almost useless at any hour
tried.
The 31-metre band has also been poor
in the mornings, with few Americans,
and both GSB and DJA weak.
The station thought to be DIQ is
evidently the Belgian short-wave station
on 29 metres, closing down at 6.30 a.m.
It was on C.W. shortly after closing one
morning and used a call indicating a
Belgian.
The amateur 20-metre band has con-
tained little in the afternoons, but an odd
American can be heard in the early morn-
ing and quite a few Continental stations,
though on C.W. only, at night.
Nightowl.
“P.R.W.” writes; The strong station
which “Nightowl” thought to be DIQ is,
I believe, the new station at Lahti, Fin-
land, said to be the most powerful in
Europe. My doubts were set at rest on
September 28, when, at 6.30 a.m. or
thereabouts, I heard the announcement
in English: “Ladies and gentlemen, may
we conclude our broadcast from Fin-
land.” Lahti is about 60 miles N.N.E. of
Helsingfors, on the railway that runs
across to Leningrad.
All Round the Dial.
“L.8.G.,” writer of the article on re-
ceiver alignment for constructors and
radio students, is well fitted to deal with
this subject and other expositions of
theory-cw/n-practice in a manner devoid
of headaches. Lancelot Beaven Graham,
principal of Australian Radio College,
has been actively concerned with the
radio industry since 1925 on the staffs of
Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., and Philips
Lamps. He joined Australian Radio
College in 1933, and was appointed prin-
cipal in 1934. Under his guidance the
college has grown to large proportions,
and students can train by day classes,
night classes or correspondence. The
official organ of the college, “Oppor-
tunity,” for September, 1935, con-
tains advance details of forthcoming lec-
tures and a description of a modulated
oscillator for workshop use.
* * * *
“Eh”: Those who listen-in are
familiar with request numbers, but Bris-
bane televiewers now obtain pictures
over the air by request, too. A party
of Brisbane television enthusiasts passed
in the latest picture of Janet Gaynor to
Tom Elliott at his station in the old
observatory tower, and a little later,
several miles away in West End,
“looked-in” at the same picture. Miss
Gaynor was easily recognisable in her
new spring creation when the picture
came through on Tom Biddle’s set. This
is possibly the first “picture by request”
in Australia.
* * * *
“Synchro”: The time occupied by a
radiogram in reaching its destination is
not the time taken by the electrical mes-
sage, but the time required for delivering
the message at the wireless station or
post office, placing it on the automatic
telegraph machine and delivering it by
boy at the other end. With a view to
reducing these margins to a minimum,
A.W.A. has installed at' the co.’s receiv-
ing stations (La Perouse, Sydney, and
Rockbank, Melbourne) robot instruments
which automatically tune in a ship at
sea, although operated from the central
offices of the company, either at York-
street, Sydney, or Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. The operator in the city office
of A.W.A. calls the automaton into
activity. At his touch the dials of a re-
ceiver several miles away turn until the


-3
EC
CD
LJ
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
-ARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
♦Ol • A U S T LA L I A * S
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
EVERY note
AS THE JhiLVt PLAYS IT.
Stromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
Carter
Genemotor
B
A NEW
ELIMINATOR
MODEL
1580 A
Inpul. Output. Inter-Tap.
6v. 2.2 amp. 180 v. 30ma. 90 volts.
Price, £3/10, -
I'he smallest and most efficient
Eliminator made.
Dimensions:
Height 3Kfi., Width s|in., Depth 4in.,
Weight 61b.
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
• No 42 C
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
Teleohone- _ n - Telegram:
86694 70 Clarence Street. Amplion."
(3 lines) Sydney. Sydne
instrument establishes contact with a cer-
tain ship. The same operator at the
same time operates a transmitter at Pen-
nant Hills. Thus, from the centre of the
city, messages are received miles away in
one direction and sent from another
point similarly distant in another. The
operator may be handling high-speed
traffic with New Guinea, dealing with
business communications regarding ship-
ping, the copra fields or the goldmines,
lie may next pass on, with the aid of
o tlier transmitters and receivers, to
handle the radio service between Sydney
and Fiji. The official press news from
Rugby, England, may next be tuned in,
and after that a trawler off the coast of
N.S.W. or Victoria may be called up.
A ship in the Atlantic Ocean may next
be “worked,” and, still at central office,
the time signals may be received by
wireless from the observatories at Paris,
Berlin, Washington or Malabar. Thus
the speed of radio increases, until Shaks-
peare’s idea of girdling the earth in 40
minutes lags far behind the common-
places of modern communication.
* * * *
“A. Major”; Sydney and Melbourne
Conservatoriums should rejoice over the
results of the A.B.C.’s musical composi-
tions competition. Dr. D. A. Barnard
received £lB5 7s. 6d„ Lindley Evans
£59 15s. 10d., Gerald Walcnn £lB ss.
£263 Bs. 4d. for Sydney Con. Margaret
Sutherland, of Mclb. Uni. Con., accounts
for £59 15s. JOd. of the prize-money, and
Fritz Hart, of Melb. Albert-street Con.,
gets £24 10s. The rest of the money,
about £l2B, goes to six composers who
don’t seem to be identified with any con.,
the best known of them James Brash.
Wide-World Two Performance.
Using this receiver, the improved form
of which was described in B. 2]/8/’35,
“R.L.,” of Richmond, N.S.W., writes
praising results obtained.” A report
on the excellent strength of overseas
stations around 19 metres this morn-
ing from midnight onward may be of
interest. At 12.30 a.m. I found GSF,
DJB, PCJ, FYA and another German
station, all at R max. plus, within five
degrees on the dial. This was the best
reception I have yet had from any over-
seas stations, and included a musical
programme from England, English news,
and a variety concert from Germany.
The Dutch station PCJ was busy with
Spanish language lessons, and the French
station had a fine musical programme.
There were two other stations a little
weaker, and, although not identified,
one. almost under FYA, appeared to be
American. D.TA, on 31 metres, was also
very good, and I also heard the League
of Nations station HBL giving the
weekly news from Geneva. This was
also heard at RB.”
Casual Comment.
“Tonnere”: Editors of radio publica-
tions in Australia are flooded with com-
plaints from people regarding the recent
wave-length reallocations. The usual
growl stresses the 7NT-2BL mix-up.
investigation will show that the adminis-
trator is not responsible. The writer was
privileged to see, hear, and test an im-
ported English superhet. It has wave-
range coverage from 15m. to 2000 m.,
a dial which means what it says
and works with a velvety motion.
The tone control is not a mere attenuator,
and definitely does what it is in-
tended it shall do. The cabinet is a
sample of real beauty in woodwork, and
examination of the chassis showed ample
evidence of attention to detail. Every
soldered point is locked and wire-bound
to make an unfailing joint; and short-
wave coils are individually screened, use
iron-dust cores, and take their place in
the scheme of things by a switch mechan-
ism involving no fewer than 76 contacts.
Furthermore, coils not in circuit are auto-
matically dead-ended and not partly in
circuit in proximity to the coils selected
by the switch. On the broadcast range
there is quite a gap between TNT and
2BL, which is to be expected with an
actual 9kc. separation. R.F, inductances
for the 200 m. to 2000 m. ranges are of
Litz, wound on large-size glass formers.
The set was brought to Australia as a
sample, and engineers and manufacturers
are gazing at it with envy and the sad
knowledge that it cannot be duplicated
here. It retails in England at £2O. The
Australian manufacturer would be forced
for many reasons to ask about £5O for
such a set, and the public would, with a
few exceptions, pass it by.
* * * *
“Cathray”: It seems inevitable that
high-quality television can use only ultra-
short waves for a radio transmission and
reception medium. The extremely wide
frequency range demanded by these high-
definition pictures rules out the use of
medium- or long-wave broadcasting
stations. The only available channels foe
accommodating these rigid requirements
are those provided by ultra-shorts; that
is, wave-lengths below the 10-metre
mark. To the majority of radio experi-
menters, constructors and even labora-
tory radio engineers, the ultra-shorts in-
troduce an entirely new radio technique,
and even those who have worked exten-
sively with what are commonly termed
short waves will find that conditions
are vastly different when a migration
is necessary to the extreme lower
region of the wave-length scale. In Aus-
tralia a few experimenters are devoting
time and limited resources exclusively
to ultra-short-wave investigation with
marked success. When the time arrives
for the introduction of high-definition
television in Australia the services of
such experimenters with a thorough
knowledge of the peculiarities ot ultra-
A.W.A. DISPLAY AT THE ALL-ELECTRICAL
EXHIBITION, MELBOURNE.
On the bench at the left are displayed an A.W.A. automatic
alarm receiver, direction-finding receiver and an aeroplane
transmitter. An automatic distress-signal transmitter stands
next to the bench, while against the wall is an A.W.A.
standard 1½kw. marine transmitter. On the two tables
in the foreground is the micro-ray transmitting apparatus.
The panel on the right comprises the cathode-ray modula-
tion indicator, together with the A.W.A. frequency-control
equipment.
short-wave transmission and reception
should be in demand.
“Querex”: A fault which occasionally
occurs in a set, although not often, is
due to the overheating of the valve, or,
rather, to the heating of the grid. It
may be that the valve is a defective one
in the sense that the electrodes are not
properly spaced, or it may be that the
receiver assembly is so compact that
the valves get overheated owing to
absence of ventilation. In the ordinary
way the grid should not get so heated
from the filament as to act as an electron
emitter. But if from the causes men-
tioned the grid does become over-
heated, naturally it begins to act just
like the cathode, and distortion is the
result. This comparatively rare fault
can usually be diagnosed by the fact
that it comes on gradually after the set
has been put in operation. This explains
why it takes a little time to come on
and gradually gets worse, since it depends
upon the gradual heating-up of the grid.
If anything of this kind is experienced
with a set the valves should be suspected.
If spare valves are available try replacing
each one in turn until the culprit is
found.
Latest in the Trade
“R 9” (U.S.A.) for September, 1935, is
to hand, and contains technical articles
on the subjects of “A Simple Low-cost
Transmitter,” “The Cathode-ray Oscil-
lograph,” “Patterson PR 16 Receiver,”
“The W.E. 304 A Valve,” “A 5-metre
Pre-selector Using 954,” “The Barkhausen
Oscillator,” “Twisted-pair Feeder Hints,”
“Connecting Condensers in Series” and
“Replacing Mast Halyards.” Subscrip-
tions, 225, 6d. per year, are accepted at
The Bulletin office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
Relationship of Time and
Frequency.
Frequency may be defined as the
“regularity or rate of recurrence of
phenomena which occur in cycles.”
Any event which takes place over and
over again at regular intervals may be
said to have a frequency, and each oc-
currence may be said
to be a cycle. As
with all measure-
ments, a standard is
used as a basis upon
which to calculate the
recurrence, or fre-
quency, and this is
based upon the rota-
tion of the earth. The
earth takes one sid-
ereal day to make
one complete revolu-
tion, and this is the
fundamental “time in-
terval.” The rate of
r o t a t i o n —namely,
one cycle per sidereal
day—is the accepted
fundamental fre-
quency standard. Thus
from these data it is
possible to calculate
any other frequency.
By means of record-
ing timepieces (or
astronomical clocks)
the time period of
one (solar) day may
be accurately recorded
at any given moment,
and, by comparing
the movement of any other cyclical
phenomena with this passage of time,
its frequency may be determined. Thus,
if a pendulum is set oscillating, and by
recording its movement it is ascertained
that during a period of one day it gains
(or shows an advancement of) “x” times,
the frequency can be calculated by add-
ing this number to the number of seconds
in a day (86,400) and dividing the sum
by the latter figure ; thus
86,400 + x
= y cycles per second.
86,400
A Famous Short-wave Station.
G5ZJ.
Exhibited at this year’s Radio Show at
Olympia, London, was the well-designed
experimental short-wave apparatus known
to amateurs far and wide as GSZJ. The
publication “Television and Short-wave
World” uses this short-wave station to
maintain active contact with amateurs in
all parts of the world. The call is familiar
to many Australians, and Kenneth lowers,
short-wave editor, is responsible for
operation and design.
The apparatus, as the illustration
shows, is built on commercial lines in
rack formation, and consists of the follow-
ing line-up: In the bottom panel is a
500-volt power pack for the C.O. and
F.D. stages and a. 1500-volt power pack
for the sub-amplifier and push-pull P.A.
valves. In the second rack is the speech
amplifier and modulator, with separate
power packs, one giving 500 volts and
the other 1500 volts. The speech ampli-
fier consists of 11,000-ohm triode valve
R.C. coupled to a 5000-ohm triode, which
is in turn transformer-coupled to a pair
of medium impedance valves in Class-B.
These are all fed from the 500-volt power
pack. The modulator consists of two
ES7SH’s —carbon anode triodes —in
Class-C, giving just under 100 watts of
audio frequency. Oil-immersed conden-
sers are used throughout, and are rated
at 2000 volts working.
Provision is made for a master volume-
control of both gramophone and micro-
phone, and a dual-tone corrector attenu-
ates either bass or treble at will. In the
third rack is the pentode C. 0., triode,
F.D. and a 75-watt triode sub-amplifier.
Capacity coupling is used between the
G5ZJ.
first two stages, but the 75-watt amplifier
is link-coupled to two carbon anode
triodes in push-pull. These are on the
top rack, and operate between 100 and
230 watts input, being fed into a half- or
three-quarter-wave Hertz aerial through
a Collins coupler. Maximum input with
100 p.c. modulated ’phone transmission
is 130 watts, rising to 230 on C.W. Maxi-
mum audio is not used at the moment
owing to condenser arc-over when the
input is increased beyond 130 watts
’phone.
Frequencies used are 7135 kc. and
7120 kc., 14,240 kc. and 14,270 kc. A fre-
quency of 1801 is usec| on 160 m. and
3560 on 80m. Reports on this transmitter
will be appreciated, and all reports will
be acknowledged by card.
Correspondence.
Let me, as an amateur experimenter
in television, express my appreciation of
your reply to “4X” (B. 4/9/’35). His
line of reasoning is difficult to follow,
for on the one hand he complains that
Australia is in the backwash of the
world’s technical progress, and on the
other he questions the publicity given
to the efforts of Mr. Elliott, of Bris-
bane, who is making a valiant attempt
to take us out of the backwash he speaks
of. He also says England has discarded
the 30-line service, a statement open to
challenge. “4X’s” remarks about the
scanning disc are all astray. The disc
is an excellent starting point for the
Australian amateur in both reception and
transmission. If “4X” is unable to offer
criticism of a constructive nature, he
should refrain from attempting to dis-
credit those who are doing their best
to advance the science here.
W.S.
(Continued on next page.)


. . . SKIN BLEMISHES
BANISHED! “Skin Blemishes and
Pimples are a direct result of self-poisoning
says Dr. VAN NOOIIDEN of the world-famous Frankfort clinic
»x*:*SS
ft::::'.;:
■
:• *?: x-
K • :■ >:
Vi
.
. ■ -'■...
Coloseptic’s Unique Action
To regain your health the encrustations in your
colon must be removed, and the walls restored
so that they are again capable of performing
their functions. COLOSEPTIC does both. It
gently clears the clogged, decaying matter from
your colon, and, at the same time, it tones up
the walls. Also, it corrects all acid conditions
and stimulates the action of the pores of the
skin, respiratory system and the kidneys—the
three remaining organs that eliminate poisons
from your system.
That’s why COLOSEn’IC must mean a perman-
ent end to skin blemishes, just as it does to all
those hosts of other ills that arise from autoxima
or self-poisoning . . . escape worry now and
serious illness later, and know the joyous
vitality that comes from perfect health. End the
menace of autoxima to-day!
-Interesting
and Vital Book
Learn more about this vital subject. Mail the
coupon for a demonstration jar of COLO-
SEPTIC, to-day, and you will receive, by
return mail and under plain cover, a book
telling you all about this intimate and highly
important subject. You will learn how you
are unknowingly developing an acid condi-
tion that gives rise to skin faults, lowering
your vitality, missing the best of life, and
paving the way for disease. Don’t put it off
—mail the coupon NOW!
FREE
Pimples and a blotchy complexion are ex-
tremely disfiguring . . . they are also a warn-
ing of internal trouble that may become
serious if not remedied. Soaps and salves
are not remedies. They attack the symp-
toms, but have no effect on the cause. This,
Dr. Van Noorden emphasises, is autoxima,
or self-poisoning due to a clogged colon.
The action of the colon is to eliminate waste
matter from the body. It must also extract
essential food minerals which have not al-
ready been absorbed. To-day’s foods give
insufficient exercise to the walls of the colon.
These walls lose their power of normal
movement, fail to extract the essential
minerals, and their folds become clogged
with putrefying matter. Virulent poisons
and bacteria form, seep into the blood
stream, and cause acidosis and autoxima or
self-poisoning.
- - - Th is Woman Regains
the llloom of Health
Bungalow,” N.S.W.
"I cannot speak too highly of this wonderful medicine
. . . one bottle of Coloseplic did me more good than all
the medicines I had ever taken; and after taking a course
of it 1 am overjoyed to be able to say that I am now
completely cured.” —"l am, yours faithfully, Mrs. M.C.”
(The original of this letter may be seen at head office.)
A CLOGGED COLON
Hnc
w/-'V
■-(wvy
AN UNCLOG6EO COLON
CLEAN YOUR
CO LON...
You cannot clear your complexion
of blotches and pimples until you
remedy the cause. This is autoxima,
to which scientists attribute 95% of
disease! COLOSEPTIC ends it, to-
gether with acidosis, partial consti-
pation and the slow clogging of
your colon. Remember, normal
bowel movements are often useless,
for, unaided, the colon grows too
sluggish to remove encrustations.
Opening medicines only purge the
lower end of the colon. Look at the
clogged colon to the left. Then look
at the same colon cleared by COLO-
SEPTIC. Incomplete evacuation has
ended and all poisonous waste is
removed. Once again you are free
from pimples and skin blemishes,
free from all fear of disease. Re-
newed health and vitality are yours.
J.t.S.
MAIL this Coupon
. . . NOW!
CLIP OUT
0.3
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC, for wtich
I enclose 1/- in penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS.
DRINK
Coloseptic
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED 1 f 0 AMU IA )
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'CONNELL ST. SYDNEY.
What’s What in Radio.
VK2ME, operated by A.W.A., now
makes announcements in French and
German as well as English. The station
can be heard in every country, but most
listeners who write regarding reception
are in English-speaking countries.
During the two and a half years ended
June 30, 1935, A.W.A. received 15,103
letters reporting on reception of the
station. The letters were distributed as
follows: U.S.A. 8027, Alaska 3, Canada
770, Mexico 55, South America 45, Cen-
tral America 10, Europe 2749, Asia 266,
Australia 1112, Maoriland 1664, Pacific
Islands 129, trawlers 8, West Indies 49,
Africa 105, miscellaneous 111. Of the
2749 letters received from Europe 2321
came from England and 194 from Scot-
land, other European countries averaging
six letters each. Of the 266 letters from
Asia, 168 came from India. American
letters included 1034 from New York
and 948 from California.
* * * #
German research workers have lagged
behind the general development of micro-
wave technique in other countries. One
German firm has, however, been making
successful use of micro-wave apparatus
for various purposes. Recently the press
was invited to the first large-scale public
demonstration of micro-waves in Ger-
many by the Telefunken Co. Dr. Runge
demonstrated the curious directional pro-
perties of these waves, and gave interest-
ing details as to their application. The
visitors were then taken to the Mug-
gelsee, a lake near Berlin, where die
special uses of micro-waves for guiding
ships in bad weather were successfully
demonstrated. A large-dial instrument
was placed in the bows of a ship, and
steering became a simple matter by fol-
lowing the central beam from a trans-
mitter some distance away. The Tele-
funken Co. makes use of the so-called
“Habann valve” for its micro-wave
work. This valve is of the magnetron
variety, and has only two electrodes, but
it is situated in a magnetic field which
more or less takes the place of the grid.
The Q. and A. Column.
I want to construct a magnetiser for mag-
neto magnets, and have at my disposal 110
volts D.C. at 25 amperes. (1) What gauge of
wire, number of turns, etc., will be required
for the arrangement sketched 7 (2) Sizes of
cores and best material 7 —321.
(1) Each bobbin should have about 275 turns
of 22 D.C.C. copper wire. (2) Threequarter-
inch-square-section cores will be suitable, pre-
ferably of laminated stalloy or core iron.
(1) Would the portable one-valver (B-
-11/9/’35) be reasonably selective? Considei-
ing the congestion of powerful radio stations
in Europe, and if it *s as used by the Brighton
police, one assumes it should be very selective.
(2) Would radiation from a loop, say, ift.
square be sufficient to annoy users of othei
sets near by ? (3) Is there likely to be freedom
from background noises, and a decent lone
obtainable ? (4) Any coil details ? 320.
(1) Selective enough for purely local pur-
poses. For police work such a receiver is
used within close range, and therefore would
not be troubled overmuch by powerful distant
stations. (2) Depends how close the near-by
listeners are, but normally there should be no
trouble. (3) Yes, but tone will not be wonder-
ful. The receiver is designed purely for speech
communications, but it won’t be any worse than
some of the early-day receivers. (4) Coil and
loop details are a subject for experiment, de-
pending upon size of loop and condenser capa-
city. Start with a standard coil for LI and
remove about half the turns. Make your loop
and add or remove turns here until the com-
bination resonates over the broadcast band.
* * * *
I have a Paramount dual-wave battery super-
het (seven valves ). On the short waves there
is often a gurgling, whistling sound on the
Daventry stations, and on broadcast waves
there is a continuous whistle in some places.
Aerial is 90 ft. long, 50ft. high, with 50 ft.
lead-in. (1) Is the aerial at fault 7 (2) If not,
what is wrong ? —322.
(1) The aerial is not likely to be the trouble,
especially as you are situated well away from
the nearest broadcaster. (2) Possibly misalign-
ment of the T.F. amplifiers. If you arc not
confident of making adjustments yourself, write
to the makers of the kit.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice C except of a hostile character) wil
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany-
N. 8.: No spark of merit in “Have You Got
a Matchß.W.: It runs smoothly enough,
but the violence of the ending jarred on us..
G.0.H.: A pun or two are all right, but a col-
lection like yours would give anyone indiges-
tion J.R.: Nothing wrong with the rhyme ;
the weakness is in the reasoning.. ..N.S.: A
bit too heavy to make effective satire... .T.D..
After one startled glance at “Old Harry the
Country Mailman” —
Whose whiskers they went long ago.
Blown oft' in a gale,
Whose hair is fair and lots to spare
For an old pot that’s so hale —
we ushered him gently off the premises.. • •
L.McL.: A string of cheap commonplaces and
bald rhymes E. 8.: True enough, but not
all the discordant noises that assail us come
from the trams and the bottle-ohs and the
cats on the tiles... .E.S.: There wasn’t much
in what the bishop said, and we find still less
in your rhymed commentary... .Wab: Still
don’t like it... .E.E.G.: Allegories are out ol
date A.C.H.: Stick to humor; the present
yarn is merely straining an old, old theme....
G. Even the 600-word foreword doesn t
obscure the artificiality of the yarn... .N.M.:
Your estimate was fairly accurate... .A.D.:
Once again the tears welled to our eyes....
H. It becomes less and less “scan-
nable” as it goes along.. . .H.D.A.: We
gather you hail from Maoriland... .L.8.J.:
You seem to belong to the school that “likcs-
to-get-as-much-in-the-last-line-as-you-p o s s i b 1 y-
can” G.R.8.: Didn’t miss by much....
ATI.: Try a woman's paper... .D.H.R.: It’s
a very weak artifice to make your leading
character approach the reader by way of a
long speech to her dog... . Kanta: “Sublima-
tion” isn’t much improved. Nor do the others
impress... .C.E.G.; Doesn’t hold the interest.
. ...H.W.: The ending was obvious almost
from the start.. . .J.8.D.; The crack rider who
pretends to be a newchum is a very old ac-
quaintance. .. .K.F.: Uninteresting stuff....
J.M.: We think it best that, in accordance
with his wishes, Mr. Barrowdale should dis-
appear for ever... .E.A.H.: Close; worth a try
elsewhere... .D.N.: Skit on League of Nations
unsuitable... .A.S.McL.: Well enough done, but
not what we want... .J.W.R. and E.J.F.: Not
sufficiently amusing... .H.T.W.: That the char-
woman should pick her daughter’s baby,
whom she had never, seen, out of 60 infants
seems improbable... .H.B. (Canada): Not suit-
able... .N.L.; Came fairly close Mars: It
is a type of story we particularly dislike
Cambooya: Doesn’t appeal... .M.N.: Well
enough done, but it’s a very old theme
S.M.; “Showgirl” the better of the two, but
not good enough... J .W.: Tale of “Bull Frog
Flat” fell f1at....R.8.D.: “English Club” dis-
solved J. 8.; The w.p.b. has a stranglehold
on “The Roughneck”... R.R. (M.L.): Beauti-
fully typed G.W.M.: Lurid melodrama and
ghost yarn declared black; “Shifting” on move
again—back E.G. (M.L.): The story, like
the mare, fell down....A.T. (M.L.): We won’t
put our shirt on that horse... .L. 0.; Article lost
in jungle of verbiage.... J.G.M.: Notin our line.
... ..1.0.E. (Eng.): Article unsuitable H.W.:
Rambles too much... .A.L.P.: Ancient ingredi-
ents G.W.M.: “Just a Stone” just a yarn.
E.O.S.: Excellent style, but ending unex-
pectedly petered out R.H.C.: Awful
Anthony Snow: Too highly flavored P.M.:
Not quite—try elsewhere... .H.G.: Thanks for
the compliment; also for the threat. We’ll have
to run the risk R.D.P.: You can’t rhyme
“peace” with “unleashed” —not in these
columns anyhow P.J.8.: We’re off sea
chanties W.R.C.: Would have some merit
if it were strung together more tidily....
J.E.C.: The mopoke has been enshrined in
much more catchy verse N.R.G.; “Sir
Havabere” has points to recommend him, but
not to the extent of 118 lines.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.: Jests thick with the dust of ages;
drawings dreadful... .W.H.T.; Fairly good as
decoration pieces,- but no use as joke blocks.
M.C.: Promising; cultivate a freer
style E.T.: You are drawing on too small
a scale L.H.: Figures stiff; wheezes anti-
quated C. 8.; Not a laugh in the lot
K.W.: It makes us doubt whether you have
ever harnessed a horse J.L.: Emptying a
bottle of Indian ink over a sheet of Bristol
board would be about as effective W.C.:
Illustration in which old gent.’s paunch is mis-
taken for a buoy arrives regularly during the
swimming season... .R.M.C.: Didn’t fancy the
walking skeleton in the boxing ring 8.H.:
Abo. on a black horse or a mudpond in erup-
tion? P.W.; Those harsh, oblique strokes!
A.T.F.: Same old shortsighted gent, tot-
tering on the brink of a precipice F.F.:
Gags need to be crisp; sketches less wooden.
...°.V.A.: Very carelessly put together
B.b!: Spend the next five years studying hard.
C.J.T.: Perspective is apparently some-
thing outside your range E.N.: You belong
to the awkward squad... .RJ.: Some improve-
ment, but much more is needed before you
near publication standard... .S.F.; It reached
the w.p.b. in almost record time H.G.: A
spruce little sketch handicapped by a humorless
jest M L.K.: Washwork is foggy and out
of proportion... .T.H.J.: Angular lady in flight
from outsize goat is homeward-bound....
P D.: An awful mixture of jagged lines and
blots'...-W.M.: Linework is too hesitant
C K • Slapdash sketches and chestnutty jokes.
..'..G.P.H.: Hard to see the figures for the
labels and signposts.


FOR CAULFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Burwood Handicap: Beamish
Boy or Garrio ; next, Cardinal.
Gwyn Nursery: Gilded Youth.
Cup; Sarcherie, 1 ; Feldspar, 2 ;
Panto, 3.
Windsor Handicap: Garrio or
Hadrian ; next, Heros.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Flying Handicap: Windbird;
next, The Marne.
City Tatt.’s Handicap; Regal
Star; next, Silver Ring or Cherry
King.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap ; Bombus or Fireman; next,
Rembrandt.
Club Welter: Celebrate or Cherry
King; next, Bombus or Foxhunter.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Watching the A.J.C. Derby race, The
Bulletin man came to the conclusion
that Young Idea and Feldspar had not
shown their true form- —Young Idea be-
cause he was most injudiciously ridden,
and Feldspar because, running from right
to left for the first time, he was “all over
the shop.” He decided that they would
do heaps better at Caulfield, so he tipped
Young Idea for the Guineas and Feld-
spar for the Stakes. They won at nice
odds. Fives could be got about Feld-
spar and sevens Young Idea, though it
was 7 to 2 and 6 to 1 respectively when
the barrier went up.
For the Guineas Valiant Chief, a win-
ner at his previous three starts, always
headed the quotations. He missed the
jump-out, ran into a lot of trouble and
never appeared a possibility. Whether
he would have shaped better for Voitre
or Skidmore than he did for Badger is
problematical. Young Idea was quite as
far back as Valiant Chief when the field
settled down ; in fact, at one stage he was
in advance of only a single rival ; but he
had been ridden a quiet race by Ashley
Reed, and wasted no effort. Hadrian,
who had set a very fast pace, stopped in
a stride when supplanted by Garrio.
Finding how matters were with his
mount, Munro did not persevere with
Hadrian, who finished a bad last, having
Pekt; " III just watc.h the start,"
"THESE CLASSES crook."
*CANT SEE A.UV HORSES, AT
<3ei?t ' " course hot s>»u.y. The E>af?riER.t
OVER -WERE "
been eased up to almost a walk. Some
spectators formed the impression that the
Tippler colt had broken down, but there
was no evidence of anything being physi-
cally amiss when he returned to scale.
Until Young Idea made a sensational
appearance on the scene at the furlong
post Voitre, the rider of Garrio, must
have reckoned that he had the race in his
pocket. However, Young Idea simply
overpowered Garrio, and scored, going
away, by the best part of a length. The
Trump came fast at the finish, and was
third, only a length behind Garrio.
Young Idea “set” Imin. 39sec. for the
mile, which is only a second slower than
the course record, established by Pal-
phar in the same event two years ago,
when he beat Hall Mark and Limarch.
• Naturally Young Idea has been re-
stored to his former favor as a Victoria
Derby candidate. So far he has not been
tested over a distance (the A.J.C, Derby
display must be ignored); still, on what
was seen at Caulfield, it is reasonable
to assume that the colt will come through
the Derby ordeal with flying colors if
relieved of the task of making the pace.
Feldspar’s victory in the Caulfield
Stakes enhances interest in the Derby.
Despite his failure in Sydney, this colt
was backed with such spirit that ringmen
were emboldened to lay 5 to 4 against
Synagogue. The Epsom winner had
every chance, and was beaten on his
merits. Along with Marabou, he trailed
the pacemaker, Charles Fox, for half a
mile. Skidmore then sent Synagogue
after the leader, whose measure he
appeared to have secured just after they
entered the straight. To the consternation
of his backers, the favorite was shaken
off by Charles Fox ; meanwhile Feldspar,
never far from the front, was putting in
a determined claim. Fifty yards from
the post he collided with the beaten
Synagogue, who stumbled alarmingly in
consequence and lost so much leeway
that Marabou, a stable-mate of Feldspar,
deprived him of third money. Feldspar
landed the spoils by a neck from Charles
Fox.
Charles Fox, who is trained by D, J.
Price for a noted Melbourne barrister,
was heavily backed for the Caulfield Cup
in the early part of the week. He comes
down from 9st. to 7st. 71b. —a
luxurious impost for a four-year-old of
his calibre. Marabou, who is of the same
age as Charles Fox, has to concede him
91b. He may be able to do it, but it is
very doubtful whether he can. It is true
that the Caulfield Stakes wasn’t run
exactly to suit Marabou. The pace was
somewhat slow in the first few furlongs,
though the full distance (nine furlongs)
was covered in only Hsec. outside the
course record of Imin. 51sec., which
stands to the credit of Chatham. Being
essentially a stayer, Marabou wants the
pace to be on from start to finish.
Not a single first favorite caught the
judge’s eye at Caulfield, but the first five
winners met with fair support. It was
towards the close of the day that the
Ring raked in the shekels. The Herbert
Power Handicap went to Red Ray (50
to 1), and the Toorak Handicap resulted
in a dead-heat between Journal (20 to
1) and Epigram (15 to 1).
Red Ray, who does not hold a Caul-
field Cup engagement, was followed
home by the rather ancient Yarramba
(25 to 1). Three years ago Yarramba
was runner-up to Peter Pan in the Mel-
bourne Cup, He appears to have been
rejuvenated, and only has to remain
sound to be a thorn in the flesh of more
fancied aspirants for the big events in
Melbourne.
Last year Journal was third in the
Toorak Handicap (to Sir Simper, a non-
starter on Saturday, and Hostile) with
7st. 121 b. and first in the Caulfield Cup
with 7st. 131 b. He must have a chance
in Saturday’s Cup with Bst. 101 b.; he
obviously likes Caulfield and may have
improved 111 b. in a year. The Cup
should provide a most interesting inter-
city match between Oro (9st. 21b.),
Journal, High Cross (Bst. 31b.), Satmoth
and Sarcherie (Bst. 21b.), Allunga (7st.
71b.) and Tapestry (7st. 31b.), represent-
ing Sydney, and the Melbourne lot —
Burlesque (Bst. 1 lib.). Marabou (Bst. 21b.),
Greenhorn and Yarramba (7st. 121 b.),
Hostile (7st. 111 b.), Charles Fox, Spartan
(7st. 91b.), and the three-year-olds Feld-
spar (7st. 41b.) and Carnarvon (7st. 41b.);
with Hyperion (Bst. 101 b.) and Panto (Bst.
61b.) representing Perth. Sarcherie meets
Oro and High Cross on better terms than
in the Metrop., and course and journey
will suit her. Panto has done a splendid
preparation.
■* * * *
The A.J.C. spring meeting, which
reached its conclusion on Saturday, made
it clear that Peter Pan has no rival
among the older horses and that Sylvan-
dale is overrated. “Miss Lorna Doone’s”
horse did not challenge the champion in
the Craven Plate, which saw the un-
timely end of Homer (Spencer Brunton’s
colt broke a leg), and was well beaten by
old Lough Neagh (6 to 1) in the Rand-
wick Plate.
Eleven to eight on in the betting, Syl-
vandale essayed to lead throughout. The
Queensland chestnut, a close second most
of the way, went past him in the straight
and scored by a length and a half—it
could have been more —with Contact
three-quarters of a length away.
Shean rode a beautiful race on Lough
Neagh, which is more than can be said
for Pratt. The time for the two miles
was 3min. the last mile being run
in Imin. 39sec. Contact ran pretty well,
and may pick up a minor handicap at
Flemington. Berestoi needs more time.
Dick Wootton landed the Waverley
Handicap with First Son, whom he bred
—the four-year-old is by Constant Son
out of Dick’s bonny mare Zuleika, who
won a Villiers. Backed from 20 to 1 to
tens, First Son got home in the last
stride from Mr. Kerry (7 to 1) and Sat-
moth (5 to 1). Theo galloped sourly, and
was never a danger. Curator (9 to 2)
led into the straight, and then got into a
bit of a scrimmage, finishing fourth, just
ahead of Nord.
Pastoralist A. P. Wade paid 800
guineas for Young Idea’s brother Law
King. He did not have to wait long to
get it back, as Law King, a big brown,
won the Canonbury Stakes like a really
good horse. He was confidently ridden
by Bob Maxwell. Booth’s grey colt
Arabia was second, a length and a half
away ; Royal King, who came home well,
was another half a length astern. Friar’s
Switch was fourth.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt had
his colors carried to victory in the Clib-
born Stakes by the good-looking Fan-
fare, by Brazen —Three Cheers (6 to 1).
He was all out to beat Silver Standard
(10 to 1), Wykeham (12 to 1) being third.
Young Crusader was favorite, but after
leading at the half-mile was passed by
Fireman, slow away; the latter naturally
tired in the run home. Grand Mogul
was fourth; then came Viceroy and
Wotan. It was a good betting race, and
they were not half a bad lot. Handicap
form among the four-years-and-upwards
division is so indifferent that three-year-
olds will do exceptionally well this year.
Jim Pike had an easy ride on King’s
Head in the Chester Handicap. The Bull-
head horse’s price slumped from fours
to eights, heavy support coming for Gay
Seton, a mean-looking gelding in Jamie-
son’s stable who can gallop on the track.
Moaenza and Bulldozer cut at each
other, and when they had enough King’s
Head came along in the last furlong
and, making light of his lOst. 51b., won
“in a walk” from Anchor and Tom
Pinch, Gay Seton beating a couple home.
When they heard that Synagogue had
disgraced himself in the Caulfield Stakes,
the King’s Head party sighed and said
they only wished they could have the
Epsom run over again.
High Cross, with Parsons up, got a
Peter-Pan-like reception after winning the
Final Handicap at sixes. There was no
interference on this occasion (actually
there was none in the Metrop., and a
great many people will never be con-
vinced that Oro was capable of
passing High Cross), and backers
who followed High Cross regained
their losses, as it was not diffi-
cult to get sevens. The favorite, Nar-
bethong, was troubled by the journey, 10
furlongs, running fourth. Silver Jubilee
made the pace a cracker to the turn;
then The Raider looked all a winner, but
he could not withstand the strong runs
of High Cross and Regal Star. Regal
Star, as consistent as High Cross, was
only a head behind at the finish.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Randwick racebooks
convey the information that “the indi-
cator” on the new tote “shows the actual
odds, to which add the amount invested
for approximate dividend.” I fail to
see how it can show actual odds in the
case of a hot favorite for a place. Sup-
pose the horse is Peter Pan, the price is
indicated at 10 to 1 on and you “invest”
10s. If all the money were distributed,
less the \2\ p.c. which Government and
club are entitled to deduct (it is, of
course, extortionate), the dividend may
work out at 10s. lid. But, : since people
in the paddock are now deprived of all
fractions of a shilling, the staker of
10s. would get precisely that amount
back. The cry of the paddock > punter
should be “Give us back our sixpences
or give us a proper five-bob tote.”
*-* * * *
“Thormanby”; The dead-heat in the
AJ.C. Derby, second of its kind, reminds
me. that in the mother-race at Epsom
there have been only two ties in its
Jong history. The first was when Cad-
land and The Colonel dead-healed in
1828, and Cadland won the run-off. The
second was in 1884, when Harvester and
St. Gatien repeated the trick. There is
a bit of non-racing history tagged to this
race. -Sir J. Willoughby, St. Gatien’s
owner, was an officer in the Blues. He
was almost broke and went for a re-
covery on a win. The dead-heat didn't
bring in enough, and he left England
to become a figure in Rhodes’s Chartered
Company. He was up to his neck in
arranging the Jameson Raid, and, though
he had lost an arm in an argument with
a lion, was one of the leaders. Cap-
tured by the Boers, he was one of the
men sentenced to death with Jameson.
There was enough fight left in the gallant
adventurer to help him win further dis-
tinction in the East African end of the
Big Mill.
(Continued on next page.)
High-school jumper L. J. Wall put up
a fine showing at the Sydney G.P.S.
athletic championships. He won the
“high” with 6ft. 2iin., 2iin. better than
the previous record, and he stretched the
broad-jump figures llin. to 22ft. lOin.
The title went to St. Joseph’s for the
first time—though “Joey’s” only win was
in the hundred. Grammar and High
filled the places.
* * * *
“Curser”; In rattling up the record
low aggregate of 266 for 72 holes —10
under par—in the N.S.W. close cham-
pionship at Killara, Jim Perrier gathered
the laurels and immediate international
notice. Even with variations of course,
distances and layouts, the feat of the
Manly lad must rank with the world’s
best. The few faulty shots he made
were invariably followed by amazing
recoveries, proof that his power of con-
centration is developing rapidly.
* * * *
A 45-year-old S. Aus. farmer, Tom
Reynolds, was first in the Warrnambool-
Mel bourne cycle-race. From a handicap
of 57 minutes, he covered the 165 miles
in 7hrs. Imin. 41sec. Fastest time went
to one of the youngsters, C. J. Beasley,
who finished three-quarters of a length
ahead of “Fatty” Lamb in 6hrs. 24min.
36sec.it makes him Australian road
champion.


The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
COLON I A L
MUTUAL
NEWS
HEAD ON COLLISION IN CITY
Young man disabled for life . . .
When two cars met in a head on collision in the city recently,
one of the drivers, a young man who has a wife and two children
dependant on him, was so badly injured that doctors say he will
be unable to work again.
However while he was working, he had taken out a combined
Accident and Life Assurance Policy and a large sum was paid
to him soon after the accident.
His Life Assurance Policy will be continued without further
payment on his part and a further sum will be paid to him upon
its maturity.
Thousands of accidents happen yearly—provide NOW against
the possible loss of your income . . . Get in touch with
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. j. Anderson, Manager.
Head Office : Melbourne. Branches in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Tasmania, New Zealand, South Africa and London
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers’ Service
Station,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
Public Notice.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
CREDITORS, next-of-kin and all others
having claims against the estate of the under-
mentioned person are required to send particu-
lars thereof to the Administratrix, DOROTHY
ANN CAMPBELL, of Nhill, care of MES-
SIEURS TURNER & HOBDAY, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria, on or before the Eighteenth
day of December, One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-live, otherwise they may be excluded
when the assets are being distributed.
Name: THOMAS HENRY HENDERSON
(deceased).
Usual Residence: 18 Rosa Street, Oatley, New
South Wales.
Occupation: Agent.
Date of Death: April 25, 1934.
DATED this Tenth day of October, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
TURNER & HOBDAY,
Solicitors, Victoria Street,
Nhill, Victoria.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Cyril Pluto, son of the old-timer who
fought several draws with Griffo, showed
speed and power of punch at times
when opposed to Jimmy Day at Leich-
hardt. Outboxed and outfought for
four rounds. Day began to do better, and
at the end of the eleventh was ahead on
points. From then on Pluto was decidedly
superior. There was very little between
them at the final bell, however, and not
a hoot was heard when the decision was
a draw. The pair are welterweights.
Jjc s|; *
“C.L.”: Here are the facts about that
“scrape” the late Charlie Dunn got into
on the Westralian goldfields (B.
2/10/’35). At Kurnalpi a fellow was
accused of having introduced a “flimsy”
at a two-up school. He made fast time
towards Dunn’s camp, arriving ahead of
the mob. The fugitive quickly persuaded
Charlie it was a case of mistaken iden-
tity, and Dunn refused to deliver him up,
offering, as “Tuart” said, to fight the
crowd one at a time. That affair blew
over, but a week or two later Dunn
himself was given 24 hours to leave the
camp. He hit the track for Coolgardie,
where he was earnestly requested to keep
moving. He judged it futile to fight
everybody on the fields, so he returned to
Sydney, where he became gaffer of a
two-up joint in Castlereagh-street. There
1 have seen him dispense even-handed
justice to bottle-ohs and bankers.
ff * >1; *
“Stoush”: Australian amateurs are at
odds as to the relative merits of light-
weight boxers Stone and Warbrick. In
the Australian championships, Warbrick,
a Queenslander and a scion of a famous
Rugby family, was given the decision
over the Victorian Stone, who is a son of
“Hop-Harry.” There was a lot of argu-
ment over it, but, as the pair will meet
again in the National Games at Adelaide
before the team for the Berlin Olympiad
is selected, the matter should straighten
itself out.
Ins and Outs
“Fitzcray”: Seventeen “no-ball” calls
graced the match between Melbourne
Colts and Northcote, one Scott, a fast
bowler, being penalised eight times in
his first three overs for “dragging over.”
It recalls the experience of a cTubmate
of mine in Brisbane. He was a slow left-
hander with an unabashed “chuck” when
he was trying to get work on the ball.
One day an umpire, known to be an-
tagonistic to his methods, “called” him
the first six balls he delivered. He
tried to finish the over underhand, but
was promptly nailed again for “dragging
over.” Only the hasty intervention of a
couple of fieldsmen prevented a painful
scene.
•!• »S» '!> jJs
“Hotham”; The Melbourne C.C. and
the V.C.A. have decided to ban ball-to-
bali broadcasting of big matches in the
hope of getting spectators back to the
cricket grounds. In future scores will be
given at stated times. Everyone save
radio addicts will welcome the change.
There are many more enjoyable recrea-
tions than listening to some yawning
individual describing alleged strokes and
smiting the mike with his pencil to imi-
tate the whack of the ball on the bat or
the palings.
it sj: *
“Indore”: Having at last cleared his
consignment of cricketers, ancient and
modern, for India, Tarrant gave an inter-
viewer some ideas for the future. He is
going to ask the Indian Board of Control
to strive for a tour of Australia in
1937-38, and might, perhaps, come him-
self as manager. The side would be
welcome, though international cricket is
assuming such formidable proportions
that before long there will be little time
for anything else, as far as a large chunk
of the Empire is concerned.
“Bo”; It looks as if the l.b.w. rule,
which was put to a severe test during
the recent S. African tour of England,
will eventually be incorporated in the
Marylebone laws. Springbok captain
Wade, on returning, voted it a huge suc-
cess. The final test of its efficacy, how-
ever, will be during the next England-
Australia series. If it survives that, its
permanent inclusion seems assured. And
its application should be feared only by
the sort of batsman who eternally
“packs up.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”; Rufus Stewart returned to
the golf limelight by winning the S.A.
professional championship, which he last
took in 1931. Stewart was deadly on his
short game and on the greens, and finished
with a card of 294 for the 72 holes,
McMahon, open champion of Australia,
was runner-up with 298.
* * * *
“Huon”: Len Nettlefold, Australia’s
left-hand amateur golf champion, en-
countered a mixed grill in his native
Tassie. He successfully defended his title
as open champion of Tasmania at King’s
Meadows, Launceston, with a card of
147 for 36 holes, the runner-up being one
of the übiquitous professional Robert-
sons. In the amateur championship,
G. A. Brown, who had filled third place
in the open, beat Nettlefold 6 to 4.
The professional title was taken by A.
Robertson, who downed L. L. McManus
2 and 1.
“Cleek”: North Brighton (N.S.W.)
golf club thinks it has a coming associate
"I say, you've knocked out a lady."
“Blast le l'ing! How many strokes l'at cost me?"
champion in Miss Walker, who plays
No. 1 in the grade team. Only a pony,
even for a 16-year-older, she hits the
ball a rare smack and has most of the
shots at command. She has grit, too,
for after stopping a flying ball with the
bridge of her nose she played in the com-
petition against Strathfield next day with
a pair of peepers that would have been
a credit to Black-eyed Susan, and did a
round of 78.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Like balm in Gilead
comes the news from Victoria that the
State women’s golf union has thrown £25
into the hat towards the fund for send-
ing the professional golfers to America.
The deed is a meritorious one, and an
example to many he-players in Victoria
and other States. About 60 per cent,
of the money required to send a Vic-
torian player is now in hand.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: A Queensland writer
has been complaining of the lack of
interest shown in Queensland golf
matches. At the recent close champion-
ship, in which most of the best players
in Bananaland took part, the tumultuous
crowd averaged about six persons per
hole. Only distinguished overseas players
“draw.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut .Shot”: Crawford announces
that' if the next D'avis Cup challenge is
for the European zone he will not play.
Apart from the gruelling work a Euro-
pean challenge now entails he cannot
afford the time from his business ; dur-
ing the last two years he spent barely
six months in Australia. There is no
one at present to take Crawford’s place,
but both America and France have lately
been in the same predicament through
the dropping out of their stars. They
are starting to build up with new
material. We should do the same.
:!; * :::
“Top Spin”; One of the things Craw-
ford brought back from his South
African tour was a standing invitation,
for Australian tennis-players to visit the
Union whenever they like —due notice
being given and consent obtained, of
course. Crawford says he and Quist were
fortunate in following in the footsteps
of the Rugby Union Wallabies, who did
a lot to dispel (he bad impression made
by the dour methods of a couple of
Australian cricket teams that toured
South Africa on their way home from
England.
* * * : ! ;
“Top Spin”: These female tennis stars
are worse than opera singers for backing
and filling over a decision. After swear-
ing she would ne’er consent to come to
Australia, Helen Wills-Moody has con-
sented —if the financial inducements, in-
cluding newspaper contracts, are satis-
factory. This reads perilously like pro-
fessionalism.
* * =!= *
“Cut Shot”: The Ma State tennis
heads —nearly all grass-courters —are still
considering whether they will countenance
a visit from Cochet. They became a bit
more affable when a party of French
woolbuyers in Sydney offered to give
£2OO towards the £5OO guarantee asked
by the French star of other days, but
froze again when he asked an additional
£2 a day for expenses. A motion that
Cochet be turned down resulted in even
voting for and against, the hardcourt
element voting in favor of the visit.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Someone with more time
than sense has been totting up the results
of the 30 Davis Cup challenge rounds
since 1900. America has played in 20
challenge rounds, and has been rebuffed
10 times. Britain has tried 12 times, and
lost six. Australia’s J 1 tries have resulted
in six wins and five outs, and in nine
attempts France has won six and lost
three —the best average of the lot.
Miscellaneous
“Bias”: There will be no visit of
Australian bowlers to South Africa. The
Abyssinian trouble has scared a lot ol
leading players off. Not that they arc
scared of Musso, but many of them arc
grave and reverend seniors whose busi-
ness interests would be gravely interfered
with by a worse upset.
sj: t[" &
The National Games Council, meeting
in Adelaide, has decided that in future
all distances should be contested over
metres, instead of yards. This is a sane
move towards the adoption of the metri-
cal system of measurements. Australia
and Britain had their opportunity just
after the Armistice. Not only the fighters
but people behind the lines had become
so accustomed to distances being re-
corded in metres that little confusion
would have resulted. But the wise men
at the head of things missed their chance,
and now metres are forgotten. When
they are mentioned, the average citizen
has to do mental arithmetic to know
what is meant.
* Sic :Jc
Austin Robertson, the sprinter who
raced Tolan, announces that he will play
football no more —the game is too dan-
gerous. Robertson is one of South Mel-
bourne’s stalwarts, and is such a power-
ful man that it is difficult to imagine
anybody being able to give him a nasty
bump. Old-timers are inclined to regard
Australian football as being played in a
much belter spirit than in the old days,
while Rugby men still refer to it con-
temptuously as a “lady’s game.” All the
same, the casualties in the Australian
game for some reason quite overshadow
those in the rival code.
$ Si * *
“wSplash”: Mrs. Chambers has been
appointed hon. sec. of the N.S.W.
women swimmers’ organisation for the
23rd year in succession. No more capable
club and association official is to be
found in Australia, and her handling of
women’s teams abroad has been as suc-
cessful as her organising work at home.
One of her sorrows at present is the
possibility of Claire Dennis, the Olympic
champion, taking a job which will make
her a technical professional. That, how-
ever, has yet to be decided.
* * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum has
departed from Maoriland for Canada,
where he is to fulfil contracts. He will
come back via Britain, and will play in
the big stuff there if opportunity offers.
And there he will find nephew Horace.
:j: * *
“Sedgemoor”; The All-Blacks beat
Gloucester and Somerset —Somerset was
the champion county last year —by 23-3.
More years ago than most of us like
to recall, the cider county met the first
of all the All-Blacks, the M.L. Native
team, and was walloped. One of the
Somerset forwards was Andree Hayward,
The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”


msmm
m
&
uo
£
ss
*o
W&'f&i
mmy
•n-.ts.r: ■
■
vie
A\
$
sS
.V
s§
S&StSHfc
o
\S
Mi
»
test-
£
s'*
ws
%
c
SB
€
m
&
m
w.
m
?-w&?
S 3
*s
s*
WP-
ot^>-
«P»V
Red, White, and Blue Gaelic Special
Reserve Highland Whisky the
famous blend of distinctive quality
is now available in the new
bottle.
RED.WHITE AND BLUE
SPECIAL RE
ew
ea
I
IN CAR SERVICE
Hastings Deering Engineered Service is
supplying the complete answer to a pro-
blem as old as the motor industry—in the
efficient diagnosis and treatment of the
troubles to which even the best of cars is
heir.
By efficient planning. Engineered Service
enables this organisation to work to air-
craft standards of precision—while keep-
ing the cost lower than ever before.
Some of the reasons for the immediate
success of the new enterprise are the
utilisation of the existing and highly suc-
cessful Hastings Deering Organisation, the
spirit of co-operation within a highly
skilled staff of engineers, and the friendly
and helpful relationship between the staff
and the motoring public.
It will give us pleasure to show you the
new Hastings Deering equipment next
time you are passing.
Write to the Secretary for full particulars
regarding special benefits to shareholders
HASTINGS DEERING
SERVICE LIMITED
No. 1 SUPER-SERVICE STATION
Wattle St. and George St. West (Broadway) Sydney
Telephone: MA6511 (10 lines)
SEHV I C t
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Are We Shiftless?
Here is one that was. I failed as a
wheat-farmer, a road-contractor, a car-
rier, a garage proprietor, an accountant,
an insurance agent, a salesman and a
canvasser. Then 1 tried a calling in
which I have succeeded.
Looking back I see that in every one
of those occupations in which I failed
some of my old acquaintances have
continued to do well. They did the job
thoroughly ; others could have, but did
not; others again were satisfied with
good-enough.
I agree with Mrs. Lyons that the aver-
age Australian is apt to be too casual.
1 do not agree with “M.G.” (B.
18/9/’35), —A. N. S. (N.S.W.).
Level Crossings
The Victorian Railway Department
has declined to entertain the suggestion
that all level crossings should be abol-
ished —which, in view of the enormous
expense, was only to be expected. But
they should certainly be made reason-
ably safe. The department has done
good work in this respect in recent years,
but the job is still unfinished.
All level crossings should be protected,
as are those of the U.S.A. There a loud
bell rings for a full minute before the
arrival of each train, accompanied by a
red swinging disc which carries a red
light after dark, and a white board which
rises to check the tyres. In addition to
these precautions, the road regulations
make it mandatory on all vehicles to
come to a full stop at a white line before
the crossing. The system isn’t foolproof.
Possibly an effective method would be
a rising board fitted with sharp spikes.—
M.G. (Vic.).
For S.A.’s Centenary
I think this ought to be more widely
known. In connection with the S.A.
centenary, Adelaide “Advertiser” is
offering prizes for a novel or play asso-
ciated with the history of a fine State
with splendid pioneering traditions.
The utmost freedom is to be allowed
in regard to plot; all that is required is
that the atmosphere shall be accurate
and the story free from anachronisms.
The object is to secure a good novel or
play not inconsistent with its setting and
period, rather than a mediocre one
crammed full of historical facts.
Prizes: £lOO, £3O and £2O. Closing
date, Jan. 1, Now then, you other
fellows!— Findy (S.A.).
Extending the Gospel
Our Douglas Credit cranks announce
that war can be abolished only by chang-
ing the financial system. In the mean-
time, they won’t agree even to compul-
sory service for home defence unless the
Government precedes its institution by
“immediately taking over all credit facili-
ties and fixing the prices of all com-
modities.”
Judging by the length of cost-of-living
inquiries, there would be no need to
defend ourselves after the Government
had accomplished that. Both we and the
enemy would be beyond the reach of
strife—the enemy would have died laugh-
ing after immolating us. — Erzeroum
(N.S.W.).
America’s Way
Mr. Lyons has expressed the opinion
that all school children should be sup-
plied with a nutritious meal at midday.
Nobody can quarrel with the view as a
pious aspiration, but does the P.M. ex-
pect the States to pay for that meal or
does he intend to meet the expense by
a Commonwealth subsidy? American
schools have a system whereby young-
sters are able to get a hot lunch
at a cost of 10 cents, while those under
eight receive a pint of milk daily with-
out cost.
But the Yanks pamper their schools in
a way which Australia would regard as
revolutionary. From infant class to
State University graduation, the cost is
nothing to the student or his parent.
Not only are there no fees, but all books
and equipment are paid for by State or
municipality.—G. M. (Vic.).
The Tropical Australian
In the bad old days when there were
still people alive who opposed the White
Australia policy, it used to be asserted
that the white race could not live in the
tropics, that it would degenerate and
become sterile. Vital statistics for 1934
show that, while the rest of Australia
revealed a disquieting death-rate and
a more than disquieting birth-rate,
the tropics have come out on top
with both—the first so low and the
second so high as to be an example to
the colder Australias. As for the de-
generacy of those born and bred north
of Capricorn, their footballers, pugs, peds
and surf girls are well able to stand
comparison with their brethren down
south.
The deterioration of the white man
in other tropical countries is really due
to lack of exercise and the frequency
with which colored servants bring him
strong liquor,— Capulet (Q.).
The Pope’s Peace Utterance
“Iconoblast” (B. 2/10/’35) could have
bettered his reply. The words quoted
were uttered by the Pope in his Christmas
Eve Allocution, 1934. London “Tablet”
(Jan. 5, 1935) thus translates: “Men say
Si vis pacem, para helium (If you want
peace prepare for war), as if in all these
armaments we should only see precau-
tions and the guarantee of peace. We
wish to believe that it is so. We wish to
believe and to hope ; far too terrible
would be a reality contrary to this desire.
We do indeed wish for peace. We invoke
peace. We bless peace. We want peace.
But if peradventure it happens, by an
impossible supposition, so to say, through
a new phenomenon of homicidal and
suicidal madness of the nations, that they
prefer war to peace, then we have an-
other prayer which it will become our
duty to raise to God: Dissipa gentes
qua ? bella volant (Scatter those nations
which want war).” — Yanvin (N.S.W.).
Fewer Bankrupts
Maoriland reports a persistent drop
in bankruptcy figures (1931, 848; ’32,
661 ; ’33, 450 ; ’34, 320 ; to July 31, ’35,
140), and it is noteworthy. Still, the
Forbes Ministry, on the eve of account-
ing to the electors, will be wise if it
doesn’t point to the reduction as an
instance of a certain indication of steadily
improving conditions due to its steward-
ship. It’s axiomatic that a “normal”
number of bankruptcies indicates that
enterprise exists, that trade is lively.
Limited credit facilities, cramping taxa-
lion and unemployment are among
factors which restrict business scope.
This year’s figures may easily set a
“low” record. —D. H. (M.L.).
Liberty
Mr. Menzies, the Commonwealth
Attorney-General, thinks that “we Brit-
ish people” retain an old-fashioned idea
that the chief aim of the State is not
to magnify its power, but to ensure the
liberty of the individual. It is good to
know that somebody in power still recog-
nises this principle as being alive. It
seemed to have disappeared so com-
pletely from the minds of legislators
that a lot of weary voters have believed
it smothered under a jungle of by-laws.
To talk of the liberty of the indi-
vidual in the face of transport regula-
tions under which a vanman can be
fined—and gaoled if he cannot pay—
because he takes a neighbor home for
a free ride on a vehicle which is not
licensed to carry passengers is almost
funny. This is the position in N. S.
Wales.
So many Acts of Parliament operate
that it is impossible for Parliament to
supervise their interpretation. In N. S,
Wales some of these are adorned wth
clauses which empower the Governor-in-
Council to
make regulations for or with respect to
....generally, any matters or things neces-
sary or convenient for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.
The Commonwealth also uses this for-
mula with slight alterations. It gives
power to legislate. And though regula-
tions are laid on the table of the House,
there are so many of them that it would
need a special Parliament to edit them,
and they are rarely questioned.
Mr. Menzies has pointed out that the
Federal Cabinet is so snowed under with
detail that matters of high policy tend
to be put in the background. In all
Australian Cabinets it is the same, and
few Ministers find time to give more
than cursory attention even to the mass
of detail which grows as a few dozen
new bills are passed each session. Hence
regulation-making becomes more and
more the task of the civil servant.—
E. H. M. (N.S.W.).


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1446 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY ALMA MINEHAN
Petitioner
And EDWARD WILLIAM MINEHAN
Respondent.
TO EDWARD WILLIAM MINEHAN late
of Narrabri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ALMA MINEHAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you arc required to enter an appearance
to the said suit, at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Ninth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or of obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this 11th day of October, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
MESSRS. WEAVER & ALLWORTH, Solici-
tors for Petitioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1422 of 1935.
BETWEEN STANISLAW MIKLOSSIK Peti-
tioner
And CATHERINE MIKLOSSIK Respon-
dent.
TO CATHERINE MIKLOSSIK formerly of
23 Moore Street Moore Park.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STANISLAW
MIKLOSSIK has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of the marriage on the ground
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-fourth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
lime the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition tiled
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourth October, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. G. NASH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
5 Clifford Street, Mosman. By his agent,
JOHN S. HEANEY, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
m
%
m
H
m
¥
Mi
¥
mk
I
■%
-
i
m
*#**}
w*?
i
**rnfsm
SAY HELLO* ID
IN A V-8 ROADSTER
There's an extra thrill in driving a V-8 open car—the
satisfying luxury of the ultimate in motor car per-
formance. Effortless power that only the exclusive
V-8 engine can give . . . the cradled comfort of
Centre-poise riding and deep restful upholstery . . .
and matchless beauty of appearance. Despite their
outstanding quality Ford V-8 open cars are excep-
tionally moderate in price—from £275 (f.o.b. Ford
Branch, plus Tax).
Test the V-8 your Ford dealer will gladly place a
car at your disposal. Easy purchase terms available.
THE CENTRE-POISE
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCI
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
F26.30.V
Legal Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1556 of 1935.
BETWEEN NORA TEMPLE TRAFFORD
Petitioner „ _ . ,
And ERNEST TRAFFORD Respondent.
TO ERNEST TRAFFORD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORA
TEMPLE TRAFFORD has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion f or without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE rsutiEt,
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of October, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1481 of 1935.
BETWEEN EDITH ADELINE BEECHAM
Petitioner
And EDWARD STANLEY BEECHAM
Respondent.
TO EDWARD STANLEY BEECHAM late
of Corrimal in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
ADELINE BEECHAM has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying lor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ol
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Tenth day of January One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of October, a.d.
1935.
For the Registrar,
C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO CLAUDE THEODORE WHITNEY for-
merly of Hobart in Tasmania but whose
whereabouts are at present unknown.
WHEREAS LUCY VIOLET WHITNEY of
Hobart in the State of Tasmania claiming to
have been lawfully married to you has filed
her petition in the Supreme Court of Tasmania
for dissolution of her marriage with you on
the ground of desertion NOW YOU ARE
HEREBY NOTIFIED that unless within Thirty
days after the date of the publication hereol
you enter an appearance in this Court at its
Registry Macquarie Street Hobart in Tas-
mania and unless you attend at the said Court
in person or by your Solicitor at the hearing
of the said petition the said Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved and pro-
nounce judgment your absence notwithstanding.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
ALBERT EDWARD RICHARDSON, 76
Collins Street, Hobart, in Tasmania, Solicitor
lor the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO LESLIE CYRIL CLOSE formerly of
Hobart in Tasmania Draper but whose
whereabouts are at present unknown.
WHEREAS DOROTHY CLOSE of Hobart
in the State of Tasmania claiming to have been
lawfully married to you has filed her petititan
in the Supreme Court of Tasmania for dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion NOW YOU ARE HERE-
BY NOTIFIED that unless within Thirty days
after date of the publication hereof you enter
an appearance in this Court at its Registry
Macquarie Street Hobart in Tasmania and un-
less you attend at the said Court in person or
by your Solicitor at the hearing of the said
petition the said Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved and pronounce judg-
ment your absence notwithstanding.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
ALBERT EDWARD RICHARDSON, 76
Collins Street, Hobart, in Tasmania, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
sf THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 821 of 1935.
ETWEEN VERA ISABEL O’BRIEN (for-
merly Vera Isabel Johnston) Petitioner
And WILLIAM JOSEPH O’BRIEN Re-
spondent.
0 WILLIAM JOSEPH O’BRIEN late of
Tuncurry and of Grafton in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VERA
iABEL O’BRIEN has commenced a suit
>ainst you in this Honorable Court and is
inlying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ounds of adultery AND TAKE NOTICE
iat you are required to enter an appearance
1 the said suit at the proper office of this
onorable Court on or before the Ninth day
January One thousand nine hundred and
lirty-six and in the event of your not doing
> within the time limited, or obtaining further
me the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
j heard and determined your absence notwith-
anding. A copy of the petition filed herein
iay be had on application to the undersigned
ee of charge.
DATED this 14th day of October, One
musand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. C. McINTOSH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
israore. By his agents, McINTOSH, EMER-
ON & THOMAS, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
ydney.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“G. Trotter”: Once more comes from
Melbourne the kick that women who
don’t smoke monopolise the open tram-
cars, making mere male passengers go
inside, where smoking is prohibited. But
it would be difficult to frame any by-law
which would overcome the injustice. 1
was once on a tram in an American city
where some such regulation was in force.
The conductor stepped behind a comely
damsel and politely informed her that
that area was reserved for smokers.
“What do you know about that?” she
retorted, taking out her cigarette-case and
igniting a fag to bring herself within the
law. The same thing would probably
occur here.
* * * *
“Moms Alba”; Some enterprising
Japanese has evolved a device whereby
the silkworm, instead of spinning a
cocoon, strolls up and down a box, leav-
ing his silk in one long thread and thus
obviating the necessity of spinning it
from the cocoon or killing the chrysalis.
The confiding worm is impelled to scrap
his natural instincts by the use of an
electric current which keeps him moving.
It only needs somebody to perfect an
apparatus which will make the silkworm
weave his own fabrics and his own stock-
ings to bring down the price of pure silk
goods until they push substitutes oft’ the
market.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The house in Verona where
tradition has it that Juliet lived is to be
turned into a Shakspearean museum.
It is a tribute to the greatest of Eng-
lish poets, although there is no evi-
dence that Shakspeare knew or cared
anything about the situation of the
place. The story existed in various forms
before his day; his play was taken from
Arthur Broke’s metrical version, prob-
ably combined with William Painter’s
“Palace of Pleasure.” He wasn’t, even the
first to dramatise it for English consump-
tion, and it is perfectly certain that
Shakspeare was not in the least con-
cerned with the historical Juliet. He
merely found the legend a con-
venient peg on which to hang his ob-
servations of some Juliet he had met
in his own country, and he sugar-coated
his story with romanticism.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 13/6/’34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
ort TTmTT VI S£2S^,M 7S Colli P s Street, Melbourne; 0. A. Adams. Resident Secretary.
SOLTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William STtreet, Adelaide; F, C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and ;
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; g
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
So Far, So Good
The uncertainty in world affairs arising
from Mussolini’s expansive intentions in
Africa comes at a time when Britain,
Australia, Japan, Scandinavia and some
other world countries of less importance
have established definite industrial re-
covery. Canada and the United States
are still a good way below 1928 levels
of activity, as are France, Belgium and,
to a lesser extent, Germany. Italy has
shown an irregular spurt in 1935, which
may be sustained only so long as its mili-
tary programme stimulates home fac-
tories.
In engineering work and motor-car
production Britain has made a remark-
able advance ; taking 1928 as a base,
there was an increase of over 100 p.c.
during the first few months of 1935 in
the outturn of cars. In this respect the
U.S.A., France and Canada are still
working at low pressure compared with
1928 standards, though improvement in
the American countries has been remark-
able over the past 12 months.
In the manufacture of textiles, a most
important item in British economics, the
Old Country’s activity is almost back to
1928 figures. The U.S.A. has also shown
good recovery here, though any great
expansion in spinning, weaving or knit-
ting in those countries long recognised as
the home of such industries is yet to come.
Japan has been a growing force, and,
besides the remarkable extensions in the
Australian textile trade over the past five
years (often mentioned here), other coun-
tries largely devoted to pastoral or rural
pursuits, such as Denmark, Finland and
Chile, are growing increasingly indepen-
dent of foreign manufacturers for articles
of clothing. Principal sufferers in trade
have been Belgium, France and Italy.
In the United States, building activity
is still almost a dead-letter. It is less
than a quarter of 1928 values. At the
other end of the scale stands Britain, with
an index about 75 p.c. higher than the
last boom-time year. Belgians, Italians
and South Africans are busy also in
establishing new homes.
The United States, Russia and Ger-
many are still the world’s greatest iron
and steel producers (in that order); but,
excepting the Soviet, whose Five-year-
planning has been a comparatively
modern measure, the United Kingdom
shows the most pronounced revival.
Britain continues to carry on the largest
external trade of any European country,
exports being almost as great as those of
the U.S.A. Employment figures are the
best for five years.
Although Britain’s industrial recovery
is more marked than in most other coun-
tries (excepting Japan) its prosperity is
only of a comparative nature. Britain,
because of its rigid policy of deflation
after the war, lost trade hand over fist.
British goods became too dear for
foreigners to buy after the return to the
gold standard in 1925, and the U.S.A.,
which had established itself industrially
on a mass-production basis during and
after the war, and France, whose cur-
rency was depreciated to one-fifth, “put
it all over” British exporters for some
years.
There is a definitely healthier tone in the
United Kingdom’s trade, however, that
should lead to much better things if the
world generally is given a chance to
recover and is not devastated, financially
and otherwise, by war.
Australians know —or should know by
this—of the interdependence of world
countries upon each other for the inter-
change of goods and services and the
revival of employment. Being large
exporters of wool and other primary pro-
ducts, we have a big and important popu-
lation depending on the purchasing power
of overseas countries for a remunerative
return on the results of their labor. War,
in the long run, is no good to trade,
especially where warring countries have
no gold wherewith to pay for their pur-
chases, and can discharge their obliga-
tions only in commodities. Britain hasn’t
sufficient gold to meet its war-debt pay-
ments to the U.S.A., and Uncle Sam
doesn’t want Britain’s goods.
Australia's commodity trade balance
for the two months to the end of August
was unfavorable to the tune of
£4,094,000 sterling, an improvement of
£429,000 on last year. Including bullion
and specie movements, the adverse bal-
ance was £2,783,000—-£630,000 better
than last year. Most encouraging feature
of the two months has been an increase
"I'm travailin'"
“ Well , don't let me stop you!"
of £1,843,000 in our merchandise
exports; commodity imports were
£1,414,000 higher. Gold shipments
(£1,654,000) showed a growth of
£284,000. The increase in exports per-
haps isn’t quite as good as it looks ; the
improvement is almost wholly in respect
of wool, and not only because of higher
prices. During July and August last year
there was great restriction of shipments
in the Commonwealth, owing to suspen-
sion of the regular sales ; this year the
clip is going away rapidly. Imports for
August were the highest in some years.
They still require watching .
* * * *
Commonwealth factory statistics are
about 12 months out of date when they
arrive—they are among the most difficult
items of compilation. Figures for the
year 1933-34 are now available ; value
of manufacturing production (the value
added to raw materials by the process
of manufacture) was £9,890,000 higher
at £129,091,000. Value of output (which
includes raw materials) was up
£25,400,000 at £330,134,000. Estimated
value of Australia’s total production—
agricultural, pastoral, mining and manu-
facturing—was £355,400,000 in 1933-34
(an increase of £37,000,000 on 1932-33),
compared with £447,805,000 in the last
boom year.
* * * *
There was a good recovery in invest-
ment stocks and gold shares during last
week. Breweries, Broken Hill Prop.,
British Tobacco, Electrolytic Zinc,
Barrier mines and woolbroking concerns
were all bought with renewed confi-
dence ; Consols, too, showed some re-
covery, though quotations here are still
rather uncertain. Bank shares, ex-
cepting the ’Wales, are generally firmer.
Among the goldmines, Mt. Kasi (Fiji),
Mt. Morgan, Placer, Lancefield, Boulder
Perseverance, Lake View and Star and
other Golden Mile shows all regained
lost ground. Other Fiji issues, especially
Koroere and Emperor, showed signs of
hardening, though this section of the
market is somewhat erratic.
♦ * * *
Wool absorbed by Australian factories
during 1934-35 was 53,917 bales higher
at 296,089 bales —11,000 bales more than
the previous record
year of 1931-32. These
figures will bring aston-
ishment to many ; Aus-
tralians are among the
woolgrower’s best cus-
tomers, and our
woollen mills have a definite influence on
the market price. Since 1929-30, when the
effect of the exchange and the emergency
tariff had scarcely begun to exercise a
discouraging influence on imports of all
kinds, our home consumption of wool
has doubled. The quality of woollen
textiles marketed is generally high—
especially in hosiery, underwear and
sweaters —and prices are not excessive.
The unusual protection—mainly the
automatic influence of the exchange—
experienced by this industry over the past
five years has resulted in a greatly-
improved standard of products.
* * * *
South Aus. is making a bid to get
Imperial Chemical Industries’ soda-ash
plant. St. Vincent’s Gulf is probably the
most suitable site in the Commonwealth
in any case, but the Government, as an
additional inducement, has offered 60
acres of land at Port Adelaide at a price
considered sufficiently alluring to clinch
matters. 1.C.1. already has mineral
rights along almost the entire coast from
Port Adelaide to Port Wakefield. The
industry, with the ramifications which
should inevitably follow, would employ
some hundreds.
* * * *
During the year ended June 30 last,
greasy wool exported fetched 10.4 d. a
pound in Australian currency, as against
16.3 d. in the previous term. Wheat
averaged 3s. 0.7d.j as against '2s. 10.6 d.,
butter B.Bd. (Bd.), sugar 7s. 3d. a hundred-
weight (7s. 5d.), raisins 3.9 d. (4.3 d.),
wine 4s. 9.4 d. a gallon (ss. 2.8 d.), beef
2.9 d. (2.8 d.), lamb 6.2 d. (5.6 d.), mutton
3.8 d. (3.5 d.), tallow 225. 3.4 d. a hundred-
weight (20s. 3.5 d.), lead £l3 2s. a ton
(unchanged), and spelter £l7 19s. (£l9 25.).
During the year which began on July 1,
wool, wheat, butter, tallow, lead and zinc
are all firmer, especially the metals.
Lead at £l9 (stg.) a ton is up about £lO
(Aust.) per ton on the price realised by
the Barrier mines during the year to
June 30 last. At £l7 (stg.) spelter is
worth about £3 10s. a ton more. Aus-
tralia in 1934-35 exported 183,400 tons
of pig lead ; the greater part of our zinc
production is used in the Commonwealth.
Whether from internal or overseas
sources, if present prices for the metal
are maintained Barrier mines should
benefit by something like £2,000,000
(Aust.) during the present term.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Despite the increase last August in the
tin-production quota, to take effect as
from July 1, world visible stocks of the
metal fell 1564 tons during September
to 10,798 tons. Consumption for the
month was almost unchanged at 9219
tons. A further increase in the permis-
sible production under the restriction
scheme was made a few days ago ; 70
p.c (up 5 p.c.) of 1929 standard tonnages
may now be dredged, the increase to be
retrospective to July 1. The
greatly-increased consumption of
the metal in recent months is
traceable mainly to increased busi-
ness activity in Great Britain and
the United States.
* * * *
A new kind of house-purchase assur-
ance is being written. On approved
properties and lives an advance up to 70
p.c. is made on the figure determined by
a competent valuer ; the home-purchaser
must take out a policy of endowment
assurance equal to the amount of the
mortgage, which it eventually discharges.
Premium and interest (at about 5| p.c.
p.a.) are paid monthly; the term of
the policy may be any reasonable
period, depending on the age of
the house bought and the life assured.
The mortgage in most cases is the
usual contract, and the assurance policy
an ordinary endowment, the sum
assured being paid on a certain future
date or at previous death. If partici-
pates in bonuses until maturity. On a
reasonably-priced house, over a term of
15 to 20 years, it works out as being
moderate rent; if the assured should die
meantime the mortgage is immediately
discharged out of the proceeds of the
policy, and the property passes free of
encumbrances to his wife or other bene-
ficiaries, who also become entitled
to the accumulated bonuses, payable in
cash. In one office, where the assured
is aged 40 at the commencement, and the
period is 20 years, £lOO may be borrowed
for 17s, Bd. per month —which includes
premium and interest. A £lOOO loan
could thus be arranged for £8 16s. Bd. a
month, or £2 4s. 2d. a week. Bonuses
at the end of the period should result in
a cash surplus of several hundred pounds.
The effect of these bonuses is to reduce
the actual interest rate to below 4 p.c.—
cheap money, especially when there is
death cover thrown in.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUX BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“No More Ladies”
Joan Crawford and Robert Mont-
gomery star in this. Miss Crawford
wears beautiful clothes, drinks cocktails
and plays jokes on Mr. Montgomery.
Mr. Montgomery drinks cocktails, wears
nice clothes and plays the gay deceiver.
The story, when members of the cast
remember it, is the one about the hus-
band who stays out all night every
night. Charles Ruggles, as an inebriate,
not quite at home in this setting, and
Edna May Oliver, as an ultra-modern
grandmamma, provide a seasoning of
character-acting in what would otherwise
be a totally undistinguished drawing-
room (and boudoir) comedy. At Sydney
St. James.
“The Flame Within”
It drips with sentiment. Ann Harding,
hesitating between love and duty in her
well-known manner, is a famous psychi-
atrist, loved by Dr. Phillips (Herbert
Marshall, the screen’s most restrained
amorist). A protege of the heroine is a
reformed drunkard (Louis Hayward), for
love of whom pretty little Maureen
O’Sullivan tries twice or thrice to
commit suicide. Miss Harding should
love Dr. Phillips; instead, she has set
her affections on the gentleman with the
dipsomaniac twist. It’s all very harrow-
ing and full (so the dope-sheets say) of
subtle psychology, but it isn’t very enter-
taining. Also at the St. James.
“There’s Always To-morrow”
The poor old paterfamilias who is
bullied and neglected by his wife and
children is more often met with in fiction
than in fact, and he needs careful handling.
Scenario writer and producer in this film
at Sydney Plaza frequently barge through
the thin wall that separates pathos and
bathos. From the time Frank Morgan
makes his first trip to the basement to
stoke the central heating furnace he be-
comes ludicrous. His eldest son stands
round most of the time wearing a black
scowl and looking like a cross between
Nemesis and an outraged husband. Binnie
Barnes—Morgan’s platonic escape from
his bondage—instead of being allowed to
speak conversationally, is forced to be-
come a horrible example of the screen’s
greatest blight—the moralising mono-
loguist—and the plot meanders wearily
to an expected but unconvincing happy
ending. The cast does its best with a
bad job.
“Lady Tubbs”
Alice Brady is cook at an American
railway construction camp. She inherits
a large fortune, goes to Europe “to be
polished,” and breaks into American
snobocracy as “Lady Tubbs.” A slab
of broad farce tacked on to a semi-
serious plot, to the detriment of both.
Brightest spot is a fox-hunt in which
Lady Tubbs, astride a horse for the first
time in her life, loses the hunt and acci-
dentally comes upon the pack again just
at the kill. The M.F.H. awards her the
brush. Also at the Plaza.
“In Spite of Danger”
Wallace Ford is an ex-racing driver
who goes into the truck business. Thou-
sands of feet of panoramic scenery slide
past him as he sits in the cab of a seven-
ton trailer, jerking the wheel this way
and that, even when he’s supposed to
be on a dead-straight bitumen speedway.
His companion on these adventures is
Charley Grapewin, who caters to the
American belief that fellows of the less
financial sort are silly old buffers after
40. Arthur Hohl officiates as a villain
of the deepest dye, and the best thrill
happens when a truck containing six
tons of dynamite cascades over a cliff.
Mr. Ford escapes without a scratch
(dynamite is tricky), but the wicked Mr.
Hohl is felled by a telegraph pole up-
rooted by the explosion, and dies in fear-
ful agony. The goil is Marian Marsh,
whose contributions are mostly shrieks
of horror. At Sydney Capitol.
“Break of Hearts”
Katharine Hepburn fills the long-felt
want for a still more intense Greta
Garbo. In this musical drama at Sydney
Capitol she is a shy young music student,
beginning to compose, who arouses the
interest of Roberti, a famous orchestral
conductor (Charles Boyer). They marry,
and for a while are happy. Then there’s
Another Woman (Jean Howard), and
Mrs. Roberti departs, leaving no address.
Roberti takes to drink, falls off the stage
while conducting a symphony, and then,
his career ended, sinks lower and lower.
Of course, his wife returns, finds him
dead drunk in a bar-room, seals herself
“NO MORE LADIES.”
Edna May Oliver, Joan Crawford and Robert Montgomery, at Sydney
St. James.
at the concert grand always available
in such places, plays her earliest com-
position, and thus induces him to sober
up. It would sober up any musician. In
the last scene Roberti is seen once more
a world-famous conductor, conducting
away like billy-ho, while Miss Hepburn
watches from the wings with adoring eyes
and widely expanded nostrils. Musical
background (all save the heroine’s com-
position) is clever, and most of the char-
acterisations pass muster. But both Miss
Hepburn and Mr. Boyer have done much
better work in other films.
“Dressed to Thrill”
This is the story of a little Parisian
grisette. She was promised marriage by
a dashing Canadian officer who didn’t
turn up for the ceremony, whereupon,
her life being soured, she became a cele-
brated Russian singer. When her erst-
while lover turned banker in Paris
(brass plate at bank portals gives names
of president and vice-president, which
isn’t done in the U.S.A., let alone France)
and designed to marry a wealthy heiress,
the Franco-Russian heroine (Tutta Rolf)
lurned up again, vamped the Franco-
Canadian (Clive Brook) and got him
drunk on vodka so that his bride was
left waiting at the church. Thereafter
there are bedroom scenes in which the
grisette (now a total stranger to her erst-
while adorer) endeavors to seduce him.
Musically, dramatically and ethnologi-
cally the affair is balderdash. Clive
Brook is the most unconvincing Cana-
dian and the most sober drunk ever seen
on the screen; Miss Rolf is no great
shakes as a singer, and the efforts of
all hands and the cook in a mostly Holly-
wood cast to do foreign accents are
labor lost.
“Thunder in the Night”
Murder-mystery screen plays generally
flutter ambiguously between comedy and
tragedy, but this one, in which Edmund
Lowe is the sleuth and Karen Morley is
the lovely goil, sticks to straight melo-
drama. A, E. Carew, who plays a pro-
fessor of crystal-gazing, remarkably re-
sembles Wilson Barrett; his staginess is
in keeping with his charlatanry. Scene
is laid in some middle-European country
not specified—it has a currency of
pengos, a coinage not listed by banks.
The greatest authority in the State seems
to be the prefect, a baron under whose
awful glare Prime Ministers tremble and
police chiefs dissemble. However, the
plot is logical, the denouement is intel-
ligently devised, and interest is fairly well
sustained.
Some First Nights
Philip Hargrave returned to Sydney
last week after an absence of two years,
and played at the Town Hall with hands
that showed rather more than two years’
improvement. They’ve grown a bit in
the meantime with the rest of the boy,
but they started smaller than average. A
stubby hand with short fingers never
kept a good pianist down —witness the
phenomenal technique of Karl Tausig
and the magnificent clarity of Carreno s
presto passages ; nevertheless, it requires
more training in certain directions than
a hand, such as Schumann’s or Paderew-
ski’s, that can easily stretch two notes
more than the octave.
As to the head part of Hargrave’s per-
formance, his playing still has all its
original boyish charm. Hearing the lad s
rendition of preludes and fugues from
the Forty-eight the composer, that much-
worried man with a large family, might
beam affectionately—and indulgently.
The tormented souls of Beethoven and
Chopin, hearing their works at Hargrave s
hands, might soften, recognising trailing
clouds of glory almost forgotten. The
youngster is greatly blessed. Whether
further experience of life will make him
a better pianist than he is to-day is on
the lap of the gods. If he can respond
to what the highest priests of music
teach to their chosen disciples—well, he’s
had a flying start.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The sentiment of the Old Testament
preacher that all is vanity is elaborated
in Bernard Shaw’s latest play, “The Sim-
pleton of the Unexpected Isles,” pro-
duced by the Gregan McMahon Players
at Melbourne Comedy on Saturday
evening. It is almost a Shavian revue,
purporting to debunk love, hate, pat-
riotism, religion, eugenics, dietetics, war
and imperialism, and it even contains a
quip about the National Anthem which
may yet lead to a complete audience
being arrested under the provisions of
the Commonwealth Crimes Act. Shaw
preaches on so many different subjects
that some confusion results, but it is a
magnificent confusion. Even if he fails
to hit the bull’s-eye every time the arrows
fly from his bow so zestfully that it is
a joy to see him draw his bow:.
The play—if it can be called a play—
is full of original situations and fan-
tastic thoughts. Britain grows restive
under the tyranny of the Empire
and breaks away, whereupon De
Valera declares war against the British
“disloyalists.” On the Unexpected Isles
live the high priest and the high priestess
of its faith. Twenty years previously
have come among them a British Gover-
nor and his wife and an immigration
agent who married a flapper immigrant.
When the two sons and the two daugh-
ters of the priestly pair have grown up
—reared in strict accordance with the
eugenist principles of their parents^ —
a pirate ship dumps ashore its chaplain,
whose father has reared him on a dietary
plan. The island youngsters are all
beauty and brains and no consciences,
and the curate is all conscience and
no brains. He is welcomed by the
priest and priestess as a gift from
the gods. As the husband of their two
girls he will even up things and provide
a next generation perfectly balanced in
brain and conscience. The curate has
to consent, despite misgivings, but the
bigamous union provokes international
complications. Various warships anchor
off-shore. One threatens to bombard
the settlement if the parson is not sur-
rendered ; another threatens to bombard
it unless he is given proper protection,
a situation which affords opportunity for
much satire regarding warfare and ex-
cites the Fascist tendencies of the two
young eugenic men. The timely arrival
of the Angel Gabriel to announce the
Day of Judgment enables the curtain
to come down on the priest and priest-
ess summing up the philosophy that
nothing matters.
The play was well done. Collins Hilton
as the subnormal clergyman, Norman
Shepherd and Eve Wynne as the priest
and priestess, Frank Desbrowe as a
British Governor of the breezy, good-
fellow type, and Kathleen Howell as the
immigration officer’s wife were all ex-
cellent, and smaller'parts were capably
filled.
•J* *J* 4*
Dr. Gerhard von Keussler made his
second appearance at Melbourne Town
Hall with the Symphony Orchestra last
week in an unusually distinguished pro-


PRINTING EXHIBITION
~ ORGANISED BY THE
PRINTING INDUSTRY CRAFTSMEN
OF AUSTRALIA
WENTWORTH HOTEL, SYDNEY
October 21-25, 1935.
Official Opening by Mr. A. J. Kent, 1.5.0.,
N.S.W. Government Printer.
Admission 6d. ST
To be donated to the
P.I.C.A. Library Fund.
7
m
- V
m
m
/■
Try this Tobacco
MEDIUM STRENGTH, BLENDED FROM SELECTED LEAF
Here's real enjoyment. Real contentment. Try David Jones'
Standard Smoking Mixture popular for years throughout
Australia. You'll find it just right, the same as those thousands
of men who swear by it.
4oz. tins, 3/8; Boz. tins, 7/4; lib. tins,
14/6; or ilb. Screw Top Glass Jars, 7/6.
Postage extra unless ordered with other goods.
Smoke D.J. Standard Mixture in a Plus Four Pipe,
English made, of selected seasoned Briar Root, 12/6
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
CEA WAY THE
B
EST WAY TO
Western Australia
(VIA ADELAIDE)
—AN IDEAL HOLIDAY—
BY ONE OF THE LUXURIOUS INTERSTATE LINERS
M.V. “WESTRALIA” T.S.S. “KAROOLA”
M.V. “MANOORA” M.V. “DDNTROON”
T.S.S. “KATOOMBA”
Write, ’Phone
or Call
for Timetable
and
Full Particulars
Sailings every
Saturday from
Sydney
Sailings every
Tuesday from
Melbourne
Apply: —
ADELAIDE S. CO.
HIDDAHT PARKER,
LTD.
McIL WRAITH,
McEACHARX, LTD.
MELBOURNE S. CO.
At All Ports.
gramme. The severely beautiful Haydn
Symphony in A Major, No. 7, led off the
proceedings, and was followed by the
“Manfred” overture of Schumann. That
veteran vocalist A. C. Bartleman sang
Hugo Wolf’s “Prometheus” aria; his
defiance of Heaven was almost
smothered by the orchestrions. The
evening concluded with the conductor’s
own Symphony in C Major, which has
been performed a dozen times in
Europe. It is in six sections, but there
are no intervals, and one movement
flowed into the next without interruption
for 40 minutes until the conductor laid
down his baton. The enthusiasm of the
audience suggested that it would like to
become more closely acquainted with a
work so full of color, variety of rhythm
and unusual contrasts as to constitute a
sort of encyclopaedia of modern orches-
tral resources.
b b b b
At Melb. Garrick the Un-named
Players had just passable material to
work on in “Proscenium,” Ivor Novello’s
backstage story of the star who- yearned
to play Romeo and only attained to his
ambition when his wife was old enough
to play the nurse. The piece mainly
travelled on the backs of Cuthbert Bar-
rington as Romeo and Kitty Dwyer as
Juliet.
Current Artbursts
The Painter-Etchers’ Society, which
since last show has added Graphic Arts
to its title and now throws the door wide
open to the world of black-and-white,
has a show at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries, Sydney. It is, as near as can be
achieved until someone can put all the
draughtsmen and painters of the Com-
monwealth into one society, a collection
representative of the present state of
monochrome art in Australia. A finer
collection of new stuff could be
“In he Great Synagogue,” aquatint by Harold
Byrne in the Painter-Etchers’ and Graphic Art
Society’s show at Blaxland Galleries, Sydney.
made any year, because so many of
our painters have a surer touch with
pencil than with brush ; also there is the
circumstance that among our best
draughtsmen are so many who draw
primarily for reproduction. Among these
only a remnant figure in the exhibition.
Syd Miller shines with pictures of dogs.
His “Sandy” (a Scotch terrier), limned in
chalk and wash, is faultless. Herbert
Gallop in “Noonan Flat, Hunter River,”
has gone outside the pale, for he rein-
forces his sepia with blue, but he makes
the Noonan Flat a place where one could
wander for an afternoon without being
bored. G. K. Townshend’s three wash-
drawings get to the point without cir-
cumambulation. Norman Lindsay is
represented by three pencil drawings of
ladies each of whom might have fallen a
victim to Wainwright.
Among the completely arty exhibitors
Cedric Emanuel stands out. No better
penman has attempted the Sydney
waterside. His drawings are as fine in
taste as in technique, and the one bought
by the Sydney Gallery Trustees is one
of the few recent additions to the
national collection with which this critic
has no quarrel. There is less discrimina-
tion in the works of Douglas Pratt and
Lloyd Rees, but either of them can draw
a panoramic landscape packed with
poetry in every square inch. R. Emer-
son Curtis is a pencil virtuoso who can
make his little piccolo say as much as
a whole orchestra of color does under a
less capable conductor. G. W. L. Hirst
is another master of the pencil.
Most noteworthy etcher is William
Hunter, a fine technician and a good
draughtsman. Max Ragless, of Adel-
aide, shows aquatints that have breadth
and virility, and Sydney Long’s aquatint
“The Boatshed,” a brilliant blue, comes
as a relief after so much art in soberer
tints. Harold Byrne’s etchings and aqua-
tints are worth a second glance.
*l*
When Tom Garrett was a boy he
wanted to draw and paint, but his father’s
stern philosophy interdicted “attempts to
imitate God Almighty’s handiwork.” So
Garrett, junior, plodded past about half
a hundred milestones on life’s road
before he realised that he didn’t want to
imitate. Garrett’s pictures are generally
small, almost always conservative in the
use of stimulative colors, but in the
biggest gallery they are instantly recog-
nisable. He’s a water-colorist who uses
a hard paper and an almost dry brush
and builds up his effects with a minute
and loving care which gives his work,
impressionistic and romantic though it
is, some of the qualities of a fine engrav-
ing. Corot and Turner come to mind
if one searches for a school badge, but
neither tab fits. In his latest show in
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney, Gar-
rett shows work that marks a positive
advance on his previous crops of offer-
ings, both in water-color and monotype.
Much of it is the harvest of earnest
experiment; some of it,
and this not the least
delightful (the flower
pieces are examples), is an
endeavor to put pure
bright color into composi-
tions whose charm de-
pends so much on grada-
tions in the lower tones.
“The ’Loo,” “September,”
“Idyll,” “Blue Hill,”
“Bush Road,” “Gipsies,”
“Trek” and “Winter Light”
seemed to this critic most
interesting of the 26 pic-
tures on show.
•J*
The most interesting
picture in Treania Smith’s
show at Macquarie Gal-
leries (Sydney) is a por-
trait of a girl. It is called
a “sketch portrait,” though
it is more careful than
anything else in the room.
Miss Smith’s landscapes
and flower pieces are all
rational in composition
and color-scheme, and
one or two look fine when
seen from some distance
off.
In their annual exhibi-
tion of culinary items at
the Athenaeum, the chefs
of the Melbourne Society
of Women Painters this
year display a preference
for twice-baked dishes. In
other words, last year’s
joint appears as forced
meat m a number of more
or less effective guises, es-
pecially among modernists,
who cloak their designs
in such a bewildering
variety of spices, garnishes, flavorings and
sauces that the real nature of the dish
requires guessing. There are a few cooks
who produce new dishes. You note the
quality of observation in “An Evening
Rehearsal,” by Eleanor Dunn, and she
gives the character of “A Wet Day” with
unusual precision in No. 90. The “Top-
light Study” of P. Hurry comes under
the same category. There is atmosphere
in the “Grey Morning” of D. Stone.
Violet Mclnnes makes a gesture of respect
to her distinguished husband in “Mag-
nolias,” and Stephanie Taylor tells all
she knows in “Ernest Fysh, Esq., A Por-
trait. The head and front of the
modern movement is'Mary Cecil Allen,
in “Bregus Village, Newfound-
land,” succeeds in making rocks, boats
and jetties look like objects of the same
material lying on a green carpet. Ola
Cohn flavors “The Spirit of the Bush”
with a dash of Epstein in a sculptured
female figure, as tall as a gum-tree, in
rapid motion with a baby in her arms.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
i $.
n
*2
2 3
H I
kif a
It
ii
lljamiln!]’,!
1
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPEKCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (!0 lines).
At Sydney’s
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience,
first-c lass service
and an excellent
cuisine.
w
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
fasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s Cross, Sydney.
■ ’Phones: F 2191 04 lines).
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL KEITH WATSON WATERHOUSE,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
To the lovely Marina and the hand-
some George has been born a son. That
he will be good-looking is a foregone
conclusion ; that he will be as good as the
grandfather, as popular as the father,
after whom he is named, is the best wish
Australia can offer the new royal George.
England will adore its baby prince.
Already, no doubt, Edward P. is busy
spoiling his young nephew. The stork
picked the world’s happiest royal family
for him and the most loyal Empire.
Legs are going to be brighter and
better. Randwick proved it. Skirts have
taken to uplift, and now every woman
must put her hose in order. It was
one of the giddiest spring meetings for
years. The sun and the warmth had
much to do with it; in the teeth of the
two smilers the most hardened skinflint
couldn’t find an excuse for making her
“winter garments do.” Vice-regals, too,
made merry in the sunshine, and each day
the enclosures behind the chromium
bars were as chirpful as a treeful of
locusts. The demure smartness of Lady
Hore-Ruthven’s black, with its flash of
white at the throat, is to be commended,
and on Wednesday Lady Isaacs greeted
the day in lilac tones, hat and little cape
to match. Sylvia Purves, chiffoned and
wide-hatted, was like a (lower that
blooms in the spring. Mrs. O’Brien, one
of the Government House group, wore
a hat like a Swiss mountaineer’s, only in
black velvet. It was probably to be in
keeping with scaling the heights of the
official stand. Mrs. A. Pollok’s frock
was richly blue, her hat white, her hair
gold. All the tones of yellow were
woven through the week’s dress parade.
Harry Budge’s lady smiled above its joy-
ousness ; Mrs. A. V. Maxwell, too, flew
daffodil hues.
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, unbeatable
as Peter Pan, carried off the palm for
looks and dressing. Her frock was cool
hydrangea blue ; on her wide-brimmed
blue hat was a flat bow of burgundy
velvet. Anne Gordon’s hat of navy
taffeta was small, but important with a
stiffened eye veil. Margaret Burns and
Faith Macarthur Onslow were in melting
blues. Mrs. Dick Allen’s white Breton
sailor, Mrs. Jim Dickson’s ground-length
frock of navy-and-white stripes, Ruth
Cohen’s black taffeta hat with its pleated
fan-shape brim and Mrs. Harold
Weigall’s graceful brown baku worn with
beige-pink frocking were sighted between
stand and ring.
From the wistaria and pink azaleas in
the hall the Union Club’s after-the-races
party was all eats and sweets. And such
sweets! Standard rose-trees, window-
boxes of lilac and tulips, broom golden
and heady, tulips like so much heaped
flame on the vice-regal tea-table, while
above on delphinium wing a glad bird
hovered. Browsing amid waratahs was
a tawny kangaroo, and in the middle of
the dining-room, banked by foliage in
which green and amber and red fires
burned, was a sort of fountain of per-
petual youth that was for ever blowing
bubbles. The bubbles were balloons
prisoned in cellophane and kept dancing
by a cunning breeze. Dame Eadith
Walker came and sipped a cup with
Lady Isaacs and Sir Alexander and
Lady Hore-Ruthven. The Roberts lady,
of Maoriland ; Alexander Gordon’s lady,
talking to Penfold Hyland about prodi-
gies ; Rosemary Shepherd, newly re-
turned, all flower-patterned and black
hat; Mrs. Walter Swinson, her pearls lus-
trous against the dahlia reds of her
frock ; Mrs. C. L. Jones, in amber tones ;
the Philip Streets, Osbornes, Macarthur
Onslows and Dangars were among the
700 or so greeted by president Consett
Stephen and vice-president Shepheard
Laidley.
When this Letter left the Chukka Ball
in David Jones’s, enthusiasts were danc-
ing a reel. The Chukka Ball might have
been a wedding of heather and haggis, so
Scottish was its atmosphere. This was
to the glory of the Munros, Mrs. Hugh
Munro having been one of the founders
of the C.W.A., which is the beneficiary.
Also some of the high spirits from the
Munro-Mack nuptials of two nights
before had a further chance to siphon
oyer into pipe bands and all. The Briga-
dier Hardies were guests of the com-
mittee, of which Mrs. Colin Venn was
president. Mrs. Hardie wore flowerful
pinks; Mrs. Hugh Munro cheered her
black laces with flashes of green.
Noreen Dangar was handsome in black,
and black moire was worn by Mrs.
Ridley. Mrs. M. Irvine was cheerful in
black and gold. Jeanie Ranken put a
smile into the night, and the .Sam Hor-
derns and groups of Ashtons were among
the dancers. Crowds came on after the
Australia’s dinner dance.
One of the latest to join the small
band of young women lawyers in Sydney
is Kathleen McGarry, 8.A., LL.B. Kath-
leen’s father was M.L.A. for Murrum-
bidgee for many years. From him she
inherits her sense of humor, and recently
she won at a Sydney eisteddfod first place
in the women’s open humorous character
recital. Miss McGarry can convey
tragedy, too ; and in the non-humorous
section gained third place for a dramatic
study. She has played with the Inde-
pendent such, diverse parts as Hecuba
in “The Trojan Women” and Gunning,
the maid, in “The Improper Duchess.”
Photo, from the Talma studios.
Between a guard of beauty the Gov-
ernor and Lady Hore-Ruthven traversed
the red carpet between the lift and the
dais in the Empress ballroom last Thurs-
day night. On one side were eight tulle-
clad maids in pinks, mauves, blues and
white, their tulle hats protected by coy
little sunshades. On the opposite side
were the same number of girls in blue-
before-dusk chiffons spattered with silver.
Ambassadors for well-known beauty
products, they looked the part. The com-
mittee of the Hospice Ball, of which
Mrs. M. J. Slattery is president, escorted
the vice-regals, who presently gave the
accolade to two little debs. These were
presented by Josephine Marks, whose
black satins cascaded black fringe, and
who hostessed at a table on which a silver
tree grew.
Mrs. Toby Browne’s frock, ashes-of-
roses moire shot with silver, was notable.
It was trained, and had for accompani-
ment a long feather fan. With Lady
Hore-Ruthven (her brocades were blue
and gold) came the fair Mrs. O’Brien,
whose black lace frock was not even toe-
length, and whose blue ostrich-feather
cape looked like the ransom of South
Africa. Pale lilac chiffons floated about
Mrs. F. J. Davy. Mrs. Cecil Cowley,
from Papua, wore a smooth black
coiffure above white crepes. Mrs. George
Bellair, from Wagga, took a night off
from hospital-conference business. Mrs.
Harold Nossitter told of a just-received
letter from her round-the-world-in-a-
yacht husband and sons. Singapore was
the postmark. A tiny pearl like a dew-
drop nestled in the heart of each baby
rose scattered on the vellum net of Mrs.
Resch’s frock.
Philip Hargrave didn’t corner all the
laurel wreaths last week; Governor
Phillip collected his annual offering
from the Women Pioneers. The sky was
blue, the sun gold, as president Mrs.
Lingham stepped up and placed the gar-
land of laurel and waratahs (there were
six, one for each State) at the great
coloniser’s feet. Then the band of faith-
ful returned to the clubrooms, opposite
the Gardens and the statue, and toasted
the King and Australia’s first Governor.
Mrs. Lingham and the Historical
Society’s Aubrey Halloran gave speeches
in Phillip’s honor, and the pleasant
rooms surrounded one of the society’s
pleasantest celebrations.
Broom was once again to the fore in
the decoration scheme at the Matrons’
Ball. Combined with the red-gold of
nasturtiums it formed an inspiring screen
before the fireplace in the long lounge.
With 43 hostesses to foot the bill, natur-
ally the affair was on the glittersome
side, and the Royal Sydney’s club-
house at Rose Bay was positively
lush with standard roses and dewy spring
flowers. There were some jewels of
great price among the usual assemblage
of gems, Mary Hordern’s pearls would
bear inspection ; so would a sparkler or
two flashing on Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar, the Reading lady (very handsome
in red and white) and Mrs. C. L. Jones,
who wore a coronet of pearls. Mrs.
Doug Reid, who was one of the many
dinner hostesses before the ball, had
the neckline and hem of her daffodil
chiffon outlined in spring flowers.
Mrs. Doug and Mrs. Pat Levy, the
Jim and Geoff Ashton brides, Mrs, Sam
Hordern (one of the prettiest in her
flowery frock), Helen Stephen in pastel
chiffons sprayed with orchids and Anne
Gordon in tea-rose-pink satins were of
the gay.
Betty Weihen, the girl in this Dorothy
Welding picture, was one of the secre-
taries and one of the reasons for the suc-
cess of the Picnic Ball. This was one
of the brightest balloons of Race Week,
and brought more than 1000 dancers,
carrying their own supper, out to the
Palais at Moore Park.
But the Palais had turned into a
corner of the bush ; and here, amid the
saplings, on a log outside his gunyah, a
sundowner played his accordion and a
tall abo. companion kept him company
on tuneful gum-leaves. The two greeted
the vice-regal arrival with the strains of
“Waltzing Matilda.” Three hospitals
benefited —St. Luke’s, the Rachel Forster
and the Ryde Home for Incurables. With
the Governor and his lady came a goodly
company, in which South Australia was
represented by Mrs. H. D. Wynward,
and Queensland by Eileen Bell, of
Coochin Coochin. Later in the evening
the Commonwealth was present in the
person of Priminister Lyons. The gold
cape and gold hair of Mrs. A. Pollok
went well with her white frock. Gwen
Stevens, Alison Forbes Mackay, Mar-
garet Walker and Mrs. Gore-Jones, her
black taffetas decorative with red roses,
were secretaries who bit the hot dog at
supper-time with gratitude for such fine
public support.
Everybody at the medical David
Knoxes’ party had something to say and
somebody to say it to. Up to the heights
of North Sydney roared cars filled with
academics, medicals* writers, artists,
musicians and actors, amateur and pro-
fessional. Among the last, Nan Taylour,
back from Enzed, telling of hillocks of
gold bagged by “The Wind and The
Rain” in Southland, which is a slice of
the Highlands transported to the Anti-
podes, Scots and all. Just-returned
Clarence Murphy sported a waist posi-
tively wasp-like in London tailorings.
The flowers were regal in the dining-
room (red waratahs and roses), romantic
in the lounge (lupins and lilac, pansies
and lily-of-the-valley), and robust (bottle-
brush) in the temporary bar. The doctor
and Mrs. Knox —her frock and graceful
hat were black, her flowers orchids —
were still saying “welcome” at six o’clock.
At eight-thirty, an hour this Letter
regards as sacred to toast rather than
toasts, the Women Writers sped Isabel
Gullett on her way to Hollywood. Isabel
is film critic for Associated Newspapers,
and her holiday will be a sort of bus-
man’s, because she’s going to visit all
the studios and be one with the stars.
There were five males among the girts
at the breakfast in the Australia, and
all made speeches witty and pretty.
Eric Baume passed on the handbag,
complete with key, that the Women
Writers had given Isabel. What Percy
Hunter, Elliott Napier, Reg Moses and
Tom Spencer said can’t be told, because,
as E. Napier remarked, “like Lady
Godiva I must come to my close.”
With Olympic aloofness from the
common round Treania Smith dated the
opening of her one-woman show for the
third day of the A.J.C. meeting. Just as
the awnings of the Union Club opposite
were going gala in expectation of the
first arrivals from Randwick, Frank
Wright was opening Treania’s exhibition.
His was a smooth, well-modelled com-
position of words, suitably flecked with
light and shade, and the artist stood by
in a blue-and-white outfit more jocund
than the general color scheme on the
wall. Half the artists in Sydney thronged
the Macquarie Galleries for the show.
Heather and tartan, bagpipes and St.
Stephen’s were all implicated in the wed-
ding of Charmian Mack, of Trangie,
and Gordon Munro, of Bingara. As
many of the guests as well as the bride-
groom wore kilts, the wedding gazers
got sauce with their gander as well as
their —no, not goose: Charmian is much
more like a swan. Her satins of pearly
lustre added to her natural grace, and
spread out into a long square train that
fell from a panel in the skirt. Though
handsome, this dress was modest, and
wore its sleeves long and its neckline
just not too high. Lily-of-the-valley,
white heather and the usual surf of
tulle were highlights. After the Rev. J.
McLeod had done his good deed and
the doors of the white-lily-and-watsonia-
decked kirk had been reached by the
wedding group, pipers in kilts blew the
glad tidings the length and breadth of
Macquarie-street.
After that 200 or more guests rushed
out to the Rose Bay Golf Club, and
were there regaled with more Scottish
airs on the bagpipes, a dinner and dance.
Bride’s mother, Mrs. George Mack, wore
a frock of sapphire-blue satin patterned
in silver. The five bridesmaids, in
sweeping frocks of magnolia-pink stiff-
ened chiffon, wide hats and field-flowers,
made an attractive group in the lilac
and tulip and rose-gay reception-rooms.
Mrs. Hugh Munro, the ’groom’s mother,
contrasted two tones of lilac in her
satin dress and velvet cape.


TO EUROPE via
5E
6S
of Canada's Rockies
Meet the best people at these
show places in the heart of
the Canadian Rockies. Un-
rivalled scenery .. . sport. , .
social life . . . starting points
of new and exciting pleasures.
Rates surprisingly moderate.
Write for details and literature.
Any Tourist Booking: Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
217 George Street, Sydney.
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World’s
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Melbourne
Chater
To the U.S.I. Ball in Earl’s Court the
Navy brought a binnacle, its inner work-
ings to be explained at length to feminine
partners, and a depot ship steering wheel
which bore the date 1869. The Army
polished up a quick-firing 12-pounder
and aimed its muzzle at the entrance
doorway, and the Air Force produced
’planes in miniature and propellers in
reality. It was a grand party, for when
the Services entertain they make a thor-
ough job of it. Supper commenced with
oysters, and finished up with the
orchestra in fighting trim and everybody
lustily singing “Sons of the Sea.”
Among those at the official table were
Colonel Eller, chairman of the committee,
and his wife ; Wing-Commander Wrigley
(receiving congratulations on his newly
published book, History of the Third
Squadron), and within waving distance
his petite wife, in silver and mauve, with
a, spray of stocks behind her ear. Colonel
Sturdee escorted Mrs. Sturdee, who
wrapped herself in black velvet. Hein-
rich Schrader was in good form, owing
to his early season successes at cricket.
Both Mrs. Schrader and Mrs. Hugh
Brain wore pink interspersed with silver.
The Edgar Johnston couple had their first
dance together for over seven months —
Captain Johnston, who is Controller of
Civil Aviation, has just returned from
abroad by the all-air route. Mrs. E. Spiers
Jackson was in black, with a spray of lily-
of-the-valley ; Mrs. V. L. Sunners wore
navy-blue, with a troubadour puff to her
sleeves ; Mrs. Frank Lukis ice-blue, with
geometrical ventilators at the back of the
spine. Mrs. Leon Lachal mixed turquoise
and tamarisk pink. Wing-Commander
Hepburn was there with a biggish
party; he’d given a dinner at the
Windsor for 34 at which there had been
posies beside the place-card of every
feminine guest. In the same deck-space
were Group-Captain and Mrs. Harrison
(in Melbourne between two trips to
Flinders Island) and the 1.C.1.’s metal-
lurgist, R. J. Lemmon, on a prolonged
visit to Melbourne.
At 2 a.m. the band played a rollicking
“Mademoiselle from Armentieres,” fol-
lowed by “Auld Lang Syne,” with arms
crossed and hands linked, and the
Anthem, but nobody started to go home
until an hour later. They just sat around
and swapped yarns, and marauding
parties set out to plunder other people’s
balloons.
There is the suspicion of a trend back
towards the party of mid-afternoon with
music in lieu of the with
cocktails. Mrs. Victor Little decided that
her at-home should be earlyish. Tea was
served in buffet fashion, so that no one
got wedged on one chair for long. Music
played upstairs was carried below
through amplifiers. Mrs. Little also
anticipated the season just around the
corner of the calendar, much more stimu-
lating than the one that is outstaying its
welcome, her choice for the afternoon
being a gown of ivory ninon, printed
with gay meadow flowers, and roses
under the brim of her blue- hat. The
spacious two-storeyed home in Williams-
road was filled with gorgeous blooms.
Very special were the pink gladioli
carried all the way from Queensland by
'plane, and the vivid waratah sent from
N.S.W. The rain poured down outside,
so that dressing was guarded and sombre,
but there was a cheer-up of straw hats.
Marion Fleming (Aberdeen, N.S.W.)
wore a Breton sailor hat with her pale
coral-pink dress, the bodice of which was
elaborately trimmed with shirring. Mrs.
Jim Leviny was also among the minority
who ventured pastel shades, her frock
being of shrimp-pink crepe. Mrs. G. A.
D. McArthur wore forest-green, and Mrs.
Lindsay Mildred navy blue, accompanied
by a defiant little skull cap of cire straw.
Mrs. Austin Embling was in Arab-brown,
with fox furs. Among the many wearers
of black were Mrs. George Langridge,
Mrs. S. McKay, Mrs. S. A. Pidgeon and
Mrs. Alan Robinson, who introduced a
lighter touch to her gown with gold-
spotted chiffon frills.
Mrs. Lionel Grim wade, whose pro-
file is glimpsed below, is one of the
ticket secs, for the Navy League Ball to
be held at Earl’s Court on October 24.
The Navy League strives to provide pro-
tection for British subjects and British
commerce at all times. The Melb.
branch gives nautical training to 400
boys, whose ages range from 10 to 17.
Even before the lads have mastered the
traditions of the Navy they must have
uniforms, one of the league’s heaviest
expenses. The ball is an annual fixture.
Mrs. Grimwade’s picture is by Broo-
thorn.
Who but Bernard Shaw would make
an angel wear a monocle? He’s a very
casual sort of angel who floats on to the
Comedy stage in “The Simpleton of the
Unexpected Isles.” In real life he is
brave enough to answer to the Christian
name of Leander, surname Poynton; on
his astral plane he wears a yellow ribbon
round his head and his wings are of
cotton-wool. The Judgment is all in the
day’s work. The Simpleton, who is the
Rev. Phosphar Hammingtap, cannot
understand the Judgment—why, for in-
stance, there are no reserved seats for
the clergy. Shaw gives a dig in the ribs
to vitamins and baby health movements
when he presents Phosphar with a biolo-
gical chemist for a father who has scien-
tifically nourished his offspring’s glands
with nitrogen. The medical profession
also gets a Shavian jolt; when all the
useless people in the world start to dis-
appear, the meds. go first. There are
only two men left on the London Stock
Exchange, the Houses of Parliament are
deserted and every newspaper is run
solely by an agricultural editor. The
four perfect children, produced by an ex-
periment in eugenics, are “waves of light
in the sea of bliss.” They talk in blank
verse, and Shaw has given them every-
thing but commonsense and humor.
Their make-up is perfect; Thelma Besant
as a blonde and Joyce Hunt as an amber-
skinned enchantress wear the •garments
of goddesses; Wilbur Reid and Paul
Alsop affect Egyptianish robes, and their
skin is like treacle. Eve Wynne is Prola,
a honey-colored priestess, and Norman
Shepherd is the priest Pra, who wears
an Indian bob and garments with trains.
Nancy Ford, Kathleen Howell, Frank
Desbrowe and David Reid are garbed in
present-day fashions.
Interest was high, the show was excel-
lent and crammed with wit, but there
were many solemn faces in the crowded
house. In the front row of the circle
was knight David Rivett with his wife,
her hair Wreathed with vine-leaves. The
Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Williams
were with a party of friends. Smoking
cigarettes in the interval were Dr. and
Mrs. Ken Cross, she in a fur coat and
pearls. George Caro acco ipanied his
wife, who has lately returned from
abroad. Her gown bore motifs of gold
lame, and for jewellery she used earrings
of beaten gold.
On the hottest day we’ve had since
March, General Chauvel ascended to the
Athenaeum to declare open the Women
Painters’ Exhibition. The gallery was
packed, but men were in the minority.
Never has there been such a varied assort-
ment of hats; they seemed to have been
plucked from every decade for the last
50 years. Some were trimmed with bob-
bing oranges and lemons; others carried
feathers or odd wisps of tulle; some
were of the ancient mushroom school
swathed with green gossamer veils.
Neville Collins was all 1935 in an idea
based on what used to be a widow’s veil
in 1900—her veil shot forth over the back
of her neck in the newest approved
fashion. Mrs. Ada Winter, who exhibited
a birdbath among her sculpture, looked
cool in mushroom-ribbed crepe. Miss N.
Neylon was. Indian-summerish in an
Assam tailored suit and a severe sailor
hat. Mrs. Bernard Hall and daughter
Alison did the rounds together; Mrs.
C. W. Batten wore a black hat and a
forest-green dress. Mrs. Edith Smart, in
black, spent the afternoon soothing the
tempers of people who demanded cata-
logues, which by some mischance had
not arrived.
At last week’s Von Keussler concert
there was not the same electric sparkle
as was generated under the same baton
10 days previously. The audience reacted
in various ways. Two small boys, aged
not more than 10, kept as still as mice
and never moved their solemn brown
eyes from the orchestra. Some students
arrived with scores and were shocked by
the audible remark of a middlebrow that
she thought the sudden crashing rumble
of drum in the middle of Von Keusslcr’s
own composition (the Symphony in C
Major) was an accident. Some people
went home thrilled; others were in a
daze after so much music. In the
audience were Mrs. Edward Stephens,
whose white head is never absent from a
Town Hall concert; Dr. and Mrs. Ellery,
she in a black velvet coat; Dr. and Mrs.
John Shaw, Prof, and Mrs. Ernest Scotl,
Rosa Spowers and, out of her usual
environment, Eve Alywn, with a halo of
hair twisted round her blonde head.
Wearing the halo hat is Iris, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Eric Con-
nolly. One of the biggest and gayest
November functions will be the Cup
Eve Ball on the new steamer Orion to
be held in aid of the Melbourne Hos-
pital and the District Nursing Associa-
tion. On that night, Miss Connolly will
see that no one goes without a smoke,
for she is on the cigarette committee.
She is also working hard for the candi-
dature of her sister Freda in the Queen
carnival organised for the Lord Mayor’s
fund. Both Iris and Freda share their
father’s interest in the turf, and they are
attractive figures at every race meeting.
Broothorn made the portrait.
Speeches, music, coffee and its accom-
paniments were offered at the at-home
of the Society of Women Painters, when
flowers, fir-trees in tubs and bunches of
lemons draped over pedestals warmed
up the frigid old Athenaeum. Mary
Cecil Allen, wearing vivid Persian-red
velvet with a twist of silver at the neck-
line, was guest of honor. She spoke with
her characteristic fluency about the way
women are gradually taking their place
in the community as equals of men.
(Louis McCubbin and Arnold Shore, two
bachelors, sitting together, saved up their
repartee until afterwards.) Miss Allen
remarked on the number of American
heiresses who refuse to marry. Instead
of rocking the cradle they prefer to
spend their time founding colleges.
Among the guests were R. G. Larking
and his tall, slim wife (swathed in a
monk's cape of black velvet), Dr, Marion
Wanliss, Peg Clarke, knight John Long-
staff (recently returned after several
months in Sydney), Mrs. W. Ram-
say and Val and Yvonne Cohen
(two young things who study art and
enjoy a day in the country with sketch-
books). Ina Morris wore jet earrings
and black taffeta sleeves with a Tudor
puff.
It is not possible to borrow every
book in the Public Library. Some
volumes are too old and too precious
to be allowed much handling. Some of
these historical relics are now on view
under glass in the McAllan Gallery.
Dated 1492 is a large, heavy volume
still attached to the iron chain which
secured it in a monastic library of
mediaeval Germany. There is a fifteenth-
century Italian manuscript, its pages of
black vellum covered with exquisite pen-
manship and gold-leaf decorations which
still glitter bravely. In 1499 hymns were
sung from manuscripts printed with the
quaint diamond-shaped notes of the
Hildcshein Missal. Particularly interest-
ing through its crude illuminations is the
Service Book of the Church of Con-
stance, written by some venerable re-
cluse who decorated his pages with
daisies such as a child would draw and
odd spiderwebs as meaningless as
scribble.
As a contrast, there are a volume of
vivid woodcuts depicting the plagues of
Egypt, an old book on entomology filled
with meticulous penwork, and an early
Australian book on birds in which the
letter-press opposite a picture of com-
mon crossbeaks runs thus: “....in-
habits barren tracts near Sydney and
Parramatta... .The male has a pleasant
song... .are subject to fits.”
With the blessing of the Rev. H. B.
Hewett, Denis Moore claimed tall, slim
brunette Dorothy Rogers at St. Andrew’s
Church, Brighton. The bride is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. R. Rogers,
and the 'groom is the third son of the
late Charles Moore and Mrs. Moore, of
Toorak. The bride carried arum-lilies,
and a tulle veil swept over her satin
gown a-glint with seed-pearls. Barbara
Syme, Olive Rosenthal and Edna Carr
were a golden trio. Their dresses of
stiffened net rustled over taffeta, their
skirts were bouffant, their sleeves puffed,
their hats wide-brimmed flyaway crino-
lines and their sheafs of tulips glowed
from pale lemon to deep amber. The
bride’s parents served wedding tea in
their Brighton garden, where the fitful
sunlight streamed through the pale-
yellow lining of the marquee to pick up
the twinkle of silver candelabra, the gold
of the candles and masses of daffodils
and broom.
It has been a week of weddings, with
the Mariposa as a honeymoon sloop.
Among couples who received their share
of confetti were Jeanette Cullen and Mac
Falkiner (son of Otway Falkiner),
Dorothy Rogers and Denis Moore and
Sheila Wallace Smith and John Anderson
(who embarked on their new responsi-
bilities at Melbourne Grammar School
chapel). The same starting place was
chosen, with No. 9 Darling-street to
follow, by Elaine Blogg and Vincent
Rouse. Lindsay Field and Enid Howard-
Smith are planning a honeymoon in M.L.
On Saturday, in the Sandringham kirk,
Helen Leary became Mrs, Gavin Knox
Finlay. The officiating padre, who hails
from Belfast, was an old friend of the
bride’s father; Dr. Garnet Leary used
to attend the Rev. Wilson’s church in
Ireland before he came to Australia.


THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Aero Club members, -with a strong
reinforcement from the Naval and Mili-
tary Club, wound up the aerial pageant
with dinner for a hundred or so' at the
Palace Hotel. Mrs. Dimmitt’s two roses
made a safe landing on black velvet as
she sat with her president husband next
the v.-r. representatives. Mabel Teather’s
white fur coat sat over a frock of mush-
room blister crepes, a spray of pansies
made contact with Mrs. Reg McKissock’s
blue georgettes, giant orchids zoomed on
Rita McGibbons’s black taffetas and
Mrs. Val Abbott’s frilled wings flew
through a cloud of grey-checked chiffon.
After a breath-taking round of parties
Alice Biggs donned white to meet Keith
Woodroffe at the altar of St. Mary’s.
Billowy tulle wafted under a Limerick
veil fashioned capwise with a transparent
halo ; a plaited girdle marked the waist-
line of the slinky satin, with its tight-
fitting sleeves and long, inlet train. ’Maid
Pauline Woodroffe struck an effective
note with a sheaf of aspidistra leaves,
long green sash tied at the back and a
wreath of green leaves in her hair,
accoutrements’to her frilled and flared
white taffetas. Rejoicings were at the
Karrakatta Club.
Guildford Old Boys staged a jolly
dance at the Embassy. Bill Duff and
Bill Elphick arranged all the doings, and
vice-pres. C. M. R. Sinclair, with his
other half’s floral blue crepes alongside,
piloted headmaster Freeth and his wife
to the official, loge. Elizabeth Freeth’s
windmill-frilled green organdies flanked
her mother’s rich floral satin, with its
gold-flecked * black velvet furbishings.
Silver beads shimmered on the corsage
of Gladys Hadley’s lilac georgettes,
Thelma Rose matched her Elizabethan
pink taffetas with a circlet of flowers in
her hair, Judy Clarkson’s spring-green
cellophane crepes were harnessed with
lame . aquamarine taffetas rustled on
Margaret Drummond s lissome figure,
and Nome John girdled her turquoise
taffetas with blush-pink velvet,
Bride and attendants culled their
flowers from the bush for the O’Connor-
Langridge wedding at St. George’s
Cathedral. The bride’s Brussels net veil
was appliqued with silver roses, and the
train of her ruched silver brocade was
carried by Margaret Byfield and Merrill
Brown, two diminutive early-Victorian
figures in blue satin. Kath Drew, Jean
Langridge and Madeline Barry brought
“f ' he .. rear with diamente glittering on
> h » bodlc f ° t . thelr bl “f ? a “"? and flared
fiounces frothing on their skirts.
“White Horse Inn” opened to a
crowded house. The J. J. Holmes couple
applauded from aisle seats, Mr. and Mrs.
Fergus Macleod were in the circle, and
Kitty Gillies had a front pew. The
Monty Nathans were there, the Tom
Tracys (with daughter Kath), the Ross
Smiths, Sheila Hayes, George Gwynne,
Mary Meares, Mrs. J. P. Learmonth and
the A. G. Symmmgtons, with sons Garth
and Noel.
Pat Christian’s birthday was an occa-
si°n fo u r wassail at the t ? le |f d ® s
\er parents entertained 60 guests
™ her honor. The hostess chose soft
burgundy lace, and Pat shimmered in
red-lacquered satin,
Art-lovers flocked to Newspaper House
Gallery for the Society of Artists’ exhibi-
tion, opened by newly-appointed Direc-
tor of Education A. J. Klein. The Lind-
«ays (Norman, Daryl and Lionel), Arthur
Streeton, John Banks, Robert Johnson
and other folk from over the borders
were represented. Among the offerings
of local artists, Lionel Jago’s “Spring
Blossoms,” Edith Trethowan’s woodcuts
and the lone exhibit of sculpture, Justin
Walsh’s head of Rachel Prideaux, were
much admired.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Walford Old Scholars’ Associa-
tion’s dance was enjoyed by 150 guests
at the Wentworth. Crimson-and-pink
roses decorated. Miss Baker (head-
mistress), in russet-toned brocaded satin,
and Constance Eardley (president), in
black chiffon velvet, received the guests.
Miss Baker’s niece, Joan Rye, from Mel-
bourne, looked charming in white taffeta.
One of the guests, Mrs. Victor Day, who
danced in powder-blue triple georgette,
came all the way from Townsville (Q.)
for the reunion.
David, eldest son of the C. S. Dowies,
Dulwich, has cabled news of his engage-
ment to Irene, daughter of Sir William
and Lady Jarrett, of Ealing, London.
Mrs. A. G. Rymill, of Brougham-place,
North Adelaide, is certainly extending
hospitality this month. She has issued
invitations in conjunction with her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. A. C, Rymill, for
an at-home, and for a dance at which
her daughter, Mrs. Tom Giblin, who is
over in Adelaide from Maoriland on
a visit, will be joint hostess.
Mr. and Mrs. Cuthbert Mudie, of
Godfrey Terrace, Leabrook, who recently
came from Melbourne, gave a late-
afternoon party at the South Australian.
It started with Mrs. Mudie entertaining
wives at tea in the lounge, the table deco-
rated with tulips. Later Mr, Mudie
came along with husbands, and they
toasted Mr, and Mrs. Mudie in sherry,
the occasion being their silver wedding.
Mr. Mudie succeeded R. A. Paxton as
Adelaide manager of the Norwich Insur-
ance Co.
Mrs. W. A. Bennett gave a cheery
dance at her home, Cobham, Morphett-
One of the sheath-fitting garments Prestige are making for Spring. A
“Sleekie” in smooth “Powderfee” fabric with contrasting Alengon applique.
ville. The hostess brightened her black
chiffon velvet with a spray of pink roses.
Daughter Helen chose rose-pink taffeta,
and Sadie was frocked in delphinium-
blue sand crepe trimmed with diamente.
TASMANIA.
The North v. South contract bridge
players fought their battles at' Hadley’s
Hotel, and had busmen’s holidays at
other bridge parties. They were enter-
tained at lunch by the Tas. Bridge Assoc,
at Heathorn’s, and Sybil Lyons gave
them morning-tea at Hadley’s. The
Queen Mary Club also entertained the
northerners, who went off with the Cup.
The Tas. Cambrian Society gave a
shivoo in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Ben
Williams at the S. H. Coxes’, Morning-
side, Montague-avenue, all guests being
of Welsh origin. P. L. Griffiths, presi-
dent of the society, welcomed the guests,
and the evening was devoted to music,
winding up with supper.
When Kathleen St'. Hill married Alan
Bidencope at St. George’s, Battery Point,
the service was fully choral, and Doreen
Bidencope sang “My Prayer.” The bride’s
trained gown of crushed white velvet had
sleeves set into the bodice with a lattice
effect of silver. A silver girdle was worn.
Elizabeth St. Hill and Mary Bidencope
’maided in period frocks of tawny velvet,
with wreaths of gold flowers on their
heads. Deep yellow was used in the deco-
rations.
Prior to the Bidencope-St. Hill wed-
ding, Mrs. St. Hill had a party at her
house, Awatea, when the presents were
on view. Over a hundred guests were
invited. The hostess wore a black-and-
white frock, and the bride-to-be was in
pink floral crepe. The rooms were
decorated with pink peonies, carnations,
sweet-peas and snapdragons.
Colin Graham and Amy Goldsworthy
were married in Launceston on the
bridegroom’s arrival in the Speck, on
leave from Siam. The bride wore a
tailored suit of brown-flecked tweed,
with felt hat in the same shade. Mrs. H.
G. Lee was matron of honor.
The Launceston Players brought their
last production, “Autumn Crocus,” to
the Theatre Royal, and, despite a stormy
night, had a large audience. Mrs. W. K.
Mclntyre was producer of the well-staged
play.
Friends’ School dinner was quite a big
affair. It was held in the Hodgkin Hall
at the school. The head and Mrs. E. E.
Unwin were at the official table with the
president of the Old Scholars’ Assoc., C.
Mitchell, Mrs. Mitchell and a number of
others representing both Friends’ and
other schools. After loyal toasts and
speeches, Mr. Annells, who, next to the
head, means all the school stands for,
was presented with an association life-
member’s medal in gold. Dancing fol-
lowed till late. James Chant did his
secretarial job well.
Launceston had a gay week during the
golf tournaments for the women’s title,
which was retained by Betty Sale. Dur-
ing the week the visiting players were
entertained at a dance at the clubhouse
and at cocktail and lunch parties.
“X.T.”: The Spooner bathing-suit
edict goes far beyond Bondi. Coolan-
gatta (Q.) has followed the specification,
and Sydneyites who come north will be
quite in order in their southern sea gar-
ments. Not too far north though. The
male gender “will find some beaches in-
side the Barrier where the American
“wickie” rules. And if they keep on
steering for the Equator, letting the hair
grow and the skin brown, they may
presently land in Rabaul or Madang
and there, being mistaken for the local
coons, as they appear in a Spooner, be
fined for wearing clothes above the waist.
In the Bismarcks also they probably will
find the origin of the brassiere costume
for ladies. When it was first ordained
that a woman past 10 years should wear
a blouse, most Marys took the order
literally. They acquired one, and they
grew and it did not. Presently there was
a wide strip of lady between upper gar-
ment and lap lap.
“Vic”: The Italian position is pecu-
liarly ironic in the El Arish settlement on
the Tully (N.Q.). There, farms were laid
out for 80 soldier-settlers in the days
when the scrub was big and communi-
cation difficult. To-day a third of the
selections are in the hands of Mussolini s
countrymen ; and the Canegrowers’ Asso-
ciation, after having frantically an-
nounced that it was doing its best to sup-
port British preference, was compelled
to add two foreign gangs to those already
working. Some locals from their peren
in the shade are shouting that this is
plain victimisation. It isn’t really ; but it
becomes harder every year to strike a
happy mean in the North.


SYDNEY
Going to Sydney? Then stay at
Petty’s Hotel... Petty’s is differ-
ent; there is an air of restful
quietness. Service Is perfect;
cuisine excellent. Tariff, Room
and Breakfast 11 / 6, Inclusive 18'-
PETTYS
York Street, Sydney
Hotel
R. J. Langley, Manager
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Lo.xton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEX.
! With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
; branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
j through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
I Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
'\ V*
~7i&zt -to- 7 nu4&Sf-
B.V.D LMt:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . .Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D CO. INC., NEW YORK.
umssm
fOR
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Marree”; After a few weeks’ experi-
ence, the Adelaide-Darwin air service
which was started with Charles Ulm’s
ancient Faith in Australia has suspended
operations until it can put larger and
more modern machines on the run. These
are expected to be delivered within six
months—German Junkers. And they
will open up a new era in Australian
flying, being the first Diesel ’planes in
use here. Meanwhile, Alice Springs goes
back to the era of the ’Ghan mail train
and the packhorse and camel pad.
* >|! *:« *
“Iludgera”: I hope for the sake of
Haile Silassie that there arc not many
Italians in Mussolini’s army like Count
Zetto, who has just written a book about
his adventures in Australia. “Crossing S.
Australia,” he got lost in the great desert.
On the fourteenth day he “could still see
no sign of Alice Spring” (sic) —which is
over 350 miles from the S.A. border —so
he cut his ration to “a few crumbs of
biscuit or chocolate” and “enough water
to keep his mouth from becoming too
parched.” This restriction went on for
10 days. Even if he had been rescued
then he would deserve the belt for en-
durance, but after the twenty-fourth day
out his “supplies gave out,” and he sur-
vived another five days before he was
rescued, apparently without rations or
water. This would be a miracle —it has
never been done—for a man starting off
full-fed and -watered. But the Count
made it a double one by being rescued
by a “fence rider”—in a region where
there aren’t fences.
“R.L.”: The diary of W. T. Weaver
reveals that he drove 500 brides during
the 39 years that he plied his hansom
cab in Rockhampton (Q.). He retired in
1928. He and his wife, who recently
celebrated their golden wedding, were
immigrants on the steamer Sirsa, which
arrived in Rockhampton from Plymouth
in 1884.
“G.”: Doug Nichols, the dusky little
Fitzroy (Vic.) footballer, has serious
views concerning the welfare of his
fellow-abos., and has formed an Aus-
tralian Aborigines’ League in Melbourne
to push the rights of our dark country-
men. Nichols in his “policy speech”
points out rightly that abos., however
civilised and cultured, are debarred from
many privileges of the whites. The
trouble is to frame regulations which will
apply to such people, while excluding the
wild tribesmen of the north and north-
west. To suggest that Binghi who roams
the desert west of Hermansburg Mission
should be eligible to vote and collect his
old-age pension would be fantastic. Still,
the league will do no harm ; the only
criticism which can be levelled against
it is that it has its home in Vic., where
the abos. number only about 100 all told.
“Birdum”: Tom Paterson, Minister for
the Interior, has capped the effort of his
colleague who remarked that the tropic
N.T., which, in common with the rest of
the tropics, can never grow wheat, will
one day be the granary of Australia. The
Minister has told the Sydney Millions
Club that the Barkly Tablelands consist
of a “tremendous area of uniformly good,
heavy black soil not unlike the Darling
Downs... .one could put a plough in at
the N.T. border and run a staight furrow
for 400 miles.” The Barkly is bull Mit-
chell and Flinders country, has no agri-
cultural land —there are no rocks in the
district which give fertile erosion—is sub-
artesian (the Downs is not), is drier and
hotter than the Downs and has no tim-
ber. Generally speaking, it is about as
different from Queensland’s fertile dis-
trict as Mr. Paterson is from an Eskimo.
* * 3]C *
“Clayfield”: The celebration of the
70th anniversary of Nundah (Brisbane)
State school, which is only six years
yolinger than Queensland itself, shows
how hard it is to keep alive in the moist
sub-tropics. Nineteen original pupils, or
more than 25 p.c. of the full roll of 73,
still live, the oldest being 85—Mrs. Eliza-
beth Mallett. The balance include the
Bridges family, one of whom, Tom,
represented the Nundah electorate in the
State Assembly for 20 years.
“Zedo”: There should be no difficulty
about building up a capable and adven-
turous civil service for the Australian
tropics. Sixteen vacancies for New
Guinea cadets have brought forward
1736 aspirants. While the Common-
wealth is at it, it should extend the
system to the N.T. and Papua. Transfer
from one of the three northern water-
tight compartments to another could only
broaden the experience of the youngsters.
“Why don't you help Mary chop Wood?"
"'Cos there's only one axe."
“Ross Creek”: The North has taken
to its new flying service between Bris-
bane and Townsville like a duck to the
Burdekin.< Fast ’planes and comfoit
have done it. The route surveyors of
New England Airways did the 190 flying
miles from Townsville to Cairns in 80
minutes, and the two cities are to be joined
by a daily service. Cooktown is only 40
minutes on at most, and as it already has
a good landing ground, and the peanut,
timber and mining businesses of the
Peninsula are growing again, it, too, will
soon be linked. The Brisbane-Townsville
bi-weekly service is to become tri-weekly
so soon as ’planes are available. With
cheap fares, the northern route, with its
unsurpassed scenery and exotic beauty,
should soon become popular.
‘‘Australia Jane’s” Budget
As a result of the Lady Mayoress’s
ball six charities shared £70 —not much,
when one considers the amount of work
and worry which went to the organising
of the hop. Obvious reflection is that it
would be more profitable to ask people
to give 7s. 6d. each and save hall hire,
catering, printing and a host of other
expenses, but possibly that wouldn’t work.
Fay Nicholson came from Beaudesert
to Brisbane to play hostess at a morning-
tea party for Betty Douglas, who is to
marry Dudley Shadforth at the end of
the month. Bride-elect wore black-and-
white drapings with a happy touch of
green, and royal-blue and white decked
the hostess.
Kathleen Macgregor married Lyn
Cameron at St. Mary’s Church, Kangaroo
Point, an old church which has a lot
of memories for the bridegroom’s family,
since for 40 years Camerons have been
baptised and married there. Golden
flowers to harmonise with the frocks of
the two bridesmaids, Valentine Marks
and Annis Malhewson, beautified the
church, and Mrs. A. E. Moore (who had
given a tea for the bride a day or two
earlier) and a bevy of young things
scattered rose petals in her path. Peter
Macgregor, K.C., did not give his
daughter away—he was at home conning
over a case of his own, ’flu—and bride’s
brother Richard deputised. Kathleen
wore an ankle-length frock of white and
silver, with a square neckline, very simply
cut, and trimmed only with orange buds,
which outlined the front of the neck. A
large straw hat and a bouquet were the
finishing touches.
Mr. and Mrs. G. V. Cornwall have
been honeymooning in New Guinea and
New Caledonia and now arc at the
Cecil. Before her marriage the lady was
Leonor Durfee, of Honolulu, and her
husband is Queensland manager of the
Ford Australian offshoot.
Betty Robertson, of Murwillumbah.
and Owen Fletcher, son of S. Fletcher,
the Brisbane solicitor, have fixed their
wedding for the latter end of this
month. Many parties are looming for
bride-elect Betty.
For 13 years Lucie G. Owen, F.R.G.S.,
has trekked about the world as an honor-
ary lecturer for the British and Foreign
Bible Society. She came to Brisbane in
the Merkur, and is to tour the State. She
spent two years wandering round Africa.
The Lyceum Club’s play-reading circle
gave Arnold Bennett’s “The Great
Adventure” to a rapt audience. Mrs. J.
B. Brigden is the convener of the circle,
and in the cast were Mrs. Firmin Mc-
Kinnon, artist Roy Parkinson’s wife,
Mrs. J. P. Lowson, Mrs. Brigden, Madge
Roc and presswoman Winifred Moore.
Hilda Lane is up from Melbourne, and
is staying with her parents at Coolan-
gatta. While she is here she will do a
spot of broadcasting from 4QG. As a
very small girl she was a member of the
Utopian colony in South America started
by Uncle William.
Queensland songbird Emily Skyring
gave her first recital in Brisbane since
her return from Europe in the City Hall,
and collected enough flowers to begin a
shop. Tamarisk-pink taffetas were the
lady’s drapings, and her collar was lined
with Marina blue.
Lena Hammond’s choir broadcast
Irom 4QG, and the Postmaster-General
reaped a harvest through the consequent
fan mail to the studio and to the con-
ductress. Nonie Pook and Bernadette
Murray were the feminine soloists, and
both went over the air splendidly.
Mrs. Kruttschnitt, whose husband is
general manager of Mt. Isa Mines, is
just back from America, with a look of
purpose in her eye. So taken was she
with the bright color schemes of Ameri-
can living-rooms that it is possible her
chairs will share among them as many
shades as appeared irt Joseph’s coat.
Peggy Richards, daughter of Prof. H.
C. Richards, who left for England at
the end of last year with her parents,
has got engaged to a lad she met in
London. He is a Maorilander, Dr.
Norman William Martin. The Richardses
were admiring the beauties of the Black
Forest when the last air-mail left, and
won’t be home until next April. Peggy’s
wedding will take place in Brisbane. Her
engagement was announced on her
twenty-first birthday.
Marie Bjelke-Petersen, who is wan-
dering round this State collecting ma-
terial for a novel with the timber indus-
try as a background, is staying at the
Canberra.
The Royal Queensland Art Society’s
at-home, in the C.T.A. building, went
very nicely. A musical programme-
arranged by Archie Day helped the time
to pass pleasantly, and there was a color
competition which should provide a new
idea for harassed hostesses. President
C. H. Lancaster and his wife —the latter
in a black-and-gold coat over soft-blue
drapings—received the guests. Enid
Dickson Treuthardt was there, looking
very handsome and wearing a cosmo-
politan set of accessories that would have
elicited a unanimous vote of approval
from the League of Nations —a Spanish
shawl, an old Russian brooch and a pair
of French earrings. Augusta Hobday’s
charming grey head was poised above
blue and floral drapings, and sister
Gladys Powell wore black. Agnes
Barker wore a delectable frilled affair in
pink and blue tones, which was part of
the plunder she brought back from her
recent Continental trip, and Caroline
Barker pinned a lovely old brooch, an
heirloom, to the neck of her black velvet
frock.
Pink flowers and billows of pink tulle
made the table gay when Mrs. J. D.
Story gave an afternoon-tea for daughter
Molly, whose marriage is drawing near.
There were about 50 guests.


In 1858 as in 1935
or
ORB
ORB
Each of the years since Lysaghts
was founded has meant added ex-
perience. It is this experience
which enables Lysaghts to make-
galvanized sheets which are
thoroughly dependable under all
conditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght’s galvanized-iron
for every job.
FOR ROOFING n „ B
S’tiZZfy RED
LYSAGHTS CALVAnMd IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Fremantle.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4.739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. ... •• 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Out of the Past:—
MR BARDY'S FATHER
By J.W.M. ABBOTT.
HIS proper name was Horatio Nelson
Bardicombe, and the last o£ these
was that of his mother, a bumboat
woman at Plymouth, who could only
guess as to his paternity. Accordingly,
she had given him, in addition to her
own good Devonshire patronymic, a
name from which anybody who so de-
sired might draw a pleasing inference.
“As well,” said Dinah Bardicombe,
“call the brat after the admiral as after a
boatswain’s mate. Twill give him a
better chance in life.”
Not many chances in life came to
young ’Orry, but of such as did he made
good use, so we see him in 1833—he
was born in the year of Trafalgar—com-
ing to Sydney to try to find better
ones in a new country. A prepossessing
young man he was, with a pleasant
manner and a sunny smile—the smile
that had made his mother the most sue-
cessful trader of her class in Cawsand
Bay. He had had a good education and
was not a liar, two things that differen-
tiated him particularly from most of
the young men of the period who came
from Great Britain to Australia. And
he carried an excellent letter of introduc-
lion from the Bishop of Exeter to the
Rev. William Grant Broughton, Arch-
deacon of Australia in the See of Cal-
cutta, and soon to become the Anglican
bishop of the whole continent. He pre-
sented this on the day after his arrival
in Sydney, and was very cordially re-
ceived by the archdeacon.
You come in good time, Mr. Bardi-
combe, said the archdeacon, for it so
happens that I can find you immediate
employment in a scholastic capacity.
According to his Lordship s letter, you
have had a good education at the Cathe-
dral School in Exeter, one that will quite
well quality you ibr the position 1 am
about to offer. How would you like to
go as an assistant to the Reverend
Robert Forrest at The King s School m
Parramatta? The pay is not high, but
you have quarters and other advantages,
and the employment might suit you for
a year or two, until something better
offers. You have been a tutor, I under-
stand and the work should not present
any difficulties. You will find Mr. and
Mrs. Forrest the best of people and
should, I think, get on very well with
them. Will you accept the position. _
So Mr. Bardicombe said “Thank you,”
and caught the coach to Parramatta that
afternoon, duly reporting himself on
arriving in the town at the temporary
premises in George-street occupied by
the school whilst its permanent location
was building on the north side of the
river. tt
Here, immediately, he became “Mr.
Bardy,” and, although undoubtedly a
newchum and a Johnny-come-lately,
achieved considerable popularity amongst
the boys. He was good at games, strict
but fair in his disciplinary measures, and
wholly straightforward and impartial
with his young charges. The little
fellows looked up to him as to a big
brother, and the older lads regarded him
as a pal—not one, however, with whom
it was wise to take liberties. With Mr.
Forrest—stern, gentlemanly and keen—
he was soon on good terms and Mrs
F° rrest I * ed , h ™ a Went
do ™ weU Th P King s School,
Six months of popularity, friendship
and congenial work—and then the
bottom dropped out of everything. Mr.
Bardy got the sack,
WEDNESDAYS and Saturdays were
YY half-holidays, and on his afternoon
Q ff \ n the middle of a week in September
the junior assistant master at The King’s
School decided to take a tramp along
the Western-road for the sake of exer-
cise. One of the big boys was to have
gone w ith him, but, his mother having
unexpectedly turned up, begged to be
excused. So Mr. Bardy put on his
beaver top-hat and set off alone,
He strode along the principal high-
way c f the colony, feeling that all the
wor ld was at his feet. His present job
was not a bad one and he liked it, but,
0 f course, it was only a stepping-stone to
better things. He could not remain a
schoolmaster all his life, congenial as
his present employment was. He would
i ook out f or something better one of
t h eS e days—some civil-service job,
maybe, to which the archdeacon might
not be unwilling to assist him. But he
must make gooc i fi rs t by sticking to The
King’s School and assisting Mr. Forrest
j n j ts sound development. Two years,
per haps. Then for something that would
] ead somewhere.
It was a glorious day, clear-skyed and
bracing, with the agreeable warmth of
{he ear , Australian spring in it, and as
he tramped a | ong with his h at in his
hand he fdt al , the joy of ]iving that
goes with youth and fine weather. Great
sp i as bes of yellow wattle stood out in
patc b e s against the shady background of
tbe ta p forest, and its aromatic scent was
faintl in the air Several times he
passed bullock-drays loaded with pro-
duce or timber? their teams p ] o dding
glowl in to Parrama tta or Sydney from
the Hawkesb ury, driven by sunburnt men
Qn foot armed with pro digious whips,
wbo greeted him with cheerful “good
da .. and nodded at him sideways. They
looked a , as though they felt it was
lendid to be alive on such a day as
thjs what a d thing he had done
for himself when he came out here from
England! He was never going to regret
d
presently the road, empty of all pas-
sengers save himself, dipped down into
a hollow and crossed a tiny rivulet over
a i ow . se t culvert of stone, with a slab at
each s i de making a parapet above the
water He sat down to rest for a few
minutes, and stretched out his legs. Then
be heard something in the bush, maybe
fi f ty yards aW ay, that took his surprised
at t en tion, and he strained his ears to
]j sten
C UDDENLY a woman screamed—a
scream full of terror—and Mr. Bardy
jumped to his feet, leapt down from the
culvert and started to run along the bank
of the little creek into the tall timber,
Forcing his way through the under-
growth he became aware of a clearing
of considerable extent in front of him.
At the edge of the timber he came to a
post-and-rail fence, where he paused to
take in the situation. There was a slab
hut with a bark roof a few yards from
the edge of the little stream, which here
had been slightly dammed by a bank ot
earth into a waterhole, and beyond the
hut was a small field recently ploughed
and stretching to a wall of forest on its
further side. Before the open door of
the whitewashed cottage a big, well-
dressed man with red mutton-chop
whiskers was struggling with a pretty
girl, whose wrists he was holding as he
tried to force her towards the entrance
to the hut.
“Oh, you brute!” she cried in a voice
shrill with terror ;“I won’t —I won’t, go
inside with you. Oh, you devil!” ,
Mr. Bardy put his hands on the top
rail of the fence and vaulted into the
clearing. He ran across to the struggling
pair, kicking the big man’s top-hat out
of his way and stooping hastily to pick
up a heavy hunting-crop that lay on the
ground beside it. Leaping across the
couple of yards that separated him from
them, he brought down the butt of the
heavy silver-handled malacca-cane on
the man’s bald skull. Immediately he
let go the girl’s wrists, sagged at the
knees and fell stunned to the ground.
With a scream of terror, the girl darted
into the dark interior of the house
and slammed its heavy slab door,
leaving Mr. Bardy alone with the un-
conscious victim of his indignant attack.
The latter lay on his side, with his broad
back to Mr. Bardy and blood slowly
welling from the cut on the crown of his
head.
He was very still, and the forest had
become horribly silent —a silence which
was suddenly broken by the whinnying
of a horse. Lifting his eyes from the
stricken victim of his chivalrous fury,
Mr. Bardy saw a saddled hack tied to
the fence at the back of the little dwell-
ing. He walked over to it, patted the
startled animal’s neck, and then, all
absent-mindedly as he puzzled over the
affair, came back to his victim. He
found the big man sitting up, glaring
at him in a dazed fashion. Uncertainly
he put out a big hand.
“Help me up!” he said.
Mr. Bardy took him by the hand and
pulled him heavily to his feet, where he
stood swaying drunkenly, and staring at
Mr. Bardy in a silly fashion, before he
spoke. At last he asked hoarsely:
“Who the devil are you?”
“My name is Bardicombe, and I’m a
master at The King’s School. But who
are you, sir, whom I discover attempting
what looks extremely like some in-
famous design upon an unprotected
female. Who are you, sir?”
“Never mind who I am,” snarled the
big man. “You’ll soon find out. Out
of my way, damn you!”
In sheer surprise, Mr. Bardy let him
go, watched him walk slowly across to
his horse, get through the fence, take
the bridle from the top of the post and
climb into the saddle. Without looking
back he rode away into the timber.
Mr. Bardy found himself alone in the
clearing, with the little white hut in
front of him and hanging over every-
thing a silence that almost could be felt.
He knocked on the slab door, but no
answer came, and the place remained as
still as though it were empty. Again and
again he knocked, until his knuckles
were sore, but there was no response.
“Madam,” he cried at length, “will
you not tell me the name of your
assailant, so that I may report his out-
rageous conduct to the police? Such con-
duct deserves to be punished severely.’
Then, just behind the closed door, he
heard the young woman’s voice.
“Go away,” she said; “ye’d best go
away, and mind y’r own business. Say
nothing about it, or else he’ll make ye
sorry. He’s a hard man to cross. Go
away —I’ll tell you nothing.”
Bewildered, Mr. Bardy stepped back
and stared at the little white building,
gleaming in the sunshine in that quiet
forest clearing. What did it all mean ?
He knocked again, but no answer came
from within. For a while longer he
looked at the hut, and then turned away
towards the road, and began to walk
back to Parramatta.
ABOUT sunset, and a little before
supper-lime, he returned to the four-
square red-brick house in George-street.
He ate his evening meal in the dining-
room with the boys, and half an hour
afterwards presided over evening prepa-
ration in the schoolroom, a wooden
building standing in the garden which
stretched to the steep banks of the river
behind the house. The boys were very
quiet to-night, tired after their strenuous
half-holiday employments, and the most
he had to do was to wake sleeping young-
sters up and tell them to get on with
their work.
About half-past seven the school-
room door opened, and Mr. Forrest en-
tered and stood for a few moments, star-
ing at him over the boys’ heads as they
sat at their desks. He said nothing, but
looked severe in a fashion that a little
daunted the assistant-master.
“Mr. Bardicombe!” at length the
headmaster spoke.
“Sir?” he replied from the high desk
behind which he sat on a tall stool at
the upper end of the room.
“Be pleased to step out here, Mr. Bar-
dicombe —there are people to see you.
At once, if you please.”
Mr. Forrest’s tone was cold and formal,
with something of hostility in it. As he
walked down the passage between the
long desks, the boys stared up at him
and turned their heads as he passed
behind them to come to the headmaster
standing in the doorway.
“Go on with your work, boys —I will
be back in a minute or two, and will
punish you all if there is any noise.
Mr. Forrest’s stern manner impressed
them, and they bent over their books
again, fearfully curious as to what was
about to happen to Mr. Bardy. But
they were quiet.
“Mr. Bardicombe,” said the head-
master as soon as they were together in
the open space behind the main build-
ing, “your effects will be packed by my
wife and forwarded to the Woolpack to-
night. I do not require your further ser-
vices at The King’s School, whatever
happens. Please to come this way.”
Mr. Bardy was stunned and bewil-
dered. Mechanically he followed the head-
master into the narrow hall of the house,
throughout the length of which a hang-
ing paraffin lamp diffused feeble illumi-
nation. Inside the closed door stood two
of the town police constables, with their
top-hats in their hands and a hos-
tile look on their faces. They wore black
coats with tails and white trousers, and
a truncheon in its sheath hung on the
left-hand side of each of them.
“Is this the person you want, of whose
conduct this afternoon you have in-
formed me?” asked the headmaster
coldly.
“Do ’e hanswer to th’ name o’ Bardi-
combe, y’r rev’rence?”
“This is Mr. Bardicombe,” assented
Mr. Forrest.


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
Ji Hunter St., SYHNBY. Tel.: B3IOU.
DEAF
BRANDAIJER'S
PENS
They g-lide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BKANBAUKR & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
5!
V
i
&
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
mw*
n
fyiAit
NEW ZEALAND
m,
wm
\m
7
r
Vw
/
M
MITRE PEAK
AMUFORD SOUND
NEW ZEALAND will be a
glorious change. Here, for
example, is illustrated Ma-
jestic Mitre Peak in Milford
Sound. Thrilling scenery,
unique natural wonders, in-
vigorating climate, stimulat-
ing variety. Sport of all
kinds—health-giving mineral
springs.
The cost of touring in NEW
ZEALAND is surprisingly
moderate. Trains, steamers,
and service cars are luxuri-
ously modern—hotels and
guest houses offer first-class
cuisine and service at pleas-
ing tariffs. No exchange.
Avoid worry and expense by
arranging your tour with the
N.Z. Government’s Bureau
or Agent. You will thus also
be assured of helpful service
from arrival in the Domin-
ion until your departure.
For full particulars call or
write—
■NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
.1 i Martin Place (directly opp.
C.P.0.), Sydney. Tel.: B 7043
r.ollins House, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne Tel.: Cent. 3110
King Use., 79 Queen St., Brisbane
And All Travel Agents
DEUJZCHLnnD
“Then that be th’ covey, sir. Is this
is ’at?” said one of the policemen, point-
ing to the hat-rack near the front door.
“Yes.”
"Well, put y’r ’at on, young man, an"
coom wi’ us,” said the man. “Th’ Chief
Constable’s a-wantin’ to see ye at th’
police hoffis. Will ’ee come quiet? Best
lor to do so, an’ no argifyin’, for we’ve
borders for to take ’ee there immejut.”
"Mr. Forrest, I beg of you for some
explanation of these strange proceed-
ings,” began the bewildered and amazed
assistant-master; but Mr. Forrest cut
him short.
“I think you had better go, sir; and,
as 1 have already said, 1 do not further
require your services here. Nor do I
wish to see you again, sir.” He turned
away and walked down the hall to the
back door of the house. The constable
who had not spoken gripped him firmly
by the arm, whilst the other opened the
door. He was led outside the precincts
of The King’s School.
"A good riddance to bad rubbish,”
growled his captor as they went out into
the street through the gate of the narrow
garden. Mr. Bardy felt that he must
be dreaming a bad dream, from which
he would presently wake up, “Ye’re a
dirty dawg, young fellie, an’ I ’opes
as ’ow th’ Cap’n’ll toon ’ee hup proper.”
“Pray, what is the matter, constables,
and why am I treated like this?” pro-
tested Mr. Bardy as they traversed the
quiet length of George-street under the
stars.
“Matter enough, ye blackguard,” re-
plied the man who had spoken to Mr.
Forrest. “Cap’n Hawford will soon
explain it to ye. Shut up an’ ’urry up—
’e’s waitin’.”
THE police station at Parramatta in
* 1933 and for half a century after-
wards, stood by the Courthouse on the
south-western corner of George and
Church streets, and thither the constables
morosely conducted their prisoner.
“So this is th’ lad!” remarked the ser-
geant as his captors ushered him into a
room lit by a couple of. candles standing
on a long desk. “No, don’t put him
in th’ dock. Jem. We ain’t a-goin’ to
charge ’im —yet. Th’ Cap’n’s left orders
he was to be took straight into him.”
“Who is the Captain, then?” inquired
Mr. Bardy fearfully.
“Th’ Chief Constable, ye fool!”
growled the sergeant. “Come in ’ere—an’
may the Lord ha’ mercy on y’r soul!
He wants to see ye alone.”
He opened the door of a well-lighted
room and thrust Mr. Bardy inside,
closing it gently after him. Mr. Bardy
stood opposite a table, behind which,
writing, sat a bald-headed man, the shin-
ing skin over whose cranium was bruised
and inflamed, and covered with sticking-
plaster. When he lifted his eyes and laid
down his pen, Mr. Bardy was astounded
to recognise the ruffian he had assaulted
that afternoon at the little farm on the
Western-road. What more was this
astonishing evening going to produce?
The big man sat upright and looked
Mr. Bardy up and down for a few
moments. Then he leaned back in his
chair, and the flicker of a smile passed
over his face—a smile that made it
pleasanter to look at than when Mr.
Bardy had last beheld it.
“is your name Horatio Nelson Bardi-
combe?” asked the Chief Constable pres-
ently. “Son of a Mistress Dinah Bardi-
combe?”
“Yes.”
“Born at Plymouth in December,
eighteen-five?”
“Yes.”
“Then,” said the big man, rising in
his place, “shake hands with me, my son.
Come, your hand.”
He leaned across the table and grasped
the hand which the astounded young
man mechanically lifted to meet the great
paw projected across to him. Why he
did so he hardly knew ; but he felt that
he might do anything in such surprising
circumstances. The Chief Constable sat
down again, grinning at him in a friendly
fashion.
“Pray, take a chair and be seated.
Ah, that’s right—you have nothing to
be afraid of. It was you who gave me
this bang on the head this afternoon out
at Molly Durrant’s?”
“I—l did ; and you deserved it.”
“Well spoken, my boy—and quite
right. I’m proud of you. I’m twice
your size, and probably a much more
powerful man than you are —yet you
did ndt hesitate to attack me. You did
very well. I wouldn’t have had any
son of mine act otherwise. As I’ve said,
I’m proud of you.”
Mr. Bardy’s brain was in a whirl. He
could hardly follow the extraordinary
sequence of events that had overwhelmed
him since morning school had been dis-
missed at half-past twelve. They were
too much for him. All that he could
do was to stare at the Chief Constable
and wonder what was to happen next.
His father!
“You are one, my son, of a large
family of brothers and sisters who are
scattered about the world. And, damme
if I don't think you're the most credit-
able to me of the lot. I think, Horatio,
I've taken quite a liking to you. Damme
if I don’t!”
The big man was beaming genially at
him now, but Mr. Bardy’s sense of be-
wilderment was stronger than ever. The
Chief Constable continued his speech.
He seemed, oddly enough, to be im-
mensely pleased with the dejected young
man sitting before him.
«U7ELL now, my boy, the situation is
TT this. Captain Hawford, the Chief
Constable of Parramatta, is riding out
along the Bathurst-road on the after-
noon of September the nineteenth when
he suddenly becomes aware of a woman
screaming. Knowing that he’s opposite
the small farm of Joseph Durrant, one
of his policemen, he dashes into the
bush, and outside Durrani’s little home-
stead comes upon a young ruffian who
is attempting to take unwarrantable liber-
ties with pretty Mrs. Joe. He attacks
the scoundrel, who strikes him on the
head and then flees into the bush. Later
in the day, the Chief Constable —a very
astute officer of police—causes a young
fellow to be apprehended, a master at
The King’s School, and has him brought
to the police office. You follow me,
Horatio?”
For the life of him, Mr. Bardy could
make no reply. He could only stare at
the man who claimed so strangely to be
his father. That gentleman went on.
“That is the situation, my boy, at the
present moment. But it develops. The
Chief Constable, after due investigation,
decides to lock this young Mr. Bardi-
combe up for the night, so that Mrs.
Durrant may come in in the morning
and lay a charge against him. The ser-
geant takes him to a cell which opens
into the office. The cell door is un-
accountably left open. Whilst the ser-
geant is conferring with the Chief Con-
stable in the latter’s room, the young
desperado makes a bold escape through
the police office, finds a good horse
hanging up to a post outside, mounts
him, and rides away to Bathurst, where,
with astounding impudence, he obtains
employment on Captain Hawford’s sheep
station, a little to the westward of the
town. Here, my son, are fifty pounds
in gold, a letter to my overseer telling
him to receive my nephew, just from
England, Mr. Horatio Nelson Hawford,
and accommodate him, and a pass for
the roads to save him from the inconveni-
ences of the Bushranging Act so rigidly
enforced throughout the country districts.
Take them, I beg of you. And now we
must see to the locking up of that ruf-
fianly young Bardicombe. If he escapes,
there’ll be nothing for it but for me to
resign my job. Good-bye, my boy, and
good luck. We’ll meet again ere long.
But take a word of advice, and leave the
women alone. Don’t be like your father,
who can’t. Sergeant!” he shouted.
“Take this young rascal and lock him
up!” ordered the Chief Constable. “He
deserves to be hanged. And when you’ve
put him in a cell, Sergeant Mason, come
back here. I’ve some important busi-
ness to transact with you.”
Utterly dumbfounded, Mr. Horatio
Nelson Bardicombe went out of the
room with the sergeant, and the boys of
The King's School knew their Mr. Bardy
no more.
Echo.
I walk in moonlight with a white shadow,
For Echo has come down from her black
hill;
I walk in moonlight with a white shadow
Along the cold street walled with stone
and steel.
For Echo has come down from her black
hill,
And follows like a white ghost at my
heel.
And what the long day called / do not
know;
I think the long day roaring at the walls
Had naught to do with Echo where she
hid
Attentive to her rocks and waterfalls,
White waterfalls amongst the cold, steel
hills.
Though to the day’s long roar she would
not heed
1 walk with a white shadow at my feet,
For Echo has come down from her
black hill
And follows white and shining at my feet,
Along the cold street walled with stone
and steel.
So I am given what the world’s denied,
For in the night she hears my heart’s
cry "Sweet!”
A ml answers sweetest in my greatest need.
MAORILAND. DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


RHEUMATISM
Joints Stiff, Swollen and Painful
If your joints are stiff, swollen and filled
with pain, you are so badly handicapped
that you are little better than a prisoner or
a slave. You cannot be a success either
socially or commercially, and you certainly
cannot enjoy life as you should. You will
find it hard to believe that
your suffering is unneces-
sary, but surely you will be
willing to make an effort to
get well, and your effort will
not be in vain if you get a
box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and take them as directed.
No doubt you have already tried all sorts
of things —embrocations, liniments, oils,
HEALTHY MONEYS
REMOVE
irm
rv
URIC, ACID
medicated baths, purgative
salts—and perhaps you are
disappointed, and disgusted
as well, because
they have failed
to give you the
relief you desire,
but, just for one
week, forget your
disappointments,
and decide that
you will give
De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills
a fair trial.
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see and
feel and know for certain that they
must do you good.
Throughout your future life you will be
glad if you do this, because De Witt’s Pills
never disappoint, and you can take them
with absolute confidence in their ability to
do you good.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of
the limbs, swollen feet or
ankles, foul breath, scalding
pain, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede
attacks of Rheumatism,
Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or serious
Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting
a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and taking them as directed.
They cost only 3/6, or the larger size,
containing 2\ times the quantity, 6/6. All
chemists sell them in the blue, white and
gold boxes, so that you will have no diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies. You will derive
certain benefit from the first dose, and as
you continue, the pain and stiffness will
leave your limbs and joints, and in a very
short time you will fully regain your health
and strength. These results have been
obtained by many thousands of men and
women who were tortured by rheumatism
and joint pains. Be persuaded to do as
they did—take
m
m
m
DeWitt
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
A Colorful Account of a Bloodless Revolution:—
THE BIFFER
RISING
BY
ELEANOR
DARK.
a yr was a day like this,” Brown said,
I “that I left Bresnia ”
1 Sprawling on the beach in a com-
fortable circle, we grinned. Someone
asked .
“Were you there—when it happened?”
Brown nodded, sucking his pipe.
“Did you ever actually see”-
Brown nodded again and said simply:
“I threw the first myself.”
We sat up. Jones begged, husky with
emotion •
“Go on, old man. Let’s hear it.”
••Weil, there’s no doubt.” said Brown,
V Vil u
'I 1 ? 1 L. e c ap . nuiet
odds. Ile p p , .
enough lot, eatsy-80inp, 'slowly roused
but they w g b, - V ,
ground a bit when I a rived m January,
and by the end of Aprd it ooked some-
limes as thoughnothingbut the blood
of their respected Premier Joe Jobson
would satisfy e . » o] ’
the germ of a y , '
for them, or they were too slow for him.
He came out another gate like an ante-
lope, uu was i j 7
bdoie iy c _ , , ‘ f
lew days after hat he droppedl one of
file River Navigalion Act, Snceremoni-
ously heaved out Flanagan and elevated
his own pet thug Smithson to the man-
agenai cnair.
“Well, I was a pal of Flanagan, and
I felt hot under the collar. I thought
to myself, ‘After all, it’s good to get
down to fundamentals sometimes.’ What
I mean is that, when you are thoroughly
tangled in some damnable coil of a
highly-complicated civilisation, you may
sometimes find that the most primitive
weapon serves you best. So I said to
a f ha P * knew over there:
Well, what are we waiting for? This
is asking for it, isnt he?
.And that was how it started.
We were careful to choose only the
most reputable citizens-men whose
names w . ere known and whose characters
w e [ e unimpeachable. The rules of our
little organisation—there were only
°f us-were simple in the extreme,
? nd . 1 ex P lam = d . f«>t °« meet-
mg in a few brief sentences.
“ ‘We draw numbers one to fifteen out
of a hat. Strictly in order, and at inter-
va|s of n 0( more ' han tour days> we make
it our business to encounter the Premier
highway. Whereupon we
P P b > . neatly on
P f p w Af t [J e s flrst w > we
do morc (han defend oursdves
until we are arrested. We do not resist
the law. We appear before the magis-
We pay our fine. And the next
"tan ranies o .
wht‘ I eonsideTd
things were likely to become hectic. The
first assault would be child’s play; the
secondj tQo> shou , d be fairly p e J y ; for
would argue that the inconceivable
“ d o~ *
whe * (he was beginning to assume
the air of a quaint old Bresnian custom,
we need to act smartly.
drew the first number,
That was rather lucky. He has
an international reputation as a foot-
bailer, of course, but at home he’s more
or less a god. He’s a tall, well-built
chap with an engaging smile, and as
Jobson emerged from the railway station
the next afternoon he turned it on at
full dazzle and planted himself squarely
in the way.
“He said loudly and pleasantly:
“ ‘Excuse me, sir, but I think it only
right to tell you that I am about to punch
you on the jaw.’
“His fist shot out. The Premier stag-
gered backwards. There was an uproar,
and, in two seconds, a crowd. Craning
my head, I had a momentary glimpse
of Morns ducking and sidestepping, and
then, still smiling and held by half a
dozen of Jobson’s supporters, being
hustled away by two policemen.
“So passed Episode the First. The
Premier’s paper, the ‘Freeman,’ starred
it as a ‘Brutal Assault,’ and the ‘Evening
Moon,’ of the Opposition press, smiling
discreetly behind its hand, announced:
‘Morris Has His Methods,’ ‘Prominent
Footballer Shows His Disapproval.’
“The next on the list was a solicitor
called Green. He was a little chap, a
head shorter and a couple of stone lighter
than Jobson, and when, just outside the
gates of the House, he got his fist on to
the appointed spot and then measured
his length on the pavement, none of
the bystanders applauded the Premier’s
blow. The discreet smile of the Opposi-
tion press broadened, and it was without
much conviction that the ‘Freeman’ pro-
claimed: ‘Premier’s Assailant Bites the
Dust.’
“My turn came next. I decided to
waylay him outside the Town Hall, where
he was to make a> speech. Armed with
a camera, I stepped in front of him and
the half-dozen tough-looking customers
who (as we had half expected) accom-
panied him nowadays. The camera
allayed their fears; I clicked it, smiled
a polite thanks and stood aside till they
were almost abreast.
“Then, holding the camera in my right
hand, 1 got in front of him and let him
have as hearty a left as I have ever
delivered. By this time, of course, he was
more or less suspicious of strangers who
suddenly confronted him, and his up-
flung arm deflected my blow just enough
to give him a black eye instead of a
bruised jaw.
“I had an uncomfortable two or three
minutes with the bodyguard before the
police arrived and extricated me and my
freely-bleeding nose from the melee. The
headlines of the ‘Moon’ proclaimed:
‘Further Activities of the Biffers’; and
the ‘Freeman demanded, a trifle hysteri-
cally, ‘How long shall we tolerate these
outrageous assaults?
«r« HE Y tolerated them long enough,
1 anyhow, for two more of our
little company to get their blows in.
7h en the Government woke up and took
ac ti o n. A panic-stricken bill was hustled
and jostled through Parliament in record-
breaking time, and became the Pro tec -
tion of the Premier’s Person Act—but
not before both Dr. Gray and Jim White-
man had added their contributions to
f r j end j 0 swollen and rapidly
purp ii ng visage. And not before the
flj nc h, the duck and the upflung arm had
become his instinctive reaction to the
sight of a fellow-man confronting him.
“The Act finished our little game, of
course. The penalty was ten years, and,
as Morris remarked, the bird wasn’t
worth it. But I didn’t want to close the
campaign entirely, so I took counsel with
Flanagan.
“Flanagan nodded over his pipe, his
eyes half-shut.
“ ‘l’ve been a sober and serious public
servant these many years,’ he said. T’ve
been hardworking and conscientious. But
Jobson has released the Irish in me—
and he shall have it.’
“Fie looked at me reflectively,
“ ‘Your idea was not bad,’ he conceded,
‘You were on the right track. Ridicule,
Nothing like it. Let’s go and see my
good friend Billings,’
“Billings is a chemist. Not the kind
that sells toothbrushes, but the kind that
lurks mysteriously in some vast room
furnished entirely with bottles, com-
pounding strange and devilishly-colored
brews that look like liqueurs and smell
like garbage-tins. He and Flanagan com-
muned together while I wandered with
some distrust among his props, and tried
to guess what the Irishman was up to.
Billings, listening attentively, was mur-
muring ‘Undoubtedly’ and ‘Quite, quite!’
at suitable intervals, until (feeling rather
as though I were witnessing a miracle) I
saw him smile.
“ T should like,’ said Flanagan, ‘some-
thing soundless.’
“Billings shook his head.
“ T fear that there must be a small
report.’
“ ‘How small?’
“ ‘Not a bang, you understand. Some-
thing in the nature of a soft phut.’
“ ‘Ah. And it will be small?’
“ ‘Quite.’


Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks arc published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE INQUISITOR
By
HUGH WALPOLE.
A sequel to “The Cathedral,”
with the scenes laid in the City
of Polchester.
[Colonial Edition.
This is one of the most exciting
stories Mr. Walpole has ever written.
It passes from crisis to crisis until a
highly dramatic climax is reached.
JAMES HILTON’S FIRST NOVEL.
Catherine Herself - - - 3/6
This book is of special interest as
the first published work of James
Hilton, whose “Lost Horizon” has
made such a great hit. It originally
appeared in a well-known "First
Novel” Library.
The Next Five Years
An Essay in Political Agreement by
1 52 INFLUENTIAL SIGNATORIES.
5/-.
“The book is the most constructive and
suggestive of its kind available for the
needs of the present moment, and it
should be thoroughly studied by every
citizen.’’ —Sir Josiah Stamp {“Spectator”).
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
I
I STAY OUT OF
THE KITCHEN
most of the day be-
cause my new
McClary Electric
Range does so
many things for
“I NOW COOK FOR FOUR
PEOPLE FOR A WHOLE
DAY AT A COST OF
ABOUT THREEPENCE.”
That is since the Sydney
City Electric Department
reduced current so much.
fd
The super insulation of the McClary Cooker also helps
Do investigate for yourselves and see the Stoves at Danks’
M'CLARY ELECTRIC RANGE
WITH STABILIZED HEAT
Visit our Building Exhibit—Strand Building
Centre, Strand Arcade, Sydney.
u OANnm,
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney ’phones; M2751-M2331, 18 lines.
Melbourne ’phones: Central 8380-91, 10431-3, 15 lines.
“‘Easily concealed in the pocket?’
“ ‘Undoubtedly.’
“ ‘And —it is most important, Billings
—guaranteed absolutely harmless?’
“ ‘Oh, entirely.’
“Flanagan turned upon my stare of
puzzlement a face of rapt content.
“ ‘You may call a meeting for to-night,’
he said.
“Which I did.
«II7ELL, I expect you know the rest,
really. Jobson, getting out of his
car in front of the House one morning,
paused for a moment to speak to his
chauffeur. There came what Billings
had so aptly described —a soft phut —as a
small round object hit him on the cheek
and burst, and, lo! where a moment
before had stood Mr. Joseph Jobson in
a light-grey suit, now (here capered an
extraordinary spectacle, bright orange
from head to foot, waving its arms and
cursing luridly.
“Police arrived. People arrived also,
their faces alight with anticipation. The
little group of men who had been stand-
ing quietly near by were seized and ques-
tioned. f, being recognised as one of the
‘ Differs,’ was subjected to a particularly
still: cross-examination, from which, by
virtue of an uncomprehending expres-
sion and pockets quite innocent of in-
criminating evidence, I emerged scathe-
less. The Premier meantime, catching
sight of broadly grinning faces, had leapt
into his car, pulled down the blinds and
driven off.
“ ‘lt does come off?’ 1 asked Flanagan
that night.
“ ‘So far,’ he assured me somewhat
cryptically.
“Two nights later Jobson addressed a
meeting in the Town Hall. From the
centre of a well-behaved group in the
front came a tiny missile. His face and
his expanse of shirt-front dripped richly
yellow. A few angry shouts punctuated
the first gust of laughter, but they were
drowned as the mirth mounted, wave
upon wave, until someone at the back
began singing ‘My Canary Has Circles
Under His Eyes,’ and the meeting broke
up in disorder, holding its aching sides.
“The thing was quite absurdly easy.
The thrower was always surrounded by
a group, so that it was impossible to say
with any certainty who was the culprit.
As surely as half a dozen bystanders
came forward to say they saw A throw
it, there were half a dozen more who
swore it was B. As for ourselves, our
line was blank denial. We were orderly
citizens going quietly about our business.
Our formula was: ‘We don’t know any-
thing, and we haven’t thrown anything,’
which gave rise to the song which I ex-
pect you have heard:
“Joe Jobson looks so pretty
As he goes about the city
That we naturally like to see
His purple face on Sunday
And his orange face on Monday
And his yellow face on Wednesdee.
But we don’t know nothin’,
And we don’t throw nothin’ —
We’re only there to see.
“Of course, there was a great noise
made about the danger of the thing. The
‘Freeman’ became highly technical over
the risk of poisoning by absorption
through the skin, and there were not
lacking wits who. made bold to doubt
whether even poison could penetrate that
hide. Then, in an effort to make people
stop laughing and become indignant,
blindness was mentioned as a possible
result. But we had no need to worry.
There were a score or more of chemical
experts only too happy to rush into the
open-armed Opposition press with learned
discourses on the utter harmlessness of
the dyes, and so we went gaily on our
way to Better and Brighter Politics.
“ANE day Flanagan came to me, his
” face beaming.
“ ‘This one,’ he said, ‘is variegated.
Orange, blue and crimson. And it won’t
come off. God speed you, and aim
straight.’
“So that the ‘Freeman’ came out with
a brief announcement that the Premier,
owing to ‘a slight indisposition,’ had been
obliged to cancel his engagements for a
few days, and the ‘Moon’ asked with
polite concern: ‘Scarlet fever, yellow
jaundice, or merely the blues?’
“It was noticeable at this time that
there was less apparent public discon-
tent. Revolutionary demonstrations died
out —a nation half-hysterical with laugh-
ter is in no mood for revolt. Vilification
of the Premier was a thing of the past;
the Ogre had become the Harlequin,
and nobody took him seriously any
more. But he was still the Premier and
his party was still in power. So we said
to Flanagan:
“ ‘What next?’
“ ‘Method,’ he told us laconically.
‘Method, my dear chaps—and persever-
ance.’
“The history of that relentless succes-
sion of by-elections you all know. One
by one the victims retired ‘indisposed’ to
their homes, there to wait with gnashing
teeth for Time to restore them their
schoolboy complexions. One by one,
and nearly always unopposed, the Oppo-
sition candidates succeeded to the vacant
seats.
“Without the noise of conflict, with-
out electioneering, without civil disturb-
ance and to the sound of merry laugh-
ter, the Jobson party faded into oblivion.
They are remembered kindly along with
Robey and Chaplin as great clowns —
great funmakers”
Brown shook his head and went off
suddenly at a tangent.
“Those Spanish Inquisitors were a
punk lot,” he observed. “Fires and racks
and wheels and thumbscrews —those
things leave a man his self-esteem and
add a bit more. Why didn’t they laugh?”
Spring Comes to Brisbane.
I marked no rout on the distant mountain.
I heard no cries and I saw no flares.
If one had come on a sacred fountain,
I doubt me not it were unawares.
/ saw no sprays in the hands of maidens,
Culled when the dews lay on the lawn ;
And only the mail-’plane’s snoring
cadence
Welcomed ihe equinoctial dawn.
For the days were gone when the green
fire’s glamor
Leapt to enkindle the heart’s red flame
To reckless riot and cruel clamor,
Or joyous chanting and greenwood
game.
Gone was the Manuals’ frenzied yelling,
The fear-crazed quarry, the human
pack.
The hunting horn and the deep note
helling
The dawn-response from the forest
track.
Gone, and with them half of the
meaning,
Half of the virtue of park and lawn ;
His but a tame and meagre gleaning
Who creeps to his toil in the holy
dawn.
Here, through the park, where the dew-
drenched grasses
Harbor the stubs of the cigarettes
That mark the track of the foot that
passes,
Dull with the burden of drugged
regrets.
So I muse on this birthday morning
As down the asphalt ways / swing.
The buds fail not in their shrine-
adorning,
But where are the rites that shall greet
the spring ?
Where is the chant ? . . . There comes
a-fluting ...
The dance? ... I raise my eyes to see
Volley of wings to a minstrel’s luting
Spilled from the houghs of a banyan-
tree.
Back and forth, with their deft spells I
binding
The fig-tree’s bole in a ceaseless maze.
Behold, the daughters of Ocean winding
A charm that shall seal for us tingling
days !
Seven their number, seven fleet swallows,
And a songbird hid in the tree’s green
crown.
And a pother of finches around ... It
follows
The World’s End 'Circus has come to j
town.
A score of sparrows has quit the gutter, j
Flirting and chirping, they know not 1
why.
For the hands of magic are here a-flutter, |
Spelling a rune for the eager sky ;
Aml where is the heart that heats in
feathers
Shall stay to question who calls the
tune,
When the fingers that fashion the spring’s
mad measures
Are once more weaving their age-old
rune ?
Tell me the banyan’s shade is soggy,
For a leaky conduit rum' hard by ;
That midges swarm where the ground is
boggy,
And midges determine where swallows
fly ■'
Tell me that silly sparrows gather
Wherever they think a feast is spread !
Tell me that songbird touch is rather
Too richly right to be credited!
I marked no rout on the distant moun-
tain :
/ heard no cries and I saw no flares:
If one had come on a sacred fountain,
Doubtless he came on it unawares.
/ saw no sprays in the hands of maidens,
Culled when the dews lay on the lawn,
And only the mail-’plane’s snoring
cadence
Welcomed the equinoctial dawn.
QUEENSLAND. PETER HOPEGOOD.
Man’s Mischievous Mind!
“Most Of Us Are Our Own Worst
Enemies" says Psychologist.
Complex as life may seem, some men find it
simple yet exhilarating. Though blessed with
no remarkable ability, they snap—with a grin
; —the shackles which hold abler men back.
They revel in responsibilities and constantly
reach out for more. Confident of success,
they are seldom disappointed. Possessed of
unflagging energy, they are gluttons for work
—and yet find time enough for play.
Shelley Castle.
“But the vast major-
ity," says Mr. Shelley
Castle, founder of the
new commonsense psy-
chology move ment
which is exciting such
widespread inter es t,
“are, literally, their own
arch-enemies. Out of
sheer self-mistrust they
refuse even to try one-
half the things they
could easily and suc-
cessfully accomplish.
Unconscious victims of
their own mischievous
misgivings, they instinc-
tively recoil from shoul-
dering responsibility,
shudder at the thought
of exercising authority, and remain cramped and
rut-bound in some humdrum, soul-destroying
i job which they know, deep down in their hearts,
■ is as unworthy of them as it is devoid of scope.
I Their prudence is their own undoing. Emerson
i hits the nail on the head in his decree that
| ‘Self-trust is the first secret of success.’ ”
A limited edition of Mr. Castle’s latest work,
“The Great Discovery,” has been published for
free circulation. It explains many of life’s
most vital issues with unusual clarity. How to
cultivate self-confidence, conquer nervousness,
anxiety and indecision; how to utilise ALL your
resources, make your mind more effective and
increase your earning capacity; how to culti-
vate an appealing personality and maintain
health, youth and driving power, are but a few
of the points dealt with. “The Great Dis-
covery” is obtainable quite free of charge or
obligation, and our readers arc urged to secure
their copy immediately, before supplies are
exhausted, by sending their name and address
to Mr, Shelley Castle (Suite 537 A). Castle
House, Jackson’s Lane, London, N.G, England.


“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers !
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This- National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F.. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tell Your Story
to REAL Buyers
“npHE NEWS,” even-
ing daily, plays a
big part in Adelaide’s
evening home life , . .
It’s the family circle
which buys your goods
. . . get your story in
there.
Advertise in Adelaide’s
Only Evening Paper
“THE NEWS”
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House. Collins
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
,ln Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington's Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
*32*3
“THE SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS”
(EST. 1924.)
THE ONLY
EVENING* PAPER
IN THE NORTH
OF TASMANIA
“The S.E. Express” gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Midlands
and the North West Coast of Tasmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, it is the
Sunday Newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN “THE S.E. EXPRESS” FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers. 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its new power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every Western radio
home. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
age, ’e c’d crarl cover ta tha brid-box an’ claw tha
middle oot tha loof a brid. Ya’d niver catch ’im
a-eatin’ thum dirty arnts.”
But Mrs. Mulver’s children were always far
ahead of ordinary children. Even when Mrs. Mulver’s
Norman was sent to the reformatory it was for being
much wilder than most other boys who went there.
“Ah don’t s’pose y’ve such a thing as a bit uv
drippin’ Ah cud boorow till Mondee?” she began,
and then, as the dogs sprang up to bark at the
approaching horseman, she gave one startled stare,
and without apology departed for her own dwelling.
Like most of the campers on Warning Hill, she
had a wholesome dread of Scorby, whom Granny
Staines declared to be “a devil from ’ell that had
been put into flesh t’ trouble the poor people.”
Scor,by did not dismount from his horse. He
lashed out ; at a too-pressing dog, and it fled behind
the hut howling. The other dogs stopped barking and
followed its. example. Lizzie went on bringing in
the clothes.
“I suppose that’s the goldmine,” Scorby said,
pointing with his whip to a heap of dirt in the yard.
“Where’s your father?”
“I dunno.” Lizzie reached over , for a pair of
pants. “He was about a while ago. But I think he’s
gone off somewhere.” She was not rude. She was
merely uninterested.
“And your brothers?”
“They ’aven’t come back with the waggon yet,”
Bobby volunteered. “They went off t’ get a load
of wood at lunch-time.”,
“Just tell them, will you,” said Scorby to Lizzie,
“that they have absolutely no hope of taking out a
miner’s right? These may be Crown lands, but the
Pastures Board has charge of them. No one has a
right to prospect on a road or thoroughfare.”
Lizzie turned on him with her mouth full of
pegs. “Uh?” she mumbled.
“Thoroughfare,” said Scorby incisively. “This is
a thoroughfare—a stock route belonging to the Crown
and under the jurisdiction of the Pastures Protection
Board. Just tell him that.”
“Orright,” Lizzie mumbled and turned towards
the hut. Scorby was exasperated. “Isn’t there anyone
else at home?” he asked Bobby.
“Only Mary an’ Ella an’ Willie an’ the baby, an’
the damn’ baby’s gone to sleep.”
“Well, then, get Mary.”
Bobby scampered off, and Scorby waited in digni-
fied isolation, while every camper on the Hill watched
him from a distance as rabbits watch the man with
the gun. Mary duly appeared, and was informed of
the mistake made by her brother.
“You can tell him that you’ve got to get off,”
Scorby commanded. “It’s no use his trying to put
off going. That’s my last word. I’ll be out a fort-
night from to-day.”
He turned his horse and walked it slowly back
towards the road. Out of the corner of his eye
he could see Larry and Bill and Jim coming
slowly along the road in a dray, Scorby did not
want an encounter in the middle of the road, particu-
larly with Bill. One of his worst memories was that
of arresting Bill for drunk and disorderly conduct
outside the picture show, and how not one of the
onlookers had moved to help him when Bill knocked
him into the gutter. He increased the horse’s pace
a little, but not enough to lose his dignity.
Bill swore with disappointment as he saw Scorby’s
horse stalking down the road.
“Can’t leave the place f’r a minute but that’s
the one he picks to come. By Gawd, I’d like to heave
a rock after him.”
The other two said nothing. Jim clucked to his
horse, and the heavy dray groaned through the ruts
towards the camp. The track they were on came up
at right angles to the main road and wound round the
base of Warning Hill until it was lost in the scrub,
after skirting a mosquito-infested lagoon which carried
part of the floodwater when the river was up, and
from which many of the campers drew their water
for greater convenience.
Mary, Ella, Lizzie and Bobby were standing at
the door, obviously bubbling over with excitement.
Old Grannie Staines might be observed hobbling
towards the White hut, and from the direction of the
Mulvers’ shelter of bags came Lynette and Bert to
gather news. Before the brothers could back the cart
they were in a hum of indignation. Everyone tried
to tell them at once what Scorby had said, with indi-
vidual comments and opinions thrown in. Jim
listened silently.
“You could see for y’rself,” Mary began, “that
he was ragin’ mad. ‘You tell y’r brother,’ ’e says,
‘that y’ can get out of here, an’ quick at that. Y’
ain’t allowed t’ muck up the road.’ ”
“He says that this is a road where we’ve built
the hut.”
“He’s mad. The road’s over there.”
“ ‘You tell ’im,’ ’e says, ‘that if ’e’s ’ere when
I come in a fortnight’s time I’ll throw ’im into gaol.’ ”
“Did ’e say that? ’E can’t do it.”
“That’s what ’e said, wasn’t it, Lizzie? An’ ’e
said that this is Crown lands, an’ the Pastures
Board”
“ ’E said that first,” from Bobby.
“Anyway, ’e said, ‘That’s the mine, is it?’ Then
’e said, ‘Where’s that brother of yours? Get ’im
’ere quick or I’ll show y’.’ ” Mary was beginning
to warm to the story. “Then ’e hits the dogs an
sits there grindin’ ’is teeth. Gee! ’e was mad, I was
dead scared that ’e’d turn his ’orse on young Jacky
that was sittin’ there behind the door as good as
gold, bless ’im. Jacky wasn’t afraid of ’im, was y’,
love?”
“I wasn’t scared uv ’im,” from Bobby. “I pokes
me tongue out at ’im.”
“Yeah. When he wasn't looking.”
“ ‘That’s the mine, is it?’ ’e says, slow and venom-
ous like. ‘Y’ ain’t got much gold out of it yet, ’aye
y’?”’ Mary was enjoying herself. “T guess y’ll
get a hell of a lot of gold, won’t y’?’ ’e said. ‘Now
go an’ find them brothers of yours an’ tell ’em
f get out.’ ‘Oh, we got t’ go, ’ave we?’ 1 says.
‘Well, jus’ get this. We ain’t goirf t’ go. You can
put that in yT pipe an’ smoke it.’ ”
“An’ what did he say?”
“’E says, a bit surprised like, ‘Y’ can’t talk t’
me like that.’ An’ I says, ‘Can’t I? I’d like t’ see
’oo’s go in’ t’ stop me?’ ”
“Did y’ say that?”
“Too right 1 did. Almost in the same words.
‘No one’s goin’t’ come them games here,’ I said. ‘This
is our ’ome, an’ we're goin’ t’ stay in it. We’ll fight
f’r it right t’ ihe last kick in us, an’ y’ can bet y'r
boots on that.' ”
“An’ what did ’e say then?”
“Well.” Mary paused for thought. “ ’E made
a slash at young Jacky with ’is whip. It’d been a
slash if it ’ad been closer. Then ’e looks up an’ sees
y’ cornin’ along the track, an’ ’e thinks e better gi
before ’e gets something f’r himself. An I can tell
v’ I was boilin’. I could ’ave chucked the teapot at
’im as soon as look. ’E jus’ gives one look an sees
y’ cornin’, an’ ’e scurries away with is tail between
’is legs goin’ f’r all ’e’s worth.
There was a lot more of it, and Larry strolled
inside and came out whistling with a bag of chaff.
(It was unsafe to leave anything outside at Warning
Hill if you wanted to keep it.) Larry turned towards
the patch of earth at the back of the hut next to
Marv’s little vegetable garden. Both this enclosure
and 'the garden had been fenced m with odd lengths
of wire and netting to keep out fowls and stock, and
it was this fencing that had first precipitated the
trouble with the Pastures Board inspector. Larry
was making towards the enclosure when he uttered
a shout which brought all the others round the corner
of the hut.
“Sweetheart! ” he cried. “Where s Sweetheart.
“Dad took ’er into town,” said Lizzie.
A horrible thought struck Larry, and the bag of
chaff almost slipped from his nerveless hand. 111
I’ll kin him,” he said, “if he’s done anything to Sweet-
hCaf Sweetheart must not be confused with Blasted.
Blasted was*the old crock Dave had acquired five
years earlier through the simple expedient of offering
in exchange a saddle that did not belong to him. The
saddle was in much better repair than Blasted, who
had a spine so curved by carrying loads too heavy
for him that, as Ella said, “his hips almost touched
the back of his neck.”
Sweetheart was different. If Sweetheart had
whinnied for a crock of gold, Larry would have gone
out in search of one. Sergeant Moore had
once caught him removing a bag of lucerne from
the Chinaman’s field. Larry claimed he had bought
Sweetheart, and, as no one could prove to the con-
trary, the explanation, though improbable, was
accepted. His life’s work, Larry considered, was the
training and entering of Sweetheart for races with
the help of his friend Olgy, who owned the barber’s
saloon and billiard-room.
The younger and more progressive unemployed
of Tiburon always lounged in the gutter outside
Olgy’s shop (“Where Sports Meet”), discussing the
chances of some horse or other or the thorough-
bred legs of the waitress at the Royal. They were
the Sports, and, to show it, they spat frequently, said
“Oh, yeah,” and wore cheap sombreros (locally known
as “lunatic hats”). Every girl who passed was expected
to run a barrage of comment and persiflage, and it
was considered correct to whistle after the good-
looking ones to show appreciation.
Larry was considered by the Sports to be a bit
of an oracle because he possessed a horse that really
had racing blood ; and he would have spent more of
his time at Olgy’s had he not been so much in awe
of Jim. He was also considered something of a devil
among the girls. But though he rollicked at dances
and parties with anyone’s girl, Larry had really only
one love in his heart, and that was Sweetheart. He
was loyal to his brothers, disliked Emma, fought with
Lizzie, teased Mary and Ella ; but the velvety mouth
of Sweetheart eating grass from his hand was more
to him than even the soft little mouth of Jacky. And
as for the Old Man! If the Old Man had done any-
thing to Sweetheart!
{To be continued next week.)


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Pelmanism
Scientific Development of Mind ,
Memory and Personality
A Practical Course for Practical Men & Women
International Awards
to the Pelman Insti-
tute : liege, 1930.
Geneva, 1933. Nancy,
1933. Paris, 1933.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements, Mr. Cronin’s
own enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy
so large and his handling of the practice
work sent in so competently confident
that the interest of his pupils never flags.-
Those who have a real flair for writing
very soon make a good job of every
piece of work they send in. They are
helped the more inasmuch as they are
never kept waiting for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his —
and frequently her—added experience
and increased knowledge improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work,. Not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
“Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamph-
let, “Writing to Win.” Copies will be
sent post free to any reader of The
Bulletin who would like one.
Newspaper Articles and Paragraphs.
Those specially interested in the criti-
cism of MSS. or in the writing of news-
paper articles and paragraphs are
requested to mention the fact.
Letters can be addressed to Mr. Ber-
nard Cronin, c/o E. H. Welford, 398
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Half-Million
Pelmanists
W HAT was in the minds of the
half-million Pelmanists when
they joined the Institute? Probably
nothing more than is to be found in
the mind of the reader of this article.
They sought means by which,
through developing and sharpening
their natural faculties, they could in
crease their self-confidence; they
wished to know how to create in-
terest within themselves, and how
to excite it in others; how to remem-
ber quickly and with certainty, how
to stimulate that initiative whose
peculiar province is “taking advan-
tage of opportunity,” how to
develop the imaginative faculty
which sees the opportunity before
someone else robs them of it.
The Personal
Equation
J N other words, the personal
equation was quite properly
uppermost in» the minds of these
people. They wished to increase
their personal efficiency, physical
and mental, so that they could stand
well with their fellows, and, which
is more important, so that they could
stand well with themselves because
of wise and prompt decisions made
and good work done.
There is nothing extraordinary in
having these desires. It is the realisa-
tion of them that lifts a man or
woman out of the ordinary. The
Pelman Institute helps its members
to realise them.
/"\NE of the half-million, whose
trouble is not uncommon, says:
“My efforts at early rising have been
crowned with success.” Another
says: “The efficiency of my senses
has been wonderfully improved, my
will power has been strengthened,
and I have learned to work with
more method.” Yet another says:
“I have made considerable progress
in my conversational efforts, which
are now a pleasure and a relaxation
instead of an embarrassment.”
Others speak of passing examina-
tions, increased sales, developed
concentration, conquest of fear and
greater fertility of ideas. The writers
of these letters are the kind of
people with whom you associate.
They certainly have a distinction,
“an enrichment of personality,”
which the polishing and pruning pro
The Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, Secretary
of State for the Dominions, speaks in
the highest terms of Pelmanism. He
says:—
"/ have a considerable know-
ledge of the Pelrnan Institute's
good work, both before the war,
during the war, and to-day, when
perhaps more than ever Pelman-
ism is needed by all classes of
the community, and is appreciated
by everyone who realises the value
of a scientifically trained mind.”
cess of Pelmanism gives, but thtis
only makes association with them
more pleasant.
Are All Minds Alike?
‘'jpHE question may be asked: But
are all people and their minds
alike? The answer is “No,” but
the natural laws which govern the
operations of their minds are the
same. The application to the
special circumstances and needs of
the pupil is the business of the
Pelman Institute, which knows its
work and does it thoroughly.
HE Pelman Institute sets out to
make the individual efficient—
efficient in his social relations as well
as in business, likeable in his com-
panionships as well as effective in
the doing of his work. Its first ques-
tion, after enrolment, asks the pupil
to state specifically why he enrolled
for the Course. He is encouraged
throughout the course to discuss his
personal difficulties, to ask questions
as well as to answer them, to get,
in fact, as much as he can, not only
from the text-books, but also from
the individual service offered.
|p ELMAN ISM Is so universally suc-
cessful largely because it sets
out to train rather than to teach. It
knows that according to the nature
and the strength of the individual’s
habits of mind and will, so are his
personal efficiency and his standing
with his fellows. If these habits are
bad he will be ineffective personally;
if they are good he will be strong
and successful.
Pelmanism develops the following
attributes and qualities:
Concentration Self-Confidence
Judgment Presence of Mind
Decision Organising Power
Will-Power Courage
And a Reliable Memory
The development of these strong,
positive vital qualities contributes to
one’s earning capacity, and makes
it possible to live intelligently in the
present, and build strongly for the
future.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will
ind a full explanation of' the
-‘elman Course, and much interest-
ng information on the subject of
Vlental Training. This book will be
sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, C. 1. Write for it to-day,
and it will be in your hands by return
of post. All correspondence is re-
garded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives.
CUT OUT OR COPY & POST TO-DAY.
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free, and post-free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
416
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
o.i
N>
yj& x > 6
, ?* p
.O „\> e
e &
<V
c e
0$
C' V
0^
V
*1
G o^
><v^-
A' *. *r .. - . ..••• 4 V V'c
v'- tS ’° •••■’" ..■•■' , s »*; Was>
tP” ..••■' ..•••■


PRUDENT PEOPLE PREFER
POPULAR “PLUS
W
(t Motoring philosophers long pondered the
@
puzzle of which petrol to purchase I
?
until
C.O.R produced “PLUS”
PLUS
and promptly solved the
problem
Garage proprietors now enthusiastically
PLUS
proclaim “PLUS” the premier treated petrol
for general all-the-year-round performance • • «
ASK THE PUMP-MAN’S
OPINION OF . . .
n w
Papular
Plus
[
Guaranteed Ist Grade Petrol 1
Sold at Standard Grade Price J
m
38
\
11
“ C'&mpnmi on, Spirit to
Mixture **
C-D-R QUALITY PETROLS
C9/BP
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT & ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE .... SYDNEY .... ADELAIDE .... BRISBANE
