

\ r -Ls
The front seat of the Vauxhall Light Six is as
roomy as many a larger car.
SSH*
fiv
'4ir*.
'K v
&
/;
\J,
There is no road the owner of a Knee-Action Vauxhall Light Six
cannot confidently tackle. Where others hesitate, the Vauxhall
Light Six owner can sail on cradled in comfort on the roughest roads.
Luggage accommodation offers no problems
to the owner of a Yauxhall Light Six.
s New Car
Even More Comfortable and Convenient ... Even Greater Value
. . . with KNEE-ACTION
N 0 car has so endeared itself to motorists as
the Vauxhall Light Six. Registration figures and
resale values make that plain. Practically three
times the sales of its nearest competitor.
But even then, Vauxhall engineers were not con-
tent. For 1935 they planned an entirely new car . .
one as far ahead of its contemporaries as the 1934
car has been. They took the smartest, most com-
fortable car of its class and made it still more
comfortable and convenient. . . They redesigned
it on a new, sturdy, cruciform frame . . lengthen-
ing it. . lowering it.. streamlining it.. eliminat-
ing footwells. They produced a car that intro-
duces a new range of usefulness in the economy
car field . . that will be hailed by country and
city drivers alike.
Always the pleasantest of cars to handle, swift
in acceleration, the Vauxhall Light Six now has
Knee-Action. There is no road its owner will not
confidently tackle. Where others hesitate, the
Light Six owner can sail on, cradled in comfort
even on the roughest roads. Luggage ? All four
models have unusual luggage accommodation,
both Saloon and Tourer having Inbuilt Trunks.
In a word, Vauxhall brings you the complete
light car, one that offers you motoring enjoyment
unrestricted by thoughts of road conditions and
luggage accommodation problems. See the Light
Six for yourself—Ride in it. Drive it. Enjoy its
fascinating performance. See how it hugs the
road and corners. Then place your order early
for a car that will overshadow even the 1934
model’s sensational success.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
As English as England
VAUXHALL LIGHT SIX
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
The Bulletin
fol. 56. —No. 2890.
Dr, Page s Ideas
Wednesday, July 3, 1935,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to 1 .
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
“Hamhvritwg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
Name
My Address
5.8..435
„ recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees ave decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:—
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
RAG-BAG
BOOKS
James Agate, in
his monumental-
looking Ego, re-
surrects an essay
in which he be-
gan by wonder-
ing whether anybody else’s mind
resembled a rag-bag as nearly as his and
ended on the same note of wonderment.
His whole story is that he has managed
to keep himself in a varying state of
debt by knowing what has gone into the
bag and dipping into it for a pretty bit
as the particular fustian of the jour-
nalistic occasion required.
Agate is a more industrious and accu-
rate dipper than most, which is the dis-
tance of his remove from the clumsy
fellow who works with a dictionary of
quotations at his elbow and lifts out a
hunk when the phenomenon of a Menu-
hin, or an eclipse, or a stranded whale
calls for a worthy display of erudition.
The English dramatic critic—you can put
that “the” in emphatic type if you like,
for he is and has for long been the best
of them has made this art of dipping
his second nature. He could find on his
way from theatre to office in time to
catch the next edition not merely the
suitable but the exactly right quotation,
from his own experience in life or in
books, to convey completely his im-
pression of any play from “The
Tempest to an Australian masterpiece
about dying stockmen and starving
bullocks.
And there, at what he has looked at,
his critical faculty stops. He is not, and
las no desire to be, an accurate critic
of himself, which is why his mind re-
mains a rag-bag. It explains, too, why
he has failed as a writer of fiction. Un-
able to criticise himself, to make a pat-
tern in his own rag-bag, he is unable to
create pattern out of the more complex
rag-bag which is life.
And so he is still, in the sixties, uncer-
tain and unsure, and is just as likely to
write a bad novel next year as make
he world grateful for another groping
nto his rag-bag. But it is, apparently,
widely accepted to-day that a novel
s something that can be written by any-
body, It is only necessary to write at
all to be perpetually pestered with the
question, “When are you going to write a
novel?” and the bulk of written fiction
eloquently illustrates the absurdity of
he fallacious idea therein contained. It
is not only untrue that anybody can
write a good novel, it is untrue that every
writer can write one, let him try hard as
ie likes. It is not a matter of comparative
ntelligence and mental furniture ; it is
the faculty, really another sort of critical
faculty, to see all the varied colors in
the rag-bag, not as ragged patches, but
as full-length pieces.
To Agate, in this autobiography Ego
as in his novels, the bag remains a bag
jf assorted contents. A difference is
that in his novels he fails to have it
otherwise through something which is
no fault of his, but is to be laid at the
heavily scored door of Providence.
Simply the creative faculty is missing.
There is no such excuse for the crude
presentation of this later book. He has,
in great measure, the equipment for
making a first-class book of the kind,
and, instead, he takes up the bag and
hurls it at the reader’s head in a lump,
and the reader may make a pattern out
of it if he can. The first half of it is so
clumsily done as to suggest awkwardness,
a wicked charge to bring against one
who can write so fluently as he. It is not
constructed, and no attempt at construc-
tion is made. That is not to suggest that
autobiography should begin with “I was
born in a weatherboard house, the last
of six children, on a hill entirely sur-
rounded by swamps and Kanakas.” But
there is a difference between subservi-
ence to chronology and submission to
chaos, and chaos, in autobiography and
all else, is only a product of laziness.
Even in the Beginning order was brought
out of chaos, and though we have
travelled a long way, and very nicely,
thank you, since then, that excellent
example is still worth glancing at if we
would write.
The second half of this lump of Agate
is much better. Here the writer suc-
cumbs to that last resort of the lazily
egotistic, the keeping of a diary, but, as
he writes this from day to day and gives
it as written, a sense of order goes with
it, the mere passage of days effecting it
with their flow. Even his abundant good
stories seem better here than in the first
half, and the stories he has to tell are
the best of Agate. They include some
beauties, about the London theatre, and
his debts, golf, hackneys and broadcast-
ing, out of which a column of racy read-
ing could be manufactured with the
greatest of ease. But that trapeze is
Agate’s, and will be left to him.
One thing should be said before part-
ing with Agate, lest the foregoing should
make it appear that Ego is a poor book.
On the contrary, it is rich in feeling and
personality, and London and something
of the charm of traditional England are
alive in it. Its lack of construction, how-
ever, is important, because if Agate saw
a play presented in the same crude
manner he would boil over.
Ragtag
and
Bobtail
Perhaps suffi-
cient reason has
been produced for
classifying
Agate’s perform-
ance as one of
the ragtag and
bobtail books. These are the books
that escape any other sort of classi-
fication, and no amount of writing “An
Autobiography” on them makes any
real difference. They are books in much
the same sense as that the things
bananas grow on are trees.
Another of the fraternity which pro-
duces these famous growths is Charles
Graves, whose The Price of Pleasure is
just as fat as Agate’s and about twice as
ugly a book to look at, which is not pay-
ing an inordinate compliment to the
appearance of the other tome, either. A
difference is that Agate’s is a ragtag and
bobtail by accident and Graves’s ,is so
by design. There are hundreds of such
books turned out every year, and most
of them get into the London remainder
lists. Yet, though these books contribute
nothing of beauty, nothing of significance
to our lives, and, When they are not
dull, are superficial pleasures purely, it
is an even more superficial insensibility
which holds itself superior to them.
They have the same prescriptive right
and perform the same service of making
existence more pleasurable as any other
sort of newspapers.
Graves’s book has more claim to that
relationship even than most of the kind.
It is journalism without pretence to be
anything else, but it happens to be sin-
gularly interesting journalism. It is com-
prised of 50-odd articles on different
aspects of how much our pleasures and
luxuries cost to provide. He deals with
plays, films, circuses, tipping, Paris
frocks, wine, furs, racing, bridge, records,
beer and several dozen other joys, de-
lights and amenities of existence, tak-
ing as theme for his polka a belief that,
after the crudities of murder and sex,
the most interesting subject in life is
other people’s money.
In this kind of writing, which, unlike
the travel writing he has also practised,
but indifferently, calls for no more than
simple objective observation and investi-
gation, he is everything the occasion
demands. He has such an acute nose
for news, for just exactly what the unin-
formed want to know about the things
he looks at, that his book, intelligently
read, would supply any young journalist
with a model that would serve him well
through, life.
His figures, like Agate’s delightful
stories, are his own, and will not be
filched from him here. They range from
how many million golf balls are made
in England every year to how many mil-
lion bottles there are in the champagne
caves at Reims. His information, equally
abundant and seemingly fantastic, em-
braces such curiosa as that heat, frost
and snow have no effect on champagne-
bottles, but moonlight ruins them ; that
Monte Carlo has descended to the final
degradation of installing fruit-machines;
and that the lion with the worst charac-
ter _ at London Zoo is named Cecil,
which is horrible to think about.
CECIL MANN.
[Ego. by James Agate (Hamish Hamilton;
from Moore’s Bookshop; 27s< 6d.); The Price
of Pleasure, by Charles Graves (Ivor Nichol-
son and Watson; 7s. 6d. net).]
S.H. PRIOR
LITERARY
PRIZE
Titles of en-
tries and pen-
names of writers
striving for the
S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize
were published
last week. In that form, with no indica-
tion of the authors’ identity, the entries
are placed before the judges, who will
have given their decision to the trustees
for the Prize before they learn who the
winner actually is.
It has been announced that that de-
cision will be given within two months
of the competition’s closing date, June 6.
With more than a fortnight’s reading done
when this page goes to press that still
seems possible. What may make it diffi-
cult to comply with that condition is a
certain interesting aspect of these entries
as so far considered. It is this: that
many of the entries, though they turn
out to be failures, are well enough done
to require a great deal of reading before
they can be dismissed. The standard
of writing in these may not be high, but
it is good enough not to be at all lightly
passed over.
In any case, the judges have too keen
a regard for the amount of work that has
gone to the making of even the poorest
of entries to deal with them other than
sympathetically and thoroughly. Their
feeling also is that the Prize is a direct
encouragement of Australian literature,
a continuation of what has always been
a basic policy of The Bulletin, and in
that spirit the work of judging goes on.
Already three novels have been un-
covered which more than one of the
judges, committing themselves for the
moment no further, have declared to be
more than ordinarily worth publishing.
LITERARY
PARIS
Depression has
hit the literary
world of Paris
hard, at least the
English - speaking
part of it. When
I was here five years ago the left bank
of the Seine was swarming with writers
and near-writers, and the cafes of Mont-
parnasse echoed with literary quarrels,
conducted mostly in high-pitched Ameri-
can voices. There were at least five re-
views running, written in English, and
providing a ground for experiments in
freak psychology and syncopated prose.
One heard continually of new printing-
presses being started in back streets, sup-
ported by. rich Americans with a fancy
for dabbling in literature.
Then there was Sylvia Beach’s book-
shop in the Rue de FOdeon. A snug
little shelter, this! Sylvia Beach had
made her name by publishing the first
edition of Joyce’s Ulysses, and her shop,
cosily furnished, was a gathering-place
for writers. Ford Madox Ford had
rooms overhead, and the “Trans-Atlantic
Review” was published from there. A
school of young American writers was
growing up in the shadow of Joyce, Ezra
Pound, Ernest Hemingway.
Now most of that ferment has ceased.
The dollar, which used to seem so limit-
less in its purchasing power, has shrunk
like a withered pea, and the heart of
America with it. All is quiet on the
Montparnasse front. Cafes like the
Dome and the Rotonde are deserted, ex-
cept for a few Czech artists, Dutch
tourists, German bagmen ; and the gay
extravagances that used., to attract people
there from all over Europe are a thing
of the past. Paris has never been more
itself, more French, and one realises that
its atmosphere of hectic gaiety was pro-
vided by foreigners or for them.
In the purely literafy world the change
has come about through the withdrawal
of the once-wealthy Americans who sup-
ported the publishing experiments. The
writers were forced to follow' them.
Ernest Hemingway has gone, Robert
McAlmon, E. E. Cummings, and most of
the lesser-known. Those choice little
editions that made and sustained their
reputations are a drug on the market
nowadays. In the BouF Mich’ I picked
up new copies of them (Hemingway,
McAlmon, Kay Boyle), hermetically
sealed in their tissue covers, at a franc
each.
It was a curious phenomenon while it
lasted, this Parisian factory for creating
reputations. “Crosby Continental Edi-
tions—-Modern Masterpieces in English.”
How impressive! And how effective in
launching a young writer like Kay Boyle!
Americans are tainted with the same
provincialism as ourselves ; they have
little faith in their own judgment, and
distrust a reputation made at home.
Anything that has been acclaimed abroad
comes to them with a halo around it,
rouses a flutter of cerebral excitement.
That romantic belief that life, is somehow
more important over the edge of the sky-
line !
And so for the ambitious young
American writer it was necessary to
come to Paris and have his stories pub-
lished here. Even though they were
printed by his own countrymen and read
by them alone! For the French them-
selves do not either buy or read foreign
books. They are conservative, supremely
satisfied with their own language and
their own literature. All these foreign
movements mean about as much to them
as the scurrying of mice in the pantry
cupboard.
But Kansas City and Chicago are un-
aware of this. How seriously the writing
in these Paris-American reviews used
(Continued on page 4.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the conscience of business. “THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.
PITT, GOULBURJN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
"7%e §<x£& of rtke, &a£e
NOW ON!
GENUINE REDUCTIONS
FROM GENUINE PRICES
If you haven’t already received a copy of our Sale Catalogue, see
that you do so immediately. It is full of money-saving bargains.
Write to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney, for a copy now!
Special Opening Sale Values for Sportsmen!
£14(10)- 20Gj English Gun £9(15(-
20G. English Hammcrless Gun, Steel Barrels 30 inches,
Left Choke, Kight Mortified Choke, Anson Deeley Sys-
tem, Cross Bolt. Nitiio-proof. Made by Fred Williams,
Birmingham. Similar to illustration. Price .. 114/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Price £9/15/-
liM&& *:*
£24 Pigeon Gun now £2O/10/-
W. Casbmore’s 12G. 8.8.8 X. Hanunerlesg Pigeon Gun,
Cross Bolt Action, automatic Safety Bolt, English fine
Steel Barrels, Choke Bored, flat file-cut Rib. figured
Walnut Stock, Pistol: Grip, chambered for 2}in. Cart-
ridges. good finish, neatly engraved, specially proved
for Nitre powders; weight about. 71b. (110/1211.
Price } - £24
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £3O/10/-
£B/10/- !2G. Belgian Cun £7)17(6
12G. Belgian D.B. Hanmierless Gun, Anson action, with
treble Greener Cross Holt, Side Clips, fine black Steel
Barrels, Left Choke bored, matter rib, neat engraving,
selected Walnut Stock, Push-down Rod Ppre-end,
English hardening, proved for Smokeless powder
(115/131). Price £B/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/17/6
£5/5/- Belgian D.B. Gun £4/17/6
13- and 30-gauge Belgian D.8.8.L. Gun, Engraved, Top
Lever Action, Bine Steel- Barrels, Cross Bolt, Engine-
turned Kib, Left Full, Right Modified Choke, chambered
2fin„ Rebounding Locks, Deeley Pore-end, Walnut
Stock, Half-pistol Crip, Nitro proved (115/71P).
Price £5/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £4/17/0
£lO Bayard D.B. Gun £B/17/6
Bayard, Black Steel Barrels with Pieper Patent
Solid Breech, Left Choke, Drop-forged Action. Top Lever
System with Treble Grip Top Bolt, Improved Rebound-
ing Double Spring Locks. Price £lO
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £B/17/6
Harrington and Richardson 12-gauge
Single-barrelled Gun, Top Lever, Auto-
matic Ejector, Full Choke, weight about
61b. (115/40), 30in. or 32in. Barrel.
Price 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 50/ ■
16- and 20-gauge, 30in. Barrel.
Price 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 50/-
410 G. Ivor Johnson Double-barrel
Hammerless Gun, 2 Sin. Barrels, Nitro-
proof. Price £5/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £5
410 Harrington and Richardson Single-
Barrel Folding Gun. Price 65/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 57/6
410 Hollis D.8.8.L. Gun, Hammerless,
28in. Barrels; Hand-made Gun .... £2O
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £lB
£B/5/- Winchester
Repeating Rifle £7/15
.22 Winchester Repeating Rifle,
Model 57, Bolt Action, with Clip
Magazine and Lyman Rear Aperture
Sight. A high-grade Rifle. . £B/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
£7/15/-
hc&iii
Jls/o7
These guns liave taken first prizes
at Pigeon Shooting at Monte Carlo,
1921, and Spa, 1923.
£l5/15/- Auto Shot Gun - £l4/5/-
Browning “F.N.” Auto Shot Gun, 12-gauge, Solid Breech,
Hammerless, Take Down, Five-shot, Reinforced Special Steel
Barreh Full Choke, Half-pistol Grip Stock, Weight about
7|lb. (115/3 7). Price : £l5/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l4/5/-
.22-cal. “Sportsman” Bolt-action Rifle, 24in. Barrel ... 35/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 31/-
.22-cal. “Marksman” Bolt-action Rifle, with Tangible Rear
Sight. Price 37/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 34/•
.22 Savage “Sporter” Rifle, Model 23A, Bolt Action, with
Five-shot Detachable Magazine, Rocky Mountain Sights
(115/173). Price £5/17/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £5/12/6
.25/20 and .32 Calibres. Price £7/7/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £6/18/6
£5/15/- Lee Enfield Rifle £4/17/6
.303 Lee Enfield Sporting Rifle, 25in. Barrel; Recondi-
tioned, Magazine takes five cartridges. Price, £5/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £4/17/6
.303 Mark VI Cartridges, with clips. Price, per 100, 12/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per 100 . . 10/-
.22 Savage Hi-Power Repeating Rifle, Lever Action. A high-
velocity Rifle (115/172). Price £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l3/10/-
250/3000 Calibre. Price £l5/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l3/17/6
.22 Savage Hornet Repeating Bolt-action Rifle, Model 23D
Price . £9/1 0/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £B/17/6
GUN CARTRIDGES.
300.
Eley’s Special Quail, 8 ami 10 Shot .. 12 24in. 17/6
Nobel’s Ballistite Powder 12 2|in. 26/9
Nobel’s “Nile” Ballistite 12 24in. 22/-
Bley’s Grand Prix, Diamond.
Smokeless 12&1G 24in. 17/9
~ Diamond, Smokeless 20 21in. 17/9
~ Fourlong, Smokeless 410 24in. 17/6
„ Pourten, Smokeless 410 2in. 14/-
ICG. Black-powder Cartridges, No. S
Shot only ' 17/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .. 11/6
20G. Black-powder Cartridges. No. 6
Shot only 17/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .. 11/6
WE STOCK EXPLOSIVES
GUN POWDER, BLASTING POWDER,
GELIGNITE, FUSE, AND DETONATORS,
ETC.
RIFLE CARTRIDGES.
NOBEL’S, REMINGTON AND WINCHESTER.
SOLID POINT. 100. 1000.
C.B. Caps, Smokeless 2/6 23/6
.22 Short, Smokeless ..; 2/8 26/-
.22 Long, Smokeless 3/6 33/3
.22 Long-rifle. Smokeless 4/- 38/-
.22 W.R.F., Smokeless 6/6 60/-
.22 Automatic, Smokeless 6/6 60/-
.25 and .32 Short, Rimflre, Smokeless ‘6/6
.32 Long, Rimflre, Smokeless 0/3
.25. Long, Rimflre, Smokeless 0/3
.22 Nobel’s Short, Rustless, Smoke-
less 2/6 23/9
.22 Nobel’s Long, Rustless, Smoke-
less 3/3 30/-
.22 Nobel’s Long-rifle, Rustless,
Smokeless 3/9 35/6
100. 100.
Black. Smokeless.
.25/20 W.C.F 17/- 21/-
.32 W.C.F 17/- 21/-
.25/20, .32 Savage, soft point, Smokeless, high-
power 21/- per 100
.44 W.C.F., soft point 25/- per 100
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Limited
’Phone: M 2401.
Day or Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
& Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[| Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
ITT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and.
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer*
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
De WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-hlue Canister
2/6
to be taken in advanced circles! As if
the authors had the ear of a vast, inter-
national world.
It was a racket, of course, and yet it
had its good points. Wealthy people
could be found to subsidise reviews in
Paris who would not dream of wasting
good dollars in such a way at home.
A certain amount of real talent was
nourished. Encouragement was given
to the habit of speaking the whole mind
freely. Writers like Ernest Hemingway
were enabled to get their heads well
above the surface.
The trouble was that the immigrants
tended to idealise the unreal world they
had made for themselves in the Mont-
parnasse. It was really an Axel’s Castle,
cut off from vital realities. And it led
them to squander their talents writing of
drunken orgies, bullfights, the casual
amours of rootless people that mattered
as little as the crossing of flies.
Nothing much can be hoped from
movements of mere escape. Even Sylvia
Beach, who suffers severely from the
return of American writers to their own
country, believes it is, on the whole, a
good thing.
“Their real work is back there. It is
just as well for them to be forced to
face it.”
For years she has been doing very fine
liaison work in arousing the interest of
French people in English writing, and it
would be a calamity if her own book-
shop disappeared in the present cata-
clysm.
Paris.
VANCE PALMER.
New
Australian and
M.L. Work
Like many
young Maori-
landers, lan Don-
nelly, whose
Joyous Pilgrimage
is of the brightest
of recent travel-
books, had made his spiritual home in
London long before he set foot in the
City of Fogs, and he took to it an up-
to-date knowledge of who is who
and what is what in Cockaigne,
which must have been not a little sur-
prising to the people with whom he con-
versed. You get from an old city, as
from a sonata, a book or a painting, in
the measure of what you bring to it, and
Donnelly takes with him wherever he
goes a well-stored mind, a pair of sharp
eyes and such a fund of broad-minded
tolerance as most of us don’t amass till
we’re well over 50.
He had lunch at the Cheshire Cheese,
watched Test cricket at Lord’s, saw an
auction at Sotheby’s, talked with Chester-
ton, Garvin, Jimmy Thomas, Stafford
Cripps, Maxton, De la Mare, T. S. Eliot,
E. V. Lucas, J. B. Priestley, W. W. Jacobs,
Norman Angell, Aldous Huxley and
other notabilities. London liked him,
and he liked London. Roaming further
afield he bearded Gilbert Murray in his
lair at Oxford ; swapped shop talk with
the staff of the “Manchester Guardian,”
met De Valera in Geneva and Tom
Mann (yes, he’s still alive) in Moscow.
Donnelly sketches these varied scenes
and personalities in crisp, neat strokes.
Brevity is the soul of his wit, and his
wit has many a pretty turn. To read
his cheerful diary is the next best thing
(especially for an Australian or a Maori-
lander) to covering the ground on one’s
own feet.
Francis Birtles, in Battlefronts of Out-
back, by saying nothing whatever about
it, casts some light on the psychology
of wanderers. They are just built that
way, and that’s all there is to it. Birtles
went to sea in a windjammer as a cadet;
fought in South Africa, joined the Cape
Police after the Boers were dished, and
got the veldt into his blood to such an
extent that when he arrived in Australia
the urge to take to the track became
compelling. First by bicycle and
then by motor-car and finally by aero-
plane, he criss-crossed the continent.
About the discomforts of path-finding in
the interior Birtles makes but little fuss.
He has taken these things in his stride,
as it were, and he has picked up on his
travels a vast amount of the lore The
Bulletin traditionally finds a place for
on its Aboriginalities page. His style is
terse ; his narratives are scrappity. Other
men could have spun material for a
whole volume, or two or three, out of
the epic motor pilgrimage across Europe
and Asia from Boulogne to Penang, but
Birtles says all he has to say in 50 pages.
Writer lent this book to an Englishman
who has lived in Australia since 1923
and has travelled in four States. He
devoured it from cover to cover and
declared that it had taught him more
about Australia in four hours than he
had learned by personal experience in
12 years.
Yet another travel-book is Dr. A. J.
Harrop’s Touring in New Zealand, in
form and purpose almost entirely a
Baedeker. It outlines a tour that em-
braces practically all that is worth seeing
in the North, South and Stewart Islands,
and includes compendious notes on the
curative springs, winter sports, fishing
(rod and sea), deer-stalking and air-travel.
The photographs are magnificent. A
rather cruel book to set before an exile
from Fernland.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
[The Joyous Pilgrimage, by lan Donnelly
(J. M. Dent and Sons; 65.); Battlefronts of
Outback, by Francis Birtles (Angus and Robert-
son; 65.); Touring in New Zealand, by A. J.
Harrop (George Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d.).]
Life Above
Stairs
The ducal hero
of Sole Death,
by Stephen Mc-
Kenna (Hutchin-
son ; Dymock’s ;
7s. 6d.), reads like
a living person. If so, the book should
be as exciting to those in the know
as The Green Carnation was to
scandalmongers in the ’nineties. Un-
like Hichens’s lampoon, however, Sole
Death has a general appeal; the elderly
hedonist and the designing wench who
nails him are familiar types in all
societies.
Mr. McKenna has a low opinion of
British .dukes:
One read of dukes in the Bankruptcy
Court, the Divorce Court and the police
court. And their stock had declined in
quality. Over a long life the colonel could
reckon up an ever-increasing number of
imbecile dukes, degenerate dukes and sterile
dukes.
By this reckoning the Duke of Luton
isn’t such a bad specimen. When we see
him first at a hunt ball he is fiftyish,
stoutish ; “no fairy prince, but he looked
good-natured and had the reputation of
being open-handed.” Bovine, an invet-
erate patter and stroker of attractive
girls, “it was hard to believe that he had
found two women to marry him, and
twice that number to be his mistresses.”
Bettine has learned all about men in
the golf club where she works, and she
is determined to escape from her shabby-
genteel family. The self-indulgent,
muddle-headed duke is no match for her,
and she is soon in a London flat, with
a dressmaker’s shop as a blind. The
duchess realises that her marriage is fail-
ing, that she has only one chance of
saving it. In collaboration with the
duke’s best friend, she gives her husband
the son he has been wanting desperately
for 30 years. (Mr. McKenna has tried
hard to sentimentalise the duchess and
her lover, but it doesn’t come off.)
Though the duke is delighted with his
heir, the call of Youth to Age is too
strong; there is another divorce.
By this time next year the second of
George’s duchesses would have escaped
him, and a third would be ruling for a
brief space at Kettrick. It would be a great
night for Bettine when the Master of the
Vale of Aylesbury Hunt led her in to
supper and a double line of heads turned
eagerly to inspect “the new duchess.”
The affair of Bettine and the duke
differs significantly from that of Becky
Sharp and the Marquis of Steyne. The
duke is no early-Victorian villain, but a
figure of pathos, and Bettine is destined
to live happily—or, at least, in affluence—
ever afterwards. So, no doubt, did ad-
venturesses with her brains in the Vic-
torian era, though contemporary novelists
didn’t dare say so.
M. A.
Debunking
the
Gordon Myth
A deputation
of M el b ourne
Gordon lovers
waited on the
Victorian Direc-
tor of Education
and pleaded for
assistance to place volumes of Gordon’s
poems in the State schools. Mr. Mcßae
gave the deputation hopes that its wishes
would be carried out.
Certainly put Australian poetry in the
schools. Australian poetry in the schools
should do one of two things: either
develop a love for poetry or a love for
country.
Gordon is spoken of as the Great Aus-
tralian Poet. He was neither a great
Australian nor a great poet. He was
a pessimistic, introspective exile whose
heart was always in the Cotswolds or
in the dales of Gloucester. As an exiled
Englishman it was natural for him to
sneer at
.... lands where bright blossoms are
scentless,
And songless, bright birds.
But the Australian poet, such as Victor
Daley, Rod Quinn or Henry Kendall,
would see the beauty and seek for the
soul of his land, not make sneering com-
parisons with the lush vales and green
copses of England. Gordon had facility
in versifying, a good ear for rhythm and
a knack of putting an obvious truism in
a striking form, but the greater part of
his verses are the self-pitying moralisings
of the petty poetaster of all time and all
nations.
Put a volume of Gordon in the hands
of the average schoolboy. He will enjoy
“Banker’s Dream,” “From the Wreck”
and “How We Beat the Favorite.” And
what then? If he reads more he will
get the thought that poetry is stuff with-
out sense or meaning. He will toss the
book away, every desire to read poetry
killed. The sight of metrical matter will
be nauseous to him, something to be
avoided like castor oil or stale pastry.
I maintain it will be a crime to put
volumes of Gordon’s poetry into the
hands of schoolboys and try to convince
them either that he is a great Australian
or a great poet.
CHIRON.
Modern
Poetry?
Most modern
so - called poets
write vacuous
drivel, and, except
for a short frag-
ment by Rupert
Brooke, will hopelessly disappear. Take
Pamela Travers, who in recent Red Page
articles regards Macdiarmid and Hig-
gins verse as “exquisite lyricism,” and
states that “Higgins is Macdiarmid’s
master in assonance.” The Scot, it
seems, can be “didactic, angry, outrageous,
quarrelsome in his poetry, but his core,
from which his best poems come, is deep
and sound as for long no poet’s has
been.” Pamela then gives examples that
are simply not understandable.
There is no objection to the Scottish
dialect—Burns is proof of that—but why
rave about “cwa’ een,” “milk-wort,”
“bog-cotton hair,” “laich wind,” “nochl,”
“milk-white cotton hair,” “licht” and
other merely fantastic expressions? Every
verse requires a glossary. If Gaelic is
not, according to the High Court, a lan-
guage, what may this be?
It is, however, not dialect but the
complete absence of ideas that distin-
guishes so-called modern poetry, though
in some occult fashion Pamela thinks
that in this doggerel “the hope for Eng-
lish poetry resides.”
No doubt the London critic will reply
as do Douglas Creditors and single-
taxers to those who disapprove—“ But
you simply don’t understand.” Yet we
understand Shakspeare, Milton, Scott,
Shelley, Keats, Wordsworth and even
Browning (in parts). Why should the
moderns have a special niche of non-
understandability and non-quotability.
Their progenitors did not have this privi-
lege.
W. J. DENNY.
A Satchel of Books
England, by Douglas Jerrold (Arrow-
smith ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.).
A vigorous corrective to the spate of
England-boosting books inspired by the
jubilee, and, incidentally, a notable lesson
to the longwinded. After a brief survey
of origins and history, the writer simi-
larly examines the 1914 war, then the
post-war hysterics to the 1931 financial
crisis, the England of to-day—it has “sur-
rendered to State capitalism as completely
as Italy to Fascism, Russia to Com-
munism and Germany to National
Socialism”—and ends by making a fore-
cast as to its prospects. The burden of
his criticism is that in the past 17 years
England has failed to hold the respect
of the world through having neither
policy nor courage. It will need a dis-
play of both, he argues, to hold the con-
tinued respect and support of even the
component parts of the Empire itself. He
severely attacks the League of Nations
and England’s part in it, and asks for
simply a less hypocritical, a more col-
lectively courageous England. His
economy of words is extraordinary. Such
a lot of inquiry and judgment is packed
into the book’s comparatively small
space that it might have been written
with a woolpress.
Income Tax Returns, by H. Rawson
Stevenson (Endeavour Press; 55.), con-
stitutes by its publication and by the un-
doubted necessity for its publication an
indictment of Australia’s bewildering
taxation tangle. It takes Mr. Stevenson
(and he is a concise and businesslike
writer) 152 pages to explain the principal
twirls and twists invented by our rival
tax-masters, and he is at pains to explain
that his work is merely an introduction
to the subject. It is a very good intro-
duction.


REDUCE Your
WAISTLINE 3-6-
ĸ
Your wearing of fhe Governa Corrective
Health Belt will not only have a reducing
effect but will also assist you in your work
or in any outdoor or indoor sport. Stout-
figured men run risks of torsional strain
when golfing, playing tennis, or engaging
in any active recreation or occupation.
Men wearing the Corrective Health Belt
are protected against rupture risks, even if
they play polo, golf, cricket, tennis, or ride
horse-back. This revelation of support and
safety means peace of mind and better play,
thus conducing to greater bodily activity
which of itself is so beneficial.
Nobody need ever know you are wearing
the Governa Belt, but your scales, mirror
and the admiring comments of your friends
will be sufficient reminders of the improve-
ment in your figure and fitness.
NO DIETING - NO MEDICINES
NO EXERCISE
A bulging waistline is not only unbecoming, but it also endangers your
health. Insurance companies know the danger. The best medical
authorities warn against it, so don’t wait any longer. The Governa
Corrective Belt brings improved health as well as a smart figure in the
easiest, quickest and most pleasant way imaginable.
The Governa Corrective Health Belt is fitted to your individual measure,
without laces, hooks or buttons. Its elastic action causes a gentle
changing pressure on the abdomen, bringing results formerly obtained
only by regular massage and exercise.
Daily after the first day’s wear the wearer will find it possible to further
“draw in” the automatically self-locking buckles, thus securing a
progressive reduction-restoration to the normal figure.
REJUVENATE YOUR FIGURE
The Governa Corrective Belt restores a more natural bodily balance and
will make you appear inches slimmer AT ONCE. In 7 short days your
waistline will actually be 3 inches smaller —3 inches of “bulge,” strain
and discomfort gone—or it won’t cost you a penny.
The Belt supports the abdominal wall and keeps the digestive organs in
place—it gives you an erect, athletic carriage and greatly increases your
vigour and endurance. Note how much better your clothes fit and look
without a heavy waistline to pull them out of shape. You obtain a
reduced waistline and secure a wonderful new feeling of lightness, youth,
buoyancy and energy such as you have probably not felt since
the vitality-sapping burden first began to accumulate.
reel
SENT ON
DAYS' TRIAL
k
Prove, at our expense, that the Governa Corrective Belt will reduce your
girth by inches; prove that it will give you the smarter appearance that
you desire, and a waistline of which you will not be ashamed. We will send
you this wonderful Belt on 7 Days’ Free Trial, with the distinct under-
standing that it brings you the full results you desire or else IT COSTS
YOU NOTHING. Send the Trial Offer Coupon AT ONCE.
i POST THIS 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER
COUPON TO-DAY
1 GOVERNA CORRECTIVE BELT COMPANY,
I 252-6 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I Gentlemen: Without obligation on my part send me your illustrated
I folder describing the Governa Corrective Health Belt, and also give
| me full details of your 7 DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose 2d.
I in stamps for postage.
mm
■WWW*.
U.~
fir
" -
.
ii
1
4 -yvS
>
GENERAL VIEW OF THE MACLEOD GALLERY. BULLETIN BUILDINGS. 252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.


■ .<■
Ai 6 .
V .
' 7 s '
* ' . *&*■
■Hi
aw^
m
\
£
as
M
M?
i
* *


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2890.
July 3, 1935.
ANOTHER VISIT TO CANOSSA.
“In 1077 a German ruler appeared as a penitent before Canossa. In 1935 another German ruler said his country would never again resort to unrestricted submarine warfare."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d •
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas : 72 months, £1 10s •
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebt ides cuid United Kingdom vici France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
DR. PAGE’S IDEAS.
Dr. Page is almost unique among the 616 Australian
politicians, inasmuch as he is a man with ideas. They
come to him at odd moments, generated perhaps by
the motion of the boat or the train in which he
is travelling ; and some of them have worked.
Deputy-Prime Minister then as now, he thought
of the Federal-aid-roads scheme when on his way
back from the U.S.A., where he had seen lots of
cars, It was not one of his happy improvisations.
For one thing, it resulted in State Governments becom-
ing habituated to the use of easy money which they
had not raised themselves. They spent heaps of it
on the construction of motor roads running parallel
with their railways, thus accelerating the progress
of those undertakings to insolvency. When Federal-
aid funds were giving out, they turned round and
forbade commercial motor interests to make use of
the motor roads, except under restrictions which
could be and have been —converted into embargoes
at any moment. There are people who think that
commercial motor interests have retaliated by refusing
to support the recent loan.
Much more fortunate has been the Financial
Agreement, another of Dr. Page’s ideas. It stood
to the nation in a grave emergency when a financial
collapse was threatened and civil war was at least
a possibility. The Loan Council has not quite
fulfilled the ardent anticipations of its creator, having,
in Mr. Casey’s expression, become “a co-operative
borrowing society,” with disappointed parties threaten-
ing at intervals to become non-co-operators, like
Gandhi. Still, co-operative borrowing, even forced,
and if preceded by explosions of provincialism
and bad temper, is preferable to competitive borrow-
ing, which in the five years to June, 1927, swelled
the State debts by £155,735,000, and forced up interest-
rates to 71 p.c.—£56,287,000 was borrowed at 6 p.c.,
£16,237,600 at 61 p.c. and £5,808,300 at 1\ p.c.—and
which, if it could be reverted to now, might have
still more evil results.
Five or six weeks ago Dr. Page’s restless mind
was attracted to Section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution, which he then reckoned ripe for amend-
ment. Section 92 says that “Trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be
absolutely free.” When the Constitution was accepted
that was thought to be clear enough, and the
Fathers fondly hoped that it would do more than any
other section towards transforming the people of six
jealous colonies into a nation of freemen. Unhappily,
it has been interpreted to mean that motor carriage
of passengers and goods within and between States
may be prohibited by State Governments owning
obsolescent tramways and bankrupt railways, and
that the Commonwealth itself may prevent a grower
or a merchant from sending goods from one State
into another unless he exports a specified quantity
to a foreign country. But the final decision on
this matter rests with the Privy Council, and Dr.
Page ruefully observed that “we do not know with
certainty what the law is or where we stand.”
But that was five or six weeks ago. It was then
Dr. Page’s darling aspiration “to safeguard existing
schemes for the marketing of primary produce and
to permit the introduction of similar schemes for
other industries,” wheatgrowing in particular. He
invited the State Governments to help him to remould
Section 92, presumably by taking what is left of
inter-State freetrade out of it. But for that a referen-
dum would be necessary, and the thing would inevit-
ably be put to the electors as an effort of minorities
to abridge the rights of the majority so that they
may make it pay through the nose for the necessaries
of life. The Commonwealth Government should
have the power to legislate on any matter relating
to the life of the nation, but a deliberate attempt to
scrap Section 92, battered as it has been, in order
to impose on consumers gigantic food-control schemes,
aimed at forcing up prices by creating artificial
famines, would get a dreadful doing.
This evidently occurred to Dr. Page while he
and his colleagues were speeding to Westralia to
cushion the shock of the secesh crash (another of his
bright conceptions) and establish better relations with
the local Government and people. At Perth, thinking
aloud, he turned the idea of constitutional amend-
ment over in his volatile mind, only to reject it for
another “a way round.” He went on to propose
an organised system of Commonwealth and State
co-operation, in conjunction with the authorities”
yi.e., departmental heads) “and economic and scientific
a ;™rB of the various Governments,” in the domains
of finance, production and marketing, transport,
health and social services.”
ev 9 lvin § Jn Australia,” the gentleman
proceeded, a kind of super-Senate, a Parliament
of Governments.” We have “evolved” one already in
the conference of Premiers, who meet every few
months, and in the industrial field we have “evolved”
another, the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
whose judgments as to wages and working conditions
are binding on citizens and State Governments, and
are, m effect, laws overriding laws passed by State
f arliaments. In fact, though they work under other
names, there are Senates and “super-Senates” all over
the place. We should rather be “evolving” a simpler
system of government, under which there would be
a definite and lasting separation between national
and provincial powers. This is the system that exists
in Britain, Maoriland and South Africa, and it works ;
in those countries, though not in Australia, the
national and provincial authorities do the jobs
prescribed for them without clashing. It offers
Australia the only means of escape from the bog of
lawyer-made laws and the maze of taxes on the same
income and pioperty ; from the plethora of Govern-
ments, Governors, politicians and regulation-spinning
State employees, and from the benighted restraints
imposed under horse-and-buggy constitutions.
„ w h° could be called to account if Dr. Page’s
organised system of Commonwealth and State
co-operation went wrong? Obviously it would mean
a large extension of government by regulation, rule
without responsibility; and there is a maddening
amount of that now. In short, Dr. Page’s “way
round is a very poor substitute for the plain, though
not easy, way out for reform by consent, such as
would make education control and income tax
exclusively Commonwealth matters, and reform by
referendum, such as would convert the Common-
wealth Constitution into a truly modern instrument
of government while guaranteeing to the States
powers and resources sufficient for healthy local
development and self-expression. And Dr. Page is very
unjust to the people when he says that “only amend-
ments of the Constitution which can secure the sup-
port of all the parties and all the Governments have
any chance of acceptance.” Nationalisation of the
State debts was far from having the support of “all
the parties and all the Governments,” yet the people
twice sanctioned it—in 1910 by majorities in five of
the six States (N. S. Wales was the exception) and
the Commonwealth, and in 1928 by majorities in
all the States and the Commonwealth. And the
chances are that, if appealed to now, they would
grant the central Legislature full powers to make
laws in respect of trade, commerce, transport and
industry—powers which it must have if it is to
function as a national Parliament, and if the descent
to provincial chaos is to be stopped. For they really
want to be a nation of freemen, and they have no
craven fears of becoming great.
SELLING THE PUBLIC ESTATE.
Premier Dunstan, of Victoria, has decided to sell
50 acres of State land at Fisherman’s Bend, Mel-
bourne. The price is £40,000; the buyer, General
Motors-Holden’s. The Premier offered a long lease,
but the company declined to accept this, so Mr.
Dunstan agreed to alienate a lump of public property
right up against the city of Melbourne.
After the experience of earlier Governments in
selling Crown lands to keep themselves going, it would
have been thought that nobody to-day would dream
of permitting any more city land to leave the control
of the State. Mr. Dunstan thinks otherwise, and is
supported by the Labor party, which has hitherto
placed land nationalisation and retention of land not
yet alienated in the forefront of its programme. The
advent of Holden’s works will, of course, lead to an
access of Labor voters to Port Melbourne and sur-
rounding industrial suburbs. In Victorian Labor
politics principle no longer counts; expediency is
supreme.
Involved in this sale is the question of the
Melbourne airport. Essendon, which is used at
present, is far away and utterly unsuitable. Whether
the cutting of 50 acres out of the Fisherman’s Bend
area will affect its utility as an airport is matter for
argument. Holden’s say it won’t, and add that the
proximity of an airport will encourage them to
embark on manufacture of aerial requirements. But
Mr. Dunstan asserts roundly that he will not have
an airport at Fisherman’s Bend, even if the Com-
monwealth is willing to pay as much per acre as
Holden’s have paid. It is petty-minded provincialism,
but not so stupid as the attitude of some of the Labor
members, one of whom bellowed that an airport
would be “a battleground for warriors.” Mr. Brown,
of the Post Office, could tell the gentleman what
airports are for and how they are developing. His
scheme for linking up the capital cities by air mail
will, he says, require airports “complete with huge
landing- and taking-off runways. Customs offices,
post offices, quarantine offices, restaurants, hotels and
other buildings, forming a veritable little city—a city
in continuous communication with other airports and
also with all mail ’planes speeding to or from the
terminals.”
But the serious part of the business up to date is
not Premier Dunstan’s fight against Fisherman’s Bend
cs an airport, for there are methods by which his
objections may be overcome. The serious part is the
decision to part with the fee-simple of the land and
his implied intention to sell the rest of the area if he
chooses. The price he accepted is, of itself, open
to criticism ; his Minister of Lands has admitted that
the Government is getting £lOOO to £6OOO an acre
in rent “for land on the fringe of Fisherman’s Bend,”
and that “an acre on the Williamstown-road was sold
recently for £1000.”
Since the foundation of Melbourne, Fisherman’s
Bend has been a sort of Never-Never land. Its deso-
late and swampy and treeless surface has led to its
great value, by reason of proximity to the city, being
overlooked. It is the demand for its utilisation as an
airport which has brought it into practical politics,
and Melbourne is waking up to the great asset which
exists at its very door. To suggest that this large
area shall pass out of the control of the State would
strike any businessman as sheer stark lunacy. As
far as the Labor party is concerned, the sale of the
50 acres is a violation of everything that Labor has
fought for since it was born as a political power.
THE JEWS IN PALESTINE.
With a Government surplus of nearly £5,000,000,
accumulated in three years, a problem of under-
employment and a steady economic progress which
confers its benefits on Arab and Jewish inhabitants
alike, the modernised Holy Land may well lay claim
to being one of the few well-favored countries in the
world. It is consequently with some surprise, not
unmingled with suspicion as to motive, that one reads
in The Bulletin of January 16, somewhat delayed in
reaching this city, a pessimistic statement about condi-
tions in Palestine contributed by a former A.I.F.
Light Horseman.
Actually, Jewish efforts to reclaim Palestine from
its age-old neglect have proved so successful that
practically every stratum of the native population has
benefited. With its enormous State cash reserve, the
Government is able to extend considerable remissions
of agricultural tithes and taxation, hangovers from the
Turkish regime. Moreover, following the example of
Jewish settlers, who have brought new agricultural
methods and devices to rejuvenate the land, Arab culti-
vators have been enabled to increase their crop yields
and plant citrus. Arab peasants, too, have been afforded
an immense market for their vegetables and dairy
produce among the enlarged Jewish population, and
in this way have raised their own standards of living.
To say that the bulk of Jewish immigrants into
Palestine are Communists of the Moscow variety is
to court ridicule. As a matter of fact, the General
Jewish Federation of Labor, which has 70,000 Jewish
and Arab members, is the strongest opponent of
Communism and Communist propaganda, and yet
none suspects its fealty to Socialist ideals. The Pales-
tine Government has no use for Red propaganda
agents, and their secret organisation is proscribed.
While the Jewish population has grown from a
war-time total of 70,000 to about 330,000, the Arab
inhabitants (including Moslems and Christians) have
increased from 500,000 to 900,000. There is a large
and uncontrolled immigration over the land frontiers
to north, south and east. On the other hand, Jewish
immigration is strictly limited, and is admitted even
in official circles to lag behind the actual needs
of the development activity stimulated by Jewish
and international bodies, such as the Iraq
Petroleum Co. More Arabs than Jews are employed
on Government and municipal works ; they are more
prominent, too, in urban building trades.
To say that Tel Aviv is entirely Jewish, as though
that were a derogatory feature, is too absurd to
warrant attention. But Tel Aviv was always intended
to be a Jewish city: founded 26 years ago as a
Jewish suburb of Jaffa, it has grown largely since
1931. Why should not Tel Aviv be as Jewish as
Nablus, Ramleh, Gaza and Jenin are Arab?
It is sheer nonsense, moreover, to say that riots
occur from time to time. Arabs and Jews are finding
—slowly, it is true, but surely—a path to co-operation
through economic channels. Representatives of both
sections of the population serve side by side on
Government committees, have business connections,
are on the boards of large corporations (such as
Palestine Potash, Ltd., exploiting the Dead Sea works),
and in other ways are harmonising their interests.
If The Bulletin’s correspondent had gone
around the country less blinded by prejudice he would
have encountered something more British than an
occasional Union Jack, British police and troops and
a war cemetery. He would have heard the English
language spoken on all hands, as one of the three
official tongues of the land ; he would have noticed
a genuine respect for and acceptance of British
administration ; and he would have found a changed
psychology since pre-war days. There are still poli-
tical agitators ; but so there are in Syria, Trans-
Jordan, Egypt and Iraq, where the principle of a
Jewish National Home is not part of the Constitution.
And political agitation is far more evident in India.
The most rabid critics of Zionism cannot but
admit the excellent work which the Jewish people
are doing to regenerate a land which has lain fallow
and uncultivated for centuries. In doing so, they
are naturally giving their own people, particularly
those suffering from the persecution of their fellow-
citizens in other lands, a chance of regaining their
long-lost territorial nationhood.
JERUSALEM.
JULLAN L. MELTZER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Backward No Longer.
Plans for improving civil and military aviation in
Australia and linking this continent with overseas
countries by regular air services follow one another
with almost bewildering rapidity. Attention has been
concentrated on Kingsford Smith’s proposal for an
Australia-Maoriland enterprise, to be backed by both
Governments ; on the Post Office’s plan for air-mails
between the capital cities ; on the Americans’ occu-
pation of uninhabited mid-Pacific islets, claimed by
the British, preparatory (it is thought) to establishing
a trans-Pacific service, and on the arrival of 18 new
Hawker Demon ’planes for the R.A.A.F., which,
unless the politicians blow cold, is to have six fighting
squadrons within two years; but there are other
ventures on the list.
New England Airways has arranged with a British
constructional co. for the building of modern low-
wing Monospars. They will carry 12 passengers, are
two-engined and have a cruising speed of over 170
m.p.h. The British Pacific Trust, which shares in
the enterprise, is to buy the Larkin Aircraft plant in
Melbourne with a view to entering on all aircraft
constructional work except engirte-building.
Preliminary routes have been surveyed from
Adelaide to Townsville —about 2050 miles, which is
600 miles short of the trans-U.S.A. run. Flying time
will be about 14 hours: three hours each from
Adelaide to Melbourne, Melbourne to Sydney and
Sydney to Brisbane, and five hours to Townsville,
not counting stops.
As plans visualise night-flying before long, it will
be possible for men to leave their offices at closing-
time and be in the next-door capital for a late dinner.
And, considering saving of time and intermediate
expenses, the fares —it is proposed to charge £l3
return between capitals—will be cheaper than railway
fares.
If approval is given to the sending of inter-State
mails by air at ordinary postal rates, private companies
will be invited to submit tenders. The scheme will
involve elaborate ground organisation—modern aero-
dromes, emergency landing-grounds, radio beacons,
telephonic-contact schemes and the like—but the Gov-
ernment may as well make up its mind to the outlay.
It will be cheaper to do the spadework now than
to wait till it hasi to be done in a hurry,
1 4
Prejudging the Issue.
Last Wednesday tjwo Sydney papers and their editors
were fined for contempt. Justice Halse-Rogers remark-
ing in reserved judgments that “in a case which had
excited an extraordinary amount of public interest”
they had assumed that a murder had been committed.
It is of paramount importance that the trial of any
person charged with a crime should not be prejudiced
by any statements made in the public press.
But trials are prejudiced by practically every
inquest that excites public interest. Since no rules
of evidence are observed-, hearsay tittle-tattle of all
kinds is liable to be admitted. Most newspaper
readers make no distinction between a coronial inquiry
and a criminal trial. A result is that, after any sen-
sational inquest has been in progress for a few days,
accusations, many of them baseless, are being levelled
right and left by bar-room or kerbstone knowalls.
It isn’t the coroner’s fault but the outcome of
an out-of-date system. When Coroners’ Courts were
instituted in England eight or nine centuries ago news
travelled slowly; as recently as the mid-Victorian
era the inhabitants of many English counties were
“foreigners” to people in adjoining counties. Nowa-
days gossip travels round the world in a few seconds.
And it is on no better than gossip that coroners’ juries
find verdicts of murder, thus prejudicing the chances
of accused persons far more than any newspaper
report could do.
Coroners’ Courts were shorn of most of their
original powers by the 1887 Act, and the time is ripe
for them to be shorn of some more. The Bulletin
has been saying so for years. Under modern condi-
tions these Courts should be allowed only to determine
the cause of death, leaving Crown Prosecutors to make
subsequent charges and Criminal Courts to decide
on the innocence or guilt of the persons charged.
The sequel to the abortive “Arm” inquest affords
another proof that inquests in their present form are
superfluous.
4
An Unwanted Railway.
Red Hill is a very small town, but to mention its
name in the presence of Commonwealth or S.A.
Ministers is a very risky business.
The S.A. Government will have nothing to do
with the Federal proposal for a 4ft. gauge
railway from Port Augusta to Red Hill, plus a third
rail from that town to Adelaide, nor is it prepared
to extend its sft. Bin. line from Red Hill to Port
Pirie to meet the proposed 4ft. line from Port
Augusta.
In fact, it doesn’t want the line at all, rightly
believing that the small benefits to be derived from
it will be more than outweighed by the loss on the
line and on the existing Peterborough line, which it
will largely displace.
Federal Ministers on their Perth excursion passed
over the route of the proposed line (by motor), and
the Acting-P.M. was pleased to notice that “all the
towns along the route were in favor of the proposed
line.”
If this were the sole test of the necessity for
building a railway the map of Australia to-day would
look like a diagram of the scoring shots in a Bradman
treble century.
Had Dr. Page inquired further he would probably
have found that the people in these towns were also
in favor of abolishing the Transport Strangulation
Board, which removed from the roads a motor trans-
port service that carried passengers between Adel-
aide, Red Hill and Port Pirie more comfortably and
more rapidly than the proposed railway would do.
At Port Pirie Dr. Page told the townspeople that
Acceptance of the offer would mean the absorption
of a large number of unemployed men on a reasonable
and reproductive work. That was the ground on which
the people of that district should base their representa-
tions to the State Government.
It is also the ground on which too many unreason-
able and unreproductive railways have already been
constructed —a ground which has always been unjusti-
fiable for all except vote-catching purposes, and one
which, with the development of other means of trans-
port, becomes more untenable every day.
Public opinion will not allow the harsh restric-
tions on road transport to continue indefinitely. And
even while the Federal Cabinet is endeavoring to
foist an unwanted railway upon an unwilling State
the Postal Department is projecting a daily air service
(mails and passengers) between the capitals.
*
Too Much of a Good Thing.
When a golfer of the standing of W. A. Windeyer,
one of the donors of the Kirk-Windeyer Cup, is
moved to protest against more bushland being taken
from the Sydney public by players of the ancient
game the position is clearly serious. It is getting
worse.
Twenty years ago the golf links of Sydney and
suburbs could be numbered on one hand ; to-day
they are almost as numerous as cricket ovals. An 18-
hole course may monopolise 1000 acres. If there
are trees on the fairways they have to be removed.
Royal Sydney started a tree-planting movement on
its course the other day, but nothing can compensate
for the lovely trees it destroyed early in the century.
Nominally the public has access to some links.
There are short cuts through Moore Park, Bonnie
Doon and The Lakes, and strangers are even
tolerated on many of the links without which no
northern suburb is considered complete these days.
But people who wander about a golf course, or even
frequent the vicinity of one, do so at their
peril. No sensible parents allow small children on or
near a course during week-ends or public holidays ;
there is even a risk in living within driving distance
of a fairway.
A result of the exigencies of a game which was
never intended to be played in closely settled areas is
that in every Sydney district of any size huge areas
have been more or less permanently alienated from
thousands of residents for the amusement of a few
hundreds. And it is happening in and around other
capital cities. The Fx*ench can give us a lesson in
democracy here. South Sydney alone has more
private golf links than Paris and all its suburbs.
♦
“Exceptionally Favorable.”
T. H. Scambler, speaking at the Swanston-street
(Melbourne) Church of Christ, quoted from the
prospectus of a Chinese manufacturing co., largely
foreign-owned, which was seeking more capital:
It will be seen that the company has an abundant
supply of cheap labor to draw from.
Tfiese are familiar words. In other years the
prospectuses of companies in most countries laid great
stress upon the abundance of cheap labor —which
meant, in reality, that there lived close to the pro-
posed factory a large population on the breadline.
Of recent years the cheerful news has not been
•broadcast; it is regarded as better tactics to keep the
information for private circulation.
We order these things better in the Common-
wealth. Australian manufacturers pay decent wages
and provide decent conditions of work, and, what is
most important, do not exploit child labor. Those
who may have other notions are obliged by law to
observe these standards. In the Chinese co.’s litera-
ture it is set out that last year, with insufficient capital,
profits had exceeded £200,000, and that annual profits
had exceeded actual capital on three occasions.
The plant operated day and night, and 2500 employees
were engaged. The wages, at so much per day,
were:
Men, 7lck to Is.; women, sd. to 71d.; boys (about
15), 2fd. to 51d.; boys and girls aged less than 10,
2d. to sd.
And working hours:
From 5.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. one shift, and
5.30 p.m. to 5.30 a.m. the other.
Large-scale industry is something new to the
Flowery Republic. Conceivably the operative on a
shilling a day may be well off, judged by Asiatic
standards. Nobody knows what is the purchasing
power of a shilling in the poorer districts of China ;
it may represent quite a fair daily wage. But there is
no excuse for the hours of labor. Twelve-hour shifts
are horrors which in Caucasian communities have
passed with the rack and the thumbscrew.
In one of his essays Bernard Shaw referred to
a member of the House of Lords who had spoken
strongly against prohibition of children under seven
years of age working in coalmines. “I trust,” said
Shaw, “that this noble lord is in hell pushing red-
hot rocks uphill for all eternity.” What punishment
this side of the grave could fit the crime of the gentle-
men —some of them foreigners—who amassed the
£200,000 yearly partly from the twelve-hour shifts
of babies?
♦
Motor Litigation.
Every new law produces new offences: six-o’clock
closing—drinking after hours; betting restrictions —
s.-p. shops ; and so on. But no new Australian law of
recent years has been responsible for a fraction of
the litigation produced by certain inventions. Not-
ably the motor-car. Here is the record of N. S.
Wales for a single day (Tuesday) of last week:
Two Supreme Court motor negligence actions in
which plaintiffs claimed £l5OO and £5OOO respectively.
Three District Court motor negligence actions
(£lOO, £2OO and £400).
A Quarter Sessions case in which accused was sen-
tenced to 12 months’ imprisonment for driving on after
knocking a pedestrian down. Also cases in which one
person was charged with stealing a car and another with
false pretences in connection with a car.
A negligent-driving claim at Parramatta Court
(£5O) and charges of wanton driving at Bulli, Newtown
Summons and Sydney Central Courts.
Charges against employees of the Green Star Trad-
ing Co. of “driving motor-vehicles a greater distance
than 50 miles in competition with the railways,” in
which the fines totalled £lOl5. (“Heavy costs were also
ordered against the defendants.”)
The Government proposes to spend £9,500,000
on “wide arterial roads,” which will give an impetus
to the purchase of more and faster cars. If the war
on commercial motor transport is nevertheless to be
continued, and if the police campaign against reckless
driving fails, it will be necessary to appoint new
Courts and Judges specially to deal with motor cases.
♦
The Threat to Old Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —There are other reasons for not
“Destroying History” (B. 19/6/’35) in Sydney.
Coming into history when we did, it was natural that
we should begin building in the current English
fashion, which, fortunately, was Georgian. The
pioneers based their plans on Georgian, and altered
or added to the style certain features which they
considered the new conditions and new climate
required. Therefore we may claim that adapted
Georgian as the only genuine Australian architecture
—an architecture which grew out of the needs of the
people.
Public buildings were also based on the goodly
fashion of the day, so that the appearance of the
little town of Sydney in, say, 1825 must have been
very charming. Almost all those early homes have
gone, almost all the public buildings have gone, too,
but there remain St. James’s Church and the Hyde
Park barracks.
The church is easily the loveliest building in
Sydney. Walk across Hyde Park at the ending of the
day and see the warm red brick and the green spire in
the evening light! You will get the same comfort and
satisfaction that Carlyle used to get from the sight of
Chelsea Hospital. Then, in imagination, shear off the
excrescences which have been added to the barracks
and you will see in the midst of towering modern
piles of concrete and stone a little bit of that early
Sydney which Greenway planned. Church and bar-
racks are not shamed by, nor do they shame, the
modern buildings. Both serve their purpose.
Other countries treasure their historical buildings.
In Canada they show visitors the old places with
pride. The U.S.A. not only cherishes its old buildings,
but imports others from foreign lands. Sydneyites now
have a chance to be similarly imaginative ; to preserve
beauty as well as history. It will be an everlasting
reproach to this generation if we let it slip.—Yours
etc., J. L. Ranken.
*
Unemployment Insurance.
Dear Bulletin, —It is interesting to learn that
unemployment insurance may be introduced in N. S.
Wales (B. 12/6/’35), but having studied the working
of the British scheme I am not enthusiastic.
Unemployment insurance made its appearance
in Britain in 1912. All Liberals and some Conser-
vatives approved of it in its original form: State
contributions were relatively small, and benefits
ceased after 15 weeks. Agitators of the Harry Pollitt
type had always demanded bigger State ( i.e ., taxpayers’)
contributions, special allowances for dependants and
extension of the system to all trades. The post-war
slump made their arguments popular.
In 1920 unemployment insurance was made com-
pulsory in the case of all but agricultural laborers,
domestics, minor civil servants and a few more
classes. Special allowances for dependants arrived
in the following year, and three years later the
MacDonald (Labor) Government passed legislation
which enabled insured workers to draw benefits for
themselves and dependants as long as they were
unemployed.
The MacDonald (National) Government which
came into, office in 1929 allowed workers to refuse
jobs which they considered distasteful or underpaid,
and abolished the requirement of a minimum of
30 contributions to the fund before an unemployed
person could benefit from it. Last year’s Act set up
a committee, and authorised it to make proposals
“as soon as may be” for the insurance of agricultural
laborers; extended insurance to “persons of school-
leaving age [l4] as from September 3, 1934,” and
sanctioned the funding of the present national-
insurance debt of £115,000,000.
In 1913, a year after the system was introduced,
the gross income was £2,268,400 ; the total expendi-
ture on benefits was £236,458. For the year ended
March 31, 1933 (the latest for which figures are
available to the writer), income and expenditure were
£117,808,429. The latest objectives of the T.U.C, are
to have unemployment benefits raised to £2 per week
for a man, wife and two children, and to make the
fund a fixed charge on the taxpayers, like the Army
and Navy.
A question the taxpayers of N. S. Wales have a
right to ask is: Does the Stevens Government mean
to start where the British Government began or where
it looks like leaving off? In the latter event the cost
of social services will be doubled within a very few
years.—Yours etc., Second Divvy.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.”: Is there a more deceptive slogan
than “That Schoolgirl Complexion”—-
meaning- a good complexion? I ask as
a Sydneyite who habitually travels on
morning trams with schoolgirls. In a
recent batch of a dozen I identified five
with pimples and two with reddish noses
suggestive of indigestion. Most of them
had muddy skins. Only one, a flaxen-
haired lass of perhaps 14, had a com-
plexion free of easily discernible blem-
ishes. In days to come these lasses will
doubtless be as alluring as others of their
sex and generation, and their com-
plexions will be beyond criticism; but
the change won’t arrive till they have
left school. Free of the physical upsets
that afflict most schoolgirls, and of
schoolmistresses with objections to cos-
metics, they will blossom like the rose.
Their complexions won’t necessarily be
better, but they will look better.
“M.G.”: Depression makes us ac-
quainted with strange occupations.
Evidence in a Melbourne court recently
showed that the practice of “renting”
cows has become popular. People who
can’t or don’t wish to buy a cow out-
right or on time-payment or the lay-by
system hire one from a dairyman and
take the milk. Which recalls that during
the hard times of ’93 one of the dealers
in the Victoria Market made quite a
good thing out of a “circulating library”
for clothes. By becoming a subscriber
Florrie of the jam factory could cut
quite a dash in a long fur coat or even
a Paris model with the boy friend who
took her to the football match.
* ❖ ;H :Jc.
“Centurion”: According to the cables,
only a very small percentage of the new
recruits under the German conscription
scheme was passed out as unfit. Yet
these youths were born in 1914, and as
babies must have been on short com-
mons during the British blockade.
The figures are probably cooked, but
if they are correct the volunteers offer-
ing for the British regular army suffer
sadly by comparison. The last avail-
able figures in this connection showed a
rejection percentage in some districts up
to 40 p.c., though height and chest meas-
urement standards have been lowered.
Certainly, the selection for voluntary en-
listment is likely to be more vigorously
conducted than that for nation-wide
compulsory enrolment; but on the
figures that is cold comfort.
# * * #
“Avon”: Maoriland’s oldest news-
paper, the “Christchurch Times,” dead
at 84, early fell under the control
of William Reeves, father of W.P.
Reeves the younger for a while edited
the journal, and was at least nominally
in the chair when, as a member of
Seddon’s Cabinet, he drafted the world’s
first Arbitration and Conciliation Act. In
the editor’s room of the old daily was
cherished (when last 1 saw it) the chair,
twice broken and twice repaired, on
which Seddon sat when he paid a friendly
call. Legend says it had to be consider-
ably strengthened before it could stand
up to its task. Some years ago the paper,
and with it its surviving younger brother,
the “Star,” became the property of the
syndicate that runs the “Auckland Star,”
“N.Z. Farmer” and “N.Z. Smallholder.”
Christchurch (population 91,500) has for
over 20 years enjoyed two morning and
two evening dailies. The “Sun” (even-
ing) drops out at the same time as the
“Times,” leaving the field to the “Press”
(morning) and the “Star” (evening).
* * * *
“Jeames” on laws of inheritance:
t The news that the Duchess of Kent has
“cancelled all her engagements for the summer”
has no Constitutional significance. Even if the
expected stranger is a boy he won’t displace
Princess Elizabeth, who will become Queen of
England if she lives, unless the Prince mar-
ries and has children, or the Duke of York
(the Prince not having married) becomes the
father of a son. The British royal family
comes under a modified version of the Salic
Law (instituted in France in the sixth century
to exclude females from inheriting the Crown);
that is to say, while preference is given to
royal males, females may have more than an
outside chance of succeeding. On the other
hand, most peers and all baronets have to
produce sons or see their titles and estates go
to other branches of their families.
* * * *
“Simon”: A blind man not only cul-
tivates a sense of location but also
develops his senses of smell and hearing
in a marked degree. Many years ago
a jockey came down badly in the Tam-
“ Perfect, madam! Why, it looks
almost as if it had GROWN on you!”
worth (N.S.W.) Cup. He left hospital
with a plate in his head and stone-blind.
However, he learnt to play the accor-
dion, and he regularly collects his way
through towns in the north-west of N. S.
Wales. His plan is to sniff his way along
the streets until he comes to a pub—the
best stand for an itinerant musician.
I recently saw him in Gunnedah, when
he told me he was doing no good, as a
bad cold prevented him smelling out the
pubs. I guided him to three or four. A
week later I saw him in Narrabri, and to
my “Hello, how’re you doin’?” came his
cheerful “Good-o! You’re the bloke that
led me to the pubs in Gunnedah.”
$ $
“C. Sharp”; “Hamer” has missed a
beat in describing Isaac Nathan as our
first composer (B. 19/6/’35). There
were at least seven composers in Sydney
before the energetic little Jew arrived in
1841. Dr. Lhotsky, whose “Song of the
Women of the Menero Tribe” was the
first music printed by machinery in 1835,
mentioned that it had been composed by
himself and “a number of musical gentle-
men of the colony.” Reichenberg, band-
master of the 40th Regiment, was the
first composer ; he produced the “Aus-
tralian Quadrilles” in 1825. The “Aus-
tralian March” by Edwards, bandmaster
of the 57th, dedicated to Governor Dar-
ling, was always played in honor of his
Ex., except on one occasion when “Over
the Hills and Far Away” was neatly sub-
stituted to give him an idea of where
the members of the Turf Club wished
him. Stubbs was the first Australian-
born composer ; his “Australian Minuet”
was written in 1832. Sippe was a com-
poser particularly skilled in orchestra-
tion. Vincent Wallace was composing
in Sydney in 1836, and he and Sippe
were so much associated that the latter
very likely had a big share in “Maritana.”
# * *
“H.F.”: “Becks” in his survey of
French ex-royalties (B. 19/6/’35) omits
all mention of the Napoleonic heir. On
the death of the Prince Imperial in the
Zulu War this distinction passed to
Prince Victor Napoleon, who married
Clementine, daughter of Leopold 11. of
Belgium. The couple lived principally
with the widowed Empress Eugenie at
Farnborough Hill in England. Victor
Napoleon died some few years ago, leav-
ing behind several children ; and one of
these is still the Napoleonic heir. As I
see it, he is more likely to be Napoleon
IV. than any Orleans or Bourbon is
likely to be Louis the Umpteenth.
* * * *
“G.P.”: The magic of a gold pass (B.
12/6/’35) is sometimes no proof against
the lure of a timely tip. Travelling with
my husband, an M.L.A, for 10 years, on
the one occasion on which he has had the
spare cash or time to make use of his
inter-State pass, we booked through from
Cairns to Sydney—a two-berth compart-
ment. On changing trains we learned
that the berth specified on our reserva-
tion ticket was “occupied” for the re-
mainder of the journey. We wondered
how it had been managed until we over-
heard a prosperous-looking commercial
traveller conversing with a bright young
thing. “I’ve fixed it up all right,” he
assured her. “Come into No. ” (the
number of our reservation ticket). Be-
ing deadheads we didn’t feel we had the
right to squeal.
# # # :{;
“Treble X”: The latest projected jubi-
lee in England has to do with beer,
which, it is claimed, is just entering on
the 500th year of its existence as the
national beverage. There is talk among
brewers of marking the glad event in
some special way; nevertheless, there is
still some haziness about the date when
hops were first introduced into the Eng-
lishman’s malted liquor. Records of the
Brewers’ Company give the date as 1435,
and a proclamation of Henry VI. has
been dug up commending the production
of “biere” and referring to the malevo-
lent attempts of Hollanders to undermine
it with more potent and less wholesome
brews. Several old English rhymes,
however, could be quoted to show that
hops had little or no vogue in England
until the time of Henry VIII. One
writer has left it on record that they
arrived in the same year as the Reforma-
tion (1532). And there is a distich in
Walton’s Com pleat A ngler :
Hops and turkeys, carps and beer
Came into England all in one year.
Turkeys certainly never came to Eng-
land until America had been discovered.
“East Riding”: Am surprised to note
that those discussing mead and cider (B.
26/6/’35) make no mention of another
noble drink, and one peculiarly Eng-
lish, perry. In my boyhood this was a
favorite tipple with Yorkshire folk of the
cottager class, farmers and other higher-
ups affecting the real Yorkshire stingo,
gin and water, hot in winter and cold
in summer. Cider was also to be had,
but found little favor with the Tykes of
the Dales, who preferred the North
Country beverage. Perry was made from
pears, and its faint flavor of cloves made
it much more palatable than “rough”
cider, though it could kick as hard or
harder.
t- * * *
“Tabula”: Talking of finger-prints (B.
19/6/’35), it has been seriously advocated
lately in Uncle Sam’s country, where the
present system has witnessed its most
notable developments, that everyone
should be finger-printed ; and why not?
A large amount of prejudice would doubt-
less have to be overcome, but otherwise
the difficulties wouldn’t amount to much.
The law of all civilised countries requires
that the birth of every child should be
registered, and the means of identifying
him or her might just as reasonably be
filed and tabulated as the mere fact of
existence, especially as finger-prints, on
the authority of experts, show scarcely
any perceptible alteration from the cradle
to the grave. If every boy and girl had
to be finger-printed at some fixed age,
there would be no obloquy attached to
the process, and what a help it would
be to the electoral authorities, and to
the police in solving puzzles that baffle
them so often! The Albury “pyjama-
girl mystery,” for instance.
* * # *
“Unity”: Even our aristocratic Syd-
ney suburbs are subject to police raids
wherein the pursued develop amazing
ability to disguise themselves as some-
one or something else. A bridge four
sat quietly in a ground-floor flat, with a
French window open to the garden.
Dummy had retired to put the coffee on,
when out of the night sprang a young
man in evening kit. Taking in the situa-
tion at a glance, he sat himself at the
table, picked up dummy’s hand, and
said in a loud, resolute voice “Two
spades!” The other players were still
staring at the interloper when a police-
man appeared at the door. “See anyone
go past here?” inquired the Law.
“Nobody’s been round here, sergeant,”
the stranger replied. “Three hearts.” The
policeman retired, after which the in-
truder mumbled thanks and a partial
explanation about a “row over a girl”
and left as speedily as he had come.
* * * *
“Seconde”: Two Melbourne Uni. stu-
dents have bounded into the headlines
by fighting a duel with untipped foils, in
a style known to no school of fencing
in writer’s experience. Honor, it
appears, was satisfied after one had
been scratched on the ear. One Syd-
ney tabloid fatuously remarked that the
affair was fought out “in the manner of
Old Heidelberg.” There, and in other
German universities, student duels are
fought with the schlager, a heavy
razor-edged sabre, and severe wounds
are often inflicted in spite of heavy pad-
ding. All the same, the foil without its
button is a dangerous weapon, and the
fact that the youngsters are alleged to
have swiped at each other, stage-broad-
sword fashion, instead of using the point,
shows that the authorities were amply
justified in fining them £1 apiece.
“Como”: Melbourne historians have
been tempted by the farcical duel
at the University to look up previous
scraps of the sort. The earliest record
is one involving the late Peter Snodgrass,
member of a well-known Vic. family,
who shot himself in the foot before his
antagonist could raise his pistol. Snod-
grass next had a cut at Redmond
Barry, but shot wide, upon which
Barry contemptuously fired into the air.
Barry later became a, famous Judge and
Chancellor of the University. It fell to
his lot to sentence Ned Kelly to death,
and as soon as he had finished the bush-
ranger turned and observed: “You won’t
be long after me.” The prophecy was
correct. .
SHE RINGS THE BELL.
“Respondent said the petitioner threatened to shoot
him unless he married her. He was afraid, having
seen her in a shooting gallery where she ‘rang
the bell’ every time.”
Gone are the days into the far perspective
When any missile from a woman’s arm —
Her aim being so notoriously defective —
Would menace its particular objective
With any possibility of harm.
Her aim and her ability were scouted
To hit a haystack with a caramel,
Yet now—a fact unquestioned and undoubted —
Wherever shooting galleries’ lures are shouted
She rings the bell.
There was a time for feminine repressions,
Before Victoria’s spacious reign began.
To-day they climb and crash into professions
And callings once regarded as possessions
For the exclusive use of Brother Man.
Where moving shadows elbow one another
Across the target’s challenge and its spell,
And fumes of powder make you cough and
smother,
She shows herself more than your equal,
brother;
She rings the bell.
We used to think that never any missile
Went where directed, by a woman hurled.
Her aim, when once he’d seen it, made him
whistle—
Between the rose, the shamrock and the thistle
It takes a lot of folk to make a world!
Her saw her arm and never thought to let her
Pose for a modern Wilhelmina Tell.
He ringed the belle, and thought himself her
debtor . . .
But now he knows considerably better:
She rang the bell.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The captain told me no one should miss inspecting this"
“Bui, Henry, couldn't We get someone to do it for us?"
“Centurion”: Unless photographs lie,
the man who did the equestrian statue of
Monash which has been “released’’ in
London has given him a seat which would
disgrace a newly-appointed infantry ad-
jutant. His stirrups are shortened in
racing style, and his knees are level with
the saddle pommel, as a jockey’s are.
His closed fists, held out in front of him
on a level with his Sam Browne belt,
clutch a tangle of objects supposed to be
reins. The effect is that of a flapper
farewelling her best boy on a steamer
excursion, with both paws full of paper
streamers. As for the horse, with a few
spots of red paint and a pair of rockers
under him he would be a prime favorite
in any Nursery Stakes.
Jji Jfc 3*
“Jindivick”: English law draws a
sharp distinction between dogs and cats
—that is to say, between the liability of
their owners for damage done by them
(B. 19/6/’35). A dog is held to be
amenable to training, while a cat remains
a wild creature ( ferce naturce). Thus a
gamekeeper may legally shoot cats on
sight, but he may not shoot a dog unless
he catches it in the act of killing or
attacking something in his charge. The
owner of a dog is liable for damages if
his hound bites the dustman or the post-
man, but should his cat behave similarly
the victim has no redress.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: “Rat Bites Baby
Asleep in Perambulator,” says a Mel-
bourne paper. It won’t be news to many
doctors —I’ve seen four such happenings
in these last 20 years. The brutes will
attack anybody, and nothing edible comes
amiss to them. They can swim rivers and
chew up fish, prawns, young eels and
snails. They can climb trees and pinch
eggs. They have polished off 35 horses
in a Paris slaughter-house, down to the
bone, in one night; and Hagenback, the
circus man, had to kill three elephants
because rats had gnawed their feet.
Many a fire has started because rats have
got busy amongst matches or electric-
light wires, and not a few floods because
rats have gnawed holes in dams.
* * * *
“Jeames”: Apropos honorifics in Aus-
tralia, the papers, while bestowing titles
freely on persons who have no right to
them, often withhold titles wrongly. Thus
a Sydney daily last week showed “the
Governor and Dr. H. R. G. Poate in-
specting a guard of honor.’’ The doctor,
being in A.M.C. uniform with medals
up, was Lieut.-Colonel Poate for the
occasion. On the same day in another
State the Governor’s wife was referred
to as “her Excellency.” Only six women
in the Empire are entitled to this dis-
tinction, and only one in Australia —the
wife of Governor-General Isaacs.
* * * *
“Como”: Mrs. Ernest Scott has been
telling Melb. University students of the
fortune made by a negro girl who in-
vented an “anti-kink” mixture, which
takes the curl out of the hair of the
colored persons of refinement in the
U.S.A. Visitors to the Southern States
find every negro beauty parlor —and it
has to be a small town which hasn’t a
dozen of them—blazoning its announce-
ment “Anti-Kink Treatment” in neon
signs by night. Strange it is that, while
the colored girl pays to get the curl
taken out of her tresses, her white sister
goes to her own beauty parlor for a
permanent wave.
i-c $
“Figurehead”: Sydney dailies missed
the waterfront thrill of the year. The
A.U.S.N. steamer Macumba (Captain
Upward) was proceeding without steam
to Balls Head for coal, in tow of the
tugs Theresa Ward (Captain Gwyer) and
Wybia (Captain Handley). When they
were off Miller’s Point and about to
round Goat Island, the oil-tanker Amiris
(Captain Knudsen), which had been
obscured by the land, hove in sight so
suddenly that avoidance of a collision
seemed impossible. Captain Upward
ordered the tugs to go astern, and the
engines of the big tanker lashed the water
in reverse. “Don’t touch me or you’ll
blow up half Sydney! ” yelled the skipper
of the Amiris, an eye cocked on huge
oil tanks, within biscuit-throw, as it were,
Splendid seamanship in a crisis on the
part of all concerned and a couple of
cork fenders less than a foot in diameter
saved what might have been one of the
worst explosions the port of Sydney has
experienced.
* =l= * *
“Eritrea”; Sydney “Telegraph” had
better look lively and withdraw its Addis
... : . .. . , .
Ababa representative, if it has one theie.
In a cable the other day it referred to
Abyssinia as “Africa’s negro State.” The
Abyssinians are of pure Hamitic blood,
and practically of the same strain as the
ancient Egyptians. There is nothing
negroid about them, and to hint that
here is is enough to rouse any Ethiopian
m fury. If the T. wants to study
African negro States it had better hie
away to the other side of the Icon-
linent where the Liberian Republic
swelters ,n civilised savagery.
„ _ J' T „ _ . ‘ , * ,
C.W. ; Construction work on poultry
farms is much aided nowadays by the
use of second-hand material. A dis-
mantled pub was doing yeoman service
on one I visited recently. “Saloon
Bar” was quite a cheerful introduction
across the double glass doors of the back
verandah. “No Gambling” appeared
above the packing- and grading-table,
and “Positively No Cheques Cashed”
held its warning in another place. But
round the farm itself there were incon-
gruities. I noticed several roosters flatly
disobeying the injunction “Ladies Only”
on the door of the breeding-pens.
* * * *
“Lad”; That Minnesota manufac-
turer’s letter (B. 9/6/’35) reminds me of
my experience at a Los Angeles hotel.
Another guest (female), having noted
my nationality on the register, asked the
proprietor for an introduction to me.
When it came her expression was one
of surprise mingled with disappointment,
All Australians, she had thought, were
colored. Her impression, I gathered, had
been acquired from the picture of an
abo. in her school primer.
* * * *
“Bannockburn”: The antiquity of the
Highland tartan and the traditions about
its tribal distinctiveness have no doubt
been exaggerated, but “Nichol Jarvie”
(B. 26/6/’35) goes too far in asserting
that “the variegated tartans never made
their appearance until the eighteenth
century.” Long before then distinctive
“sets” were recognised as the badges of
various clans, though doubtless they
were less ornamentally intricate than
those you may see to-day. Bishop Lesley,
writing in the sixteenth century on High-
landers and their habits and customs,
placed it on record that “all, both noble
and common people, wear mantles of
one sort, except that the nobles prefer
those of several colors.” George
Buchanan wrote (1582); “They delight in
marled clothes, specially those that have
long stripes of sundry colors ; they love
chiefly purple and blue, in sundry ways
divided.” And “Nichol Jarvie” will find
a reference to tartan clan distinctions in
Martin’s Western Isles of Scotland
(1703). “Every isle,” the author notes,
“differs from another in its fancy of
making plaids as to the stripes in
breadth and co ois e same
may be seen through the mainland , at
first view of a man’s plaid you may
guess the place of his residence.”
* * * *
“Old Bailey”; “Felo” asks (B.
26/6/’35) why the “savage old law”
dealing with suicide under mutual pact
f .. eliminated from lhe Statute
. that ft isn’t there ;
crjme with which the unsuccessful
b f a double suicide is charged
j sin , murder? which is a crime at
c p % Law . Such (ailures are
frequently charged and tried, and sen-
tence is recorded—not passed nowadays.
A nom i na l penalty is the rule, as is also
the case in many convictions for infanti-
cide. We have changed in actual prac-
tice but not in general principle since a
hundred years ago Kirke White could
write “A Lullaby to Her Infant by a
Female Convict the Night Betoie Her
Execution.’
* * * *
“Sinnik”: In the world of sport, to
adapt Swift, there is nothing consistent
but inconsistency. Here is Perry booked
to come to Australia for a massive salary
„ to enable him to
remain an amateur”!
If he hadn ’ t got it he “might have signed
an even more lucrative Hollywood con-
tract and been lost to the Empire and
amateurism.” When Perry arrives in
Sydney he won’t be able to play tennis
publicly against J. O. Anderson without
forfeiting his amateur status, but no-
thing would happen if he played golf
against Soutar. If he decided to go
in for amateur riding he would be
limited to 10 wins; as against which
he wouldn’t be penalised for competing
with professional jockeys. And in cer-
tain eventualities (known only to the
English Jockey Club and the Creator) he
wouldn’t lose his amateur status if he
rode 20 or more winners. The former
cavalry officer who rode the winner of
this year’s National was still an amateur
when last heard of. Perry will find when
he arrives that certain pros, who make
little or no money out of their skill
(League footballers, for example) are
regarded ipso facto as social blanks,
whereas fliers (some of whom ply for
hire like taxi-drivers) are amateurs and
public idols. And if he calls on the sec-
retary of the Amateur Athletic Union of
Australia (Mr. Weir, of Melbourne) he
will be told that “even if a man is en-
gaged in a profession for five days in
the week and is paid for the sport which
he plays on one afternoon that single
lapse will make him a pro.”
“It's this blasted hill-climbin' that gets a bloke down!"
POSTSCRIPT TO A LEGEND.
The dragon is dead, is dead!
They have made of his bones the dust
That I put on my celery-bed—
It’s the best of manure, I trust?
My armor hangs on the wall
Of the shed where I keep my tools ;
There’s no room in the house at all,
And a wife has her rights and rules.
There’s mine, now, turns up her nose,
Says dragons are out of date;
And “Please, will you fix that hose
And the hinge of the garden gate?
“And, really, there’s no wood split”—-
In sweetly reproachful tones —
“There’s the mulch for the rhubarb-pit,
And those cuttings you promised Jones.”
It’s as well to be safe and sane,
Perchance, when the heart grows grey.
But ah, God! to be young again,
With the dragon alive to slay!
Now I sprinkle the celery shoots
And toil that my tribe be fed.
The earth is mine and its fruits,
But the dragon is dead, is dead!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
m.
&
yr
'Sr-
O
10 for 9 d '—2o for 1/6
Wrapped In moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
ness.
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me
66
6%
JI94SM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
• ■- • v.-.-.y ■
POLITICAL POINTS
Considering that subscriptions to the
loan were £1,700,000 less than the
£1,2,500,000 asked for, it is diverting to
recall that some of the Loan Councillors
protested that the money would be
too dear, and others that frightful things
would happen unless Victoria got
£5,550,000 and Tasmania £2,100,000.
The State Premiers’ ideas ran to
15 or 16 millions of 3? per cents, issued
at par. The Commonwealth Bank Board
told them frankly they couldn’t get it at
the price, and suggested 10 millions at
3f p.c. They, of course, being politicians
(who know everything), knew better.
A few hours before Mr. Casey’s loan
closed £1,700,000 short of requirements,
Melbourne “Argus” found it “difficult to
understand” why British investors are
neglecting the last Australian conver-
sion loan returning 3.5 p.c. and rush-
ing British municipal loans returning
3.07 p.c. Apparently British and Aus-
tralian investors alike are of opinion
that our Governments are too keen on
borrowing and too careless in their
spending.
Forgan Smith was the first State
Premier to promise immediate co-opera-
tion with the Commonwealth in passing
uniform income-tax legislation. If he
doesn’t weaken, Queenslanders —share-
holders especially—will get some relief ;
and they deserve it. McKellar White,
president of the Federated Taxpayers,
points out that even small companies
have to pay 7s. 3d. in the £ on profits.
Though Queensland possesses ample
and varied supplies of raw materials, a
population approaching the million mark,
well paid and very responsive to appeals
to local patriotism, and an eminently
favorable geographical situation, factory
enterprise has made little or no progress
for 20 years. The latest “A B Cof Statis-
tics” gives the number of factory hands
employed as 42,079 in 1915 and 42,201 in
1934. The stagnation can only be attri-
buted to discouraging taxes.
It was reserved for South- Australia to
announce the first depression (or post-
depression) surplus—£36,ooo. But the
surplus was entirely the product of Com-
monwtealth grants ; without (them the
State would have been more than a
million down.
The good news of drenching rains in
Queensland districts stricken with
drought and N. S. Wales districts threat-
ened with it was brought to Forgan
Smith when he was down with influenza,
to Stevens when he was on his way back
to Sydney from a northern health trip.
In each State copious falls are reported
from the north-west and central-west,
and in each the central-west needed
them most. Even if they don’t quite
restore the position in some parts, their
value may be calculated in millions of
pounds Australian.
The Fawkner (Vic.) Federal seat, now
vacant through the death of barrister
George Maxwell, was held by Joe
Hannan for Labor in two Parliaments
(1913-17). It includes Toorak, South
Yarra, part of Malvern and lumps of
South Melbourne and Prahran. The
A.L.P. will contest it, but it won’t be
necessary to line up the candidates in
a queue.
Big egg-producers in Victoria are kick-
ing against what they deem unfair repre-
sentation of backyard chookeries under
the new scheme for control. They point
out that under modern conditions large-
scale production makes for the benefit
of producer and consumer alike. At
present, 60 p.c. of Victoria’s eggs come
from people who own fewer than 100
birds. One of the feather-squatters asks
wrathfully; “Do the keepers of pet
lambs supply 60 p.c. of Victoria’s wool
clip?”
At last, unless Minister of Justice
Martin weakens, N.S.W. legal procedure
is to be extricated from the tangled pro-
cesses of the Middle Ages or thereabouts.
Legislation is to amend the 700-year-old
practice of the Coroner’s Court, and the
judicature system, which has been in
force in England since the ’seventies, is to
be adopted. One badly-needed reform is
the codification of the criminal law and
the simplification of its processes. An
outstanding example of what such a
code should be is Griffith’s Queensland
Criminal Code, perhaps the most com-
plete and yet perfectly simplified work of
its kind ever bound in law calf,
Tas. Premier Ogilvie has discovered
“the truth about Russia”;
It is the only country I have visited
which is not apprehensive of the financial
future.
Apprehensions of that sort could scarcely
be expected, seeing that the Reds repu-
diated £1,750,000,000 of foreign debts and
seized all the private property in sight.
Robbers are rarely troubled with them.
In spite of the Swanland fiasco,
Ogilvie and Dwyer-Gray still insist that
the policy of their Government, in
Dwyer-Gray’s words, is “Justice for Tas-
mania under Federation, or Secession.”
The threat will leave the mainland un-
moved. Not only are mainlanders pro-
viding the Speck with huge grants-in-
aid, but they furnish most of its
revenue from lottery prizes. That last
year amounted to £162,562, which was
only £24,200 less than income-tax re-
ceipts from residents (not including
arrears); and this year the items may
balance.
Humorlessly intervening in the affairs
of Collingwood’s comic council, the Vic.
Labor bosses have withdrawn their pat-
ronage from four burgesses who are to
go up for re-election in August; and
by way of “cleaning up the movement”
they have disbanded a Richmond branch
ol their organisation. Richmond is part
of Scullin’s electorate, Yarra, and he
actually belonged to the disbanded
branch ; but he wouldn’t be Scullin if
he couldn’t accommodate himself to a
little difficulty like that.
In two years to June 30, 1934, the
number of Commonwealth Treasury em-
ployees increased from 989 to 1422, the
433 added being taxgatherers for the
most part. There has been a further
increase this year, and as the average
salary of an adult male officer, plus
what he costs the community in super-
annuation contributions, sick-pay allow-
ances and so forth, is about £3OO p.a.,
annual cost may be calculated at
£150,000 a year. Yet the public which
has to stand it is not be allowed to pay
tax by instalments because it would be
an inconvenience to their “servants.”
The House of Commons has definitely
refused to receive the secesh petition,
and the delegation that went to London
with such high hopes—MacCallum Smith,
M.L.A., then boss of the “Sunday
Times,” said he wouldn’t return till West-
ralia was “free”—has “officially dis-
banded.” Incidentally, Chandler, who
started the movement, has lost his job on
the “Sunday Times,” new men who are
not secessionists being in control. They
are under no obligation to Chandler, but
the secessionists are. If they forget
Chandler, secesh will have a very shabby
finish.
American New Dealers are given to
awarding themselves high marks for what,
to Australians, seem very ordinary per-
formances. They have had to cope with
a drought, and one of the chiefs proudly
announces that, thanks to the extra-
ordinary capacity of the Roosevelt Gov-
ernment, which spent billions of dollars
on stock-purchase and the like, no
human lives have been lost. The same
experience, without the expenditure, has
been witnessed time after time in Aus-
tralia, which has a far greater area sub-
ject to drought and relatively poor means
of communication. No one ever thought
of bragging about it.
Yet another Labor “unity conference”
is proposed, the notion being that Scullin
is now ready to efface himself and the
other faction to accept Forgan Smith as
leader. Just to help things along Lang’s
newspaper has reprinted an article, with
comments, from “Mr. Forgan Smith’s
official organ, the 'Daily Standard,’ ” in
which Stevens, Collier, Casey and Ritchie,
as well as Forgan Smith, are praised for
their contributions to the Loan Council
discussions, while Dwyer-Gray is pic-
tured as a “bowed figure” scowling at
the opposition, and, when not scowling,
given to “patting himself on the back,”
and Dunstan is likened to “a boy with
a new toy squeaker anxious to make
a lot of noise.” One of the genial Lang-
ster remarks is that “Queensland Labor
circles are asking who were the Labor
men.”
A list of the concessions offered to
investors in the Casey loan shows how
this country is plagued with unnecessary
taxes, forms and calculations. Interest is
exempt from Federal super-tax (6 p.c.)
on property income and ordinary Fed-
eral tax in excess of 1930-31 rates, and
is exempt also from the following State
taxes (take a long breath):
N.S.W.: Income tax and special income
tax.
Vic.: Ordinary income tax, additional
tax, further additional tax, special income
tax and unemployed-relief tax.
Q.: Income tax, super-tax, additional tax
and unemployed-relief tax.
S.A.: Income tax and dividend tax.
W.A.: Income tax, dividend tax, hos-
pital tax and financial-emergency tax.
What this litter costs in printing, pre-
paration of returns, calculations, postage,
cheque-stamps and the like can only be
guessed at; but it is all economic waste.
What the “Labor Daily” described as
“a splendid victory for Mr. Kelly, a
member of the central executive of the
A.L.P., in the Randwick municipal by-
election,” has had as sequel a report
from the town clerk that there was a
“fair [he means unfair] amount of per-
sonation.”
Eighty-four votes were cast in the names
of 27 persons. One person’s name was
crossed off eight times, another’s six
times and six persons’ names five times.
Of course, the absent-minded beggars
may have voted for losers.
Melbourne tramwaymen are demand-
ing that the windscreens on motor-
men’s cages should be fitted with wipers
to ensure visibility in rainy weather. The
surprising thing is that they have had to
ask for this ; but in view of the history of
Sydney’s deadly footboard and Hobart’s
one-man trams, perhaps it isn’t sur-
prising.
During the hearing of a Supreme
Court action, N.S.W. Trotting Club v.
the Glebe Municipal Council, relating to
the closing of streets leased to the club,
it was alleged by the club secretary that
Labor aldermen —Glebe is Lang Labor
—had offered to get the job done for a
present of £l2OO. Cross-examined, the
secretary stuck to his story, with a fine
economy of words.
It was an unusual thing to receive a
request for a bribe? —Yes.
A unique experience?—No.
An unusual one?—Very uncommon.
Didn’t it seem strange to you that a
question of bribery should be discussed at
a caucus of aldermen? —No.
Alderman Fitzpatrick was named as
having conveyed a caucus decision;
Justice Long Innes was satisfied that
“Fitzpatrick was making demands for
compensation to the council and not for
bribery.” Other aldermen were also
exculpated; but Alderman Foley, his
Honor declared, had made “corrupt de-
mands” and given “false evidence.”
“Labor has now only three Senators, the Queenslanders Brown, MacDonald and Collings;
the last-named is leader at an additional £200 a year.”
Then out spake brave Collingsius,
The captain of the gate,
“I, with two more to help me,
Will stem them in debate.
In there, chaps, two-and-thirty
May well be stopped by three —
Withal it means an extra
Two hundred notes for me.”
Then up spake Spurius Brownus,
From where the sugar grows:
“Lo I will stand at thy right hand
And keep in play the foes.”
And up spake brave Donaldius,
Of Scotian blood was he:
“I will abide at thy left side
And hold the fort with thee.”


IT’S A CRUEL WORLD.


The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagb Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
ķ
Have You Considered
the Stability and
Earning Power of
Your Investments ?
The July issue, which will be on sale Saturday, July 6, will help
you answer this important question.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd.
C’wealth Wool & Produce Co., Ltd.
Gordon & Gotch (A’sia), Ltd.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd,
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth, W.A.)
Union Trustee Co. of Aust., Ltd.
Haymarket Land & Building Co., Ltd.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
Prestige, Ltd.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £lj2!6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plato
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
G. D. Kelly, the new chairman of the
Woolgrowers’ Council, is an outstanding
example of a man who has made a
hobby of business. A solicitor by pro-
fession —he was admitted in Victoria
shortly after the war—he never prac-
tised, but has devoted his energies to
woolgrowing and the affairs of wool-
growers ; he has been an officeholder in
most of the Commonwealth’s important
pastoral organisations. He has a show
place at Caramut, on the Western Plains.
George Robert Broadbent, pictured
here by Frith, has been publishing maps
in Victoria since the middle ’nineties. His
enthusiasm for cycling was what taught
him the need for efficient road maps.
To-day Broadbent’s maps and guides are
A Vic. Map Publisher.
as well known in the southern State as
those of Robinson are in N. S. Wales.
He still retains an active interest in Vic.
cycling, and for years has acted as handi-
capper to the League of Victorian Wheel-
men. He is also a charter member of
the Royal Auto Club of Vic. and founder
of its tourist department. He was born
in Geelong in 1864.
The career of the late William Bartlett,
of Goulburn (N.S.W.), was a problem
for prohibitionists. He arrived in Goul-
burn 61 years ago, and started a brewery
which was destined to become the town’s
biggest industry. He drank beer him-
self, and recommended it to all and
sundry, yet he was a model character,
and when he died last week he was just
on 98. He gave Goulburn Rocky Hill,
the site of its fine war memorial, and
was to the fore in all local movements
of a patriotic nature. An Englishman
by birth, and a powder-monkey in the
R.N. at the age of 14, he saw service in
the Crimean War.,
“Athanasius”; F. W. Gilligan, eldest
of the three cricketing brothers, will be-
come headmaster of Wanganui (M.L.)
Collegiate School early next year. A
Dulwich and Worcester (Oxon) product,
he served with the Essex Regiment and
became its adjutant. He returned to
Oxford after the Armistice, taking
honors in English and getting a cricket
blue ; he has also played for Essex. He
is now 42, and headmaster of Upping-
ham.
The late George Maxwell, Victoria’s
blind K.C., was born in Scotland 76
years ago, arrived in Melbourne with
his father, a Presbyterian clergyman, in
1875, and for some years was a school-
master. A born criminal defender, he
began getting important briefs shortly
after he was called in ’9l. Maxwell never
became an Assemblyman, though he had
five tries, but in T 7 he won Fawkner
for the Federal Nats., and held it till his
death. He began to go blind when his
mental powers were at their top. Undis-
mayed, he started to train himself to cope
with his life’s work as a blind man, and
with the help of an amazing memory
and a devoted family, one or other of
whose members accompanied him every-
where, he succeeded. He was a skilled
orator, but the quality that helped him
most with juries was his passionate
earnestness when he believed in the jus-
tice of his cause. He put up an epic
fight for Colin Ross, and died believing
him innocent.
“Hamfat’s” allegation:
The late H. W. Varna was responsible for
one of the most appalling contretemps seen on
a Sydney stage. The sudden illness of Julius
Knight had thrown the Knight, Jeffries Co.,
at the Royal, into confusion. Harry Plimmer
took over Superbus in “The Sign of the Cross,”
and Varna became Nero, delegating most of
his duties as stage manager to a flurried assist-
ant. As a result, the supers, were not properly
rehearsed, and on the opening night the roar
of the lions, an important cue to Mercia and
Stephanos, was missing. In a frenzy, Varna
turned on the silent supers, in the O.P. wings
and tossed his arms upward. Such a gesture
meant only one thing to the supers. As the
doors clanged open and the Christians marched
m, the lions gave three hearty British cheers.
R. H. Pulleine, eye specialist, of
Adelaide, who has died, at 66 as a result
of a chill caught at an evening race-meet-
ing, had a varied career. Born in M.L.
Boyhood in Fiji. A teacher in S.A. Medi-
cal degree at Sydney. Practice at Gym-
pie (Q.), with Andrew Fisher as a patient.
Study in Germany. Specialist career in
Adelaide. He was president of the S.A.
Royal Society and an authority on such
varied subjects as spiders, Tasmanian
ethnology and the cactus and desert flora.
John Tallis, the London pianist-com-
poser, is a son of the Melbourne man
who got a knighthood as a director of
the Firm. Three numbers for the sing-
ing of which Muriel Wilson, the West-
ralian soprano, was highly commended
by English critics were composed by
young Tallis.
The late May Matthews, of Sydney,
was a great citizeness. Inspector of the
Child Welfare Department, migration
officer in England, member of an indus-
tiial mission to the U.S.A., foundation
member of the League of Nations Union
and a charity worker who helped to
clothe 10,000 needy children, she still
found time to be a vigorous Labor
worker. Miss Matthews stood for Ryde
in 1932 as a Federal Laborite. She was
a vigorous speaker and a dynamo of
energy till illness laid her low a couple
of months back.
Jeames”: Most Irish peers live in
England nowadays; Lord Rathdonnell,
who arrived in Melbourne last week on
a health trip, is an exception. The son
of the highly Anglicised second baron
and a Bruen (member of a Co. Carlow
family which has produced many dis-
tinguished soldiers and sailors), he rarely
leaves his estates in Carlow. He did
most of his war service on the Austrian
front.
Eric Maschwitz, who holds one of the
British Broadcasting Co.’s best jobs, is
a Sydney man. A well-known identity in
the English concert world, he has also
established himself as a musical-comedy
librettist. The book of the costly British
talkie, “Invitation to the Waltz,” was
written by him.
Dead in Brisbane at 79, ex-Police
Inspector Roderick (“Rody”) Byrne. His
police service (1874-1923) brought him
many exciting experiences, among them
the pursuit and arrest of the Kenniffs for
the killing of Doyle and Dahlke, and
the Carpentaria Downs murder
case of 1909. He was famous
as a horseman in a country of
horsemen ; detailed on a cattle-
duffing case at Connemara, he
rode there from Isisford, 170
miles, in 24 hours. Fair and
just, he earned the respect even
of the bush “regulars.” As my
old acquaintance Stringy Bill
once put it: “A bloke don’t
mind bein’' lumbered by Rody.
No narks and no faked evi-
dence is ’is rule. Anything else
is yer own fault.”
Archdeacon Davies, principal
of Moore Theological College,
who died in a Sydney hospital
on Saturday, was eminent as
scholar, lecturer and musician,
but the lay world knew him best
as a Freemason. He had been
Grand Chaplain of the United
Grand Lodge of N. S. Wales
for 11 years, and he was a
member of the lodges of Oxford, Cam-
bridge and Sydney universities. Born in
Wales, and a graduate of Cambridge, he
arrived to take charge of Moore Theo-
logical College in 1911, and was made
an archdeacon six years later.
Born of a family which helped to
pioneer the river trade, George Ritchie,
Acting-Premier of S. Aus., himself skip-
pered steamers on the Murray, Darling
and Murrumbidgee for years. He entered
the S.A. Parliament in 1902, and held the
Alexandra seat until 1922, when he re-
signed it to contest Angas for the
Federal House. Defeated by “Quorum”
Acting-Premier RITCHIE, of S. Aus.
Gabb, he was back in the State Parlia-
ment not long afterwards—this time in
the Upper House. He has held almost
as many portfolios as he has hairs on
his head, and is proving that Goolwa
men aren’t too old at 70.
L. J. Schmitt, new g.m. of the M.L.
Department of Industry, Commerce and
Publicity, was born in Hawthorn, and is
an old boy of Christian Brothers’ Col-
lege, East Melbourne. Schmitt left the
Vic. Railways Department for the Zinc
Corp. at Broken Hill, and transferred
later to the Great Fitzroy Copper Mines
in Queensland. He was M.L. rep. at the
Australia-M.L. trade treaty conference
(Wellington) in 1933.
Harold Nossiter, who retires from
Dalgety’s, Sydney, this month after 40
years’ service—he was in the firm’s wine
HAROLD NOSSITER, Yachtsman.
and spirit department for half of them —
is taking a novel holiday. He is leaving
shortly on a world tour with three others
in the Sirius, a 34-ton staysail schooner.
He has been handling boats since he
was a youth, and as owner of Utiekah 11.
won many races in Port Jackson.
The death of Jim Philp in Brisbane
on Saturday removed a shining figure of
The Bulletin’s early days, Philp was a
Bulletin sub-editor in the ’eighties, and
for years afterwards —even when he had
acquired the solemn status of leader
writer on the “Tung Wah Times,” a
Sydney Chinese journal—he maintained
his old contacts with Archibald, Daley
and Lawson. Chestertonian in figure and
poetic in mind, Philp nevertheless had a
sound commercial instinct, and latterly
lived prosperously in charge of the adver-
tising affairs of Brisbane “Courier.” He
wrote slick topical verse, and some of
his lyrics are all too little known. His
son is a Brisbane barrister.
Died in Melbourne on Monday, Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore. Cantab, (and
hon. LL.D., St Andrews), he came to
Australia early in ’93 as Professor of
Law at Melbourne Uni. He was only
26 at the time. Small, spare and barris-
terial in appearance and manner, Harri-
son Moore was much liked as a man
and much respected as a Constitutional
authority. After his retirement in ’27
he represented Australia at the League
of Nations Assembly, and created quite
an impression there. He was a Londoner
by birth.
Adelaide has lost one of its leading
authorities on finance, Arthur Water-
house, at 80. His pioneer father had
been one of the Bank of Adelaide’s
founders, and Arthur in due course be-
came chairman of it. He was a great
huntsman and four-in-hand driver in his
early days.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide, the
wholesale chemist firm - of Paulding
(which, however, has been all Scammells
for the past 70 years). It has branches
in every mainland capital; also in Lon-
don, India and S’Africa. It claims to
have (1) established the standard pro-
cess of eucalyptus distillation, (2) found
the ideal local anaesthetic now used by
Australian dentists, (3) taken the first
X-ray pictures Australia ever saw.


The MAGIC of HEENZO
COSTS *2l- SAVES £’s.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people to make the best family cough remedy, and at the
same time save much money. Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy consists of two main sections.
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients ; and the second is, of course, the necessary water and sweetening.
The preparation of the medicinal ingredients requires trained knowledge, but the water and sweetening can be added
in the home just as easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now prove these facts by trying
this HEENZO recipe. Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and
a large breakfast-cupful of warm water. Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle,
and then add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or store. By doing this
you will have a family supply equal in quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-
mixed cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would cost up to £l. An astounding feature about HEENZO
is the fact that it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and over 12,000 people have written letters pro-
claiming it the best remedy they have ever used for quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
m
A dose of
HEENZO every
few hours will bring quick relief.
INFLUENZA Go straight
to bed and
take 12 drops of concentrated
HEENZO (straight from origi-
nal bottle) in half a wineglass
of hot water every three hours.
Ease coughing with made-up
HEENZO.
COLDS If taken at first
sign the cold will
soon disappear.
COUGHS
BRONCHITIS T.ke
night
and morning and during
periods of coughing.
CROUP Take four doses a
day and also
during periods of coughing.
Same
treat-
ment as
croup. HEENZO, being pure,
will not upset children’s diges-
tion—no danger of over-
dosing.
WHOOPING
COUGH
HEENZO is used annually by over ONE MILLION
Australian Citizens—lT MUST BE GOOD,
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT and Mr. CYRIL
RITCHARD, the world-famous musical comedy
stars, have placed on record their appreciation
of HEENZO as a speedy and reliable remedy
for chest and throat ailments.
i
HEENZOk
should be used in every home
DON’T GROW OLD BEFORE YOUR TIME!
When feeling run down, nervy, or out of sorts,
regain your health and energy by taking a
few bottles of the world’s finest TONIC
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
2.j!) riTT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STEET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote. or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms wilh Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by‘Phone, M4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs?- He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Lx editor, Trustee or'Agent, will attend to the affairs of vour
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of ihe time.
Directors:
1. H. Kelly (Chairman). Walter T. Brunton, Herbert K. Ly sag lit, Shepheard E. J.aldlev
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox,
Ji. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED '
Established 1872.
n HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. l!yan Esa •
i. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M G ’ <l ' ’
. T , General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With office B at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne Sydney mrl oa
fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
Ol AUSTRALIA, LTD,
BEARING G i“b S Si,FRTSKK' 2S'„ ta S J »I Copper Sulphate (Blueetone).
x . 1->u , ,*' AJ> 111 RICTIOE METALS.—Grauhme Plastic Babbit and
PRINTERS’ METUH 011 Tw alS to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRIM ERS METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype. Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling: prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
oflices, viz.;—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W
Sydney Office; O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 300 Collins Street.
. nvirvnu . rall " IC Address: “Eratype.” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kcmbla.
U ti 'c ' send your sold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kcmbla
omce. the Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kcmbla.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend
March, Sales, etc. ment. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,361 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14 772
1931.. 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,537
1932.. 285,296 246,101 39,195 15,537
1933.. 314,657 286,198 28,459 15,797
1934.. 153,062 128,754 24,308 15,803
1935.. 211,745 194,402 17,343 15,803
Following the high price of softwood
products during the war and the post-war
decade, and the timber-famine bogey,
there was a rush to plant exotic conifers
for commercial purposes, especially in
Maoriland, where growing conditions are
very favorable. Although the urge is
now on the wane, shareholders in this 12-
year-old pioneer of the bond-selling
method of financing forestry ventures
appear to be in a snug position.
Last year the net increase in the
number of bonds sold was 5362, raising
the total figure to 138,721, with a face
value of £3,988,646, up £149,348; and
an extra 6522 acres, making 157,063 in
all, was planted. Sales, etc., were
£58,683 better at £211,745, which was
£62,397 in excess of the net growth
(£149,348) in the face value of bonds
sold. This excess represents returns from
investments which figure at over
£600,000, plus 6 p.c. of the maintenance
trust fund (£567,663). Including an un-
specified amount of taxation (not pre-
viously included), selling, development
and maintenance charges, etc., were
£65,648 heavier at £194,402. The de-
clared net result (down £6965) was £1540
more than the usual, 8 p.c. div. called
for. Visibly free reserves amounted to
£22,608.
The real position depends upon how
much of the £1,090,874 (up £7318 net)
specifically earmarked for planting, main-
tenance, etc., is ultimately required.
Among other things, the co.’s contract
with bondholders provides for transfer of
the freehold, and for planting and main-
tenance, etc., until the forests are realised
at the discretion of bondholders or for
20 years, whichever is the earlier. Assum-
ing that the existing contracts have on
the average, say, 12 years to run, the
maintenance trust fund alone was equal
to approximately 6s. per acre per annum,
which is more than some authorities con-
sider adequate for the purpose. Appear-
ances are that, when the bond contracts
run out, the co. may finish up with sur-
plus assets having a book value equal to
two or three times paid capital as it
now stands.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
~ 1930. 1 934. 1935.
Paid capital .. . . £191,266 £197,536 £197,536
Sundry creditors, etc... 91,361 27,279 89,466
d . 33,343 12,909 16,644
llant etc 21,686 17,850 16,698
Investments .. . . 58,547 476,109 600,022
Bondholders balances.. 751,987 183,041 142 574
Other book debts . . 13,056 69,634 64,185
Maintenance reserves . . 455,952 567,905 567,663
oasll 11,695 17,793
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(up £62,187 last year) includes provision
for taxation. Investments increased by
£124, j 13, and bondholders’ balances
were reduced by £40,467. The mainten-
ance reserve is held in trust by the trustee
for the bondholders as a guarantee that
the co. will carry out its contracts ; this
it has faithfully done to date, and is in a
position to continue to do so.
The co. has made arrangements to
become selling agent in connection with
the realisation of the forests ; it has also
agreed to make loans to the representa-
tive of the bondholders to prepare to
market the forest products, and to invest
some of its own money in any under-
taking for the realisation ■of the forests.
For bondholders, who are entitled to
the net proceeds from the forest pro-
ducts, the critical period of selling the
products at a profit, if possible, lies
ahead. In what form the wood is to be
marketed and when a start is to be
made have not yet been announced.
Recent legislation in Maoriland provides
for the conversion of bonds into shares
in a separate realisation co., now in
process of formation.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Added
Apiil, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
:fnop -- vn’ito o P- c -= 27 .°00 2,966 108,104
1926.. 80,172 8 ~ „ 24,000 6,172 114 ?76
1927.. 24,663 8 „ ~ 24,000 663 114 939
ll’Tu I ” ” 21 ’ 000 1.088 U 6.021
19_9.. 23,1.)9 7 21,000 2,159 118 180
1930.. 22,800 7 „ „ 21,000 1806 119 986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
Special provision depreciation, etc.,
t. 25 ’ 025 .’ 88,978
Profit.
1932. . 2,625 Nil 2,625 91 603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91’533
1934.. 14.492 12* „,, 12,000 2,492 94 325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
*Pref.
Steady reduction of the outside debt and
the improvement in conditions generally,
together with an overhaul of the organ-
isation, have greatly improved the out-
look for shareholders in this old-estab-
lished concern, which turns out biscuits
and other foodstuffs. Still, they have
never had anything exceptional in the
way of divs. After the crash of the
’nineties it took 18 years for the rate to
dimb to 5j p.c. The war provided new
opportunities, trade was extended to
Southern Asia, and 10 p.c. was paid for
the three years to 1920. For the next
decade the average was 7.4 p.c., with
little to spare. Then slump dried up
earnings, and the ords. have gone with-
out for the last five years.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, gross earnings (£97,968)
were £7791 better. Exes. (£81,058) took
£5373 of the increase, leaving the net
result £2418 better at £16,910, or enough
to pay a full year’s pref. div. (£6000) and
then show 5.4 p.c. on ord. capital. Actu-
ally, the prefs. were handed 15 p.c.
( = £15,000), which cleaned their slate to
date, thus giving the ords. a clear road.
Though last year’s figures probably got
some benefit from the centenary celebra-
tions, piospects of a satisfactory showing
at next balance are encouraging. The
market therefore prices the ords. at 17s.
as against 12s. 6d. a year ago and 6s. 6d.
12 months before that. At 17s the
return would be 4.7 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 295. 9d. (16s. 6d.
two years ago) return 4 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £3 19s. 3d. prefs. and
295. 7d. ords.
Ffere is a bird’s-eye view of the busi-
ness from another angle:
r ~ , 1924 - 1932. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft 45,335 91,521 64.266 40,674
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 24,000 2,900 2 500
Other debts.. 48,405 23,882 18,479 30,688
t ixed assets. . 326,773 343,560 304,606 296 397
Shares other cos. 674 48,716 48,716 48’716
Stocks . . 108,211 40,109 43,708 42,138
Book debts, etc. 92,732 98,391 94,550 94 615
Cash . . . . 307 232 222 ’230
Since 1932 £50,847, of which £23 592
was in respect of the last term, has been
knocked off the overdraft, while mort-
gages have been worked down from
£24,000 to £2500. Over the same period
the burden of the interest bill (£3706,
down £1763 last year) was lightened by
£4481. The net reduction in the outside
debt last year was £11,783. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£63,121, including stocks) was
£i 0,286. The shareholdings are mainly
in two subsidiaries ; one turns out ice-
cream and the other dehydrated fruits
and vegetables ; neither is a large con-
tributor to the pool.
Hume Pipe (Far East), Ltd.
~ D „ To Re-
Mar., “ront. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 9,595 121 p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
Iqoc” 1,482 Nil 1482 12,132
,8,033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. 7,800 8 „ ~ 3200 4600 3,499
1928 11,'301 10 .. „ 4000 7301 ““lolT
49 29-- 41 > 699 15 .. .. 6000 5699 9,501
4980 • • 1 2 .0V4 15 „ „ 6000 6074 15,575
• 11,001 15 „ „ 6000 5001 20,576
inoo" 1,679 10 ” » 4000 18,255
1933 -- 2,413 0 ~ „ 2400 13 18,268
Written off, £365 .. .. 17,903
1934.. 3,627 6 p.c. = 2700 927 18,830
Written off, £3286 . . . . 15,544
1935.. 1,610 3 p.c. 1500 110 15^654
It used to be Singapore Hume Pipe,
the smallest but most successful unit of
the Hume organisation. The name was
changed to the present title in 1933,
when it was decided to put up a factory
at Hong Kong, the co. having bought
Hume Steel’s interest,in a pipe-making
plant previously operated on joint
account. The co. first set up at Singa-
pore in 1922, and over the next decade
shareholders averaged 9.5 p.c. ; £19,168
of intangibles was rubbed out of the
accounts, and over £lB,OOO of genuine
reserves was accumulated. But the
business depends largely upon Govern-
ment spending, which was severely cur-
tailed owing to contraction of public
revenue, following the collapse of prices
m the tin and rubber markets. Still, the
co. has been able to earn profits and
pay divs. throughout the slump.
Last year’s net result was £2017
lighter at 3.2 p.c. on the £50,000 of
capital, as against 8,6, 4.2, 27.5 30 1
and 29.2 p.c. back to 1929. That leaves
out of the reckoning £3286 charged
against reserves in connection with
establishment of the Hong Kong factory.
The div. was cut in halves, reducing it
to 3 p.c.
Still, the outlook is a lot better than
the latest figures suggest. Delay in com-
pletion of the Hong Kong factory, which
began production about four weeks ago,
was due to incorporation of improved
manufacturing methods, not perfected
until a few months ago. Despite keen
competition, the co. has secured the
whole of the Shanghai municipal orders
for sewer pipes, as well as contracts from
two railway administrations in China.
At Singapore, concrete sales increased,
and mining and other orders kept the
steel-pipe works busy during the last
hali of the term. Work on hand is stiffi-
cienf to keep the plant going for the next
three months, and the F.M.S. Govern-
ment is expected to soon proceed with a
delayed works programme, thanks to
the improvement in the tin and rubber
markets.
The market therefore prices the fully-
pmd pound shares at 17s. as against
15s. 9d. a year ago. At the higher figure
the return is 3y p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution. The.
cover is 265. 3d. in net tangibles, mainly
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
the . books closed there was
Sn o°iT lng to outsid ers. Stocks
debtors (£7054) and cash, etc.
(£407), totalled £37,326. Plant figured
a | |64,679, and leasehold and freehold
Bagot’s Executor & Trustee Co., Ltd.
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 3234 10 p.c. = 2292 942 6 219
If 6 -- 2600 506 6 725
]qol" : ? 21 49 ” ” 2500 521 7.246
■i non * oj?9 19 >’ ” 2500 650 7,896
2 non ? 4 9. » » 2 500 615 8,511
n--i 4 4 9 » » 2500 11 8,522
jysi.. 2/63 10 „ „ 2500 263 8 785
1939 Pr °lr securities, £497 “.. 9^82
1932.. 2080 74 p.c. =1875 g 407
1933.. 2036 74 „ „ 1875 161 9 648
9M7 tl” ” 1875 608 jO &6
1930.. 2097 74 „ „ 1875 222 10,478
This little Adelaide trustee co was
launched in 1910 as an offshoot of Bagot'
Shakes and Lewis, and shareholders had
a steady 10 p.c. for the 14 years to the
close of accounts in 1931. Then the rate
dropped to 1\ p.c., the fall in values and
cut in interest having lowered commis-
sion and other earnings.
The co. does not disclose the volume
of trusts on hand, but it is not large, as
tne following comparison of p. and 1.
figures suggests:
Commissions. Interest. Expenses.
1925 .. *0638 £l6Bl £5086'
49 “ 9 ' - 9849 1826 5639
4927 •• 7144 1854 5978
1928 . . 8083 1909 6842
3 929 ■■ 8427 1924 7236
4939 .. 7888 1980 7348
4984 •• 7900 1998 7136
1932 .. 7527 1722 7169
1933 .. 7471 1576 6928
1934 . , 8220 1579 7225
1935 .. 8822 1474 8106
There appears to be little profit in the
trustee section of the business. Last
year an extra £602 was gathered in com-
missions, but exes, were up £BBl. The
return from investments was £lO5 lighter
at 5.8 p.c. on capital. Leaving a net
addition of £2O (£6O in the previous
year) to the commission reserved account
(£920) out of the figuring, but including
an unexplained reduction of £93 in other
reserves, the net result from all sources
was 8.3 p.c. on capital as against 9.9, 8.1,
8.3, 11, 10 and 12.4 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was kept at p.c.
There are 200,000 £1 shares paid to
2s. 6d. At ss. 3d. the market has antici-
pated its benefits. The return at that
price is 3.6 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis,
or a shade under 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. dis-
tribution. The cover is 3s. 6d. in net
tangibles.
At the end of March Government
securities figured at £26,337 ; mortgages,
£2785; advances to estates, £4830;
furniture, £800; cash, etc., £2584. A
lone creditor figured for 12s. 6d. un-
claimed div.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
t . N e ( , . . To Re- Re-
Front. Dividends. serves. serves,
£ £, £, £
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38,224
Reserves capitalised. £21,978 .. 16,246
uec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 - 13 823
Ross.
1926.. 406 Nil 13 417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7 269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 3145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 433
Profit.
480 Nil 480 948
4982 -- 1>270 Nil 1,276 2,224
1933.. 11,115 Nil 11,115 13,339
Loss.
1934.. 5,701 Nil . 7,638
Comfortable returns were won during
the decade to the close of accounts in
1925, and £56,190 of reserves was capi-
talised. Then, owing to high prices and
the multiplication of small growers, it
was decided to double the capacity of the
mill, raising it to 100,000 tons of cane
per annum ; and the board went to its
bankers for the money. The debt pressed
heavily while prices and supplies fell,
and growth of the surplus exported and
a cut in the retail price of fines lowered
returns from raws:
Oane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
-lens. lons. Sales, ner ton
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
i no— * * 5 (> 404 6,743 155,335 23 510
492 '• ■ 4 ?’ 355 5,917 130,266 22 110
191.8.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 99 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 op n s
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 Jq ie 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 1 U,761 16 11 7
1933.. 82,362 10,908 194,647 if, 7 7
1934.. 44,849 6,066 105,356 18 4 8
The bumper crop in 1933 brought crush-
ings nearer to capacity, costs benefited
and net earnings shot up to 9.4 p.c. on
the £118,086 of capital. Last year crush-
ings were 37,513 tons lighter (a lot of
cane was allowed to stand over, owing
to unfavorable seasonal conditions), and
a loss of £5701 was recorded. Unit costs
were heavier, of course, and nrices were
down.
When the books closed the outside
debt (£86,520, of which £73,649 is com-
ing to the bank) exceeded more or less


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON,' Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401—403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt,
* * * *
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION, LIMITED,
makes expert reports on and conducts diamond-
drilling and management of goldmining properties
in the State of Western Australia. The Corporation
has an expert staff, and in addition to branch offices
in Perth and Kalgoorlie has representatives on all
the leading Western Australian goldfields.
Write Western Mining Corporation, Limited,
Collins House, Melbourne.
—Advt.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.e. Tin and upwards. Write
NOR3IAN HILL & CO.. LTD.,
Cathcart Housej Sydney.
M
/A
lv-
* >
* V; : '<
w.
i
a
LIMP WORK LOSING
But who said Dry Ginger Ale?
THEREFORE
SckW€Dp6S DRY GINGER ALE
J / THE ONLY ORIGINAL
liquids (£32,689) by £53,831. Plant, etc.,
figured at £181,700, and land at £3055.
Shareholders’ prospects depend largely
upon the quantity of cane put through
the rollers. For the current term a “satis-
factory” crushing is assured, the chair-
man says. Still, a move is afoot to cur-
tail production in the industry generally
by 10 p.c., the idea being to lighten the
pressure of low-priced exports upon the
home price, thus ensuring a better aver-
age.
On ’Change the pound shares are
offered at 7s.
Gold Exploration and Finance
Pending publication of its first
accounts, Gold Exploration and Finance
co. of Australia has issued a resume of
work done on some of the properties in
which it is interested. The co. was
formed in London in July, 1934, as a
prospecting and finance concern to take
over the Australian goldmining interests
of a powerful group, comprising Austral
Trust, Central Mining and Investment
Corp., Imperial Smelting Corp., New
Consolidated Goldfields, Union Corp.
and Zinc Corp. There were issued
1,820,433 10s. shares, of which 1,800,000
were subscribed by the vendors or
their nominees. The co. holds a control-
ling interest in Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia, Western Mining Corp. and Ben-
digo Mines, Ltd., together with options
over reserved shares in each. It
also holds scrip in Triton, Western Gold,
Champagne Syndicate, Exploration Syn-
dicate, Geological Research Pty. and the
Napoleon, Derby and Carshalton, Nell
Gwynn and Carshalton mines.
The co.’s first offshoot was Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, formed in October last to
take over and work the Iron Duke leases
adjoining North Kalgurli (W.A.). Here
a crosscut from No. 11 level has dis-
closed 62ft. of 18dwt. stone, believed to
be part of the rich Hinchcliffe shoot
worked by the old Associated Northern.
Of Western Mining Corp.’s Westralian
areas, three are mentioned as offering
good prospects —the Phoenix and ad-
jacent mines, at Norseman, the Great
Fingall, at Day Dawn, and the Cosmo-
politan, at Kookynie.
At the moment Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia is investigating leases at Maldon
(Vic.), and is prospecting some 3250
acres on the Charters Towers (Q.)
field. In conjunction with this Explora-
tion and Finance Co., it has also taken
leases and options over 92,513 acres,
covering 56 miles, of the Berry deep
leads, Allendale (Vic.), and over 5243
acres, covering nine miles, of the London
system, at Newstead (Vic.). The last-
named may be suitable for dredging. The
cos. hope to win 26,000 square fathoms
of payable wash annually from the Berry
leads, and about 20,000 square fathoms
per annum from two smaller properties
near by,
Wiluna
The policy at Wiluna is to gradually
lift the output. At present, 45,000 tons
is being treated monthly. Before long
it will be 50,000, and in a few years it
may possibly reach the 100,000-ton
mark. The co. may even aspire to
become the largest gold-ore treater and
gold-producer in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. To do this it would have to
beat the Crown mines, on the Rand,
which treat nearly 300,000 tons monthly
for a yield of between 80,000 and 90,000
fine ounces of gold. Compared in size
with the big auriferous bodies at Wiluna,
those in the Crown mines are mere
stringers. There are certainly miles and
miles of them, but Wiluna’s ore channel
extends about 1\ miles in a straight line,
and about three miles on the curve.
Although by far the biggest in area,
Wiluna is not the only mine of import-
ance on the Wiluna field. There is
Moonlight, owned by Gold Fields Aust.
Development, a London concern, con-
trolled by practically the same crowd as
Wiluna. So far, diamond-drilling on this
property indicates the existence of a
shoot of ore at a vertical depth of 500 ft.,
700 ft. in length, with an average value
of 335. a ton (gold at 85s. an ounce) over
great widths. At a vertical depth of
700 ff. (the deepest point yet reached) the
drill passed through an ore-body with a
true width of 21ft., assaying 40s. 4d. a
ton. The co. is sinking a new main shaft
to 400 ft. ; it proposes to connect this up
with the 270 ft. level of the old workings.
When the work is complete, it will be
possible to mine ore at a rate “com-
mensurate with the resources of the
property.” Compressed-air and electric
power is being supplied by Wiluna, and
a 10,000-ton-a-month treatment plant is
being installed alongside Wiluna’s mill
to handle Moonlight ore,
Sandy Creek
After visiting the co.’s area in New
Guinea, the directors of Sandy Creek
have decided to make a start on “some
portion which might be regarded as
reasonably certain to give profitable re-
sults,” “testing operations” to be “con-
sistent with the co.’s financial resources
to allow of other schemes being put
into operation.” The ground selected
for No. 1 scheme is portion of
the bed of Sandy Creek. The highest
values are found in the creekbeds,
where stones, etc., act as natural
riffles; next come the adjoining flats
and then the breccia. The whole of the
Sandy Creek section is estimated to con-
tain 2,763,215 c.y., averaging 2s. sd.
with gold at £7 Bs. 9d. an ounce in Aus-
tralian currency. Costs are not expected
to exceed Is. a yard.
Some of the hydraulic sluicing and
elevating equipment (capacity not yet an-
nounced) is on order, and construction
of the water race is under way. Recovery
of the metal is expected to begin before
the end of this year.
Meanwhile, the Poverty Creek area is
to be closely examined. Here the pros-
pectus estimate is 715,800 c.y., averaging
3s. Bd. Costs were put at Is. 10.6 d. a
yard. Between the two creeks are some
millions of tons of breccia, which it
is reckoned can be hydraulicked for not
more than 3d. a yard, and which will
probably average 7.5 grains. It is on the
possibilities of this breccia deposit that
the investment value of the scrip largely
depends.
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has shut down owing
to water shortage and an unsatisfactory
industrial position, and is not likely to
reopen for some months. Exhaustion of
the main shoots in the single known lode
is within sight, and all efforts to locate
additional reserves have failed. With
continuous working the pay ore was ex-
pected to run out in September.
Seasonal rains are due in November.
# * * *
Watut Options has decided to abandon
the ground on the Lower Watut, New
Guinea, and concentrate on its 320-acre
property on the upper reaches of the
river, about two miles south of Surprise
Creek aerodrome. The area consists of
river flats from 5 to 15 chains wide.
Dish prospects have given good results.
* * * *
Drillers, Ltd., an offshoot of Oil
Search, has decided to make another
stab for oil north of Roma (Q.), where
the co.’s geologists have located further
favorable structures. The co. has over
£19,000 in hand, and Oil Search will
make available the necessary plant and
personnel. The gas well tapped by the
Warooby Creek bore has been sealed for
the present.
# * * *
New Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), has
completed installation of the first unit of
its treatment plant, and M. F. Bruxner,
deputy-leader of the Stevens Ministry,
will perform the opening ceremony on
July 6.
* * * *
Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp. has
added Mountain Hut Alluvial’s four
leases to its list of options at Avoca
(Vic.). The option is for 12 months,
and the price is £30,000 cash, plus
25 p.c. in paids of the issued capital and
the right to take up 25 p.c. of the con-
tribs. in any co. formed to work the
property. This and other areas in the
district were recently inspected by Anglo-
Oriental’s Australian representative
(Arthur H. Miles), Bulolo’s construc-
tional engineer (T. D. Harris) and Placer
Development’s technical adviser (L. V.
Waterhouse).
* * * *
Victoria Alluvials has met with en-
couraging results from pitting on its 500-
acre holding in the Lisle basin (Tas.).
Thus far 32 pits, scattered over 100 acres,
have disclosed 15ft. of wash, averaging
approximately 4s. a yard. The gold is
fairly evenly distributed from surface to
bedrock. A better idea of the possibili-
ties of the holding will be had when a
larger area has been more systematically
tested.
* * * *
According to the cables. Great
Boulder Mining and Finance, recently
formed in London to take over the out-
side interests of Great Boulder Prop.
(W.A.), will own all the issued shares
in five well-reported goldmines in West-
ralia and will hold options of purchase
over shares controlling four other proper-
ties, as well as a large holding in Carmen
Valley Gold, a one-sixth interest in
Yellowdine and scrip in a number of
other mining, etc., ventures. After pay-
ing for all properties, interests and
shares to be acquired, the board, headed
by John Waddington, expects to have
£450,000 (stg.) left.
* * * *
After setting aside £5581 for Aus-
tralian taxation, Great Boulder Prop,
netted £81,090 for the 12 months of 1934
as against £73,344 and £60,242 for the
two preceding years. The figure would
have been better but for the new plant’s
initial metallurgical difficulties. Divs.
aggregated 25 p.c. (£58,333) as against
37i p.c. and 25 p.c. for 1933 and 1932
respectively. The co. should soon make
a start to re-treat its big heap of residues.
* * * *
Chapman’s Co. perseveres in its search
for gold. It spent £13,000-odd in unsuc-
cessfully seeking its fortune at The
Granites, and then trekked west' to the
old Great Western, near Leonora (W.A.).
The co. has already spent a lot of money
prospecting there, and intends to dip
further into the till before deciding to
buy. It has another six months in which
to make up its mind.
* * * *
Edjudina, Yarri (W.A.), recently asked
shareholders for another 6d. a share to
buy a 3000-ton-a-month plant, erection
of which is now nearing completion.
About 8000 tons of stone has
been broken from the outcrop. Eight
prospecting shafts have been sunk, the
first three proving 86,000 tons of 6jdwt.
stone. The co. counts on mining 150,000
tons by opencut, and hopes for re-
coveries of over 90 p.c.
* >l! * *
On the recommendation of H. Annear,
Ora Banda Consols has taken a 12
months’ free working option over two
areas near the King of the Hills mine,
about 18 miles from Laverton (W.A.).
The price is £2OOO cash and 15,000
shares, paids or contribs. at the vendors’
option. At a depth of 25ft., the ore-
body is about 4ft. wide, and has been
driven on for 40ft. The 287 tons
already taken out averaged lldwt.
* * * *
General Mining Corp. has now taken
separate options on extended terms over
the Iron Duke and Lady Mary, Norse-
man (W.A.). T. R. Victor considers that
the Iron Duke offers a reasonable
chance of developing into a fairly large
low-grade (probable values sdwt. to
7dwt.) proposition. The idea is to prove
enough pay ore to warrant formation of
an operating co,
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) treated 740 tons
during May for 2970 z. of gold, with
7dwt. 19gr. in the sands. About the
middle of last month 302 tons was treated
for 930 z. 16dwt,; the sands assayed
9dwt.
* * * sit
Ingliston Consols Extended, Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), continues to potter along.
Last month the co. treated 3631 tons for
bullion valued at £6071 in Australian
currency. Working exes, took £5599, and
development £434, leaving £3B of profit.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. is testing its
option at Cox’s Find, near Laverton
(W.A.). Little development has been
done, but some high-grade ore has been
exposed by a series of potholes. The
purchase price is £25,000.
* * * *
Goldmining in Westralia has been
smitten with one dashed thing after an-
other —miners’ strikes, delays in the de-
livery of plant and downing of tools by
foundry hands. Equipment installation
and production are being delayed, and
this is having a depressing effect on the
sharemarket. The Lady Shenton, which
hoped to have its mill running in August,
will now have to wait; its cash is limited,
and a call or two in July and a little
later seem inevitable.
He ♦ * *
Renong Consolidated Tin Dredging,
one of the Burma-Malay group, netted
£23,977 in 1934 as against £40,703 for
the preceding year. The contraction was
due mainly to the reduction of quotas—
-55 p.c. and 53 p.c. of the assessment as
against 60 p.c. and 58 p.c. for 1933. Diys.
totalling p.c. (= £40,000) were paid.
The dredge handled 1,152,000 c.y. for
354 tons of to., an average of .691 b. per
yard. Working costs were 3.53 d. as
against 3.40 d. in 1933 ; the reduction in
the quota brought about a loss of 46.2
p.c, of the full working time. The oxide
averaged £l2l 9s. a ton, an advance of
£2 16s. During the first half of 1935
the quota was further reduced to 48.7 p.c.
* * * *
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging has re-
deemed or made provision for the re-
demption of the whole of its debenture
issue, which was put out in 1929 to
finance purchase and equipment of the
Ban Pru area. Henceforth the co. hopes
to pay Is. a share quarterly. Its quotas
for the first six months of 1935 were:
Takuapa, 235.7 tons; Ban Pru, 38.9
tons; Ratrut (purchased), 72.47 tons;
total, 347.07 tons. Negotiations for the
purchase of Ratrut’s quota to the end
of December next are in progress.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“The Man Who Knew Too Much”
At Sydney Lyceum. Leslie Banks, Edna
Best (wife) and Nova Pilbeam (daughter)
are holidaying in Switzerland. One of
their friends, an English secret service
agent, is shot by an anarchist. Banks gets
hold of a note intended by deceased for
the Foreign Office, but receives a warn-
ing that his child will be kidnapped if he
passes it on. The child is kidnapped, and
the parents return to London. The rest of
the film is devoted to Banks’s search for
his daughter and his efforts to prevent
the assassination of a foreign statesman.
The search eventually leads him and a
friend to a queer tabernacle in Wapping,
and ends with a large-scale battle
Frank Morgan in “Naughty Marietta."
between police and crooks. Excellent
acting and direction lift it above the
average thriller.
“Things Are Looking Up”
Cicely Courtneidge is her genial,
raucous self as the equestrienne-pro-
prietor of a down-and-out travelling cir-
cus and sister to a humorless teacher in
a school for young ladies (she doubles
the parts). The teacher elopes with a
wrestler, and the bareback rider tem-
porarily fills her place. But most of the
laughs come towards the end when Miss
Courtneidge deputises for a seal-trainer,
wire-walker and trapeze artist in turn.
“The Case of the Curious Bride”
Warren Williams as Perry Mason, an
unscrupulous criminal defender, has to
save the beauteous Margaret Lindsay,
accused of murdering one of her hus-
bands. The well-known Williams sleuth-
ing technique gets a good airing, and,
possibly as an offset to the bibulous
achievements of William Powell in a
similar role, Mr. Mason is shown to
possess talent and enthusiasm as a chef.
The unravelling of the crime isn’t very
clearly detailed, but there are plenty of
wisecracks, and the tempo is brisk. At
Sydney Capitol.
“One Hour Late”
This is the story of a crooner (Joe
Morrison) who wasn’t appreciated by his
sweetie (Helen Twelvetrees), but who at
last won (he fame and emoluments to
which his maudlin gurgles entitled him
through his heroism in climbing beneath
».a stranded elevator to release a marooned
party. Miss Twelvetrees presents a
princess of nitwit heroines —fit punish-
ment for a crooner —and Conrad Nagel
is bored and polite as her employer. For
three-quarters of an hour it appears likely
that Nagel and not Morrison will win
the lady’s heart, but the lift accident
changes all that, and poetic justice is
done, Sydney Capitol.
“Waltz Time”
A British talkie version of Strauss’s
“Die Fledermaus.” Evelyn Laye is Mrs.
Eisenstein, Fritz Schultz is her flighty
husband, Gina Malo is Adele the
naughty lady’s maid, Parry Jones is
Alfred, a stout but romantic tenor, and
Jay Lauder scores laughs as a perpetu-
ally squiffy gaoler. The story is too
slender for the screen, and the assump-
tion that Vienna is one vast comic opera
has been done to death. The most strik-
ing vocal achievement is that of Misi
Laye, who despite the liberal use made
of her voice in “Evensong” and othe
musical pieces, sings not a single note
At Sydney Variety.
“Naughty Marietta”
Herbert’s operetta, now at Sydney St.
James, impressed the writer rather more
favorably than it did The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic. As a production it
lacks snap and direction, but Jeanette
MacDonald, who goes to New Orleans
from France on the equivalent of a
Sydney bride-ship, looks her loveliest,
and Nelson Eddy has an impressive
voice and presence. Having heard the
pair in “Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life,”
the average movie fan’s only quarrel
with them is likely to be that they waste
too much time in dialogue.
Of the others, delightful character
studies are supplied by Frank Morgan
and Elsa Lanchester. He is the panicky
Governor, she his crushing wife who
can put the essence of 24 hours of nag-
ging into 24 bitter syllables,
“Gold Diggers of 1935”
Somewhat anaemic compared with
previous “Gold Digger” films. There are
no catchy songs, the wisecracks are
labored and the humor is of the sledge-
hammer variety. Adolph Menjou’s dis-
plays of temperament become boring,
and Hugh Herbert’s gold-leaf nerves
communicate themselves to the audience.
Towards the end the film turns off
into an irrelevant revue. This is easily
the best part of the show, and almost
worth sitting through the rest for.
“The Right to Live”
This one at Sydney State claims
to be the screen version of Somerset
Elsa Lanchester in “Naughty Marietta.”
Maugham’s “The Sacred Flame,” but
much is introduced that wasn’t in the
original, and Maugham’s climax—where
the mother gives her hopelessly crippled
son a fatal sleeping draught—has been
scrapped in favor of an unconvincing
suicide.
Josephine Hutchison and Colin Clive
do well in the circumstances.
“Sing Sing Nights”
At Sydney Lyric. The body of a pro-
minent New Yorker is found with three
bullet wounds —each from a different
gun. Three men confess, and a jury
sentences them all. The night before
the execution the governor allows a pro-
Jeanette MacDonald in “Naughty
Marietta,” at Sydney St. James.
fessor to discover the murderer by means
of his “lie-detector.” Each man tells his
story, the machine connected to his arm,
and the professor explains his theory of
the crime. It’s in no way convincing.
“Woman’s Man”
The one about the temperamental film
actress and the promising young boxer
who forgets his training because of her.
If anything, it’s worse than usual.
Some First Nights
Bayard Veiller’s “Within the Law,”
presented last Thursday at the Criterion
Theatre, first made its appearance in
Sydney over 20 years ago. Somebody
has tried to modernise it. The actors
gave the impression that they would have
been happier playing in something more
up to date ; still the part of the sales-
woman who became a crook in order to
obtain revenge was played with spirit
by Betty Bowden, and Richard Parry
was an excellent juvenile lead. Veiller's
play is the second-last production that
will be seen at the Pitt-street house,
which will be in the hands of the demob
ishers within a fortnight. The final show
will be “The Patsy.”
¥ ¥ ¥
Madame Muriel Brunskill, the con-
tralto whose Amneris was one of the
most electrifying circumstances of the
Fuller operatic venture, commenced a
series of recitals at the Assembly Hall,
Sydney, on Saturday night. Aided by
Carl Barking, a sympathetic accom-
panist, she showed her breadth of musi-
cianship by interpreting Schubert lieder
and songs by English composers Vaughan
Williams, Gustav Holst and Armstrong
Gibbs, as well as excerpts from Italian
and French opera. The singer was in
good voice, and her fine, rich tones
were displayed to advantage in all her
numbers,
¥ ¥ ¥
Ten minutes after it had set out on the
troubled seas of Shaw’s “Major Barbara”
at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, the ship
of Beresford Fowler ran fair and square
on the rocks, and the curtain had to be
lowered in the middle of the act. Having
towed the craft off, stopped up the leaks
and perhaps given some of the crew
a taste of a rope’s end, the indomitable
navigator once more got under way. The
rest was all plain sailing ; in fact, first-
class seamanship. There was not a
member of the cast that did not pull his
weight. Fowler was at his best as Snobby
Price, Adele Blythe was an admirable
Lady Britomart, and Edith Odgers was
serene and self-controlled as Barbara,
the aristocratic Salvationist. Ron J.
McPherson gave an extraordinarily
original rendering of her lover, the pro-
fessor of Greek. As the death-and-
destruction merchant Andrew Under-
shaft, William Clarksoix was in charge of
some of the lengthiest and most elo-
quent passages of dialectic Shaw has
ever penned, and he declaimed them skil-
fully. William Allen and Norman Grant
made the scene in the West Ham Salva-
tion Army quarters live. Shaw’s main
point, that the charity worker’s activi-
ties are complementary to the armorer’s
fell trade, is surrounded by a wealth of
observation on almost every other aspect
of the social scene, and it says something
for Fowler and his posse of amateurs
that they were listened to, not only with
attention, but with enthusiasm.
* * •¥
Dante continues to mystify the multi-
tude at Sydney’s New Tiv. He produces
girls, cards, ducks and yards of silk from
nowhere, and draws dozens of glasses of
beer from an empty barrel. He loses
things just as easily. Three people sus-
pended above the stage in a balloon
vanish, to reappear almost the same in-
stant from the back of the theatre; a
young lady carefully placed in a box
on the stage is found in a nest of boxes
which all the time have been hanging
from the ceiling. Vaudeville flourishes
in the first half of the programme. Joey
Porter has gone, and Alec Pleon fills out
the top line without any wrinkles. Alan
Priora, an Australian who had to go
abroad to obtain recognition, wins
applause. The Harris Sisters balance on
their shoulders and parade the stage on
arms and hands in opposition to the
laws of gravity; La Petite Margot
manipulates her dolls, and the Five
Florays tumble about in disregard for
life and limb. On Saturday Dante moves
on, and from Mebourne come “Birds of
the Night” to keep variety new.
Gilsullivan fans turned up in battalions
to “The Pirates of Penzance” at Melb.
His Majesty’s, and demanded triple en-
cores for nearly everything, though the
presentation fell short of “The Gondo-
liers,” which preceded it. The out-
Nelson Eddy in “Naughty Marietta.”
standing achievement of the evening
was the Mabel of Helen Langton.
Ivan Menzies made a satisfactory
Major-General, reeling off the patter
song with apparent ease, and Evelyn
Gardiner was appropriately stolid as
Ruth. The hero, Frederic, was played
stiffly but tunefully by Godfrey Stirling.
The acting in “Trial by Jury” was
adequate. Gregory Stroud made a sound
counsel and Eileen Kelly a natural plain-
tiff, and the Judge was amusingly acted
by Richard Watson, who also scored
later as the sergeant of police.
H- * *
Five Guignol pieces occupied the Kur-
saal Theatre, Sydney, on Saturday.
James Higgins and Shirley Geddes made
a marrow-chilling job of “The Wager.”
In “The Sacrifice,” more restrained, Cree
Jackson scored most of the honors. Two
petit Guignols—“The Lady and the
Parson” and “Coffin Nails”—figured in
the programme, Joan Murry presenting a
very seductive gold-digger in the second.


ĸ
BUY UNKNOWN STOCKINGS
WHEN YOU CAN BUY HOSIERY OF
UNQUESTIONED quality and appearance, produced
by PRESTIGE LIMITED ... a company world-famed
for efficient organization and quality productions.
<te-
■
■
■
ti
A
i
:
s
■
MODEyj SILK
STOCHilffGS
m
11
A
.
OF GUAR/^JSiaED
QUA
Y
*A«
-
ALTHOUGH Paramount pro-
k ductions are offered at such
attractive prices, the Company
wish it to be known that these
stockings carry the same warranty
as all Prestige products.
We have recently added to this range
the New Ringless Sheer ij
PARAMOUNT No. 444 atO IL


ABORIGINALITIES
P. Yallock ’: One of the birds en-
gaged in the egg-laying competition at
Burnley (Vic.) is up before the stewards,
record had hitherto been sportsmanlike
record has hitherto been sportsmanlike
and without blot. There was nothing
sinister about her when the race began.
vShe laid her daily egg from the rise of
the barrier until somewhere which might
be described as the five-furlong post.
Then she knocked off and declined to
lay any more. Days passed, and, though
the stewards regarded her with some
suspicion, they took no action. Sud-
denly she began to assume 'the curly tail
of a drake. Her voice deepened, and she
was no longer able to quack. A few days
more and she definitely became a male
bird, assuming all the privileges and re-
sponsibilities of the position. Now the
controllers of the competition are in
trouble. They accepted the entry of a
duck and find a drake on their hands.
Probably the difficulty will be overcome
by declaring the competitor to be a drake
within the meaning of the Act, depriving
him of his amateur status and disquali-
fying him for life as an egg-layer.
“Mimrac”: When mine winding-engine
drivers get together over a few pots they
wind their way round the world and back
in swapping their experiences. Many
claim they can tell just how many men
are in the cage they are raising or lower-
ing. The best yarn I’ve heard was that
of one on the Westralian goldfields who,
when he was raising a cageful of men,
suddenly sensed a decrease in his load.
When the cage reached the surface he
asked if anything had fallen out on the
way up. “No, Sandy,” replied one man,
“but as we passed No. 5 level I passed a
cigarette-paper to my mate on the plat.”
* * * *
“Carmim”: We hear about fish that
climb trees and frogs that come out of
stones, but has any Aboliar ever heard of
white-ants dining on lead? They attacked
and riddled to bits a roll of sheet-lead on
a well-known n.-w. Queensland border
station. Pity help Broken Hill or Mt.
Isa if the things ever decide to go into
the mining game!
“Oriole”; There are honeyeaters that
have fairly long beaks and a long brush-
tipped tongue, designed to collect the
nectar from bell-shaped flowers. Some of
the species with shorter beaks have over-
come their natural disadvantages by pick-
ing a small hole at the base of the flower,
and so reaching the nectar. Even the
spine-billed honeyeater—a kind with a
very long beak —has been known to use
this method with particularly deep
flowers,
# ❖ # ’-i':
“Ornis”; Those interested in tabulating
bird migrations seem to have got no
nearer the why and wherefore than Gil-
bert White did when he believed that the
vanished British swallows lived all winter
at the bottom of ponds. In many cases
conditions are better in the country left
behind than in that visited. Our own
golden plover prefers to winter in the
Arctic Circle, where one would think
tucker is harder to get than in Aus-
tralia, though he comes back to breed in
the spring. On the west coast of
America this fowl leaves Alaska at the
end of the winter for tropical Central
and .South America. On the other coast
the annual trip is from Nova Scotia to
Venezuela. Observations of this last
voyage have put the golden plover for-
ward as the world’s record flyer. The
non-stop trip of 2500 miles is over the
sea all the time, and when one considers
the tiny body of the bird the wonder is
where it stores the fuel for such re-
markable energy.
* * * *
“G.H.”: “Hey!” is the call used by
the majority of bushmen (B. 5/6/’35). It
is far-carrying, and will not be mistaken
for the cry of a bird. Alongside it
“wa-hoo” is like a rifleshot against a
gunshot. Try it and see.
* * * *
“Cuneus”; Trout fishing at Towonga
(Vic.), a dentist friend, when changing
flies, placed the shorter end of the cast
in his mouth. Then, haying changed the
fly on the longer end, he dropped it into
the stream. It was seized instantly by
a trout which “rose” to the occasion,
with the result that the second hook be-
came firmly embedded in the angler’s
lower lip. We released the trout, but
couldn’t dislodge that hook. At a hotel
“How's that for a crop o' wheat? My new variety
“ Variety, boss? Looks all same to me.”
about a mile away, a fifth-year medical
student removed it with the aid of a razor
blade and two tumblers of brandy, one
taken by the patient before and one
after the operation.
“Kellick”: Volcanic pumice is plenti-
ful on Lizard Island, one of the Barrier
Reef group. Have visited this island
several times with ships of the R.A.N.;
a party of men was always detailed off
to go ashore and collect the volcanic
froth. In the navy the stuff is used for
rubbing down paintwork previous to re-
painting. When a flat edge is filed on
the stone the tedious job of burning- and
scraping-off is lightened considerably.
❖ : I' J ' : ❖
“Eureka”: “Dead finish” is a thorny
growth that is very aptly named; it’s
almost impossible to penetrate country
where this timber grows thickly. Just
as aptly named, however, is a vine called
“wait-awhile” that grows in the scrub
on the far South Coast of N.S.W. It
gets hold of your clothes and clings to
you like a poor relation. I’ve seen cattle
tangled up in it near Bega ; they would
never have freed themselves with their
own efforts.
* * * *
“Shake”: The statement that a very
small underground jerk may make a big
earthquake (B. 19/6/’35) somehow re-
calls the case of the ’Frisco Tar baby. This
chap was a fifth-rate negro pug. who used
to hang about San Francisco pubs and
was well enough liked save when he was
full up —then he was what the Yanks
call a “bad actor.” One morning he
went into the flashes! bar in ’Frisco and
asked for a drink. The barman, an
exquisitely polite South Carolinian,
replied, “On your way, Tarbaby. Yo’
know we don’t serve no Gahdam
niggers here.” Tarbaby gripped the brass
rail and gave it a shake. Said he: “Ef
yo’ don’ gimme a drink I’ll tear this-
yere bar to bits.” Just then an “under-
ground jerk” brought the great earth-
quake on ’Frisco, and the bar came down
in ruins. Both men rose from the broken
glass and plaster and looked at each
other. Tarbaby was first to speak. Said
he, “Ah’ll be goin’, Mistah Barkeep.
But Ah’d like to say Ah’m right sorry
about this —Ah sho didn’ mean to go so
far.”
* * * *
“Branding Iron”: Recently a large
pure-white dingo was killed on Bowie
station, 160 miles south of Charters
Towers (N.Q.). An effort was made to
take him alive, but when cornered he
attacked so savagely that he was shot.
“F.Y.7”: Brolgas as pets (B. 19/6/’35)
were common enough in western Queens-
land years ago, but there is a catch in
it. They are quiet, friendly birds, but
the habit, common to all the cranes and
herons, of diving the dagger-like beak at
any bright object made them deadly-
dangerous to children’s eyes. Writer can
recall more than one case of a lost
optic due to the birds. There was no
spite about the attack, it being gener-
ally held that the brolga’s habit of spear-
ing small fish as they darted by, shining
in the water, was at the back of it.
* # n* *>
“King Billy”: The Australian Museum
(Sydney) has received a striking specimen
of Binghi’s handicraft in the shape of a
“shield-tree,” an ironbark from which
several shields have been cut, while one
has been shaped out on the wood but left
on the trunk. This had been dead for
years, and the lower part of the trunk
showing the work was sawn off for trans-
fer to Sydney. The cuts are oval-shaped
and about 30in. by 15in. In the remain-
ing one, the outline has been deeply in-
cised, but the undercutting has been left
uncompleted before the stone wedges
were used to detach the shield shape.
'l* 'S' v
“Spare Walton”: I assure “Theine
Dhu” 18, 19/6/’35) that I have eaten
perch, but, like the man who ate a crow
for a bet, “damme if I hanker after it,”
In earlier days I used to catch many
perch in Yorkshire becks while fishing
for trout with a minnow. No one I ever
knew would eat them, and after the first
scornful reception of my captures I used
to leave them behind. Further, I have
never seen perch on the menu of a
hotel or restaurant. Still, there are people
who will eat anything, as the craze of
“T.D.’s” fellow-Victorians for mutton-
birds testifies.
* * * *
“Bangalay”: In what country don't
gum-trees grow? Aldous Huxley, in
Beyond the Mexique Bay, mentions that
the plaza of Chichicastenango in Guate-
mala is planted with eucalypts; and
Morton, in In the Steps of the Master,
says that a grove of eucalypts leads up to
the old restored synagogue at the ruins of
Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee.
“Titoki”: Another appreciation of the
trees Australians don’t enthuse over until
they leave Australia. I strolled into a
Christchurch (M.L.) pub and noticed
that the only decorations in the way of
flowers were large pots filled with gum-
tree foliage. “What’s the idea?” I asked
a lady behind the counter, indicating the
pots. “The boss won’t have anything
but gum-tips in the house,” she said.
“Every Sunday he goes into the country
for a fresh supply.” “Must be a country-
man of mine,” I said. “He is,” said the
only other customer, "if you come from
Ireland.”
* * *
“Tom Willie”: The Mt. Spurgeon (Q.)
crayfish (B. 12/6/’35) is characteristic of
the whole race. His claws are insensitive,
but the feelers which he carries on his
head are as touchy as a nerve in a hot-
low tooth. Many people confuse the
fresh-water cray with the yabbie, but
they are vastly different in size and ap-
pearance. One author put crayfish on
the menu when writing of the Burren-
juck dam. He had caught the “crays”
in the huge reservoir and boiled them in
a billy. He found them so good that he
offered some to a lady acquaintance after
eating two himself. He was still going
strong when I put the book down and
left him and her to their yabbies.
' l ' 5 1 : : l !
“R.V.W.”: How is this for mass de-
struction? Kangaroos have become a
terrific pest in the Roebourne (N.W.) pas-
toral district, where, it is estimated, they
consume three times as much per head
as a sheep. Recently on Coolawanyah
station three water-troughs were poisoned
for two nights, after which motor-trucks
removed 750 corpses for burning. Thou-
sands of ’roos must have perished, but
the majority managed to hop away some
distance. The idea is all right if they are
all burned. If they are not, somebody
will soon probably be wondering how
blowflies can be kept off sheep.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The best method I ever
struck of computing distance (B.
l9/6/’35) was used by the Boers. They
judged it by hours, and reckoned six miles
to the hour as a standard
distance —I am speaking
of mounted men, of
course; in my time there
were no white footsloggers
in S’Africa. The method
was made more certain by
the Boer practice of train-
ing all their horses, geld-
ings or stallions —I never
saw a Boer riding a mare
—to “tripple,” as they called it.
You leaned back a bit in the
saddle, touched neddy’s mouth
lightly with the single rein bit with
its curb “chain” made from a bit
of greenhide, and off he went at
what the Yanks call a run. Every
two hours one spelled for a quarter,
perhaps offsaddling, and then on
again. Another good point about
the Boers. They invariably gave direc-
tion by the compass points, which every
man seemed to carry in his head—a prac-
tice I never came across elsewhere.
* * * *
‘Marsh"’: Tell “The Ringer” (B.
29/5/’35) there’s nothing extraordinary
about plants growing at the bottom of
sub-artesian boreholes. I’ve yet to con-
nect with one where water-plants didn’t
show up a couple of weeks after the
flow had started. And those round
leaves he saw coming out of the bore-
head on Toorak station (Q.) won’t get .<
place in the Bore Phenomenon Stakes.
If “The R.” does want to see something
extraordinary, I’d recommend him to pay
a visit to Mt. Gason bore, on the Birds-
ville-Marree stock route in South Aus.,
from which come small fish. Blinded by
sudden contact with light, they are to be
seen swimming about near the bore-
head, where the water is almost boiling.
* * $
“Marra”: A lot of weeping has been
going on in N. S. Wales over losses of
valuable timber through the mistletoe
parasite; but mistletoe will never be-
come a national menace. Periodically
it will increase rapidly in some
particular area, perhaps throughout a
whole State, but ever and anon the
growth subsides. I have seen this happen
many times and in many places. The
mistletoe bird (which spreads the seed of
the parasite) and a butterfly (.Delias
nigrina ), the caterpillars of which feed
exclusively upon the mistletoe leaves,
seem to be the pest’s natural friend and
enemy respectively. One Government
official has been quoted as saying, “The
only way to clear badly infested areas is
to cut down the trees and destroy the
plant and its seeds.” Certainly there
would be work for all the unemployed
on that job. But I think Delias will
happen along just as the newspaper con-
troversv is getting really heated, and un-
obtrusively deal with the pest.
THE BARROW MARATHON.
Ah, well,” asserted Joe the Cook, and sank
his beer and mopped his brow,
“It shows Depression’s on the run; it’s clear
we’re round the corner now.
No Bung would bet you twenty pounds—or
pence—if biz was reelly crook.
You couldn’t wheel him fifty miles inside a
week,” said Joe the Cook.
“It s queer,” said Joe, “the ditf’rent ways in
which ’is name a feller makes!
'lire's Bradman ’its ’is centuries and Lindrum
scores ’is thousand breaks.
Yet neither of 'em in a week to such a blaze
of fame could win
As one who pushes fifty miles a barrer with a
Bung therein.
“ Twas old Macarthur gave us wool,” said Joe,
“an’ Hargreaves found our gold,
And what our wheat to Fairer owes, they tell
us, is a debt untold.
We honor them, an’ so we should. And yet
those pioneering men,
1 hey never got the front-page stuff—becausc
there wasn't any then.
“Old ’Enry Parkes,” said Joe the Cook, “made
politics ’is special biz;
’Twas ’im who gave the lead to mould our
Federation what it is.
An’ yet ’c never ’arnessed up to give a licensed
vit. a ride
By mountain roads, through snow and slush—
I doubt ’c could ’avc if ’e’d tried.
“Ah, well,” concluded Joe the Cook, and fell
upon the counter-lunch,
“Now that we’ro back to normal times, there’s
lots of ways to make a punch.
I wouldn’t wheel a Bung uphill for fifty miles
for fifty quid,
And (say) if wc were goin’ down, the barrer
would be apt to skid.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“ Couldn't y spare a tanner , mister? I've seen better days.
“ So've I—thousands of ’em.”
“Dian” (Rabaul): A “boy” invariably
chooses the wrong way of doing things.
1 had a few natives lopping some large
trees, and arrived on the scene to dis-
cover one sitting far out on a limb which
he was sawing off between himself and
the trunk. Limb and “boy” hit the
ground, 30ft. below, but the sawyer was
unhurt. Another, brushing the jungle,
climbed 15ft. up a bush creeper to free
some much entangled vines. Hacking
away at these, he had partially cut the
creeper he was clinging to when another
bright specimen completed the job by
cutting it off at the ground. The precipi-
tated one thought it a joke, notwithstand-
ing that he fell within a few feet of a
blazing fire.
* * if *
“Doorbell” The blowfly plague en-
dured by “M.R.P.” (B. 5/6/’35) reminds
me of a visitation of winged pests at a
large dairy farm near Gladstone (Q.) in
1931. Mosquitoes! Not the large
Scotch grey, which is pretty awful at any
time ; they were a smaller variety, with
a particularly vicious bite. Everyone on
the place wore a flowing protection of
mosquito-net, held off the face by the
wide brim of a cabbage-tree hat and
flowing to the feet. Even the milking
was done into buckets with strainers over
them.
* # * *
“Bondi-ite”: The sea-serpent has
turned up again, this time at Portland
(Vic.), where two youths saw swimming
offshore a fearsome monster “80 to 100
feet long, with a head like a giraffe’s,
held high in the air.” So many sea-
serpent yarns have been going round in
recent years that people are beginning
to believe in them. But it is impossible
that such creatures can have survived
the immense sea traffic of modern times
without having been reported more often
and with more detail. The argument that
they are deep-sea fish which venture to
the surface only at rare intervals is not
scientifically sound. Deep-sea fish cannot
live near the surface; they are rein-
forced to withstand immense water
pressure, and such as are dredged up
die at once. The immense bulk of a
sea-serpent would require such internal
resisting force that the moment it got to
the surface it would explode.
s|e H« H« *
“Speewaa”: The discovery of a nugget
shaped like a rocking-horse by Jamie-
son's party at Rheola (Vic.) recalls some
extraordinary gold formations found at
various times in the history of Austra-
lian mining. Rough resemblances to
stars, lizards, snakes and fish are fairly
common, but occasionally Nature be-
comes more ambitious. Witness the Cruci-
fix nugget unearthed near Castlemaine
(Vic.) in the ’sixties. The finder satisfied
himself by showing it round the field and
then carrying it to the goldbuyer. Later
an Irishman offered twice the value of
the gold content for the nugget, intending
to present it to the Pope. But the gold
by that time had been boiled down, and
the wonder was lost to the world.
* * * *
“Gidya”: I contend that the split-
tongue theory as regards whistling birds
(B. 29/5/’35) is exploded. For some
years I awoke most mornings to the
alternate calling and chattering of
Jacko, a pet maggie. His vocal claim
to be a cockatoo and not a magpie
sounded almost natural ; he could even
sing four lines of a once-popular song—
albeit in a very harsh voice. Jacko has
lately taken up residence in Toowoomba
(Q.), owing to a change of management
on this station, but I’d like to bet he’s
still the central exhibit when there are visi-
tors. His tongue was definitely not split
—I watched him grow from a nestling,
and had a hand in teaching him what he
knew.
* * * *
“Holothuria”: Brisbane, which has
embarked on many fishy enterprises in its
time, is to try a new one. A co. has been
formed to fish in Moreton Bay
for beche-de-mer, and opera-
tions are to start shortly. The
uninviting-looking sea-slug is
found in all the seas of the
world, including the waters of
Sydney Harbor. The trouble
is that the varieties valuable in
the Chinese market are not so
common. That they are to
be found in Moreton Bay will
be news to many familiar with
the industry on the N.Q. coral
reefs. It is not stated either
how the “fish” is to be caught.
In the North this is done by
native skin-divers, who are
not very plentiful about More-
ton Bay, and dress-diving
would be akin to using a
steam-hammer to crack nuts.
One advantage the Moreton
Bay enterprise will have.
Asiatic poachers of the N.Q.
reefs will not dare to venture so close
to Forgan Smith and his income-tax
crowd.
* * * ✓
“Mid-Sussex”: Zebra finches, eh?
Two years ago I bought a pair of zebs.
A recent tally showed the number to be
32 —30 males and two females, including
the original hen. It seems to be another
case of Nature’s birth-control.
Hi Hi Jfc
“Walkabout”: Generous station hand-
outs to bagmen, is it (B. 29/5/’35)?
In John Hunter’s time Evora, near
Blackall (W.Q.), held pride of place as a
handout post. Every bagman on arrival
was given three days’ rations, including
tobacco, papers and matches, a flannel
and boot soles, if needed, and told to
wait at the hut until his turn came to do
three days’ burr-cutting. The burr-
cutting gang was operating almost
throughout the year, and every traveller
did his three days’ yacker, received his
pay at award rates and had his bags
filled once again. Invariably he hit the
track to Blackall to blow in his 30 bob
and sing the praises of the generous-
hearted John Hunter.
* * * *
“C.R.H.”: A young fellow travelling
in western Queensland with his Cine-
Kodak got his money’s worth one morn-
ing from the fence of the drafting-yards.
A man on foot was charged by a bul-
lock. He reached the fence at the same
moment as the bullock, whose long
horns became jambed in the rails, with
the luckless “ringer” imprisoned between.
Two mounted men rescued the captive
safe and sound, while the onlooker from
a top rail calmly recorded the proceedings.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: Some weeks ago, a Bul-
letin writer living in The Morass, South
Gippsland, proudly claimed that district
as the snakiest in Australia. What has
he to say to Inspector Spargo, of the Vic.
Noxious Weeds Board, whose gang of
men working on the Condah Dam at
Macarthur (Vic.) killed 117 serpents in a
week —16 of them unearthed from be-
neath one stone?
* * * *
“Erua”; News that one Alfred Bacon,
of Auckland (M.L.), is seeking the
simple life on the Kermadec Islands will
not induce many to go and do likewise.
The Kermadecs have a sinister reputa-
tion, and various attempts to people the
group have all ended in failure. A
family narfied Bell put in many years
there, living a precarious existence in a
a climate so boisterous that they had to
crawl on the ground to plant their crops.
Sundry other hardy spirits have had their
enthusiasm quenched by the wild con-
ditions on the islets, which are avoided
by most passing ships. Their chief fame
rests on the attention paid them in war-
time by the raider Wolf, which called
there to collect Von Luckner three days
too early. The Iris finally did the col-
lecting, and brought the Germans back to
Auckland and internment.
* * * *
“Wodao”; Like “Walkabout” (B.
12/6/’35), I have seen lack of green
grass drive marsupials to a change of
diet. At Comet (Q.) during a dry spell
wallabies took to the scrubs and ate
prickly-pear fruit. Many were blind
through the thorns of (he pear penetrat-
ing the pupils.
* * * *
“Kingsley Temple”; Chain Light-
ning, at present touring with an outfit
in S.A., is still reckoned to be the
champion buckjumper of Australia,
though he’ll soon want a set of false
teeth. Originally of the Kroombitt
station (C.Q.), he was found unrideable,
and would have been destroyed but for
“ Friends , I should like t' 'ave seen bigger congregashun this moornin."
the opportune arrival of a travelling
showman. In his heyday the horse was
impossible to stick, but the super-cow-
boy if he can outlast the champion’s
wind, has a sporting chance now of stay-
ing with the saddle
* * *
“Ned Kelly”: If the subject of bush
pipes isn’t worn out, tell Aboliars
that good ones may be made from
burrawong nuts. We used them as
youngsters for surreptitious smokes.
The top is levelled off and the kernel
removed. Girls attending our bush
school used to dye them by boiling in
a jam-tin with a piece of colored paper.
They were in great demand for the game
of “fives” (or “jacks”), otherwise played
with knucklebones.
“West Bogan”: “Mat’s Mate” (B.
19/6/’35) shows lack of knowledge of
the crow. One of its favorite tricks
is to ride a poor sheep till the' jumbuck
collapses, enabling the bird to get the
eyes. Have seen as many as three crows
at a time on the one sheep’s back,
“rocking” it to bring it down.
* * *
“W.P.T.”: A drover trying to slop a
mob of sheep from getting through a
break in a fence slipped and fell; before
he could regain his feet the mob was
jumping over him. There was a slight
break in the procession, and he managed
to get up. The rest of the sheep jumped
over where he had been just the same.
* * * *
“Oloc”: A young farmer down ourway
brought home, a city bride. He had to
go away on business for a few days, and,
as he was leaving, pointed out to wifey
a sitting hen, saying: “There are 13 eggs
under that chook, and if they hatch while
I’m away you’ll know how to handle the
chicks, won’t you?” Wifey said she
would. When the man of the house re-
turned he found the hen. wandering
about with one chick in tow. He asked
for an explanation. “Oh, yes, they all
came out, dear,” his better-half told
him ; “but I knew the whole 13 of them
would be a frightful nuisance, so I
drowned the other 12.” The cat had had
kittens a few days before.
* :jf >r *
“A.S.”: I’ve seen my dogs chase a
young hare (B. 12/6/’35) for an hour.
If outpaced, the fugitive relies on dodg-
ing. One of its chief tricks is to run
towards a dog so that it will stand in
wait —and be left standing.
❖ ❖
“Walliew”: I haven’t seen the red deer
at Warwick (Q.), but there are deer near
Charters Towers. Great-grandfather
Clarke brought their ancestors from
India and let them run and multiply at
Maryvale station. I have seen them
there in droves —a short-antlered variety,
but very elegant. The Clarke family still
has the station, and the deer are still
protected.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Old Bob’s lamp gave an ex-
ceptionally bright light, but the smell was
decidedly unpleasant. He poured some
of the oil out of the lamp into a saucer
and rubbed it well into his injured knee.
This general-purpose product was emu
oil; Bob reckons it to be the best remedy
he has ever used for sprains and stiff
joints.
“Dian”; On our N.G. property a hard-
wood-tree (locally known as tou-un, o.
huge dimensions was cut down in its
fall the trunk split in halves, and th
was exposed growing up . mslde "j f
smaller tree of the same spec.es complete
with roots and branching systems, its
bark, however, was an evil-smelling,
viscid substance, and the leaves, thou ° p
well formed, were etiolated and inflated
with water.
THE RAIN-BRINGER.
Oh, the West Wind’s been a-whining
O'er our pastures overlong,
And we're bitter with the burden
Of its unproductive song.
Hot from parched and aching deserts,
Dreary wastes of No Man’s Land,
It has set the “wurlies” rising
In an avalanche of sand;
•If has set the tall trees drooping
By a famine-fouled lagoon,
Where the heat waves dance and dither
In a ghastly rlgadoon.
In its breath is only torture,
On its wings is only pain;
And we’re waiting for the North Wind
That will bring us back the rain.
Oh, we’re praying for the North Wind
And the message it will bear
Of an ending to the troubles
That have laid our paddocks bare.
Fresh from fragrant fern-lined gullies
And a myriad mountain rills
It will breathe its healing greeting
From the moisture of the hills.
And the music of its coming
Is a memory of the sea —
As the glory of its presence
Is the greenery of a tree,
And the life eternal springing
Over ridge and vale and plain
That will burst to sudden beauty
When the North Wind brings the rain.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
• ‘
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
m i
| -*«•
<r* <!<K
/F" . > JWh*
i
KgSWT - ? r
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co. f Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE ÈM MEETINGS LINSEED MEAL.
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: Competition was limited
at the Sydney Sheep Show. The bulk of
merino exhibits were from Bundemar,
Merryville, Raby, Mungadal, Dalkeith.
Gostwyck, Winbri and Buckinbah.
Without their support the show would
not exist, and while those studs deserve
credit for their spirit and standards it is
to be regretted that others hold aloof.
The net result is that the ram sales
are yearly increasing in interest, and only
require the inclusion of some additional
not-fpr-sale exhibits to usurp the purpose
of the show.
There is no honor in i walk-over—
in the Novice Section, for instance, where
only one stud entered.
This year saw a new class for extra-
strong merinos, in addition to that for
superfine merinos, introduced last year.
The shownowcaters for five merino types.
The fine-, medium- and strong-wool sec-
tions were well represented; prize-
winners were true to type, and main-
tained the robust constitutions, size of
frame, length of staple and density set
by previous champions.
In evenness of covering, results are
probably better than ever, but there were
sheep on view which must have caused
the judges and referee headaches before
they could be properly typed.
The division between fine and super-
fine types was in some cases so slight as
to raise a doubt respecting the necessity
for the two classes. To enter the super-
fine class, the wool should be of 74’s or
better, but when a judge is faced with
a sheep whose fleece ranges from 80’s
back to 66’s it is obvious that a certain
latitude must be allowed.
There seems to be little justification for
the continuance of the extra-strong
merino class.
The Corriedales were a splendid lot—
wonderfully even in type and covering.
Romney Marsh were shown almost en-
tirely by one breeder, but the high qual-
ity of his sheep would have gained them
a place anywhere. Again, there were no
Lincolns in the show, and no English
Leicesters, but Border Leicesters were
strong, and the standard was high.
The Dorset Horn was well represented
in numbers and in quality, while the
Southdown entries reflected the import-
ant position this breed holds among
export-lamb breeders. The Ryeland pro"
mises to challenge the popularity of other
Downs breeds in Australia, and the sheep
exhibited will strongly appeal to export
breeders in many districts. They com-
bine shapeliness with size and hardiness,
produce quick-maturing lambs, and the
wool is of better quality and shows more
character than that of other Downs
sheep.
Universal Tally.
“Hortus”: This scheme (B. 19/6/’35)
is based on the assumption that a good
average shearer should shear 100 aver-
age flock sheep per day.
It makes for far better efficiency all
round, in my opinion. The tally-man—
the best and fastest shearer—regulates the
pace by the clock. Each shearer begins
work. If any man finishes before the
tally-man, he must not enter his pen
again before the latter.
The maximum number to be shorn is
fixed—from 80 to 90 per day for heavy-
wool wethers to 120 for easy-shearing
ewes and lambs.
Some say the forced slowing-dow'n
would mean loss to both owners and
shearers; others that, in wet weather,
shearing would be prolonged indefinitely.
But, in the first case, only the 150-
sheep man would be penalised, and,
roughly, only 10 p.c. belong to this class.
Secondly, the expense of a longer shear-
ing would be more than made up by the
added value of the clip.
The main points in favor of the scheme
are: The required number of shed-hands
can be estimated beforehand. The exact
quota of sheep can be brought in for
each day’s shearing-—hence less confusion
in mustering and less unnecessary yard-
ing. Sheep are more carefully handled
and more cleanly shorn. Slashing and
cutting are minimised. There should be
a reduction of at least 75 p.c. of second
cuts in wool—consequently less wool goes
into table-locks. Plenty of time is allowed
for shed work —hence the clip is better
skirted, better classed, the pieces are
picked better and the pressers’ work is
less hurried and less overtime required.
Two to four ounces more wool is ob-
tained from each sheep.
The present scheme of shearing allows
90 p.c. of shearers to go their hardest to
endeavor to equal the super-shearers’
records. Results are ill-used sheep,
damaged fleeces and uneven work.
“Lion”: I am against the universal
tally system because it is unfair to the
good fast shearer, not only in cutting
him down but in allowing the slow man
to creep up. It will nearly double the
cost of shearing, as the shed-hands take
almost as much out of a shed as the
shearers. It will also double shearing
time unless very carefully organised.
If there is a sheep-cutting shearer on
the board the owner has his remedy.
The same applies to the fleece-spoiler.
The average shearer is not a butcher.
Recently I saw a team of “guns” at
work. The slowest man did 180. The
shed of eight men averaged 1600 sheep
per day. They were well shorn and very
seldom cut. I can do over 100 myself,
besides experting the shed, and I know
the good shearer can shear without
double-cutting all the time or butchering.
I say, make your men shear cleanly,
allow them to go as fast as they wish and
sack them if they deserve it.
Woolgrowing Licks.
“Molecule”; Many regard the use of
meatmeal, protein and blood meals as
drought-time measures only, but the
general adoption of a lick containing
these or similar animal protein is only a
matter of time.
Old-time graziers thought the only
mineral necessary was salt; later, when
phosphorus deficiency became pro-
nounced, the addition of bonemeal and
rock phosphate grew more general.
Scientists have proved that cystine is
the limiting factor in wool-growth, and
that it is present in only limited quanti-
ties in our pastures. Meat, protein and
blood meals contain unusually large
quantities of cystine, the last-named being
the most desirable source yet discovered.
The logical thing to do is to incor-
porate a percentage of bloodmeal, which
will increase the cost only slightly, and
the extra wool-growth should more than
pay the lick bill.
Of course, it's not as simple as it
appears. Bloodmeal is unpalatable stuff,
and deterioration is sometimes rapid.
Much experimental work remains to be
done before we can arrive at the opti-
mum quantities of each ingredient form-
ing the lick, and it cannot be too clearly
understood that there is danger unless
precautions are taken against contami-
nation.
Then we have to make the lick just
sufficiently palatable to induce the jum-
bucks to consume the right amount (an
early formula of the late Brailsford
Robertson contained 33 p.c. maizemeal,
which seems too much).
The sheep which grows the most wool
is usually best equipped to withstand the
attacks of parasites, so that provision
of a complete mineral-cystine lick is
good business all round.
Sucker Lambs.
“F.L.8.”: “Curium’s” advice for
lambs off half-dry mothers (B, 19/6/’35)
is good ; but I referred to the. time .when
paddock-changing had been tried.
Paddock-changing will often fail to
produce the results, because the lambs
don’t get enough milk to make them fat,
and don’t seem to forage enough.
The main idea in weaning bad doers is
to enable the lambs to be given the best
paddock, which should hold the reduced
number of small feeders.
One should get the equivalent of
sucker-lamb price, for the weaned fat
lamb will be heavier and worth within
a penny a pound of the sucker.
Rugs for Sheep.
"Bates”: It is no joke; woolgrowers
in sandy parts of South Aus. are keen on
rugging sheep to protect the fleeces.
Wool samples from the same sheep in
different years and from different sheep
in the same year leave no doubt about
the efficacy of rugs. The protected wool
is free from dust, sand and. grass seeds ;
the staple is longer and the crimp de-
fined almost to a degree of artificiality.
Improved wool condition and quality
are not the only advantages claimed by
the sheep-rugger. As a result of con-
servation of energy superior body con-
dition is maintained by rugged animals.
This has practical effects in fat-lamb
raising. A simple trial in which a South
Australian rugged half his lambs and
grazed them in the same paddocks as
unrugged brought proof of a 6s. differ-
ence per head when sold on the open
market.
The procedure is simply to cut and
turn into shape a cornsack. One rope
round the neck and two round the hind-
legs hold the rug securely in position,
and a sound sack painted on the outside
with a bitumen-like substance will last
12 months. Ropes have to be adjusted
as wool grows.
The idea may conceivably have eco-
nomic application where burrs and grass-
seeds are bad. Neck and belly wool
would not be fully protected, but
shoulders and flanks would be clean.
In Queensland, where hand-feeding is
in progress, there are cornsacks enough,
and some money may thus be saved on
an otherwise dry, open and dusty wool-
clip.
Rotational Grazing.
“Boram”: I find that improved pas-
tures allied with natural grasses simplify
rotational grazing.
My plan is to fence off about one-
tenth of the area of a sheep paddock,
and divide it into four small paddocks,
each with water. One half the area —the
rest is left as natural pastures—is sown
with lucerne, and with Wimmera rye for
the cold winter months when the lucerne
growth is restricted.
In normal seasons, each small pad-
dock carries all the sheep from the large
paddock for one week, so that the latter
is spelled one month in every four.
If the season is dry, the small pad-
docks are left unstocked. till after sub-
stantial rain, when all sheep from the
large paddock are grazed through them
lor a month, giving the large paddock a
chance to recover.
The small paddocks give a bloom to
market lambs if lambs are put into them
a month before sale. Secure fences are
needed for crossbred lambs.
I build six-wire fences with posts 15ft.
apart; but, instead of the usual two
battens between, put four, 3ft. apart, and
tie each to the bottom, three wires. This
fence will hold any crossbred as well as
wire-netting, and is inexpensive. Battens
can be produced on the farm (apple-tree
is a good timber) or bought at 255. per
100.
Drought Optimism.
“Toongooroo”; Drought in Queens-
land and parts of N.S.W. is bad, and
pessimists are enjoying themselves. But
there are still a lot of optimists among
us in the grazing industry. Droughts are
a normal periodic condition.
In Queensland the gambling in merino-
sheep futures would make a Sydney real-
estate dealer of other days sit up and
stare.
Nowhere have we yet sustained in this
one the losses we suffered in the last
three big dry spells. Prior to 1902 there
were 20,000,000 sheep in Queensland.
After 1902 there were 7,000,000. In 1884
the losses were enormous, but the record
is not so dependable. In 1925 there were
again 20,000,000 in the Slate. After 1926
the numbers were 16,000.000. Since then
we have again reached the 20,000,000.
Should the drought break in the next
few months our losses will probably be
about 6,000,000. The progressive capa-
city of the industry for dealing with
drought stands revealed in the figures.
Perhaps to no reason is this more
generally due than to transfer from (he
great pastoral companies to the individual
grazier, who, with from 20,000 to 100,000
acres, has been able to nurse his flock
better under the new conditions than
the big owners could.
And if there were efficient means of
moving dry-stricken sheep to agistment
Country in large numbers conditions
would be far better at the next onslaught.
Witches’-broom.
“Mangaratta”: “Stump Jump” (B.
5/6/’35) claims that lucerne seed from
the heavy river soils will be found free
of witches’-broom.
I disagree. In no part of Australia
could non-irrigated lucerne be found to
surpass that at Booborowie (S.A.) 10 or
12 years ago. Six or seven cuts were the
usual thing. Witches’-broom was un-
known. During the last seven or eiglu
years the district has had rainfall far
below the usual.
The lucerne has gone back, and
witches’-broom has attacked young and
old stands alike. Settlers believe that
the dry seasons are the cause, and the fact
that the irrigated lucerne on river flats
is disease-free supports their contention.
A stand of lucerne in a creek bed which
receives an occasional flooding is also
tree. Growers sow their own seed.
A £5OOO Reward.
It is offered by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment for “a practicable method of eradi-
cating skeleton weed” ; and there is
plenty of time to earn it: claimants are
given till July 1, 1937, to apply.
■Complete eradication” is required,
and the method may be mechanical, cul-
tural, biological or chemical.
A committee will decide, and its de-
cision will be final.
The method must be “one which can
be adopted by an ordinary efficient
farmer without risk of physical injury or
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


/
/ />
/
/
./
X,
A
v
/ /
/
'm-M
/
/
y
/
/
x
IT'S NEW ENERGY
AND WARMTH f ROM
WITHIN YOU NEED
\
'X
QVERCOATS- thick clothing
—they are superficial aids
to warmth. li is rich red blood
you need to withstand the
bitins chilis.
/,
/l
" Here's Tb'ee
U
<
,
A
■R
'| * X
• a/
Jl v i
|i n *|:
«> * aijfcS* sfcafSs
I*;*
: X
m %
m
9
m i
■
Mj
RIGINAU
ill
v<
TOOHEVS Ut O
&S
V
S 3
kau
TME SAME
PRICE AS
ORDINARY
5 T O U T
i- i
A


Childrens
riding BOOK
8»
16/6
TAN ELASTIC SIDES.
No. 221: Sizes 10 to 13, 16/(i pr.
Sizes 1 to 3 17/6 pr.
Post; N.S.W.: 1/-; Q. ( Vic., 1/6.
866: Boys’ Puttee Beggings,,
as illus., 12/6; or No. 8166, with
spring front fastening .. 18/6
Post: N.S.AV.: 1/-; Q., Vic., 1/6.
KINGFISHER
STATION
STOCK WHIPS
KANGAROO RIGHT THROO
AND
\ STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. 8, with 10-plait Handle and 7ft. Plaited
Belly Thong 19/6
No. BA, with Bft. Thong 21/-
No. 9, with 12-plait Handle and Bft. 12-
plait Thong, with Plaited Belly .... 25/-
Post: N.S.W., 1/-; Q„ Vic., 1/6.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Svdnev.
Marriage
am/ Insurance
one can foretell. Secure your
wife and family a guaranteed
income—a small regular saving
buys complete protection. Enquire
also about the free hospital benefits
with cessation of premium pay-
ments on permanent disability.
GENERAL INSURANCE C 9 L T .»
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V- PERKINS, General Manager.
New responsi-
bility begins
with the happy
union of two
people the
future stretches
before with
changes no
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY—
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical—
are reviewed by experts in the Literary Pages
of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories,
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
MADE BY HAND . . .
AN EXCLUSIVE MODEL
Highly skilled craftsmen produce
Abbey handmade shoes . . . unsur-
passed for length of wear, neat
appearance and all-round comfort.
The uppei; is perfectly shaped . . .
adapted to all the curves of the foot.
The sole is the toughest available.
Save money on shoes . . . buy
Abbey hand-sewn!
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length, and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 707-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Estab/ished over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 444.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
LIFE OR DEATH IN OILCANS
on Quality
IN
S
MOTOR OIL
QNLY after the most searching
investigations as to the most
suitable oil, Admiral Byrd selected
Veedol Motor Oil for use in his
Monoplane, Biplane, Autogiro,
Snowmobile, and Tractor for his
two famous expeditions to the
South Polar regions. The success
of these expeditions was in no
small measure due to the unfailing
quality of Veedol —the finest oil
produced in the world. Veedol Is
tested Heat-proof and Cold-proof,
and costs no more than other oils.
100 per cent. Pure Pennsylvania.
ir I s
feE6
OL
Oil
AllSfete
'''S '
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
damage to persons or stock ; which shall
not involve an expenditure of more than
£2 an acre; and which shall not reduce
the fertility of the land for cereals, pas-
tures and lucerne by more than 10 p.c.
for 12 months following application.”
The method must not be “one that has
been tested or is under test, or has been
considered or formulated by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture.” The inventor may
be required to “bear the cost of making
any test,” and, if the reward is paid, “the
right and title to the method submitted
by the successful applicant shall become
the absolute property of the Government
of N. S. Wales.”
Really, the perfect eradicator would be
cheap at £50,000. The clause permitting
the committee to saddle a claimant with
testing costs should be struck out.
The Manure Subsidy.
The Commonwealth subsidy of 15s. a
ton on artificial manure used in the
production of produce other than wheat
can again be claimed for the year to
June 30, 1935.
“Artificial manure” is defined as “any
substance which contains nitrogen, phos-
phoric acid or potash, and which has
been manufactured, produced or pre-
pared in any manner for fertilising the
soil or supplying nutriment to plants.”
It does not include (a) animal or vege-
table matter not subjected to process or
manufacture, ( b ) agricultural lime or (c)
any produce primarily prepared for sup-
plying lime to the soil.
A declaration regarding the amount
of fertiliser used between July 1, 1934,
and June 30, 1935, and a certificate from
the supplier are required, and applica-
tions for payment must be in by
October 31.
Although farmers may claim in respect
of wheaten hay, the department will
require proof that such crops will not
eventually be stripped for grain, so pay-
ments will not be prompt. The 15s. a
ton is payable on manures used for
the production of oats, maize, beans,
peas and for top-dressing pastures.
Pig-farming as a Fine Art.
“Feilding”; Manawatu (M.L.) bacon-
producers stepped into the limelight at
the Palmerston North winter show, when
tested hogs were on the hooks to be
judged as bacon carcasses. It was the
first competition of its kind, and the
whole life history of the hog, from
farrow-house to frying-pan, came up for
review.
Size of the litter, weight of piglets at
weaning-time, growth-rate from birth to
slaughter, quality of carcass on hooks
and quality of bacon produced gave the
judges a busy time calculating up total
points.
Small litters, light litter-weights and
slow-growers were out of the hunt before
slaughter, but they came to the hooks in
a vain endeavor to extend the leaders by
exceptional carcass quality. High-produc-
, , . , ,
mg entries maintained their lead. Three
litters of 12 made it heavy weather for
the sevens and eights. A 4791 b. litter
completely overshadowed the 300’s. One
pig dressing 1621 b. 161 days from birth
had a flying start in the growth-rate
championship. A 32in. side made the
28’s annoar nnrkors while the Uin of
, s appear porKeis, wmie tne I 2 m. ol
backtat on one side looked slim along-
side the 2in., though the obesity of the
latter was frowned upon by the judges,
Australian harnn pxnnrtprs will havp tn
1 1 rA. • r ? exporters will Have to
look to their feeding troughs and slaugh-
terhouses if they wish to keep pace with
Maoriland competitors who are making
nip-farminp- one nf the fine arts
pig-rarming one OI tne nne arts.
Hints for the Farm.
' . ,
Albarmount : The easiest and most
economical way of dealing with red-grass
is to use it as a cover crop when sowing
nthor arassps and rlnvprs Nn harrnwina
otner grasses ana clovers, ino
or scarifying IS needed,
“Corriedale”: Feed the kelpie pup
vrmrcplf if vnn arp (mina tn train him
yourselr it you are going to tram him,
Never let anyone else look after him.
Pat him occasionally for an intelligent
action, speak to him in the same tones
as vnn will pmnlnv Inter and start
as , .yf! 11 , l em P lo 3 later, ana start
whistling the few stock calls. If he gets
them young, they sink in better and he
responds more automatically.
“Coronet”; It usually pays to remove
strawberry blossoms during the first year,
increase of yield in the second more than
compensating. Labor in mulching with
straw or pine is thus saved. Plants, how-
ever, should be well worked so that they
will move ahead. Very small runners
should not be planted out.
An interesting challenge to the West-
ralian Transport Regulation Act has
been made by four farmers in the Baker’s
Hill-Clackline district, who bought a
motor truck and began carrying the pro-
duce of each, as part owner, to Perth
lor sale. The verdict of a magistrate was
that defendants were not entitled to cart
from their several farms with the one
vehicle. The case is to go to a higher
court.
“W.D.Mc.”: Tell “Albarmount” (B.
29/ 5 / ’35) I have never advised anyone
to keep sheep *three minutes in a dip.; to
get the best results for protection from
fly one minute, as near as possible, is the
time. Incidentally, I have received scores
of letters from Bulletin readers who are
sheepmen thanking me for giving them
plans for a “walk-in” dip, and stating
what an improvement it was on the old-
style dips.
“Glen”: Points must be given against
the Border Leicester ram on the ground
that he will eat anything and go any-
where for it. My neighbor lost 10 valu-
able animals through this trait recently,
and the other morning I found a high-
priced ram dead over a patch of yellow
daisies that he had located before me.
“G.S.”: A fine local example of
fodder conservation was quoted by E. G.
Marwood, of the National Bank, on
leaving Moree (N.S.W.) to become State
inspector for that institution. It was that
of a man with 4000 acres who pitted
400 tons of ensilage and is now carrying
4800 sheep, 1600 of them lambing ewes,
with enough to keep them going till
Christmas. And the cost? Five or six
shillings a ton!
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transposed from Service Department.)
Number and value of horses imported to
and exported from Australia for each of the
last five years for which figures are available ?
—7383.
1928-29: Imports, 399 horses, valued at
£95,025; exports, 5695, valued at £174,282.
1929-30; Imports, 362, valued at £121,902; ex-
ports, 6331, valued at £207,080. 1930-31: Im-
ports, 101, valued at £40,094; exports, 5027,
valued at £145,348; 1931-32: Imports, 121,
valued at £20,367; exports, 4892, valued at
£121,302. 1932-33: Imports, 180, valued at
£30,853 ; exports, 3407, valued at £108,907.
Figures for the last three years are Australian
currency values.
* * S|! !j!
(1) I am a returned-soldier former, married,
with two children. Because of adverse seasons
and low prices 1 am so heavily in debt that
the outlook seems hopeless, so I am thinking of
making back to Sydney. What are the main
points of the R.S. and S. Employment Act ?
(2) What period of time must I be domiciled
in Sydney before being eligible for relief work ?
—7123.
(1) They are contained in Section 3; “Not-
withstanding anything contained in the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act 1912, or in any Act
amending the same, or in any award or indus-
trial agreement made thereunder, every
employer shall give preference in employment
in any profession, business or industry to a
returned soldier or sailor who is capable of
performing the duties is registered for
employment in that profession, business or
industry under Section 10 of this Act, or
applies in writing for such employment and
is not excluded from the benefits of the Act,
as against any other person offering his services
at the same time.” As to registration for
employment, Sections 10 and 11 outline the
position: “10. Any returned soldier or sailor
desiring employment may apply in the
prescribed manner and form to any labor
exchange. Every such application shall indicate
in order of preference the occupation in which
the applicant desires to be employed, and shall
contain such other particulars as are prescribed.
11. (a) The officer-in-charge of the labor
exchange on being satisfied that the appli-
cant is a returned soldier or sailor not excluded
from the benefits of the Act, shall register the
applicant as a returned soldier or sailor.
(b) The officer-in-charge may, in his dis-
cretion, register a returned soldier or sailor
for employment in an occupation different from
that which he followed immediately before his
enlistment or engagement.” (2) You must have
been registered for 12 months on the State
electoral roll and for at least three
months in the metropolitan district where relief
works are being carried out. Would it be wise
to leave the land? You have gone through
the worst, and there might be hope for you
in the farm-relief measures adopted and under
consideration.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established USSS)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always *JL
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
tr| RECTORS: . _ . ..
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, M.L.C. (Vic^Ch^man),
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
SMOKE-OH!
“Before long your favorite theatre will be
able to show you films of horses passing the
winning-post a few minutes after the race is
won.” —News item.
What we want arc films of horses
passing the winning-post a few minutes
before the race is won.
*1- -I* *l* *
In 1950.
The stamp-collector burst enthusiasti-
cally into the room and thrust a small
square of red paper on the table in front
of his wife.
“Look!” he cried triumphantly.
She did so.
“Well,” she inquired, “what’s the
excitement? It’s only an Australian one.
They’re not valuable, are they?”
“Look again.”
New RECRUIT; “D’you notice he smells of liquor , sergeant?”
“ King George’s head. It can't be very
old.”
"But don’t you see?”
“See what? it’s only a tuppenny.
Surely it’s not worth much?”
“I’ll say it is. It’s the best find I’ve
made for years. An Australian stamp
that isn’t a commemorative issue!”
Uco.
>l* *l* 'l*
“Huge amounts of money pass through the
hands of bank officers.” —“ Telegraph.”
Fortune tellers.
4* ‘I- *r* *l*
“Sydney man says that one night a litter
of pups was left in his doorway.”
Dogging his steps.
-I- "I*
“Our girts seem to have more courage than
men as far as clothes are conce»-npfl.”
—Sydney daily.
Many have more courage tnan clothes
as far as clothes are concerned.
In the Gloom.
The intermittent flash of a torch was
the only visible sign of his stealthy pro-
gress through the
darkened building.
A deathly silence
enveloped every-
thing. It seemed to
his tense mind that
he had been wan-
dering in the dark-
ness there for
hours.
A grunt of satis-
faction proclaimed
that he had at last
caught sight of his
objective. He
stopped in his
tracks, and with
sinister movement
whipped something
out of his hip-
pocket. The torch
no longer stabbed
the darkness. With
added confidence
now, but still with
cautious tread, he
again moved for-
ward. Suddenly the
lights flashed on ;
there was a deaf-
ening crash . . .
“Just in time!”
he murmured as he
“Confound these temperamental stars."
handed over the box of chocolates to his
girl friend. “Thought' I’d never find the
seat.”
Keo.
*1* -I* *1*
A Labor of Love.
Bowing his head, and setting his jaw
with determination, he proceeded to push
the heavy wheelbarrow up the hill.
This steep ascent was the last lap and
the most laborious portion of his task.
Half-way up he had to pause, panting,
his brow wet with perspiration. But he
did not regret the task he had under-
taken. The thought of the reward
buoyed him up, and soon urged him to
continue.
After all, when he reached the top of
the hill, his labor would be well requited.
It was worth it —well worth it!
No, he was not engaged in a wheel-
barrow Derby. It was the only way he
could get the kegs from the pub to his
week-end cottage.
T. W. N.
4* 4*
My Table.
“The winning entry in the National Studio’s
‘Studio Set’ Antique Competition was a table
which, by means of different layers of wood,
can be transformed from an ordinary article of
furniture into a card table, a chess or back-
gammon table, and a reading lectern.”
But that’s nothing to my table. In
one of the legs is the wireless set. Open -
ing a cunningly concealed door in an-
other a liquor cellar is revealed. There’s
a complete distillery in the third leg,
and the fourth contains the medicine
chest—the necessary antidote for the
others.
By the removal of the upper leaves
spaces are revealed which enable the
playing of chess, backgammon, dominoes,
the saxophone or cribbage. Open up
some more, and a perfect card-table is
revealed with inlaid score sheets. On my
side of the table are secret drawers con-
taining promissory-note forms, with an
attached self-filling pen, to enable me to
meet my losses, and a revolver to shoot
my partner if necessary. A little more
opening up displays a billiard-table
where a game, effective if cramped, can
be played.
But this isn’t the end. Another act of
removal and the use of the spare leaves
presents an effective dance floor. When
supper-time arrives a spring opens up
the centre once more and drops the spare
leaves, and a neat supper, already wait-
ing, is displayed, an ingenious contriv-
ance having converted the movement of
the dancing floor overhead into electric
power to warm the coffee and prepare
the Welsh rarebit.
Certainly my table isn’t quite ready
yet; but there’s the plan, and last week
I bought two second-hand butter-boxes
and a handsaw.
Hamer.
Censored.
Bedlam had broken loose in the general
offices of Celluloid Films, Ltd. Breath-
less and displaying (no, registering) signs
of great emotion, Isabel Swift dashed
into the Big Chief’s sanctum, draped her
lovely form about her chiefs neck and
burst into tears.
“What’s up, honey?” the boss de-
manded, nibbling her shell-pink ear.
“ ‘Forbidden Fruit’s’ back from the
censor,” she sobbed.
“Gee! Is it?” the chief exclaimed,
efficiently dumping Miss Swift on the
floor. “Well, tell ’em to take the reels
up to the little theatre —I’ll preview it.”
“Why, here it is,” Isabel wailed piti-
fully.
She was clutching three feet of film !
P. O. M. C.
•I- -I* *l* -I*
“Giant Unknown Fish Washed Ashore.”
Unknown? Why, it’s got away from
every dinkum fisherman in the world.
•I- *1- *l* *l*
The Cry of Youth.
The clubroom was packed with old
gentlemen. There were flowing beards
everywhere, and bald heads innumerable
shone in the glare of the electric lights.
Waiting for the meeting to commence,
they were indulging in various forms of
innocent amusement.
Old Grandpa Ziffery was playing with
a toy engine, while Daddy Dill was envi-
ously looking on.
Several other veterans had gathered
around Old Doopery, who was sending
them into fits of merriment over the
peculiar noises his toy balloon made in
the process of deflation. Another group
was struggling over a mechanical motor-
car, while those of a more reflective turn
of mind were reading comic papers.
It was a special meeting of the Second
Childhood Club, convened for the pur-
pose of sending a petition to Obfuscated
Newspapers, Ltd., asking that the Adven-
tures of Speed Gawkins be made a daily
instead of a weekly feature.
Nat.
•J# •j 4
“A doctor says that men suffer more from
the cold than women.” — “Sun.”
Mr. Hennepecke protests that they
suffer more from women.
My Calendar.
Friday's a day when cash I hold;
The day is one of beer and gold.
Though there’s repentance for my slips.
Sat. still has hobs for backing tips.
And if by chance 1 have a run
/ don’t care much what haps on Sun.
/ count my wealth with thirsty throttle
On Mon. — yes, bottle after bottle.
Tuesday, indeed, must he a • dry day
Unless I cadge some cash till Friday;
And Wed. would really be the worst day
But for the one that’s well named Thirst-
day.
No wonder Friday brings a splash ;
Friday’s the day that I have cash!
H. M.
Contention.
The parson made us one, and that
Has started all the fun,
Tor now we keep on arguing
O’er which one is the otie.
M.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
I.
Flap-ears, of the Stone Age, to his cousin,
relating the tribal gossip of the month.
Piltdown,
2 Moons after Midsummer,
59,763 b.c.
Dear Dogface:
Your last letter was rather disjointed,
owing to the messenger falling in with
that darned old robber Flatfoot on the
way. Flatfoot was short of building
material, and snaveiled several of the
pages. He didn’t even trouble to take
consecutive ones, cither. As a result.
I’m not quite clear whether it was twins
or measles you’d just had. Anyway, bad
luck, old boy! But bear up. These
little things are only sent to try us. [This
must have been one of the earliest occa-
sions on which that joke was cracked.]
Also, was it your mother-in-law or
your milch auroch that the sabre-toothed
tiger killed? If the former, accept my
congratulations; if the latter, my con-
dolences. I couldn’t do anything against
Flatfoot, but I fixed the messenger up
all right. He’s pretty disjointed himself
now.
The wife was stamped to death by a
mastodon a few weeks ago. He made a
proper job of her—-hardly an unbroken
bone left in her body. I was rather
peeved at the time, as she’d been gather-
ing crocodile eggs for the evening meal,
and they were all smashed. There was
only enough grub in the cave for one, so
the kids had to go to sleep without their
supper. The old fool! Anyway, she
wasn’t much loss. She’d been getting a
hit too slow on her pins for a long time.
And, boy! You should see the tasty
line I’ve picked up in her place. Broad
in the beam, yet without too much sur-
plus fat. She’s got an eye like a hawk
and can run like a deer. There’ll be no
more empty pantries in this cave for a
while, my lad.
But if I find that young brat of a
nephew snooping about the place again
1 won’t give him a chance to answer
questions,
There was a screamingly funny little
happening here last week. You’d have
given half a dozen bearskins to have
seen B. That young fool Bighead was
prowling around the flint pits, when sud-
denly the side fell in, and he was buried
right up to his chin. Couldn’t even get
his arms out. He screamed and
scr eeched for help, and we all came out
to see what the row was. Gee! we
laughed! You’ve no idea how funny he
looked. When we got tired of watching
bim we went home to bed, but the young
idiot yelled so much that no one could
§ et . to lt - we a .|l turnec * ou !
«**“> an ?.. Jim wi* stones and
things until he shut up. Next morning
we found we’d completely covered him
U p
Gosh! it was the joke of the year.
And the cream of it was that he was
always skiting about immortality. Only
a few days before it happened he said
to me: “You know, Flap-ears, I’ll be
remembered and talked about thousands
of yeais after you’ve been forgotten.”
Insufferable young fool. Well, he’s gone
now, and it was certainly amusing.
By the way [Apparently Flatfoot
must have been in need of a few more
building stones, as the message ends
abruptly here.]
JASRY.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Former residents of Kyneton (Vic.) now
living in Sydney are invited to write to H. L.
Dale, Norseman, Revesby, N.S.W., in reference
to the organisation of a reunion.—7350.
Young city woman (Sydney) wilt pay for
opportunity of actual country life on an inter-
esting property, for literary purposes. Period
six to eight weeks. Refs. —7335.
Lady (28), N.S.W., educated, can cook, sew
and keep books, wants position in country as
companion or nursery governess. Refs. —7360.
Invalid lady would like any back numbers
of London “Sketch” or “Tatler.” —7304.
To buy, or will give something in exchange,
Birds and Blossoms, by C. Barrett. —7331.
To buy Parts 4 and 22 of H. G. Wells’s
Outline of History. —7316.
To buy copies of Researches in the Southern
Goldfields of N. S. 1 Vales and Remarks on the
Sedimentary Formations of N. S. Wales, by
Rev. W. B. Clarke—7407.
To get into touch with owners of photographs
of Inspector J. B. Nutting and Constable Dunn,
of the Q. police; Robert Doyle, one-time part-
owner of Barryooloo station; Rose Nutting
(later Mrs. David Benjamin, of Roma); Charlie
Charters, employed on Barryooloo station 50
years ago; and Phillip and Horace Nutting.
Required as illustrations to a book on pioneer-
ing days in W.Q. —7329.
Information Sought.
(1) Who is the world’s champion sprinter,
and from whom did he win the title ? (2)
Over what distance is the championship run ?
(3) Did Tolan and Robertson race in S. Aus. ?
(4) Is there any record of Hammond catching
a batsman out at first slip off his own bowl-
ing?—7119.
(1) and (2) There is no universally recognised
world’s sprint championship. Eddie Tolan
won a series of races from Austin Robertson,
who was considered by some Australians to be
the holder of the professional title, in March
this year. There were four races: 75, 100,
130 and 220 yards. Tolan won all except the
130, in which he finished third to Robertson
and Roberts. He totalled 16 points to Robert-
son’s 10. (3) Can trace no record of it. (4)
No record; it would be practically impossible.
H= * * *
(1) Where and when w >as Fred Henneberry,
the present middleweight champion of Australia,
born ? (2) In what year did he begin boxing ?
(3) How many contests (wins, losses and draws )
has he had ? (4) From whom did he win the
middleweight championship ? —7380.
(1) Port Pirie, S.A., July 18, 1911. (2)
1930. (3) Sixty-one contests: 50 wins, eight
losses and three draws. He first won the title
from Ambrose Palmer in March, 1932, and lost
it to Ron Richards in March, 1933. He re-
gained the title by outpointing Richards three
months later.
* * * *
How is an amateur ski-runner or ski-jumper
defined in N. S. Wales, and can a runner or
jumper who has lost his amateur status regain
it ?—' 7400.
The amateur definition in N. S. Wales is:
“No ski-runner or ski-jumper shall be con-
sidered an amateur (a) who has competed in
return for payment, ( b ) who has competed for
a money prize, (c) who has sold his prize, or
who has procured material advantages by the
exploitation of any title gained in the sport or
of any prize obtained therein, (d) who has
taught ski-ing or ski-jumping for money, and
(e) who knowingly has competed against ski-
runners or -jumpers disqualified on any of the
above grounds.” The N.S.W. Ski Council has
power to restore amateur status to a profes-
sional who has ceased to act as such for two
years. No ski-runner or -jumper can regain
his amateur status more than once.
* * He *
Was Thomas Wainwright transported for
poisoning or for another offence ? What are
the particulars? —5291.
He is accused of having poisoned his uncle,
later his mother-in-law and his sister-in-law,
Helen Abercrombie, whose life he had insured;
but he was transported on a charge of forging
the signatures of the trustees of his mother’s
estate. Arriving at Hobart, he was accorded
lenient treatment, finding facilities for the paint-
ing of a number of portraits. In May, 1844,
he petitioned for a ticket-of-leave, which was
refused (the petition is now in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney). He died of apoplexy in 1852,
still a convict.
♦ Hs *
How should I set about tracing a family
who arrived in Sydney, N.S.W., by sailing
ship about 1879 ?— 7237.
The Society of Australian Genealogists, 91
Phillip-street, Sydney, helps its members or
instructs them how to go about such searches.
As you are not resident in Sydney, a member
of the society might look up the matter for
you.
* * * *
(1) Is ground in Sydney owned by a church,
with a building thereon, exempt from payment
of water rates to board? (2) Has a legal
claim been made for refund of water rates
paid by a hotel in Sydney located on church
ground ? —7212.
(1) Land which belongs to a religious body
and which is occupied and used in connection
with any church or other building used or
occupied for public worship is exempted from
payment of board’s rating. (2) No such claim
has been made.
* * h= *
(1) In getting at the real financial record of a
Government, should not the net increase in the
public debt during its term be'taken into con-
sideration? (2) Should not the deficit be
■dculated as the excess of expenditure over
receipts, plus loan money spent ? (3) How do
the Lang and Stevens Governments compare on
this basis ? —7005.
(1) Yes. (2) Technically no, but it would be
a good thing if it were. (3):
Loan
Deficit. Expenditure.
Lang Government:
1930- £8,689,157 £5,498,249
1931- 14,227,845 3,387,143
Stevens Government:
1932- 3,758,839 4,321,431
1933- 3,208,391 7,004,478
* * * *
(1) White population of Papua ? (2) Native
population of Papua, and is it increasing ? (3)
Colored population of Papua other than
natives ? (4) Number of half-castes in Papua ?
—7392.
(1) At June 30, 1933, 1148; 677 males and
471 females. (2) Exact figures'are not available,
as a large area of the interior is not yet under
Government control. The official estimate is
275,000. Censuses of the native population
taken during recent years point to a slight in-
crease. (3) The colored population, other than
Papuans, on June 30, 1933, was 786, and in-
cluded many mission teachers from Samoa,
Fiji, and other Pacific islands. (4) On the
same date, half-castes, with one of the parents
a European, totalled 227.
* * * *
Have steps been taken in N. S. Wales to
prevent accidents and fatalities due to the
escape of carbon monoxide from defective gas-
heaters in bathrooms. If so, what has been
done ? —7396.
Amendments of Ordinances Nos. 39, 70 and
71 of the N.S.W. Local Government Act, pro-
claimed November 24, 1933, empower councils
to have alterations made to rooms and appli-
ances which have no proper provision for the
escape of exhaust fumes. In the case of new
buildings or additions to buildings, the councils
have power to insist that gas-heaters installed
in bathrooms shall have flue pipes so con-
structed as to take away the fumes from
the bathroom, and also that, in addition
to the ordinary ventilation prescribed for
bathrooms, unobstructed ventilation must be
provided not less than 24in. in area. Where
a building contains a number of bathrooms,
each with its own bath-heater, each heater must
be separately ventilated.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the currency of Argen-
tina ? —7388.
Gold is not in internal circulation, but the
basis of the monetary system is the gold
dollar, or peso oro, sometimes known as oro
sellado (coined gold). Gold is the normal cur-
rency in external transactions, and the exchange
value has now been pegged to the pound ster-
ling at 15 paper pesos per £l. The legal
weight ((8.0645grm.) of the argentine, or five-
peso gffid piece, corresponds closely to that of
the British sovereign. Paper dollars form the
chief circulating medium, and the oro papel, or
moneta nacional, bears a fixed relation to gold.
Under the law of 1899 notes are convertible at
the rate of 0.44 gold peso to the paper peso.
A U.S.A. 10-dollar piece buys Argentine paper
dollars to the face value of $23.5545. The
currency in use consists of paper notes ranging
from SIOOO to $1; nickel coins of 20, 10 and
five centavos and copper two and one centavo
pieces. The par sterling equivalents of the
fractional currency are: Five centavos, 1.04
pence; 10 centavos, 2.09 pence; 20 centavos,
4.19 pence; and 50 centavos, 10.49 pence.
* * * *
Was William Penn, a friend of the Quaker
John Whiling, of Naylesey, Somerset, identi-
caly with Pepys’s companion of that name ?
7007.
Pepys was acquainted with both Penns —the
father, Sir William, who was his colleague in
the Navy Department, and the son, the famous
founder of Pennsylvania. The younger Penn
was imprisoned 1668-69 and 1670-71, and was
involved in later Quaker persecutions, which
would bring him closely in touch with John
Whiting.
* * * %
Native names for a country property, hilly,
with no trees; also for town cottage ? —7217.
Chiniala, “a hill”; Doonkuna, “rising”;
Durimbil, “round hill”; Elielwah, “the rising
sun”; Euroka, “the sun”; Illalangi, “camp
on a hill”; Narriah, “bare place”; Taronga,
“beautiful view”; Wanawong, “side of a hUl”;
Wirringulla, “sunshine”; Yuruga, “extensive
view.” For cottage, Allawah, “stay here”;
Brewongle, “camping-place”; Gooyong, Koi-
yong, Kooroora, Kywong, Lurnea, Mirang,
Moonya, Narchera, Noorla, Oorong, Wah-
roonga, Wahratta, Warrina, Warrawee, Weabra,
Weerona, Woonah, Woongarra. Wyangari,
Yallambi, all variations of “home” or “resting-
place”; Youralla, Yourana, meaning “affec-
tion.”
* * * *
Aboriginal names suitable for a Vic. property
of undulating country, lightly timbered, with
mountains in the distance? —5763.
Allambie, “a quiet place”; Cudgewa, “a
small plain”; Laane-coorie, “the home of the
kangaroo,” all Victorian names. Other States
supply Bangalow or Bangalla, “low hill”; Bim-
bimbie, “many birds”; Canowindra, “a
home”; Carinya, “peaceful home”; Kalang,
“beautiful”; Wengellabah, “little timber”;
Woonah, Wybalena, “resting-place”; Yarrunga,
“large trees”; Yumbunga, Yarralla, “camp or
home.”
* * * *
Aboriginal names for small home and grazing
property ? —6385.
Aldinga, “plenty of trees and water”; Bel-
tana, “running water”; Belbourie, “brushy
creek”; Bmgara, “creek”; Binowee, “green
place”; Cabarita, “by the water”; Carawa,
“a creek”; Carramar, “shade of trees”;
Coolowie, “plenty of water”; Eungai, Eurabba,
“a creek”; Gundamain, “hut on a stream”;
Immarna, Gareema, “camp”; Kooroongal,
“long grass” ; Lirabenda, “ a creek” ; Manoora,
“a spring”; Mercowrie, “clear water”; Mori-
alta, “ever flowing”; Nerang, Nyrang, “little”;
Tirranna, “running water”; Willowee, “green
trees and water”; Wyangari, “a hut.”
* * * *
(1) Is it necessary to season a cask before
using it to make wine ? (2) If so, how is the
seasoning done ? —7271.
(1) Yes, if it is intended to make a wine to
develop a particular type and character. (2)
If the cask is made from Memel oak or
American white oak, fill with water, and then
add about 101 b. of ordinary common salt
per 100 gals. Leave this for seven days, empty,
and steam or scald out thoroughly.
* * $ #
Instructions for playing four-handed German
whist ? —7347.
German whist is a double-dummy variant,
and cannot be played four-handed. Thirteen
cards are dealt to each player, and the 27th
is turned up for trumps. The winner of the
first trick adds the turned-up trump card to
his hand; the loser adds to his hand the next
card, without disclosing it, and turns up the
next card, which, in turn, goes to the winner
of next trick. So the game goes on, the
winner of each trick taking a disclosed card
and the loser an undisclosed one. Scoring is
by points for all tricks taken over 26. After
the 26 cards on the table are taken up, each
player should know what the other holds. Each
game is complete in one hand.
* * * :1;
How is ophthalmic goitre caused ? What is
the usual treatment ? Is operation favored ?
7235.
Exophthalmic goitre, also known as Graves’s
disease, is a morbid condition due to abnormal
functioning of the thyroid gland. It is charac-
terised by protrusion of the eyeballs, rapid
pulse, cardiac palpitation and enlargement of the
gland itself, but its actual nature is not fully
understood. Pronounced anaemia may be
present, and in all cases toxic influences from
the bowel demand attention. Since the disease
varies so greatly in its development, it is diffi-
cult to assess the value of treatment adopted.
Operation appears to be most favored, but
X-ray or radium may be advised. Meanwhile
the diet should be liberal, though regulated to
suit the individual. Medical supervision is
essential.
(1) How can I ascertain particulars about an
ancestor who came from Durrow, Leix, Ireland ?
(2) Can I get in touch with the Heralds’ College,
the functions of which in Ireland are performed
by the Ulster King-of-Arms ? (3) What charge
is made for the tracing of a genealogy by the
Heralds’ College ? —7193.
(1) Durrow is a township in Leix (Queen’s
County), Ireland. You may find the information
you require in O’Hara’s Irish Pedigrees at the
Public Library. If not, try the rector or parish
pnest of Durrow. (2) Sir Nevile Wilkinson,
who was in Sydney a few months ago with his
Titania’s Palace, is Ulster King-of-Arms, 6
Duchess-street, London, W.l. (3) The Heralds’
College does not undertake to trace a gene-
alogy, but will check claims made, or supply
copies 'of any previous claims to bear arms
for fees which would vary according to the
c ase. To trace the history of a family, you
should 'start by becoming a member of a gene-
alogical society. There is one in London, at
Chaucer House, Malet-place, and one in Sydney,
at 91 Phillip-street. Either could be helpful.
* * * «
(1) Method of preserving ropes used on a
motor-lorry? (2) Method of making cloth
waterproof ? Is filter cloth suitable ? (3) Would
bituminous paint have a preserving effect on
rope, and would it make cloth waterproof? —
7111.
(1) Immerse the rope in a solution of soft-
soap in water (one part of soap to 5000 water),
and then in a mixture of 1 p.c. of equal parts
of alum and copper sulphate. Then dry. (2)
An approved waterproofing solution is: Amor-
phous mineral-wax or crude petrolatum 7|lb
yellow beeswax 11b, refined Bermudez Lake
asphalt l£lb. Dissolve in three gallons of petrol
and two gallons of kerosene and then apply.
Proofed filter cloth would probably not be so
strong as the canvas. (3) Not recommended.
Bitumen decomposes on exposure to light, and
its effects are soon lost.
* * * *
Process for removing shine from serge ?
7349.
Steaming the surface and brushing up the
na P a st 'ff, hard brush is the most
effective method of restoring the appearance.
If steam is not available, sponge with very
hot water, brush well with a circular motion,
and press into shape from the wrong side or
with a damp cloth.
Sfc SjJ %
Formula for solution to sensitise blue-print
paper, and hints on printing from drawings on
tracing cloth ? —7245.
Make two solutions, one of citrate of iron
and ammonia, 7£ drachms to 4oz. distilled
water, and another of potassium ferricyanide,
5 drachms to 4oz. distilled water! Mix the
solutions and keep them in a stoneware bottle.
Use as little solution as possible to properly
coat the paper by dipping a fine sponge into
it and then squeezing out the bulk of the
sensitiser. Apply the wet sponge to the
paper from top to bottom, and then from side
to side so that the strokes will cross each
other and so make the coating as even as pos-
sible. Any good-quality smooth paper can
be used. Print in the sun in the usual way, and
wash the prints in distilled or rain water.
* * * *
Can you suggest a walk near Sydney of
not more than 16 miles embracing the Gals ton
district ? —7406.
Take train to Hornsby, follow Peat’s Ferry-
road to Galston-road, about a mile from the
Hornsby Post Office. Turn to left and follow
the Galston-road through Galston Gorge to
Galston and Dural. From here the main high-
way runs through Rogan’s Hill, Castle Hill,
Baulkham Hills to Parramatta. Motor-buses
run hourly from each of these localities. Dis-
tance from Hornsby to Castle Hill is about
15 miles. Lunch may be obtained at the
Recreation Grounds between Galston and Dural
on Sundays. This,is probably the most pleasant
one-day trip within easy reach of Sydney.
Information Supplied.
7022. —Add to the list of institutions where
fencing lessons can be obtained in Sydney the
Dupain Institute, 449 a Pitt-street, Sydney.—
“Liam M,”
Brief Answers.
J.L.: The West Coast Canning Co., operating
at Fremantle, is canning sea mullet. It has
been operating for years... .C.H.R.: The
executors and trustees in an estate are required
to file an account at the end of 12 months
after the grant of probate. They are person-
ally responsible to the beneficiaries, and an
order may be obtained from the Equity Court
requiring them to furnish an account
R.C.W.: Wallabies are protected under the
N.S.W. Birds and Animals’ Protection - Act,
and their destruction is permitted only by
special license or the declaration of an open
season. A list of the present open seasons
in respect of scrub, swamp and whiptail wal-
labies has been posted W.S.: Lithophone
or “perfect white,” a trade product, mixed with
water or paint binder J.G.8.: Much de-
pends upon nature of the trouble; operation
seldom fails in such cases. The attention of
an eye specialist is essential; or you could
be examined at the N.S.W. Eye Clinic, 267-69
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Cost is nominal
R.C.: Thickened or coarse toenail develops
in the uric-acid subject. Corn formation under
the nail is possible. File from the under sur-
face to a straight outer edge, and apply castor
or olive oil at night. First soak the feet in
hot, soapy water, and dry well S.C.: (1)
Write to him stating your intention to place
the matter in the hands of a solicitor. If his
reply is not satisfactory, do so. (2) Not with-
out the consent of the board, which is im-
probable. .. J. 8.: (1) Yes, if the evidence is
sufficient to bring the place within the meaning
of a “common gaming house.” (2) and (3) Both
are breaches of the law. (4) No; it is s.-p.
betting. (5) An occupant upon whose land
animals are trespassing may send them to the
nearest pound or, if he knows the owner, may
impound them on his own premises for four
days. Notice must be given. Occupant may
claim for food and maintenance and damage
done prior to the impounding. Persons allow-
ing stock to stray on the highway are subject
in N.S.W. to police-court penalties. (6) The
fact that a person is working on relief work
does not deprive him of the ordinary rights of
a citizen... .C.N.M.L.: It will not be neces-
sary for you to furnish a return on account
of Queensland income... .L. 0.: If you send
section number and head, together with the
design of the paddocks, to the Secre-
tary, Agricultural Bureau of S.A., Adelaide,
every assistance will be given... .R.0.W.:
The words or portion of a speech of
Bardolph in the second part of “King Henry
1V.,” Act I, Scene 3....8.8.: The Parson and
the Painter, ostensibly the joint production of
the Rev. Joseph Slapkins and Charlie Sum-
mers, and purporting to be their experiences
in various quarters of London, was reputedly
illustrated and written by Phil May... J .E.R.:
(1) From J. A. Kethel, architect, 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or from H. E. Budden and Mackey,
architects, 29 Bligh-street, Sydney. (2) A
concrete building will cost roughly three times
as much as a wooden structure H. 8.: Total
weight of mail dispatched by the Southern
Cross for the jubilee flight from Australia was
3981 b H.G.: Can trace no Australian pub-
lication which accepts them. A list of English
publications doing so will be found in The
Writers and Artists’ Year Book W.R.W.;
Official History of Australia in the War, Vol.
VII.: Palestine Campaign. . . .S.A.M.: Com-
monwealth —rate per cent. £1 up to £2OOO,
and thereafter an additional percentage of one-
fifth of a pound for every £lOOO or part in
excess of that sum. Where the estate passes to
a widow, children or grandchildren, a rebate
of one-third is made. State—two per cent,
where the final balance of the estate does not
exceed £1000; i per cent, is added for every
£lOOO or part in excess of £lOOO. State has first
cut; the Commonwealth taxes balance....
J.C.8.: (1) Depends on the constitution of the
club. The financial year is not extended auto-
matically through failure to hold the annual
meeting. (2) If the existing officers carry on,
their action could be ratified by resolution at
the annual meeting. (3) If there is a vice-chair-
man, he takes the chair; if not, the chairman is
elected by vote of the members present....
A.M.M.: Although an infant at law (under 21
years) is unable to sue in person, he may do so
by “next friend.” Anyone may be named as
“next friend,” but it is better to appoint some
person interested in his welfare. If the petrol
were used in the lad’s own car, he might include
a claim for the expenditure J.C.A.; It is for
the host to welcome his guest before the feast,
and for the guest, having partaken of it, to
thank his host. The captain of the visiting
team should have spoken first R.8.L.: She
is bound by the agreement, and cannot law-
fully return the goods delivered in accordance
with its terms without the consent of the owner.
Not aware of any special textbook M.L.:
(1) In the absence of a lease a tenant may
vacate the premises at any time after giving
notice. The only liability implied in the case
of the landlord is that the premises are habit-'
able. A tenant who complains that damp is
injuring her furniture and yet, under no com-
pulsion, remains on the premises would have
little chance of subsequently recovering
damages, (2) No, but if you left he could raise
the rent against the next tenant C.T.: The
first is correct S.S.; For best results, apply
a dark stain, and finish with hard varnish.
Combined stains and varnishes are less trouble
to apply, but not so durable. It is fashionable
now to paint the floor in a shade to harmonise
with the carpet, finishing with hard varnish....
C.L.8.: Sponge with petrol, not benzine. Do
not saturate the skin; merely dab it with a
half-wrung sponge until clean D.V. (1) and
(2) N 0... .C.E.M.D.: “Vashti” is derived from
the Persian, and signifies “a star” E.K.M.:
Baron Vaux, of Harrowden, pronounces his
name “Vawks” S.A.: Betty Stockfield was
born in Sydney—her age is her own affair.
Made her first appearance on the stage at the
Duke of York’s Theatre, London, May, 1924,
in the chorus of “London Calling”... .M.E.R.:
Your dog has a corneal opacity. The scum
you mention is not over the eye, but in the
substance of the cornea. The chance of re-
covery is slight. Try applying a few drops of
the following lotion to the eye twice a day:
Sulphate of zinc, two grains; distilled water,
one ounce J.F.A.: Exhibits under the head-
ing are definitely unrestricted, and should be
judged on their merits as finished articles of
food E.M.S.: Write Metiers, Ltd., Mitchell
and Ashmore streets, Alexandria, Sydney....
E.G.F.: Depends upon many factors, such as
type and pitch of propeller and lines of the
boat. Maximum speed would not exceed 20
m.p.h. under the most favorable conditions.
J.E.: Obtainable from James Hardie and
Co., Ltd., York and Barrack streets, Sydney,
225. 6d. per 401 b. bag (Many others mailed.)


Pack up —and go /
CRUISE to RABAUL
by ORO N SAY
IN AUGUST
SAILINGS, FROM:—Fremantle. July 23; Adelaide,
July 27; Melbourne, July 29; Sydney, August 1;
Brisbane. August 4.
Live for a while in the lap of luxury . . . nothing
serious to do . . . everything done for you ....
great decks dappled by tropic sunshine and
deep shade . . . one and a half days at Rabaul
. . . Here's rest for you and health!
FARES t From Fremantle, from 40 gns.;
Adelaide, from 35 gns.; Melbourne, from 30 gns.;
Sydney, from 17 gns.; Brisbane, from 19 gns.
OPJENTLINt
CRUISING-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.D.McC.: Not quite up to the high standard
set by “Bellerive” J.W.H.: Must make
room for two lines;
Don’t tell my wife you whacked me,
Just say the brindle cow went mad,
... .A.D.8.: T«o much tum-ti-tum-ti-tum....
R.G.P.: Not great poetry, but we read tons
worse S.M.G.: Couldn’t make sense of it.
M.D.; If it had half the freshness of
the little note attached it would be twice
as good J.0.M.: Nice little dialogue—that’s
all Ornithos: Glimmer here and there, but
taken altogether it’s a weak (lame... .R.A.P.:
You see strangely little in the “Flight at
Dusk” J.W.: Read good stuff for a year or
two and try again. That’s just schoolboy verse.
Rip: Just as well your writing space gave
out MJ.S.; The letter .is all right—we
always like to know what people think of us—
but the verse is humdrum A.M.R.: No
haven here for rhymeless octosyllabics....
A.E.K.: A pretty enough fancy, but there’s a
lack of symmetry in the expression of it
J.J.K.: The theme was a good one for light
verse, but you fall more than once over your
own metrical feet.... R.D.B:: None of them
quite clicks H.M.: “Founded on Facts”
foundered on the sharp-toothed reefs of eight
monotonously similar verses S.C.: A trifle
too botanical... .5.D.8.: Some talent for
rhyming, but it needs to be cultivated.
R.W.V.: Yes, the lines scan, as you
say; that exhausts their merit J.J.F.:
It had several readings, because of its con-
scientiousness and easy swing, and we didn’t
need the glossary.' But it falls a long way
short of the verse that stirs and sticks T.G.:
Hardly a twinge in “Pain”... .T.J.C.: Touches
in the epigrams, but the verse is weak.
J.R.; Fairish attempt, but you don’t quite
manage it... .D.H.G.: Composed chiefly ot
cliches Geff-skin: Nothing good enough to
publish, but there’s a tang of feeling in ’em.
On this promise you’ll be doing better a lew
years hence... .K.E.J.D.: According to your
bush-poet chaps, our gallant stockmen are dying
off like poisoned flies this winter. Is this true, or
are you only making it up?... .Jumbo: Of
course, it was Colmap tiiat played Clive.
. ...T.E.McC.: Right—at ’em:
Thanks to modern science
The lyres are all dead,
Their silly tales of love’s sweet pains.
Its vanities and follies,
Of woman and her loves divine,
Of bright and glorious sparkling wine.
And brave deeds of bloody slaughter.
Or of some father who did cry,
Oh, give me back my daughter;
But we are much too wise to-day.
We’ve bid good-bye to these old lyres—
Wireless,
We tear her cords asunder.
J.A.B.: Neither passed the acid test....
Seagrove: No sap in those “Trees” Way-
farer: Clear statement, but little poetry in Jt.
. ...Sarj: Can’t promote that lot to print....
j.D.: Points in “Lament,” but she’s fairly
rough Bellerive: Many sufferers may benefit
by your treatise on “Indigestion”:
W M.D.: Don’t trouble about metres; it is
the stuff inside them that counts. And you
needn’t be afraid that “if you read too much
you will develop into a parrot.” R. L. Steven-
son, on his own admission, played the “sedulous
ape ” R.A.S.: So much prose masquerades
as verse nowadays that any verse thinly dis-
guised as prose comes as a pleasant shock.
But yours is 100 long-wmded G.R.W.:
Quite passable, but we haven’t a corner to put
it in J.A.: You jingle creditably enough;
now study condensing C.A.8.: The only
saving grace amid a mass of echoes and plati-
tudes was that the poodle’s name was Wil-
liam E.M.E.; Car sketch covers old ground.
Animal yarn unattractive A.D.: Becoming
too sentimental... .M.T.: If the lie led up to
something it might be worth while; as it is it s
pointless Your characters are true
to type —story-book type E.N.V.: Not suit-
able E.D.: Plot doesn’t appeal R.T.A.:
Idea ail right, but not well enough done
Bungee: As feared, it is “amongst the former.
Propalong: You are getting closer
S. de E.: Still don’t like it. Drop the theme
and try ' another... .5.W.8.; 100 immaterial
even for a ghost yarn F.C.H.: No pay-
dirt in that mine... .R.Q..: You suggested
three alternative titles. None of them would alter
the yarn’s essential futility... .G.H.8.: No.
P.A.J.: In trying to bring out the pathos
of your story you’ve only succeeded in being
banal R.R.: A long way off C.S.C.:
“Prodigal’s Departure” was the best of the
bunch, but not quite good enough E.W.C.:
Below your standard.... V.E.C.: Couldn't feel
much interest in old Dallas... .E.W.; “Links
was in love.” We are prepared to accept that
statement, but the rest of the yarn was
incredible... .W.J.: Still misses... .R.T.C.:
Far too artificial —even to the names... .C. 8.:
Not far off E.R.R.: Yours, too, ran a good
race W.M.D.: Mrs. Smith’s monologue
failed to hold our attention... .8.H.; There’s
nothing likely or .convincing about it
M.S.S.: “Revised” perhaps; “improved,” no.
M.B.: Facetious without being funny
Baldy; It takes more than a coincidental meet-
ing to make a yarn C.J.C.; Neither rang
the bell.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J. 8.: Would you mind telling us the point
of the joke? ... .L.K.: That cartoon should
have been fired in months ago... .H.J.T.: Too
crude as a drawing, too ancient as a quip ....
O.B.: Tame, middle-aged jest and dispiriting
sketch... .E.W.: Still searching for the humor
in long-winded joke about elastic-sided boots.
R.L.S.; Looks like a kindergarten pupil’s
experiment F.S.: Far below publication
standard E.G.: Put yourself under a com-
petent teacher D.N.M.: For what reason
are Lyons and Earle Page struggling with what
appears to be a boa-constrictor?... .C.G.:
Tame reflection of another man’s work....
H.M.L.: Hopeless from our point of view
W.J.S.: But have you ever seen people like that
in real life?... .8.H.C.: Your touch is too
heavy, and your jokes are chestnuts P.J.:
Caricature not good enough... .M.F.W.; Ideas
are nearly all pointless or due for the old-age
pension... .G.W.: Picture of hairy deadbeat
asking outsize parson for the price of a drink
didn’t appeal to us... .R.T.R.: “Please burn
if no good.” Why didn’t you do the burning?
. ...A.M.L.: Concentrate more on your draw-
ings and less on your covering letters
C.H.K.: No use for atrocity in red chalk on
the back of a strip of wallpaper, and no stamps
for return D.M.1.: Honestly, it wouldn’t
be fair to encourage you.
“Grasspan”: Yuma, Arizona, where
Lili Damita became Mrs. Flynn, is the
Gretna Green of Hollywood. It is just
a nice distance for amorous couples to
fly in an aeroplane. I was in Yuma
six years ago. It is a small, insignificant
township in the middle of a sandy desert,
and how it lives, except by providing for
Hollywood honeymooners, is a mystery;
there is no agricultural or pastoral
country on any side. Most of the honey-
mooners stay there only one night, and
I don’t wonder at it. It is the most tire-
some branch of American Yuma I en-
countered in the Great Republic.
“Doctor,” said Jones, “I’ve
A important question.
Can you give me a cure
For bad indigestion.
I’ve tried all sort of tonics
But of no avail.
I’ve give up smoking
And my glass of ale.”
“ ’Tis one,” said the doctor,
“Of life’s many ills,
Chew your food well
And try my perfect pills.”
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Frank Gatehouse, the Melbourne ama-
teur who in recent years has held his
own with West End actors, is in one
of the London season’s successes, “Sweet
Aloes,” under the name of Frank Allen-
by. His wife (in the theatre Dorothy
Hamilton) has a good part in Priest-
ley’s new play “Cornelius.” Frank’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Gatehouse,
of Melbourne, who have been in
London for a couple of years, are so
enamored of life there that they cannot
make up their minds to come home.
* * * *
Lyndon Dadswell, who at 21 made
the 12 large panels depicting A.I.F. units
in action for the interior of the Mel-
bourne Shrine of Remembrance, is fol-
lowing in the footsteps of Bertram Mac-
kennal, Web Gilbert and Guy Lynch
(who was doing well in Paris when last
heard of). Dadswell is a Sydneyite, trained
by Julian Ashton, the Sydney Tech, and
Paul Montford. H. O. Dadswell, who
has helped to pay contributors to the
“S. M. Herald” publications for over 25
years and is now secretary to the Fair-
fax concerns, is an uncle.
♦ * * *
“G. Trotter”; The account given by
“Utah’s” old lady friend (B. 29/ 5/’35)
doesn’t fit in with what I was told by
unprejudiced citizens during a stay in
Salt Lake City live years ago. The old-
time whiskered Mormon was no sensual-
ist on the Oriental model. He was a
shrewd businessman, and, while he
smoked his pipe on the verandah and
did the brainwork, his wives used to
be busy carrying out his orders. It was
not the Federal Government’s action but
the world-wide emancipation of woman
which killed polygamy. Utah could not
remain segregated after the building of
the railway, and Gentile people and Gen-
tile ideas gradually permeated the settle-
ment. As a matter of cold fact, the
Mormons were glad to get rid of their
“institution.” Incidentally, the first thing
which strikes the visitor to Salt Lake
City is the preponderance of Welsh
names on the shops—Prices, Griffithses,
Evanses and Prichards are everywhere.
The second discovery is that the Mor-
mon church controls all the big busi-
nesses of the city and the State.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Paris seems to be thinking in
terms of barricades again. The last one
was erected in the Latin Quarter in 1893,
when “the Revolution of Sarah Brown”
occurred. Sarah Brown was the most
beautiful artist’s model in Paris, She
formed the central figure of a large
group which Julicn’s students submitted
for the principal prize at the Ball of the
Four Arts—half a dozen girls lying on
their backs, feet in the air, supporting
the box on which Sarah stood, clothed
in chastity, or something like that. The
group was so perfect in conception and
execution that it not only won the prize
unanimously, but the dancers all went
mad over it, and decided that it was par-
simonious to keep such a good thing for
themselves. Consequently, at 8 a.m.,
when the ball was breaking up, the group
was re-formed and borne triumphantly
at the head of 300 students in procession
through the streets of Paris. There was
no interference until Parliament met,
when Senator Beranger —surely no rela-
tive of the poet —who was the most pro-
minent wowser in Paris, demanded the
arrest and prosecution of the principals.
Sarah and her handmaidens and the late
committee were locked up. But students
pulled up paving-stones and built a barri-
cade across a street in the Latin Quarter,
the Government mobilised 20,000 cav-
alry, and order was restored only after
three people had been killed and the
offenders had been fined 10 francs each.


mm
OJiaA
HOOD DRESSING
Now obtainable In half-pint cans.
“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Ray best os-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
(SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
262 George street. Svdnev. 3(1.
The Steering Column.
SAFER WINTER MOTORING.
SIMPLE HINTS FOR THE OWNER-DRIVER.
By FRED BERRT.
pOR some months motorists have been accustomed to driving
* their cars over dry and solid highways, and control has been
a comparatively simple matter; but with the arrival of winter
these pleasant conditions no longer exist, and for some time
more difficult and perhaps hazardous conditions must be
expected, due to rain, fog and frost. Mechanical adjustments
and equipment suited to summer conditions require careful
examination at this stage if risk of accident is to be avoided and
operating costs maintained within reasonable limits.
Operating a car in winter involves
three possible difficulties; Rain at fre-
quent intervals causes the roadway to
become greasy, with attendant risk of
skidding ; fogs may make driving uncom-
fortable and dangerous, and frost brings
in its train a variety of mechanical
This tyre doesn’t look unsually low, and
would pass casual inspection. Actually
pressure is 10lb. below requirements, and
tread and fabric are both unduly
punished.
troubles, unless proper precautions are
taken.
Three Essentials.
The outlay necessary to prepare a car
for winter driving is quite modest. The
three most important matters demanding
attention are (1) tyre condition, (2)
wheel alignment, (3) brake adjustment.
While tyre manufacturers have kept
well in step with recent rapid automo-
bile development, and supply equipment
more reliable and giving longer life than
formerly, motorists are not yet absolved
from the necessity for giving tyres regu-
lar thought and attention. Those who
"fit and forget” until a puncture or blow-
out calls a compulsory halt may con-
ceivably pay, in terms of pence per mile,
twice as much as the owner who con-
sistently checks pressures, uses brakes
and accelerator intelligently, and drives
rationally on corners. Furthermore,
when driving on greasy roads he will
greatly minimise the risk of skidding by
keeping tyre equipment in good con-
dition.
The relation of tyre size to load is
worthy of consideration. Asa rule,
motorists take whatever size tyre is given
them without question, and rigidly adhere
to the original size throughout the life of
the car, but by selecting a slightly larger
section in the first instance, at a nominal
increase in cost, very much better ser-
vice and results would follow. Assume
that on a 20in. rim one car has a set
of 29 x 4.75, while another is equipped
with 30 x 5.77. Although there is little
more than one inch greater section, yet
potential mileage is probably 25 p.c.
greater. With the larger section tread
pattern will be retained for a longer
period with lessened risk of skidding, and
passenger comfort will be improved.
Correct Inflation.
Inflation pressure is a further impor-
tant factor in any scheme of economy,
and pressures exert a pronounced influ-
ence upon steering control. Under ser-
vice conditions the walls of a tyre bend
and recover on an average 700 times
every mile, while at the same time sup-
porting the weight of the car and trans-
mitting power necessary for propulsion ;
consequently, incorrect inflation rapidly
causes wear and fracture of the cords
from which the tyres are made.
Many motorists labor under the illu-
sion that speed alone is responsible for
tyre wear. Actually a slovenly driver
can do more damage in the first five
yards after starting up and in the last
few yards in stopping than a skilful
operator will do in a hundred-mile tour.
In addition, the driver who uses dis-
cretion when pulling up after a puncture
is bound to be suitably rewarded, for
Uneven tread wear
caused by faulty
alignment of road
wheels.
every yard driven on
the rim is equiva-
lent to many miles
of normal wear.
The objective in
planning tyre equip-
ment must be to im-
part, as far as pos-
sible, a true rolling
motion to the road
wheels. If it were
possible to push or
tow a car on its
journey and refrain
from applying power
or braking stresses,
the original tyre
equipment would in
all probability last
the entire life of the
car. Therefore it is
wise for the driver
at all times to apply
both power and
brakes smoothly and
gradually, avoiding
violent acceleration
or braking at all
costs, except in an
emergency.
Illustrating this
aspect of driving,
which incidentally is also of extreme im-
portance on greasy roadways, one should,
on engaging first gear, manipulate the
clutch in such a manner'as to ensure a
smooth and even getaway. Second and
higher gears should follow so cleanly
that passengers will not experience the
slightest shock or jerking, and the mini-
mum stress is imposed upon tyres. Once
under way, and desired touring speed
reached, the accelerator should be eased
back until the car is rolling along prac-
tically by its own momentum. This is
popularly termed “driving behind the
throttle,” and the practice is one to be
encouraged, conserving as it does both
tyres and fuel while at the same time
minimising wheel spin and the attendant
risk of skidding on slippery surfaces.
Independent Suspension.
Before leaving the subject of tyre wear
and its influence on control, some men-
tion must be made of the effect of inde-
pendent front-wheel suspension. This
modern development, applied to a num-
Unequal brake ad-
justment has left un-
mistakable markings
on this casing. Im-
agine handling a ear
shod with tyres in
this condition on a
greasy roadway!
ber of cars, has
undoubtedly im-
proved riding
comfort im-
mensely, and at
the same time
provided light
and positive
steering control.
Uue, however, to
independent
movement of
both front
wheels, the tyres
do not wear flat,
as is the case
where conven-
tional front axles
are incorporated,
but the outer
edge of the tread
wears almost as
rapidly as the
centre. This
means, of course,
that on greasy
roads it is advis-
able to maintain
a definite pattern
on front' treads
in order to obvi-
ate the risk of
front-wheel skid-
ding.
The next matter
for attention is
that of wheel
a 1 i g n m e n t —a
weighty factor in
any planning for
economy and
r o a dworthiness.
Obviously all
road wheels must
be in perfect
alignment should
we desire stability
on the road and
reasonable tyre life. Front-end geometry
must be maintained exactly to maker’s
original specifications, for should toe-in,
camber or alignment vary in the slightest
degree the car will be unsafe at high
speeds or on greasy highways, whilst the
tyres, instead of rolling freely, will exert
a scrubbing action on the roadway, with
consequent rapid and uneven wear. In
addition, a very slight variation from
correct setting will usually generate an
uncomfortable wheel-wobble, extremely
difficult' at times to locate and rectify.
Brake Adjustment.
Similar principles to those laid down
with regard to tyre wear and road safety
are applicable to uneven adjustment or
fierce use of brakes. Violent application
of the brake pedal on a dry roadway
invariably results in a skid of some
description, and if motorists realised that
these skid-marks cost sixpence a yard
they would exercise more care. It is,
however, when driving on wet surfaces
that even adjustment is so important, for
with one or more shoes pulling unevenly
Special machines are used to put a series
of slots on any tyre —the latest method
evolved to prevent skids and sideslips
when driving on greasy roads.
the possibility of accident is increased to
a serious degree. More particularly does
this apply to the type of mechanically
operated brake equipment in which each
set of shoes requires individual adjust-
ment.
Let us now consider the best and
cheapest method of setting equipment in
order. Driving with smooth tyres is a
risky business, and the alternatives are
new casings or retreading of the existing
set. With new equipment one may be
assured of trouble-free service for a con-
siderable period, but with retreading,
unless the history of the old casing is
known and the work done by a firm of
standing and repute, there must always
be an element of uncertainty.
Preventing Skids.
The influence of tread design in pre-
venting skids on greasy roads has always
been of interest to motorists, and in this
regard the practice of slotting treads
Graph showing the effect of speed upon
tyre wear. Note the sharp rise after 30
m.p.h. Fierce acceleration and violent
brake application are similarly expensive
hobbies.
laterally in order to improve “stopping,”
especially on wet and greasy roads, is
growing in favor, and has much to
recommend it.
Dealing now with the final bogeys of
winter driving—fog and frost—motorists
in this country are fortunate when com-
pared with their British and American


■
L/'-
iTfl^li
hvix)
m.
\Nt^ s
1
?&$
HOWt
fROW
Pi
***»
\N
might
5 :S*S
/
H
y
oey
m
kmlfutd
nornj
9
NO, JIM DOESN'T WORR/
l\
m
joerJorwLct-in.ee. aX
NO EXTRA COST
Only one tirade FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality— FlßST QUALITY!
ABOUT ME NOT EVEN ON THE COLDEST. WETTEST
NIGHT. He knows I'll be safe.
"No trouble in starting, always plenty of power in reserve on
the hills, so I rarely change a gear. And I'm never in trouble
in traffic. If I didn't use Power Chief Jim might worry!"
Texaco Power Chief is fhe only motor spirit with all the advantages of
CONTROLLED COMBUSTION sold at the same price as ordinary first
grades throughout Australia.
TEXACO
POWER CHIEF
ONLY 'POWER CHIEF' IS ORANGE TINTED
PC6-485
cousins, who have at certain times of the
year to go through a definite ritual of
preparation in order to avoid discomfort
and damage.
Driving in fog is a risky business at
any time, particularly when the lighting
equipment consists solely of a pair of
brilliant headlights. In districts where
fogs are prevalent an auxiliary headlight
located on the left dumb-iron and set at
an angle serves to illuminate the kerb-
line, so giving the driver an opportunity
of steering a safe course. Fitted with
conventional lighting equipment, it has
been the custom in the past to use amber
or yellow screens in front of the lenses,
but tests have conclusively proved the
idea to be worthless. In an emergency
the only safe method of progress in dense
fog is to lean out over the driver s door
and shape a steady course by the kerb-
line. Vehicles approaching can be seen in
ample time to move over on the correct
side of the roadway.
Anti-freeze Mixtures,
Extremely low temperatures involving
the freezing of water in the cooling sys-
tern are seldom experienced, but there
are localities in Australia where the
thermometer falls to freezing-point in
midwinter. Motorists in these districts
should make a practice of draining all
water from the radiator each evening,
or of housing the car in a garage arti-
ficially heated or of filling the cooling
system with one or other of the follow-
ing anti-freeze mixtures: (1) Water 70,
glycerine 30; (2) water 50, methylated
spirit 50 ; or (3) water 50, glycerine 30,
methylated spirit 20. These mixtures do
not freeze until the temperature is well
below that at which water becomes ice.
jf b y chance the circulating water
should freeze, the possibilities are that
cylinders will crack, and certainly, if the
motor is started, the water-pump will
collapse and serious harm will be done
to the engine.
The Trouble Lamp.
G.L. (Unley Park, S.A.). —My garage has
warned me that if I persist in using leaded
petrols in my car (’34 Olds.) I will soon have
serious valve troubles. The spirit ( named) suits
my car and gives extremely satisfactory results.
Would you advise a change ?
No. Leaded spirits do not damage valves,
discoloration of the metal, observed when heads
are lifted, being of no consequence.
* * * *
J.R. (Cairns, N.Q.). —/ have been informed
that the shock absorbers on my model A Ford
are not worth repairing. / have been consider-
ing scrapping this equipment and fitting 15 in.
wheels and l\in. tyres. Is this a good plan,
and would the change affect steering ?
Change you suggest would be expensive, in-
volving purchase of new set of wheels. Fur-
thermore, as the machine was not designed for
these wheels, steering and roadholding would
almost certainly be adversely affected. Sug-
gest reconditioning existing shock absorbers.
* * * *
M.G.E. (Richmond, Q.). —I propose an over-
haul of my motor. What is about the cor-
rect pressure to put on bolts when lightening
up big-end bearings ? Recently in assembling
my engine / tightened up the big-end bolls,
and then slacked them off a quarter turn, and
uow m V o/Z consumption has, after 500 miles.
given me considerable worry.
When fitting big ends the bearing must be
scraped unt ji both halves can be drawn hard
up on tbe j r faces. NeVcr in any circumstances
slack off a big . end bolt but rat her use thin
shjms to obtai ° the requ ired clearance.
* * *
„ ■ x ,
cro (°ubbo, N.S.W.). I propose shortly
t 0 a sedan to seat five, and have narrowed
selection down to two. Reliability and cos,
°f upkeep are the most important points, and,
as the car will be used in the back country,
j , and be , and of orfv / c «.
T .'/ . . .
. cto se between Cl ler ’ ut Sl ® ll - V
m lavor ol A '•
* * * *.
J.H.B. (Bordcrtown, S.A.). —Why do pneu-
malic tyres carry a load with less power than
solids ?
Dunlop-Perdriau say: “The main reason for
pneumatic tyres carrying (he load with less
tractive effort than solid tyr ; es is the fact that
each time a pneumatic tyre goes over a bump
or rut of any description most of the shock is
absorbed by the tyre. Solid tyres, when they
come in contact with a bump or rut, raise the
height of the axle to nearly the full extent of
the bump, throwing extra load on engine.”
.
( Continued OH page 30.)


FOR
QUICK
STARTS
and many of them!
mm
%
i
m
mi
sv
i
State Distributors;
MOTOR SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
BROOKLANDS ACCESSORIES PTY. LTD.,
Melbourne and Horsham.
WAYMOUTH SERVICE CO.. Adelaide.
ATKINS (W.A.) LTD.. Perth.
WESTCOTT HAZELL & CO. LTD..
Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., Hobart.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “Tbe Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivevs
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
■
&
Sti.
Si.
IS JOUR CAR
HARD TO fTARTl
replace worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
SPARKING PLUGS
Simoniz Your Gar
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kleenex makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
S.J.T. (Otago, M.L.). —I have an old-model
caterpillar tractor, and would like to modernise
the engine, (1) Would you recommend raising
the compression ratio ? (2) Would a down-
draught type, carburettor increase efficiency ?
(3) The engine has a large exhaust-heated in-
take. As I Use only petrol fuel, do you think
it would be an improvement to reduce the
amount of intake heat ? t
(1) Increasing compression ratio will improve
maximum b.h.p., but will possibly impair
flexibility and smooth running. (2) Fitting
down-draught carburettor would involve com-
plete change of manifold design, and to be
effective anew casting would be required.
Little, if any, increase in efficiency would result
from the change. (3) Reducing hot-spot tempera-
ture. may assist when petrol is used. Suggest
experimenting with butterfly-type valve to vary
quantity of exhaust gps entering the hot-spot
chamber.
* * * *
V.L.P. (Randwick, N.S.W.). —The left rear
tyre of my 1924 sedan rubs against the side of
the body under the mudguard when turning to
right with full load. Axles are not loose, tyre
size is 5.00 X 24, and, although rubbing is not
doing harm, the noise is a nuisance. Can it
be remedied ?
The body on your car is rather too wide
over the rear wheels. Only remedy would be
to fit an extra leaf to both rear springs.
S.J.F. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). —I have a ’27
model six-cylinder car, rebored 2000 miles ago.
When the engine is cold and until running a
mile or so there is no knock in the motor, but
after 25 m.p.h. a constant light tapping noise
comes from the engine. Reason ?
Gudgeon pins are probably a tight fit in the
con. rod and a neat fit in pistons, but as
pistons are aluminium alloy heating will cause
sufficient expansion to permit the gudgeons to
rattle. Suggest checking and, if necessary,
refitting pins correctly.
* * * *
W.H.S. (Oakcy, Q.). —Address of firm that
can supply a hack-axle assembly to fit to trailer ?
Try Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avcnue, Sydney.
* * * *
J.R. (Cairns, N.Q.). —The side-curtains of my
open tourer are now so scratched and dull that
driving is difficult, particularly at night or dur-
ing wet weather. What can be done ?
Measure size of inserts and order sheet cellu-
loid from an accessory house. 'Cut out old
panels one inch from screen fabric and cement
new celluloid to old edges with acetone or
amyl acetate.
* * * .t
H.S.S. (Dorrigo, N.S.W.). —(I) What is meant
by “stock car” ? (2) My ’2B model four-
cylinder Dodge has done 25,000 miles. What
petrol and oil consumption should I get ? (3)
Where can 1 get an instruction book for this
model ? (4) When reassembling recently I used
a stiff piece of cardboard between carburettor
and intake manifold. Is this right, and, if not,
what should be used ? (5) What paint can be
used on cylinder blocks and manifold to resist
heat ?
(1) The term applies to an automobile comply-
ing exactly with standard specifications as sold to
the public and upon which no additional work
in the direction ,of super-tuning has been done.
(2) Depends to an extent upon mechanical con-
dition. Reasonable figures would be 18 m.p.g.
petrol and 1500 m.p.g. oil. (3) Write to Harden
and Johnson, Ltd., Flinders-street, Sydney.
(4) Cardboard does not maintain an airtight
joint. Clingerite or a lead gasket should be
used. (5) Special paints for this purpose can
be secured from all leading accessory houses.
Ordinary oil paints or enamels are worthless.
* * *
5 R.S.F.C. (Palmwoods, Q.). —I bought a
’34 utility truck recently, and have not been
able to obtain better than 10 m.p.g. I have
fitted an oversize metering pin without improve-
ment. What can he done ?
Increasing jet size would not improve mat-
ters. Check valve seatings, pistons and rings.
See also that brakes are not binding and that
petrol tank does not leak.
* * * *
J.McL. (Wairoa, M.L.). —(1) My ’3O model
Studebaker has done 31,000 miles. I get 15
m.p.g., but have been told if I fit another
carburettor I would get better results. Is that
so ? (2) When will the new Studebaker be
tested ?
(1) Fuel consumption is reasonable when
mileage and age are taken into consideration.
Improvement can be effected only by reboring
or relining cylinders, fitting new valve guides
and generally restoring motor to its original
condition. (2) The ’35 Studebaker will be tested
as soon as one is available from Sydney
distributors.
* * *
G.McD. (Balinda, Vic.).—(l) My 8-h.p.
roadster, fitted with 4.00 X 19 tyres, is starting
to develop body rattles. Are larger-section tyres
made to fit this car ? (2) What make of tyres
do you recommend ?
Your car is well shod with 4.00-section tyres.
Pressure should be 18-201 b. Larger-section
equipment would involve alteration to body,
and perhaps interfere with steering and road-
holding qualities. (2)
Any well - established
make.
H. W. H. (Jerilderie,
N.S.W.).—-(1) My 1920
Angus Sanderson car is
giving me trouble
through the failure of
the rear universal joint.
Cause and cure ? (2)
Where can piston rings
be obtained for this
car ?
(1) Suggest metal uni-
versal joints fail by
reason of play in trans-
mission line and per-
haps a fierce clutch.
Only certain cure would
be complete mechanical
overhaul of transmis-
sion, or, as a temporary expedient, the rear
joint may be redesigned to take a fabric disc.
(2) Write to Bennett and Wood, Pitt-street,
Sydney, or Bradley Bros., Wentworth-avenue,
Sydney, who will supply information required.
❖ * ❖
Gears (Annerley, Q.). —I have recently had
difficulty in changing gear or putting the gear
lever in neutral in my ’26 Essex. If I stop the
car in gear with engine running I have to let
the clutch in partly before I can select neutral
position. Can yon help ?
Thrust-bearing in clutch assembly is badly
worn, thereby affecting throw-out and travel of
clutch. Check wear in front universal joint
(behind gearbox). If there is more than l/16in.
piay here, similar difficulty will be experienced.
Motor Oddities.
‘‘Bungle”: “Fordor’s” owner (B.
29/5/’35) who chased his car up hill
and down has a mate Lismore way
(N.S.W.) —in “reverse,”- so to speak. The
driver parked Liz safely, as he imagined,
then went on foot to open a gate. But
Liz evidently had some old scores to
pay back. She prowled silently after
her owner and delivered a K.O. that put
him in hospital.
H* •!»
“Squeaker”: The boss was driving a
pre-war Model T. He loved that old
thing, and he got a bit of work out of
it now and again. This was one of those
occasions, and we were bowling along
at quite 15 m.p.h. on the level places.
He stopped to pick up a friend. After
discussing the weather and the price of
stock, the boss started on his pet sub-
ject: the perfections of old Lizzie. I’d
heard ’em all before—I could repeat
them blindfolded and backwards. “1 tell
you, Regan,” he said in conclusion, “I
know every sound in this old car.” Regan
leant over the side and listened atten-
tively. Then he turned to the boss.
“Gee!” he gasped admiringly. “What
a memory you must have!”
* * * *
“Notab”: One of Goldsbrough Mort’s
branch managers had occasion recently
to inspect some cattle running on one ot
the river bends, and hurried in his car
to an arranged meeting place. On his
way he came to a side creek which
appeared fairly deep, but there were tyre
tracks where evidently a car had lately
crossed. Having the opinion that he
could go where another car could, he
drove into the water, but with a sharp
drop the car was submerged until the
water covered the floorboards. The
engine promptly stopped and left him
stranded yards from the bank on either
side. His calls brought assistance in the
shape of a local man driving a horse-
drawn motor-tyred sulky. It was he
who had crossed previously, not a motor-
car.
“G.M.”: Despite the success of school
patrols in N.S.W., Victoria still hangs
back, permitting younger scholars to run
risks and drivers of vehicles to suffer
blood pressure as they approach a school.
The patrol system has long been opera-
tive in U.S.A., and with marked success,
the police chiefs of several big cities
having publicly stated that the big boys
entrusted with the control of traffic have
proved as capable as adult cops. In
most of the States, the boy patrols pos-
sess temporarily all the powers of a
policeman, and the motorist who neglects
their signals is usually dealt with far
more harshly than the man who defies
a full-grown cop.


RADIO NEWS.
Why Not
Co-ordination?
In the queer
dogfight which
evidently enter-
tains radio con-
cerns those who
stop most of the
bricks and bottles are the innocent
bystanders.
In their efforts to enjoy the game of
beating the other fellow, radio stations
are apt to fail to deliver the goods to
the listener. There is eternal complaint
about programmes provided; but the
most exacting and eccentric listener
would be able to listen all day to items
in which he was interested if stations
had a friendly understanding. With a
properly co-ordinated arrangement of
programmes and a strict timetable, no-
body would be compelled to he bored
stiff hearing stuff about which he did not
care one hoot in order to reach the item
he required.
The lover of classical music now turns
from station to station, only to find that
jazz monopolises the whole air. If he
has the patience to wait long enough he
will be able to sit back and revel in his
Wagner selection from 2AB or 3BC, only
to find that the Bach Symphony which
he loves to distraction is being broad-
cast at the same time from 4DE, and
Chopin is proceeding simultaneously
from SFG. Meanwhile, the jazz-lover
has got home and turned on station after
station, only to find that there is not one
scrap of Irving Berlin or Bing Crosby
to be found anywhere in the blue
empyrean. Why can’t stations come to
a gentleman's agreement so that when
one is broadcasting the classics another
will be broadcasting jazz, and so cater
for all tastes?
As in music, so it is in sport. And even
those retired parsons who tell about the
Curious Customs of the Ancient Peru-
vians clash with the professors who
describe a visit to the Alhambra at
Granada—lecturettes which have a simi-
lar appeal ; while the newspaperman who
thrills you with his story “People 1 Have
Seen Hanged” is, as likely as not, listed
at the same time as the spy story from
the Western Front.
A lot of good stuff is sent from every
licensed station. But, for the Lord’s sake,
let us have co-ordination!
G. TROTTER.
Wireless
Amenities
“I called at
your fiat last
night, old man,”
said Braggs.
“There was no
answer when I
rang, repeatedly. 1 thought you must be
in, because I heard your wireless going
for all it was worth.”
“Oh, we were out,” said Bangs. “We
left the wireless on—you see, the wife's
had a row with the neighbors.”
“I think the tips you get from broad-
casting stations are much the best,”
remarked the Mug Punter. “They always
explain why the horses they gave you
didn’t win.”
“Really that radio drama was quite
100 thrilling!” exclaimed Mrs. Shish. “I
was just awfully interested, only I got a
bit mixed up about the characters. I
couldn’t get hold of the names properly,
except the funny name of the man who
got the girl at the end.”
“I missed that,” replied Miss Lissenin.
“What was his name?”
"Dawson’s Antiseptic Shinplasters,
wasn’t it?” returned Mrs. Shish. “What
a queer name for a hero!”
"1 owe my fortune to the wireless,”
boasted H. A. P. E. Ay re,
“Some invention you patented?” sug-
gested his friend.
“No ; when my rich aunt was ill we
switched a cheerio session on to her,
and I figured in the will.”
HAMER.
Will Radio
Oust the
Dailies?
Personally,
1 doubt it, though
1 have heard
more than one
thinking person
give it out as a
matter of abso-
lute conviction that the murder—or jus-
tifiable execution—will be done within
a Generation. The guess seems to have
only one doubtfully solid rock to stand
on, and that is advertising. Without ad-
vertisements newspapers must perish, and
obviously if radio were to collar the lot
there would be a death in the entertain-
ment family.
That is a doubtful rock because, for
one thing, it is not at all certain that
radio advertising will sustain its present
popularity among advertisers ; a lot of
it must be a bore to listeners. For
another thing, it is questionable even now
whether radio advertising is much more
than supplementary to most newspaper
advertising, which can be seen and read
and digested at leisure, and, so long as
the newspaper is in the house, is always
available, which even the most persistent
of radio advertising is not.
Therein, moving into the field of read-
ing, lies one of the strongest arguments
against the likelihood of radio ousting
the papers. Both deal in news, and
radio deals in it better than most papers
—in sporting news radio, being instan-
taneous, is incomparably the better —but
the radio time is not always the listener’s
time, whereas the reader has to make no
adjustments whatever to take in the con-
tents of his paper. This, of course,
applies to all aspects of the spoken and
the written word. Moreover, however
well radio reporting is done, the listener
“This prograb cubs to you by court' sy of the Wud Dight Cough Cure ,
guaranteed to remove your code id wud dight."
cannot absorb the details of the broad-
cast as he can those of the printed word.
The probability seems to be that, in-
stead of achieving an act of homicide,
radio will assist the press by directing
listeners’ attention to matters which they
would wish to study more fully or con-
centrate upon at their leisure. Indirectly,
it might serve an even more useful pur-
pose. It might force newspapers to adopt
a better style ; something closer to good,
plain speech than the flamboyant and
hysterical utterance of the gutter press
and the antiquated solemnity of the
better class of papers ; something that
is entertainment to read for its own sake,
apart from what it has to say.
No ; what radio does appear to be the
natural enemy of is not the newspaper,
but the theatre, the gramophone and
suchlike entertainment-makers of all
kinds. It has already made the gramo-
phone a blaring anachronism.
C. MAODONALD.
Fixing
the Radio
When her mess-
ing about with
it, to cure its
troubles, has
made the wire-
less set.go irre-
trievably wrong, the wife says “Go and
get Mr. Fiddler. He ought to be able
to fix it; he’s a plumber.” A man who
has been married long enough to know
the untruth of the saying “The first
seven years are the worst” lets that pass.
It is only a mild effort on the part of a
woman who can say, “Oh, my husband
doesn’t work; he’s a writer.”
It being a holiday, you resignedly see
if you can get Flatiron, who is an elec-
trician, An electrician seems much more
likely than any of the other people who
are associated with an ability to perform
surgical work on a radio —musicians,
laundry proprietors (who use electric
irons), and so on. But Flatiron frankly
says he has never touched a wireless set
in his life.
Sellers goes to work in a businesslike
way. After you have cleared the top
(“You have your books and papers
everywhere,” complains the wife, paren-
thetically ; “why don’t you keep them in
the proper place?”), he looks solemnly
behind the radio. He unscrews things
and screws them up again—after a great
commotion about getting screwdrivers—
and messes about for half an hour or so.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to get an
expert,” he says at last. “I don’t know
much about wireless sets.”
He is only one. Everybody (that is,
except Flatiron) seems to take an interest
in the decrepit wireless set. People
wander into the flat all day, and do just
what Sellers has donp. Each makes a
little extra litter and gives a few extra
suggestions, and (he wireless gets worse
and worse. The atmosphere becomes
that of a rather disorderly party. There
are liquor and cups of tea and cakes and
biscuits and hot anecdotes ; and some of
the folk are so interested that they forget
to get their two-bobs on with the s.-p.
man. Through it all, the wireless, in
spasms, behaves like a frog with a sore
throat and an ambition to sing. It re-
fuses to give race results, breaking into
a succession of raspberries just at the
finish of each race, except when some
horse which one of the party should
have backed romps home at 12 to 1.
At night the other flatters bring in
friends, alleged to be experts, to view
the wireless. They do precisely what Sel-
lers and the others have done. At 11.30
p.m. it seems to be unanimously decided
that the wireless people themselves will
have to attend to the matter.
The wife tells me not to forget directly
she wakes up ; she repeats it at breakfast
whilst the wireless converts the breakfast
music into gasps, snorts and raspberries ;
and she goes on repeating it.
Coming home I do not remember that
I have forgotten all about it until my
key is in the latch. But just as I am
wildly speculating on the best tale to
tell, the sound of the wireless running
sweetly falls on my ear.
It is the plumber who has fixed it.
The wife says that we must send him
a pot of flowers. Everybody gives him
pots of flowers for these services.
On the tram to-day he told me that
he hates flowers.
H.M.
All Round
the Dial
“Hamfat”: In
appointments to
the A.B.C. it
seems astonishing
that Hugh J. Ward
should be over-
looked. Ward was a first-class show
manager, successor to George Musgrove
(who would risk a fortune —his own —
rather than produce anything shoddily),
and he exhibited a flair for knowing what
the public wants over years, during
which he made a fortune out of it. To
me it is a stupid policy to ignore the
master showman in what is essentially
an entertainment business.
“Tuart”; There are two native-born
Australians who should be prohibited
from leaving the country—by force, if
necessary. One is Gladys Moncrieff ; the
other Lionel Lawson. Gladys is the one
soprano I know whose top notes trans-
mitted from broadcasting stations never
shrill, or split into hideous cacophony. She
has almost the perfect radio voice, and
Lawson, who was a Digger, has almost the
perfect radio violin tone, while each has
the equipment of an artist. It’s a shame
to see them go abroad ; yet Lawson was
lost to the country for some years, and
Gladys, I read, is going to London—
for “further instruction in singing."
the modest woman says. Both should
be grappled to A.B.C. with hoops of
gbld.
“S.G.”: George Edwards, most versa-
tile of microphone entertainers, owes a
great deal to the training he got in con-
cert-party work as one of the late Brans-
combe’s Dandies ; yet the chances arc
that he considered that experience wasted
time. Going to England from Adelaide
as a youngster, George did pretty well
there in musical-comedy and returned to
Australia with a Williamson engagement.
He did capital work in a comedy part,
that of an impassioned Cockney cor-
poral, in a musical piece of which 1
cannot at the moment remember the
name ; then he fell out somehow with
the Firm, which had a monopoly at the
time, and took a job with Branscombe.
That shrewd and economical Englishman
made his Good Companions toil for their
salaries. Edwards had to do all manner
of acts —burlesque stuff, bits of straight
comedy, ragtime songs, with partner —
and take his share of the choruses and
condensed plays; and everything he
tackled he did well. An immensely valu-
able preparation for his present calling,
in which he has so thoroughly found
himself; but he somehow gave the im-
pression that he regarded concert-party
work as a comedown.
“McClick”: Though they get none of
the limelight, the librarians are among
the most important people in radio. Rex
Shaw, of 2UE, for instance, looks after
the station’s 10,000 records. An eye
for distance is one of his peculiar
qualifications. He estimates that the
needle covers one-eighth of a mile to
traverse a 12in. record, and can judge to
ten seconds, without hearing it, how long
a given piece will rest on the turntable.
Without this capacity in the librarian,
the compilation of a programme to time-
table would be a tedious process.
“Tops”: Add the name of Harry Mil-
lard, 2SM’s sporting announcer, to the
list of all-rounders on the air. Millard
has been reporting and reviewing fights
and fighters for more than 20 years, and
he broadcast the first professional fight
to go over the air in Maoriland. He
knows the game, having won two ama-
teur boxing championships himself. In
football, he has played and refereed four
different codes Australian Rules,
League, Union and Soccer. Also, he
was reporting racing as far back as
1912.
“Don Pip": I heartily agree with
“Greenhide’s” remarks about Vic
Coombes, of SCL Boys’ Club (B.
5/6/’35), but “G.” errs slightly. The
cheery Vic is not a Digger, although he
is made of the same stuff as the species.
His trouble is rheumathoid arthritis,
which has kept him bedridden for 28
years.
“Greenhide”: The canned music v.
human orchestra controversy has in-
spired the 8.8. C. to throw a little light
on the position as a result of the charge
that broadcasting puts musicians out
of work. It has 119 players in its sym-
phony orchestra, 27 in its theatre orches-
tra, 16 apiece in its variety and Empire
orchestras, 14 dance players and a mili-
tary band of 37 instrumentalists. Sub-
sidiary stations employ a further 119.


RADIO “DUALS"
Released by SLADE’S RADIO and presented for your perfect Radio
Entertainment. Individually Built and So Moderately Priced.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
Model 91D.W.—Six Valves.
Price, £27/10/-.
At last a Broadcast-Shortwave Superhet Receiver
with Economical Battery Operation, Liynamic
Tone, Automatic Volume Control and improved
Wider Daylight Range. With the snap of a
switch the extra thrill for your folk of a trip
to London, Paris, Berlin, etc. Model 91D.W.
brings all this to you, and, with the added
artistry and beauty of cabinet design, creates
the most notable advance in Radio Science for
the year.
FOR THE TOWN AND CITY
DWELLER.
Model 95D.W.—Five Valves.
Price, £19/10/-.
Dual-wave Superhet. Mains Operated and Radio’s
greatest success. Features Philips famous
Oetode, fidelity in tone and ultra-sensitivity,
thus dispensing with multi valves. Embodies
ail worth-while Continental and American
improvements and the unique “Slade” method
of band-pass. Unsurpassed on overseas reception.
Truly an instrument worthy of your ownership.
Full particulars:
SLADE’S RADIO
Radio and Precision Instrument Manufacturers,
LANG STREET, CROYDON, N.S.W. 'Phone: UJ5381 or UJ5382.
Franchise Available Reputable Dealers.
!»
CO
o*
The Philips Octode is the
greatest single radio develop-
ment since the introduction of
the Penthode, a previous
Philips invention.
When buying radio be sure that
it is truly modern equipped
with
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
5*21
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
NEON-TUBE TESTER FOR SHORTS.
One of the most useful gadgets in
radio test work is the neon tube. Very
often it will be found that a valve will
pass the usual emission or mutual con-
ductance test on an ordinary valve-tester,
but when put to use in a receiver will
refuse to operate or show up a pro-
nounced hum. This state of affairs may
be brought about by an inter-electrode
short. This may not be actually a com-
plete short, but just bad leakage when
the heater is up to normal temperature.
These faults are hard to detect, but the
little neon tester will ferret them out.
The construction of the tester costs oply
a few shillings. Components needed are
seven audio transformers with broken-
down primaries (to be found in second-
hand stores in profusion), a 100,000-ohm
potentiometer, a batten holder, Osglim
neon 240-volt A.C. pilot lamp, one four-.
one live-, one six- and two seven-pin
sockets, and one adapter on the end of a
length of ordinary power flex.
The diagram shows the essentials. The
chokes (audio-transformer secondaries)
and the neon tube are connected in series
with the 240-volt A.C. line, with the
potentiometer across the neon tube.
Without any valves in position in sockets,
adjust the potentiometer so that the neon
lube is just beyond the ionising point,
i.e., no glow visible. If a valve with
shorted electrodes is inserted in a socket,
the choke connected in this position will
be shorted and the
neon tube will be-
gin to glow. It
will not be known,
naturally, which
electrodes are
shorted or leaky,
but this is of no
importance, as the
valve will be use-
less. Note that,
with all sockets,
one side of the fila-
ment or heater is
not connected to anything, the reason
being obvious. If this open side were
connected, a short would be indicated on
the tube, apart from which 240 volts
through the neon tube on the filament
is simply not done.
MAROS.
THE NEW 2SM IN ACTION.
The official cross-over by broadcasting
station 2SM to its new transmitter was
followed by a programme chosen by the
engineers and announcers of the station.
This new station at Pennant Hills
(N.S.W.), designed and constructed by
A.W.A., constitutes a complete depar-
ture in broadcasting methods in Aus-
tralia. The mast is 450 ft. high, the base
being upon land 400 ft. above sea level.
This is the highest wireless mast in Aus-
tralia, and is also the station’s aerial.
New wide-range broadcast transmitter of the most modern type and control
panel, designed and manufactured for 2SM by A.W.A. Audio-frequency
response is flat from 30 to 10,000 cycles.
The radiations carrying the programme
from the transmitting station to the list-
ener’s receiver emanate from the mast
itself, the customary aerial wires being
eliminated.
Recent research has revealed that if a
radio mast is made a certain fraction of
the required wave-length in height, and
if it is used as the actual aerial, radiation
takes place in a much flatter horizontal
plane. This gives greater distance and
almost entirely eliminates the fading
which is experienced at night in regions
where sky-wave and ground-wave are
comparable in strength. For this reason
the new 2SM has an unusually laige ser-
vice area.
The mast stands on a mass of porce-
lain insulating blocks strong enough to
sustain a downward thrust of 1200 tons
The new 2SM mast, 450ft. high,
erected on ground 400ft. above sea
level. It is the only vertical half-
wave radiator in Australia.
The studio and transmitting equip-
ment, all made by A.W.A., is of the most
modern type, and the difference in audio
quality after the change-over from the old
station was very striking.
Short-wave Diallings.
Daylight reception has been excellent
of late, and there has also been improve-
ment in the early morning, GSB and DJA
being considerably stronger in the 31m.
band. There are some unidentified sta-
tions in the 49m. band between 6 a.m.
and 7 a.m. One of these is probably
IRA (49.14 m.), known to be transmitting
at this time, and reported as excellent by
listeners in the U.S.A. GSF (19m.) has
been at good strength in the mornings,
and better than last year’s reception.
At 10 p.m. GSF has also been fair, but
has faded rapidly. FYA, in the same
band, has been a little better at the same
hour.
WBXK has also been heard in the
mornings on 19m. at an hour usually
associated with the 25m. wave-length.
On 16/6/’35 the League of Nations’ talk
was only fair and hard to copy, but. dur-
ing the French session at 9 a.m. audi-
bility was excellent. RNE, except for
the 9 p.m. session, has been at excellent
volume, peaking here at 8 a.m.
2RO has left the 31m. band in the
morning and is back on 25m. It is
easier to hear up to 8 a.m., though it can-
not be compared with the other stations
so far.
RVIS, the 70m. Siberian station, has
been sending out some excellent music,
but the English announcements that were
promised have not yet commenced.
Neither PCJ nor PEII has been heard
lately.
The 20m. amateur band was alive with
Americans on 16/6/’35, many of them
at good speaker strength, working various
Australian States. Some have been
heard well at 9 a.m.
The 80m. band was spoilt by summer-
like static during the whole of a recent
week.
Several new short-wave stations are
under construction, and all much more
powerful than any at present on the air.
Nine of them should shortly be testing,
and more attention to selectivity will be re-
quired than has been necessary in the past.
However, the fact that different countries
rarely come in at maximum strength at
the same hours makes the problem less
acute than in the local broadcast band.
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave News.
Programme of Philips PHI station, Eind-
hoven, Holland. Wave-length 16.88 m.;
17775kc./s.ec.; the specification of hours as
given below is expressed in E.S.T. Opens.
10.30 p.m.; closes, 1.30 a.m.
Sunday, July 7: 10.40 p.m., electrical trans-
criptions; 11 p.m., Phohi- string ensemble:
11.20 p.m., microphone debutants; 11.30 p.m.,
news from Holland; 11.45 p.m., Phohi string
ensemble; 12.05 a.m., records; 12.10 a.m..
broadcast by the R.C. Broadcasting Associa-
tion; 1.10 a.m., dance music.
Monday, July 8: 10.40 p.m., electrical tran-
scriptions; 10.55 p.m., meeting of the Phohi
Club, announcer answers listeners’ reports;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.50 p.m..
talk on sports by H. Hollander.
Thursday, July II: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.10
p.m., violin recital by Nicholas Roth; 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 12.05 a.m., records;
12.10 a.m., Syra trio.
Friday, July 12: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.05
p.m., station orchestra; 11.30 p.m., news from
Holland: 12.05 a.m., station orchestra.
Saturday. July 13- 10 40 n.m., Nane Carly
French chansonniere; 11.15 p.m., electrical
transcriptions; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland;
11.45 p.m., records; 11.50 p.m., Nane Catty;
12.05 a.m., electrical transcriptions; 12.30 a.m.,
records; 12.40 a.m., broadcast from the Carl-
ton Hotel, Amsterdam.
Sunday, July 14; 10.40 p.m., electrical
transcriptions; II p.m., piano recital, Marinas
Salomons; 11.15 p.m., microphone debutants;
11.25 p.m., records; 11.30 p.m., news from
Holland; 11.45 p.m., piano recital by M. Salo-
mons; 12.10 a.m., broadcast by the R.C.B.A.
Monday. July 15: 10.40 p.m., Menuhin
records; 10.55 p.m., meeting of the Phohi Club;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.50 p.m..
talk on sports by H. Hollander.
Thursday, July 18: 10.40 p.m., Concertge-
bouw Orchestra; 11.05 p.m., records; 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 12.10 a.m., dance
records.
Friday, July 19: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.10
p.m., station orchestra; 11.30 p.m., news from
Holland; 11.45 p.m., station orchestra.
Saturday, July 20: 10.40 p.m., records; 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 12.05 a.m., station
orchestra; I a.m., “In Gipsyland” playlet
Amateur Chatter.
The week ending 22/6/’35 was notable
in the history of the 112mc. (24m.) band
in Sydney. Sergeant Salmon {N.S.W.
police), VK2SA, had completed a lineal
oscillator, with directive antenna on 2jm..
and arranged to have the transmitter
operated whilst listening at a distance.
The receiver, a D.C. three-valver of con-
ventional design, was connected up al
the writer’s station. The speech and
modulated tone from the VK2SA trans-
mitter, located in North Bondi, was never
less than Q 5 RB. With this encourage-
ment, the writer made up a linear
oscillator, using plate and grid lines and
a single 801. The antenna at present in
use is non-directive and a plain voltage-
fed vertical half-wave radiator. With
VK2CG in Randwick working on 5m.,
and listening to VK2NO on 24m., the
signal was reported as being, if anything,
superior to the usual sm. transmission.
VK2SA reported the same. conditions.
During tests on the afternoon of 23/6/’35
neighbors in the immediate vicinity of the
writer’s 2\m. transmitter reported severe
interference with broadcast reception.
Examination of the receivers revealed
that the signal was entering via the mains
Connecting a line filter at the receiving


y
ill
i ■>
Slromberg
•Carlson
RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S. V. Colville, M.lnst.K.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away j»riec , >. •"*
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
3
Special ScoffJv
WHISKY
• FDR THE MAN WHO KNOWS/
end made no difference, but the moment
a filter was included in the mains supply
to the transmitter the trouble dis-
appeared. Experimenters experiencing
similar trouble, please note. The filter
must obviously be something other than
the usual commercial-receiver type and
capable of passing a reasonable load.
Several of the sm. stations were trying
24m. at intervals on 23/6/’35, with the
result that the sm. band was compara-
tively quiet. VK2BP, of Hazelbrook, is
sadly missed, and, owing to gale havoc,
may not be active again for some months.
Sydney u.-s.-w. experimenters owe him a
debt of gratitude for providing a constant
50-odd-mile link for several months.
On 20/6/’35 the writer delivered a lec-
ture on “.Some Aspects of Ultra-short-wave
Radio” at the W.I.A. meeting ; he learns
that several new stations will be in action
on “five and below” shortly as a result.
One hour is not enough to even gloss
over the surface of u.-s.-w. work, for
such subjects as antennae alone could
take at least an hour. The next W.I.A.
field day at Wyong will be a sm. (in-
stead of an 80m.) hidden transmitter
hunt. This provides some problems in
D.F. A group of English amateurs staged
a similar hunt successfully, and found
the added problems made the test more
interesting.
Those who read “R 9” (U.S.A.) will
have noticed the details of a remarkable
sm. superhet in the May issue. The out-
standing feature of the design is the use
of special 5000 kc. I.F. transformers, with
the primary and secondary each in its
own screening can and the two link-
coupled. By this practice there is suffi-
cient band-pass for reception of stable
signals, yet 90 p.c, of the frequency
modulation of a modulated oscillator can
be followed. In the June issue editorial
notes state that with this receiver “trans-
continental sm. signals are consistently
logged at R 9 in Los Angeles” and “East
Coast Bm. police stations are heard at
R 9 plus.” Advertised by the designer as
a trade product, he claims that this is
“the only ultra-short-wave receiver yet
made that will get down to the atmo-
spheric noise level.” The technical read-
ing matter in this excellent “R 9” publi-
cation is never “bunk” ; it has to be good
to get past a technical editor like Kruse,
so that the performance of this superhet
for u.-s.-w. can be taken as being really
“hot.” The writer is enamored of the
idea of using two 954’s as R.F. and
regenerative first detector and a 955 as
oscillator, instead of the 6D6 and 6C6’s
in the original. These Acorn tubes are
now stocked by A.W.A. Valve Co., Syd-
ney. When such a receiver is made and
thoroughly tested it will be described in
detail. •
VK2NO.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
I Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.]
The requirements of broadcast-receiver
performance are essentially similar for
Australia and M.L., for both countries
occupy similar latitudes in the .Southern
Hemisphere. It is a poor performer indeed
iu Australian set design if, with the usual
run of distant stations, such broadcasters
us 2YA and IYA cannot be heard. The
M.L. listener similarly expects to hear
the complete list of Australian stations,
and is rightly dissatisfied if his receiver
is incapable of so doing under normal
reception conditions. A most interesting
and meritorious receiver is the Ultimate,
made in Auckland by Radio, Ltd., and
now marketed in Australia by George
Brown and Co., 267 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney. This product of Maoriland radio
engineers is well in the de luxe class, and,
in keeping with modem design, is a dual-
wave type. Examination of the chassis
reveals a very high standard of work-
manship, and several interesting features
entirely different from Australian methods
are noticeable. Voltage dividers are un-
like the familiar lin.-diameter affair, and
instead are compact, space-saving strip
types, protected by a nickelled casing.
The chassis, as illustrated, is a superhet
with 250 kc. intermediates. Broadcast
The Ultimate seven-valve dual-wave
superheterodyne. A first-class product
from Maoriland.
and short-wave coils are on common
formers, and aerial, R.F. and oscillator
coils in separate screens. The tuning-
condenser gang is thoughtfully designed,
with trimmers underneath to preclude
tampering by unskilled fingers. I.F. and
pad tier adjustments are likewise. The
wave-change switch is unique, and of
well-engineered knife-blade design. Con-
tact is not likely to fail in this important
part of the set. The valves comprise a
58 R.F. stage, 2A7 frequency converter,
two 58 I.F. stages, 287 second detector
and A.V.C., 2A5 pentode output and 80
rectifier. There are three front controls,
these being, left to right, volume, tuning
and wave-change. A tone control is sup-
plied on extension leads in a recessed
aluminium cup.
Tested on the air, this Ultimate receiver
lived up to its handsome appearance. No
better performance could be wished for
on local and distant stations, including
the short-wave side. Sensitivity is high
enough to use the average picture-rail
aerial with full satisfaction.
Admiral Byrd, U.S.N., chose an Ulti-
mate model for use in the Antarctic, and
DX cups competed for in M.L. have been
won with receivers of this make in vari-
ous contests. In a 1934 “Radio Record”
DX Challenge Cup competition a six-
valve Ultimate model totalled 602 verified
stations on the broadcast band alone,
and thus won in a canter. This station
list includes U.S.A., Canada, Mexico,
Japan, Argentina, Venezuela, Porto Rico,
Siam, India, China, Germany, Austria,
Czecho-Slovakia, France, Italy, Yugo-
slavia, Finland, Holland, Sweden, Spain,
Poland, Australia, Hawaii and the Philip-
pines. After handling the chassis illus-
trated for several nights this formidable
station list becomes readily understand-
able. Similar and even more compre-
hensive de luxe models may be seen
and heard at George Brown and Co.,
’phone M 3437.
What’s What in Radio.
A comparatively new radio instrument,
known as the echometer, is proving of
value to Australian shipping. It is used
for measuring the depth of water under
the ship’s keel. The instrument trans-
mits a signal which strikes the bottom of
the sea and is reflected back. The re-
turning signal, received at audio fre-
quency, operates an indicator which is
adjusted to show the depth of the water
in fathoms. A year ago the trawler
Alfie Cam was fitted by A.W.A. with an
echometer, and since that time the
trawlers Beryl IT, Dureenbee and Olive
Cam, all of the Cam line, Sydney, have
been similarly equipped. An echometer
is now being fitted also to the Cam
trawler Goonambee. In the trawling
fleet the echometer is in constant use,
enabling the vessels to keep consistently
to their fishing grounds. When a traw-
ler is working along the 90-fathom ledge
off the N.S.W. coast the skipper is aware
immediately if he crosses into adjoining
deep water. Other vessels upon which
the echometer is fitted are the Huddart
Parker liner Wanganella, trading be-
tween Sydney and M.L., the Adelaide
Co.’s Manoora, the British Phosphate
Commission’s Triaster and the Union
Co.’s Rangitira. The Tasman Sea
is for the most part very deep, but,
however thick the weather may be,
the commander of the Wanganella knows
when he is approaching the N.S.W. coast
by the diminishing depth of the water.
Instructions have been issued to equip
the Melbourne S.S.
Co.’s motor-vessel
Duntroon s i m i-
larly.
* *
Electronic tubes
have made pos-
sible a new highly
efficient method of
sending electric
power over great
distances without
t h c tremendous
losses heretofore
encountered in such
projects. The new
system depends on
the use of gigantic
thyratron and
phanotron tubes —
half as large as
a man — and is,
briefly, dependent
on the conversion of high potential alter-
nating currents into direct currents of the
same potential, which are transmitted
over high-voltage power lines, and then
the efficient reconversion of these ex-
tremely high “constant currents” into
low-voltage alternating or direct currents.
In addition to great economy in distri-
bution, there are other advantages —com-
plete regulation of power flow is always
realised, and short circuits cause a drop
in power instead of a concentration of
flow, as with present methods.
New-type Microphone Improves
Orchestral Broadcasts.
In the past the broadcasts of orchestral
performances from the Sydney Town
Hall have been the
bugbear of radio
technical inen, who
found that fre-
quently the over-
emphasis of bass
notes gave an ill-
balanced effect.
Now, however,
2UE, using the
Brush Crystal
microphone in the
broadcast of the
Professional
M usicians’ concerts
from the Sydney
Town Hall each
Sunday afternoon,
i s demonstrating
that even in the
case of an orches-
tra of 60 realism
can be retained
with no over-
emphasis of any
part of the musi-
cal range. This is
an achievement in
radio technical de-
velopment.
This new - type
microphone,
handled in Sydney
by the Eastern
Trading Co., relies for its operating
features on piezo-electricity, or elec-
tricity generated in a crystal of Rochelle
salt by physical pressure or distortion.
Sound waves impinging on the crystal
units thus cause minute electrical im-
pulses to be generated which reproduce
the wave-form of the original sound more
faithfully than in any other microphone.
Furthermore, it is non-directional, an ad-
vantage not shared by other microphones).
For the broadcast of the orchestral
concerts in the Sydney Town Hall, the
Brush Crystal microphone was fitted to
a special head amplifier designed by
Murray Stevenson, 2UE’s technical
engineer.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Is there a distributor in Australia for
“QST” ( U.S.A.) ? (2) Is the “Radio Amateur’s
License Manual” obtainable in Australia? (3)
Is there a club in Australia connected with
A. ? (4) Is the 8.8. C. publication "Wire-
less World" obtainable from The Bulletin
office ? (5) Can you recommend a distributor
of short-wave gear ? —286.
(1) No, but copies can be obtained from
Swain’s, Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Yes, from
Swain’s. (3) No. (4) “Wireless World” is not a
B. publication, and is not obtainable from
this office. Australasian agents are Gordon
and Gotch, Sydney. (5) Price, Angel-place,
Sydney.
♦ * $ *
I have an old-type Raytheon B.H. rectifier.
Can this be used in an “eliminator” for power
supply from a six-volt accumulator ? —2BB.
Yes. The circuit diagram shows how the
rectifier can be used with the usual step-up
transformer and interrupter. This should pro-
vide enough plate power for a six-valve
receiver or a low-power transmitter. A re-
wound Ford coil can be used for the trans-
former, in which case the secondary should
have 16,000 turns of 32 D.C.C., centre-tapped
at 8000 turns. Four 30-henry chokes are used
in series parallel.
* * * *
I have a 1923-24 5-valve King neutrodyne
which I want to remodel. The set has been
particularly good until lately, but has now
gone cranky. It. has three Philips A6ls's, one
71605 and one .4609. Valves are fairly recent
and not very old. Please give details of a good
selective receiver to be built from this model.
I want one that doesn’t fade away. —2B6.
If the receiver once gave a satisfactory per-
formance and the valves are in order, some-
thing else is at fault. Possibly one of the old
grid leaks has changed resistance considerably
Try now or a fixed condenser is leaky. There
is little that can be done in remodelling a set
of this nature without alterations which amount
to building a totally different kind of receiver.
The large-sized coils could be used, but (hey
would have to be screened, and the cans will
assume rather bulky dimensions. In the near
future a special tuned R.F. battery receiver of
the portable type will be described on this
page. This should suit your requirements.
i|t #
Having obtained an experimental transmitting
license, and being cursed with a 200 -volt D.C.
power supply. T am anxious to find some means
of increasing voltage for plate power from the
mains, other than by the tisual expensive rotary
converter. How can this most easily be done ?
--287.
The circuit diagram illustrated shows a
simple way of obtaining a doubling in voltage.
A buzzer is used as an interrupter, and fitted
with a second armature at the other end of the
pole pieces, with a return spring. A short
length of dock, spring will do, with nickel-
silver contacts. Condensers Cl and 2 must be
capable of standing the full working voltage,
and should be rated at at least 500 volts D.C.
Each condenser is charged in turn, the output
being approximately twice the input voltage.
After this, filtering is provided in the usual
manner.
* * * *
/ have a five-valve Facia neutrodyfie, which
gives excellent service (in M.L.) on all local
and most Australian stations. Valves used are
Philips 609 's for the two R.F. stages, 615 de-
tector and 609 and 71/1 audio. Plate supply
is from an eliminator. My dealer says that
two-volt valves are the thing, and 1. tried a
set of 30'v and a 31 for the power valve, with
poorer results. I need new valves, and the A
battery is about done. What do you suggest
for the best all-round results ? —284.
In the first place, the eliminator is designed
only for use with a small receiver, and even with
six- or two-volt valves will not deliver enough
current and voltage to operate the output stage
to capacity. Ample volume and tone arc not
possible without enough plate power. As the
Philips Co. has a new line of two-volt valves,
such as the 8217 and C243N, these might be
worth a trial. Reneutralising will be necessary
whatever valve changes are made in the R.f.
stages. Probably this was overlooked. The
modern two-volt valves are just as efficient
as the six-volt types, and are more economical
in filament requirements. If you must stick
to the old receiver, a more powerful rectifier
and filter arrangement using a type-80 would
be an advantage.


THE NEW
IS3S
mm
(
\
.
#5!
&
m
sag
••■ :
,'■■■■. -
•0/
V . •
,
with ALL-STEEL CLOSED BODIES
CENTRE-POISE RIDING .... NEW EASE OF CONTROL
An entirely new Ford V-8 for 1935 ... a revolutionary advance in style and design. New, beautiful All-
Steel closed bodies, with new comfort and ease of handling to match luxurious V-8 performance. Ford
Centre-Poise introduces remarkable riding comfort . . . smoother clutch, brakes and steering make driving
delightfully easy. This bigger, roomier, more handsome Ford V-8 brings today's finest quality motoring
within the reach of every car buyer—prices have not been increased. Your Ford dealer is displaying
these new models. Arrange now to drive the splendid 1935 Ford V-8. Ask your Dealer too, to
explain the convenient Ford purchase plan which provides easiest possible terms of payment.
A PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTO Rl A)
SV 1.43
A MIXED GRILL.
“M.L.A.”: The late Varney Parkes
when in the N.S.W. Parliament had a
habit of sitting directly under the oil
painting of his father. Once he inter-
jected while John Norton was speaking.
“The hon. member shouldn’t interrupt
me,” said Norton. “I am a pigmy com-
pared with his father, but I am a giant
alongside him.” Just the same Varney
was quite a presentable member, though
most of his time was spent in the library
reading geology and natural history. As
an architect his outstanding work was the
reconditioning of old St. James’s Church
and the enshrouding of its fretted
masonry in a coat of bricks.
* * * <!C
“S.G.”: Supporting the re-election of
Daniel Levy as Speaker of the N.S.W,
Leg. Assembly, Bate, the South Coast
man, said that Daniel had been a
member continuously for 34 years—
“longer than the term of any other
member of any other Parliament in Aus-
tralia, except probably Senator Pearce. ’
Wrong; E. H. Wittenoom has been a
Westralian M.L.C. for 52 years off and
on. When he entered the House. Pearce
was 13 and Levy rising 10.
j*# * *
“Grasspan’s” protest:
< The book censorship is extending its tentacles
to journals. For example, “Soviets To-day,”
which is full of statements explaining how much
pig-iron was produced in the U.S.S.R. last
quarter, and the Moscow “News,” which advo-
'cates death and destruction by means of graphs
showing how. the wheat areas are shaping, and
of articles relating that scientists are evolving a
triple-purpose guinea-pig. The Parliamentary
library at Canberra has long been a subscriber
to “Soviets To-day,” and when members com-
plained of its non-arrival the librarian com-
municated with the publisher. He was advised
to address his complaint to the P.M.G.
“Scribe”: Daily newspapers which
pride themselves on being so careful of
their space that no unnecessary word
is permitted frequently break their own
rule. “Public auction” is one instance,
though everybody knows that there is
no such thing- as a private auction,
“Police constable” is another, though
there are no constables in Australia
other than police constables. In fact,
there is only one in the world—the
Constable of the Tower of London,
Years ago there used to be a Constable
of France, but he has long been one with
the captains and the kings who dis-
appeared at the time of the Revolution,
* ■ *. * . *
With the death of Elizabeth McCombs,
Maqriland’s only woman M.P., May
Holman can claim the distinction of
being the only woman Parliamentarian
in Australasia. May has been buzzing
about Victoria giving talks to women
on politics in general and the Labor
party in particular. After having spoken
at 23 meetings, she went on to Tasmania.
Music, reading and swimming are the
hobbies of this M.L.A., but public life
does not permit her much indulgence
in them. May Holman represents the
area in Westralia which Katharine
Prichard used for the background of
her novel Working Bullocks.
*** * .
“Cinna”; Mary Gilmore, the poet,
chipped into the “Wattle v. Waratah”
controversy with the rather curious con-
tention that “the former is treated in all
our literature as feminine and-the latter
.as masculine” which, if J follow her
rightly, makes the waratah more suitable
as a national emblem. “I do not know
of any country that is represented by so
feminine a flower” (as the wattle), she
added. Flowers are neuter gender for
most people. Poets are allowed to make
them masculine or feminine as. their
taste and fancy dictate ; and one could
find plenty of instances in English poetry
where the rose is featured as feminine,
Take a couple of lines from Fitzgerald’s
“Omar”:
Look to the blowing Rose about us—“Lo,
Laughing,” she says, “into the world I blow.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The field for the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle on Saturday will be the
weakest and one of the smallest on
record. Only 11 horses survived the first
acceptance, and even these will dwindle
before the day of the race. Form in the
Windarra Hurdle at Moonee Valley put
Fulham and Baanya out of court. The
failure of Baanya caused no surprise, as
he had shaped miserably at Williams-
town, and quite evidently is a has-been
so far as hurdling is concerned ; but
Fulham commanded a legion of fol-
lowers for the National until he finished
out of a place at the week-end, after-
starting a warm favorite. He looked
well to the eye, but jumped and galloped
like a commoner. Prime Seal made a
brilliant run five furlongs from home,
moving up into third position. Though
the effort was not adequately sustained,
this grey son of Sarchedon has an out-
side chance in the National. L. 1. Hynes
both rides and trains Prime Seal.
Coolana fell on the flat in the Win-
darra Hurdle and, striking a post with
his head, sustained cerebral haemor-
rhage, Rodda beat only two horses
home, and it would be futile to send him
to the post for a National. Odds of 15
to 1 were obtainable about Ranclea, who
brilliantly lowered the colors of Akanree.
Bert "'What oyou think, of My new
polo pony, Gert ? %
GjERT " Mot MUCH to look at ' S
Bert’, "Praps not, but i g,ot him for
A SONGj''
GERT'. " Next TIME Voo SING G,ET ME Av
Tennis Racquet"
Ranclea is in the same stable as Red-
ditch, being trained by F. W. Hoysted
for S. F. Reynolds. In the spring of 1934
Ranclea came across to Melbourne in
company with Broad Arrow. He failed
on the flat, and was bought privately for
service as a jumper. Ranclea scored, first-
up, over the battens at Ascot in January,
but passed out of notice for several
months. He is not in the National,
By landing the Travancore Steeple-
chase the Maoriland jumper Membo
greatly impressed, and he is now rated
as a dangerous antagonist of Redditch
in the G.N. Steeple. Membo has faced
the starter three times in Melbourne.
At Williamstown he never was in the
picture ; at Caulfield he came home well
in fourth place ; at the Valley he was
a furlong away from the leader for more
than a mile, but with seven furlongs to
go Membo began to stretch out. Though
only fourth at the last fence, he smoth-
ered those in advance, and scored, run-
ning away. Considering that he is rising
11 years old, • there is remarkable
vitality in Membo. He won the M.L.
Grand National Hurdle of 1932, and
finished second in the G.N. Steeple of
1934. Dulieu, who rode Membo on
Saturday, intends settling in Melbourne.
Kenjin had to be pulled up by Hynes
in the Travancore Steeple, owing to a leg
bandage coming undone. He jumped
badly before this happened.
The ringmen had a royal afternoon.
Ranclea, Attract and Toy Crow won at
15 to 1, 50 to 1 and 25 to 1 respectively.
The only event over which punters did
not burn their fingers was the Deep Creek
Handicap, in which Gallibrook defeated
Grey Friar, with whom he shared favorit-
ism.
Attract, who hails from Adelaide, was
successful in the Burnewang Handicap
for juveniles. The Rampion filly was
reputed to be a non-stayer ; but, ridden
a waiting race, she managed to get up
in time to vanquish Beau Ham (3 to 1)
by a neck. Voitre rode the hot favorite,
Beau Barton. His mount was over-
matched for pace by Romany Faith, and
snuffed out at the end of half a mile.
Harold Skidmore won the last two
events, on Toy Crow and Double Bard.
Double Bard is back to his best form ; he
led all the way and bolted in. Skidmore
heads the list of winning jockeys on the
flat. Voitre arrived in the Yarra River
city too late to gain that honor; his
average is better than that of Skidmore.
* * * *
The National Hurdle looks a fair thing
for Full Charge. His credentials are
excellent, and the opposition has steadily
weakened. Telford has been experienc-
ing anxiety with Menelik; one of the
gelding’s legs filled, and it is problemati-
cal whether he will reach the post.
Rumors were current at the Valley that
Dress Suit would not start because of
his poor showing at Mount Gambier ;
however, Dress Suit did a fine trial at
Caulfield, and it would be foolish not
to let him go on with the big engage-
ment. Mystic Peak, although an unwill-
ing jumper, has stamina and pace ; Dun-
gannon, too, can stay. Places in the first
“leg” of the National double should be
filled by Full Charge, Dress Suit and
Mystic Peak.
* * * *
There have been many good Heroics,
and Atucas is far from being the worst
of them. He carried top weight in the
first division of the Flying Welter at
Moorefield, and his chance was so lightly
esteemed that he went out at tens. Sixth
into the short straight, Atucas finished
brilliantly, and got up in time to beat
Gayhawk and Orient Orb, who was slow
away. The favorite, Kaylah, paced it
with Porcia, and the stuffing was knocked
out of both ; nevertheless Kaylah is well
and is worth following. Possibly either
would have won had the other been left
in the stable.
The impression that the two-year-olds
are good this season was confirmed
when Rembrandt (runner-up to Wise
Boy in the Breeders’ Plate) took the
second division, well backed at fives.
Fabius and Thebez filled the places ; the
latter ran wide at the turn. Sov scooted
away with the lead, but was beaten at
the Leger.
A good field lined up for the Moore-
field Handicap. Tortoni essayed to lead
throughout, and the solid pace he set
suited Measure (10 to 1). Badly placed
half a mile from home, Measure went
so fast at the turn that he had Touchit
and Confab settled in a few strides ; in
the end he beat Fluent by a neck, with
Touchit three-quarters of a length away.
Elmaros was fourth, just in advance of
Fernclove. Measure is racing consist-
ently ; he has won thrice in four starts.
Favorites Aerial Post and Strathisla
were good things beaten in their divisions
of the Maiden Juvenile. In the first
Flamari (7 to 1) downed Diagonal and
Aerial Post; in the second Gay Venor
(14 to 1) beat Strathisla, a long-strider
who was bothered by the turns but
finished like a racehorse. Dan Dee was
third.
Roley’s Choice (8 to 1) and Bulldozer,
trained at Moorefield, had a spirited
tussle up the straight in the first division
of the Kogarah Stakes ; Roley’s Choice
prevailed by half a length. Galadeer
Boy, backed from tens to fives in the
second division (he is a half-brother to
Family Pride), beat Cognac and the
Wagga-trained Beauanton ; and Belgravia
(3 to 1), ridden right out, defeated in
the third division St. Midas, a nice colt
by Heroic, who will do better for trainer
Fred Williams.
‘ ‘ ’ * ’ ‘
Little Bill Wedgewood (5 to 1) and
Darby Munro were a good combination
in the Rockdale Mile. Bill shot to the
front early, and stayed there, winning
by three lengths from Lancaster King,
who, like the son of Bicolor, is trained
at Menangle. Gladswood was third, and
would have been closer but for Watson
coming over on him at the turn. Babili
was another to strike trouble.
. . * . , *
A bookmaker at Caulfield laid 25 to 1
against a treble Redditch, Full Charge
and the Beechworth barrow-pusher. The
collected.
The doubles tote, which returned £775
12s. for ss. at Brisbane recently, paid
£2OO 19s. 3d. for another crown at Mor-
phettville, Adelaide. The two winners
were 10 to 1 ring.
“Nobby’s”; NewcastlefN.S.W.) J.C.has
told the Government frankly that unless
it is relieved of the s.-p. incubus or of
K„rri o nco m o * c
burdensome taxation it may go out of
business at the end of the month. At
m .. p-»nn • •
Saturdays meeting £2OO was given in
rTftt “
fhe Lege. d £200;
, ovop ri v- xt i n « " ,
taxes were £l6. Nearly all the sports
were listening to the Commonwealth's
racing broadcasts in bars or s.-p. shops,
ampJy supplied wfih Common-
wealth telephones.
Footbrawl
Remarkable goalkicking on the part
of two of the best teams was the feature
of Saturday’s Vic. League matches. Col-
lingwood contrived to kick 13 goals out
of 17 attempts and won by two points:
’Wood, 13-4; Richmond, 11-14. Carlton
kicked 22 goals and only eight behinds
to Essendon’s 11-12. The big score of
the day was Geelong’s 26-16 to North
Melbourne’s 15-7. South Melbourne,
now in the lead, had to fight all the way
against St. Kilda, but finished with 13-16
to 9-15. Melbourne caused the only
surprise by defeating Fitzroy, 15-17 to
13-10, and Footscray got home just
ahead of Hawthorn, 14-6 to 12-13. The
most thrilling part of the afternoon’s
play was the finish of the ’Wood-Rich-
mond match. Richmond was leading
by four points just as Knight, of ’Wood,
got a mark in front. The bell rang, but
Knight put the ball through.
* * * *
Victorian Amateur Association ex-
ponents of Australian Rules had a stiff
job beating N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground, finishing a clinking game only
two points to the good, 95-93. Putting
it all over the visitors in the second
quarter. New South had a 26-point lead
at half-time, but that was changed to a
small deficit in the third term, and in
the final seesaw Vic. just happened to
have its head in front when the bell rang.
Pearson (Vic.) looked a good bit better
than anyone else on the ground.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide footballers had a
sound idea in bringing back, for charity,
footballers of the recent past to play a
League team. Some of the alleged
veterans are barely on the shelf at all,
and in losing they gave the youngsters a
hard go—l 3-17 to 12-9. The game was
played by electric light.
*'* * *
At Brisbane on Saturday a solid team
of Bananalanders redeemed their State’s
Rugby League reputation and vindicated
Harry Sunderland as a judge. Undaunted
by the three Queensland defeats at Syd-
ney, Sunderland maintained that the Ma
Staters’ concentration upon passing
rushes by. the three-quarters would avail
them nothing against a pack of solid
forwards' hunting together; and so it
proved. The maroon forwards bustled
the N.S.W. backs all the time, and the
home backs stood close up and tackled
hard. At lemons N.S.W. led 15-12, but
in the second half Queensland was
clearly the better side, making it 22-20.
Well done, Queensland!
* * * *
Drummoyne’s fine young Rugby Union
team didn’t give Randwick a chance. The
forwards were definitely superior to
Randwick’s lot and the backs quit; as
fast. For Drummoyne two tries were
scored by breakaway Auland ; and they
were both converted. Randwick didn't
cross the line; a penalty goal made
it 13-4—a field goal by McCauley,
North went down to East 6-9. Both
sides got two tries, but Nejaim, who
use d to t> e w ith Randwick, added
a penalty goal for East. University won
again ’ , 3( !;? 3 against . West, and Manly
’
" *® ’ “ * ’ *
“Stand Off”: Sydney Rugbyites were
shocked to hear that “Wild Bill” Cerutti,
* he spiritual and physical heir of Jack
Ford , as a , s,eam - roll “ Un ” n f orw ? rd ’
" a , s ‘° Soccer for Goodyear s--
but it was only for a day. He was put at
cen t r e-half a nosition usuallv affected
£ entre a posltl ° n usually artecied
by sma fish men. Goal would be the
, , for anart from his inches
a " d reach,' he 'would leave very little
“> “> W^
he stood front on or sideways,
J
,
{Continued on next page.)
Britons topped the scores in the
open golf championship, filling the first
three places for the first time since 1920.
Alfred Perry, a 30-year-old professional
from Leatherhead, took the lead with a
67 in the third round —a record for the
Muirfield course —and a 72 in the final
round gave him an aggregate of 283.
Padgham (287) was runner-up, and Whit-
combe (288) third.
* * * ♦
“Brassey”: W. Corry, who is organis-
ing this end of the proposed' tour of the
U.S.A. by a team of Australian profes-
sional golfers, and is especially devoting
himself to digging cash out of the air to
finance the project, is satisfied with the
outlook. Leading professionals will
shortly start exhibition tours throughout
N.S.W., Bolger and Richardson touring
the west, while Kelly and Cohen cover
the southern area. The big Sydney clubs
are known to have given the tour their
approval. Many would like to know if
they have given anything else.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: The biennial tussles for
the Ryder Cup come off this year on the
Ridgewood course in New Jersey. Four
contests have been played, each side win-
ing two on its own soil—England took
the last at Southport in Lancashire.
* * * *
“Snore”: One result of the contro-
versy as to the powers of the Sydney
C.G. trust has been to call attention to
its inertia. Trustees are appointed for
life. It is very properly suggested that
future appointments should be for a
term of years, and that a proportion
should be elected by ground members.
Something of the sort is badly needed,
and any change should make it compul-
sory for the trustees to make themselves
familiar with the terms of their trust.
A further improvement would ensure
that Government appointees would in-
clude at least one representative nomi-
nated by each of the sporting bodies en-
titled to the use of the ground in other
than the cricket season.
* * * *
Crawford, McGrath, Perry, Austin,
Budge, Wood, Menzel and .Von Cramm
reached the quarter-finals of the singles
at Wimbledon. Had McGrath shown in
Germany the form he has exhibited in
England Australia would not have been
played out of the Davis Cup matches.


WINCHESTER
“MODEL. 62”
£5/10/-
TRADE MARK
iSsssssSs
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight. ac I
Freight in N.S.VV. 2/3 40/“
.22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long,
Long Rifle. Carriage Paid.
£9/5/-
THE NEW
SPEED
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
Carriage Paid.
Above Rifles are all adapted to
WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
POAVER LONGER RANGE
i’ltEIGHT JiXTliA.
jsUPpWsPEED
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Short, 2/8 100. Long. 3/6 100. Rung Rifle, 4/- 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100. J.oiik H.F., 3/0 100. I.ong Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
NOW ON SALE
T' O enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
I closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press has
published an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook —
‘INCOME TAX RETURNS’
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This is the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price is only
FIVE SHILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation —businessman,
farmer or salary-earner—who handles his own affairs can afford to
be without this book. He will find Income Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves .will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
Now on sale by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fifty thousand New Yorkers have
gazed on what the newspapers described
as a preliminary to Ethiopia v, Italy.
Ethiopia, in the person of one Joe Louis,
stopped Italy, represented by Camera,
after 17-odd minutes of stoush. The
giant Italian had no defence against an
incessant and unrelenting two-fisted
attack. His only assets were his strength
and gameness, and in strength he was in-
ferior, Louis, though 601 b. lighter,
handling him in the clinches as Johnson
did Jeffries long ago. Louis, an Alabama
coon, has bowled over 21 victims in 12
months as a professional—he was an
amateur before. He is still only 21.
* * * *
The hopes of Britons that they had
produced another world heavyweight
champion in the making—actually they
have never had one since the days of
Australia’s old friend Jem Mace —were
blasted again when Petersen was de-
feated for the second time by the Ger-
man Neusel. Australians were satisfied
Petersen was not much good when he
failed to knock out old George Cook,
but many of his countrymen went on be-
lieving in him even when he was battered
to the floor by Neusel, who is far from
being in the first-class. The return match
lasted 10 rounds, at the end of which
Petersen was on the point of being
knocked out. His father threw in the
towel. Fathers as a rule are failures as
boxing guides and seconds.
j i : * * *
Another Georgi-Palmer match at
Leichhardt served to demonstrate that the
Australian has no knockout punch.
Georgi was not good enough to prevent
Palmer from making his own pace, and
the light-heavyweight from Footscray
landed innumerable left hooks and
swings, also more rights than he usually
gets home. Not one of them was power-
ful enough to upset the Italian, and
Palmer had to be satisfied with a one-
sided points decision. Sadly it has to be
conceded that Australian boxing form
is below American.
Footbrawl
“G.M.”: While the big clubs of Mel-
bourne League are waxing fat on gates
as profitable as ever, one or two at the
bottom of the list are having such a
thin time that talk of disbandment is
in the air. The obvious remedy is the
pooling and equal-sharing of all receipts.
Then the little fellows would be in no
financial scrapes and would have a chance
to pick up next season against their capi-
talistic rivals. As it is, the club which gets
on top is likely to remain on top in-
definitely. Surprising it is that teams
have maintained such wonderful even-
ness considering the inequalities of
wealth. As a beginning it has been sug-
gested that the players of all clubs be
paid the maximum “honorarium” of £3
a match, fixed under the “Coulter law,”
the wealthy clubs being levied on to
make up the deficits of the indigent ones.
This would certainly be a beginning, but
pooling and equal distribution is the
only fair system. It has worked well in
Sydney.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: After going down by 38
points—it was 126 to 88 —in the first
match against Victoria at Perth, the
Westralians made a better fight of it in
the second game, which the visitors won
by only 13 points—Bs to 72. It was the
first time since 1929 that a Victorian team
had shown in Perth.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The life of a Melbourne
football umpire does not lack variety.
The ump. at the match between St. Kilda
and North Melbourne was chased to the
dressing-room by two disgruntled bar-
rackers who leapt the fence and were
only thwarted by the mounted policeman
so indispensable at Melbourne football
matches. At the Carlton-Collingwood
game, lost by Collingwood, the umpire
was bitten by an infuriated spec-
tator he was trying to remove from the
playing area. In this case there could
be no doubt of the assailant’s sympathies
—he was a fox-terrier sporting Colling-
wood’s colors, black and white.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The Maori football team
which reaches Sydney on July 6 should
weld into a formidable side. Our old
friend Nepia, who is said to have nar-
rowly missed selection for England, is
skipper ; though he was in Europe with
the 1924-25 team, he is only 30 now.
Another who just missed the boat for
Britain is the giant Matair#, here with
the All-Blacks in 1934. Wing three-
quarter McDonald came here last year
with the M.L. crew for the centenary
racing in Melbourne. Parata is a son
of W. T. Parata, who has managed teams
in Australia.
-■1 : * * -■!:
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland intends to
make one worth-while suggestion to the
“Up te pub for a whisky? Wait a few minute—I go and get ordered off.”
Imperial Rugby conference in London —-
a return to the old scrum formation of
two men in the front row, with the
referee putting the ball in. M.L. has
always played the two-hooker formation,
and Queensland did the same in its best
football days. One advantage is fewer
feet striking for the ball—the tangle with
three men in front is responsible for
more breaches and penalties than even
the tricks of the half-back slinging in
the ball with an off- or leg-break to suit
his forwards. With two hookers who
knew their business, the ball used to
come out so fast that it often beat the
half behind. Nowadays it hangs in the
scrum for seconds, and sometimes so
long that the opposing full-back has
time to get up and pounce on the unfor-
tunate half waiting for it. M.L. is also
asking for the return of the wing for-
ward. The only result of abolishing this
position was that two wing forwards
sprang into being, camouflaged as “break-
aways.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”; At Gleneagles, in what
is regarded as the Scottish open cham-
pionship, though it is non-official, the
English professional Percy Alliss won
with an aggregate of 273 for 72 holes,
the lowest ever recorded in a first-class
championship. His finishing round was
66, and Gleneagles is not a course for
weaklings.
* t * *
“Woogaroo”; Though for one reason
and another the N.S.W. professional
golfers did not clean up many of the
purses offering during the recent State
championships, the Queensland tax-
gatherers swooped on them for a return
of income and expenditure during their
few days’ stay in Bananaland. It deserves
to be bracketed with the levy on the
Grenadier Guards’ band.
“Divot Digger”: Sarazen is coming
to Australia to have a go for the
open championship which Bolger so un-
expectedly snatched from him last year.
So far, the American has said nothing
about bringing anyone else with him, but
no doubt a partner will be sorted out
when British engagements are over and
done with. By all accounts all the Ameri-
can professionals who came for the Mel-
bourne centenary are of the same mind
as Sarazen—eager to have another shy at
Australian golfers.
“Hoylake”: Enid Wilson mapped out
an ambitious programme—she was to
play on four different courses in Eng-
land, Scotland, Wales and Ireland in
one day: Holyhead, Morecambe Bay,
Turnberry and Portrush. An aeroplane
was to be used, and it was estimated
that Enid would fly 340 miles and hoof it
15. Bad weather put the lid on the
attempt, which will be made again
shortly.
* * * *
“Huon”: Professional golf in Tas-
mania is largely a matter of father and
son —Robertson, to be more explicit.
In a match for the Dunlop purse at
Launceston, Robertsons finished firsl,
second and third. Jock Robertson, who
filled third place, is the daddy of the
first and second players, A. and W. B.
The family has practically made the
State professional championship its
own peculiar property, and no one is
quite sure which member of the clan
holds it at the moment.
* * * *
Royal Adelaide is out with its pro-
gramme for the Australian championship
meeting to be held at Seaton from
August 17 to 30. The open, to be played
over four rounds of stroke, carries the
Stonehaven Cup and miniatures, and is
down for the 22nd, 23rd and 24th ; the
championships for amateurs and pro-
fessionals from the 26th to the 29th.
The amateurs can have a go at a stroke
handicap on the 17th, and Kooyonga
and Mount Lofty clubs will each hang
up a purse for the pros, about the same
date. Entries are due on July 29 ; club
secretaries have the forms.
* * * *
“Baffy”: The municipal linksi at
Moore Park (N.S.W.) seem to be strik-
ing trouble, the City Council reporting
a loss of £6OO last year. Time was
when the show paid its way, but of late
years hordes of flappers and knuts, to-
gether with the activities of a gifted set
of ball-stealers, have made the links un-
endurable to serious players. The most
liberal-minded of us do not care to be
driven into by a shrieking mob playing
a hole the wrong way or be brained by
a party of louts too ignorant to let
players in front of them have the legal
allowance through the green or on the
putting green.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Sydney golf lawyers—
and their name is legion—are considering
the case of a player who got stuck in a
bunker but before leaving smoothed out
his footmarks in the sand. Some years
ago a player did the same thing in the
Anal of a State championship and was
disqualified. St. Andrews, appealed to,
decided that if the player did nothing to
assist him in his subsequent play at the
hole he could smooth out his footmarks
or replace a divot.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Tennis, like the
ponies, has its reversals of form. After
his German failure, anyone wishing to
back McGrath to beat America’s Allison
at Wimbledon would have been headed
for Colney Hatch. The lad did the trick,
and no fluke about it. Sornething has
been said about Allison’s want of prac-
tice on grass, but he and his mates have
had plenty at Ranelagh for the last
month. McGrath’s last glimpse of a
grass court was against M.L. in the first
Davis Cup round some weeks ago at
Eastbourne. The Wimbledon scores were
6-4, 6-3, 7-9, 7-5.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The great Perry con-
troversy has been happily ended, and the
champion will shortly come to Australia


©ldentifies the
more impor-
tant centres requir-
ing specialized lu-
brication such as is
offered by Alemite.
"ALEMITE”
these
"JELEMITE
Recognizing a higher knowledge of lubrication, as exem-
plified by Alemite, saves motor vehicle owners of the
world millions annually.Nevergrease,”always”Alemite.’*
k
Shackles and other miscel-
laneous parts of the chassis
want Alemite Chassis Lubricant
for resistance to frictional wear,
freedom from clogging and
lubricating efficiency at all tem-
peratures. Lubrication at 500
mile periods is best to prevent
squeaks and minimize wear.
ALEMITE CORPORATION
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars Jrom
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident
Manager, 554 George St., Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W .A.) . Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. M A CHIN & CO. (Ptv), Ltd.. 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—9-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
The Prontac
(Patent tj
■/'
s
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
iThe “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
[ The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write j
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 1
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
*>
\Q
<9
4P
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
DAMfJOHS
Peter
Dawson
SPECIAL
Scotch Wmi
a
I
4 SAME STRENGTH
4 S A M E PRICE
t SAME MELLOW
SMOOTH NESS
Should you experience any diffi-
culty iii securing your require-
ments of Messrs. Peter Dawson's
Whisky from your usual suppliers,
kindly communicate with the
Sole Aqents,
COOPER NATHAN & CO.,
184-186 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85783.
A WHISKY which lives up to its tradi-
tion of excellence, Peter Dawson’s
now comes to you in a new container,
streamlined in the modern manner.
Easier to hold and to pour; wth
attrscfve coloured drinking cup and
needing no corkscrew, the new bottle
has a decorative grace that is a fitting
accompaniment to this whisky of
good taste.
PETER DAWSON
SPECIAL
S COTCH WH ISKY
as representative of Slazengers. Accord-
ing to the cables, he will “devote atten-
tion” to promising players in this coun-
try —which is not at all the same thing
as coaching them, that being a profes-
sional job—in the intervals of looking
after the firm’s extensive business.
Though living in Australia Perry will
continue to play for England in the
Davis Cup matches. The whole business
is a magnificent advertisement for
Slazengers.
* * * *
“Shorn Lamb”: The British and Con-
tinental press has proved generally sym-
pathetic to the Australian Davis Cuppers
in their hour of adversity, for the most
part tipping the form to be too bad to be
true. London “Evening News” makes a
point often stressed in The Bulletin—
the handicap carried by a touring team
dodging from one European capital to
another and alternating from grass to
hard courts. It suggests a new Eastern
zone, allowing overseas teams to play
their ties on grass in England without
excessive travelling. How this is to be
managed without clashing with the
claims of Continental hardcourts players
is not slated.
* * * *
“Grasspan”; The framers of Davis
Cup rules were wise in laying down the
principle that once a player has repre-
sented his native country he may not
play for any other. This bars Perry
from being included in any future Aus-
tralian team —which is only fair. But
Perry will still be permitted to compete
for Australian championships, as he has
done in the past. 1 maintain that national
championships should be championships
for nationals. The ridiculous spectacle
is now presented of an Albanian being
champion of Ireland and an Irishman
being champion of Albania.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.L.T.A. has decided
that professional footballers and runners
may not play tennis in future under its
banner, and that the International
Federation be asked for its definition of
a tennis amateur. In view of some
recent happenings in tennis, the banning
of men who take money for running or
playing football while others drawing
huge salaries in connection with tennis
remain amateurs seems like swallowing
the proverbial camel and rejecting the
gnat. The International Federation has
already given very pronounced views on
what constitutes amateurism.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The inability of Con-
tinental tennis-players to obtain grass
practice in England owing to the rain
closing the courts at Wimbledon has
again roused an agitation for a standard-
ised court for Davis Cup matches. None
of the Continental nations plays on grass
courts, and in America even the cham-
pions can use them only part of the year ;
only Australia and Britain habitually
play on grass. There i$ much in the
claim for a composition court which
plays always the same and is unspoilt by
rain. No doubt the change will come in
time, and by then even cricketers
may see the advantages of pitches which
give no advantage to one side or the
other, as the turf ones do, according as
rain affects them.
* * * *
“Queen’s”: With no more Davis Cup
worries, Crawford and McGrath have
consented to act as sparring partners to
the English players in a three-day match
at Eastbourne after Wimbledon, starting
on July 18. This is expected to prime
the Britons up to meet the Americans
or Czechs in the challenge round. Then
Turnbull and McGrath make for home,
while Crawford and Quist do the South
African tour, setting out on July 26.
Miscellaneous
“Wangle”; There were 150 candidates
for the vacancy on the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trust caused by R. H. Gordon’s
death. Cabinet ordeied Lands Minister
Buttenshaw to take the job himself. He
took it. The ground is under Butten-
shaw’s control in any case, and he was
a bit of an athlete in other days.
“Member”: Lands Minister Butten-
shaw’s outline of his policy as a trustee
of S.C.G. carries cold comfort for some
people. He holds that any sporting body
with a big international or other im-
portant event in view should have an
unassailable claim to the use of the
ground. Also, though the Rugby League
agreement provides only five days for
other sporting bodies in the winter
season, Buttenshaw thinks it should be
pressed to surrender other dates for
matches of “outstanding importance.”
5P
“Jeysulmir”: The proposed itinerary
of Tarrant’s Australian cricketers in
India has yet to be carpentered by the
Board of Control, but shows 21 matches
in the 15 weeks of touring—not too
severe a job. Colombo gets the first match
on October 25 ; most of the others will
be played in the North and Rajasthan
—only two in Calcutta —with games in
the Central Provinces and the Madras
Presidency on the way back to Colombo.
From that city the side sails for home
on February 15.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: For the second Test with
the Afrikanders two first-class wicket-
keepers were included in the English
team, Farrimond with the gloves on and
Ames on the boundary. Ames would be
played for his batting in any case, and,
as the Lancashire lad is also a sound
maker of runs, nothing is lost. Australia
once provided a precedent of a sort when
Murdoch, first wicketkeeper of the Aus-
tralian Eleven in England, withdrew in
favor of Blackham to give his (Billy’s)
batting a better chance. Thereafter Mur-
doch made runs and a reputation at
pointy while “Old Jack” became the
woi Id s model Aunt Sally.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The M.C.C. team for
Maoriland reaches Fremantle on October
29, and will leave Sydney for M.L. on
December 6. Each of the States is to
get a match—at Perth from Oct. 31 to
Nov. 2, Adelaide Nov. 8-12, Melbourne
Nov. 15-19, Sydney Nov. 22-26 and Bris-
bane Nov. 29-Dec. 3.
* * * *
“Wick”: Australia assumed yet an-
other bunch of sporting laurels in Mel-
bourne when its curlers defeated the
Maorilanders in the second match at the
Glaciarium, and thus won the rubber
This is only Australia’s second season at
the game, while the M.L. men have been
sending up the “stanes” for years The
All-Blacks say they were handicapped
by the ice, which varied from the open-
air rinks used in M.L. Captain Moffat-
Pender, who started the first Australian
curling club in Melbourne, skippered
one winning rink and A. G. Outhwaite
the other. Mrs. Moflfat-Pender and Mrs,
Allen were members of the victorious
teams.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: The Australian amateur
athletic heads are considering whether
long-distance running is injurious to
some folk being of opinion
that to ask a boy to run five miles on
a road is too great a strain. Two of
the English public schools, Rugby and
Shrewsbury, can supply evidence on the
point. For many years they have special-
ised in cross-country runs during their
first term. The runs are compulsory,
subject to medical examination, and in
the case of Shrewsbury extend to 15
miles—over solid hedge-and-water going
at that. The Rugby events are practi-
cally of the same character, and no ill
effects have been reported. Indeed, many
of the crack cross-country runners in
England come from these two schools.
* * * *
“Spike”: Dr. Peltzer, former holder of
the world’s half-mile record, has struck
trouble in Hitlerland, the cables announc-
in § he has been awarded 18 months as
the resu,t of an “immorality drive.” He
see med a decent fellow when m Aus-
• Pe, . tzer w ? s to have run at the
Olympiad in Berlin,
* * * *
“Hotham”: Many will welcome the
formation in Melbourne of the Vic.
Amateur Sports Federation, to which
football, athletic, cycling and rowing
bodies are already affiliated. It is an
honest attempt to put the much-abused
amateur status on a less hypocritical foot-
ing. The slogan of the organisation is
that an offender in one sport is an
offender in all.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“Only the Best Australian”
In B. 26 /6 / ’35 you published a state-
ment by “W.JJ.” (N.S.W.) to the effect
that this department “has supplanted
leather by an artificial commodity in the
upholstering of the new trams.” The
fact is that only the best Australian
leather is used in these tramcars. —S. A.
Maddocks, Commissioner, Department
of Road Transport.
Getting It in the Neck
One uncontemplated result of “coun-
try development loans” in Queensland is
the extra amount graziers are forced to
pay scrubcutters not working under this
scheme. The proviso is that £2 14s.
a week with keep, or £3 14s. without
keep, shall be paid. I have just put off
12 men working under the scheme. Over
a 12-week period the cost of their meat
and stores (bought from the local store-
keeper) ranged from 12s. 7d. to 15s. Id.
per week.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to get
scrubcutters to work for the award rate
of £2 14s. per week with keep. Knowing
the margin in the allowance for keep,
many men insist on the rate of £3 14s.
without keep.
As the landholder purchasing direct
in bulk could considerably reduce the
cost of stores, his scrubcutting costs
at least 10s. per week per man above
award rates. — Brebis (Q.).
“Binghi on the Bench”
With the statement in B. 29/ 5/’35 that
“It is not possible to secure any native
who can speak the multitudinous lan-
guages” I readily agree; but the re-
mainder of that paragraph has, I’m cer-
tain, met with only a sceptical shrug from
many shoulders besides mine. With
earnest intent, take a trip north-west from
Alice Springs. You may perhaps find an
Aranda man to go with you ; but he
will encounter much difficulty in making
even scraps of linguistic contact with a
western Loritja. And the latter will be
in a similar fix with his northerly neigh-
bors, the Ilpirra and Ngalia. With these
last-mentioned the Aranda will find him-
self a complete foreigner linguistically—
this within probably about 200 miles as
the crow flies.
Those genuinely interested in the abo.
and in any suggestion that will help to
improve his lot and compensate in some
measure for our filching his homeland
would be hard put to it to find abos.
qualified for chairmanship of an abo.
court. —T. D. Campbell (S.A.).
The Half-caste
It is time the notion that our half-
castes are degenerate was debunked. A
wide experience of these people proves
that, given the chance, they make good
citizens.
I recall Arthur C. He attended the
.State school at Menindie, and passed
out with his “merit.” In general know-
ledge he was the equal of the most intelli-
gent of the station-hands with whom he
worked ; withal he was a fearless horse-
man and no mean woolclasser. Without
doubt he would have gone high had not
his color been against him.
There was Billy D., a handsome fellow
with Nordic features, who was our
draughts champion and a better natural-
ist than many employed by the news-
papers. There was Ned H., who was
able to confuse the local parson on
Christian theology ; and then there was
Nap 8., reared by a cultured squatter,
who could quote a Latin phrase to cap
any conversational and who kept
himself well ahead in general knowledge.
He was the greatest student of Napoleonic
history I have known. Others, doubtless,
could give similar examples.
There are, of course, many half-castes
not worth their salt, and, too, there are
many white men just as worthless. When
the half-caste takes a native woman to
wife he has every excuse (the white man
has none). And he has every right to
make for himself a career. But even in
this democratic land his color is against
him.— Arthur W. Upfield (Vic.),
“Safety First” for Governments
Melbourne was horrified when ex-
Senator Bob Elliott told the Constitu-
tional Club that Hitler was spending vast
sums on armament, not to use against
any other nation, but simply to stave off
internal trouble by keeping his people
employed. From my foolish and myopic
understanding, I fancy that every so-
called civilised country in the world has
been doing that in recent years. The
people must have food, they must be
employed, and there is only one way
in which they can be employed without
raising a howl of criticism —that is in
the “defence of their country.”
If the various Governments in civilisa- '
tion were to suggest spending the money
they secure by variants of inflation on
roads, bridges, housing, railways, tram-
ways and other useful things, the oppo-
sition would arise to denounce them for
extravagance utterly unwarranted in time
of stress. But there is not one opposition
game to make the mildest kick against
defending the country against some
mythical invader who is always pictured
as ready to make his spring. It’s the
only safe way of spending, and spend-
ing is the only safe way of keeping
Governments in power.— Eric the Red
(Vic.).
Jurywomen
A retired N.S.W. District Court Judge
compliments England’s jurywomen who
don’t say “Let the poor dar-
ling off.” It recalls a con-
versation I had some years
back with a militant suffra-
gist, who told me that women
did not get fairplay because
they were tried by male
juries. I agreed with her, but
added that the ladies most
concerned would not thank
the suffragists for their inter-
ference. I told her my ex-
perience of women offenders
in criminal cases —a fairly
long experience, and one
which had almost convinced
me that it would make little
difference were all criminal
law amended to read that
“none of the following penal-
ties shall apply to any person
of the female sex.”
It is not only the beauti-
ful wrongdoer who looks
pathetically at the jury-box.
Every woman is treated with
kid gloves by every man,
official or lay, who has any-
thing to do with the admin-
istration of the criminal law.
Ask anyone who has fol-
lowed up a case
of larceny from
the person. I
gave concrete
facts to my
friend the suffra-
gist.
It does not re-
quire an expert
to attend any
divorce co u r
for a few sit-
tings to recognise
the perjury com-
mitted by women
witnesses. That
perjury is often
proved abso-
lutely proved—
by other evidence
tendered in the
same case. Yet I can’t remember any
such woman ever having had to face a
prosecution. Man does; woman goes
her way cheerful and unscathed.
When I had told my friend the suffra-
gist all this I hurt her deeply by express-
ing uncertainty whether this tolerance
was not justifiable. “After all,” I said,
“you can’t regard their offences as you do
those of men. They’re only naughty
little girls after all.” — Grasspan (Vic.).
Is There Anti-English Prejudice?
The Bulletin does less than justice to
Lord Nuffield (B. 13/3/’35). With a
little more experience of Australia than
his lordship—l spent a couple of years
motoring around the country —I found
things rather worse than he described.
It was not so much a question of com-
parative merits of British and Yankee
cars, but of definitely anti-English pre-
judice, and many good Australians were
ashamed of it.
What is otherwise the most good-
tempered and hospitable people on earth
is curiously prone to ill-tempered nark-
ing about motor-cars, and the visitor
who drives across country in an English
one seems to get the full blast of it,
probably because he is confounding local
dogma by so doing.
There is no doubt Lord Nuffield and
his colleagues lack enterprise in follow-
ing the American-created demand for
big-engined cars. On the other hand,
the average Australian swallows whole
any silly rubbish that is dished out to
him by Yankee ballyhoo merchants.
There are faults on both sides, and The
Bulletin would do service by emphasis-
ing the fact rather than lambasting the
candid English critic. — Jehu (Walton-on-
Thames, Eng.).
Dying Traditions
“Mac” (B. 26 /6 / ’35) considers it
“funny” that a Sydney daily paper
should have fallen into the error of de-
picting a 1915 Digger in the militia
uniform of 1935. I don't.
When we adopted Kitchener’s com-
pulsory defence scheme in 1910 some
people wanted kilted Scottish-Australian
regiments and Irish-Australian Rifles.
Pearce, to his credit, decreed that there
should be one uniform for the whole
Australian army. And so we got the
A.I.F. uniform, which in four and a half
years achieved a tradition of its own.
It established itself everywhere as the
hall-mark of a first-class fighting man.
Proud Uhlans, redoubtable Argyle and
Sutherland Highlanders, the Brigade of
Guards might have their splendid uni-
forms hallowed with the tradition of cen-
turies, but the boy from Boggabri or
Kurrawang in his Digger’s uniform could
hold his head as high as any of them.
The appearance of the familiar up-
turned felt hat with its rising-sun badge
JOCK MCSPLEUCHAN TAKES THE FAMILY
SKI-ING.
on any sector of the Western Front was
the signal for Fritz to bring up the best
troops he had.
In this uniform the Diggers made his-
tory, yet in 1930 an Australian Govern-
ment, blind to its priceless traditions,
decided to try to popularise the new
militia by arraying it in “a more attrac-
tive uniform”; one so bedizened with
red stripes and other gewgaws that it is
difficult to distinguish between the
wearer and a Barnardo boy or a tele-
graph messenger.
No doubt, if the necessity arose, young
Billjim (1935 model) would go forth and
cover his Hollywood uniform with glory
just as his Digger dad did in 1915, but
my point is that the uniform in which
Young Australia’s dad won the admira-
tion of a world in arms should be good
enough for the volunteer of to-day to
wear when he takes his girl to the talkies
to see how the doughboys won the war.
In N.S.W. we are now to have a kilted
Scottish-Australian regiment. I come of
a Highland clan which boasts a proud
tartan and an honorable military tradi-
tion, but if I had my choice of a uniform
I would elect to wear the uniform which
Europe has come to recognise as the
badge of Australia. And not on senti-
mental grounds alone. You have only
to look at Lambert’s bronze figure of the
Fallen Soldier in St. Mary’s, Sydney, to
realise what a thing of beauty, even on a
dead man, was the Digger garb now appar-
ently despised in the country that origi-
nated it.— Angus McAussie (N.S.W.).
Service Titles and the Law
“A.M.R. and O.” (N.S.W.) writes (B.
26/6/’35): “It is an offence in Australia
for a person ‘to assume the title of any
rank in his Majesty’s forces’ ” —meaning
to assume it unauthorisedly. This is so,
but the law is in abeyance, and has been
for generations. When the head of the
Salvation Army began calling himself
General and his subordinates, male and
female, brigadiers, captains, etc., in
England 50-odd years ago, there were
protests from legalists but the agitation
soon died out. Too many volunteer
officers and others were exploiting ser-
vice titles in less worthy causes. Here, if
I elected to call myself Field-Marshal, no
action would be taken.
Fighting soldiers like Charles Rosen-
thal have a right to their military titles ;
not only did they win them in the field,
but they now hold their war-time rank
in the A.M.F. Those who cheapen our
services are non-fighting officers who
use high-sounding titles for commercial
reasons or from vanity. Largely because
they exist, professional soldiers who were
highly decorated majors and even
colonels in 1918 are still majors or, at
best, brevet-colonels.
“Tenth Brigade’’ mentioned (B.
19/6/’35) that no members of the Bald-
win Cabinet except regulars use their
war-time titles. But some did till re-
cently ; Mr. Eden, for example. They
have only stopped because in England
it is a social offence for non-regulars to
postureas regulars,and the King is known
to be strongly opposed to the practice.
As showing how little legality comes into
it, when I was last in London (1928) a
half-caste animal-tamer was being billed
as “Captain.”— King’s Regs. (N.S.W.).
Diggers with T.B.
Cases in which ex-sailors and ex-
soldiers (or dependants) suffering from
t.b. have been refused medical treatment
and pension rights are being reviewed.
A medical examination will be neces-
sary in special cases only ; it is, however,
desired that such review should be gen-
eral, and that it should include all those
who have previously been refused pen-
sion rights. Victorians desirous of taking
advantage of this arrangement are re-
quested to communicate with the Tuber-
cular Sailors and Soldiers’ Association,
Anzac House, Melbourne. Every assis-
tance will be given in re-presenting cases
to the Repatriation Department. —For
the T.B.S. and S.A., H. Craig, Secretary.
“Got Your Spooners?”
Is the Spooner costume going to be
adopted throughout N.S.W. or is the rule
to be obeyed as other ridiculous
regulations governing bathing have been
obeyed in the past—that is, not at all? 1
saw the rise of surf-bathing in Sydney ;
1 lived almost on the edge of Bondi
Beach and went through years of muni-
cipal endeavors to kill the business.
At the outset, bathing was prohibited,
and the law had to be violated before
custom authorised it. Next came the
costuming regulations—all costumes had
to extend from neck to knee. Every-
body violated that law, and the costumes
shrank until they became what they are
to-day. Then came the regulation pro-
hibiting sitting or lying on the beach.
That was enforced in a half-hearted way
until the Diggers came back and openly
defied the authorities, who promptly
backed down. Latterly came the ridicu-
lous attempt to suppress the nudists from
bathing on beaches five miles from any
road or habitation—a practice admitted
in every other country in the world.
Now Minister Spooner declines to
permit men to wear the costume cus-
tomary in Europe and in which princes
of the British royal family have been
photographed for public circulation. I
contend that, if it is indecent for a man
to bathe in trunks at Bondi, those illus-
trated papers which printed pictures of
princes in similar costume should be
prosecuted under the Indecent Publica-
tions law. A princess appears in the
same pictures wearing the brassiere-and-
trunks combination which will lead to
any Sydney girl similarly attired being
arrested after the date fixed for the
reform. But I don’t suppose the law
will ever be enforced.
Melbourne possesses beach regulations
which make Spooner’s look liberal; but
nobody pays any attention to them.
Brassiere costumes are worn everywhere
by the girls, and it is only on the closer
beaches that the men use their tops. But
the nudists are pursued vigorously—
when they are known. —G. M. (Vic.).


The
Bank of
Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.
Australasia
can help you on your travels
# There is always a danger of loss or the risk of theft when carrying
money while travelling, but a Letter of Credit ensures safety and is
more convenient.
By the issuing of Letters of Credit and similar facilities. the Bank of
Australasia has assisted Australian travellers for a century.
IN LONDON the Bank has two branches, one in the West End. staffed
and equipped to be of maximum service to Australians in England on
business or pleasure. Other countries are served by Agents or Corre-
spondents of the Bank.
Paid-up Capital .... £4,500,000
Reserve Fund 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (Re-
serve Fund used in
the business of the
Bank) 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors under the
Charter 4,500,000
£13,475,000
The Bank of Australasia, Head
Office for New South Wales
Branches: Martin Place (opp.
G.P.0.), Sydney.
SYDNEY BRANCH I MARTIN PLACE (OPRC.RO)SYDNEY.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Trends of the Times
The latest loan, which yelded Bs. p.c.
more than the previous issue, was under-
subscribed. Only at one stage since the
collapse of 1930 have share-prices gener-
ally been higher than at present —that
was in January of this year. Not for
nearly two years has the return on
Consols been so high and their price so
low.
The uncertainty in wool returns caused
a weakening in shares during February
and March ; a healthier tone since in the
salerooms —the position has continued to
improve up to the present —has produced
steady recovery. Company balance
sheets recently issued, except in the case
of those directly interested in wool, dis-
close general improvement in trading
conditions.
Building is recovering, though activity
is still a good deal below 1928 levels. A
perhaps significant feature has been a
rise in the earnings of some of the trustee
and executor cos., which depend partly
for their existence on the satisfactory
realisation of estates. Frozen assets
cramped the earning power of these in-
stitutions during the worst of the slump
period, and the better results recently
point to the more ready realisability of
real and personal property.
The motor-car industry is still flourish-
ing despite transport “regulation.” Agents
in some cases are still unable to make
prompt delivery of the more popular
makes of cars. The Ford Co.’s Geelong
body-works are hard put to it to keep
pace with the demand.
Wireless manufacturers have also had
a great run of activity—largely to the
detriment of gramophone and piano
people. The more important talking-
machine concerns have gone into the
radio business themselves, and Beale’s,
the big Australian piano people, have
also branched out into this new avenue
of trade. Octavius Beale, who founded
the business, originally dealt in sewing-
machines. The Annandale (Sydney) fac-
tory is probably as self-contained as any
in Australia.
Broken Hill Prop, has had a year of
record output. The great consumption
of steel products in Australia at present
—the market is more open to local
manufacturers of recent years, partly be-
cause of price-reductions made by Aus-
tralian manufacturers, and in a measure
due to exchange —can be traced to
increased building and mining activity
and a greater proportion of steel in the
construction of present-day furniture,
motor-bodies, buildings and mechanical
products.
Switching from the commercial aspect
of things back to the financial side, life-
assurance offices are writing record busi-
ness. If national assurance were made
compulsory this very desirable trend
would be much more pronounced.
National assurance in the Common-
wealth has been much talked about
from time to time, but politicians seem
hesitant about doing anything.
Life offices find the problem of satis-
factorily investing their funds increas-
ingly difficult. Interest rates generally
are low —mortgages are being written at
the lowest cost in Australian financial
history—but it is probable that the big
societies do not regard with approval
the recent rise in the cost of public bor-
rowing. Interest on private investments
is still going down ; the return on public
securities has definitely swung the other
way.
Back in 1929 new loans cost about
5J p.c. C.S.R. shares were then return-
ing 4-5 p.c., British Tobacco 4.6 p.c.,
Broken Hill Prop. 6.9 p.c., Burns Philp
4.3 p.c. At the moment all four of. those
stocks give a yield below that obtainable
on the last loan, though in some cases,
certainly, the market is paying for pros-
pects.
Obviously investors are finding other
more profitable investments than Consols,
or else they look upon the clamorings
of State Premiers for more loan money
with doubt and hesitation. The low re-
turns they are prepared to accept from
first-class industrial shares suggest the
latter factor.
Broken Hill Prop.’s production figures
for the four weeks ended June 9, follow-
ing reductions in prices of several of the
co.’s lines, have established a new record
as far as pig-iron is concerned. The out-
turn for the month (48,352 tons) was
1758 tons better than the February figure
(previous best), and 3385 tons up on
“Boss, I'm broke. Advance me half next Week's screw."
“ Impossible! The wife made me swear that I'd never make advances
to any Woman!"
May. Ingot steel (47,228 tons) showed
a jump of 9475 tons over the previous
month’s output.
* * * *
The Ford Co., which recently decided
to spend large sums on its Sydney and
Geelong body and assembling factories,
is busier than at any time since opera-
tions began. In June 1000 bodies were
built, 1500 are planned for in July, but
not fewer than 2000 a month will fill the
present demand, according to Ford’s
general manager.
* * * *
General Motors-Holden’s purchase, for
£40,000, of 50 acres of Government land
at Fisherman’s Bend (Melbourne) is part
of the co.’s programme to bring por-
tion of its manufacturing activities closer
to the areas of principal distribution —
namely, N. S. Wales and Victoria.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Bread cast upon the waters
by S.A. Diggers has thrown up on the
shore a small crust after nearly 20 years.
Many of them used part of their war
gratuity to finance the Army and Navy
Stores, which started as a general-supply
co., with high hopes and numerous
branches. For some unexplained reason
the thing was never a success, and at
length liquidation became necessary;
debts were over £lB,OOO. The assets
have proved to be well over that, and
an interim dividend of Is. a share has
been handed out.
* * * *
Building activity in N. S. Wales con-
tinues at high level. Permits granted for
the March quarter totalled £2,785,422, as
against £485,194 in 1932. For the month
of May the value in Sydney and suburbs
was £903,872, compared with £758,000 in
April and £908,000 in March. The im-
provement in the trade has manifested
itself in numerous avenues of business
and employment.
* * * *
During May 53 p.c. of the registered
mortgage business in N. S. Wales was
done at rates of 4\ p.c. or under.
Transactions in the 4i-5 p.c. class con-
stituted 24 p.c. Only 3 p.c. of registra-
tions carried more than 7 p.c. On June
13 the average yield on Consols ranged
from £3 7s. 7d. per cent, in the case of
short-dated issues to £3 12s. lOd. in the
case of longer-dated ones. The yields
have since gone higher —the 1948 3 p.c.
issue has sunk to £95 15s. on the market,
giving a higher return than the just-
floated loan.
* * * *
Remarkable buoyancy in industrial
shares coincided with the taking of
£10,800,000 from investors by the Com-
monwealth loan operation. The yield
offered was £3 Bs. sd. per cent. ; leading
industrials give little higher immediate
return. Australian Glass yields £3 12s.
6d., British Tobacco £3, and Colonial
Sugar only £2 17s. 6d. per cent. It may
be that there is considerable speculation
going on in industrials now that gold
issues are so dull ; on the other hand,
there is evidence that investors have
found industrial ordinary shares as satis-
factory an investment as any during the
past six troublous years. It might be also
that businessmen are finding Government
interference in private enterprise—especi-
ally by State departments—so harassing
that they are deliberately refraining from
encouraging further Government “works”
and “regulating” bodies.
* * *
The expansion in the Australian
woollen textile industry since exchange,
etc., cut imports down is no better illus-
trated than in comparing the local yearly
consumption of our wool clip. “Dal-
gety’s Review” supplies the following
figures:—
Bales. Bales.
1926- .. 194,034 1930-31 .. 145,314
1927- .. 188,514 1931-32 .. 252,049
1928- .. 180,205 1932-33 .. 283,839
1929- .. 184,790 1933-34 .. 242,172
Over the past three years the average
consumption has been 9.4 p.c. of the
clip—-satisfactory considering the extent
to which that clip figures in total world
production. Local mills are a factor in
establishing prices.
* * * *
“A.D.”: Adequate company legisla-
tion (a State matter) and uniform life-
assurance laws (the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment had a bill under consideration that
never came to anything) are matters
of urgency. Australia has some of
the most successful life offices in
the world, but there have been spend-
thrift companies which have dissipated
both shareholders’ capital and policy-
holders’ premiums. Standardisation (or
something approaching it) in the matter
of surrender values should be introduced
to all life offices, especially as regards
Industrial assurance. An assurance
policy may mean anything, according to
its terms ; Industrial assurers should at
least be given the option of taking
a policy with the more important
terms (such as those relating to sur-
renders, paid-up options and bonuses)
laid down by statute. On the Com-
panies Act “Table A” principle, an
office could issue such a policy en-
dorsed as complying with the statute for
those who wanted it. Such legislation
need not prevent the life office from
issuing any other type of policy it desired.
* * *
British exports for the five months to
May 31 are up £15,000,000 sterling com-
pared with 1934, while imports have in-
creased only a million. The commodity
balance is still greatly against Britain,
but that is understandable in view of the
country’s invisible exports and the in-
terest payments due to it by debtor coun-
tries. France, whose trade is slipping, is
suggesting that sterling and the dollar
should be “brought into alignment with
the franc” —apparently meaning a return
to the gold standard. It was only after
devaluing its currency to one-fifth that
post-war France returned to gold.
Britain's pound is still worth three-fifths
of a sovereign, so that true “alignment’’
is hardly what France wants.


•; ,'v.
’
■HiMraHra
- ...
,
KfK r
m
m
■ • is,
mmm
■
ii- ; '
■ -•• •■•: ;
mm
.
ill I
: ;r
m
rv :
|| jj:!
mmm
mmSßrnS
.x-:x' - :
a
I S
mmm
a
■ :
nn
;
:
. .. :■
■
■
''' **’ J *? '*m Wmm
K . V'" . ’■'
BP
■
.
MiMii
i
:-f"
1 » * li »
Hun
H
- •;
HH
n
,
'7,t £}:'■ ■
mmmm
cm ■
■ ■
if#i
K
mi
i
M
RHiH
WMbml
*» . " * l£ll
::
AVAILABLE AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES


MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-<?omz-io>2
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
«MnOZ--Jt-Q|
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Ladies’ Moccasins
of Genuine Canadian Indian Leather
with fur collars, beaded fronts and
fur lining.
In Blue or Chocolate.
Price, pair
15/9
PIKES
Of Queen Street
Brisbane
Your home is .. .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
mocern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold ' water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Kooin and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
JLunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for jull particulars.
Ik Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
v v
I
O'
\\
So writes the user of an * R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
ACCKLAND, N. Z.: MacEvvan's
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEMSL AAI D BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
••VALLEY * ORJSBAAJE '
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“F.E.”: With the retirement of
Senators of the 1929 vintage who failed
of re-election last year or did not go up
again, Queensland Senators Codings,
Brown and MacDonald are left to repre-
sent Labor. The three went through the
solemn farce of electing a leader —the job
carries an extra £2OO a year—and the
choice fell on Codings (Joseph Silver),
who, if verbosity can make up for
dearth of numbers, will be able to hold
his own with the 32 Senators on the
other side. The old gentleman, by the
way, has been ill, and for a time the
doctors throught his sickness might go
hard with him ; but he has pretty wed
recovered now.
* * * *
“Cottonbush”: A man who has done
wed at Tennant’s Creek —he is interested
in batteries and shows —is E. T. J. Kerby,
who had the distinction of being M.H.R.
for Ballarat for a few months. Going
to the war as captain in the sth Battalion,
he was twice wounded on Gallipoli. In-
valided home, he set out for the front
again in time to see a bit of the Somme
campaign, and suffered a third wound in
Flanders. After the war Kerby came
under the approving notice of Hughes,
who was looking for a Digger to have a
cut at Dave McGrath, since dead, who
had also enlisted from Ballarat. At the
election on December 13, 1919, Kerby
beat McGrath by the smallest possible
majority, the voting being 13,569 to
13,568. On June 2, 1920, the election was
declared void by the Court of Disputed
Returns, and next month McGrath was
a member again, having beaten Kerby
and two other candidates hands down.
Brief as his career in Parliament was,
Kerby incurred the displeasure of his
patron. That fiery particle sent for him
to discover how the major stood on a
measure that the Government had intro-
duced, and, when told, performed as only
Billy can do when full-charged with
thunder, like the Royal George. “I sup-
pose I’m not much of a politician,” said
Kerby apologetically. “No, and you
blanky well never will be,” said W.M.H.
* * * *
“11 Vecchio”: A good example of how
British- and Australian-born toilers are
being driven out of the richest part of
North Queensland was the composition
of the gangs which signed on for the sugar
season which began on June 24 at Mack-
nade Mill. Nine of the gangs were of
British stock (75 cutters), 38i gangs
Italian (310 men) and one Spanish (eight
men),
* * * *
“O. Temp.”: A tear falls when I read
(B. 19/6/’35) that Humpybong is shortly
to be converted into a suburb of Bris-
bane by a viaduct across an arm of
Moreton Bay. In the years that the
locust hath eaten, Humpybong was a
rustic spot only accessible after a sea
voyage of some hours or a long and
roundabout journey over impossible
roads on which no one ever chanced his
buggy springs. Its rural simplicity was
the stock gag of the visiting low
comedian. All he had to do on making
his entrance was to make some refer-
ence to Humpybong and he was en-
shrined for ever in the hearts of the
people. In my Lancashire days, Wigan
suffered from the same inferiority com-
plex. It was really a mournfully sordid
colliery town, and how Dan Leno and
George Robey ever rose to fame by the
reiteration of its name puzzled me until
1 found Humpybong similarly employed
in Queensland. 1 understand fine parks
and public buildings have removed the
invidious distinction from Wigan. It
now only remains for the blight of
modernisation to overwhelm Humpy-
bong.
* * * *
“C.T.”: A story of remarkable endur-
ance comes from Kirk Diggings, near
Charters Towers. An elderly selector
was thrown from his horse in a deep
gully, and his right leg was broken at the
thigh and knee. The accident happened
about three-quarters of a mile from his
hut, with no assistance within miles. He
was unable even to crawl, but, remem-
bering the good old infant method of
locomotion, he adopted a sitting posi-
tion and wriggled along with the aid of
his hands and sound foot. Progress must
“Why must they always tie a fellow up when there's any fun about?"
have been terribly painful, and the jour-
ney took 22 hours. Three days in the
hut with practically no food followed,
before his son returned home and dis-
covered him. Patient now rapidly re-
covering. They make ’em tough in the
North.
* * * *
“Rye”: Counsel for four Italians
charged at Gordonvale with being in pos-
session of an illicit still and of manufac-
turing illicit spirit claimed that the stuff
had been made not for profit but only
as an experiment. And the experiment
failed ; it had made them sick, and they
intended to use what was left as a lini-
ment. This further experiment may have
to be postponed for some months unless
the seekers after knowledge prefer to
pay the heavy fines inflicted by the un-
scientifically-minded magistrate.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
F. Ewen Loxton has received news that
his elder son Fred, at Pembroke College,
Cambridge, has obtained his LL.B.
degree with third-class honors. Younger
son Colin, also a student at Pembroke,
got through his Law Tripos with first-
class honors.
Mrs. Grant (Gwen Stanley that was)
has a show of her work at the Tritton
Gallery. She is a gallant adventurer in
color.
Joan, younger daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. W. N. Robertson, was married in
the family drawing-room to Toby, son
of the late Reggie Roe, once headmaster
of Brisbane Grammar School. Bride-
groom and bride’s brother are partners
in a tobacco-growing property at Texas,
and the bride takes a keen interest in
the work.
E. C. Carter, secretary-general of the
Institute of Pacific Relations, who with
his wife and two girl secretaries is visit-
ing Brisbane, was given a civic, recep-
tion. Lord Mayor Jones made a welcome
speech, and Prof. A. C. V. Melbourne
credited the I.P.R. with having brought
about an improved trade outlook with
Asia. Dr. T. P. Fry, Queensland
president of the Institute of International
Affairs (Mr. Carter is visiting Australia
at the invitation of that body), also spoke.
Dr. and Mrs. Jiri Baum, from Czecho-
slovakia, have arrived in Brisbane in
their blue-and-grey caravan. The doctor
is seeking assiduously for spiders, and his
wife makes no bones about sharing the
caravan with his specimens.
The engagement is announced of
pianist Audrey Anderson, whose parents
are the A. B. Andersons, of New Farm,
and Dr. K. Stanton-Crouch, third son
of Mr. and Mrs. C. Stanton-Crouch, of
St. Kilda (Vic.).. Audrey has been in
Melbourne meeting her in-laws-to-be.
For the Bankers’ Ball on July 26,
which Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson will
attend, the committee has stated, firmly
but politely, that there are to be no
debutantes. Cabaret turns, contributed
to by pupils from Brisbane dance schools,
have been arranged.
Before the Gordon Gows left for Syd-
ney to join the Mariposa the whole Gow
family united to give them a dance and
bridge party at the Belle Vue. Hosts
and hostesses were Mr. and Mrs. R. M.
Gow, Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Gow and
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Gow.
James Blair, C.J., cut the jubilee cake
at the Jubilee Charity Ball in the City
Hall. Twenty-live red, white and blue
candles decked the confection.
Capt. and Mrs. C. W. Lord, whose
home is in Bareilly (India), arrived in the
Narkunda, bringing with them Clemence
Mary, who is so very new an arrival that
she was not christened until the Nar-
kunda reached Sydney. The three of
them are staying with Mr. and Mrs. R.
S. Lord, and when Capt. Lord hurries
back to duty mother and baby will stay
a little longer, and visit the maternal
grandparents at their station home at
West Maitland.
Alice Logan has also returned. She
has been staying with the Lords in India,
and is Clemence Mary’s godmother. She
sports a brand-new ring, the gift of Capt.
O’Sullivan. When she returns to India
before the end of the year she will make
her home quite near her friend, Del
Lord.
Clodagh, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E.
K. McCord, Eidsvold, was married to
A J. Finlay, manager of the Union
Bank, Grafton, at St. John’s Cathedral
on June 27. Patricia McCord was the
only bridesmaid. Guests who came
down for the wedding included Mr. and
Mrs. C. D. Persse, Tabragalba ; Mr. and
Mrs. E. R. Reynolds and Betty Reynolds,
of Ennisview, Oakey ; and Mr. and Mrs.
J. Chalk.
Brisbane Women’s Club, the Lyceum
Club and the Institute of International
Affairs entertained Mr. and
Mrs. E. C. Carter, Kate
Mitchell and Miss Fairfax-
Cholmeley during their stay
in Brisbane. At the
Women’s Club Mrs. Carter
spoke on Russia. To the
Lyceum members she ex-
plained how the I.P.R. came
to be founded.
Mrs. Norman Pearce and
her daughter Mrs. Kath-
lene Hay, of Hobart, are
spending the winter as
guests of Mr. and Mrs. T.
G. Lahey, Clayfield.
Mary Steacy, of Canada,
who is staying with her grandparents,
Mr. and Mrs. Digby Denham, is a keen
follower office sports. She and her aunt
Winifred Denham have gone to Sydney
for skating.
Twenty-five debs, will make their bow
to the Governor and Lady Wilson at the
United .Service Club’s dance, to be held
in the City Hall on August 19. The
admiral and officers of the Australian
squadron, expected in Brisbane for Show
Week, have been invited.
Mrs. George Mocatta is back after an
absence of about five months in America.
Brother Garth Jeffrey, who went, too,
remained in New York. The two
motored about 5000 miles on the won-
derful high roads. Mrs. Mocatta brought
back a pile of chic American gowns.
Brisbane girl Bonnie Bell (stage name
Elva Stuart) has signed a three-month
contract with Sydney Carroll, the
London producer, with an option for an
extended term at higher salary.
Novelist Jean Campbell, of Melbourne,
is visiting her brother, John McNeil
Campbell, and his wife, who live at
Hamilton. Miss Campbell, who is young,
pretty, entertaining and talented, pro-
poses to go abroad for material for the
fourth novel.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLENS MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Missing Friends.
Will SARAH PEDERSEN, one time of
Makaretu, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts please communi-
cate with the District Public Trustee, Waipu-
kurau, New Zealand?
SYDNEY BAKER: Your mother, Clara
Stanley Baker, died on February 28 at
Dunstable, England. Will any friend of his
kindly advise him?
ELIZABETH~SAVERAUX, formerly of 381
Victoria Parade, East Melbourne, and also of
3 Lygon Terrace, Carlton, Victoria, or any
person knowing her whereabouts is requested
to communicate immediately with ARTHUR
ROBINSON & CO., Solicitors, of 377 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and :
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, t
from 7/- per day; m
Double Room at i
Double Rates) i
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
wm
is
cu^
?o«oh
70 YEARS REPUTATION
A WOMANS
LETTER
The after-the-polo swarry had 50 or
more hostesses, so you can imagine the
hordes that swept through the doorway
of No. 11 Onslow-avenue in the gather-
ing winter dusk. Warm lights and fire-
glow on an occasional bowl of flowers
(a cargo of garden stuff had been
expected from Camden, but the cold had
snapped its frosty fingers at that idea)
were a contrast to the cold at Kyeemagh,
where most of the guests had spent the
previous afternoon and were to spend
the next. There was a marquee, and
there were dancing and the mounting
excitement of voices gay as confetti. Mrs.
James Ashton, junior, and Jessie Mc-
Master kept the door; the first in a long-
coated suit of blue angora, the second in
brown, velvet hat, furs and all.
Two smart young guests were Mrs.
M. L. Baillieu, whose brown coat wore
the most uncommon neckline present,
and Mrs. Lennox Bode, in black-and-
white. Margaret Burns was all brown
broadtail and Persian lamb. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly was one of the smartly-hatted and
Mrs. Tony Hordern one of the best-
dressed. The Dangar girls were among
the hostesses ; so was Mrs. Marie Irvine.
Two Falkiner girls and Betty Fogarty
were a chic trio from Melbourne. Char-
mian Mack, of Trangie, attracted many
admiring looks.
The Music Club movement received a
pat on the back when Lady Hore-
Ruthven said she’d like to become a
member of the Darling Point-Edgecliff
branch. This was a delicate compliment
to the programme provided at the lately-
formed club’s party by pianist Elsie Hall
and ’cellist George Ellwood. Justice
Milner Stephen and his wife received the
Government House group, which in-
cluded Ivie Price and Mayor Parker's
lady. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s carnation-
red velvet coat was given for suitable
accompaniment a cluster of orchids. Miss
Price wore streamlined water-blue
crepes. Lush flowers decorated the
rooms and Archbishop Mowll’s fine
figure and profile one of the chairs.
The decorations at Riverview Old
Boys’ dance are still being handed well-
deserved plaudit's. Flower and leaf in
autumn tonings were massed and trailed
about the State ballroom, and on the
official table flowers in snowy whiteness
(carnations, sweet-peas and white lac-
quered leaves) arose like sea foam on a
blue wave of cellophane. Each com-
mittee-girl wore on her wrist a bracelet
of white stock, and there was a shoulder
posy for each lady. President Geoffrey
Hughes skippered the craft, aided by
Mrs. Hughes, whose taffetas were
checked in yellow-and-brown. Repre-
sentatives from other schools, River-
view’s rector, Father L. Loughnan, and
assistant-rector Father McKillop were
importants.
The Neville Wentworths set off from
King’s Cross in a motor-truck for Lead-
ville on a cold, clear afternoon last week.
They had just been married in St,
Michael’s at Vaucluse, and toasted at a
party in Hampton Court. Mrs. Went-
worth was Thelma Buckmaster, of Yass ;
the bridegroom is the younger son of the
W. C. Wentworths, of Point Piper, and
a descendant of the statesman. Somebody
had put a few posies on the truck, and it
carried a hundredweight or so of con-
fetti when it started out, but no doubt
the driver-bridegroom got rid of that be-
fore the homestead, Kanoona, hove in
sight. For her big moment the bride
chose a suit of soft-blue wool, a smart
little hat to tone and orchids blooming on
her fox furs.
May Matthews said good-bye to life
last week, her clear brain undimmed to
the end. For over a year she had been
ill, and it speaks for the wide-flung and
deep friendships she had formed that in
the whole of the time her room never
lacked gifts of flowers. She will be re-
membered for her cheery optimism and
for making the world happier for little
children.
As far back as April 10, though
still the sun shone hot, Mayoress
Parker remembered that winter was just
around the corner. She called a meeting
for the A.I.F. Ball in aid of the winter
appeal of the R.S.S.I.L. Ever since that
morning a series of parties under the
heading of music, bridge and many other
titles, plus the popular A.I.F. unit com-
petition, should pave the way to a glit-
tering success next Tuesday night. The
Palais at Moore Park, because its danc-
ing space is desert-wide, is the site
chosen. The Governor and Lady Hore-
Ruthven will be there ; so will admirals,
wing-commanders, brigadiers, colonels,
generals and W. M. Hughes.
Cocktails and coffee launched the new
clubrooms of the Overseas League.
Knight Kelso King gave them his bless-
ing. The Cathay being in port, Margaret
Walsh, that liner’s nursing sister, came to
the party, and other oversea-ites were a
group of Maoriland visitors. Arline
Waddy and Violet Roche were both in
evidence trying to look modestly uncon-
scious of hats straight from Vienna.
Kathleen Gaden displayed a line of beige
angora worthy a second glance.
A visitor to Sydney who has given
quite a bit of Victorian eclat to Kyee-
magh is Mrs. E. Helme Pott. She’s a
sister of Lord Huntingfield ; her husband,
Colonel Helme Pott, is boss of the v.-r.
household in Melbourne. The two are
guests of the Hubert Fairfaxes at Elaine,
Double Bay.
Margaret Macpherson came from
Maoriland the other day with a bright
reputation as a lecturer and radio
speaker. Margaret has also served time
as a journalist. She will broadcast with
the A.B.C. Dorothy Welding made the
portrait.
Lady Hore-Ruthven went to hear
Murial Brunskill last Saturday night,
when the operatic songbird was flinging
her vocal pyrotechnics into the atmo-
sphere of the Assembly Hall, dazzling
that austere interior. The Governor’s
lady listened from the depths of a berry-
red velvet coat, and Ivie Price, with her,
wore a white collar to her black wrap.
Such concert addicts as Mrs. E. Wunder-
lich and Mrs., Lashmar couldn’t be
absent, and a note of admiration can be
struck after the recording of Mrs. Wun-
derlich’s fox-collared seal coat. The
Clarke sisters, who are managing the
tour, gazed on their star with pleased
eyes. Muriel had been caught in an
opal rain; her white satin frock was
thickly glittering with the drops. At the
final number the offerings from her
admirers made the stage look like a fes-
tive garden plot.
Seventy Mayoresses slipped out of their
municipal cages last Friday and flew
straight to Government House, their
plumage glossy, their note set to gaiety.
At ten to three most of the guests had
arrived, and tea was disposed of in good
time, for there was to be music. Into the
reception-room the visitors moved;
here the icy blasts were tempered by fires
and two rosily-blinking radiators. Poin-
settia, heather and a dash of wattle were
in the decorations, and Lady Hore-
Ruthven looked handsome in wine-
colored velvets. Ivie Price was much in
evidence, and the Governor strolled in
to enjoy, like everybody else, the music
of James Griffiths, Marcus Burkitt and
Joan Hammond. Joan, very fresh-look-
ing in green, sang to the accompaniment
of Lute Drummond. Later on, when
the guests had gone, she sang again,
mostly for the benefit of pianist Elsie
Stanley Hall, a late arrival.
One of the prettiest girls to grace
Polo Week, Charmian Mack had also
the distinction of being one of the
newly-engaged. Charmian is a daughter
of the George Macks, of Trangie. Be-
trothed is Gordon Munro, a son of the
Hugh Munros, of Keera, Bingara. A
Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Everybody remembers the friendly
Eustace Holroydes, who went to England
some years ago and made their home in
Ennismore Gardens, London, a place of
cheerfulness and mirth and warm hos-
pitality. Second daughter Joan was
married one day last week in St.
Clement Danes to Lieut, John Bath,
R.A.N., of Melbourne. The wedding,
which had a strongly Australian flavor,
was rounded off at the Savoy. Matri-
mony has interrupted Mrs. Bath’s stage
ambitions. She was already making a
foothold for herself in London’s theatre
world.
July 14 falls on a Sunday, so the
French community will commemorate
the Fall of the Bastille on the Saturday.
Hordern Brothers’ ballroom will be gay
with the tricolor and the friends of the
French Alliance from nine o’clock on
Saturday till the first hour of the new
day. There will be a special room for
bridge-players. The French Consul will
preside. Tickets can be had at the Alli-
ance library, the French Bank and the
Messageries Maritimes.
Who says that enterprise is dead? Even
a different flavor can be put into wed-
ding raiment if a girl is clever enough
to think of it. Cherie Haley was, and
she’ll go down in bridal history as the
first girl to wear a coronet of erect arum-
lilies. They were, of course, miniature
affairs, of white satin, and were mounted
on tulle. Total effect, 100 per cent. Cherie,
whose branded-at-the-font names are
Yvonne Alison, became Mrs. Herbert
Murray Crossing, of Quirindi, at All
Saints’, Woollahra. In addition to her
lily halo she wore sweeping pearly
satins of classic mould, a cascade of
tulle and Honiton lace, a pearl-and-
diamond dagger, and an armful of lilies.
Matron-of-honor Mrs. John Dunlop,
Nancy Haley (from Bathurst) and Mar-
jorie Hughes wore frocks of turquoise
velvet, and in lovely contrast brown
velvet sashes, brown velvet hats with
brims swept back off the face and sheaves
of brown-flecked orchids. On the
church pews the colors of King’s, the
’groom’s old school, coquetted with
posies. At Booberoi, the Double Bay
home of the bride’s parents, there was a
reception of great size. Here Mrs. Bar-
clay Haley came into the spotlight in a
frock and toque of wine color patterned
in metal thread.
Marjorie Williams, looking very happy
and keen, went off in the Mariposa last
week to see at first hand how social
work is done in the U.S.A. and Great
Britain. Hospital aspects of it especially
will have her attention, for Marjorie was
connected with Prince Alfred’s for some
years. She was assistant to clever Nina
Robinson, who organised the efficient
department of medical social work at
P.A. long before welfare had become
recognised as a job for which special
training was necessary. Marjorie is now
in charge of the department, and while
she is on her travels she will be under-
studied by Olga Wilshire.
The Feminist Club has grown up. It
turned 21 in March. The first president
was Mrs. Barker Young, and since then
such well-known women as playwright
Margaret Dale, Mrs. Crawford Vaughan
(Miss Preston Stanley that was), Mrs.
W. A: Holman and Mrs. Kenneth Street
have held the job; Mrs. P. A. Cameron is
now entering on her second term. The
club has been identified with the estab-
lishment of many movements for the
benefit of women. The one on which
the members might be particularly con-
gratulated is their claim to have secured
adequate female medical attention for
the indentured women who labor in Fiji.
A statistical friend buttonholed this
Letter the other day to whisper that in
Sydney there are 250 am. dram. socs.
Whether that makes the cause of the
drama more or less hopeful is hard to
say ; one would have to sample the whole
250 before deciding. Still, however
far they fall short, these groups often
bring off a success. Take the group of
girls and boys, true lovers of drama and
poetry, who are doing a series of Greek
plays in the Gilbert Murray translations.
Nothing so banal as a theatre for them.
They perform in the open air at Castle-
crag. For background they have a
Greek temple (set amid green eucalypts),
specially built for them by Burley Griffin.
The audience sits on cushions and rugs
around a natural amphitheatre. Trained
by Lute Drummond and Mrs. Griffin,
the strophes and the antistrophes pos-
ture and group like figures on a Grecian
urn.
Fellow-artists are feeling great sym-
pathy for Kenneth Macqueen, whose
wife (the gifted Olive Crane) died after
a short illness just as the arrangements
for her husband’s show were completed.
Olive won distinction as an artist shortly
after her university days. When she went
to England and Europe for further study
her delicate work came under the eye of
the perfumery firm of Yardley, which
commissioned her to do several paint-
ings. She was in Sydney when death
overtook her. Her husband, who had
just returned to their farm outside Too-
woomba, in spite of the aid of car and
’plane arrived an hour too late. There
are two babes, one three years old, the
other two months.
When the new Sydney arrives in Aus-
tralian waters she will have a very dis-
tinguished sailor in command: Captain
J. H. Penrose Fitzgerald, sometime naval
attache in Paris. He had command of
the Caledon in the Third Cruiser Squad-
ron. During the war he served in
destroyers, and was torpedo officer of the
Collingwood.


ROSS for HEIGHT/
lllent, age 19| f gains 5 ins. in 0 weeks. I No Appliances
„21 „ 5 „in 5 mills. I —No Drugs.
„ 20. ~ 3$ „in 16 days. INo Dieting.
„ 30, 2 „ In 4 weeks. *■■■■■ 1 ■
.. 40, „ U .. in 6 ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 32ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s.
►•‘jlcolm Ross °-*gS»2grs;
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box 16.)
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 628 of 1935.
BETWEEN IVY OLGA SARAH CAMPBELL
(formerly Ivy Olga Sarah Winter) of Col-
larenebri in the State of New South Wales
(wife of George Campbell of Goondoobluic
Station Mogil Mogil in the said State
Laborer) Petitioner
And GEORGE CAMPBELL of Goondoo-
bluie Station Mogil Mogil in the said Stale
Husband of the said Ivy Olga Sarah
Campbell Respondent.
TO GEORGE CAMPBELL late of Goondoo-
bluie Station Mogil Mogil in the State of
New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY OLGA
SARAH CAMPBELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause of excuse left the said Ivy Olga Sarah
Campbell continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the Sydney office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Nineteenth
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-five and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. L. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
MOODIE, COLE & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Moree. By PURVES & MOODIE,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Melbourne
Chatter
Knowing how damaging are high heels
to soft, wet lawns, Moonee Valley
officials unrolled matting in front of the
stands on Saturday. The breath of
violets or daphne was wafted from
almost every lapel, but clothes weren t
exciting, for people with new garments
are saving them for Grand National
week. Mrs. Charlie Lane and Mrs. Jack
Edgar both wore off-the-face hats, one of
black, the other of navy. Mrs. Lane
had pessimistic ideas about the weather
(which weren’t realised) and carried an
umbrella with an attractive transparent
handle. From the tip of her beret to her
suede-covered toes Anne Willis was all
in blue ; Pen Stead was another all-blue
figure. Lesley Butchart was handsome
in brown ripple tweed, with a cocoa lox
and an upstanding brim to her hat. Mrs.
Robertson had a tomato jumper under
her tweeds. The Barry Thomsons had a
stroke of luck ; Mrs. Barry, on a kind-
hearted impulse, bought a ticket toi
sale” —some poor soul, she thought, had
made a mistake and couldn t afford it.
But the horse won, and Mrs. Barry was
several pounds up. The doctor did the
same sort of thing as the tote window
closed with a snap. His profits were
considerable.
As is usual with college dances, there
were no cabaret tables at the Palais for
Trinity Ball. Strips of carpet, bowls of
flowers, tables and chairs and cushions
strewn about in odd corners gave a
drawing-room flavor to the raised plat-
forms used for sitting out ’tween dances,
and supper was a conventional meal
served at one end of the room. In the
absence of the warden, Jim Mann re-
ceived the guests. Principal of Janet
Clarke Hall Enid Joske was garbed in
oatmeal lace. Bunty Govett wore yards
and yards of bubbling white chiffon;
if such bouffant draperies got home un-
walked upon their owner was a lucky
girl. Beth Paxton’s turquoise velvet had
a frill up to her chin. Diana Lang’s
dress was of floral lame, and blonde
Betty Magennis swept the floor with
chiffons in the palest shade of Patou
pink. Mr. and Mrs. J. Barnaby were
there, she in heavyweight white satin
with a bell-shaped cape. Ross Mac-
farlan, Freddy Rolands, Athol Wilson
and Dr. Randall Champion were among
the steadies who turn up year after year
to dance at their old college’s ball.
Fun, food and frivolity filled up an
evening at The Grange, Hec Green’s new
eating roadhouse in Toorak Village. The
stunt was organised by the Toorak and
South Yarra branch of the Junior
Auxiliary, which works for the Chil-
dren’s Hospital. There was plenty of
fun, such as dancing, which, however,
proved less popular than chasing luck
with wheels and dice. The food had to
be sought after with elbows and per-
severance at the buffet, and the frivolity
was chests loaded with miniature flags.
Lounge suits and street frocks were the
correct wear, for the party started with
a buffet dinner. Mrs. Campbell Guest,
jun., Marion Kettlewell and Cara
Holmes-Hunt were the ticket secs.
Seen at Mrs. Pat Cahill’s afternoon
bridge party in Hawthorn was a little
black hat with a windbreak of monkey
fur spurting out from the top of the
crown. It was worn by Mrs. Ken Had-
ley. At a near-by table Mrs. Phil King’s
coral fingertips fluttered among the
cards, while around her neck was a
quintet of fitch furs. A fur-edged cape
was an accessory to Mrs. Frank Dono-
von’s wine-red tweed. Mrs. Eric Ducat
sheltered her shoulders with Persian
lamb, and Mrs. Derek Mollison hers
with blue fox. Mrs. M. R. Healy wore
a turnip-top hat of black velvet, and
Mrs. Edgar Shelmerdine was in sage-
green, gold-striped.
Many and varied were the remarks
passed on the Group Twelve exhibition
at the Athenaeum. Young Roger James
in person and on the wall received
a good deal of attention (he is preparing
to leave for the Slade School). A few
of the Twelve are young things, but
among them also are more mature folk
like the Barrett lady, Dr. Clive Stephen
and Mrs. R. G. Casey. Members are
pupils of the Bell-Shore school,
Camberwell went Scottish for its
Mayoral Ball, when two pipers by lusty
blowing kept their braw bare knees from
knocking together on such a cold night.
The 17 bonnie lassies who made their
debut carried posies of heath tied with
tartan ribbons, and the lads who claimed
them for the first official dance on the
programme wore heather in their button-
holes. Betty Hislop, partnered by her
brother (the pair are children of the
Mayoral couple), led the procession of
young things. The girls’ frocks of pearl-
white taffeta were all cut on the same
pattern, with fin epaulettes upon the
shoulders and wide, stiffened hems.
Mayoress Hislop carried violets, irises
and pansies against her black velvet
gown.
Twelve hundred tickets have been sold
for the American Cabaret to be held at
the Palais in celebration of Uncle Sam’s
Independence Day. With hot mince pies
the hungry dancers will fill up the gap
between supper and steaming soup, put
on in the early morn, and the thirsty
ones will keep up their strength at one
or both of the two bars. The brunt of
the organising has been done by the
American Women’s Auxiliary, whose
members are people with a purpose. With
their husbands in step there are none like
them for making a party click. Their
cabaret is a new venture; other years
their charity effort was a bridge party of
enormous proportions, with extra-special
eats and a stall of things like genuine
doughnuts, pumpkin pies and bottles of
tomato juice. Of the raffles (diamond
brooch, satiny foundation garment and a
hamper containing everything from a
bottle of champagne and a ham to a jar
of peanut butter) which were features
of the annual bridge parties, only the
hamper will be used as bait to-morrow
night.
Here is a recent portrait of Bernice,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. Briggs, of
Benalla. Her fiance is Gordon, youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. Norton Grimwade,
Drusilla, Macedon. A Dickinson-Mon-
teath camera caught this glimpse.
More than one woman watched “Trial
by Jury” on Saturday night with regrets
that our Law Courts are so cold and
pompous. How nice it would be if a
dear old Judge threw kisses to a woeful
lady in distress, bounced her on his knee
and finally announced that he would
marry her himself. That’s what hap-
pened to Eileen Kelly, the musical-
comedy plaintiff in bridal muslins and a
garden-party hat, while her blue-and-
white bridesmaids devastated the hearts
of the jurymen and the fickle defendant
sang his woes to empty ears.
“The Pirates of Penzance,” in their red
stockings and funny little white pleated
skirts, looked more like domestic pets
than untamed monsters of the deep.
Godfrey Stirling clad his long legs in hose
of a vivid purplish-blue. Helen Langton
was all in white, and the chorus tripped
about in frills, poke bonnets and a
fashion of long years ago which is to
be hoped will never be revived—white
stockings.
Lord and Lady Huntingfield, with Miss
Street and Captain Barbour, viewed pro-
ceedings from a box instead of from their
old vantage-point, the front pew of the
circle. Mrs. A. H. Scott, in white satin,
was accompanied by one of her sons.
Not far away was a niece, Mrs. Donald
Forbes, of Hong Kong, who wears her
hair cut and waved in a neat new
fashion. Members of the Raws family
were present; also the Alan Newtons, Dr.
and Mrs. Nance, Mary Russell and Bar-
bara Syme, who wore diamond stars in
her hair and bouffant skirts of apple-
green taffeta.
Prof, and Mrs. Shellshear—he occupies
the Chair of Anatomy at Hong Kong —
are spending a few weeks in Australia.
The couple travel abroad for four months
every year, and this is their fortieth long
sea trip. During the few hours they
spent in Rabaul the professor went off
hunting axeheads and returned to the
steamer armed like a cannibal savage.
He also got on the tracks of brains and
skulls (pickled?), which hopes to col-
lect on his return. Privately Mrs. Shell-
shear is rather sorry about the skulls,
for they necessitate a change of plan. She
hoped to return in a steamer which does
not call at Rabaul.
On one vacation Dr. and Mrs. Shell-
shear went to Sarawak in Borneo by a
small timber boat. There was no cabin
for them but the pantry, and when they
required more extensive ablutions than
those provided by a pudding-basin they
travelled to the bathroom, picking their
way over the recumbent bodies of 300
steerage coolies. In Borneo the doctor
found a particularly exciting tooth and
the first bronze axe east of Suez.
Prof. Shellshear has yet another vice,
also faintly scientific, a particularly viru-
lent form of Patience known as Spider.
The layout of the card game provides
eight “legs,” which in a thousand years
would not work out. Sometimes a good
player manages to unravel one of the
spider’s legs. On an auspicious occasion
somebody somewhere got out four legs,
and the glad news was sent to all the
Spider players of the world, who re-
joiced exceedingly.
The engagement is announced of Enid,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Her-
mann, Toorak, to H. Sydney, second son
of the late Mr. N. J. Reading and of
Mrs. Reading, King’s Cross, Sydney,
While many of her friends in England
are making the acquaintance of Mel-
bourne people gone overseas for jubilee
frisks, Mrs. Peter Mackay is meeting
Australians in their own country. Last
week she and her husband were guests
of honor at a late-afternoon party at
Cliveden. Hostess Mrs. S. P. Mackay
made introductions in bean-green velvet,
and her daughter-in-law endeavored to
remember names and faces from a setting
of shrimp-pink and black satin.
Spending a few days in Melbourne at
the tail end of a holiday in Japan is Mrs.
Spencer Brownell, who leaves this week
for her home in Hobart. Mrs. Brownell
is a much-travelled person. She’s been
five times to Europe, and during other
wanderings met adventure in the shape
of two shipwrecks—one was in the old
China and the other happened near
Townsville. In Melbourne Mrs. Brownell
has a great number of friends and
relatives, including a married daughter,
Mrs. Paul McCutcheon. Another
daughter, Enid, will be a November
bride when she weds Quentin McDougall
in Hobart.
Behold a Jack Cato portrait of Mrs.
Charles Hartman, one of the group often
referred to by Melbourne acquaintances
as “those nice Americans.” Mrs. Hart-
man looks after her husband, plays
bridge and golf in moderation, wears
attractive clothes, and in her spare time
works with the American Women’s
Auxiliary of the Children’s Hospital.
Members meet once a month for sewing
and tea. Only the neatest garments are
presented to the hospital; ladies whose
talents don’t lie in a thimble are put on
to knitting. In addition the auxiliary is
responsible for driving district nurses to
and from their cases every Monday.
Mrs. Hartman has been particularly
busy lately as one of the committee for
the American Cabaret Ball on July 4.
A plain Jane is The Old Lady of Bass
Strait. Her only frippery as she ambled
for the last time down the Yarra was the
rising sun of Japan on her bonnet strings.
Bass Strait has been her beat for the
last 47 years, and its winds and tempests
have left their mark on the old girl’s
complexion—even her nameplate Oonah
looks dejected. Her last trip won’t be
solo, for she'll have the Maheno as a
companion. Destination: Shipbreakers,
Osaka.
Sentiment is not dead; neither is
romance. Recently a young woman re-
turned to Melbourne after a holiday trip
to the Orient with only five of her
beauteous evening gowns. The sixth, a
creation of white chiffon, had become so
interwoven with memories of tropic
moonlight that one night towards the
end of the trip its owner folded it
gently, tied it with white ribbon pinned
on two mauve flowers, and slipped it
through her cabin porthole into the blue
Pacific.
A pair of proud parents decided to be
original, and quaint cards acknowledging
gifts of silver spoons and booties, tele-
phoned congratulations and invitations
to “wet the baby’s head” were slipped
into letter boxes round about Melbourne.
In the decoration of the cards one stork
is flying over the horizon, another throws
a coy look over his shoulder as he sets
forth for parts unknown, and a third,
balanced on the chimney, is preparing to
drop a bundle labelled “Jennifer Jose-
phine” out of which protrude 10 little
toes and a round bald head. The cottage
of the chimney has 35 Fosbery-avenue
on the nameplate, and not far away is
a Caulfield signpost. Somewhere else is
a date in June and “Marjorie and
Bertram Lazarus wish to thank you for
your kind inquiries and congratulations.”
After more than 12 months of polite
begging to further the interests of the
Y.W.C.A., Amy Snelson, who was im-
ported to organise collections, left for
England gurgling with delight at the
success of her mission. Amy knew every
wire to pull. Twenty years ago she and
a doughty fellow-hustler combed the
whole of this city and suburbs for money
to awaken the movement from a kind of
Rip Van Winkle slumber. It was Amy
Snelson who first harnessed the young
to pull their weight for the association.
She enticed them by establishing a club-
room in the heart of the city where they
could get a nourishing meal for a few
pence, making a humble start in a primi-
tive room she had had kalsomined. She
spread her propaganda among young
businesswomen. They did not always re-
spond. A shopgirl gave her the first set-
back with the retort “No, thanks ; I don’t
care for prayer meetings.” The haughty
one thawed a little when she found that
Amy was handing out pies, not psalms.
During Amy Snelson’s term of office
as gen. sec. the Melb. association went
ahead by leaps and bounds. When she
returned to plough a new field in the
North of England, the movement had
been dragged out of semi-retirement and
possessed a large residential and adminis-
trative centre in Russell-street. Hostels
had been established in Richmond and
St. Kilda as superior substitutes for the
lodging houses in little, mean streets
where so many women earning meagre
wages had hitherto been compelled to
make their homes.


Cbe mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; F. Riensset, News-
paper House. Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3345.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery ”
2 5 2 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
Have you ever really
tried , fo/i-
hewdvwf f*** *
IF you really want whiter, more attrac-
tive teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth.
It catches bits of food. Harbors stains.
Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. Film is laden with
germs that are often the forerunner of
tooth decay. Thus film must be removed.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satis-
factorily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders
may be ineffective in removing film. There
is now a tooth paste you can depend on
regularly—a tooth paste thousands of den-
tists use in their own homes and millions of
people have used successfully. This tooth
paste is Pcpsodent—the special film-removing
tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
Pepsodent is different in formula, hence
different in the way it works. It contains
no grit, pumice, or soap. The basis of this
definitely modern tooth paste is a new
and revolutionary cleansing and polishing
material which is far softer than the
polishing material used in other leading
tooth pastes or tooth powders. Yet it removes
film and polishes teeth to new gleaming
lustre as more abrasive kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain”
tooth pastes or questionable ways? Remember
that this unique film-removing agent is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus
no other tooth paste can assure you' of
true Pepsodent results. Use Pepsodent twice
a d a y— se e your dentist at least twice a year.
N 735 Z
m
/
nsa
9X<?
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
AUSTRALIA’S BEST WOMAN’S MAGAZINE
3d. ON SALE FRIDAY 3d.
WHISPERS FROM PARIS.
Illustrated Fashions Letter
THE GIRL WITH THE TOURING SHOW.
IRON PLAY IN GOLF.
KNITTING, SMOCKING AND DRAWN-THREAD.
Unusual Frock for Infant.
COSMETICS AND COMMONSENSE!
A Health and Beauty Feature.
FIFTEEN “MIRROR” PATTERNS
and
SPECIAL PRICE CONCESSION,
Cross-over
Jumper
in
Loop-stitch
A Special
Knitting
Feature.
m
Dressing
a
Baby
Doll
A
f
Mothercraft
Feature,
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Perth Council chambers were agog
with wattle-blossom when the Lady
Mayoress welcomed Dame Mary
Hughes, the Pearce lady, Mrs. T. C.
Brennan, Mrs. T. W. White and Miss M.
Page. A silver fox stole lay over hostess
Mabel Teather’s flecked blue wools.
The newly-formed Peppermint Grove
Tennis Club gave a dance at the Cottes-
loe Hall, where decorations included
banksia boughs studded with velvety
cones and a riot of wattle-blossom. In
front of the dais was a carpeted square
where Mrs. Shelly Barker’s graceful
black laces occupied the principal chair.
Margaret Crocker pinned a giant green
spray on her oyster matt crepes; Sue
Slater’s plaids were in liquid and can-
died honey, and Gwen Francis decked
her gold satins with brown fur.
The Primate gave the address at Jean
Henn’s marriage to Lieut. Robert Hodge,
R.A.N., and the bride’s father, the Rev.
Percy Henn, performed the ceremony,
assisted by the Rev. R. W. Hamilton.
Choristers of the Guildford Grammar
School lifted their voices as Jean swept
her magnolia satins down the aisle of
the Chapel of SS. Mary and George. Her
tight-fitting bodice was cut off the
shoulders and finished with a deep
berthe of chiffon-petalled roses; her
filmy Honiton lace veil fell from a circlet
of white heather and orange-blossom,
and white was again to the fore in her
sheaf of camellias and heath.
No sooner had the Dutch submarine
K XVIII berthed at Fremantle than in-
vitations started to pour in. A group of
officers accepted one from the Pleiades
Club and dashed off to dance under the
canopy of orange and lemon streamers
in the ballroom. Secretary Jeanne
Parker murmured welcomes over black
lace and georgette, and Beryl Birchley,
shimmering dawn-pink velvet, Muriel
Jacobs, girt with black peau d’ange lace,
and Margaret Giles, with a gold thread
running through her powder-blue taf-
fetas, did their bits with introductions.
Perth College Old Girls invited part-
ners to Anzac House for their hop. Mrs.
R. T. Everett parked her chaperon
black Chantillies ’twixt Mrs. M. L.
Hoskins’s black-and-gold-coated crim-
son laces and Mrs. H. C. Walker’s mush-
room cobwebs.
Since setting foot in Perth Leo Cher-
niavsky has been feted left and right.
S. W. Perry and Mr. Weytingh, the
violinist’s manager, started the ball roll-
ing with five o’clock cocktails in the
foyer of the Prince of Wales Theatre.
Knight Walter James and his lady were
there and Lud Mayor Poynton, with
niece Mabel Teather.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Hospitallers’ Club entertained the
Governor and his wife at dinner at the
South Australian. The president of the
club (Acting-C.J. Angas Parsons) and his
pretty wife, with Dr. and Mrs. C. E. C.
Wilson, received the vice-regals in the
lounge, which was decorated with red
heather, poinsettias and gladioli. Mrs.
Parsons wore fine black lace and chiffon.
Mrs. Wilson was in black chiffon velvet.
Lady Dugan, who looked well in black
chiffon velvet, cut on slim lines, was pre-
sented with a silver basket of pale-pink
sweet-peas by Christine Anderson. About
150 were present. The v.-r. table was
decorated with pink roses.
A cheery dance was given by Mrs. F.
J. Irwin at her home, Mount Lofty, to
celebrate the coming of age of her
younger son Harry. A long motor run
before and after a dance always appeals
to the young folk.
Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters, who were
joint presidents of the Uni. Dance Club
for several years, have resigned, to be
succeeded by Prof, and Mrs. H. J. Wil-
kinson.
The Corinthian Club’s inaugural night
at the Apollo Cafe was a success ; 700
were present, and another 300 wanted to
get in. The original idea had been a
cabaret affair, with dancing between the
items, but an extra 120 tables booked at
the last moment rendered it impossible.
There was a programme of music, and
pupils of Nora Stewart danced in ballets.
Lady Dugan was received by Mr. and
Mrs. John Dempster, the latter frocked
in Wedgwood-blue chiffon velvet, with
cape effect. The Ritchie lady covered
her black dull satin with a mink fur coat,
and knight Langdon Bonython’s wife
wore black chiffon velvet, with coatee
of the same coin-spotted in gold, and a
spray of orchids.
The Journalists’ Ball at the Palais
Royal was a merry affair. Pressmen
brought out a paper, “Fudge”: “Sub-
editor Found Shot” was one of the head-
lines. Lud Mayor Cain and Mrs. Dun-
stan were received by the president, Mr.
E. Patten, and his wife. Mrs. Dunstan
was in pale green romaine with gold hair
stripe cut on slim lines, with velvet roses
in the same shade on the corsage, Mrs.
Patten wore a cream flowered chiffon
velvet princess gown with high waistline.
TASMANIA.
The St. John Ambulance and Junior
Red Crossers of Launceston were allowed
to borrow the Taroona for a ball. The
promenade and boat decks were cleared
for action, and the orchestra played on
the promenade deck. With the aid of
loudspeakers the music was carried
everywhere. Bridge was played in the
lounges, and supper was served in the
dining saloon.
The Vernon Crisps’ dance for daugh-
ter Bess’s 21st birthday was a jolly
affair. It was given in their home at
Sandy Bay, and couldn’t have had a
prettier setting. The guest-cwm-hostess
wore pink ring velvet, very full in the
sweeping skirt, with a cape-fichu effect
on the bodice. Mrs. Crisp was in blue
crepe romaine. The house was a bower
of blue hydrangeas, pink roses and pale
chrysanthemums. At supper, in the
dining-room under hanging baskets of
pink and blue flowers, toasts were drunk
and speeches made, and a big cake was
cut.
Women graduates of Tas. Uni. ran a
bridge party at the A.W.N.L. rooms,
which were brightly decorated and
looked cosy and inviting.
May Holman, the Westralian M.L.A.,
made a good impression on Tas. Her
visit was a hurried one, but included a
good deal of sightseeing, sandwiched be-
tween meetings and addresses.
Mrs. Riddell Stanley, who has gone
back to Melbourne for the rest of the
winter, made her farewells at a bridge
party at the Lyceum Club. Words of
welcome were spoken to Mrs. A. Banks-
Smith, just returned from Sydney.
Mrs. R. A. Young (formerly Gundred
Waller) is back in the Speck for a visit
to get the heat of India out of her bones.
She is staying with the Moore-Robin-
sons, Sandy Bay.
Nancy Swan and Geoff Minton Taylor
have fixed the first week in August for
their wedding. Among parties for the
bride-to-be was a “cup-and-saucer”
affair given by Joyce Okines at the
Chaucer tearooms.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Voice of
the Opener
Ladies and
Gentlemen, —I am
delighted to find
such a represen-
tative gathering
here to-day to do
honor to Miss Birdie Smith, one of the
most talented of our young Australian
geniuses. (Applause.) Miss Smith’s work
has done a great deal in these troubled
times to raise the standard of Australian
art and place it in the position we all
wish it to take ; and I venture to say
without fear of contradiction that her
masterpieces are fit to stand beside any-
thing in the world. (Applause) I don’t
know why I was asked to open this won-
derful exhibition, except perhaps that,
being a manufacturer of tin-openers.
Miss Smith thought I was used to the
work. (Loud laughter.) Be that as it
may, I’m here to do the job to the best
of my ability ; no man can do more.
(A pplause.)
I’m not an artist myself, though I
always had a deep love for art, and at
one time I thought seriously of practis-
ing it. But what with my duties in the
Legislative Council and my business wor-
ries and golf and bridge and social obli-
gations, I had very little time to study
the matter seriously. All the same, I’ve
taken a lot of interest in the subject, and.
possibly because it’s born in me, I’ve
an appreciation for good art that I feel
proud to possess. (Applause.)
Only the other day I bought a little
thing for a couple of pounds. I knew
nothing about it, but I did know that it
was good art. And 1 wasn’t wrong. A
man offered me a fiv—five pounds for
it within a week. It was what they call
a water-color—some cows in a paddock
—and, although I was quite ignorant of
the author, it turned out to have been
done by Rembrandt or—or—or Turner
or one of those ancient Italians. I said to
one of my friends—quite a good fellow,
but one who likes his joke—l said to
him, “You think I know nothing about
art. Well, I know enough to get a pic-
ture worth five pounds for two pounds.
What do you say to that?” That shut
him up, I can tell you. (Applause.)
Well, ladies and gentlemen, to-day you
have a real feast of the masterpieces that
Miss Smith has turned out. None of
your chromographs about them—all real
oil. Some are done in this impressionis-
tic manner with the colors laid on strong,
and some of those others, if they do
look a bit pale, only want a second coat
to make them right; and I daresay, if
you’re thinking of buying any of those.
Miss Smith will be only too pleased to
titivate them up for you. Service to the
community is the foundation of present-
day business, and I can guarantee that
Miss Smith will be found equal to all
requirements.
Australia has a long list of artists
which it can look to with pride. There’s
Lambert and the Lindsays and Henry
Lawson and—well, you know them as
well as I do—and I’ll venture to predict
that the name of Birdie Smith will not
be absent from that list for long. I
have great pleasure in declaring this
magnificent exhibition open, and I hope
you won’t miss the chance of getting
some real art at cut prices. (Loud arid
prolonged cheering.)
MONTY.
An Exhortation,
When the furnace of the west burnt
bright,
The mighty gods took, hold
Of bars of softened gold.
And hammered them into cloud.
Oh, proud, proud !
Were the gods in their smithy light.
Nor star-fires wink in the deeps of /light.
Curse not the gods that the sheer inten-
sity
Of our first love is gone —
The madness in you for me.
In me for you.
Paled, but as steadfast as stars, still true.
Let our love burn on.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.
Menuhin
and Music
Is it right to
speak of genius
in connection with
Menuhin? Yes,
if the word is
confined to one
of its dictionary meanings—“a special gift
or strength of mind” ; but not if it is
asked to mean “a man endowed with
(he highest mental gifts ; a thinker, writer,
etc., of the highest order.”
For what is Menuhin? He is an
executant. He plays music which other
people have written, but he does not
understand it in the sense that they did.
If he did so understand it he would be
able to write music like, or more or less
like, unto them. And that would re-
quire a study of the reality with which
they deal, which is not the reality—if
this is a reality—of the executant. An
etcher might spend his life making repro-
ductions of Rembrandt’s pictures, and
make them better and better, but that
would not teach him what Nature looks
like. In order to learn that he would
have to analyse his own impressions.
A piece of the mountain-side near Arthur Streetons home at Olinda
(Vic.), superbly depicted in this example of his work showing at
Melbourne Athenceum.
But he is only engaged in repeating the
analysis of Rembrandt.
And that is what Menuhin is doing.
He has spent his life hitherto in acquir-
ing a very beautiful technique, which
enables! him to copy, almost exactly, the
works of the great masters. But that
does not teach him to think. Most vir-
tuosi, even elderly virtuosi, are bad
thinkers. When they are interviewed
they usually talk nonsense. They are
frightened of the crowd, and try to
placate it. They say they like jazz, and
they are ready to play almost any sort
of music, the good certainly, but also
the bad and indifferent. In private their
conversation is, as often as not, about
whether Argentine railway shares are
better investments than French Gov-
ernment bonds. Creative artists are
different. They believe in themselves, and
in public they talk more like G. B. Shaw
and Wagner and less like Lord Rother-
mere and R. G. Menzies. They are for
the people, but on their own terms, not
the people’s.
Menuhin has as yet not raised music
any more than a photographer of paint-
ings raises painting. If he stopped play-
ing to-morrow music would be where he
found it. If he goes on being a virtuoso
he will play better and better, but when
he retires music will still be in the same
state, as far as he has had anything to do
with it, as when he found it. He is
still unspoiled. He obviously doesn’t care
a damn for the audiences which listen
to him. But he must already feel pretty
sick when he plays the sonata which
Mozart composed when he was 10 or
listens to the “Midsummer Night’s
Dream” overture which Mendelssohn
composed when he was 17.
What will prevent him transcending his
virtuosoship and becoming a composer.
which was a half-wish he expressed to
an interviewer in Melbourne? All sorts
of influences, which are not intentionally
malicious. No doubt he wishes to serve
his parents, and his parents desire his
well-being; but they might define his
well-being in terms of his remaining a
great celebrity, and he might think it in-
considerate of him to oppose their wishes.
Whereas he would show them the
greatest consideration if he refused to
obey them and retired—into a garret, if
that were necessary, and into obscurity,
which would be necessary. The growing
pains of great creative artists, described
in their letters and displayed in their
works, have invariably been due to the
struggle to escape from just such mis-
understood situations.
Naturally, we are all delighted with
Menuhin, and we all feel grateful to him,
for he has given us the most exquisite
emotions. But we should no more set
the present Menuhin up before children
as an end in the art of music than we
should set up the elocutionist as an end
in the art of literature.
F. S.
Film Talk—
and Blither
If I were con-
sidering investing
money in an Aus-
tralian film-pro-
ducing concern I
would make sure,
before putting in the cash, that no one
who spoke, or even thought, as Kathleen
Pitt does (B. 5/6/’35) had the remotest
connection with the business. I would
also insist that it be made a Mede-and-
Persian rule of the company that any-
one heard uttering such an idea as “the
fusion of sound with movement in a
rhythmic unity” or babbling about
“bridging the time-lag between sight
and sound” be warned off the premises
for life.
People full of such ideas have had a defi-
nitely blighting influence on the English
talkie industry. One Andrew Buchanan
published his views on the importance
of “rhythm,” “tempo,” “continuity of
theme,” etc., in book form. Afterwards
I witnessed a practical demonstration of
his theories. It was one of those maga-
zine shorts described on the programme
as “interesting,” and before it was over
the audience burst into howls of derisive
laughter. Somehow, I don’t think that
was the effect Mr. Buchanan expected
to produce.
Hollywood has certainly not neglected
screen technique, and has proved quite
ready to snap up any good ideas or good
men, whether they appear in England,
Germany or Russia; but the commer-
cialised atmosphere of Hollywood has a
powerfully withering effect on those who
regard themselves as cinematic geniuses
solely on the strength of a capacity to
spout unintelligible balderdash. They
are finding the going much harder in
England, too, since it is becoming in-
creasingly possible to set off genuine
achievement against mere talk. As mat-
ters stand in Australia, however, these
individuals constitute a serious menace.
Public enthusiasm for local films is
weakening, and nothing would be more
certain to kill it stone-dead than a couple
of efforts by an earnest devotee of
screenic art.
STAN MORRISON.
What Is
Jazz?
“M.G.’s” re-
cently enunciated
dictum that the
difference be-
tween jazz and
the classics is,
simply, that the former has and the latter
haven’t “tune” may be a legpull, but this
view was once common, though it has
withered considerably under the barrage
of classical music put over by radio
gramophones. “M.G.” doesn’t say what
is meant by “tune,” but current defini-
tions, such as “melody,” “can be
whistled in the street,” “sung in the
bath,” “reaches the heart,” etc., seem to
apply more aptly to the classics,
examples simply swarming to the mind.
An arrangement of musical notes pecu-
liar to jazz might be, for convenience,
termed “choon,” but rhythm, and bar-
baric at that, is the distinguishing mark
of jazz.
J. W. R.
Repertory
Plays (imp.)
During the past
year I have seen
over 30 plays pro-
duced by reper-
tory societies in
Melbourne, and
during the 10 monthsi I spent in Sydney
a year or two ago I saw a considerable
number. Only two were Australian plays
—one in Sydney by Henson and the other
in Melbourne by Judge Beeby. Every
one of the others was imported, and few
of them were as good or as well received
as the Australian examples.
Repertory societies consist largely of
Australian members, choose their casts
from Australian amateur actors
and appeal to Australian audiences,
and yet they are apparently un-
aware that Australian dramatists
exist, though, for plays of the
repertory type, there are drama-
tists here who compare favorably
with the average of any country.
Some years ago Louis Esson
headed an organisation in Mel-
bourne known as the Pioneer
Players. That body produced no-
thing but Australian plays. The
members were enthusiasts, and the
actors played together so long
that they were able to present
something that had a resemblance
to professional productions. Un-
fortunately, the Pioneer Players
went the way of all repertory
organisations—it expired through
effluxion of money. Since then it
is only rarely that any body of the
sort is daring enough to put on the
plays of its own people.
One of Esson’s plays was a poli-
tical satire, “The Time Is Not Yet
Ripe.” Surely the time is ripe for
some society to form on similar
lines and let Australians witness the
dramas of their own playwrights.
M. G.
Current
Artbursts
Arthur Streeton
is not the Peter
Pan of Australian
art, but he con-
tinues to turn
out pictures full
of youth and vigor, as his exhibition at
Melbourne Athenaeum fully demon-
strates. Most striking of these 34 land-
scapes and flower studies in oil is “Thun-
derstorm,” a canvas so blue that,
painted by a lesser man of slightly lesser
ability, it would be fantastic. Streeton’s
touch has made it a work of absolute
beauty—a steep hillside with the har-
monising gradations of the sky reaching
out to infinity, the whole split by the
clean white line of the lightning flash.
“The Mountain Side,” a bit of Olinda
near Streeton’s home, is a magnificent
piece of Australian rugged scenery—
huge logs in the foreground and the
summit of a hill in the distance, half-
cultivated, half left to nature. “Blue
Hills Eastward” is another remarkable
scenic picture, perhaps the most Streeton-
esque in the show, and “Impression
from Nature,” with its dead gums in
the foreground and the lightly-timbered
country receding perfectly till it is cut
by the blue sky, is unforgettable work.
There are pictures of brown head-
lands stretching out into blue seas —the
sort of coastal beauty which Australia
possesses probably above any place in
the world —and a delightful picture of
Puget Sound —warm, green pines in the
foreground and a blue harbor stretch-
ing into nothingness beyond.
There are as many flower studies as
landscapes, roses and zinnias and dahlias
preponderating, all set before harmonis-
ing background and charmingly grouped
in glasses or vases for the greater part
painted with equal skill. One, “A Bunch
of Flowers,” stands apart from the rest
by reason of the fact that, in this in-
stance, the artist appears to have been
experimenting in modernistic treatment.


Take a holidai]
from worn]...
F ORGET all workaday worries. Take a holiday
in sunny Fiji. A bracing sea trip via beautiful
Auckland, N.Z. on a luxurious Union or
Matson liner quickly brings you to this island
Paradise.
Fiji offers delights for every holiday-maker. Marvel-
lous fishing in lagoons and seas of magic colour;
hiking and driving in mountainous scenery through
picturesque native villages; trips to the outlying
islands, Levuka and beautiful Taveuni; an enchant-
ing 250-mile motor drive over good roads on the
lovely island of Viti Levu; swimming, boating, golf,
tennis, bowls and the best of hotel accommodation.
Fiji will be at her best during the coming months.
Get an extra month of summer this year. Post the
coupon and plan your holiday now.
• •
. in
F
fair
IJI
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT
• Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD , Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
I Please send me booklets and pamphfets on
I Fiji and all information regarding travelling
j to, and holidays in Fiji.
I Name - -
j Address
.. say “(JO
IT *
/
setve (J 9; !
Hotels everywhere now have Vat
69, for years favourite whisky of
the connoisseurs abroad. Genuine
Scotch. Matured in wood at least
7 years. Mellow, smooth and
distinctive. Costs no more. Try it.
VAT 69
Pure Liq
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm, Sanderson & Son,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
69.2
An Orderly Essay on This Untidy Subject:—
THE ART OF
BIG GAME HUNTING.
By J B.BLAIR.
THIS is one of the arts that cannot be
practised at home. It is, therefore,
very popular. Probably no other
art leads its devotees so far afield or into
, , ... ,
such dangers, difficulties and vicissitudes
as big-gaming, and probably no other
gives them so small a ictuin.
Anyone who has had the pleasuie of
listening for a couple of hours to a re-
tired big-gamer relating a few of his
minor exploits (hunters, being essentially
modest men, never tell of their really big
efforts) knows that in good elephant-
country it is a common feat for a man
to shoot twenty or thirty elephants a day
for weeks on end, while as for lions-
well, many a man has dispatched a dozen
’ . ..~X u n * u
or so while waiting for the billy to boil.
Yet what have they to show for it? A
couple of tusks hanging over the mantel-
piece and a moth-eaten lionskin hearth-
rug, with one ear chewed off by the pet
Pekinese. Perhaps a few crocodile teeth,
and maybe a pair of sixteen-point antlers
placed in the hall for a hat-rack, but with
an incurable habit of allowing the hats
to slip off on to the floor. It’s a thank-
. mck
Bt„ , t . .. . -
IG-GAME hunting is not a sport for
the average man—it is no game tor
weaklings. The man who would excel
at it must possess an excellent physique,
nerves of steel, a good imagination and a
good memory. He also needs a fair
number of good edible native bearers (or
beaters, if he prefers them) and a certain
amount of big game. Given all these,
plus, of course, provisions and ammuni-
tion, he is ready to begin.
His choice of a field of operations is
fairly wide. There are many suitable
fields, but the most usual ones are Africa,
India, Hollywood and Elstree. Nowadays
the art is mostly practised in the two
last-named places, but before anyone can
pursue the art (or the game) there, it is
necessary for someone else to have pur-
sued it (and, in the case of the game, to
have caught it) in one of the two first-
mentioned places. It will be sufficient,
theref £ confine our atten , ion to
Africa and lndia-
A ERICA was primarily set aside by
jq a ture as a game reserve and stocked
w ith an abundance of elephants, negroes,
buffaloes, lions and other sport-loving
animals. In early times collectors con-
fined their attention to black ivory, but
as men became more squeamish lashions
changed in this, as in all other arts,
Fiona a trophy point of view the negro
was no } a success - Fastidious peop e
f ro * ned upo " f h alps a " d
teeth, although they passed this test all
rfghtj w£re nev£r very satisfactory> as it
was always rather difficult to prove that
tbey hadn’t been picked up at the den-
tist’s. The thing, therefore, was not to
kill but merely to wing your negro, as
there was a considerable demand for live
negroes in America, and to a lesser ex-
tent elsewhere. Ultimately, however, the
American market became saturated,
Whether this was due to a falling off in
the demand or to an increase in local
production is a point that would no
doubt prove of great interest to econo-
mjsts and historians, but is of small con-
cem tQ us
any ra t Cj had the effect of turn-
ing the attention of hunters to bigger
game> it wa s then that lion-hunting came
hito its own.
1 lONS exist in abundance in Africa,
JL hut, according to all the best authori-
ties, the difficulty is to get near enough
to get a shot at them. Lions are most
perverse animals. Their courage is, of
course, proverbial, but few people are
aware of the spirit of aloofness and
haughty disdain with which they regard
mankind, or, rather, that portion of man-
kind which styles its sunbaked skin white.
The lion will attack and slay the savage
wildebeeste, hartebeeste, eland and
springbok, and will even attack a negro
without the slightest provocation, but at
the approach of a white man he is filled
with such an intense loathing and dis-
taste that he' seeks the shelter of the
thickest part of the jungle to avoid the
indignity of meeting him.
The hunter should on no account
follow him into the jungle. Not that he
need fear the danger of meeting any of
the teeming multitudes of predatory
animals that have their home there. He
is, of course, a match for any or all of
them, but the difficulty of dragging the
slain lion out of the thicket is too great.
Instead, he should send a native bearer
to lure the lion out. Once in the open
the lion will seize the bearer, and com-
mence to devour him. This is the
moment the hunter has been waiting for.
Occupied with other matters, the lion has
forgotten all about him, and he must
take advantage of the opportunity, creep
up behind the lion, keeping close to a
handy tree, and let him have both barrels
in the back of the neck. This nearly
always kills the lion, and if the hunter
is quick enough the bearer will still be
alive and may be used again.
Sometimes the lion is not killed by the
shot and makes off with the bearer before
the hunter has time to load again. It is
this sort of thing that makes lion-hunt-
ing so expensive.
Occasionally it may happen that the
lion doesn’t take the bearer. That’s
when the tree comes in handy, because
in these circumstances the lion may not
realise that the hunter is white. One
never knows how long the lion will stay
around the foot of the tree —lions are
very patient at times —so it is always as
well to have a week’s supply of sand-
wiches and a flask of emergency rations
in one’s pocket.
The record tree-wait for Kenya, Tan-
ganyika and Uganda is ten and a half days
from a flying start. This was actually
beaten by a professional pole-sitter from
California, but his performance was not
recognised as he used bird-lime. He was
blackballed by all the clubs in Nairobi,
and was warned out of the colony.
It should be noted that the lion is
shot from behind. Would-be game-
hunters may take it as a cardinal prin-
ciple that all big game should be shot
from the rear. In this way the animal
does not see the hunter. After all, the
idea is to kill the beast, not to frighten
it unnecessarily, and your true big-
gamer, like your true fox-hunter, is
nothing if not humane.
THERE are three exceptions to this rule
—the elephant family and the “i”
animals — i.e., the hippopotami and the
rhinoceri.
The elephant we shall discuss later.
Meanwhile, let us inquire into the best
method of dealing with hippos, and
rhinos. As to the former, a well-known
poet who has apparently indulged in the
sport in his spare time states baldly that
it should be shot with bullets made of
platinum, because, as he so happily
points out.
“....if we use leaden ones
His hide is sure to flatten ’em.”
Although 1 know nothing about poetry
I am prepared to accept that this is very
good verse. It is, nevertheless, very poor
logic, and, I might add, very poor advice
for a would-be hippopotamus hunter.
Of course, 1 have no wish to pose as
an authority on this matter. I am
merely offering the benefit of my small
experience. If anyone wishes to follow
the advice quoted, let him do so
by all means. Let him buy his expen-
sive bullets and sally forth to Africa
full of confidence and hope, and let him
pepper the hippos, to his heart’s con-
tent. By the time he has strewn the
jungle swamps with enough flattened
platinum to set all the diamonds in the
Nizam of Hyderabad’s cellar, perhaps he
will realise that the ability to compose
a beautiful and elegant verse does not
necessarily go hand in hand with a
thorough knowledge of the subject.
Of course you can’t pierce the hippo.’s
hide. Even the hippo, knows that. No,
there is only one way to get him. You
wait until he yawns, then shoot him in
the mouth. Not just anywhere in the
mouth, but right in the centre of the
tonsils. Don’t miss! Your first shot
must do the trick or you won’t get an-
other chance. Shut will go his mouth,
and he won’t open it again, not even if
you stand there all day and tell him
your longest and dreariest stories.
The rhinoceros should be treated in
a similar manner, though he will be
found a little more difficult, since he does
not yawn as frequently as does his
cousin. Nevertheless, a little patience
and a deft shot, and the hunter will have
another trophy to put on the piano.


A.I.F. VERSES.
A Digger has asked the Service
Department to give him a list of
the finest published poems written
about the A.I.F., preferably com-
positions suitable for recitation at
returned-solclier gatherings. The
field is wide, and any list that might
be compiled by an individual would
perhaps miss some of the best
examples. Readers are invited to
pick six; half a dozen original
Bulletin drawings will be awarded
as prizes. Titles and names of
authors should be given, and,
where possible, the source of pub-
lication. Address lists: “Digger
Poems,” Service Department, The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Syd-
ney. Closing date : July 24.
A*Kgr\Cc>cl**» Call
mnißKis
XV/ va Tr&rrrvwmmm*
mk
m
r c
m
i.
Famous visiters from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
advt
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
"LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
303 miles in 7 4 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
National
Advertisers:
LIST
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. ,1. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, JLtd., Adelaide.
INTEREST BEARING
DEPOSITS
Interest is paid on money deposited with the Bank of New
South Wales for fixed periods.
These deposits are known as Fixed Deposits, and may be
lodged for 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
Amounts of £5 and upwards are accepted by any Branch of
the Bank in Australia at the following rates:
Repayable in
3 months
12
24
»
Interest
l|% per annum
-2% „ „
- 21-% „
2-1% „ „
Interest may be withdrawn half-yearly on 12 months and
24 months deposits.
This Bank, the oldest and largest in Australasia, holds over
27% of the total deposits lodged in Australia with the
Australian Trading Banks.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Established 1817)
With which the Western Australian Bank and the Australian Bank
of Commerce Limited are amalgamated.
ill A. 1935
Qvefree
■ ■
earn
f
A
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
IJMON STEAM SHIP
Co., Ltd.,
347 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
caunion
AS to elephants—well, I’ve never had
the heart to shoot an elephant.
There’s something about them that seems
to strike a responsive chord in me—
whether it’s the ears or the feet, I can’t
say.
Still, there are people who feel the
urge to shoot elephants, so a little advice
may be timely. It is not for me to decry
the custom. After all, if a man is rich
enough, and is prepared to risk his life
in the jungle, unprotected except for a
couple of hundred natives and a battery
of 12-gauge guns, I suppose he is en-
titled to shoot an elephant if he feels
that way inclined. So here’s the method.
It’s quite simple.
The native beaters or bearers are sent
forward to irritate the elephant so that
he charges after them. They rush to-
wards the spot where the hunter is in
ambush, followed by the elephant. The
hunter should be careful not to shoot
loo soon. For one thing, he may kill
some of the bearers or beaters, and this
causes a certain amount of discontent
among the others. The other reason
is that the elephant
is almost as heavily
armored as the “i”
animals. Like
them, also, he has
one v u 1 n e rable
spot.
As he rushes for-
ward it will be
noted that his
trunk is extended
before him, and he
raises it slowly up
and down as he
charges. At one
point in its motion
it is at an angle of
forty-five degrees
with the lower lip.
This is the time to
shoot. A bullet
fired at this moment
at the extreme tip
of the trunk will
traverse the entire
length of the trunk
and penetrate into the brain. The ele-
phant will drop dead in, or just ahead
of, his tracks.
BIG-GAMING in India differs to some
extent from the art as practised in
Africa.
The Indian elephant has the good sense
to be on the side of the hunter, so it
isn’t considered sporting to shoot him
if it can be avoided. The tiger is, there-
fore, the chief target.
The first thing to do before going on
safari is to wangle an introduction to a
maharajah, nawab, nizam or begum
who will give you permission to shoot
one of his tigers, and will also lend you
an elephant (or elephants) and a supply
of beaters. The beaters or bearers are
of the same color as those of Africa,
but are more noisy and more numerous.
When a tiger carries one off his screams
can be heard for miles, while his col-
leagues can’t be seen for hours.
In such circumstances it is no use
chasing the tiger. It is better to wait
until a new army of beaters or bearers
can be collected and then try again.
Fortunately, however, the tiger seldom
makes off with his prey, but stops to
devour it on the spot, and while both
he and his victim are absorbed in this
occupation the hunter gets his chance.
The procedure is very similar to that
used on lions, except that the shooting
is done from the top of the elephant.
A word of warning is necessary. Note
carefully which way the tiger’s stripes
run and don't shoot against the grain.
SO much, then, for the actual slaying,
which, it will be noticed, varies but
slightly in essentials, whatever the game.
Always we have the hunter, cool, intre-
pid and resolute, employing none of the
resources of modern science, such as
gas bombs, tanks or high-explosive shells,
but relying solely upon his rifle and sup-
ported merely by native beaters or
bearers, pitting his puny force against
the strength and cunning of the jungle
and coming out on top.
And for what? . . . Certainly not for
personal gain, for the pastime is very
costly, but merely for the joy of the sport
and for the pleasure of presenting
trophies of the chase to his friends.
It is over this matter of trophies, un-
fortunately, that so many mistakes are
made and so many friendships broken.
Suppose, for in-
stance, you have
three elephant
tusks to dispose of
(the fourth having
been already given
to the Jumbo Club
in Nairobi). After
giving them to
Uncle Cedric,
Aunt Emily and
your old school-
mistress respec-
tively, you sud-
d e n 1 y recollect
Great-aunt Esther.
What on earth’s to
be done? Will she
be content with a
tigerskin or must
you go all the way
back to Africa
again? It’s a dif-
ficult problem.
The bestowal of
the trophies is
never pleasing to all parties. Adams, to
whom you give a mounted lion’s head,
is continually being asked whether he
shot it himself, and, being sensitive as
well as honest, it hurts his pride to have
to admit time after time that it is merely
a gift. Gradually he grows to hate both
the head and its donor.
If you keep the things yourself, the
position is not much better. They clutter
up the house, frighten the children, har-
bor moths and silverfish, and (the heads,
not the tusks) look at you with reproach-
ful eyes.
Moreover, the very folk who are pre-
pared to assume that Adams shot his
trophies make no such assumptions in
your case.
“Hullo,” they say, “who gave you
those? Got a friend at the Zoo?”
When you modestly remark that you
shot ’em yourself, they laugh and start
to tell you about the time they climbed
Mt. Everest.
My advice, then, is to leave the
trophies in Africa or India, where they
can cause no trouble, or, at any rate, not
for you.
Not that I believe in big-game hunting
at all.
When / feel the lust to kill surging
within me, I take my gun and my tucker-
bag, hie me out into the scrub and bump
off a few rabbits.
Morning at Wellington.
Thin stone is in this chill wind from the
south ;
Thin stone, an essence of those bleak,
hard hills
That bulk between the town and the cold
surf.
Yes, though it gets its coldness from the
sea
That, snowed with moonlight, icicled
with foam,
Antarctically glistened all night long,
This current, in its planes like panes of
glass
That vertically shear between sheer walls.
Is hardened and made sour with those
huge hills.
As though the sharp spurs jutting through
the grass
Exhale their own dank breath into the
wind.
Like the lean soul of steel, like spinsters’
lips,
It has an acid taste, unhumanised.
I think it will be hard for the young
birds.
And children’s lips will blue because
of it.
If you had ears like mine you’d hear
it now,
Bitter with a thin sound that stone might
make,
And icy with the far-off ocean breaking,
A cataclysm of surf with frost-toned
bells,
Coldly on crag and stone and coldly on
cold shells.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
The Portrait.
With so much night behind you
Bid me to seek no farther,
Lest on the brink of lightless nothingness
My hands should fail to find you.
Bid my dismayed endeavor
Content itself with seeing
You like a flame against such nothingness
Where I possess you never.
Never my hands do reach there —•
As in a chapel praying
Souls turn their bodies towards the
nothingness
Whose comfort they beseech there.
Nor shall a word’s bond bind you,
Nor I to you he taken ;
You outwards lean beyond my nothing-
ness
With so much night behind you.
N.S.VV.
K. M.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
coundess delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
ill
mu
m
i iiiiiiUH mm
Tfi
i'i 11
v :\
ilm.
ii wrm null
\
T HEN you invest in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Nature is your partner in
producing profits.
Pine, the product of Nature, has over
4000 commercial uses.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. is the world’s
largest commercial afforestation com-
pany.
Amount subscribed for
Forestry Investment exceeds
Reserves—for maintenance
and realisation exceed
£3,800,000
£900,000
Area Planted 156,413 acres,
over 100,000,000 trees.
N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS LTD.
Head Office for Australia
KEMBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET STREET,
SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
CROW
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED*
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Depicting a Slightly Awkward Situation:—
A FAUX PAS.
By MERVYN SKIPPER.
FOUR officers of H.M.S. Flyingfox,
engaged in surveying the coast of
Borneo, are standing on the veran-
dah of the cable quarters at Pulau Anu
staring at each other in consternation,
and their hosts are looking at them
with expressions of guilt, anger and dis-
may upon their faces. Through the
doors of the messroom Chinese servants
can be seen laying a long table for
dinner.
“Well, I’m damned,” says a tall officer
whose head is tied in a bandage. “That’s
cooked it!”
“Cooked it, absolutely,” a little youth
with the stripes of a sub-lieutenant says,
and lets out an explosive laugh.
“There’s nothing to be done but go
elsewhere,” says one who carries the
badges of a ship’s doctor. “It’s against
the regulations for us to sit at the same
table with a rating.”
The* cable clerks shrug their shoulders,
shake their heads tragically and direct
looks of fury at a bedroom from which
comes the sound of a rich baritone voice
singing lustily.
“What a faux pas," says one of the
clerks.
“We can assure you,” says another,
“that we didn’t know he was going to
invite the quartermaster.”
“That’s right,” says another. “Barker
did it on his own initiative. He doesn’t
know any better, the outsider. That’s
the worst of these chaps who come here
from counter-jumping in London.”
The singing in the bedroom ceases.
Barker emerges dressed in a white mess-
jacket and a scarlet cummerbund.
He is a stocky little man, sticks his
chest out as he walks, throws his legs
out like a cavalryman dismounted, and
is twirling a moustache of military pat-
tern. He smiles and nods at the officers,
looks defiantly at the cablemen, and goes
down the steps into the garden, whistling.
Presently two pairs of feet can be heard
scraping on gravel, and by a common
impulse the four officers and their hosts
retreat and face round in a group as
far from the steps as possible.
Barker’s moustache reappears, followed
by a thin white face and a pointed beard
and carefully-trimmed black moustaches.
Black Beard salutes. Barker grins shame-
facedly. Both have been drinking.
THERE is now no escape for the
officers. The party files into the mess-
room. There is a loud scraping of chairs
and then silence. The mess president
stamps his foot, and a long frilled cloth
like a woman’s skirt which hangs over
the table jumps violently and then com-
mences swinging rhythmically. The
Chinese servants silently place plates of
soup in front of the diners.
There are bottles of sherry and beer
upon the table, and the head “boy”
moves about with a tray of whisky-sodas.
Barker fills two glasses with sherry,
hands one to the quartermaster, who is
sitting next to him, and clinks glasses
with him. He helps him to whisky and
then to beer. The quartermaster wipes
his beard, lifts the glass of beer and
looks at the mess president.
“Your very good health, sir,” he says.
The mess president smiles and nods,
and takes a sip at his whisky.
A silence falls. The “boys” shuffle to
and fro, their slippers scraping softly on
the bare boards of the messroom. The
head “boy” stands behind the mess
president’s chair with his head quite
still, but his eyes darting hither and
thither watching the “boys” and the
plates of the diners. Now and then a
fork or a knife, pushed over by an elbow,
rings on the floor, and a “boy” darts
up, gathers it into a napkin and bears
it off to the kitchen, returning presently
with a fresh one. The officer with the
bandaged head leans sideways and begins
talking to his next-door neighbor in a
whisper. The hair of the diners rises and
falls rhythmically in the wind raised by
the swinging punkah.
«THIS is a nice little place you’ve got,
* sir,” says the quartermaster sud-
denly, looking round the bare white
walls of the messroom.
“Yes, it’s a nice place,” says the mess
president.
“And a nice little island,” goes on the
quartermaster, raising his voice a little
and taking a quick glance at Barker.
“Yes, the island is quite nice,” agrees
the mess president.
The youthful officer suddenly snorts,
coughs, blows his nose and then looks
solemn.
“A nice little island,” says the
quartermaster, turning his eyes on the
youthful officer. “And a lot of nice
people on it. Nice gentlemen and nice
ladies. And a nice little ship we’ve
brought to it to entertain you. A nice
little ship. And as nice a lot of men
aboard her as you’d wish to see, sir. Real
British tars, sir. And a nice little climate
to bring them up in. Ninety-five degrees
moist between decks at night, sir. Just
like a Turkish bath, sir. We don’t need
to wash; the sweat washes the dirt off,
sir.”
“Is that so?” says the mess president.
“That’s so, sir,” says the quarter-
master, speaking more rapidly. “I
wouldn’t tell you anything but the gospel
truth, sir, so help me! A nice lot of
men. All sons of the sea, a hundred and
twenty of ’em, sir, sleeping pretty in their
’ammicks in their silk pyjamas. Or they
would sleep, sir, if it wasn’t for the
prickly ’eat and the mosquitoes and the
dhoby itch and for thinking of ’ow un-
happy the officers are in their wardroom
with their electric fans and their mos-
quito-nets and their cool drinks and ice-
cream and champagne to drink the ’ealth
of his Majesty, God bless ’im,” and he
fills Barker’s glass and his own and
clinks with him.
“But we’re not complaining, sir,” goes
on the quartermaster, turning his gaze"
back to the mess president. “Strike me
dead, we’re not. We’re loyal subjects
of his Majesty. We like to do our duty.
We like it. And it’s not all work in the
navy, sir, not by a long chalk. ‘Ail work
and no play makes Jack a dull boy,’
say the officers. So every Saturday
at noon, as regular as clockwork, they
bring the ship into your pretty little
harbor and they send us ashore, eighty
of us at a time, sir, to take our pleasures
as we find ’em, just like themselves, sir.
We have all the afternoon to ourselves,
sir, to walk about the island and look
over the hedges at the officers playing
tennis and talking to the English ladies.”
He wipes his beard on his napkin,
glances at Barker, and then fixes his eyes
again on the mess president.
“And then there’s Eng Watts’s saloon.
If his beer is as bad as his billiard-table
that’s not the officers’ fault, is it, sir?
And the officer of the watch don’t put us
in clink afterwards, sir—not unless we’re
fighting drunk, sir ; he’s too good-
hearted.”
HE drains his glass again, bangs it down
on the table, and, raising his voice,
continues.
“There’s not much female society on
this island of yours for us poor sailor-
men, but that’s not the officers’ fault
either, and what there is we make the
best of.
“And we’re sorry for the officers, poor
gentlemen. They get the worst of it,
stuck in our company. They have to
sit all day in the ship’s boats in the
sternsheets under an awning with nothing
to look at but the sailormen’s ugly faces
while they pull them round to inspect
the angles. So you can’t blame an
officer if he gets bad-tempered and sar-
castic and talks in Latin to an able
seaman with a silly-looking face and no
education to speak of.
“How does he know that the sailor’s
sick and doesn’t like to report it for
fear they’ll dock his wages? And if the
sailor goes up behind him in the chart-
room afterwards and gives him a clout
over the head with a belaying-pin—why,
that’s against the regulations.
“That’s what happened on a ship I
was in once, sir,” and the quartermaster
takes his eyes off the mess president and
transfers them to the officer with the
bandaged head for a moment. “Arid
what happens to the officer? They
send him ashore, and the English ladies
make a fuss over him and cook him
invalid dishes, poor fellow. And what
happens to the able seaman? They clap
him in irons, and send him to Singapore,
and give him eight years with a lot of
niggers for assaulting an officer. And
serve him right, sir, for not knowing on
what side his bread was buttered.”
The quartermaster looks at Barker,
wipes his face, and sticks a fork into the


FARM PRODUCTION
Assisted By Banking Facilities
The annual value of Australia’s farming and pastoral industries is
estimated at: —
Agricultural
Pastoral . . .
Dairying, etc
£73,500,000
65.300.000
41.400.000
.£180,200,000
The development of these great land industries to their present
efficiency has been assisted by adequate banking facilities. These
facilities include loans for clearing, cultivation, cropping, purchases of
stock and machinery, etc. When products are marketed, the Banks
finance a large proportion of the purchases. When goods arc
exported, they make the purchase money immediately available here.
The distribution of the proceeds of sale is readily and economically
effected through branches of Banks in all country districts.
The National Bank is closely associated with rural production and
marketing. It has 430 offices in Australia and two in London.
9 he
National Bank
of Australasia Limited
Capital Paid'up, £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund (used in the business), £3,000,000.
r
j
m
iW
•X
m
Ik
>l>ColliimS
SoDudJKbKy
SiTJ I§l/sM£
i
Wa
%
M
Distributors for the House oj McCollum:
Goldsbrough, More & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son -
Macfarlane Bros, and Co.
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
r s
Shaves
with guard, 16/-
with guard, 19/-
with guard, 24/6
The Razor that Really
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6;
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6;
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-;
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLiUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin,, fin. and |in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 1407-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All arc set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
fowl that has been placed before him.
Then he suddenly starts shouting.
“And the officers have their pleasures,
100. Don’t you worry, sir. When they’re
in the wardroom waiting for their dinner,
and they’ve got friends with them, and
they're wondering how to entertain them,
they say, ‘Tggins! Where’s ’lggins?
Send for little Iggins!’ Arid ’lggins is
sent for. And ’lggins comes in and salutes,
and stands at attention, and they say,
‘Have a glass of stout, Tggins.’ And
Tggins says, ‘Thank you, sir ; don’t mind
if 1 do, sir.’ And Tggins has his glass of
stout, and then they say, ‘Now, Tggins,
tell us about how you went bathing with
the Admiral’s daughters in Hong* Kong,’
and Tggins tells that story. And then
they say, ‘Now tell us the one about the
young joiner and his fianccy that was
going to ’ave a baby, and what ’appened
when they came aboard the Iron Duke at
Portsmouth on visitors’ day.’ So Tggins
tells them that one. Then they say,
‘Tggins, ’ave another glass of stout,
Tggins.’ And Tggins ’as one. And then
he starts to tell them a new one to pay
for the glass of stout, when one of the
officers says, ‘Thank you, quartermaster.
That’ll do. You can go, quartermaster.’
And Tggins springs smartly to attention,
salutes, and says ‘Thank you, sir,’ and
turns sharply on ’is ’eels and goes back
to 'is end of H.M.S. Floating Palace.
Officers’ jester! That’s what ’lggins is
to them, blast them!”
And with hatred and fury in his face
the quartermaster looks round at the
silent diners, at the silent servants and
then seizes a spoon and thrusts it into
his pudding.
THE officer with the bandaged head
signs to his brother officers and they
rise simultaneously, shake hands with
the mess president and walk out of the
messroom. All the clerks except Barker
jump up and follow them on to the
verandah, uttering cries of commiseration
and apology.
In the messroom the quartermaster
sits with his face buried in his hands
and his head swaying from side to side
as if he were suffering from toothache.
Barker is sitting beside him with a be-
wildered smile on his face, patting his
shoulders with one hand while he tries
to put pudding into his mouth with the
other. The head “boy,” an old man of
65, stands oscillating gently on his feet
and gazing at the while men with a fixed
smile on his face which shows that he
has noticed nothing extraordinary in the
occurrences of the evening. The punkah
gradually slows down and comes to a
standstill.
An Engaging Light Yarn:-
THE TERROR OF
COOKS CREEK.
BY DONALD THOMAS FRANCIS.
YOU may recall the newspaper hys-
teria of “The Terror of Cook’s
Creek.” It was the news for three
days while they squeezed out of it the
last drop of emotional interest.
They printed columns about the “re-
mote inaccessibility of the region” and
the “mystery animal whose intensive
depredations are terrorising the district.”
They said that “brave men went armed,
women fainted and dogs howled at night
when the Terror was abroad.”
One of the dailies even published a
“reproduction by a staff artist, from de-
scriptions given by eyewitnesses.” The
drawing of the animal, if animal it
could be called, resembled a sabre-
toothed tiger, with more than a hint of
bunyip.
It was exciting while it lasted. Then
a shipping strike and a Nazi reign of
terror drove it from prominence.
Then, a few months later, it was sud-
denly resurrected when some trappers in
the Cook’s Creekj district caught an out-
size in wombats. The headlines shrieked
that this was the solution to the mystery.
Back at Cook’s Creek old Mike
Rooney raved about “the sons of
who wrote such muck.”
His rage was understandable, for the
journalists in their ingenious solution had
overlooked the harmlessness of the “pig.”
Rooney said, with numerous expletives
and admirable logic, “Does a wombat
look like a ‘sinister, slinking shape’?
Would a wombat disembowel a sheep?
Bah!”
He said, also, that he would write to
the papers, giving his version of the
affair. But he did not. Nobody with
any first-hand information ever did. They
were too busy combating the scourge,
for, though part of the story had been
merest drivel, the stock-owners really
were worried.
They loaded their guns and their rifles
and held nightly vigils in the paddocks,
but all they ever shot were a few walla-
bies that had leaped the fences in the
dark.
They set gruesome-looking traps, with
jagged, interlocking teeth, that a hardware
salesman had assured them were used
in the American Rockies for catching
grizzly bears. But when Rooney’s grey
gelding broke a foreleg and Tom Miller’s
newchum rouseabout sued his employer
for “injuries received” the practice was
discontinued.
They laid poison baits, but, though
dead goannas dotted the ground for days
afterwards, the killer still made its
rounds.
THEN Pietro Pandolini came to the dis-
* trict in a great red and gilt waggon,
with his wife and family and an assort-
ment of men’s haberdashery. And be-
cause the family were different from the
usual itinerant hawkers Rooney bought
four silk shirts that he didn’t require and
invited the family to tea that night.
Mrs. Rooney plied them with food
until the stomachs of the four children
were as taut as drums, until plump, pretty
Carlotta and dark, lithe Pietro held up j
restraining hands.
“Ah, but you are too good,” they pro-
tested.
Mrs. Rooney’s wrinkled, brown face
flushed with pleasure.
“Oh, go on with you!” she said.
“There’s plenty more where that came
from. Just a bit more pie and cream.”
Rooney told them about the mystery
animal.
“Never been anything like it,” he
roared, “since an Alsatian-staghound
cross turned killer. But, cripes, this is
heaps worse. Mangles as many as forty
sheep in a night. Nobody’s seen it close.
Some say it’s brown; others, grey or
black.”
Pietro wiped his lips with his serviette
—Mrs. Rooney’s concession to her
guests.
“It would be worth,” he said softly, in
his slow, precise English, “much money
to the man who killed such an animal?”
“Money?” spluttered Rooney, looking
like an overgrown ginger tomcat as he
licked the cream from his whiskers;
“there’s thousands in it.”
“Mike” gasped his wife. “Now
you”
“Well, hundreds, then,” he amended.
“If I were to kill it?” Pietro showed
small, white teeth in a sudden smile.
“You?”
ROONEY’S grey eyes, pouched in
great folds of red flesh, flickered
amusedly over the little man, who un-
consciously straightened himself in his
chair.
“You?” Rooney laughed outright.
Pietro raised thick, black eyebrows.
“Pardon,” he said stiffly, “I did not”
Mrs. Rooney glowered at her husband. |
“You’ve got no manners, you hooligan,”
she said. “You don’t want to take no
notice of the old silly,” she apologised to
her guests. “Can’t see a joke without
killing himself laughing.”
“But I did not,” Pietro frowned, “I did
not joke.”
“Eh!” roared Rooney when he was
convinced of the seriousness of the
other’s request. “Couldn’t think of it.
You’d be just big enough to make it a
mouthful for breakfast. Ever done any
wild-animal hunting?”
“No, it is true. But”
“There you are,” said Rooney tri-
umphantly, turning to Mrs. Pandolini.
“Aren’t I right, missus?”
“Pietro,” Carlotta gave a dimpled
smile, “he do not kill them—he tame
them.”
“Eh?” Rooney looked first at the
woman, then at her now-smiling huS- |
band.
“In the circus,” she explained, “he
work the cats.”
“Cats?” Rooney snorted. “They’re no ,
wild animals.”
“Not the pussycat,” she shook her
head, “but the lion, the tiger, the leopard.
(Continued on next page.)


NEW •
MARKETS
6AM brings new markets within
your reach. Hitherto many of the
pastoral, mining, and farming areas
were not served by any medium.
Now the advertiser can reach these
markets with a regularity that only
6AM can give.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
AViiliam Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
&
N 5
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day- of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
k
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“THE ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THU AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant ami
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative;
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 .Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE FIRST SHOT
in any
Advertising Campaign
should be fired in the
Perth?s Leading Weekly —
the journal with the
HOME Circulation
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
He is Signor Pandolini, world greatest
animal trainer. You see?”
“Then how did you come to leave it?”
“The circus—he is dead,” she shrugged,
“but one must live. There are the little
ones”
“You in it, too?”
Pietro smiled, bowed to his" wife, waved
a graceful hand to and fro in the air.
“Signorina Carlotta —the incomparable
aerialist. The trapeze,” he explained!
Rooney said, “ ’Stru-uth! What d’you
know about that!”
Pietro leaned forward across the table.
“Your offer—it was not idle talk?”
“Gripes, no.” Rooney’s thumped fist
rattled the dishes. “It’s” He pushed
back his chair. “Well, just a minute, now.”
HIS heavy boots clumped across the
linoleum-covered floor to the hall.
He made many calls on the telephone,
in a bellowing voice that seemed not
to need any mechanical intervention.
Presently he returned to the table,
cleared a space before him, perched a
pair of steel-rimmed spectacles on the
end of his large nose and figured labori-
ously on the back of an old envelope.
At last he raised his head.
“Two hundred’s the highest we can
go. Each of us what’s lost stock is put-
ting something in.”
“Two hundred pounds,” smiled Pietro.
“You are too kind.”
“Two hundred pounds!” Carlotta
raised plump, expressive hands. “The
saints be praised! Now we buy the shop.”
Rooney guffawed, “You haven’t caught
it yet.”
“A trifle,” Pietro snapped his fingers.
“To-morrow I start. And in a fortnight
—no, a week —I bring to you this killer.
And he will eat out of your hand like
the little pussy.”
“Never mind about no taming busi-
ness,” Rooney grinned; “bring me its
hide, and I’ll be satisfied.”
“It’s hide, then,” the other agreed. “But
first,” he paused, “it is permitted that my
wife camp on your land while I am
away?”
“Camp nothing,” said Rooney.
Pietro stared ; Carlotta looked down.
“Camp nothing,” chuckled Rooney,
proud of the sensation he was causing.
“There’s room for the missus and the
kids up at the house.”
NEXT morning Pietro made a tour of
inspection of the Rooney paddocks.
He rode the bay mare as if he were born
to the saddle, for, as he said simply to
his host, “Before I am animal trainer I
am roughrider and sharpshooter in the
Wild West Show.”
Rooney, who was past all feeling of
surprise, made no comment.
There were traces on the ground that
made Pietro frown wonderingly; there
were tracks that caused his heart to beat
faster.
His eyes were shining and his voice
exultant as he turned to Rooney.
“Now, I know. Soon I have him for
you.”
Rooney’s beard hid his smile. He
pointed a ginger-haired hand in front of
him. “See them hills?”
Pietro squinted his eyes against the
glare of the sun. The hills stretched,
dark-green and sinister, as far as the
eye could see.
“All that’s virgin bush,” Rooney con-
tinued. “Not a house or road. Only a
few rough tracks. And that goes on for
Gawd knows how many miles. That’s
what the papers call the ‘Lair of the
Terror.’ Now do you see why we
haven’t caught it before this? Not so
sure of yourself now, eh?”
Pietro smiled; “It come from there?”
“Huh! Nowhere else it could come
from.”
“Into here—your land?”
“Gripes, yes, and into other people’s,
too. Haven't I”
“Then,” Pietro smiled again, “it is
only necessary that I find where it enter
your land. That will not be difficult.”
“Oh, no,” scoffed Rooney, “not at all.
There’s only a few thousand acres for
you to look over.”
But Pietro’s eyes were already roving
over the near-by hills. “In there,” he
waved his hand—“in there, with your
help, I shall build my trap. Then, the
good Lord willing, I shall bring you this
animal.”
AN the sixth night the little man sat
in the crotched lower branch of a
great tree, a repeating rifle across his
knees and a cramped, dull ache in his
own limbs. He was watching, as he
had done for five other sleepless nights,
the improvised cage in the clearing some
fifty yards away.
The trap was composed of strong, up-
right saplings embedded in the earth,
with cross-bars of lighter wood.
It had two compartments—the inner
one baited with a live bull calf —and a
dead-fall door. Its construction, under
Pietro’s direction, had tested the in-
genuity of Rooney and half a dozen
interested assistants ; and it had proved,
with one of the men acting as the killer,
crudely efficient.
The first three nights had been totally
void of results. On the fourth and fifth,
however, he had sensed rather than seen
the killer, for the night had been moon-
less.
But the sounds—the habitual noc-
turnal sounds that had characterised his
previous vigils—had been stilled. And,
though by that hush he knew that the
hunter was abroad, nothing had
approached near him or the trap.
To-night was no different from the
others —nothing, as yet.
Then, sharply, his heart began to beat
faster. The hitherto silent calf had com-
menced bawling. It was not bellowing
caused by loneliness; clearly it was
actuated by shrill fear.
PIETRO smiled, and slowly, cautiously
bent forward and peered through the
screen of leaves at the scene ahead.
As he watched, a form materialised
out of the darkness near the trap. The
animal must have been sniffing at the
opposite side of the cage, the part which
housed the live bait, and it was the
proximity of its enemy that had caused
the terror of the calf.
“Two hundred pounds,” gloated Pietro
as he watched the shadowy shape circle
the trap.
“Two hundred pounds!” he yelled
exultantly as he leaped to the ground
the instant that the animal entered the
doorway and touched the trip-line that
brought the log-weighted door thudding
down.
“Ho! Mr. Killer,” he shouted before
he flashed the beams of his electric
torch through the interstices of the trap.
“This is”
He paused. Outlined against the bars
of the cage was a snarling, spitting,
tawny fury—a full-grown lioness.
There was something about the head,
about the eyes that
“Ella!” he cried as he sprang to the
pulley arrangement that raised the heavy
door of the cage.
THE lioness came out slowly. He went
* to meet her, holding out his hands
in welcome.
“Ella. My poor little one.”
He knelt down. She came to him and
brushed against him like a big cat, then
lay belly-down before him.
He scratched her rough head, and
she rolled over on her back and made
dabs at him with her sheathed paws.
She was old. She had been old when
he first worked her in Morgan’s circus.
She had been much older when she had
saved his life, when the leopard mauled
him more than a year ago. For Ella had
been attached to him as wild animal
seldom is to trainer.
Carlotta had told him, at his bedside
in the city hospital, that the lioness had
stood over him when he fell and had
fought off the other occupants of the
cage until the attendants had dragged his
unconscious body to safety.
There had been weary, recuperative
weeks before he, Carlotta and the chil-
dren had been able to rejoin the circus.
He had returned to find that during his
absence his animals, which really be-
longed to Morgan, though he had long
since regarded them as his own, had
been destroyed—burned.
Other circus positions had been hard
to find, and, their only possessions their
scant savings and the gaudy caravan that
was their home, they had been forced
to adopt their present occupation.
He knew now what Morgan had been
afraid to tell—that, though five lions
were housed in individual cages, only
four carcasses had been found. The
fifth was Ella.
And when he thought more deeply it
was not so remarkable. The circus had
been only fifty miles from here when the
fire had occurred.
<<yOU are bad girl, Ella,” he scolded,
* “to kill the poor little sheep.”
Her rough tongue rasped his hand.
Two hundred pounds!
He reached for the rifle, gestured
towards the lioness,
“Go!” he commanded, and she leaped
the rifle as if it were the stick in their
circus act.
“Go! ” he shouted.
He raised his arms, and she placed her
paws lightly on his shoulders to be
waltzed around and around.
“Go!”
He stamped his feet and momentarily
stood with his legs wide apart. Deliber-
ately, she forced her way between his
outstretched legs. In the circus, that had
always been a laugh-producing scene, for
the lioness was bulky and Pietro’s legs
were short, so that the act ended with
him riding insecurely on her strong
back.
In desperation, he fired the rifle—
wide. She vanished like a tawny shadow,
with nothing to tell that she had been
there but the animal smell that clung
to his' clothes.
ROONEY came at midday. With him
were Carlotta on a black stallion
and the four children on a broad-
backed draught horse. There were other
people, too, whom he did not know,
but whom he noted mechanically.
“I have failed,” he told Carlotta ; “we
go.”
He would tell her later about Ella, and
rhe would understand, as she always
did.
“We stay,” smiled his wife. “The
good Mr. Rooney, he offer you the job
to look after the horse, the pig. It will
be good for the children here. They
will grow big and strong.”
Rooney cast a roguish glance at the
gaping cage. “You and your trap!” His
stomach shook with suppressed laugh-
ter. “Haw! Haw! ”
“Mr. Rooney,” gasped Pietro, feeling
that he must, no matter what the conse-
quences, tell the other the truth, “Mr.
Rooney, please”
Rooney mistook his motive. “Oh!
Never mind, son,” he said seriously, “I
didn’t mean to get your goat. Wasn't
your fault you couldn’t catch it. But,”
turning to one of the men behind him,
“show him what you’ve got, Bill.”
Bill gave a disparaging grin.
Silently, he cut the draw-string of the
sack that lay across his saddle and
tipped the contents on to the ground.
Pietro stared at the tawny form thus
revealed.
But it was not Ella.
The body was larger than a wolf, with
discolored tongue lolling between cruel
teeth.
“This is?” he asked as he stirred the
carcass with his foot.
“Dingo,” explained Bill. “Biggest I’ve
ever seen. Didn’t know there was any
at all in this part of the State.”
“ ’Struth,” muttered Rooney, jerking
his thumb in the direction of the bush,
“Gawd knows what’s in there. Gawd
only knows.”


Treat CAU SE
not 4 Sumbtom
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
PRICE
13
PER BOTTLE
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found the
remedy that gets at the cause. They give you clean Bowels,
a healthy Stomach, and stimulate the Liver and Kidneys. For
Biliousness, Dizziness, Constipation, Sick Headaches, and such
complaints, arising from Imperfect Digestion, Sluggish Liver,
and Inactive Kidneys, they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morse's
vim
m
MADE IN AUSTRALIA—BY AUSTRALIANS—FOR AUSTRALIANS
WORMS
THEIR SYMPTOMS AND
TREATMENT .
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and
biting, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very dis-
tressing. Sympathetic with this is a sen-
sation of itching at the nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The
Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite
is exceedingly variable; in some cases
natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The Abdomen
is often hard, swollen and tympanetic,
the breath heavy and foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste, and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend be-
yond the Alimentary Canal, and various
derangements of health are experienced
in consequence, either of the direct irri-
tation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Amongst
the most common of these are nervous
affections, such as fretfulness, irritation
of temper, wakefulness or disposition to
excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the-
eyelids.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to give the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will afford ample proof.
1
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal pre-
paration, compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the Intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have
no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on the
contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney, and 6 Parish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price 2/- per packet (6 packets
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
/>-v
.6°
A'®
■tAt
.-**’ Al^ xC<b t
. (S .° .;•- ..-•
S° ,
d. *l)^


:v£: :
' . l
' -/it
REMEMBER
' /■ ‘ '
v >V" ..-."'
Papular
i
k
the guaranteed Ist
grade petrol sold at
the ordinary stan-
dard grade price
PLUS [+] POWER ... MINUS H KNOCK
THE COMMONWEALTH O/L REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government & Anglo • Persian Oil Co. Ltd.) MELBOURNE . SYDNEY .AD
