

w|
% ,/ 1
¥ W*'
mm
mm r >,
Z&: :> ■
' ' J
\wA ■' i
3^
' 5
5 m
liaSTOji
y
' <# 5
?H.£
% % I
R9E ’
Hr.N
? :
P ,
i &
UORAv9
ii'f:
N i
'
&, .*m .♦
xf&ißi&WvW*
: ; ; v:-; :
a
v* ' :
* i *
\ ■>
\ L -
• -4. ■ ‘I
VJ V
S>v • -Vi? ■ ww&feuf
&m.
Hi
A -f-Yi-'Wfc
SENSATIONAL
ARREST/ky
TEXACO
& mil.
• SW V„\
& free *»
Si
\
m
ll||||
m
••••••;•..
ifili
IPS
Wove
Mi
M 01.485
THE SUPERINTENDENT, N3O
ANTI-FRICTION SQUAD.
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
(Incp. in N.S.IV.)
BOX 1593 88, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please send me Free Pistol Novelty and copy of Booklet ‘Stop Thief,” ■
with no obligation on my part.
See Full Story on Page 5
The Bulletin
First Instalment of“ Tiburon”
Vol. 56.—N0. 2899.
Wednesday, September 4, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ẃ
Learn
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklets explaining how to Write for Profits os
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135 ......
ẅ
w
ŵ
The Red Page
Vogue
of the
Thriller
Gaboriau and
Poe, Wilkie
Collins and Le
Fanu began some-
thing like a social
revolution when
they took to
crime fiction about three-quarters of a
century ago. They have provided, among
them, models for the countless detective
stories which are being published in
England, America, Europe and else-
where year by year. Many, of course,
derive from Sherlock Holmes, but Conan
Doyle’s creation might never have seen
the light but for Gaboriau (“Le Crime
d’Orcival”) and Poe (“The Purloined
Letter”), Modern thrillers fall naturally
into three or four main classifications.
Meiosis
One of the
most satisfying
that the writer
has encountered is Malice Afore-
thought, which Gollancz published about
four years ago. The author, Francis lies,
took a repressed little doctor and showed
him changing into a fiend while remain-
ing outwardly as mild as ever. An
atmosphere of horror is achieved in such
works by understatement. Wilkie Collins
was an adept at it; so is Mrs. Belloc
Lowndes. Alice Campbell, whose Keep
Away from Water has just been pub-
lished by Collins at 7s. 6d., belongs to
their school. Her latest isn’t so effective-
either in suspense or in characterisation
as The Click of the Gate, but it achieves
its aim. The most dangerous of the
characters is the sort of person many of
us number among our acquaintances—
with the difference that he has an under-
lying bent for murder. These are the
criminals who give the police most
trouble, and who may escape if they
don’t make some fatal error. The friends
of genial little Dr. Crippen might never
have suspected him if he had buried his
wife’s clothes with her remains. Those
who knew the overdressed woman
couldn’t believe that she had left without
her finery.
Miss Campbell employs a formula
which detracts from the naturalism of
her style ; her finales are wildly melo-
dramatic. Malice Aforethought finished
on a flat note —one of those ironical anti-
climaxes that often ring the curtain down
on life’s tragedies. Frank Walford’s
Twisted Clay, a masterly essay in the
macabre with an Australian setting, had
a similar ending.
Lunacy
No writer has
seen further into
the mind of a
hat e-crazed neurotic than Poe. “The Cask
of Amontillado” inspired many stories
about murder for revenge, or merely for
the joy of murder, when it appeared
nearly a century ago, and the charm still
works. Nigel Morland’s The Moon
Murders (Cassell ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.)
contains an assassin whose technique is
calculated to freeze any normal marrow.
Jennie Withers dies in the first chapter:
A burst of stilted laughter broke the
silence. The laughter rose to the horrible
cadence of hysteria—then Something stood
in the doorway.
The woman gasped—she was incapable
of screaming—as she cowered at the sight
of this evil Thing, a Thing that took the
guise of human form.... The dreadful
laughter broke out again, and the Thing
spoke in a high, shrill voice which placed
the last weird seal on a something too
revolting for human reason.
“Only the ‘Man from the Moon,’
m’dear —come to take you to Hell.”
A promising beginning, but the writer
can’t keep it up.
Comic
Detectives
Failing that
rarest of gifts, a
capacity for sus-
tained gruesome-
ness, scores of
thriller - manufac-
lurers in England and America have
fallen back on comic detectives. A. E.
W. Mason, Agatha Christie and several
others possess the equivalent of patent
rights in French policemen who com-
bine a moron inability to understand
simple English idioms with startling
acumen. The Americans run to freaks
of local origin ; one is so fat that he has
to achieve his triumphs by feats of pure
reason performed within a yard or so of
his beer-cellar; others collect and
learnedly discuss antiques or pictures.
Mr. Morland’s new book introduces the
fust female of the species—Mrs. Pym.
Palmyra Pym is one of those elderly
ladies to whom the Yard turns naturally
in emergencies. Toward the end of
the book she is found in charge of a
fleet of C.I.D. cars.
“That was the ‘Man from the Moon,’ ”
Mrs. Pym rasped at Shott. “Give me your
gun.”
Shott did so, and six shots roared up
the stairs, fanning every corner....
Mrs. Pym drew a magazine of shots
from her pocket, rose to her feet, and
went grimly upstairs.
On the first landing she fired the auto-
matic in all directions, then took a flash-
light from Kelly and turned it on the
floor.
Tod Boyle lay sprawled on his back,
his face practically shot to pieces.
We shall meet Mrs. Pym and her
gooseberry-trimmed hat again. Comic
detectives never die.
King and
Empire
The late Wil-
liam le Queux
was the first to
tell novel-readers
what was going
on in the Chan-
celleries. E. Phillips Oppenheim fol-
lowed suit, and there are now so many
experts on the subject that Continental
dictators and their Courts live in a per-
manent blaze of literary limelight. We
have all met Kuhnreich, of Sydney
Horler’s Lord of Terror (Collins; 7s.
6d.), under one alias or another. Kuhn-
reich, dictator of Ronstadt:
A fanatic, a megalomaniac, but a
Power-one of those dynamos of energy,
resolution and ruthlessness who are
thrown up every so often and who are
able to lead both their fellow-men and
nations in chains.
Kuhnreich is associated this time with
Vivanti—“one of the most dangerous
enemies with whom Great Britain has
ever had to contend.” Sir Brian Ford-
inghame (Chief of the Y.I. Branch of
British Intelligence) goes so far as to
stigmatise Vivanti as “the most evil man
that perhaps has ever lived, and when I
say that I don’t except even the Borgias.”
Thrillers in this genre are not rightly
eligible for membership of the Crime
Club, being more concerned with Boy
Scout virtues than underworld vices.
The evildoers are no more than foils for
right-thinking Britons who have been to
the best schools.
Man with Four Lives, by William
Joyce Cowen (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.), is
different in ways from the normal King
and Empire thriller, which Js essentially
a healthy adventure yarn. It has the
makings of a good ghost story, and there
are battle pieces that smoke with human
blood and entrails, but basically it is just
another study of “Ouida” guardsmen
brought up to date.
The narrator, a soldier, is in the
National Sporting Club in ’l4 when the
referee announces that all officers present
must rejoin their units (“Transportation
warrants will not be necessary. God
Save the King!”).
Someone started the National Anthem
in a deep, throaty voice. Every man
joined in. Every head up. Members.
Guests. Referee. Boxers. Seconds.
“....Send him victorious,
Happy and glorious.
Long to reign over us,
God save our King.”
The end is in the same vein.
I proposed the toast.
“The sons. The old sons. The new
sons. English. Gerriian. French. The
sons that did. The sons that will do.”
We drank to that.
. Then Chilton proposed ‘the last toast.
With all it implied.
“Gentlemen —the King! ”
E.P.S.
Propaganda
Of all living
writers John
Buchan probably
does this kind of
thing with most
conviction. He
has an almost mystical reverence for
rank. The very fact that he,isn’t a public-
school product himself may have some-
thing to do with it. In The House of the
Four Winds (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), his Scottish hero
Jaikie is put in his by an arrogant
young Evallonian countess. (Evallonia
is another Ruritania, with Monarchists,
Republicans and a Nazi or Fascist organ-
isation named Juventus fighting for
supremacy.)
Jaikie, left alone, mopped his brow, and,
there being no chairs in the place, sat
down on the floor, for he felt exhausted.
He was not accustomed to this kind of
thing.
“Public school,” he reflected. “Best six-
cylinder model. Lord, how I love the
product and dislike the type. But for-
tunately the type is pretty rare.”
And again at the end of the book, when
the revolution is over, and Jaikie, his
duty heroically done, is saying good-bye
to the countess and Prince John.
He saw the Countess’s lips compressed
as if she checked with difficulty some im-
petuous speech. “True public school,”
thought Jaikie. “She would like to make
a scene, but she won’t.”
Mystery
A Maorilander,
Fergus Hume,
who was a best-
in the late-Victorian era, did
most to popularise mystery fiction. Erie
Stanley Gardner’s The Case of the
Curious Bride (Cassell; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) and Philip Atkey’s
Blue Water Murder (Cassell; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.) typify the tens of thousands of
novels that bear a family likeness to The
Mystery of a Hansom Cab. In the first
the seasoned American investigator,
Perry Mason, and his secretary, Della
Street, reappear ; the other has a Medi-
terranean background.
Let this be said for these romances, in
which the excitements of the love story,
the crossword puzzle and the crime re-
port are ingeniously blended; they are
incomparably better written than most
of the yellowbacks. Some results are
that eminent British Judges, statesmen
and critics admit to a passion for them.
And why not? The greatest novels and
plays in literature are merely well-written
thrillers.
Red Page.
Fellow-
Travellers
[The writer, a
well-known bio-
grapher and critic,
who with her
husband, Vance
Palmer, is now in
London, was one of the few Aus-
tralians who attended the international
congress for the defence of culture in
Paris.]
As the boat-train glided out of London
and I looked round at the passengers
near me I felt it had all happened before:
yet not to me. Where then? When
had an improbable group of writers, aug-
mented en route, journeyed to the Con-
tinent to confer on something as abstract
as what we were now going to consider
in Paris? It happened before the war,
surely ; and the writers in that other train
were English, and included Rebecca
West, in her precocious teens, Hugh Wal-
pole, A. C. Benson, W. H. Mallock. A
R. Orage—-and H. G, Wells. The Wells
who had written an exuberant book
called Boon, pretending to pretend it was
by one Bliss, with preface by Wells, One
fantasy in Boon was this pilgrimage to
Geneva in search of “The Mind' of the
Race.” They did not get very far, 1
think, but you saw them set off.
The writers before my eyes, with others
scattered through the train—-and we
heard of others travelling by car and by
air•—differed from those in Boon by
omitting their symbols: Wells had malig-
nantly ascribed as companion to A. C.
Benson a tame sheep, for instance.
Nobody this time had anything more
personal than the inevitable typewriter.
A conspicuous figure was John
Strachey, tall, dark, burly, with ex-
tremely clear utterance. Quite unlike his
kinsman, the late Lytton Strachey; yet
in America lately he was often booked
as lecturer by certain clubs that hoped
to hear more of “Queen Victoria,” but
cancelled the engagement at great ex-
pense when they found he was concerned
with modern social criticism. It was his
sister, Amabel Williams-Ellis, handsome
as a fair Lombard, who kept the English
delegation together, and acted as a ver-
satile liaison with other branches of the
conference. The small Australian dele-
gation included Christina Stead, the dis-
tinguished author of Salzbury Tales and
Seven Poor Men of Sydney. Her interest
in the defence of culture is firm and
wide. Personally elegant, mentally agile,
as a writer she is “modern” with that
combination of sophistication and abun-
dance that we call renaissance, if in
her literary development she may be
said to bring the Australian novel up with
a sharp turn, it will be a turn to the left.
A youngish Englishman with a mop
of fair hair and a profile extremely like
Louis Esson’s proved to be James Hanley.
His novel The Furies was reviewed with
enthusiasm on the Red Page recently ; his
earlier Boy was the book to which in his
speech opening the congress that evening
Mr. E. M, Forster was to give great
prominence in his examination of English
cultural liberty. The facts were that four
years after the book’s publication it was
suddenly, in a provincial police court,
found guilty of indecency. The pub-
lishers were fined £4OO, with no certainty
that in other courts they would not be
fined again. This was for a book that
had been praised by thoughtful critics —
among them the late T. E. Lawrence, the
idol of orthodox English society—as
being in the authentic tragic tradition, a
book that, if it had any moral, was in
favor of chastity, and that finally had
been given four years’ trial.
It happened that Hanley’s companion
on the journey was another writer known
to the Australian censor. This was
Ralph Fox, a scholarly man with solid
Yorkshire breeding and Oxford training.
It is his Communism, in a recognised
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Men’s Spring Wear
in Dependable Qualities.
, - *
7
Ml
v
UixtiffOk
2 (joila)vx_
■ ■
• The Ties
Our range of Men’s Fashionable Ties
includes new Cottage Weaves, Double-
warp Silks, Silk and Wool Mixtures and
All Wool Ties. All the smartest colour-
ings to tone with any suit.
Price, each . 4/3
• The Braces
Fashionable French Braces in the Shirley
make. Rigid web is used, with strong
elastic at back, and there is a range of
new jasper stripes for selection.-
Price, pair 4/6
• The Hose
Smart and serviceable fancy Cashmere
Half Hose in “Stylryte” and "Holeproof”
brands. All Wool except for the orna-
ment. New season designs in Grey, Fawn,
Brown and Blue. 1 0 to I 1 -J inches.
Price, pair 4/6
• The Hat
A new shipment of English Baltersby
Hats in snap-brim shapes, also bound-
edge styles in the Prince shape. Polo
Grey, Drab Steel, Slate. Brown and Fawn.
Satin linings. All sizes.
Price, each 30/-
• The Shirt
Golf Shirts, made from good-quality Spun
Art. Silk, with two matching collars and
double cuffs. They are our own make,
so the wear is assured. Blue, Fawn or
Grey stripes. I - to I 8-inch neck.
Price, each 10/6
• The Pyjamas
Cool Summerweight Pyjamas, made by
Anthony Horderns’ from reliable wearing
British Twill in a range of colourful dressy
stripes of Blue, Brown and Fawn. Small,
Medium and Outsizes. Price, suit . . 13/6
“Hordura” Hats
15/-
The “Hordura” (Regd.)
Hat is mad© from pure
Fur Felt in smart snap-
brim shapes with 2\- and
brims. Best quality trimmings.
Slate, Steel, Drab Zinc, Polo Grey,
Fawn and Brown. Price, each, 15/-.
“Akubra” Hats
Always popular be-
cause they give such
dependable wear.
Made from well-matured Fur in
narrow or medium snap-brim
shapes, also bound-edge shape. Polo
Grey, Drab Mist, Zinc, Steel, Fawn,
Brown, etc. Three qualities.
Prices 17/6, 22/6, 30/-
17/6
“Hordura” Shirts
10/6
“Hordura” (Regd.)
Broadcloth Golf Shirt*,
made in our own
workrooms, are renowned for their
splendid wearing qualities. Made
with two collars, double cuffs, V-
cased fronts and linen neckbands.
Dressy stripes and checks. 14- to
19-inch neck. Price, each, 10/6.
Handkerchiefs
Pyramid Handkerchiefs
are always smart and
reliable in wash and wear.
Select your requirements from our
range of fancy borders in dressy
colourings.
Price, each, 1/3. Half dozen, 7/3.
1/3
Smartest Clothing for Golfers
V v
ftl
' /'
\
y
.
/> /
N l
\>l) )
L
t
m v
/ I / ” 2 CoUaW.
W
86
Smart Sleeveless Knitted Pull-
overs in fine All Wool Cashmere.
V-necks. Plain or jacquard
colours in tones of Blue, Grey
and Fawn. Sizes 36- to 42-inch
chest.
Prices, each . . 13/6, 15/6, 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ own make of
Golfing Shirt in comfortable
Ceylonette. Dressy collar attached
and two military pockets. Grey,
Fawn, Blue, Brown overchecks.
Sizes 14J- to 19-inch neck.
Price, each 8/6
Wool Golfing Hose
A new season’s range of Men’s Golfing Hose in
All Wool Merino. Fancy jacquard legs and
feet and plain tops. Smart and made to give
service. Sizes 10- to 11 £-inch foot.
Price, pair 12/6
“Speedo” Sports Shirt
Made from All W’ool Cashmere in 4 /
a fine close finish. Collar attached. | Jl m
long sleeves, button front, single
cuffs. Self Fawn, Grey and Blue Marls.
Price, each 167-
Fawn, Brown or Grey Checks. Price, ea., 17/6.
# Mens Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Common-
wealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Expert Golf
Tuition from
Golfers! The best way to
improve your game is to make
arrangements for a series of
lessons with Dick Carr, our
popular young Golf Profes-
sional. He will put you right
on your game for the moder-
ate fee of 3/- per half hour.
Tuition is given in a specially-
equipped room, and it is wise
to arrange an appointment at
least a day in advance.
O Sports Department—Lower
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN
& Sons, Ltd., Sydney
’Phone: M 2401, P stal Address:
Day and Night. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


“GOVERNOR PHILLIP AND
THE EARLY SETTLEMENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,”
By G. D. MILFORD, M.A.
A concise and historical account of
the voyage of Governor Phillip with
the First Fleet and of the early days
of the foundation of the Colony.
The dealings of Governor Phillip with
the natives form an illuminating
chapter.
Handsomely .produced in blue cloth,
stiff cover (gold lettering).
Obtainable from All Booksellers.
Price, 3/6; postage, 3d. extra.
17 Pages of Illustrations.
A Remarkable Success!
“KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG”
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the Native Tribes of Australia.
By Herbert Basedow, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
Second Edition Now in Print
This interesting book was published three weeks ago, and the demand for
copies has exhausted the first edition. The second edition is now in print, and
you should not miss reading this intensely interesting and authoritative
description of aboriginal customs and rites, together with unique personal
experiences during years of service among the aborigines of Central, North
and Western Australia.
240 PAGES, PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
NOW ON SALE.
All Booksellers
and Newsagents; or from the Publishers, BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., Sydney and All States.
also New Zealand.
English series, that we hear of as under
obscure consideration at Canberra.
The congress at Paris was called partly
to discuss such matters from all over the
world, partly to assert, in a mechanised
world, the position and enduring signifi-
cance of literary culture for every
generation. How can we preserve our
cultural heritage in a world of threatened
war and actual tyrannies? It was
Forster, with his sincerity and quiet
charm, who sounded the first note of
warning; can the very past be obliter-
ated? But, as our French speaker was to
put it, Hitler cannot cause Goethe not to
have written. What, then, is the role of the
writer in modern society ? Aldous Huxley
was one of the leaders under this head-
ing : a most pessimistic one. He was not
among the travellers on that boat-train,
for his journey to defend culture had
to be made from the south of France,
but he was known to be a delegate. At
the congress his long lines and his sadly
shortsighted stoop over his manuscript
made him a prey to the grateful carica-
turists.
At the congress itself, the little group
from London was soon submerged, first
in the great number of delegates from
thirty-six countries, and next in the
audience that surprisingly crowded the
hall and galleries during most sessions.
It was a matter of not losing a turn in a
masterly built-up speech on “The Indi-
vidual” by Andre Gide, who led the
French section. There was a benignant
charm about that veteran Danish novelist,
M. A. Nexo, as he sat on the platform
next one of the German Emigres, the dis-
tinguished critic, Alfred Kerr. The names
indeed were often dazzling enough—
Fcuchtwanger (whose second volume of
Josephus is due in October, in twelve
languages), Karin Michaelis, Panferov,
Julien Benda, the French humanist. At
the same time there were few signs of
mere celebrity-hunting ; the occasion was
too serious.
On the return journey I found myself
remembering Boon again. Wells had
not been present at the congress for
several reasons ; nevertheless, it was partly
his affair--he had foretold it in one of his
characteristic suggestive passages begin-
ning “You figure” And now in
1935 what he had figured had taken
place. Nature, once more, was creeping
up. The Mind of the Race: the Defence
of Culture.
London.
NETTIE PALMER.
Let
Parliament
Act!
The Federal
Parliament could
do much to help
the Australian
writer. Legisla-
tion is needed in
the first place to
end that father of all impositions, “Pay-
ment upon publication,” The swindle
would not be tolerated in other forms of
buying and selling. Imagine the wild
outcry which would be raised if Aus-
tralian woollen mills tried to act as some
newspapers do! The squatter would take
his wool to the mill; the buyer would
find that it was of the type and quality
needed by his firm, and the squatter
would agree to sell for the ruling market
rate.
“All right,” the buyer would say as
he clinched the deal. “We’ll pay you
when we use the wool.” That might be
next month, next year, even in several
years’ time. In the meantime the
squatter would have to live as best he
could. Unimaginable, you say? Yet
some newspapers treat writers like that.
A law making it compulsory to pay for
all short stories, serials or articles upon
acceptance would end that state of
affairs. It might not be fair to make the
law apply to paragraphs, so a clause
could be inserted exempting all features
shorter than 500 words.
The second clause of the new Act
would decrease that big handicap to the
Australian writer, syndicate matter from
overseas. As things are at present, any
Australian editor can put the local
writer in a cleft stick by saying “There is
no need for us to buy anything from
Australian writers —we can get plenty of
suitable material from overseas syndi-
cates.” The proposed Act would make
it illegal for any paper to publish more
than 50 per cent, of overseas serials,
articles and short stories, thus giving half
of the available market to local writers.
It would be a quota system, in short;
and, to be quite fair to small and strug-
gling papers, any publication with a cir-
culation of less than 10,000 copies might
be exempted.
The third clause would serve to grade
newspapers and publications in the eyes
of the reading, writing and advertising
public. Those which used only matter
paid for at A.J.A. rates would be graded
first-class; papers which paid less, but
paid something to local writers, would
be second-class; those which were
exempt from the provisions of the Act
would be third-class. The class to which
the paper belonged, the space rate which
it paid for contributions and all other
particulars to be set out in a prominent
paragraph in large type on one of the
front pages.
The proposed Act would not touch
one single decent Australian paper, since
they already do the things suggested, and
more, for their contributors. In fact, a
higher reward awaits the Australian
writer who has a 2000-word article or
short story accepted by these papers than
if that same story or article was sold
to some of those English publications
which are so prominent on the book-
stalls —this, too, in spite of the fact that
four guineas sent from England become
five by the time they reach here, owing
to the exchange rate.
But the Act would affect those jour-
nalistic frauds which, in spite of high
circulations, take most of their stories,
serials and articles from overseas syndi-
cates and see nothing wrong in keeping
a local writer waiting indefinitely for
payment. Summed up, it would make
the proprietors of all leading Australian
papers adopt the same business methods
as those ruling in the warehouse, butter
factory or woodyard. The local writer
who worked hard and could deliver
goods suited to the market would be
paid cash within one month of a sale,
and would also earn something near the
basic wage.
ULLABULLA.
The
Anthology
Racket
Every book-
shop I visit seems
to be spotted
with new antholo-
gies. The old rule
has apparently
been amended:
those who can, do; those who can’t,
compile anthologies.
The welter of anthologies is another
symptom of our decline in taste and
mental muscle. The reading public has
not sufficient initiative any longer to
seek its own good in literature: it opens
its mouth for the spoon. And the spoon
in many cases holds appallingly thin
gruel.
The poet is an evident victim of
anthologies. I have heard anthologists
declare that they bring his name to the
public notice, and poets and essayists,
like everyone else in these days, need
publicity. But the anthologists bear a
more than doubtful gift, for, while they
give the poet momentary fame, they
absorb the larger part of the market for
poetry at large. The public is growing
more and more accustomed to buy
anthologies rather than individual poets.
Here and there a writer of marked in-
tegrity, like Robert Graves, refuses the
anthologists; I haven’t any doubt that
he pays the price of his refusal, and it is
ŵ
T.O.
A Satchel of Books
The Australian and New Zealand Ski
Year-Book grows bigger and better. The
1935 issue, which is on sale at booksellers
at 3s. 6d., contains 324 pages and numer-
ous maps and photographs ; articles by
such N. S. Wales enthusiasts as H. G.
Lamble and Stewart Jamieson (the
general and N. S. Wales editor), C. J. M.
Cole, of Victoria, and G. G. Lockwood,
of M.L., and the usual club and race
reports.
Twentieth Century, by Jane and
Frederik Linden (Street and Massey;
3s. 6d.). Forty-five fragmentary poems
with numbers for titles.
Ten.
A spray of jasmine in a whitewashed room;
A cushion of red spagmim on a moor:
A roscleaf on a polished mahogany table;
These things arc beautiful.
If I could tell the world how I love beauty,
I should excel Homer.
The little volume is beautifully bound
and printed.
The Spanish Cape Mystery (Gollancz ;
7s. 6d.) is easily the best Ellery Queen
that present murder-fan has read. In
other books the master’s veneration for
inordinate riches has betrayed him into
irrelevancies about the lavish homes and
habits of American plutocrats. Here he
comes straight to the corpse (that of a
blackmailing gigolo); and he reveals the
secret lives of some queer men and even
queerer women before the affair is cleared
up. Incidentally, it mightn’t have been
cleared up at all if some of the principals
had taken ordinary precautions not to
let their conversations be overheard.
Four Winds, by Roland Pertwee (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.), is the
name of a house. It sounds as fresh and
free as the airs of Devon, from whose
soil its owners, the Vellandys, sprang in
the fifteenth century. But it is not free.
Miss Beth, the character who dominates
the story, develops from a suspicious and
secretive girl denied even the meanest joy
info a sinister and ruthless woman. She
is hateful, yet the reader’s sympathy is
stirred by her starved and arid existence
and by her ineffectual struggle for the
right to live and love denied her first by
the malicious father and next by her
brother. There’s drama in this book :
also many charming pictures of English
country life.
Sex and a Changing Civilisation, by
Kenneth Walker, F.R.C.S., is the latest
Bodley Head's “Twentieth Century
Library'’ publication. These books cost
3s. 6d. each, and cover their subjects in
non-technical language and tabloid form.
The idea in the present volume, for
example, is to condense what Havelock
Ellis or Krafft-Ebbing took perhaps 300
pages to say into a paragraph or two.
Thus sadism and masochism together gel
only four pages. This distinguished
Harley-street surgeon doesn't seem to be-
lieve that modernism in morality has
come to stay:
New York society begins to Irown on
the divorcee. Hollywood is in the throes
of a purity campaign. Give but a little
time for the turn of the wheel and the
chaperons will return to Bloomsbury and
the blushing maidens to Chelsea.
Captain Hance, author of Riders of
To-morrow (Country Life ; 7s. 6d.), was
Riding Master of his regiment (the
R.H.A.) and an instructor of R.M.A,
(Woolwich) cadets till his rank was abol-
ished after the war. He took to teaching
civilians, and was the first to start a resi-
dential school at which students could
learn the art of horsemanship as it is
taught in an army. This fascinating
book discloses his methods with chil-
dren. Nominally the story of Pamela
and John, eight-year-old twins, it is
actually an account of the troubles and
triumphs of any child who sets out to
learn to ride really well. Australian
parents who can afford hunters or even
hacks, and don’t want their offspring to
resemble the unconscious comedians who
may be seen on horseback round Syd-
ney and other Australian cities nowa-
days, are hereby advised to buy and
study Riders of To-morrow, ft is gener-
ously illustrated with lively pen sketches
by Robert Bartleet. No draughtsman,
but he knows all about horses and their
ways.
John the Baptist, by Margaret Gold-
smith (Barker; 7s. 6d.). An interpreta-
tion of the Forerunner in terms of
modern psychology. John is shown as a
congenital puritan. When the Saviour
did not preach abstinence from wine
“John’s puzzled anger grew into rage."
John was not only angry, he was pro-
foundly shocked. No prejudices arc more
violent than those of a puritanical ascetic,
as is shown by the extreme agitation of a
believer in total abstinence at the sight of
a glass of wine.
ft also seemed that the Saviour
had turned against the rigid formalism,
the artificial asceticism practised by John
and by the Essencs. In other words, Jesus
was accusing ritualists like John of the
same empty formalism which had made
him turn so violently against the Phari-
sees.
And John, a good Jew who believed in
fighting the Romans to the death, was
appalled by the meekness of Jesus. He
died a disillusioned man, and his fol-
lowers’ “entire work was a living denial
of the divinity of Jesus of Nazareth as
taught by the early Church.” These
speculations arc reinforced by a formid-
able bibliography. The book is beauti-
fully printed, and contains four fine
wood engravings by John Farleigh.
The chief villain of Gavin Holt’s Black
Bullets (Hodder and Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.)
is an alleged Baron who has instigated
murder and engaged in espionage for
years from his villa on the outskirts of
Geneva. He and his gang overreach
themselves when they cause the death
of Dr. Cotterman in an attempt to steal
his invention —a contrivance that renders
armor-plating as penetrable as match-
board, Professor Bastion (Mr. Holt’s
particular Sherlock Holmes) joins in the
chase, which takes the characters from
deceased’s country place to London, to
Paris, to Switzerland, where the denoue-
ment occurs and the nice girl and de-
voted young man learn each other’s
worth. The action is fast, and there are
many comic as well as dramatic inter-
ludes.


Motor Bandit
Robs Motorists
of Millions
STARTLING STORY
OF STEALTHY CRIME
ẁ
HOW THE ARREST
WAS MADE.
Motorists Provide Clues.
Detective-Inspector Texaco, Chief of
the Anti-Friction Squad, having with
him First-Class Sergeant Super-Lubri-
cant and Plain-Clothes Constables Clean,
Clear and Carbon-Free, Battery and
Piston, carried out a carefully-planned
raid. They were acting on information
received from millions of car owners,
who had supplied the Anti-Friction
Squad with important clues over a period
of years.
The Charge Against Friction.
Before a crowded Court Room, Super-
intendent I. L. Go-Quietly laid the fol-
lowing charge—that, contrary to the
Motorists’ Protection Act, the accused.
Friction, had wilfully and without the
cognisance of motor owners wrought
severe and dastardly damage to the det-
riment of their safety and to their mone-
tary loss.
The Clerk of the Court to Friction:
“Guilty or Not Guilty?”
Accused: “Ger-r-r-tcher!!!! ”
Bail Refused
Mr. N. E. Oileldo, appearing for
Friction, then applied for bail.
His Worship stated that he would
not grant the application, and proceeded
with the charge. At this stage the
accused endeavored to take things out
of his Solicitor’s hands, and addressed
the Court in harsh, grinding tones. He
was silenced by a quick application of
“Texaco” Motor Oil.
THE INSIDE STORY.
Damning Evidence Against
Friction.
Evidence was then called.
Detective-Inspector Texaco recounted
how he conducted the raid which led
to Friction’s arrest. Found in the pos-
session of the accused were the proceeds
of various robberies carried out in
every part of Australia. Exhibits ten-
dered by the Inspector had to be placed
on a specially reinforced table.
Some of the more striking items of
interest were:
(a) Numerous cylinder blocks with
cylinder wadis badly scored.
(b) Dozens of oval pistons and worn
piston rings.
(c) Numberless badly damaged
valve mechanisms.
(and) Innumerable bearings worn
clean of Babbitt-metad.
The most interesting exhibit of all was
a black, carbonised sludgy substance
which might once have passed for oil.
Assault On Battery
Detective-Inspector Texaco then de-
scribed the resistance which the accused
had offered his Squad, particularly Plain-
Clothes Constable Battery, the well-
known athlete, noted in the force for
his extraordinary speed of movement.
Once Battery perceived Friction in the
offing, he went into a flying tackle. He
was ably assisted by the smooth, swift
action of Constable Piston, who was
clothed in a tough protective sheath of
j “Texaco” Motor Oil, rendering Friction
. entirely helpless to do him harm.
EXPERT IN THE BOX.
Dr. Full-Body*s Story.
Dr. Full-Body, attached to Texaco’s
Scientific Research Section of the Anti-
Friction Squad, dealt with the exhibits
placed before the Court. His evidence
was as clean and clear as “Texaco”
Motor Oil. He stated that Texaco had
spent large sums in tracing the depreda-
tions of Friction, with a view to arrest.
Handling the various exhibits, he stated
that they were undoubtedly the work of
one malefactor, and were characteristic
of the ruthlessness of Friction, uncon-
trolled by “Texaco” Motor Oil.
His Worship, Mr. Clarified Crude:
“I am a motorist myself, Doctor, and,
apart from the evidence in this case
with which I have to deal, I would be
very interested to know the processes
which finally resulted in the arrest of
Friction.”
Witness: “For years past rny Squad
has been observing and collecting infor-
mation about Friction all over the
civilised world. Amongst the members
of the Squad are Petroleum Scientists
with special technical knowledge, backed
by the unique resources of the Texas
Company. They have studied every form
of Oil crude likely to place Friction
under control. They finally discovered
special crudes which under treatment
could be made to flow freely, but would
place a film of protection over all
moving parts of the motor from the
first touch of the starter.”
“I’ll Say It's Tough!”
His Worship: “Was the oil further
treated to give it added toughness and
strength?”
Accused: “I’ll say it’s tough!”
Witness: “Yes, your Worship. It was
specially Heat-tempered by a special
Texaco process to make it tougher and
longer-lasting still.”
His Worship (to Inspector Texaco);
“What’s that dreadful noise?”
Constable Battery: “It’s the accused
grinding his teeth, your Worship.”
Constable Clear: “Silence in the.
Court! ”
His Worship: “When does Friction
do his most ruinous work?”
Witness: “When the motor is warm-
ing up from cold. If there are any dry
spots on the cylinder walls, Friction
causes the greatest havoc by wearing
and scoring the walls. Also, if lubrica-
tion is not instantly effective, pistons,
bearings and valves suffer.”
Accused: “Too right! 1 see to that!”
Constable Clear: “Silence! ”
His Worship: “What particular pro-
tection does Texaco give in these cases?”
Witness: “Texaco flows from the first
touch of the starter at all temperatures
and instantly sheathes every moving part
with a film of protection.”
His Worship: “Is this the case with
all Motor Oils?”
Witness: “By no means, Sir.”
Accused Warned by Magistrate.
His Worship: “What other chances,
if any, has Friction had to rob motor-
ists?”
Accused (harshly): “Ha! Ha! Ha!”
His Worship: “If you do that
again I’ll order Constables Clean and
Clear to force-feed you with
Texaco!”
Witness: “The next best opportunity
Friction is given is when a motor is
driven at high speeds for long periods.”
His Worship: “How does Texaco be-
have under these conditions?”
Witness: “Due to its heat-resisting
I qualities and special heat-tempering, it
stands up to hard driving when an ordi-
nary oil might break down and cause
trouble.” . ~
His Worship: “Do the modern high-
speed high-compression motors present
any special lubrication problems?”
Witness: “Yes, Sir. Modern motors
develop their power not so much from
size, but from high-compression ratios.
They operate under greatly increased
heat and pressure,”
Accused's Counsel Annoyed.
Mr. N. E. Oileldo: “I object! Ido
not consider this evidence relevant.”
His Worship: “Thanks to Texaco,
this case is proceeding very quietly and
smoothly. Please don’t interrupt!”
His Worship (to Witness); “That
would present a pretty difficult lubrica-
tion problem and make the modern
motor harder to protect?”
Witness: “With an ordinary Oil,
yes, Sir—with Texaco, no! Texaco
has constantly developed its lubri-
cants and fuel to keep pace with
the needs of the modem motor.”
Dr. Full-Body was not cross-examined
further, and then withdrew from the
Witness Box.
His Worship: “I am quite satisfied
with the evidence already called, and do
not want to hear any more witnesses
for the Prosecution. What course do
you intend to adopt, Mr. Oileldo?”
Mr. N. E. Oileldo: “In face of the
evidence given, your Worship, my client
has no alternative but to change his plea
to one of ‘Guilty,’ but I would like to
ask your Worship to deal leniently with
the case.”
His Worship: “On what grounds, Mr.
Oileldo?”
Mr. N. E. Oileldo: “The prisoner has
been offered great temptation on account
of the fact that Motorists have not
always been careful enough in seeing
that they get TEXACO.’ ”
ACCUSED’S
STATEMENT
FROM THE DOCK.
Asked whether he had any-
thing to say, Friction replied:
“Your Worship, 1 was never
under proper control until
Texaco got to grips with me.
I’ve always wanted to break
and smash things, and if I’m
given a chance I’ll do it again!”
His Worship: “Just so. Just so! I’d
like to give you the term of your un-
natural life, but unfortunately I have no
power to commit you. It would require
new legislation under which everyone
would be placed completely under the
protection of ‘Texaco.’ You are clearly
a dangerous criminal, but in turning you
loose upon the unfortunate motoring
public I have at least the satisfaction
of knowing that those motorists who
habitually use TEXACO MOTOR OIL
(including myself) are almost com-
pletely immune from your fell designs.”
FRICTION COLLAPSES.
“You are released upon probation on
the one condition that you report to
Detective-Inspector Texaco at regular
intervals. That’s giving you the good
oil! ”
Friction collapsed and was carried
from the Court.
Although no sentence was imposed,
The TEXACO Anti-Friction Squad has
the satisfaction of knowing that its case
carried conviction, and that at least
it has warned motorists of the danger
affecting themselves and their cars. In
the words of Mr. Clarified Crude:
“Free from Friction’s grip at last,
Silent running, starting fast,
In rain and heat and cold and snow,
She’ll do her best on TEXACO.”


ẃ
m
Vi
Vi
T/
lifl
•s
%
iTW^rvprr.
«SZ£H
■
i
LI
• j »j ■ i
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
ẅ


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2899
September 4, 1935.
STRAIGHT FROM THE WAR MANOEUVRES.
”If it please your Excellencies, the Italian delegate has arrived) but he insists on making his entrance in a tank.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T . B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Counlrv
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WE MUST STAY OUT!
Premier Ogilvie saw Mussolini for fully 15 minutes,
and summed him up as “vain, arrogant and ruth-
less.” If the Duce ever gave a thought to Mr. Ogilvie
he might hurl two of the adjectives back. Whatever
else he may be, he is a realist, and he has certainly
called the bluff of bellicose pacifists with nothing in
(heir hands.
Mr. Ogilvie has a great admiration for Mr. Lang
and his newspaper. On Monday of last week this
newspaper, associating itself with the rabble of
English journals that want the British Commonwealth
of Nations to rush at Italy with its head down and
its hands tied, came out with a demand for “(he
application of economic sanctions so clearly specified
by the League Covenant”:
Collective economic sanctions are, the only possible
answer to aggression.. ..By invoking the terms of
Article 16 of the League Covenant on September 4,
there should be little difficulty in bringing sufficient
pressure to bear on Mussolini to desist In the mean-
time, the Australian Government should take immediate
steps to see that no shipments of wool, wheat, meat
or metals destined for use by an aggressor nation
should be permitted to leave these shores.
That would write finis to our export trade with Italy*
which was worth £4,600,000 even in 1933-34; but the
immediate results would be far graver.
In the terms of Article 16, the countries applying
“sanctions” (/.<?., a boycott) would explicitly declare
that Italy had committed acts of war against them,
and would be actually at war with Italy, Mussolini,
the realist, was quick to point this out, and to
announce that he would meet war with war —just as
Britain, threatened by a Continental League when
engaged with the Boers, would have met war with war.
If Geneva votes for sanctions against Italy, Italy
will immediately leave the League. Whoever applies
sanctions will meet Italy’s armed hostility.
That came out on Tuesday. On that day appar-
ently Mr. Lang’s newspaper discovered that H.M.A.S.
Australia was somewhere in the Northern Hemisphere
on exchange with H.M.S. Sussex; discovered also
that she had been ordered to Malta to take part in “a
demonstration of force in the Mediterranean,” which
“must be regarded by Mussolini as a hostile demon-
stration.” The presence of H.M.A.S. Australia in
the Mediterranean, even to help in enforcing the
boycott of Italy that the Commonwealth was recom-
mended to launch by a succession of hostile acts,
could not be tolerated. The Australia must be recalled
without a moment’s delay.
Even if Britain is prepared to risk a conflict, the
Australia cannot be permitted to participate in a Medi-
terranean adventure that would not only jeopardise the
lives of its crew but would also compromise the Aus-
tralian people.
Presumably the immediate stoppage of all wool, wheat,
meat and metals consigned to Italy before Italy has
committed any breach of the covenants), and partici-
pation in a boycott not only of the Italians in Italy, but
also of the Italians in Australia, and extending to “the
prevention of all financial, commercial or personal
intercourse” with “the nationals of the covenant-
breaking State” —these measures would not “jeopardise
lives” or “compromise the Australian people.”
Mr. Lang’s newspaper should stick to subjects like
fruit-machines, tin-hares and starting-price betting.
They are about its size.
Brisbane’s Trade and Labor Council has “pledged
itself and all unions to take all and any action to
prevent the people of Australia being involved in a
war against the people of any other country.” There
is no mention of “sanctions,” one way or the other;
even so, that is better.
The T. and L.C. “condemns the action of Musso-
lini in trying to force a war on another country,” and
though we have never known what it is to live in
a poor, overcrowded land or to have been beaten in
battle by savages who mutilate the wounded, most
of us join in the condemnation. But it is one thing
to condemn and another to boycott. To boycott is
to fight, and Australians won’t fight Italians, either
to protect the Abyssinians or to preserve the tottering
League. If the Australian Government’s instructions
to Mr. Bruce have made this crystal-clear, so much
the better.
THE OFFICIAL CAN DO NO WRONG.
For many years until shortly after the World War
began “administrative law,” as it is called in France,
was abhorrent to Britain and the Dominions. The
rule in British countries was that every law had
to be interpreted by a Judge with strict reference to
its wording. On the Continent all kinds of public
functionaries interpret the law, and act with impunity
upon their ideas of what is right. To quote Dicey:
Every servant of the (French! Government possesses,
as representative of the nation, a whole body of special
rights, privileges or prerogatives as against private
citizens.
Though such a situation is “alien to the conceptions
of modern Englishmen,” it was accepted during the
war as necessary to cope with the peril that faced
the nation. Englishmen put up more or less uncom-
plainingly with thousands of infringements on their
liberty, ranging from orders by one set of officials to
risk their lives in battle to investigations by another
set into their private affairs, following on charges of
spying or food-hoarding.
Every British development which aimed at the
aggrandisement of officials was faithfully copied in
(he Commonwealth and other parts of the Empire.
It is in the nature of officials to increase enormously
in numbers under favorable conditions, and to fight
strongly to keep any powers they may have arrogated
to themselves. Our War Precautions Act remained
on the statute book for long after the Armistice,
and when that born official W. M. Hughes was forced
to dispense with it he passed a War Precautions
Amendment Act which left officialdom with nearly
all its war-time powers. The Commonwealth and
States are still suffering from the un-English conven-
tions which got a footing all over the Empire 20
years ago. Our Parliaments continually make laws
which irresponsible officials interpret.
The autocratic powers exercised by Taxation
Commissioners, Federal and State, to which reference
was made recently in The Bulletin, may be matched
in almost every department of social life. There
are few offences against the law—serious crimes, of
course, excepted—unless an official makes them so.
And, as invariably happens when officials interpret
laws, the principle of equal justice for all, which has
been the foundation of the public’s respect for the
laws of England for about two centuries, is departed
from. Witness the case at Bathurst (N.S.W.) in which
a publican who admittedly had had customers in his
hotel long after 6 p.m. was exonerated by order of
the Police Commissioner.
The motoring laws are interpreted on similar
lines. The eminent can get away with traffic and
parking offences that would land humbler citizens in
a police court. (The official reasoning here is alleged
to be that, as the offenders must have been aware
of the law, they couldn’t have broken it intentionally.)
Persons who belong to certain social clubs are free to
gamble as heavily as they like ; a police raid on one
of them would be an unthinkable insult to the
members. Smaller gamblers come in a different cate-
gory ; they are raided, charged and fined with
monotonous regularity.
These haphazard methods of interpreting and
enforcing the laws are liable to have two effects —
both disastrous. They tend to fill the classes dis-
criminated against with contempt for a legal system
which admits of such injustices, and with bitterness
against the privileged folk. And they lay the authori-
ties open to injurious suspicions.
The position would be automatically righted if
officials who go over the heads of Parliament and
the Courts ceased to exercise power which they
never should have assumed. Early-closing, six-o’clock
closing, laws against indecency, blasphemy and
sedition may be unwanted, even idiotic, but they were
passed by Parliament, and there is no ambiguity about
their intentions on the whole. There will be no
real freedom in Australia till public servants get rid
of their present idea that in certain cases they are
entitled to legalise illegality.
DOUGLAS CREDIT AND CHAOS.
Alberta, a Canadian province in which there are
15,000 Red Indians, has made history by putting a
Douglas Credit Ministry in office.
Alberta has a Legislative Assembly of 63 mem-
bers, and after the last general election 39 of the 63
were United Farmers.
The United Farmers failed to bring back the
days of dollar wheat, Alberta’s staple, and discovered
that Douglas Credit “principles” had made great
headway among the wheatgrowers —as they have, to
some extent, in Australia. So their Government
engaged the Major, that very Hebraic-looking Scot,
to assist them, at a large salary, as “economic
adviser.” As so often happens in these cases, they
were undone by their auxiliary.
The Major came, saw and was “stonkered,” but
he concealed his inability to give any practical advice
in a wilderness of words. He recommended the
Government (1) to provide “a new circulation system,
particularly radio facilities, under the control of the
province” ; (2) to organise “some credit institution,
under the Dominion Bank Act or otherwise, which
would give access to the creation of effective demand
through the credit system,” and (3) “to accumulate
systematically foreign exchange.” He explained
(without explaining his explanation) that by accumu-
lation of foreign exchange he meant “effective demand
not subject to attack as being recognisable as having
been created in the province.” But while capitalist
countries refuse to see the light, foreign exchange can
only be “systematically accumulated” when the accu-
mulator has large supplies of what is still perversely
regarded as good money or a “recognisable” equiva-
lent, and the United Farmers Government was broke
to the wide. Still, it wrapped cold compresses round
its brow in an effort to divine what the Major was
driving at and hoped for the best.
So long as he is not required to put his “prin-
ciples” to the proof, Mr. Douglas can be very obliging.
When one Aberhardt surged up as leader of a Douglas
Credit party, with an election programme promising
every man and woman in Alberta $25 a month,
“plus allowances for children,” Mahomet reproved
him. Mr. Aberhardt was making the Albertans
“Social Credit-conscious,” and thereby doing good
work, but Mahomet “did not favor the Aberhardt
plan.” He has said since that the Government, being
in a tight corner, had asked him to criticise, and
criticism he had given “on points of detail.”
The criticism had no effect on the electors of
Alberta, They had their eyes fixed firmly on the
mirage of $25 a month and nothing else mattered.
On election-day the United Farmers were routed.
Mr. Aberhardt was not a candidate, but his followers
won 54 of the 63 seats, carrying all the rural elec-
torates, in which there is a large foreign element.
Only two United Farmers survived.
The immediate results must have startled the
Albertans, though N. S. Wales had corresponding
experiences in 1931. There was a flight of bank funds
and other securities to soberer parts of the country.
Alberta stocks collapsed on the London market. A
run on the provincial Treasury, which, as the Canada
Year-Book puts it, “receives savings deposits and
issues demand savings certificates bearing interest at 4
p.c.,” forced the United Farmers to suspend payment.
The chartered banks announced, for their part, that
if Mr. Aberhardt and his crowd proposed to build
up a huge “foreign-exchange fund” they would get
it only by coming to light with “Canadian legal
tender.” And apropos of their undertaking to pay
the $25 a month in “non-negotiable certificates,” the
Dominion Government drily referred them to the
Canadian Constitution, which, like ours, forbids
provinces to issue currency.
Meanwhile, Aberhardt was fiercely attacked by
other provincial Premiers and representative men.
The Mayor of Vancouver characterised his offer of
a bribe as “the cruellest. hoax ever perpetrated on
a suffering people by a group of visionaries, impractical
political adventurers.” Mr. Aberhardt’s tail began to
go down. By this time the Major was far away
(though he is to be asked to return at once), and from
his remote fastness he gave it out that “the promise
of £5 a month was practicable,” and he “was confident
it would be implemented.” JBut his disciple was on
the spot, in a land with 15,000 Red Indians and any
amount of hemp, feathers and tar. Mr, Aberhardt
was soon heard bleating that “if the bonus threatened
Alberta with bankruptcy it would not be paid.”
Australians may rejoice that this queer exhibition
of human sophistry and simplicity has had a Canadian
province for theatre ; Americans, too. The U.S.A. is
full of projectors who promise the people something (in
large and regular quantities) for nothing, of mugs who
believe them and of legislators ready to flatter both.
A benevolent old noodle named Townsend came out
with a plan for paying $2OO a month to all sexagen-
arians—both sexes and all colors —conditionally on
their spending the $2OO within a month. It caught
on so amazingly that Townsend soon loomed up as a
serious rival to President Roosevelt, and in the Cali-
fornian Parliament only one member was found
honest enough to vote against his crazy scheme. The
Alberta business will serve to deliver the President
from the Townsends and Huey Longs, and it will
help to prevent provincial politicians like A. G.
Ogilvie from playing fantastic tricks in our own
country, though it may not stop them altogether.
The cableman told us a month ago that the
Tasmanian Premier had attended a Douglas dinner in
London, and confessed that he felt “lost in the
presence of a financial genius like the Major,” adding:
I shall not rest until I have done something toward
taking from the predatory banks in Australia the
control of credit which they now possess to the detriment
of the community.
The gentleman was not so artlessly candid when
he returned to Australia. News of the Alberta elec-
tion, and of some of its repercussions, reached him
at Melbourne, and Albert began to hedge. Unfortu-
nately, Major Douglas, speaking to a London “Tele-
graph” man, chose that moment to assert that “the
Premier of Tasmania told me his prime objective is
the establishment of the Douglas Credit system in
Australia.” And there is nothing in the recent career
of this politician, or in that of his Treasurer, Mr.
Dwyer-Gray, to warrant the belief that either is
capable of learning wisdom from the performances of
quacks who promise the multitude easy money or will
be restrained from imitating them by a sense ot
responsibility to the Australian people.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Reactionary Tory Policy."
There were no surprises in the programme for the
first session of the Queensland Parliament elected in
June. Nobody was astonished at the gilded ceremony
with which Labor returned in triumph to Lower
George-street— at the gunfire, the guard of honor, the
scarlet robes and the “resplendent adornment” of the
Labor Lord Mayor. Nor did anybody express amaze-
ment at the announcement of a £4,000,000 loan-works
programme without tax-reduction —save a penny off
the unemployed-tax—though Opposition-leader Moore
called it “a reactionary Tory policy.”
The excuse for not reducing tax-burdens is that
the finances will suffer as the result of the drought
and the fall in wool prices last season. So far, there
is no sign of it. July returns, issued on the day
Parliament met, show a revenue-increase over the
corresponding month of 1934 —£914,000 to £1,043,000.
But expenditure has increased from £797,000 to
£951,809.
Of “fill-up” legislation there is to be plenty.
Health, police and adoption-of-children bills ; bills to
control stock foods, fertilisers, agricultural research
and fish supply. This last will set up another fish
board and establish “orderly marketing.” Brisbane
had a State fish-shop once, and when it got a new
coat the paint cost 28s. a gallon ; but Government
transactions in fish have always refused to be orderly.
And there is a Farmers’ Debts Bill; without one no
legislative programme would be complete. Also, Mr.
Bulcock is bringing down his Fodder Conservation
Bill, which hasn’t so far aroused anything but
opposition.
The rest of the Governor’s Speech consisted
of statistics and projects for lavish spending.
The conjunction of a £70,000 plan for stock-route
water improvements with a £2,500,000 city bridge
and a £500,000 sewerage scheme for a town with a
population of 25,000 —this in a State whose main
industry has lost 8,000,000 sheep in two droughts in
a decade—passed almost without notice.
Queenslanders need to recover their capacity for
indignation.
♦
What Japan Wants.
The “Mainichi Shimbun,” Osaka’s greatest newspaper,
sent a trade delegation to Australia, and it has now
taken to issuing supplements dealing with this
country. Its partner in the enterprise is the Tokio
“Nichi Nichi,” the oldest newspaper in Japan.
These journals, which have a revenue of about
£2,000,000 sterling p.a. and a circulation so large that
their press capacity is 2,600,000 four-page sections
per hour, have done the thing thoroughly. The first
page of the second supplement of 16 rotogravure
pages is given over to an allegorical picture of two
doves exchanging Australian and Japanese flags, and
the remaining pages deal with the activities of good-
will missions and with trade possibilities.
Baron Sakatani, a former Finance Minister and
Mayor of Tokio, president of the Australia-Japan
Society, writes of the need for tariff agreement:
We are not making any unreasonable demands on
the existing industries of Australia. We understand
Australia, and naturally respect the spirit of Australia’s
protective policy, but the present state of non-treaty
between the two countries will place Australian-Japan-
ese trade in an uneasy situation.
Mr. Shingo Tsudo, president of one of the biggest
Japanese cotton companies, is not so diplomatic:
The general policy of the Empire bloc of Great
Britain for the expulsion of Japanese goods may lead
Japan to take retaliatory measures against Australia.
We know this will cause great pain to Japanese indus-
try, but it should be done to prevent still greater pain.
Woolmen take up the cry that “foreign trade must
stand on a basis of co-existence and co-prosperity with
customer-nations.” Kanematsu’s manager, who was
here recently, points out that Japan is the second-
largest buyer of Australian goods, but is only fourth
on the list of exporters to the Commonwealth,
Finally, the heavy guns are brought up. A con-
ference arranged by the “Mainichi” decided that the
remedy lay in inducing Australia to buy more
Japanese goods. Something was said of the “peculiar
[Australian] tariff system, enabling Australia to erect
any barrier it sees fit,” and the “breaking up of trade
one-sidedness.”
A comprehensive set of proposals has been
framed by the Australia-Japan Society, of which the
president is Prince lyesato Tokugawa, heir to the last
of the Shoguns, and for three years President of the
House of Peers. This was shown to Mr. Latham
when he visited Japan ; strangely enough, Mr. Latham
did not quote it in his official report.
It is intended to ask for all-the-year-round wool
sales; for the foundation of a wool statistical bureau
which will estimate future increase or decline in
production; for concession to Japanese shipping of the
right to carry coastwise cargo in Australian waters;
for the abolition of compulsory pilotage and the estab-
lishment of direct wireless communication between
Japan and Australia; for a general reduction of
import duties on Japanese goods and “the granting
of special privileges.” Also, a larger import of
Japanese goods is asked, together with
Mitigation of the law prohibiting the entry of
Japanese into Australia.
Exchange visits by commercial delegations and the
organising of travelling shows of Japanese goods and
a Japanese commercial museum in Australia are
mooted, along with the abolition of the system under
which the Australian immigration authorities take
and hold the passports of Japanese. And these Japanese
want revision of wheat grades, improvement of port
facilities for wheat shipment, standardisation of Aus-
tralian tallow, lower duties on Japanese canned goods
(particularly fish products) and lower duties on rayon
and silks (they always return to the tariff.
It isn’t much when you say it quickly, but at
any rate it is concise and frank.
♦
The Book Censorship.
When Customs Minister White was approached
regarding the mysterious activities of the book cen-
sorship, he said all such questions should be directed
to the Prime Minister. Now that Mr. Lyons has
returned, he says Mr. White is the man who knows
all about it.
Representatives of the A.N.A. sought to have the
censorship relaxed or carried out with reasonable con-
sistency. According to the president of the Censorship
League, Mr. McMahon Ball —he is a lecturer at Mel-
bourne University—delegates were told at the outset
that if they were to be received by Mr. White the
proceedings must be in private. No press representa-
tives were to be admitted, and the results of the
conclave, if any, were to remain hidden from the
world. The deputation went in, interviewed the
Minister, turned right round and came right out
again. That is all that is known of the interview ;
but the censorship remains.
Following on this and on the refusal of Mr.
Lyons to discuss the matter, Mr. Ball addressed a
letter to the Prime Minister in which he described
how the Minister had treated all overtures during the
P.M.’s absence abroad. The writer recalls that Mr.
While met advances by observing in a cavalier way
that “the Cabinet is not taking the slightest interest
in the book agitation,” and that he had no time to
consider it. Mr. White went on to pass the buck to
the Censorship Advisory Board. Robert Garran
promptly explained that the board, so far from ban-
ning books of a political character, had had no books
of this type submitted to it. This Mr. White did
not dispute.
Forced into the open, however, Mr. White once
more devotes the whole burden of his arguments to
the subject of indecent and obscene matter; the
barring of political and economic works, which forms
the greater part of the argument against the censor-
ship, he does not honor with a mention. He derives
great satisfaction from the fact that a London book-
seller was fined for publishing a work which his
department had prevented from entering Australia.
He does not attempt to explain why political works
advised for study by the faculties of Melbourne and
Sydney Universities are held up at the Customs and
presumably burnt by the common hangman.
«
The Dead-meat Headache.
On July 16, after Mr. Lyons had left London, his
deputy, Mr. Gullett, “expressed gratification at the
meat agreement.” To Mr. Gullett, “the expansion of
the turnover of chilled beef represented Britain’s
endorsement of Australia’s mastery of the transport
problem,” although arrangements for 1936 were
“difficult to forecast in view of the position of Argen-
tine agreements.” U.A.P. newspapers gave double-
column headings to Mr. Gullett’s announcement—
they appeared to think that Australia’s meat future
was assured. Then Mr. Lyons came back and made
discreet references which placed him on a pedestal
as the modest hero of a difficult negotiation.
Mr. Thorby took a long sea voyage after his
exertions in London. It left him with nothing but
admiration for the performance of the leader who
tried to get him beaten in Calare last September;
The case for Australia was so well put by Mr.
Lyons that his explanation was accepted for the whole
of the Dominions.
Other Dominions last December agreed on a policy
from which Australia was the only dissentient. How-
ever, Mr. Lyons, according to Mr. Thorby, put the
matter “on a very high plane,” and “created a splendid
impression.”
Mr. Bulcock, Minister for Agriculture and Stock
in the State most interested, struck a jarring note. “If
the position was as Mr. Thorby represented it,” Mr.
Thorby was inferentially “making a grave stricture
on those who framed Commonwealth policy.” Mr.
Bulcock characterised the position as “by no means
bright”—because Mr. Lyons and, before him, Messrs.
Bruce and Gullett at Ottawa had agreed to quotas
which must mean limitation of production eventually,
and because of the stringent restrictions on the import
of chilled beef;
What the delegation succeeded in doing was to con-
solidate the English outlook that chilled beef should
be only a small percentage of the total quota.
Actually, the British viewpoint is that, until Aus-
tralia produces more first-grade beef, only a small
percentage of it will be —not necessarily must be —
chilled. Britons want to see the goods before they
buy them. At present we are not producing the goods,
and are taking no adequate measures to produce them.
Mr. Sunners, manager of the Queensland State
Abattoirs, and the first man with technical knowledge
of the meat trade to interpret the situation, then
turned up. He had “hopes, even expectations,” that
we should presently get the share of the British meat
trade to which we were entitled ; but it was unlikely
that anything would be done until Argentina, to
which Britain is bound for the moment by agreement,
had been consulted. Mr. Sunners is convinced that,
“with suitable organisation,” we could meet Argen-
tine competition. In this he is right, but the suitable
organisation must be for the production of prime
beef to suit the needs of the market.
Senator Foil, leader of the Australian jubilee
Parliamentary delegation, has had his say—and his
say is that “we will have to rely less on Britain as
our only market.” This did not, agree with a broad-
cast by Mr. Lyons, who said that very night that “we
shall be able to increase our meat exports.”
As Mr. Sunners puts it, the position should be
“fully considered in this country before further dis-
cussions take place.” For the purpose of the discus-
sions, the question should be removed from the
political arena. Meat men must take the business in
hand themselves.
♦
The Third Party.
Despite the objections periodically raised by the more
downright members of the Country party to
entangling alliances and pre-election pacts and post-
election coalitions, the fact remains that there is no
other way by which their party can hope to secure a
share of Ministerial office.
Neither in Federal nor State elections has a
Country party ever obtained the support of a majority
of the electors, or anything near a majority. It may
ally itself with the Nationalists (or the U.A.P.) before
or after a general election, and thereby secure a fair
proportion of portfolios and a fair say in shaping
legislation. Or it may reach the Treasury benches,
as in Victoria at present, by the grace and on the
precarious sufferance .of the Labor party, simply
because the latter accounts it the lesser of two evils.
But, with the present distribution of population in
Australia, it hasn’t the remotest likelihood of winning
enough votes to get itself regarded as anything more
than a third party, or, rather, the third party.
There arc only two contingencies which would
give it a chance of being able to dispense with alliances
or “gentlemen’s agreements” and to bid for straight-
out office on its own programme. The first is a big
drift of the population from the cities to the country
—to the pastoral and agricultural districts, not the
mining ones. This, however desirable, seems entirely
out of the question—unfortunately the tendency is
all the other way. The second contingency is that
the Country party should begin to win seats in the
cities and the more thickly populated districts. That
seems more unlikely still.
'
“If You Know of a Better ’Ole”
“Scribe”: According to Bishop Burgmann, in a sermon
delivered at St, John’s, Canberra, Australia “is driving
away more people from it than it is attracting to it.”
The economic anomaly of want in the midst of
plenty is not peculiar to Australia. It prevails over
all the civilised quarters of the globe, and is most
striking in those countries where the condition of
efficiency is highest.
Possibly the only community on earth completely
free from the curse of overproduction and under-
consumption is the primitive brown people that Hides
and O’Malley discovered on the plateau of Papua.
The country suffering most intensely is the United
States, where industry works—when it is working—
with the certainty of time and tide, and where the
card-index lakes the place of an ikon in public
reverence. No sane Australian would be “driven
out” of this country to take his chance in a land
where there are ten millions or more of workless
people.
Britain, like Australia, has advanced some dis-
tance towards recovery; but if the gates were
opened again there would be a wild rush of Britons
to Australia. Cloth caps would once more dot our
streets. To desert partly-recovered Australia for partly-
recovered England would be a step from the frying-
pan to the fire. The remaining units of civilisation
present no alluring picture. France is coping with
a crisis. Germany is in no better case; and in the
Nazis’ country there is to be faced a curtailment of
liberty which would quickly lead the average Aus-
tralian to a police cell. Italy is in a worse position
still. Spain has changed its rulers, but the country
remains dreadfully poor.
Russia claims that it has no unemployed. But
its standard of living is still so low that only the
sustenance man would be tempted to leave Australia
for a job there, and even he would require to main-
tain a very annoying silence about the Government.
The Scandinavian countries and the minor nationali-
ties of the white races show no more tempting goods
in their front windows, and it is not to be assumed
that Bishop Burgmann accuses Australia of driving
its citizens into such paradises of the working man
as West Africa and Java.
The fact is that, economically, Australia is to-day
the best of a bad lot. The whole of civilisation is
suffering; there is no nation which does not possess
a large proportion of citizens discontented with their
lot —so discontented that, in what we have been
accustomed to call “normal times,” they would not
hesitate to leave for another land. But in what other
land could our discontented citizens better their
condition? If the good bishop knows, he kept the
knowledge to himself.
♦
Clerk of Courts and Tax-agent.
This comes from a far-out Queensland town:
In B. 21/8/’35 Mr. Mole tries to justify the action of
the Queensland Public Curator in going into the business
of preparing income-tax returns for fees, an innovation marked
by an extensive advertising campaign.
The curator appoints as his agents local Clerks of Petty
Sessions. The C.P.S. is also an industrial inspector under
the jurisdiction of the Government. Part of his job is to
see that persons committing breaches of the Income Tax Acts
and kindred statutes are prosecuted and fined.
Your C.P.S. may thus be placed in a position where his
duty to the Government which employs him as an inspector
conflicts with his client’s interests as a taxpayer. This state
of affairs is contrary to accepted notions of British legal
principles.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Freezer”: I hear on unreliable
authority that orthodox evening dress is
to be replaced in hot weather by the
white shell jacket with a colored cum-
merbund in place of a waistcoat. The
idea won’t catch on —convention is far
too strong. Many years ago the writer,
returning from a journey to Singapore
and Hong Kong, tried hard to introduce
the white jacket to the sweltering inhabi-
tants of Townsville (N.Q.). One or two
enthusiasts followed suit, but the majority
of the male social lights persisted in the
perspiration-soaked “tails” of black
broadcloth —there were no lightweight
fabrics then. Even the girls dodged the
jacket-wearer (it almost seemed as if a
faint suspicion of indecency attached to
the abbreviated garment), and humorists
professed to mistake him for a waiter.
So the pioneers renounced the white
duck and went back to sweat and swelter
in black.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Set against the recent
pars, about Lord and Earl being claimed
as Christian names the odd case of a
man at Port Lincoln (S.A.). To his sur-
name of King, his parents prefixed an
unpretending Henry Vincent. The tele-
phone department, however, sees it other-
wise, and, as it does not use commas,
announces his business as run by “King
Henry V.”
:J: * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland is getting ready
for taking a census next year, a job post-
poned several times for economy’s sake.
Some recent comments by the Govern-
ment Statistician are not encouraging for
those who believe in full cradles. Since
1840 there has been an annual increase of
population, varying in degree. But the
year 1934-35 features “the possibility of
a stationary population —even a declin-
ing one.” Immigration figures showed
a loss last year of 3150, while the natural
increase per 1000 of mean population
has shrunk from 29.41 in the period
1876-80 to 7.99 in 1934.
* * *
Melbourne will be consider-
ably improved by the removal of much
of the old “historic” junk which still
crowds out real architecture. But there
are a few buildings of the old school
whose passing cannot be regarded with-
out a pang of regret. The Bank of
N.S.W., which was one of the adorn-
ments of Collins-street, has gone, but
the stones have been preserved and num-
bered, and are to be re-erected in the
University grounds. Now the building
formerly occupied by the London Char-
tered Bank is on the condemned list.
Though its facade reveals a mixture of
styles, it is a very beautiful structure,
and it is a pity it cannot be preserved.
The ground floor constitutes —with the
sole exception of the new Emily Mac-
pherson College—the only example of
Greek architecture in Melbourne.
“L.”: A couple of years ago a Bulle-
tin par. recorded the fact that a diver had
defied all Admiralty texts by rising to
the surface from great depths, without
the intermediate process of staging, by
means of a new device. A later par.
described the adventures of a diver who
was attacked and severely bitten about
the arm by swarms of leatherjackets.
It happened to be the same man, one
Lock. On August 4, off Darnley
Island, Torres Strait, he was brought up
stricken with paralysis, the bane of deep-
sea divers, and at present lies in the
Thursday Island Hospital, his diving days
apparently finished.
* * * *
“Muggins”: The protest (B. 21/8/’35)
against attempts to interfere with the
free-travel jaunts of our Australian legis-
lators is a reminder that this form of
“perquisite” is of comparatively recent
date. Up to the closing years of last
century the British M.P. mostly travelled
to Westminster at his own expense. Even
when payment of members began, free
transport passes didn’t go with it, and
a British M.P. is still required to obtain
a warrant that he is on Parliamentary
business before he can escape railway
fares. A couple of years ago a Welsh
member wangled a warrant for himself
“This is the FIFTH time I've had to throw you out."
“Thash all ri', ol' man. Isn't thash whash you're paid for?"
and wife on what turned out to be a joy-
ride to Wales. The subsequent row was
something to remember; he had to re-
fund the cost of the trip, in addition to
listening to some unpleasant remarks
from the Speaker, and his constituents got
another member. The warrant system is
in constant use here by railway and
Defence Force officials; it is high time
the gold pass for politicians was scrapped
and the same made to apply to them.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The statement that the
50-year-old royal yacht Britannia is being
reconditioned to have a shy at the
America’s Cup (B. 28 /8/ ’35) requires
correction. The old favorite is being
done over, but she will race no more
against the modern flyers, King George
having announced that she will be used
by him as a cruiser. I am puzzled by
“Sailor’s” statement that her “copper is
to be removed.” She is built, as all
yachts of her type have been for many
years, of metal, and would, of course,
carry no copper sheathing.
“D.E.”: In one respect the Westralian
criminal code, though upwards of 30
years old (ex-Premier Walter James was
its father), is the most advanced in Aus-
tralia. This was evidenced in the case of
the four men —three, young fellows
“living on their wits’’ —charged with the
wilful murder of the old caretaker found
in a Perth jeweller’s with his neck
broken. Two of the accused unques-
tionably entered the shop at night, and
one grabbed the caretaker, who in the
struggle fell dead or dying; but both
exculpated the other accused (though
there was evidence against one that he
had “kept nit” and was a party to the
disposal of the jewels). It was in the
actual criminals’ favor that, on leaving
with their plunder, one of them had tele-
phoned for medical help to be sent to
the caretaker; and jurymen might have
hesitated to make a hanging matter of it.
But the code specifies three degrees of
killing; the Crown Prosecutor said “I
am not pressing the wilful-murder
charge,” and the jury found the three
men guilty of manslaughter —the fourth,
a middle-aged tailor, who is quite a
celebrity in the world of bowls, was
acquitted. The CJ. made it litc im-
prisonment in two cases and 10 years
in the third.
“Tuarl”: Our lords and masters ought
to ponder deeply on the case of
the three youngsters sentenced for the
jewel-robbcry-and-killing in Perth. They
are not bad-looking chaps, nor do they
lack intelligence or humanity—the actual
assailant imperilled them all by letting
the police know about the plight of his
victim. They used to get their living by
hanging round racecourses and s.-p.
shops, taking odd jobs when “the game”
was “no good.” Their type was known
before the depression fell on us, but
it has greatly increased in numbers
since, partly because of depresh ways of
killing time (here the Pecksniffian Postal
Department assists). Compulsory ser-
vice might have saved these lads by
making men of them. But our lords
and masters tremble at the thought of
compulsory service—or, rather, of the
votes it might alienate.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Judkins, our suburban
model of propriety, was passing the pub
when he saw a police constable having
the worst of an encounter with a beery
son of toil. When called upon in the
King’s name to assist the Law, Judkins
manfully threw his seven-stone frame
into the fray. The conflict was still
raging when police reinforcements
arrived, and in the heat of the moment
a zealous constable sank several well-
placed kicks into the nearest un-uni-
formed hindquarters without waiting to
ascertain who was the man his col-
league was seeking to arrest. Profuse
apologies followed, but Judkins, who is
still nursing a black eye and limping a
bit in his walk, has come to the con-
clusion that the wages of righteousness
are sorely inadequate at times.
♦ * ♦ *
“Dodger”: There are frequent com-
plaints about the petty larceny of golf
balls by miscreants who lurk about the
links for no other purpose, but a foot-
ball is obviously a more difficult article
to get away with. So a youth found
who, when the ball was kicked into the
outer reserve at the Richmond-Fitzroy
match, seized it and incontinently fled.
He was overtaken by police and arrested,
but the amazing thing is that the crowd,
or a section of it, hooted his captors,
even throwing bottles at them. Which
suggests that football crowds arc more
lawless than cricket spectators. A bar-
racker who tried to pocket a ball hit
over the pickets at a big cricket match
would outrage popular feeling too much
for any police intervention to be needed.
His neighbors would see to that.
* * ♦ *
“Ex-P.8.1.”: Negro soldiers may be
game enough against dangers they arc
inured to (B. 28/8/’35), but in France
the colored “Doughboys” were found to
be hopeless when it came to facing shell-
fire, so much so that they were ultimately
employed behind the lines as a sort of
labor corps. Regarding the British West
India Regiment, Diggers will remember
them when they were working on the
ammo, dump at Hallebast Corner (near
Dickebusch) after Messines in ’l7. Fritz
started buzzing over five-nines one morn-
ing, and a few minutes later a dense
black cloud was seen moving rapidly to
the rear. One of their officers (white)
told me afterwards that big “crumps"
made his men absolutely crazy with
(error; they would run for miles to
escape from the terrifying bursts. Yet
Peter Jackson, one of the gamest men
who ever stepped into a ring, was a
West Indian, and Sam Langford, whose
courage as a boxer could not be ques-
tioned, was an American negro.
*** , *
“D.A.V.” discourses on rockets and
sticks:
James Scullin, who laid down the burden of
Federal Labor leadership last week, a sick
and broken man, looked to have the ball at
his feet a bare half a dozen years ago. He is
only the fourth Labor man to have won to
office as such—of his predecessors Watson had
four months, Fisher four or five years with
two breaks, Hughes less than two years before
he left the Labor parly (or it left hinV) over
the conscription issue. Scullin’s prospects
seemed particularly promising in 1929 when,
after only 10 years of Parliamentary experi-
ence, he was called on to form a Labor
Ministry. His party had been in the wilder-
ness for 13 years, and may well have antici-
pated one full term of office at least. But
within two years the scene changed ; the party
was split once more as nobody has split it
since Hughes. Nobody has ever questioned
Scullin’s sincerity, and he had a far better
Parliamentary equipment than nine men out
of ten, but firmness and assertiveness arc
equally essential qualities for leadership; it
was his lack of those that spelt failure for
him.
* * * *
“H.E.”: What a difference these air-
services make! Copy of letter received
by a Perth dentist:
I am sending you my teeth again to re-
model or patch. Please send them back
by Airways return ’plane if possible, as 1
am nearly 400 miles from Broome, and
only get a mail once every four months.
With a little more extension of aerial
enterprise the outback won’t be much
further off than the outside suburbs.
* * * *
“G. de Sleuth”: Familiar to me is the
Chinese chronicled by “Bert the Car-
penter” (B. 14/8 / ’35), scrupulously
honest about a contract but apt to per-
jure his way through a stone wall to prove
a case. Country lawyers became ac-
quainted with the breed in the days when
Asiatic hawkers went around from farm
to farm selling softgoods or buying wool
and skins. They were invariably fair and
aboveboard with their white clients, but
amongst themselves they would stick at
nothing. If one of them seemed
to be getting ahead too fast, the rest
would hold a conference and then put
up one of their number to summon the
plutocrat for debt. The unhappy victim
stood no chance in court —the others
would come forward and swear that the
money was owing. The result was that
his jealous competitors would share the
spoils and the wealthy one was put back
on scratch again. Magistrates and
lawyers might be certain that the claims
were fraudulent, but the weight of
evidence had to prevail. The queer
part of the business was that, when the
time came to sell out their respective
businesses and go back to their home-
land, all the hawkers would forget their
grievances and become as brothers.
MOONSHINE.
“Between the earth and the moon there is a vast
layer of heat which will prevent man ever flying lo
the moon, declares Professor E. V. Appleton, the
physics authority.” —London cable.
Wc shall never fly to the moon, my lads,
In any sort of machine,
For a dreadful blanket of hideous heat
That has boiling water tenfold beat
Is a barrier set between
Our orb and its neighbor over the way
That minstrels sing of and towzers bay.
Jules Verne, who gladdened our boyish years,
He lived and died too soon
To know professors would look askance
And pour hot scorn on his mad romance
That men might win to the moon.
And just as surely it spoils the spells
Of the later wizard we’ve known in Wells.
What use our trying to signal Mars,
Or their hailing us, what use?
When ’twixt us ripples a brimstone brook,
A sulphur dyke guaranteed to cook
A salamander’s goose.
What earthly show in that awful spot
Would a wireless carry? I ask you, what?
And Tomlinson, who skied the towel
At his house in Berkeley-square
And was yanked aloft through the empty blue,
How in the blazes did he get through
That, belt of flame and flare.
Which the nakedest soul could never have
done,
Teste Professor Appleton?
Tis fine to learn that hell is a long-
Exploded fallacy
At which bishops boggle and Judges scoff.
But, say, won’t heaven seem further off
To chaps like you and me
Now sober Science a warning sounds
That even the moon is out of bounds?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sach”: Governor - General
Isaacs at Sydney Automobile Club
called for the singing of “the
whole verse” when the intoners
of the National Anthem stopped
half-way through. Wrong. Only
the King and Queen are entitled
to the whole of the first verse.
The Prince of Wales’s allotment
is the first six bars. Six bars are
also the issue of “a Viceroy, Gov-
ernor-General, Governor, High
Commissioner, Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor or officer administrating the
Dominion, State, colony or man-
dated territory under British
rule.”
He ft ft
“Oxmead”: There must be
Australians with first-hand know-
ledge of Abyssinia whose impres-
sions of it would make good
“copy,” but they are obviously
shy birds, and take a lot of
locating. Personally I can recall
only one who might be able to
speak with authority, if he is still
alive —Bill Benstead, bushman.
stockman, station manager, pas-
toral pioneer, goldseeker and
something of an explorer. Bill,
after years of varied experiences
in Central Australia and on the
W.A. goldfields—he had a
daughter, Lulu, born at Alice
Springs, who made good as
a singer in London —finally
strayed away to the Dark Con-
tinent, and secured a job as manager
for an English cattle-owning com-
pany in what was once the realm of
Prester John. He returned on a flying
visit to Adelaide a few years ago, and
spoke highly of Abyssinia’s pastoral pos-
sibilities, as far as I remember. I don’t
know whether he went back there or
what became of him.
* # * «
“Newtums”; The Bulletin wrote (B.
28 /8/’35) in a notice of “Brown on
Resolution”: “The watch is assiduously
kept before the audience’s eyes.” Very
true ; but if Nelson saw a watch with
stem-winding mechanism, then I’ve seen
television in technicolor.
* ♦ # ♦
“Speed”: Railways, steamships and
motors in their turn put new places on
the map ; aviation looks likely to carry
the process further. Wynyard, a small
town on the n.-w. coast of the Speck,
some 12 miles west of Burnie, has been
excluded from tourist routes. To main-
landers, when aviation comes into its
own, it may be the best-known place
in the State, excluding the two cities.
Wynyard’s only recent claim to front-
page fame occurred when the product
of its butter factory won the Common-
wealth’s blue ribbon.
* * $ *
“Rowland”: I struggled into the end
of the queue at the “Inquiries” branch of
the Sydney G.P.O. and bided my turn.
The inquirers were mostly women. The
first ahead of me wanted to know
whether Norfolk Island was a part of
the Commonwealth, for postal purposes,
or N. S. Wales. The second was insis-
tent to learn whether a postal order,
issued in Sydney, would be negotiable
at Bangemall (W.A.). I secured the atten-
dant’s notice for a moment on the rate
(per word) of a beam cable to England
and how long it would take to be de-
livered. An agitated flapper almost
elbowed me aside before 1 got the
figures. “I posted a letter,” she said,
“in the ‘City’ box and it should have
been ‘Suburban.’ Will it get there,” she
went on almost tearfully, “as soon?”
I couldn’t help waiting until she was re-
assured. McLachlan’s minions, after all,
have more to put up with than most of
us civilians realise.
* * * *
“L.J.H.”: In his complaint about the
discomfort of the Australian naval uni-
form “J.E.L.” (B. 21/8/’35) shows him-
self the pampered modern man. The
British tar’s uniform is the most sensible
and comely masculine attire that civili-
sation knows.; there’s not a superfluous
feature about if. “J.E.L.” grumbles
about the lack of facial shelter in the
cap, but the ordinary Australian sun acts
pleasantly on the face (for tropic con-
ditions solar* tepees are issued) and rain
doesn’t hurt. As for winter cold, there’s
so little of that in Australia that naval
sweaters aren’t needed here; they are
only issued where cold weather is likely
to be experienced. The broad-bottomed
trousers, of course, are so made for ease
in rolling up above the knees.
* ♦ * ♦
"Shep”: “War babies” were not all
returned home when their true ages were
revealed (B. 28/8/’35), There was a big
camp of them on Salisbury Plains, sent
back from France and grabbed out of
reinforcements en route to the line. Lots
“ It's her first party , laddie. She's just coming out."
“Coming out? Seems to me she's arrived."
of these “babies” —already seasoned war-
riors, wearing wound stripes—were re-
turned to Blighty against their will,
when their parents had definitely located
them in the A.I.F. and had them tem-
porarily dragged out of it. A couple who
from their youthful appearance were
under suspicion in our unit were given
the whisper that if they liked to disclose
their true ages they could be sent back
from the Somme to England. A change
from muddy strafing to peaceful camp-
ing was a strong temptation to them,
but they resisted it. Other “war babies,”
tired of the monotony of the Plains camp,
started to play the devil, expecting to be
kicked back to their units. Instead,
ringleaders were drafted to France to
base jobs till thev were officially 18.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter": A loco, was
drawing a long rake of trucks and
carriages when a sudden jolt, followed
by jarring and bumping, told the driver
two of the bogie wheels had jumped
the metals and were ripping up the
track. Reasoning that to slam the
brakes on hard would mean the piling
up of some of his convoy, he applied
the things gently. No rolling stock
was damaged, but 300 yards of track
suffered materially. At the subsequent
inquiry, the man was “cautioned and
warned,” and instructions were issued
that in similar cases engine-drivers must
pull up as quickly as possible. A
few weeks later another driver found
himself in the same dilemma. He de-
cided to obey orders, with the result that
his rake of empty trucks played leap-
frog. After another inquiry the
“cautioned and warned” was taken off
the first driver’s record sheet, and the
order about pulling up quickly when a
pair of wheels jump off the line was re-
versed. The railway heads found it
cheaper to have a bit of track damaged
than to have a rake of trucks piled up.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: “G. Trotter” is alto-
gether at fault in his reference to African
elephants (B. 28/8/’35). They are just
as docile and intelligent as their Indian
cousins, and they have been trained and
used in circuses and zoos in Europe.
Obviously there is not the same field
for them in modern Africa as in India,
but explorers have seen them used for
ploughing in the Congo. As regards the
species used by the Carthaginians, there
is a portrait on an ancient Carthaginian
coin which depicts an unmistakable
African elephant with its big capelike
ears and sloping forehead and a rider on
its back. There were stables for 300
elephants in ancient Carthage, and Han-
nibal took 50 with him to Spain. By
the time he had crossed the Apennines
there was only one left, which Hannibal
himself rode. As a matter of fact, if
the Carthaginians had wanted Asiatic
elephants, they could have got them
either from India or Mesopotamia. It
is known that the Egyptians had “Indian”
elephants, and there seems to be no
doubt that the elephants used by
Pyrrhus and Alexander were of the same
species.
* A * *
“Como”: i noticed a brief reference
the other day to the traveller’s tale, which
found believers up to 40 or 50 years ago,
that a race of tailed men existed in New
Guinea. I don’t know what Mun-
chausen started the yarn, but from his
descriptions of the strange people some
artist of the day made sketches which
were published as wood-engravingsi; later,
Old King Cole, of the Melbourne Book
Arcade, bought these old blocks and
reproduced them in some of the books'
for children which he published. One
of the yarns associated with the tailed
men was that they raided and enslaved
a neighboring tribe, but when they sat
down for their cannibal feast the ladies
of the conquered section sneaked beneath
the huts and knotted together the tails
which dangled through the interstices of
the bamboo floor. This done, they sum-
moned the remnants of the tribe, who
massacred the invaders at their ease. The
story was said to have originated in the
custom of certain Papuan tribes of wear-
ing adornments which, at a distance, re-
sembled long tails.
* * * *
“Pye”: It may be—though I can’t
recall having heard it before—that the
late Sir William Watson’s chief ambition
was to become Poet Laureate, but the
statement that he “had his best chance
in 1896 when his chief competitors for
Tennyson’s wreath were Swinburne and
Alfred Austin” (B. 21/8/’35) invites some
correction. Tennyson died in 1892.
Gladstone left the vacancy unfilled, and
for close on four years it seemed doubt-
ful whether there would be any more
Laureates. Then Lord Salisbury unex-
pectedly handed the bays to Austin,
better known as a political leader-
writer than as a bard; and most
people saw in it something of an
ironical gesture, implying that Salis-
bury knew little and cared less about
poetry. The impression was deep-
ened when Austin started his Laureate-
ship with those execrable verses on the
Jameson Raid beginning:
Wrong, is it wrong? Well, maybe,
Bin I’m going, boys, all the same.
Do they think I’m a burgher’s baby
To be scared by a sounding name?
Watson had a better chance of succeed-
ing to the Laureateship when Austin
died in 1913. His name was widely men-
tioned then, but his chance is supposed
to have been killed by some malicious
verses he had written on a lady:
She is not old, she is not young,
The woman with the serpent’s tongue.
And so on. Asquith happened to be
Prime Minister in 1913, and he passed
over Watson for the venerable Bridges.
# # * *
“Hamfat”: inc punter who lastened
his teeth in the nose of a Melbourne
bookmaker with whom he had a
dispute belongs to a definitely
recognised but fortunately rare
type of human fighter. There is
one man in N.S.W. who has been
five limes convicted of nose-biting.
Apropos, 1 was once a member of
a theatrical company which in-
cluded a comedian of eccentric
disposition and erratic temper.
Being, as he thought, inade-
quately appreciated, he began
to use nasty threats towards his
fellow-actors, and as he had an
equally nasty habit of carrying a
razor some fears were entertained.
But when hostilities really broke
out, it was the nose-biting hold he
went for; two members of the
company had their fingers badly
chewed in fending off his attack.
When the war came, he joined up ;
years later a member of his bat-
talion to whom 1 mentioned his
queer history told me that after a
hop-over the ex-comedian had fas-
tened his teeth into the nasal
organ of a German prisoner. In his case
the habit was clearly ineradicable.
* * * *
“Kurrawang”: These unlicensed pubs
on wheels, one of which was confiscated
along with its stock at Lismore (N.S.W.)
the other day, used to do a brisk busi-
ness on the Westralian goldfields a
quarter of a century ago. Their
most remunerative operating grounds
were the woodline camps —three com-
panies supplied the Golden Mile with
fuel in those days, and employed many
hundreds of lusty axemen. They were
a cosmopolitan lot —Australians, Britons,
Italians, Austrians, Slavs and Scandi-
navians—and after weeks of enforced
abstinence they were capable of drinking
any “flying inn” dry in no time. The
stumpjumping shanties were rather appo-
sitely known as “bumboats.” The com-
panies tried hard to squelch the illicit
traffic, but without much success. Occa-
sionally a bumboatman would be nailed
and fined, but 1 don’t remember any of
these bush craft being towed into the
nearest police station as a prize of war.
* * * *
“Yacca”: A Westralian botanist pro-
pounds the interesting theory that the
south-west section of that State — i.e., the
part on the westward of a line drawn
from Shark Bay to Israelite Bay—holds
much that is the most distinctive and all
that is the most ancient among Aus-
tralian flora. Being, geologically, the
oldest part of the continent, it was the
nursery of the continent’s vegetation in
prehistoric times, and, when vast tracts
of desert on one side and the sea on the
other cut it off from the outside earth,
inanimate things no longer known else-
where (like the animate ones in Conan
Doyle’s The Lost World) survived and
flourished. Jarrah- and karri-trees, of
course, are only found there ; the same
applies to scores of shrubs and flowers;
and the grass-tree or blackboy (Kingia
Australis) is claimed as something pecu-
liarly sou’-Westralian, dating back to the
days of the plesiosaurus and the ptero-
dactyl. Still, The Australian Encyclo-
pedia lists 13 species of grass-trees, divid-
ing them among five States; Westralia
gets two. The queer-looking object with
the generally charred trunk and “the
flowering stem roughly resembling a
blackfellow carrying a spear” may be the
daddy of the lot, but the family seems
to have crept eastward while the going
was still good.
RAINBOW GOLD.
‘‘New provision are to be introduced into the
Vic. Companies Act to prevent and pum-h dis-
honesty in the flotation of goldmining ventures.
Black sheep there needs must be in ev’ry flock,
Or so a venerable proverb says;
And ever and again some take the knock
And pay the penalty in various ways
For robbing unsophisticated jays
And other reprehensible designs.
Bui justice still infrequently waylays
The chap who’s skilled at floating bogus mines.
Some do their dash and drift into the dock
For picking pockets upon racing days;
And some for misappropriating stock.
the bloke who’s been detected “ringing
greys”
(In that condemnatory two-up phrase)
Will feel the bang of lists and number-nines,
But no such risks he faces who essays
the devious job of floating bogus mines.
Serene the city “miner” walks the block
And boldly meets the passing copper’s gaze.
What though prospectuses may make a mock
Of truth, and false anticipations raise
Of wealth from problematic “mights” and
“mays,”
Of gold as phantom as the stuff that shines
At rainbow’s feet, no sense of guilt betrays
The chap whose forte is floating bogus mines.
Prince, will the mining “experts” get a shock
When this new law in blacx-and-white defines
The gaol discipline, the prison frock.
As penalties for floating bogus mines?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


A Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
10 for 9 d — 20 for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me
Made specially
to prevent
sore throats—
1#:
POLITICAL POINTS
“S, M. Herald” and “Argus” readers
felt vastly relieved on Saturday when the
respectable old papers assured them (with
the office equivalent of a preliminary
cough, an “it is understood”) that Aus-
tralia would be no party to a League boy-
cott of Italy, Cabinet having so instructed
Bruce, The report travelled to London
and back ; then Lyons said it was “un-
authorised and misleading,” and news-
papers should be more careful.
I appeal to press and public to say
and do nothing that might prejudice the
position.
No such injunction has been laid on
British journals. For weeks Austra-
lians have been told that the “News-
Chronicle” is for a boycott and the
“Daily Mail” against it. Joseph’s new
Imperialism is very old-fashioned.
That holy man Haile Silassie has
signed a huge 75-year concession to a
British-Amcrican shindykit headed by one
Rickett or Ricketty—“sole rights to oil,
mineral and other natural resources in
half of Abyssinia.” It is asserted that
the oracle was worked without the
British Government’s knowledge, and
that Government has objected. Even so,
its jejune Mr. Eden will go to Geneva
gravely embarrassed, and the unsavory
business will- strengthen the determina-
tion of Australians to have nothing to do
with a League war on Italy. If the
Lyons Government supports “sanctions”
in any form it won’t last a month.
Poor little Scullin, who might have
been a passable P.M. in quiet times,
has ceased to shout as leader of the larger
Labor mob. It is expected that Forde,
quite a good roads-and-bridges member,
will succeed him.
According to “S. M. Herald,” the
N.S.W. State finances continue to show
a remarkable improvement.
The estimated deficit for the current
financial year will be less than £2,000,000.
This is regarded in financial circles as a
most gratifying achievement.
What financial circles? At £2,000,000
it will amount to 15s. a head. If the
“achievement” were repeated in Britain,
the deficit there would amount to
£34,000,000 ; and no Briton would regard
that as “gratifying.”
Albert Ogilvie, Premier of Tasmania,
has much in common with Alberta.
Albert is “the only Prime Minister in
the Empire who has ever attended a
Douglas Credit function” ; Alberta is the
only part of the Empire that has ever
chosen a Douglas Credit Ministry. Both
derive their names from a royal prince.
Albert, like Alberta, is not so devoted to
Douglas as he was a month ago, but he
has come back saying he is “entirely in
support of community control of credit.”
Dunstan’s Marketing of Primary Pro-
ducts Bill had a rough reception in the
Upper House. H. I. Cohen tartly re-
called that Dr. Harris, the Minister, had
“offered 21 cogent objections” to corre-
sponding proposals introduced in 1930,
and suggested that the House should give
the measure “a speedy dispatch.” U.A.P.
Assemblymen promptly objected. They
believe in “orderly marketing,” or say
they do, and summary rejection would
embarrass them in the constituencies.
Melbourne “Age” enjoys flogging its
josses, and it found Dunstan’s “declara-
tion of hospital ‘policy’ extraordinarily
meagre and unsatisfying.” The same
terms could be justly applied to other
performances of the parish-pump Pre-
mier—his eagerness to grab the motor-
body-building works from S.A. and a
bit of the sugar industry from Queens-
land (by supporting a beet-sugar project
at Warrnambool); his sale of Crown
land at Fisherman’s Bend and his refusal
to have an airport there ; his demands
for immense loans for unspecified
“works” and his dark threats to the
Commonwealth, which he is willing to
wound but afraid to strike. Victoria
has never had a more “meagre and un-
satisfying” Premier.
Commonwealth public servants are
clamoring for another appointment to the
Public Service Board, which is alleged to
be incomplete. Tasmania has a Public
Service Commissioner who contrives to
be “chairman of 60 wages boards,” of the
Occupational Diseases Board, of the
Salaries Reference Board, of the Re-
turned Soldiers’ Employment Board, and
member of the Accommodation Board.
The Public Service Association protests
he gives only 20 p.c. of his time to
public-service matters, but ithe tax-
payers are not complaining.
In 1911 the Giolitti Government de-
cided on the conquest of Tripoli as a
step towards establishing an African
Empire. A young socialist, Benito Mus-
solini, incited the populace of Forli to
"Is that you, Duce? I'm Benito Mussolini, of the Socialist Federation and the
Hands-off-Africa League.”
fesist the lan Italy he said? did not
n£ed tQ “expand”—“an African policy
would be fatal; the future of our race
lies in a we ll-cultivated, efficient Italy in
Europe.” That Benito got five months.
English pacifist editors, whose simple
Jsngnsn pacmsi © ’ . . a
faith ls ,. th 1H h l ■ ht if Y it
wrong—though it would be right if it
plunged into war on Nazi Germany and
Fascist Italy made a hero ot the
Bulgar Dimitroff, who was accused ot
firing the Reichstag. Partly because of
their adulation, Dimitroff has become a
“leading Soviet politician,” and the
Communist Internationale has ma le
him its secretary. He preluded his
appointment with a promise to push on
with the “world revolution. Our rude
forefathers were well acquainted with
persons like Dimitroff, Trotsky and
Bela Kun, and regarded them as the
scum of the earth. Very possibly our
children’s children will be of the same
opinion.
Russia was one of Roosevelt’s bad
bets. He rushed into “recognition"’
(steadfastly refused by the Republicans)
and trade arrangements, and filled the air
and the newspapers with stories of the
wealth that was to accrue to his coun-
try from these manoeuvres. Instead,
there has been only a vast increase of
Communist propaganda the Reds
swore on their Marxian bibles that there
would be none —and now Washington
has given Moscow warning that something
unspecified but serious will happen if
it doesn’t stop. On the same score,
Britain has addressed a protest —one
of many—to the perfidious push.
Just when his absent chief was bearing
down on Tasmania, full of threats to the
Commonwealth and complaints about
the cane-sugar industry, McDonald, one
of the Leg. Council Ministers, was chal-
lenged to define his attitude to the re-
newal of the sugar agreement. He did
not hesitate.
It has become popular to say that
Tasmania is being exploited. Whatever
may be the view of the Ministry and
other Labor members, I prefer not to be
in the fashion. The sugar agreement is
politically and industrially necessary to
Australia, and it benefits Tasmania.
It required courage to say that. Well
done, McDonald!
MacCallum Smith, M.L.A., returns
from the London excursion that cost
Westralia £5300 (the Commonwealth
rather, for it all comes out of Common-
wealth grants) to find that a fellow-
secessionist has been nursing his seat —
he is member for North Perth. In an
expansive moment McSmith announced
that he would “free” Westralia if he had
to stay abroad till his beard grew to
the ground, and the fellow-secessionist
thought he meant it —at least he chose to
think so, which comes to the same thing.
Wren and Theodore, who, with two
partners, got £300,000 in cash and
600,000 f.-p. 10s. shares (together with
the right to take up 350,000 more at par),
for their interest in the Emperor,
could already sell the shares to immense
advantage if they unloaded carefully;
optimists have been paying up to 265.
Wren has found Fiji mining even more
remunerative than Sydney land transac-
tions. Apropos, “Terewth” recalls that
in the spacious Labor days the City
Council paid him £267,000 for part of
the property resumed for the widen-
ing of Park-street, and that the whole of
the “residues” has been sold for £BO,OOO.
The silence of the Papacy on the
Italo-Abyssinian quarrel has been re-
marked all the world over. It was
broken by the Pope in a speech welcom-
ing a pilgrimage of nurses: quoting the
foreign and Italian versions, he said “a
war of conquest would be plainly unjust
and unbelievably sad and horrible,” and
as for the claim that war was necessary
to ensure Italy’s frontiers, expansion and
progress,
If there exist these necessities, we can
only hope that a solution will be reached
without war. Truly, it is not easy to say
how, but we do not believe it impossible.
Everything must be tried in order to avoid
war.
Uttered a week before the meeting of
the League Council, and at the moment
when the ruler who settled the old dis-
pute between the Quirinal and the Vati-
can was conducting vast military
manoeuvres, the speech was well-timed
and highly impressive.
The opening of a new factory—a rare
occurrence in Queensland, though it
ought to be happening every week—
moved Minister Pease to declare that the
company—it is to make rooting material
—“need not worry about taxes”:
Taxation is levied on the profits of the
business. No profits, no taxation. There
can be nothing fairer.
Queensland State company taxes run to
Bs. 3d. in the £, plus 20 p.c. super-tax,
plus 5 p.c. relief tax (and no deductions
allowed). They are the highest in Aus-
tralia, and if a co. makes £5OOO one year,
loses £6OOO the next and £7OOO in the
third year it pays on the £5OOO, there
being no refund or carry-over. Pease
has a queer conception of what is fair.
Perth “Sunday Times,” whose late
boss led the secessionists, sent one of
its young men to have a look at
Mitchell’s group settlements or what is
left of them. He brought back a har-
rowing account of abandoned proper-
ties, waterlogged land and Government
schools reduced from 100 pupils to 15,
adding that something had been re-
covered from the wreck by the sale of
farmhouses (which must have cost
£300) for week-end beach shacks. The
Commonwealth can’t be blamed for this
fiasco, which was wholly Westralian in
conception and management. As a
matter of fact, two Commonwealth men,
Gepp and Gunn, saved Westralia from
an even worse disaster by throwing cold
water on Collier’s plans for 5000 wheat
farms in 10-inch country.
“Now that Budget equilibrium has
been achieved,” the N.S.W. public-service
organisation, through O’Sullivan, one of
its officials, is demanding pre-slump
salary-rates. “Budget equilibrium” is so
far from having been achieved that, in
loan expenditure and excess of ordinary
outgoings, N. S. Wales went another
£13,500,000 to the bad last year, and the
admitted deficit of £2,846,000 would have
been £3,632,000 but for a Commonwealth
grant. The Bulletin is beginning to
think that without subdivision and trans-
fer of functions and taxes (e.g., educa-
tion and income tax) to the Common-
wealth it never will be achieved.
Postal-Director Brown complained,
after a visit to Melbourne Stock
Exchange, that he had found the pro-
ceedings unintelligible. Brokers might
retort that they find Br. Brown’s
algebraical symbols for automatic ’phone
exchanges equally unintelligible. Why
Australia cannot adopt the sensible
American system of naming the ex-
changes and using the first two letters
as indicator is a mystery. Nobody can
possibly memorise letters which mean no-
thing, while letters with the same vowel
sounds lead to endless confusion when
making a “mixed” call.


//
Big Cwiei= Give plemtv Money
fcow vjo'rwiKiOj "
“LO, THE POOR INDIAN!”
“The victory of the Douglas Credit party in the Alberta (Canada) elections was followed by a flight of capital, a collapse in stocks and suspension of
Savings Bank payments. The proposals of the party include payment of £5 a month to all citizens, ‘as of right.’”


' See what n
these Great Features of the
(Jlejrf SHELL
/□MOTOR OIL
Mean to You/
QUICKER
FLOWING
WHEN
COLD
J r.
PROTECTION FOR
YOUR MOTOR
AT HIGH SPEED
EVAPORAT-
ION
VHEN HOT
LESS
SLUDGE
FORMATION
«U6E,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole, who suc-
ceeds to the command of the R.A.N.,
was captain of the Australian Naval
College before it was divided into board-
ing-houses. He was the second com-
mander of H.M.S. Hood, the world’s
biggest battleship, to enter the Australian
service, the other being Captain Goolden,
who commanded one of our cruisers for
a year or two after 1926. He is regarded
as one of the best organisers and trainers
of youth in the R.N., and recently has
been in command of the Naval Barracks
at Devonport. His brother Charles is
Commonwealth Inspector-General of
Forests.
H. V. C, Thorby, who goes from
Repat. to Commerce as assistant to Page,
has been in politics since 1922. In that
year he was one of the three members re-
Minister THORBY, who moves into the
Commerce Department.
turned for Wammerawa to the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, When proportional repre-
sentation was scrapped he sat for Castle-
reagh from 1927 until 1930, when Lang-
ster Joseph Clark outed him. He made
a comeback the following year, winning
Federal Calare from Gibbons, of
“the Plan.” Lyons appointed him to his
present post—he had had previous Minis-
terial experience as Minister of Agricul-
ture under Bavin. A Sydney native, he
is 46 years old,
“Also R.A.N.”: Lane-Poole (B.
31/7/’35) is not the only British admiral
with a famous painter for a forebear.
W. M. James, the new Deputy Chief of
Naval Staff, is not only a grandson of
Millais, but the original of “Bubbles.”
The picture was bought by the Pears’
soap people, and produced highly profit-
able results in the late-Victorian and
Edwardian eras. James is an eminent
naval historian ; his The British Navy in
Adversity was published a few years ago.
Henri Barbusse, who died last week
at 62, was France’s foremost pacifist.
His war-books (particularly Under Fire)
have been translated into as many
languages as All Quiet, and they give
more hideous pictures of the Western
Front because he wrote from first-hand
experience and had supreme powers of
expression. His sympathy for the under-
dog probably inspired him to write
Zola, the biography of one who was
violently attacked by his contempor-
aries as a novelist (Anatole France
called his work a “heap of filth”), and
who was driven out of France for defend-
ing Dreyfus. Barbusse, like Belloc, was
half English.
“Jean S.’s” pen-picture:
A plea for the unemployed camped on a
certain P.P. reserve is being heard by the
councillors at a country shire meeting. The
advocate describes in simple language and
passionate tones the ghastly conditions under
which whole families are living. There are
telling references to the plight of the children.
The councillors get restive, register something
like shame. Her duty, as she sees it, done, the
pleader cheerfully sets off on her 20-mile hike
home. The councillors have been listening to
Mrs. L. C. Rodd, whose novel Tiburon has
just begun in The Bulletin.
Mrs. James Rutherford, mother of the
scientist Lord Rutherford, died the other
day in M.L., aged 93. She had 12 chil-
dren, and eight of them survive. Two
of her boys (aged 10 and 12) were
drowned in a boating accident in
Pelorus Sound ; young Ernest, the future
Cavendish Professor of Physics at Cam-
bridge, escaped.
Alfred Jackson, designer and builder
of Brisbane’s City Hall, has died in Wyn-
num (Q.) at 72. Manchester-born, he
came to Australia in 1887, and pioneered
almost every big electrical development
in Queensland.
“Jeames”: Lord de Clifford, who may
be tried by his peers for manslaughter
(his car collided last month with that of
one Douglas Hopkins, and Mr, Hopkins
was killed), holds one of the oldest peer-
ages in England. He is the 26th Baron.
The family name is Russell. It is a
coincidence that the last peer to be tried
in the House of Lords was a Russell.
This was the earl to whose title Bertrand
Russell the cele-
brated mathemati-
cian and social re-
former, succeeded
in 1931. The earl
was convicted of
bigamy, served
three months in
the second divi-
sion, and then got
a free pardon.
Lord de Clifford,
who is only 26,
married one of the
pretty Meyrick
sisters, whose
mother ran a well-
known London
night club some
years ago.
This is a Coventry
sketch of Geoffrey
Reed, who was re-
cently appointed to
the S. Aus Supreme
Court Bench. A
Prince Alfred and
Adelaide Univer-
sity product, he is
only 43 and served
in the A.I.F. He
was called in T 4
after a couple of
years as Judge’s
associate.
James Barrett
was the inevitable
successor to the
A New S.A. Judge.
late John MacFarland as Chancellor
of Melbourne University. He was
unanimously appointed last week. Apart
from having been a member of the
council for 34 years, the medical knight
(he got his K.B.E. in 1918) has been
prominent in almost every important Vic-
torian social activity for nearly half a
century. Town-planning, proportional
representation, the campaign against
venereal disease, and the advancement of
music are some of his public interests.
He worked for the Diggers as an oculist
(his specialty) and is part-author of The
A.M.C. in Egypt.
Adam Skirving, who died in Melbourne
last week, was one of the many success-
ful trainer-riders that Australia has taken
from M.L. —he was born in Christchurch
66 years ago. Adam was as game and
skilful over the fences as his fellow-
Maorilander Paddy Nolan, and won the
Aust. Hurdles in 1900 op Redeemer. He
started training in Victoria in the follow-
ing year, and turned out countless win-
ners, including Waterline, who downed
Phar Lap at Flemington. Adam Skirv-
ing—killed at Moonee Valley in a Hunt
Club ’chase—was a son.
George Todd, who died in London
during the week-end of heart failure, was
a conspicuous figure in Australian jour-
nalism for more than 40 years. Born in
Derby, England, 71 years ago, he arrived
here as a young man and joined a rail-
way survey parly in Tasmania. Later he
got a job on Hobart “Mercury” and then
became Melbourne literary representative
of Sydney “Telegraph.” Shifting to Syd-
ney he was a political roundsman till he
started on his own—the Wagga “Ex-
press.” In 1901 he rejoined the “Tele-
graph” Co., founded and became the first
editor of “The World’s News.” Todd
ran this profitable little paper—with an
18 months’ break when he was the
“Telegraph’s” news editor—until his re-
tirement in 1934. He went to England to
join his son, Dr. Geoffrey Todd, of the
King Edward Sanatorium, Medhurst
(Sussex). A kindly and courteous soul,
his passing will be mourned by free-
lancers all over Australia.
Arthur Hocy Davis (“Steele Rudd”),
who entered a Sydney hospital last week,
had his first Bulletin story, “Starting
the Selection,” printed in the issue of
April 6, 1895. His “On Our Selection”
books run to double figures. He has been
bush-worker, civil
servant, newspaper
editor and public
lecturer, and what
he doesn’t know of
horses isn’t worth
knowing.
“Exdig”; Tommy
Mellor, who, as
bandmaster, played
the Diggers in and
out of Liverpool
(N.S.W.) camp all
through the war, is
dead. Mellor was
in camp with a
bunch of trainees
in August, ’l4; to
a man the trainees
volunteered, and so
did Mellor,
although he was
then nearly 60.
The genial, rotund
little musician had
control of a juv-
enile band in Eng-
land when he was
only 12, and he
was for 30 years
in charge of the
Newtown (Sydney)
band.
Roy Taylor, for
some years S. Aus.
tennis champion
and an inter-
national lacrosse
player, who died suddenly last October,
left over £lOO,OOO. He succeeded his
father as a partner in the James Marshall
drapery firm, since taken over by the
Myer Co.
J. C, Whiteman is a Maorilander. He
went to London years ago and made
himself an expert on carburation, in-
vented the “kinetic” carburettor, now
widely used, and a method of blend-
ing power alcohol derived from vege-
table products and mineral spirit. He
has recently spent two years in Buenos
J. C. WHITEMAN, a Maoriland
Inventor.
Aires, as the guest of the Argentine Gov-
ernment, advising on the development of
vegetable motor spirits. The climate has
induced him to make Sydney his head-
quarters, while a group of sons, some of
whom inherit his inventive ability, look
after his interests overseas.
From a Bar table:
J. S. Watkins (known to his friends as
“Watty”) and B. E. Minns appeared recently
as witnesses in a Sydney case affecting prop-
erty rights in some pictures. Herbert Moflitt,
counsel for the plaintiff, has been a Bulletin
artist for decades. His learned friend Eric
Clegg is the son of a retired magistrate who
has written a small library of novels and was
a Bulletin sub-editor. Bryan Fuller, for
the other side, might well have been an artist.
He is a first-class black-and-white draughts-
man.
Jack Stanley, a picturesque Melbourne
Block identity for upwards of half a cen-
tury, died last week, aged 84. Origi-
nally a ranker in the Vic. Permanent Artil-
lery, he served in one of the military
detachments that were detailed to help
the police against the Kelly Gang. These
lads, in their bright uniforms, were the
idols of the country towns, and at one
function Stanley met and was admired
by a wealthy woman —but she was mar-
ried. Years later, after a spell as warder
in Pentridge gaol and while a reporter
on Melbourne “Age,” he encountered the
lady again. She was now a widow, and
after a few months they were married.
Jack left journalism to become a tea-
merchant, and left that in turn to return
to his first love, the army. He had mean-
time become an officer in the militia, and
now joined up as captain with the Per-
manent Artillery. Nature had intended
Stanley for soldiering; he became chief
of ordnance, Vic. Commandant and a
major-general. He retired before the war,
but was brought back in T 4 to join the
Military Board and become Q.M.G.
After Theodore Fink and Dr. D. Stewart,
Stanley was the oldest member of the
Yorick Club.
Frank Reid —“Bill Bowyang” of many
Bulletin pars.—is a celebrity “north of
’28.” He runs the “On the Track” page
in the “North Queensland Register,”
and has written two books, Toilers of
the Reef and The Fighting Cameliers.
Born in Winton (Q.) over 50 years ago
he enlisted in T 4, left Sydney with the
18th Batf. was invalided from Gallipoli,
and became the first editor of the
“Kia-ora Cooee,” the A.I.F. official
magazine in Egypt and Palestine.


NERVESWOULD
spoil OUR
i
A
m
m
mm
MM
M.
mm
wm
mfs-
Kind to
the Throat
Soothing
to the Nerves"
so we smoke only ARDATH
..the nene-Mortcny cigarette
When "nerves" start to interfere
with your fun, it s time to change
to Ardath De-Luxe. Ardath's never
'get on your nerves." In fact, the
traditional English blend of 100%
pure Virginia Tobaccos is actually
nerve -soothing. And so kind to your
throat.
Join the multitude of Ardath de-
votees. Smoke Ardath from to-day
and say goodbye to spoil-sport
nerves for ever.
y>.-'
safe
IP
In Smart Flat TINS
10-9 d. : 20-1/6
Also Flat Pocket 50's.
Tins of 100, and
Round Airtight 50's.
ARDATH
De-Luxe i
CIGARETTES
557 B-8.5


The wILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,340 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,851 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1,254.700
1931.. 99,820 4 ~ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100,685
1033.. 105,27!) 4 „ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1034.. 148,623 6 „ ~143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ ~119,682 25,993 1,141,216
Activities of this big woolbroking, pas-
toral finance and merchandising, etc., co.
are confined almost entirely to S. Aus.,
where the business was founded by A. L.
Elder in 1839, and to Westralia, where
Elder, Shelton and Co., a subsidiary,
was absorbed in 1919. With a bit
extra in the fattest periods, it was
a steady 10 p.c. proposition for 24 years
to the close of accounts in 1929. During
the last 11 of them shareholders put up
£2,163,990 of cash-paid capital, which
brought with it £267,874 of share pre-
miums, and £229,650 of reserves was
capitalised. Then, on the heels of a long
drought in S. Aus. and the West Darling,
came the collapse of the markets, and
the div. dropped to 4 p.c.
Last season the clip was heavier, but
it was worth a lot less, as the following
comparison of sales in S. Aus. and West-
ralia shows:
, 1933-34. \ f—* —1084-35. \
Groat* Gross
Rales. Value. Bales. Value.
Adelaide . . 245,263 £4,477,715 272,724 £2,957,851
Perth . . 159,852 3,333,529 218,287 2,661,331
Of the number of bales sold last season
Elder Smith handled 109,905 (up 9371)
=in Adelaide and 91,309 (up 23,707) in
Perth. The average price in Adelaide
'was £lO 16s. lid. (down £7 Bs. 3d.) and
in Perth £l2 3s. lOd. (down £8 13s. 3d.).
The drop was due to the German em-
bargo, Italian restrictions and generally
unsatisfactory outlook among Continen-
tal users. Still, there was an almost com-
plete clearance of the clip, though the
selling season had to be extended.
After striking an extra £8321 (£17,180
in all) off the book value of premises,
and allowing whatever was considered
necessary for other contingencies, the
year’s gross earnings were £5283 better,
despite the reduction in the money value
of the wool turnover:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1926 . . 1,756,800 t - 652,260 438,202
1928 . . 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1930 . . 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 . . 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 . . 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 . . 2,393,640 513,647 365,024
1935 . . 2,393,640 518,930 373,255
‘lncludes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here.
£229,650 of reserves capitalised from here.
The growth of £8231 in exes, reflects
the heavier clip and extension of the
selling season. The net result was a
shade over 6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 6.2, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 5.3 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The cautious manage-
ment knocked a point off the div., reduc-
ing it to 5 p.c.
As for the coming season, early esti-
mates are that 390,000 fewer bales will
be available in Australia ; but the Brad-
ford price of tops is about 20 p.c. higher
than a year ago. This and a strong de-
mand are expected to lift the price of the
staple locally.
The market, confident that the co. will
be able to pay a 6 p.c, div., prices the
£lO shares paid to £6 at £8 11s. as against
J £B a year ago. At £8 11s. the return is
only 3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or
4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. The
cover is visibly £8 17s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
The next table shows the solid nature
of the financial structure:
1920. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Deposits, £ £ £ £
■ etc. .. 2,201,305 1,420,672 1,703,183 846,346
Other lia-
bilities .. 65,587 13,787 14,006 833,431
Property, pre-
• mises, plant,
etc. .. 278,598 561,588 569,489 556,226
Gov eminent
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 857,309 1,696,487 1,758,741
A d v a nces,
etc. .. 2,016,536 3,784,245 3,311,561 3,260,710
Other assets 62,630 38,249 27,627 473
To meet the withdrawal of £856,837 of
fixed deposits, the co. leant upon sundry
creditors for an extra £819,425. Exclud-
ing the provident and guarantee fund
(£301,676, up £12,325), depositors and
others could see more than 20s. in the £
of their money in Government securi-
ties and cash (up £62,254) alone. Ad-
vances, etc., were down £50,851. The
etcetera includes merchandise, £94,484,
and the co.’s interest in subsidiary and
other cos., £144,079, shown separately for
the first time.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
1925.. 40,205 12* p.c. = 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ „ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 „ ~29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ „ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12i „ „ 37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 „ ~ 23,908 7,259 93,000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ „ 20,920 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ „ 20,920 135,908
Prof. Ord. To Re-
Si p.c. 7 p.c. serves.
1935.. 30,265 8613 20,920 732 136,640
fAdded to contingency reserve.
There is no price-cutting in the trade,
and this co. and Castlemaine-Perkins
supply most of the beer consumed in
Queensland. Competition takes the form
of buying hotel properties, thus widen-
ing and anchoring turnover, which has
also been" helped by the growth of em-
ployment. During the 1934 term the co.
added £98,906 to the book value of fixed
assets, mainly on account' of city free-
holds in Brisbane. Early in the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
more hotel freeholds and leaseholds were
bought at Ipswich, Southport and
Gympie and on the South Coast line and
Darling Downs. The amount added to
the book value of fixed assets was
£301,726:
1920. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital .. 112,500 298,851 298,851 298,851 498,085
Creditors . 31,476 97,379 103,460 183,504 280,473
Fixed assets 73,643 286,433 308,614 407,520 709,246
Stocks .. 44,795 77,055 84,195 82,021 93,719
Book debts 45,864 167,862 145,477 130,319 117,950
Cosh. etc. 9,846 8,265 8,907 8,804 10,223
To meet the year’s outlay £199,234 of
pref. capital, carrying a fixed cumulative
p.c., was gathered at par, and the
board went outside for a further £96,969,
making the net growth in the amount
coming to sundry creditors (mostly
secured) over the last two years £177,013.
Debtors’ balances were down £12,369
and stocks up £11,698. When the books
last closed liabilities exceeded more or
less liquids by £58,581, a swing of
£96,281 over the twelvemonth.
The year’s net earnings (up £7859)
were enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 7.2'p.c. on the £298,851 of ord.
capital as against 7.4, 7, 7.1, 10.4,
13.2 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1929. The
div., which averaged 10.9 p.c. for the
eight years to the close of accounts in
1930, dropped to 7 p.c. in 1932, and has
remained steady since.
On total funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year's net earnings were
equal to 4.7 p.c., so the pref. money
is not much of a help to the ords. at the
moment. Because of this and the size
of the debt it is doubtful whether any-
thing better than 7 p.c. need be expected
for a while. The market therefore prices
the pound shares at 285., at which figure
the return is 4.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs at 225. 9d. yield 4.8
p.c. The net tangible cover is £3 3s.
Bd. prefs. and 295. Id. ords.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 36,200 10 p.c. = 20,224 15,976 67,408
Unexplained additions .. 30,614 98,022
1926.. 43,175 US p.c. = 26,250 16,925 114,947
Unexplained additions .. 43,964 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13J p.c. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions .. 63,578 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13i p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions .. 86,018 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13i p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions .. 81,432 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13$ p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions . . 35,444 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions .. 32,482 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions .. 19,434 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions .. 34,779 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523.267
Unexplained additions .. 32,944 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
There is £397,446 of capital to feed (Is.
per share, or £78,915, was returned in
’32), and at the end of June it had the
support and assistance of £569,348 of
reserves, which include an unspecified
allowance for depreciation and taxation.
So, to pay 10.7 p.c. on capital alone,
total funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) need turn in only 4,4 p.c. net. Still,
considering the semi-luxury nature of the
business, the co. has put up an extraordi-
narily good performance, thanks to the
efficiency of the management and the
plant, a tight grip upon the market, the
quality of the product and the comfort-
able nature of the finances.
During the last term turnover con-
tinued to expand, and the associated cos.
in Queensland, Vic. and W.A. sent along
a little more —£82,200 of the parent’s
funds is represented by scrip in these
inter-State offshoots, and £70,000 of the
reserves came from the sale to them of
trade-marks and goodwill. Declared net
earnings shot up £12,337, making the im-
provement £32,941 over the last three
years, reaching 14 p.c. on capital as
against 10.9, 7.8, 5.2, 10.2 and 9.8 p.c.
back to 1930, That was after £32,944
(£1835 less than for the previous term)
was dropped from somewhere into the
general, taxation and depreciation re-
serve, etc.; so the co. may have done
even a bit better than was claimed.
The market, which sees no cloud in
the co.’s sky, now prices the fully-paid
14s. shares at 40s. 7d. as against 3 Is. 6d.
a year ago and 245. 12 months before
that. At 40s. 7d. the return is 3.5 p.c.
on a 10.7 p.c. div, basis. The investor
who looks for 4.5 p.c. on his money
counts on the div. going to 13 p.c., and
that was within reach last year. There is
nothing in sight at the moment to sug-
gest a recession in earnings. The div.
was kept at 10.7 p.c.; it averaged over
11 p.c. for the last decade, the lowest
being 7.8 p.c. in ’33. Including the pro-
vision for depreciation, etc., the net
tangible cover is 48s. Bd. per pound of
paid capital.
Finances are snug:
1924. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £425,836 £897,440 £397,446
Sundry creditors 75,080 15,295 21,907 29,522
Freeholds, etc. 187,856 247,208 246,646 245,045
Plant, etc. .. 83,202 403,592 405,900 485,400
Investments .. 4,313 155,755 124,312 152,920
Stock.. ~ 7,238 13.067 18,503 19,49i>
Hook debts .. 3,094 22,300 5,848 14,2 <4
Cash .. .. 12 53,191 108,588 90,772
When the books last closed the amount
coming to sundry creditors was more
than three times covered by cash alone.
After adding £19,535 to the book value
of plant, all of which is reported to be
“in the best possible condition,” £28,614
net was invested outside the business,
William Adam* and Co.
f Dividends — N Wiit-
Pref. i ( ’ 11 Ite-
April, Profit. 7 p.c'. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 6,181 1750 2-J p.c. es 4,500 1,582
1926.. 14,411 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 5,243
1927.. 17,562 1730 5 „ „ 9,000 12,«50
1928.. 6,962 1750 2J „ ~4,500 12,767
Surplus on property sale, £1022 .. 13,789
1920.. 14,767 1750 5 p.c. = 9,000 17,800
1930.. 15,940 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 22,990
Loss. 3i p.c.
1931.. 15,772 875 Nit 6,349
Deficit.
1932.. 16,117 Nil Nil 9.J68
1933.. 10,424 Nil Nil 20,192
To
Profit. Reserve*.
1934.. 932 Nil Nil 932 19,260
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
That table reflects the struggle of the
engineering trades against high costs and
competition from cheap-labor countries.
To help the co. out the management gave
more attention to overseas agencies,
though it went a bit into debt to finance
the widening of activities. The ords., how-
ever, averaged no more than p.c. for
the decade to the close of accounts in
1930, and 4s. per share (= £45,000) had
been lopped off their capital in 1923. Then,
to lighten the amount coming to creditors,
stocks and debtors’ balances had to be
worked down at the worst possible
moment, while in N. S. Wales the co.
was handicapped by Mr. Lang’s indus-
trial legislation. So, although the axe
was used on exes, and the co. enjoys
an extensive goodwill (of which no
account is taken in the books) throughout
the Commonwealth, losses totalling
£42,313 were recorded for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1933.
With the turn in the tide the business
has become profitable again, thus bright-
ening the outlook, for shareholders. To
clear the way for the resumption of divi-
dends it has been decided to wipe out
the p. and 1. debit (£13,281 at the end
of April) and to bring the book value
of some of the assets more into line with
their actual worth. To do this 2s. per
share (= £22,500) is to be struck off
the ords., reducing paid capital to
£182,500 in 25,000 £1 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
(subject to 221 P-C. statutory cut) and
225,000 ords. of 14s. each. That will
leave £9219 for the adjustment of book
value of tangible assets.
The £8287 (up £7355) netted last term
was enough to pay arrears of pref. divs.
(£6464 = ss. 2d. per share) and leave
£1823 in the kitty. No divs. were paid,
because the money was wanted to help
finance the larger trading. Still, it should
not be long before the prefs. have a
clear slate. The £8287 was also enough
to pay a full year’s pref. div. (5.4 p.c. =
£1356) and show 4.4 p.c. on £157,500 of
ord. capital. The board expects to show
better figures at next balance.
At 21s. the prefs. appear to be worth
consideration. The ords. at 7s. 9d. would
return 7.2 p.e. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
After allowing for the writing off, the net
tangible cover will be £7 6s. prefs. and
par for the ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1927. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £205,000 £205,000 £205,000 £ 205,000
Liabilities .. 265,599 119,590 147,462 175,371
Freeholds .. 106,357 103,476 104,013 104,570
Plant, etc. .. 25,744 18,979 11.461 13,629
Stocks .. 173,669 124,256 120,625 133,117
Book debts .. 172,420 62,029 89,117 109,960
Cash, shares, etc. 9,839 6,084 7,987 8,123
To carry an extra £12,492 of stocks, add
£20,843 to debtors’ balances and £2168
net to plant, the board went outside for
a further £27,909. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£75,892) was £5562.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 23,946 12J p.c. = 18,750 1 7fi „
Written off, £4400 .. j 7 • 118,773
1926.. 20,608 10 p.c. = 15,000 ) , nftß
Written off, £2600 .. ( 8,008 116,781
1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 .. 103,324
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil | 9,582 119,072
Written off, £2BOO .. J
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,872
1930.. 7,908 2J p.c. = 5,000 2,908 106,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 95,280
1931.. 13,016 31 p.c. = 7,600 6,516 100,790
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7102; reduction in general
reserve, £4003 .. .. -• 90,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO .. 90,990
1938.. 14,055 51 p.c. => 11,000 3,655 100,045
Written off shares in oilier cos.,
£5OOO 95,045
1934.. 17,007 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,007 99,252
1935.. 19,200 8 „ „ 10,000 3,200 102,458
Though it has never been much of
a money-spinner, the outlook for share-
holders is now brighter than it has been
for some lime. In 1922 the co., together
with J. Boag and Son, passed its beer-
making plant, etc., to a subsidiary, Tas-
manian Breweries Pty., for £200,000 in
scrip, half 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and the other
half ords. Cascade’s whack was 52,407
prefs. and 50,000 ords., together £63,000
in excess of the book value of tangibles
transferred. Since the merger £57,462
has been written off the book value of
the holding.
Trouble began about eight years ago,
when, owing to competition, the operat-
ing co. ceased to contribute to the
pool, leaving Cascade dependent chiefly
upon returns from its hotel prop-
erties and the cordial- and cider-making
section of the business. Shareholders
were passed by in ’2B and ’29, and then
sales picked up, despite slump, while sav-
ings in interest and other exes, helped,
and the div. climbed to 5£ p.c. in ’33,
followed by 7 p.c. in the next year and
then 8 p.c. for the last term. Mean-
while, the proprietary’s local and
inter-State trade began to recover, thanks
partly to “arrangements made with some
of the mainland breweries’’; in the 1934
term it paid a div. on its pref. capital,
the first for seven years.
Last year the spring in Cascade’s gross
earnings (£45,617) was £2685. Exes.
(£26,411) took £lOB6 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £1599 better at 9.6 p.c.
on capital as against 8.8, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c.
for the three preceding terms, and a
point was added to the div.
To help finance installation of a new
brewing plant about eight years ago, the
co. gathered £50,000 of fresh capital and
went a bit into debt:
1925. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 57,148 129,124 125,829 121,16..
Overdrafts, etc. 4,734 10,976 3,797 2,433
Hotels, etc.. . 173,699 258,847 252,391 254,240
Stock & plant 22,627 111,281 98,818 95,567
Book debts, etc. 26,491 24,801 28,712 18,290
Cash and in-
vestments .. 12,212 312 9,507 10.340
Shares other cos. 106,530 70,809 57,596 05,196
When the books closed the outside debt
exceeded more or less liquids, including
stocks but not shares, by £87,624, a slip
of £4857 over the twelvemonth. The
floating debt is well covered.
The market prices the 21s. shares paid
to 20s. at 325. 6d. as against 275. a year
ago and par twelve months before that.
At 325. 6d. the return is 4.9 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 30s. 2d.
in net tangibles.
Australian Soaps, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Net r Dividends > Re-
June. Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 12,405 8 p.c. 5 p.c. = 7687 4718 11.046
Unexplained reduction reserves, £10,282.. -2,38-
1932.. 3,314 6.65 p.c. Nil 2660 654 21,ui4
Loss. .
1933.. 23,872 Nil Nil • —40,44 G
Assets revalued; added intangibles,
£44,308 89 - 7 ° 4
1934.. 4,360* 10 p.c.t Nil 4000 360 89,394
Reserves.
Capital written off, £89,754 .. , 889
1935.. 5,800 6 p.c. Nil 2000 3800 4,160
♦Six months. fTwo years.
When this co. merged the interests of
Uptons, O’Riordans and the Alston Soap
and Candle Co. in 1929, the public put
up £40,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money. The
idea was to reduce competition and
lighten overhead. But with the arrival
(Continued on page 18.)


ANNOUNCEMENT
ISSUE AT PAR OF
400,000
“A” Cumulative 7% Participating
Preference Shares of £1 each
BY
The Whakatane Paper Mills
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales August, 1925.)
Nominal Capital - - - £2,504,444
Subscribed £1,895,418
Paid-up £1,620,512
DIRECTORS:
AUSTRALIA
THEO J. MARKS (Chairman), Messrs, Robertson & Marks,
Architects, 1 1 7 Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. TREVOR GOULD, General Manager, British Traders’
Insurance Co., Ltd., and Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd., Bond Street, Sydney.
O. MORRICE WILLIAMS (late General Manager of London
Bank of Australia), Toorak, Melbourne.
C. A. COPELAND, Messrs. Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.,
Regent Street, Sydney.
SIR GEORGE JULIUS, Kt.. B.Sc., B.E. (Julius, Poole &
Gibson, Consulting Engineers, Sydney).
NEW ZEALAND.
H. A. HORROCKS (Managing Director and New Zealand
Attorney), Auckland, New Zealand.
T. R. ANDERSON, Farmer, Stratford, New Zealand.
H. H. CORBIN, B.Sc. London, B.Sc. Edin., Auckland, New
Zealand (Consulting Forester).
G. S. CRIMP, Public Accountant, Hamilton, New Zealand
S. J. FORTESCUE, Accountant, Otorohanga, New Zealand.
C. O. GIBBS, Retired Sawmiller, Auckland, New Zealand.
J. G. INGRAM, Importer, Nelson, New Zealand.
C. E. KERR, Newspaper Proprietor, Timaru, New Zealand.
BROKERS:
Organising —
PHILIP PRING & CO., Queensland National Bank
Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
FRATER BROS., Bank of New Zealand Chambers,
Swanson Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
M clhourne —
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.. A.P.A. Buildings, 36
Queen Street, Melbourne.
Brisbane —
HENRY MONTEITH & CO., New Zealand Chambers,
334-38 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Adelaide —
H. W. HODGETTS & CO., Cowra Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Perth —
SAW & GRIMWOOD, West Australian Chambers, 104
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Write for Prospectus to the Company’s Brokers or to the Company’s
Secretary, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney; or 41 Shortland Street,
Auckland, New Zealand.
A Copy of the Prospectus may also be obtained at any branch of the
Commercial Bank of Australia, Ltd., throughout New Zealand.
■
x'?!:
mmm
iami
wm
_ ■»; p i «
f
m
■: ...
mmmmm mm
mm
s™
The clouds of financial worry can be quickly dispersed.
Most of us neglect to put a little away to tide us over a
“rainy day." If we have managed to save a little, some
emergency generally arises calling for the immediate
disbursement of the nest-egg.
If You Need a LOAN Quickly
on Furniture, Player-pianos, or other securities at an
equitable rate of interest, and without any fuss or
embarrassment, call and discuss the matter with N.S.W.
Mont de Piete D. & I. Co., Ltd. Since 1882 this
Company, which was established to suppress usury, has
been noted for its friendly and fair treatment, and does
not impose vexatious charges
Repayments include both Principal
and Interest
ADVANCE £IO—REPAYMENT 5/- Weekly
ADVANCE £2O—REPAYMENT 7/6 Weekly
ADVANCE £3O—REPAYMENT 10/- Weekly
ADVANCE £SO—REPAYMENT 15/- Weekly
ADVANCE £IOO—REPAYMENT 25/- Weekly
Special Rate* of Repayment if Above not Suitable.
Advances made on Jewellery of all descriptions.
Diamonds, Precious Stones, Modern and Antique Silvei
and China, and all classes of portable security.
Every Allowance Made for Sickness.
Call, Write or Telephone for particulars.
N$W MONT DE PIETE
D.t-l. Company Limited
Paid-up Capital: £300,000
Established 1882.
N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co., Ltd., is an All-Australian Organisa-
tion, its capital completely subscribed by Australians; all Australian
employees.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Same side as David Jones).
Telephone: M 6465,
DIRECTORS:
JOHN R. HARDIE (Chairman). JOHN A. MINNETT. GEORGE E. DALE.
JOHN M. EDWARDS.
FRED C. SMITH (General Manager).
For the convenience of Suburban, Country and Interstate clients, the
Company has established these branch offices:—
285 ELIZABETH ST. (opp. AnZac Memorial), A. W. Grave, Manager.
Tel., MA2901.
18 CITY RD. (opp. Grace Bros.), J. A. Doutty, Manager. Tel., MA4563.
HURSTVILLE, 5 Station Av., J. Gooding, Manager. Tel., LW2780.
PARRAMATTA, 164 Church St., M. Cutlack, Manager. Tel., UW9761.
CESSNOCK BRANCH: Vincent St., A. McHarg, Manager. Tel., Cessnock 415.
NEWCASTLE BRANCH: 260 Hunter St. West. Tel., Newcastle 274.
J. N. Feltham, Manager.
WOLLONGONG BRANCH: Balgowan Buildings, Crown St.
Tel., Wollongong 618. F. Summers, Manager.
BRISBANE OFFICE: Cnr. Adelaide and Creek Sts. Tel., 84944.
Eric Ash, Manager for Queensland.
MELBOURNE OFFICES: 309-311 Little Collins St.—Tel., M 3022; 349-351
Swanston St.—Tel., Central 4339; Ryrie St., Geelong—Tel., Geelong 3743;
Grenville St. (opp Colosseum), Ballarat —Tel., _ Ballarat 557.
N. Hookway, Manager for Victoria,


A S LIKE FRJENDIN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
\>
Something better than LUCK
for GUARDIAN
THAT daughter of yours must have
something better than Luck for
guardian when you are gone!
An A.M.P. policy will stand her in
better stead than all the good wishes.
For a surprisingly small annual pre-
mium you can arrange (1 ) that the
money will be available for her edu-
cation, when she is ready, even though
you should die to-morrow; or (2),
that a goodly sum will be available
when she marries, or, indeed, at any
specified age; or (3), that she shall
have a regular income, for life, after
your death.
There are many different ways in which you
can make the A.M.P. the guardian of her
future. Look into these ways. Ask the nearest
A.M.P. office to send an experienced adviser
to explain them. You will be under no obliga-
tion to the Society but you will learn how to
fulfil your obligation to your daughter.
Write or ’phone to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.I.A. A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
-■
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable tor rLA ,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.: also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
?usl ami 11 uspfe mded TattS!” THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send tor
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
of slump things went all awry, and much
of what had previously been claimed as
profit turned out to be losses. However,
there were changes in the control, assets
were revalued, £23,761 was struck off
the book value of freehold and plant,
£16,325 off debtors’ balances, etc., and
£lOO6 off stocks. All this and trading
losses raised intangibles to £89,754, equal
to 10s. per ord. share at the end of June,
1934.
The slate was cleaned by jettisoning
half the ord. capital, reducing it to
£89,755 in 10s. shares. Also, the pref.
div. was lowered from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c.
cumulative, with the right to advance
to 8 p.c. again on a pro rata basis with
the ords., after the latter have had Is.
(= 10 p.c.) per share.
The market, doubtful whether the par-
ticipating rights are likely to amount to
much, prices the fully-paid pound prefs.
at 18s. 9d. as against 21s. a year ago.
The cover is £3 6s. lid. in net tangibles,
of which 225. 6d. was surplus liquids.
The ords. are not listed.
The recovery in earnings recorded dur-
ing the last half of the 1934 term was
not maintained throughout the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. The
£5BOO netted was enough to give the
prefs. their £2OOO and show 4.2 p.c. on
ord, capital. No div. was paid; the
money was wanted in the business. To
give the prefs. 6 p.c. and the ords. 11 p.c.,
the co. would need to net £12,273.
Although capital was not actually
written off until early in the last term,
other accounts had been adjusted when
the books closed in 1934:
1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £219,509 £219,509 £129,755
Overdraft .. .. 23,253 4,801
Sundry creditors . . 16,025 18,334 17,962
Freehold and plant .. 124,145 80,916 84,740
Shares other cos, . . 6,500 7,000 7,000
Stocks 64,329 45,301 37,749
Book debts, etc. .. 38,160 25,486 25,341
Last year’s surplus earnings, together
with a reduction of £7552 in stocks, was
used mainly to wipe out the overdraft
and add £3824 net to the book value of
•fixed assets. Excluding shares in other
cos., the drop in the more or less liquid
surplus (£45,128) was only £2524.
Prospects, concerning which the board
is optimistic, depend largely upon the
development of proprietary lines and the
course of competition, which looks like
remaining very keen.
To test the continuation of the
Emperor lode, Tavua Gold Develop-
ment has drilled a hole (the first on the
field) near the western and about 1000 ft.
south of the northern boundary of Block
No. 209, which adjoins the Emperor
lease on the south. The drill entered the
lode at an inclined depth of 177 ft. (ver-
tical 125 ft.), and was still in ore 10ft.
further on. The first sft. of lode showed
2dwt. of gold per ton, and the last sft.
went Bdwt. The distance from this hole
to the adit portal of the Emperor mine
is 2300 ft. To further explore the con-
tinuation of the Emperor, Loloma and
Cardigan lode systems “below the higher
surface mask of relatively barren upper
sambeto rocks,” the co. is driving tunnels
from the lowest levels obtainable in
Lolo Levu Creek, near the western boun-
dary of the property. According to Dr.
Loftus Hills, the lodes have been formed
along shears which exist in the upper and
lower sambetos, and the intensity of the
shearing and of gold depositions is
claimed to be less in the upper portion.
An interesting feature is the presence
of hot springs on portion of the field.
Where these occur they may prove to be
an effective obstacle to mining. Still,
Dr. Hills ventures the opinion that the
Tavua field, which covers an area of
about 35 square miles, may prove to be
greater than Kalgoorlie ever was. What
the investor needs to remember is that
the valuation of a prospect is at best a
difficult task, especially on a new field
of whose geology little is yet known, and
where nothing at all is yet known of the
behavior of ore-bodies and values at
depth.
♦ * * *
In a circular announcing the issue of
100.000 new 2s. shares, the board of
Arnheim Land Gold Development staled
that the report of Mr. Rutherford, of
Alluvial Gold, would be “accepted by the
Stock Exchange and Mt. Morgan Develop-
ments as representing the true position.”
Sydney Stock Exchange says that, so far
as the statement refers to its attitude, it
“is absolutely unauthorised and should
be withdrawn forthwith.” Mt. Morgan
Developments says the reference to itself
was made without the authority of
its directors, and requests its with-
drawal, adding that, while Mr. Ruther-
ford’s, report will be considered, no de-
cision will be come to until a report has
been furnished by Mt. Morgan De-
velopments’ own geologist. Following
the report of Dr. Woolnough to the
Commonwealth Government in April
and the removal of the Arnheim
Co.’s name from Sydney Stock Exchange
list, it was announced by the directors
that an option had been given to Mt.
Morgan Developments, and that the
Yemelba property would be reported on
by Dr. Loftus Hills, now busily engaged
in connection with Fijian ventures, and
likely to be for some time.
* * * ♦
Mount Lawson Prospecting and Option
Syndicate’s new float, Irowat Gold Allu-
vials, will be in 800,000 shares of 2s. 6d.
each, of which the parent’s shareholders
will receive 250 fully-paids, plus the right
to subscribe for 300 contribs., for each
share held. The issue has been under-
written, and the operating co. expects
to be producing within the next four
months.
* * * *
Test boring by Upper Barkly Alluvial
on its ground near Avoca (Vic.) has dis-
closed 3,758,000 c.y. of Is. l|d. wash—
-2.258.000 c.y. of dredgable gravels and
light shales, averaging Is. 6d., and
1.500.000 c.y. of 6d. stuff. Dredging
costs are estimated at 4d. a yard. All
this is on the west sector of the prop-
erty ; the eastern portion, where old
headings have yielded good results, has
yet to be tested.
Australian Mines, Management and
Secretariat announces that C. H. J. Clay-
ton has been appointed chief mining
engineer to the De Bernales group. For
many years he was associated with Zinc
Corp. at the Barrier, and was one of
the commission that reported on the
Kalgoorlie mines. Lately he has been
engaged on work in Africa for New
Consolidated Goldfields and Anglo-
French Exploration. He left the latter
co. to take up his present appointment.
* * * *
Rothsay (W.A.) has not been doing as
well as it might with treatment, owing
to the presence of copper in the ore.
However, metallurgical improvements
now being effected are expected to soon
overcome the difficulty. The co.’s 7dwt.
to Bdwt. shoot, which is of considerable
length, is widening and becoming higher
in grade at depth. An Anglo-Australian
crowd interested in Barrier stocks has
just been furnished with a report on the
property.
♦ * * *
Boulder Perseverance, which has had
more managers than any other mine on
the Golden Mile, has just made another
change. Blackett, one of the most promi-
nent mining and metallurgical men in the
West, moves out, and Manners, a former
surveyor on the property, moves in.
* * * *
North Kalgurli continues to add to its
intrinsic value. There is now around
600,000 tons of 7idwt. to ore in
sight, of which nearly 80,000 tons is
broken in the slopes. The co.'s monthly
contribution to the enlarged joint-treat-
ment plant, billed to be in full operation
early in 1936, will be between 11,000 tons
and 12,000 tons.
* * * *
Chairman J. M. Smith predicts a bright
future for Lady Shenton (W.A.). Share-
holders have agreed to set aside £lOOO
for directors’ remuneration, and a firm
of London stockbrokers has offered to
take a wad of shares paid to ss. at a sub-
stantial premium, provided it is given
an option over a further wad at a higher
premium.
* ♦ *■ *
Some time ago Sons of Gwalia took
up a lot of vacant auriferous country sur-
rounding its mine at Leonora (W.A.).
A geophysical survey of the newly-
acquired area was made by a Swedish
expert, and the co. has now decided to
spend a substantial sum diamond-drilling
in search of new gold-carriers.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.M.: (1) A doubtful gamble, even at
the present price. (2) They appear to be
fully priced Shareholder: (1) Doesn’t look
very promising. (2) Subject to treatment dim-
culties, a fair spec J.R.C.; Co. has not
yet turned the corner; bonuses nowhere in
sight....H.D.C.: Write Chas. Ruwolt Pty.,
Richmond, Vic H.P.: Write secretary,
Stock Exchange, Pitt-street, Sydney, for full
list R.J.M.; (1) A sound move. (2) A
spec, with a fair chance of coming out on the
right side. (3) Don’t J.M.: If safety of
capital is important, keep out.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
• # * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331—333 Rent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401—403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street. Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLT. , B-Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service. New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Advt.
* * * *
METALS—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. 1.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sinus House,
Sydney. —Advt,


AUSTRALIA’S POPULAR MUSICAL COMEDY STAR
.
*mr-
■
:: :
■HR
MADGE ELLIOTT
HER WEDDING PLANS AND
TROUSSEAU.
In an exclusive story to the “Woman’s Mirror” Miss Madge
Elliott tells readers of her trousseau and the plans for her
wedding, which is to take place in Sydney early this month.
Madge Elliott needs little introduction to the people of Aus-
tralia since this delightful actress has won the admiration of
thousands of theatregoers throughout Australasia during her
artistic and successful stage career. In England, too, with her
clever partner, Mr. Cyril Ritchard, success has been achieved,
and the musical comedy stage has been ever so much brighter
because of Madge Elliott’s charming personality and artistry.
Partnered in 1919 for what has turned out to be a highly
successful stage career. Miss Madge Elliott and Mr. Cyril
Ritchard have risen to stardom, and this dancing partnership
of sixteen years is now to be translated into a partnership for
life as man and wife. Madge Elliott’s story in the “Woman’s
Mirror” will appeal to every admirer and lover of the theatre
—it will be a remembrance of the delightful Madge and will
recall to mind her glorious triumphs of past years.
STRIKING COVER PORTRAIT
Charming studies of Miss Madge Elliott in her trousseau
gown, also “Mirror”-pattern evening gown which she is includ-
ing in her wedding trousseau, and a delightful cover portrait
add to the exclusiveness of this Madge Elliott feature in the
next issue of this popular weekly magazine for women.
DON'T MISS THIS ISSUE OF
cy^ e
AUST L I A N
WOMANS
MIRROR
ON SALE FRIDAY PRICE 3d.
ANOTHER BIG FEATURE
A WONDER MONOPLANE FOR BOYS
In 1934 “The Woman’s Mirror” introduced the
Princess Elizabeth’s Doll’s House, and within three
months 51,000 applications were received.
NOW “THE MIRROR” MAKES AVAILABLE A WONDER
MONOPLANE FOR BOYS AND GIRLS—AND FOR DAD,
TOO!
The monoplane is well packed, and every part is supplied ready for
assembling. The photograph reproduced here shows the ’plane as built
up by a member of “The Mirror*’ staff, from the parts just as they will be
supplied to you. Note the framework before covering, and the size
of the ’plane compared with the foot ruler.
BOYS AND GIRLS. YOU CAN MAKE AND OWN ONE
OF THESE ’PLANES YOURSELF.
Constructing this monoplane will make a most interesting and fascinating
pastime for the Christmas holidays. Printed diagrams, drawn to scale,
and full details of how to build the 'plane are included in each kit. Save
6d. a week for the next eight weeks and the ’plane is yours.
MOTHERS. What more suitable Christmas gift for the boys, and what an
inexpensive one! Send the registration form to-day and have the 'plane as
a surprise for Christmas.
FOR 4/- YOU CAN BUILD AND OWN A
’PLANE THAT WOULD COST 15/-.
Fill in the registration form printed at right, and post it at once to “The
Woman s Mirror. From the next seven “Mirrors” save the coupons and
then post them with postal note—not stamps—for 4s. ; and the ’plane will
be sent post free. Address the envelope Monoplane, “The Woman’s
Mirror, Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney. Write name and address on the
back of your postal note.
**>■*! +
REGISTRATION FORM.
MONOPLANE,
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please reserve a "Mirror” Monoplane for me. I will Idler send postal ngic
for 4't- and the coupons from the next seven issues of the "Mirror.”
NAME
(Print name and address in block letters.)
POSTAL ADDRESS
STATE
NOTE. — You may post this coupon, without a letter, in an unsealed envelope
for one penny. SEND NO MONEY NOW.
B. 4/9/’35.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Thc 0.D.”: Innocently, N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture rubbed salt into
a wound when it asked Yass P.P. Board
to comment on the suggestion that crows
and hawks should be protected. It was
at a meeting of this body that a member
swore to having seen a crow trying to
ride a sheep to death, which led to a
Bulletin symposium. That member rose
in his wrath, and in impassioned words
tore into Kelly the Crow with everything
he had. It took up two columns in the
local paper and caused the board
to continue its bounty of 6d. a
head for Kelly’s scalp.
»
“E.R.1.”: Crows are devils;
no doubt about it. Riding
through a lambing paddock 1
came across one with the tail
of a strong young lamb in its
beak, and flying round in a
circle, apparently trying to swing
the woolly off its feet. I have
often seen one of the black
fowls with a lamb’s tail in its
beak hanging back in the
breeching while its mate sat on
the lamb’s back and thrashed
it vigorously with its wings.
* * *
“Double Express”; Sydney
papers are making much of a
big-game hunter who travelled
to remotest China to shoot an
extremely rare beast known as
the giant panda. What good he
has done is hard to see, since
the feat isn’t unique ; at least
two or three other unfortunate
bear-cats have been bagged
by previous sportsmen. How-
ever, there is a chance to acquire
fresh glory while in Australia. Let
him sally forth into our wilds and
return with a specimen of the ferocious
tiger-cat which so many Abo. correspon-
dents swear lurks in the impenetrable
fastnesses of the bush, fastnesses so im-
penetrable that no trustworthy naturalist
has ever been able to even see a speci-
men.
* * * *
“Kieta”: A marker at the Sea Lake
(Vic.) rifle club’s range got the shock of
his life when a hare toppled into the
trench on top of him. Puss was sitting
up in front of the targets, and one shooter
pulled the trigger, but instead of hit-
ting the target skittled the hare.
* * * *
“Eucalypt”; A photograph in a recent
“Illustrated London News” showed Abys-
sinian troops undergoing field training in
a forest outside Addis Ababa. The scene
had a familiar appearance, and a closer
examination disclosed that the forest was
composed of Australian bluegums. In
the sphere of peaceful penetration the
Australian eucalypt seems to lick the
world.
* * * *
“El V.”: “M 8” (B. 21/8/’35) seems to
apply the instinctive method to argument
as well as to bushcraft —and with the
same sort of results. A bushman does
not instinctively take notice of the direc-
tion of creeks, weather signs and mag-
netic antbeds. He knows their direction
from his local knowledge. And it isn't
instinct which tells him whether he has
been following or crossing the ridges.
A watch, of course, is no use on a very
cloudy day—if was mentioned merely as
one of the many adjuncts to direc-
tion-finding. Sometimes, however, it
is possible roughly to find the sun by
getting a trace of shadow with a
knife-blade on some shiny surface, if
you are skilled at the game —even when
the orb is obscured. And perhaps “MB's”
moke did not find his way home by “in-
stinct.” He must have known that his
home was on a river. He had crossed
that river. And, being a good bushman
and a better logician than “MB," he may
have said to himself: “Well, now, all I
have to do to get home is to follow the
creek and cross when I see the station.”
* * * #
“Ornis”; Tell “Jakmak” (B. 21/8/’35)
that with a little encouragement many
bush birds will eat and drink with
humans. Sydney gardens are visited by
many kookas, regularly fed by thcii
unfeathered brethren. Where I’m dwell-
ing in the Blue Mountains kooka-
burras come on to the verandah at
afternoon-tea time and scoff as much
tucker as one cares to hand them. Mag-
pies arc almost as tame, though there is
no more suspicious fowl flying than that
piebald crook, always on the lookout
himself to take somebody down.
* x< * *
“Cachalot”: “Double Disc’s” asser-
tion (B. 21/8/’35) that the giant squid
“attacks” the sperm-whale recalls zEsop's
lamb that was accused of tearing into
the wolf. As “D.D.” says, the squid is
“ 'Oo's y'r tailor, 'Orace?"
“Wolcha Want t' know fer?"
“Well, y'r soot's pretty Well cut!"
the big fellow's chief food ; but all the
attacking comes from the whale. The
idea of the cuttlefish going for the
whale’s tongue is funny without being
vulgar. The sperm has hardly any
tongue, and any cuttlefish fool enough to
put his head into those awful shearing
jaws for a bite would be asking for ex-
tinction. That the cuttle fights desper-
ately when hauled to the surface has
often been noted, but after the whale
has done a few minutes’ chewing the
cephalod departs in pieces. All the
cuttle can do in the way of scrap is to
embrace his enemy with his arms, while
these remain attached to his body, which
isn’t long. “D.D.” would do well to
read Frank Bullen’s Cruise of the
Cachalot, which tells of more than one
of these epic scraps.
“Old-t.”: In a corner of Kilfera (s.-w.
N.S.W.), “Murmuring Mick” lay down
to die. He was old and worn-out, he
told the assembled station-hands, had
tramped the Riverina for more years
than he could remember, and was fin-
ished. They made him comfortable and
left him to it. Two days later he turned
up at Wintong homestead. “Them blasted
ants,” he complained, in explanation.
“Eat a cove alive, they would. Little
blanks wouldn't even let a man die in
peace! V And he swiped savagely at a
little black one on the hut step.
* * * *
“Coolibah”: I have my doubts about
"Batrachia’s” frogs that only croak dur-
ing their mating season (B. 14/8/ 35).
During the sunny morns of late Ive
taken to sitting among the ferns along-
side a creek that runs behind the house,
and have become quite pally with the
dozen or more frogs. I can raise a
croak out of them any old time. If
what “Batrachia” says about them is true,
by the sounds of them at night my
croakers are a mighty precocious mob —
some are little more than tadpoles.
* * * ♦
“Cyclops": “Laetitia's” second pair of
eyes on the crocodile (B. 7/8/’35) arc
probably due to apertures in the skull,
known as supratemporal vacuities. In
the Mesozoic period the crocodile was
one of the vertebrates that took part in
a back-to-the-watcr movement; it called
for a reduction in weight of the skeleton,
the skull being one part of the anatomy
which suffered by the retrenchments.
The birds later took a further step by
evolving side apertures (laterotemporal).
There is no record of a four-eyed verte-
brate, either living or extinct, but several
possessed three eyes. The only surviving
member is Sphcnodon, the M.L. tuatara
lizard, whose spare optic is barely sensi-
tive to light.
**. * ■ *
“E.S.S.”: The beehive in a tree is
always something of a lottery, unless you
leave it for a couple of months after
locating it. Two ncwchum selectors on
the Richmond River (N.S.W.) cut down a
big redgum just after a swarm of bees had
entered it. A couple of days later, hunt-
ing eagerly for “sugarbags,” of which
they had heard much from neighboring
selectors, they found the same bees in
another free, and cut that down. Within
a week they discovered the unfortunate
swarm again, hived in a tough ironbark ;
that, too, they cut down. From the three
trees they got only a pinch of wax, after
which they concluded that the sugarbag
was a fraud. That they had pursued the
same swarm was vouched for by Binghi,
who had robbed the original nest and
got three buckets of honey from it.
* * *
“Fish-O”: Heard a heated argument
last week as to which was which of a
catfish and a fresh-water jew. I’ve always
been under the impression that the cat-
fish has a split tail like the mullet, while
the jewfish has a tail like that of an eel.
Any Aboliar give a ruling?
* * « #
“Rob.”: The youngster at Swansea
(N.S.W.) whom “Tiki” (B. 24/7/ ’35)
tells of had hard luck with his diving
experiment. A venture at Barambah
Creek, near Murgon (Q.), met with
success. Floodwaters had spoiled a
formerly safe and popular swimming-
hole with snags, so a couple of inventive
youths constructed a diver’s helmet from
a kerosene-tin, with a glass visor, canvas
and hose-piping. With his head in this
contraption, and supplied with air from
a blower on a punt, the diver was able
to stay below for as long as a quarter of
an hour if necessary. Half a day’s work
made the hole quite safe for aquatic
sports again.
* * * *
"Ex-Sahib”: Amongst native races the
dread of waking up a sleeper amounts to
a superstition. In Papua I never suc-
ceeded in getting any boy to rouse me
in the morning, and among themselves
I noticed they always displayed reluc-
tance to awaken a sleeping cobber. In
India servants awaken a sleeping sahib
by a gentle pressure in the region of the
big toe.
* * * *
“Chloe”: “A.J.W.” (B. 14/8/’35) asks
how long goats live. A black-and-tan
billy at Port Hedland (W.A.) belonging
to no one in particular frequented the
foreshores for over 20 years. Not far
from Rockhampton (Q.), on an outpost
of the Archer station, lived another
bearded patriarch without the mild
manners of his Port Hedland relative. A
group of science students collecting
animalcules from a creek was bailed up
till the shepherd came home at night.
That billy was 23 ; his beard and
eyebrows were white, and his coat, from
jet-black, had turned to iron-grey. But
he hadn’t lost his lighting fitness with the
passing of the years.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gumblegubbin”: If you get stung by
some beastly insect in the bush, dab a
bit of soft clay or mud on the puncture.
That’s Binghi’s remedy, and a good one.
Another, equally effective? particularly
for bull-ants and wasps, is the juice of
the bracken fern. For the blistering
sting of the stinging-tree the abo. uses the
sap of that tree ; and for the bee, when
one stabs him on a lofty gum. a dab of
honey. This not only stops the pain at
once but prevents swelling.- When (he
usual antidotes arc not available for
insect bites or stings. Black Brother
applies a poultice of well-chewed gum-
leaves.
* * * *
“Rokko”: It isn't only burning that
makes dormant seeds germinate. After
the abnormal rains of last year the bush
round Goulburn (N.S.W.), never con-
sidered a wildflowcr district, literally
blossomed like the rose. The ground was
carpeted with color in places that had
never been anything but stony wastes,
and plants that had hitherto grown
sparsely, such as five-fingers and hornet
orchids, bloomed profusely. Old resi-
dents identified many unusual blossoms
as flowers they had known in their youth
and had long considered extinct in the
district; in some cases they marked the
unwelcome reappearance of a long-ago
noxious weed. Burning, of course, does
expedite germination. I saw the site of
an old tire covered thickly with tiny
wattle-trees, the only seedlings to be seen,
though the ground all round was strewn
with withered pods.
;? * * *
“Dian”: Are Papuan spear- and club-
lighters duds with a musket (B.
10/7/’35)? When I was on patrol in
Morobe, near the Papuan border, my
broken-triggered, wobbly-stocked gun
and two cartridges were handed out in
each village to any native who was opti-
mistic enough to use it. With a weapon
that no white man would risk shooting
with, no “boy” returned with fewer than
two pigeons; there were scores of ex-
amples of natives bringing in five and six
birds with not more than two shots ; and
this not so much because the fowls were
plentiful, but rather on account of their
skill in judging distance and the effective
spread of the shot. The Manus natives —
incidentally, solely spear-fighters—arc
recognised as the best raw material for
“police boys” in the Mandate.
* * ♦ *
“Western”: Can the present genera-
tion beat this for adaptableness? About
1900 Parker’s Range, a dead-beat Westra-
lian goldfield that had been the jumping-
off place for Southern Cross, suddenly
found itself faced with an acute water
famine. All tanks and dams had dried
up, and there was nothing left except
brine from the adjacent salt lake and
from the depths of the mines. Someone
suggested a communal condenser. But,
besides a good fire-resisting boiler, a
condenser requires hundreds of feet of
galvanised pipe to cool the steam back
into water. One of those square iron
tanks in which goods used to be sent
out from Britain was put into service as
a boiler ; then the tinker’s eye fell on
the local rubbish tip’s thousands of
empty food cans. All hands got to work.
The bottoms were removed from all
bright tins, while rusty ones were burnt
by the thousand for their solder. The
bright tins were soldered end on end.
making pipes 10ft. or 20ft. long. Erected
in tiers and connected with the boiler,
these jam-tin pipes solved the water
problem, and for that season Parker’s
Range was saved
THE KING IS SHORN.
The woolroom floor is piled with bales
Where many common flocks
Have struggled long and fearfully
While parting with their locks.
And now, serene and dignified,
Snow-white from hoof to horn,
The King himself is on the stage;
We watch him being shorn.
As swift and deft the steel teeth fly
From wrinkled flank to crown;
In clinging folds and drooping flounce
The fleece is hanging down.
It spreads in long, unbroken fringe
Where ladies form a ring.
And linger soft and tenderly
The bounty of the King.
The King is shorn, the fleece is borne
Through avenues of bales,
Where neighbors, come from miles around,
Arc grouped about the scales.
There’s expectation in the air,
And bets arc sometimes made
By sun-tanned men, all smiling, when
The royal fleece is weighed.
The King is on his feet again,
Bold hauteur manifest;
Like pink-and-white regalia
Great wrinkles drape his breast.
Imperious he stands alone,
No slinking underling,
But legs a-span and head erect,
And cv’ry inch a King.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Psitta”: The eternal cockatoo has
been getting publicity in a new fashion.
Instead of hanging up in the electric-
light wires and causing blackouts, this
time he repaired to a football match at
some place in the depths of N.S.W.
called Finley, and hovered over the
players like a feathered Valkyrie en-
couraging the warriors to fresh deeds of
bloodshed. Occasionally he sat on a
goal-post and commented on the shoot-
ing, and it wasn’t until he tried to perch
on the central umpire—it was an Aus-
tralian Rules match—that patience was
exhausted and he was removed—cursing.
“Spica”; Westralian sheepmen now
rate the fox with low prices and droughts.
Unknown in the State within the ordi-
nary man’s memory, he has proved him-
self, like the rabbit, a tenacious colo-
niser ; 24,000 were accounted for last
year. The fox followed the rabbit in
the east-west migration, and the so-
called rabbit-proof fence, built across
the State to protect the farming areas,
couldn’t keep either out. Compared with
his Eastern States cousin, the new in-
vader is not so big, and his color is
darker; against the human, too, his cun-
ning is less efficient.
* * * *
“Cautious”; “All birds wind to facing
sit,” explained the Japanese when Laf-
cadio Hearn asked him why row upon
row of birds all had their beaks towards
the road. “All birds wind to facing
take off,” would explain “Yelarbon’s”
(B. 31/7/’35) eaglehawk adventure.
Strong fliers like magpies and hawks
always escape danger by flying. If
caught facing down-wind they waste
precious time in turning round, and so
are often run down. Groundlarks and
others who prefer running are rarely, if
ever, caught; nor are fliers which happen
to be facing upwind.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: “Baa’s” par. (B, 7/8/’35)
re growing seeds on sheep’s backs has its
parallel in reality. During a shortage
of feed last autumn a Tyrendarra (Vic.)
farmer turned some sheep—heavy-
woolled crossbreds—into stacks of grass-
hay. After the manner of their kind, they
burrowed into the base of the stacks and
thus collected an assortment of seeds
from head to tail. When later in the
season rain came, a flock of green-
backed sheep made one of the most
peculiar pastoral scenes I have witnessed.
* * * ♦
“Bottlebrush”: Westralia’s curious
Tarsi pes spenserae, or honey-mouse,
looks as though it’s doomed to extinc-
tion. Originally found all over the south-
west of the State, as far north as the
Swan River, it has retreated before the
advance of settlement to a small area in
the south-west and in the Stirling Ranges.
Honey is the chief diet of this strange
marsupial, which, because of its noctur-
nal habits, is seldom seen by humans.
Most specimens are brought in by the
house cat after a hunt in the bush.
Honey baits fail to catch the mice, which
travel according to food supply. Speci-
mens have never lived in captivity more
than a few weeks.
* * * *
“G.M.”: For donkey’s years we have
been taught that Dampier was the first
Englishman to set foot on Australian
soil; but Major L. Brooks, of Mount
Macedon (Vic.), has come forward to
prove the contrary. Historical records
preserved in the India Office, London,
he states, show that Dampier’s visit was
“Have you any beans?”
“Any amount, missus. HoW d ’ y' like 'em? Broad?”
antedated by some years. In 1621 the
ship Trial, captained by John Brooke,
sailed from Plymouth for Java, and was
wrecked the following year off Point
Cloates (W.A.). The wreck gave the
name to Tryal Rocks between Monte
Bello and Barrow Islands.
* * * ♦
“Eureka”; I shot a fine dog fox, but
it managed to crawl into a big hole in
the side of a hill. It was too much like
hard work to dig him out; a creek ran
alongside the entrance, so with a couple
of kerosene-tins a mate and I started
to flood his premises. After we’d poured
many gallons of water into the hole, an
outsize wombat rushed out and knocked
me over in his hurry. The fox refused
to move, so we gave it up. A wombat
can’t stand much water, and if water is
handy it’s far easier to flood him out
than to dig him out. If he’s in fairly
loose ground he’ll dig faster than you
can, and will keep it up longer, too.
* * * ♦
“Silentio”; The first thing the new
owners of the next-door drought-lost
station did was to have a mechanic set
all the windmills going. Dad, whose
infallible knowledge was beaten on one
of ours, sent a note over and asked the
boss to tell his mechanic to call in on
his way back to town. The youngster,
“So I'm not the only mug building a nest.”
overalled, smoking a fag, was soon up
the 30ft. mill and ordering the old man
round like an apprentice—much to our
joy. When the job was finished the
damage was asked. “When I want an
offsider I’ll call on you,” was the reply.
The skilled mechanic was the new neigh-
bor’s daughter.
“King T.”: A queer fowl was a fungus
I found in red-loam scrub soil in the
Callide Valley (C.Q.). It grows just
below ground level; pressure with the
foot causes it to expand
into daylight in the
form of a gelatinous
net about 4in. across,
accompanied by a
sickly-sweet scent. The net in the closed
fungus resembles brains, and the ex-
panded net is roughly eight times larger
than the original form.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: A Tas. football team sat
before the lavish meal provided for it
with hungry eyes. The food was attrac-
tive, appetites were keen, but the means
of attack were lacking. Before the match
one of their supporters had kindly col-
lected their dentures in his bag, but after-
wards had thoughtlessly journeyed home
—bag and all. Hence the pathetic situa-
tion. To add to it a dear old lady
queried in shocked tones, “But have they
really taken to biting each other now?”
* * ♦ *
“Matje”: Don’t entirely agree with
“Oversea” (B. 7/8/’35). The average
stranger to these shores has the pre-
conceived idea that typical Australian
scenery is that of the plains—“western.”
It actually forms the bulk, and possesses
a uniform character, seen at its best at
sunset, usually highly colored. Have
seen the sandhills turn blood-red under
the feffect of the declining monarch, the
eerie shadows of the scrub and riotous
galahs making a symphony of color
never to be forgotten. But the continent
is big enough to afford variety which
cannot fail to attract. Western Queens-
land for fascinating skyscapes, and
northern Victoria for something reminis-
cent of the Old Country, even to rosy-
cheeked dairymaids, are the outstanding
impressions of an erstwhile sojourner in
those parts.
* * * *
“Yid”: “Rindy’s” tale that jewfish
should really be called “jewel-fish,” the
name coming from two jewel-like bones
in the fish’s head (B. 21/8/’35), is sure
to be challenged, so I’m getting in first.
The name should really be “dewfish”—
from the “dews” or whisker-like attach-
ments on the lower jaw,
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Moturoa”; Met Henare, dressed in
his best, carrying a suitcase and looking
excited, “What’s up? Where to?” I in-
quired. Henare waved a mighty hand,
and extended it majestically in the direc-
tion of Hawkes Bay. “I just going with
te four hun’red Maori to Hatingi,” he
said. “We going over to te unweiling of
te monument to Hone Piriwai [here he
looked sad]. And t’en we pray te foot-
ball, and te wahine she pray te hockey
[his face brightened]. And t’en we all
go to te Hunt Grub races at Hatingi.”
He smiled, and I smiled too, for I know
how fond Henare is of races.
* ♦ * *
“Aussie Yank”; “Dan’l Boone” is
right about those backwoodsmen’s rifles.
They were made by Decards, of Phila-
delphia. Not many of them were in use
in 1776, but they had become plentiful
by 1812. Andrew Jackson had in his
motley army a division of Kentucky and
Tennessee riflemen who did deadly work
at New Orleans. Those chaps were good
shots; Indians, the shooting of game and
the scarcity of ammunition made them
so. But “H.A.L.’s” “fair between the
eyes” is pure bunk.
* ♦ * *
“Dau”: That Torres Strait pigeon
which was too tough for the Navy (B.
21/8/’35) would have been a circum-
stance to the big blue fellows we used
to get on the Gira (N.G.) in my time. We
used them for soup ; they couldn’t be
eaten. Shooting them in the towering
treetops we always counted ourselves
lucky if we collected one out of every
three. They were so rubbery that, drop-
ping from such great heights, they’d
bounce many feet into the air again,
often lodging in some inaccessible fork
where wc couldn’t get at them.
♦ * * *
“Wandered Willie”; Why is it that
writers referring to Australian wheat-
belt districts persist in morbid romanti-
cism? The setting of a wheat farm is
often colorful, but the people are mostly
matter-of-fact to the last degree. The
farmer isn’t trying to make “culture
bloom in the bush like a garden in the
desert” ; he has four kids, and is trying to
buy them school books. The farmer’s
wife who, shotgun in hand, creeps steadily
past my humpy at dead of night isn’t
saving her little ones from marauding
savages, but protecting the profits of the
fowlrun from a goanna. And, speaking
purely from my own experience, 90 p.c.
of the country population would roar
with laughter at the idea of “an abiding
affection for the soil.” The object of
most farmers is a job in town.
* ♦ * *
“T.H.”: Two wrinkles adopted by
blacks to filch the white man’s tucker
without his waking up to it. A bag of
sugar is tapped by carefully stretching the
weave in the hessian bag, inserting a
slender hollow straw, and letting the
grains run out through the narrow pipe.
The straw is then removed, the fabric
smoothed back into place, and the result
is a 651 b. instead of a 701 b. bag of sugar
that appears to be O.K. With flour they
lay the calico bag on a blanket and belt
it with waddies until they’ve flogged a
couple of dampers out of it.
* * * ♦
“Pisces”: We used to row out on
Lake Wendouree, Ballarat, to where a
ground-bait, a boiled liver en-
closed in a fine-wire cage, had
been laid overnight. Here
acclimatised perch and tench
would be waiting, and with a
worm bait we’d pull them in
by the dozen. Then off to
hotels where cooks had given
us a standing order. Good
eating? Those fresh perch
and tench used to crowd salt-
water fish —barracouta, flat-
head, etc. —right off the menu.
What really is poor eating is
the carp, which, being a vege-
tarian, feeds on water-lily
roots and water-grasses, and
so becomes impregnated with
unappetising flavors. But a
week in clean water, together
with a diet of bread crumbs and biscuit,
makes even that culinary outcast a rich
dish for a fish-hungry man.
♦ * * ♦
“Walkabout”: I would have nominated
that region on the Georgina (B. 24/7/’35)
as Australia’s favorite brolga habitat, too,
until I saw the Cromarty swamps outside
Townsville (N.Q.). Here, year in year
out, battalions of brolgas wade, feed and
dance, whilst high above, often dimming
the sun, aerial squadrons exercise their
wings. Coastal Binghi avers it’s the
“good pfeller tuckout” amidst the swamps
that allows Cromarty to hold at least one
record.
THE OLD ROAD.
The new road leaps and sparkles,
And rises and descends;
It dallies by the hillsides
And loves them as it spends
Quicksilver, looped and looping,
In ribbons on the bends.
But, like an aged yeoman,
The old road settles down,
Decrepit, where the brushwood
And grass again have grown.
It mutters sometimes in the night,
When foxes play and stars are bright:
“This is the way they used to go.
The great horse teams with sweating thews,
With hanging necks and steaming sides
And whips of hide upon their hides.
.Mine were the stones they used to use.
The creaking waggons, coaches, mails.
The gold, the wool in heavy bales,
I carried all upon my back
Rugged and strong. / was the track.
“The bush was scented. In my pride,
After my travellers I cried,
‘God’s speed to you!
I am the way.
The sun and I,
We make the day!’
“And now the creeping bush and grass
Tell nothing. Only rabbits pass.
I am the old road on the crest;
And I am dead, and i must rest,
But I was master once—aye, master
Of safe arrival and disaster.
That grey, snakelike thing down there
May take no heed of my despair.
But if he hears a ghostly shout
When foxes play and stars are out,
He’ll know it’s I that’s muttering
Of bygone years when I was King!”
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


THE “ ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Patented).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer does not
stock the Gun. write for full particulars
to
WINGATE & CO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, X.Z..
Manufacturers and Distributing: Agents.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6.
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del'ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
A
7
: -V3
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral.’
SYDNEY.
“1
CK
ik
'
R*tf2
ẃ
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details Irom any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PEKTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
V ALL ey BRISBANE- ««
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Weigh Before Sale.
“Wundi”: “Upilio” (B. 14/ 8/’ 3 5)
raised an important point when he advo-
cated the farm weighing of export lambs.
If only for uniformity, it is vital. It is
not so easy to judge the weight of a
sheep by eye as it is a bullock. In Smith-
held, Argentine lines of beef and M.L.
lines of prime mutton, when 1 was last
there, half a dozen years ago, all looked
as if they had come off the same beast,
but the sizing of Australian carcasses
was very uneven.
Weight counts, because it gives a
standard joint and helps bulk-buying,
which becomes a gamble where every
unit of a lot is a different size and of
different conformation. It also is highly
important in transport. Thousands of
carcasses are taken every week by road
from British ports, and in the vans space
is exactly calculated to carry definite
numbers of standard sizes.
With transport departments, therefore,
uneven sheep are just as accursed as they
are with the buyers. Weighing is not an
unpayably big job—a race with scales
clearly marked with maximum and mini-
mum limits will allow drafts to be
handled quickly.
“Super-Down”: In Maoriland, to
ensure that all the lambs go to the works
at the weights for which exporters pay
top price, some farmers have installed
weighing platforms in the drafting-race.
Lambs of likely size are first separated,
and then are passed slowly down the
weighing-race. The platform is near the
drafting-gate, and the operator watches
the indicator-arm, which passes a plainly-
marked point whenever a lamb above
the minimum passes.
Lambs under weight are put back with
their mothers.
Sheep Lice.
“Murrawong”: The authorities are to
be commended for the firm stand they
have taken to stop the spread of sheep
lice. There is a type of sheepman who
objects to getting out of the rut and
refuses to help combat any pest, whether
it is lice, grasshoppers, rabbits or noxious
weeds. Compulsion is necessary to pro-
tect his neighbors.
A lot of fuss has been made about the
chances of loss arising from extra-early
shearing on account of lice, but actual
experience shows that such losses are
unavoidable and a matter of luck. They
are as likely to occur in October as in
July.
It is not the actual cold but a sudden
drop in temperature that does the dam-
age. 1 have seen more shorn sheep die
in September-October than in any other
month of the year.
One grazier (s.-w. slopes of N.S.W.)
who has always shorn in September
shore a mob of lice-infested sheep in
June this year, and is so pleased with
results that he is seriously considering
bringing back his general shearing to that
time.
Although we seem to be hedged by
regulations, the trouble is that some of
them do not go far enough. Drovers
are forbidden to leave carcasses on re-
serves or stock routes, so they get over
the difficulty by slinging weak sheep
unfit for further travel over the nearest
fence. I know one well-managed pro-
perty where the utmost care is taken to
keep the sheep clear of parasites, yet
every shearing time certain paddocks
bordering the stock route produce ticky
or lousy sheep, all traceable to infection
from some stranger dumped by a drover.
Helping the Classer.
“Bungaree”: The woolclasser is
often hampered by a complete lack of
information or by erroneous information
on sheep numbers. If he sets his lines on
the assumption that a mob numbers 1500
he has every right to feel annoyed when
he finds it cutting out at 1000 with
his slower-filling bins only half-full. Or
he may be working on a line of 6000 of
one age and suddenly find the sheep have
been running in various paddocks of
totally different country. Perhaps the
first mob is off a blacksoil frontage,
its wool deeply skirted with burr but
fairly bright, and the next off red
country with a deep-red tip on the wool
and only a light sprinkling of burr but
a lot of grass-seed. It means a hurried
clean-up of all bins, and probably a hold-
up of shearing.
Most graziers know beforehand the
order in which they intend to shear their
sheep, and it is to their benefit to hand
the classer the numbers and sex of each
ffock in the order in which they will be
shorn.
Alterations may have to be made from
various causes, but so long as the classer
is told in time this does not matter.
The classer may also suggest altera-
tions so that he can get two mobs in
succession whose wool may match and
save holding up shearing to clear out the
bins.
It is a good plan to shear all wethers
first, although the rams may be taken
before them ; then the hoggets, with ewes
and lambs last. Leave as many lambs
as possible to finish up on, so that the
pressers can work on the fleece bins and
have them all pressed within reasonable
time of the cut-out.
Drought Rations.
“Bluegum”: “El V.'s” article (B.
7/8/’35) must give rise to serious thought
by everyone interested in Australia’s
pastoral industries.
Not only in recognised drought areas
do stock suffer with impaction and
kindred complaints. In parts of s.-w.
Westralia, where a real drought is un-
known, such troubles are common.
True, they occur in cattle more than
sheep, but the latter are not immune.
Several digestive disorders are under (he
general term “scrub paunch.” Old hands
blamed rough bush feed for the trouble.
Nowadays, the same conditions often
arise amongst stock pastured on dry sub.-
clover, barley grass, etc., during summer
and early autumn.
Rough herbage, bracken and soil
picked up in nibbling after the clover
seed are accentuating factors. Affected
stock show little or no sign of sickness
until rains set the young grass springing.
Then they go down, and, although some
recover under treatment, fatal results
often follow. Various remedies, most
based on linseed oil. are tried. When
taken in time, relief may be given by
feeding a ration of pulped mangolds.
swedes or potatoes with bran or linseed
meal.
The best safeguard of all is an ade-
quate supply of ensilage.
Where this is available there is no
bother, and as little as a couple of feeds
per week will keep stock on coarse, dry
pastures in good fettle.
It would be a stupendous task to pro-
vide silage for large numbers of sheep,
even when land suited to its production
exists in the areas affected. But it seems
that any practicable solution of the prob-
lem must lie in some form of fodder
conservation, and ensilage has many
desirable qualities. Succulence alone
renders it invaluable when dry condi-
tions prevail, and practically any grass
or crop that grows can be utilised in
filling the pit or stack —1 write, of course,
of emergency times.
Every owner would have to decide foi
himself which is the cheaper course —to
build up flocks in good years and watch
them die in the lean ones, or to conserve
enough fodder to ensure emergency
rations in time of need.
Where the latter course is chosen, the
making of ensilage will be found the
quickest, cheapest and most economical
method.
Fly-strike Methods.
The latest journal of the C.S.I.R. prints
details of the results of the glyceroboric
treatment of tly-strike. The report
declares that the new system gives good
penetration and is persistent. The dress-
ings have no deleterious effect on the
skin. Healing is rapid and clean, and
several variations of the treatment have
prevented artificial restrikes up to 40
days.
Four other methods were used as
controls —maggots removed but no dress-
ing applied, zinc sulphate 5 p.c., and two
dressings—but results did not compare
with the g.b. method.
A variation of the original g.b. acid
is made by dissolving 41b. powdered boric
acid gradually in 31b. of hot glycerine,
then heating the mixture to 300 deg., add-
ing 101 b. of cold glycerine, and warming
and stirring till clear. It was found that
this mixture (called diboric) was the
best, but it is obviously far more com-
plicated to make than simple g.b. com-
pound—3lb. powdered boric acid stirred
into 1 gal. glycerine and heated until all
the boric acid has dissolved.
The experiments cost about 3d. per
sheep for materials, but the experimenters
think that in bulk practice the cost could
be reduced to Id. per sheep.
The dressings do not spread when
applied, but must be gently rubbed in.
They then penetrate to all parts of the
strike, including cracks and folds. T(iey
adhere to fleece, skin and wounds easily.
The strike area is thoroughly impregnated
with boric acid. The mixture is pleasant
to handle, and keeps the smell of the
strike off the hands of the operator.
Rabbit Destruction,
“Ghanam”: Graziers in all States
have been giving the C.S.I.R. their views
on rabbit eradication. Most plump for
digging out, fencing and dogs. Frederick
McMaster, of Dalkeith (N.S.W.), says
that he has cleared bunny off 36,000
acres of hilly black soil, creviced sand-
stone rocks with rivers and creeks and
has kept him off for 17 years.
In the beginning, he had eight poison
carts working on 1000 acres, but found
the slaughter of bird life tragic, and
nature saved enough virile rabbits to rc-
infest the area every season. Carcasses
spread the blowfly. Eventually the job
was given up.
The station was then fenced and sub-
divided with 134 miles of wire-netting,
and has been policed with dogs ever
since. Digging was thorough—burrows
were completely destroyed. It now takes
one man and his dogs to patrol 33,000
acres.
These methods are undoubtedly effec-
tive. but in sand country the tale is
different. W. G. Hawkes, of Koonoona
(S.A.), admits that much of the South
Australian north is becoming a Sahara,
partly through overstocking and lessened
rainfall, but largely through the rabbit.
He points out that thousands of miles
of netting have proved ineffective. Sand-
drifts, emus, floods, foxes and kangaroos
have made the fences useless, and, as
the country is light-carrying, intensive
methods of destruction do not pay. The
rabbit has this country to himself until
it becomes necessary either to abandon
a holding or make the rabbit abandon it.
“Australian Butter the Best.”
“Pappamosca”: Mr. Thorby, once
N. S, Wales Agricultural Minister and
now in the Federal Ministry, has returned
to tell the Australian farmer all the
things The Bulletin has been saying for
months. He is “convinced that the
choicest Australian butter is better in
flavor and in lasting quality than any other
on the English market.” Yet it “suffers
from being frozen too hard.” And even
with a preference of 15s. per hundred-
weight it cannot keep Danish butter off
the market.
Virtually all Denmark’s choice export
butter goes to England—the second quali-
ties arc eaten at home. Nearly all Aus-
tralian export butter goes to England,
too, but it brings lower prices than
Danish, and outside N. S. Wales figures
the Commerce Department scarcely
dares to say what proportion of it is
choice. So the obvious remedy has
clearly been put forward by The Bulle-
tin well in advance of Mr. Thorby-
producc 100 p.c. choice export butter,
and Danish will lose its supremacy in the
British market.
it is the same with beef, pork, mutton
and wheat. Buyers are waiting in Eng-
land to take £40,000,000 p.a. more of
our products, provided we will give them
what they want. But, so long as we try to
sell them second-grade produce of a
flavor and condition which suit ourselves
and not them, we must expect them to
turn to the people who are willing to
oblige them.
Spring and the Dairy Herd.
“Silky Bag”: The feature of spring
feed is that it lacks enough fibre to
ensure a satisfactory digestive secretion.
The same lack of secretion is partly
to blame for inflammation of the mucous
linings, which causes prolonged scour-
ing. These factors weaken the cow in-
stead of improving her condition.
What is needed is a good source of
home-grown fibre, as spring grass is
usually rich enough in food value were
it fully digested. Of available feeds,
winnowed oaten chaff stands ahead of
most others.
Any cereal chaff is good. So arc
lucerne and clover hay or chaff. These
latter sometimes are unpalatable and
need to be backed with ground grains.
Good oaten or barley straw, or even
“cocky” chaff, is handy, but needs a
mixture of grain and molasses. Even
with the oaten winnowings, it will pay
to use some home-grown concentrate to
produce added cream.
Another method of feeding is to let
the cows graze only a limited part of the
pastures, keeping them quite short. The
winter bail ration must be kept up to the
animals, as they don’t get a very heavy
grass feed. But the system pays, as the
grass eaten this way is very nutritious
and a large part of the farm is set aside
for hay or ensilage.
This produces a good supply of hay
to chaff for the next winter and spring.
The only drawback is that the system
means more work.
(“Land” continued on page 24.)


iii»wss
■
■ : -
..■■:■■
::■.■■■■:
Iliiilll
c ::
urn
ITT
LINSEEO 011
MILK
"*T
'
.sv ••
».CAK| Ml
f OOOS
5 •
m
V
-
3w
11l
i
05
r
m
a\
X
%
Oft
: "f- '
J
f ■'
.
m
. -■
LINS
oil
- COtOMOCW
ill
H :
HR
m
u
m
A Great Australian Industry
upon which many others depend
aainxawdin mwv/v
llVflllONIl
aiHivii rwiiwcfl
•t «
lanoi/jiwviv
HilNaVA 3 JLNIt/cfl
IV/TEGGITT’S products, wide in their uses, are necessary
to both primary and secondary industries.
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal and Sheep Nuts are the best
concentrate fodders for all classes of stock. Their use
assists Australian graziers and dairy-farmers to maintain
quality and production, even under adverse seasonal
conditions,
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil, manufactured to meet the require-
ments of individual industries, is used in all Paint, Varnish,
Linoleum and Patent Leather Factories throughout
Australia.
Meggitr Limited’s mills in Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide, equipped with the most modern plant, employing
Australian workmen, supply primary and secondary
industries alike with their requirements of these linseed
products—products which are equal in every way to the
world’s best.
MEGGITT LIMITED
Head Office, Asbestos House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
Works: Parramatta, Melbourne and Adelaide.
m
W
DAIRWI NIC
■' u
LINSEED PRODUCTS EQUAL
m.
m 6
&
C:
A
%
w&m
mr
■/ft
'0
DIG RAISING
TO THE WORLD'S BES


now I
ended my
stomach
trouble
“ I can eat what I please
and digest it with ease.”
If you suffer from indigestion, if you
cannot enjoy a meal without pain, wind,
distension, and a feeling of weakness and
low spirits, let nothing deter you from
trying * Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It is the
supreme remedy for stomach trouble,
with over 20 years’ proof of its unfailing
efficacy. Perhaps you are even now
dreading your next meal. Then why
not make it the occasion for putting
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia to the test ? Get
a bottle of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder
or tablets, from your chemist and take
a little after your meal. Eat whatever
you fancy. The result will be a revelation
to you. The contents of your stomach will
be made as bland and soothing as milk,
instead of turning acid as before. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISURAT ED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package pi] wf:\fl
era
o
SEASICK REMEDY
Guarantees Travel Comfort
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to youi
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
ẅ
For tired, aching feet
Perfect freedom from pinched
toes, corns or any kind of
tightness is assured in this cap-
less Abbey Shoe. The plain,
soft front and comfortable
shape allow the toes to spread
unhindered. Made from light,
serviceable black or brown calf.
Two widths for each size.
Order by post. Both full and half-
sizes available —each in medium
and wide fittings. Specify width
and length. Ask, also, for the cor-
rect Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.
per tin), or a convenient cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 453.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BEUUCSi
'V'
m
&
pc
pm
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
1853/\
*3he qSiaimd Untik \
GLOBITE I
Suit Cate J
J
It's the popular model . . . Slobite 1853,
light in weight, glossy as leather and extra
strong and rigid. Globite Cases, made of
the best and toughest fibre, are reinforced
for better wear. Ask for Globite 1853 . . •
there are all sizes.
A New
Small Grazier*’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
TfiTTfyullelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Feeding Beef Cattle.
“El V.”; Australian beef-producers
would die of shock if they could see the
conditions under which many American
cornbelt farmers produce beef. In
Missouri alone they used to produce a
few years ago 180,000,000 bushels of
maize, 35,000,000 bushels of oats,
30,000 tons of cottonseed meal, 5,000,000
tons of cornstalks, 5,500,000 tons of hay
and straw, and most of this went into
producing beef cattle. If conditions
have changed, it is largely because they
were feeding for the local market and
people can neither buy the same quan-
tities of meat nor at the same price as
before the depression.
Australia might well look into the
system, seeing that we have no bitter
winter with exclusive hand-feeding to face
and that there is so much waste land on
many coastal district farms. The only
grazing a lot of Middle West Yankee
cattle see is on “margin lands” around
cultivation which are kept in pasture as a
safeguard against erosion.
The system of husbandry in use is “the
cow and calf method.’” The cow is
machinery and market for home-pro-
duced fodder. She is generally bred to
a first-class community bull at a cost of
about 7s. 6d. for service. The calves
are sold off as fat vealers or yearlings.
New conditions brought into being by
the motor-car have entirely altered the
taste in beef both in U.S.A. and in
Britain. The large joint which used to
serve the family through a solemn week-
end has gone out of fashion since the
average family has abandoned the domes-
tic Sunday for a holiday on the beach
or in the country. The requirement is
now the small and tender joint.
Quick turnover and small profits is the
order in farm-fed breeding. Many an
Australian dairy-farmer operating on the
expensive land of the lllawarra (N.S.W.)
would probably be astonished to find it
cheaper to raise three yearlings by feed-
ing than one three-year-old carrying
three years’ taxation, pasture cost,
interest, labor and other charges, and to
make as much profit on the deal.
The American cornbelt farmer breeds
at almost any season except winter. The
Australian with plenty of grown feed
handy could,keep a continuous stream of
corn-fed weaners, or weaner feeders (for
the fattener), or fed yearlings, the year
round. It has been no uncommon thing
in cornbelt history for calves fed an
average of about £2 ss. worth of grain
during nursing to be turned over at
from £lO to £ll per head at 10 months
old with beef at £2 per hundred.
Wheat Quality.
“Wundi”: Wheat qualities had a sur-
prising airing at a State conference in
Victoria a few days ago. The Govern-
ment, millers, bakers, wheatgrowers and
shippers were represented. Mr. Gate-
house, of the Millers’ Association, said
that his people took about a quarter of
the Victorian crop for bread ; another
quarter was exported as flour ; the re-
maining half of the crop was exported
for wheat.
During the last five years there “had
been general dissatisfaction with Victorian
grain” ; in regard to export he might
have gone back further. The loss due to
screenings and cracked grain and small
grains varied from 12 p.c. to 20 p.c. The
Agricultural Department said that on
small samples its officers estimated
screenings at from 7.4 p.c. to 8.6 p.c. in
two years, 1930 and 1934, but the
mills might get greater percentages
from bulk samples. Mr. Gatehouse said
screenings had increased with the popu-
larising of Free Gallipoli.
The bakers’ representative said that
there was untold trouble with flour
quality —“variation of quality was one
of the greatest difficulties.” I went to
sleep hearing British buyers say the same
thing about some Australian wheats at
conference after conference in Great
Britain nine years ago. The bakers’ man
further said that there had been a reduc-
tion in bread output in Victoria of 20
p.c. in the past five years, and a large pro-
portion was due to the poor quality and
lack of palatability of the flour.
A departmental officer declared that
“10 p.c. of wheat rejected from Japan
found its way to the United Kingdom.”
If that was so, it must depreciate the
value of our wheat in the U.K. The
shippers’ man denied it. He said that
“a great deal of the reject wheat was
cleaned up to the f.a.q. standard, and the
balance was used as fowl feed.”
British buyers have long been dissatis-
fied with our f.a.q. standard, because they
say that our wheat does not always live
up to sample. Logicians may agree with
the interjection which a wheatgrowers’
representative threw into the discussion:
There is Government supervision for
wheat exported to Japan. Why should
there not be similar supervision for all
overseas shipments?
Seeing that Britain, especially, is our
prime market, why not? The retort of
the shippers’ man that it is because there
are no Japanese corn exchanges may be
valid from an overseas point of view,
but not from ours. The export of bad
wheat should not be allowed to involve
exporters in arbitration overseas—every
time there is argument about a shipment,
it is a rotten advertisement for Australia.
Only a few days ago, our egg export
suffered a setback in Britain through
an arbitrator using rude Anglo-Saxon
about a Victorian shipment.
The millers, growers and department
all showed themselves unfriendly to the
f.a.q. system, which is apt to penalise the
grower of good grain and help the bad
grower.
The conference decided that weather
and the preponderance of Free Gallipoli
were largely responsible for the condi-
tion of Victorian wheat, and they are
meeting again for further discussion.
Victorian troubles are not fully
common to other States, but even
N.S.W. and Westralian growers will learn
a lot from the Victorian discussions.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wrash”: Beat flat 4in. at one end ot
a 3ft. length of inch piping. Rivet thereto
the short leaf of an old buggy or sulky
spring. You have a handy tool for re-
moving dirt amongst the roots when
grubbing stumps —also for gouging out
long-root vegetable crops.
“Silky Bag”: Risk of bloat or scour-
ing may be eased by mixing one-half
pint of tasteless paraffin with the affected
animal’s feed. Give her an appetising
ration with it,
“The 0.D.”: “El V.’s” advice (B.
21 / 8 /’35) re establishing beef cattle
experiment farms is timely, and N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture has the farms
ready to hand. Wollongbar and Trangie
farms could well be utilised. Many
dairy-farmers might run a few beefers as
a sideline. Wollongbar could give the
idea a trial.
“Bill R.”: In giving hints to shed
pickers-up, “J.W.” (B. 14/8/’35) misses
a point—the right part of the rim at
which to take hold. Shorn fleeces show
stained tips where divided at the crutch.
After pushing the wool together with the
feet, grasp the edge at these discolored
points. Lift the tail part and gather the
fleece between the hands. From the end
of the roller’s table throw the head of
the fleece lengthwise, at the same time
spreading the hands. The wool will fall
like a blanket, with its outer side up-
wards.
Various bodies concerned and
the S.A. Agricultural Department have
begun a campaign against the rough
treatment of fat lambs and sheep during
trucking. Dog-bites, stick-marks and
other blemishes, the fruit of carelessness,
often have caused the rejection of 5 p.c.
of offerings at the Adelaide Abattoirs
Markets. In a few days the rate has
been reduced to 1 p.c. Growers should
go to M.L. or Britain to see the care
with which a lamb should be handled
It is recognised by all experienced
growers that even the placing of a hand
on a quickly-matured animal to push it
into a truck may leave a blemish. But
this idea has only recently dawned on
Australians. To our shame, Smithfield
people used to nickname our sheep
“J.Cs.” —Joseph’s coats —because of the
variety of color which some of them
showed as the result of mishandling.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
if
■ T r
gf-li
t M
■1,44
m
• i
<i *
M
I !
I J
I
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Flattery is someone else telling you
what you think of yourself.
4. 4. * 4.
Finality.
“A French inventor claims to have invented
a self-firing gun which will go on firing at
limed intervals, even after the gun crew has
been killed, until the ammunition is exhausted.”
The man in the motor-car scorched
frantically amongst the shattered ruins
that had once been towns and villages.
He had come from his own lines,
knowing that every man there had been
killed and, in the poison-gassed areas
behind him, there were no survivors.
"He's my new Minister for the Interior."
Perhaps amongst the enemy he would
find a living companion.
His search was vain. On this side
was the same complete annihilation. The
gradual silencing of the big self-firing
guns, which, limed for long intervals, had
continued, increased the terror of his
loneliness.
He screamed hysterically to break the
silence. Came another sound. The
final shot of a big gun fixed to fire shells
at daily intervals on the very spot where
the Lonely Man had brought his car
to a stop.
There was a terrific explosion, and
then an utter silence.
It was a case of the last man and the
last shelling.
P. P.
A Fierce Game.
The game had been in progress 30
minutes, and the ambulance men and
doctors were being run off their feet.
Maimed and bleeding men were every-
where. Rovers had called on 15 emer-
gencies, and Warriors on 14.
Presently a cry went up from the
crowd: “The ball! What about the
ball?”
The referee ignored it as long as was
prudent, and then he reluctantly called
the rival captains together.
“Better send for a ball,” he advised.
“They’re getting sore because you’re
playing without one.”
o. w. w.
Many a visitor to Mount Buffalo skates
on thin ice without going near Lake
Catani.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was collecting tools to start in a boot-
repairing business of his own.”
Another case in which the last will be
first.
a. 4. 4.
A Great Discovery.
1 have discovered a cure for toothache.
When toothache first comes the aver-
age man tries to ignore it, or says it will
go soon, forgetting how often he has
said that about his mother-in-law.
Then he tries remedies, and the tooth-
ache really begins, as if put on its mettle.
People notice the expression of strain
and anguish and say, “Got a toothache?”
Then they add, “Til tell you wot’ll
cure it.”
You all know the procedure. The
near-by chemist begins to regard you
as a valued customer. In between times
you try cures of your own at a
shop nearer the corner, if not at the
corner itself.
The nagging goes on, but in the even-
ing it dies down so as to make sure you
will take it to bed with you. Directly
the shops where remedies may be
bought are closed it starts again.
You decide to go to sleep and forget
it. That, of course, is the last thing you
can do. You fry a bandage of hot salt.
It makes your face feel as if it is
on fire. You try oil of cloves, vinegar
and cloves, cloves straight. It is about
this time that you kick the cat. An
equally futile cure
is to shake your
fist at your swollen
face as you regard
it in the looking-
glass.
You toss about
in the bed, by
turns nightmarishly
wide awake and
nightmarishly doz-
ing.
You pass into a
sort of sleep at
last; and then the
toast is made par-
ticularly hard for
your breakfast.
You pop into a
chemist’s and ask
him if he has some-
thing to cure a
toothache.
“Oh, have you
got a toothache?”
he asks harmlessly,
if you don’t hit
him with (he in-
fant’s scales he
sells you some-
thing. The new
day’s agony has
started.
But. if you are wise, you try my
remedy. Have you guessed it? You
get the tooth out.
H. M.
4* 4' 4* 4*
“ ‘What is a sure sign that a woman has
ceased to love her husband?’ asks a writer.”
Well, when she clears out with an-
other man it can usually be regarded as
fairly conclusive.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An Eye for an Eye.
“They met unexpectedly in a ditch. He
managed to back away to safety by fixing the
tiger with his eye.”— “Sun.”
1 can vouch for the susceptibility of
the tiger when stared at,
I was playing golf once in Bengal and
I sliced my ball into the jungle. Having
been brought up in the best St. Andrews
tradition (the ball was a repaint that cost
me ninepence) I set about searching for
it. After three hours I was just thinking
about giving it up for lost when 1 was
overjoyed to see it lying alongside what
I took to be an old, striped, skin rug.
As I reached for the ball I idly kicked
at the rug, when, to my slight dismay, it
suddenly resolved itself into a snarling
tiger of enormous proportions.
Now, if I may say so, I am pretty
snappy on the uptake, and I realised in
a flash that flight would be futile. I de-
termined, therefore, to stare him out. I
knew that if I batted an eyelid once I
was a goner, but I was fortunate enough
to be unfortunate enough to have a glass
eye, so to ensure an unblinking stare I
closed my good one. Of course, I could
no longer see the tiger, but 1 depended
solely on my superbly trained sense of
hearing to warn me of any movement.
Through standing still so long I must
have fallen into a violent doze (I always
sleep with my glass eye open), for after
what seemed several hours I awoke.
With extreme caution I lifted the fringe
of the lid of my good eye and peered
out. The tiger, apparently fascinated by
the unwinking stare that gazed at him
hour on hour, had been lulled into a
stupor and lay quite still. My ruse had
been successful. I glanced quickly about
me. No one was looking. With a quick
action I threw my ball back on to the
fairway. s. W. K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Children at a picnic broke out in red
spots.”— “Sun.”
Picnic spots.
“Pity it don't rain."
“Wrong month."
“Might get it next month."
"Wrong year."
“Women in China are suffering from many
new edicts, unstockingcd legs, permanent waves,
lipstick, low-back gowns, mixed bathing and
mixed dancing now all being barred.”
—News Hem.
But apart from that they are still free
to do as they like.
-I* -I- *1- *
Vocal Vice.
“Yodelling Men Attack Worn-out Party in
Papua.”— “Sim.”
Papua is not the only scene of such
outrages. A band of yodelling men re-
cently descended on a worn-out parly in
Darlinghurst. They wanted bootleg, and
if took the host quite a while to con-
vince them that he couldn’t oblige them.
You see, the party had used up all his
stock before it got worn out. And, be-
sides, it’s not safe to deal with men in
the yodelling stage.
Another case occurred when a certain
party, worn out after a hard day’s work,
turned on his radio for the purpose of
recreation. His ears were instantly
assaulted by a man not yodelling, but
crooning.
There’s a lot to be said in favor of
Papua!
T. W. N.
4- 4- 4* 4*
“The man in the street owes more to the
despised politician than he is aware of.”
Which is just as well for the despised
politician.
4- 4* 4- 4*
Habit and Hypothesis.
With courage that a coward finds
Of urgency and dire despair,
I flung discretion to the winds
And kissed your lips, your throat, your
hair.
And, like a mute whose tongue’s released
From bondage, 1 waxed eloquent;
I said precisely what / pleased,
And wooed you to my heart’s content.
I conquered my timidity
To curry favor in your sight.
That’s what I did in THEORY
In practice, dear, I sighed “Good
/tight!”
P.O.M.C.
The Apple of Discord.
“Police recently raided a number of dance
halls in Adelaide and took the names of the
winners of Monte Carlo dances, claiming that
the practice was a breach of the Lottery and
Gaming Act.”
A case which has been attracting con-
siderable interest in Adelaide, and which
is expected to have far-reaching results
in other States, has just been concluded.
Briefly, the facts for the Crown were as
follows: “At or about 3 p.m. on August
24 the defendants Sally Jones (aged 6)
and Thomas Brown (aged 7) were ob-
served by Plainclothes Constable Snooper
in the South Parklands. Defendant
Thomas Brown held an apple in his
hand. Defendant Sally Jones was heard
to say to defendant Thomas Browm ‘Mrs.
Smiff said y’ ’ad ter give me arf.’
“Defendant Thomas Brown thereupon
broke the apple in two and offered de-
fendant Sally Jones one portion. Defen-
dant Sally Jones protested that it was ‘the
lit (lest ’arf.’ Defendant Thomas Brown
then put both hands behind his back,
juggled the two portions from hand to
hand and called upon defendant Sally
Jones to ‘take her pick.’
“She chose the left hand.
“Plainclothes Constable Snooper then
arrested both parties, claiming that the
action constituted a breach of the Lot-
tery and Gaming Act, being ‘a scheme
for the disposal of property by lot or
drawing.’ ”
At this stage defendant Thomas Brown
interjected: “It’s a big lib. I didn’t cat
the lot!”
Defendant Sally Jones supplemented
this with “And I didn't dror nothin’,
neither.”
His Honor agreed to accept these re-
marks as a plea of “Not guilty.”
Cross-examined.,
defendant Thomas
Brown admitted
having adopted the
means described to
share the apple.
He claimed it was
the only way, as
he didn’t have a
penny to toss with.
At the same time
he maintained that
the action did not
constitute a game
of chance. It was
a matter of skill,
he claimed, adding
tr i umphanlly, “1
got the biggest
’arf.”
Defendant Sally
Jones (in tears)
pleaded similarly.
“The bit ’e guv me
wasn’t a narf at
all,” she sobbed,
“and it ’ad a worm
in it, too.” Coun-
sel for prosecution
then asked: “Do
you contend that
it wasn’t a game of
chance?”
To this, defen-
dant Sally Jones
replied: “ Chance ? I never ’ad a
chance.”
His Honor interposed at this stage to
inquire what had become of the apple.
Constable Snooper was unable to say,
but was prepared to produce an apple
of similar size and quality.
His Honor addressed the same ques-
tion to the defendants. Their replies
were brief and to the point.
Thos. Brown: “I et my ’arf.”
Sally Jones: “So’d I. ’Cept the worm.”
The case was dismissed for want of
evidence.
JASBY.
Vindication.
My darling Fay! Whene’er with brow
Grown dark and wildly heaving bust
You curse me for my broken vow,
I grieve that you are so unjust.
Your logic, dear, is hardly good.
For why should 1 be heaped with
shame ?
I would he constant if I could,
But Jean won’t let me —SHE’S to
blame !
NAT.


USEFUL DATA ON OLDSMOBILE SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 14 4-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 3-5
' seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft.
Maximum speed, 73.17 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 19.6 m.p.g.
wfi
(Ajl
w
m
m
OJtsA
•>
»
m
nv
HOOD DRESSING!
Now obtainable in half-pint cans.
«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE €/ MARK REGISTERED
WE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNtNQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P-O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
(SECOND
EDITION) *
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
The Steering Column.
TEST OF THE NEW OLDSMOBILE SIX
RELIABLE, ROADWORTHY AND EASY TO DRIVE.
By FRED BERRY.
A FTER three years’ absence from the Australian market, the
1 Oldsmobile reappears in a new guise, right up to the minute
so far as mechanical details and body style are concerned.
Several years ago cars of this marque, under official super-
vision, gave motorists in this country a new idea of the meaning
of “top-gear performance.” With all intermediate gears taken
from its gear-box, an Oldsmobile made a tour of N. S. Wales
that included every main-road hill of note and such notorious
grades as Bulli Pass and Kurrajong Mountain, all successfully
negotiated.
Whilst there are American types which
arc more brilliant than the Oldsmobile
in the matter of speed and acceleration,
the 1935 car is built on a particularly
sturdy foundation, and as a consequence
is certain to give trouble-free service
over long periods.
The 6-cyl. engine is of L-
head type, with detachable
cylinder heads; bore, 3
5-16 in. ; stroke, 4-Jin.; piston
displacement, 213.3 cub. in.;
R.A.C, rating, 26.3 h.p. A
maximum power output of 90
b.h.p. is delivered at 3400
r.p.m.
The engine is mounted on
the chassis at three points on
live rubber supports to absorb
vibration. The combustion
chamber is newly designed, of
the non-detonating type, and,
using a compression ratio of 6
to 1, can be successfully
operated on any fuel withou/
fear of detonating or “knock’
when driven on full throttle.
The crankshaft is counter-
weighted between throws, bal-
anced statically and dynami-
cally and equipped with a
vibration damper at the for-
ward end, so that the engine
runs smoothly throughout the
entire speed range.
Pistons are ligntweight cast-
iron, electroplated, and fitted
with three rings—two compres-
sion and one oil retainer —
above the gudgeon pin.
Connecting rods are carbqn steel, drop-
forged I-beam section drilled throughout
the entire length in order to provide
full-pressure lubrication to the gudgeon
pins. Connecting-rod and main bearings
Needle-bearing universal joints used on tail shaft, reducing
friction losses and eliminating the necessity for regular
lubrication.
are of thin wall replaceable steel-backed
type.
Side-by-side valves are used, offset to
provide more efficient combustion-
chamber design and greater turbulence of
gases than in earlier models. Valve
guides are replaceable. Fuel is drawn
from a 15gal. tank, at rear by means of
a mechanical pump driven by eccentric
from the camshaft to a down-draught
carburettor fitted with air cleaner,
silencer and flame arrestor. Carburettor
Neat lines and comfortable riding position in the new Oldsmobile Six.
is of single-throat type with automatic
choke control and accelerating pump.
Intake and exhaust manifolds are de-
signed to provide an even flow of gas
from the carburettor, and a hot spot,
heated by exhaust gas, is cast integral
with the intake
manifold in order
to provide easy
starting from cold
and more complete
vaporisation of fuel.
A full-pressure
lubricating system
is in c o rporated,
supplying oil at
positive pressure to
all camshaft and
crankshaft main
bearings and gud-
geon pins. The
timing chain is lubricated by pressure
spray, and valve mechanism and cylinder
walls by oil thrown, by centrifugal force
from the connecting-rod bearings.
Ignition is by coil and battery, the
heavy-duty generator (air cooled) being
fitted with a step-voltage current-control
relay which automatically regulates
generator output according to demand
of battery, and is designed to prevent
overcharging.
Headlights are of tilt-beam type,
operated by toe
switch in driver’s
compartment. Ig-
nition is full auto-
matic, controlled
by a centrifugal
governor in the
distributor head.
Special attention
has been given to
cooling the motor,
all cylinders being
completely sur-
rounded by water,
while the exhaust-
valve seats are kept
at low temperature
by special coring
of the cylinder
block. The water
impellor and fan are, together with
generator, driven by .an adjustable
rubber belt from a crankshaft pulley, and
a thermostat fitted within the water out-
let on the cylinder head ensures rapid
warming up of the motor when starting
from cold.
Transmission is through single-plate
dry-disc clutch with carbon-type self-
aligning release bearing to a three-speed-
and-reverse gearbox with central ball-
type change-speed lever. , Gears are
helical cut in first, second and reverse,
and synchromesh silent cones are fitted
throughout. Final drive is through a
tubular propeller shaft having needle-
bearing-type universal joints at front and
rear to a banjo-type
rear, - axle assembly.
Crown wheel and
pinion are helical cut,
reduction ratio being
4.44 to I. Frame is
modern X-braced
type with boxed-in
side members of gen-
erous dimensions, pro-
viding a rigid con-
struction.
Rear springs are
semi-elliptic type, at-
tached to the chassis
by silent U-threaded
shackles. Double-acting hydraulic shock-
absorbers are fitted both front and
rear. Front wheels are sprung in-
dependently, the well - known and
highly-successful “pantograph” knee-
action principle being adopted. Heavy
coiled springs, designed to harmonise
with the conventional type rear springs,
together with two-way shock-absorbers,
permit each front wheel to pass over
inequalities in the road without dis-
tortion of chassis or transmission of
Knee-action independent front-wheel suspension fitted to
1935 Oldsmobile.
shock to bodywork. In order to further
ensure riding comfort and prevent roil-
ing when cornering at speed, a ride
stabiliser attached to the rear-spring
anchorages is fitted.
Steering is of central control type, per-
mitting fingertip control at all speeds
and eliminating road shock taken by the
front wheels.
Service brakes, actuated by foot pedal,
and self-energising, two-shoe, internal-
expanding hydraulic type. Emergency
equipment, connected to hand lever, is
mechanically operated and applies on
rear wheels only.
Wheelbase is 115 in.; turn-
ing circle on left and right
locks, 36ft. ; minimum ground
clearance under differential
housing, 7Jin.
The car tested over the
Bulletin course was a stand-
ard model 6-cyl. four-door
sedan, driven by J. Turner, of
W. Lober and Co., Ltd., N. S.
Wales distributors. Weight
with driver, observer and full
fuel tank was 34Jdwt. .Speed-
ometer reading stood at 4425
miles.
The car handled well through
the busy city traffic, steering
and acceleration in top gear
being satisfactory. After cruis-
ing at between 45 and 50
m.p.h. on the open country
roads after leaving Parramatta, a test of
coasting from a steady speed of 15 m.p.h.
showed that the “Olds” would roll 728
yards before coming to a standstill —a
good performance, indicative of freedom
of all running gear and correct alignment
of road wheels.
Maximum speed was then checked
over a measured mile, the time taken
being 49 l-ssec., averaging 73.17 m.p.h.


CONSTRUCTION!
foJiJlnj%
Jflaytc Wand
orrumc&o
Twelve-acre Rockefeller Center, reaching
70 stories toward New York’s sky . . . back
of the engineering triumph of Boulder
Dam, waters gathering in the desert —to
form a lake 115 miles in length . . . two
mighty bridges rising to span the Golden
Gate and San Francisco Bay ... in Los
Angeles, 105,000 sport-lovers crowding the
Coliseum, arena of the last Olympiad ... a
mile-long tunnel, driven through solid
mountain rock, bringing motorists to the
breath-taking vaults of Zion Park. America
captures the romance of Construction!
Such feats hold vital interest for every
traveler —and they areeasily seen. America’s
railway systems provide fast, luxurious
trains —air “conditioned’’ to a perfect, even
ẁ
temperature —in which you dine, sleep and
live as in a splendid hotel. They criss-cross
the entire nation; fares and incidental
costs are unusually low —and liberal stop-
over privileges constantly tug at your desire
to explore. Add to construction-marvels,
too, their smooth road-beds and new ultra-
modern trains.
This spirit -of - reaching - upward distin-
guishes your entire voyage, together with
today’s trend of culting-expenses-down. The
magnificent new Matson - Oceanic liners
“Mariposa” and “Monterey” link New
Zealand with California in 18 days —with
beguiling stops in New Zealand, h i ji, Samoa,
and Hawaii. From Los Angeles or San
Francisco, you cross America by any route
that appeals.
Thus is constructed the short, modern,
interest-packed thoroughfare to England.
Every detail, and how you may arrange
them all in advance, is explained in an
illustrated informative booklet, “England
Across America”. Free, upon request, by
’phone call or letter.
.AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL and INFORMATION RLREACT
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
Over this section the motor was smooth
and free from vibration, while road-
holding qualities were excellent.
Approaching Kurrajong Mountain the
unmade dirt road through Grose Vale was
Cutaway section of Oldsmobile cylinder
block, showing method of cooling valve
sealings. Note that all cylinders are
completely surrounded by cooling water.
taken, and over this section the car was
:omforlable and safe. Climbing Kurra-
jong Mountain the steepest section, 2 1-5
miles, was selected for a speed climb ; the
lime taken, 3min. 36sec., being satisfac-
tory. Using second and top gear the car
held the road splendidly, and was com-
fortable and safe when driven fast
through the several difficult bends.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results, and near-
ing Richmond the cross-country road via
Castlereagh to Penrith was taken. On
this section further performance tests
were conducted, first that of covering 350
Section of cylinder head and combus-
tion chamber, showing offset valve and
generous water passages.
yards in top gear as slowly as possible,
followed immediately by a similar
distance on full throttle, still in top gear.
Results proved that the Oldsmobile is a
useful performer, times taken being:
Slow-running section, 2min. 24sec.,
averaging 5 m.p.h.; accelerated section,
17 l-ssec., crossing the finishing line with
speedometer showing 60 m.p.h., and
averaging 41.8 m.p.h.
Further acceleration tests in top and
second gears from a steady 10 to 30
m.p.h. were timed in 8 l-ssec. and
5 3-ssec. respectively, while from a stand-
still to 50 m.p.h. was clocked in
14 4-ssec.
Brake efficiency was checked from a
speed of 25 m.p.h., the car stopping in
19ft. —a good performance.
Fuel used over the journey of 118
miles was 6gal., an average of 19.6 m.p.g.
(33.6 ton miles), while average speed, in-
clusive of all tests, was 35.4 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
G.H. (Davenport, Tas.).— Has the Hillman
Minx been tested over the Bulletin course ?
No.
* ♦ * *
P.P.C. (Port Fairy, Vic.). —Please give me
your opinion of suitability for my purposes of
cars named.
A and B equal; then C and D.
* ♦ * *
K.M.A. (Boggabri, N.S.W.). —(1) Is there
any difference in performance between the
DU and DV Dodge types 1 (2) Will
extra 3in, wheelbase make any noticeable dif-
ference in riding comfort ? (3) Difference in
price of DU and DV ?
(1) Yes; DU is larger in engine size and
power than DV. (2) Yes; DU is heavier as
well as longer, and so sits on the road a little
better. (3) Five-wheel touring sedan DU £466,
DV £430, DV open tourer (no DU tourers)
£369 Add tax to all prices.
*-* * *
M.M. (Perth, W.A.).—(l) What is the benefit
of floating-power mounting in the Willys
77 ? The car will not idle slowly when cold
without setting up vibration. (2) Is the rubber
under the gearbox liable to deteriorate ?
(1) No engine mounted on floa(ing-power
live-rubber supports will idle as slowly as one
anchored rigidly in the frame, but when driven
on the road these engines are free from vibra-
tion, are far more flexible and deliver greater
power than those fixed solidly in the chassis.
Open the idling adjustment slightly in order
that the motor will run smoothly when stand-
ing. (2) No. This special rubber mounting
should last at least several years without
losing its resiliency.
♦ * * *
E.S. (Charleville, Q.). —(1) Would raising
the compression of my ’2B Dodge Four by
planing cylinder head give higher speed, and
would performance be otherwise affected ? (2)
How much should be planed off ?
Raising compression by the method indi-
cated would probably increase maximum speed,
but, unless the work was executed by an ex-
perienced mechanic familiar with that particu-
lar engine, complications may arise. In any
case, slow running and top-gear pulling are
certain to be adversely affected.
♦ * * *
E.H. (Ballarat, Vic.). —During a top over-
haul of my baby car (22,000 miles), slack
pistons were noticed. Oil consumption is not
had. Would you advise fitting oversize pistons
and new pins, or must the engine be rebored ?
Can’t say definitely without inspection.
Probably new pistons and rings would improve
matters for a few thousand miles at least,
but where doubt exists a rebore or relining is
safest policy.
* * * *
B.S.M. (Home Hill, N.Q.).—(l) I have a
7-h.p. Austin Sports roadster, ’26 or 'll model.
What is the ratio of the two pulleys
driving the speedometer ( they are missing) ?
(2) Are they obtainable ? (3) Is there a belter
method of fitting the speedo. on this model.
and what cost ? (4) How can I stop the
friction-type shock-absorbers from squeaking?
(5) Correct bulbs for headlamps ? Every type
tried so far will not focus correctly. (6)
Correct lappet clearance and firing point ?
(7) Engine number is M 44920. What year was
it manufactured ?
(1) One to one. (2) Try Mclntosh Motors,
Brisbane, or Larke, Hoskins, Sydney. (3)
Yes, by worm drive, but this would involve
new rear in gearbox and new tailshaft too
expensive a job for consideration. (4) Dis-
mantle and, after thoroughly cleaning discs,
boil them in castor oil for a few minutes;
then replace and adjust while still hot in order
to prevent buckling. (5) Correct filament is
BAS type, believed to be now unprocurable
in Australia. Try Bennett and Wood, Ltd..
Sydney. (6) Inlet valves four thou., exhaust
six thou., with engine hot. To
point, take out studs from , sta . rt . er . Vnllv
posing flywheel ring. Wuh ignition lever fully
advanced the make-and-break should just beg
to open JJ in ;• Bef °,~ ST’olT engine
on whci ? • ~ . j w j t j l 6j n .
" ur ? b ! rs ’J sUt with 7in. drums
brakedrun > - +
* * ... ~ ,
L.P. (Horsham, Vxc).-After driving 15 to
20 miles at 35 m.p.h. the radiator of my -»
model Ford loses about a quart of water,
though apparently not boding. After running
five minutes steam appears when the radiator
ca p lifted, but the engine does not appear
very ) wt . Timing has been checked, fan belt
is all right, and valves are seating correctly.
Cause and remedy ?
Symptoms point to weak mixture, probably
cause( j by an air leak in the intake manifold
or j n petrol saver. Furred-up radiator core
or W ater passages in cylinder block would
ag g raV ate the trouble. Have radiator and
blown out with water and air under
preS sure and test for air leak,
,jj Steering Column continued on
nnae 7R)
P a s e


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “Tbe Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in ‘‘The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post"
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "1 he
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors —80,000-word
Kazeitoer— l2o,ooo- word story of the earth.
43/. value for 7/6! Available only to readers ol
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Hoc* this W66k’B isßiio—Now on Sole I—-Price 1 —-Price Oil
g
■' •* *
S.v
Wimim
t r
AV,.;, -
UNB
0
i
Vo
Oft
is
yX-sx
M
'v-2
*<«o*
wassmdmm
9 BUY SEALED OIL
Motorists everywhere are reali-
sing that Valvoline Sealed Oil is
the best lubricating proposition.
Valvoline is sold in "tamper-proof
tins, being sealed against substi-
tution. adulteration, dirt and short
measure.
When you buy Valvoline you
know what you’re getting —an oil
that gives added life and smooth-
o
QqxJlbA yyiMch. oil
BULK
UNAVAILABLE
ness to any engine
and cuts down repairs.
Ask your garageman.
then let your motor
and dip stick be the
judge!
I
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
JCARRIGAN
and tkn UmmomyeaM
The New Simoniz Kleener Restores
Gar Beauty Quickly and Easily
ẃ
ASSISTING
ENTERPRISE
The business man relies upon his bank for many
necessary services. He knows that modern production
and trade cannot flourish without the help of a sound
banking system.
When he needs assistance to enlarge his operations,
a producer, manufacturer, trader, or other borrower
may receive valuable aid from advances made against
his securities. Thus his expansion is not cramped or
retarded by lack of necessary money. His use of the
borrowed money leads to increased employment, with
direct advantage to the community. The State benefits
through the resulting addition to the wealth of its people.
For seventy-six years the National Bank has been
actively associated with the production, trade and
commerce of Australia. During those years, it has
consistently encouraged and assisted development and
utilisation of national resources.
To-day, with its wealth of experience, extensive
establishment and ample resources, the Bank offers its
services to further assist production and enterprise.
CT/>e
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
The Oldest Daily in Tasmania!
“THE
EXAMINER”
(EST. 1842),
93 YEARS’
SERVICE.
“The Examiner” is still the Family News-
paper of Launceston and the North. It
is the only daily paper published in
Launceston, in which city it circulates
intensely, and extensively throughout
Northern Tasmania.
It reaches 332 centres daily, and is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Arcturus”: Told a chap about put-
ting a sapling hard up against the front
of the rear wheels when they got bogged,
as advocated by “Bog In” (B. 17/7/’35).
He carried out instructions, but couldn’t
see the point of strapping or wiring the
sapling to the wheels, so decided to carry
on without. His mate revved the engine
up, while he stood directly behind the
car, the better to watch both wheels.
There was a shower of mud from the
spinning wheels, the car moved forward,
and the sapling was projected forcefully
at the intent watcher, hitting him fair and
square amidships. There wasn’t much
damage, but he saw a doctor.
* * * *
“Cautious”: Add to the pioneers
whom experience made expert Charles
H. Elliot, of Warrnambool (Vic.). In
1905, while working as a coachbuilder,
he bought a single-cyl. 5-h.p. engine, a
gearbox, axles and wheels (unassembled).
Then, with books as his sole guide, he
fashioned body, petrol tank, piping,
radiator and other parts. His skill
brought requests for aid from other
pioneer motorists, and he became a part-
time motor mechanic. When cars began
to kill coachbuilding, he established a
garage in Koroit. Later he established
a petrol station in Warrnambool. Two
sons (one with him and one with a Mel-
bourne firm) follow in his wheel-tracks.
* * * *
“John Cashel”: In 1920 a mate and I
were overlanding to Coonamble (N.S.W.).
About six miles from the town our old
car decided she had gone far enough.
Investigation proved that she had died
for the want of juice, although the drip-
stick showed half an inch in the tank,
from which the supply gravitated to the
carburettor. The feed pipe was half an
inch clear above the bottom of the tank,
and the job was to get the juice into the
pipe. Bill dug out our fishing-line and
cut it up into three-feet lengths. Hunting
around he selected about a dozen
sausage-shaped stones to which he
attached the pieces of fishing-line. These
were then gingerly lowered into the tank
until the level of the petrol rose well
above the end of the pipe, and we were
in town just before “sixerclock, gents.”
* * * *
“Jo”; Some private garages have a
tin filled with sand for use in extinguish-
ing small petrol fires, should these occur.
Sawdust (free from chips) and bicar-
bonate of soda, mixed in the proportion
of two to one, are much more effective
for putting out such fires. The sawdust
floats on the top of the petrol, so keeping
the air off, and the bicarbonate of soda
forms carbonic acid gas, which also
tends to smother the fire.
:|c * * *
“J.A.”: When the spare wheel of a
motor-truck broke loose in South Bris-
bane the other morning, O. Henry’s
story of the “fifth wheel” was recalled,
but this time it did not have such a happy
ending. The spare tyre rolled along the
street at a lively pace before it jumped
the kerbing, crossed the footpath and
spun through a grocer’s shop window.
* * * *
“Minor”: While returning from a light-
car club night trial, my passenger Jet the
control card blow from his hands. We
pulled up, turned the car and recovered
the card. Then the engine commenced to
stall. It would start all right, turn a few
revolutions and then die out. We spent
almost two hours checking every con-
ceivable source of trouble, assisted by a
number of other competitors and their
passengers (all capable mechanics). The
tow-rope was being brought forward
when someone noticed that when the
motor did fire the usual healthy exhaust
note was absent. We then found that
while reversing we had backed into a
mudbank at the side of the road, which
the large-diameter exhaust pipe had
pierced, consequently choking the motor
with exhaust gas. The heat of the pipe
had partially baked and hardened the
mud, which was not easily removed. On
clearing the pipe, our troubles were over.
* * ♦ *
"F.H.4”: Three men in a hurry to
reach Brisbane left the Lower Georgina
in a Model T Lizzie, making for Winton.
Was crossing my plant over the flooded
Diamantina when they blew along. Each
of them was sunburnt and hatless. They
had travelled wet roads for over 200
miles, but had only been able to do it by
cutting their felt hats up to make driving-
band linings. None of ’em thought of
taking out a patent, but it kept the old
bus going.
* * * *
“P.A.W.”; On a mine near Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) a truck serves the dual purpose of
hauling ore to the surface and trans-
porting it to the battery, three miles
away. The back axle is jacked up on to
a concrete foundation, the tyre taken off
a wheel and a specially-made steel rim to
take belting fitted. This operates a winch
which hauls the ore. When sufficient ore
is accumulated, the truck is taken off its
foundation, tyre replaced, and carts the
ore to the battery.
Vic. Transport Minister Bussau sub-
mitted some misleading figures from the
Transport Regulation Board when he
said (hat privately owned cars resulted in
the railways losing £1,030,320 in one
year through loss of passenger fares,
What has to be remembered is that
many an individual motorist covers
10,000 or 15,000 miles a year in trips to
various country and seaside resorts
which he would never dream of taking if
be had to bustle his way to the nearest
railway station with his family and his
baggage. The railways may lose a fair
revenue through businessmen using cars
instead of trains especially on the
suburban lines, where the transfer is
largely responsible for the parking prob-
lems of the city ; but fully half the mile-
age recorded would never be covered
were the car not in existence.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
2G9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Uote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
nrch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service ot Bulletin
readers
The service is entirely free. _ All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. ~• .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or "To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young man (19), N.S.W., wants employment.
Holds intermediate certificate and car-driver's
license; also understands cars. —8255.
Woolclasser, Sydney, requires September
shed anywhere. Good reports Bradford. —
8258.
Carpenter, coachbuilder and wheelwright,
good horseman, wants work in N.S.W. western
district, station or shop.—8232.
Young Vic. stockman (20), wants job on
outback cattle station, Queensland pref. Refs.
—8221.
Tractor-driver (31), N.S.W., single, 13 years’
farm exp., wants employment any part of
Australia. Used to Fordson Twin City, Mc-
Cormick Dcering, and can do running repairs.
Refs.—8219.
Young man (25), exp. clerk, journalist, pub-
licity work, resident in Brisbane, own type-
writer, wants whole or part-time employment.
—8310.
Compositor (21), Q’land, exp. country news-
paper and jobbing work, wants position any-
where. Refs.—8314.
Graduate, Sydney, invalid, requires work
compiling crossword puzzles and drafting same
ready for engravers.—8270.
Old-established London firm requires agen-
cies for any class of goods,—8315.
To buy copy of Thi: Bulletin, April 16,
1925.—8307.
To buy small knitting machine called the
Easy Knitter.—8281.
Information Sought.
Are Jack Johnson and Sam Langford alive ?
If so, where, and what are they doing ? How
old are they ? —B2BO.
Johnson, who is 57, and Langford, who is
49, are still living. Both reside in New York.
Langford, who has partially lost his sight, is in
poor circumstances. Johnson runs a caf6 and
conducts a negro orchestra.
* * * *
What are the "odds" in the game of chuck-a-
luck — three dice ? —8195.
There are 56 possible different throws. Odds
against 18, 17, 4 or 3 are 55 to 1; against 16
or 5, 27 to 1; against 15 or 6, 53 to 3 ; against
14 or 7, 13 to 1; against 13 or 8, 51 to 5;
against 9, 10, 11 or 12, 25 to 3.
* * * *
Number of motor-cars, motor-cycles and
motor commercial vehicles registered in the
various Australian States and mainland Fed-
eral territories; also, number of motor vehicles
registered per population in each of the Stales ?
—8336.
N.S.W.: Motor-cars, 155,063; motor-cycles,
22,571; commercial vehicles, 50,108; total,
227,742; per 1000 of population, 86.86. Vic.:
Motor-cars, 130,495; motor-cycles, 22,248;
commercial vehicles, 33,513; total, 186,256;
per 1000 of population, 102.89. Q’land:
Motor-cars and commercial vehicles, 85,333;
motor-cycles, 7502; total, 92,835; per 1000 of
population, 96.91. South Australia: Motor-
cars, 42,417; motor-cycles, 8584; commercial
vehicles, 15,228; total, 66,229; per 1000 of
population, 113.54. Westralia: Motor-cars,
28,499; motor-cycles, 6284; commercial
vehicles, 14,199; total, 48,982; per 1000 of
population, 110.79. Tasmania: Motor-cars,
12,014; motor-cycles, 3785; commercial
vehicles, 2708; total, 18,507; per 1000 of popu-
lation, 81.38. North and Central Australia:
Motor-cars, 278; motor-cycles, 42; commer-
cial vehicles, 358; total, 678; per 1000 of
population, 137.78. Federal Capital Territory:
Motor-cars, 1100; motor-cycles, 88; commer-
cial vehicles, 227; total, 1415; per 1000 of
population, 152.27.
♦ * * ♦
/ intend to take out a B (commercial) pilot’s
license. Circumstances are such that I won’t
be able to do any flying training for some
months. (1) Could I obtain a second-class
navigator’s ticket (for aerial navigation) with-
out having any flying experience ? (2) If not,
would a study of navigation in the meanwhile
be advantageous ? (3) Brief details of neces-
sary standard ? (4) Where can I obtain full
information, actual papers set, etc. ? (5)
Address of Brisbane school where I can take
the necessary course? —8192.
(1) No. An applicant for a second-class
navigator’s license must have had at least 100
hours’ experience as an operative member of
the crew of an aircraft. (2) Yes. (3) and (4)
Syllabus of examination and copies of previous
examination papers may be obtained on appli-
cation to the Controller of Civil Aviation, De-
fence Department, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne.
(5) No Brisbane school known. Qantas Empire
Airways, Ltd., might be able to give you
useful information.
* ♦ * *
(1) When were war medals introduced in
England ? (2) In what year was the V.C.
instituted ? (3) Color of the ribbon ? (4) To
whom were the 1914 and 1914-15 Stars
awarded ? (5) In what order should war
medals be worn? —B3l9.
(1) A medal was awarded to John Kendal
in 1480 for war service. It is now in the
British Museum. The first war medal to be
issued to all ranks, at the suggestion of the
Duke of Wellington, and alike in all respects,
was the Waterloo Medal. (2) 1856. (3) Now
claret for all recipients, but was previously
blue for the R.N. (4) The 1914 (Mons) Star
was awarded to all ranks who served in France
or Belgium between August 5 and midnight,
November 22-23, 1914. The 1914-15 Star was
awarded to all ranks who served overseas during
that period and who did not qualify for the
1914 Star. (5) In order of date. In the case
of the Great War, 1914 Star, 1914-15 Star,
British War Medal, Mercantile War Medal,
Victory Medal, Territorial Force War Medal,
Indian G.S. Medal (Afghanistan, 1919).
« * * *
Where, when and by whom was the sparrow
first introduced into Australia ? If not freed
in Sydney, is there any record when the bird
was first noticed there? —8217.
In the report of the N.S.W. Acclimatisation
Society for 1863 mention is made of the in-
troduction of two sparrows. It is believed
that there were other importations at about
that time, and that they were also introduced
into Victoria during the same period. The
Adelaide “Advertiser” of July 22, 1863, men-
tions a sale of birds brought out in the ship
Orient at which an English cock-sparrow was
sold for 11s. The same ship in 1865 brought
out another consignment, and handed it
over to the Botanic Gardens. The first men-
tion of sparrows as a pest in N.S.W. is in
1890.
m * • *
Are meetings of the Federal Cabinet held in
camera ? Who attends them, and where can a
report of the proceedings he seen ? —8268.
The meetings of this body arc private.
Ministers alone are present, and no records of
the meetings are published.
* * * ♦
(1) Short aboriginal name for a properly
frontage to a river ? (2) Also, is the name
"Wyuna" aboriginal, and what is its meaning ?
—8209.
(1) Aldinga, meaning “plenty of trees and
water”; Araluen, "home of the water-lily”;
Aloomba, “spring” ; Belbouric, “brushy
creeks”; Beltana, “running water”; Billeroy,
Broula, Bingara, “running creek”; Buribuca,
“lilies in water” ; Cabarita, “by the water” ;
Burrendah, “home of the swan”; Caleen, “fresh
water”; Coolowie, ‘*plenty water”; Edgeroi,
Eungai, “a creek” ; Gundamain, “house on a
stream”; Maneela, “winding river”; Morialta,
“ever-flowing”; Wyong, “running water”;
Willandra, “little waters” or “creek.” (2)
Wyuna is aboriginal, and means “clear water.”
* * * *
What are the extreme points on the Aus-
tralian coastline ? —8269.
Steep Point on the west, Cape Byron on the
cast, Cape York on the north, Wilson’s
Promontory on the south (or, if Tasmania be
included, South-east Cape).
>r ♦ * *
What is the cause of freckles ? Can they be
removed ? —8152.
Facial freckles are due to an increase in
the natural pigment matter in the skin. Ex-
cess of iron in diet tends to aggravate the
trouble. Upon exposure to direct sunlight, the
pigment coloration is influenced by chemically
active rays; fair complexions are especially
susceptible to their action. Apart from the
necessary protection, use a lotion of equal
parts lemon-juice, glycerine and orange-flower
water as a bleach. Dab over the freckled area
daily, after bathing the face with tepid oatmeal
water. If trouble persists, either a peroxide
or mercurial cream may be used at night—
the latter must be applied sparingly if the
skin is sensitive. Calamine lotion is a useful
covering liquid for day application; it also
serves as a protective when exposed to weather
extremes.
♦ ♦ * ♦
What is migraine ? Is it peculiar to bilious
subjects ? Is there anything to relieve head-
ache ? —BOB9.
Migraine develops as a one-sided paroxys-
mal pain in the head, accompanied by nausea
and vomiting; also intolerance to light and
sound. The brain is temporarily prostrated and
disturbed, and mental concentration in any
form becomes impossible. In the majority of
patients t the nervous predisposition to migraine
is inherited, but, whether inherited or acquired,
definite lesions first occur about adult maturity.
A peculiar relationship between migraine and
“nervous” bilious attack is that the child who
has been subject to the latter frequently suffers
from migraine in later life. There is an
obvious susceptibility in such cases. Although
few instances of permanent cure are noted in
true migraine, the affection is practically free
from danger to life; prompt medical atten-
tion usually aborts the graver symptoms.
Nerve sedatives, antipyretics, etc., are pre-
scribed for relief of pain. Meanwhile, factors
contributing to gastric and intestinal toxasmia
and errors of vision demand attention.
* * * *
What is tooth decalcification, how does it
occur, and what is the result? —8153.
The first step in the process of toc'.h decay
is brought about by a so-called abstractive
destruction or decalcification. This may be
regarded more in the nature of an injury to
the tooth than a disease, being caused by the
action of acid ferments in contact with the
enamel, which offers no active resistance. The
earliest indication of trouble is a chalky appear-
ance of the surface enamel; little more than a
slight discoloration may be observed until the
tooth becomes roughened at the crown. When
a breach in the enamel develops, the decalcifi-
cation proceeds rapidly as the acid action
spreads in.the underlying dentine. The bacteria
contained in this acid, together with other de-
structive agents, gradually invade the tissues
of the tooth. Ultimately a cavity is formed,
part of the dentine having broken down com-
pletely. It may be only when the disease has
reached the pulp, and caused it to become in-
flamed and painful, that the trouble which has
been going on, possibly for several years, is
realised.
♦ * ♦ *
Tteatment for shingle (irritation of the
skin) ? —8175.
In all cases general health demands atten-
tion. For local application, use equal parts
liquid witch-hazel and calamine lotion at night,
and protect from irritation during the day
with a dusting of zinc and starch powder.
Take frequent salines, curtail acids and heat-
ing foods, and avoid rapid changes of tem-
perature. Aspirin, quinine, etc., may be pre-
scribed internally for relief of pain. In true
shingles, a severe neuralgia sometimes persists
for months along the course of nerves involved.
♦ * * ♦
(1) What are the symptoms of stones in the
kidney ? (2) Do the stones show up under
X-ray? (3) Any effective treatment, apart from
operation ? (4) Is piperazine effective? —8125.
(1) Local pain and hamiorrhage are indica-
tions of kidney stone. If in the fleshy part
of the organ, the resulting dull ache is relieved
by pressure on the affected side. Otherwise
pain may occur in paroxysms. Haematuria,
or bleeding, is increased by active exercise and
jolting of the body. Treatment under medical
supervision is essential. (2) Yes. X-ray con-
firms the diagnosis. (3) An operation is usually
advised for the removal of impacted stone.
(4) It is of service, but is not a specific cure.
♦ * * •
What is the probable cause of abnormal and
apparently permanent thinness in an adult man
living a normal healthy life? What will in-
crease weight ? So-called fattening foods seem
to have no effect. —8202.
With health otherwise normal, persistent
thinness in the individual must be attributed
to an inherited trait. In such cases treatment
by diet is of little avail; the fixed equilibrium
is maintained by ductless glands that function
from birth. For this reason, a mixed gland
treatment (under medical supervision) may
benefit. The body is nourished by the amount
of food assimilated, not by the quantity eaten.
Eat slowly, masticate well and drink fluids
freely (especially milk) between meals. Cereal
foods, eggs, fresh milk, malt extract and cod-
liver oil contain useful vitamin builders; include
fats, sugars and starchy foods in the diet, as
tolerated.
Dates of opening and length (in street miles)
of the various sections of the Manly-Narra-
been tramline ?—B3ll.
Feb. 14, 1903; East Esplanade, Manly,
towards Pittwater, 1 mile 7 chains. April 20,
1910: Curl Curl to Brookvalc, 2 miles 9
chains. August 3, 1912: Brookvalc to Col-
laroy Beach, 3 miles 21 chains. December 8,
1913: Collaroy Beach to Narrabeen, 1 mile,
27 chains.
* * ♦ ♦
I wish to instal a pumping plant to be used
for raising water from a creek. What particu-
lars - should be obtained before ordering the
plant ? —8306.
Length of suction and delivery pipes, vertical
height from the surface of the creek to the
pump, vertical height (if any) the water has
to be raised above the level of the pump, and
quantity of water (in gallons per hour) to be
pumped. A rough sketch should also be in-
cluded, showing measurements and location of
plant.
♦ St * *
Difference between English and American
usage of the word "haberdashery’’ ? —8286.
Haberdashery denotes in England various
small articles pertaining to dress, such as thread,
tape, ribbons and so on. In America these
things are called notions, and haberdashery
denotes articles for men’s wear —such as hats,
collars, cuffs and underwear—that in England
would form part of the stock of a men’s out-
fitter.
* * * ♦
Who was Caghastro ?—8293.
He was Joseph Balsamo (1743-1795), a native
of Palermo, who called himself Count Alles-
sandro di Cagliostro, and professed to cure
every disease. He also announced himself as
the “Grand Cophta, Prophet and Thaumaturge,”
and dispensed what he alleged was the secret
of eternal life. He toured Europe, making
many disciples, and was involved in a notorious
diamond necklace scandal in which the Count
de Rohan figured. Carlyle wrote his life.
♦ * ♦ ♦
What were the "Love-letters of Florizel and
Perdita,” and who were they ? —8299.
Florizel and Perdita are characters in
“Winter’s Tale.” The name of Florizel was
assumed by George IV. in his correspondence
with Mrs. Mary Robinson, actress and poet,
whom he addressed as Perdita. She appeared
in that part when he first saw her.
* * * ♦
In political articles in American magazines I
frequently come across the word "filibustering
which appears to have some connection with
Parliamentary tactics. What does the word
mean ? —8278.
It means the obstruction of legislation by
undue use of the technicalities of Parliamentary
law or privileges, as when a minority, in order
to prevent the passage of some measure, en-
deavors to tire out its opponents by useless
motions, speeches and objections.
* * * *
What was the Rye House plot ? —8334.
The name given to a conspiracy to murder
Charles 11. and the Duke of York; it was so
named after the place in Hertfordshire where
the plotters met. William, Lord Russell,
Algernon Sidney and the Earl of Essex were
arrested and confined to the Tower, where
Essex died by his own hand and the other
two were executed.
Brief Answers.
J.C.K.: A dressing made of cocoanut oil,
six parts, and glycerine, one part, well mixed
together, applied all over the dog and repeated
once in four days, is benefical. The dressing
should be washed off after a week, using sul-
phur soap, and then the dog should have two
or three times a week, for a time, a bath
made by dissolving one ounce of sulphurised
potash in a pail of tepid water G.H.A.S.:
See Whitaker’s Almanack and The States-
man’s Year Book L. 8.; Arthur Macquarie
(formerly Arthur Macquarie Mullens) was bom
at Sydney in 1896. He has resided in England
for many years; he is foreign secretary
of the Royal Society of Literature. He is the
author of a number of poetical works and
dramas, but there is nothing Australian about
his works 8.5.: The statement is not
correct... .J.W.C.: Explanation is that the
angles are demonstrably not quite similar. If
you cut up the Bin. square on the lines indi-
cated and join the pieces together in a 13in.
by Sin. rectangle there remains a narrow gap
tapering towards each corner along the
diagonal, area of which is 1 sq. in A.C.E. :
Probably a brass game counter made iff
imitation of the two-pound piece of George
IV. It has no value M.W.: (1) If you in-
vested £BOO-£lOOO in flats for subletting
furnished, you should look for £4 to £5 per
week profit rental. A 2) Not without previous
experience; furnished flats require very careful
management G.T.E.; Write Vic. Flying
School, Esscndon Aerodrome, Melbourne....
B. : If the name and age of the child, to-
gether with the full name and address of the
guardian arc sent to the Child Welfare Dept.,
Sydney, inquiries will be made. Each case is
dealt with on its merits... .P.D.: Samoa,
Fiji, Tonga and the Solomon Islands consist
in greater or lesser degree of limestone coral
deposits over a volcanic basaltic base, with
coral reefs. Fiji in particular shows every
combination of volcanic and limestone rocks,
Tonga also being highly volcanic. Lord Howe
and Norfolk Islands are definitely not of coral
formation... J.D.: The crew of the Junior
mutinied off M.L., killing the master and third
mate, and badly wounding the first and second
mates, whom they forced to navigate the vessel
to N.S.W.; ten mutineers left the ship off
Cape Howe, January 7, 1858; four landed and
were captured, and the remaining six were not
again heard of. You may possibly procure
some further information by communicating
with the Public Library, Massachusetts,
Boston, U.S.A H.L.D.: Write Lands Dept.,
Sydney... .L. 0.: The deepest bore in Aus-
tralia is believed to be the Springleigh No. 3
bore in Queensland, 7009. feet. No information
is available in regard to the deepest bore in the
world... X.S.: Teachers are supplied on loan
by the N.S.W. Educ. Dept, for Nauru; by
the Vic. Educ. Dept, for Norfolk Island; and
by the Q’land Educ. Dept, for Papua
H.D.: Acting-Secretary for N.S.W. Railways
states that consideration is being given to the
matter E.J.M.: From Moffat, Virtue and
Co., Sydney. Cost approximately £l2 10s
C. Write Dalgety and Co., 15 Bent-
street, Sydney F.S.C.: Motor-cycles im-
ported from England and being the manufac-
ture of that country are admitted into Aus-
tralia free; primage duty is 10 p.c. On the
tyres and tubes rate of duty is Is. 6d. per lb.
or ad val. 25 p.c., whichever rate returns the
higher duty; primage duty is 5 p.c
C.D.M.: The third road was opened by
Governor Bourke in October, 1832; the
second, the old Bathurst-road, was made
between 1827 and 1830, and was in use until
the new road was completed... .J.P.K.: Write
Official War Historian, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney... .H.M.8.: Vacancies are expected to
occur in the near future. Write Air Board,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne... .W.M.: The
name of the famous diarist is pronounced
Peeps; but Pepys is also the family name of
the Earls of Cottcnham, in this instance being
pronounced Pep-iss K.D.: The Petit Tri-
anon of Versailles is the smaller of two
palaces and their gardens included in the park
of Versailles. It was built by Louis XV., and
was a favorite retreat of Marie Antoinette.
The Grand Trianon was built by Louis XIV.
T.C.A. and R.M.: Write Prime Minister’s
Department, Canberra... .A.W.: Get a copy
of Electrical Measurements, by Frank A. Laws.
. ...P.R.: The air of “Rule Britannia” was
written by Dr. Arne (1710-78), and the words
by James Thomson (1700-48), for the masque
of “Alfred,” in which Thomson collaborated
with David Mallet, and which was first per-
formed in 1740 H.G.8.: In the healthy
adult normal respiration is from 16 to 18 per
minute. Many conditions influence this rate —
oxygen deficiency (atmospheric) and health
debilities involving shortage of oxygen in the
blood cause a proportionate increase in respira-
tion. The heart-beat increases in corresponding
ratio to the latter —adult pulse-rate is 75 to
80 per minute. Age and sex must be con-
sidered in either case... .F.D.M.: Cannot dis-
cuss qualifications of trade firms. Preparations
comply with Pure Foods and Drug Acts. With
trial offer relief is guaranteed.... M.C.: (1)
See Strength and How to Obtain It, by Sandow.
(2) Sandow developer and grip dumb-bell.
(3) No, his physique was exceptional; chest
48in., expanded 62m., weight 14st. 61b. at 35.
. ...W.R.: The specimen submitted is the
common gum-tree scale Eriococcus coriaceous.
This may be controlled by spraying the trees
with miscible white oil, one part in 40 parts
water. Severe infestations may very consider-
ably check the growth of the trees, and the
presence of the accompanying black, sooty fun-
gus renders them unsightly H.R.M.1.: Can-
not trace... .E.W.: The extent of Italy’s land
frontiers is as follows: French frontier 303 miles,
Swiss 450, Austrian 261, Yugoslav 152, San
Marino 24; in all, 1190 miles. The coastline
of the peninsula measures 2472 miles, of
Sicily 693, of Sardinia 830, of Elba and the
small islands 973; the total length of coast is
4968 miles G.D.: Cook’s tours originated
in 1841 when Thomas Cook arranged with the
Midland Railway Co., England, for the con-
veyance of a party of 570 from Leicester to
Loughborough and back at Is. per head. He
gradually extended his scheme through the
United Kingdom, and thence throughout the
world (Many others mailed.)


“Tiburon,” of which these are the
opening chapters, is the novel with
which Kylie Tennant won the 193 S
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize. Further
long instalments will be printed in
**The Bulletin” each week, with
delightful character studies by
Norman Lindsay.
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
Author’s Note. — Tiburon is not an existing town,
but a composite of many Australian places. All char-
acters in the story are fictitious, and bear no relation
to any living person.
(
( HAP,FR '•
1.
IN Tiburon all the shady concrete streets, the well-
built bungalows, the plate-glass shop fronts, the
garages and banks arc clustered logelher in the
middle of the town and ringed round by mean, dusty
*u„ i a . c ,u ,
streets and weatherboard cottages set farther apart
as ic outskirts are reached.
Jnree miles* from the prosperous shopping centre
the main road takes a bend to cross the river below
Warning Hill. Here, by Dwyer’s farm, is the travel-
lers camp on a stretch of grazing land rightly belong-
ing to the Pastoral Protection Board and reserved for
hungry travelling stock. One of the board’s problems
has always been to keep the even hungrier nomad
human beings from occupying the land reserved for
the use ol the animals.
1 he bagmen had been gradually ousted from the
railway bridge and the showground, and Dwyer’s
Bend remained their last strong-
hold. Here the “turnouts” drew
in from the road—-sulkies
loaded high with tents, house-
hold gear, children and bed-
ding, with perhaps a spare
horse, and certainly a dog or
so, trotting behind. Battered
old motor-trucks, bottle-oh carts
and cars belonging to pedlars
of soap, brushes and tinware
paused here for the night.
Dusty men pushed their bicycles
up the rise, while others came
tramping with their “naps” on their backs and the
remains of last week’s dole slung over their shoulders
in sugarbags.
At dusk the place was lively with the shouting of
children and the barking of dogs. Hobbles clinked
as the horses moved among the patches of weed and
piles of rusty tins. As darkness deepened., little flickers
of campfires pricked the dark bulk of Warning Hill;
and there were often sounds of singing and fighting.
The shelter shed on the travellers’ reserve, unlike
most of the structures erected by charitable town
councils, actually did shelter. This was due to rich
Mrs. Malloy, who had made herself the council’s
curse for many years by her generosity to that “un-
desirable element” the travelling unemployed. It
was she who had built the shelter shed, and, although
no one ever used it in dry weather, during the long
rainy spells it had saved many a bagman from lying
stiff with rheumatism under a bridge,
There were also the shanties occupied by the
town’s hard cases, the Willoughbys, the Mulvers, Gran
Staines, Mad Peter, an old-age pensioner who had
been there as long as anyone could remember, and
the Whites.
Dave White had moved out to Warning Hill soon
after the police had begun their “persecution.” Old
Sergeant Moore not only had him fined for driving
a horse with a gaping sore on its back, but had
followed that up by bringing him to court again and
telling the magistrate all the private details of Dave’s
one-room dwelling, in which Dave, his wife and five
children shared the only bed.
Deeply hurt by this inquisitiveness and by some
remarks of the magistrate, Dave White decided to
move away from Tiburon; but by the time he had
gone four miles he could not be bothered moving
farther. His eldest boy, twelve-year-old Jim, could
trap rabbits as cleverly as a man ; and between rabbits
and child endowment they managed well enough,
Dave admitted that their bark shelter needed repairs.
He was always going to fix it, but he never had the
time. When Jim was fourteen he was old enough
to get work, and the other children were quite useful
about the place and, as Dave often said, “a real
comfort to their old father.” By the time Jim was
seventeen he found he could make more money cut-
ting wood and selling it in the town. Dave retired
and spent his days in the bar of O’Brien’s Hotel,
where he often picked up an order for Jim to bring
in a load of wood.
As Larry, Paul and Bill grew up, they were
absorbed into the wood-carting business, and Jim
found time to build a “peasey hut,” that is, a mud
hut, two rooms roofed with galvanised-iron, one for
the girls and one a living room. The peasey hut was
considered to be something of a masterpiece by the
residents of Warning Hill.
The girls were well worth their keep. They not
only did the cooking, but as the boys dragged in the
li " lbcr > he V sawed il . in ' o . lo f ■ Dave would " ever
'J* 1 " *“ lake “ Job ,n * c or on a ferm.
and when Mary ran away and found a place at
WMson . s dairy » oW Dave drove twelve miles after
her and made such a fuss that the Wilsons had to let
her even though she begged and cried to be
allowed to stay.
“I’ve always fought to keep my family together,
rny girl,” Dave told her as he drove back. ‘‘An’ 1
always will. You just remember that. I ain’t goin’
to have my family broken up by nobody.”
Dave’s wife died of a chill complicated by the
arrival of her thirteenth child. She had formed the
habit of driving into town with Dave and sitting
all day in the sulky in the hotel yard watching the
people and the motor-cars go by. It was a nice
change, she said, from Dwyer’s
Bend. Long after closing time
she could be seen, sitting like
a graven image in the dark,
waiting patiently for the rattle
of the side door opening, the
laughter and voices and the
uncertain footsteps which an-
nounced Dave’s coming. As
soon as she heard these sounds
she would climb down, light the
lamps, cluck to the horse and
move over to make room, while
a couple of friends heaved
Dave into his seat. Then Blasted, the horse, would
go clopping slowly down the road, the sulky creaking
and protesting under the weight and the lamps blink-
ing uncertainly until they vanished round the corner
by the Chinamen’s gardens.
Mrs. White was a woman contented with very
little, otherwise she would never have stood Dave,
although, when she married him, he was a good-
looking enough chap. She did not mind the perpetual
clutter of children, because she hardly noticed them.
They had to look after themselves while she stumbled
round in her slow way, pottering with a bit of cooking
or just sitting in the sun. She couldn’t be bothered
cleaning anything, because it only got dirty again.
She couldn’t even be bothered talking to the women
in the near-by camps, although when she did start
she could be quite bloodcurdling in an obstetric
style. Winter or summer, she wore the
same black hat of straw lace with faded
red roses under the brim. In summer a
torn, very tight black silk dress, with
short sleeves that showed her big red
arms, kept the roses company, and in
winter the black, silk dress was covered
by a brown woollen coat. If there is
a ghost haunting the pepper-trees out-
side O’Brien’s Hotel, it haunts after
closing-time and wears a black lace hat
with faded red roses.
When Mrs. White caught a chill
waiting for Dave one wet night, the town
was divided between the opinion that she
ought to have had more sense and sur-
prise that anything could kill a White.
The local legend reputed them to live on
rusty tins and barbed wire.
Dave fortified himself against his
loss until he had to ask strangers if it
were really a black cat on the fence or
not. His horror of any alteration in his
life, his dread of change, the feeling that
something was opposing his will and breaking up his
family to spite him, made the warmth of O Brien’s
bar more attractive than ever.
“It wasn’t the kid,” he mourned, wiping his grey-
moustache. “She was good for another twenty kids.
She always ’ated the wet. Said it got into ’er bones.”
“Cheer up, Dave.” Will Souter patted him on
the back. “Cheer up, boy. Never say die.” This
struck him as a little tactless. He had not meant to
dwell on the uncomfortable subject. He lapsed into
silence.
“You got the kids,” Orry Smith reminded him.
“You’ve always got the kids.”
Dave grunted. “I got to bring EUa in with me
now in the sulky. What’s she do all day? Want's
ice-cream. When she don’t want ice-cream she wants
lemonade. Spend, spend, spend. That’s ’er.”
There was a sympathetic silence. Sam Jordan
winked at Souter. They both knew that Ella made
a profit on the trip to town, not only in the matter
of ice-cream.
“No one would think,” Dave said, pushing his
hat fiercely on the back of his head —“no one would
think, after all I done for them kids, that” ... He
got a bit tangled and relapsed into his beer. “Wanted
t’ go home the other night,” he resumed. “Went out.
There's the sulky an’ the ’orse. No Ella. No sign
of 'er. Where d’ y’ think she was?”
Four grey heads shook slowly to and fro.
“Well, where was she?” Orry said.
“1 don’t know,” Dave said. “I jus’ don’t know.”
The others could have hazarded a guess. But
they didn’t. The club’s business was with scandals
only of absent friends. Dave’s unusual gloom and
domesticity were casting a shade on the gathering.
It was always the same group. On winter after-
noons they met on the kerb outside the Manchester
Unity Hall, where they lounged in the sun arguing,
perhaps, about the sum Councillor Mac Leary hadn't
yet paid for his new tractor, or the best way of getting
rid of nut grass. On summer afternoons they sat on
the opposite corner in the shade of O'Brien’s Hotel
criticising the new stationmaster’s Labor sympathies
or the chances of rain at the week-end. Most evenings
they were to be found in the little room behind the
bar, playing cards and discussing everything from the
shire engineer’s crazy habit of planting trees to the
state of Dwyer’s feelings when he found seven sheep-
skins hanging on his fence,
“I hear Mrs. Claufield’s going to leave the town,”
Souter remarked, rolling a cigarette. Just as Dave
had never been seen without his hat, so Souter had
never been seen without a cigarette. He was the
local blacksmith —not a very good blacksmith, rather
apt to “forget” jobs that were needed in a hurry, and
always complaining that work was slack and things
were generally dull. “She’s going to live with her
other daughter now Olga’s marrying Dr. Westly.”
“Y* don’t mean to say she’ll give up the chance
of bossing Henry Westly,” drawled Hinton. “Well,
well. Thought she pretty near proposed for him an'
got the match all fixed up before either of them had
said s’much as ‘How d’ y’ do?’”
“She did. Trust Ma Claufield. Always the hidy
Always polite and refined. Never a harsh word. Can’t
y’ see ’er just puttin’ it all over ’im? Poor ’Enery."
“What’ll Olga do without her mother? Never
known her open her mouth uqtil Ma had told her
what to say.”
“I remember when old Claufield first come ’ere”
Dave began, when there was a knocking at the
window. The group caught up their coats with the
one idea of police.
“Are y’ there, dad?” a girl’s voice called. “I
want to go home.”
Dave went over to the window and parleyed with
her. “You go away for an hour or so, Ella. It’s
early yet.”
“I want t’ go ’ome.”
“Well, I’m not goin’ ’ome."
“Well, I am.”
“You do as your father tells you, an’ don’t make
so much noise.”
“I tell you I’m goin’.”
Dave closed the window down.
“I’ll bring Mary next time,” he said, and puffed
out his cheeks with a sigh. “One night she isn't there
an’ the next she wants t’ go ’ome.”
There was a creaking of sulky wheels in the
yard. Souter strolled to the window.
“Looks as though she’s gone,” he remarked. “Got
someone with her, too.”
Dave was thunderstruck.
“I'll give y’ a lift,” Hinton promised. “Here,
sit down. Sam, it’s your shout. Come on.”
Dave slowly hitched up his sagging grey pants.
“I’ll give it to ’er,” he muttered. “I’ll give it to ’er
with a strap, cornin’ them games on me.”
“Ella’s getting a big girl now," Hinton com-
mented. “Pretty, too. Sixteen, ain’t she? You’ll
soon be able to marry ’er off.”
Sam Jordan winked at Souter.
Dave shook his head.
“Why not? You’d still have Lizzie and Emma
and Mary to look after things.”
“Oh, let me be.” Dave drank deep. “Nothin
but worry about this an’ that.”
As they sat round the table ringed with the
memories of innumerable beer mugs, the yellow
electric light poured over them like some sticky fluid,
preserving them, immovable, unchanging, as flies in


amber. They were soaked in beer and electric light,
incapable of effort, floating jetsam in a tidal back-
water. The seams and wrinkles on Hinton’s face
criss-crossed like the channels worn out by water
in a patch of clay country. His white moustache had
the appearance of a landmark in the general desola-
tion, which his eyes, a watery light blue, did nothing
to relieve. He was a small farmer, badly in debt,
whose son just managed to make enough to keep the
place going and was glad to have the old man out
of the way. Next to him the lean form of Souter,
the blacksmith, lolled indolently, his heavy thumbs
with the grained, seamy knuckles rolling, rolling, even
though they had no cigarette-paper between them.
Between Dave and Hinton, Orry Smith, the insurance
agent, sat shutfling a pack of cards. A small man
whose suit always showed the stains of his last meal
and the meals before that to the day he first wore it.
His little brown eyes twinkled, and his face screwed
up like a monkey’s. He liked, as he put it, “a con-
vivial evening with boon companions,” which meant
that he liked to spend an evening with the only com-
pany that would endure him.. At present he was
trying to keep mirth under control at the thought
of Dave being left behind while Ella went rampaging
somewhere as bold as you please with Jeffery Harper’s
boy Dave's particular friend, Sam Jordan, sat on
the other side of Dave. Sam had been a horse-dealer,
and was still up to a trick or two.
“As crooked as a dog’s hind leg,” Orry always
declared. “That's old Sam. That’s him. He’s a
cunning old hound, blast him. Aren't you, Sam?”
And Sam would silently droop one eyelid and
smile in a way that he considered sly, but which
merely showed his broken teeth. As a matter of
fact, Sam had given up horse-dealing for the simple
reason that he could never make a profitable deal.
He was easy to fool, but not so foolish that he failed
to see the advantage of his reputation. That reputa-
tion he had been clever enough to keep, simply by
doing nothing.
It was Orry Smith who returned to the subject
of Mrs. Claufield. “It's your deal, Souter. What
was it you were saying about old Ma Claufield
leaving? She’s been going to leave Tiburon ever
since I can remember.”
“There’s no need to say anything,” replied the
blacksmith. “You can see it plain enough for your-
self. Henry’s just had some sort of a bust-up with
his new ma-in-law, and she’s got licked. 1 well
wish I was there when it happened. Old bitch’s been
running (his town far too long.”
“Wonder ’ow she'll like leavin’ everythin’?”
Hinton pondered. “It's jus' like eatin’ soap. I s'pose.
You get used to anything in time.”
11.
“Of course, if it had not been for Olga, I should
never have remained here after James . . . went,”
Mrs. Claufield was saying. “He never really intended
that 1 should stay here permanently, that is”
Her hearers nodded.
“A spade,” Mrs. Darch snapped. She always
said things with a snap as though she were a frog
darting at a fly. Her mouth gave an impression of
square determination, due to the bad set of her false
teeth. She settled her Chinese jacket across her
shoulders and took up an amber cigarette-holder.
“Yes, there’s no doubt you will be missed, Emily.”
“Two diamonds. I agree, Jane, I don’t know
what we’ll do without her in the C.W.A.” Mrs.
Ilford, the bank manager’s wife, gave the hostess a
caressing little pat on the arm. “You’ve been a tower
of strength, dear. Really, a tower of strength. It’s
your bid, Violet.”
“What did you go?” Mrs. Blakely, the doctor’s
wife, asked dreamily. She was a small, timid woman
with greying, untidy hair and an absent-minded
manner. It was this absent-mindedness that made her
hate playing cards.
“Two diamonds,” repeated Eileen Ilford some-
what impatiently.
“Oh, yes. Pass,” Mrs. Blakely said apologetically.
“What did you go, partner?”
“One spade,” Mrs. Darch snapped. “Where arc
the men?”
“Playing billiards, I think, dear,” responded Mrs.
Ilford.
“On second thoughts.” Mrs. Blakely said ner-
vously, “I think I’ll make it two spades. We may
just do it, Jane.”
“Three diamonds.” Mrs. Claufield’s beautiful
thin face was sad. “To think that this will be the
last of our pleasant little parties.”
“You’ll be back, dear,” Mrs. Ilford twittered.
“You mustn’t be so —how shall 1 put it?—fatal.
After all you have done for this town in the years
you’ve been here —and the way we’ve all come to
depend on you —and when you think of the Red
Cross with only Mrs. Trevor as president—not that
1 have anything to say against her, of course —but
it’s enough to make one cry. A tower of strength,
my dear ; you’ve been a positive tower of strength."
“Don’t be a fool, Emily,” Jane Darch snapped,
“You’ll come back for the Hospital Ball.”
Mrs. Claufield smiled quietly and shook her head.
The lace about her throat always gave her the look
of an aristocrat faced with something unfortunate
and smelly. It looked so soft against her white face
and tender blue eyes that any moderately kind-
hearted person immediately felt the urge to protect
her against the harsher facts of life.
“A tower of strength,” Mrs. Blakely repeated
dutifully. “Yes, indeed.” She was not really thinking
about Mrs. Claufield at all.
“I sometimes feel,” Mrs. Claufield said medi-
tatively, as she gathered in a little slam, “that the
people of this town —though, of course, 1 do not
mean you, my dears —are very unappreciative, and
sometimes —don’t think I am being critical —but I
feel a little tiny, tiny bit hurt by the selfishness, one
might almost say the sordidness, of Tiburon. I have
felt they have never understood me, any of us —they
just”-
“Grab,” said Mrs. Darch.
“Yes, that’s it. I think you dealt last time.
Violet.”
“Oh, did I?” murmured Mrs. Blakely. “How
foolish of me!”
“There is nothing,” Mrs. Claufield resumed, “of
the feeling of action and purpose that one finds in
cities—no constructive effort, no organisation for
the —the betterment of the cultural aspects.” Mrs.
Claufield always trailed her periods slowly like a long
velvet train. “Everyone is rather selfish —practical,
as it were —in their outlook. A heart. Be careful,
Jane ; your cigarette is rolling off the ashtray.”
“One no trump.” Jane Darch retrieved the
endangered object. “They’re a pretty dull lot here.
I must say. Stuffy little town. I’d be glad to get
out of it.”
“Dull!” Mrs. Blakely woke up suddenly. Her
eyes almost shone. “Stuffy! It is not. Tiburon is
exciting. Why, when I see Mrs. Smith going into
the Western Farmers’ Store, 1 say to myself” . . .
She lapsed back into her private limbo.
“It will be very dull when dear Emily goes,”
said Eileen Ilford, almost reprovingly.
“When I first came here,” Mrs. Blakely emerged
again, “1 liked the name. I liked it. Tiburon. It's
a strong-sounding sort of name. I've liked it ever
since. Tiburon,” she said softly. “Tiburon.”
Playing bridge with Mrs. Blakely was always
rather like playing with a ghost, though she was not
usually as bad as this. The others forgave her quite
a lot. The “Tiburon Advertiser” had once published
a poem on “Anzac Memories” by Violet Blakely ;
and her letter on “Should the Modern Girl Wear
Wool?” had won a competition in a Sydney woman’s
paper.
“It’s your bid, Violet.” Mrs. Ilford decided to
turn the conversation. “Oh, I’ve been meaning to
tell you! Did you hear the latest about the girl
Paul White was going to marry?”
“No,” Jane barked. “Didn’t even know he was
going to marry. Which one is it? I always seem
to miss everything.”
“The Morgan girl. The family that live across
the river. Of course, the Morgans have always been
pretty nearly as scandalous as the Whiles, and you
know what the Whites are. She's fifteen, rather
pretty, they (ell me, and it appears she was”— —
Mrs. Ilford whispered with a little giggle. “And, for
a wonder, Paul consented to the marriage. Oh, my
dear, too, too funny!” She spluttered with laughter.
“I always thought they’d have to tie him to
the altar with a rope when some girl did get him,”
Jane broke in.
“There have been eight marriages in the town
this month,” Mrs. Blakely offered timidly.
“Yes,” Jane snorted, “and live of them shot-
gun marriages. Disgraceful. Ought to be locked up.
Go on, Eileen.”
“Well, it appears, she, she . . . Oh, well,
anyway, there was no need for them to get married
after all, so Paul backed out again.” There was a
gurgle of discreet laughter. “And now the guests
are furious —that is to say, all the people who gave
presents —and they are talking of asking for their
presents back. So wrong of her to go having kitchen
teas if she wasn’t sure.”
“That’s just it,” Mrs. Claufield said plaintively.
“So materialistic. No beauty, no spirituality. These
Whites, for example. I have always thought the very
fact that they are allowed to live here proves just
how impossible the town is. I’d like to see such
people abolished, if you know what 1 mean.”
“Eugenics,” said Jane firmly. “I think that’s
what it’s called. Weeds them out. No nonsense.
Hitler,”
“Bad stock,” agreed Mrs. Ilford. “They’re just
animals without morals. In America they call them
poor whites. I think that was my trick.”
“Ella White is rather a beautiful girl,” ventured
Mrs. Blakely.
“My dear,” Jane snapped, “you’re a poet. That’s
the trouble. These Whites”
“Please!” Mrs. Claufield raised her hand in
an authoritative little gesture that forbade argument.
“I think we should drop the subject.”
Chapter 11.
BLUE and Big Dutch dropped off the goods train
as it neared the bridge outside Tiburon, and
the engine-driver and fireman waved them a
sarcastic good-bye.
The afternoon, greying to dusk, was cold with
the steady drip of rain. The two bagmen ploughed
through a lucerne field moving beside the creek,
muddy and yellow under the willows. A few cows
gazed after them, and the sheep in the lucerne lifted
their heads, keeping the strangers under observation
until they climbed the barbed-wire fence and stood
in the road.
To one side lay the town, though all that could
be seen of it was the wall of a garage painted yellow
and black, the backyards of a row of shops which
failed to maintain the style of their plate-glass fronts
and a vista of broken-down woodsheds and untidy
fowl-runs. Down the twisted steel tracks the siding,
with its goods trucks, the engine steaming under
the water-tank and the insignificant railway station,
was no different from the hundreds of other sidings
and stations in the mid-west. Above the station
towered the wheat silo, concrete, roofed with corru-
gated iron, the only building of any grandeur. It
was grey against the deeper grey of the sky, and
behind it the black front of the flourmill showed
ugly and disproportionate. Below the wheat silo
the walls and roofs of Tiburon stretched in a patch-
work of irregular greys to the skirting green fields
in which the two men stood.
Dutch, after a disgusted survey of fowlyards
and siding, wood- and cowsheds, spat bitterly and
turned on Blue.
“Well, this is a hell of a place you’ve landed
us in.”
“I dunno,” Blue reflected as he lit a cigarette ;
“there’s always somethin’ doin’ ’ere.” He shook
himself cheerfully like a cattle-pup and grinned at
his surly mate. “I’ve always hit it lucky. Last time
I was ’ere it was a flood, an’ the time before that i
diftherium epidemic.” He hitched his sugarbag
pack more firmly on his shoulders. “They've ’ad a
grasshopper plague, a rat plague, bushfires galore,
an’ once it was a beer strike.”
Dutch sucked his teeth. He was feeling quarrel-
some. but it was difficult to quarrel with Blue.
“Glad I wasn’t ’ere then,” he remarked.
“There was a lot o’ them scabbed on us.” Blue
applied another match to the damp cigarette. “Come
on.”
“Where to?”
“Warnin’ Hill.”
To the other side of them the Hill raised its
green-brown bulk with the road winding towards
it beside the twists of the yellow creek. They tramped
through the mud, stepping to one side for a car to
pass.
“Y* see,” Blue continued, “I like a little one-
dog place like this. Most o’ the cockies are as mean
as dirt, but they ain’t all cockies. There, 1 told y’
I got luck.”
The big blue car which had just splashed by
was showing signs of slowing down. In it sat a
chauffeur in uniform, a young woman and an old
one. The old one was apparently giving directions,
her method consisting of prodding the chauffeur
heavily between the shoulder-blades. .She was a stout
old lady, built like a battleship and dressed in mul-
berry-colored marocain, with a mulberry hat to
match. This stylish costume was somewhat spoilt
by a coquettish white satin bow tied under her bull-
dog chin. Her iron-grey hair escaped from under
the mulberry toque in untidy wisps.
“1 won’t,” the young woman was declaring
angrily as the car slopped. “The idea!”
The chauffeur backed the car expertly, and the
old lady bent towards the window.
“How far y’ going?” she called. “Give y’ a
lift out to the shelter shed?”
“Thank you, lady, but wc won’t bother you,
thank you all the same,” Blue began as he saw the
look on the young woman’s face.
“Hop in,” the old lady ordered in a cracked,
harsh voice, “and not so much talk about it. Now,
Bella” —to her daughter—“move over.”
They noticed that the old lady had taken off her
patent-leather shoes and was nursing them in her
lap. They drove off uncomfortably.
“I’m Mrs. Malloy,” she said, as though that
explained everything. “I s’pose”—she looked severely
through her steel-rimmed glasses—“you’ve both got
children to support?”
They agreed nervously that they had.
“Six of them,” Blue said, “but I had to leave
them in Sydney with the mother-in-law when me wife
died.”
“Not six,” the old woman reproved, shaking her
head. “You won’t get anythin’ out of ’em with six ;
They’ll be saying ‘Wicked, depraved wretch havin’
all them kids an’ not able to support ’em. Ought
to be shot.’ Three’s quite enough.”
“Mother!”
“Three’s too many,” she amended. “I got three.”
Blue and Dutch were feeling more and more uneasy.
“What’rc you doin’ out this way? Naphthaline-
faking?”
“Wc was thinkin’ of havin’ a go,” Blue responded
with a grin, “but wc left our slock lyin’ about an'
the moths ate it.”
Any battler who has been “on the beer" until
his money gives out knows that the easiest way to
set up in business again is to beg a handful of naph-
thaline from a woolbuyer. He then melts it into
cubes and hawks it from door to door. “Threc-
pen'th guaranteed to preserve your clothes from
moths, silverfish an’ all other insects, lady.” That is
“naphthaline-faking.”
“This place has been faked out,” the old woman
remarked. “An’ there ain’t no work till harvestin'."
“I was here once when Methusalem was a boy,"
Blue said, “an’ the cockies was that glad t’ get chaps
t’ work for ’em that they’d go miles to find someone.
If y’ went to sleep y’ had to pin a notice on y’sclf:
‘Don’t wake me under a pound a day.’”
“Not now.” The old woman swung round on
Dutch. “I know y’ face. Let’s see. It was in Trangie.
You was blind-drunk an’ sleepin’ on the onion stack.
Remember that big slack of onions out the back of
Carry’s pub?”
The chauffeur had stopped the car.
“Well, there’s the shed,” Mrs. Malloy said regret-
fully. “ The Flea Bag,’ the boys call it. Sorry 1
can’t ask you home.”
“That’s all right with us, lady,” Blue responded,
with a glance at the furious face of the old woman’s
daughter. “Thank you for the lift. 1 don’t s'pose
you know of anyone who ’as arf a day’s
gardenin’ ”
“No,” snapped the young woman, slamming the
door.
“That’s all right, lady. They’s always tellin’ us
to put by for a rainy day.”
“Here.” The old lady leaned out of the window
as the car moved off. “To buy naphthaline/’ she
called. A ten-shilling note lay in Blue’s hand.
“That’s Mrs. Malloy for you,” he explained
reverently as he put it into his pocket and turned
towards the shelter on the rise.
The river was separated from the road by a
stretch of grassy flat, mounded by blackberry thickets,
choked with nettles and pitted with old rabbit bur-
rows. The innumerable blackened patches showed
that here the bagmen usually camped. This evening
there were only a few turnouts settled on the flat.
Across the road where the grassy slope rose to the
shelter shed there were a few more. Further round
the base of Warning Hill was the lagoon, which had
once been the old river-bed, but was now a reedy
swamp in winter and a cracked, baking stretch of
black mud in summer. The shelter shed looked
waterproof and cheerful against the background of
[Continued on page 50.)


g
CD
Q
u □ □
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Milliard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLARD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch’'
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function.
Milliard
MASTER
IS&JD.PSOL
O UH TIY-HOMIS
35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
para
\\\
z
Stromberg
■Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
77/7///// J r 'nn !n ft»•■ i ■ ’: - 1 v" ' \\\\v
dealers everywhere
a
RADIO NEWS
AUSTRALIAN FIVE-METRE D.F. AND MOBILE
SUCCESSES.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
On the occasion of a field day organised by the Wifeless Institute of
Australia, a direction-finding hunt for a hidden transmitter operating on
sm. was, contrary to expectations, outstandingly successful. In addition,
mobile tests conducted from a car in motion presented no difficulty in
duplex communication with other cars, and a 20-mile two-way range with
fixed stations was easily effected.
The primary objects of the W.I.A. field
day held at Wyong, 38 miles airline
from the city of Sydney, were a general
powpow with experimenters from the
Newcastle district and a contest involv-
ing a hunt through the bush with direc-
tional equipment for a transmitter operat-
ing at some hidden position a few miles
distant. On all previous occasions this
contest had been conducted with appa-
Fig. 1. —The car, fitted with 12-watt mobile station
VK2NU, at Wyong (N.S.W.) showground after the
D.F. test. The vertical doublet antenna is carried
on a streamlined strut clamped to the front bumper.
ratus working in the amateur 3.5mc. (80-
metre) band and, as is the case with
lower frequencies, called for the appli-
cation of well-established principles.
Since the previous field day, conducted
the best part of a year before, Sydney
and Newcastle district experimenters have
paid increasing attention to the ultra-
short waves, and the five-
metre region in particular.
Accordingly, it was decided
to devote this field day to
work with five-metre ap-
paratus only. Opinions
were expressed that D.F.
would be a formidable
proposition at this fre-
quency, to say nothing of
signal-propagation obstacles.
Such obstacles would un-
doubtedly have been present
if the objective had been
aimed at in a half-hearted
manner, but, because of
painstaking application to
both transmission and recep-
tion, the results obtained
far exceeded the most opti-
mistic expectations. The
transmitter used for the
purpose put out a hefty
signal over many miles of
terrain, and the D.F. outfit
which walked in on the hidden location
in the short time of 30 minutes was in-
telligently designed and applied,
Gathered at North Sydney on the morn-
ing of this eventful day, test communi-
cations were conducted between the car
fitted by the writer under the portable
call VK2NU and various Sydney stations
scattered throughout outlying suburbs,
and with another car operated by execu-
tives of the W.I.A. All
along the road to Berowra,
20 miles or so, communica-
tion was held even at speed
with Sydney stations VKs
2ZD, 2JU, 2WW and 2NO,
and throughout the trip to
Wyong a running conversa-
tion was conducted between
the two cars. Transmission
in all cases was by speech
and not telegraphy. After
the get-together at the
Wyong meeting-place plans
were put into operation, and
the mobile station VK2NU
moved off for a predeter-
mined spot. This involved
taking the car through dense
bush, the removal (and re-
placement) of a stout wire
fence and a climb a la
caterpillar up a steep gradi-
ent. Airline distance of
this spot is three miles from Wyong
showground.
After 30 minutes’ transmission, the first
D.F. party, consisting of Messrs. Finlay-
son and Best, of VK2ZC Newcastle,
walked through the gum-trees carrying
their equipment. This gear was planned
carefully, and consisted of a totally
Fig. 2. —The five-metre transmitter-receiver of
VK2NU, slung, as a complete unit, under the car
hood. The Carter genemotor, supplying 300 volts
from the car six-volt accumulator, is bolted on the
right of the transmitter. Twenty-mile two-way com-
munication was possible even at high speed.
screened receiver, screened batteries and
leads, and screened leads to a di-pole
aerial on a long handle. Checks taken
with this equipment showed it to be uni-
directional, working on the principle of
a sloping aerial and maximum and mini-
mum. Even up to 50 yards from the
transmitter the variation from maximum
to minimum was evident, although the
receiver was actually within the strong
field of the transmitter. The second
party in was headed by Mr. O’Donnell,
VK2OD, of Lakemba Club. Their appa-
ratus employed a loop, and worked per-
fectly. The time taken in this case was
43 minutes, the difference being due to
cross-bearing plotting at intervals, as
necessary with this method. The third
party, in at 47 minutes, had equipment
by W. Moore, VK2HZ, Federal W.I.A.
president, and also worked on a sloping
aerial, but arranged as a fixture to a car,
involving manoeuvring on the road at
various points.
After completion of the D.F. test,
a check was taken on the VK2NU
receiver for the possibility of Syd-
ney stations, and one was definitely
heard, though very weakly. The fre-
quency was noted, and on return to
Sydney it was found that VK2JU Chats-
wood had been calling at this time, 3
p.m., on this frequency. Considering
that no directional aerials were in use and
the intervening ranges of mountains, this
reception is noteworthy, and indicates the
possibility of definite contact at this
point with planned directive aerials.
The Mobile Transmitter and Receiver.
The circuit diagrams of the car station
designed and operated by the writer, with
Mr. Chinner, of VK2CG, as worthy
Fig. 3—The VK2NU mobile transmitter, using two 89 Radioirons in unity-
push-pull as triodes, with plate modulation by a 42 pentode. No speech amplifi-
cation is necessary, other than the microphone transformer. Power is derived
from a 300-volt Carter genemotor. The antenna is a twisted pair doublet, with
series fixed condensers in the feeders to keep high voltage off the aerial. R.F.C.
is 45 turns of 28 D.S.C. on a ⅜ in. dowel.
assistant, are shown in Figs. 3 and 4.
The transmitter is nothing unusual, ex-
cepting that use was made of valves not
strictly intended for use as medium-
power oscillators. These are 89’s, in-
directly heated 6-volt triple-purpose
types, and in this case the plate, screen
and suppressors are lied for triode opera-
tion. It was originally intended to
operate these valves as pentodes, with
suppressor modulation, and in other cir-
cumstances this worked excellently, but
the sacrifice of R.F. power necessary, and
consequent loss of carrier energy, ruled
the method out for the field-day experi-
ment. The oscillator circuit is the fami-
liar “unity-coupled” push-pull arrange-
ment with plate modulation by a single
42 pentode. The heater and plate volt-
ages are taken from the car 6-volt accu-
mulator, with one of those excellent
Carter 300-volt genemotors turning over
merrily for plate power. The oscillator
tank circuit is made up of copper
tubing, 3|in. inside diameter, with the
grid coil threaded through. The wire
used for the grid coil is well-insulated
wiring flex. Speech input to the 42 modu-
lator is taken directly to the grid via
the usual microphone transformer and
a good quality and sensitive carbon
microphone. No speech amplification is
necessary or desirable for many reasons.
The oscillator uses a high value of grid
leak, 100,000 ohms, to keep the plate
current within safe limits, and 300 volts
on type 89’s should not in any circum-
stances be exceeded, or valve life will be
short. The 42 modulator is cathode-
biased, as shown.
By no means least in importance is the
aerial system. After consideration of
every workable type, the twisted pair
doublet has been chosen, with gratifying
results. This aerial is vertical, and is
arranged on a wooden streamlined strut
on the front bumper bar of the car.
The strut is Bft. 4in. long. A mid posi-
tion in the sm. band was chosen, and
thus the two halves of the aerial are
48in. long, with a 3in. “fanning” for the
feeders at the centre. The feeders are
taken to a D.P.D.T. switch on the trans-
mitter.
An interesting point was discovered in
the making of the aerial. It was in-
tended to fit it into a groove along the
leading edge of the strut. This was done,
but, unfortunately, the whole arrange-
ment was afterwards painted with
enamel. The presence of the enamel
coat, due no doubt to the lead contained
therein, raised the capacity of the system
very considerably, and resonance took
place somewhere around eight metres!
As time was short at this stage, the
wire was pulled out of the groove and
a new aerial strung clear of the strut.
Cellulose lacquer would no doubt have
had no effect.
The receiver is sheer simplicity, but
without doubt one of the most sensitive
and smooth in action the writer has yet
tried. It uses a 955 acorn valve in a
Jones positive grid return self-interrupter
circuit, with a single 38-pentode audio
stage. A tuned input circuit for the
aerial is used, and this feature raises
signal pickup considerably. So effective
is this receiver that at considerable dis-
tances from fixed stations 100 p.c. speech
reception is obtained whether stationary
or on the move at speed. It has only
two faults. The 955, as yet, is an expen-
sive valve in Australia, and without an
R.F. buffer stage the self-interruption
feature raises severe interference in near-
by receivers.
The remarkable point of the receiver
j s that, despite the fact that the twisted
pair feeders run over the car engine and
no screening of any kind is used, the
ignition noise can hardly be heard at all.
The heater supply for the valves is also
taken from the car accumulator, but 120
volts of Ever-Ready light-duty B battery
j s used for the plate supply. No doubt
the dynamotor could be used for ordinary
two-way working, but duplex tests with
other sm. equipped cars were desired,
Mobile Result*,
Communication with this car station is
f ar most satisfactory yet obtained
w jfj l u itra-short waves for mobile use yet
ij nown to the writer. Owing to the fact
U f moS f U se is made of the R.F.
g enera t e( | by the oscillator in efficiently
rac jiated power, the effect, as the car
tours an y Where around Sydney suburbs,
j ns t ru ctive and of great importance,
-p 00 muc b cannot be said in praise of the
£ arter genemotor. After many hours’
con tj n uous running, it was not even warm
tQ (he hanc j
jf, e mosf noteworthy of the communi-
catjons wa§ Qne wjth VK 2ZD, located at
Camperdown, when the car was 20 miles
'“ aillF


Remarkable American Five-metre
Communication.
"QST’ (U.S.A.) reports in the August,
1935, issue a two-way five-metre contact
between W1CBJ, at Derry, N.H., and
W8CYE, at Dayton, Ohio. This is a dis-
tance of 900 miles, ground to ground.
Other instances of unexpected long-dis-
tance five-metre signals are reported from
various parts of U.S.A., and it appears
that, although freakish, unusual long-
distance communication may, owing to
atmospheric conditions, be possible. This
being so, Australian amateurs should
listen carefully for signals originating in
places other than their own localities.
The idea of a trans-Tasman five-metre
contact is by no means super-optimistic.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing nd. in stamps) for tiro 30 x 20
inch J-avfshly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
ADVT
BUY A
RADIO
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
distant on the Northern-road and travel-
ling at high speed. There was no question
about reliability; the operator’s voice
could be heard R 9 plus. A most interest-
Fig. 4. —The VK2NU mobile receiver is simple but very effective. In no
circumstances should a receiver of this type be used in a fixed station in a populated
five-metre area. It is a powerful radiator, and will cause widespread interference.
For fixed reception, a buffer R.F. stage using a 954 pentode should be included.
LI in this circuit has four turns of No. 14 copper, 1in. diameter, and L2 seven
turns of No. 14 copper, ½in. diameter, tapped at the third turn from rotor end.
R.F.C. is similar to R.F.C. in the transmitter.
ing test was conducted between the car
and two observers, one at Mosman and
the other at Waverlcy, during a run from
the north over the Harbor Bridge to the
south. The steel structure of the bridge
had no effect on the transmission as the
car crossed, yet the signal had to pass be-
tween the mesh of steel cross-girderwork.
Running into York-strcct, City, where
huge buildings hemmed the car in on all
sides, the signal could still be heard at
these five- and seven-mile positions,
Fig. 5.—A group of W.J.A. members
studying the map and compass before
starting the search for the hidden trans-
mitter, VK2NU.
although the voice could only just be
detected. A later report from VK2WD
at Forest Lodge, four miles distant,
stated that at no time at this location was
ihc voice inaudible, never being below
R 5. This proves that, with a jump from
Fig. 6.—On the right, the winning D.F.
equipment carried by Mr. Finlayson, of
Newcastle, N.S.W., who found the hidden
station in 30 minutes through dense bush.
a 3- to a 50-watt carrier, a mobile station
could maintain effective communication
with a central control station at any city
suburban location up to a range of ap-
proximately 20 miles. For a commercial
service, such as for police work, the
entire city and suburbs could be covered
by three 50-watt carrier transmitters
located at triangular points overlooking
the city, and operated simultaneously
from the one microphone control point.
Under such conditions it would be pos-
sible to extend the 20-mile
range, and cars equipped
with correctly designed
apparatus would definitely
be within reception and
transmission range continu-
ously. Suitable reception
points would, of course, be
as necessary as the transmis-
sion points.
These mobile tests from
a car are, in (he writer’s
case, the prelude to a special
aviation test to be conducted
between two aeroplanes
Hying north and south re-
spectively from Mascot
aerodrome, when it is ex-
pected to put up at least
a 200-mile range between
'planes and long-distance
communication with ground
stations on the return trip.
This test is planned for
Sunday, September 8, and
has been arranged between
The Bulletin and “Wireless Weekly.”
D. B. Knock (VK2NO-2NU).
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been much better
recently, and (he change in the season
has been more noticeable, quite a num-
ber of stations being identifiable as early
as 7 a.m. The 49m. band still continues
weak, and in writer’s locality it is rare
to hear a station at good strength at any
hour. It will probably be some time
before a change back to the conditions
of several years ago occurs.
GSG has been consistently heard about
11 p.m. on 16.8 m. at fair ’phone strength,
with PHI a little weaker, but both well
audible. These stations were seldom
heard last winter, and no other station
has been heard about that wave-length
during winter for some years.
The 19m. band has been quite lively
about midnight, but has still shown a
good deal of high-speed fading. GSF
has been best and PCJ quite good, with
FYA fading out first.
One extra-late night was tried, and
the 31m. and 25m. bands were found to
be at full strength, even 2RO on 25m.
being at good speaker volume. 2RO has
also again been fair at 7 a.m. in the 31m.
band.
On 18/8/’35 signal strength was excel-
lent, CTIAA. on 31.2 m., being the best
heard this winter, and also what appeared
to be PRBA just higher than GSB in the
same band. The exceptions were the
Americans, all being weak.
In the daytime the 8.8. C. transmission
from both GSD and GSB has been really
excellent, and FYA even a little stronger.
Radio Coloniale, on 25.3 m., has been
heard again at 6 p.m., but rather weak
yet, and fading out before closing down.
This is a new transmission since last year.
It will be interesting to see if it is continued
all the summer, and whether the 25.3 m.
transmission then equals 25.6 m., which,
so far, has been far the best in Australia.
The higher wave-lengths have been
above the average, many M.L. amateurs
coming through at tremendous strength.
One American, who stated that he was
using 900 watts (actually putting over 600
in his aerial), was very good indeed.
The 20m. band has shown a falling
off. few stations being good strength.
American signals may be expected to go
soon until next winter, as far as daylight
reception is concerned.
The two Germans in the 31m. band
though stronger, have not been very
readable here in the afternoon session,
noise level being yet too high.
JVM, 21m., has continued to be very
good. A German station announced that
Japan intends considerably enlarging its
short-wave transmissions for the benefit
of its people overseas.
NIGHTOEL.
Television and Radio.
Addressing a gathering of representa-
tives of the radio trade at the Wentworth
Hotel, Sydney, L. A. Hooke, general
manager of Amalgamated Wireless,
refuted the contention that the increasing
application of television was tolling the
knell of radio. Small successes had,
indeed, been achieved in particular
spheres, he declared, but television had
not yet passed the experimental stage, the
position of the science to-day as regards
development being analogous to that ol
aviation in 1914. Because of the diffi-
culties of discovering satisfactory carrier
frequencies and evolving transmitting
and receiving apparatus suitable lor
general purposes the immediate outlook
gave no occasion for apprehension.
Moreover, the fact that £1,000,000 was
lavished on a radio exhibition in England
indicated that the Continent was also
Fig. 7.—On location! The mobile station VK2NU
hidden in the bush and in action. A Sydney
station, considered by frequency check and time
to be VK2JU. was heard too weakly for identifica-
tion at this point. Although at a high elevation,
several ranges of hills intervene between here and
Sydney, a distance of 38 miles.
satisfied that television as a commercial
fact was a dream-child of a very distant
future. Of course, admitted Mr. Hooke,
television was coming—but not just yet.
However, even when television did come
into its own, it would not supersede, but
would be subsidiary to, radio, which
would remain the medium of daylight
reception, since during this period pro-
grammes consisted mostly of recorded
items. Meanwhile, A.W.A. contemplated
the future with nothing but cheerful
optimism, and would continue its vigor-
ous policy of expansion and research.
Casual Comment.
“4X”: “M.M.T.’s” advocacy of a low-
definition television system (B. 17/7/’35)
has little to commend it. Australia is in
the backwash of the
world’s technical
progress, and never
was this more clearly
demonstrated than
by the fact that now.
when England,
which has lagged in
the matter, is junk-
ing the 30-line ser-
vice, attempts are be-
ing made to thrust
the hoary scanning
disc on us. Why the
Brisbane broadcasts
should receive so
much publicity is be-
yond me. Probably
the father of ama-
teur television in
Australia is Picker-
ing, of N. S. Wales.
Years ago he was
making fair progress
with 60-line stuff. It
is just as well to remember that
the scanning disc was a product of
the last century, and modern electronic
methods are rapidly superseding mechani-
cal devices of all sorts. Latest advices
from England indicate that even Baird
has adopted Farnsworth’s “image dissec-
tor,” and it is safe to prophesy that
within a few years electron beams will
have exclusive sway. While we may not
be able to get a place in the vanguard
of progress, there is no particular reason
why we should go backwards.
[No matter what system is used in
preliminary experiments, the fact that
television in any form is investigated in
Australia by any experimenter is com-
mendable. One thing leads to another,
and the Australian experimenter, unlike
his overseas colleagues, is handicapped by
lack of essential material and by out-
rageously high prices for what little is
available.— Technical Ed.]
A.W.A. received a communication
from R. Woods, of Sand Springs, Okla-
homa, U.S.A., stating that he has listened
regularly during the last 14 months to
VK2ME. By way of proving his state-
ment he enclosed a log containing items
from every VK2ME programme during
the period mentioned.
Latest in the Trade.
The abnormal disorganisation of traffic
resulting from the shipping strike
made it almost impossible for many
commercial firms to carry on normal
business. With water transport held up
(the cheapest form of transport available
and that upon which selling prices arc
based), it required courage to face the
loss which must be incurred by using
other means of continuing supplies. The
Ever-Ready Company (Aust.), Ltd.,
secured and maintained normal sup-
plies to all dealers and the public
throughout the Commonwealth by
means of rail transport. The tonnage
thus transported involved heavy extra
expenditure.
* * * *
Milliard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd., has
introduced an improved valve in the
Class-B battery range which is more or
less a successor to the well-known PM2B.
It is known as the PM2BA, and has the
advantage that the slight distortion
present in the usual Class-B systems,
where plate voltage is permitted to run
to a lower than normal level, is over-
come. This is effected by the use of a
small negative bias on the Class-B valve,
and the Milliard PM2BA is specially de-
signed for this purpose. Other than this
feature, the characteristics are un-
changed. It is a two-volt battery type
taking .2 ampere on the filament and a
maximum plate voltage of 150. A nega-
tive bias of three volts is applicable.
o Continued on next page.)


iili!
if/; l.Um
iK-i: i
t.vr
m
m
m
ra
m
i
fWi
s
m
m.
'7/
QNLY rigid observance
of the laws of breeding
can produce a champion
boar. Equally rigid is the
maintenance of quality
in an EVER-READY
battery. Only by this
means can their sturdy
dependability be ensured.
% 9 •
Fit an EVER-READY
heavy-duty battery to
your radio; put EVER-
READY refills in your
torch—you will then have
the world’s most reliable
battery at your service.
VfRREAtf
'ES!
ver Ready
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
manufactured by the ever.ready company
(AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY AND LONDON
The Q. and A. Column.
/ am nine miles from the nearest town, and
need a simple set for my personal use. I
have the parts, except batteries, for the set sug-
gested (sketched), but con-
sider a crystal set would
suit me better. I need
only one station, and that
at night. Cheapness is the
first essential. Please
supply a circuit diagram
of a suitable crystal re-
ceiver.—3oB.
The diagram of a very
simple crystal receiver is
illustrated. No tuning
condenser of -any kind is
used, and the
coil is of large
dimensions. This
is wound on a
3in. diam et e r
former with 24-
gauge D.C.C.
copper wire,
tapped at inter-
vals. The tap-
pings can be
made by twist-
ing short loops
and cleaning the
insulation, afterwards soldering the
twists. The connections to these
tappings can easily be made with small croco-
dile dips. This affair won’t be selective, but
it will do what you want, and it costs next
to nothing.
(1) Please describe the method of making a
coupling transformer for use with this aerial
system (sketched). (2) What controls the
amount of delay given to delayed A.V.C., and
what effect does the value of the resistor in
the A.V.C. channel have on the controlled
valve ? —309.
(1) The aerial sketched is the R.C.A. double-
doublet, and, although in the many references
to this system appearing in overseas publica-
tions, aerial and feeder lengths are stated, no
details are given of the coupling transformer.
This is therefore a matter for experiment. A
Faraday screen must be used to avoid capacity
coupling to earth. The system described in Q.
and A. No. 300 (B. 14/8/’35) is probably just
as effective and simpler to employ. (2) Delayed
A.V.C. is accomplished by applying a nega-
tive D.C. voltage to the diode plate of the
detector. In the case of a value of 10 volts
the positive swing of the signal must be
slightly more than 10 volts before diode cur-
rent flows in the circuit. A.V.C. action is thus
delayed until a certain minimum signal is
received.
* * * *
The enclosed diagram shows a frequency
meter I have built. It is very effective, and the
screening is so complete that there is no direct
pickup. I used a S.L.F. condenser for Cl.
I now want to spread the amateur frequencies
more on the dial without spoiling the S.L.F.
characteristic. (1) Would removing plates
upset the S.L.F. ? (2) Would harmonics of
ICO or 2BL approach reasonable accuracy for
calibration purposes ? (3) What are the wave-
lengths used by the German and Daventry
stations at 0015 to 0130 S.M.T., at a fre-
quency higher than the amateur 20 -metre band ?
(4) Does D. B. Knock (VK2NO-INU) work
any fixed schedule on 1 12mc. (24 metres )? —
311.
(1) No, as the remaining plates still have the
required shape. (2) Yes. (3) 19.66 and 19.63
metres respectively. (4) No. Two-and-a-half-
metre work is suspended at present owing to
the importance of special developmental work
on five metres. No fixed schedules are worked
on either frequency.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What is a counterpoise, and how is it em-
ployed ? —3lO.
It is a balancing aerial, used in place of
the earth connection. It increases the selec-
tivity of certain types of receivers, and some-
times is used to reduce interference. There
is much to commend its use. In the case
of an aeroplane, where. no direct “earth” is
possible, the bonding of the metal structure
of the aeroplane is used as a counterpoise at
low frequencies. For general use, the counter-
poise should be directly underneath the aerial,
and at least two-thirds the same length, about
6ft. above ground.
Answers to Correspondents.
ŵ


FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Stakes: Silver King
(or Synagogue); next, Grand Mogul.
Guineas: Latharna ; next, Wyke-
ham.
Park Stakes: Sine Cera; next,
Mirzill.
Flying Handicap: Sir John; next,
Raleigh.
September Handicap: Lightning
March ; next, Turbulent.
Ashbury Handicap: Lancaster
King ; next, Mystic Spell.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A fine crowd saw some brilliant racing
at Warwick Farm. At the end of the
day Silver King and Synagogue domi-
nated the. Epsom market, and their show-
ings pleased all connected with them. But
in this Page's opinion Sir John did a
better Epsom trial than either.
Silver King (5 to 4) dead-heated with
Rogilla (4 to 1) in the Warwick Stakes,
and should have won outright. He had
to shake off Sylvandale (6 to 1), who
went with him from barrier-rise, and
Bartle hadn’t set up a sufficient lead when
Munro got in the last run on Rogilla.
At the Leger the chestnut poked his nose
in front, lugged in and slightly crowded
Silver King. The El Cacique gelding
hung on determinedly, and broke even.
He is a very game fellow, and, had more
use been made of his speed at the
straight-entrance, Rogilla’s backers would
not have shared in the collections.
Sarcherie (20 to 1) was third, a length
away. She was never farther back, and
it was a capital effort. Contact was a
close fourth, but the jockey weighed in
3jib. light, and the trainer, Lewis, was
fined a tenner for leaving Contact’s lead-
bag in the stall. Contact is in the Metro-
politan with Bst, 31b.; Sarcherie has Bst.
GERT *lt DIDNT TAKE ME LONG,
TO PICK UP this G*.ME "
Best ' KJo_ tvE NOTICED VouRE PR.BTty
Quick, on the up-14.kb "
GiErt • " Have vou 7
Bert 'Ves, )ne lost gall*
THIS MORKUNGj VV
11b. Journal, Latharna and Sylvandale
followed them home.
Synagogue’s burly appearance did not
tempt the public to back him for the
Campbelltown Handicap, and the stable
itself was of the opinion that he hadn’t
done enough work. So the price drifted
from fours to tens. It was easy money
missed. A big chestnut, full of quality,
Synagogue was going easily on the rails
all the way, and he scored brilliantly by
a length from King’s Head (8 to 1), with
Australia Fair (7 to 2) a poor third.
Naturally Pike, who had the comfortable
ride, considers that the Maoriland-bred
gelding will be hard to beat in the
Epsom ; and Pike is a sound judge. But
the way was made easier for Synagogue
by mishaps to Duke Caledon (he broke
down) and Australia Fair, who got a
rough passage. With Synagogue out of
the way, the King’s Head party would
have landed a nice stake.
It is improbable that any of the 15
starters in the Hobartville Stakes will
trouble Young Idea or The Chanter at
the Derby distance. A.J.C. committee-
man Hunter White’s Hadrian (12 to 1)
cleared right away from the others.
Munro made good use of his brilliancy
on the turns, shot him away with a big
lead in the straight, and, though he was
tiring, the Tippler colt hung on fairly
well, to beat Wykeham (3 to 1) and
Maestro (10 to 1). He ran the seven fur-
longs in Imin. 25£sec. Though equal
favorite with Wykeham, Homer was
second-last. Lolorua ran pretty well;
from an outside position he had
to be hurried along, and was second into
the straight. But Latharna has greater
Derby possibilities, and so has Loud
Applause.
Loud Applause (Limond —Curtain) is
a brother to. Gladswood, and that doesn’t
say much for him. But he seems more
trustworthy, is rather taking in appear-
ance, and in the first division of the
Farm Novice, for which he was favorite
at threes, galloped like a good horse.
Off the course at the turn, he came with
an overpowering run, and beat Magnus
and Salted Almond as if they were hacks.
Dampier (9 to 2), who had beaten Loud
Applause at Rosehill, won the second
division very easily from Jeanne d’Arc
and Linklet. The odds-on favorite,
Merrie Miller, led most of the way, but
tired in the run home ; he will do better.
Dampier is a six-year-old gelding by
Magpie—Foremast; he is worth bearing
in mind for minor events at Randwick.
Ned Moss owns Loud Applause and
Sir John, and the latter, backed from tens
to fours for the Glenlec Handicap, landed
the second leg of a good double. First
out —he had the rails position—he made
the pace a cracker. At the home turn
it looked as if Mystic Spell (10 to 1)
might trouble him, but Sir John bounded
away and won with his head on his
chest, equalling the time (Imirf. 38Jsec.)
of Silver King and Rogilla. And
he had 191 b. more than his Epsom weight,
which is Bst. 11b. A leading two-year-
old, but a failure last season, this big
son of Limond —Jewel of Asia may turn
out another Vaals. Mystic Spell and
Kagal were place-getters.
Regal Son, favorite (at 7 to 2) for the
Spring Handicap, disappointed. Not so
High Cross (5 to 1), who, vigorously
ridden by Parsons, gave a sterling exhi-
bition of perseverance when badly
placed ; his effort over the last three fur-
longs was that of a genuine stayer. He
carried 7st. 121 b,, 61b. more than his
Metrop. weight, and the long stretches
at Randwick will suit Tom Clone’s geld-
ing. But he beat First Balloon by a mere
half-head, with Limyris an unimpressive
third. Regal Son apparently wouldn’t
do his best for the boy (Laycock); he is
a pig to ride. lolaus and Blixten were
other failures.
* * ♦ *
After the fine sport witnessed at Caul-
field, Flemington and Williamstown, the
racing at Epsom seemed stodgy. Panto
had figured among the acceptors for the
Gold Cup, but he was scratched on the
course. With the Westralian horses out of
it (Hyperion was also kept in his stable),
punters voted Hostile a fair thing, and
the Simeon’s Fort—Valtean’ horse ran
pretty well; he generally does give a
creditable account of himself. But he
had to strike his colors to old Radiant
Boy. - • _ • /
On performances and track work Hos-
tile was entitled to his position at . the
head of the betting. But there was ho
encouragement to back Radiant Boy,
and he gave most of the ? bookmakers
a skinner; they called him at 20 to 1.
Spearflash (12 to 1), owned by Harry
Boan, the Perth draper, was a fair third.
ẁ
10-15 to 11-8. “The four” are un-
changed. Collingwood (12-14) had the
easiest win of the day against Footscray
(6-17); Carlton downed North 16-16 to
10-9, and Richmond was too good for
Essendon, 12-14 to 7-16. St. Kilda is still
in fifth place, and hoping against hope
for fourth. Good kicking and a desperate
last-minute dash gave it the victory over
Melbourne, 19-8 to 16-14. Hawthorn
surprised by beating Geelong badly,
13-9 to 7-17.
* * * *
“Rugbee”: Tell “Ruckman” (B.
28/8/’35) that reduction of the Australian-
rules sides to 16 is being pressed by States
other than Victoria and by many fol-
lowers of the game inside the Cabbage
Garden. As to size of grounds, “Ruck-
man” overlooks the fact that many,
even in Melbourne, are smaller than the
standard. The Bulletin gave the actual
measurements of the League grounds
some years ago, and the variations in
length and width were surprising. Inquiry
at the V.F.L. offices or at one of the
Melbourne newspapers would confirm
this.
, * * * *
“Preston”: The voting for the best
and fairest player in the V.F.A. resulted
in a tie between Brooks, of Williams-
town, and Pye, of Northcote, each get-
ting 32 points. Asa recount would have
been a long and troublesome job, it was
resolved to let it go at that and give each
lad a medal, as was done in 1933, when
the same thing happened. The Recorder
Cup, another reward for good behavior
and so on in Association football, has
■ gone to White, of Prahran.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The visit of the Maori
Rugby Unionists to Melbourne has
already borne fruit. Melbourne club’s
motion at the V.F.L. weekly meeting
that the Rugby throw-in take the place
of the present awkward out-of-bounds
rule was carried by 14-7 and will go to
the Australian council. The diehards
rose in wrath, however, when it was pro-
posed that a single-handed variation of
the backward Rugby pass be adopted.
One gentleman furiously declared that
Rugby features were not wanted in the
Australian game; another fired in the
old cliche that the Australian code was
football, not handball. As an old player
of Soccer, the only real football in
existence, I have often wondered at this
A.R. obsession. I have plenty of IOUs
to bet that Australian Rules permit a
dashed sight more handball than Rugby.
* • * *
Manly beat Randwick 10 to nothing
for the right to enter the Rugby Union
grand final. No tries were scored;
Sutton kicked two penalty goals and
Hodgson snapped one from the field:
Towers and Larnach-Jones had a dozen
attempts without raising the flags. Rand-
wick, when it did get the ball from the
scrums, could do nothing with it. Rich-
ards, the half, was inclined to hang on
too long; the others to pass when they
should have gone ahead. In the second
spell the forward work was all Manly’s,
and five-eighth Primrose kept the Greens
in their own half with his line kicks.
North beat Drummoyne 14-11 in a hard
forward game: two tries each, one con-
verted and two penalty goals to one con-
verted and one p.g. There was little in
.it, though North had somewhat the better
of what back play there was. On Satur-
day North plays ’Wick, the winner to
meet Manly.
** * *
“Glenelg”: The Rugby Union inter-
University jamboree in Adelaide ended
with a match between Combined Unis,
and S.A. Sydney and Melbourne con-
tributed most of the combined players,
the South Australian side absorbing the
local ’Varsity cracks. Combined won a
great game by 28-18. S.A. has a likely
lad in Portus, who scored three tries.
The side generally showed a big im-
provement in tactics.
ẃ


TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The Prontac
( Patentt-
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string: it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers' Service
Station m
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7 10 -.
Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is desired as to the present
address of AUBREY EVANS (son of Francis
Evans, late of Launceston, in Tasmania), who
was last heard of in Grafton, New South Wales.
If he is dead, information is desired as to the
date and place of his death, and as to the
names and addresses of any descendants of
his, or of his legal representative. Please reply
to MESSRS. RITCHIE & PARKER, ALFRED
GREEN & CO., Solicitors. 81 -St. John Street,
Launceston.
1
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND i
GOOD LIVING^
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and 3
Cold Water, ’Phone
and Reading Lamp,
from 7/- pe* day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station),
w. G. Bulfin, Manager. .
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
After all the talk about matching
Palmer and Olin for a world-title fight at
Sydney Sports Ground, the Footscray
bruiser has accepted an offer of £IOOO
English—win, lose or draw —to meet
someone at Wembley. His opponent
may be Len Harvey or Eddie Phillips.
* ♦ ♦ *
Very badly matched with Leo Kelly,
who is alleged to be a twelve-stoner but
looks quite 13st. 71b., “Young” Camp-
bell, of Newcastle, nevertheless showed no
fear of the big negro’s punch when they
locked horns at Leichhardt. It was per-
haps the Australian’s pluck that lost him
a fight he really won on a foul. Camp-
bell’s southpaw stance puzzled the
colored man considerably, and Kelly
stopped lusty left swings with his body
until the fifth round, when a right to
the ribs knocked the white down for
“nine.” Regaining his feet, he fought
back semi-consciously, and both kept on
battling for fully six seconds after the
bell; then Kelly knocked Campbell cold
with a right to the chin. Instead of being
disqualified for landing the late punch,
he was crowned when “three” had been
counted. This judgment was reversed,
and they came up for the sixth. The
round had just begun when Campbell
was down again, this time for the count.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: An international box-
ing event which didn’t get into the Aus-
tralian cables was a match between teams
of American amateur boxers and British
lilywhaits. Contrary to expectation,
Britain won by eight events to three. The
joke was certainly on the Yanks, for five
of their team were negroes and one a
Scotsman from Stirling. The Scot was
the only white member of the team to gel
a decision. N’Yark was the venue.
Footbrawl
“Rover”: The move to popularise
Australian Rules in N.S.W. (B. 21 /8/’35)
has raised the question of a paid secre-
tary. It has been talked about at great
length, but nothing has been done. Both
the Rugby Union and League employ
paid secretaries, and to expect any man,
no matter how willing and capable, to
neglect his own affairs for any game is
as futile as it is close-fisted.
* * * ♦
“The Pivot”: Poor old Geelong is
another Victorian League club to feel
the pinch of hard times. The committee
has had to explain to the players that
it will be impossible to pay them £3 a
week, and that they will have to put
up with 3()s. This is tough on those
who have given up a bright future to
represent their city on the stricken field,
and there is much discontent.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”; The field goal which has
been the subject of discussion in The
Bulletin was responsible for the defeat
of our Maori friends by the Wellington
(M.L.) side. The returning tourists scored
three tries ; Wellington, responding with
two field goals and a p.g., won by 11-9.
It is announced, by the way, that a
Maoriland Universities team will tour
Japan, leaving Sydney a few days after
Christmas and probably playing a couple
of games at Hong Kong. The M.L.
students will have a high standard to live
up to, and should not overlook the social
side of such a tour in the sometimes too-
evident M.L. desire to win.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; Those who took it for
granted that Owen Bridle, the break-
away, was a convert to Rugby from the
Australian code were surprised to hear
that the big chap has been pestered with
“offers” from Melbourne Australian-
rules clubs. Desertions from A.R. to
Rugby are a commonplace in Melbourne
nowadays, but this is something new.
Apart from his high work in the lineout,
it is hard to see where Bridle’s Rugby
play would fit in with the Australian
game. He specialises in sensational
break-throughs and long sprints for the
line at top speed, which would be im-
possible in the national code. If the
Rugby League had tried to nobble Bridle
one could have understood it. In style
and effectiveness, he is a close approach
to the best breakaway the League ever
had—Frank Burge.
* * * #
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League has
lost one of its biggest attractions in Alan
Ridley; the giant Western Suburbs
winger has given up professional football
for a job as a radio traveller in the
country. Ridley has put up a great
record in his not very long career, and
in England, whither he went with two
Australian League teams, was held in
even higher esteem than he is here. N. S.
Wales and Australia will miss him sorely
when the English side comes along next
season, but the young fellow, with plenty
of examples before his eyes of what it
means to be a decayed athletic hero, has
had the sense to look forward to the days
when gladiatorial glory will be non-
negotiable currency.
The Nineteenth Hole
The 20-year-old N. S. Wales pheno-
menon Jim Ferrier won the amateur
championship at Seaton (S. Aus.) from
Harry Hattersley by 2 and 1 in the last
18 holes. Ferrier was never really
troubled, and would have done even
better if he hadn’t taken chances with
two or three of his chip shots. He
didn't produce anything like the golf he
had played on the previous day against
“Hear they left you out o’ the team , Alf."
“ Yairs; but they'll 'ave l' find new goal-posts. These belong t' me."
Rymill, of S. Aus. Ferrier beat
Rymill unmercifully—7 and 6 ; two better
than the Seaton record and six better
than par.
These championships prove very little.
The open champion, Fergus McMahon,
of S. Aus., was easily licked by Richard-
son, of N. S. Wales, in the semi-final of
the pro. championship, while Boorer in-
explicably beat Bolger 5 and 4. Boorer
was professional champion of Victoria in
1927, but he hadn’t scintillated for some
time till last Thursday. Richardson beat
him 2 and 1 on Friday after a moderate
display on both sides. Though Boorer
was 3 up at the 12th in the morning
round he never really flattered his sup-
porters ; his opponent’s long game was
too good. Richardson brought off some
useful putts, including a 25-footer at the
10th in the afternoon.
The only certainty in a confused situa-
tion is that young Ferrier is the most
accomplished golfer Australia has pro-
duced, whether amateur or professional.
He has all the strokes; and, if he showed
a shade more devil at times when in a
favorable position, he might be said to
have an ideal temperament. He should
surprise them in Britain and the U.S.A.
before he is finished.
* * * *
“Marino”: After a tie earlier in the
week, W. S. Rymill and Ackland-
Horman played off with Ross Sawers
and R. D. Crook for the amateur four-
somes championship of Australia. The
pairs had scored 149 apiece for 36 holes.
At the second attempt Rymill and his
mate had a round of 77 as compared
with 78 by the others. Foursomes, once
the most popular method of playing the
game, nowadays are rarely able to draw
decent entries in big tournaments. Adel-
aide, however, provided an exception.
• * * *
“Sandringham”; The British women
golfers chewed up the Australian opposi-
tion in the national champion foursomes
at Melbourne. Mrs. J. B. Walker and
Pam Barton came home with a card of
163, a stroke ahead of their team-mates
Mrs. Greenlees and Phyllis Wade. Vic-
torians Mrs, Morpeth and sister Susie
Tolhurst were third, a long way back —
170. Miss Barton rather disappointed the
big circus which followed the play. At
times she was very wild, and she owed
much to the cool recoveries of her
partner.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The N.S.W. girls
surprised the critics by defeating the all-
star Victorian team by four matches to
one. Miss Wray was the only loser —to
Miss Nankivell, 4 and 2. After Tas-
mania had outcd Weslralia three to two,
the Welshwomen swept the board in their
match with the Speckerinas; this means
that the Sydneysiders lake the Gladys
Hay Memorial Cup home with them.
Joan Hammond showed great form for
N. S. Wales. .
“Woogaroo”: Brisbane Country Golf
Week was a bigger success than ever. It
served to disclose that there are 92
courses outside the metropolitan area,
making the total for Queensland 103 ;
many are nine-holers with sand greens,
and not a few have been made by the
players themselves. Bunkering is not run
to extremes, there being enough natural
drawbacks to the average course. Some
of the country players at Brisbane had
no idea when they started what bunkers
were for. They soon found out.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: E. F. Moon caused a fuss
in the jubilee tennis singles at Brisbane
by walking off in the middle of his match
with Grinsted. The court was slippery
with rain, and the players objected to
going out, but obeyed when the umpire
ruled it playable. Rain began to fall
again, and after skating about a bit Moon
tossed in the towel as stated. He is a big
and heavy man. and there seems to have
been every excuse for his action.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The annual report of the
Australian L.T.A. shows that body as
sitting pretty financially. Allowing for
the loss on the centenary visitors from
overseas, a credit balance of some
hundreds is shown, thanks to the gross
profit of £2783 on the last Australian
championships. The Davis Cup fund is
now £5OOO in credit, and this year’s
profits are expected to be about £2OOO.
* * ♦ *
‘"Cut Shot”; McGrath, just returned
from his Davis Cup tour, is emphatic
that Australia should challenge next time
in the American zone. There would be
fewer matches; really only one serious
competitor, the U.S.A. A zone win then
would mean weeks of practice on grass
in England ready to catch the European-
zone winner just off the hard courts.
McGrath says the opposition in Europe
has grown much stronger in the last two
or three years and several of the coun-
tries there are now potential winners of
the Cup. To run about Europe play-
ing these on hard courts, as the Aus-
tralians have had to do, is too much of
a handicap.
♦ ♦ * •
“Germiston”: Crawford and Ouist
had an easy trot in their match with
South Africa at Jo’burg. Crawford
downed Kirby in straight sets and Quist
did the same by Farquharson. In the
doubles Farquharson and Musgrave took
a set from the Australians.
Miscellaneous
“Bramall Lane”: Yorkshire has won
the English county championship for the
JBth time. It has always been a strongly
professional side, though some great
amateurs have worn the white rose. Two
reasons for its professional strength arc its
elaborate nursery system and the super-
annuation scheme which
makes the retiring age of a
Yorkshire pro. something to
be looked forward to and not
dreaded, as is the case in
other counties. Both are due
to the initiative and energy of
Lord Hawke.
# * •
“Tenth Slip”: Waverley
(N.S.W.) Council and the dis-
trict cricket club have been
at variance over the local
ground for years, each blam-
ing the other for the poor
state of the arena and ap-
pointments. Recently the
club committee decided to go
to another ground, and when
a special meeting rescinded
this the entire managing
committee, including hon.
sec. Fingleton and over a
dozen others, resigned. A
scratch committee has been
appointed to carry on, but
the outcome may be that the
club, which dates back many
years, may be wiped out by
the C.A. and its area divided
between Paddington and
Randwick.
“Hotham”: As all expected, the
V.C.A. ignored the N.S.W. proposal for
casting out the smaller cricket States.
There was no discussion, and, as S.A.
has also turned the thing down, the repre-
sentation and voting power of the poor
relations on the Board of Control will
remain as they were. H. A. Bussell goes
on the board as one of Victoria's dele-
gates in place of W. L. Kelly, recently
rejected by his club, Richmond, as dele-
gate to the V.C.A.
* * * ♦
“Spike”: Sheaves followed up his suc-
cess in the Australian 10,000 metres
championship by winning the N.S.W.
10,000 yards track title on Kensington
racecourse. Sheaves is a fine runner, and
has a good chance of gaining the Olym-
pic team, but his times will have to be
improved. The world’s record for the
10 miles is Nurmi’s 50min. 15sec. Sheaves
ran this race in 53min. 44sec., but
he has bettered that with 53min.
31 3-ssec.


ARRIVED /
4
THE BICYCLE THAT
TOOK MELBOURNE
BY STORM
SPONSORED BY
Illustrated:
I
k
f'k
The “City Star” Utility Roadster,
enamelled in two colors. Best
English tubing, Williams chain
wheels and cranks, Coventry chain,
National saddle, Major bars on
2j in. stem, rubber grips, Dunlop
rims, Wasdell dome steel guards,
Duro tyres with six months’ guar-
antee, and complete set of tools.
CASH PRICE £6/15/-
TERMS: 10/- deposit, 4/- per
week.
Fitted with Eadie Coaster Hub,
15/- extra.
AT THE LOWEST PRICE IN THE TRADE
IO
/
DEPOSIT
4
/
WEEKLY
“CITY STAR” UTILITY RACER. Enamelled in two colors, best
English tubing, Williams chain wheels and crank, double-sided racing
hubs fitted two cogs and two lock rings, Coventry chains, narrow saddle,
racing Phillips pedals, racing handle bars on 2|in. forward stem, rubber
grips, narrow Dunlop rims, Duro or Atlantic tyres with six
months’ guarantee. Complete set of tools. CASH PRICE, £7/5/-
TERMS PRICE, £7/12/6, 10/- deposit, 4/- weekly.
Fitted with Eadie Coaster Hub, 15/- extra.
“CITY STAR” CLUB RACER. Enamelled in two colors, peaked
on all bars with lines and scrolls, and rims enamelled to match. Renolds
butted tubing, D to round front forks, braze on stays, drop-out ends,
Williams utility chain wheels and cranks, racing hubs fitted with two
cogs and lock rings, Coventry chains, Phillips racing pedals, Mansfield
narrow saddle, racing bars on 2|in, stem, basket-pattern rubber grips,
narrow Dunlop rims, Duro or Atlantic tyres with six months’ .
guarantee (no mudguards). CASH PRICE £B/15/-
TERMS PRICE, £9/3/6, 20/- deposit, 5/- weekly.
=
BEST DUAL WAVE
a
m
A
VALUE IN SYDNEY
ARNOLA
5-VALVE
SUPERHETERODYNE
AT THE EXTRAORDINARY
LOW CASH PRICE OF
7
6161 J
Tune in to LONDON, PARIS
and other Overseas Broadcasting
Stations, with wonderful clarity,
DAY OR NIGHT.
Special Features:
Latest 5-valve Superheterodyne Dual
Wave.
Fitted with Philips Valves, using the
famous Octode.
New Amplion High-fidelity Dynamic
Speaker.
Full-vision Illuminated Airplane Dial,
showing all Stations clearly marked
in their own States and newly-
allocated positions.
Housed in a full piano-finished Cabinet.
Modern design.
OR ON ARNOLD’S SPECIAL
EASY TERMS:
30'- DEPOSIT
5'6 WEEKLY
TRADE-IN
YOUR OLD RADIO SET.
ARNOLD’S WILL MAKE YOU
A GENEROUS ALLOWANCE.
GUARANTEED for 12
months, with Free Service
and 90 days’ guarantee on
valves.
EDWARD ARNOLD LTD.
OXFORD &
CROWN STS
’Phone F 2121
SYDNEY


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
AUSTRALIAN TRANSCONTINENTAL
AIRWAYS UMITED
(A Company Registered under the Companies Act 1899 and 1918 New South Wales).
Capital: £300,000, divided into 123,000 Preference Shares of £ 1 each bearing preferential dividend
at the rate of 5£% P er annum and 373,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
It is proposed to issue; .
125.000 Preference shares payable 5/- per share on application and
3/- per share on allotment and the balance in monthly pay-
ments of 5/- per share. ... - „
275.000 Ordinary shares payable 2/- on application, 2/- on allotment,
and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/- per month.
25.000 Ordinary shares to be issued to Aviation & General Invest-
ments, Limited, 14 Spring Street. Sydney, New South Wales,
for services and other considerations mentioned in the
Agreement hereinafter referred to, to be allotted as follows:
10.000 when 50,000 shares have been applied for and a
further 1000 as each further 5000 shares are allotted, until
25.000 have been allotted in all to the above Company.
75.000 Ordinary shares to be held in reserve for future issue at the
discretion of the Directors.
500,000
Engineer,
Manager,
DIRECTORS
Hon. Sir CHARLES MARR. K.C.V.0.. D.S 0.. M.C.. V. 0.. Sydney.
DOUGLAS STUART WYLIE, A.S.A.A. (Eng.). A.P.A. (N.Z.). F.A.1.5..
F.N.Z.A.A., Public Accountant, Sydney.
HERMANN BEINSSEN, Esquire. Woolbroker, Sydney.
Major HAROLD JOHN BERRYMAN. A.F.C., Aeronautical
Melbourne.
Captain ERNEST MUSTAR, D.F.C.. Aviator and Company
Melbourne.
SECRETARY.
ROY QUINTON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
REGISTERED OFFICE.
14 Spring Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BANKERS.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA (All Branches).
SOLICITORS.
Messieurs Wm. WALKER & SON. 14 Castlereagh Street Sydney
Messieurs BAKER. McEWIN, LIGERTWOOD & MILLHOUSE, 185 Victoria
Square, Adelaide.
AUDITORS.
Messieurs DEAN. VICK & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Manchester
Unity Building, Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The object of this Company is the establishment of aerial transport
services throughout the Commonwealth of Australia with the latest machines
combining safety, speed and comfort with considerable passenger accommo-
dation and large freight-carrying capacity. Whilst it is not proposed to bind
the Directors to use any particular machine, or to commence service on any
particular route, as circumstances may arise which would warrant alteration
from the original plans, it is proposed (for reasons stated hereafter in ic
Prospectus) as capital becomes available to establish the following services
and us© the latest type of Junkers Aircraft: —
1. —SYDNEY to ADELAIDE.
2. ADELAIDE to PERTH. I>J ._ iaflM , Al .
3. ADELAIDE to CENTRAL AUSTRALIA and DARWIN (Alice
Springs and Tennant’s Creek).
4. MELBOURNE to ADELAIDE.
5. SYDNEY to MELBOURNE, via CANBERRA,
For these services the Company will require at least six Aeroplanes,
one for each service, with one or more spares for emergencies, taxi Bights an
general hire.
Pending the arrival of Junkers aeroplanes the Directors propose to
immediately commence the Adelaide-Darwm Service with other aeroplanes,
which are now available, and later to consider the inauguration of services
of freight machines to places at present inaccessible by steamer or railway.
EQUIPMENT.
The Company proposes to use German Junkers Aeroplanes, for the following
reasons: .
I.—Germany will take Australian wool in exchange.
2 As a result of a visit overseas, paid by one of the Company s
Directors, during which he made an extensive examination of Air
Transport lines, he considered, from the machines available, that
the most suitable aeroplanes for safe and reliable service were
Junkers Aircraft. . , , t
3. —Junkers’ machines are built entirely of metal with crash proof
fuselage, and Junkers are the only Company which guarantee
their aeroplanes. In all Junkers constructions safety is the first con-
sideration, and, although other features are by no means neglected,
particular stress is laid on landing safety. t
4. —No Junkers aeroplane is exported until that particular type has
been tested for one year on the Deutsche Luft Hansa Service in
Germany. The aeroplanes this Company will purchase have been
thus tested. . ,
5. —Depreciation is lower than in any other make of aeroplane, and
depreciation is the greatest cost in any aeroplane service.
JUNKERS AEROPLANES.
(a) Professor Junker was the pioneer of the low-wing monoplane, which
type is now being used on all fast aeroplanes.
Junkers aeroplanes are being used in Air Services all over Europe, in
Persia. South Africa, South America, China and other countries.
(b) In 1934 the Junkers Aircraft JUS2, of the Deutsche Luft Hansa, started
at Templehof, on the 29th August, at 4 p.m., and landed at Shanghai at
5.45 p.m. on September 6; the total flying hours were 58, and the
distance approximately 8500 miles. From the outset it was not intended
to attain high speeds, and only 1000 to 1200 miles on an average were
covered daily. Times of departure were mostly at night or the ear y
morning, enabling the previously fixed daily destinations to be reache
before noon or, at the latest, early in the afternoon.
(c) The seaplane. Junkers FI 3/602, “Maddalena ” designed and tested in
1920, was delivered to “Scadta,” in Columbia (South America), tor
overseas traffic from Barranquilla to Cartagena and from Barranquilla
to Santa Maria. The aeroplane was returned to Germany in
after having flown approximately 250.000 miles. Tests proved the
machine to be in excellent condition and serviceable in every rt apt c .
Junkers claim that a similar aeroplane would have a serviceable life of
over 10 years, thus reducing depreciation very considerably.
It is proposed to purchase, as capital becomes available, six Junkers
JUS2/3M triple-engine aeroplanes for the services, and two Junkers JUI bU
as emergency aeroplanes and for taxi work, pleasure trips, etc.
Following are the main characteristics of the JUS 2/3M.
|, Low wing construction with crash protected cabin.
2. —May be used as a land or seaplane.
3. —Large pay load with long range of flight.
4. —Large and easily accessible cargo space. ,
3.—High cruising speed and low landing speed (accomplished by
means of the Junkers “auxiliary wing” and minutely accurate
aero dynamical design).
6. —High degree of reliability in service owing to tnmotor design
and large reserve of power.
7. —Simple and exceedingly robust construction.
8. —Minimum wear and great length of life.
9. —All parts are easily accessible and simple to repair.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
It is estimated that Capital Expenditure will be approximately as follows:-
6 JUS2/3M Aeroplanes £2 lS’nSn
2 JUI6O Aeroplanes t, too
9 Spare Engines J.
Other Spares '5-000
Insurance Fund on’nnft
Hangars and Field Equipment
Passenger Coaches, etc 4.5UU
Preliminary Expenses, Brokerage, Advertising,
Legal, Printing, Stationery
Sundries \’ 900
Working Capital 13,500
£400,000
. ESTIMATED RETURN.
The question of returns is always of the utmost importance to the
investor, and the Directors have made very extensive investigations into the
possibilities and probabilities before placing the flotation before the public.
In arriving at estimates the average number of passengers per trip, ovei
. , 1 • . 1 ZA *. of
the services.
RECEIPTS;
SYDNEY-BROKEN HILL
BROKEN HILL to ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE to PERTH
MELBOURNE to ADELAIDE
PERTH SERVICE. INTER
CANBERRA-MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE-TENNANT’S
CREEK.
ADELAIDE-ALICE SPRINGS
DARWIN-INTERMEDIATE . .
FREIGHTS
PLEASURE TRIPS
£35,000
3,500
22,500
1,050
31.250
1 7,500
30.000
3.000
1,875
33.000
3.000
15,300
8.400
15.000
3,600
10.000
5.000
£238,975
EXPENDITURE;
HANGARS. LANDING FEES, ETC
OFFICES
MANAGER. SECRETARY and CLERICAL
PILOTS and WIRELESS OPERATORS . .
MECHANICS and OTHER EMPLOYEES
ADVERTISING
COMMISSION ON BOOKINGS
TRAVELLING EXPENSES
DIRECTORS’ FEES
BENZINE and OIL
DEPRECIATION
INSURANCE FUND
MOTOR TRANSPORT
SUNDRIES
£5,000
1,200
4.000
7.000
6.000
10,000
5.000
1.000
1,750
75.000
50.000
20.000
2,500
3.000
£191,450
£47,523
Preferential Dividend would require £687 5, leaving £40,650, less taxation,
to pay dividend on £300,000.
MAIL CONTRACTS.
The Company proposes to tender for mail contracts as occasion arises.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
The Articles of Association have been framed to conform with the
requirements of the Sydney Stock Exchange, and application will be made in
due course for listing.
The following are the material contracts:
(a) Contract dated 17th June. 1935, between the Company and Aviation
and General Investments, Limited, as to the allotment of 25.000
shares for services rendered.
(b) Contract dated 18th July, 1935. between the Company and Wylie
and Kelly, Limited, as to underwriting and sale of shares.
Full Prospectus and Brochure may be obtained on application to the Secretary
Street, Sydney. Telephone:
Australian Transcontinental Airways, Ltd., 14 Spring
85940.


w
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
C- Son Ltd.
JrtePHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide, . Pertlw
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
September Issue on Sale Saturday, September 7.
THE WEAKNESS IN THE MARKET
SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS
CLOUDED INTERNATIONAL OUTLOOK
IRON AND STEEL MERGER
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £ll2/6 per annum you may have the journal nested direct each month.
Published by Tne Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A MULLING
MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29090/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SCALES
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
21727/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
FOREIGN STAMPS. Join Empire Stamp
Club. Junior and Senior Approval Books sent.
References. —149 b Liverpool Road, Burwood,
N.S.W.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A Changing Prospect
People who look to remunerative use
of their savings for a livelihood have
reason to be perplexed about how to in-
vest their money these days. Condi-
tions, whatever else they may be, are not
stable. In 1931 Governments and finan-
cial institutions, in furthering the Pre-
miers’ Plan, introduced a programme of
interest reduction. It seemed to be a
sufficiently straight-out proposition. The
idea was to relieve those who, having
already incurred debt, were feeling the
burden of fallen prices, and also to en-
courage industrialists to finance new
enterprises at the lowest possible cost
and thus aid both production and em-
ployment.
But, as with most plans, the complete
effect was not anticipated. Low interest
rates did divert idle capital from the
usual fixed-deposit channels, but, gener-
ally speaking, the money didn’t go into
new enterprises. A lot of it concen-
trated around the Stock Exchanges, the
first indication of this being the remark-
able activity in gold shares and Consoli-
dated Securities. Most goldmines, cer-
tainly, represented new flotations, but the
greatest interest was taken in them after
they were listed on ’Change, and for a
while premiums of 200 and 300 p.c.
were more the rule than the exception
with unproved mining shows.
For some time dealings in the shares,
and not dividends from them, returned
a handsome income on otherwise idle
capital in this way put to work. Indus-
trial shares were overlooked to a great
extent. Then Sydney saw its gold-share
bubble burst. Melbourne is still having
its flutter, and fantastic tales are readily
swallowed by mugs, many of whom will
be sorry.
Interest returns on Consols, even at
present downward prices, are below £3
15s. per cent. For some time they were
around £3 per cent. Mortgage money
is generally worth 41 p.c. and less. Sound
preference shares are priced to give a
return of not much more than 41 p.c.,
and interest paid by banks on new fixed
deposits in no case exceeds 21 p.c.
People who put their money in any of
the foregoing types of investment —fixed-
interest securities—cannot expect a better
return later on or look for capital
accretion. They have no equity in the
fund or business which has use of the
money.
So long as the security is sound, the
value of the investment for the purpose
of reselling depends almost entirely on
prevailing interest rates and the date of
maturity (if any) of the investment.
With industrial ordinary shares valua-
tion is more speculative. The share-
holder has an equity in the business, and
depends on earning power for his divi-
dends. Hence the higher return —in the
long run —usually looked for from ordi-
nary shares. The immediate yield, how-
ever, as will be noticed in the cases of
many first-class ordinary shares at the
moment, is sometimes well below that
expected from preference shares, etc. The
market in such cases is paying for “pros-
pects” —future benefits in the way of in-
creased dividends and/or bonus shares.
Prices of industrial shares were some
time ago pushed up almost automatically
by the lowering trend of interest rates,
and then by the rise in wool early in
1934. Prospects of greater profits were
enhanced, and idle capital soon rushed
in to buy the right to these prospects.
That was the beginning of the present
share boom —it was a boom until a week
or so ago, since when nervousness and
profit-taking by speculators have been in
evidence.
Dearer money seems to be indicated
in the not-so-distant future. Investors,
to be on the safe side, have to look for
securities that will compensate them with
higher dividends in such an event. Pros-
pects of Australian industries (especi-
ally manufacturing) are encouraging, but
too high prices now may take the gilt off
any benefits that come with business
expansion and greater profit-earning
capacity.
Broken Hill Prop, shareholders had a
cheerful meeting in Melbourne last week.
Next interim div. is to be at the. rate of
12| p.c. (as against 10 p.c.), with every
prospect of continuance. Also scrip-
holders are to be offered one new share
for every two held at a premium of 10s.
(the market premium on the existing issue
is 495.). The new capital (£2,240,781,
including the premium) will be used not
only to help handle the increasing volume
of output, but to enable the co. to manu-
facture new lines, principally tinplates.
Establishment of this new industry is
about to commence—it will be one of the
co.’s largest subsidiaries, and will pro-
vide considerable employment. Mining,
both silver-lead and gold, is receiving
attention, and “conversations” are pro-
ceeding with Australian Iron and Steel
for the acquisition of that co.’s ord.
“Buy me one , Dave."
“ Aw , you ARE a gold-digger."
shares on an exchange of capital basis.
Those buying B.H.P. shares now at 685.,
and who take up their quota of the new
issue, will eventually obtain a return of
4.52 p.c. on the purchase so long as the
12i p.c, rate remains u„cha„ B cd.
Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.), Ltd., in
which Broken Hill Prop, and the Scot-
tish firm of similar name are interested,
is increasing its Mayfield (Newcastle,
N.S.W.) plant. The factory at present
produces welded tubes in quarter-inch to
three-inch sizes; the new mill will turn
out solid drawn steel tubes in sizes up
to six or eight inches. Present plant capa-
city is 55,000 tons a year. With the new
mill the co. expects to be able to look
after Australia’s full requirements in steel
tubes.
* * * *
War, generally speaking, in the past
has not been disastrous to Australian
industry. Reference to the tables of
company earnings in the “Wild Cat”
column of a dozen years ago gives
enlightenment. Burns Philp exhibited
increasing profits from 1915 onwards,
and then got hit by the price-collapse
of 1920. The C.S.R. showed no
diminution of earning power during
1914-18. Meggitts, Fieldings, Aus-
traliail Knitting Mills and other manu-
facturing concerns helped to fill the wants
of Australians to a much larger extent
when submarine warfare mad', importing
a perilous business. York-street and
Flinders-lane certainly didn’t do so well
during the war period, but in the light of
subsequent events the importing whole-
saler was growing superfluous, anyway.
Breweries and public-utility concerns such
as gas cos. and ferry services were hit.
In the last war, however, Australia was
involved, and had 350,000 men overseas.
Home-making and -furnishing was
retarded ; food manufacturers and meat
exporters were generally busier. Coastal
shipping cos, weren’t adversely affected.
In short, Australian industries during
1914-18, by the Commonwealth’s war-
time isolation, were given an unpre-
cedented opportunity to establish them-
selves. Australian manufacturing produc-
tion rose from £45,600,000 in 1910 to
£110,000,000 in 1921.
* ♦ ♦ *
The W. R. Carpenter shipping line—•
two 9000-ton Diesel-driven vessels, put
into service in 1934—is reported by the
co.’s chairman to be now running
“smoothly and profitably.” The New
Guinea air fleet, also enlarged recently,
carried 24 times as much freight during
1934-35 as in any previous year,
Southern Pacific Insurance Co. has been
floated, owned and controlled by W.R.C.
and Co to carry the co.’s insurance
risks. Despite disturbed markets, copra
1S al a ,? et ,! er pr ! ce . an tb is time last
year ’ a , the 0^ ltlook
Australian knitHm* ivlills itw
declared a final ord. div. of 4 p.c., making
?4 p.c. for the year to July 31 the samf
distribution as in last year. This concern
and its Yarra Falls and other affiliations
represent the largest textile organisation
in the Commonwealth. The interest in
Julius Kayser (Aust.) has recently been
sold by the group. A.K.M.’s shares are
being bought at 28s. in the market (there
was disappointment about the latest
div.); Yarra Falls scrip fetches 425.
* * * ♦
The downward trend in mortgage in-
terest rates was checked during July. In
June 52 p.c, of the N.S.W. business regis-
tered was done at rates of 4+ p.c. or
under; last month the proportion in that
category dropped to 42 p.c., 4here being
a corresponding increase in the 4+ to 5
p.c. class. After contrafting during
July, yields on Consols again widened
in August, returns on long-dated
issues now being back to Aug.-Dee.,
1933, averages. The £3 7s. 6d. per cent,
issue of a month or two ago is now
around £9B, as against an issue price of
£99 10s.
* * * *
Gold has fallen a few pence below
£7 sterling an ounce in London. The
cause is somewhat hard to define, but
the fact demonstrates that Britain’s credit
has improved compared with the credit
of gold-standard countries. Migratory
capital is a feature of international
finance these days; it has fled back and
forth across the Atlantic and the Channel
in anticipation of financial and political
developments. The cheapening of gold
(a prized commodity during a war) in
terms of sterling suggests that Britain is
still regarded as a safe-deposit by ner-
vous foreigners with capital to protect.
In addition, British trade continues to
expand.
* * * *
Tin (spot) has steadied around £220
(slg.) in London, the forward (three
months) price being still about £lO a
ton lower. Evidently users of the metal
anticipate that the increase in production
that will follow the lifting of the restric-
tion quota from 50 p.c. to 65 p.c, of
standard tonnages will result in a lower
price later on. During July consump-
tion was 818 tons in excess of produc-
tion, and visible stocks were reduced to
12,537 tons, so that greater production
may be justified. Malayan tin shares
listed in Australia, however, have shown
a tendency to ease lately. Tin is a
highly speculative metal.
Lead and spelter continue strong in
London, the former metal going to £l6
Is. 3d. last week, with zinc at £l5 6s. 3d.
Silver, which rose to above 3s. an ounce
after Roosevelt last lifted the U.S.A.
domestic price, is now around 2s. 7d.
per fine ounce. Barrier mining shares
are a trifle weaker than they were,
Norths being at £7 ss. and Souths at
£4 Bs. This movement is in sympathy
with the general trend of the share-
market.
* * * *
Tallow and hides are comparatively
dear at present. Boot-manufacturers are
talking of raising prices owing to the
greater cost of leather, but in most
States, notably N. S. Wales and Victoria,
there is .exceptionally keen competition
in the footwear trade. Amongst articles
of clothing shoes have probably fallen
most in price during the depression.
Wilcox Mofflin shares are above par on
the market —in its last term the co. paid
9.1 p.c. Its profits are susceptible to the
hides and tallow markets.
* * + +
South Aus. in 1934 produced 9,500,000
gallons of wine, a drop of 3,000,000 com-
pared with the preceding vintage. The
Commonwealth bounty of Is. 3d. a gal-
lon on exported wine continues until
February 28, 1937; thereafter annual
reductions of a penny a gallon operate
until 1939-40, when the subsidy will
amount to Is. a gallon. The Adelaide
Chamber of Commerce urges education
of the public in the merits of our wines,
and suggests that more than half the
varieties would be improved if drunk
with the addition of water.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Cardinal Richelieu”
As in all Arliss excursions into history,
the gilt gingerbread of romance is sub-
stituted for sober facts in this talkie at
Sydney State. Nevertheless, it manages
to give a very fair thumbnail sketch of
the great cardinal in addition to excel-
lent entertainment. Bulwer Lytton’s
play has provided the' outline. The
period is towards the end of Richelieu’s
career, when he repelled the Spanish in-
vasion. Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden
was dead ; Father Joseph, the cardinal’s
crafty lieutenant, was dead, too; the
Dauphin Gaston was a discredited
refugee in Lorraine; but they are all
brought back, for they arc picturesque
props.
There are some melodramatic situa-
tions. Denied access to the King’s apart-
ment the cardinal reaches it by way of a
secret door, and pockets a document
Gordon Marker in “Road House” at
Sydney Embassy.
ordering his dismissal; threatened with
assassination by nobles in the king’s
presence, he flourishes his crucifix and
cows his monarch and his assailants with
threats of excommunication; reported
dead, he appears suddenly at Court with
all his customary pomp and advances
slowly toward the throne, armed with
evidence that will ruin those enemies
who but a moment before were rejoic-
ing at his assassination. There is his-
torical justification for this kind of
thing; we know that Richelieu was
theatrical or nothing.
For the rest, Arliss’s Richelieu is in-
distinguishable from his Disraeli, his Vol-
taire or his Rothschild, save for a make-
up with pointed beard and upward-
twirling moustache that gives him a
superficial resemblance to the Hohen-
zollern who lives at Doom. He has the
inevitable lapses into tender sentiment,
with a pretty niece and her love affair
us the inspiration, and the same capa-
city for wit of the laconic, pawky order.
The subsidiary casting is admirable.
Gustavus Adolphus is a masterpiece ol
jovial rascality; the Dauphin, in another
way, is as effeminate and despicable as
the younger Martin Harvey’s Louis in
“Saint Joan.” The chief nobles, Father
Joseph, the queen and the young couple
who supply love interest are all vividly
etched. The backgrounds are worthy of
the scenes enacted before them.
“The Wedding Night”
A movie with a message of sorts at
Sydney Plaza. When it begins Gary
Cooper is hard up. His latest novel is
refused scornfully by his publisher. There
is nothing for the author and his frivo-
lous wife, Helen Vinson, to do but econo-
mise in the wilds of Connecticut. Here
he meets Manya, a Polish peasant girl
(Anna Sten). His wife, tiring of the
country, returns to N. York ; he falls in
love with Manya, she with him.
The complaisance of Manya’s father
and young man in face of her visits to
the novelist’s house (she eventually
spends a night there) suggests that some
form of droit de seigneur exists in this
part of America. Not till after Manya
has married the peasant (Ralph Bel-
lamy plays him admirably) does the in-
evitable brawl begin. Manya is killed
while trying to protect the novelist.
His love affair provides Gary Cooper
with a plot; he writes a story about
American Poles which delights his pub-
lisher ; Helen Vinson wins him back;
there are even hints that he may give
up whisky.
In effect, poor Manya dies so that
another 7s. 6d. novel may live. To a
reviewer who receives about a dozen of
these evanescent works every week it
doesn’t seem worth it. However, the
film has at least one worth-while feature
—the acting. Gary Cooper has never
seemed so like a man, so unlike a star ;
Anna Sten is a true peasant, voice, ges-
tures, figure, boots; Helen Vinson is
sophistication personified as the peasant
girl’s foil, and the actors and actresses
who play the minor Polish parts are re-
dolent of the soil.
“It Happened in New York”
Heather Angel, an American working-
girl with an English accent, is engaged
to Lyle Talbot, a New York taxi-driver
and he-man. By a series of far-
fetched coincidences he finds himself
associated in a publicity stunt with Ger-
trude Michael (a world-famous film star),
while Miss Angel pairs off with a prince
who was intended originally for Miss
Michael. The Comic business is old (stuff
about a lost Pekinese, about Mr. Talbot’s
taxi, about Miss Angel’s censorious land-
lady, about the effeminate prince who is
assaulted by the manly taxi-driver), but
it is rushed through with such zest that
its gets plenty of laughs. Also at the
Plaza.
“Mississipi”
Bing Crosby is again fluttering his eye-
lids and crooning—this time at Sydney
Prince Edward. A Philadelphian of the
crinoline era, he refuses on his wedding
eve to fight a senseless duel with a rival.
Disgraced, he is shown the door by Gail
Jack Buchanan in “Brewster's Millions,"
at Sydney Mayfair.
Patrick, daughter of Claude Dilling-
water, a Southern colonel. Joan Bennett
alone sympathises, but he leaves her, a
schoolgirl, to sing on commodore W. C.
Fields’s Mississippi showboat.
If he wouldn’t fight for honor, he does
for his right to croon—accidentally kill-
ing the river bully. Billed thereafter as
the singing killer, he makes play with
“Swanee River,” “Soon” and “It’s Easy
to Remember” ; “Down by the River”
is perhaps his best number. Of course,
he returns to Dillingwater’s white-pillared
mansion to assert his manhood, but it’s
Joan he claims, not Gail.
It is W. C. Fields’s film. The poker
game which he plays with three sharp-
shooting crooks and a pack consisting
mostly of aces is a delight.
“Private Worlds”
This one, at Sydney Prince Edward,
discovers the mental worlds of doctors
Garry Marsh in “The Green Pack,’ at
Sydney Mayfair.
and patients in a modern bedlam. They
are weird, these hidden worlds. That of
Dr. Jane Everest, a psychiatrist, contains
her love for an executed army deserter.
Her colleague, Dr. McGregor, leaning on
Jane’s knowledge more than he realises,
lives in one whgre his ambitions are real-
ised. When he fails to become head of
the asylum Jane, for the sake of his
career and his fluffy little wife, prevents
him from resigning, then has to fight to
save him from going to the pack with
the new superintendent’s wayward sister.
His wife becomes unbalanced. An acci-
dental fall shocks her and the hospital
organisation back to sanity. Definitely
not a film for the bairns.
It is splendidly played. Claudette Col-
bert is Jane; Joel McCree is her col-
league ; Joan Bennett is the wife—a
much more human figure here than in
“Mississippi.” Charles Boyer, the super-
intendent who rids Jane of her dream
lover, has a foreign accent, but his neu-
rotic sister, Helen Vinson, is 100 p.c.
American.
“Drake of England”
Limns England in her bravest days.
The knighting of Drake on the deck of
his ship, the hauling of his tiny fleet to
sea in the face of the gale, the sending
of the fireships into the midst of the
Spaniards as they lie in Calais —all these
stir the blood. And so does Drake.
Matheson Lang makes him a bluff,
straightforward seaman, a fighter, a lover
of England first and of the sea. “Blunt
speaking,” says Elizabeth, “here is a
man.” And later, “You have so many
enemies, my pirate, I think you’re be-
coming famous.” Athene Seyler is Eliza-
beth. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Something Always Happens”
Also at the Lyceum. This is the one
about the girl who helps a young fellow
to ruin her father’s business. Fortu-
nately the father has other businesses and
doesn’t mind.
“Tarzan the Fearless”
E, R. Burroughs’s exploitation of Kip-
ling’s Mowgli returns to the screen
at Sydney Lyric. This time Buster
Crabbe is the incoherent person who
swings from tree to tree, converses con-
fidentially with apes, larrups lions, conks
crocodiles and endears himself to ele-
phants. The young lady who succumbs
to his manly charmJs Jacqueline Wells.
Her registration of moments in the life
of a startled fawn is one of the fantasia’s
most comic features. That lost tribe of
ancient Egypt the Hessiharians wanders
sadly through the dream looking like the
chorus in “Aida,” villainous Englishmen
in pith helmets with Bojvery accents plot
evil persistently, and chimpanzees are
kept busy running to Tarzan with reports
of all that is toward. Kids lap it up
with gusto, and they’re holidaying from
school in N. S. Wales just now.
“Laddie”
Of the “Little Women”-“Anne of
Green Gables’ vintage; story from a
Stratton-Porter novel. Nicely acted by
the adult principals, John Beal and
Gloria Stuart, but the stars are little
Virginia Weidler and Jimmy Butler,
small sister and thirteen-or-so brother of
the hero. They’re a lot cuter than life,
but they make first-class comedy.
Dressing is eighteen-sixtyish. The women
wear it with an air—the men look lout-
ish. Dramatic ingredients are hackneyed,
but interest is well sustained. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Arizonian”
In this fast-moving excursion into
Dcadwooddickery Richard Dix is the
two-gun hero, so deadly and menacing
of aspect that, unless he is dealing with
more than a dozen enemies at a time, he
disdains to reach for his Colts. Abetted
by Preston Foster, another formidable
gunman who joins the forces of law and
order because he admires Dix, the hero,
as town marshal, prevails against the
machinations of a wicked sheriff, Louis
Calhern, and wins the heart and hand of
the beauteous Margot Grahame, who
has one of the pleasantest contralto voices
this commentator has heard from the
screen for many a day. There are no
dull moments, and the amount of ammu-
nition expended must have made a size-
able item in the costs of production.
Also at the Capitol.
Some First Nights
After being wrapped away in tulip
petals and Dutch cheese for well over
20 years “Miss Hook of Holland” was
given an airing at Sydney Royal on
Saturday, little the worse for the experi-
ence. There is not a great deal of plot
or action in the play, which appeals
mainly by virtue of its quiet charm. Its
simplicity is in strong contrast to the
Bing Crosby in "Mississippi," at Sydney
Prince Edward.
more sophisticated of later musical-
comedies. The acme of its naughtiness
is reached in Mina’s song “A Pink Petti
from Peter.”
Miss Marie Bremner Hook makes a
sweet and charming Dutch girl, and her
voice is as good as ever, but she doesn t
give the impression of enjoying her part.
This can’t be said of Sylvia Kellaway.
whose Mina is a delight. Cecil Kellaway’s
Mr. Hook, benevolently autocratic and
dodderingly helpless, is very good indeed.
Gus Bluett (Simon Slinks, a loafer)
keeps his side of the humor going well.
He is not quite so obstrusively himselt
as in previous parts, and that is all to the
good. And Sydney Wheeler (a Very
Ordinary Dutchman) gets more laughs
from absolute silence than many come-
dians would from three hours’ wisecrack-


m
M i
ffm
■: - -
*
m
wim
is
m
KL
I#*'
MUIMI.I WkWJH! MW»ig!l
1
a
.
DAY is over—toil is done. Twinkling lights are
the beckoning fingers of home. Yet as the
shadows fall no loneliness settles on the country
home, for there's a dual-wave radioplayer by the
fireside—and that means the world's entertainment
is yours for the mere desire.
The 5814 is an ideal battery-operated dual-wave
receiver for the country home. Micro-index tuning.
Philips Super-Series Valves, highest quality com-
ponents and accessories, and a cabinet beyond
comparison are the outstanding features. Ready to
operate £47/17/6. Terms if desired.
Apply to your nearest radio
dealer for a demonstration of
the 5814 radioplayer, or write
and we will arrange.
ŵ
PHILIPS
The micro-index dial can
never become obsolete
station name chart can be
changed in an instant.
1935
ẁ
Advert of Philips Lamps (Australasia) Ltd. (Radio Dept.), Head Office and Showrooms, Philips House, 69-73 Clarence Street, Sydney. 5R 20
ing. Sidney Burchall and Hilton Porter
repeat their “Desert Song” roles of suc-
cessful and unsuccessful lovers admirably.
(It’s to be hoped Porter never manages
to turn the tables ; he scowls so well.)
The ballet and chorus work hard
(quite apart from rolling Hook’s barrels
about and juggling cheeses), and for their
clog-dancing and (male chorus) “Bottles”
they deserve a special paragraph.
* * *
Audiences at the New Tivoli, Sydney,
continue to be entertained by Frank
O’Brian and his mirthmakers. The latest
revue, “Going to Maxim’s,” is up to the
mark of previous efforts: Frank O’Brian
scores in a number of breezy sketches,
especially those in partnership with Tony
Toner. Among the new artists are the
Aitken Sisters, who purvey Scottish dit-
ties and jokes, and Stan Jones, a master
with the accordion.
* * *
At Sydney Con. Hall one evening last
week Four Just Men of Budapest sat m
a little group on the stage and dealt equit-
ably with Beethoven, Ravel and Schu-
bert. Their mutual confidence in the
righteousness of their intentions and in
their ability to hold the scales fairly was
speedily communicated to their audience.
It was an occasion not for the use of a
critical ear, but for submitting willingly
to the charm of great music. Like the
players in a ballad made popular by
Peter Dawson, “each one made the most
of his chance,” and it was now the ’cello, t
now the viola and next a violin that drew
attention to itself. In their Schubert
playing especially these fiddlers truly do
reveal new beauties. Not less, but rather
more, enjoyable was their performance
the following evening, listened to per
radio. In chamber music a composer is
more at slippered ease than in full
orchestral score, and foursomes sound
best in a not very large apartment. Beet-
hoven, Schubert and Dvorak were paid
worthy homage on this occasion.
•b
The State Orchestra, under Dr. Bain-
ton’s baton, demonstrated at Sydney
Town Hall last week that it is becoming
a really first-class team. Schubert’s
Seventh Symphony was beautifully pre-
sented ; Dvorak’s “Carnival Overture”
was full of vigor, Liadov’s arrangement
of Russian folk-songs roused a storm of
applause and a couple of Wagnerian ex-
cerpts were well done. Tenor Ben Wil-
liams sang a group of Wagnerian operatic
arias with much acceptance.
•I- * * *
The Viennese Boys’ Choir, which
appeared at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
on Saturday, comprises 18 to 20 children
—mainly with fair skins and all of extra-
ordinarily tender years—and a male con-
ductor, and all are anonymous, even the
name of the conductor not being men-
tioned on the programme. Hence it is
difficult to discuss a performance which
was full of individual qualities. The
opening panel of old classical and
ecclesiastical songs was sung with un-
usual subtlety, and it was interesting to
note, considering the severe limitations
of the boyish vocal range, how much
variety was possible. The altos and high
sopranos were exquisite, and there was
one high soprano, a boy a little taller
than the rest, whose purity of tone and
perfection of rhythm reached lyrical
heights. Like a duet on the oboe and
clarinet, the performance had to be
judged on its own merits and not by
comparison with what a full orchestra
might have done ; nevertheless, one occa-
sionally longed for a rousing baritone
or a deep bass, and this was especially
so when the troupe performed “Domestic
War,” Schubert’s opera in one act. For
this there was a background of scenery
on the Town Hall stage, and the char-
acters dressed their parts as old men and
women, lover and mistress, generals,
courtiers and the like ; the acting was
clever and amusing, regarded from the
standard of a school charade, but as
opera it was more quaint than impres-
sive, and musically it was dull. Two
encores of Schubert songs, however, were
beautiful. Mozart, Haydn and Schubert
himself sang in this choir, which has been
continuously recruited from the younger
generation of Vienna for the last 500
years.
* * *
“H.M.S. Pinafore” warped into His
Majesty’s docks, Melbourne, on Satur-
day night. One of J.C.W.’s doorkeepers,
who has the port of a retired general,
told this commentator that he missed the
first Savoy production owing to the fact
that he did not start theatregoing till
1879 ; but he remembered several pre-
vious Melbourne performances and
agreed with the writer that the present is
as good as any, and is so like the produc-
tion of four years ago, even to the names
of the cast, that it is almost identical.
Evelyn Gardiner sang “Little Buttercup”
with pleasing resonance, and Gregory
Stroud was suitably stiff as Captain Cor-
coran, while as Sir Joseph Porter Men-
zies, who has been telling Melbourne
"Empire State,” a modernist impression, by Mary Allen.
about the Oxford Movement, used his
beautiful legs to emphasise the points of
Gilbert’s jokes. A considerable audience
surveyed the 57-year-old classic with
warm approval and encored everything
except “God Save the King.”
Current Artbursts
The havoc the depression has wrought
in New York is made manifest in Mary
Allen’s street scenes of Manhattan at
her exhibition at Melb. Fine Arts Gallery.
The Empire State
building has a
strong list to port,
the Chrysler is
apparently side-
stepping to avoid
the bump and the
leaning tower of
Pisa has nothing
on the old Wool-
worth. Miss Allen,
who recently re-
turned with a num-
ber of paintings
which have already
been exhibited at
important centres
in America, is so
much of a modern-
ist that she makes
this morning’s
paper look like an
antique. But she
has mastered the
technique of art.
People who might
have had • doubts
and thought that
some of the New
York views were
really a section of
grandma’s -crazy
quilt surrounded
by a frame arc
routed when Miss
Allen forgets the ritual of her
faith and shows what she can do. Her
“Dancer Resting” is an excellent example
of strong drawing with a highly-
developed sense of form. So is a nude
study. The artist is catholic in the matter
of mediums, handling oils, water-color,
crayon, pastel, pencil and tempera with
equal skill. She even experiments with
black-ink outlines in colored drawings.
She shows landscapes as well as pictures
of city streets —treated with two-fisted,
red-blooded, 100 per cent, modernism.
Miss Allen is obviously sincere, but she
draws and paints mostly in an unknown
language which needs the discovery of a
Rosetta Stone to make her meaning
apparent to the Philistines.
•b *J*
The most successful of the pictures
exhibited by Isabel McKenzie at
Sedon’s Gallery, Melbourne, are the
Sydney Harbor scenes, mostly painted
from considerable heights and full of blue
water and green foliage. Most attractive
offering in oils is “The Glade,” full of
light and color. In water-color “House-
boat” has possibly best presented the aim
of the artist. “Randwick Street” and
“Small Craft” are efforts to deal with
low-toned greys and greens. The most
distinctive picture is the Gauguinesque
“Grey Day at Athol,” but it lacks the
vivid colors of the Frenchman.
4* b b b
An artist with a keen eye for the pic-
turesque and a simple but effective
method of recording it is J. H. Young,
whose water-colors and pastels adorn the
walls of Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Syd-
ney. He’s a retired businessman, and
art is his hobby, but there’s nothing ama-
teurish (in the modern disparaging sense)
about his work. The N. S. Wales Gal-
lery has acquired one of his sketches,
“Martigues, Evening.” Among the
cheeriest offerings in a cheery collection
are bits of the Sydney waterside. “Cre-
morne, Evening,” and “Early Morning
Mists” exhibit the quieter, more delicate
beauties of the harbor; “Careening
Cove,” “Neutral Bay” and “Manly
Boats, Kurraba,” are full of spring sun-
shine. The pastel drawings are ’all
charming.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865,
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. ■ • 1,250.000
Capital Paid Up .. £ J’nnn’nnn
Reserve Fund .. ... •• •• 1,000.000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
Son Office: II LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Your home is .. .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modem convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Bunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
Weak
Stomach
POOR
HEALTH
Sick Stomach means acid fermentation, gas pressure
on the heart; perhaps dangerous ulceration. Heart,
chest and abdominal pains, burning sensation, sour
taste, dislike of food, dizziness—these mean misery.
Get ease and restoration! Through Prof. H.
Maclean, of St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, millions
have found stomach peace this way. And more;
for Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder adds to instant
relief recuperation of both stomach and bowels.
Perpetual dosing no longer necessary. To end both
cause and effects of your disorder, get genuine
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder. A sure shield
in cases of Indigestion, Gastritis, Dyspepsia, Heart-
burn. Palpitation, Ulceration, Sick Headache, Sour-
ness,' Biliousness, etc. Why lose health and risk an
operation through stomach derangement when
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder can so quickly,
surely, make you better? Eat like a youngster again
—without fear! Results are astonishing. Chemists
sell HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach Powder at 2/6,
or package posted to order. (Add 4d. post.)
Amalgamated Laboratories, Carrington Street, Sydney.
To Gef Better Better Get
Harrison-Maclean
STOMACH POWDER
The Supreme
Advertising
Medium
for Western
Australia
Rate Cards and Full Particulars from
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Australia sends congratulations to the
Duke of Gloucester, who has not only
picked his girl but picked his furniture.
His bride-to-be is the flashing-eyed Lady
Alice Montagu-Douglas-Scott, third
daughter of the Duke of Buccleuch. The
royal romance is the outcome of a
lifelong friendship.
Queen Astrid of Belgium, nine years
ago one of the loveliest brides the lovely
Cathedral of St. Gudule in Brussels had
ever blessed, is dead in a motor accident
in Switzerland. Her marriage with King
Leopold was like the flowering of some
perfect romance. When her babies were
old enough to be taken for walks by their
nurses in the gardens opposite the Royal
Palace, she and her husband were often
to be seen with them. On other occa-
sions the good-looking young couple
were to be met driving or walking about
their capital.
Just about the time a grateful Govern-
ment was presenting Alexander Macleay
with a grant of 54 acres in Elizabeth
Bay, France was waking to the knowledge
that she had given to the world a man
of genius. Victor Hugo, young, newly
married, was pouring out lyrics, odes
and romances. In the days when the
Elizabeth Bay gardens were being ex-
claimed over by Sydney’s belles and.
beaux, Victor was writing his Cromwell.
Last week, 50 years after his death, the
French community in Sydney honored
the anniversary of Victor Hugo by a
party in Elizabeth Bay House. This is
one of the few remaining bits of archi-
tecture that recall the leisured and
spacious Sydney of the “pure merinos.”
France’s acting Consul-General and
Mrs. Edmond Meyer lived up to their
background as they stood receiving the
guests that streamed across the red-car-
peted steps through the wide doorway.
The Consul gracefully kissed each lady’s
hand. Mrs. Meyer’s black chiffons and
wide black hat were lit up by an armful
of red carnations. Niece Irma Meyer, in
a brown and white ensemble, gave a
helping hand. A programme of music
and Victor Hugo’s poems beguiled the
late afternoon, but Belgium’s Consul-
General, who had been so happy arrang-
ing it, was absent owing to the tragic
death of his country’s young Queen. For
this reason, too, Lady Isaacs did not
come to the party. Premier Stevens
spoke a glowing eulogy of the dead poet.
The Bertie Kellys were snapped by the
cameras —her blue hat and Arctic fox
worthy the attention. Hugh Poynter’s
lady was attractive in browns. Aubrey
Halloran, C. H. Bertie and Harry Budge
and his lady were among those who ad-
mired the “V.H.” in red carnations on
the long tea-table. Mrs. Bader captured
spring in her frock and hat. The Alfred
Wunderlichs, the Professorial Water-
houses, the Ben Fullers, the Frank
Wrights and a flight of sleekly-plumaged
sons and daughters of France honored
the poet.
Harry Dangar’s engagement to
Leeuwin Hickson caused quite a flutter,
for Harry has been for the past few years
one of the State’s most eligible bachelors.
Not only has he money and position
(a son of the R. H. Dangars, he’s heir to
Turee, Coolah, a lovely old station home
that doesn’t get into the papers), but his
dark looks are more than f.a.q. His
acting is well above amateur standard,
and he has won recognition as an artist’
in open field with no favor. Miss Hick-
son is not so widely known in town
circles. She is a country girl, only daugh-
ter of the W. L. Hicksons, of Malabar,
Singleton, and the two families are old
friends. She is small and dark and, when
this Letter saw her last week, as sparkling
as her brand-new ring—a sapphire clus-
tered in diamonds. The wedding is not
due till after next Christmas.
The A.B.C. gave a music party, and
invited the press, also some musicians.
It would have been even greater fun if
they’d supplied one and all with a ques-
tionnaire: “Which movement did you
prefer, and why?” “Give your reasons
for thinking this quartet superior (in-
ferior) to others you have heard in Syd-
ney.” But the A.B.C. is as Christian in
spirit as the Y.M.C.A., and didn’t re-
taliate for all it's pinpricks by making a
pincushion of the editors, sub-editors,
critics, social writers and gossip writers
who sat at ease in the Australia ball-
room listening to the Budapest Quartet.
And, by the way, is this name a sort of
trade-mark, or does it actually denote
the country of origin?
Heavens, how they play! Such music
is the luxury of kings. As one listened, the
thought arose that stringed instruments
and candleglow were the fitting accom-
paniments to life’s aristocracies; jazz
bands and Kleig lights are what progress
and the mechanical age provide for us.
its children. Against the glowing ara-
besque of such music it is easy to imagine
a leisured time when a slim Venetian
prince breakfasted on candied chest-
nuts and champagne. Who were at the
party? A.B.C. Commissioner Cleary, as
proud of the quartet as if he’d hatched it
himself; the Cyril Monks, Bryce Carter,
Henry Stahl, loud and knowledgeable
applauders ; Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who took
a back seat, though her blue and silver
frocking was stage-box ; the Horners, the
operatic De Abravanels, the wives of the
players and so on.
The committee that worked for the
bridge party in aid of the Convent of
the Good Shepherd, Ashfield, will have
over £BO to hand in as the result of its
efforts. Mrs. Bertie Kelly and Miss Kate
Egan are jubilant. Farmer’s mopped up
19 guineas in tea money, which means
that at least 400 thirsts were slaked.
Everything was given: tickets, sweets
and prizes. But, of course, every silver
lining has its cloud. This time it’s the
entertainment tax.
Jean Mori’s good profile is seen to
advantage on Sydney’s amateur stage. A
striking piece of work was her Lucrece
at the Savoy recently. Her voice well
known to radio audiences. A Peter Pan
photograph.
The Blaxland Galleries saw a gather-
ing of the clans when the Scots held their
ball. Scots as Scots never quietly perco-
late through a ballroom. They descend
on it. Glengarries bristling, kilts swing-
ing, bagpipes rollicking, and when, as is
the case in Sydney, the pipe band has a
drummer six feet five inches tall, a regu-
lar he-man draped in a leopard skin, it’s
time for the Sassenach to take cover.
The Governor-General and Lady Isaacs
seemed positively to thrive on the excite-
ment of their entry, and smiled with
genuine pleasure on the fourteen sonsy
debs. whose forebears had lived north of
the Tweed.
There were nearly 1000 dancers, and
the debs., who glided into a special waltz
with their tartan-clad partners, received
a burst of applause. Mrs. J. R. Patrick,
wife of the society's president (he's at
present travelling foreign), and Mrs. J.
W. Kidd, wife of the acting-president,
who received the vice-regals, were hand-
some in off-white satin and sapphire-
blue laces. Ermine and pink hyacinths
topped off Lady Isaacs’s pearl-grey
satins. Sylvia Purves, in attendance,
wore her crepes pink, and appeared to
have a good lime. In an official group
that included aides Bracegirdle and G. P.
Hunt were Police Commissioner Mackay
and former Commissioner Childs, with
Mrs. Mackay and Mrs. Childs. High-
land Society stalwarts George Morice and
H. C. Norton were also among the gay.
Margaret Baxter is one of the best-
known and most popular Australians in
London. Her association with the Royal
Empire Society (she has the distinction
of being on its council) and with the
overseas section of the Forum Club keeps
her in close contact with visitors from
the Commonwealth and the Dominions.
Miss Baxter was among notable women
included in the jubilee honors, and
was commanded to Buckingham Palace
to have her M.B.E. slipped into position
by King George. The investiture took
place in the early afternoon, and, as the
order was afternoon dress, the Sydney
woman wore black taffetas and chiffon,
slightly trained, and a black picture hat
around which a green feather curled.
The reception-room of the Women’s
Club was packed tight for the yearly
meeting of the Rachel Forster Hospital.
Indeed, if you were a late-comer, you
hesitated to push the big glass doors
open, for a row of standing women
found support against them. The low
stage held two rows of women important
in the hospital administration: presi-
dents, doctors, mayoresses, almoners.
Right at the end, where his chair threat-
ened to topple into the audience, sat
Minister for Health Fitzsimons. Next to
him sat Dame Constance D'Arcy in a
becoming burgundy suit. Her speech was
mostly to the glory of almoners, and the
hospital’s worker in this direction, Kate
Ogilvie, should have felt a proud woman.
As usual, this amazing institution run by
women shows a credit balance —£447. A
fine humanitarian speech was made by
Dr. Lucy Gullett. With deadly accuracy
and an economy of words that would
have left the blue pencil of her famous
father little to sub-edit she stressed the
abundance of hospitals for the rich in
Sydney, against the few for the poor.
Mrs. W. H. Read presided, and the names
of Doctors Nell Farrar, Addie Walker
and Ida Saunders were mentioned with
appreciation. After that came tea for all.
Among the Thursday night fleet of
foot at the Australia were Premier
Stevens’s daughter Gwen and her brand-
new betrothed, Philip S. Rudder. The
young man’s parents, the A. E. Rudders,
of Cremorne, gave a dinner-party that
was a congratulation to the engaged pair
and a jubilation over the second anni-
versary of the wedding of their daughter
and son-in-law F. G. Greives. The Pre-
mier took his hand off the helm of State
and came to the party with his wife.
Gwen is a graduate of Sydney Uni.
Psychology is her pet subject. Just now
she is doing psychology research work
on the honorary staff of the Rachel For-
ster Hospital.
As Jane Rodner, Mrs. Kenelm Dormer
(she was a Toohey) is becoming well
known as a writer. Her new novel. The
Triumph of Peter Baring, has its setting
in Kenya, where Mrs. Dormer has lived
for years. The Dormer coffee plantation
is flourishing ; so is the garden which is
the novelist’s delight.
Olive Kelso King is busy talking Scout
Week Ball. Three things, she says, are
the highlights. First, there is the presen-
tation of debs, to the Governor and Lady
Hore-Ruthven. The number is limited
even the kindliest Governor grows tired
of too much lamb —so girls arc asked
to send in their names at once. Next in
importance conies the prize offered by
Miss Mary Fairfax to the seller of the
most tickets. And, thirdly, the ball will
be broadcast.
Many cars carried their cargoes from
Elizabeth Bay House to the Arts Club
on Friday. Flerc a five-to-seven was in
progress, a little compliment from the
club members to founder Mrs. Florence
Taylor. Looking very handsome, her
white and carnation-pink patterned cape
frock accompanied by a wide hat of pea-
cock blues, Mrs. Taylor stood, unflinch-
ing. through a double barrage of “For
She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” In between
were sandwiched speeches of laudation —
the one by Aubrey Halloran so full of
the right word and spirit that it called
forth cheers, and the second round ol
musical honors. There were hundreds
of savory-nibblers, and Mrs. E. Wunder-
lich, in black velvet and a wide white lace
collar, was among the honors-winners for
looks.
Giant pens, scissors and pint- (or were
they paste?) pots were the decorations
that cheered the arrivals to the Journal-
ists’ Ball at David Jones’s. There was
quite a kick in the night; and, as there
was a case of champagne in it for the
winners, the different newspapers had
thought up inspired schemes of decora-
tions for their particular sections of the
ballroom. Tables bloomed in beauty or
novelty, as there were prizes to be
snicked off by the artistic and ingenious
young and not-so-young. The A.J.A.
Benevolent Fund benefits.
Women musicians are on their mettle.
The result is we are about to launch our
first women’s symphony orchestra. Mrs.
Jensen is its founder, and she will also
be its conductor. Fourteen well-known
musicians have already enrolled, and ol
course there's room for many more. Mrs.
Jensen has conducted women’s orchestras
in London and in Hollywood, and was
for some time senior music instructress
to the London County Council. All the
Feminists and Dr. Edgar Bainton sup-
port the idea.
Shiplovers bowled along before a
summer breeze of laughter raised by the
performance of Noel Coward’s “I II
Leave It to You.” The Kooroora
Dramatic Club was responsible for
the amusing evening; the “Woman s
Mirror” designer composed the dresses.
The Savoy was comfortably filled, so the
shiplovers, whatever their financial prob-
lems, should find these a little easier to
solve.


The Rlehanluon Chain Hotel
m
13
is
1
w.ti*, v >:
m
m
If *
SB-
i it
|| J s
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
128-132 Spencer Street, .Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast- from. . 12/6
’Phone; F 4141 UO lines).
■(
i*Sc4Shr:
c u**
o \|oH
c
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1316 of 1935.
BETWEEN WILLIAM BRAMWELL PEEL
Petitioner
And GLADYS EVELYN PEEL formerly
GLADYS EVELYN BLACKETT Re-
spondent.
TO GLADYS EVELYN PEEL late of Ray-
mond Terrace.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
BRAMWELL PEEL has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-fifth day of November 1935
and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
'DATED this Thirtieth day of August, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk.
C. D. ROBERTS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Young Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1121 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY WORTHINGTON Peti-
tioner
And FRANK WORTHINGTON Respon-
dent.
TO FRANK WORTHINGTON formerly of
Casino in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
WORTHINGTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of November next and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitors
free of charge. ... „ .
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ASHER, OLD & JONES, 16 Spring Street,
Sydney, Agents of RALPH TAYLOR, Solicitor
for Petitioner, Tenterfield.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week’s biggest social function, the
Lord Mayor’s Ball, was not Youth’s night
out, for most of our civic officials reached
the age of discretion some time ago;
but Cr. and Mrs. Wales did the thing
nobly. More guests than usual betook
themselves to the gallery ; and what a
different gallery from the expanse of seats
that worries concert promoters! There
were fir-trees, bushy pagodas, twinkling
golden lights and a cypress hedge over
which the heads of the band were visible.
Painted canvas turned into stonework the
balustrade, over which were trailing
creepers of ivy. As completely hidden as
if it had never existed was the desolate
stage, with its background of organ pipes;
in its place was a vivid English garden
painted on a drop scene and carried for-
ward with a real waterfall burbling under
a weeping-willow, terraces of lawns
green with chopped grass, and flower-
beds of cinerarias, cyclamens and
hyacinths ablaze in their closely-spaced
pot-plants.
Supper was served in the Lower Hall,
in the basement annex and upstairs,
where the traffic all night was tremen-
dous, owing to the proximity of the bal-
cony bar. Mrs. Wales wore a gracefully-
trained gown of pale orchid-pink matc-
lasse with a knee-length cape of wine-
red chiffon. Her daughter, Mrs. Lem
Callaway, wearing tartan taffetas, accom-
panied her husband and a group of
younger folk, her bridesmaids and his
groomsmen. Major Harold Wilkinson
escorted his wife, in an aura of shadow-
blue ospreys, and his sister-in-law, Mrs.
Frank Murray (W.A.), who wore ice-blue
gloves with her black taffeta gown and
fringed black wrap. Mrs. George Lang-
ridge was clad in black lace, and her
daughter Marie wore tucked pink georg-
ette. Mrs. Reg Hayes and Mrs. Owen
Dixen were both in black. Particularly
striking was Mrs. Dan Reddan. Tiny
black crows flew about on her white
gown, nests of black velvet were tucked
on to her shoulders, and there were
pearls in her hair. A noticeable trio
were Mrs. J. L. Stein and her two blonde
daughters, one fluffy in white tulle, the
other in black with a green sash, both
with halo plaits round their fair heads.
Among gallery sitters were Mr. Cheno-
weth (he’s the one who taxes us, but he
does it friendly-like) and his wife, in
black diamonds. More unique than
a tulle ruffle was Mrs. D. H. Ross’s acces-
sory of stiffened crinoline straw which
undulated round her shoulders. When
the rhythm was right the young Tom
Luxtons, dancing together, performed
steps, a mixture of old Charleston and
new rumba —he was in the glory of
the kilt. Miss Offen wore black with gold-
spotted shoulders, and Mrs. Paul Dane
was in floral chiffon. Trifles which
tweaked the attention were the magni-
fied din which could be heard from the
gallery, the comparative quiet at supper
and the small percentage of men who
wore gloves.
The headmistresses must have got
quite as much kick out of the Gloucester
Ball as did the youth and beauty that
revolved round the Palais under the
flags and pennants of 26 schools. For
it really must put a warm glow round
the heart when each “head” sees dozens
of pretty girls deserting their escorts and
drifting towards her for a 10 minutes’
chat about old schooldays. The heads,
with other important people, sat at the
v.-r. table. Lady Huntingfield, who came
early and stayed late, metaphorically
patted the flower-wreathed heads as each
white-clad deb. curtsied low and flut-
tered her quaint little fresh-flower fan.
The girls, trained to perfection by Kath-
leen Lascelles, gave their instructor a
surprise when on their behalf Lady
Huntingfield handed to her a presenta-
tion wristlet watch. Captain Barbour
and Barbara Braddon disposed of neigh-
boring plates of oysters at the official
table. Miss Braddon, who, with com-
mendable efficiency, did the bulk of the
organising for the dance, wore a blue
satin gown with the sophistication of no
shoulders and an anti-climax of black
cord pulling the triangular corsage up
close to the throat. Her coiffure was a
twist of hair bound like a halo with a
blue satin ribbon. Colonel R. J. Wallis
brought his wife, whose long and grace-
ful cape had a yoke and back panel of
leaf-green with big, floppy angel sleeves
of cream satin. Betty Hornabrook (a
Hermitage representative on the com-
mittee) affixed a wide lacquer-red belt to
a dress of navy-blue net. Twin-sister
Joan —the pair are as alike as two peas
in a pod—played with a green balloon
which matched her fluffy dress with its
tulle-winged shoulders. Jean Coxon
Young (Firbank) was in willow-green
wool lace, Joan Silcock (Tintern) wore
two shades of lilac with a lei of fresh
violets. Nancy Mitchell (Lauriston) was
in white and silver, and Catherine Neylon
(St. Margaret’s, Berwick) wore taffetas
shot with violet and flower-pot red.
The Jack Cato portrait is of Jean,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. David
York Syme. Jean represented Clyde on
the committee of the Gloucester Ball.
This dance, the largest of last week, was
a noteworthy function ; it was the first
time that an “old (girls’) school tic”
fixture of such magnitude had been
organised for charity. Twenty-six girls'
schools had voices on the committee.
One of the instigators of the scheme was
C. of E. Grammar School principal Miss
Gilman Jones, who is president of the
Girls’ Ward Fund. Those interested in
this fund are endeavoring to raise £5OOO
towards the cost of building a girls’
ward in the children’s department of the
Prince Henry Hospital.
The Youth Movement, which is com-
posed of the younger intelligentsia of the
League of Nations Union, went dancing
in Earl’s Court. The predominating pro-
fessional flavor was of law, and the degree
of Master of Laws sat lightly on several
heads that are still years off the first tell-
tale grey hair. The Youth Movement
president, Geoff Littleton, with a skittish
pink flower in his buttonhole, Cliff Men-
hennit, Peter Wickens and Egan Eggle-
ston were a few of the legal men. For
variety there were a B.Ag., Graham
Blair ; an architect. Bill Coffee ; and Ken-
neth Nesbit, who deals with accountancy.
Ruth Littleton wore black velvet and
pink camellias, Jean Eggleston black tulle
and Meridith Ross black satin with a
split back and a huge collar of white
pique. Tall and graceful in mushroom-
pink was Jean Balfour, who adorned with
a diamond bracelet the hand which held
her train. Peggy Sawrey wore blue and
a red poppy, Peggy Broadhead and Peggy
Churton had sweet-peas in their hair,
Nancy Walstab was in black net with
diamente earrings, and Nancy Wick-
ham’s pale-gold taffeta fluttered a knee-
length cape. Mrs. Arthur Norman, who
was a guest of honor, said that in her
young days people didn’t dance in the
dark, but “The Merry Widow” and “The
Blue Danube” made her feel like taking
to the floor again, even under a ghost-
green spotlight. Her daughter Elizabeth
wore pink taffeta and a halo plait round
her head.
Sir Thomas and Lady Dunhill were the
first distinguished people to arrive from
overseas for the Medical Association Con-
ference. It’s a far cry from attending a
State school in Daylesford and working
in the township pharmacy to becoming
the world’s best “goitre man” and a sur-
geon entrusted with the lives of royalty.
The first party for B.M.A. visitors was
given by Ernest Poolman. Though it
was held too early to be a conference
function, and though only a faint breath
of ether pervaded the guest list, there was
an atmosphere of looking around while
the stage was being set for the influx
to take place within the next few days.
All black were the coat, dress and furs
worn by the guest of honor, Lady Dun-
hill. Mrs. Poolman had a curling feather
upon the brim of her velvet hat, which
matched in toning the black tulip of her
gown. Lady Dunhill’s sisters, Mrs. S.
F. Mann. Mrs. W. B. Cumming and Mrs.
James Finlay, were present, but the lan
Mann couple were unable to come to
town from their station. Talisker, Merino.
Mrs. John McKellar (Stawell) wore a
caped ensemble of deep-blue crepe.
The next time the Charlie Nodrum
couple get a bottle of champagne it’s
going to be opened immediately, even
if the pair, unaided by their friends, have
to sit down together and drink it glass
for glass. The David Robertsons gave
a bridge-and-poker party recently at
which an extra spot of fun was provided
by a guessing competition. The winner
was Mr. Nodrum, and the prize the
bottle of bubbly. The same week a
burglar, pursuing his calling in Glen-
ferrie, got into Mr. Nodrum’s home and
carried off some money, a bottle of
brandy and the champagne.
After the A.L.G.U. championship, Mrs.
Russell Grimwade. as president of Royal
Melbourne associates, will entertain
the golfing competitors at tea at the
clubhouse. Through good management,
co-operation and a spirit of hospitality,
L.G.U. office-bearers have made a great
success of the past week’s notable fixtures
in women’s golf. Mrs. Grimwade’s
photo, is by Dickinson-Monteath.
The Irvine lady, Lady Huntingfield and
Geelong’s Bishop Booth took turns on
each of the three afternoons to speak at
the exhibition of “Portraits of Fair and
Famous Women” in Scots Church Hall.
On her afternoon Lady Huritingfield wore
black-and-grey-flecked tweed, with a but-
terfly bow of diamente on the crown of
her large blue hat. The Hon. Mrs.
Helme Pott, who accompanied her, chose
a black-brimmed hat, particularly saucer-
ish with its serrated edge. The pair were
taken on a tour of inspection by the
Cresswell lady and Mrs. Harry Mauds-
ley, and were given tea on the stage,
where a semblance of privacy was pro-
vided by a miniature hedge of pinky
blossom where the footlights should have
been. The 400 pictures, nearly all of
which were lent by Miss M. Chomley,
dated from the time of Queen Nefcrtiti,
who lived in Egypt 3500 years ago and
is considered to have been the most
beautiful woman of ancient history, to
the conceptions of present-day artists.
There were a large Italian and a smaller
Spanish section, and among the German
exhibits was a “Lady in a Tall Hal”
and an even taller whalebone corset.
With all Dame Fashion’s temperamental
whims, she still shivers at the thought of
such discomfort. Among the Dutch,
Flemish and French schools were women
who inspired the genius of the painters
of their day, and under the English cate-
gory was Mrs. G wynne—a woman
noticeable for the world of wisdom in
her eyes—as “The Jessamy Bride.”
Queen Victoria was present as a young
girl, and in a woodcut where, as a plump
little old lady, she is taking her woolly
spaniel for a walk.
Some people who picked their fancies
among the beauteous ladies were Mrs.
John Shaw, in black toned up with
aquarelle blue at the neckline; Mrs.
Ivan Tail and Mrs. Donald Forbes, both
wearing silver foxes, and Mrs. R. T. A.
Macdonald, whose frivolity was a posy
of primrose. Mrs. Georges Hamparsum’s
black coat and white camellias were
noticed dodging about among the hon.
waitresses. Tea was “on” each after-
noon.
So that the memory of Miss Jane Bell’s
years of efficient service as matron of
Royal Melbourne Hospital will not be
completely forgotten in the timebook of
the nursing profession, there is to be a
Jane Bell scholarship. This was decided
upon at the annual meeting of the Royal
Victoria College of Nursing, where Prof.
Marshall Allan handed to Jean Evelyn
Headbery the first prize awarded in Vic-
toria for obstetric nursing. The founder
of this prize is Dr. Irving Buzzard, a
Warrnambool medico. Other awards for
practical nursing were the Martha Far-
quharson prize, which went to Mary
Montgomery, of Bendigo Hospital, and
the Sister Madge memorial prize, divided
between Elizabeth Hope Johnson and
Eleanor Clyne Stephenson, both of whom
are on the staff of the Melbourne Hos-
pital.
Ten years of preparation have gone
towards Miss Edith Dew’s exhibition of
hand-bound books, which was held last
week at her home in Stanhope Grove,
Camberwell. Bookbinding by hand is
slow work, and in these days of rush
and hurry is almost a forgotten art. In
1929 Miss Margaret Chapman (who was
Miss Dew’s teacher) held such an exhi-
bition, the only one that Melbourne re-
members. Miss Dew’s bookbinding is
her secondary occupation—her profes-
sion is music—and she is said to possess
the only hand-bound music library in
the Commonwealth. She is a sister of
Professor Harold Dew, of Sydney.


SV3S
siiiiiSlM
llmp
*.
1 C-i-'iV'.T-;“■v"-,^ *VZvfM v -U
£%
:$. 1
’ ****\.
SSS?^&;
gigS&K-
™ m - --,_ - .™. - , -w,.r r!
Baft 9&f\KlvFj&* { k i^Ayvcp^v*r?r■ V'- -^.*.*• **• r <'< • ■>
S x
|4|Bfi||araMK
j..; '
■^SUxw
'‘ii'ht'S'i
@ni*-'
K"
i
>»„ dr «w/
Rugged Strength
Ford V-8 Double-Duty Trucks have surplus strength in every part. The inbuilt
stamina of these units combined with exclusive Truck-type V-8 engine provides
Double-Duty service - Sturdiness and power to handle bigger loads and alert per-
formance to save time on every trip. There is a Ford V-8 Truck for every haulage
or transportation job—capacities one to five tons. Easy purchase terms are available.
Double-Duty Truck features include: HANDSOME COUPE-TYPE CAB
. . ENTIRELY NEW DESIGN TRUCK-TYPE CLUTCH . . . NEW FRONT
-END ASSEMBLY WITH HEAVIER FRONT SPRING AND AXLE . . .
IMPROVED WEIGHT DISTRIBUTION . . . IMPROVED COOLING . . .
NEW QUICK-STOPPING BRAKES . . . CRANK-CASE VENTILATION
. . OIL-BATH AIR CLEANER . . . FULL-FLOATING REAR AXLE
w
. . . and a range of Smart
Efficient, Economical
FORD V-8 UTILITIES
Your dealer is now showing the new Ford
V-8 Utilities. These handsome models
offer outstanding utility service because of
exclusive V-8 performance and economy.
FORD TO
DOUBLE-DUTY TRUCKS
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED *N F8.30. C
FORD MOTOR
U C T
THE
BRITISH
E M P I R E*H
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrow*,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
WESTRALIA.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
Alison Willoughby, Kath Cullen and
Joan Leach had fingers in the pie of the
Bachelors’ Ball, conducted by Claremont
Tennis Club at the Myola Hall. Nancy
Ward was there, with green appliques on
her white georgettes ; coin spots shone on
Linda Mews’s black taffetas; Ailsa Car-
cary blew feather trimming on ciel mate-
lassd and Marjorie May tied a girdle
round her white matt crepes.
The four prize-winning one-act plays
in the Pleiades Club competition were
produced by their authors at the club
hall. Nancy Rogers topped the list with
“The Bolster.”
Old Scotch Collegians took partners to
the Embassy for their hop. A large com-
mittee, headed by Dr. Gawler, arranged
the doings. Ann Perry swathed a flame
velvet sash over her floral ninons, and
Win Marshall’s peach taffetas were
studded with spots.
Chrissie Robertson and George Seddon
were made one at Ross Memorial
Church. Under the filmy lace-embroid-
ered bridal veil shone ivory silk panne
velvet, undulating from the shirred dol-
man sleeves to the shirred train inset
at the point of the low back. Joyce
Robertson and Adele Wilson showered a
wealth of taffeta frills on the trains of
their peau d’ange laces, buttoned revers
of taffeta against their shirred shoulder
treatment, and tied taffeta haloes round
their heads.
Perth College Dram. Soc. enlarged the
Sister Vera Memorial Scholarship Fund
with their presentation of Aimee
and Philip Stuart’s “Nine till Six.”
Dorothy Fallows, in addition to produc-
ing, took the part of Mrs. Pembroke
very capably. Stephanie Evans and Eula
Read were highlights, and Dickie Broad-
foot, as Violet, provided humor.
With hammers still going strong over
alterations, the Rep. Soc. held its recep-
tion to visiting Thespians at the Karra-
katta Club. Madge Elliott and Dorothy
Dunckley shared the honors, the former
pinning Parma violets to the fur collar
of her cornflower-blue cloth coat, while
Miss Dunckley, once upon a time the
club’s secretary, had a spray of fragrant
daphne nestling in the fur on her smart
brown outfit.
Back from England, where she spent
three years studying dramatic art, is
Margaret, elder daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. G. G. Paton. Before leaving for a
hurried trip to Melbourne she was feted
by her parents at a six-o’clock party at
their home, where Miss Paton appeared
in an enviable gown of black cloth, in-
triguingly cut and smacking of Paris with
its studs of silver.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The visiting golfers were entertained at
a cheery dance at Mount Osmond Coun-
try Club rooms, decked for the occasion
with mixed flowers, scarlet and yellow
predominating. The clubhouse, situated
on the top of a mountain, is at the mercy
of the weather, and a few minutes before
supper a gust of roaring wind uprooted
the supper marquee, smashing hundreds
of cups and saucers and scattering sand-
wiches, savories and cakes everywhere.
Committee members salvaged what they
could, and the subsequent informal meal
was good fun. Club president Dr. Darcy
Cowan and Mrs. Cowan, who sported
powder-blue angel-skin lace in autumn-
toned floral chiffon, and club captain
Clifford Cornell and Mrs. Cornell were
there, and members came from all the
golf clubs. Mrs. Harry Nott chose
sapphire-blue delustred satin with self-
stripe ; Mrs. Fergusson (Vic.) danced in
wine-toned chiffon velvet; Mrs. Hugh
Davis wore oyster silk lace ; Mrs. J. R.
Holden was in pale-grey satin with silver
hair stripe.
The Mawson lady has planned an in-
teresting holiday. With her mother, Mrs.
Delpratt, of Melbourne, she motors to
Sydney, returning via Canberra to Mel-
bourne.
Dr. and Mrs. C. E. Cameron Wilson
gave a party at their home, Fullarton, to
celebrate the twenty-first birthdayspf their
daughter, Yvette, and the F. F. Weavers’
daughter, Anthea. Dancing was in the
huge dining-room, decked with daffodils,
red-hot pokers and gold and red nastur-
tiums. Mrs. Wilson, gowned in black
romaine with a cape of black ring velvet,
and Mrs. Weaver,. whose black lace was
embroidered with pink roses, received
the guests, who numbered about 100.
Yvette was frocked in a period style
Lorraine Lee pink taffeta, and Anthea’s
wine-toned panne velvet was princess cut,
with a Medici collar.
In honor of the visiting university de-
bating teams, the Moulden lady gave a
dance at Lordello, North Adelaide. The
red-and-gold ballroom was decorated
with bowls of antholyzas, and the smok-
ing-room was massed with daffodils. The
hostess was gowned in bottle-green maro-
cain. Miss P. Hackett chose a trained
toilette of pink satin.
For the Advertising Ball in aid of
charities at the Palais Royal, arum-lilies
in purple and gold clustered round the
official box, while scarlet-, blue-, yellow-
and green-lacquered lilies flaunted else-
where about the Palais. A cap stall was
run by Mesdames C. G. Felstead and
L. Williams. Mrs. Eric Tolley was in white
flowered chiffon, with cascades of frills
on the flared skirt, and she wore a white
ostrich-feather cape. Mrs. Clive Bony-
thon topped a wine-toned matelasse with
a halo of silver tissue; Mrs. Eric Mc-
Kee’s black satin had a tunic of black
silk net patterned with blue, pink and
gold; Mrs. Lionel Leane was in tan-
gerine chiffon velvet, fitting to the figure.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark is playing a lone hand at
official representation while the Gov-
ernor is laid up, and her job takes her
from one end of the island to the other.
At the A.I.F. ball in Launceston, sport-
ing dark-prune-colored georgette, she
presented Red Cross long-service medals
to F. P. and Mrs. Hart, Mrs. A. G.
Jenkins, Mrs. Frank Tyson, Mrs. J. A.
von Alwyn, Mrs. W. Spottswood and
Eleanor Murray. Red, white and blue
formed the decorative scheme.
The Mayoress (Mrs. E. E. von Bibra)
was in black cird satin and grey velvet
coat. Also in the v.-r. circle were the
P.M. and Mrs. Lyons, Col. and Mrs.
Donald Cameron, the president of the
R.S.S.I.L. and Mrs. McKenzie.
The Garrison Drill Hall, Anglesea
Barracks, was dolled up with flags and
pennants for the ball of the 17th Heavy
Battery A.G.A. Rifle Club. Supper-
tables, set in the adjoining hall, were gay
with pink Japanese plum-blossom. Mrs.
E. M. Williams, wife of the military
commandant, wore black lace with crisp
net frills on the skirt.
The Tas. Uni. women’s basketball club
fed the basketballers from Mclb., Sydney
and Adelaide Universities at the Chaucer
Tearooms, Ruth Clemes, captain of the
Uni. and State teams, did the honors.
The visitors are billeted about among
friends, and a jolly programme of enter-
tainments has been fixed up for them.
Sister Phyllis, head of the Collegiate
School, had a great celebration of her
eightieth birthday. Telegrams, bouquets
and presents poured in on her all day,
and in the evening the Old Girls, with
Mrs. E. Sorell in the lead, met at the
school, where the beloved old lady was
presented with a chair, a set of altar
candlesticks, a birthday cake with 80
candles on it and numerous other gifts,
and still more flowers, till the room was
ablaze with their color and beauty.
Double-barrelled parties served to
welcome the new naval commandant’s
wife, Mrs. Ramage, and to bid bon voyage
to Mrs. Roy Lethbridge, who has sailed
to join her husband in England. Mrs.
R. H. Robinson was a recent hostess at
her home in Anglesea Barracks, where
she gave a bridge party in honor of the
arriving and departing guests. On the
eve of sailing Mrs. Lethbridge bade fare-
well to a few friends at tea at her
mother’s house, Macquarie-street.
Mrs. D’Arcy Addison is to spend
some time with her son, Alick Downer,
in Adelaide. She and Mr. Addison have
gone for a short holiday to Sydney first,
and the W. E. Macleans have taken
their house in Sandy Bay. Various fare-
well parties to Mrs. Addison have kept
her on the go for the last few weeks.
Mrs. Thos. Lyons, with a lunch party,
and Mrs, R. A. Clive, with a bridge
afternoon at the Queen Mary Club, were
among the hostesses.
The Prime Minister and Mrs. Lyons
were warmly welcomed home in Devon-
port, Hobart, Deloraine and Launceston :
and, indeed, all the island expressed
goodwill towards them. While in the
south they were the guests of his Ex. and
Lady Clark at Government House.
Ruth Penny, the blue-eyed daughter of
the Cecil Pennys, Bushy Park, Dedwent
Valley and Gerald Mellor Haynes, Mur-
rumbeena, Vic., announce their engage-
ment.


ŵ
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
"LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 74 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY. SPKKI). TOM TOUT
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIUP & CO., LID.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, ami i.iamhes.
BRANDALERA
0*
rPENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BE AND ACER & CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENO.
(1
u -
lie amdi f n in <7ijdncij
toaethet .. . 7~^ c hui/ieUy
Jlc. iocuil . . .
convenience Iheit it at.
thei f itay cit
/Pettit* P~ldel
SYDNEY
1/
Torifi
Room and Breakfast, 11/6
inclusive, 18/-.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
1
and
SIGHT-SEEING
Most travellers stop-over at
Banff and Lake Louise in the
heart of the Canadian
Rockies.
Thrilling out-of-door pleasures.
Hike or ride through forest and
mountain ... swim in warm sulphur
pools . . . golf. . . fish . . , climb
amid scenes of rare beauty found
nowhere else in the world.
Before planning your trip home,
write for our illustrated literature
and all details.
Any Tourist Booking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
217 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
On the way
to EUROPE
n/as
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Mackay’s Harbor
“Eungella”: Bowen has always been
proud of its jetty, and its inhabitants
have promised themselves that, when jus-
tice reigned and Ross Creek silted up and
a tidal wave deposited the remains of
Mackay somewhere in Proserpine, their
port would become the Liverpool of the
North. But the building of the marine
stockyard in which Mackay proposes to
corral shipping has developed in them a
vein of bitter sarcasm. The Bowen corre-
spondent of the “N.Q. Register” referred
to the new amenity the other day as a
“million-pound fishtrap,”
This year’s report of the Mackay
(Q.) Harbor Board is mainly made
up of pictures showing excavations
in the sandhills and balance sheets
showing the excavations which are
being made in the public pocket, Forgan
Smith’s Government has given the
burghers £250,000, or 25 p.c. of the cost,
including capitalised interest on ad-
vances, whichever is the greater, to build
their new harbor. And he was also ready
with a loan of £1,000,000 for 40 years
at 5 p.c., interest on which will show a
nice profit on Loan Council rates and
help him to recoup his gift. The re-
mainder of the picture of the project
may be set down in a few simple lines
of figures:
Kstimatcd cost, including
communication with town,
approx £1.000,000
Less Forgan Smith’s gift 250,000
£750,000
Commitment per each of 12,000 rate-
payers £62/10/-
I merest per annum on £750,000 .. £37,500
Total revenue of Harbor Board for
1934 £21,237
Total tons of cargo (inward and out-
ward) —practically the whole freight
available to and from the district 172,000
It looks as if Mackay’s posterity will
have something to remember both its
Harbor Board and its Premier-member
by.
“X.T.”; While dairy cattle seem to
hold their own, Brisbane show had little
among its exhibits to suggest that Queens-
land will some day supply the world with
beef. Observers pronounced the beef
classes at the Diamond Jubilee Show
30 p.c. below 1916 standard. There were
fewer entries than there are in a couple
of classes in Sydney Royal, which at one
time seemed as if it might have to sur-
render its cattle laurels to the North.
And the showing of fat cattle was dis-
appointing. In the Argentine, the great
Palermo show sets the pace in cattle
quality
* * * *
“Mataranka”: The Darwin Half-
castes’ Association has asked the Min-
ister for the Interior to free its members
from the restrictions of the aboriginal
legislation. There is something to be
said for it, as far as a section of them is
concerned. But the trouble is to know
where to draw the line. Certainly, where
there are two white crosses it generally
would be a fair thing, and the authorities
should be empowered to issue exemptions
to “first generationers” of good behavior
and reputation.
* * * *
“Yendai”: A Mr. Walter Goodfellow,
a naturalist, has been giving North Aus-
tralia his angle on the abo. He says that
the natives are “treacherous, nasty and
have no sense of gratitude.” They “anni-
hilate game, kill everything that flies,
creeps or crawls and they are poor as
helpers.” He “would very much rather
preserve the wonderful fauna of Aus-
tralia than the aborgines, who are a
useless race.” Which reminds me of a
remark by a man born among abos. in
a book published 10 years ago:
If the average wild blackfcllow had
enough time to waste on the (to him)
absurd inclinations of a white man who
gives his life to cranial measurements and
the study of totem relationships, he would
undoubtedly rate the ethnologist as low
as the ethnologist rates him. Indeed, he
would almost inevitably look upon most
white men (as he docs) as devoid of
culture and utility, worthy only to be
taken under a shady tree and quietly
knocked on the head as an encumbrance
upon the workers of the community.
So it seems to me that honors arc at
least even.
* ♦ * ♦
“Petrie’s Bight”: The first step in the
process of building the Cathedral of the
"No doubt about it, spring is
in the air!”
Holy Name in Brisbane is complete. The
site is on an eminence not far from the
city end of the new Kangaroo Point
bridge. Archbishop Duhig, blessing the
crypt, said that many people now
middle-aged might look forward to
seeing the building complete. It will
be domed, and though in size it will
not compare with the largest churches
of the world, there will be nothing bigger
in Australia. It will be 340 ft. long and
240 ft. from door to door across, with a
240 ft. dome, having an external diameter
of 100 ft. The floor space will accommo-
date a standing crowd of nearly 10,000
people The com will £700.000.
* $ * $ $
The Kegistrar-Generai s figures show
that Queensland comes off easily best
in its trade with W.A. Queensland sent
£507,000 worth of goods to the other
end of the continent in the nine months
ended March last —all but £BO,OOO
worth in sugar. Westralia’s exports to
Queensland were worth only £37,000.
The disparity is chronic, and it is a stand-
ing grievance with the Westerners.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Anthony’s”: The first pedigreed goat
to travel by air went from Winton to the
N.T. in a Qantas ’plane recently. He is
Swiss by birth, and is probably the most
travelled non-human Billy in the world.
After he was dropped at Daly Waters, he
began a trek of a couple of hundred
miles to the Roper, where Roy
Chisholm is pioneering the N.T. goat
industry. If the climate does not make
them too thin-haired, and they are not
susceptible to buffalo fly, redwater,
grass-seed itch, crocs, or Aboriginalis
rapax (a disease prevalent along the
borders of Arnhem Land which causes
comestible animals to disappear alto-
gether), and if they are declared non-
seizable by income-tax authorities, there
seems to be a chance that goats might
prove valuable wage-earners in the
Territory. But Billy is a perverse devil,
and the main chance is that he will eat
somebody’s blankets and become mutton.
* * ♦ ♦
“11 Vecchio”: Anybody who does not
believe in luck —good or bad —should
read the history of a man whose affairs
were vetted by the Brisbane Registrar in
Bankruptcy a few days ago. He had a
prosperous plumbing business up to 1929,
according to his evidence. Then, one-
way traffic was established in his street,
and it cut his trade down. One of his
children was taken ill. Then he himself
went ill, and was away from work for
nine months. His wife collapsed and was
sent to a nursing home. The depression
came on top of that. And after four
years’ depression his wife won £lOOO in
a lottery!
* * * *
“Zedo”: Members all over Australia
subscribed to the £lOO presentation which
the Brisbane Grammar School Old Boys’
Association has handed to J. G. Nowlan,
its honorary secretary and treasurer for
25 years. J.G. came to the school as
a master about 30 years ago, at a time
when the 0.8. A. was more or less mori-
bund. He made it his baby, and built
the membership from 200 to 1800 during
his reign.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The opening of Parliament was very
gay—the Governor very soldierly, a
flurry of uniforms around him. Lady
Wilson, in a frock of soft grey wool,
with matching felt hat and furs, sat in the
very front row beside son David. All
the Ministers’ wives came along, and
brought southern or country visitors with
them.
After Parliament was opened, there
were lots of teas in the dining-room and
on the verandah. The Speaker’s room
was a picture—masses of iris and daffo-
dils in bowls of cither pale-blue or pale-
green glass.
Mrs. R. M. Bell, of Eskdalc, who went
along to watch the induction of husband
Roy (who seems happier on the polo
field than on the benches), had a big
luncheon party at the Belle Vue after-
wards. Poppies and sweet-peas decked
the tables.
The Forgan Smiths had a small party
in the dining-room at the House. Masses
of English marigolds and golden Iceland
poppies and daffodils gave a fictitious
touch of spring to the atmosphere— out-
side, it was raining.
Before returning to their home in the
west, the Norman Murrays shook cock-
tails at the Gresham for a number of
guests. Mrs. Murray was smart in navy
blue, relieved with dusty pink; anil
topped her frock with a cheerful hat of
stitched navy taffetas.
Who says they don’t make ’em hardy
at public schools? After Show Week
was well over, the Old Southportians
came up bright and smiling for their six-
teenth annual ball at the Troc. President
Wyn Pike had to get through the evening
alone, since his wife was holidaying in
New Guinea. J. McWhirter, A. R.
Tritton, I. M. Grant, T. G. G. Lahey,
Allan J. Campbell and E. Fernandez
were the committee.
Mrs. H. T. Armitage has been holi-
daying with Mrs. P. H. Staines, Kan-
garoo Point. Before she left for Fiji by
the Strathaird, her sister, Mrs. F. W.
Jerrard, of Lyndhurst, Esk, gave an after-
noon-tea for her at Rowe’s.
The dinner dance which was to have
been held on H.M.A.S. Canberra had to
be postponed because of the weather;
but there was a dinner party, and Sir
Leslie Wilson was among the guests.
A lot of dear old gentlemen have been
thrilled by voluminous but abbreviated
white ballet skirts, beribboncd legs and
heelless dancing shoes whisking out of
taxis and up a flight of stairs in Queen-
street. Felix Demcry was examining
some 300 candidates for diplomas in
operatic dancing. Even our leading
teachers are sitting for teaching diplomas.
Frances .Scully is up from Sydney lend-
ing a hand.
Mary Zocller, who is a granddaughter
of the late E. C. Luya, formerly member
for South Brisbane, and daughter of Mrs.
VI. Zocller, of Wilston, was married in
St. Stephen’s Cathedral to Dr. Alec Pater-
son. lormcrly of Brisbane General Hos-
pital, and just back from England. Arrh
bishop Duhig, assisted by Mons. Molony,
tied the knot, and only-brother Herbert
Zocller gave the bride away. A long
sleeved frock of magnolia angel-skin
draped the bride, the skirt moulded to
the hips and then flaring to a train.
Lisctte Zoeller in turquoise blue was
maid and George Taylor best man. Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Paterson came down
from Toowoomba to see Alec married.
Before settling down to serious busi-
ness. the delegates to the conference of
the National Council of Women were
entertained, and a posy was presented to
each of the visiting delegates. Lady Wil-
son and daughter Marjorie went along,
and State president Mrs. F. W. Cumbrae-
Stewart received. Orchids, banksia
roses and bowls of colorful spring flowers
were the decorations.
Picturesque figures in turbans, formal
figures in frock coats, comfortable figures
in morning suits gathered from all parts
of the world for the Sugar Technologists’
Conference now in full swing. An in-
teresting figure is Miss P. C. Bolle, the
only woman delegate, who represents
Java. She affects the tailored mode, and
wears a fascinating decoration on her
coat.


n
z'
JDamrnl/(§k/ a
y>.
m
///'*
y
UAL
SO/j
£ *c
S§s
§:*w
/•
Made in Australia by
LEA & PERRINS (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
LEICHHARDT, N.S.W.
There is NO substitute
for LEA & PERRINS
The world’s greatest Worcestershire
Sauce —nothing can equal its richness
and piquancy. LEA & PERRINS is
economical, too, because just a very
few drops are all that are needed to
flavor the food and safeguard the
digestion.
MATURED LIKE GOOD WiNE
LEA&PIRRINS
SAUCE
A Powerful Story Convincingly Told:-
RELEASE
By- ACONNELL.
ELM A GAGE was forty-seven, tall
and nervous ; her body was ungainly
and her hair was streaked with grey.
But she had a secret.
Knowing this, Laura, who did little
work where there was much, went about
for many days with a cankerous anger
inside her. Secrets were the offspring of
guilty minds. And guilty people had no
right to keep their secrets. Thus she
reasoned.
She first became aware of the existence
of a secret when she was passing Elma
Gage’s room and stopped and put an car
to the scratched panels to listen to a
monotony of repealed sound on the other
side of the door. Thud, thud ; a silence ;
thud, thud ; a silence ; and all over again
and on and on . . . Although it meant
extra expenditure, Elma Gage had her
meals brought to her room. She did not
care to eat at a community table with
boarders whose normality was so mani-
fest that they were like characters in six-
penny novels. Laura brought the meals
on a stained tray. The morning after the
incident of the noises she set the tray
down heavily, stared from it to Elma
Gage, then studied the room. She did it
boldly through half-closed eyes. She had
a violent contempt for Elma Gage’s
nervousness.
She noticed the door of the clothes
closet and went to it in the one quick
movement.
“Marks,” she said. “Elma Gage, there
are marks all over this. You’ve ruined
it.” She turned and stopped.
Elma Gage had gone paler than usual
and her eyes were big and confused. Her
hands fumbled with the front of her
dress; she looked quickly at Laura;
then she got up, took her hat and hand-
bag and left the room.
She went down the street to the rail-
way. Together with an impersonal,
newspaper-reading throng, she travelled
to the city. Wheels murmured rhythmi-
cally, stopping and starting, humming
and clicking ...
She climbed stairs to the street and its
marching crowds.
Marching people. None was aimless
here. All were intent on reaching a
definite place at a definite time. These
were the working crowds. They walked
and walked—up slope—around corner—
down hill. Their heads swayed up and
down —heads that were crowned with
odd shapes and colors. Some slid their
way' through and spurted dexterously
ahead ; a few had found that they could
read as they walked ; all moved with a
speed that is found only in a crowd go-
ing to work. Suddenly the business
centres were reached, and abruptly the
throng seemed to dissipate, swerving into
buildings and side streets.
Elma Gage walked slowly, perpetually
left behind by the swift crowds. She
turned into a lane of cool shadow, went
through the narrow door and up a flight
of wooden steps. In a long, artificially-
lighted room, she sat down at the table
where for nearly twenty years she had
been mending with exquisite skill the
torn clothes of the city’s clumsy people.
UNINE PARADISE owned Hampton
House, but she had forgotten what it
was like above the ground floor. She spent
the greatest part of her life in her
wheeled chair in the kitchen. There had
been a time when she had rejoiced in her
unique name, and when every corner of
the House had been as much a cause for
pride as the main dining-room. But that
was a long time ago. One day she had
fallen down a flight of steps and injured
her spine, and suddenly there was a lot
of things that didn’t have any meaning
any more, and there was a lot of petti-
ness and conceit that she hadn’t noticed
before. At thirty-four she was the perfect
cynic. The world, she saw, was the
abode of people either too black-hearted
to be good or too pure-minded to be
bad.
She sat in her chair, one hand on each
of its arms, her head bent, her eyes
looking up from beneath heavy lids. She
was listening to Laura. Laura brought
her many tales about her boarders —
some of them so bizarre as to startle her
into an awareness that either Laura was
uncommonly ‘ imaginative or Hampton
House sheltered a collection of very
abnormal folk. The story about the
ruined woodwork in Elma Gage’s room
seemed singularly unreal. She had
always understood that Miss Gage was
colorless and unobtrusive ; and, after all,
what were a few more marks amid the
general decline of the House? But, then,
Unine Paradise was too occupied with
dreams of other, finer days to care about
the peculiarities of the present.
ELMA GAGE disappointed Laura by
going to a lecture that night. Lectures
were held three nights a week at the
Embassy Hall. There
people who had
travelled, and people
who had messages
for mankind, and
people who were
indignant told Miss
Gage about their
Thirty Years in
Papua, or the Merg-
ing of the Ego with
the Ether, or the
Red Regime.
The hall was well-filled when she
approached the entrance, but there were
numerous vacant seats at the front-
people who sat there found the lecturer s
voice intruding disconcertingly on their
conversations.
Elma Gage would have liked one of
those front seats, but she could not walk
down the aisle with the eyes of the entire
audience on her and a hundred tongues
commenting on her ungainly height, her
awkwardly arranged hair and her drab
clothing. She took one of the back seats.
As always, she was conscious of the
inordinate noise of the hall and of Us
complete ephemerality —those voices
talking with complete disregard of other
voices; the clatter of people entering ;
the slam of seats . . . Looking about her
she realised that practically every person
in the building was from her neighbor-
hood ; yet there was not one to whom
she could have spoken—if she had
wanted to speak to anyone. These people
were interested only in their immediate
personal troubles. They came to the hall
because it was warm, because it was free,
and because there were others there to
whom they could communicate their
heartaches and little resentments.
The lights flicked out. Elma Gage
went down past the rows of dark heads
to a seat in the front row. Over her
head was the padded hum of a fan.
A SPOTLIGHT moved uncertainly
about the stage; a man pursued it
in anxious silence. Things merged. The
man stood in the circle of light. He
was like a captured moth, his eyes blink-
ing. He raised a hand and said:
“My welcome listeners, —To-night, as
published, my lecture is to concern will-
power and the assertion of dormant
faculties. Will-power”
“I tell you I can’t go out without they
peer at me,” a voice in the second row
stated, with a kind of irritation.
“Will-power” said the lecturer.
“Yes . . . Like lords and dukes,” said
the querulous voice. “They think they
own the street.”
“Silence, please,” requested a shadow
at the corner of the stage,
“Rain? No, but”
“Will-power is the very basis of exist-
ence,” the lecturer said very precisely.
“Without it we have no real contact with
this or the higher planes.”
The spotlight vanished and a lantern
slide appeared on the white screen —a
ragged man in a gutter. The lecturer,
invisible, but wielding a pointer that
flitted about the screen tapping at inter-
vals until the man in the gutter gave up
his involuntary quiescence and shud-
dered, deplored the results of lack of
will-power, of divine driving force. The
dishevelled man slipped back into
obscurity and another picture took his
place: a Distinguished being who sat be-
hind a desk with poised pen and looked at
the audience with rapacious inclemency
“The contrast,” said the lecturer.
“Here is a man with will-power . . .
taken him to his present position.”
“Money-grabber,” ventured a voice,
and there was an explosion of laughter.
A fit of nervous exasperation took hold
of the shadow at the corner of the stage.
“The audience is requested be silent
while the lecture is in progress.”
“Jane swears it’s true,” said the
whisper behind Elma Gage.
More pictures on the screen: stark
brains, “incapable of movement but
potent” ; American locomotives, “driving
forces.”
The lecturer was energetic, his face
occasionally coming out of the shadows
to peer owl-like at the blackness wherein
dwelt his audience. Once the white
face and collar glided to the front of the
stage, and disembodied hands began to
point violently.
“Do you rule yourself or are you
ruled?”
One of the hands directed a finger at
Elma Gage. For an instant, while her
cheeks grew hot, she thought an answer
was expected of her, but the hand flut-
tered, and passed on.
Then there were more pictures ; rustics
of whispering at Elma Gage’s back ; the
regular chewing of someone who had
brought a delicacy to eat under the cover
of darkness ; the creaking of seats and the
movement of restless feet beneath them.
Elma Gage sat absorbed. The
lecturer’s words were magic to her. She
felt susceptible; everything said left an
impression on her. She had always liked
the hall lectures, but usually there was a
personal thought to distract her as she
listened. To-night she was conscious of
a strangely severed state between her
mind and the commonplace —a sense of
remoteness in which she felt the birth
and growth of new ideas and desires.
“Solves all problems . . . Can . . . 1
say that ... By the will alone”
It was all elementary psychologist’s
mumblings, but because Miss Gage was
listening and sensed a personal applica-
tion, it was god-like logic. She looked
about her. These people —she was their
equal. Their superior perhaps.
Well, if not just yet, then soon. She
could make herself so.
Power grew in her.
The lecturer said something forceful,
and she clapped vigorously; and when
heads turned to stare at her she per-
suaded herself that she stopped not be-
cause of those stares, but because she
had given adequate applause.
“ Anything can be had . . . The world
is yours . . . Mind-mastery . . . brain
over matter . . . mental domination” . . .


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The Ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
i-i Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: llSloo.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages Irom tnc mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
iiuilding, Sydney; it. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Look into the future
retire in ease
and comfort; perhaps even travel.
Take out an Insurance policy
to mature when this day arrives.
Small regular premiums will secure
future independence for you.
taVHTABLf
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L™
Head Office—37l*373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wiugello iI on si', Anirel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
U. A r . PERKINS, General Manager.
One thing
is quite
certain —you
will grow
older, and
some day
wish to
Myou 7
know;
. . . that the annual purchases
of M'.A.’s rural market* are more
than double thone of the metro-
politan area? DAM Ik their only
regular source of Information—
It Ik therefore your logical
advertising medium.
6AM
I’rlnee'a Chambers,
M'illium (Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA. LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Ho
r* a
UNION
“The scenic route”
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
47 George St, Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
The voice behind Elma Gage began to
chuckle convulsively at a whispered joke.
“Perfect control of the mind” . . .
"Heh! Heh! He-he-he!”
"On a Jovian level” . . .
"Heh! Heh-heh! Heh! ”
Elma Gage felt a choking sensation ;
an unleashed indignation. She raised an
arm, and in a daze of resentment swung
the limb in a fierce arc. There was a
sharp slap ; her hand stung from contact
with a human cheek.
The laughter stopped abruptly.
IN the odd silence that followed, Elma
* Gage sat erect while heads craned from
along the row, people stood up and
stared, and the lecturer ceased talking
and peered in puzzlement at the restless
shadows beneath him.
She felt her courage failing her; she
stood up and walked quickly down the
aisle.
"Will-power sets you apart,” said the
lecturer behind her, and she felt again
that upsurge of new ideals and intentions.
At the entrance she stopped, turned, put
one hand on each side of the doorway,
and for one awesome instant faced all
those twisted heads. With grim pleasure
she remembered some words:
And / stand here, and / face yon.
And you way judge me at your will."
It was a powerful piece of drama while
it lasted, but she was unaware of it as
such. She went out into (he street. She
chose to walk under the brightest lights.
She recalled that once she had kept to
the shadows where her ungainliness was
less conspicuous, and was filled with
scorn af that other self.
She walked back to Hampton House.
In her room she took off her heavy shoes
and sat on the bed. From her bag she
drew two articles wrapped in paper,
fhey were knives, sharp-pointed and per-
fectly balanced. She femembered the deli
cate, half-ashamed way she had formerly
handled them, and smiled. Now she
weighed them with care and deliberation.
She stood up, feet apart, and threw
one of the knives. It flew true with a
flash of silver, and stood trembling in the
door of the clothes closet. The other
followed, split the wood and was still.
Elma Gage looked at them with a kind
of unbelief in the magic of her own
ability.
These knives were her secret. A sales-
man whom she had been unable to refuse
had sold them to her as curios. In her
room, examining them resentfully, she
had dropped one —it had trembled, point-
first, in the floor. Out of memory had
come stories of knife-throwers and their
air-cleaving skill. She began an attempt
to copy them. She had no ambitions and
no hates, but this was something to make
long hours short, a forbidden pleasure
in a timeless drabness of existence.
At first she had handled the knives
with doubts and uncertainties; but now
it came to her that knife-throwing might
be just a reflection of her character, and
she cast the blades with a vicious power,
splintering piece after piece from the
woodwork.
THE hour was late. From across the
hall she heard the indistinct sound of a
woman moaning, and she stopped to
listen. She was standing near the centre
of the floor, stockinged feet spread, knife
in hand, when the door opened. Laura
stood looking at her.
Laura had heard Elma Gage come in ;
had listened to the thudding of knives
into wood, and had lain awake, fever-
ishly curious, but fighting the thought
of leaving her bed. Ultimately she knew
that an unsatisfied mind was not to be
tolerated, however warm the bed might
be, and she rose and crept along the hall.
She lifted a strand of hair into place
and smoothed the dressing-gown she
wore. They were calculated gestures.
There must be no weakness in her
appearance; no flaw that might give
Miss Gage one particle of confidence.
She felt her triumph overpoweringly.
Her hatred of Elma Gage’s inferiority
was a detestable thing without restraint.
Her eyes went hard ; there was a glitter
in their blackness.
“Knives,” she said. “You murderous
creature! What are you doing?”
Elma Gage said: “That's my business.”
For an instant a hint of doubt crept
into Laura’s attitude. She had intended
to crush Miss Gage into helpless terror
with abuse having no proportion to the
crime, but first there was this unexpected
resistance with which to deal. Her tone
grew vicious. “It’s my business, too,”
she said. “Some of you people think
you can do what you like. But Mrs.
Paradise is going to know about this.”
Elma Gage felt the old warm nervous-
ness choking her. Then she remembered.
“Get out!” she said; and she fought
to keep her eyes on Laura’s,
Laura said: “You think”
“Get out!” Elma Gage said fiercely.
“Get out of this room or I’ll drive this
knife into your back!”
Laura looked into Miss Gage’s eyes '
and saw unalterable purpose there. She
did not understand ; she only knew that
she had made a ghastly mistake, that
some unsuspected thing had sprung to
life here ; and her attempted domination
collapsed utterly. "Oh, Gawd!” she
gasped in sudden terror, and she slammed
the door and ran down the hall.
ELMA GAGE looked at the knife in
her hand. She had frightened herself.
She had won this battle, but she had
meant to command, not to threaten.
Those words had come in an unleashed
upsurge . . .
She remembered the moaning across
the hall and dropped the knife from her
hand. She crossed the narrow passage
and knocked.
“Who’s there?” asked a voice,
Elma Gage opened the door. It was
a plain, square room, small and unclean.
There were papers and scraps of food
on the floor. In a corner, on a wooden
bed, was a woman. Her hair was un-
tidy, her face white and sick, but she
sat erect with a still expectancy,
Elma Gage said: “1 heard you call
out.” Inwardly she recognised a truth:
that before this night the woman might
have screamed from dawn to dusk and
she would not have dareef to investigate.
The woman stared at Miss Gage, and
her perfect calm deserted her. She
swayed her body swan-like and fell back
on the pillow. "I thought it was the I
doctor,” she said. “God knows, I don’t
think he’s coming back any more.”
Elma Gage was curious. She couldn't
recollect having been curious about any-
thing before. She said: “What’s the
matter? And why hasn’t Laura cleared
away all this rubbish for you?”
“She won't come in the room. She’s
frightened of getting disease.”
“Hasn’t she brought you food?”
“She puts it in the door. I have to
get up and get it.”
Elma Gage said; “You should have a
doctor.”
“I did. There was one here two
days ago, and he said 1 had —oh, 1 don’t
know what it was. He said he'd come
back, but he hasn’t.” The woman half
raised herself again. “Who are you?
I suppose you heard me crying . , . Weil,
I’m sorry.”
Elma Gage said: “You're sick. You
shouldn’t be here. You should be in
hospital.” She became confident. “I’ll
take you to the hospital—up the street—
now. You shouldn’t be here, uncared for.”
“I can’t move,” the woman com-
plained.
“Wait,” said Miss Gage. She went
back to her room, took money, the
knives (lest Laura should confiscate them
in her absence) and dropped them into
her handbag.
“I can’t move,” the woman protested
again.
Elma Gage said: “You will move.”
She helped the woman to rise, put shoes
on her trembling feet, and wrapped a
blanket about her. They left the room
and went down the stairs to the street,
Miss Gage supporting the woman with
her long arms.
When they stood on the pavement she
had a misgiving—a fear that was like
drowning, like involving herself in a
maelstrom. It was fancy. She knew it,
and fought it.
A taxi turned the corner. She called
out for it to stop. The driver looked at
them and thought them peculiar. “Where
do you want to go?” he demanded.
“Hospital, and hurry,” said Elma Gage.
AT the hospital all her doubts van-
ished. People in grey and white took
the woman off her hands, complimented
her on her initiative, and asked her name
and address. She asked whether she had
acted correctly. Would the exposure to
the night be harmful? They said no,
that anything was better than lack of
attention; then, growing impatient, they
guided her to the door.
Again she stood on the pavement,
aware that she had probably saved a
life through her determined reasoning.
She thought of other times —of lost
opportunities, unhappy results of slow
thinking. But they were gone now—and
she need never let them come back.
The taxi-driver peered out at her. “If
you've finished riding there’s a fare to
pay.”
Elma Gage paused. She said: “No, I
haven’t finished yet. Take me for a
long drive through the city.”
She watched .the black buildings,
pitted with their yellow lights, flow past.
Shop windows glinted faintly with eddy-
ing reflections like distorted glimpses of
other dimensions.
She leaned forward and shouted to the
driver. “Faster! Can’t you drive faster?”
“You’re sure there’s nowhere parti-
cular you want to go?” he asked her
over his shoulder. He felt that her ex-
citement was an unnatural thing. He
(<Continued on next page.)


ẁ
BACKACHE
WHY ENDURE THIS AGONY WHEN A SURE,
SIMPLE AND SAFE REMEDY IS AT HAND
When yon reach the stage where pain compels
you to say :• —“ I must get rid of this backache I’’
you will commence taking Dc Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and then, in a very short time, your
pain will disappear.
Naturally it would be better if you took De Witt’s
Pills as soon as
THE FIRST STAB OF PAIN
came to warn you, but many people make the same
mistake. They do not realise the serious nature of
Backache and so they wait, hoping the pain will
go away, or try various methods of treatment
which may give temporary relief. This cannot go
on for long. Soon the time comes when backache
compels you to neglect or give up your work. Life
is a mockery when you are always in pain, but
De Witt’s ludney and Bladder Pills will drive the
?ain away and they will also protect you against
uture attacks.
Read how successful De Witt’s Pills proved in
Mrs. Edmiston’s case and perhaps her experience
will persuade you to give them a trial.
Writing from “Gwen Villa,” William Street,
South Brisbane, Mrs. A. Edmiston says; —
" I used to suffer terribly with backache and,
although / tried one thing after another, I
could not get lasting relief. The pain got
worse and worse until a friend induced me to
try De Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills. These
gave me ease at once. A nyone who has suffered
as I have will understand how grateful lam.”
A point you will appreciate abont De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills is the fact that they give
almost instant relief. You may have endured agony
all day and you feel that unless you get rid of the
pain you will not be able to endure another day.
Put your faith in De Witt’s Pills. They will not
fail yon. Get a box from the chemists to-day, price
3/6 and 6/6. Sold only in the white, blue and gold
boxes. Take two just before you go to bed and in
the morning your pain will be gone.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills discolouration of the urine will prove
that they have commenced their good work. You
will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients of De Witt’s Pills
have passed through your kidneys and vour bladder.
No other medicine furnishes proof like this, and
once you have tried them your one regret will be
that you did not do so before. Take De Witt’s
Pills for Scalding Pains, Gravel, Stone , Painful
Joints, Stiffness, Rheumatism., Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica. Give them to children subject
to Bed-wetting, and to aged persons afflicted by
Urinary Disorders, and in every case they will
give prompt relief. Many thousands of suffering
men, women and children in all parts
of the world have already proved
this, but the best proof of all can
can be obtained bj a
personal trial in your
own case.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
De WITT’S
KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
could expect it from his youthful pas-
sengers, but this one was middle-aged
and gaunt-framed.
“No ; just drive,”
The yellow lights ran into long waving
streaks, and the shadows were striated
and blurred. The engine was noisy in
the empty streets.
Elma Gage put her hand out the
window and let the wind make it first
glowing, then chill. It seemed that the
arm was young. It was youth. To-
morrow she would set out to recapture
youth for her whole body. She could
do it with her strong will to guide her.
She put her head out into the wind. Her
hat was snatched away, her hair whipped
madly. She drew it in again, breathless.
Then she laughed at her own extrava-
gance. No, youth was not for her any
more; all she wanted was to stop her
solitary walk through the years that were
life—-to have a grip on living and the
friendship of others ...
She touched the driver. “Stop! I want
to get out.”
She paid the man an inordinate sum,
though she did not notice, and he drove
away. It was a deserted street, sloping
down before her. She loosened her coat,
swung her long arms and walked.
Al the bottom of the hill she saw a
stone bridge, and beneath it the glow of
waters under the moon She began to
run, tripping and stumbling, until the
slow tide was under her. Half-way across
the bridge she halted and leaned against
the parapet to dream of all that was
gone and all that was to come. Twenty
feet below the water swirled green,
liquidly sentient. Her eyes went down
to it. The cold lure of it shocked her.
It hinted at things unspeakable. She
drew away and turned.
OPPOSITE her was a stationary car,
its interior bright with lights, and at
the wheel a woman. Her hair, her skin,
her clothing were luxurious.
, , . .
And on the pavement were two men
persuading her to leave the car-with guns.
Elma Gage crossed the road. One of the
men was startled from his labor. He .stared
at Miss Gage over the barrel of a gun.
“Stay there and don’t scream. Couldn't
you see you was interfering”
Elma Gage stood still while she
thought. She saw that these men had
stopped the car, then produced guns to
intimidate while they searched for
plunder. Again she felt that alienation
from a strange situation. A memory of
the lecturer’s magic words and a taste of
the youth of the night were with her
again . . .
The first man, not content with his
victim’s purse, was searching the car's
side pockets ; and now the second man,
looking once at Miss Gage, lowered his
weapon and turned to view his com-
rade’s work.
Elma Gage opened her handbag and
took out one of the knives. She made a
sound. The man swung round to see
something glinting in her hand,
“What’s that—what’ve you got there?”
he demanded.
“A knife,” said Miss Gage. She felt
confident; her new-found powers would
bear her easily through the situation,
“You and your friend must return those
things and leave at once, or you'll have
this in your back.” She thought of Laura,
But the man was contemptuous,
“Smart, aren’t you? Well, I oughter
shoot you. Throw that thing away.”
Elma Gage saw the gun come up.
-^ e threw the knife. The man gasped
once, then fell in sick silence against a
fender of the car and rolled in the
Suffer.
The second man stopped his search,
What ye you done, you -?
looked at the thing in the gutter,
at . a . sec ? nd M,ss ,°°Be s hand,
“™he Sw"-! Sefyou to
£( S % 0 yOU ,0
a . , ,
The man stopped. Bui it was because he
had remembered the gun in his pocket,
Elma Gage said: I knew you would
st 9.P- J ia . ve j OUI l^e P ow f, r . °|, m y
Wl |h It s going to change everything ...
H° w about this. said the man.
Ve "9 m crept through h.s voice
, Miss Gage saw the gun. She threw
. 1C ] <nl f e unerringly, an d as 11 left her
hand she heard two sharp explosions.
?. he saw the man and lie still; then
the moon swam like a heat-haze and
/anis e •
mut? - , ,
THE woman in the car ran to where
i Elma G , on the pavement .
„ You wefe s b p|end ? d , Are y F ou hurt?
The wa y y OU threw those—those
jg ut are you hurt?”
Elma Gage nodded, wondering about
the damp feeling over her heart. She
had an impulse to say something, but she
gave up trying to think what it was. She
devoted her attention to the moon. It
was making fitful attempts to come back,
and presently, by some strange mutation,
she found that she could look right
through it and into a realm beyond
mortal imagining.
An Old Lady Looks Back:—
DON'T I R EMEMBER?
By- E.MARY GURNEY.
441 ONG ago,” said Mrs. Keesing,
back in ’92.” Her hard
old face seemed to soften a little,
and she sighed. “Those were the days!”
She sighed again. “Dartville was only
a little township then, riddled with the
shafts of old goldmines.”
Memory lent to her face a soft glowing
that was almost youthful as she went on.
“Don’t I remember? There was the
time Martha Good’s pony picked up a
stone as big as your fist, so she drove
on the footpath, hoping she’d meet some-
one who’d take it out; but the first man
she met was old Jelly Bean—his name
was Gerald, poor man! He’s been dead
these many years. A passionate man
he was, too, and filled with a very proper
pride, he being Dartville’s first mayor.
When he saw Martha Good driving
along the footpath he nearly had a fit.
He ordered her off, but Martha, being
a girl of spirit, refused to go unless he
took the stone out of her pony’s foot;
but, of course, he couldn’t, being the
mayor. So Martha refused to come off
the footpath, and old Jelly Bean refused
to let her go on. Indeed, he even seized
hold of the pony’s bridle to drag it off,
and Martha had hold on the other side,
lugging it back, when Doctor Good him-
self came along on his bay cob.
“There was a fine to-do. Doctor Good
was the kindest man ever I knew, be
his patient man or beast; and when
Martha told him what was going on he
nipped off the cob and dived at old Jelly
Bean.
“Jelly Bean let go of the pony, and
stepped backward and sat down in the
gutter, and the doctor
stood over him shaking
his fists and red as a
turkey cock with an-
noyance. And he told
old Jelly Bean that
either he would take
the stone out of the
pony’s foot or Martha
would drive right to
town on the footpath.
“Poor old Jelly
Bean’s dignity was so
outraged that he couldn’t even get up.
Martha says that she giggled and giggled
—she still does, if you mention it. Jelly
Bean said that he was the mayor, and
that while he was no one should drive
on the footpath.
“But the doctor told him he could
guess again.
“ ‘You may be a very important man,
the doctor told him, ‘but I hope the Devil
gets you before he gets me!’
“At that, Martha laughed outright, for
which the poor man never forgave her;
not in this world, anyhow. But the
doctor didn’t regard it as any laughing
matter, and rode beside Martha on the
footpath right into the township. They
fined him five shillings, and the whole
town shut up shop and went to the court
and chaired him through the town. But
the doctor was the best man ever I knew,
and the people loved him.”
Mrs. Kecsing broke off a moment, and
her eyes shone.
<<THOSE were the days! Don’t I
» remember? My old dad had a per-
fect passion for blasting. Rock or earth or
tree-stumps. Which was all right when he
was young, but, when he got up in years
and got slow to move, sometimes we
were a little worried, for fear the charge
would go off before he got far enough
away. Bdt right until the end we couldn’t
stop him ; not even when he was ninety-
four and crippled with lumbago. He’d
spend hours boring holes in logs or rocks,
tamping the charges down, fixing the
fuse and getting it all shipshape ; and
then one of us would have to go and


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agenta any capital city.
ir iM
jin r
J
I"
'jm
'MM
9 ,
fa-
m
11 i ?>rr-'
mi
! n ill
IHm
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
<9
\0
<9
$
fen
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Clk mercurv
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury" circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55?
%
.
K
r f f.¥vi :: -
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Tell Your Story
to REAL Buyers
“rpHE NEWS." even-
ing daily, plays a
big part In Adelaide’s
evening home life . .
It’s the family circle
which buys your goods
. . . get vour cthrv in
there
Advertise in Adelaide’s
Only Evening Paper
“THE NEWS ”
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace,
MELBOURNE —R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House. Collins
street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-4 C Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
light the wretched thing for him. Don't
1 remember? There was the time when
he blew up the big rock above the cow-
yard. It was the only thing left close
to home he could think of that needed
blasting. Anyway, one evening he came
m for me.
Polly,’ he said, ‘come on out. I’ve a
little job for you.’ He was very mysteri-
ous. so I followed him down to the cow-
yard and up the little hill above it.
“ ‘She’s primed,’ said dad. ‘She'll make
a lovely bang, Polly!’ And he handed
me the matches.
Wait until I'm up the hill. I want
to see her heave.’
But the fuse was damp or something,
and 1 had a bit of difficulty to get it
going. When it finally lighted and I
turned to run, I crashed into dad and
knocked him flying. He’d got impatient,
you see, and edged down the hill a bit
at a time to see what I was doing. Well,
there wasn't time to pick him up, and,
anyway, he couldn’t run, so I did the
only thing I could—grabbed the nearest
bit of him and towed him off, by the
leg. right down into the muck of the cow-
yard. It was a lovely bang, but we were
both so helpless with laughter that wc
didn’t see it; and a piece as big as a
washtub went right through the cowshed
roof! Those were the days!
HERE was a boy I knew. Desmond
* Lane. He had black hair and those
blue-grey eyes that laugh, and a sweet,
strong mouth like I never saw on a man
before or since. He was twenty-four, and
lived alone with his mother, who adored
him. The war took him.” The face that
was shrewd and hard was dark suddenly
with the agony of remembrance. “Not
this war,” said Mrs. Kecsing ; and we re-
membered how “this” war had not
seemed to matter to her. “There have
always been wars,'’ she said in her grim
way. “There always will be.
“The Boer War,” she said, and sighed.
“Desmond would go. He had those blue-
grey eyes that are always seeking. There
were dreams in them, and adventures.
Don’t I remember? Boy and man, he
was always in trouble. And, Lord! how
we loved him! Not only us girls, but all
the townsfolk. They weren’t well off —none
of us was in those days. His mother came
of gentle stock, and Des was determined
that she should have again the things
she’d had when she was young—silk
gowns and servants, and a carriage and
pair. She never had the pair, but she
had a motor-car —one of the first to
come to New Zealand. He never mar-
ried, you see. He had to give her the
silks and servants first; and, though
some people came by it easily, he wasn’t
one of them, Des wasn’t. He was too
generous, and the world was so wide and
full of dreams.
“He did things so hard while he did
them —breaking horses or sailing boats
or digging gold in the old diggings. He
had great faith in the old diggings. In
the intervals of his roaming he’d work
the farm like a maniac, and spend hours
on end digging in the old mine shafts.
It worried his mother and us nearly silly
because they weren't safe. All the timber
in them was rotten, and they kept caving
in; but Des didn’t care. He said only
the good died young. Whom the gods
10ve.... Sometimes he found a few
specks of dust, and then he would be
very triumphant indeed, and dash off to
Auckland in one of the little clipper boats
he built, to buy his mother some silk
«f|NCE he brought his niece back with
” him, a little girl of ten, just out from
England—don’t 1 remember? —a child
with a face like a morning rosebud. But
at that time we didn’t know her —the
time he brought her back first. They
lived out of the township, you see, about
two miles away. Des brought her home
in the dusk of a summer evening.
Two days they were, and she loved
every moment of it. Des told her
stories, and the coastline was so
lovely it hurt. Morning on it, on the
yellow cliffs and the sombre, rugged
bush, and the rugged peaks that were
like jagged wounds against the sky;
evening slanting over it, and over the
quiet sea. so that everything was
drenched in dusky gold. ‘But it was
Des,’ she said ; but that was long after,
when we were old, and knew. ‘He
showed me things through his own eyes,
glamorous with romance —with a chiv-
alry that never was.’
“That was Des. But, somehow, when
one thinks of Des one always thinks of
silly things—gay things. His adventures
were always gay—even that last one —
for him.
“So he brought Nancy home, and the
next day he took her to the old mine
shafts because he wanted to go on dig-
ging in the place where he’d found the
gold. But he wouldn’t take her down
the shaft. He told her the gods might
love her too much, which puzzled her a
great deal ; but already she adored him,
so she waited patiently at the shaft-
mouth, sitting in the mellow autumn sun-
light and singing. She had a lovely
voice.
“So she sang at the shaft-mouth, and
Des, coming back to ask her to run
home and get him a billy of tea, paused
below to listen. And it was then, so he
told me, before he went away to the
war, that he first began to love her —her,
a child of ten. I should have hated her,
because if it hadn’t been for the dreams
Des would have married me or ever she
came. I should have hated her ; but, oh,
she was a lovely child, like a morning
flower.
“She sang a little love song that meant
nothing to her. How could it? But be-
cause she was a true artist she sang it
with love, with true feeling. But when
she finished and he asked her to run
home for the billy of tea she was all
child, thrilled with the idea of a picnic.
Mrs. Lane made her the tea, and gave
her a little basket of cakes and scones ;
and as she gave them to the child she
made her promise never to go down the
old shafts.
“ They arc not safe, dear child. I am
afraid—afraid for Des.’
“Nancy asked her, wondering, ‘Do the
gods love him. Aunt Fan?’
“Dcs’s mother looked at her and
laughed, but even then there were tears
in her heart.
“‘Everyone does, child!’
“Nancy nodded,
“ T do.’
“And she went off with her billy and j
her basket, singing her little love song, I
but not knowing why she sang it.
“But as she neared the old mine shaft
in the hillside there was the most appal-
ling crash. .She dropped the basket and
the billy, and began to run, and as she
ran she wept.
« W HEN s hc reached the mine shaft
** there wasn't a hole in the ground
any more, but only a little depression Mlleti
with earth and stones. For a minute she |
was paralysed with horror, and then she
began to run again, not back towards
home, but on, towards the township,
which she could see from the hilltop. It
was about a mile away, and by the time
she reached it she was nearly done, but
she staggered down the main street, call-
ing in a little choked voice:
“ ‘Uncle’s buried down the mine shaft!
Uncle’s buried down the mine shaft!’
“So, of course, everyone shut up shop,
and, guided by the exhausted child, finally
arrived at the shaft, where (hey began
digging like maniacs. She was a stranger
in the place, but strangers were always
coming and going about Dartville. She
went off. unnoticed, to tell Des’s mother. :
And while they were digging Des him- '
self came up and asked what on earth it
was all about; and when they told him
‘Someone’s buried down this shaft’ he
went to the front, working like mad and
directing them, because he knew the
shafts as no one else did.
“About an hour afterwards, when
they’d got nearly to the bottom of the
shaft, Mrs. Lane arrived. Her face was
chalk-white, but she had herself in j
wonderful control. Nancy told us that j
when she rushed into the house, crying |
out that Des was buried down the mine |
shaft, his mother fainted, and that when .
she finally came round she seemed quite I
numbed for a while. But she asked them
quite steadily if they had found him.
Those at the top told her that they j
weren’t quite to the bottom yet, but that (
they had every hope of getting him out
alive; and old Jelly Bean arrived with ,
Doctor Good, having had sufficient sense
to realise that he would probably be
needed, and that there were already too
many hands on the digging end of the
business.
“And then there was a fresh slip, and
someone called out, ‘Oh, my God! It’s
got Des Lane!’
“Mrs. Lane cried out ‘Des! Des!’ :
and fainted again.
“But it only got Des’s foot, and bruised
him a little.
“They hauled him to the top, where
Doctor Good was trying to bring his
mother round. It took quite a while, and
all the time they went on digging like mad.
I had Mrs. Lane’s head in my lap when
she came round, laughing and crying,
and gabbling that it was Des, or it wasn't
Des, who was down the mine shaft.
And then Nancy, so exhausted that she
could hardly crawl, came on the scene,
and when she saw Des, she began to
laugh and cry too. She said, ‘Oh, you’re
down the mine! You’re down the mine!’
“It was quite a while before we arrived
at the truth ; that Des had been down
quite a different shaft. When he realised ;
that he had been digging like a madman
to release himself, he sat down on the
hillside and laughed until he cried. Don’t
I remember? When one thinks of Des,
one thinks of gay things.”
But, in the dusk, there was that in her
smiling face that brought tears to the
heart.


dripping trees where the track wound past the White
and Mulver humpies to the thickly-wooded shoulders
of the hill.
“Don’t know how the old dame came to know
about me bein’ drunk in Trangie,” Dutch mused
as they tramped towards the shelter. “That must’ve
been fifteen years ago.”
“Mrs. Malloy knows the road,” Blue answered
as they made their way up the slope. “Her old man
was a battler, an’ she used t’ travel with ’im until ’e
struck it lucky. The daughters spend their time
stoppin’ the old lady from throwin’ dad’s money
about. They got a guard on ’er all the time for'fear
someone bites ’er. Dogs round the place, an’ all the
maids warned to keep bagmen out.” He eyed the
shed unappreciatively. “I bet they’re three deep in
’ere.”
“Any room, mate?” Dutch inquired of a tall
man in a black-and-white football jersey who was
lounging at the door. He stood aside to let them
pass. As they pushed in the other occupants broke
off their conversation. There were about nine men
grouped round the fire and leaning against the walls.
Dutch and Blue advanced to the fire and began to
dry the rain and mud out of their soaked trouser
legs. There was silence for a time.
“Where are you from?” an old grey-bearded
battler asked at length. He had a little white woolly
dog lying at his feet, and from time to time he bent
forward to give it some of the sardines he was eating.
“Out Mudger’s Flat way. Been doin’ a bit o’
clearin’.”
“Did you come by the church just past the turn-
off?”
“Yeah. The creek water wasn’t too good. Dead
’orse.”
“Don’t suppose you met the big Yank. He was
headin’ through that way.” >.;.■•
“We jumped a goods jus’ outside Mudger’s Flat.”
“Then you’d have missed him.”
The others seemed satis-
fied by the bearing of the
newcomers and settled back
into the discussion. The little
man who had the conversa-
tion in his grip must once
have been a boxer. Nothing
else could account for the
flattened nose, the shaven
head, the missing teeth and
the scar which had drawn his
upper lip away from his gums.
His voice was the hoarse
monotone of the man whose
main pleasure and business
is talking. His hearers
seemed to have accepted him
with the fatalism of people
who have a rainy evening to
fill in and nothing to fill it
with. The exceptions were
two old men in the corner
lying stupefied over a mix-
ture of “white lady”—boiled
methylated spirit with a dash
of boot polish and iodine—
which they had spent the
afternoon concocting. No
one took any notice of them,
except a watery-eyed, red-
faced man with a scrubby
fringe of beard who had
been shifting closer and closer in search of
tobacco. The traveller in the football jersey remained
by the doorway, keeping up a ceaseless tap-
tapping on the corrugated-iron with his fingernail,
a tapping that blended with the weary drip of water
from the roof. The rest listened, prepared food and
ate it, and threw in a word now and then. The blue
smoke rose from the fire and their cigarettes until
the air was almost solid. There was a mingled smell
of tobacco, ill-fed humanity and damp clothing. The
squat shadow of the pugilist danced menacingly on
the floor in front of him as though to mock his
vehemence and the apathy of his hearers.
“Now, take this relief,” he gabbled hoarsely ; “it’s
only a ’arf loaf. No one can keep a family on what
the Guv’ment allows. They spend more on the mongs
in the dogs’ home.”
“The mongs can’t bite anyone there,” some wit
remarked, “an’ we always can.”
“An’ would y’ go bitin’ people for coppers if
y’ weren’t forced to it? What you want’s a decent
price for y’ labor. What do the cockies roun’ here
offer for a harvest hand? Answer that.”
“About five bob a day if y’ lucky,” said a man
with a fierce moustache that he had been twirling
and tvyisting with all the delicacy of a cat. “An’
workf"work from dawn to dark to get it.”
“And when the sun’s set,” the chap in the foot-
ball jersey agreed, “they get behind it with a long
pitchfork and poke it back into the sky.”
The orator ignored these interruptions.
“Say you don’t take the starvation wages the
cockies offer. S’pose you say: ‘Why, I was doin’
better on the relief.’ An’ you go to the p’lice station
an’ want the relief. What happens? Down comes
the cocky an’ tells the Johns he offered you a job
an’ y’ turned it down. What happens?” No one
was interested enough to reply. “You’re cut off
the relief. Then what y’ goin’ to do?”
Blue nudged Dutch. “I know that bloke,” he
said under his breath.
“You won’t get no gold medal for that,” Dutch
responded.
“I don’t hold with none of this Red talk,” a big
man in a dyed army coat objected, rubbing his bristly
chin. “What we want’s another war, an’ then there’d
be plenty of work. An’ it’s cornin’, too, what with
Japan an’ Hitler. When I was over the other side”
“Now, then, jest a minute,” the orator inter-
rupted. “I was over the other side, too. An’ I don t
want another war. Jus’ because you and I was such
mugs that even the bullets gave us the go-by, that
ain’t no reason why we should go a second time an’
play ‘Here I am ; come an’ chase me.’ ” He turned
on the army enthusiast. “You don’t want that beauti-
ful f ace turned into a slab of green meat with the
maggots playin’ in it, do you?”
“Whp the hell do you think you are, anyway?”
the big man snarled. “Cornin’ round here lookin’
for a row. For two sprats I’d knock your ugly dial
off y’ neck backwards.” • ~ '
The pug leered at him nastily. “I haven’t been
chucker-out in a pub in Bourke for nothin’,”
he observed.
“Now then, now then.” The old grey chap who
had spoken first to Blue soothed them as though they
were the small woolly dog at his feet. “We don’t
want any trouble, boys. Sit down again. Sit down
n nw” Thpv subsided "
‘‘wbVTdid ww ZLf ™ talkin’ fane
9 » hip man mumbled “His nwn dial Lnn’t
* g • tn i-wn home” *
f get no girl T to leave n ° me> „ . : .
’ Now, there 1 agree with you, the pug grinned.
Not that we re ever likely to agree about anything
e ' ,/ B°t a temper that bad y could light a match
1 at lt; _
A few of his hearers showed signs of restlessness,
and he hastened to get the conversation back in his
stranglehold.
“As I was saying, this dole don’t remind me so
much as what happened to an old bloke I know,
Old-age pensioner, he was. He was shufflin’ along
the road very sloyv, with his feet all done up in two
sardine tins. You know them big ones. Well, ’e’s
thirsty, see? So he goes up to a house, an’ a woman
comes to the door an’ gives him a drink. She looks
down and sees his feet. ‘My poor man,’ she says,
‘is that the best you can do in the way of boots?’
‘Yes, lady,’ he says. ‘Wait here,’ she says; T think
we should be able to do a bit better for you than
that.’ ‘Bless you, lady, bless you,’ he savs, all dilly
with joy, see, thinkin’ he’s on a good thing. Out
“Who the hell do you think you are, anyway ?”
she comes again, jest like this here Guv’ment, with
a couple of Capstan tobacco tins. ‘Here, my poor
man,’ she says ; ‘take these. You’ll be able to nail
them on to the tins you’ve got an’ make yourself
some heels.’ It’s a fact! That was Old Paddy the
Naphthaline King.”
“Him! The old bloke what used to get the stuff
all mixed up with ’is food an’ eat it?” There was a
stir of interest in the group.
“The same. But, as 1 was sayin’, this system is
jest like the old woman. We don’t want charity.
Everyone’s got an’ equal right to food an’ clothes an’
shelter an’ comfits.”
“Ah,” the old greybeard nodded. “That’s so,
my boy.- Now I’ve been a great reader in my day.
I remember reading a book by Ruskin on that same
thought.”
“When we get into this next war,” the big ex-army
enthusiast broke in, “we’ll show you yeller Com-
moonists a thing or two. Then y’ won’t be able to
go whinin’ an’ crawlin’ an’ stirrin’ up trouble. Knock
y’ all. on .the head, that’s what we’ll do.”
■~“Tha’s ri’,” agreed an old traveller who had been
dozing by the fire. “I’m as good a blurry Commoonist
as any of y’. Cut their throats an’ drink their
blurry blood, Tha’sh what I’ll do. Three cheers f
th’ Rev’looshun! ”
The little pug turned on him. j “You’re a dis-
grace to your class,” he stormed. “It’s men like you
that goes makin’ things hard for men like me when
I’m tryin’ to explain to these workers what’s wrong
with them.”
“I’m a better blurry Commoonist than you are,”
the traveller insisted truculently. “I’ll show y’ who’s
the best blurry Commoonist in this shed.” He seized
the log of wood beside him. “I’ll cut y’r throat an’
drink y’r blood, that’s what I’ll do,” he howled.
“Ar, shut up,” from several of the peaceably
disposed.
“Chuck ’em out,” someone suggested..
Everybody’s voice was lifted in the uproar, either
swearing at the noise or wanting to fight someone.
Only the two metho.-drinkers in the corner lay like
corpses.
At this juncture a knock came on the corrugated-
iron beside the entrance. A face was thrust in apolo-
getically, a weak face with a growth of beard.
“Is there any room, mates?” it asked.
“How many of you are there?”
“There’s me an’ the missus an’ the kid.”
“Strike! Don’t stand there in the rain. Bring
’em in.”
The man and woman came apprehensively just
inside the door.
“Come right up to the fire, lady,” Old Grey
invited courteously. He offered her an upended kero-
sene-tin to sit on.
“Thank you,” the woman said fearfully as she
sat down and pushed back the hair that hung damply
about her face. She was wearing a cotton dress and
a knitted woollen coat which was soaked through.
“I guess you come from the city,” Old Grey
hazarded.
They nodded their heads., “We’ve been tramping
a week,” the woman said. “We thought, maybe, if
we could get out in the country we could get work,
but we spent the last of what we had yesterday.”
“Got y’r travellers’ ticket?” Blue asked.
“No,” the man answered. “We just thought we’d
come an’ try our luck. An’ they say now that we’ve
got to go back where they can identify us before
we can get a ticket.” . ' ‘
The war advocate had been bestirring himself
over the fire. *
“There’s a bit of. soup here, .mate,” he said
gruffly. “The kiddie may need.it. We’ve had ours.”
“Tea,” said the pug, filling a pannikin and holding
'it out to the woman. “There’s nothing like tea to
warm you.” . .
A dark, bullet-headed fellow with a cast in his
eye came up silently behind the woman/ holding out
a coat.
“Oh, no, thank you!” she protested, and then
took it from him timidly as he growled something
' inarticulate about having another one.
The other shelterers learned that the name of
the two was Bates. They had been on the dole for
two years, married on the dole, the baby was born
on the dole. They had no near-relatives.
“Well, well,” the pug remarked cheerfully. “At
last I’ve struck someone that can answer them thirty-
two questions truthfully.”
“Come on, boys,” Blue
said. Some of them had been
silently gathering up their
billies and blankets ever since
the new arrivals entered.
“The rain’s easin’ off now.”
As a matter of fact, no rain
had ever shown fewer signs
of easing off. “So long,” he
said ; “we’ll be seein’ you in
the morning.”
“Look here,” the man
protested, “we don’t want to
turn you out like this.”
“That’s all right. Plenty
of shelter in the lucerne
sheds if you know where to
look.”
One by one the travellers
muttered “Good night” and
departed, leaving the little
group like a stupefied Christ-
mas tableau by the fire. The
two metho.-drinkers were
escorted out firmly and the
throat-cutter bullied into a
state of swearing compli-
ance.
“Thought you said every-
one had the same right to
food an’ shelter as everyone
else,” someone jeered at
the pug as they stumbled in the dark outside.
“So they have,” he agreed. “But y’ all saw the
woman was drenched through an’ had hardly enough
clothes to cover ’er.”
“Suppose we take up a collection to-morrow,”
Old Grey suggested, hitching his little woolly dog
under his arm. “The day’s takings for clothes for
the woman and kid.”
The mutter of agreement that came back through
the dark was responsible for making the following
day horrible in the memory of Tiburon housewives.
Hawkers tramped on each other’s heels in and out
the gates. They were clamorous, they were insistent;
it was impossible to deny all of them. The threepences
and pennies all found their way to the same little
pile where lay Blue’s ten-shilling note in the lap
of Mrs. Bates.
“I say,” Blue asked the orator as they groped
their way through the dark, “ain’t you Denny the
Magsman?”
“That’s me.” ■
“You used to travel with a pal of mine, Okker
Slade?”
“That’s so,’. Guess he ought to be along in a
day or so.” '
“Well, damned if I don’t hang round till ’e comes.
What’s ’e doing?”
“Wire-fakin’.”
“He would be,” Blue explained to Dutch. “Man’s
a genius. Make any mortal thing out of wire, clothes
pegs, "bottle cleaners, anything.” He turned to the
Magsman. “’Ave you still got the old Ford that
needed a new inside?”
“Needs a new outside too now,” the Magsman
answered. ; “She still goes, though, when I can get
enough petrol.' There’s a big, New Guard garageman
in Tiburon I never can resist. I’d travel a lot out of
me way to pinch his petrol.”
“Well, what’s it t’ be?” Dutch broke in sullenly.
“Can’t stand here maggin’ all night.”
Most of the party had drifted off in ones anci
twos by this, leaving Denny, the army enthusiast, Old
Grey, Blue and Dutch. „
“Two of you can curl up in Disloyalty, the
Magsman reflected. (Disloyalty was the car.)
one can sleep underneath. I think I know a place
where two more can squeeze in.”
{To be continued next week.)


mm
m
L
Any mouth may have
Pyorrhea, and at forty
the odds are
4 out of 5.
Is Your Mouth Growing Old?
Still young—but your mouth is growing old. The pretty lips are losing their youthful
contour. They are taking on the look of withered age.
“Pyorrhea,” says your dentist. “A long-neglected case. The gums are shrunken and
receding, the teeth loosening , and decaying fast”
Pyorrhea is a preventable disease. Take proper care of your gums and teeth, and
you will not have it.
Forhan’s for the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea—or check its progress, if used in time and
used consistently. Ordinary toothpastes and powders cannot do this.
If you have tender, bleeding gums (the first symptom of Pyorrhea) start to use Forhan’s
immediately. Then watch the bleeding stop and the tenderness disappear.
But, better still-—don’t wait for symptoms. End the trouble before it begins. Keep
Pyorrhea, its disfigurements and train of dangerous ills away by using Forhan’s for
the Gums. It makes the gums firm and healthy—the teeth white and clean.
Price, 2/-; extra-large tubes, 3/-.
Australasian Agents — The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan
for the gums
■ii
:
- m k
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ADVT
TO “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(,Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o't-V*'
3*
el 1
£pp A^*
C O % ,-•'•’■
6®
<* v *:<
'<v<'
fto" v
*»* ...
t ., ..** ~•’ . srfP M *X,*i*i is°
..*•
#
<$ vO^VJ^-
..-r''ctSS&ar***


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company-
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Sydney Sampson William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager
