

NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
:f»v
s*6®-
\«0»
:
m
List of Manufactures
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANCLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIC IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
9**
QUALITY PRODUCTS
all made in Australia
■V
p
I —Loading Iron Ore by Electric
Shovel, Iron Knob. S.A.
Xf
v
2—Wilputte Coke Ovens Plant.
3 —Blast Furnace Plant capa-
city 12,740 tons per week.
4—Plate Mill.
s—Merchant5 —Merchant Bars and Sections
in Stock Yard.
;
8
&wm
he BROKEN HILL Lie
MINE OWNERS, SHIP OWNERS, IRON AND STEEL
MANUFACTURERS AND COLLIERY PROPRIETORS
Offices
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London
Brisbane —Steel Products (Queensland) Pty., Ltd.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W). Iron Knob (S.A.), Bevonport (Tasmania), Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
AN INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT
OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
Has Sydney a University?
Vol. 56.—N0. 2898.
Wednesday, August 28, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for (93 5 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Accountant)
Particulars Free to You!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Special Mail Course in ACCOUNTANCY, ns adver-
tised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Marne ....
My Address
S.B. 1435
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those' governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so .published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident, or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A Jew on
Jews
It is a good
plan for the aver
age reader to
turn occasionally
from the litera-
ture ol escape to
works whose effects may be anything but
soothing. Many, for example, will find
themselves in violent disagreement with
Lewis Browne’s Now Odd of God (Bod-
ley Head ; 65.), an intensively reasoned
treatise on such mysteries as why Jews
are disliked, and why the race survives
in spite of persecution and intermarriage
with Gentiles.
Mr. Browne is a Jew who has studied
Jewish communities in many parts of the
world. He doesn’t believe the Jews are
God’s Chosen People, and doubts if any
educated person does.
When they emerged out of the great
Arabian waste, almost four thousand years
ago, they were just a wild-eyed, half-
starved primitive rabble looking for a fer-
tile place in vyhich to dwell. They saw
such a place in the strip of tilth between
the Jordan and the Great Sea....and
laboriously acquired the rudiments of civili-
sation... .Their tribes merged into a pre-
carious sort of nation. Their witch-doctors
became priests and law-givers, and their
desert terrors gave way to an established
faith.
It is their ritual that has set Jews apart
from the rest of the world. Much of the
Law is “based on sheer contrariness.”
The rabbis seem to have built up the Law
by watching the behavior' of the Gentiles
and commanding the contrary. Thus they
hoped to wall in the Jews, to set them
apart as a “peculiar people.”
But how account for the fact that mil-
lions of Jews who have rejected the Law
remain apart? In Majorca all the Jews
were forcibly baptised in 1435. Their
descendants became practising Catholics,
but the Church refused to accept them
as priests- or nuns, and they are dis-
criminated against industrially to this
day.
After 15 generations of going to Mass
and invoking the saints, they are still
what their ancestors were—a pariah people.
The Portuguese New Christians and the
Turkish Donmeh, who became Moham-
medans in the seventeenth, century, are
in the same boat.
It used to be said of the Jews that
they were internationals—a reproach
which might equally have been levelled
at European royai families and the
Popes. Yet in the World War 12,000
Jews gave, their lives for Germany
alone, and in Britain and the
Dominions thousands volunteered, it is
still said by some capitalists that the Jew
is a congenital revolutionary, while
revolutionaries say he typifies the worst
of capitalists. And practically all Gen-
tiles agree to the formula: Once a Jew’
always a Jew. Mr. Browne rejects the
last proposition as uncompromisingly as
he does the others. To him Hitler and
his Nordics are unscientific fools. “It is
utterly impossible,” he says, “to isolate
anything that can be described as a
Jewish strain,” and, again, “It is only a
superstition that there is a distinct Jewish
type all over the world.” He laughs at
“people who boast that they can almost
always recognise a Jew by his features.”
Believing that Jews can “pass” with-
out difficulty, and that it is desirable for
them to do so, the author is left with
only one important problem; How can
members of his race be got out of the
cities and on to the land? He believes
that while they “remain entirely urban
in their occupations and predilections
they will continue to be haled,” Aus-
tralia, for one, is not likely to agree.
The truth is that many modern cities like
their Jews—a matter partly of the Jews,
partly of the cities.
This book contains a wealth of infor-
mation about Jews, ancient and modern,
famous and otherwise, and the terse,
limpid style makes it delightfully easy
to read.
An Irishman
on the
Empire
F. A. Horni-
brook, author of
Without Reserve
(Heinemann ; 7s.
6d.), is a congeni-
tal rebel. His
ancestry- he had
a French grandmother and his parents
were South of Ireland Anglicans who
attended a Methodist chapel may have
something to do with it. He arrived in
Australia at the age of 21, shortly after
the beginning of the Boer War, and
stayed here and in M.L. till 1916. He
likes Australians (“the men are tremen-
dously masculine”), and attributes “their
sublime conceit in themselves” to their
isolation.
It was this isolation from the rest of the
world that made the Australian such a
fierce and capable fighting man in the war.
But he isn’t blind to his friends’ faults.
He objects particularly to our “society
people” who “talk of the workers as if
they were inhabitants of another planet”
and to our reverence for titles.
The number of businessmen who still
retain their military rank is very large,
whereas the same class of man in' England
has dropped his.
He did transport work during the war,
and on the evidence was a sad trial to
brass-hats. On one trip he and two par-
sons (parsons are among his many
phobias.) were detailed to classify the
ship’s library. The parsons threw over-
board a set of Zola’s works and some
novels by Smollett and Fielding, so he
did the same by all the religious and
quasi-religious works he could find. He
tells many stories of the imbecilities per-
petrated by pompous base-wallahs in the
names of discipline and patriotism, but
though they have a certain interest as
personal experiences they are old stuff
to anybody who served in the war or has
read such works as Montague’s Fiery
Particles. Bird wood was one of the few
generals who inspired him with whole-
hearted admiration.
An inevitable effect of his experiences
—he traversed over 140,000 miles on
ships carrying cargoes of “blind men,
insane men, men with shocking wounds”
—was to make him a’ furious pacifist.
He is opposed to his own church because
{inter alia) the Bishop of London said
in the House of Lords last year that he
“would like to make a bonfire of con-
traceptives and dance round it” ; to the
Catholic Church because {inter alia) Dr.
Donovan, M.P., recently talked the
Matrimonial Causes Bill out in the
Commons; to the M.C.C. for its spine-
less attitude towards bodylining: to the
British Government for its indifference
to malnutrition in children ; to leading
members of the British Labor party for
supporting cuts in the dole. Above all,
he hates the armament-makers, whom
“you will find figuring in Honors Lists,
occupying palatial mansions and filling
high positions.” He devotes a special
chapter to them entitled “Famous
Criminals.”
In short, he is the Irishman of' tradi-
tion, ready and eager to hit any head
he sees, provided the owner is big enough
to be worth the honor. Written, as it
seems to have been, in a white heat of
indignation, many of the arguments suffer
from over-emphasis, but, as H. G. Wells
says in a letter quoted on the dust-jacket,
the book as a whole is “first-rate stuff.”
An American
on Crooners
In The facts
of Life in Popu-
lar Song (Mc-
Graw-Hill;,. 7s.
fid.) Sigmund
Spaeth, himself a
e
RED PAGE.
Australia's
Near North
If people still
there be in Aus-
tralia who lie
awake o’ nights
worrying about
the Yellow Peril.
they will find plenty of soporifics in
A ustraha and the Far East (Angus and
Robertson ; 7s-. 6d.). The essayists, who
include constitutional law authority
Gar ran, K.C., are members of the Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs.
Japan, China, Malaya and the Dutch
East Indies are dealt with, and the con-
tentions are well buttressed with stat-
istics and historical data. Most inter-
esting, because they present a point of
view that seldom gets public expression,
are the references to the White Australia
policy.
As a matter of history, the founders
and sponsors of Australian settlement
intended the continent to be developed
by Asiatic coolie labor. Matra included
Chinese immigration in his scheme of
1783 ; Sir George young coupled Chinese
with his American loyalists as prospec-
tive colonists; Governor King implored
Downing- street to ship Chinese coolies
to supplement very unsatisfactory con-
vict labor ; E. G. Wakefield, writing in
182 d, was strong for coolies; South
Australian squatters commenced agitat-
ing for coolie importation in 1834, and
kept it up for 20 years; in 1842 Went-
worth formed a Coolie Association in
N. S. Wales, to the disgust of Governor
Gipps. But we had our coolies. In 1857
there were 35,000 of them in Vic. alone.
Ihey weren’t a very good bargain—
cheap alien laboi never is, as Uncle Sam
has tardily discovered —and when the
coolies made a nuisance of themselves
on the goldfields the time was ripe to
sweep them out of the country. But
China wasn't to blame for their ijntry.
Nor has Japan been demonstrably
anxious for a footing. The Soufii Aus-
tralian Government of its own initiative
in 1876 endeavored to form a Nipponese
colony in the N.T, The Japanese
Foreign Office “had no objections,” but
it was far-from enthusiastic. Not much
Yellow Peril there.
Furthermore, those who cite these his-
torical facts assure us that the Japanese
is a very different horse from the Chinese.
His country had a culture and civilisa-
tion equal to and in some respects vastly
superior to that of Eiurope as far back
as Elizabethan times, when the first con-
tacts were made by Japanese nobles with
the Western world. To-day universal
compulsory education, involving con-
siderably more mental application than
our own system—there are 2300 letters
in the ideograph alphabet—ensures that
the Japanese, however humble, is literate.
Admittedly the Japanese need for new
territory is acute. For 120 years prior
to 1853 their population fluctuated be-
tween 24 and 27 millions. In 1870 it was
35,700,000, in 1932 67,800,000. In 1956
it is expected to be 86,000,000. First
Korea, then Manchuria, has provided
mainland territory to meet Nippon’s
growing needs. Why should she bother
about lands further south?
The Japanese living standard is rising,
the birth-rate is falling. Australia and
the nations of the West must find a
market in Japan for some of their pro-
ducts, because Japan is an exporting
nation and trade is interchange. Not
necessarily an even interchange between
country and country, as witness our lop-
sided account with Uncle Sam, but it
must be somewhere near level in gross.
Furthermore, we are assured that we
need fear the competition of a low-wages
country only when the wages are low
compared with land and capital, and then
only in industries in which labor cost is
the most important factor.
Dr. L Clunies Ross suggests that Aus-
tralia should provide scholarships in its
o Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation.
‘ THE SENIOR STORE.'
ë
’Phones: M 2401, Day and Night.
GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Values in Spring Clothing for Men
/
*
/
i
4
*
/,
Men’s Two-piece
Summer Suits from
Give your heavy winter
clothes a rest . . . get Into
one of these Two-piece
Suits and know what real
32/6
comfort Is. Tailored in new Tweeds in our
most exacting manner. Fancy Thorn proofs.
Prices 32/6, 35/-, 60/-, 59/6
Donegal Tweeds. Prices .. 47/6 and 70/-
Llghtweight Worsteds.
Prices 63/-, 69/6, 79/6, 90/-
y
6
r
-/
Striped Blazers
Made to our exacting
standards by experts in our
own workrooms . . . these
Blazers are extensively
22/6
featured in all the latest styles and colour
combinations,
Anthony Horderns’ Prices: 23/6 and 30/-.
Also in plain colours.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 18/6
Cream Trousers
Men’s Cream Trousers,
featured in unshrinkable
materials. They Include the
latest style features and
13/6
there is a range of leg widths.
Anthony Horderns’ Prlees, per pair—
-13/6, 16/6. 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Flannel Sports Trousers
Cut for ease and comfort, they fulfil
a definite need in every man’s ward-
robe. Grey Flannel in several quali-
11/6
ties . . . we recommend them for service.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, paii
11/6, 13/9, 15/6, 18/6, 21/-, 26/6
English Golf Jackets
No matter what the weather is like,
you can play your game of golf if
equipped with an English Grenfell
59/6
Cloth Jacket. They are well made and comfortable.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 59/6
Sports Coats from 21/-
Men’s Sports Coats with three-button front and
patch pockets. Latest weaves and colourings . . .
new styles. Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each—
-21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 39/6, 45/-, 63/-
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.
ē
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
4
“Akubra” Hats 17/6
AT LEFT:
Australian-made “Akubra” Hats. Finest
materials . . . snap-brim styles, narrow
or medium brims. Shades include Polo
Grey, Drab, Zinc, Steel, .Slate, Fawn or
Brown. Three qualities,
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
Boomerang. High Quality. Superfine.
17/6 22/6 30/-
“Woodrow”
Hats 37/6 each
AT RIGHT:
One of the finest of English-made
Hats is the “Woodrow.” Snap-brim
style with silk lining and oilsilk tips.
New season's shades include Grey,
Fawn and Brown.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 37/6
Imported Stetson Hats
A new shipment of snap-brim styles in ’the genuine Job:
and Brown tonings. These hats incorporate sterling
distinctive features. Anthony Horderns’ Price
57/6 each
B. style. Grey, Fawn
wearing qualities and
57/6
C
V
“Hordura”
(Regd.)
SHIRTS
10/6
“Hordura” (Regd.) Shirts
are made in our own
workrooms, which is
always an assurance of
excellence in fit and
finish. Made of British
Broadcloth in stripes or
checks in Blue, Brown
or Grey tonings. Com-
plete with two collars.
Sizes, I 4in. to 1 9in. neck.
Anthony Horderns’
Price, each .... 10/6
“Hordura” (Regd.)
HALF HOSE
“Hordura” (Regd.) Half Hose.
AH Pure Wool except ornament.
Full-fitting socks that give long
service. Range of new season's
designs in tonings of Blue,
Brown or Grey.
Sizes... 10to 1 1 i 12 and 1 3
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, pr.;
2/11
3/6
IP
Pyramid Handkerchiefs
Smart Handkerchiefs to tone with your
suit. All-over check effects in Blue,
Brown or Grey shades.
1/3
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 1/3; half doz.. 7/3.
English Poplin Ties at
Godfrey’s English Poplin Ties, made with
wool bias linings that give a grip when
tied and prevents creasing. New stripe
5/6
and overcheck designs in Blue, Brown or Grey
tonings.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 5/6
# Men’s Wear Ground
Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.


Essential to every
m
tr-
-0
pi
**' AV < #
well-groomed man
“The Aristocrat”
Inserted by THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific
»*—• VICTORIA. AND ’ ’ ‘ '
Brisbane.
agricultural colleges for Japanese stu-
dents. It might help trade if some of
Japan’s woolbuyers, for instance, were
trained in this country. We should
send Japan films showing that we aren’t
squatting on a vast fertile continent, but
camping on the rim of a desert. Our
love of sport and the healthiness of our
children as demonstrated in mass school
displays are also, Dr, Ross considers,
matters calculated to win Nipponese
sympathy.
A.D.W.
“Tiburon”
Henry Lawson
died on Septem-
ber 2, 1922. Next
week—l 3 years after his death—
there will appear in The Bulletin the
first instalment of Tiburon, the novel
written by Kylie Tennant, which won
the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize. It is
appropriate that its opening chapters
should see print so near the anniversary
of Lawson’s death, for between
Tiburon and the prose works of Law-
son there is a marked affinity.
Kylie Tennant began with a belter
education than Lawson. At 23 she has
a wider range of interests than he had.
She is less sentimental and much more
sophisticated. But she is oddly like him.
She has the same sympathy for the under-
dog, much the same sort of humor and
something that approaches his magical
powers of observation.
She has more staying power. Henry
was a marvellous sprinter, but never
more than a sprinter. There are over
120,000 words in Tiburon, and few
of them are wasted. The major theme —
there are two running side by side—
concerns the conflict between some smug
prosperous residents of a western N. S.
Wales town and the local out-of-works.
The self-satisfied ones are also up in
arms against the Whites, a family of mis-
fits and subnormals. The minor theme
has to do with the loneliness of a sensi-
tive girl teacher from the city.
Kylie Tennant knows the problems of
the unemployed from having mingled
with them; she has known life on
the roads and in travellers’ camps.'
What a diverse human lot are her
travellers! Denny the Magsman, a Com-
munist agitator. Blue Saunders, Okker
Slade, the fugitive police-basher, Old
Grey, Big Dutch, MacPherson and the
Bates family—-all have their counterparts
shuffling along the roads or “jumping the
rattler.”
Another group comprises the perma-
nents living in bark shelters and bag
humpies on the P.P. Board reserve be-
neath the shadow of Warning Hill. How
realistic are complaining, sneaking Mrs.
Mulver (“She had come out from Eng-
land under the impression that Australia
was inhabited by black savages after
nineteen years she was convinced still
that the inhabitants were savages, the
only difference being that they were
white”), ill-fated Mrs. Willoughby
and her weak, sadistic husband, old
Granny Staines, Mad Peter, the crazy
pensioner, and the rest of the pariah-like
community.
The social humbugs—Mesdames Clau-
field, Ilford and Dartch —get no quarter.
Neither does the headmaster of the
Tiburon school, Colbert Carfrae (“a
small man with a blue chin, a tendency
to baldness and a Napoleonic manner”),
nor Sam Jordan (“Sam had been a horse-
dealer, and was still up to a trick or
two”). The officious Constable Scorby,
a strange blend of nastiness and ideal-
ism, has a niche of his own.
The authoress obviously likes her pub-
keeper, Mrs. O’Brien (“She was ‘Forty
Years a Barmaid’ done in red morocco
and gilt edges”), and her barman, yard-
man and general useful, Stand forth
Roman (“He no more gave free infor-
mation than he gave free drinks”). Also
Bill Sorrell, the Anglican parson, who
had been a Bush Brother, and his plump
wife Polly, and old Sergeant (“Rasp-
berry”) Moore (“a churchwarden for ten
years, on Sundays he took the plate
around as though it were a summons”)
and Horace (“Jingo”) Barnes, school-
teacher and aspiring playwright; easy-
going Dr. Blakely and his wife Violet,
a dreamy Theosophist; and the homely
Dwyer couple. Of course, she is on the
side of her heroine, Jessica Daunt (“long
and slim and fastidious she had
started out as a greyhound of the spirit
and had ended up half water-spaniel”).
For ballast there is a legion of minor
characters —tradespeople, doleites, kerb-
stone loungers, professionals from the
city and the Tiburon younger set.
Reading this book you not only see
Tiburon and its inhabitants ; you hear
its sounds: the drumming of rain on
the corrugated-iron roofs, the hum of
conversation in the streets, the noise of
the timber-getters at work on the hills.
You pick up the smell of the place—stale
beer, newly-turned earth, petrol, un-
washed humanity, apple-gum burning.
And you get an idea of its soul, that
spiritual quality which often makes one
small town quite different from another.
W. E. F.
Art and the
Talkies
It is impossible
not to agree in
the main with
“F.D.D.’s” con-
tention that Big
Business stands in
the way of the artistic development of
the talkies. Yet I think he maligns the
man and woman in the stalls even be-
yond their deserts. Producers and man-
agers in the cinema industry are men
of little faith where the public is con-
cerned. Yet there are times when faith
pays. Pictures of artistic value have a
popular appeal when, by some divine
accident, the public gets the chance to
see them.
“F.D.D.” cites “Man of Arran.” This
noble picture of a simpler and happier
world owes nothing to adventitious aids,
to sex appeal, to boomed stars or to a
standardised story, shaped to please. Yet
month after month it drew crowds to
London theatres. It was awarded the
Mussolini Prize as the best picture pro-
duced in Europe in its year. When it
came to Sydney somebody cut it down
by half an hour of its screening time.
It was shown for one week only as the
support to a poor-quality musical-
comedy picture, and it wasn’t adver-
tised! And then the assertion was made
that the public didn’t want it!
It often happens that when a novel or
play of literary worth is picturised the
producer “improves” it with a happy
ending and what not. It fails. The pro-
ducer says, “You see, people don’t want
highbrow stuff,” forgetting that it had
succeeded before he debased it.
On the other hand, many pictures that
draw crowds do so despite, not because
of, their drivelling stories. People put up
with stories that insult their intelligence
because they are drawn by the personal
magnetism of a favorite actor or actress.
It would be perverse not to believe that
their pleasure would be enhanced by
seeing these favorites in plays more
worthy of their ability or beauty.
Lastly, many people go to the pictures
from habit or because it is the only enter-
tainment within their reach. They take
what is given them because there is no-
thing else to do. In this way they
become used to rubbish at an early
age ; the cinema forms their taste, instead
of their taste, often no doubt potentially
good, influencing the programmes they
get.
M. B.
A Satchel of Books
ê
famine was one of them—and Mr.
Milford records that he left N. S. Wales
in 1792 with the respect of every man,
woman and child in the young colony.
Mr. Milford’s brochure is a summary
of, rather than an addition to, the history
of the period; but it casts a pleasanter
and probably a clearer light on Phillip
than do some more encyclopaedic
chronicles.
Dickson Gregory, who started as a
marine artist because he loved ships and
the sea, and who subsequently began to
write about shipping for the same reason,
has made a book out of the “Old Lady
of Port Phillip”—the graceful little 360-
ton craft Edina, which enjoys the dis-
tinction of being the oldest screw steam-
ship in commission. She was launched
on the Clyde in 1854, did transport ser-
vice in the Crimean War, came to Aus-
tralia in 1863, and was bought by
Stephen Henty. She has remained in
the Australian coastal trade ever since,
mostly as a Melbourne-Geelong ferry;
has had her share of shoalings and col-
lisions ; has changed her rig half a dozen
times (she sailed from England ; coal was
dear), and seems as staunch and useful
to-day as when she was launched. The
Romance of the Edina (Robertson and
Mullens; 7s. 6d.) covers, besides (he
chronicle of the Edina, a great deal of
the history of east coast Australian ship-
ping in general.
E. Laurie Long’s Foul Hawsers (Ward
Lock; 7s. 6d.) deals largely with this
writer’s special element —the sea. The
leading characters are chief stewardess
Lizzie Collins (nice girl, madly in love
with heroic and resourceful Jim Patter-
son), Mrs. Wharton (society butterfly),
Mrs. Wharton’s baby (rescued by Lizzie
when the s.s. Weland catches fire in the
China Sea) and an assorted collection of
Scottish engineers, English seamen, naval
flying-men, loyal Indians and Chinese
bandits. Lizzie and the baby are cap-
tured by bandits, and their rescue sup-
plies some first-grade thrills. Sentimental
to the nth degree, but then sentimental-
ism is one of the things that Mr. Laurie
Long’s readers look for.
Anything Doing? by Spartacus Smith
(Angus and Robertson ; 4s. 6d.). About
Australians that every Australian will
recognise—professional men, business-
men, policemen, unemployed ; above all,
politicians. Bill Brigstock is a journal-
ist, and so is cheery, cheeky Biddy Haslitt.
They battle on, wisecracking their set-
backs away, till she decides that it has
gone on long enough and he gathers her
into his arms.
It was about 10 minutes later when a
motor-cycle stopped beside the car, and a
voice said: “Here, now, if you must have
a conference at this hour of the night,
can’t you pick somewhere else for it than
the middle of the road?”
“Oh, hullo, Jock,” said Bill, recognising
the policeman. “Anything doing?”
And so the yarn ends. Less ruthless than
Lower’s hilarious Here’s Luck, but in
the same tradition.


NOIV
X\
w
BfiSl I w ISi7>v
x
tfONV^
$
O
R
G
X
u
STRA
lAN
W
<a
C
fox
<✓
s
OLD COURT WHISKY
is bottled in bond under supervision
of the Commomuealth Customs, uthich
means that the contents of every
bottle must be absolutely true to label.
THE DISTILLERS
that the BLEND of Old Court
in this bottle is comprised of
whiskies aged in the
following proportions:
50% Distilled in the Years 1926-27
50% ~ ~ ~ „ 1929*30
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES
PTY. LTD.
BACK LABEL
CUABANTEES
EXCEPTIONAL
ACE
—— -
It is a new thing for a distiller to be so candid about age. The back label of Old
Court gives the exact age of the contents.
This is important. Rare age brings mellowness, softness and rare health-giving properties
You will enjoy your next Old Court remarkably. The back label gives part of the
reason. Try it and see!
OLD COURT
whisky
8664


m
.
m
am
mmm]
r-?..
mmMmM
Wmmmm&m
■
’I :;
,
'v
1 SiPii
mm
.
mmmC ■*.
,jJ v
mm. m
i
W/WMk
. ' •’ V'
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2898.
August 28, 1935.
GRUDGE FIGHT.
“Stop it, somebody; stop it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B/971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London. T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-Slate cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
LET US KEEP OUT OF IT!
The Paris conference of (he three Powers with
Abyssinian interests—in 1906 they signed an agree-
ment declaring that it was their common interest “to
maintain intact the integrity of Ethiopia”—broke
down, Italy refusing even to discuss Anglo-French
proposals for a settlement. On his return to England,
Mr. Eden, the Minister for League of Nations Affairs,
said to the first reporter he met, “Considering what
has happened, we must go on.” It was then recalled
that the gentleman, broadcasting from Geneva at the
beginning of the month, had told the world that, if the
three-Power discussions failed, “the League Council
must discharge its obligations under the Covenant.”
What are these obligations? A most important
one is defined in Article XVI.
It shall be the duty of the Council... .to recommend
to the several Governments concerned what effective
military, naval or air force the members of the League
shall severally contribute to the armed forces to be
used to protect the covenants of the League.
Australia and Maoriland being original members of
the League (Australia is also a non-permanent member
of the Council), their Governments are among “the
several Governments concerned,” and in a sense they
are bound by these pledges, also under Article XVI:
Should any member of the League resort to war
in disregard of its covenants it shall ipso facto be
deemed to have committed an act of war against all
other members of the League, which hereby undertake
immediately to subject it to the severance of all trade
or financial relations, the prohibition of all inter-
course between their nationals and the nationals of
(he covenant-breaking State, and the prevention of all
financial, commercial or personal intercourse between
the nationals of the covenant-breaking State and the
nationals of any other State, whether a member of the
League or not. v
The bit about its being the duty of the Council to
recommend “effective” contributions to the armed
forces “to be used to protect the covenants” comes
in there ; and this follows:
The members of the League agree, further, that
they will mutually support one another in the financial
and economic measures which are taken under this article
... .and that they will mutually support one another in
resisting any special measure aimed at one of their
number by the covenant-breaking State, and that they
will take the necessary steps to afford passage through
their territory to the forces of any of the members of
the League which are co-operating to protect the
covenants.
All the world now believes that Italy means to
make war on Abyssinia, “in disregard of its cove-
nants.” If Article XVI is enforced (or if, in the
jargon of Geneva, “sanctions” are applied), Australia
and Maoriland, unless they contract out of it, will
have subscribed to a declaration that Italy has com-
mitted an act of war against them and all other
members of the League, and will find themselves
committed to a trade and financial boycott, not only
of the Italians in their homelands and colonies, but
of the unnaturalised Italians in Maoriland and Aus-
tralia. The boycott would be doubtless regarded by
the Italians as an act of war against Italy, and that
dictator-ruled country, in sheer desperation, might
hurl itself at the most accessible or most hated party
to it, and be attacked in its turn by the old enemy
beyond the Alps.
Australia and Maoriland should beg to be
excused. They have no use for Italy’s African policy,
but they have the strongest objections to being need-
lessly involved in war with Italy or any other nation.
And why should they or any other British country
consider themselves bound by the covenants, and
imperil themselves by trying to preserve a lost illusion,
if one of the four permanent members of the Council
wrecks the League?
These covenants were framed in the expectation
that the U.S.A. would place its wealth and power
at the service of the League for the coercion of any
war-making State. But America never joined, and
the Americans are so dead against being dragged into
the Abyssinian business that their Congress is passing
a neutrality measure with almost indecent haste.
Japan quitted the Geneva debating society; and
so, after a brief membership, did Germany. Russia
has become a member, but who out of Bedlam relies
on the good faith of Russia? France, obviously and
understandably, will refuse to. co-operate in any
boycott of Italy. Yugoslavia might; but the English-
speaking world has had enough of the Balkans.
There remain only the small countries, and their help,
even if volunteered, wouldn't amount to a row of
pins. The British Empire would have to carry the baby.
There is much talk of the Italians aiming at
mastery in the Mediterranean, predominance in the
Red Sea, control of the sources of the Nile and so
forth; but no vital British interest is actually in danger.
Several European Powers have waged African wars
without British interests being menaced or British
Dominions being asked to join in. “Sanctions” were
not applied when four provinces were wrested from
fellow-member China, though its “territorial integ-
rity” had been guaranteed by original-member Japan ;
but British Labor and Liberal politicians, the editors
of the “News-Chronicle” and the “Daily Herald,”
certain bishops and apparently Mr. Ramsay Mac-
Donald and Mr. Jimmy Thomas are all for applying
“sanctions” in this case. They take it for granted that
the Dominions will humbly follow their lead. But
Australia and Maoriland should not allow these per-
sons to determine their course of action for them.
They have become masters of their own destinies, and
should arrive at their own decision. They should
remember also that the shapers of British foreign
policy have made very bad blunders of recent years,
notably when they backed the Whites against the Reds
in Russia and the Greeks against the Turks.
Australia, for its part, has material interests to
consult and disturbing local possibilities to consider.
Participation in even a restricted boycott of Italy
would cost it its considerable trade with that country,
and might permanently embitter relations which have
hitherto been friendly enough to stand the strain of
“incidents” of which diplomatic fuss might have
been made. There would assuredly be more “inci-
dents” if Communist agitators went about preaching
that all protection had been withdrawn from Italian
cane-farmers and the like; it is hard enough as
things are to keep Red mobs under control. On
the other hand, Australia’s interest in Abyssinia is
as remote as its interest in Tibet.
The League Council is to meet on September 4.
so there is no time to be lost. The Australian and
Maoriland Governments should at once instruct their
delegates at Geneva to say that as long as the Italians
keep their hands off British territory they will be no
parties to a war on Italy in any shape or form.
HAS SYDNEY A UNIVERSITY?
A Graduates’ Association was formed recently “to
carry on a campaign for administrative and educa-
tional reform within the University of Sydney.”
Former Vice-Chancellor MacCallum, his successor,
Professor Wallace, and others counter-attacked,
but nobody who knew was impressed. The
“Church Standard” had already stressed the
need for drastic changes in an article which
referred to the University teaching system as
“antiquated” and “much below an effective
standard” ; to the fact that the University is “out
of touch with its undergraduates and certainly with
its graduates,” and to the “utter lack of organisa-
tion which became apparent when the various facul-
ties were last made available for public inspection.”
In its existing form, Sydney University bears
little resemblance to a university as the term is
understood outside Australia; it is much more like
a technical college. The undergrads, have few cultural
contacts with one another, fewer still with their pro-
fessors. The lecture system is persisted with, though
in the law school, for example, it has been demon-
strated that there are advantages in handing students
copies of lectures. A tutorial system may be
too expensive for an institution whose Govern-
ment grant is only £55,000 p.a., but there
should at least be some personal association
between instructors and instructed. Undergrads,
rarely get a chance to talk over their difficulties with
a lecturer for two main reasons. In the first place, the
average class is too big ; it is possible, probable even,
that too many bursaries are being provided by our
paternal rulers. Secondly, the lecturers have no time
in most cases to amplify and elucidate their theses for the
benefit of individual students, however able and keen.
Lecturing at Sydney University is to a great
extent a part-time job. Some lecturers hold highly-
paid positions outside which occupy hours of their
time every day; others broadcast and engage in
journalism. The late Dr. Chapman, while occupying
rooms in the University, and while nominally occupied
in research work there, was often absent for months
at a time attending to his private business ventures.
Among the law lecturers are practising barristers who
for small salaries (£2OO p.a. for from 100-120 lectures)
attend at the University when not required elsewhere.
It is not suggested that these gentlemen fail on
the whole to carry out their contracts. Among
them they turn out highly efficient lawyers, doctors
and so on year by year. But because of the system
their products —with the inevitable handful of excep-
tions —are no more than lawyers, doctors or whatever
it may be. There is no attempt to instil general culture
as distinct from the specialised knowledge required
for a degree- Such a university has no more right
to call itself one in the circumstances than a London
crammer who pledges himself to pass his students
into, say, the army provided they mug up a given
amount of information —and exclude all other infor-
mation from their minds as confusing till after the
examination.
The disastrous result is to be seen in many
locally-trained professional men. They know their
own work; but for all they know or care about
other aspects of life —science or literature, art or
economics—they might as well be illiterates. It is
a feature of our social scene which is absent from
the older civilisations, and which rarely fails to inspire
criticism among educated visitors from overseas.
There is little or no local criticism, because N. S.
Wales has never taken its university seriously as a
university. If the State still imported Judges from
England—if it imported even one Judge—citizens of
all classes would rise up in scandalised protest.
Sydney University has been importing its principal
men from the other side of the world —mostly from
Scotland—since it was founded 85 years ago. Nobody
bothers to complain, because hardly anybody cares.
Within a mile or so of Sydney University there
happens to be an educational institution 'Which is
in all respects what a university should be.
When Duntroon College was moved from Canberra
to Victoria Barracks to save money part-time
professors were tried, but the system was soon
found hopeless and scrapped. There are no
lectures; the students are handed roneo’d notes,
one of the provinces of the professors being
to explain the notes. The young men are not trained
as specialists; not even as military specialists. A
finished Duntroon product can take his place in any
arm of the service. Above all. the college aims at
making its students educated men in the best and
the only true sense of the word. The curriculum
includes two modern languages, mathematics, physics,
biology, chemistry, English literature and history,
geometrical drawing, book-keeping and accountancy.
The standard is high, and the student who
fails to attain it fails to stay. The effects were shown
in the World War, and they have been evident since.
From 1914 to the Armistice Duntroon was a synonym
for efficiency and character; and not in (he A.I.F.
alone. And almost without exception Duntroon men
have distinguished themselves since.
Not that they arc brainier or better per se than
their neighbors. Their advantages lie in having been
trained in an all-Australian institution whose morale
is high, and in having been made men of the world
as well as professional men. Sydney University will
never be accepted as a real university, here or
elsewhere, till it assimilates at least some of the
Duntroon ideals, and methods. ‘
NOT GUILTY.
Mr. Foruan Smith, like Mr. Stevens, will be able
to plead “not guilty’’ to the charge laid by the
Commonwealth Acting Treasurer, Mr. Casey, that
several States have not taken advantage of unem-
ployed-relief funds provided by the Commonwealth.
According to the Bureau of Industry, there were
19,560 unemployed in Queensland in May—lo. 9 p.c.
of trade-unionists ; just .2 p.c. more than the figure
for 1929, when the Commonwealth was not providing
money for relief work, and there was no State
relief lax. In May there were 8340 men on the
Government payrolls, a large proportion engaged in
putting up public buildings which are regarded as
urgent necessities.
Mr. Smith has hastened to say that his State
“has not lagged’’ in grabbing and squandering its
share of good things. Those Government buildings
being added to the existing acres of palaces will alone
absorb £500,000 this year. Another £350,000 has
been provided for workers’ dwellings and £400,000
for main roads. Mackay—the Premier represents
it—is getting a very handsome harbor ; Cairns and
Townsville are to have water-supply schemes, and
£500,000 is to be spent on a sewerage system for
Rockhampton.
Brisbane City Council and other semi-official
bodies will have a million and a quarter tossed to
them to keep the flag of Labor-socialism flying. And
work expected to last five years has begun on a large,
comprehensive dam on the Stanley River, which won’t
be much use to anybody outside Brisbane and Ipswich.
The Kangaroo Point bridge, which is to save Brisbane
southsiders some exertion at an ultimate cost of at
least £2,600,000, will absorb only £210,000 during
the year, but the Railway Department is to spend
£680,000.
Thus far, the programme is all for the cities and
industrial constituencies. But the country may cheer
up. The Lands Department will spend a whole
£llB,OOO on improving Crown lands, plus £30.000 on
rabbit- and marsupial-proof fences. A further £75,000
will be absorbed in “developmental loans” to land
men. These amounts, of course, can be recovered
in Crown-land rent-“adjustments” when the graziers
and farmers have got their breath after helping to pay
for the city bridges, civil-service palaces and sewers.
The Government bill for public works is to come
to £4,000,000; say, £2OO per unemployed person.
Then cities and towns are doing a bit of independent
squandering (Brisbane Council is after a Common-
wealth Bank loan of £1,400,000), and the Common-
wealth will spill a little manna on its own account.
Four millions taken off taxation would be suffi-
cient to relieve Queensland taxpayers of a year's
revenue charges for education (£1,398,000), health
and hospitals (about £1,000,000), State children,
unemployment insurance, justice, police, prisons,
harbors, fire brigades—in fact, for everything except
interest on the public debt, railways and £1,000,000
of miscellaneous expenditure. Of course, no one
seriously expects to get education and other neces-
sary services tax-free ; but Queensland’s greatest need
is reduction of State taxes. And on this need the
Government should be concentrating instead of
lavishing loan money on “works” that provide only
temporary employment and yield annual interest once
in a blue moon.
While employment in factories increased in States
far inferior in population and resources, Queensland
figures declined from 50,496 in 1925-1926 to 39,348 in
1932-1933. According to the “A B Cof Queensland
Statistics,” 42,079 persons were employed in Queens-
land factories for the year to December 31. 1915.
a war year (population, 678,700), whereas “the
average number of hands employed over the whole
year 1933-34 was 40,083” (population, 959,000). The
swingeing Queensland imposts are the only conceiv-
able" explanation—no form of enterprise is more
sensitive to high taxes.
Yet justice must be done though the heavens
fall. Queensland Labor promises a bit of tax-relief
at last. While maintaining the income-tax rates (they
rise to ss. in the £, plus 21 \ p.c. “additional tax''
and the company-tax rates (Is. 9d. to 7s. 3d. in the
£, plus 20 p.c. super-tax), it is taking a penny in the
£1 off the relief tax, which is Is. in the £ “where
income exceeds £499.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lyons Didn’t Even Roar.
If our Australian institutions ever become the prey of
internal enemies—and white ants are always at work
—-it will be because Governments have forgotten how
to govern or have become too cowardly to remember.
At the end of the second week of the shipping
strike, tired of being sacrificed in a quarrel with which
it had no concern, the Patrick line engaged a crew for
one of its freighters, the Craigend, and sent her from
Sydney to Brisbane in spite of the strike committee.
Thereby it took the risk of being boycotted—
imperilled its whole future indeed—but, as it
explained, it could not let its customers down and
see perishables rot in the holds.
Even while the Craigend was pulling out from
Sydney the Commonwealth Government, which is
charged with the maintenance of necessary services
and the enforcement of industrial laws, mocked at
in this instance, was pleading with the secretary of the
striking union. To that worthy it sent a telegram to
the effect that it “viewed seriously the hold-up without
apparent reason of the steamers Montoro and Malaita,
carrying under Commonwealth subsidy essential food-
stuffs and medical stores for Papua and New
Guinea,” since the delay was “fraught with grave
danger to the health of the inhabitants.” These rep-
resentations were treated with contempt, and the
Government took it lying down.
Six days after the Montoro had been advertised
to leave for Rabaul, she was still tied up in Sydney.
Meanwhile, the Craigend had been unloaded by union
wharfies at Brisbane ; another Patrick freighter, the
Carlisle, was on its way to Melbourne, and arrange-
ments had been made to man a third, the Cardross.
On the following day, largely as a result of this com-
pany’s lone-hand action, the strike was declared off.
Of course, no politician is at the head of the
Patrick line. The governing director, an old mercan-
tile-marine man and R.A.N. commander, is a resolute
Scot. Professional politicians and political lawyers who
could talk the legs off a kitchenful of pots deter-
mine the “policy” of the Government which implored
the strikers to be so good as to remember their
engagements, and carry essential stores and medicines
to the Mandated Territory—for which Australia has
to render an account to the League of Nations—and
to its wards in Papua, and which did nothing when
they refused.
Government is really something more .than a
matter of imposing taxes, collecting salaries once a
month, presenting bills for overseas tours and shelter-
ing behind boards and commissions, but Common-
wealth Ministers apparently cannot realise it.
*
Business Methods in Politics.
Vic. Premier Dunstan is entitled to a niche in political
history for having accepted, if he did not originate,
the system of dealing with new bills by representatives
of all parties outside the House ; and the leaders of the
U.A.P. and the A.L.P. deserve sinlilar niches for
giving the scheme a fair spin. Up to the present it
has worked well.
Under this system a bill once drafted by the
Government is submitted to a committee on which
every party has a man. The committee takes it away
and considers it where there are no “Hansard”
reporters to preserve its remarks. Cards are on the
table. Naturally, matters of principle, large or small,
must be remitted to Parliament itself for open debate.
But the vast majority of clauses in any bill are merely
machinery matters which call for no heat and no
debate ; though, when there is an audience consisting
of the whole State, there are often turgid debate and
considerable heat.
The experience of the committees which have
done this work since the present Vic. Parliament
Assembled has been all to the good. Nine-tenths of
the average bill would seem to be ready for accept-
ance by everybody when it has undergone revision
and is available for debate.
One of the strangest anomalies of legislation has
been that the reform which is unanimously desired is
rarely accomplished. It is often embodied in a bill and
placed on the notice paper; but there it stays through-
out a session, to be scrapped finally because Parlia-
ment has not the time to reach it, and because it is
not sufficiently important or dramatic to provide the
fight which Government and Opposition regard as
the spice of legislative work. Outside revision will
enable such bills to be brought, into the House for
passage into law almost automatically, and there will
no longer be any excuse for slaughtered innocents.
Wireless for P.D. Cars.
The Bulletin article urging that Sydney P.D. cars
be fitted with radio has prompted a trustworthy
correspondent to furnish particulars of a case where
a maniac had to be held in check by householders
for two hours before police assistance arrived.
At 4 a.m. on August 14 three police stations were
called by ’phone for assistance to deal with a maniac.
In each case the reply was the same—the only man
available was already out. It was two hours before
the police arrived. Fortunately the two men in the
house were pretty strong, and were able to prevent
the violent subject from escaping.
The police were not at fault. The stations concerned
are not overstaffed, and no man is expected to be
in two places at once, but it is no exaggeration to
say that, with an up-to-date radio system, a P.D. car
could have been on the spot within five minutes.
Fortunately, no harm was done, but it is not
difficult to imagine what might have happened had
the demented man been a little stronger. As it
was, an entire household (including women and
children) went through two hours of terrible and
unnecessary suspense.
As previously pointed out, the total cost of
equipping all P.D. cars would not exceed £lOOO. The
money should be forthcoming without delay, even
if it necessitates the disposal of a couple of Minis-
terial cars.
♦
Police or Parliament?
Under Section 15 of the N.S.W. Liquor Act, licensees
are authorised “to sell and dispose of liquor....
between six o’clock in the morning and six o’clock at
night.” Concessions are allowed in the case of diners,
but if a licensee sells a drink to an ordinary cus-
tomer so much as half a minute after six o’clock he is
liable to a fine of £5O. And the customer can be
fined £2 for merely being on the premises; moreover,
he may be arrested without a warrant if he refuses
to give his name and address or if the police have
reason to believe that he has given a false name
and address.
The whole purpose of certain sections of the
Act is to deprive every officer helping to administer
it of discretion. Even the Minister or the Courts
cannot vary the law. That is the prerogative of
Parliament.
The new Police Commissioner seems to consider
it his prerogative also. At Bathurst four cases of
being illegally on licensed premises after hours were
called after a week’s adjournment. The prosecuting
inspector said that, although he believed that the
evidence was sufficient, he had been instructed by the
Commissioner to withdraw them. The magistrate, Mr.
Bromhead, asked tartly whether the Court or the
Commissioner was the Judge.
Continuance of this sort of action will open an
avenue to all sorts of things I will let it go this
time, but if any such cases come before me again
they wilj not be withdrawn.
The Commissioner’s defence was outlined in a
published letter to the Bathurst Police Superintendent,
in which he said that he “was concerned at the action
being taken” against the licensee and men charged
with being on his premises. The time of the alleged
offence was about 6.30 p.m., and the superintendent
must know that “for years past the police have
allowed hotelkeepers the privilege of getting their
clientele from their bars at 6.20 p.m.”
It was presumed that one man, “a butcher,”
desired to have a drink before going home,
just in the same way as people knocking off work
at 6 p.m. at, say, Anthony Horderns’, in Sydney, slip
into the nearest hotel and have a drink between 6 and
6.30 p.m., being regular customers.
“Representations” had been made by Mr. Kelly,
M.L.A., about the butcher and a railway pensioner.
In the Commissioner’s opinion;
If the licensee is a constant after-hour trader,
surely it would be possible for the police to get
evidence at a later time than 6.35 p.m., and when
people other than the local butcher and a railway
pensioner are in the bar.
Why citizens should be exempt from the law because
they happen to be railway pensioners or butchers
was not explained.
Nowadays when an abuse of power comes to
light it has become the disgraceful fashion of poli-
ticians, particularly in N. S. Wales, to disavow
responsibility by ‘muttering the formula, “Oh, that’s
a matter for the Commissioner,” or “for the Board.”
So the public was not surprised to read in “S. M.
Herald” that
Ministers stated that the Commissioner was free from
political interference, and the Government therefore
was not responsible for any statement of policy made
by Mr. Mackay.
The Premier evidently decided that this wouldn’t
go down. He came out with a statement to the effect
that six o’clock is the closing hour, and “the police
are bound in all cases to observe the law.” He quoted
a case in which the N.S.W. Chief Justice laid it down
in 1926 that when a man was found in a bar at
6.25 he was contravening the law.
Six o’clock closing is an absurd anachronism,
but while it remains on the Statute Book it must
be enforced. Parliament, in its wisdom or unwisdom,
has given the Police Commissioner great powers, but
among them is neither the power to legislate nor
the power to act as a court of justice.
*
Rearranging Things.
Premier Stevens has added Mr. J. B. Shand to his
team as Minister without portfolio, and Mr. Spooner
is to be Minister for Works (instead of Assistant-
Treasurer) and Local Government. Other changes
include the remodelling of the Premier’s Department,
which has drifted into a clearing-house for all sorts
of functions which really belong to other sections of
the service.
While the Works Department has been respon-
sible for erection and maintenance of public build-
ings, the cleaners were in the Premier’s Department.
The Premier’s Department did the cabling for Govern-
ment departments, was the post office of the service,
managed Government motor-cars and advertising,
issued rail and tram passes, was the bureau of the
Executive, controlled the Auditor-General’s and
Public Service Commission offices, appointed royal
commissions and occasionally detached its Under-
secretary to organise royal visits, bridge-opening
celebrations and other corroborees.
The U.-S. gets £1355 a year. An assistant draws
£BOO, an advertising man £7BO, a research officer
£740, and there are 47 others —secretaries, messengers,
clerks, typists; the messengers include a “regular
temporary staff” which grew from 15 to 20 between
1934 and 1935. Beside these are 313 cleaners, nine
postmen, 24 motor mechanics and drivers. Total
salaries come to £90,000 p.a., plus a couple of
thousand for allowances, £l3Ol for temporary assist-
ance and £778 for tea money.
The Public Works will now handle all public
works; the Transport Department will handle all
transport (or all that it does not strangle); the
Treasury, controlled by the Premier, will confine itself
to finance. The interior of the Premier’s office,
which used to be a cross between a rabbit warren
and the Hampton Court maze, has ben torn inside
out and made to look something like a commercial
office. Local Government will be brigaded again
with Public Works, as it used to be before the
Holman regime. It is expected that 60 fewer
employees will be required. That, of course, doesn’t
mean that they will be retired,
♦
How Many Taxes?
Dear Bulletin, —While agreeing that Australia is
“the taxgatherer’s paradise” (B. 31/7/*35), I dispute
the statement that “there are a dozen taxes on
income.” Reckoning only those that hit us in N. S.
Wales, I can think of more, and I don’t include muni-
cipal, water-and-sewerage and P.P. Board rates, which
all come out of income:
1. Commonwealth income tax, 2. Commonwealth
land tax. 3. Commonwealth sales tax. 4. Common-
wealth death duties. 5. Commonwealth' special prop-
erty tax. 6. State land tax. 7. State income tax. 8.
State special income tax. 9. Wages tax. 10. State
death duties. 11. State entertainments tax. 12. Stamps
on cheques. 13, Stamps on land transfers. 14. Stamps
on shares and innumerable other documents. 15.
Motor tax. 16. Wild-dog tax. 17. Betting tax.
Income from other .States and other parts of the
world is taxed in N. S. Wales ; and if you are running
a business with headquarters in N. S. Wales other
States tax you on profits alleged to have been made
there ; but the foregoing table will do to go on with.
1 admit the “incomprehensible jargon” also. Two
typical examples from the Commonwealth Act:
Section 13 (5). —Where the taxable income of the
taxpayer ascertained from the income of the year which
would otherwise be the first average year was greater
than his taxable income of the next succeeding year,
the first average year shall be the first year, subsequent
to the firstmentioned year, in which the taxable income
of the taxpayer was less than his taxable income in the
next subsequent year.
No prize is offered for the best solution.
Section 14 (4). —Where a company has derived
income from interest to which Section 20 of the Com-
monwealth Debt Conversion Act, 1931, applies, or from
discount allowed under Section 17 of that Act, or
from interest to which Subsection (2) of Section 52 ( h )
of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act, 1911-32,
applies, and has credited, paid or distributed in any
year any portion of that income in dividends to its
shareholders, the proportion of each dividend for that
year which has been so credited, paid or distributed
out of such income shall be free from income tax to
the same extent as interest to which Section 20 of the
Commonwealth Debt Conversion Act,»1931, applies.
Clear as mud, isn’t it?
1 am surprised at The Bulletin having the
temerity to suggest that one Act and one assessment
should be sufficient for Australia. What would then
happen to the army of public servants who lie awake
at night wrestling with the intricacies of their own
pet Acts in the service of their country? Far better
to split up the taxes and confuse the public with a
maze of complicated enactments and prevent its com-
paring the extravagances of one set of legislators with
those of another. —Yours etc., Accountax.
♦
Melbourne’s “Little” Streets.
H. E. Morton, formerly city engineer of Melbourne
and, later, City Commissioner for Sydney, is in
Europe studying traffic and town-planning problems,
and from London has advised Melbourne to widen
the “little streets which have hindered the progress
of the city for 50 years.”
Surprising it is that a live municipality such as
Melbourne has shown itself to be has so long
suffered these thoroughfares to exist. When Mel-
bourne was planned, a century ago, they were not
provided for ; they were made at a later date, when
residents desired an entrance to their backyards, and
persisted when the need for them had disappeared.
Buildings more and more solid and important were
erected, and, though the necessity for widening grew
more clamant with the passing of the years, con-
stituted authority was afraid to challenge vested
interests.
To-day, Flinders-lane, Little Collins-street and
Little Bourke-street constitute an absolute menace
to the smooth working of a great city. All three are
one-way traffic streets —they have to be, for, with a
line of parked cars on each side, there is just room
for one vehicle to pass down the middle. To widen
the streets in the ordinary manner —by tearing down
the existing buildings even on one side only—would
mean an expenditure of more millions than the
whole State gathers in revenue in a year. But there
are other ways of accomplishing the reform.
When Paris was remodelled by Haussmann the
Rue de Rivoli was a street so narrow as to be out of
harmony with the rest of the city and incapable of
carrying normal traffic. On one side was a solid
mass of fine stone buildings and on the other were
the Gardens of the Tuileries. The usual Australian
method would have been to cut a slice off the park,
but the French knew better. They did not demolish
the buildings on the other side; they simply cut
through them a passage sufficiently wide to accom-
modate the pedestrians and carried the carriage way
right up to the building line. A long row of arches
harmonising with the architectural style of the build-
ings provided the footway and shop fronts with light;
the street was thus widened by twelve or fifteen feet
with the minimum of disturbance. The arcading
system has also been carried out in other cities with
excellent results.
There is no reason why such of Australia’s streets
as suffer from lack of width should not be similarly
treated. By arcading the “little” streets of Melbourne,
the whole efficiency of the city would be enhanced,
and traffic problems would be reduced considerably.
In Sydney, Pitt-street and Castlereagh-street might
well be similarly dealt with. Arcading is a new thing
in Australia —so new that nobody has apparently
ever thought of it; yet it is absolutely the simplest
and cheapest way of making a narrow street into a
wider one.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
é
often look like pat-
terns out of the
“Woman’s Mirror.”
When the censor does
not like something, he
snips it out with his
little scissors. And now
the Customs in Aus-
tralia are imitating him.
Yankee detective maga-
zines used to contain
advertisements telling
how to beguile reluc-
tant wenches. These
are now chopped off
the page, and our inno-
cent children are saved from cor-
ruption. The worst they can learn from
an intellectual (but mutilated) journal
is how to rob a bank with a machine-
gun, what a bandit looks like when the
post-mortemists have sewn him up, and
how fully cooked a guy can be after he
has had seven minutes on the “hot seat.”
* * * *
“Self-Sown”: Expatriated gums and
wattles are not the only Australians to
have gained a footing in a strange land.
In Wilclflowers of the Great Dominions,
recently published, Lady Rockley says
that 46 species of Australian flowers have
been identified on the banks of the Tweed
that divides England from Scotland. It
is supposed that the seeds came to Britain
in Australian wool, and were washed into
the stream from the woollen mills on its
banks, to establish themselves in anew
home.
“Herpeton”; The snake, man’s enemy
since the dawn of history, is becoming
a useful servant. A solution of viperine
venom is already employed to stop the
bleeding in haemophilia, and a recent
report from the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute tells of the investigations into
the use of snake venom to bring about
the paralysis of sensory nerve endings.
For some time cobra venom has been
used for this purpose in order to relieve
the pain in intractable cancer. The Aus-
tralian venomous snakes belong to the
same family as the cobra, the colubrines,
and their venom has the same property,
though so far it has not proved as potent
as that from the Indian serpent.
* * * *
“Erua”: Though I’d hate to start a
dispute with anyone as well-informed as
“Hone Pikau” (B. 21/8/’35), I’d like to
know how he makes the letters in the
Maori alphabet fourteen. Possibly he
has included “g,” a letter that never
appears without an “n” before it, giving
the nasal sound the pakeha finds so diffi-
cult. Now, don’t offer Otago as an
example of “g” in Maori. When some
years ago the M.L. Government made a
valiant attempt to correct the spelling of
Maori names, Otago was the big stum-
bling-block. Investigation made it plain
that something near £30,000 would be re-
quired to correct the southern province’s
name to the Maori “Otako,” so the “g”
remained. Minus “g,” there are only
thirteen letters to worry about, just half
those of the white man’s language.
* * * *
“Apelles”: These pavement artists,
like modernist poets, have sometimes
to put up with a complete lack
of understanding on the part of
the public as to what their master-
pieces are meant for. I congratulated
one of them on his bold rendering of
the Harbor Bridge, and paid the usual
copper fee in token of my appreciation.
“Yes,” he said, upending himself from
the badger-like position, “they couldn’t
'ardly mistake that, could they? But
I've got to play down to them. W’y,
would yer believe it? A bloke asked me
this morning, sarcastic-like, whether that
corner picture [he indicated a highly-
colored panel] was a dish of trout or sun-
“The dress makes you look positively ALLURING."
“Let me tell you I'd look just as alluring without it."
set on the ’Awkesbury. It sort of dis-
’eartens a nartist, don’t it?” I looked
hard and critically at it and sympathised
with him. But to me it looked more like
a helping of rainbow pudding.
* * * *
“El V.”: Foxhounds running with
elms in full leaf are nothing (B.
21 /8/’35). In a Garbo film the heroine
escaped from her castle in the depth of
European winter and, after a wild dash
of about 30 miles, arrived in the midst of
foliage which undoubtedly belonged to
the heart of summer. But what is that to
a country one of whose leading nature-
fictionists not long ago sent the hunters
of the native bear out with beaters and
high-power rifles?
* * * *
“Como”: California has secured the
extradition from Sydney of one of its
citizens, which may give N. S. Wales a
chance of getting back a bit of its own.
Long ago, Butler, the Mountain mur-
derer, fled to ’Frisco, where he was
arrested, and N.S.W. had to get him ex-
tradited back to Sydney. Later, it was
presented by the State of California
with a bill for £5OOO.
* * * *
“Der Jong”; The discovery of a serum
cure for horse sickness promises to rid
South Africa of one of its worst stock
curses. This mysterious disease played
havoc with imported horses in the Boer
War, nor were the country-breds immune.
Its cause was unknown, but the Boers
carefully kept their horses off low-lying
river flats at night. The scourge was at
its worst in the sub-tropical bushveldt of
the Transvaal; one regiment of Aus-
tralians with which the writer served lost
75 per cent, of its mounts in three
weeks on the Oliphants River. There
must have been something in the river-
flat theory, for our troop, sent for
10 days to hold a high ridge above the
river, never lost a horse until it returned
to the flats. There was no warning, and
apparently no cure. A horse in first-class
fettle would suddenly drop in its tracks
and die in a few minutes, frothing at the
nose and mouth. If the new serum is
effective, it should soon raise the rather
negligible standard of the Union’s horses.
* * * *
“Horslaff”: I heartily endorse the re-
marks of Alan Hall about the Monash
memorial (B. 31/7/*35); an equestrian
statue of an Australian for Australia
should not be selected by Londoners in
London. Another instance of how badly
commissions such as these can be
executed is supplied by Wcstralia s cen-
tenary medal, designed by the College ot
Heralds in England. Instead of our
elegant black swan, with its legs con-
cealed beneath the water we got a
“heraldic” swan, a fat, bandy-legged
monstrosity with its back to the audi-
ence and a malevolent twist to its neck.
I estimate that swan knocked 75 per cent,
off the sale of medallions.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Touching the relaxation of
gaol rules to pefmit piano-practice in ex-
ceptional cases (B. 21/8/’35), two musi-
cal long-term prisoners in a N.S.W.
establishment were allowed to sit a year
or so ago for an exam.; both men passed,
one with honors. As a man who is to
spend most of his life behind bars must
have some diversion, and as a musician
on the spot is extremely useful in a
prison, the permit to take up music as a
recreation is not actually as over-humani-
tarian as it may sound. Another lifer
spends his spare time in doing wonderful
fancywork.
* * * *
“Roseate D.”: That story of Aunt Jane
and her undesirable tenant (B. 21/8/’35)
recalls an experience of my own. We
lived in the end house of a terrace in a
quiet little Sydney street, not far from
King’s Cross. Our next-door neighbor
moved out and was succeeded by an im-
pressive painted lady with an appropriate
retinue. Things became so lively that
the wife complained to the police, who
soon had the new tenants shifted. In
their place came a severe-looking dame
who rebuffed all overtures. One day she
thawed a little, and my wife asked her
how she liked her new quarters. “I am
agreeably surprised,” she said. “When I
was going in I asked the outgoing tenant
why she was leaving such a comfortable
place, and she said it was because she
couldn’t stand the awful woman next
door.”
* * * *
“Jungor”: Westralia had politicans
who talked darkly of secession in the very
early days of Federation, but they were
mostly men born and bred in the old
Groper traditions, and ridicule was their
only portion. And it has to be said in
their favor that they never advocated
sending an expensive delegation to
London to ask for the impossible ; their
ideas never went beyond getting out of
the Commonwealth by a sort of passive
resistance, refusing to elect Senators and
Reps., or calling on those who had been
elected to pull out. One of their pet
insistencies was that the State couldn't
do without Bigjohn Forrest, and that he
ought to be dragged back from Mel-
bourne to reassume his old position at
Perth at any cost. Walter James was
Premier at that time, and in one of his
election speeches he announced that he
had christened this croaking brotherhood
the “Come-Back-Jacks.” But he needn’t
have worried ; Forrest, albeit a very
lukewarm Federationist at the outset,
was the last man in the world to stultify
himself in that way.
iii * -ii *
“Centurion”: “Tenth Batl.’s” estimate
of the negro as a soldier (B. 14/8/’35) is
not borne out by facts. Thomas Went-
worth Higginson’s negro regiments
earned a good name during the American
Civil War, and the regular negro regi-
ments later won credit in Cuba and the
Philippines. American records of the
strafe with Fritz would no doubt con-
firm previous performances. As regards
British negroes, the two West Indian
regiments, though not employed until
late, showed themselves the equal of any
infantry in Palestine, “Tsavo” Patterson,
who commanded the brigade, was as loud
in his praises of them as he was guarded
in expressing his views about the London
Jewish battalion which made up the
balance of his command.
* * * >:«
“Fidcs Medici”: The N. S. Wales Band
of Hope Union has got on to a temper-
ance argument that makes the appeals of
previous reformers look thin.
“I Must Be Fit” was used for this
year’s school health and temperance ex-
amination on August 16.
“The lips that touch liquor shall never
touch mine” contained no menace to amor-
ous alcoholists of the past; they knew it
was nonsense. But the medical profession
has succeeded in convincing athletes that
they can’t train on cocktails. Many
young people are consequently going in
for games in the spirit that pros, used to
bring to them when there was more
money in professional than in ama-
teur sport, and the t.t. is no longer re-
garded as a worm. The tendency is
particularly noticeable in England, where
drunks are becoming almost as rare as
they are in France or Italy. “I want to
be fit” is the youthful Briton’s slogan.
Hence Hugh D. Mclntosh’s chain of
myk bars. A decade ago his financial
backers would have preferred a chain of
cocktail bars.
* * * *
“Molar”: Robe (S.A.) is now merely
a popular seaside resort, but there was
a time when it was a thriving port,
although anything but a safe harbor.
That was in the early days of the gold-
fields. With Victoria trying to prevent
an inrush of aliens, and Hong Kong send-
ing us shiploads of Celestials, the skippers
were up against it. Only one Chinaman
was allowed to land for every 30 tons
of a ship’s tonnage; consequently the
smuggling of Celestials across the border
developed into a thriving business. Statis-
tics show that over 12,000 entered
through Robe in the peak period, when
the town supported 10 pubs, with
numerous minor liquor dispensaries. Local
owners of small craft reaped a rich
harvest; the fare for contraband human-
ity was mostly a pound a head, from
ship to land, and many a Chinese found
a watery grave when the surf played un-
kind tricks. A single hotel supplies the
needs of Robe nowadays.
* *
“Bantu”: That reference to the Masai
fB. 21 /8 / ’35) reminds one that a fear-
ful lot of tripe is being talked about the
colored world rising against the white in
support of Abyssinia. The only worth-
while utterance on the subject comes
from Smuts, and he has confined his
apprehensions to the semi-educated and
half-baked natives of the Union, many
of whom are under Communistic influ-
ence. Negro politicians in the French
Parliament and even less reliable per-
sons in the British have harped on the
same string, some even seeing a threat to
the Empire from India. But the Bantu
tribes which comprise the great propor-
tion of East and West Africa’s native
population are quite incapable of band-
ing together for aggression, even if they
could be brought to take an interest in
the sorrows of a people they have never
heard of and are incapable of visualis-
ing. As for India, the idea of the
Moslem-Hindu people rising in wrath
because a nation of despised hubshis,
and Christian hubshis at that, is being
oppressed by another brand of Christian
is utterly ridiculous. No doubt the
Indian Congress will try to make some
trouble, but that will be for the sake ot
annoying the Raj and not from any sym-
pathy with the Abyssinian.
YOU NEVER KNOW YOUR LUCK.
ë
ē
T. THE. R


“Mat I come in and play out my shot?”
ê
until he escaped. Which all goes to show
that they knew something about stage
publicity 80 years ago.
* * * >r
“Tugeri”: True that William Mac-
Gregor (B. 21/8/’35) laid it down that
officials should “deal justly and
righteously with the natives,” but he had
no qualms about employing the fortiter
in re method at the last extremity. In
his earlier annudl reports he more than
once refers to a standing order to his
officers that the drawing of an arrow in
the bow or the preliminary balancing of
a spear was justification for stern
measures. He applied the principle him-
self on several occasions, with results that
would make some of our modern
humanitarians hiccup.
V * * " '
“Sailor”: According to the cables,
that well-matured craft the Royal yacht
Britannia is being reconditioned to do
battle with the Yankees. Anew sky-
scraping stick is being stepped, and she
is to be clad in an entirely modern and
up-to-date rigout of canvas. Finally,
her copper is to be removed to give her
another tiny fraction of speed ; but here,
I suggest, the innovators are at fault.
In all my days of ships and yachts I’ve
found that copper, if kept reasonably
bright, can beat all the highly-painted
wooden surfaces ; its non-porous surface
lessens the tendency to drag air bubbles.
If the refitters oi the Britannia had
taken a tip from the Jap boatmen they
would have been wiser. When the Japs
want to eke out another decimal point
of a knot they coat the bottom, be it
copper or wood, with whale oil, and the
water has as much chance of holding the
boat as one has of keeping a grip on a
chunk of wet soap.
* *
“Fisher”: “Brix’s” 32-year-old hawker
who claimed to have been a Digger (B.
14/8/’35) may just possibly have seen
overseas service. I can recall at least
two 16-year-old Diggers, both of whom
bluffed the recruiting officer. Many too-
youthful soldiers were returned from
France and Egypt during the war.
“Mac”: The Holyrood daubs referred
to by “Cateran” (B. 14/8 / ’35) are
quite irrelevant; 1 explicitly gave
chapter and verse to make it clear
that the paintings I referred to are special
commissions of about 10 years’ standing.
I might add, sticking to my point, that
the ki.lt, as tunic, was a typical Roman
garment, and as such was wiped off the
European fashion-plate by bracce, or
trousers, during the barbarian invasions.
The new evolution must have come from
a tunic, as common ancestor to many
kinds of kilt. Not only the Scot, but the
eighteenth-century English sailor, the
Greek hillman. the Balkan bandit and
many others have found, and find, the
kilt a protection against cold conditions.
“Bukshi Sahib”; Tarrant’s cricketers
will probably have time for a glimpse at
the silver jubilee shivoo of the
Nizam of Hyderabad, though their
itinerary does not include a match
in this Native State. The Nizam
is the senior native prince of India,
and his wealth is fabulous,
even for a class which com-
prises the wealthiest men in the
world reckoned in terms of actual
cash value—no paper holdings. A
great Durbar is to be held, and
envoys went specially to London to
get tips for the decorations from
the royal jubilee celebrations. The
star turn of the show promises to
be a fight between 100 elephants,
which ought to be better worth
seeing than (he average cricket
match.
* + ♦
“M.G.”: My ancestors came
from Tasmania to Melbourne in
1844. and my grandmother—the
late Mrs. Elizabeth Jane McGuire
—knew John Batman on both
sides of Bass Strait, and used to
talk about him to me when 1 was
a youngster. I remember asking
her, in those distant days, why
there were no portraits 'of Batman
about, and she explained that the
founder of Melbourne never had a
sketch made because he had suf-
fered (he loss of the greater part
of his nose through accident. The
absence of any pictorial record of
John Batman is once again agitat-
ing the people of Melbourne, and
persistent searches are being made
to find out what he was like. For
(he reason given I am laying long
odds against a portrait being found.
Nothing is so dehumanising as a
missing nose.
“Macaroni”: The chances are that, if
Mussolini hadn’t been allowed to defy
the League of Nations 12 years ago, he
would have been less high-handed over
this Abyssinian business. Here is what
happened, set down as briefly as possible,
during a momentous fortnight in 1923:
Aug. 31: Following murder in Greece
of Italian general, Italy presented ulti-
matum and shelled and occupied Corfu.
Sept. 1: Greece appealed to the League
of Nations.
Sept. 2: Italy refused to refer Greek
trouble to League of Nations, but agreed
to accept an Ambassadors’ conference.
Sept. 11: Ambassadors’ conference im-
posed penalties on Greece; Italy agreed to
evacuate Corfu.
The League, of course, might have done
the same thing, but its readiness to refer
the decision to an outside body was a
sign of weakness that was unlikely to be
forgotten in Italy.
¥ •!• •!• H*
“Blind Pig”: Fact overtook fiction the
other day when an individual was con-
victed at Lismore (N.S.W.) for conduct-
ing a duplicate of Chesterton’s “Flying
Inn” —a car laden with beer and other
comforts in which the Samaritan used to
patrol the roads on Sundays and other
“ 'Sense me, are you the li'l girl I brought to this dansh?”
"No —only the wife of the man who took her home."
droughty periods dispensing his stock to
anyone who had the price. His enter-
prise received a setback when the
beak made use of a seldom-used section
of the Licensing Act and confiscated the
pub as well as the stock.
* * * *
“Billo C.”: To disprove the theory
that contact with cold water is a sure
cure for somnambulism (B. 7/8/’35), 1
can testify that even frozen water can’t
be depended on to effect the awaking,
A brother of mine, in his early youth,
had a persistent habit of walking in his
sleep. We lived* in a frosty valley of the
Mount Lofty Ranges (S.A.). One bitterly
cold winter night an old aunt, sleeping
in an adjacent room, awoke at 3 a.m.
just in time to see the tail of the lad’s
nightshirt disappear out of her window,
which overlooked a gable-end roof with
a slide down to the eaves of 6ft. or more,
and a 15ft. sheer drop to the ground.
The barefooted kid negotiated all this,
and disappeared in the darkness. After
a long lantern-lit search in waterholes,
'possum-holes and other danger spots he
was discovered asleep in the bed of a
rouseabout, whom he had considerably
surprised, a hundred yards away from
the homestead, from which it was
separated by a creek with a narrow plank
bridge. The intervening space was
covered by a hard frost an inch thick.
Nobody knew how he had got there!
I vividly remember*the incident because
I was called out in my little nightshirt
to join (he search party, and still shiver
at the memory of the up-draught from
that frozen terrain.
* >i> >ii ♦
“Quol”: One grievance against the
Commonwealth Government (hat doesn’t
seem to have been mentioned by the
Westralian scccsh delegates, now return-
ing from London, is that the State has
had the minimum of representation in
Federal Ministries, much less than little
Tasmania. Only two Senators from the
West have ever attained oflice, George
Pearce the evergreen and Paddy Lynch,
and Lynch had a bare three months of it.
And only three Reps, have risen to the
same eminence: John Forrest, Hugh
Mahon and “Texas” Green.. Even if
Pearce has hogged most of the plums
it's a poor record for 34 vears,
® • S« * «
“M.R.P.”: The Adelaide police have
discovered that “Monte Carlos” —com-
petition dances, uninterfered with for
20 years—are a breach of the Lotteries
Act. Several surprise visits were made
to city dance halls and names of indig-
nant Ms.C. and embarrassed winning
couples taken. If things go on like this,
Soustralians will soon be apprehensive
of buving a sixpenny ticket in a church
raffle.
# * >j *
“Ignotus”: I wonder if anyone can
tell me which country originated the idea
of making the tomb of an “Unknown
Soldier” the most appealing and inspir-
ing of all war memorials and shrines.
It can’t be very old, or else it is the
revival of something antedating the
Christian era, because the rank and file
had very little honor for war-winning
even in Napoleonic (and Wellingtonian)
times. It certainly wasn’t an English
notion; there’s something too imagina-
tive, if not theatrical, about it for that.
England borrowed it from France, of
course, after the Great War ; but was
France the first to think of it and de-
velop its possibilities? Some weeks ago
a Bulletin contributor recalled that he
had seen a monument to an “unknown
soldier” of the Civil War in a Virginia
(U.S.) cemetery, but it is hard to credit
that the plant is one of purely American
growth. I suggest it was a plagiarism
from some Mediterranean country
“where grew.the arts of war and peace”
—but which? The Greeks were more
democratic than the Romans in these
matters, more poetical, too ; if they had
a temple to an unknown god why not
a tomb to an unknown soldier?
VICTORIA SCORES A POINT.
ė
ę
IFORD.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past /
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven *‘A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
M
J 1944 m/A
R
POLITICAL POINTS
“Back at work in his room at the
Commonwealth offices, Melbourne, the
Prime Minister has been kept busy with
’phone calls and telegrams.” This
momentous news is going the rounds of
U.A.P. papers. A two-column photo-
graph of Joseph with a telephone instru-
ment at his ear is added, presumably
to remove the last lingering vestige
of doubt from suspicious minds.
The Lyons Government is busy on a
job that is just about its size—the secur-
ing of a suitable Government House in
Melbourne for the next G.-G. Isaac
Isaacs has held office for four years and
seven months without anybody risking
high blood-pressure looking for a State
residence for him. But, of course, Isaacs
is only an Australian.
On the way back from his five months’
jaunt abroad, Tas. Premier Ogilvie
thought out another great idea.
The Senators from Westralia, S.A. and
Tasmania could block all legislation until
the disabilities suffered by their States
under Federation were remedied. They
would achieve their object within 24
hours.
None of the Senators to whom this
cheeky advice is given belongs to
Ogilvie’s party. Ogilvie believes in let-
ting the other chap do it.
Commonwealth and State, income tax
and State relief tax are charged on the
earnings of entertainers visiting these
parts, and Papa Menuhin moans that the
taxgatherers have had “more than 50 p.c.
of the revenue from the concerts given by
my poy.” He includes amusement tax,
no doubt; even so, it is a rotten adver-
tisement to go abroad from a country
which is after tourists.
N.S.W. municipal councils rarely agree
about anything, but on one subject they
have reached unanimity at last. Manly
suggested that they should lodge a united
protest against Stevens’s plan for setting
up technical-education committees with
borrowing and rating powers, and there
has been a rush to comply. Even the
nark accustomed to move that “the letter
be received” has for once effaced himself.
On Saturday Australia was informed
that Cabinet discussion of the position
arising out of the failure to settle the
Italo-Abyssinian quarrel had “not been
considered necessary.”
It is most unlikely that the policy of
the Commonwealth Government, should
any decision have to be made, would not
be in strict conformity with that of the
British Government.
Monday brought a statement from the
Prime Minister that “he” had “pledged
Australia to the hilt to support the Brit-
ish efforts to maintain peace.” Efforts
to “maintain” peace should be sup-
ported, though “to the hilt” is an un-
fortunate expression, but suppose they
became efforts to “enforce” peace by the
formula prescribed in Article XVI of
the League covenant? Has Lyons pledged
Australia to go that far?
It may be a dreadful bore for wan-
dering Ministers to have to assemble in
one place to consider matters more im-
portant than 56,0001 b. of chilled beef;
but Cabinet really ought to have a meet-
ing to decide whether Australia shall join
in applying “sanctions” (i.e., a trade and
financial boycott) to Italy. Also, Parlia-
ment ought to be called together without
any more delay.
Queensland Labor is taking a whole
penny in the £ off the relief tax, which it
doubled as soon as it arrived in office.
That will leave it at lid, in the £ on
incomes of £499 per annum and up-
wards. Even Stevens, who has heaps
more unemployed to provide for than
Forgan Smith, and pays family endow-
ment as well (Foggy doesn’t), is con-
tent with a maximum of lOd. in the £.
The tide is beginning to turn against
the transport strangulators, who have
hitherto had things all their own way.
In Westralia the Full Court has found for
the four Darling Range farmers who
bought a motor-truck to take their pro-
duce to Perth and defied the Transport
Board to stop them. In Sydney the
efforts of the greedy Railway Depart-
ment, which pays neither rates nor taxes,
to drive furniture carriers out of busi-
ness have been checked by a 50 p.c. re-
duction of the road tax. The reduction
was forced by public opinion, and that is
encouraging, though the impost is still
lid. per ton per mile.
Lord Mayor Jones, of Brisbane, has
been cheerily advising his brother-alder-
men and -politicians not to be afraid of
“Take that, you bloodsucker !”
borrowing nor restrained by an oversen-
sitive consideration for the kids.
There is a tendency to have too much
regard for posterity.
His Ludship and party have successfully
resisted the tendency.
Some busybody in Geelong started a
story that Casey was about to resign
from the Ministry and proceed to
London to succeed Bruce. Persons who
profess to be in Casey’s confidence say
he aspires to be P.M., and he would be
Canberra’s nominee for the reversion ;
no Minister works harder, and he is
always at his post. But if he is to go
higher he will have to shed some of his
reverence for officials and try to under-
stand that the people won’t always sub-
mit to being over-governed and over-
taxed.
Queensland Labor is taking Industrial
Commissioner Ferry, Police Commis-
sioner Carroll and Stamp-duties Com-
missioner McCarthy from their jobs for
an indefinite period to conduct a super-
fluous inquiry about betting on horse-
racing. The thing was inquired into in
the last Government’s time by a corn-
mission headed by Justice Henchman.
But one Labor section wants betting
shops licensed, and another aspires to
have racing controlled by a political
board, and they must be soothed even if
the cost of government reaches Hima-
layan heights.
Cornell, M.L.C., was one of the West-
ralian Laborites who left their party
because they believed in national service,
and he has since proved himself a real
nationalist, not a dull old party hack
masquerading as one. He fought the
separatist agitation when alleged national-
ists were afraid to utter a word, and he
was justly sarcastic in the House at the
expense of the London delegation and its
huge bills. “Why?” someone inter-
rupted, “don’t you think the delegation
has been of any benefit.” “Yes,” replied
Cornell —“to Mr. Watson and Mr. Mac-
Callum Smith.”
Melbourne press revelations of slums
and the city health officer’s assertion
that they are responsible for part of the
infantile death-rate have caused Pre-
mier Dunstan and other well-meaning
persons to flounder hopelessly in an en-
deavor to plan some system of self-sup-
porting housing. Such an ideal is impos-
sible while building intentions are broad-
cast. Landowners all the world' over
put up their prices once they see a de-
mand coming. A necessary preliminary
to any large-scale housing scheme is a
short Act giving the State power to
resume at municipal valuation, plus a
fair allowance for disturbance.
“T.”: The goldmining revival has so
altered the industrial situation in West-
ralia that the number of unemployed on
sustenance has got down to a thousand
or so, and there are no women on susten-
ance at all. State finance has also im-
proved, but not to the same extent, for the
Labor Government uses the special Com-
monwealth grant (£600,000 a year) to keep
its income tax well below the average
for the States. If it taxed on the S.A.
scale, it could get along without this
special Commonwealth grant.
Prime Minister’s Department salaries
and contingencies totalled £11,087 in
1914-15 ; £54,964 last year. Travelling ex-
penses of Commonwealth Ministers in a
very quiet year (1934) cost £2500.
South Melbourne Council is not shirk-
ing the problem of demolition of slums
and their replacement by modern
homes. An area carrying 23 dila-
pidated houses, built 50 years ago and
liable to flooding, is to be secured and
made fit for occupation (cost, £9189),
and brick cottages are to be erected by
arrangement with the Government Sav-
ings Bank. The completed homes will
be available to people who can pay £l2O
down and 14s. lOd. a week —which will
pay them off in 34 years. Those dis-
possessed from the existing shacks will
scarcely be able to find £l2O, even if they
can scrape up 14s. lOd. a week. Still,
it is a beginning and on the right lines.
“S. M. Herald” says that the “sur-
vival of the League is not contingent
solely on British support.” It is, really.
With the U.S.A. and Japan outside, Ger-
many due to leave in October and Italy
threatening every Geneva ideal, the re-
tirement of the British Empire would
finish the creaky thing. The British
Commonwealth, Japan and Germany fur-
nished a third of its revenue.
Those British officials who are “in-
creasingly chafing under Australia’s paro-
chial attitude toward an Empire air
scheme” will find plenty of sympathisers
in Australia, whose sons did the first
real across-the-world flying and estab-
lished the first internal commercial air-
passenger service. But it is not Austra-
lia’s attitude —merely that of Parkhill and
co.
One of the prime jokes of Melbourne
just now is the rush of debating
societies and student bodies to listen
to the polemics of the Collingwood
Council. Councillors regard the visits
as delicate compliments—preen them-
selves when they see the benches filled,
and then call one another all the nasty
names that can be collected from the
pony course, the football match and the
after-hours pub. It’s a great education on
how it shouldn’t be done.
Oakleigh (Vic.) Municipal Council re-
veals unexpected intelligence. At its last
meeting, it was moved that all speeches
should be limited to five minutes, with
provision for extension of time should a
majority be willing. And the reform was
agreed to without opposition. Oakleigh
should prove a model municipality
within the next year or two.
Returned Australians who were in
Berlin when Prime Minister Lyons was
in London tell that wild resentment
arose among 100-per-cent, Nordics when
it was suggested unofficially that Joseph
should be invited over as a peace
gesture. Hitler himself had to be assured
that there were Lyonses in Ireland as
well as in Palestine, but the rank and file
of Nazis continued to regard the P.M.
as one of the hated race. Incidentally,
one of the points made in the Nazi
appeal to Young Germany is that the tide
of the war was turned by the general-
ship of “another” Jew, Monash by name.
A master of mob psychology was the
French philosopher who glanced at the
sky and observed “It rains—there will
be no revolution to-day.” The Fawkner
by-election offered confirmation of a
sort. Neither candidate was, able to
gather more than a mere handful of
supporters at any of his meetings. “Lack
of interest in Parliamentary matters,” said
those of Fascist tendencies. Nothing of
the sort; it was merely that a whole
month of freezing nights failed to tempt
people from their fires into open-air
blizzards.
Remarkable is the sobriety of the Aus-
tralian of to-day compared with his
fellow of 60 years ago. The Vic. Year-
Book, just published, shows that, taking
the index number for the years from 1874
to 1878 at 100, arrests for drunkenness
had declined to 59 by 1913, and to 32 in
1922. The prosperity of the three years
following 1927 led to the figure going up
to 36 ; in 1933 it was 35. A big drop
from the 100 of 60 years ago and a very
considerable drop from the 68 imme-
diately preceding the war.


* ,
Am Domt smack him
Me didn't kkiow he was
ooiMg it "
° You SHOULDHT HAVE HIT THE LITTLE GORL."
" Why ? *s it wrong; <£• SN
//_
OO you DECIDED TO TAJKJS A.
DAsV OPP YESTERDAsY ".
''Should i 'aye beeu'ere ?" ■
u ,
WHAT DYOU MEAN BY WEARING,
MV clothes ?"
" 1 ARE THEY YOUSeS:.
0
MOW WAS l TO KNOW
She was. vour g,irl.T '
Hi 2 * "
I MARRIED VDU ML . WELL THA.TS MEWS TO ME
" /
Me diont vcmoW NN
IT WAS SwAV^AGjE
'/ (
MY SOUi \ QlOMT KKJOW \ WA.S CEA«D ,
LIFE-STORY OF AN INNOCENT.
“A man accused of bigamy pleaded he was suffering from ‘split personality’ and was unaware that he was married.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary, Managing Director.
e
A VALUABLE JOURNAL FOR INVESTORS.
August issue Now on Sale.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Aust. Glass Manufacturers Co.,
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd.
Vic. Butter Factories Co.-op Co., Ltd.
Bank of New Zealand.
Malley’s, Ltd.
Marchant’s, Ltd.
Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
N. Coast Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
M.L.’s oldest cleric has just celebrated
his ninety-seventh birthday. Rev, Alex-
ander Greig, of Dunedin, while at Edin-
burgh, entered the Presbyterian ministry.
He thought of volunteering for the China
mission field, but Dr. Bell, the original
of Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes,
dissuaded him on the ground of eye
trouble. He arrived at Dunedin in 1867.
A generation ago, cricket enthusiasts
in Melbourne used to admire the sound
play of H. L. Wooton, who carried a
bat for Prahran and later for the Haw-
thorn-East Melbourne teams. Though he
never reached inter-State form, young
Wooton was always regarded as a solid
and Useful player, and he retained his in-
Melbourne’s New Town Clerk.
terest in the administrative side of the
game after he ceased to appear at the
wickets. The other day he was appointed
the new Town Clerk of the City of Mel-
bourne, after having been associated with
the council for the greater part of his
life. But that is a trifling matter to his
sporting friends and admirers; what im-
presses them is the fact that, as delegate
for the Hawthorn club on the Victorian
Cricket Association, he has been nomi-
nated for a seat on the Board of Control.
Noel Monks, the first Australian war
correspondent to reach Abyssinia, comes
from Hobart. Until last year, he was on
the staff of Melb. “Herald.” A brother
is on another Australian newspaper, and
a cousin, Tulla Keating—daughter of the
former Senator —runs one of the women’s
features on the “Herald.” For the past
year, Noel has been journalising in
London.
J. S. Duncan, who succeeds J. W. Kitto
as Deputy-P.M.G. in N. S. Wales, is a
Newcastle native. He became N. S.
Wales Service Inspector for the
Commonwealth 12 years ago. A member
of the Bar, he has been executive officer
to a number of Royal Commissions and
inquiries, including the Wheat Commis-
sion. He was president of Sydney
Rotary Club (1933-34).
The late Albert Green, of Ashfield,
first joined the N. S, Wales Cricket
Association in 1886, and he presided at
the meeting which led to the creation of
the Board of Control, He was also keen
on football, and became vice-president of
the Metrop. Rugby Union. Retiring from
the public service thirteen years ago
after half a century of office work he
devoted himself to C. of E. affairs, the
Barnado Homes, Old People’s Homes and
the Parks and Playgrounds movement.
This dynamo of altruistic energy passed
out at 76.
Mrs. Mary Carroll, who died recently
at Goodna (Q.) at 89, arrived with John
Carroll, her husband, from Bandon (Co.
Cork) 70 years ago. Both were school-
teachers, and they started a day school
at Redbank Plains, 17 miles from Bris-
bane, in 1865, which soon achieved local
fame. The late E. J. Carroll was a son.
Dan Carroll, managing director of Syd-
ney Prince Edward, is the youngest mem-
ber of a family which originally num-
bered seven sons and two daughters.
From a friend:
George Edward Bunning, who died the other
day in Sydney, aged 76, was an English bar-
rister. He came to Queensland in the early
’eighties to join his brother Walter on Darr
River Downs. In ’B5 Walter was murdered by
a demented station-hand, and G.E. suc-
ceeded to the management. He contested the
Maranoa in the first Federal election, but,
though big mentally and physically, he lacked
personal magnetism, and was licked badly by
Jim Page, the Barcaldine publican, who held
the seat for many years. Bunning linked up
with another famous Queensland family when
he married the eldest daughter of JE. R.
Edkins, of Mount Cornish. He subsequently
owned Lucknow and Buckingham Downs in
the north-west, cattle properties, and pur-
chased Braeside, near Warwick, as a country
residence. Later he retired to Brisbane, and
was soon right out in front as chairman of
directors of the Q.N. Bank, Moreheads ? Ltd.,
and other pastoral concerns. Crashing in
the big cattle slump of the early ’twenties,
he got out of everything and went back to
the bush on a sheep property near Texas.
“Weecan”: Whatever doubts there
may be as to who was the oldest Digger,
Father Hearn, S.J., was certainly the
oldest chaplain. He had his 81st birth-
day the other day. The ex-padre is
now rector of the Jesuit Novitiate of
Watsonia (Vic.).
Commonwealth “Hansard” got J. S.
Weatherston, now the principal Parlia-
mentary reporter, and other good men
from Westralian journals, and now it has
taken Billy Bridgman from Perth
“Sunday Times.” Though still only 24,
Bridgman has made a local reputation
as an all-round journalist, with a bent
for Parliamentary work. The attractions
of a steady job in the national Gallery
have proved too tempting.
James R. Patrick,
who got two of his
steamers manned dur-
ing the shipping hold-
up, has been running
vessels in the inter-
state trade since shortly
after the war. Patrick
has shot wild animals
in Africa and
India, and he
holds an air
pilot’s certificate.
He showed his
faith in air transport
by booking the first
return passage to Lon-
don by air mail.
Few men had such
a varied career as T.
R. Ashworth, who died
in Melbourne, aged 70,
last week. The son of
a Melbourne doctor, he
served before the mast
for four years, then left
the sea and became a
carpenter and builder
by way of fitting him-
self for architecture.
A Shipping Magnate.
He eventually became senior member of
the Vic. Institute of Architects. He started
several factories, and was a pioneer of
the movies in Victoria. He also founded
an insurance company. He was a coun-
cillor of S. Melbourne for some years,
contested Indi against Isaac Isaacs, and
was a member of the Royal Commission
on the Constitution. Finally, he was a
prolific writer on proportional represen-
tation and economics.
L. K. S. Mackinnon, chairman of the
V.R.C., who died after a long illness on
Sunday, belonged to the virile Skye
family that has given Victoria so many
successful businessmen. He arrived in
Melbourne in 1884 at the age of 22, and
commenced practice as a solicitor three
years later. He started owning horses
as soon as he could afford it, Heloise
(Debutante Stakes, 1901) providing him
with his first big win. Between then and
last autumn, when his stud was dispersed,
horses owned or bred by him won prac-
tically every important Australian event,
including the Melbourne Cup (Kings-
burgh, 1914) and the G.N. Hurdles
(Merunqua, 1917, and Kentle, 1929).
Woorak won Mr. Mackinnon £16,800
in stakes, and sired Whittier, winner of
£26,596 in stakes.
“Portree”: The 24th Chief of the Clan
Macleod, who died last week at 88, may
have an Australian successor —he left no
direct heir, so it is a matter for the clan.
He was one of the two oldest Highland
chieftains, his surviving senior being
Maclean of Duart, who was 100 in May.
The last generation of Macleods has
partly forsaken the warlike habit of its
ancestors, which persisted right to the
end of the eighteenth century, when
there was a whole battalion of Macleods
or thereabouts in one regiment and half
the senior officers in the army seemed
to come from Skye. Tha spectacle of a
chief acting as Registrar-General of Eng-
land and Wales and a director of the
Shell Transport Company and an insur-
ance company would have filled ancient
Dunveganers with astonishment. There
are several chiefs of Highland clans in
Australia —Forbes of Culloden is (or was
recently) a Queensland banker, and the
headship of the bigger Macdonald nations
and of the Taliskers (a Macleod cadet
house) is now firmly rooted on Common-
wealth soil.
Senator Tom Brennan is a native of
Strathfieldsaye, near Bendigo ; the local
school, which he attended, was re-
garded for long as the most efficient in
Victoria. As a boy, Brennan worked in
the machine-room of one of the Bendigo
dailies, became a proof-reader and later
joined Melb. “Argus” in the same capa-
city. Promoted to the reporting staff, he
spent considerable time
in law work and started
study while at the sub-
editor’s desk. Qualify-
ing for the Bar, he left
journalism, and gained
most publicity as the
defender of Colin Ross
in the Gun-alley mur-
der. He is the political
antithesis of his brother
Frank, M.H.R., who
has been a lifelong
Labor man. A third
brother. Bill, strikes the
happy medium as a
leader-writer on the
“Argus.” A sister is a
qualified barrister.
No Austra-
lian politician
has a more
bizarre war
record than T.
H. Davies,
Minister for Lands,
Works and Mines in
the Ogilvie Govern-
ment. A Launceston
High boy, he went on
research work as a
chemist and metallurgist through America,
Europe and Asia, and joined the B.E.F.
in 1914. He began as a private, but in
1916 became an R.E. poison-gas expert.
After the Armistice he went to Russia
with the Allied forces as chemical ad-
viser. Outside politics he’s a sheep-farmer.
This is how J. G. Hides, fresh from
his Strickland-Purari expedition, looked
to Frith a few days ago. Normally, he
moves with a snap and hates chairs, but
A Papuan Explorer.
malaria has gripped him, and the doctors
are doing the only exploring in which
he is vitally interested at the moment.
Some September birthdays:
S.A. Senator Duncan-Hughes, 53, on Ist;
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 64, on 2nd; Prof.
Francis Anderson (Syd.), 77, J. W. Greene (ex-
Lord Mayor of Brisbane), 59, and George
Rowe (sec. A.J.C., Syd.), 54, on 3rd; General
(now Senator) Brand (Vic.), 62, on 4th;
Melb. barrister A. D. Ellis, Litt.D., 50, on
sth; knight Macpherson Robertson (Vic.), 75,
on 6th; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”).
59, Prof. A. D. Ross (Perth), 52, and
E. J. Harrison, M.H.R. (Wentworth), 43, on
7th; Bishop Coleman (Arraidale), 48, and
Q’land Attorney-Gen. Mullan, 64, on Bth;
Bishop Cecil Wilson (Bunbury), 75, P. V.
Storkey. V.C., 44, and Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic.
Govt. Astronomer), 57, on 9th; Adelaide’s ex-
Lord Mayor Lavington Bonython, 60, and
V. C. Thompson, M.H.R. (New England), 50,
on 10th; Gerald Marr Thompson (Syd.), 79,
on 11th; L. J. McKean (N.S.W. Crown Prose-
cutor), 50, on 12th; Field-Marshal Birdwood,
70, and Vic. Senator Guthrie, 63, on 13th;
W. Chief Justice Northmore, 70, and ex-
N.S.W. Minister R. T. Ball, 78, on 14th;
W.A. Min. for Lands Troy, 58, Prime Minister
J. A. Lyons, 56, Col. Percy Owen, 71, and
Lieut.-Col. G. Hurry (cx-M.H.R. for Bendigo),
67, on 15th; Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.),
61, and Commander Williams (Navigation
Dept., Syd.), 56, on 17th; ex-P.M. Scullin, 59,
Melb architect W. A. M. Blackett, 62, Jus-
tice Webb (N.S.W.), 50, and H. J. Lambert
(“West Australian”), 59, on 18th; Major-Gen.
Edwin Tivey, 69, and Bishop Maguire (Towns-
ville), 54, on 19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.),
60, artist Will Ashton, 54, Q’land Auditor-
General G. L. Beal, 66, and author lon
Idriess, 45, on 20th; Philip Charley, 72, and
J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 57, on 21st;
Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 52, and W.A.
Min. for Mines S. W. Munsie, 65, on 22nd;
Major-General Brudenell White, 59, on 23rd;
Bishop Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 68, knight Sam
Hordern, 59, Clive Baillieu, 46, Prof. H. W.
Florey (Sheffield Uni.), 37, G. F. Murphy
(Sheriff of N.S.W.), 52, and author E. S. Soren-
son, 66, on 24th; W. M. Hughes, 71, and
knight Wm. Lathlain (Perth), 73, on 25th;
S.A. Chief Justice Murray, 72, Wilfred Blacket,
K. (Syd.), 76, and F. W. Coneybeer (S.A.),
76, on 27th ; Prof. Oxer (Ormond Col., Melb.),
67, and knight Herbert Gepp (Melb.), 58, on
28 th; artist Rupert Bunny, 71, Brig.-Gen
Wisdom (former Administrator of New Guinea),
66, Judge White (N.S.W.), 66, Q’land Min. for
Labor M. P. Hynes, 49, and author Rev.
Father Eris O’Brien (Syd.), 40, on 29th; Brig.-
Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 65, ex-Senator Needham
(now M.L.A., W.A.), 61, and F. M. Cutlack
(war historian), 49, on 30th.
“Sub Judice’s” correction:
In his par. about the Abigail family “Kenso”
(B. 14/8/’35) forgot Jimmy, who was a
solicitor before his brother Ernie—in fact,
Ernie served his articles in Jimmy’s office.
Arthur never became a solicitor, though he
was a clerk in his brother’s offices at various
times. Nor has the family name disappeared
from the forensic limelight; a nephew (son
of Arthur) practises in the suburb that knew
his uncles Jimmy and Ernie for 30 years. A
cousin, Clyde, J., who was well known in
the courts from Wallangarra to Albury during
the war years as chief prosecuting officer
under the State and Federal anti-profiteering
laws, is now actively engaged in Arbitration
Court work from Perth to Brisbane.


BARNET GLASS TRUCK& BUS TYRES
NOTE THE
STURDY ARMOURED
WALLS
THE CATERPILLAR
TRACTION TREAD
ifM
tf:;
A
HE’S LATE AGAIN-
WHY DOESN'T HE FIT
BARNET GLASS
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION TREADS
joi
endurance
■&
1::
*
Schedule running means profitable run -
ning—be the load passengers or produce.
Dependability . . . safe travel . . . long
life—definite requirements of Truck
and Bus owners, are features of Barnet
Glass Truck Tyres. Tough, deep-cut
rubber treads, stoutly supported by
sculptured wall-buttresses, mean many
more non-skid miles and continued
Grip and Hold under all conditions.
Caterpillar Traction Tread Tyres have
DOUBLE BEAD WIRES for rim
stability and generous BREAKER
STRIP absorbing road shocks and
protecting carcase. The Barnet Glass
system of rubber-impregnating the
long-staple cotton cords gives maximum
dissipation of internally generated heat,
tremendously reducing the effects of
this greatest enemy of tyre life.
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
H E AT R E SIS
C AT E RPILLAR TRACTtON TREAD
ARMOUR E D. WALLS
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
TUBES
MT.65.FP.35


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
209 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET
SWIT nr!/n a, ‘f, 8/ u PCr day; Breakfast ' Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch irom 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), .Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; if. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolty, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 ~ 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .’. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,840 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 070,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,071 3,929,978
Results greatly exceeded the market’s
anticipations, and the price of the
pound shares, which had risen from
50s. a year ago to 595. 6d., shot up
to 68s. (they were never higher) follow-
ing publication of the accounts, notwith-
standing that the div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The price dropped to 665. 9d. last week-
end, due to the reaction of a generally
overbought market; the superficial cause
of the shake-out is attributed to the
Abyssinian crisis. At 665. 9d. the return
is 3 p.c, on a 10 p.c. div. basis. But this
is the co.’s silver jubilee year—its big
iron-and-steel undertaking was made pos-
sible by profits won from silver-lead
mining at the Barrier —and hopes are that
at the annual meeting this week a special
distribution will be announced; earn-
ings and the state of the finances
encourage the opinion. Certainly there
is unofficial talk of the co. buying a
substantial interest in Australian Iron
and Steel —Howard Smith’s holding of
700,000 shares has been spoken of as a
likely parcel—and money is being spent
in connection with the manufacture of
tin-plate.
The co. is already exceptionally
equipped to gather whatever profits are
to be had from the industry. It enjoys a
lion’s share of the trade, a substantial
portion of which is anchored by means
of interlocking share interests, plant
is highly efficient, and low-sulphur
coking coal is drawn from the co.’s own
pits at Newcastle, while supplies of iron-
stone from Eyre’s Peninsula and lime-
stone from the hills near Davenport
(Tas.) are cheapened by the backloading
of coal.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the output of pig-iron
steel ingots and coke bounded along in
this way;
1927. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron .. 343,801 153,563 346,752 521,253
Steel ingots* 353,682 195,183 414,242 552,710
Coke.. .. 356,865 167,160 361,109 520,864
‘lncludes foundry open-hearth furnace.
There was a 50.3 p.c. increase in the pro-
duction of pig-iron, due partly to de-
velopment of an export business, 33.4
p.c. steel ingots and 44.2 p.c. coke. For
the first time for many years three blast
and 10 open-hearth furnaces were in
commission. Both batteries of the new
Wilputte opens operated continuously,
there was a better demand for the by-
products, and the subsidiaries, including
the new pipe- and tube-making plant
operated in conjunction with Stewarts
and Lloyds, called for increased tonnages
of raw materials. The mine at the Bar-
rier remained idle, owing to low metal
prices.
It is all reflected in a spring of
£2,382,776 in sales plus products on
hand, etc. (£5,488,591), making the
growth £4,447,878 over the last three
years. Working profit benefited by
£518,922 of the increase:
1929. 1934. 1935.
Working profit .. £795,953 , £976,703 £1,495,625
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 83,724 48,7X1
Total .. .. £938,921 £1,060,427 £1,544,330
Outgo:
Depreciation ..£417,592 £407,978 £541,949
Office and other exes. 61,854 75,170 105,704
Debenture interest 81,094 29,691 20,241
Income tax .. 45,710 120,000 200,000
Total exes. ..£606,250 £632,839 £873,894
The bigger output meant lower unit
costs, and after setting aside an extra
£133,971 for depreciation, making
~~41>949 in all, the net result was
£242,854 better at 22.4 p.c. on capital as
against 14.3, 10.5, 3.4, 2.7, 5.4 and 12.3
p.c. back to 1929.
The next table shows how the busi-
ness is financed:
Liabilities.
Paid ah Other
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
£ £ £ £
2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1930.. 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922,469
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 062,900 729,353
J 932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 889,788
1933.. 2,987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1,022,179
J 934.. 2,987,708 3,558,307 480,000 1,190,337
1985.. 2,987,708 3,929,978 365,400 1,206,968
Last year £371,671 was visibly put on
the shelf, while the debenture debt was
reduced by £114,600 and £16,631 was
added to other liabilities, making the net
reduction in the outside debt £97,969.
This debt is well covered by liquids and
semi-liquids, totalling £3,058,688, as the
following figures show:
Assets.
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash; etc.
£ £ £ £
.1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5,532,218 458,224 586,129 1,916,467
1931.. 5,491,632 462,453 514,063 1,787.332
1932.. 5,335,700 441,953 513,009 2,107,787
1933.. 5,222,846 425,555 488,965 2,098,480
1934.. 5,209,943 419,788 572,500 1,934,123
1935.. 4,997,505 413,862 827,509 2,231,119
In addition, the mine now figures at £20,000,
down £12,731 last year.
Appearances are that £269,511 was
spent on the steelworks and charged
to capital last year. The growth of
£255,069 in stocks, etc., and £296,996
net in book debts, investments, cash, etc.,
reflects the growth of the business. The
last item includes the co.’s holdings in
associated and other enterprises, valued
in the books at £1,369,905, up £307,974.
Nothing new has developed in connec-
tion with the co.’s goldmining activities ;
production continues at Hannan’s North
(W.A.) and the Kalgoorlie Enterprise
(W.A.). Macquarie Alluvials and a
property at Cowra Creek (N.S.W.) are
being tested.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12i p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926 .. 80,500 17,500 2600 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 . . 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 . . 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
Apart from the chance they take when
investing their own funds, these trustee
cos. don’t have to risk much. This one,
Australia’s biggest, is a very solid con-
cern, and the business continues to step
along nicely. Last term there was a net
growth of £2,302,877 in the volume of
trusts on the books, which augurs well
for future earnings:—
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 . . 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1933 .. 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 .. 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 .. 48,115,327 140,427 118.543 84.4
The spring of £7959 in last year’s gross
earnings was due mainly to better income
and corpus commissions, following the
stiffening of prices and improved rent
collections. The same conditions did not
prevail so far as collection of interest on
mortgages was concerned, the chairman
says. Exes, took all but £1795 of the
increase. Allowing for contributions to
the provident fund (shown as written off
in the table), for a net addition of £4671
in the commission reserved account
(£lll,llB- —it is the unearned portion of
corpus commission) and a reduction of
£713 in the premises renewal reserve
(£207), the £20,842 netted was 10.4 p.c.
on capital as against 10.9, 9.8, 10.5, 12.2
and 17.9 p.c. back to 1930. The div.,
which had been steady at 12i p.c. for
a dozen years to the "close of accounts
in 1930, was kept at 8 p.c.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the £lO
shares paid to £2—the other £8 includes
£5 callable only in the event of liqui-
dation—at 955. as against 775. a year
ago, thus discounting anticipated bene-
fits. At 955. the return is 3.3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for a shade over 4 p.c. on his money
counts on a 10 p.c. distribution, which is
already within reach. The net tangible
cover is £4 9s. 7d.
In addition to commission earnings
from the trustee section of the business,
growth of which can be expected to con-
tinue, there are the returns from the co.’s
own funds. Freehold figures at £llO,OOO ;
equipment, £2766; mortgages, etc.,
£121,066; book debts, £4278 ; Consols
and cash, £237,045.
Berlei, Ltd.
- Dividends———,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
In 2 !’* 18 * 332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25.948
J®2B.. 17,165 2635 10 „ „ 12.382 2148 28,096
1929.. 16.595 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29.577
1930.. 13.064 3712 7} „ „ 9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced.
, ■ £1065 81,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 74 p.c. = 9,361 4208 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
1 nexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4040 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ „ 11,005 4240 48,169
There was little change in last year’s
net earnings, but the co. has a fine
record and the market likes its prospects,
especially as it is amply protected.
Hence a strong demand for the scrip has
sent the price of the fully-paid pound
shares from 30s. 6d. to 40s. over the last
12 months. At the higher figure the
return to the investor is 4 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis. At 31s. the prefs. (there
are 50,000 of them in a paid capital of
£190,057) yield 5.1 p.c. Last year’s profit
nearly five times covered their annual
requirements. The net tangible cover
is £4 14s. 3d. prefs. and 275. ords.
The co., which set up in Sydney 25
years ago, now supplies well over half
the corset requirements of the Austra-
lian market; the subsidiaries in Vic.
and Maoriland have grown into lusty
youngsters, while the one which began
manufacture in England a few years ago
promises to do so, though it made a
small loss in its last term, the board hav-
ing decided to continue its policy of
advertising at the expense of immediate
profits. The parent reports increased
sales, and so do the Vic. and M.L. pups.
The one in the Dominion has lifted its
div. to 12|- p.c., and the Victorian offshoot
has sent along a bit more (rate of div.
not stated) since the close of accounts.
After handing the staff £1772 (£lB3O
in the previous term) and the prefs. their
£4OOO, enough remained to show 11 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 11.3, 8.2, 8.7,
10.9, 7.4 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1929.
The outstanding movement in balance-
sheet figures was a reduction of £29,178
in stocks, due to “continued improve-
ment in the co.’s method of operation,”
the board says:—
1928. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £157,436 £189,824 £189,838 £190,057
Mortgages .. 26,000 * *
Overdraft . . 34,266
Sundry creditors 15,200 6,431 8,774 9,571
Freeholds .. 58,660 32,910* 35,747* 60,863
Plant .. 18,314 11,182 10,371 10,563
Investments!.. 33,458 63,174 79,083 80,383
Stocks .. 121,634 87,517 88,026 58,848
Book debts .. 83,838 48,426 33,857 34,680
Cash, etc. .. 2,602 8,194 2,959 9,961
‘Mortgage deducted from asset.
{Shares in subsidiaries.
The money thus released was used to
pay off mortgages, leaving freeholds (up
£25,116 net) unencumbered. The small
amount of outside debt suggests that the
management is alive to the advantages
of cash buying. The apparent reduction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£93,918, including stocks) was only
£22,150.
Sargents, Ltd, (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. 34,328 15 p.c. = 26,250 8,078 54,20-5
Profit on sale assets, £223 .. .. 54,428
1926.. 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 57,470
Profit on sale assets, £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .'. .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 30,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 57,978
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,010
Unexplained reductions. £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 19,042
1934.. 9,319 2i p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21.069
Taxation, £5OOO .. .. .. 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
With the steady growth of employment
Sydney promises to gradually eat' this
old-established and once highly-pros-
perous catering and refreshment concern
out of its troubles. These have been due
partly to a too-vigorous policy of prop-
erty purchase during the boom, to
finance which the co. went heavily
into debt; the weight pressed heavily
upon attenuated earnings following
slump and the quick growth of com-
petition in the tea-room business. About
six years ago the Melbourne concern
was sold for 23,000 8 p.c. prefs. and
37,000 ords. to Lucullus, Ltd., which also
took over a £lOO,OOO mortgage ; then a
Sydney property was sold for 12,000
shares in City Property Estates. These
transactions account for most of the
reduction in the debt since 1929:
1924. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £175,000 £272,050 £291,000 £291,660
Liabilities . . 82,646 371,693 203,520 200,800
Freeholds .. 128,550 576,428 297,310 297,420
Leaseholds . . 14,500 12,586 5,000 6,861
Plant, etc. .. 106,020 95,325 96,850 94,500
Stocks .. 20,324 29,431 0,540 5,788
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 53,129 25,788 . 41,092 41,072
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 76,748 77,348
During the last term £20,311 was clipped
off the mortgage (£130,228), while
£14,165 was added to the overdraft
(£21,220) and £3433 to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£49,358, includ-
ing an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion). The net reduction in the outside
debt was £2714. The addition of £lB6l
to leaseholds was due to the opening of
a new refreshment-room in George-
street, Sydney. Excluding shareholdings,
but including stocks, the excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids was
£153,946, or £1936 less than at the pre-
vious balance.
The spring in the year's gross earnings
(£183,545) was £18,397. Exes. (£165,445)
were up £9616, leaving the net result
£B7Bl better at 6.2 p.c. on capital as
against 3 p.c. for the previous term. That
leaves out of the reckoning £5OOO trans-
ferred from reserves to cover a back
claim for sales tax. Shareholders, who
went without for the three years to the
close of accounts in 1929, got an extra
p.c., making 5 p.c. for the year.
No hint is given as to what amount,
if any, shareholdings contribute to the
pool. The market notes this, the debt
and competition, and prices the pound
shares at 21s. as against 15s. a year ago.
The book value of the cover is 21s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
/ Dividends >
Net Prel, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£f £ £ £ £
1925.. 52,317 26 15 p.c. = 18,754 33,637 76,195
1926.. 69,606 26 15 „ 19,029 49,951 126,147
Taken from reserves, £8295 .. .. 117,852
1927.. 53,152 20 la p.c. = 23,472 29,654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 124 „ „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10 „ ~ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ „ 15,647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 .. .. 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080 .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1663 .. 141,571
1935.. 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
The spring in the figures reflects the
recovery in the motor trade. Things
looked so good that £26,080 of bonus
scrip (one for three) was scattered in
November last, raising paid capital to
£104,320, and leaving reserves still
£42,695 in excess of that figure at June 30.
Originally it was the Chev. agency that
put the co. on its feet. Then, to avoid re-
striction of agency rights, the business was
split (in 1926) into half a dozen subsi-
diaries. The last two of them, which
ceased trading towards the close of 1932,
will be finally wound up in the near
future. The losses made by these and
other subsidiaries have thus far been
more than offset by the parent writing
down the book value of its sharehold-
ings during the fat years. During this
period the board also put by more than
it distributed —shareholders averaged 13.2
p.c. for the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1931. Working capital in
excess of trade requirements was thus
accumulated, and the handful of pref.
money (£425) and 10s. per ord. share
was returned during the 1933 term, thus
making possible a higher rate of divi-
dend than could otherwise be paid, as
well as giving a little stiffening to the
market for the shares.
When the agency for General Motors
was relinquished in 1930. the co. took
over the distribution of Morris products,
and has since added Electrice refrigeration
and Nash cars to its list of agencies.
All these and a better return from out-
side investments contributed to the
growth of £13,115 in last year’s gross
earnings (£76,995). Exes. (£63,206) took
£9449 of the increase, leaving the net
result £3666 better at 13.2 p.c. on capital
as it now stands. The div. was kept at
8 p.c., equal to 10.6 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the gift already referred
to.
The immediate outlook favors a bit
better showing at next balance. The
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


Secret of 44 B.C.
makes cigarette-sales in
The Secret Conspiracy
to Assassinate Julius
Caesar.
A secret conspiracy, in which more
than 60 private and public enemies of
Julius Caesar took part, led to his
assassination in Rome on the Ides
(15th) March, 44 B.C. Despite cur-
rent rumours that a plot was afoot,
Caesar had taken no precautions, and
his careless attitude cost him his life.
another Secret
is the
THREE-THREES
Blend
Extraordinary interest has been aroused by
the current "Famous Secrets" series of State
Express 333's advertisements.
Educational bodies and private corres-
pondents from all parts of Australia have
evinced keen interest in this unusual tie-up
with the famous 333's blend. What is even
more important-sales of this phenominally
popular cigarette are soaring to ever
greater heights.
Watch for further interestina "Famous
Secrets" advertisements.
State (xpress
H l»
CIGARETTES
27
100% Pure Virginia Tobacco
7846c—8—5.
pWß@pqr S sl
vj c, //
• 333 ’


Positions Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the
position of Manager for an important
group of Gold Mines in Central Aus-
tralia. Applicant to furnish copies of
Credentials, stating age, experience and
salary required. Application to be made
by letter addressed Mine Manager, c/o
Box 5448, G.P.0., Sydney.
. ■
....
V'
The Ludowici
PIVOT DRIVE
100 H.P. PIVOT DRIVE to Saw
at the Fitzroy Timber Mill, Melbourne, Victoria
THIS drive has eliminated
belt slip and enabled a faster
saw cut to be made. Has saved
space and proved a most
economical and satisfactory in-
vestment.
It's the patented Ludowici Pivot
Base which enables the power
to be transmitted at such short
pulley centres without belt slip.
Our Engineering Departments
in Sydney or Melbourne can
show you the Pivot Drive in
operation and discuss its many
technical and practical advan-
tages.
AGENTSHoey, Fry Pty. Ltd., 168-
170 Edward Street, Brisbane# John
McKell & Sons, I 5 Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide# William Hart & Sons Pty.
Ltd., Charles Street, Launceston# Chas.
Davis, Ltd., 60-64 Elizabeth St., Hobart#
Flower, Davies & Johnson, Ltd., 413
Murray Street, Perth# G. W. Arnold,
Ltd., Box 1535, Wellington, N.Z.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen's Bridge Street, S. Melbourne
How Much Time
can you give to your friend's affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert B. Lysaght, Sbepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. X. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
NOBEL:
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.; Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Daigety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Daigety & Company Limited,
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.; Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C, E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
market, which expects nothing better
than 8 p.c., prices the fully-paid pound
shares, covered by 465. lOd. in net tan-
gibles, at 30s. 9d. The return at this
price is 5.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div, basis.
The financial structure is sound:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £156,905 £156,906 £78,240 £104,320
Mortgage .. 10,000 ■ —
Sundry creditors 35,682 2,557 15,863 36,538
Freehold .. 72,610 66,516 66,516 66,510
Plant, etc. .. 113 192 530 634
Stocks.. .. 49,412 61,178
Book debts, in- ] 1
vestments, etc. [ , 0 o J 202,236 142,314 163,960
Shares in sub- I j
sidiaries . . J [ 54,517 6,490 3,390
Cash, etc. .. 7,703 16,383 4,414 540
To carry an extra £21,646 of book debts,
etc., and add £11,766 to the book value
of stocks, the co. leant upon sundry
creditors for an extra £20,675 last year.
Including stocks, but not shares in sub-
sidiaries, the growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£189,140, equal to 365. 3d.
per share) was £8863.
At North Broken Hill the lead and
silver contents of the lead concentrates
and the zinc in the zinc concentrate
compare as follows over the last two
years:—
June 30, Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1934.. . . 57,531 tons. 3,176,615 oz. 35,788 tons.
1935.. .. 58,139 „ 3,156,617 „ 39,640 „
With the help of better prices for metals
the board was able to lift the div., etc.,
from Is. 6d. a share in Feb. to 2s. 6d.
in May, and 3s. 6d. is to be sent out on
Sept. 28. Over the last four months the
pound shares have advanced from
£5 17s. 6d. to £7 2s. in the market.
* * # ♦
The market counted its chickens on
Nasivi (Fiji) Gold Syndicate’s Raki Raki
area, about 32 miles east of the Tavua
field, Fiji, before they were hatched. On
the strength of high values (up to 130 z.)
from the first costeen, which showed a
width of over 60ft. of lode material, and of
a statement that the lode had been traced
for more than a mile in length, together
with a guess that there was some 500 ft.
of backs at one point and with rumors that
other Australian and overseas interests
were nibbling at the area, the price of
the £2-paid shares rose to £57, Results
from other costeens have been so dis-
appointing (the last 94 samples assayed
showed only traces to a little over 2dwt.)
that the shares fell sharply to £8 at last
week-end. The board has now sent Dr.
Loftus Hills to make a comprehensive
sampling and inspection of the field. In
addition to its Raki Raki property,
Nasivi holds an alluvial area at Clunes
(Vic.). Here test-boring is said to have
disclosed about 500,000 fathoms of pay-
able wash.
*>:<**
Mt. Lawson Prospecting and Option
Syndicate has decided to exercise its New
Guinea option over the Irowat and an
adjoining area, together 500 acres. A
new co., Irowat Gold Alluvials, is to be
formed to take over and work the
ground. Nominal capital is tentatively
put at £lOO,OOO in 4s. shares, of which
Mt. Lawson shareholders are to receive
200 paid, plus prior rights to 200 contribs.
for each syndicate share held. Vendor’s
consideration and other details are not
yet announced.
* * * *
Before deciding to form a co. to work
its Edie Creek option, already favor-
ably reported upon by J. M. Spence,
Golden Terraces (New Guinea) Syndicate
has arranged with T. K. Victor to check
value of the area. Mr. Victor is now
on his way to New Guinea to overhaul
the possibilities of New Morobe’s Kela
options, in which Australian Gold
Develonmcnt is interested.
* * * ♦
Amalgamated Gold Estates is testing
a tin lode deposit at King Island, Bass
Strait. High values have been exposed
in costeens, and two shafts are being
sunk to 100 ft, each. If the tonnage and
average value are considered good
enough, a co. will be formed to work the
show.
* * * *
North Enterprise, Adelaide, has about
£7OO in hand and no mines. The co.
was born in March, 1934, to take an
option over the New North Callion,
adjoining the Enterprise, Davyhurst
(W.A.). The show was placed under
option to a Melbourne concern, which
abandoned it after doing little work.
Further development would have been
costly, so North Enterprise threw it into
the discard, and has since been endeav-
oring to pick a winner.
.v »
Lancelicld appears to be on Hie up-
grade. The July return showed an im-
provement, and that for August is
expected to be better still. Profits are
tipped to steadily increase; a monthly
surplus next year of £20,000 is talked of.
* * * *
Yellowdine has confounded the bears
by reporting a big body of solid high-
grade quartz in the crosscut at the 100 ft.
level. This gold-carrier never looked
like petering out at a shallow depth. The
treatment plant, billed to produce at the
present price of gold between £50,000
and £60,000 worth of bullion a month
(Aust. currency), should be in full swing
early in 1936.
* * * <:
Years ago the intrusion of calc schist
at depth in South Kalgurli’s main block
was regarded as the end of payable
mining there, and shaft-sinking ceased.
Boreholes in the deepest workings have
now disclosed riches sufficient to give the
property a substantial rise in intrinsic
value.
* t- * *
Capital has been raised by a venture-
some overseas crowd, including a lord
and two directors of Boulder Persever-
ance, to test a couple of shows on the
Yilgarn (W.A.) field. One, the Bronco,
is near Marvel Loch, and the other,
Meirs Find, is in the vicinity of Yellow-
dine.
Anglo-Australian and North Kalgurli
United, two of the De Bernales West-
ralian group, issued annual reports in
London the other day. The former spoke
well of the various shows in which it is
interested, the star venture being Yellow-
dine, in which it holds a 20 p.c. interest,
and from which its share of monthly
profits, starting next year, is expected to
average over £lO,OOO. North Kalgurli
United referred mostly to diamond-drill-
ing and encouraging results therefrom.
Reference was also made to a large block
of ore revealed in the old workings above
the bottom (412 ft.) level. Both cos. have
plenty of cash in the .till.
* * * *
During July Rothsay raised and treated
900 tons of crudes, including 104 tons of
development ore (average head value not
stated) for an estimated return of £2598.
This was made up of recoveries of 80oz.
by amalgamation and an estimated 30oz.
from two tons of concentrates ; battery
tailings at 395. 6d. are expected to yield
£1663, The average value of sands and
slimes is put at 28s, The recovery from
700 tons treated by cyanidation is
figured at 730 z., worth £620, and there
was another 230 z. in the solution on
hand. Operating costs were £l5BO, or
355. Id. per ton; total costs, £l9OB, or
425. 4d. a ton. Capital expenditure on
construction and development amounted
to £261. Two parcels of ore (one oxi-
dised and the other sulphide) have been
sent to the Kalgoorlie School of Mines
for research treatment; much depends
upon the result of the tests.
* * ♦ *
From London: Out of £700,000 cash
subscribed for Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance, Ltd., £155,000 was required for
purchase consideration, £35,000 for un-
derwriting and overriding commission,
£7600 for registration fees and £26,400
for preliminary exes. Gt. Boulder Prop,
received £55,000, together with 414,000
f.-p. shares. Australian Machinery and
Investment (C, de Bernales principally)
was handed £BO,OOO cash and 930,000
shares; other vendors, £20,000 cash and
700,000 shares.
* * * «
Australian Gold Fields Development
has erected poppet-legs and skidded the
Last Chance, Kanowna (W.A.), over
which it has a 12 months’ option, to.
475 ft., and is unwatering the Ballarat
next door. Driving from one shaft to
the other will follow. Production should
begin shortly. Diamond-drilling in
search of something better than is now
in sight is also scheduled.
♦ * * *
Despite the low tide in the market for
goldmining scrip, new cos. manage to
get off the slips in Westralia. One of
the latest is Ravensthorpe, formed to
work under an option agreement an area
of 48 acres, owned by T. H. and T. V.
Daniels, of Ravensthorpe, who have been
opening up a promising line of reef
showing free gold, A main shaft will
be sunk to test the lode in the sulphides.
♦ * * ♦
Midas Gold Blocks has taken an option
over an area at the new discovery made
by Cox and party, 50 miles north of
Laverton (W.A.). There are three quaxtz
reefs on the lease; the eastern one- has
been exposed at various points for 1000 ft.
over an average width of 2£ft. Samples
average 17dwt., with 22dwt. values over
2ft. in the western reef.
♦ * ♦ *
Swan Bitter incurred a loss of £222
for the 12 months to the end of April,
after setting aside £223 for depreciation.
Since May last 812 tons averaged 6dwt.
9gr. Development work is being con-
centrated on opencutting a lode 100 ft.
wide, which averages 6Jdwl. by pan
sample. Milling capacity is put at 750
tons monthly. Some of the co.’s leases
are to be let on the tribute system.
* * * *
Donnybrook goldfield (W.A.) has been
visited by State Government Geologist
Foreman. He confirms the opinion of
other geologists that the formations are
of secondary origin and that an opti-
mistic view cannot therefore be taken
of recent developments.
* + x> ♦
Celebration, which started the Hamp-
ton Plains (W.A.) boom of 15 years ago,
and which, after lying idle for years, was
recently floated, is about to be equipped
with a milling plant with a capacity of
60,000 tons per annum. Ore treatment
is tipped to start early in 1936.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and CcJlison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
♦ * ♦ ♦
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * ♦
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


Mi
* <
The Whisky
Sampl
will
you
every
time
■l':-
.
His senses are acutely alive to the variations
in the character of different whiskies.
But once you know what to expect, you
can become an expert in the fine points
of White Horse. First “nose” the rare and
subtle aroma. Then taste the peat and
heather flavour and note the exceptional
smoothness. You will realise that you are en-
joying whisky equal to a fine liqueur and you
will join the company of particular people
who insist on Real Old Scotch at its very best.
"He can tell it blindfold”
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
s Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
é


ABORIGINALITIES
“Herpelon”: A champion snake yarn
is vouched for by the Australian
“Museum Magazine” and backed by a
photo. A parly up Forbes (N.S.W.) way
came on a 6ft. snake trying to swallow a
jew lizard. The serpent had the jewey’s
head in his jaws, but whenever he tried
to get further the jew foiled his Hitlerian
efforts by blowing itself up with air like
a balloon. The business was watched
for an hour; then the snake was slain
and the lizard left to recover. The choic-
est bit of the story describes how the
snake succeeded in deflating the lizard.
The wind, however, could only escape
into the snake itself and it was forced
to blow the lizard up again before it
could carry on.
* * * *
“Kaikoura”: In Maoriland at present
it’s a case of J.O.D.T.A.A. The red deer
having done their best to eat out the
South Island sheep, that bird of ill-omen
the kea is increasing its activities against
what woollies are still struggling along.
For many years the bird has been respon-
sible for the deaths of thousands of sheep
yearly by tearing out their kidney fat.
Until recently it had rarely come below'
the snowline; now it is invading the
lowlands. Government help is being
sought, of course, and private suggestions
arc invited, but short of sending all the
destructive parrots into Parliament to
talk themselves to death writer cannot
suggest any solution.
* * * *
“Jacko”; The last thing one would
expect in such a vast stretch of unin-
habited country, a warm bath, awaits
the way-weary traveller between Port
Augusta and Kalgoorlie at Madura, 320
miles from the Golden Mile. Warm
water from a bore flows into a natural
bath about Bft. long, 3ft. wide and 3ft.
deep ; travellers invariably refresh them-
selves in it.
* * * *
“Molar”: The myth about the botlom-
lessness of Mt. Gambier’s (S.A.) Blue
Lake crater still persists in the minds of
grown-ups who believe in fairies and
bunyips. Its greatest depth is 264 ft.,
from soundings made by Government
engineers. Another hard-dying belief is
that poet Gordon did the impossible leap
opposite the monument placed to com-
memorate his association with the dis-
trict.
“Buzz”; One of Australia’s greatest
curses may yet be turned into a blessing,
and instead of destroying the blowfly
we may carefully breed him, using our
sheep for the purpose instead of growing
wool. Early in the Great War it was
found that maggot-infested wounds were
apt to heal rapidly. This led to the de-
velopment of sanitary maggots, which
were successfully used for healing deep
infections that didn’t respond to surgical
treatment. From these in their turn a
substance named “allantoin” has been
developed ; this is most useful for heal-
ing difficult wounds such as chronic
ulcers and severe burns. The substance
is found in other insects and some plants,
but at present the chief source of supply
is the despised blowfly-maggot.
* * * *
“HIO”: That Barcoo bullock which
was so wasted with drought that it made
a capital Chinese lantern when killed and
hung up with a light inside it (B.
7/8/’35) reminds me that the latest
Queensland drought recently had Tambo,
also on the Barcoo, reduced to a state of
beeflessness. The enterprising local
butchers rose to the occasion and ordered
two tons of frozen meat and oddments
from Lake's Creek meatworks. near
Rockhampton. These were, trained in
refrigerating cars to Tambo’s hated rival,
Blackall, and rushed thence by motor-
lorry the last lap of 60-odd miles to
Tambo.
j|t »V $
“S.G.”: To describe the merino as
“hardy” is scarcely doing him justice.
He is a marvel of adaptability. In s.-w.
Queensland there are huge areas of un-
improved country, mostly heavily tim-
“Funny they put some animals in cages an' let us roam about at large."
bered. There has been no grass for ever
so long, yet losses' have been negligible.
Fallen leaves are the sheep’s sustenance.
A small, whippy scrub known locally as
“plum bush” appears to be prime favor-
ite, and the woollies are well aware that
its greyish, oval leaves fall very easily.
They rub against the spindly trunk, but-
ting it at times until their purpose is
achieved. Only when these scrub-fed
sheep are killed can one distinguish them
from sheep off good pastures ; their flesh
is unpleasantly dark.
* * * *
“Blue Flier”: How is this for a record?
Two men have taken over 3000 kan-
garoo-skins in under three months from
a 9000-acre paddock on Hamilton Downs
(C.Q.), and they haven’t shifted camp. In
the last 28 days 1402 pelts were obtained ;
then the rain came, and the ’roos that had
come to this patch of feed from the
drought-stricken country for miles around
departed for fresh fields and pastures
new. A team of 30 dogs, eight horses and
a light motor-truck comprised the outfit.
* * *
“Movado” (Rabaul): Admixture of
Malay blood is common throughout
Dutch New Guinea. Lost near Wanimo,
on the Mandated side of the border, it is
again contacted at Waripu and a few
adjacent villages, all large and built near
a big tidal salt-water lagoon some 20
miles north of Aitape. The natives here
are splendid physical specimens, active
and arrogant. The lagoon swarms with
wild life, winged and marine. Big saw-
fish and pukpuks (crocodiles) are plenti-
ful, and are mercilessly hunted. The
lagoon canoe is of the dugout type, but
superlatively finished and carved, and
each end terminates in a flat platform,
on which the wielder of paddle or pole
stands erect. This Malay strain dis-
appears on the actual coast of the main-
land, but you find it again in the Sepik
River uplands 150 miles from the mouth.
Malay bird-of-paradise hunters made
inland journeys from their bases in
Dutch territory ; the broad path which
they followed is known as the “Malay.
Road.”
* * * *
“G.M.”; Municipal imagination may
be well-gauged by the suggestion that an
amalgamation of the suburbs of Kew
and Hawthorn (Vic.) should be styled
Kewthorn. It is about time somebody
established a censorship to prevent the
aldermanic brain making a fool of whole
districts. Some Sydney genius conceived
the idea of taking away the name of
Lady Robinson’s Beach and calling it
Brighton-le-Sands, despite the fact that
there were already four Brightens in
different Australian States. Then came
the delightful day when Rookwood
thought it was 100 closely associated with
funerals and called itself Lidcombe, by
combining the names of two aldermen,
Mr. Lidbury and Mr. Larcombe. But
Kewthorn goes one better than either of
these atrocities. Abo. names are in
plenty, and many are euphonious and
distinctive. Surely somebody can find
out what Binghi called Kewthorn and
add one to the few native names around
Melbourne.
f* -r ft
“J.W.”: “Jean Rougier” (B. 24/7/’35)
is a bit out about foxes cleaning up
the hoodie rats in s.-w. W.A. These little
fellows used to be everywhere in large
numbers in the Albany district, but dis-
appeared in the space of a few weeks,
long before the advent of foxes, some 20
years ago. Where did they go, and why?
“Foxie”: Three times before he actu-
ally died a fox, with my dog at his throat,
stiffened out and pretended to die. The
third time he even had the cunning to
remain down until the tyke left; and it
wasn’t until I had my knife out to skin
him that I noticed an eye blink.
* * =:= *
“Shivers”: “Shark Bay” can have it
his own way (B. 24/7/’35) about sunfish
and giant rays. We both refer to the
same insect, with the same playful habits ;
the name varies in different localities. He
calls it the giant-ray ; others refer to it
as the diamond-ray, the bat-fish, devil-
ray, a dozen other names and then some
more. It can pull, too, as “5.8.” in-
fers. Apart from dragging for fun, three
of them harpooned would haul a tractor
out of its socks. Some fishermen one
afternoon harpooned one near Pioneer
Point (N.Q.). It hauled three men in a
12ft. punt at express speed right across
Whitsunday Passage. It was still going
strong off Haymen Island, about 12 miles
distant, when those fellows cut the rope.
* * * *
“West Darling"’: Jim and Tom were
getting ready for the King’s Birthday
sports at Pooncarie (N.S.W.) when I
struck the hut. “Where’s that comb?”
Tom asked. “Dunno,” drawled Jim.
“Didn't you have it last before the races
on Boxin’ Day?”
>)< * *
“Halieore Australis”: I never said that
Banfield killed a dugong (B. 7/8/’35).
There was no need ; the blacks used to
slaughter them constantly around Dunk.
Though “Curly” may not, to outward
appearance, look like one of the higher
order of apes, his skull is similar. And
so is the skull of the dugong similar to
that of the seal. We arc at variance,
apparently, because “Curly” is talking of
the outward form of the sea cow, while
I am talking of its bones.
* * * ♦
“Bogan Boy”: Anyone who has spent
much time on the Georgina River below
Boulia (Q.) can tell you what rain has
fallen, and where, by the look of the
stream when the river runs. Curdling
greenish-grey water from the main river
higher up as it pushes the salt water from
Katherine Lake and Parapituri ahead of
it, muddy-brown from the Burke, red
swirling water covered with “wool-
packs” from the Wills, and grey-and-
brown particolored fluid from the Hamil-
ton. The length of time the waters take
to reach certain points after the rain has
fallen is a guide to the distance away.
$ jH *
“Australian”: “The Other D.” (B.
7/8/’35) is right concerning the superi-
ority of Murray cod and perch as table
delicacies. The Upper Clarence cod arc
even more delicately flavored than the
western fish, due probably to the almost
total absence of mud on the gravelly
bottoms. But they are of genuine Murray
strain. The champion fish, a 901 b. speci-
men according to one of the oldest in-
habitants, was caught by Gregory Blax-
land, who took up Nymboida station in
the forties. Another chap caught a cod
that went 621 b. dressed ; the bait used
was an eel’s head. The Nymboida perch
is a beautiful silvery fish, large numbers
of which up to 51b. and 61b. in weight
have lately been caught on Devon
spinners.
* * * *
“Scran”: “Comic Strip” (B. 7/8/’35)
wants to know why Rabaul fines natives
for wearing clothes above the waist. I
can give him the Gubment’s side of it.
Brown Brother loves to ape the white
man’s style of dressing, but isn’t so keen
on his idea of hygiene. In the tropics a
change of clothing at least once a day
is a necessity. The native probably
doesn’t possess a change. Consequently,
perspiration and dirt accumulate in the
garments, breeding parasites and germs.
Another danger is that heavy dews and
rains wet the clothing, which, in the
white man’s case, is changed at the first
opportunity, but with the native it is
allowed to dry on him. In the rainy
season he may be wet for weeks. The
effect on his health is obvious.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”; “Kuni Kuni’s” wail
about “ ‘py korry’ artists and their Maori
pars.” (B. 24/7/’35) suggests that he
knows nothing about the real outback
native. Let “K.K.” attend gatherings in
such large native communities as Nuhaka
and I'll undertake to introduce him to
dozens of cheerful “py korry” users.
« * * *
“G. Trotter”: Reference to the
elephants which Hannibal took over the
Alps (B. 31/7/’35) impels me to ask
where he got those elephants from,
assuming history to be accurate. Hanni-
bal came from Africa, and there is no
known instance of the African elephant
having become domesticated. He re-
mains an outlaw, impervious alike to
kindness and wallopings, unlike his
Indian brother. If Hannibal really did
take elephants with him and they
must have been fully domesticated to
endure transport over the Mediter-
ranean in the cockleshells which passed
for ocean liners in those days—he must
have obtained them from India by the
roundabout route of Persia, Mespot.,
Arabia, Egypt and the long desert stretch
over what is now Cyrenaica. Elephants
are long-lived animals, but Hannibal s
pets must have been about due for an
old-age pension before they reached the
walls of Rome.
GATES.
I drive down the road to a dawn-red sky on
an engine sweet and strong.
With the tree-girt homesteads slipping by and
the miles a minute long,
Through the uplands wide where the west winds
sweep and the gathering storm-clouds wait,
Through the rolling plain to the hills again
till I come to a plain white gate.
To a gate where the swiftest car must wait,
To a gate that sagged, to a gate that dragged,
To a warped and twisted gate.
Then on through the paddocks green and grey,
and down through the grazing sheep,
And over the rises and away up through the
pinches steep,
Slow where the ridges curve and wind, swift
where the road runs straight,
With the miles behind and a care-clear mind
till I come to another gate—
To a gate, to a gate in the usual state.
With the same old mire and (he same old wire
On the same old crazy gate.
Oil through the dreaming countryside, down
through the drowsy town,
Cleaving a path through the walls of green
where the bush comes creeping down,
Till through the softly-waning day it jeered
as it bade me wait.
But my cup was full; like a baited bull I swept
at that last curst gate—
At the gate with a surge of long-spent hate,
With a roar and a crash and a splintery smash,
And a gibe at the conquered gate.
Down through a cloud of purple night, ragged
with tongues of flame,
Wracked and wrenched to a far faint light,
wearied and spent I came,
Down to a world of crystal streams and fields
with flowers elate,
To a world where dreams come true, it seems
—and a great big Golden Gate.
Yes, a gate; and when Peter said, “You’ll wait
On the outer side!” I of course replied,
“Such ever has been my fate.”
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


"Hey, what's the hurry? The train ain't in yet."
“Aye Jay”: Mutton, potatoes, pump-
kin and rice ad infinitum. The boss con-
sidered the men well fed —they were
“fed” all right. Cook did his best, ring-
ing the changes as often as the limited
variety of available tucker allowed. One
day during seeding a large cabbage
appeared on the kitchen table. Cook
wasn’t sure. “Grab it and ask questions
after,” urged a pumpkin-sick teamster.
That cabbage was enjoyed and appre-
ciated more than any vegetable ever
grown. The men still speak of the
cabbage, for it has had no successors.
The boss asked cook for the vegetable
the day after the damage was done, and
was told. “Cooked it for the men?” he
roared, his red face taking on an im-
perial purple. “Cooked it for the men?
I bought that for the flamin’ hens!"
* * * *
“Chinatown”: That yarn about the
abo. custom of smoking infants over a
fire to make them darker and the abo.-
Chinese half-caste who accounted for
her peculiar color by saying her mamma
had neglected the precaution (B.
14/8/’35) calls to mind a tinted lady I
once met in N.Q. It was difficult to
place her exact nationality, but one day
she bared her soul to several of us —1
forgot to say she was a bar lady of un-
blemished reputation. “Lots of people
think I have colored blood in my veins,”
she cooed, “but it was all due to poor
dear mamma eating lemons before 1 was
born.”
* * * *
“Bonne Bouche”: The sea-urchin (B.
14/8/’35) is one of those delicacies to
which the Australian gives a miss, as he
does to frogs and snails. On the shores
of the Mediterranean it is preferred to
the oyster. There are many varieties,
but all are excellent. Spines removed,
they are eaten, with a French dressing,
out of their central shell, much as the
sophisticated Queenslander eats his pine-
apple out of its rind with a spoon. Greek
and Italian restaurants in Alexandria
during the war gave the sea-urchin a high
place on their menus along with the
toothsome octopus.
* * ♦ *
“Abdul”; Every bushman who has
ever mixed with camels and camel-men
tells the fearsome tale of how ’Ghans
sew bits of sheepskin on the living flesh
of a re-backed camel. I’ve told the tale
myself time and time again, and I’ve
derived enjoyment from the look of
horror which spread over the faces of
my listeners. It’s a good old stock yarn,
but I ask if any man has ever seen a
camel so treated? I know I haven’t.
♦ * * *
“Condo”: “Ringer” (B. 7/8/’35) says
that the word “stampede” belongs to the
pictures and the story-books, and that
“rush” is used “every time” in the bush
among stock. Not every time, or Mrs.
TEneas Gunn wouldn’t have used
“stampede” three times in two pages of
We of the Never Never, putting it into
the mouth of the stockmen on the run as
well as employing it herself. By the way,
some newspaper people seem to have
omitted to read that volume of Mrs.
Gunn’s. In a report of Minister Pater-
son’s trip through the N.T, I read that
“the silent stockman dandy Fizzer”
did something or other regularly at
the Katherine when Mrs, Gunn’s book
was being incubated. “The Silent
Stockman,” of course, is one of the
leading characters, under that name
and no other; likewise “The Dandy.”
As for “The Fizzer,” he was the
hero who, eight times a year, carried
the mail from the Katherine to Oodna-
dafta and back. If The Bulletin ever
opens a competition for literary perform-
ances containing the most mistakes in the
fewest words I intend to enter that news-
paper report.
* * * *
“Oruncha”: Some time back a Sydney
daily gave a photo, of Varanus giganteus,
the 7ft. giant lizard of Centralia, a speci-
men of which had been forwarded to
Taronga. Account said it was a “printy,”
so called by Binghi on account of its
“resemblance to the pattern of a lady’s
print dress”! Print dresses weren’t
known to Binghi when Spencer and
Gillen collected their material for Across
Australia, yet they found the lizards, and
the natives told them they were called
“parenthies.” Other variations in the
name have been “perentie,” “printie”
and “parunthy.” A Bully contributor
signs himself “Purinthy”; evidently still
another variation. Let’s settle on one
form and stick to it.
♦ * * ♦
“Groper”: Different from sea fish in
their interior make-up, most fresh-water
species will live for quite a time
out of their natural element. The
absolute champion is the golden
carp. I kept young ones in a big
wooden tub. Retiring to bunk I
would presently hear a flop as
some adventurer leaped the barrier
and found the floor. Rising, I
would restore him to the tub. But
soon another would flop, and then
another, and another, until finally
I would drop off to sleep. In the
morning the floor would be lit-
tered with fish, many of whom had
been out of water five or six hours.
They would be gasping rather feebly, but
five minutes back in the tub and they
would be ready for the breakfast line-up.
* ♦ * ♦
“Emsee”: Pearl-divers must be bad
risks for assurance offices. The danger
of paralysis is always there, and the cure
seems to be nearly as horrible as the
disease. The victim is lowered to 23
fathoms for staging, and then to 16
fathoms. He must be kept at these depths
from half an hour to an hour and a half,
and to prevent the diver from opening
the valve and bringing himself to the
surface too soon the valve is tied up.
David Carruth, a retired white diver with
20 years’ experience, has had diver’s
paralysis six times and was cured on each
occasion by “staging.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Double Disc”: Not only would it be
hard to obtain supplies of trout (B.
7/8/’35) for city fish shops, but it would
be extremely difficult to get anybody to
eat the fish unless they were freshly
caught. I’ve sampled our local trout,
straight out of the water and into the
pan, and they were delicious; I tried
some sent from the Snowy River packed
in ice and they tasted like “wet cotton-
wool soaked in mud” —or worse. This is
not a peculiarity of Aussie trout, for I
noticed the same thing in England dur-
ing the war: fresh trout, delicious ; day-
old (or more), horrible. Even the Murray
cod deteriorates when frozen or preserved
in some other way, and seems to taste
slightly of its native mud.
* * * ♦
“Bill Boredrain”: When rain does fall
hereabouts (open downs country, C.Q.)
it's always followed by a host of butter-
flies along the bore-drains.
Their size, shape and, to
the layman, their char-
acteristics of flight, feed-
ing and general mode of
living are always identi-
cal ; but the color and
markings differ each time
the swarm occurs. Last
January they were light-
green ; after the June
rains they were white,
with pronounced black markings ; I have
also seen them pure white, white with a
thin black border, and white with a shade
of yellow. Can any Aboliar account for
the change in markings and color?
* * ♦ ♦
“Doorbell”: We were discussing Abo-
liar methods of finding direction (B.
31/7/’35), when a lady disposed of all
difficulties simply. “I’d look for a ceme-
tery,” she told us, “or even a tombstone.
Tombstones always face the east.” Liv-
ing near one of Melbourne’s largest and
oldest burial grounds I can attest that
many tombstones don’t do anything of
the sort. I suppose it’s an old idea engen-
dered by the funeral hymn “For a while
the tired body Lies with feet toward the
dawn.”
* * * *
“Speewaa”: During their tour of un-
known Papua the Hides party carried out
valuable scientific and economic work
in planting new seeds in areas where they
had not previously been grown, just as
Banks did when he was with Captain
Cook’s expedition. Possibly the best
work of this sort was done by the waves
of Mormon immigration which crossed
half the United States to settle in Utah.
Every successive immigrant train of cov-
ered waggons planted maize and vege-
tables on its camping-ground, and later
trains had fresh vegetables every time
they cried a halt.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Besides stretching
our credulity “Walkabout’s” par. (B.
31/7/’35) is an insult to horses in general
and bush horses in particular. That nags
frequently cross flooded creeks we
admit; but not to get a drink on the
other side. Some prads invariably make
off after rain in the direction of the
property on which they were bred;
others breast the flood merely in the
hope of finding better feed or firmer
ground on the other side.
"Scab! This is your half-day off!"
“Raupo”: To gentlemanly sharks (B.
10/7/’35) add those of Maoriland. Shark
attacks in the Dominion are so rare as
to be negligible, though nobody will
deny the presence of huge sharks in M.L.
waters. I have seen girls at the Bay of
Islands, the chief centre of the shark-
fishing, dive from launches into the clear
waters and swim about without the
slightest fear of molestation, and one in-
trepid damsel used each morning to
take a two-mile swim round the fore-
shores of Russell. Auckland, where
sharks are also seen at times, used each
year to stage an across-harbor swimming
race, in which dozens of competitors,
young and old of both sexes, lined up to
take on the lengthy trip. Nobody was
ever apprehensive of a shark attack. And
in the summer all the beaches are
crowded with bathers who swim without
protection, some of them venturing
straight out to sea where basking sharks
are frequently to be seen sunning them-
selves on the surface. Nobody gets
bitten. As “Matelot” asks in regard to
the kindly disposition of Tassie sharks,
“Why?”
♦ * * «
“Movado”: Dawaun, a New Guinea
policeman, was admitted to hospital with
head trouble. Both ears were thoroughly
douched by a medical assistant with no
apparent result. Trade-tobacco smoke
was then blown in with a metallurgist’s
blowpipe, and a very groggy hermit-
crab tottered forth. Dawaun remem-
bered having slept on the beach a week
before, and the crab had evidently been
searching for commodious quarters.
* * ♦ ♦
“Grasspan”: Explorer Hides tells how
inland tribes of Papua tried to lure his
native bearers from their duty by parad-
ing their most desirable maidens before
them. The late Cetewayo, paramount
chief of the Zulus, when at war with the
Kaffirs discovered that the Kaffir damsels
were finding boy friends among the out-
posts and worming from them the plans
of campaign. Apropos, Blatchford, when
editor of London “Clarion,” told a de-
lightful story of an Indian rajah who
wagered with a British general that he
would get the rifle away from any white
sentry three nights running. The bet
was accepted, and they kept watch to-
gether while the most reliable soldier in
the regiment took his place on sentry-
go. Suddenly, in the moonlight, a white
figure appeared, advancing in response
to the challenge, to reveal itself as a
beautiful nautch girl. She did the dance
of the seven veils, and, at the psycho-
logical moment, when the sentry became
overinterested, snatched his rifle and ran
with it. Next night the general chose
an elderly, hard-faced puritanical cor-
poral ; but he, too, fell. The third night
the sentry was a boyish lad who looked
easy for the vamp; but he paid not the
slightest attention beyond warning off
the dancer and threatening her with
arrest. So the general won his wager.
The sentry was the daughter of one of
his sergeants, dressed in a borrowed uni-
form.
IT ALL DEPENDS.
“These ’ere cocksure galoots,” said Joe, “they
always get me goat;
They try to shove their ignorance right down a
feller’s throat.
They think they’re wise to all the ways to gain
their private ends
When they don’t even know enough to know
it all depends!
“They never seem to drop to it that there must
always be
A little more in everythin’ than what a bloke
can see.
It’s not what’s showin’ down the straight, it’s
what’s around the bends
That makes a feller win or lose, and so —it
all depends!
“A lot depends on lots of things in everythin’
you do;
A lot depends on if you’ve got the guts to see
it through.
A man’s dead sure to need more time,
’owever much ’e spends,
Before ’e gets to where ’e wants because —it
all depends!
“I’ve spent a few years knockin’ round —some
fair, some not so good—
But few of all my schemes worked out the
way 1 thought they would.
I’ve ’ad a nasty knock or two from blokes I
thought were friends.
You take a tip from me, old chap, you’ll find
—it all depends!”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


LYSAQKTS
pßoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
T *
m
ys^s
» fi;
V
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Does Classing Pay?
“Murrawong”: “G.F.D.'s” contention
that unclassed wools often bring a better
average price than carefully-got-up lines
(B. 7/8/’35) is unfortunately true, but
more often in the star lots than in the
main catalogue.
The result is disheartening to those
who have always advocated that good
classing pays—as undoubtedly it does—
but such instances as “G.F.D.” quotes are
continually cropping up.
There are two causes. The first is bad
buying—one regular customer is noted
for it. And there are many badly-
classed clips.
The other cause is lot-splitting. There
is no pretence about this practice nowa-
days. Buyers say that it makes for a
more even market, which sounds well.
But this “evenness” is not likely to
benefit the grower.
Grazier A, who is purely a dealer,
buys a nondescript mob out of the yards,
has them shorn and the wool classed by
the contractor, who has to spend most
of his time nursing the rickety shearing
machinery, besides doing a lot of pen-
ning-up and all the odd shed jobs The
top line may bulk 64’s, but, in addition
to its mixed range of length, quality and
condition, the wool in general is straight,
unattractive and lacking quality.
This lot is shown in the same row as
a line from Grazier B, who, by buying
good rams, culling heavily and continu-
ally improving his property, has bred
up a first-class flock. His top line, care-
fully classed, is straight 64’s, well nour-
ished, attractive and showing plenty of
character. At the sale there is appar-
ently more competition for A’s clip than
for B’s. A’s top line goes for, say, 12d.
B’s top line brings 13d., but his all-round
average is less than A’s.
Actually, there were perhaps a couple
of buyers bidding for A, while, instead
of a half-dozen buyers eagerly bidding
for B’s choice lot, five sat pat and
allowed Number Six to buy without their
competition on the understanding that
after the sale the lot would be divided
with them.
There seems to be no hope of eliminat-
ing lot-splitting. But buyers should
remember that a misuse of their power
may wreck the woolgrowing industry.
If every grazier decided to cut out class-
ing and piece-picking for one season,
split-lot buyers might realise what they
are forcing on the industry. Unless the
buyer makes good wool worth while we
will be forced to discard quality and
breed for bulk alone.
Kidney Disease in Victoria.
“Ghanam”: Victorian sheepmen are
having a bad time with pulpy kidney
disease (entero-toxxmia), a complaint
which usually is associated with rich pas-
tures and a damp season. In N. S. Wales
vaccines are used against it.
It is due to the development of a
toxin-producing bacillus in the small in-
testines. It especially affects lambs whose
mothers, owing to the richness of the
pasture, secrete an unusual abundance of
milk and oversupply their offspring from
birth, so that they become lethargic, and
their liver cells are overfattened and fed
too lavishly with glycogen. The organ
then does not perform its natural func-
tion of combing out digestive poisons.
The lambs are weaned on to luscious
herbage, with too much protein and
water and too little roughage.
Old-fashioned sheep-raisers tail about
three weeks after lambing, the argument
being that tailing provides a shock to
the system which counteracts the effects
of overluxurious nutrition and puts the
lambs off their feed.
In lambs, which are usually infected
at from two to 12 weeks old, first symp-
toms are rarely recognised. Then a
batch is found dead in the morning, and
they are almost always well grown and
well nourished.
The symptoms before death are an
inability to stand, the youngster gener-
ally lying on its side with outstretched
neck and light pulse. It will be breathing
jerkily, and death comes with convul-
sions. There is no effective treatment
except prevention.
With old sheep there is sometimes a
grinding of the teeth and a frothing at
the mouth. Otherwise, symptoms are
much the same as in lambs.
The rule is to cut down the proteins
and moisture, and see that the animals
have plenty of roughage when the season
brings on the clovers and other luscious
feeds too fast.
Drought Fodder.
“Albarmount”: As transport charges
frequently double the cost of hay, con-
servation schemes depending on long
haulage of fodder will fail. A better
plan is to grow feed on the spot. My
argument is that if owners can afford to
pay out huge sums for hay in bad
times, they can afford to grow it them-
selves when times are good. Nearly all
districts below the tropics will grow
some kind of hay—even grass hay makes
useful roughage.
Western hay is coarse, but this can be
chaffed. In fact, chaffed hay fed to sheep
in long bag troughs practically eliminates
waste.
Where hay is deficient in grain, owners
would need to supplement with a light
ration of maize or meal.
It doesn’t pay to feed aged sheep in
droughts which last 18 months to two
years.
“Julius Want”: A lot more sheep
could be saved if graziers went into the
job of drought feeding knowledgably
instead of “flying blind.”
The first elemenfin handling the situa-
tion is the animal —a sound sheep prop-
erly treated will withstand a bad season
better than a weakly, disease-smitten one.
And it is well to decide early what sheep
it will pay to keep through a long siege.
Tens of thousands are carried in every
drought which are not worth the racket.
Old sheep which should be knocked on
the head are sometimes nursed until
they owe large sums to the feeder. And
younger sheep which could be got rid of
at a profit are sometimes held, too, by
people who should know better.
Once having reduced a flock to “siege ’
proportions and condition, the next thing
is to look for a minimum formula which
will keep them going. They need pro-
teins—to build tissue, warmth, fat,
energy—fats and carbohydrates, minerals
and fibre to promote digestion.
If there is bush hay, so much to the
good. It will give bulk to concentrated
foods. Feed a couple of pounds a day
with loz. linseed or cottonseed meals
and loz. maize per head. Provide a lick,
but be sure it is framed for drought
feeding. If it contains a large proportion
(more than 10 p.c.) concentrated foods,
pass it by. Otherwise it will make the
animals salt-hungry. A little molasses
helps. Double the grain and cake ration
to lambing ewes.
Scrub, with the right timbers, plus a
drought lick, is all right, and it will see
lambing ewes through with a linseed or
maize supplement. But there is scrub
and scrub.
Myall runs about 44.5 p.c. moisture,
6 p.c. ash, 8.1 p.c. protein, 30 p.c. fibre
and 10 p.c. nitrogen-free extract, but it
is low in fat—well under 1 p.c. Emu
bush carries 47.5 p.c. moisture, 7.4 pro-
tein, 15 p.c. fibre and 23 p.c. nitrogen-
free extract. It has only V p.c. fat.
White wood, rosewood and wilga, with
over 11 p.c., have the highest protein
contents, with bastard myall at 9.5 p.c.
to 10 p.c. and kurrajong at 9 p.c. next.
One tip is to feed as near water as
possible. If sheep have to walk long
distances for a drink after feeding they
will need more ration.
Wool Research.
“Bales”: Australia might well follow
S. Africa’s lead in scientific research into
the factors governing wool production.
The chairman of the Australian Pas-
toral Research Trust recently suggested
a levy of 2d. per bale on all wool sold by
Australian brokers in order to provide
funds for research. It was pointed out
that in S. Africa there is a compulsory
levy of Is. per bale greasy and Is. 6d.
per bale scoured, which is devoted en-
tirely to research. We cannot afford to
lag behind other countries. Many of
our problems are indigenous, and must
be studied by our own scientists. The
suggested levy seems an excellent idea.
The Research Trust is controlled by two
bodies which have done much for the
wool industry—the National Council of
Woolselling Brokers and the National
Woolgrowers' Council.
Carbon-tetra. Poisoning.
“Ghanam”: A lot of sheepmen shy at
using carbon tetrachloride because they
think it dangerous, but it is a matter of
knowing its characteristics.
Provided the drug is good quality and
is carefully given so as not to go to the
lungs (here is little risk. But it must be
remembered that it should not be given
unless animals have been off concen-
trated or oily feeds for at least a week.
Also, it may be disastrous to give it to
sheep which suffer from lime deficiency.
Wherever there is a chance of this, give
the animals a calcium phosphate lick
for a couple of weeks before and after
drenching. If, however, everybody
troubled with fluke were to take proper
precautions, there would be less need
for carbon-tetra. treatment.
Wet and marshy country is always a
bad investment for the sheepman—the
cost of draining is usually less than the
cost of continually losing sheep unless
the wet areas are very extensive. Where
there are springs, wet ground round
them should be treated to a broadcast of
copper sulphate—one part of hard blue-
stone finely powdered to four or five
parts of sand. A bag of crushed blue-
stone moved about in a spring or hole
till the water becomes tinged with blue
will help to clear our fresh-water snails,
and running water should have a few
small bags dropped in at intervals.
October, November and December are
the best months for an anti-fluke cam-
paign, with another treatment in May or
June to catch snails hatched after the first
dose —c.s, does not kill eggs. The best
time to broadcast is before wet weather.
Stock should be kept out of the pad-
dock for a week after the treatment.
A New Pest.
“Clyde”: Western N.S.W. landholders
are getting scary about the spread of
camel melon. The pest has moved east-
ward, and is now invading farmlands.
Though it thrived on sandy western
country it is now on light soils, and even
heavier loams carry it. It checks good
feed on grazing land, its spread makes
working a trial, and it draws moisture
from fallow. Wherever melons are lying
about they should be gathered and de-
stroyed by burning. When new plants
appear in the spring chop them out. If
they are on cultivated land get busy with
the disc.
Northern Poison Plants.
“Zebu”: The North has many poison
plants which affect stock and which
every drover should be able to recog-
nise. There are three main types—those
which contain prussic acid, such as native
fuschia and milkweed, alkaloids (desert
sage, wild indigo and native tobacco)
and saponins. But there are others., some
of which kill in a manner which has yet
to be explained.
.Some prussic-acid weeds are reason-
ably harmless if the acid is not free; but
others contain a solvent which frees the
acid, which also may be liberated by
chewing or by being eaten in conjunc-
tion with some other plant or grass.
When, for instance, animals “die of eat-
ing gidya pods” it may be conjectured
that the gidya is not the poison. It is
merely a starter for native fuschia, in
which the beasts have been indulging,
and which, eaten alone, may be harm-
less in spite of its prussic content.
Prussic-acid poisoning may generally
be detected by a characteristic odor of
peach kernel. The saponins produce a
frothy, “soapsud” effect round the mouth
of the animal.
Poisoning usually affects travelling
stock, and losses often are heavy—as in
the disaster which befel mobs on the O.T.
line below Tennant’s Creek in 1924.
Effective treatment is usually impossible.
In W.A. Condy’s crystal and aluminium
tabloids had a great vogue in dealing
with alkaloid poisons for a time, but
their value is doubtful. Bushmen favor
strong tea or gum-bark brew, but it is
usually too big a job for the average
outfit to handle in emergency. And on
a dry stage nothing whatever can be
done.
What is most needed is a handy com-
pendium of poison plants which can be
uarried by drovers. If there were a regu-
lar system of destroying dangerous plants
it would cost far less than the present
haphazard method of “waiting till some-
thing happens.”
The drovers’ safety now mainly lies
in getting out of the poison area with
their charges as quickly as possible.
Cowpeas.
“Junner”: Of all the coastal field
vegetables, cowpeas seem to me to be
the Cinderellas. They can be raised
with a familiar type of cultivation —
maize conditions both in soil and climate
suit them splendidly. They grow until
frost arrives.
They are a splendid cover crop for
orchards, and, ploughed in as soon as
the seed pods show signs of coloring,
they are great soil-improvers. They need
to be rolled to flatten them, and then
cut up with a disc harrow before being
turned into the soil with a disc plough.
Planted between maize rows, they form
useful grazing. Maize tassels in Novem-
ber along the N.S.W. coast, and its resi-
dues go well with the peas afterwards
when the stock is put on, and the remains
of both make humus when the animals
have done with them.
Good as it is for green manuring, a
cowpea crop is often wasted by being
(Continued on page 24.)


WOOL GROWERS
c 3
1
THIS “HUNTER” 1* A T E N T
DOUBLE LEVER RAM HE-
HORNER. Length overall. MOin.
Very strong and handmade,
Price £4/4/-
Poslage: N.S.W.. 2/9; Interstate, 5/6.
'wk
m
?.m— BAKKK’S DAIRYMAN. Good
plain finish. Slag Halt.
Price, each 10/6
With Picker and Tweezer, ea., 18/0.
I
185—BAKKR’K I’IVK. specially
designed for use among stock: 5
blades, finest quality and finish.
Stag Haft. Size. fiMn.
Price, each 18/-
Larger size, lin. haft, each, )»/<!.
HUUSEWIFI'S SCISSORS OUT.EIT
.JKO
mmd
LADIES’ SCISSOR CASE, made of
fancy leather, containing i pairs
Nickel-plated Scissors.
Pric, 37/6
Containing 3 pairs Nickel-plated
Scissors. Price 25/-
THE IMPROVED “V” BLADE
CATTLE DEIIOBNEK. These
“V” Shaped Blades eat all
around the horn. The handles
have powerful leverage. No. 4
for medium to large size horns—
will also do small work—opening
3 Inches x 8 Inches; length, 3
feet.
Price, each 50/-
N.S.W. Postage, 5/6; Interstate,
about double. Extra Blades, i 3/«
per set; 6/0 each. Postage, 9d.
*-A
■/SI
Vi».ioi( jiuo
JO «pu(( Oil) UlO aujtlOOOS ,U)JI
.10038 ..XMOCIIK..
* >
W. J N Q BAKtM
SYDNEY
No. 10—AV. ,IXO. HA KICK
DAOGINO AMI BOT’fLK OUT-
FIT. This Outfit: cuutiliiis Rlu.
lied Tung Double Hollow ground
Bagging .Shears. J-pt. Tin Bottle
and largo Oil Stone, (i x i! x 1.
The Sheath is made of the very
host, leather and riveted through-
out. Has loops for attaching to
saddle; also double-handed girth
strap
Price, complete 32/6
Postage, l/«.
Fitted with Copper Dottle, 4/-
extra.
Ill—w. .IXO. BAKER CAMP KNIFE, good grip, rosewood
handle. extra line stool.
Prices, each: sin. blade, 5/6; blade, 6/«,
Plaiu Riveted Sheath, 3/- extra.
r-.'«—\V. JNO. BAKER DOUBLE EDGE FOOT ROT
SECATEURS, Solid Metal Handles. lOin. overall.
Price, each . 11/6
Postage, Od.
JNO.BAKER
yet
3 HUHrrn •»
Y ONC Y
no— W. .ISO. BAKER EXTRA GOOD DOI BI.E SHEAR STEER BUTCHERS’ SHOE
knives, Beech Handles.
Prices, each: 6in. blade, 3/-; 7in., 3/9; Bin., 4/3; 9in., 5/-.
Postage. (id. extra.
32—WORKING KNIFE, straight blade, same price.
XICKRL-PLATED SPEVING SCISSORS.. Length overall. 101 n. Price . 79/6
Postage, 1/-
NICKRX.-PL.ITRI) DISTKXDKK. Length overall, 2Siii. Price 25/-
I'oslago, I/-.
Cattle Swallow
ami Hole,
45/.
Calf.
37/6.
All W. Jno. Baker Cattle and Sheep
Earmarks are hand forged of the
best steel.
Sheep
Fork,
I
Shepp
-Vue.
16/-.
A
Sheep
Swallow,
18/6.
r
203—Compound Xote
and Slit.
Price 45/-
SEND FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
BAKE It’S TATTOO X’LIEB,
handmade with 1 set, of id
figures and 1 stick Indian Ink.
with S-slot Pller.
Price 55/-
4-slot T’llcr. Price Od/d
11-
THE \V. JNO. BAKER
NEW IMPROVED LAM I!
CLAM.
435—The position of the
blade enables the user to
complete the operation
without moving his grip
on the Clam, the result
being a cleaner job,
quicker healing and saving
time. About 8 Inches
overall. Black Horn
Handle Grip, Brass Guard.
Width across jaw, Ifiu.
Price, each .... 13/6
LATEST I) R RSCH-
I N (i FL SXKL.-
Swanneek Copper
Sheep Drench, with
mouthpiece made
of strong copper
tubing. Made in
different sizes. To
hold 1. U, 2,2 i, 3,
3i ounce drench.
Price, each, 6/6.
Postage, 9d.
JNO. BAKER,
HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY


£7/10/-
N* 146
KEMP STYLE
SADDLE
Fitted with Feathers,
Girth and N.P. Irons.
This is an Inexpensive
Saddle of the Kemp type,
with pads set well up near
the head for security. It has kip leather
seat and pads, lenjfthy flaps and short
panel with leather down sides.
For Cash with Order We Pay Rail
Freight in N.S.W.
N°
1225
I S
1224
No. 1221 —Comos apart for cleaning.
Nickel-plated with tap and lid .... 457-
No. 1223—Galvanised, with port In mouth
to go Into throat of animal to save waste
of drench. Complete with strap and rope.
22/6.
Post: 2/-, N.S.W.; 3/G, Q. and Vic.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
805 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Tell S.A. your
Sales Story when it’s
£ot the time to read
“THE N ”
(Afternoon Daily)
and
“THE
(Midnight Saturday and deli-
vered Sunday all over the State)
Both offer this very dis-
tinct advantage . . . .
Adelaide is too busy to
read by day.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SVDNEIf—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
ONDON —P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
It’s tough, strong and
. . . a boot made to
stand hard work
Its double sole and leather-
lined upper make it ideal for
rough wear in any kind of
weather, wet or fine.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or
tan, at 2/6. This is splendid for
working and riding boots —it
softens the leather, makes it water-
proof and increases its wearing
qualities.
Australian Kip . . . . 457-
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
Write for catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
*
cf
K
SEAS
C
I
*
o
STOW SEA SICKNESS
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
ML
St
V
major lockyer
KING GEORGE’S SOUND
1826
From a pencil sketch by
Major Lockyer.
The First Settlement
in Western Australia
In 1826, the Governor of New South Wales, General Darling,
{earing that certain French scientific expeditions in the
Pacific had designs upon unoccupied territory, sent a small
party under Major Lockyer to establish a settlement in
Western Australia, at King George's Sound, where the town
of Albany now stands.
Major Lockyer hoisted the British Flag on his arrival and
claimed for the British Crown the territory now known as
Western Australia.
Nine years earlier, the Bank of New South Wales had been
established in Sydney, and, as development continued, this
Bank opened branches in all States and New Zealand. The
We stern Australian Bank, which was established in Perth
in 1841, was amalgamated with the Bank of New South
Wales in 1927
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 13.
149A-193S
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
used in that way before feeding off.
Pigs love to graze on it, especially in
combination with maize and millet or
sorghum. But it is a mistake to cut it
and disaster to try to silo it.
Planting should not begin while there
is any danger of a cold snap. Broadcast
or sow in rows from 2ft. 6in. to 3ft.
apart. The amount of seed used depends
on the variety, and ranges from 41b. to
151 b. per acre.
New Era is one of the best all-round
kinds. It resists wilt, and is earlier than
some more favored varieties. It needs
121 b. of seed per acre in 3ft, rows.
Swedes and Mangolds.
“Kirk”: “El V.” is right in much that
he says about turnips and mangolds (B.
31/7/’35). These roots are coming into
their own in Tasmania, where thousands
of acres are now grown and cattle
fattened and ewes lambed on them.
Except in specially favored districts —
say the Smithton swamp land —where
swedes give wonderful return, the white-
skinned varieties arc favored, Imperial
Green-top Globe being used chiefly be-
cause it is aphis-resisting. Except in a
bad dry season it yields, on well culti-
vated rich land, up to 50 tons to the acre.
The land is fallowed in the early spring,
and is well worked to a fine surface tilth,
solid underneath, so that the drill will
not plant the seed too deeply.
Most farmers believe in manuring with
up to scwt. of super, and blood and
bone per acre. Only lewt. of super, is
drilled in with the seed, the seed being
mixed with the manure. It must not be
mixed overnight or the super, will stop
germination.
Sowing is done about Christmas week,
as a rule, from £lb. to lib. seed being
allowed per acre.
Some farmers are now following the
Maoriland practice of mixing turnip and
rape and similar seeds with basic phos-
phate for drilling, as this manure does
not impair the germinating qualities of
the seed.
The resulting crop is fit for pulling or
feeding off by June, and proves an excel-
lent fodder during the early spring
months, when stock in Tasmania usually
feel the pinch.
One man I know lambed 700 ewes on
40 acres of turnips, with stubble paddocks
for them to run off in.
As “El V.” states, it is not usual to
sow the same land twice in succession
with turnips, but I have a neighbor who
has grown swedes for 12 years in succes-
sion on a few acres of black flat, manured
mostly with stable manure. He has an
excellent crop this year.
Our experience with mangolds is that
they need exceptionally rich land and
much more cultivation than turnips,
which, as a rule, are not touched after
being drilled in.
However, mangolds are good feed for
pigs and milking cows. Turnips cannot
be fed to milking cows, as they taint the
milk. Swedes have a much higher feed-
ing value than the white varieties, but are
much harder to grow.
Tapeworms in Dogs.
“Liss”: The indifference with which
country people regard worm infestation
of dogs is remarkable, especially as pup-
pies are often fondled by children. It
is not generally realised that humans are
the hosts for the small tapeworm (Echi-
nococcus granulosis) which so often
infests neglected dogs and that in one
stage it is the hydatid cyst from which
many people suffer.
All station dogs should be regularly
treated for both round- and tapeworms.
For the former, 1 grain of santonin, to-
gether with as much freshly-grated areca-
nut as will lie on a shilling, given in
milk or on a piece of fat, is effective.
The dog should not be fed before being
dosed. A teaspoonful of castor oil should
follow the drug half an hour later, and
the dog should remain on the chain until
the bowels have worked. Burn all
droppings.
For tapeworms the best treatment is
I-16th grain of arecoline hydrobromide
in a drachm of water for small dogs and
four drachms for the kelpie and cattle-
dogs.
The drug is a strong purgatiye, and
no oil is needed as a “chaser.”
Buy the areca-nuts whole, picking oily
ones by pricking with a pin. Use those
that show a dark spot round the pinhole.
Keep them in a screw-top jar, and grate
on a small rasp.
Anaemia in Pigs.
“Stump Jump”: Any mob of pigs fed
almost wholly on a milk diet is liable
to be anaemic. There is a lack of iron in
this ration.
For older pigs a little iron sulphate dis-
solved in water, added a trace at a time
to the milk, is enough to bring the ration
to standard. One teaspoon of a2£ per
cent, solution is a dose for young slips.
Anaemia may not be noticed readily,
the only symptom evident being the
failure of the pigs to do well. Some-
times there is scouring.
By far the greater number of suckers
that die do so from an anaemic primary
reason. Here the cure, unless they are
old enough to drink out of the trough, is
in painting the sows’ teats with a con-
centrated solution of iron sulphate—in a
2in. circle.
Calves are apt to be anaemic also. In
all animals this condition invites further
infection by other diseases, and, with
calves, scours of several types are the
result. A little of the solution can be
added to the milk of calves over three
weeks old. Be sure the sulphate is pure.
Learn from the Danes.
“El V.”; There is a lot Australia could
learn from the Danes, whose pig-hus-
bandry “Pappamosca” praises (B.
21 / 8/*35).
Their little kingdom, which, including
its Baltic islands, could fit into Tasmania
with a margin of 10,000 sq, miles round
it, has over 200,000 farmers. Half of
them are on areas less than 25 acres;
only 5000 on 150 acres or more. One-
seventh of all agricultural land has been
reclaimed from sea or swamp. They
support over 500,000 horses—more than
there are in N. S. Wales —as many dairy
cattle as there are in the Commonwealth,
and 3,000,000 swine, besides having
3,000,000 acres under grain.
Before the days of quotas, the export
trade of this nation, with a population
equal to that of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land crowded on to an area the size of
Alexandria station in the N.T., included
over £60,000,000 worth of dairy pro-
duce, of which £15,000,000 was for butter
and cheese ; and bacon was worth over
£21,000,000 to it in export to the U.K.
alone.
The Danes did it by intensive organ-
isation —by allowing no ground to be idle
or to grow unpayable grass or crop, by
standardising their products and studying
the wants of their customers, by avoiding
political control of marketing and cen-
tralising effort through co-operation.
They have developed a highly systema-
tised knowledge of stock which has
wiped out the scrub dairy cow. There
is no medley of striving breeds in Den-
mark, either in cattle or in pigs.
Farming is conducted on the same
scientific basis as a factory. Groups of
farmers employ their own scientists, who
make a study of locality conditions, and
their employers follow their advice. The
man who allowed his farm to become
half covered with skeleton weed would
be either certified or lynched in Denmark.
And the community would deal severely
with a dairyman in a group who sent
his factory poor-grade cream.
Nobody wishes the Danes any ill —
they are a friendly, hospitable race —but
Australia, with no bitter winter season
such as Denmark suffers, should be able
to take away most of the Danish produce
trade if it goes about it the right way.
And Australia would not suffer if it im-
ported the surplus Danish population.
“Tadron”: A hollow log about Ift.
long and with a wide enough opening
makes a good stand for a feeding bucket.
Calves cannot knock it over, and it can
be moved easily.


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Our politicians,’ says a Douglas Credit
speaker, ‘merely stumbled upon prosperity.’ ”
And they’re still doing a lot of trip-
ping!
4- * -I* *
“ ‘Sedentary work lessens one’s endurance,’
states a doctor.”
The more one sits the less one can
stand,
*l* * ;!♦ *
Disqualified.
It was well after 2 p.m., but quite a
crowd watched the thrilling contest on
the marble-topped table of the coffee-
house. Both contestants sat immobile,
gazing at the pieces set before them,
wrapped in exquisite contemplation,
oblivious of outside noises. At length
"I'm goin' straight in if you'd like a lift."
a player moved, just as the stranger
walked down the dingy stairs.
A rasping roar came from the throats
of his disappointed backers as they
rushed towards their former idol. His
opponent grinned and swept the useless
pieces into a heap.
“Never saw such a shine over a game
of chess,” grumbled the stranger, con-
scious of the fact that the crowd was
cutting him off from the slow-moving
waitress.
“Chess!” screamed one of the milling
combatants. “It’s dominoes, and that
goat lost his nerve. Played two lumps
of sugar and dropped the double-blank
into his coffee.” q
Remorse.
The couple in the suburban love-nest
were having a difference of opinion.
They sounded rather violent about it.
Had the man been more experienced
he would have realised the futility of
arguing with a semi-hysterical woman.
However, he foolishly persisted, until a
vase came flying across the room and
smashed into fragments on his jaw.
For a moment he swayed drunkenly,
then, without uttering a sound, collapsed.
As he fell, the woman’s fierce expres-
sion changed to one of horror. Instantly
a tide of remorse surged over her. It
was not the first time that she had bit-
terly regretted an act of temper.
Staring down in a dazed fashion, she
began to weep.
“What have I done?” she cried. “Oh,
what have I done?”
She knelt on the floor beside him and
sobbed brokenly: “It was the best vase
in the house! ” ' T W N
Putting the Bounce In.
“It is definitely established that rubber can
be grown in our mandated territory.”
— J. T. Jennings, M.H.ti.
Probably I was the first to make this
important discovery.
1 had been hunting the head-hunters
in unexplored parts of wildest Papua in
pursuance of my anthropological re-
searches, and looking at the same time
for the rare self-strangling black orchid.
One day, like a fool, 1 forgot to take
my water-bottle with me, and after hack-
ing my way through 40 miles of trackless
jungle at 142 deg. in the shade I was feel-
ing like a drink.
There was not a drop of water for
miles, excepting a cataract which I found
useless, as every time I held a pannikin
under it it would get knocked out of
my hand. I had dabbled in botany, so
1 searched around for one of those trees
that grow in desert parts and yield water
on tapping. At last I spotted one.
Rapidly boring a hole in its trunk, I
quaffed deeply of the fluid that emanated
therefrom. It refreshed me considerably,
though it gave me a queer feeling. A
little later, however, I was horrified to
discover that when I spat my saliva
bounced. I had drunk crude rubber!
As it turned out, though, it saved my
life.
Shortly after that I resumed my search,
and was considerably chagrined to hear
bloodcurdling yells behind me. The
head-hunters I was hunting were hunt-
ing me. A deep gorge loomed up before
me. The savages were almost on my
heels. Desperately I gambled on my
newly-acquired caoutchouc condition,
and hurled myself down. To my deep
joy I bounced clean over the 25ft. ravine,
leaving the baffled head-hunters looking
stupidly after me until I had bounced
right out of sight. It was a close thing.
Of course, the rubber played up with
my digestion for a while ; in fact, even
now I shudder at the sight of a pair of
cumboots,
S. W. K.
ē
gling to his feel he
found his legs un-
steady beneath
him. For some
time he kept hold
of a chair, bracing
himself upright,
and then started
towards the door.
He seemed
dazed, and from
time to time sharp
noises issued from
his throat.
One more step
and he had reached
the table. He
clutched it fever-
ish Iy, steadying
himself. Only half-
way ! It seemed
miles to the door.
He set off again
But a fold in the
carpet proved his
undoing. He
tripped and fell headlong.
And with an ear-splitting howl John
Jones, junior, proclaimed the failure of
his first attempt to walk across the
nursery.
Nalla.
J
“Everything was revealed when it was found
that he had given away his controlling interest
in the theatrical company.” — “S. M. Herald.”
He gave the show away. - -
“Boy Sleeps for 21 Days.” —Cable head.
The young Rip!
“Two minutes only for mine. Cooky—I hate 'em
hard-boiled."
Transfer.
To-flight my soul is full of strange
And new desires; with rending strife,
A vital, cataclysmic change
Has turned the current of my life.
For now, inspired by vocal art,
Poor Greta Garbo I resign,
And, having taken back my heart,
Jeanette MacDonald, it is thine!
Nat.
Resignation.
Sweet, since I neither eat nor sleep
Because you rank my love as cheap,
Soft thoughts of you I’ll roughly sweep
Out of my mind. This vow Til keep
Aml your society Til spurn,
Though peradventure / may yearn,
A t times, to weaken and return —
To live without you I shall learn.
Forget — that’s what I mean to do
And build my broken life anew.
Oh, no, TH not run back to you —
Unless, of course, you want me to.
P. O. M. C.
My Barber on a Grave Injustice.
“It’s pretty tough,” said my barbei,
“when a bloke can’t grow the kind ot
mo ’e wants to.”
I agreed, thinking sympathetically ot
friends who would dearly love to possess
a black military moustache but can only
manage a scrubby sandy one.
“Yes,” he continued, “I seen it in the
paper to-day. Them Orstrians —the pore
cows has to grow a Ttler moustache right
away. Cryin’ shame, I call it—specially
for the Orstrians. 1 knoo one onst, an
’e ’ad a long, black, bushy beard. I old
me all ’is family grew ’em— dunno if ’c
meant the womenfolk, too. ’Specks not,
though they’re pretty funny in those
parts. Grew ’em because o’ the cold,
’e told me. Frightful cold place, Russia.
“1 thought you said he was an Aus-
trian?” 1 began.
“Same thing; they’re all th’ same,
those coves. Beards summer and winter.
Proud of ’em, too. ‘By my beard,’ they
say, same as you might say ‘Fair dinkum.’
Of course, some is different. Take the
old Kaiser, now. No beard, just a big
mo all waxed up fierce. Liked ’imself, ’c
did.
“Still, those was the days for us
barbers. Moustaches to be waxed and
trimmed, beards to be trimmed, an’ all
that. Not like to-day when blokes shave
theirselvcs with safeties and then rushes
in for a 6d. shave on Saturdays and
moans ’cause they has to wait.
“But these Tiler moustaches —Charlie
Chaplins, I calls ’em—they’re no good to
nobody. Now if they made it military
style or side-whiskers thcre’d be some
sense in it. Or the kind old Whals-is-
name wore —you know, the old Em-
peror.”
“Francis Joseph?”
“Yes, that’s ’im. Francis Joseph, the
bloke that helped the Dook o’ Welling-
ton at Waterloo.”
“But,” I protested through the lather,
“that wasn’t Francis Joseph. That was
Bliicher.”
“Oh, no. it weren’t. It was Francis
Joseph. Came up on ’is ’orse. and there
was Wellington
on ’is ’orse —and
they shook ’ands
while th’ Frog
gies run away, i
seen it, I tell y’.”
“You saw it?”
“Yes, the photo,
of ’em. Down in
the Art Gallery.
Or it mighta been
Melbourne. Any-
way 1 seen it
somewhere. No
Charlie Chaplins
for them. Clean-
shaven or else
whiskers. B u t
this Tiler
idea
“Yes. won’t be a minnit, sir. You’re
next!”
JASBY.
The Last Man.
“According to one authority, unless there is
a change in the rate of natural increase the
population of Australia will have sunk to
6000 in 300 years.”
In my thirteenth reincarnation 1 was
a rich man. I owned all Sydney. All
its palatial hotels,
its great theatres
and gardens, its
mansions were
mine. Every
motor-car in the
place was mine.
'The railway sys-
tems and the fly-
ing services be-
longed to me.
My yachts floated
on the waters of
the harbor.
I stayed at the
Splendiferous.
There was a
catch in it, of
course. There
was nobody to
drive my aero-
planes or my
motor-cars or my
yachts, even if
ĕ
H.M.
Justice.
In Bagdad a certain burglar, by name
Biffeit, was following his honorable pro-
fession one night when the window-sash
to which he was clinging gave way and
he fell to the earth, suffering a dislocation
of the necktie.
“You are charged,” barked the Judge,
“with possessing a defective window-
sash which obstructed the burglar Biffeit
in the pursuit of his profession, causing
serious injury to his necktie.”
“ When'll I be big enough to powder my face, stead
of washing it?”
“Your Bashership,” whimpered the
householder, “of a surety I am not to
blame. The carpenter who made the
sash is culpable.”
“Ah!” cried the Judge. “Bring forth
the carpenter.”
But the carpenter pleaded his inno-
cence, saying that while he worked on the
window-sash a girl of rare beauty,
clad in a purple robe, passed by. In-
flamed by her beauty, he left the work
half finished and followed her. Where-
upon the girl Tamini, of ravishing beauty,
was brought before the Court.
“Can I be held responsible for my
beauty?” she pleaded. “I am but as
Allah made me. Of a surety my beauty
is enhanced by this purple robe 1 wear,
which is fhe work of one Qwami, the
master dyer.”
Upon which Qwami the dyer was
summoned before the Court.
“It is true,” he said. “I am the greatest
dyer in this city. 1 dyed the robe which
Tamini wears. It is a fine work, and I
take much pride in it.”
“Guilty,” shrieked the Judge. “He
shall be hung from the nearest door-
way.”
The enemies of Qwami hurried to
carry out the sentence, but very soon
Biffeit the burglar came rushing into
the court fuming with indignation.
“Your Bashership,” he cried, “this is
100 much! Am I never to have justice?
The nearest doorway is much too low
for the purpose of hanging Qwami the
dyer.”
“Then find a shorter dyer and hang
him!’' thundered the Judge.
COUNT JANUS.


Our Seryice Department
Wants
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young lady, Sydney, own machine, requires
typing work.—8130.
To buy popcorn. (Write Sydney Popcorn
Co., 16 Manning-street, Waverley, Sydney.)
To form syndicate to work goldmines. En-
gineer’s report and refs, available. —8147.
To buy Ruthless Rhymes for Heartless
Homes, by Hilaire Belloc. —8141.
To buy old tasselled house-bell cords. —8183.
To buy Redheap, by Norman Lindsay;
Oblation, by A. G. Stephens and Norman Lind-
say ; “Australian Types,” a set of 10 colored
Bulletin postcards, by Norman Lindsay; and
the “Lone Hand” for October and December,
1907, and March, 1908.—8198.
Words of poems “A Soldier of the Legion”
and “The Better Land.”—8140.
Words of poem “The Kerrigan Boys.”—
8133.
Information Sought.
e
Have the profits of the Golden Casket Art
Union been used, since the Government look
it over, for other than charitable purposes ?
7701.
From the time the Government took over
ffie control of the Golden Casket, the pro-
ceeds have been used for none other than
charitable purposes, which include assistance to
public hospitals throughout the State by way
of grants, the erection of maternity wards
and baby clinics and grants to charitable in-
stitutions.
* * * *
(1) When did Lord Carrington become Gov-
ernor of N. S. Wales ? (2) Date of the opening
of the promenade concerts at the Exhibition
Building ? (3) Names of the assisting artists at
each of the first three concerts ? —7218.
(1) Lord Carrington assumed office on De-
cember 12, 1885. (2) A scries of Saturday-
afternoon performances commenced on Febru-
ary 15, 1890, conducted by Signor Hazon. (3)
Only other names mentioned in records avail-
able are those of Messrs. Allpress and Edgar
Strauss.
* * * *
Does a war pension carry on to the wife
after the husband’s death if they were married
since the war ? —7902.
The pension granted to an ex-soldier in
respect of incapacity resulting from war service
is not transferable, and any such pension
ceases on the soldier’s death. The widow of
an incapacitated soldier who died subsequent
to his discharge from the forces is entitled to
continue to receive such pension as was pay-
able to her in her own right immediately prior
to her husband’s death. By an amendment to
the Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act in
1931 the wife of an ex-soldier where the mar-
riage took place subsequent to 1 /10/*3l is
not eligible for war-pension benefits in respect
of her husband’s incapacity.
* * * *
(1) How is registration in N.S.W. as an
architect obtainable? (2) Are architects regis-
tered in one State of Australia automatically
registered in another State? —Bo23.
(1) By passing the Board of Architects’ ex-
amination, obtaining the degree of Bachelor of
Architecture at the Sydney University (a five-
year course), or obtaining the Diploma of
Architecture at the Sydney Technical College
(a six-year course). (2) No.
*#♦ ■ ♦
Where can I obtain the latest census figures
in respect of Vic. towns ? —r8055.
Not yet published. Should be ready in
about three months, when the census bulletin
containing the data will be obtainable by pur-
chase from the Government Printer, Can-
berra.
* * * *
Was Lola Montez a Spaniard ? Some par-
ticulars regarding her life ? —8235.
Maria Dolores Eliza Rosanna Gilbert was
born at Limerick, 1818 ; the daughter of a British
Army officer. Her father died in India when
she was seven. She was educated in Europe,
and in 1837 made a runaway match with Capt.
James, of the Indian Army; accompanied him
to India, returning in 1842, when her husband
obtained a divorce. She then studied dancing,
appearing in 1843 at Her Majesty’s, London,
billed as “Lola Montez, the Spanish Dancer.”
Afterwards made successful appearances in
Europe, appearing at Munich in 1847, when
she captured the heart of the old King of
Bavaria, Ludwig 1., who created her Comtesse
de Landsfeld. She became the real ruler of
Bavaria, adopting a liberal and enlightened
policy, but her enemies secured her banish-
ment in 1848. Returning to England in 1849,
she married George Heald, a young officer in
the Guards, and appeared in the U.S.A. in
1851. In 1853 Heald was drowned in Lisbon.
Later his widow visited Australia (where she
made local history by horsewhipping the
editor of the Ballarat “Star” for a slighting
reference to herself), returning in 1857 to the
U.S.A., where she died Jan. 17, 1861.
* * * *
Are the Abyssinians a black race ? Also,
where did they and the Italians originate ?
8146.
The Abyssinians proper are a brown, well-
formed people of Semitic stock and speech, with
an admixture of Arabs, Greeks and Armeni-
ans. There are a large group of dark-skinned
African Gallas, along with purely Jewish tribes
which retain their Jewish customs and peculiari-
ties. The country had in ancient times very
large Greek settlements, and attained through
them a high degree of culture. The Italian
race was originally formed from the fusion
of repeated migratory groups from the east
with conquered natives, and is now chiefly of
the small, dark, mixed Mediterranean type.
There are Nordic elements in the north.
* * * *
What were the discoveries, fraudulent or
otherwise, at Glozel ? —B2ll.
Glozel is a hamlet near Vichy, in central
France, There in 1924 the son of a local farmer
named Fradin discovered the remains of an
old glass furnace, and in 1925, in association
with Dr. Morlet, of Vichy, a number of
antique signs inscribed with alphabetical sym-
bols and other objects which, if genuine, must
have caused a complete revision of our present
ideas concerning neolithic culture. Their
authenticity, however, was questioned, and in
1927 the French Government appointed an
international commission to investigate, which
ultimately reported that the antiquity of the
objects discovered at Glozel had not been estab-
lished.
* * * *
Is O. P. Heggie an Australian ? Where has
his chief acting experience been acquired ?
8220. '
He was bom in 1880 at Angaston, S.A.,
studied music at Adelaide Con., played in
melodrama with Julius Knight and in comedy-
drama with William Hawtrey. In 1907 went
to England; toured the United States with
Ellen Terry; had parts in Shaw’s “Misalliance
and Galsworthy's "Justice,” and in Shaw’s “An-
drocles.” Latterly has made several appear-
ances on the screen.
* * * *
What portion of Europe is represented by
Poictesme, the setting for Cabell’s “Jurgen” ?
—8203.
It is a purely imaginary country of mediaeval
Europe, described as lying “not too far from
Provence, nor too far from Albania.”
* * ♦ ♦
Details of the life and career of Henry
Handel Richardson ? —BIOB.
It is a pen-name. The authoress was born
in Melbourne, the eldest daughter of Dr.
Lindesay Richardson; was educated at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ Colclge, and at 18 was
sent to Leipzig to study music, remaining there
for four years. Feeling that her efforts could
never measure up to the standard of the bril-
liant performers she came in contact with, she
abandoned music for literature, travelling ex-
tensively on the Continent, learning several
languages, and studying form and style. Her
first book, Maurice Guest, was published in
1908; The Getting of Wisdom, a satire on
boarding-school life in Melbourne, in 1910.
She returned to Australia in 1912 to gather
material for her saga of Australian life, pub-
lishing The Fortunes of Richard Mahony, the
first book of the trilogy, in 1917, The Way
Home in 1925 and Ultima Thule in 1929. She
married Professor Robertson, of the London
University, and lives chiefly in Dorset.
* * * *
In what novels do Anna Karenina and
Eugenie Grandet appear, and who were they ?
—8134.
Anna Karenina is the heroine of Count Tol-
stoy’s novel of that name ; she is a Russian
noblewoman, young, beautiful and emotional,
married to a man much older than herself.
She and Count Vronsky, a young officer, fall
in love. Eugenie Grandet appears in the
novel of the same name by Balzac, the only
daughter of a miserly father and a gentle, pious
mother. She nourishes a platonic love for her
cousin Charles, but he finds a wealthy bride,
and Eugenie eventually marries an elderly
suitor. Widowed shortly after, she returns
to the parental house and devotes the rest of
her life to good works.
# ♦ * *
(1) Is there a profitable market in Sydney
for good milling cypress pine ? (2) Is bastard,
or hull, oak suitable, when split, for fencing
timber ? (3) What kind of gums on the,N.S.W.
north-western slopes are suitable for fencing
limbers ? —7833.
(1) No demand at present. No doubt a
demand could be created at a price, but it is
not likely the price would be profitable. (2)
Not as posts; the timber will not last in the
ground. This timber is, however, serviceable
as fence droppers; it is used extensively for
such purpose. (3) Forest red gum. This
timber is not to be confused with the tumble-
down gum and mountain gum of that locality.
* * * *
(1) Retiring age in New Guinea public ser-
vice ? (2) Do members participate in the
Commonwealth superannuation fund ? (3)
Prospects of advancement in the service ? (4)
Number of cadets to be appointed ? —7965.
(1) 55. (2) No. The New Guinea public ser-
vice has its own superannuation fund, each
officer contributing 5 p.c. of his salary. (3) Sub-
ject to satisfactory service, a cadet, on confirma-
tion of appointment, becomes a Patrol Officer,
salary scale £3lB-498. He may later be pro-
moted to Assistant District Officer, £516-600;
Assistant District Inspector, £516-600; District
Officer, Grade 1, £6lB-708; District Officer,
Grade 2, £7OB-780. (4) Fourteen cadets are
required.
* * * *
What amount of stamp duty is chargeable in
N.S.W. on a householders and houseowners’
comprehensive insurance policy (fire and burg-
lary risks on building, contents, etc.) ? —8056.
One shilling for each £IOO or part of £IOO
of the insurance.
* * * *
(1) Upon what principle does the process of
lithography depend? (2) Nature of ink used?
(3) Any Australasian stamps printed by this
process ?— 8193. ; ' *
(1) A drawing made upon limestone, or trans-
ferred to it, with fat ink, adheres to it. Por-
tions of the stone free from the drawing absorb
and retain water. If a roller covered with
fat ink is applied to the stone when inked and
wetted, the ink will attach itself to the drawn
parts and will be repelled by the wetted parts.
(2) It is made by burning together about equal
parts of tallow, wax, soap and shellac,; to
which black or color is,added. (3) Yes; the;
first issues of Victoria, the 1854 issue of W.A.,
the 2d. Diadem of N.S.W., the first issue of
the Solomon Islands and the 1907 issue - of
Papua are the chief examples.
**; . *
(1) Who was the inventor of the internal- ■
combustion engine ? (2) Date of the invention ?
(3) Particulars of the machine ? —B2OO.
(1) While several inventors suggested the use
of gunpowder in a closed vessel as a source
of power, Huyghens appears to have been the
first who actually built an internal-combustion
engine. (2) 1680. (3) His design embodied an
open-ended cylinder with a piston. The powder
was exploded- when the piston was -at the.
bottom of the cylinder, the explosion forcing
the piston upward. The gases were expejlel
through leather valves, and the cooling of the
gases that remained in the 'cylinder created a
partial vacuum. The • atmospheric pressure,
acting on the cylinder; forced it downward,
doing work by its movement. .
* * ♦ *
What happened to Prince Henry of Prussia
after the Great War ? Are any of his family
still alive? —8071. ' * ' .•
He retired to his estates in Schleswig, where
he lived until his death on April 20, 1929. He
married in 1888 Princess Irene, of Hesse (who
survives him), and they had two sons,- both
of whom are married and have children; one
resides in Germany and the other on an estate
he owns in Costa Rica.
* * * *
(1) Types of chemical extinguishers that
effectively deal with petrol fires ? (2) Names
of firms in Sydney supplying fire-retarding
solutions ? —8129.
(1) Foam, carbon-tetrachloride and. carbon-
dioxide. (2) J. Arnold, 66 Wentworth-avenue;
G. Weatherley, 89 Edith-street, Leichardt; W.
Weeks, 4 de Lacey Flats, Jacques-avenue,
Bondi; G. Brakell, 10 Clarence-street, and
Mason and Hart, 16 Botany-road, Waterloo.
Brief Answers.
é


m
v*eppes
m
St OHCY
•'ll* „ rw t < i»cv»
%a
w
m
m
give your drink a sparkle
*• • The serving of
Schweppes Table
Waters exclusively
is a sure sign of
the standing of any
bold or restaurant.
fore
e*
DRY
GINGER ALE
MATCH
SOUR MONKS
GROW
The World’s Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Limited presents
these facts —
1. Formed in 1923.
2. Planted 157,063 acres of Forests.
3. Built 250 Miles of Private Roads, 22 Cottages for
Block Foremen, Forestry Guards, etc.
4. Over 600 Miles of Divisional Breaks, 35 Bridges.
5. £4,000,000 subscribed to Forestry Investments.
6. Over £1,000,000 held in reserve for maintenance.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Registered Office:
Shortland Street. AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Head Office for Australia:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand and Agencies at
London, Bombay. Singapore. Shanghai. Sourabaya, and Hongkong.
/Vo connection with any other torestry Company
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“T.S.”: The origin of the phrase “Not
room to swing a cat in” has nothing to do
with the cat-o’-nine-tails (B. 24/7/’35).
The swinging of a cat as a mark for
sportsmen was a favorite amusement in
the Middle Ages. The cat was hung in
a bag or leather bottle, generally to the
branch of a tree, to be shot at by bow-
men while swinging. Dickens refers
to the practice in David Copperfield. And
in “Much Ado about Nothing” Bene-
dick says; “If 1 do, hang me in a bottle
like a cat and shoot at me.”
4< 4< 4< 4<
“Matje”: Next time “M.G.” (B.
31/7/’35) goes to the Cold Country for
fresh fish, let him sample the Loch Fyne
herring in Scotland and the Downings
Bay in Ireland, and try to decide which
is the better. Neither requires more than
the minimum of culinary treatment.
When the Downings breakwater was
being built the navvies used to fry the
fish in their shovels over the braziers and
consume them forthwith. As for
“kippers fresh from the sea,” only after
i has been soaked in brine and smoked
does the fresh herring become the old
and familiar “one-eyed chop.”
4< 4< 4< 4<
“Ababa”: How many people who are
fairly familiar with Dr. Johnson, through
Boswell or any other medium, know
that the first book ever published by the
eminent lexicographer dealt with Abys-
sinia? A century before, a Portuguese
Jesuit missionary, Jeronimo Lobo, had
written an account of his travels in that
remote country; an abbd translated it
into French, and Samuel, then 26, turned
it into English. It makes tough reading,
and is not particularly informative, but
it doubtless explains why Johnson later
selected Abyssinia, of which he knew
nothing except at second-hand, for the
scene of Rasselas. It is a little sad to
have to record that, some 40 years later,
when James Bruce, who had spent years
in Abyssinia, returned to thrill England
with stories of the untutored savages who
cut steaks from living cows, Johnson
was one of the first to ridicule his narra-
tives, and even to question whether he had
been there at all. Bruce, whom one of
his biographers describes as a “huge,
self-assertive, dictatorial man,” felt the
unjust comparisons drawn between him-
self and Baron Munchausen so keenly
that he withdrew to a lonely mansion in
Scotland, where he died, prosaically
enough, of a fall downstairs,
4< 4< 4< 4<
“Ayr”: Gretna Green seems to have
reached the end of its matrimonial his-
tory. It is a dreary spot in which Ameri-
can tourists may buy a specimen matri-
monial certificate at Scottish prices, but
actual marriages are still celebrated over
the anvil, often with no great regard for
residence qualifications. Hence a lot of
young romantics discover over their cele-
bratory whusky in Kilmarnock or Sand-
gate that they are not married at all, and
the law is stepping in for their protection.
Any soft-throated stranger who has
sampled the brand of liquor which is
retailed between the border and the
Clyde might well be surprised that those
who have “had one or two” should care
about a little thing like illegality in a
conventional matter like marriage. But
in Scotland, where they are so meticu-
lous that the chief of a fierce old clan,
the Mackintoshes, has recently issued a
circular pointing out the impropriety of
wearing a white tie with a kilt, these
things count.
* ♦ * *
From one who has just returned: Last
year gold valued at £67,721,715 was ex-
tracted from the mines on the Rand (S.
Africa). The Government grabbed
£4.093,138 as its share of the yield, and
taxation absorbed a further £8,450,000.
Debentures, interest, etc., took £167,634.
Profits amounted to £17,121,339, of
which £14,567,446 was paid in divs.,
leaving £2,553,893 for reserves, etc.
4<ll<<l<<l<
“Carnoustie”: According to a British
golfing journal, Cotton is a somewhat
different golfer. He hires an offsider to
do nothing else but watch him and warn
him at once of any alteration in his style,
the watcher having been sedulously
coached in this by Cotton for 18 months.
To help him in the last British open-y
which he didn’t win—Cotton entered his
critic for the event so that the latter
would have the right of practising with
him. Even the Yankees don’t seem to
have thought of these elaborate aids to
victory, and there is not much in that
line they miss.
<l<4<4<<l<
“Aigburth”: Mead, of Hants, who has
joined Hobbs and Hendren by bringing
his total of centuries in first-class cricket
to 150, has a queer cricket record.
Though he has been scoring his 2000
runs per season for years in England and
has always been high up in the averages,
he has figured in but seven Test matches.
In eight innings he has scored 415, of
which 182 n.o. came from one shot.
Otherwise, like Freeman, who yearly gets
hundreds of wickets for Kent without
being noticed by the Test selectors, he
remains a Triton among the minnows.
He had two trips to Australia —in 1911-
12 with Douglas and in 1928-29 with
Chapman —and averaged 34 and 41, but
did nothing in the extra-big stuff.
<x * <k *
“C. Cure”: Cabled that the absent
Anglican Bishop of Ballarat (Dr. Crick)
is resigning immediately, having been
offered an assistant-archbishopric in Eng-
land. Since the beginning of this year
three Anglican bishops and an archbishop
have left their dioceses with the intention
of being in England for most of the year,
Five years ago the bishops attended the
Lambeth Conference, and in 1940 they
will be there again. It strikes the average
Australian churchman as a big price to
pay for importations.
+ , *
„„ .. „ * , . . *. .
G.M. ; Returned Australians who
were in Berlin when Prime Minister
Lyons was in London tell that wild re-
sentment arose among 100-per-cent.
Nordics when it was suggested unoffici-
ally that Joseph should be invited over as
a peace gesture. Hitler himself had to be
assured that there were Lyonses in Ire-
land as well as in Palestine, but the rank
and file of Nazis continued to regard the
P.M, as one of the hated race.
if * . * *
“G.M.”: Rioters in Paris are becom-
ing scientific. During the outbreak a
month or two back some ingenious revo-
lutionary discovered a way of stop-
ping the tram traffic by tearing down a
metal tree-guard and using it to short-
circuit the current, bringing all the cars
on that line to a standstill. In all proba-
bility, the device was largely used during
the last outbursts.
*# * *
“Whangamomona”: “John Guthrie/’
author of a recent novel The Little
Country, is John Brodie, a Maorilander
living at New Plymouth. An ex-news-
paperman and an ex-rep. footballer, he
was badly smashed up in a motor acci-
dent and wrote the book from his sick-
bed.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.S.: “Dreamy Bob” struck us as a singu-
larly unattractive character... .R.G.H.: Fell
at the last hurd1e....R.J.0.: Yours also ran
well till then R.H.: We don’t like yarns
about ghosts, least of all those that haunt
English country houses... .M.0’8.: Of very
limited interest... .L.M.: Even allowing that
the thunder has an “omnious” voice, we’re not
quite clear how it holds the waves “in their
prison”... .A.L.McI.: “Child of Night and
Sea” —these mixed marriages should be dis-
couraged C.R.A.: “And brimhs new hus-
namd-hands to temd the flower” —it seems
a trifle obscure... .E.D.: Your thoughts may
be clear enough, but your expression of them
is very involved... .L. 8.: Barely at the foot
of Parnassus. “Bleat” in the last verse is
banal... .F.C.: Not nearly enough in it....
E.R.M.: Came fairly close M.J.S.: Wortli
a try elsewhere.., .G.H.: Don’t like the anti-
climax P.S.E.: Too long and not the type.
A.H.T.: That sort of thing has been done
so often Jir: It merely reads like a dull
narration of facts. You don’t give your charac-
ters life Mainsheet: Of limited appeal only.
Try the local newspaper R.D.8.: Not suffi-
ciently amusing... .Z.V.W.: It is obvious from
the first that the “corpse” is not a human one.
VJ.G.H.: It may be war, but it’s not mag-
nificent 8.C.: Apparently you had a very
lucky escape G.E.-S.: In form it is quite all
right, but a sonnet (or any verse, for that matter)
needs more than that A.C.: As rocky as a
cobbled road. And why should lascars be
“maritime scamps”?... .H.H.G.: Even the
return of spring doesn’t make “forth” rhyme
with “wrath” W.P.J.: Sentiments sound;
verses shaky R.: “Alas! What means it
all? What means it all?” Well, we’ll be the
mug R.M.P.: An exploded theory
M.1.G.: Your lines run smoothly enough, but
you don’t really say anything A.W.M.; Your
sense of rhythm is deplorable, and you seem to
throw in a rhyme only when you feel like it.
R.P.: It is rather futile E.A.F.: We
read it and “got nothing from it” H.McD.:
Tale of love among the earthquakes too story-
booky.... F.C. W.: Not suitable.... R.C. A.:
A long way off E.R.R.; Couldn’t raise
much interest in Skinny J.M.K.: An old
and unconvincing theme Lulu: Unless you
arc very young, give it up M. 8.: Too
slight... .K.E.8.: Your heroine’s action was
not only unlikely, it was unnecessary. Refer to
Farmers’ Relief Act....J.5.: Prepared to
accept your proposition that night follows day,
but refuse to believe that it is possible for “the
crumbled powder of a million stars” to be
“enmeshed” A.D.: Faint echo of Brooke.
... .N.S.: The power of versification is there,
but the subjects don’t appeal... .A.G.H.:
Strike story declared black T.A.: Your
“Australia, Awake,” in 12 stanzas, would make
an excellent soporific... .G.G.: Turgid stuff,
and a deal too long-drawn-out... .L.W.: We’re
right off “stolid, smelly, slant-eyed Chows”
J. 8.: Three depressing efforts in stodgy dog-
gerel F.M.R.: The best we can say is that
you write a beautifully legible hand W.T.:
No ginger in them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.W.: That jest has been tottering into our
office for 40 years E.N.: Some idea of
composition, but line work is wretched.
R.C.F.: Is Dave bogged, or are his
legs cut off at the knees? W.M.H.:
With patience and five years’ training you
might get somewhere... .A.J.L.: It missed,
but not by a great deal; anatomy at
fault... .G.S.: Still wondering why the two
skeletons are playing at tug-o’-war with a
plank of wood H.J.: Drawings are neat
and tidy but lifeless; jokes are also dead....
E.M.P.: Your great difficulty seems to be
in attaching arms to bodies T.A.: We
don’t fancy silhouettes C. 8.: Judging from
the samples submitted, you use your eraser
more than your pen... .M.M.G.: The lady is
much too slender even for these days....
H.R.D.: By the look of them you must find
art a fatiguing j0b....H.N.: A careful sketch,
but there is little humor in the drawing
M.L.: Washwork too muddy and poses stilted.
Make tones sharper, and get more freedom into
your work T.R.: Not snapping at that bait.
F.D.: We don’t need your assurance that
it is original A.H.: Harsh and ugly....
A.G.: Easily the week’s worst.


“SILVER
EDGE”
tfauAaitb&
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestosf which has proved itself over many years of service,
RA YBESTOS-BE LACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Champion
SPARKING PLUGS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at
ail leading garages
The Steering Column.
WILLYS 77 PASSES TEST WITH
HONORS.
HIGHLY EFFICIENT-ECONOMICAL—ROADWORTHY.
By FRED BERRY.
r T' I HE Willys car has earned a distinctive place for itself both
A in the field of competition motoring and in everyday
service. The new Willys 77, tested recently over the
“Bulletin” course, is certain to uphold that tradition. Mechani-
cally, except in minor details, the car is identical with last year’s
series.
Willys pioneered the modern idea of
streamlining to improve road perform-
ance. Early body profiles were somewhat
radical in design, and met with a mixed
reception from a critical public. In the
’35 model body lines are far more pleas-
ing to the eye without in any way
seriously impairing performance or
economy. It must be a source of grati-
fication to owners of earlier Willys
models to realise that, while other makers
alter in design to such an extent as to
render old models obsolete and diffi-
cult to dispose of at a satisfactory price,
the car they bought was so highly effi-
dent that it has been continued
in production.
An outstanding feature is the
excellent road performance. In
traffic and parking the new
Willys is as handy as cars in
the baby division, whilst on
the open road a touring speed
of 60 m.p.h. with fully laden
sedan body is possible without
noticeable fuss.
The 4-cyl. L-head engine is
suspended in the chassis on
live rubber “floating power'
mounting, clutch pedal, brake
pedal and hand-brake lever
being mounted independently
of the power plant in order to
prevent oscillation of the
engine being transmitted to the
controls. Cylinder bores are
3£in., stroke 4|in., giving a
piston displacement of 134.2 cub.
in. (2199 c.c.) and R.A.C. rating
15.63 h.p. Compression ratio is 5.13 to
I, and at 3200 r.p.m. 48 b.h.p. is
developed.
Hardened-steel inserts in cylinder block
prevent pitting of valves and maintain
engine tune for long periods.
Side-by-side valves are used, with ex-
haust valve seatings of hardened steel in-
serted in the iron block. Valve guides are
removable.
Pistons are lightweight cast-iron, with
four rings above the gudgeon pin, the
bottom ring, of slotted type, serving as
an oil retainer.
The crankshaft, balanced statically and
dynamically, runs on three main bearings.
These and the bearings of the I-section
connecting rods are of babbit metal.
Engine lubrication is by full-pressure
system, a gear-type pump driven by skew
gears from the camshaft delivering oil at
pressure to main, connecting rod and
camshaft bearings. Cylinder walls and
gudgeon pins are splash-lubricated, in
the sump is fitted a Float-O floating-
type oil intake which moves up and down
according to the quantity of oil, taking
only the cleanest oil from the centre of
New and improved body profile of the Willys 77 sedan.
the supply after passing through a fine-
mesh screen.
Fuel is held in an eight-gallon tank
suspended at rear of chassis and drawn
to the carburettor by means of a fuel
pump driven by ah eccentric from the
camshaft. Carburettor is of the down-
draught, fixed-jet type, specially designed
and calibrated for the Willys 77 engine.
It automatically provides correct mixture
of fuel at all engine speeds and loads,
except idling. On the intake side of the
carburettor is fitted a combined air-
cleaner, silencer and flame arrestor of
generous dimensions.
The inlet manifold is designed to pro-
vide an even distribution of gases, and is
surrounded by a central jacket connected
with the exhaust manifold, serving as a
hot spot to promote easy starting from
cold and efficient vaporisation of fuel.
The electrical system is six volt, with
coil-and-battery ignition. Full auto-
matic spark advance is obtained by a
governor in the distributor head. The
generator is heavy-duty type. Starter
motor, with Bendix drive, is actuated
by a foot switch on the front bulkhead.
Headlights are set into a metal apron
between fenders and radiator grill, and
are of the tilt-beam parabolic type, the
beams controlled
by a foot switch.
Cooling system
is conventional de-
sign, water im-
peller, fan and gen-
erator being driven
by belt from a
pulley on the
crankshaft.
Transmission is
through a single-
plate dry-disc
clutch to a con-
ventional type
three-speed-and-re-
verse gearbox with
central ball - type
change-speed lever.
Final drive is of
Hotchkiss type,
through a tubular
propeller shaft
fitted with enclosed
met a I universal
joints at front and
rear, to a pressed-stecl banjo-type rear-
axle housing.
Rear axles are semi-floating, running
on Timken taper roller bearings at the
wheel ends. Spiral bevel ring gear and
pinion are of nickel alloy sleel. Final
reduction ratio is 4.3 to 1.
Service brakes, actuated by foot pedal,
are four-wheel Bendix duo-servo, inter-
nal expanding, two-shoe type, self-ener-
gising. A hand-brake lever operates the
same equipment through independent
linkage.
Steering is by worm and gear, semi-
irreversible, the reduction ratio being 12
to 1. Turning circle on both left and
right locks is 36ft.
Chassis is of double-drop X-member
construction. Suspension is by semi-
elliptic springs of new design front and
rear, with hydraulic shock-absorbers on
each wheel.
The car tested was a four-door sedan
driven by A. W. Turner, of Overland
(Sydney), Ltd., N.S.W. distributors, and
together with driver and observer
weighed 24{cwt. Speedometer reading
stood at 3969 miles.
Driving through city traffic, the pilot
at once proceeded to prove how easy the
Willys 77 is to handle in difficult situa-
tions and, despite the moderately-sized
engine and high back-axle gearing, top-
gear acceleration was surprisingly good.
On the open road, after passing Parra-
Section of Willys down-draught carburettor, showing
important features of construction.
matla, it was evident that cruising speeds
up to 60 m.p.h. still left something in
reserve, main-road hills being taken on
top gear with ease.
At Pitt Town speed was re-
duced to a steady 15 m.p.h.,
and with the gear lever in neu-
tral the car coasted 690 yards
before coming to a standstill —
a good result which would have
been better but for a strong
head wind.
Then a test of maximum
speed was conducted over a
measured mile with flying start.
Here the lime taken, 50 3-ssec.,
averaging 71.1 m.p.h., would
be improved upon under more
favorable weather conditions.
Continuing towards Kurra-
jong Mountain the unformed
dirt road through Grose Vale
was taken. Many of the
corners on this section were
under repair, making the going
exceedingly rough ; but. al-
though the suspension appeared slightly
harsh under these difficult conditions, yet
road-holding and steering qualities could
not be faulted, and lop gear was com-
fortably held throughout. Arriving at
One of the reasons for long engine
life is the Float-O lubrication system,
whereby only clean oil can be drawn up
by pump.
Kurrajong Mountain the final steep sec-
tion of 2 1-5 miles was climbed against
the watch, the time taken, 3min. 35sec.,
being better than for many cars of
greater horse-power. The climb was
made in top and second gears, and on


USEFUL DATA ON WILLYS 77.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 14 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 4-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 71.1 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 34.2 m.p.g.
. . .
KNEE-
ACTION
Greatest
advance in
riding
comfort
since
industry
began
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPH : "Stepping over" obstacles with a knee-like action.
"THE MENTAL EASE OF THE DRIVER AND
HIS PASSENGERS IS THE MOST DESIRABLE
FEATURE THAT CAN BE BUILT INTO ANY CAR.”
That is why Oldsmobile is equipped
with knee-action. For knee-action
does more to take the tension out
of motoring than any other device
developed since the industry began.
With each front wheel independ-
ently suspended, and so "stepping
over” bumps with a knee-like
action, and with front springs
matching the rear in softness and
resiliency, the nerve-racking, neck-
snapping rough road ride is con-
verted into a soothing, restful,
streamline glide.
There is a blissful absence of lurch-
ing or pitching at the highest speeds,
while cornering is accomplished
with a sense of security. Road
shocks are not transmitted to the
steering wheel, and"wheel shimmy”
is completely eliminated.
Over the roughest roads, and at the
highest speeds, the driver and his
passengers can relax completely,
mentally at ease, and physically
comfortable, while knee-action fills
in the ruts and levels the bumps
with calm precision and smooth
efficiency.
The chassis being free from jolts and
jars, the life of the car is immensely
prolonged.
No car which retains the old-time
rigid front axle with its inevitably
inflexible springing can give you the
smooth flowing ride of the knee-
action equipped car. It is utterly
impossible.
The subterfuge of moving the rear
passengers forward nearer the
centre of the car, while effecting
some improvement, Is more than
counteracted by the loss of legroom
and the discomfort of unnatural,
acute, seating angles.
There is no substitute for knee-
action, which has been proved by
a million drivers over more than
4,000,000,000 miles, and by the
drivers of European racing cars, all
of which are fitted with knee-action
for 19} 5. A demonstration ride in
a knee-action equipped Oldsmobile
is an exhilarating and educational
experience.
Oldsmobile gives you CL-vetutLma
Knee-action is only one of the many advantages that Oldsmobile gives you. Here are
some others: Bodies by Holden, reassuringly safe and enduringly silent. No-draught
Ventilation. Centre Control Steering. Synchro-mesh gears. Super-hydraulic, self-ener-
gising brakes, with mechanical emergency brake to rear drums. And countless other
costly features, from built-in streamlined locked luggage trunk to positive force feed
lubrication. Oldsmobile literally gives you everything. Come for a streamline glide
and see for yourself.
OLDSMOBILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
General Motors—
Holden's Limited
8838
Issl
r
i>
to
nr
the corners at speed road-holdine was
, , . ■
very good and steering easy yet positive.
Returning to Richmond the cross-
e , • * lcl \ mona me n CTO ? s '
country road via Castlereagh to Penrith
was taken, and along this section further
tests were made, the first being slow run-
ning and acceleration in top gear. In
slow running the 4-cyl. engine did not
show to advantage, the time taken for
350 yards being Imin, 45sec., averaging
6.6 m.p.h.; but in accelerating over a
similar distance the Willys at once got
into its stride and, crossing the finishing
line with speedometer showing 60 m.p.h.,
was clocked in 16 4-ssec., averaging
42.8 m.p.h.
Acceleration in top and second gear
from a steady 10 to 30 m.p.h. was then
The Bendix two-shoe self-energising brak-
ing equipment fitted to the Willys 77.
tested, the times taken, 8 4-ssec. and
4 4-ssec. respectively, demonstrating the
excellent traffic possibilities of the car.
From a standing start to 50 m.p.h. occu-
pied 14 l-ssec., first, second and top gears
being used, while a test of braking equip-
ment showed that the car could be
brought to a standstill from a speed of
25 m.p.h. in 21ft. 6in.
Fuel consurned on the total journey of
124 miles was 3gal. spt., averaging
34.2 miles (41.4 ton miles) per gallon,
which, taken in conjunction with the
average speed maintained, inclusive of
all tests, constitutes a splendid perform-
ance both as regards economy and speed.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R. (Hobart, Tas.).-—/H 25,000 miles my
six-cylinder Erskine is pulling well and giving
25 m.p.g. of petrol. Oil consumption is my
worry, the car using a quart every 70 miles.
New rings have been fitted without effect, and
mechanics say the cylinders do not require
reboring. Oil pressure when cold is 35 1 b.,
16 lb. to 20 lb. when reasonably warm and as
low as 12 lb. when motor is hot. Cause and
cure ?
Provided cylinder wear is not excessive, the
trouble must lie in slack main and/or connect-
ing-rod bearings, thereby permitting undue
quantities of oil to splash into the combus-
tion chamber. Con.-rod bearings may be re-
fitted by removing sump, but mains cannot be
properly fitted unless crankshaft is dismantled.
* * * *
E.J.S. (Hughendcn, N.Q.). — I propose shortly
to dismantle a Model T Ford engine. Is
there any special way of storing the assembly
holding the magnets, and would they lose their
magnetism if simply hung up ?
If the magnets in the flywheel ring are to be
dismantled for any considerable time you
should provide iron “keepers” covering every
unit, otherwise they will rapidly lose their
residual magnetism.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
J.W.H. (No. 1 State Mill, W.A.).—/ have a
utility truck — back tyres, 34 x 5.77; front,
34 x 5.25. What is the correct pressure, empty
and loaded ?
Depends on the gross weight of vehicle;
30/35 empty, 35/40 loaded should be some-
where near right.
♦ * * *
S. (Griffith, N.S.W.). — The distributor
of my six-cylinder American car has been
damaged. I have a spare, but would like your
advice as to correct method of fitting and
making sure of timing order.
Firing order will be found stamped on
cylinder block: 1-5-3-6-2-4. Take first No. 1
cylinder and make sure piston is on top dead-
centre with both inlet and exhaust valves closed.
Fit the distributor in position with make-and-
break points just opening. The rotor will now
point to one of the brass segments in the dis-
tributor head, and if you call this No. 1 and
push plug wires into the other slots in sequence
stated and the lead from H.T. coil in the
centre, the motor should start up without diffi-
culty. If on a road trial pulling is not satis-
factory, slack off the nut. immediately below the
head, on the spindle, and adjust to advance
or retard as required. Only a few degrees
either way should be found necessary.
* * * *
N.D. (Eden, N.S.W.).— My ’33, model four-
cylinder sedan has given good service over the
last 15,000 miles, but recently the starting gear
has given trouble. Usually the engine fires
immediately the starter pedal is depressed, but
at most inconvenient times nothing happens,
and I have to call in a mechanic to get the car
going . cause and cure ?
1116 spindle carrying the Bendix drive from
the starter motor has at some time been jambed
and in freeing it the shaft has been put out of
truth. Only permanent
remedy is to have the
shaft trued up in a lathe.
You can, however,
usually free the pinion
without calling in a
mechanic by switching
off the motor, placing
the gear lever in top
gear and slowly rocking
the car back and forth
until the pinion comes
away from the flywheel
ring.
* *
M.C.D. (Spring Vale,
N.S.W.). —/ have a
32-volt 500-wa// electric-
lighting plant that will
now give no greater
than 150 -watt input,
with a charging rate of 5 amps, to 6 amps,
instead of 10 amps, to 18 amps, when running
in good condition. Engine has recently been
overhauled and new oversized rings fitted. What
can he done to restore charging rale ?
First examine the generator and see that
brushes are seating evenly and spring tension
is correct. Inspect commutator and see that
it is clean and free from ridges. So far as the'
motor is concerned, the recent overhaul may
have resulted in a drop of power output, and
if the engine does not maintain its normal
revs, you cannot expect the generator to de-
liver its rated charge.
* * * *
M.R. (Gresford, N.S.W.). —(1) A tooth in the
crown wheel of my ’2B Morris-Cowley is
broken. Where can spares be obtained, and
price ? (2) Would it be possible to replace
the tooth without going to the expense of
purchasing a new crown wheel ?
(1) Spares and prices from York Motors,
Ltd., William-street, Sydney. (2) Yes, a new
tooth can be fitted to the damaged wheel, but
this can only be done in the unlikely contin-
gency of the teeth of both crown wheel and
pinion not having been damaged as the result
of the break.
* * * ♦
R.H. (Mackay, Q.). —My car is a ’29 Buick
sedan, mileage 31,000. (l) What is the differ-
ence in the spark of a, single- and three-point
plug ? (2) Would the three-point plug be suit-
able for my car, and would there be any advan-
tage in its use ? (3) What is the correct gap set-
ting for a three-point plug ? (4) Should the spark
be advanced when using Ethyl petrol ; if so,
how much ? (5) My car averages 50 stops each
day, and petrol consumption is 16 m.p.g. On
long runs mileage is 23/24. Can this be im-
proved upon ?
(1) and (2) Only difference is in arrangement
of points, the single-point plug forming one
spark and the three-point plug, under good
conditions, forming three. Three-point plugs
are not often used, but in some cases where
motors oil up rapidly the three-point keeps
firing longer than the single-point. (3) Gap
setting is approximately 20 thousandths. (4)
Yes, provided you have been using other than
“super” spirits. Exact degree of advance can
only be determined by experiment, and depends
upon condition of motor. Advance 10 degrees
and note results. (5) Results obtained are
reasonable and in accordance with general
practice. Starting up frequently during the
day’s run uses up considerable quantities ot
fuel.
* * * *
H.B.H. (Elphinsfone, Vic.). — I intend buying
a light utility truck to carry between llcwt. and
Iscwt, Advice sought on order of merit of
six makes named.
No. 3, next 2 and 6, then 1, 4 and 5.
(Continued on page 30.)


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
men/Je*
w me
cr y
4/
nr
1 1
▲ //
m
\
1
M
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - -
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
- - Hobart
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post’ ’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
• city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 Q *>A (SECOND
i ZJOHr- EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspension.*
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, Q/ W FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors—Bo,ooo-worti
gazetteer—*l2o,ooo-word story of the earth.
4J/- value for 7/6! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue:—Now on Sale —Price 6d.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
m
mu (i
w
In cleaning the commutator of
generator, use a wedge-shaped
piece of wood covered with
sandpaper, as illustrated. Never
use emery-cloth.
.... "ALWAYS
Simoniz a New Car”
The New Kleener met es SIMONIZING easier than ever.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Bill R.”; On the way to Parramatta
(N.S.W.) the rear weight of 10 tons of
20ft. plate-iron so unbalanced a big lorry
that on every up-grade the front wheels
lifted into the air. Having thought the
matter out, the driver got over the diffi-
culty by backing in reverse up every hill.
♦ * * *
“Como”; Was driving at a fair speed
through a Melbourne suburb when I
saw, too late to avoid it, a bottle stand-
ing upright in the middle of my track. I
heard the undercarriage hit the bottle
and pulled up to see if the tyres were
damaged. To my surprise, the bottle was
still standing up, with its neck cut off
cleanly. How the shock was able to
knock it off with a clean cut without
upsetting the bottle is one of those things
no feller can understand.
* * ♦ *
“Spare Spanner”: I’m prepared to
believe that spanners are the most easily-
lost things a motorist possesses. But I
have found few of them —the dust covers
them easily. A cover or two came my
way—unfortunately, wrong sizes. But
jacks! 1 reckon at one time I had an
assortment of jacks second to none in
Australia, all picked up off the roads.
I got that way after a bit that 1 wouldn't
slop for an ordinary jack—it was only
one which appealed to my artistic tastes,
and which I wanted to add to my collec-
tion, which would induce me to stop. 1
wouldn’t even turn my head to look at
a Ford jack, and at last became so that
if I passed a place where a tyre had been
changed, and there wasn’t a jack left
lying on the ground, I’d feel that Td been
cheated and ought to demand an explana-
tion from someone.
# ♦ • ♦
“Dinkum Oil”: Experimenting with a
Dorman-Ricardo high-speed Diesel unit
in a Hudson standard touring chassis,
A. L. Bruns, of Melbourne, found it im-
possible to obtain the right type of fuel
oil after leaving Sydney on the way to
Brisbane. At Armidale all he could get
was wood-preserving oil, and on this the
engine functioned perfectly until near
Brisbane, when standard crude oil was
available again. The fuel cost of the
run. by the way, from Melbourne to
Brisbane, 1290 miles, was 255., the car
averaging 30 m.p.g.
He # #
“Fitzwilliam”: “Kuni Kuni's” advice
(B. 31/7/’35) as to “winding” a car out
of a bog is all my eye. When a car is
well and truly bogged it can’t get out
under its own h.p., let alone the puny
efforts of a man winding the starting
handle. The other night 1 was crawling
along the top centre of a greasy road
with every nerve strained to avoid a
skid, when I had the misfortune to slip
off, and immediately found myself in a
sort of slurry right up to the running-
boards on each side, petrol tank resting
on the ground and the hole for the start-
ing handle well beneath the surface. I
didn’t go mining for it, but camped in
the car until daylight; then tramped seven
miles to find a cocky with a yoke of bul-
locks. They had all they could do, even
with the car’s own power to help them. I
was lucky to get the bullocks, anyhow.
1 remember another night having to con-
struct a “Spanish windlass” with two
fence rails and 50 yards of wire out of
a fence half a mile off the road. In
first gear, with the engine all out and
a mate working the windlass, we even-
tually “wound” her out an inch at a
time. It took us nine hours to move her
100 yards.
$ * # *
“Dome”: Car-owners in a small town
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) thought them-
selves the victims of an occult curse
recently when almost all local cars
stopped running at about the same hour
and defied efforts at restarting, although
apparently in perfect mechanical order.
Mystery was solved by the discovery that
a 50gal. drum of kerosene had been acci-
dentally poured into the reservoir tank
of the town’s only bowser. Every car
filling there had received a tankful of
almost neat kerosene. Result: Vacancy
for garage lad.
* * * ♦
“Dewey”: Broke an axle a few weeks
ago in unusual circumstances. I was
travelling fairly fast on a good bitumen
road when a chap on a bike hailed me.
1 slopped in the usual way—both feet
down on the pedals. That’s all; yet
when T let up my left foot nothing hap-
pened. The axle was twisted neatly off
where it left the diff. My theory is that
the axle was badly wrenched about a
year before, when the clutch was very
fierce, and that it had gradually wcak-
ened with successive strains, but what
beats me is why it broke when I took
the torque off the axle. Any theories?
* * * *
“Krashit”: A Penrith (Eng.) farmer
has put in a gate that might be copied
with advantage out here. Made of iron
tubing, it is not hinged to posts, but
pivoted at ground level at each side and
kept upright by counterweights below
ground. When a motor vehicle strikes
the bumper bar a catch is released and
the car or truck pushes the gate down
and runs over it. The counterweights
swing the gate back to position and it
latches itself. Stock, it is claimed, cannot
push the gate over far enough to pass it.
What the Metallurgist Has Done
for Motoring.
Few motorists realise to what extent
the modern car owes its performance,
reliability and long life to the really
wonderful development made in recent
years in steel technology and production
methods. In the early days of motoring,
commercial steels were limited to a
small group of carbon and alloys, and the
science of heat treatment was only in
its infancy. Even in 1912 there were
possibly but a score of steels at the com-
mand of automobile manufacturers.
The position to-day is very different,
for designers and engineers have an
almost unlimited range of selection, at
least 100 distinct grades being available
to meet the requirements of particular
units. Plain carbon steels with a tensiie
strength of 45,0001 b. per sq. inch or
special alloys with values reaching
250,0001 b. per sq. inch are available for
the asking.
So the metallurgist, in a quiet and
unobtrusive manner, has, in the main,
been responsible for existing power-
weight ratios and freedom from service
worries.


WIRELESS
VALVE
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
RADIOTR
Distributors :
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia> f LTD.. 47 York Street. Sydney: ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD., 93-90 Clarence Street. Sydney.
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.)
RADIO NEWS.
Liquidating
Art
Gradually, but
surely, the
machine which
has cast so many
human beings out
of employment
is getting its fine work into the arts.
Drama, as far as stage plays are con-
cerned, is moribund ; the machine is turn-
ing out drama while the public waits, and
turning it out infinitely better than the
stage ever did. Music is going the same
way. The radio and the gramophone
have cut into it already, and the talkie is
coming along with the coup de grace.
As in the case of drama, mechanised
music is going to be far better music
than was ever turned out by human
hands or human throat, because it is pos-
sible to select only the masterpieces and
to sub-edit them on the film until they
arc perfect. It will be only a matter of
time before the “dubbing” of sound films
has reached such a stage that the director
will select a vocalist from the pick-up
outside the studio, get him to reel off a
song and, no matter how tuneless he may
be, hand the film over to the dubber to
be turned into a triumph, before which
the best work of Peter Dawson, John
Brownlee or Melba would sound like
the effort of an amateur.
But the business does not stop there.
Walt Disney has shown us the way in
which art can be mechanised to put all
the works of the primitives—meaning
Velasquez and Titian and John and
Orpen—in the discard. The connoisseur
of the future, the devotee who stands
spellbound in the National Gallery, will
no longer exist. He will sit in his cosy
armchair or in the stalls of the Art
Theatre and have his pictures projected
before him on the movie screen.
Hitherto, the moving art has been re-
stricted to photography or to comic stuff
or nursery rhymes. That is the beginning.
Shortly, the serious art will come to life.
Streeton will not be content to give us a
mere painting of the summit of Mount
Dandenong in sunlight, in shadow, at
dawn or at dusk. He will give us the
summit of Mount Dandenong in action,
the gloom of the early morn, the sunrise
with its kaleidoscopic colors, the blaz-
ing gold of noon, the lengthening
shadows of the evening, until it fades
softly into the black-out of night.
Norman Lindsay will not rest satisfied
with a “still” of Phryne standing
Spoonerless before her judges. He will
depict the damsel tripping into the wit-
ness box, taking the oath and finally
working up to the grand climax, where
she sheds her draperies and appears just
her glorious self to impel their Honors to
return a unanimous verdict of Not Guilty.
The modernist will have full oppor-
tunity to show his three dimensions
without having to suggest them ; the
Meldrumite will be able to preach hi-,
faith in a way he has no chance of do-
ing by means of a flat, immobile canvas.
The artist will not be bound by limi-
tations of subject; he will be able to de-
pict violent action, swift movement,
vibration in the generally understood
meaning of the word. The whole wide
world will be open to him, and the pic-
tures of to-day, limited in expression as
they are, will be classified as museum
pieces and treated as such —something ex-
tremely interesting as showing the in-
genuity and dexterity of the ancients and
the backward races, but as much out of
place in civilisation as a pterodactyl
would be in a modern fowlyard.
Montague Grover.
The Great
Shot-to-shot
Broadcast
O u r station,
20L, reached its
greatest heights
when we broad-
cast the shot-fo-
shot description
of the opening
battle of the Great War—the War to
End Wars to End War. Directly a time
was fixed for an answer to the ultimatum
issued to the enemy countries, it was pos-
sible to advertise the time of the com-
mencement of the broadcast with a cer-
tain degree of accuracy—or so we
thought.
But something went wrong. In spile of
the awkward hour, probably 90 per cent,
of the wireless sets in Sydney were tuned-
in for the broadcast; but the real news
failed to come. We had to describe over
and over again the distinguished people
who had assembled by special invitation
—that veteran of the Ashanti campaign
(his only active-service experience) Major-
News failed to come.
General Beersink, D.O.S.S. and several
bars, besides a few clubs ; Brig.-General
Bludthirsl (whose work as troop com-
mander on transports in the previous
Great War won him distinction), and the
Major-General
Beersink.
rest. Beersink
gave an address
on “How Wars
Are Won” in
which he spoke
mostly of the
Ashanti cam-
paign ; and the
others were
called upon for
their contribu-
tions. But we
couldn't keep
that up for ever. As emergency announcer
1 got sick of having to say “While we arc
waiting for the shot-to-shot description
of the Great War, which should com-
mence at any moment now, we will
Crash!
listen to a recorded number. Boy Slam-
drum’s Band will render The Blooming
Blues.’ ”
We got a few descriptions from over-
seas, with the usual sound of voices
blown through a sawmill, about troops
An ad. for corn cure.
marching and camp conditions. Private
advices were that the broadcasting an-
nouncers were chasing the war up and
down a 300-mile front, hoping to find
it somewhere, it is obvious that wars
will have to be better conducted than
this if the co-operation of the great
broadcasting organisation is to be
expected.
We were
just consult-
ing Colonel
Bungstcr,
while we ran
off “Tiddly-
winks,” about
giving a talk
upon “Rum
and Rum
Doings”
when
Tnterrupt-
i n g that
record. The
shot - to-shot
description is
about to com-
mence.”
W h oosht!
Crash /
I daresay listeners-in imagined that all
the ensuing chaos of sound was part of
the war. It wasn't. As a matter of fact,
that opening shell crash was too realis-
tic. We had great difficulty in reclaim-
ing General Beersink, who had got
jambed under the announcer’s desk.
Actually there
wasn’t much dif-
ference between the
noises of the
scared tumult in the
studio and the con-
fused sounds that
were coming from
overseas. Occa-
sionally the an-
nouncer got a word
in, accompanied by
a sound as if an
earthquake was
shaking loose sets
of false teeth. I
don't know about
a shot-to-shot de-
scription. The an-
nouncer seemed
most concerned
about shells that
were falling near his position.
I was told off, just then, to go and
listen to what a B-class station was doing.
In its audacious way it had announced
that it, too, was going to give a shot-to-
shot description.
“2HO. You have been listening to
an overseas broadcast, rebroadcast from
Dinkum’s Whisky aeroplane flying over
the battlefield. Remember, Dinkum's
whisky buoys up the spirit for any emer-
gency. According to the account the
fighting is now as hot as mustard. Talk-
ing about mustard, the man who knows
will accept only one kind of mustard,
a brand that is good alike for its diges-
tive value and for”
Although 2HO, after describing how
some troops now in the lighting had
marched 20 miles in two days, managed
to drag in an ad. for a corn cure, the
description was good—better than ours.
When I went back to say so 1 found
that we had switched to an enemy broad-
caster. Arrangements to make the broad-
cast complete had been put through, you
see.
“Der shell-vire, he vos gedt too hot.
1 vill now down to mein dugout g 0”....
The overseas stuff suddenly ceased.
The spare generals being too shaken to
get into action at once, the chief, with
great presence of mind, ran the record
of “Blooming Blues” on again. It re-
lieved the tension, and General Blud-
thirst volunteered to explain the pur-
pose of shellfire.
But then the overseas stuff started
again, and Bludthirsl disappeared—for
good. The sounds were certainly alarm-
ing, even if you might assure yourself
that what you heard was only vibration
on the ether from thousands of miles
away.
Whooshi'! Crash! Bang!
When I woke up in hospital 1 heard all
about it, I said at the outset that Station
20L reached its greatest height in the
shot-by-shot description of the
war.
As a matter of fact it went
up in the air, so great was the
“Down to mein dugout go.”
force of the broadcast that came through.
It appears, too, that some hundreds of
private wireless sets burst into flames,
causing in several cases disastrous fires.
Shells? No. A group of generals had
come across a broadcaster and had,
simultaneously, expressed their views
about a wireless broadcast interfering in
a good war.
H. M.
“Duora”: F. W. Thring, who is to enter
the radio field with a station of his own,
became in 1895 this country’s first Aus-
tralian-born cinematograph operator, at
the Star Theatre in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. Later he commenced building
up Electric Theatres, Ltd., and obtained
the aid of J. C. Williamson, Ltd. The
concern became firmly established in
both Melbourne and Sydney, and in
1926, with other groups, merged with
Hoyt’s, the amalgamated interests being
registered as Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.
Thring, who eight years before had been
appointed managing director of J. C. Wil-
liamson Films, Ltd., became managing
director of the amalgamated concern.
Jn 1930 he decided to embark on the
production in Australia of talking-
pictures, a project which he has pursued
with characteristic energy.


THOUSANDS of real
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Anst.).
4 Eowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
I
j Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261
B. Knock’s
RADIO ASSISTS UNIVERSITY SCIENTIFIC
EXPEDITION.
Myall Lakes district in N.S.W. is one
of the most picturesque spots along the
coast. It is little known, probably on
account of its inaccessibility, for although
only about thirty miles north of New-
castle it can only be reached by a cir-
cular route or by sea. Twice on the
shores of the lakes the Sydney Uni.
Rover Crew has conducted an expedi-
tion for the investigation of the botany,
geology and entomology of the region.
It was considered, before the first
expedition in August, 1934, that radio
equipment would be desirable to lessen
the responsibility of the leader, Prof.
The main camp station in action at Myall Lakes, N.S.W.
T. G. B. Osborn. Thus it became part
of the writer’s job to operate a small
transmitter to keep in touch regularly
with an amateur station at Cronulla,
N.S.W.
Encouraging results obtained prompted
further experimentation with the possi-
bilities of portable radio in the bush. It
was decided to maintain a base trans-
mitter, and equip each working party
with receiver and transmitter for use in
emergency.
A.W.A. assisted greatly by the loan of
one of their “leg-power” sets. This rig,
for telephony communication on low
power, is supplied with high-tension
current by a pedal generator, and the
accumulator necessary for filament volt-
age is kept charged at the same time.
Our station was installed in a tent,
providing also sleeping quarters for two,
and was on the shoulder of a hill rising
a few hundred feet to the west. The
antenna was strung from an enormous
dead eucalypt—thrown over an arm
some 60ft. high by means of fishing line
and sinker. It was 133 ft. long and had
single wire matched impedance feed.
VK2WN was “Ist Op,” and there were
six assistants. This number proved none
too many, as to supply 60 watts power
from the generator was hard and warm
work, even with the temperature at
40deg. Twelve hams were logged alto-
gether, mostly from Sydney, but some
from the North Coast and out west.
Every night our signals were heard at
the home of one of the party at Burwood,
N.S.W.
Such was the base station —not impres-
sive, but quite suitable for the purpose.
The most interesting work was with the
portable rigs, which had to be designed
to meet many requirements. The primary
object was to serve as a safety factor.
Some of the surrounding country is very
rugged, and there is always the possibility
of accident. Communication with camp
from many parts was difficult, sometimes
impossible, except by water. Radio
meant that communication could be
established at once and help sent if
necessary.
As proficiency with Morse code was
not the strong point of some of us, the
transmitters had to be capable of work-
ing on speech. They had to be light,
compact and reasonably economical on
batteries. They had also to be designed
so that the antenna could be erected and
the rig set up in the bush at short notice.
The equipment finally evolved conformed
to these conditions, but expense was far
from being no object, and spare parts
were used throughout. No special valves
were bought, and all those used had seen
at least one year’s service. A Mullard
2A (sensitive A.F. amplifier) made an ex-
cellent osc i 1-
lator, and, as
only one of
these was avail-
able, two gen-
e r a 1 - purpose
tubes in parallel
were used for
the other rig.
The choice of
an oscillator cir-
cuit was made
with due regard
for the stability
necessary when
modulation was
applied. The
extra R.F. ob-
tainable from u
T.N.T. circuit
was sacrificed
to the stability
and easy adjust-
ment of a Hart-
ley. This was
possibly a mis-
take, for a well-
designed T.N.T.
oscillator or a T.P.T. (such as in
the A.W.A. set) can apparently give a
good signal when modulated. Also,
using the PM2A in a T.N.T circuit built
later, enough R.F. was obtained to light
a torch lamp, and the excitation from
the Hartley produced no glow.
The speech amplifier, to which a
P.M.G.-type microphone was coupled
with a high ratio transformer, consisted
of a single valve feeding the single
modulator by resistance
coupling in one set and
transformer coupling in the
other. The modulation
choke system was an old
audio transformer with
both windings in series, but
a lazier method was to use
a pair of ’phones. This
gave good speech, but a
slight ringing effect was
noticed.
For plate supply two
light-duty B batteries at 90
volts were used. Actual
voltage on the oscillator
was less than this, due
to resistance of the choke.
Current drain from the bat-
teries was about lOmils. —
nearly double the rated
drain. The Ever-Ready bat-
teries are, however, still
being used in work of the
same nature and are by no
means flat.
No elaborate antenna
system was possible, the
quarter-wave Marconi-
grounded type being used.
This was only 33ft. long
and erected by the
“fishing line” method.
Often the line caught in the
bark and snapped, but
usually the free end was
successfully raised to 20ft. or so. On
one occasion with an almost vertical
antenna results were noticeably better,
but, on the other hand, using a 66ft,
wire made no difference.
Receivers for use in the portable rigs
presented few difficulties. A switch was
put in the grid circuit of the speech
amplifier, and by this a tuning system
was connected. This was a normal
Reinartz type, using midget condensers.
A switch in the aerial circuit, a double
circuit jack for ’phones and a filament
switch for the oscillator supplied every-
thing necessary to change from trans-
mitter to receiver.
Everything was fitted into a light
wooden box measuring 14in. x 7in. x
sin., with batteries in a similar case and
connected by a plug. Total weight was
under 101 b., and the whole installation
could be carried by one man.
Unfortunately, there were many days
of wet weather, and it was not the most
enjoyable pastime to crouch half under
a ground-sheet trying to operate and to
protect the equipment at the same time
from rain. But schedules had to be
kept, and the job had to go through.
Bad weather meant, too, that continual
adjustment was necessary, and often a
drop of water on a coil or condenser
would mean a big difference in R.F. out-
put. All around was a screen of wet
bush, and between the party and camp
were hills covered with dripping trees.
The result was such great absorption of
signal strength that beyond a couple of
miles’ radius it would drop from R 6 to
zero.
On one trip there was an incident
where we felt thankful for the moral
support of the radio gear. The writer
and a companion were about to call the
base camp, in the middle of a clearing,
when a number of wild bush cattle
stampeded down a track and swerved
towards us. Fortunately they halted
some yards away, but we beat a careful
retreat and selected a handy tree whilst
they calmed down. There was much
amusement later in the main camp at our
predicament. But, if an accident had
occurred, rapid communication would
have been of value in obtaining assist-
ance,
“VK2WN portable” was dismantled
with regret, but next year the Rover
Crew will run another expedition further
afield, and radio will again be carried.
There is scope for much experimental
work, and assistance in testing and de-
signing will be welcomed. The applica-
tion of low-power transmitters to port-
able work is one of the most interesting
and useful branches of radio.
B. CORTIS-JONES.
Short-wave Diallings.
The August 10-11 week-end was quite
a good period for short-wave listeners,
and signal strength, particularly after
8 a.m., was very good. Both GSF in the
18m. band and JVM were excellent, with
RNE very close. The Americans con-
tinued weak. Apparently my location is
a poor area, other listeners reporting
much better strength, especially in the
31m. band, yet when W2XAF happens to
be on about 10 p.m., working VK2ME,
signal strength is generally maximum.
The German DIQ has been heard
irregularly at earlier times, and weaker
than formerly.
Nineteen metres has been fair for a short
period from 11 p.m., and FYA, PCJ and
GSF have all come in quite well; also.
The portable transmitter is a good friend in the
lonely bush.
GSG at a still higher frequency (16m.)
has been heard at odd times.
In the very early mornings 8.8. C. has
been using GSI in addition to GSL and
GSD, and GSI has been good ’phone
strength. Position is the bottom of the
19m. band, whereas GSF is at the top.
Both GSL and DJC have been quite
good about 6 a.m,, but have soon faded
out.
On 11/8/’35 the higher bands were very
good, and RVIS put over an excellent
musical programme. The stations above
80m. were few, but harmonics of various
B stations were numerous. There were
many amateurs at excellent strength and
quality, some from M.L. being excep-
tional. As usual FYA was good all day,
and the 8.8. C. transmissions from GSB
and GSD were perfect.
The writer has erected another type of
antenna and finds this very effective. The
improvement on GSD is marked, and all
stations from 25m. down are noticeably
stronger and with less noise.
YDA has been down on 28m., and is
better there than on 49m.
The Japanese station is still quite the
best, and is the only one at present worth
attention in the early evening. Suva, one
of the A.W.A. stations, comes in very
well in the afternoons. VK2ZB, the
station of the Zero Beat Radio Club,
now puts over a good mixed programme
twice a week from 7.45 p.m. in the 80m.
band.
DJN and DJA in the 31m. band are
showing much improved strength after
4 p.m., but very little has been heard of
2RO, either there or on 25m., nor has
VUB been heard.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
Highlights of the week-end August 17
and 18 were the organisation of the
W.I.A. field day at Wyong (N.S.W.) and
the extensive use of 56mc. for mobile
and D.F. work. It was decided to use
the ultra-shorts for the hidden trans-
mitter hunt with the object of making the
obstacles a little more formidable, but,
with true amateur spirit, some of the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) gang demonstrated
that obstacles were made to be overcome.
The station used for the hidden loca-
tion was designed by the writer and
mounted in a car, under the call VK2NU.
We drove the car through dense bush,
removing wire fences (and replacing
them) en route, until the top of a fair hill
was reached.
From the time of commencement, the
first D.F. party in took exactly 30
minutes. This party, from VK2ZC, com-
prised Messrs. Finlayson and Best, and
the gear was designed intelligently. A
one-directional reading was possible with
this equipment even at a short distance
of 50 yards from the transmitter. The
first prize, won by the 2ZC party, is a
955 “acorn.” Second party in was
VK2OD (Mr. O’Donnell). This equip-
ment worked on a loop, and necessitated
cross bearings. Even so, the time taken
was 43 minutes. The third arrival was
the VK2WI car with equipment fitted by
Mr. Moore, the Federal president.
Space does not permit a detailed
account here, but the mobile car station
VK2NU, worked two-way with Sydney
stations VKs 2NO, 2ZD, 2JU, 2WD',
2WW and others at a distance of 20
miles, and this at speeds of 45 and 50
m.p.h.! No trouble was encountered
with ignition interference, A running
fire of conversation was kept up on the
road with cars equipped by Waverley,
Lakemba and the Institute, and a most
remarkable test made through the
screened streets of the city of Sydney. It
was a most convincing demonstration of
the superior features of 56mc. When
logs are complete, a description of the
car station VK2NU and the events of
August 18 will appear on this page.
VK2NO.
Where U.S.A. Scores.
“Wireless World” (Eng.) has a few
words to say to the British radio manu-
facturer regarding his indifference to
overseas markets: “The radio manufac-
turer in this country, with certain rare
exceptions, is so engrossed in the prob-
lems of supplying then home market that
he neglects, and in most cases totally
ignores, the overseas and Empire re-
quirements. Although these markets are
still open to him, with the present rate
of foreign competition and absence of
British enterprise they may not long
remain so.
“From information which has come to
us from different parts of the Empire
there is evidence that, whereas a year or
two ago sets of British manufacture
would have been welcome and bought in
preference to all other makes, that atti-
tude scarcely holds to-day because
American and other suppliers have been
so enterprising that the suitability of
their products, added to the service which
goes with them, loads the scales far too


FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
'Vi ite (mclosing ,T(I. in stamps) for the 30 x 2.0
nic-h Lavishly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
u
Stromberg
■Carlson 3
RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
U
heavily, even when a large amount of
pro-British inclination is added in favor
of the British set.”
As to the indifference of at least one
English manufacturer, a case may be
quoted. This Page has long stressed the
advantages of iron-core coils for special
receiver design, suited particularly for
the outback. With the object of mak-
ing tests under working conditions the
editor of this page wrote to a prominent
English manufacturer asking for special
details of and placing an order for a
special set of coils for 200 to 550 metres.
That was over eight months ago, and so
far not even the courtesy of a reply has
been vouchsafed. If British manufac-
turers don’t know where Australia is
on the map of the world, Americans do!
What’s What in Radio.
At the age of 81 the steamer Edina, of
the Howard Smith fleet, has been tilted
with an automatic distress signal instal-
lation. She is an iron ship of 380 tons,
The radiating tower of Sydney B station
2SM rests on a footing of insulators.
These are easily replaceable in case of
damage.
built by Barclay, Curie and Co. at Glas-
gow in 1854, and is probably the oldest
iron craft (and the oldest steamer) afloat.
When she was constructed, the submarine
cables between Australia and the outside
world had not been laid, and only four
years previously had the .Straits of Dover
been spanned by cable. Nevertheless,
the ship has remained in service long
enough to be radio-equipped by A.W.A.
♦ * * *
In U.S.A. the Radio Corporation of
America is preparing to spend 51,000,000
in the near future “to lift television out
of the laboratory into the field.” To
get over the difficulty of covering such
a big country with short-range television
transmitters, engineers have proposed
and designed special telephone lines. The
technical difficulties have been overcome,
but (he financial difficulty is so far in-
superable. Nobody wants to pay for it.
* * * *
“Scannty”: Phonovision is the trade
name for the Baird system of bottled
television, in which the modulated vision
impulses arc recorded on a disc, as with
the usual sound record. Playing the disc
from a pick-up through a television re-
ceiver puts the image on the screen. One
London co. is now marketing 30-linc
records at 7s. each. They are double-
sided, and run for six minutes on each
side. Twenty-four different pictures are
recorded. .Such records should be valu-
able to experimenters and for demonstra-
tion purposes. The producers state that
one stage of audio amplification is quite
sufficient for the operation, and if a nega-
tive picture is obtained reversing the pick-
up leads will produce a positive picture.
* * * *
“Querex”: From an English radio and
television magazine comes the following
quotation: “Television in full natural
colors and with perfect stereophonic
effect is, of course, the ideal, but there
is much to be done yet before the foun-
dations are laid of three-dimensional
television in monochrome. Television has
arrived all right. The new high-defini-
tion stuff is as good as the home cine.,
but it will be some time before more
than a proportion of listeners will be
able to pick it up. Some won’t be able
to afford the at-first-rather-expensive
gear, and others wouldn’t be able to look
in anyway, because of the transmission
distance limitation.”
Visiting A.W.A. valve works, N. A.
Woodford, R.C.A. (U.S.A.) representa-
tive, observed that Australian-made
valves matched up in every way with
the world’s highest standard. He has
seen many of the largest valve-manu-
facturing establishments, and was im-
pressed by the effective layout of the
A.W.A. plant. He considered the beauty
of the .surrounding gardens would be the
envy of proprietors of similar valve fac-
tories in other countries,
* * ♦ *
The director of a German television
co., Fernseh A-G., of which Baird
Television, London, is one of four part-
ners, visited U.S.A. and signed contracts
with Farnsworth. There will be an ex-
change of patents, and the arrangement
gives Fernseh the exclusive use in Ger-
many of the Farnsworth electronic
camera. Farnsworth, on the other hand,
benefits by (he use of German patents.
Casual Comment.
England’s P.M.G., Sir Kingsley Wood,
in answer to questions in the House of
Commons about television plans, gave
(he following information: It will not
be necessary for receivers to be of the
cathode-ray type, but very desirable ; the
wave-length to be used will be about
seven metres, or perhaps less ; very little
alteration to existing broadcast receiving
aerial systems will be necessary to re-
ceive the television transmissions; the
Baird and E.M.I. interests will share
transmissions. [Ordinary aerial systems,
unless placed very close to the trans-
mitter, will definitely not serve for ultra-
short-wave reception. The general effect
of ultra-shorts is that they arc either re-
ceived strongly or too weakly to be of
much use.— Radio Ed.]
* * ♦ *
“Silence Is Golden”: They were
broadcasting the characteristic sounds
made by objects scanned through the
photoelectric cell (B. 8/5/’35). First
came the noise made by what must
have been an exceptionally gorgeous
sunset —a medley of snarls, whistles,
hoots and groans. Sunsets, like women,
were made to be seen, not heard. The
moon and the stars thundered dark
curses; a weeping willow shrilled with
glee. Then came sounds of human
origin—the quiet note of a girl’s red
hair fyou'd think it'd be a loud shriek);
the strain of a bare hand ; the haunting
plaint of an oft-bitten ear; the trumpet
timbre of a nose at rest. Entrancing!
Then the announcer said: “We shall
now have the characteristic note of a
woman's tongue.” When I came to a
nurse said “Drink this and keep quiet.
You’ve had a terrible shock.”
* * * *
“Querex”; Ultra-short-wave bands
look like developing into “personal dis-
tress” bands, at least in U.vS.A. Recently
an amateur carrying a portable trans-
mitter-receiver outfit in his car ran out
of petrol on the outskirts of a town. Put-
Showing the type of anchorage used for
supporting the 25M vertical antenna at
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.).
ting his five-metre gear into action, he
raised an “in-town” amateur, who sent
out a taxi to the spot with the necessary
fuel. Another instance is reported ip
“QST” (U.S.A.), where an amateur,
W9CVO, finding himself lost when tour-
ing through Hollywood, Illinois, turned
on his portable in search of someone
who could help him “find himself.”
W9PHV, a few miles away, hooked up
with him, and directed him corner by
corner through the town and on his
journey.
* * * *
“Whitelite”: Controversy rages in
England on the subject of what to name
the television receiver and the person or
persons indulging in watching the screen.
Nothing better than the word “looker”
can be decided upon for those who do
the viewing, and “televiewer” is not a
bad effort for the apparatus. The term
“televisor” is often referred to in print,
but it should be remembered that this
is a registered trade name and the prop-
erty of the Baird Co. It is thus not
legally correct to use this term for appa-
ratus other than that manufactured by
the Baird Co.
* * * *
“Eh”; A system of wired wireless has
been installed at the Hotel Canberra,
Brisbane, enabling guests in any room
to enjoy radio programmes broadcast
by Brisbane stations. It is the first of
its kind in Queensland. Receiving appa-
ratus is installed in the ground-floor
office, and is shielded to ensure free-
dom from interference. Output is
through an amplifying system of latest
design, distributed by twin lines to each
of 100 bedrooms. Design precludes the
possibility of any listener disturbing his
neighbors. In addition to radio the in-
stallation has facilities for the reproduc-
tion of orchestral or recorded music from
any of the hotel’s public rooms. Guests,
instead of being paged in the old way,
receive broadcast calls wherever they
may be in the hotel.
* * * *
“Fisher”: Recent Federal ordinances
will compel owners of electrical motors
and appliances in the F.C.T, to fit inter-
FIVE YEARS HENCE!
Caretaker at new 500kw, 4-metre
television station: “What? Haven’t
you heard what 5-metre waves do to
rabbits?”
—From “R9,” U.S.A.
ference suppressors. The fellow with iht
big engine can usually be located, anc
many municipalities have jumped or
noise-hogs. Sources that cannot bt
easily controlled arc household imple-
ments and medical gear. As the house-
holder lacks electrical knowledge, the
only way seems to be to catch the appli-
ance before it reaches him, and make
manufacturers silence it. As for medical
apparatus, I have seen a diathermic out-
fit completely shielded with earthed
gauze still causing interference to radio
reception.
Latest in the Trade.
U.vS.A. valve manufacturers have now
produced a line of metal-shell valves in
10 types. Like the Catkin, in the English
metal valves, these new types are smaller
than the familiar glass-bulb type. Some
of the valves have eight pins and others
seven or six, but the pins are all arranged
so that they fit into the same eight-hole
socket. In addition, the pins are all of
the same diameter, and the heater or
filament pins are not larger than the
others. Normally,' this would lead to
hopeless confusion, but a “locator” is
fitted as part of the valve base. This is
separate from the pins and of insulating
material. It consists of a circular pro-
trusion from the base at the centre, with
a small perpendicular ridge moulded in.
The socket must be so arranged as to
accommodate the circular locator from
the base for part of the way, and then
have a slot into which the ridge will
tit when the pins arc correctly disposed
about the socket. The valve is then
pressed home. The valve types now
available include pentagrids, detector-
amplifier triodes, power-amplifier triodes,
twin diodes, triple-grid-detector ampli-
fiers, full-wave rectifiers, Class-B twin
types and power-amplifier pentodes.
These metal valves were designed by the
G.E. Co. and made by the R.C.A. Radio-
tron people. If such valves are exten-
sively adopted in Australia, set analysers
will need some drastic revising!
« * # *
Radio-inductive interference with
broadcast reception is often so acute that
the only cure is suppression of the trouble
at the source. In other cases minute
electrical impulses from various sources
superimposed on the power circuit may
be minimised and often completely elimi-
nated by the use of a simple line filter.
Such a filter can be made by the exper-
ienced radio man, but for Mr. Public the
manufactured article is necessary. Air-
zone, Ltd., has produced the ideal in the
filter unit illustrated. This sells at 215.,
and is sturdily constructed and fitted
into a tubular bakelite moulding. There
is no danger of shock. A three-point
socket and plug are provided for connec-
tion to the receiver, and at the other
end are the live leads and earth wire for
connection to the mains. Connection of
the earth wire to an effective earth is
essential to obtain correct filtering
action, and, although the earth may be
made to an earthed conduit carrying the
power cabling in the house wiring, a
separate and direct earth buried in moist
soil is preferable. In action the Airzone
filter has been found most effective, and,
in addition, it has an application for
experimenters using ultra-short-wave
transmitting apparatus. It is frequently
found in the case of five-metre transmis-
sion with apparatus powered from the
mains that standing waves are set up on
the mains, with resulting interference
in broadcast receivers in the vicinity.
The Airzonc line filter has completely
cured this trouble for several experi-
menters. Obviously, no more than the
rated capacity of the filter must be taken
by the apparatus, or damage to the filter
windings will result.
* * • ii<
The Muter voltage safely regulator,
marketed in Australia by Amplion (A’sia),
Ltd., provides a means of accurately ad-
justing the voltage for any radio set using
“30 series” valves when used with a
three-volt dry A battery. A slight over-
voltage on any “30 series” valve greatly
shortens the life. The valve will, how-
ever, give long service provided the volt-
age is kept to approximately 1.9 or two
volts. The life of the battery is also
greatly increased. The safety regulator
is compact and attractive in appearance,
and is supplied with all instructions for
operation. Too many battery receivers
using the two-volt .06 series of valves
arc guilty of ill-treatment of valves, par-
ticularly where primary cells in series
are used or an accumulator is connected
after a heavy overcharge. No two-volt
battery-set user should be without such
an accessory. Particulars and price are
obtainable on application to Amplion
(A’sia), Ltd., 70 Clarence-street, Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column,
I have a Strombcrg-Carlson three-valve bat-
tery set, model A 33, serial 109. (1) What year
was it made ? (2) Has anybody compiled a
list of different makers’ identification marks on
models, giving the date of manufacture and
where ? If so, where is it obtainable ?—307.
(1) 1928-29. (2) Not known. Try “Radio
and Electrical Merchant/’ 15 Castlereagh-strect,
Sydney.


Model 844!
WE claim that never before has such a superb Battery-operated Dual-wave Receiver been
offered to the public in Australia • • Hand-made, this magnificent instrument combines
TONE, BEAUTY, QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE to such a degree that it is the
outstanding set of the year • • The glorious tone is so rich, so clear and of so wide a range
that it reproduces every note exactly as the artist plays it • • The dignified piano-finish
cabinet is an exclusive design and possesses the best acoustical features • • As to PERFORM-
ANCE, interstate daylight reception is definitely guaranteed on the Broadcast Band as is
reception of short-wave stations. Truly amazing is the way the overseas stations, such as
London, New York and Paris, flow in at the mere turn of the knob • • Last, but not by any
means least, is QUALITY, with which is combined CRAF I MANSHIP and CARE. Only skilled
engineers are entrusted to the making of this set and absolutely every care is taken in the con-
struction • • This astonishing set features Philips’ Super Series Valves, incorporating the amazing
Octode ; full Automatic Volume Control, “Cola-code” tuning, fuse for protection of valve fila-
ments and battery saving switch. A very effective tone control is fitted • • Equipment includes
three H.D. 45-volt Ever-Ready B batteries and one 2-volt accumulator and the latest Magnavox
speaker. The battery consumption is astonishingly low: B battery 1 Ofna. normal volume, A
batteries .66 amps • • Better value than “TELA-VERTA” Model 844 is impossible.
THE PINNACLE OF RADIO PERFECTION
in a word
mmm
RADIO
Send for full particulars of
the complete '‘Tela-Verta*’
range, which comprises
over 30 models.
è
A 6-VALVE BATTERY-
OPERATED DUAL-
WAVE RECEIVER
Incorporating Philips
Super Series valves
with the amazing
OCTODE
D.W. RADIO Co.,
2 10 Willoughby
Road, Crow’s
Nest, N.S.W.
’Phones:
X5Ol9 —2 lines.
d-tfah*
dwrauoo
I 1 Mi
ana
r»r
“THE PINNACLE OF PERFECTION”
Victorian
Factory
Representative:
C. F. B. Weber,
Chancery
House, 485
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
Tasmanian Distributors: —
Baden Cameron’s, Radio Electric House, 104 Collins Street, Hobart.
Tamworth Distributors:—
Tamworth Radio Development Co., Ltd., Peel Street, Tamworth.
Dealers—Write for Particulars


FOR WARWICK ON SATURDAY:
Gampbelltown Handicap: Silver
Kifig or King’s Head; next, The
Marne.
Hobartville Stakes: Homer ; next,
Latharna.
Warwick Stakes: Silver King or
Closing Time ; next, Sarcherie.
Spring Handicap: Regal Son;
next. High Cross.
Glenlee Handicap: Mystic Spell;
next, Mainlaw.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the matter of prize-money Mel-
bourne’s amateur clubs beat the Sydney
proprietary concerns out of sight. While
Silver King, Rogilla and The Marne
were racing for a wretched £lO6 13s. 4d.
at Rosebery—£B6 13s. 4d. to the owner
of the winner—Williamstown was putting
U P £750 for the Underwood Stakes:
conditions, standard weight-for-age ; dis-
tance, a mile and 55 yards. Its enter-
prise was amply rewarded, for a great
crowd saw a field full of quality, if
small in numbers, engage in a most ex-
citing race.
Hall Mark was a 6-to-4 favorite, and
on form and appearance he was entitled
to the position. Valiant Chief was
second favorite for a time, it being
argued that he had been unlucky the
previous Saturday and that his gallop
with the colors up would be a great help ;
but in the end Young Idea (7 to 2) ousted
him by half a point. A few pounds went
on Feldspar at tens —it was 10 to 1 bar
two.
Evidently Valiant Chief is merely a
sprinter. He moved off smartly this
time, and remained in the lead for six
furlongs, but when Young Idea, on the
outside, tackled him he could not go on.
Hall Mark had got into a pocket. Skid-
é
ê
ë
more pulled him clear, but Young Idea
was then two lengths ahead. Hall Mark
swiftly reduced the gap, and almost
drew level; but Morris, on Young Idea,
had something in reserve, and, when
called on, the colt edged away again.
At the finish he was half a neck in front
of Hall Mark; Feldspar, moving nicely,
was another length and a quarter away
and Palfresco a good fourth. The time
was excellent —Imin. 42sec.
It was a first-class performance on
Young Idea’s part. “He won’t be beaten
this spring,” says A. G. Hunter, one of
the part-owners (Percy Miller is the
other), and many are of the same
opinion. But, on Palfresco’s running, The
Chanter, who beat him pointless at Caul-
field, will be a worthy opponent for the
son of Constant Son—Persuasion.
Carnarvon, an even-money favorite for
the Three-year-oki Handicap, was second
again, and an unlucky second he looked.
But St. Fervent (13 to 2), who beat him
by a head —thanks, as it seemed, to
Dempsey’s superior riding—is no slouch.
He is by Curialis—Devotee. Dema-
gogue (25 to 1), another Hunter-Miller
neddy, was third.
L’Elite was produced for a division
of the Truganina Handicap, but no 50 to
1 could be got this time. The Gay
Lothario —Sweet Marguerite horse was
firm at 7 to 4. He won all right, but
had nothing much to spare at the finish
from Maybe—formerly raced in Sydney
and now getting up in years—and Bur-
lesque, who was backed, was a good
third.
Panto pulled his backers through in the
August Handicap, for which the Ring
would not lay better than evens; but
Sunraysia (10 to 1) made a close thing of
it after hanging out in the straight. The
outsider certainly looked unlucky. Still,
the Westralian horse may have loafed a
bit on Skidmore when out in front with
the race apparently in his keeping ; even
champions have these cunning ways.
Free Wheel was a good third.
* * * *
The effort to make a stayer of Silver
King failed completely, but it did not
dim his speed. The son of El Cacique—
Silver Wedding had his first outing as
a four-year-old at Rosebery—in the first
division of the Flying Handicap. Carrying
51b. more than his Epsom weight (9st. 11b.)
he outclassed Rogilla and The Marne in
race-record time for six furlongs, Imin.
13isec. Walker thought he hadn’t done
enough work ; hence the price: tens. But
Silver King went past the pacemaker,
Fjadrian, with ease, and was not at all
distressed on returning to the weighing
yard ; “three lengths” and “half a length”
were the margins vouched for by the
judge. If Walker can still improve his
condition, he will lake no end of beating
in the Epsom.
Peter Pan’s stable-mate, Australia Fair,
another Epsom fancy, won the second
division, proving too solid in the run
home , for Porcia and Martingale. His
success was anticipated ; he was backed
from 7 to 2 to 9 to 4, having been sup-
ported for the Epsom before the race.
Closing Time was favorite, but he was
never going kindly; he finished sixth
after being fourth into the straight. It
was not his form, and the run will do
him good,
lolaus is a quiet tip for the Metropoli-
■ tan, in which he has 7st. 31b. He tackled
some smart sprinters in the first division
of the Flying Welter, and, in the rear
division most of the way, he put in a
long run in the straight and scored, run-
ning away, from Double Dutch and Nar-
bethong, who could not be separated,
lolaus started at eights. He is owned
by a Sydney businessman who prefers
to be known on the racecourse. as “T. R.
Max.” The favorite, Legatee, led for
half a mile, and then blew out. This
Maorilander ran third in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes to Young Idea. King Gee,
a solid type of black horse by Violon-
' cello—Miss Emblematic, won the second
division of the Flying Welter at 7 to 2,
Psalmist hung on to get second after
making the running. Latharna, a Derby
candidate, was slow off the mark, but
came home promisingly under punish-
ment. The Black Cat (20 to 1) led
throughout in the third division, winning
easily from Winasian and Hurry Scurry.
The Black Cat scored over the jumps as
a three-year-old.
Handicapper lan Keast was a proud
man after the Rosebery Handicap, in
which five horses passed the judge—
Tom Nicholson, of the AJ.C. staff, was
acting for Dud Allsopp, on the sick list —-
almost in line. Forestry looked like mak-
ing his total four in succession when he
slipped away from Ramrod at the top
of the straight, but Blixten, High Cross,
Measure and Lightning March joined the
topweight (he had 9st. 51b.) with half , a
furlong to go. Blixten was slightly in
front a few strides from the box, but
Measure caught him, and in the end
beat High Cross by half a head, with
Forestry a similar distance back. Blix-
ten was fourth and Lightning March the
closest of fifths. Measure was quoted at
20 to 1, and many of the bookmakers
did not lay him. He is a five-year-old
gelding by Magpie—Lady Morion, and
was ridden by Coutts.
Pattie’s Gift’s victory in the last race, the
Daceyville Stakes, sent the bookies home
with bulging bags; this Ascot-trained
mare, who is by Arachne’s sire, Corban,
started at 14 to 1. Pantilla and Glory
Girl filled the places, Favorite was
Panrose, a Pantheon colt; laid at tens,
he came to sto 2. Panrose was mixed
up in a scrimmage which resulted in
Scrabite losing his rider, Roy James —
James is now in hospital with a broken
leg—-so there was an excuse for him.
* * * *
Consistency was rewarded when Ser-
lodi (Lodi —Serebina) won the King’s
Cup race at Eagle Farm for W. H. Rey-
nolds. On his close second to Lough
Neagh in the National Plate, giving the
chestnut 31b., Serlodi was solidly backed
for the Cup at 9 to 2 ; the only doubt
was whether he would go the distance,
which, of course, is a mile and a half.
As it happened, he dashed past Soft
Step (4 to 1) at the home turn, and
nothing had a chance with him from
that point; Regal Star —favorite, at 7
to 2, on the strength of having won the
Exhibition Handicap on the Wednesday
—was second, four lengths away, and
Neptune (14 to 1) third. The going was
so bad that the owners of Brown Force
and Thalwyn withdrew their horses, and
the race occupied 2min. 38|sec. —good
time in the circumstances. Darby
Munro had been brought from Sydney
to ride Soft Step, and kept his mount
ē
ĕ
ė


1090
o
22 NON-RUJTING
($
RIM FIRE* I
o
No smoke, no rust and longer
life for the rifle barrel because
of absence of residues—these are
factors that, combined with
sureness and swiftness, have
gained for 1.C.1. .22’s foremost
k place in popular favor.
Sales of 1.C.1. .22’s in
Australia exceed those of
all other makes combined.
SHORT
LONG
LQHC RIFLE
SOLID
AND
HOLLOW
POINT
Obtainable
Everywhere
ę
22
short
Soho
(F
m
I
s.
R.F.401
c
Under the Whip
Forestry (Limond —Forest Girl) has
always looked a racehorse, but until
recently had rarely galloped like one. He
had dicky forelegs, and J. T. Jamieson
tired at last of treating them, handing
the big chestnut over to J. TANARUS, Cush, of
Moorefield, for a change of regimen.
Cush gave the infirm one more sea-
bathing than galloping, and results have
been remarkable: during the present
month Forestry has won three races with
ease, in each case breaking the course
record for the distance. At Victoria Park
on Wednesday, conceding 91b. in a handi-
cap run over \\ miles 121 yards, he ad-
ministered a decisive beating to Regal
Son and El Senorita, a recent winner.
Regal Son, of course, was second in
the Epsom and first in the Metrop. two
years ago, and, although he may have
gone off a bit, he is still a pretty good
horse on his day. Unfortunately, Forestry
is not in the Metrop. ; if he were, he
would be one of the favorites, for he
would have got in at a light weight.
Cush has another horse that has made
rapid improvement: Bulldozer, by Bull-
head—Sweet Leaf. He also won at
Victoria Park, outpacing the speedy
Kaylah in the Flying Handicap. He
remained at the head of the field when
the Magpie mare dropped back beaten,
and went on to win by a couple of lengths
from Comedy and Teravale. He, too, was
omitted when nominations for the spring
handicaps closed. Still, little fish are
sweet,
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Taking Palmer’s place, Leo Kelly met
Pietro Georgi at Brisbane, and stopped
him in four rounds, after carrying him
for two. Georgi seemed scared of the
coon, who looked a very big 12st. 41b.,
and scarcely landed a blow. He was
billed as “the Greek-American,” though
when he arrived he was called an Italian,
The change is perhaps attributable to the
trouble Camera encountered on return-
ing to his disgusted native country.
t\i ❖ ❖
Roy de Cans has yet to win a fight
in Australia. Palmer, Campbell and
Richards (twice) have beaten the colored
warrior, and Rainsford drew with him
at Leichhardt on Wednesday. Display-
ing unexpected aggressiveness, De Gans
outfought Rainsford in the early rounds,
but the white did better over the last
bit. Many thought he hadn’t made up
the leeway, though they were not suffi-
ciently interested to wrangle with the
referee.
Foolbrawl
“Preston”: The V.F.A. is still con-
sidering its scheme for cutting its com-
petition in half, the sections north and
south of the Yarra working indepen-
dently. The scheme was started to
obviate the long distances many of the
clubs have to travel for matches, their
grounds being mostly outside the city
area proper, where the V.F.L. is en-
trenched in a solid block. Even then,
there will be some difficulties. Another
hurdle is the necessity for forming new
clubs in both areas and finding decent
grounds to accommodate them.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Australian youth got an
unsolicited pat on the back from
Japanese goodwill envoy Dibuchi when
he passed through Sydney on his way to
M.L. He said he couldn’t refrain from
mentioning the wonderful advertisement
for this country the Australian Rugby
Union team had proved in Japan a
couple of years ago ; “they were magni-
ficent —the discipline, the sportsman-
ship.” As the team was drawn from the
universities of every State save Tasmania,
the men were a fairly typical lot. No
other code but the Rugby Union could
have given them the chance they utilised
so well.
* * * *
“Le Sport”: One of the heaviest
crosses France has had to bear of late
years has been the refusal of the British
International Board to readmit the
French Rugby Union to the sacred fold.
It was pushed out for toying with Rugby
League methods, allee same N.S.W. Now
that the All-Blacks will be in Europe a
plea for forgiveness has gone up again.
It would be a fair thing if the French-
men were allowed back. They played
fast, keen football, and were very popu-
lar during their few years in the inter-
national series.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Though the Maoris
were kept nearly a week oyer their
appointed time in Australia owing to the
shipping strike, the visit proved a winner
for every State and country centre that
entertained them. Sydney returned a net
profit'of £797, Queensland close on £SOO,
Victoria over £IOO. Toowoomba and
Warwick (Q.) and Dubbo (N.S.W.) also
came out well ahead of it. In Sydney,
Receipts were £2436 and exes. £1638.
Not bad for a side which Union treasurer
Breckenridge prophesied would be a
ruinous flop.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby Union
elected H. C. Holden as side partner to
Billy Hill at the Imperial Rugby Confer-
ence in London in December. Holden
has been a Union official for years, and
has a fine athletic record. No one
thought of Queensland or Vic. when the
choice was being made, but those States
are well used to that sort of treatment.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: The serious business of the
Australian . golf championship meeting
at Adelaide began with the inter-State
matches between teams of professionals
and amateurs. S.A. pros, beat their
brethren from N. S. Wales by three
matches to two, Fergus McMahon, play-
ing in rare form, outing Bolger. Vic-
toria was also scalped to the tune of
three to two, McMahon this time down-
ing Victoria’s crack, Naismith. In the
amateur event, N.S.W. beat Victoria
by six matches to one, Jim Perrier scor-
ing a 2-and-l win from Mick Ryan.
And Ferrier proved too good for S.A.’s
amateur champion, Rymill, winning 4
“Aw, I'm just takin ’im for a gallop."
and 3, but the local men won the series
by four matches to three.
% * * *
“Neutral”: An English insurance
co. operating in Australia is offering
golfers" a £lO policy against 19th-hole
risks of holing out in one. Premium?
Two and six.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tasmania, fired no doubt by
the return of its Greatest Son, is cele-
brating that or some other occasion by
offering the governing bodies of golf in
the Speck £5OO towards prize-money if
they will stage a couple of open cham-
pionships next year, one in Hobart and
t’other in Launceston. The tournaments
will probably be held in March next, and
some sort of title will have to be found
for the events that will not clash with
those of the Australian championships.
“Claypan”: Orange (N.S.W.) golf and
country club is to do itself proud with a
new £20,000 course on the Dalton home-
stead. The old house will be used as the
club headquarters, while tennis courts
and croquet lawns will add to the ameni-
ties. I. A. Irving and Eric Apperly are
laying out the course, the former de-
signing and making greens, tees and
bunkers ; it will be 6400 yards long, with
holes of from 150 to 545 yards, and
greens will be of turf. The course ought
to be fit for play by April next.
♦ * * *
“Marino”: The British women golfers
showed their Westralian form was no
fluke by walking through a combined
Westralian and Wheatfield team to the
tune of seven matches to none. Pam
Barton beat Kate Rymill, winner of the
South Australian championship, 3 and 2,
while her chums scored even more de-
cisive victories. In the foursomes. Pam
and Mrs. Walker beat Miss Rymill and
Mrs. Crespigny, and Phyllis Wade and
Mrs. Greenlees won their match from
Miss Gordon and Mrs. Sharpe. The
approaching of the tourists was an eye-
opener to the big crowd following the
match.
“Marino”: At the A.G.U.’s powwow
in Adelaide it was decided to hold the
1936 championships on the Metropolitan
club’s course at Oakleigh (Vic.). The
proposal to send an amateur team to
Britain next year was basketed.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Already opti-
mists are talking of challenging in the
American zone for next year’s Davis
Cup; but there is no mincing the fact
that we need a more trustworthy team.
Reliance on Crawford to pull things
through has caused disaster on the last
two tours. McGrath has been very in-
and-out, Then America has dug up two
coming champions in Budge and Mako,
who played finely at Wimbledon. Next
year they should be much more formid-
able, especially on their native heath.
Still, the recent tour has resulted in a
profit of over £2OOO, and the Australian
L.T.A. may feel like blowing some of it
in on a trip to America.
* * ♦ *
“Top Spin”; When Dorothy Round
and Kate Stammers beat Mrs. Arnold
and Helen Jacobs in the first two singles
of the Wightman Cup series it looked as
if the pot was going back to Britain. The
Yankee girls rallied, however, and, though
Misses Dearman and Lyle, here last year,
won a doubles match, the home side
scratched through by four matches to
three. Helen Jacobs defeated Miss
Round in the last singles.
* ♦ * *
“White Waters”; After a brooding
silence, Crawford and Quist suddenly
popped into the cables again with a
match against Southern Transvaal at
Jo’burg. Both won their singles, but the
doubles match had to be abandoned in
the fifth set when each side had taken
two sets. Crawford was off-color, especi-
ally in the doubles, but was possibly
affected by the altitude, as so many visit-
ing athletes are.
* * * *
“Toowong”: It appears now that Perry
will be in Australia only during the big-
tournament season. During that period
of three months he will scoot from one
State to another, playing in State and
Australian championships. When Perry’s
amateur status was preserved by a job
in the Australian section of a tennis-
goods firm, we were told he would put
in most of his time in this country travel-
ling for his firm and supervising the
tennis of some of the most promising
young players, returning only to Britain
to help defend the Davis Cup. Now it
is explained that on leaving Australia
he is to tour South Africa, and then go
home to prepare for the next challenge
for the Davis Cup, nearly 12 months
hence.
Miscellaneous
The South Africans made a comfort-
able draw of the fifth and last Test with
England, and will return home with the
laurels. Wyatt did not enhance opinions
of his captaincy by putting his visitors
in on a perfect wicket. The ’Boks were
stodgy on the first day, and had only a
little over 300 up at stumps, Mitchell con-
tributing a solid 128. Dalton and Lang-
ton warmed things up next morning, the
first making 117 and the bowler 73 n.o.
This left England facing 476. New
bowler Read, in spite of erratic deliveries,
made a creditable start with 4 wickets
for 136. England lost Bakewell, Mitchell
and Wyatt for 98. Hammond and Ley-
land then went for the bowling, and the
score was 248 when the Gloucester man
departed for 65. Ames joined Leyland
in a stubborn stand, and, lashing the
bowling freely, the pair ran the tally
on to 428 before Leyland went
with 161 on the board. Nicholls and
Robins made a few ; then Wyatt de-
clared at 6 for 534, Ames being 148 n.o.
None of the Afrikander bowlers did owt
of any note. Going in again the tourists
played out time, losing 6 for 287. The
n.o. men were Wade (40) and Dalton
(57).
England has now suffered three suc-
cessive Test defeats, Australia and the
West Indies having previously towelled
their parent up. It is likely that S’Africa
will be granted four-day Tests, like Aus-
tralia,
* * * *
“Spike”; Australia’s hope of landing
the 1938 Olympiad for Sydney has been
strengthened by Maoriland’s endorse-
ment of the application. To most of
us the greatest drawback to having the
games in Sydney is that those respon-
sible are proposing to tack the appalling
label of “Sesqui-centennial Celebrations"
on to them. The title may be understood
by some of the highbrow Dominions, but
the coons of British Guiana and other
minor colonies in the outer darkness, who
generally contribute a representative or
two, are likely to be scared off by fear
of the incomprehensible.
* * * ♦
“Track”: The 10,000 metres cross-
country championship run at Sydney
saw the individual honors go to Sheaves,
of N.S.W., who covered the distance in
32min. 20sec., thus blowing up the Aus-
tralian record by 62sec. Six other runners
did better than the 1929 figures, giving
rise to the rumor that the course was
short-measured. It was not, but the go-
ing was very dry and fast, while the
“cross-country” part of the race was a
farce, rails in fences being taken down
and gates left open. These conditions no
more comply with cross-country condi-
tions elsewhere than they do with those
of a chess tournament. The teams race
saw N.S.W. win again, Victoria, Queens-
land and Tassie following in that order.
Australia won the match with M.L. by
14 points to 22.


&
/
s7.s
£
V
V
m
strong en ot/
n
/ ' S
JStBSBWuu,
0-§i
R
fi ' ■
m
&
•r*
:.,: -
j:
%0 "ft\i^
A
'S
Hidden under the beauty that meets your eye
in a Holden body is the greatest strength of
body that the car world knows. Other lands
do not build bodies strong enough for Aus-
tralia . . . Why should they? Roads in the big
car-building countries are as a billiard-
table to a paddock compared to roads in
Australia.
The wrenching, twisting, jerking, jolting of
our roads, byways, bush tracks and trails,
entail strains more strenuous than bodies
overseas are conditioned to meet.
In a Holden body the gauge of the steel is
heavier than overseas. The major braces, of
which there are 50 or more, are 50%
stronger. The door locks, striker-plates and
anti-rattle fittings are heavier, stiffer, to
stand harder stresses. Seat springs are
stronger. Genuine leather seats and squabs
are standard. Anti-dust, anti-squeak and
anti-rumble measures are more detailed and
exhaustive.
These facts may come as a surprise to you.
Watch for later “Body by Holden” announce-
ments, which will develop the subject
further.
O
SOME SPECIAL FACTS
The value, in terms of Australian employment
created, of the body-building industry may be
gauged from the following facts:—
5500 men and women are directly employed in
making Holden bodies.
Their present wages bill is nearly one-and-a-quarter
million pounds a year,
Material consumed, including Australian leather,
lacquer, steel, etc., totals two-and-a-quarter
million pounds a year.
The plant covers over one million square feet
of factory floor space.
bodu bi|
so
BEAUTIFUL YET SO
a
STRONG


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
k
■
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
on in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15% Family Protection Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
FOUNDED IN 1886
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £23,000,000 - - Annual Income Exceeds £3,200,000
Amounts paid to policyholders Exceed £30,000,000


ENJOY
LIFE AND I
GOOD LIVING,
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and 3
Cold Water, ’Phone I
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
HOTELSYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
income tax returhs
ft Concise and ReH«W« A,d ,or
Federal and K.S.W.
fkOM MIX*
steemn*
£3
r
lid
B , H, RASVSON STtVE-NSON, F-C-A-
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus.),
just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
valuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St,, Sydney
c
H
I
N
E
MADE IN P
AUSTRALIA y
DMQffi
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Meiboumd
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
Icnr-ZDi/iP*
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, Etc.
Land
The land we live on has assumed its
full share of political blessings since it
was taken from the blacks. It is bearing
a white man’s burden in the form of
rates, taxes and financial-emergency
legislation. Transfer fees, quite apart
from the conveyancer’s own charges,
sometimes cost a small fortune—Torrens
title notwithstanding.
One result of the high cost of owning
land has been the growth in flat-life. A
block of land that will carry only one
cottage and house one family is often
big enough for a whole block of flats
that will accommodate a dozen families.
The rental from one cottage would prob-
ably not pay rates, other charges and
provide a reasonable return to the land-
lord ; by building skywards and multi-
plying the accommodation space the bug-
bear of faxes is to some extent over-
come.
But the bugbear of congested areas is
increased. Heartrending facts have been
published about slum conditions in Mel-
bourne, and it is a fact that cottages in
attractive localities are virtually unob-
tainable at reasonable rents on Sydney’s
North Shore line. Often a householder
hasn’t the wherewithal to buy the roof
oyer his head ; Australian cities have a
big population of such people. They
depend largely on the discretion of their
collective landlords as to where they
will live, and their landlord’s discretion
lies in the direction of the greatest net
profit to himself. That is only natural.
He has had a hard lesson over the last
five years, and has suffered harsh treat-
ment under the “humanitarian” property
legislation of the depression.
Apart from the oppressive incidence
of taxation—official valuers seem ready
enough to take rises in prices into
account, but show less alacrity in reduc-
ing their figures—the property market is
usually booming or stagnant. Thus land
becomes the plaything of speculators
(who don’t buy it to hold) and after-
wards the burden of those who would
put it to some real use. Hence the ever-
recurring trouble over mortgages,
equities and interest rates.
Real estate in this depression has been
the last form of property to show signs
of recovery. It relies at present upon
reasonable cost of occupation or pos-
sibilities of profitable use to be attractive
to buyers. There is little or no gambling
going on, and, for those who want a
home or premises, now is a good time to
buy.
The market is picking up, slowly.
Property transactions are increasing
nearly every month, and the amount of
finance available by way of mortgages
is expanding, too, in most cases at lower
rates of interest. Property will come into
its own again, undoubtedly; but when it
does it will be again loaded up with as
much additional taxation as it can carry.
The Wool Market
It is even more difficult than usual to
forecast the status of wool in the season
which opens on September 2. World buy-
ing has been almost completely reori-
ented in the last couple of seasons. Con-
tinental gross demand will be determined
by the ability of some countries, such
as Germany, to pay in trade. The Italo-
Abyssinian situation may have at present
uncalculable reflexes. Japan, which used
to import most of its tops from Brad-
ford, now manufactures most of them,
and is thus in the direct market for raw
wool to a greater extent.
Tops prices, usually an indication, look
hopeful. Fine N.S.W. merino fleeces
are, at the outset, expected to realise
up to 18d., or perhaps a little more
for best average super lines, and average
well-grown western N.S.W. wools will
possibly start at from 14d. to 15d., with
2d. more or thereabouts for top lines.
Sydney will open with 96,000 bales to
be disposed of in eight days, beginning
on September 2. Brisbane follows after
an interval of 10 days. Much Queens-
land wool shows the marks of the
drought. Thereafter, a succession of
auctions will bring Sydney’s quota up to
612,000 bales for the half year and Aus-
tralia’s to 1,490,000 bales. The statistical
position is sounder than usual—there is
practically no carry-over, and there is a
general decrease in production in other
countries, particularly in S’Africa.
If Japan is out to buy 750,000 bales, as
is confidently predicted in some quarters,
competition for medium- and high-class
wools should be strong, but demand is
in some degree governed by price, and
boom prices at the outset might prove a
strong brake on demand in the second
half of the season. Even with that,
“Queer that nobody seems to Want to fight me for this lovely hone!"
especially in view of the effects of the
drought, buyers should be able to look
forward to an average minimum 10 to
15 p.c. rise on last season’s values and
bare stores in August next year.
How would war between Italy and
Abyssinia affect Australian investments?
That is a question being asked not in-
frequently. Hesitancy in buying and
some nervous selling on London ’Change
have been attributed to the threatened
clash in Africa. A war of a definitely
localised nature should not have wide
repercussions in the financial world be-
yond increasing the overseas buying
orders —in providing the sinews of war
—of the warring countries (to the extent
that they are able to pay or borrow).
Also, an important European country
whose credit became strained through
the cost of a military campaign might
have some influence on the London
money market. Beyond a possible widen-
ing of interest rates, which would even-
tually have some effect on Australian
conditions, nothing more widespread
should happen. A major conflict in
which other countries became embroiled
might mean anything ; but there appears
to be no cause for nervousness. Aus-
tralians can’t turn their investments into
gold (to which a flight is usually made
during a war), and industrial shares
should remain as valuable as any other
legal tender available.
* * * *
The sharemarket showed an all-round
weakening towards the end of last week.
Industrials were generally lower, and
mining stocks were down. The Abys-
sinian situation has been blamed. The
truth is that a rising market must reach a
peak some time, and investors and specu-
lators, subconsciously realising it, get
a feeling of nervousness sooner or later.
Speculators who buy to sell again quickly
always precipitate falls. To those who
can afford to hold, well-selected stocks
should be worth the holding.
* * * *
Tourists returning from Fiji talk wisely
about the wonderful future of the mining
industry there. Such talk from such
people is generally worthless. Unless a
representative quantity of ore is avail-
able for testing, or unless mining men of
wide practical experience are able to
give a fayorable opinion after exhaustive
examination, buying into unproved
shows at high prices is foolish, Mt. Kasi,
which is one of the most advanced of
the Fiji shows, has probably had less
market attention than any of the others
approaching production.
* * * *
Distant investments and speculations
nearly always give those interested in
them a certain amount of worry at some
time of their career. Perhaps for this
reason London quotations for Australian
stocks, even allowing for the exchange,
are sometimes appreciably below the
Australian market. Australian share-
holders in Raub, a goldmining co. with
a property in the Federated Malay
States, felt distance a disadvantage when
many and varied rumors were floating
around regarding the falling-off in re-
coveries towards the end of last year.
The shares fell from around 30s. to 10s.
or thereabouts, and values from lldwt.
or 12dwt. to about 3dwt. Ore reserves
were then said to have been “exhausted,”
and a special engineer was sent from
Brisbane to investigate the show. Many
shares were sacrificed before news of a
definite nature came through ; recover-
ies are now back to 10.6dwt., and the
shares are at 19s. on Sydney ’Change.
* ♦ * *
Factory employment in N. S. Wales
increased from 129,907 at the end of
1933 to 146,849 at the end of 1934. Out
of evil comelh good ; the adverse trade
balances of a few years ago, the com-
paratively low wool prices since, and the
absence of overseas borrowing have
reacted not unfavorably on manufac-
turers. Our external income doesn’t war-
rant excessive imports, and we can’t
afford to run up accounts overseas (at
interest) for goods which put our own
men out of work —that is what overseas
borrowing amounts to. So Australian
factories actually have a wider market
than before the depression, though the
value of production, owing to lower
prices, may not be so high. Textile
manufacturers absorb over 9 p.c. of our
average wool clip.
* * * *
Minister for Trade Treaties Gullett
has been negotiating in Berlin, Two facts
elicited: (1) A German balance of
£700,000 in Australia last year was not
utilised ; (2) in the six months to June 30
Germany bought as much Australian
wool as it did in the corresponding
periods of 1933 and 1934, taking indirect
imports from Britain and other places
into account.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
for the four weeks to August 4 was
44,917 tons, as against 48,319 tons dur-
ing the month to July 7. Pig-iron output
has been affected by the closing of No.
2 furnace for periodical relining. Divi-
dends paid during the year ended May 31
totalled 10 p.c.; the shares are active at
around 685., and speculation still exists
as to whether a merger with Australian
Iron and Steel is on its way.
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson, one of the
larger N. S. Wales and inter-State firms
of woolbrokers, showed £46,033 of profit
for the year to June 30, as against
£48,638 for the previous term, and paid
an unchanged rate of dividend —7 p.c.
Last year’s figures bore a 20 p.c.
rebate of commissions to woolgrowing
clients. Pastoral stocks have been held
nervously by investors generally for some
years now, but a few showings like this
and that of Pitt, Son and Badgery should
do a good deal to dispel doubt about
their earning power under reasonable
conditions.
* * * *
Owing to the time it takes to com-
plete accounts in respect of exported
butter, the declaration of average prices
is always some months behind the time
of sale. Under the Equalisation Scheme
butter consumed in the Commonwealth
is priced at around 1425. 6d. a hundred-
weight. Price of the exported product
depends upon world parity; thus the
average for April was 114 s. lOd. (Aust.).
More than half the month’s production
was shipped overseas. Present average
prices should be higher than those for
April, though total returns will be lower,
owing to the effect of winter on produc-
tion. London prices are firm.
* * * *
Adelaide Steamship Co. is paying a
6 p.c. dividend in respect of its last year,
the same rate as in 1933-34. The £1
shares have actually strengthened over
the past few months, last sale being at
325. 6d., despite the strike. This com-
pany has recently added the Manoora
(10,000 tons) to its fleet; it was among
the first to introduce up-to-date motor-
liners to the inter-State trade. The
Manunda was a signal success. Mel-
bourne Steam, which has a new 10,000-
tonner on its way out, paid an unchanged
6 p.c. in its last year.
* * »
Great Britain took 54 p.c. of Victoria’s
exports during the last financial year, the
value being £15,283,744 (Aust.). Vic.’s
imports from Britain were worth
£11,959,000 (stg.); in Australian currency
the figures are approximately equal.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOQWS
“David Copperfield*”
“D.’s” impression;
I went to “David Copperfield,” at Sydney
St. James, with misgivings. How, inquired
anti-American friends, could people with names
like Cukor and Selznick know anything of
England? How could a Dickens film made in
Hollywood, with American stars in key parts,
provide an illusion that one was listening to
English voices? Anyhow, according to many
English critics, the plot was too cumbersome
to be filmic.
My first surprise was the discovery that the
American voices don’t matter. Edna May
Oliver is Aunt Betsy, voice, face and manner-
isms. W. C. Fields is so much Micawber, not
merely in his clothes and sayings, but in his
innermost nature, that the stunned onlooker
decides after a while that the prince of debtors
must have been an Anglo-American.
I can remember old friends who have been
dead 10, 20, 30 years—though no more clearly
than I can remember Dickens characters whom
I first met in childhood. As Pcggotty, Mr.
Dick, Barkis and the others began to appear
there was an uncanny feeling that any of the
others whom 1 had loved and laughed at might
suddenly come to life. No stage play has
done anything like it for me, and 1 have seen
Irving as Jingle and Martin Harvey as Sydney
Carton.
The naturalism of the acting is phenomenal;
Cukor, Selznick or some other foreign genius
must have worked as hard over this interpreta-
tion of English townsfolk as the Pole Conrad
did over any of his interpretations of English
seamen. No American child has given a per-
formance to equal that of Freddie Bartholo-
mew.
If the films aspire to hold a mirror up to
life then this is an almost perfect film plot.
It can only have been objected to on the
ground of formlessness because the critics’
taste has been vitiated by trick plots
which bear no relation whatever to life. The
much-boomed “Brown on Resolution” is an
example.
Here the key to the trick is a watch corre-
sponding to the legal document of mid-Victorian
melodrama. A watch which —being a century-
old family heirloom of inestimable value,
sentimental and otherwise —Lieut. Somerville,
R.N., wouldn’t have carried about with him,
but would have kept in the strongroom of
his bank; which, in any event, he wouldn’t
have given to the chance-met greengrocer’s
daughter whom he had seduced; which their
son wouldn’t have taken to sea with him, and
which couldn’t possibly have survived the
young man’s adventures. The watch is assidu-
ously kept before the audience’s eyes so that
it may be used at the finish like the missing
marriage-lines or will to round off the story.
Scorning such venerable devices the people
responsible for “David Copperfield” have
shown the early part of a man’s life in the
round. It is a muddled, inconsequential and
often dull affair, with plenty of loose ends and
no climax, but then life is like that. If the
innovation sets a fashion, movies and moron-
ism may yet cease to be synonymous.
“Baboona”
Another Mr. and Mrs. Johnson animal
film at Sydney Plaza, with the husband
as talkative and henpecked as ever.
Their ’planes, two Sikorosky amphi-
bians, were painted respectively with
zebra stripes and giraffe markings. The
animals were terrified when they heard
the engines in the far distance, but
scarcely turned a hair when the ’planes
came close.
The African jungle is still much the
same, one of the few innovations being a
simian war which begins when some
baboons Mussolini into the empire of
some smaller members of the monkey
tribe.
Present critic was most impressed by
the myriads of flamingoes taking off
from the shallows of a lake, the giraffes
charging like so many Don Quixotes,
the party manners of a chimp., the laugh-
ing native, the baboon and the mirror,
and the rhino, hunt, during which the
natives discarded their shields and cloth-
ing, but modestly retained their cloaks.
The photography is better than in pre-
vious Johnson pictures.
“The Unwelcome Stranger”
A horse drama featuring Jackie Searl as
a crippled orphan. The child is installed
in Jack Holt’s home by Mona Barrie to
prove that orphans don’t bring bad luck
in the racing game. But Holt clings to
the superstitions of his profession, and
his manner freezes the afflicted Jackie out
of the house. However, Jackie is there at
the end to ride a winner on the vixenish
Noma, and save the family fortunes.
Mona Barrie uses her beautiful eyes
industriously, and Mr. Holt works hard
to convince us that he is hag-ridden by
superstition. Jackie Searl has done the
crippled orphan so often that the part
has almost become second nature to him.
“Mystery Liner”
This one, at Sydney Lyric, contains,
among many other attractions, secret
panels, scientists, crooks in the employ of
foreign Powers, a mysterious invention,
an eavesdropping steward, a bibulous
old lady and several private detectives.
It appears that the director of a ship-
ping company wanted to test a scheme
for radio control of vessels from the
shore. The captain of the vessel didn’t
like the idea, so he was drugged and put
in an asylum. Later, the invention having
“DAVID COPPERFIELD,” AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Edna May Oliver as Aunt Betsy. W. C. Fields as Micawber. Roland Young
as Uriah Heep and Freddie Bartholomew as David.
proved successful, someone working for
someone else styled “Excellency” made
off with an all-important tube 5505, and
the liner rushed about off her course.
It’s all cleared up before any damage
is done, but this writer isn’t sure yet which
of the characters were on the right side.
Names? Noah Beery is the captain, but
about the others the programme is as
mystifying as the film.
“Love in Bloom”
Also at the Lyric. The romance of a
respectable crooner-composer, the son of
a small-town lawyer, and a girl who’s
“got around”— her father runs a travel-
ling carnival and she’s “been rolling her
eyes and showing her legs to suckers”
since she was 14. The crooner looks a
much nicer girl than she does.
“Alibi Ike”
In this baseball comedy at Sydney
Capitol Joe E. Brown sustains his usual
role of a half-wit visited by flashes of
genius. Story uses the usual mechanism,
Brown being kidnapped half-way through
and escaping just in time to win the
great match. Dialogue does not scintillate
and the matters at issue have little interest
for audiences that have forgotten how
rounders is played.
“White Lies”
Victor lory as a gallant police lieu-
tenant (educated at Yale) and Fay Wray
as a beautiful young lady who leaves
the consonants out of most of her prattle
provide the love interest in this fan-
dango on the theme of the muckraking
newspaper. Walter Connolly is the pro-
prietor-editor-publisher-manager of a
journal which seems to be above the libel
laws. He gives a semblance of reality to
the tough side of the character; but
when he breaks down on the witness
stand at his daughter’s trial for murder
and tearfully declares that he should be
branded as the malefactor because the
merciless exposures in his newspaper led
to the crime with which his offspring is
charged—then even such an actor as
Connolly can’t make it seem likely. Of
course, Jory lugs the real culprit into
court just as the Judge is getting ready to
send Miss Wray to the chair. Also at
the Capitol.
“Silk Hat Kid”
A melodrama in which gangsters and
social reformers are touchingly mingled.
Paul Kelly is a night-club proprietor,
backer of a club for slum youngsters
run by Brother Joe (William Harrigan),
and in love with an attractive school-
marm (Mae Clark), also interested in
Bro. Joe’s philanthropies. But lewd
fellows of the baser sort are seeking to
muscle in on Kelly’s honky-tonk, so
Kelly hires for protection a gun-man
(Lew Ayres). Bro. Joe appropriates Mr.
Ayres as boxing instructor for his creche ;
Mr. Ayres and Miss Clark click; Mr.
Kelly gets peevish and fights Mr.
Ayres (one of the best all-in scraps
this commentator has seen on the screen),
with the parson as referee. After which
the contestants shake hands and the
show’s over. Plenty of action, and the
dozens of small boys who appear in
many of the sequences are all as bright
as buttons. Every American kid seems
to carry a film star’s baton in his school
satchel.
Some First Nights
Presumably as a preliminary bout to
its general tussle with grand opera under
the De Abravanel baton the A.B.C.
broadcast a potted version of “Don
Giovanni” on Saturday night. E, J.
Roberts conducted, Madame Goosens-
Viceroy, Ben Williams and Walter Kings-
ley figured among the soloists and the
better-known airs of the opera were
given, linked by a spoken narrative. Th«
orchestra’s part in the performance was
transmitted rather more effectively than
was that of the singers, reversing previous
experiences of broadcast opera, but
apparently an honest effort is being made
to achieve better balance —very neces-
sary in view of the unevennesses that dis-
figured some of the broadcasts during
the Fuller season.
* .y *
The concertos by Bach, Max Bruch
and Beethoven in which Yehudi Menu-
hin made his final appearance at Mel-
bourne Town Hall were followed as an
encore by the Bach Chaconne, that long,
intricate and elaborate unaccompanied
solo on the violin, and this feast of vir-
tuosity and flow of art brought a vast
audience to its feet, while the waves of
its applause rolled over the continent. It
was a tribute not only to the excellence
of the playing but to the high quality of
the material, for it is seldom that a vir-
tuoso asks a Melbourne audience to
swallow four really important works at
one sitting ; moreover, and not merely
as an afterthought, Bernard Heinze’s
orchestra played its part splendidly.
H- H- V
At “West’s” in Adelaide, one of the
earliest picture-houses but now changed
by Ernest Rolls into a theatre, the open-
ing venture is a large and loose collec-
tion of “Rhapsodies.” It is strong at all
points: the voices of Strella Wilson.
Alec Kellaway and Perryman ; the robust
humor of Jennie Benson and the quiet
style of Barrett Leonard ; the dancing of
Moros, Kowsky and Eve Alwyn, of
Desiree and Montigue, of the Roberts
pair; the dressing of some girls, and
the contrary of others. And Roy Rene
and Renie Riano are monstrously funny ;
her aim seems to be to convulse her
fellow-players, while he goes a step
further and upsets the orchestra as well.
But one brand of humor is overworked:
the sort of which the most printable
specimen is “Does your wife talk in her
sleep?” “No, but yours does.”
“Rotunda”: “M.G.” asserts (B.
21 /8 / ’35) that no city in the world can
support high-class music on its own
merit. Nevertheless, Liverpool since the
middle ’eighties has kept grand opera go-
ing on a paying basis without State or
private subsidies. In my time the Carl
Rosa co. presented all the classical
operas in English, the repertoire includ-
ing works of Bellini, Rossini, Meyerbeer
and other composers forgotten to-
day. The only Wagner opera I recall
was “Lohengrin.” The company paid
visits to Manchester, which was then the
home of Charles Halle and his orchestra.
Its prima donna in my day was Marie
Roze, wife of Carl Rosa, and among the
male singers were such notables as
Charles Santley and basso Signor Foli.
Many of Britain’s leading singers gradu-
ated from the C.R. co.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Music and
Fashions
A controversy
recently arose in
Melbourne as to
whether the con-
cert-going popu-
-lat i o n follows
singers, musicians and orchestral con-
ductors because they are fashionable,
popular, successful and accepted by
respectable authority or because they
know a good performance from a bad—
in short, are they more socially-minded
than musically-minded? The answer is,
of course they are. It is easier to
cut a figure in society or to do the
accepted thing than to acquire a
real knowledge of music. If the opposite
were true, good society would consist of
a few superior individuals, and musicians
—as well as other kinds of artists—
would be vastly in the majority. Every
entrepreneur and impresario knows this
empirically. This is why he exploits
every avenue of publicity to advertise
his goods, whether they are good, bad or
indifferent. If the Sisserman Quartet
developed its technique to as high a
pitch of excellence as the Budapest
Quartet its audiences might be a little
larger but would not include the most
socially prominent people or the vast
majority of the concert-going public.
But if the Sisserman Quartet came to
Melbourne with an international repu-
tation, although its technique would be
no better, it would attract infinitely
more attention.
There is no mystery about the busi-
ness. Most of the public follow fashions
—sometimes good fashions and some-
times bad fashions, but always fashions.
If everybody was educated to a high level
of appreciation the public could distin-
guish relatively between two performers,
but everybody is not yet so educated, so
why such a fuss should have been made
about a perfectly obvious and inevitable
phenomenon is inexplicable. When Percy
Grainger conducted his “Doodah” com-
position recently, it was plain that the
audience, or most of it, wasn’t sure
whether it was listening to something
extraordinarily unique and wonderful or
to a piece of musical buffoonery.
This by way of introduction to Muriel
Brunskill’s appearance at Melb, Town
Hall on a recent Saturday. She nearly
filled the edifice, whereas a fortnight
previously she had barely half-filled the
tiny Assembly Hall. She sang Pur-
cell, Bantock, Hugo Wolf and Schubert
magnificently, and her resonant contralto
had a purer quality and a richer content
and more sensitiveness than that of Clara
Butt, who used to pack even the enor-
mous Exhibition Building. But she sang
just the same songs just as well at the
Assembly Hall. If her Town Hall success
wasn’t due to the newspaper publi-
city that had been given to her very
sensible remarks about Melbourne’s
musical dunderheadedness, it could only
be due to her having practised in the
meantime, and in a week or so suddenly
transformed herself into an extraordi-
narily attractive singer.
Incidentally, on his way to the recital
writer ran across a local conductor and
composer hurrying to a small room in
Bourke-street to rehearse a future con-
cert. This gentleman’s name is scarcely
known to the general public, though he
has written several symphonies and is a
master of various branches of music.
How many people who attended at the
Town Hall could say, from knowledge,
whether his conducting is better or worse
than that of visiting conductors, or that
his composing is better or worse than
that of the composers whose names
figured on the programmes?
M. C. S.
Sure-fire
Stuff
There are few
people more
stupid than those
who presume to
teach others their
business people
who claim to possess by intuition details
of a calling the masters of which
have learned by laborious hours and
years of experience. It is therefore with
temerity that I approach the producers of
many modern revues to criticise their in-
creasing custom of including in produc-
tions improprieties which trespass over
the boundary line of decency.
I know that revues are put on the stage,
not for the Victorian young person, but
for sophisticated men and women of to-
day who, in the vernacular, know their
onions. The day has passed when ladies
would swoon if birth control were men-
tioned, and when the person who spoke
of a leg would be adjudged guilty of
using obscene language. I am perfectly
aware that revue audiences comprise
people generally tolerant of sexual sins.
It is the effect of many of the things
presented at modern revues on such audi-
ences which I am considering.
The reduction of costume area, 1 am
not criticising. Nobody really raises
any objection to the nudity we see on the
stage to-day. Surfing and athletics have
hardened the whole community, and a
population has grown up which has not
learned to regard the human body as
objectionable. When a man tells me he
docs not admire a beautiful nude woman
I know that he is either a liar or an
abnormality. This phase of modern
revues is established.
The part I object to is the indecency
and the dirtiness —apart altogether from
sexual dirtiness —of some
of the jokes and the repre-
sentation of perverts. There
is nothing funny about a
pervert. He is either a sub-
ject for disgust on the part
of the unscientific or a sub-
ject for psycho - medical
treatment oh the part of
the scientific. He is no
more amusing than a
cancer. He should be cut
right out of every decent
show, and in this I think I
have the support of ninety-
nine out of every hundred
people who attend and like
revues.
It is harder to draw the
line between the clever and
whimsical impropriety and
the utterly indecent. Every-
body draws his own line.
A would pass a question-
able quip which B would
regard as over the odds. It
is therefore plain that, in
the rough censorship which
the audience silently applies,
B must be regarded as fix-
ing the standard. I am
considering this question
solely from the sordid standpoint of
the box-office; morality does not
enter into the matter at all. Which
attracts to a theatre the larger per-
manent audience? I say that B's
standard makes for higher profits.
An experience of various revues pro-
duced in Australia during the past year or
two convinces me that the cutting of half
a dozen jokes and situations from a
number of them would have resulted in
larger aggregate audiences. There would
still be left amusing improprieties,
situations in which sex played an im-
portant part, and many jokes which
would have shocked our grandmothers.
There would have been eliminated a
mere handful of stuff which, no doubt,
raised a loud laugh at the time, but which
prevented numbers of those present—
including many of those who laughed—
from coming again when there was a
change of programme.
It is that loud laugh which deceives
the managements into believing that what
they call sure-fire stuff is sure-profit stuff.
It isn’t. The same difficulty of drawing
the line faces the man who turns out a
newspaper or a magazine. Jokes and
stories and situations which the ordinary
sinful person regards as going too far
lead to many smiles and to people show-
ing one another the paragraphs for
mutual enjoyment. In fact, it would not
be possible to go too far in this respect.
The most glaring indecency, accompanied
by a spice of humor, would win laughter
from the reader of a periodical, just as it
would win it from a theatre audience.
But the publisher of any periodical knows
full well that this apparent success is
purely ephemeral. The paper will be
talked about, but the circulation will
steadily drop. Theatrical managers
might take a tip from the publishers.
Their profits would be greater and the
prestige of their shows would rise if they
did. There is no necessity to emasculate
or effeminise a show; the humor which
surrounds sex, just as it surrounds golf or
politics or geology, may be presented
intact. But some of it at present is pre-
sented with such offence as to make it
bad art—which is inexcusable.
FRONT ROW.
Phryne and the
Judges
A generation
ago, students at
Melbourne
National Gallery
classes were glad-
dened by the ad-
vent of a new model, beautifully pro-
portioned, good-looking and intelligent
above the average. She sat for the
various classes for about a year ; then
found a more lucrative job and retired
from the dais to become a secretary in
a medium-sized business.
But her experience at the gallery and
her continued friendship with the
students had made her art-hungry, and
she decided to put in her own nights
studying drawing at the gallery. Her
application was turned down—not be-
cause she did not possess the required
ability, but because the trustees of the
gallery had laid it down that “no person
who had been a model could be en-
rolled as a student of the gallery.” That
girl didn’t write to the papers or get a
member of Parliament to raise the ques-
tion in the Assembly, but there was all
the makings of a fine public uproar in
the incident. She just went on drawing
in a private class until her marriage with
a professional man.
Whether that regulation is still in
force or appears on the minutes of the
“Sunbake,r” by Neil Douglas, in the Melbourne
Group’s Show.
old books or was just a word-of-mouth
decision expressive of the shock adminis-
tered to the trustees of the ’nineties is
not known ; but, if it still applies, it
should be wiped off the records now
that the whole administration is to be
overhauled. If the profession is a de-
grading one, the trustees themselves con-
stituted the first cause in such degrada-
tion by employing models and tempting
them from the path of mid-Victorian
modesty by offers of money—and mighty
little of that.
MCGILP.
Why Not Cut
Art Short?
One of the
ancient philoso-
phers assured us
that life is short
but art is long;
that is the whole
trouble with art. It is so long that the
artist of to-day—using the term in its
widest sense —has to meet the competi-
tion of people who have gone back to the
dust this hundred or this thousand years.
Producers of other goods, primary and
secondary, howl to the heavens about
overproduction. They can’t sell their
wheat or their wool or their furniture
or their lipsticks at a profitable price
because the secret of turning out all
these commodities is common property
and there are too many people in the
game and too many facilities for fabri-
cating the articles. But, at any rate, they
don’t have to compete with wheat grown
at the time of the Borgias, or furniture
turned out by factories functioning
during the reign of Tutankhamen. The
artist does ; for art, by some anomalous
form of reasoning, has come to be re-
garded as capital goods instead of being,
as it should be, among the products listed
as consumable.
The only artist who gets a fair spin
to-day is the man who draws his pastel
masterpieces on a pavement. The public
pays him for the momentary joy
it obtains by regarding the imagination
and technique he reveals. Then he
gathers up his day’s pay and goes home,
while darkness falls and the public walks
over the face of his pictures and leaves
a blank space ready for to-morrow’s
work. He is paralleled only by the
journalist, who delivers his masterpieces
of prose or cartoonery to delight the
public for a day. Then both are for-
gotten and the artists are ready to start
again. Next day, there is a demand for
other works of the same sort.
Contrast the lot of the author with
that of the reporter ; the lot of the painter
with that of the cartoonist. The artist
paints a picture or the sculptor
carves a statue; filled with hope, he
exhibits it, trusting that the Felton Be-
quest or some wealthy connoisseur will
come down with a suitable recompense.
Then he picks up the work of his
more lortunate fellow-artist, the reporter,
and discovers that the Felton Bequest has
just decided to purchase a picture which
Pinchavini painted in a.d. 1345, or that
Sir Gorgius Midas is bringing from
Europe one of the most famous statues
which Oysleropolous whittled out of the
Pentelic marble in 321 b.c. I wouldn't
complain if Pinchavini or Oysteropolous
got anything out of it. They don’t;
they’re dead, and neither they nor their
heirs, executors or assigns profit one
penny by the deal.
Not only is it the painters and the
sculptors who suffer. The radio has
brought out the dead to compete with
the composers of to-day, who find it hard
enough to get a crust as it is. Goodness
knows how many deserving composers
woulej be off the dole were the radios
unable to broadcast “Daisy, Daisy, give
me your answer, do,” how many deserv-
ing poets would be ocupying up-to-date
offices in sumptuous city buildings were
it not for the public rushing the libraries
for Milton and Poe and Whitman.
The artistic world needs to get rid
of the competition of the ancients. As
some flabby sentimentalists might
object to following the example of
Savonarola and setting fire to an im-
mense pile of paintings, sculpture, litera-
ture and music, it would be easy to in-
tern them in galleries, where they could
be available to bona fide artists and
students, admitted only after produc-
tion of special orders and with proof of
identity by fingerprint or other reliable
evidence. Members of the general public
who contrived to gain admittance by
trickery or force should be severely dealt
with. With the artists of the past put
as far as possible out of competition with
the live ones, provision should be made
for future generations by the enforced
use of a fadeable paint and a perishable
marble, ensuring that, within a year
or two, every picture would gradually
disappear, leaving a canvas bare and
ready for another, while every statue
would slowly fall to dust. The playing
of any but current music might be pro-
hibited, and if the radio dared to put on
any of the censored compositions head-
quarters would at once send out inter-
fering waves, and the offending station
would be asked to show cause why its
license should not be cancelled. Persons
who whistled forbidden tunes in the
public streets could be treated as all
minor offenders are treated by the police
courts now.
By the enactment of legislation neces-
sary to carry out such an ideal, the road
would be left open for a Golden Age of
Art, and nobody would fear to advise
any intelligent lad to acquire the art of
painting, sculpture, blank-verse writing
or musical composition. It would
herald the dawn of a new era.
DAUBER.
Current
Artbursts
Modernism
which has not
progressed so far
as to be unintelli-
gible has ani-
mated Ruth Bril-
liant, a Polish girl nine years resident
in Australia, whose sculpture is on exhi-
bition at Hogan’s Galleries, Melbourne.
Most of the statues are portrait busts,
even those not so labelled, and they are
strongly and dexterously modelled and
reveal imaginative qualities. The heads
of Rabbi Danglow and the Rev. E.
Kowadio and —especially —that of Dr.
A. Patkin are excellent portraits, boldly
executed and reaching far beyond the
stage of the photographic. The only full-
length statue, a female nude, is a con-
scientious study.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
v. >'•
mm&m* ■
>■
\S
a**
c
i|OH
CO'
70 YEARS Hll'tlt I
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“And the mirage shall become a pool”
(Proverbs). The sight of Flynn of the
Inland bent over a tableful of maps
the other afternoon is responsible for the
quotation. If any man has brought heal-
ing waters to the desert it is this tall,
round-shouldered Presbyterian padre
with the Irish name and a look of
Woodrow Wilson about him —a Wood-
row Wilson whose dreams have firmed
to realities. But health of body cannot
be maintained without health of spirit;
and now the A.1.M., having blazed the
trail for medicine, believes the time has
come to dot the far-flung spaces with
centres of community life (sort of
C.W.A. clubrooms in excelsis) where
the mind will find pasturage and the
mental and spiritual spark will be fanned
into a blazing torch to the glory of
God and Australia.
That’s one of the ideals behind this
new move of Flynn of the Inland,
whereby the whdle of the continent is
asked to become shareholders in Aus-
tralian Aerial Medical Services. This
will provide seven interlooping aerial
centres, from which medical attention
will regularly patrol every area where
there is no resident medical man.
If you think that scheme is impos-
sible, go along and look at Mr. Flynn’s
maps. This amazing- man, who knows
the surface of Australia as a palmist
knows the flat of your hand, makes
his own maps (there’s even a rain map
in his little pile—he believes it to be the
first rain map made in this country).
One of them is at once a fascinating
and depressing human document. On a
bright-blue ground, east and west of
Alice Springs and north towards Dar-
win it is flecked with white —it makes
you think of cosmic rays or stardust
on the Milky Way. These white spots
mark centres composed of a store, a
school, a house. Others mark the site
of one house, one policeman, one store.
Some show the home of one woman,
two children, one man ; sometimes one
woman, one man; tragically often the
foothold of one man. Every white habi-
tation is shown, and the proposed medi-
cal service will patrol every one of them.
Fifty thousand pounds will set the
scheme on its way. That’s nothing among
the States when the universities, the aero
clubs, the churches, the medical societies,
the Rotarians, the C.W.A., Red Cross-
in short, Australia Unlimited —put their
weight behind it.
The eisteddfod (almost all the 10,000
entries came in during the last week)
was launched by Education Minister
Drummond at the Town Hall after
it was already in full sail. You
simply couldn’t have held those juvenile
bands and choirs on the leash another
moment. Sam Walder was a speaker ;
so was Roland Foster, he very glossy in-
deed as to attire, being on his way to
the wedding of singers Heather Kinnaird
and Raymond Beatty. There’s no doubt
about the interest in these competitions.
There are packed audiences at every ses-
sion, and the various halls in the city
resound with the clarion notes of the
contralto, the sweet pipe of the colora-
tura, the crashing chords of the piano,
the “long slow slope” of the violin. The
Girl in the Flat Opposite is getting up
a society for supplying the judges with
ice bags, and to prevent the sale of
vitriol to disappointed mothers.
Frances Scully and the group of
Sydney’s dancing teachers now accredited
by London’s Royal Academy of Dancing
woke up last Sunday morning to the
knowledge that spring was in the land.
For weeks past all that has concerned
them is spring in the foot of the hundreds
of pupils they were presenting to
examiner Felix Demery. Saturday night
saw the end of their worries, Felix gave
his lecture demonstration, the fluffy,
white-skirted ballerinas illustrating arm
movements and steps—as promising a set
of Pavlovas and Genees as any mother
and father could hope to watch. Among
them was the brilliant Norma Howell
(daughter of Snowy, V.C.), who has passed
five grades with honors. An armful of
pink gladioli nearly as tall as herself was
the gift of the association to Frances
Scully, who stood knee-high in flower-
offerings, centre stage, for the examiner’s
words of appreciation. Right and left of
her stood equally smiling and flower-
festooned teachers from as far away as
Lismore. Pianists Margaret Chalmers
and Doris Beattie were also in the
picture,
A noise that might have been the first
clash between the Abyssinians and the
Italian storm troops rocked the Educa-
tion Department’s gallery on Saturday
night. The art students were holding
revel, and the scene was as noisy as the
sound. In spite of Hanke, Joe Wolinski,
P. J. Marks, Aubrey Halloran, Rubery
Bennett and a bevy of councillors and
committeemen, all as sober as Judges, the
affair was boisterous, but it was all very
good-natured (until 10.30, at any rate,
when this Letter left). Even then a few
conscientious souls were still peering, be-
tween groups of Indians—Red, Aztec,
Iroquois or just Buttonhole
girls and period lords and ladies, at
the pictures.
Last week Jean McMaster became
Mrs. Douglas Waugh, of Goondiwindi.
Jean, who is the only child of the R. N.
A. McMasters, of Bibilah, Warialda, had
her wedding at the Presbyterian Church
in Mosman and her reception (a lunch
party) at the Australia. Bridegroom’s
parents were the Alan Waughs, of
Coppymurrumbilla, Goondiwindi. Dayne
photograph.
On the final day of the R.A.S. artist
Joseph Wolinski gave a studio party.
This studio is of red brick, and its bright-
blue door opens to the clap of a dull
bronze knocker. It stands where Bok-
hara-road and Bellevue Hill-road meet,
and has a view that stretches to the Blue
Mountains. All who pass in Bokhara-
road will soon read the lesson of filial
duty portrayed in a long panel that is
set in the outer wall. This will show
Joseph taking his parents into the land of
Goshen; the figures for this are now
being modelled. The artist’s 90-year-old
father, his pink-and-white skin cherry
smooth, his blue eyes unaided by glasses,
very penetrating, helped to entertain the
guests. Two hospitable sisters wielded
enormous teapots and served waggon-
loads of cakes and savories, all made
by themselves.
Playwright T. S. Gurr, with his wife
and daughter, was there ; so were the
Gerald Marr Thompsons, she in a hat of
the most heavenly blue. There were Del-
pratts and the much-travelled Bloch
couple. Dr. McClemens lent her ear to
Aubrey Halloran’s dicta on health, while
daughter Enid pondered over the artist’s
paint table (he doesn’t use a palette). A
portrait of the late W. A. Holman drew
the gaze of all; so did the just-begun
picture of Betty Balfe of the shining
plaits.
The Budapest String Quartet has made
St. Mervyn’s Flats, Elizabeth Bay, its
headquarters. As Mrs. Alexander
Schneider, the charming young German
wife of the second violinist, speaks the
best English, she came over in advance
a fortnight ago to do the house-hunting.
Mrs. Roismann, the attractive Hungarian
wife of the leader, is rapidly extending
her knowledge of English, and is already
turning Sydney acquaintances into
friends with her Continental cooking.
Incidentally, she is helping to initiate
Mrs, Schneider into the mystic art, for
the latter was married only last May, and
this is the first opportunity she has had
of trying her hand in the kitchen.
The Kelso King lady and Miss Fair-
fax have decided that the highest decora-
tion of Scout Week shall go to the ball.
A feature of this will be the presentation
of debs, to the Commonwealth Excel-
lencies. The committee is very social.
Olive Kelso King and Mrs. R. C. Dixson
are the secretaries. The Philip Street and
Alexander Gordon ladies, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly and Mrs. Lloyd Jones are among
the workers.
Long and thickly blooming spikes of
flowering peach- and plum- and apple-
blossom turned the cheek of spring to
the guests at the Peden pre-wedding re-
ception. This filled the union refectory at
the University with hundreds of guests
who were either University- or Parlia-
ment-flavored. Margaret Peden, with
fiance Maurice Ranald Emanuel (now
Peden), stood up to a continuous spate of
congratulations in an outfit that com-
bined navy-blue and white. The white
lace Peter Pan collar on the navy georg-
ette frock was a particularly likeable
touch. Sister Barbara helped father re-
ceive in a dress and hat of woodland
greens and browns.
Margaret Peden and her Ranald
Emanuel (who had changed his name to
Peden by deed poll earlier in the week)
became one at St. Philip’s on Church
Hill last Wednesday morning. Burnt
orange and deep brown constituted the
color scheme chosen by this sports girl
for her wedding garment. Sister Bar-
bara, looking natty in brown, was
the only bridesmaid. Orchids gave
the de luxe touch to both. Mrs. M. S.
Emanuel, the ’groom’s mother, helped
Barbara Peden to hostess the morning-
tea which followed at Petty’s.
Seventy, and still singing with a strong,
sweet note, poetess Mary Gilmore was the
belle of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers’ party last Friday. First of all
Marjorie Quinn, very graceful in black
tulle, met her at the doorway with a
bouquet of large dimensions and great
merit. Before supper she was presented
with a cheque, and at supper she plunged
her knife, almost with reluctance because
of its snowy and unblemished exterior,
into the heart of a rich plum cake.
Maybe there was a little retrospection in
the gaze she turned on the seven candles
surrounding the confection —each candle
stood for a decade. If memories
thronged, there was her friend D. H.
Souter, near by, to talk over old days
and old ways. Nearly 100 Fellows turned
up with good wishes, Bill Moore among
them. President Flora Eldershaw wore
flouncy flowered chiffons. Clement
Hosking beguiled an hour with Hebridean
folk songs and their story.
Emily Skyring, a Queensland singer
who has had her notes polished in
Europe, will give her first recital since
her return at the Con. on Sept. 10. Emily
is a cousin of poet Zora Cross.
The journalists’ benevolent fund will
be the richer by almost £2O from the
afternoon’s bridge arranged by Mrs.
Cecil Mayo, Mrs. Frank Ashton, Isabel
Gullett and a Bulletin writer. Two
hundred players took possession of
David Jones’s auditorium. There were
three (3) men among them.
The lure of the shipboard party still
persists. Over a thousand rushed down
to the Maloja the other afternoon to play
bridge, watch a fashion parade or to
listen to music. St. Luke’s Hospital will
benefit thereby. The ship, gay with flags
and garlanded with green, was vibrant
with life. People moved hither and
thither ceaselessly, seeking the display of
ankles (a popular competition, this), the
perfect cocktail or dinner dress, a lucky
orange. The lucky oranges were eagerly
pursued—life hands out so many unlucky
lemons! The Philip Street's were guests
of honor, and Captain Browning, against
a background of influential committee
members, was at the top of the gangway
to receive them. A long list of knights'
ladies was among the active workers;
and Mrs. R. C. Dixson brought large
supplies of oranges from the orchard of
Elwatan, her Castle Hill home.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener went off in the
Maloja, pursued almost to the gangway
with the teacup of farewell. The biggest
brew was served in the Australia ball-
room, at the instigation of the Queen
Victoria Club —the little group of music-
lovers which, at Mrs. Arthur’s prompting,
was not too delicate-minded to pay its
performers for their programmes. Many
will miss this worker for good causes,
who had not only a kind heart but
an open hand. A morning-tea at the
Forum sped Mrs. Scrivener with a native
bear of giant size, christened by Mrs.
Bainton with due ceremony “Bluegum.”
Bluegum presided with a benevolent
smirk over a table piled with gifts and
gum-leaves.
Just returned to Sydney after an
absence of some years, Eileen Robinson,
daughter of map-maker Robinson.
Eileen and Nancye Stewart started their
stage career together with the first Marie
Tempest tour of Australia. From her
world travels Miss Robinson has brought
back some new ideas in the way of child
entertainment. With her came Theresa
Carmo, a Portuguese-American who
sings in half a dozen different tongues,
but always in the right key.
Violet Roche gave a lift-up to the
friendly fund of the Society of Women
Writers by a travel talk in her own flat.
By land and sea and air the list-
eners went bobbing about between John
o’ Groat’s and Land’s End, gazed down
on Paris by the light of electrics and a
sickle moon, heard of the ovation given
to Australians John Brownlee and Mar-
gery Lawrence in Paris, and then sus-
tained themselves with coffee and sand-
wiches. A dish of split prunes coquet-
ting with pineapple was one that
wakened the demon Greed alike in the
dieted and the undieted breast.
How many languages do you think
the Bible has been translated into? Just
about 1000, according to Miss Lucie
Owen, who is visiting Sydney. And she
ought to know, for she represents the
British and Foreign Bible Society. From
here Miss Owen, who is a fellow of the
Royal Geographical Society, goes on to
Thursday Island and takes a compre-
hensive glance at the diocese of Car-
pentaria. She will journey through
Northern, Central and Southern Queens-
land, and then make for Malaya. Miss
Owen’s recital of some details of her
daily round proved of absorbing interest
to the guests at the morning-tea given in
her honor by Mayoress Parker. Up in
Northern Rhodesia, Miss Owen tells, the
natives have but one book. It is the
Gospel of St. Mark, translated into the
local language by a kindly and clever
missionary. When the cases of books
arrived from the London publisher, the
natives walked 20 miles to the rail head
for them. Now what modern novelist
could claim such a success?
Isabel Anne Shead, a very blonde
young author from Victoria, has been
making the acquaintance of Sydney. Her
book Sandy having just been accepted
by Hutchinson, her cheek is rosy with
the first bloom of success. Really Sandy
is quite a well-known character to young
listeners-in in Victoria, for the story ot
his adventures from 12 to 17 have been
broadcast in daily sections. His creator
leaves Sandy a Daniel in the lions den
of a daily newspaper. All this she con-
fided over a large round tea-table set
with an almost equally large bowl ot
blazing nasturtiums. To-day the writer
from the South is breaking bread with
Sydney women writers at David Jones s.


Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room ami Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 3/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
I at
\0
<9
$
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
FOREIGN STAMPS, Join Empire Stamp
Club. Junior and Senior Approval Books sent.
References. —149 b Liverpool Road, Burwood,
N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
The British women golfers are over-
whelmed with Australia’s welcome. They
say that before they arrived in this coun-
try they only thought they knew what
being made a fuss of felt like. Their
first impressions of Melbourne were of
perfect spring weather (which belied this
city’s reputation), the width of Collins-
street and the beauty of St. Kilda-road.
After the Lord Mayor’s reception, at
which Mrs. P. Hodson was spokeswoman
for the visitors, there was a luncheon at
Mcnzies given by the president of the
A.L.G.U., Mrs. Austin Gatehouse, and
the president of the Woodlands asso-
ciates, Mrs. H. G. Colombie; here
the girls made the acquaintance of
L.G.U. office-bearers, presidents, secre-
taries and captains of various metro-
politan clubs, and players of the calibre
of Mona MacLeod, Shirley Tolhurst,
Mrs. Sloan Morpeth and Sydney’s Mrs.
Clive Robinson. Gum-leaves, gumnuts
and golden wattle decorated the tables.
The same afternoon there was a cock-
tail party, also at Menzies, given by the
president and council of the V.L.G.U.,
which went with a swing from the word
“go.” The visitors are a friendly little
band, and greeted like old friends the
people they had met earlier in the day.
Among the guests were most of the
notabilities in the feminine golfing world
and a heap of inter-State players who
had arrived early for a few days’ practice.
Visiting golfer Jessie Anderson is as
good as any pro. at picking faults in a
swing. Whenever something goes wrong
with the shots of any member of the team,
it is from the youthful Jessie that advice
is sought. Jessie was caught young. At
the tender age of five she had her sturdy
legs firmly planted on a Scottish fair-
way while she swung a midget driver
under father’s expert eye.
Inter-State women golfers are sharing
in the hospitality extended to the over-
seas champions. It’s a tremendous fort-
night—cocktail parties every afternoon,
luncheons and dinners (for every club is
giving some social function) and matches
in the daytime. The evenings are left
free (officially), but as the British players
are very keen on dancing plenty
of invitations are coming their way to
private parties. A noticeable point about
the entry list is the number of young
players who have single-figure handi-
caps. Long-markers have to be content
with joining the galleries, for all the
events of the fortnight are open to
players on a 16 mark and under. The
British women have drawn against Aus-
tralia’s best representatives.
The Junior Auxiliary of the D.N.A.
went dancing last week at the Embassy.
Guarding the threshold were Mrs. Don
Hallenstein, in deep burgundy, and
Heather Arnold, in white satin, while up-
stairs Betty Bryant, in blue velvet, sold
tickets to the bar, situated in the same
direction as the band. Mrs. Leslie Ben-
jamin, in geranium-red with a trail of
japonica across her throat, flicked a tea-
towel among glasses, and Mr. and Mrs.
A. B. Robinson, she in autumnal georg-
ettes and a temporary apron; Mrs.
Edwin Cato, in black floral taffeta, and
John Meyers all helped to pull corks.
Helen Benjamin, orchids pinned to the
V neck of her black tulle frock, and
Valda Fisher, in white with snail-shell
earrings of diamente, were joint ticket
secs. Vera Whiting was noticeable in
her black velvet, out of which grew a
garden-at-the-neck of white hyacinths.
In a twosome were Jean Duncan, in
blue, with twin knobs of hair on her
neck, and Alan Michaelis (their marriage
takes place on September 16). The Alan
Ramsays were there, she in blue velvet.
Joan Reynolds wore a long-sleeved gown
of beige lace, and Mrs. lan McEacharn
was a tall, slim figure in Persian-red net.
Topsy Henderson’s white frock was
made with a basque, and rainbow rib-
bons encircled the waist. Barrister Joan
Rosanove wore white with a burst of
scarlet poppies upon the corsage.
The bloom of youth was present at a
dance in Tudor Court. Four lasses were
hostesses, and most of the guests were
St. Catherine’s girls and Melbourne
Grammar boys. The quartet, whose
mothers and fathers called in during
the evening to have a peep at the
frocks, at the decorations of blossom and
camellias and at the gay supper-tables,
were Roma Benton, Sheila Finney, Lorna
Caro and Shirley Hughes. Roma, tall,
dark and striking, was in green chiffons
with metal-clip adjustments. Sheila wore
slimly-fitting blue crepe, Lorna was
fluffy in greeny taffeta, and Shirley
rustled black moire. Blonde Yvonne
Wearne’s taffeta dress blushed a briar-
rose pink through clouds of tulle. Jac-
queline Robinson draped herself in
apple-green crepe, and flounces at neck
and ankle gave a frivolous fling to Pat
Agar’s cloud-blue frock. Mary Luxton
was also in blue, with motifs of a deeper
shade upon skirt and corsage. Among
the lads who tried to protect their part-
ners’ loot of gaily-colored balloons
through Monte Carlos, spotlight dances,
old waltzes and new foxtrots were Hugh
Wettenhall, John Davis, George Dye,
Tony Luxton and the Neuendorf twins,
Keith and Trevor.
Edna Hendrie, who wears the little
black hat and stiffened veil in this Broo-
thorn portrait, decided during the fuss
and bustle of the centenary to do her
bit for charity. As beneficiary, she chose
the Prince Henry Hospital, which is
almost in the line of vision of the South
Melbourne Municipal Library, where she
has the job of librarian. “Freelance” is
the result of her organisation. As well
as editing and writing for this magazine,
Miss Hendrie canvassed for and obtained
ads., and is now busy circulating copies,
good value at Is. each. Included in
“Freelance’s” pages are stories by Harry
Pauli and Herman Gill, sporting sketches
by Eric Welch and Greta Mott and re-
productions of Charles Wheeler’s “Mrs.
G. C. Benson” and knight John Long-
staff’s “Sir Edward Knox.” The older
generation of playgoers will remember
Bland Holt and perhaps two people who
acted with him, Albert Norman and his
wife, Blanche Lewis. This couple were
Miss Hendrie’s grandparents.
There was some running up and down
stairs to the buffet when the “K’Nights
of Toorak and South Yarra” went danc-
ing in the lower Town Hall —for,
although the lifts were running as usual,
“k’nights” and ladies liked to see who
had the best lungs for racing upstairs.
The party was very Melbourne
Grammar-ish, and almost all the lasses
were both pretty and charming. Mr.
and Mrs. Jimmy Gumming, she in sunset-
pink and a little grape-purple coat, said
they felt like a pair of chaperons. Joan
Watt was demure in white crepe, with a
calyx of blue tulle under her chin, and
Pat Clegg was all fair hair, blonde skin,
red satin and camellias. With fair curls
aloft and silken fringes dangling' from
her shoulders, Roma Moore danced in
carnation-pink. Elizabeth Allen’s chalk-
white lace was sprinkled with dewdrop
beads, and Celia Weigall wore pink
hyacinths with her blue self-striped satin.
Tony Daniell, Rowland McFarlan and
the Graham twins, Dick and Bob, were
among the lads who pulled their weight
(and roped in the coins) by medium of
keg and corkscrew.
It seems that St. Paul’s and weddings
of enormous proportions are a preroga-
tive of the Brookes family. Almost two
years after the suspension of city traffic
for the marriage of Cynthia Brookes and
Gengoult Smith cables from England an-
nounce the engagement of Elaine
Brookes to Reginald Bessemer Clark.
The Brookes family and the ’groom-to-
be and various members of his family
expect to arrive in Melbourne in Novem-
ber, December will be a whirl of pre-
parations, and the bells of St. Paul’s
will peal in January.
We are growing used to remarkable
clothes. A few years ago a girl in riding
togs would have received perhaps one or
two extra glances as she jumped into a
tram in Swanston-street; to-day she must
wear hiking shorts to cause even a flicker
°f. interest. On Saturday morning a
vision in scarlet walked the Block with
a male escort. Her get-up consisted of
a little jacket with wide, baggy-legged
slacks, hat, bracelet and bag all of dif-
ferent shades of red. Only one person
in every 100 turned to have another look.
For her marriage with Geoffrey Lees
Bragg (of Landgrove, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.), June Whitehead (who comes
from Goodwood, Minhamite) slipped
into a robe of ivory velvet and placed
upon her dark head a halo band of the
same velvet from which a cloud of tulle,
snugly shirred at the neck, swept into a
Jong veil. Three attendants, Pat While-
head, Lorna Bragg and Paddy Ramsay,
and two small trainbearers, the Thorn-
ton Grimwades’ Rosemary and Virginia,
were part of the all-white picture.
Bouquets were of camellias and lily-of-
the-valley.
After having been postponed for a
week, owing to the ’groom being a vic-
tim of influenza, the marriage of Elaine
Pearce and Basil Fitchett was celebrated
at Wesley Church, Lonsdale-street. Ivory
velvet cut with a bateau neckline
fashioned the wedding garment, which
was swept by soft layers of tulle veil,
Dinah Cockrill and Betty Matear wore
gowns of stiffened honey-colored lace,
sashed with brown velvet. Twists of the
same velvet bound their locks, and in
their hands were bunches of gold, brown
and russet flowers. The bride’s parents
held an evening reception at Grosvenor.
Wearing a dress of tea-rose matelassd
ornamented with a waist-length cape and
a long, narrow shoulder posy, Mrs. E. L.
Kiernan stood on the portals of the Men-
zies reception-room to welcome guests
to an afternoon party. Cocktails, taken
standing, broke the ice, and later every-
one drifted to small tables where the
decorative scheme among the twiddly
morsels of food was an echo of the
color-note from pink carnations and
white heath. Mrs. Charles Goff wore a
squirrel coat over her dark-red frock,
and Mrs. J. Dwyer pushed a white
feather into the crown of her black hat.
Bows at the rear of the brim were Mrs.
W. T. Crosby’s hat’s only concession
towards frivolity. Mrs. Frank Brennan
was in black with dangly earrings, and
Mrs. C. W. Batten’s black shovel hat
was above a vintage-green dress. A short
musical programme broke in among the
chatter towards the end of the afternoon.
Here is the cause of the stir in the art
world, Mary Cecil Allen, whose exhibition
of pictures has been the week’s chief
topic of conversation. Miss Allen, who
has gone completely modernist, is a
delightful young woman whose art ten-
dencies have not obliterated a sense of
humor. She admits that smelling-salts
and stimulants would have been welcome
on the opening day especially, for so
many people don’t look for “rhythm in
art,” but expect to find “fidelity to
nature,” Eve Rae made the portrait.
The Fine Arts Gallery was packed on
the first afternoon. There was no dash-
ing off early, and the habitual expression
of placidity worn by the average art show
audience gave way to repressed excite-
ment, almost hysteria. There was
tremendous discussion over the structure
in the foreground of “Elevations” —
many people claimed to recognise it as a
grand piano ; others thought it a bridge
or a crane. Arnold Shore, who honored
the occasion with an infinitesimal sprig
of thryptomene in his buttonhole, talked
about Miss Allen’s exceptional command
of color. One of the old school almost
wept over the talent the artist displayed
when she left these shores eight years ago.
Everywhere there were stage whispers;
“But I could paint better than that my-
self’ One woman declared that she
could see something in it all. “Frankly,
I don’t believe you,” replied her com-
panion in an icy tone. Those who know
Miss Allen for a highly intelligent young
woman and believe in her sincerity over
modern art will reserve Friday night to
hear her fourth public lecture at the
National Gallery. In October she will
give a series of lectures in the Centenary
Hall.
“Extraordinary bargains. Shawls, very
stylish lot'of fancy stripes at 7s. 6d. each,
the newest”. . .“Cheap hats, stylish hats,
Is. each. Every purchaser of Is. hat will
have a child’s hat given in.” With such
phrasing the columns of the first edition
of the “Ararat and Pleasant Creek
Advertiser” lured country maids and
matrons to buy fripperies on August 6,
1875, at the British Mart, Barkley-strcet.
A copy in white satin of the “Adver-
tiser” of the above date was on view at
last week’s exhibition of hobbies and
antiques. Another ad. of the same date
acclaims thus the Garton Hotel, Swan-
ston-street; “Gentlemen visiting the
metropolis will find this centrally situated
hotel the most comfortable in the
colony.” Ladies apparently were not
encouraged to betake themselves to the
giddy city.
Mrs. Oswald Gibson has been making
Japanese gardens in aid of the charity
which is her life’s work, the Animal Wel-
fare League. The gardens grow in
pottery bowls. Some are composed of
moss and rocks with lifelike bushes, little
houses, temples and quaint figures in
kimonos which Mrs. Gibson collected in
Japan last May. For others she has
“created” trees from twigs and colored
paper, pink and white for cherry-blossom
time, russet and gold for autumn. In
some plots Japanese grasses are growing
10 days after the seed has been planted,
and dyers made of glass twist under
tiny bridges. The gardens, priced from
4s. 6d. to £2 25., which are on view in a
Collins-street window, will be exhibited
later at Mrs. Gibson’s home and on the
25th at the Animal Welfare League bridge
party at No. 9 Darling-street.
Mrs. Noel Tinsley, by winning the
three women’s events at Mount Buller, the
open downhill championship, the
downhill championship and the open
combined downhill championship of
Victoria, has again proved herself the
State’s best feminine skier. As Kitty
Moore she used to carry off most of the
snow honors every year. Ruth Good
and Mrs. C. Osborn scored the rest of
the honors that were going.
There has been a sudden impulse to-
wards mauve, which, however, was
nipped in the bud almost before it was
born. Our shops did not foresee such a
sudden desire for purples, and haven’t
a yard left in taffeta or crepe. The old
objection that shades of lilac went dim
and dull under electric light doesn’t seem
to matter any longer, for dull colors
were on the rise of fashion with “dusty”
pink and “faded” blue. People with per-
fect skins and white hair have no longer
a monopoly of deep violet, which is
sought after by all types and all ages.
Arum-lilies carried by the bride were
lacquered pale-green and those in the
hands of the ’maids were tinted with
gold at the marriage of Ellis Nicholson
and Albert Paul in Melbourne Grammar
School chapel. The bride, tall, slim and
elegant as one of her aloof blooms, wore
white cloque crepe with a whisper of
metal thread in the weave; the severity
of the gown’s plain square neckline was
echoed by the long, tight sleeves and the
upstanding halo, whence flowed a veil
of Limerick lace. The quartet of atten-
dants—Norrie Nicholson, Florence Paul,
Margaret Pearson and Nancy Danne —
wore crinkle crepe gowns of palest eau-
de-Nil, and their halo headdresses were
gold to match their lilies. The bride’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. George Nichol-
son, followed up the ceremony with a
dinner-dance at Grosvenor.


irwww ■
W
M
I L
Fight ’FLU and COLDS with
Double*])'
&ucaltffiiud §xt\act
How to PREVENT
'Flu and Colds .
EVERY MORNING sprinkle a
few drops of Double "D" on your
handkerchief.
' Each time you use your hand-
kerchief you will then inhale the
powerful antiseptic vapors of
Double “D,” which are so
destructive to ’Flu and Cold
germs.
EVERY NIGHT sprinkle a few
drops of Double “D” on your
pillow, so that while you sleep
Double "D” will continue its work
of protection.
How to SMASH
'Flu and Colds.
—-Take 3 drops of Double “D”
on a lump of sugar.
2 —Rub Double ”0" thoroughly
into chest and back.
2 —lnhale 16 drops of Double
* “D” in a jug of hot water.
Stop in bed, and continue this
three-way Double “D” Eucalyptus
treatment, and you will smash your
’Flu in record time.
Double “D” is the purest and
strongest Eucalyptus sold in Aus-
tralia.
9d.
ENORMOUS SALES
1/3
r
/
mm
The Man on the Top
Health is the driving power which enabled him to arrive.
Without health, the difficulties of your climb to success will be
multiplied a hundred fold. Do not let Pyorrhea be an obstacle
to achievement.
Pyorrhea is a disease of the gums, but medical science now knows
how perilous is its menace to human vigor. Its infecting germs seep
into the bloodstream through the gums and are carried into the
body. They weaken vital organs, such as the heart or kidneys, and
often cause rheumatism, anaemia, or nervous disorders.
Four Out of five people over forty have Pyorrhea. It begins
with tenderness and bleeding of the gums. Then the gums recede,
the teeth decay and loosen, or must be extracted to rid the system
of the germs which breed in tiny pockets about them.
Watch your gums, if you would avoid having Pyorrhea. And
visit your dentist regularly for tooth and gum inspection. The main-
tenance of mouth-health requires his skilled supervision.
And use Forhan’s For the Gums. Start using it to-day.
Forhan’s For the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea—or check its
progress—if used in time, and used consistently. Ordinary denti-
frices will not do this. Forhan s keeps the gums firm and healthy,
the teeth white and clean.
PRICE, 2/-; Extra-large Tube, 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Company, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Forhan’s
for the
MORE THAN A TOOTH PASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
WESTRALIA.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
The very small fry came into their own
at the Kindergarten Union’s party at
Government House. Hundreds of
youngsters, preening their fancy feathers,
were taken along by proud parents,
aunts or kindly souls who borrowed a
child or two for the afternoon.
With the exodus of the children came
the not-quite-so-young’s dance in the
evening. Mrs. W. E. Southwood and
Mrs. Maurice Johnson had a troupe of
debs, working on the committee. Mrs.
Goyne Miller (who chaired the committee
for the whole collecting campaign) smiled
her approval over trained black lace,
Miss Gladys Pend red was sheathed in
deep cream peau d’ange, Pat Oldham
kept her cornflower-blue matt crepes
intact with shoulders straps of flowers,
Elizabeth Freeth tiered her white taffetas
with fluffy ruchings.
The Primary Producers stopped con-
ferring for an evening and had a dance
at the Embassy. President Teasdale
greeted the hordes with his better-half’s
furred pink moss crepes at elbow and
secretary Prater and his wife near by.
There were dances ancient and modern
and musical items by Mrs. V. Webb,
Roy Glenister and Will Talbot. Mrs.
Maitland Leake, who resigned from the
presidency of the women’s section of the
P.P.A., adorned her warm brown velvets
with splashes of fur.
The Council of Jewish Women added
an acceptable wad to the Jubilee Appeal
fund, rakings from their dance at the
Embassy. Mrs. F. Breckler’s black velvets
were in the box seat, and Mrs. M.
Breckler, in gold lame and black velvet,
kept the treasury. Both the secretaries,
Mrs. I. Masel and Mrs. N. Rosenwax,
clung to black velvet.
Purcell’s “Dido and Aeneas” was the
chief item of the Oriana Ladies’ Choir
recital. Ivy Stephenson sang with under-
standing as the Queen of Carthage and
first witch ; Jean Cohn’s mezzo-soprano
was raised for the second witch; the
sorceress rang deep and true in Marian
Mendelson’s rendering, and Theo
Meugens was well within his scope as
ASneas. Besides further numbers from the
choir under Mr. Leckie’s baton, there
were ballets by the Linley Wilson
Dancers.
The Cullen-Drown wedding was a
symphony in blue and pink. Bride Aimee
perched a silver Mercury cap on one side
of her head, holding in place a short
stiff blue tulle veil; her heavy broche
crepes mounted to a halter neckline, and
blue-painted lilies mingled with the silver
leaves of her bridal sheaf. Pearl Drown’s
pink creation followed in the wake, pink-
painted lilies held before chin-to-toe matt
crepes, which were topped by a, tip-tilted
pancake straw.
Alexander Watson was the lion of the
Elocution Teachers’ gathering at the
Esplanade Hotel. Mrs. Watson’s black
wool crepes were in a guest-of-honor
pew, with Gwen Watkins’s green ensemble
alongside. President Mrs. A. S. McClin-
tock, in natty sage-green outfit, and sec.
Ethel Gordon’s black-and-white suede
taffetas flitted among boughs of decora-
tive peach-blossom.
Cupid’s arrow did a long-distance flight
from Johore, Malaya, to Bunbury, unit-
ing the hearts of John Finlay Green and
Mollie, only daughter of the George
Readings, of the sou’-west port.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Invitations to the Stock Exchange Ball
took the form of a sale note. The deco-
rations suggested the gold standard of
happy memory—huge bowls of gold-
lacquered arum-lilies stood on pedestals
round the official box, where the presi-
dent of the social committee, H. Thomp-
son, and his wife received Stock
Exchange chairman Andrew D. Young
and his daughter and Lord Mayor Cain
with his daughter, Mrs. H. Dunstan.
Mrs. Thompson was gowned in pale-pink
angel-skin, the cowl sleeves trimmed with
black fox fur. Mrs. Dunstan’s pale-blue
romaine had a diagonal gold thread run-
ning through it. Miss Young chose wine-
toned chiffon, worn with an ermine coat.
Other members of the ball committee in
the official box were Miss P. Oelmann,
frocked in navy floral crepe de Chine
with emerald-green sash, and Miss L.
Sims, who wore a halo of pale-blue
flowers with a mulberry-toned toilette.
Over 600 were present.
The English women golfers were given
a civic reception in the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms at the Town Hall, decked with
almond-blossom and daffodils. Mayoress
Cain wore a fitch fur cape with her leaf-
brown marocain and hat to match. Mrs.
Dunstan’s wine-toned ensemble and
velour hat went with silver fox.
Kooyonga Golf Club entertained the
British team at the clubhouse at Lock-
leys. Festoons of colored lights outside
and gorgeous flowers within made the
place gay. In the huge dining-room,
where dancing was enjoyed, the coloring
was red and yellow. In the women’s
lounge purple flags, pink peach-blossom
and mauve irises were associated with
troughs of pink sweet-peas and grape
hyacinth. Supper was served in a.mar-
quee. The visitors are all smart frockers.
The Uni. Union staged a cheery dance
in the refectory to entertain students
from Sydney, Melbourne and Tas. uni-
versities. Primus blossom, Iceland pop-
pies and marigolds were used for deco-
ration. Supper was served in the Ladv
Stirling Hall, the tables arranged witn
purple cinerarias and mauve and pink
sweet-peas in black china bowls.
The Governor and his wife were at
the ball in the Palais Royal organised
by the G.P.O. to raise funds for the
Tubercular Soldiers’ Aid Society. Mr,
and Mrs. Peter Kennedy received the
vice-regals, and Miss M. Wilson-Smith
presented Lady Dugan with a bouquet
of pink roses which looked charming
against the recipient’s toilette of powder-
blue chiffon, over which she was wearing
a coat of gold-brocaded tissue. Mrs.
Kennedy was gowned in wine-toned
georgette, with a coat of black chiffon
velvet. Commander S. R. Symonds
brought Mrs. Symonds, in sapphire-blue
ring velvet, with a coat of gold lamd, and
daughter Katherine, in black satin skirt
and tunic of black taffeta patterned with
large pink roses. Mrs. C. B. Anderson
was gowned in black chiffon. The Palais
was crowded.
Mrs. W. T. Mortlock was hostess at a
dance given at her home, North Adel-
aide, for her niece, Naomi Hawker. Mrs.
Mortlock, smartly gowned in black duch-
esse satin moulded to the figure, received
her guests in the drawing-room, where
the flowers were all yellow poppies and
daffodils. Mrs. R. M. Hawker sported
leaf-brown chiffon with a coatee effect.
Naomi Hawker’s white satin was cut on
princess lines.
TASMANIA.
The University Ball at the Continental
was one of the great events of the season.
Lady Clark was in black tulip-tinted
chiffon, with long floating panels from
each shoulder. Gum sprays decked the
ballroom, and the supper-tables were a
mass of primroses and forget-me-nots in
flat bowls, with mauve iris and pink
Japanese peach and almond bloom.
Pauline Dixon and G. Hodson (presi-
dent of the Uni. Union) played hostess
and host. Young faces predominated.
Lady Clark bade members of the Cen-
tral Executive of the Victoria League (of
which she is president) to Government
House to tea, to welcome the deputy-
president, Mrs. Arthur Stourton, on her
return from London. Spring flowers
made the handsome old drawing-room
gay, and Mrs. Stourton related her ad-
ventures among London clubs and
women’s societies. The Victoria League
also staged a welcome-home to its
deputy-president.
Meg Ingles has qualified for the vote,
and had a jolly late-afternoon party at her
home in Sandy Bay. Mrs. Ingles was in
black- and color-printed chiffon, and the
young hostess wore black satin with a
swathed sash and frills of beige lace at
neck and sleeves.
Chief Justice Nicholls and his lady
threw open hospitable doors at Pillinger-
street for an afternoon sherry party.
Daughter Betty helped in the entertain-
ing. Lady Clark was there. Spring
flowers in masses decorated the rooms.
Launceston Players successfully tackled
“Autumn Crocus.” Herbert Gray and
his wife, as the Tyrolean innkeeper and
the little English schoolmarm, had the
play pretty well on their own shoulders
and proved equal to the job. Produc-
tion is always the Players’ long suit, and
Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre added another
notch to her tally of achievements with
this one. The pretty drop-curtain in the
mountain-shrine scene was the clever
work of Hope Evershed.
A Tasmanian writer, Mrs. Ronald
Dick, author of two novels and many
short stories of local interest, has had a
story accepted by “Blackwood’s.”
Fatigued after her travels, but still de-
termined to keep a few engagements,
Mrs. Lyons returned to her Devonport
home, intending to go into a private hos-
pital for rest and repairs as soon as pos-
sible, The Devonport people gave the
Prime Minister and Mrs. Lyons a cordial
welcome home, and Mrs. Lyons says the
best moment in all her itinerary was
when she set foot on the Speck once
more..


writes the user of an “R-an-
P Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
4U details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
I’EKTII: FJower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
-Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY • BRISBANE ■■
e
INGOT Riding Breeches and Jodphurs are
right in style, right in cut, right in quality,
moderate in price. Into every stitch, seam
and curve goes the experience that comes from
a lifetime of outfitting the equestrienne.
These hard-wearing garments will keep their
shape and color after repeated washings.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
For the Home . . .
Picnic Party, etc.
Always Reliable.
The
“STANLEY”
All-metal,
Unbreakable
VACUUM BOTTLE
Holds temperature
all day long. In
quart size, as illus-
trated.
Price / 1 0
è
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
OF QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
To Cane—or Not?
“C.Q.”; The discharging of a resolu-
tion in favor of the restoration of cor-
poral punishment from the agenda of the
Queensland Teachers’ Conference proves
to me that civilisation must be advancing
by leaps and bounds in the North. I went
to school in a mining town, and any
teacher in my day who had suggested
that canes should be burnt would have
been voted a fit subject for medical
examination. In our school, cane was a
matter of course. I have been caned for
leaving a name out of the map of Ireland,
for misspelling Buenos Aires, for throw-
ing an egg at a Chinaman and for put-
ting up my hand to ask a question at a
moment when our mentor was engrossed
in a discourse to which nobody was
listening.
One of my most nightmarish memories
in a fairly eventful life was of seeing a
small boy who had been tempted to
play the wag to go fishing receive 40
cuts (in defiance of the regulations). An-
other youngster in the class lost his nerve
and heaved an inkwell at the flogger,
who struck him across the chin with the
cane, cutting open his jaw for two inches.
But it used to be good theory then
that “if you did not keep a hand on a
big boy he would keep a hand on you.”
So our pedagogues took every pre-
caution. I don’t know. One of the two
most flogged boys in my class became a
famous flying ace ; the other, a renowned
officer of the Chinese Customs. I often
wonder whether their success was be-
cause of continual drubbing or in spite
of it. I have no evidence except a
chipped shinbone by which I have been
punished for 35 years as retribution for
the awful crime of climbing the school-
yard fence instead of coming through a
gate.
“Vic”: Wheat isn’t grown in, the
tropics, and most tropic maize has to be
kiln-dried. Nevertheless, Eric Harrison,
M.P. for a Sydney city electorate, is
positive that, “with better methods of
agriculture and correct water conserva-
tion, the Northern Territory should be
the granary of Australia.”
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Cold following the
winter rains in n.-w. Queensland caused
havoc amongst marsupials as well as
stock. Kangaroos, weakened by a six
months’ lean diet and almost stiff in the
legs from the cold rain, sought shelter
huddled together beneath station home-
steads. One grazier, whose house was
on high blocks, dragged out for burning
an animal menagerie, including goats,
sheep, marsupials and two foals. In
scores of instances, where creeks were
running bankers, hundreds of head of
stock were washed to Kingdom Come.
A selector near Mackinlay (N.Q.), had
75 per cent, of his sheep drowned, and
they had cost just on a pound a head to
artificially feed when the deluge came.
* * * %
“X.T.”: The Brisbane reporter, cele-
brating the success of the “diamond
jubilee show,” has spread himself in lan-
guage which would make Roget quiver
with envy. I used to imagine that the
championship in agricultural descriptive
writing lay with the Sydney pressman
who wrote, a decade ago, about “the
sleek, highly-polished, upstanding brood
draught mares”—which, of course, are
never sleek, never polished, never even
clipped—but I think he forfeits the belt
to our scribe who this year enthuses
solemnly about the “grunting of opulent
pigs.”
♦ * * #
“El V.”; There is something ironically
humorous in the objection of a Queens-
land public-service union to the use of
the word “ranger” to denote inspectors
in the Lands Department, because if
“savors too much of Zane Grey and
other American authors of the bad, bold,
Wild West type where the popping of
six-chambered Colts is a lunch-hour
recreation.” Actually, “ranger” is an
English word in use for centuries —the
famous Duchess of Kingston who caused
so much stir in the eighteenth century
married “The Ranger of Richmond
Park,” who carried out the same sort
of duties as rangers in the Queensland
“Mary, come hack —Foe something to say to you."
"You say all you got to say to me when I'm gon e!"
Lands Department. And General
Medows, Bayard of the first Tippoo War,
was the son of a British ranger. In
U.S.A. a ranger applies, generally, to a
cowboy. What the Queensland Lands
Department calls a “ranger,” Uncle Sam
calls a “range rider.”
* « * #
Though his original Australian inter-
ests were on the Lachlan (N.S.W.), the
North claimed the late George Bunning
as a Queenslander. He was the old type
of Central Queensland grazier who
reached the land via an English public
school and the Bar. He was a keen
student of the scientific side of grazing,
and it was in his brain that the idea
germinated from which the C.S.I.R. was
oeve opec * * *
“Lignum”: Even remote Birdsville,
which has seen precious few clouds in
the last decade —it was without a good
shower for several years—has shared in
the winter downfalls which have drenched
western Queensland. Falls up to 159
points were recorded early in July, and
the Diamantina rose 12 feet at Monkira,
where the big bullocks come from. The
ssarsSd rduXr&rsss
so much of Central Australia about the
cars of the township that there might
have been an eclipse in progress. Of
course, the mails are all late—Glengyle
had been waiting six weeks for its
Boulia letters when last heard from, and
the B.rdsville-Wmdorah-Betoota car was
a month overdue at the end of July,
though news had been received that the
mailman was enjoying a little vicarious
bathing en route in numerous Hooded
creeks
* * * +
“Calliungal”: The North shouldn’t
lack pioneers when there are lads like
those who received a check to their
ambitions at Gladstone (C.Q.) a few days
ago. One took his father’s car from its
garage in Sydney, and they set out for
Cape York. About 200 miles beyond
Rockhampton—l3oo miles from home—
the car broke down; so they jumped the
rattler. The “Rocky” climate not suiting
them, they took the first car they liked
and started for Sydney, but their journey
was interrupted at Calliope by a police-
man who haled them before a Children’s
Court. Admonished, and in the custody
of a parent, they left for home. Ages?
Fourteen and sixteen.
An involuntary exhibit among the
Y.A.L. boys from western Queensland
who are visiting the Brisbane Show is
young Thomas Moore, of Miles. Except
that he is 6ft. 6 5-Bin. in his socks and
weighs list. 71b. at 15 years old, he is
just an ordinary Cornstalk whose greatest
problem is where he will get a horse to
fit him on his father’s station if he grows
a foot or two taller. He has an uncle who
is about his own height.
* » * *
“Enoggera”; The scornful refusal of
a Brisbane suburb to enjoy the benefits
of a tramway extension has made the
authorities uneasy, and a vigorous discus-
sion proceeds as to whether it would not
be better to have a bus and trolley sys-
tem. It is suggested, on the contrary,
that, since Melbourne has discovered that
“there is no system of mass transporta-
tion superior to trams,” we should desist
from experimenting with crude-oil buses
—which are “practical politics” in
London—and that trolley buses which
serve cities as large and much busier than
Brisbane—like Wolverhampton (England)
—should be given a chance. In Adel-
aide, where transport thought seems to
be most revolutionary, trolley-buses are
making most progress. They are cer-
tainly cheaper to run than buses. They
are more flexible than trams, and they
have worked well overseas in cities full
of hills—Hastings, for example—so that
our northern capital should be an ideal
testing ground. It would cost the tram-
way people very little to run a power
line from the Toowong tramway ter-
minus to Mt. Coot-tha, and, if that, with
its high grades and curves, works with the
trolley, it should point a finger towards
future lines of policy.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Girls in riding togs, girls in ball
dresses, spruikers, Strawberry in the
throes of her toilette, crowded trams —
the Brisbane Diamond Jubilee Show is
the biggest thing of its kind socially that
Brisbane has seen. Sir Isaac Isaacs is
here, and so is Lady Hore-Ruthven, but
Lord and Lady Huntingfield have gone
south. Dr. Earle Page spoke at the
official luncheon.
There were the United Service at-home,
at which 23 debutantes made their bow
to vice-royalty, and the Girl Guides’ Ball,
at which the committee was horribly em-
barrassed at a gift of gin and whisky
from some devoted adherent. At the
Movie Ball 1200 people milled about
the City Hall. And at the Girls’ Ball
there were 63 youthful hostesses. Couples
frequented the Town Hall passages, and
the cleaners found a beer-bottle quaintly
holding a camellia spray against the wall
in one of the topmost alleys near the
clock tower.
David Wilson, the Governor’s young-
est, has arrived from England. He is
to enter the army as soon as he reaches
London again.
Mrs. Willie Collins (Nindooimbah) and
Mrs, A. H. Whittingham were hostesses
during Show Week.
Although an infernally cold wind
blew on Show Wednesday, spring cos-
tumes made their appearance at Ascot.
Lots of the visitors at the Show Week
meeting wore spring hats with winter
costumes, but other hardy spirits appeared
in voiles and linens and floral georgettes.
Colleen Gary, a granddaughter of the
late George Appel, once Home Secretary,
gave a dinner-party before the Girls’
Ball at Lennon’s.
The Moreton Club Ball was also re-
vived, and Sir Isaac Isaacs, Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven, Misses Marjorie Wilson,
Priscilla Feilden, Ivie Price, Messrs.
David and Peter Wilson and the Rear-
Admiral and officers of the fleet were
among the guests.


Every Sufferer from
INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[][ Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
£ Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
" stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
* On entering the stomach De Witt’s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
gTT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
™ ingredient coats the stomach walls, and.
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Wit. t
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT'S Antacid Powder
nteans another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
Getting Further into the New Selection Country :-
THE WASTELAND
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
LOT 32, comprising 438 acres—and
known among us as De Burgh’s
block—had been forfeited and was
available for re-selection. On the advice
of the Crown lands ranger, who knew his
job better than the surveyor had known
his, the department was permitting men
who had selected in the vicinity to apply
for it as an additional area. There were
four of us competing: Tom Howells,
my nearest neighbor on the southern
side ; Paddy McGuire, across the ridge
on Store Creek, and a man unknown to
us, not a resident of the district. And,
of course, myself.
It lay between my place and Howells’s ;
a triangular block, separating our
corner posts by a little less than a mile
along the road frontage and coming
to a point where our fences met half-
way along our side boundaries. It was
an almost useless piece of land, being
mostly ridgy and barren, with its few-
fertile patches scattered and varying in
character; and, in a semi-arid region
where it required ten or twelve acres of
good land, well-improved, to carry a
beast, its area was insufficient even had
it been good. We had wondered what
sort of a man De Burgh, its original
owner, could be to have selected such a
block.
Up to a time when most of the settlers
had been in occupation of their selections
for about two years he had not put in
an appearance ; nor had he responded
to the written demands of Howells and
myself to pay half the cost of erecting
the boundary fences. Beyond his address
in Brisbane, which was obtained from
the local Lands Office, we could learn
nothing of him. No one —not even the
Crown lands ranger—could recall hav-
ing seen him.
In his absence —and in view of his in-
debtedness to me —I had entered into
occupation of his property. Howells
had the temporary use of some spare
land on the far side of his selection, so,
by friendly agreement —arrived at with
a facetious grin—he allowed me sole
use and enjoyment of De Burgh’s block.
I turned loose on it ten or a dozen
yearling heifers and a worn-out old horse
that the surveyors had left behind. That
was about the limit of its carrying
capacity.
BY the time De Burgh came along I
had become so used to being in occu-
pation that, far from being in a frame
of mind to offer sincere welcome to a
new neighbor and fellow-pioneer, I was
prepared to withdraw behind my own
fences only in unavoidable recognition
of his rights. From a condition of mind
—belonging to the time when 1 boiled
my first billy on my own fertile acres—
in which I regarded De Burgh’s block
as one of the Creator’s obvious blunders,
I had come to have a high regard for it.
Down on the good lands the bush was
wasting before our attack. The early
days when a man could ride from camp
to camp across country, by creek, ridge
'and plain, passed with the putting up
of settlers’ fences. Then came ring-
barking. The leaves that had filled a
valley or clothed a hill fell, leaving in
their places only a mist of grey twigs
supported on bare, peeling branches.
The game, too, disappeared. Mobs of
kangaroos that had taken a three-point
stance, with twitching nostrils, to look
at us when first we came had vanished.
The settler’s gun and the settler’s dog
had seen to that. The emu and the
plain turkey were gone, and the creatures
that browsed among the foliage ; the
koalas that had glided so cleverly from
view at our approach, and the ’possums
that had chattered at the unaccustomed
sight of our campfires. I often wondered
what tragedy had been theirs when came
that cataclysm, the falling of the leaves.
ONLY a very impractical man would
have attempted to make improvements
to De Burgh’s block —and he would have
mutilated it without benefit to himself,
unless there be benefit to a man in
struggle, defeat and ultimately the aban-
donment of hope. And yet, notwith-
standing its lack of potential productivity,
it was pleasant country.
If you entered it through the sliprails
in my side fence you found yourself on
a narrow ribbon of grassy flat beside the
creek, thinly timbered with a few
flourishing box-trees and an occasional
drooping grey myall. Here, in the dry
end of autumn, when they were migrat-
ing northward, your horse’s hooves,
rustling through the tall grass, would
often flush a flock of a hundred or
so budgerigars. They would rise with a
whirr in twittering flight, swirl into the
blue, then swoop down and vanish into
the grass again.
Across the creek you ascended a
rounded hill covering a hundred acres or
more. The greater part of it was clothed
with stunted brigalow ; shrubs, head-high
to a horseman, with light-brown stems
and foliage dense from the ground up,
leathery in texture, sage-green in color
and, looked at in mass, a billow of silvery
green. It was quiet among all those little
trees. But the iron-hard soil was barren.
It was good for nothing—except stunted
brigalow!
Going down the southern slope you
went through a little forest of brigalow
of another kind. Riding through ]t
was like passing under a multitude of
open umbrellas, edge to edge and sup-
ported from the ground on handles
black, crooked, ridiculously tall and
about as thick as a man’s wrist. There
was no undergrowth and no ground life ;
just the forest of spindly stems, the
bare earth, a little sunlight leaking in
between the branches and an occasional
twitter of birds among the leaves.
Passing through this quaint arcade
you rode then into an open-air con-
servatory ; a forest growth of tall belah
and brigalow with sunshine filtering and
splashing down through leaf and needle.
Bottle-trees grew here stone-grey and
squat, like monuments of primitive anti-
quity. The ground was soft with leaf-
mould and coated in places with creeping
saltbush, knee-deep, lush and bright
green, or dry and fallen back to the
earth in a yellow mat of haulm, accord-
ing to the season.
Following Tom’s fence down you
came again to the open country and the
creek. On the way you might cross the
track of a wild dog, or even see one
keeping pace with you, out of curiosity,
stopping to look at you, then gliding out
of sight among the undergrowth, to re-
appear a little later.
The waterhole was fifty yards below
Tom’s fence; a pothole in the clay
creek bed, small, but as tight as a tea-
cup, with a lofty carbcen gum or More-
ton Bay ash standing sentry beside it on
one bank and a bush apple spreading
shady limbs on the other. The cliffy
earthen banks were cut into by deep
sloping pads where wallabies and
koalas— hundreds of generations of them
—had come down by night, after making
sure that old man dingo was not in
hiding near by, to drink from the edge
of starry waters.
BEYOND the creek rose a high bony
ridge, one slope covered with a pleasant
but valueless forest of slender belahs,
undergrowthed with waist-high wilga
among which the wallabies flip-flopped
out of your way as you rode. The other
side was open forest; gum-topped box
—a sure sign of worthless land —with
scrolls of bark hanging from their upper
limbs, growing on a toilsome slope where
brown rocks, some as large as a dray,
others like the end of a house, jutted
from the earth. Fowl of the air, if little
else, had a use for the gum-topped box
country. It was a rare occasion when
snowy plumage and sulphur crests or
crimson bodies and green wings were not
to be seen. Here you might also disturb
a kangaroo-rat from his nest under a
tuft of wiry grass ; a fat little bundle of
fright who, with a hiss and a grunt,
would go bounding down the hillside in
ten-foot leaps, evidently under the im-
pression that he was being hotly pursued.
Here—as is mostly the case throughout
our land —poverty of soil was compen-
sated for by a rich wildflower growth.
Near the top of the ridge you forced
your way through a dense belt of wild
hop bush ; creamy-green when in early
flower, turning later to banks of russet,
and giving off gusts of woody fragrance
as it brushed by your knees.
The airy crown of the ridge was free
of undergrowth, and was gravelly under
a grove of little bloodwood trees. As you
rode along it you could see, through the
gaps between the branches, much of the
new settlement spread out below you.
I WAS on the ridge one day when my
ears were filled with a sustained boom-
ing, a prolonged minor roar. There was
no wind. I thought of aircraft; then,
guided perhaps by sense of smell, the
focus of vision shifted nearer home.
The boughs of the bloodwoods were
clotted with blossom and loud with
native bees.
Going downhill, toward the sliprails,
you came, after passing through a belt
of stunted belah —like a plantation of
large Christmas-trees —again to open
forest. Ironbark and box here, with an
untidy undergrowth of saplings, cotton
bush and other shrubs. It was dirty
country in a settler’s way of looking at it,
but ’possums and koalas seemed to like
it well. Most of the trees were mis-
shapen and piped ; scarcely one but had
a branch or two ending in a woody
hollow where small furry things might
peacefully sleep away the hours of day.
Many of them grew at an incline, and
on the bark of the upper surfaces of
these you would see, quite plainly, the
toe scratches of nocturnal comings and
goings. On burnt-over patches of
ground there grew in clumps a plant like
a dwarfed lupin.
Against my fence, and just above the
sliprails, was a sandalwood slope; small,
straight-stemmed trees, with crumbly
black bark and many-elbowcd branches
—as if they had been hard pruned for
years—ending in tough twigs and a thin
screen of small, pale-green leaves. In
flowering time a thump with the heel of
the hand against the tree-trunk would
bring down a shower of minute creamy
petals.
A little grass grew here, in scattered
tufts, and, although it was a type of coun-
try that would scarcely pay for improv-
ing, it had a virtue of its own. The thin
soil was warm. It responded quickly—
and to lighter rains than would be needed
to be effective on better country, A day
or two after a shower had passed the
grass would be like spurts of green flame
against the moist brown earth.
Here, as on a good deal of our west-
ern country, irregular rains brought
irregular growth ; springing the seeds or
roots of herbage that had lain dormant
in the earth for years. I was returning
one nightfall from Tom’s place, where I
had spent the day helping him erect a
windmill. At the creek crossing, where
the track passed over a half-acre island
formed by a tiny anabranch, I passed
from the sharp eucalyptic scent of the
bush into air heavy with garden frag-
rance. From the night-hidden earth white
flowers were looking up, like a host of
apparitional faces. 1 swung off the horse
and for a little while held a lighted match
above one. The faint eeriness of the
moment of discovery remained with me,
and, nearing the same spot the follow-
ing morning, I was not surprised at see-
ing no flower in sight. But 1 found them ;
each tight-furled against the light of day.
FOR me, De Burgh’s block was a place,
an escape, and a condition of mind. I
went up there, as a rule, when a long
bout of toil on my own place had
brought me to a standstill —and a half-
day sitting easy in the saddle seemed
fairly earned. I have spent more than
one morning up on the end of the blood-
wood ridge with my behind on a cool
boulder or a warm one —as the prevail-
ing temperature suggested —and my back
against a tree, reflecting on the folly of
work and the wisdom of sweet idleness.
There was always the excuse of seeing
how the heifers had done during the
month or six weeks since last seen. They
had a number of night camps: in the
scrubby brigalow when a sharp wind
blew ; beside the waterhole in the heat
of summer, and up in the high warm
air of the bloodwood ridge of nights
when frost lay heavy on the low lands.
I think understanding and mutual tolera-
tion were arrived at between them and
the bush animals. Lying quietly in night


'on can teet can see it
..atut.tor can
its Film on Teeth!
9 Filin must be removed from teeth . . . for beauty
and for health.
Filin is that slippery coating on your teeth. Film
contains the germs associated with tooth decay.
Film invites tooth and gum disorders. Stains from
food and smoking lodge in film—make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not.
Film sticks like glue. To remove it you must use
a special film-removing agent. Pepsodent is known
throughout the world today as the special film-
removing tooth paste.
Due to Scientific Formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film from teeth
is due to the formula. A new cleansing and polishing
material has been developed. This material is far
safer than any leading tooth powder—far softer
than polishing materials used in any other leading
tooth paste. Yet it removes film with striking
effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is contained in
Pepsodent exclusively—and in no other tooth paste
whatsoever. That’s why Pepsodent giVes results not
possible with other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have told us that
they make Pepsodent their personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will not risk their
own teeth or their children’s with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap tooth pastes, when
Pepsodent leaves teeth brighter, gives higher polish.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—sec your dentist at least
twice a year,
N 7351
■
A
1
\l^
4
r^
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
:
bortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
ImuduuuJuMakiimilliiion lim
1
Special Scotch
WHISKY
• FOR THE MAN WHO KNOWS/
camp they would have knowledge of
much that took place around them.
By day they might be met anywhere ;
with their heads down to the tender
bite among the sandalwoods, nosing out
a green blade or two among the rank
grasses of the creek flat, camped with
tight bellies under the bush apple by the
waterhole, browsing in the bottle-tree
scrub, or standing in the arcade of
umbrella-brigalow, as if in contemplation
or the enjoyment of the special kind of
solitude afforded by those surroundings.
Wherever they might be the old
horse would rarely be far away. Lack-
ing the companionship of another of his
own species he identified himself with
them. And they, although they had no
need of him, granted him a certain
measure of social recognition. I have
come upon them in camp, he lying in
the centre and they disposed around him.
And that was De Burgh's block —unless
hands without understanding were laid
upon it, last home of the bush animals ;
the bush when all the bush was van-
quished ; last dwelling-place of the .Spirit
that many have known though none has
seen.
De Burgh appeared.
i was carrying my tools out through
the scrub track to my front sliprails,
which I was replacing with a gate, and
had almost reached them when I saw a
man pass along the road. By the time
I reached the rails he was twenty yards
past them ; a broad-shouldered figure in
a cocoa-brown sac suit. His head was
huge, with a mop of iron-grey curls, and
he carried a black velour hat in one
hand. He was walking, not with the
quiet labor-saving slouch of the bush-
worker, whose body earns his bread, but
briskly—as if he had a tram to catch at
the next corner.
I dropped my tools with a clatter.
When I looked up he was coming back
toward me. While yet a dozen yards off
he beamed and held forth his hand ex-
pansively. “My name is De Burgh,” he
said. “Simon de Burgh.”
His palm was soft.
He was of striking appearance. In
addition to his curls he had a clear sallow
skin ; big, brown, dreamy, kind-looking
eyes under crinkly brows, and a hori-
zontal coil of iron-grey moustache above
a mouth with well-turned lips and a
broad chin. He was plump. He looked
like a poet in good condition or a band-
master in mufti.
117'ITH a flourish he disclosed a folded
"" land map in the hand in which he
carried his hat. “You’d be my neighbor
on lot 31,” he suggested.
i acknowledged the truth of his sup-
position.
Without further preliminaries he
plunged into a discussion of agricultural
topics.
“This land should be good for wheat,”
he cried, casting an optimistic eye about
him.
“It might be all right if we got regular
seasons,” I said. Something ingenuous in
his manner made me wonder if he’d ever
seen a bag of wheat except in a fuel and
produce store. And I was also trying to
find a place for a wheat paddock on lot
32.
“Going in for fodder conservation?”
he asked brightly.
He might as well have asked me if I
thought of having the paper delivered
each morning.
“Not just yet a while,” I answered.
He spoke of melons in the next breath.
At some place he had visited near the
coast he’d seen watermelons that would
fill a wheelbarrow ; and tomatoes as big
as —well, two of them would fill the
crown of his hat.
He went on to talk as if 1 subscribed
to a farming paper, and had read it as
thoroughly as he appeared to have done.
He was full of agricultural chit-chat. He
mentioned recent fluctuations in the
market price of potatoes as if it were a
matter engaging interest. He expressed
an opinion on the importation of South
African maize, and another on the export
of stud merino rams to the same place.
He touched on the troubles that afflict
vignerons and the handsome rewards
accruing to apiarists. He mentioned
lucerne. He opined that fowls, Orping-
tons and leghorns, might be a profitable
sideline in our locality. His rural horizon
was limitless.
I d had time to make a further inspec-
tion of him, and had discovered what I
believed to be a pathetic contrast between
his welling enthusiasm and his appear-
ance. His shoes were cracked and had a
many-times-mended look, his suit had
seen much use, and his shirt had very
little wear left in it. Also—though this
may have been due to weariness after his
long walk from the railway—his features
drooped a little when he was not actually
speaking.
I could not shake off the realities of
circumstance, as understood by myself
and my neighbors, sufficiently to make
suitable response to his soaring discourse,
so I brought him back to earth with a
couple of personal questions. I learned
that he had come to look over his
property, and that he hoped to settle per-
manently among us in about six months’
time. In return for his information 1
extended my good wishes.
We parted soon afterwards with an-
other dramatic handshake and reciprocal
expressions of goodwill.
i thought about De Burgh. Strangers
mean a lot to you in the bush. After
they have gone you go through them
with leisurely thoroughness. He secnied
to me the sort of fellow who would
be always discovering short cuts to Para-
dise—and getting bushed trying to follow
them. I liked him ; but 1 couldn’t sec
him in successful occupation of a selec-
tion.
I DIDN’T see him again, but a couple of
*• days later Tom, with whom he had
stayed, drove in on his way back from
taking him to the station. He offered no
comment, but there was a twinkle in his
eye. He hung a leg over the side rail of
the driving scat.
“What’s an art shop?” he asked.
I explained to the best of my ability.
Dc Burgh had, at one time, been the
proprietor of one.
At present he was a photographer.
He’d been editor of a pigeon, dog and
poultry paper. He’d made a moving
picture. He'd written for the papers.
He’d been to America.
The materialisation of De Burgh and
the knowledge of a definite time when he
would settle among us dashed my hopes
as regards lot 32. Tradition supported
the idea that he would eventually
abandon it —you’d hear fellows who were
on good blocks say of someone who was
pursuing a forlorn hope on poor country,
“He’s improving our land for us,” but with
the person of De Burgh before the inner
eye the day when he would acknowledge
defeat seemed too remote to be of
interest. By that time he would have
chopped his block out of all recogni-
tion —and. in any case, my application
would only be one of several.
I had a special reason for the sense of
disappointment his appearance had
evoked in me. Between my homestead
and my front gate lay a twelve- or fifteen-
acre patch of bottle-tree scrub similar to
that on De Burgh’s block. The track 1
had cut from the front gate wound
through it. After a long drive in the
hot sun its greenness and shade were
like a welcome home. More than that.
The homestead was built closo up to the
edge of it, and of summer mornings it
threw a cool porch of shadow when the
open forest was flooded with scorched
gold. And at dawn, when the cattle-bitch
came slapping the side of the bed with
her tail to let me know it was time to
show a leg, the birds would be singing
along its edge. I would hear them
through the open windows as 1 pulled
my clothes on. I don’t mean just a trill
or two. They gathered in the scrub near
the house because it was close to the
water in the dam at the foot of the slope.
From dawn till a little after sunrise the
scrub edge was rowdy with birds. Their
song made a pleasant beginning to a day
that was often hard enough.
The time was coming when 1 would
have to get into that patch of scrub with
axe and fire-stick, but if De Burgh’s block
were mine 1 could afford to let it stand.
EIGHT months elapsed between the
visit of De Burgh and our hearing of
his forfeiture through the re-gazettement
of his land.
I couldn’t take the time off to attend
the sitting of the Land Court in Wilga-
town, so I appointed the clerk to draw
my ballot slip for me. Tom went in. He
returned the following day, bringing
word of the result. He came tow'ard me
with a grin that revealed nothing except
his knowledge of the anxiety I was con-
cealing. He stopped his horse and sat
looking down at me, continuing to grin
—extracting suspense frdm the situation.
“The block’s yours,” he said.
That night I sat in my stockinged feet
by my fireside, but my thoughts were up
on De Burgh’s block, putting a fence along
the front boundary and damming the
lower edge of the waterhole so that my
heifers, paddymelons, etcetera, would
have a supply of water over even the
worst of the dry spells. De Burgh’s
block! What had he to do with it? It
was mine now, but from force of habit
and for convenience sake we would go
on calling it De Burgh’s block. He had
christened it


//A
0
e
“TIBURON”
Kylie Tennant’s Prize Serial Commences Next Week
V.
nh
9,
a
Probably no other serial of the magnitude of “Tiburon” has been
published for many years. As the story unfolds, it grips the
reader through each chapter; one becomes intrigued by its action
and human interest, its humor, pathos and powerful word pictures.
“Tiburon” depicts the everyday life of a small western N. S. Wales
country town, so typical of Australia; its characters live, and
every Australian will readily recognise the types.
DON’T MISS OPENING CHAPTERS
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW !
£
il
4^
rs
w
z
*\
9b
A Parade of Characters and Situations Making “Tiburon” a Notable Contribution to Australian Literature,
Scene from the Private Life of a Star:—
THE READY-MADE
MOTHER
by Z. V.WEBB.
YOU know, life isn’t all a bed of roses
for an actress, even a musical-
comedy star like me.
It’s all very thrilling, of course, for a
girl to step out of the ranks and become
the idol of the people, and for a while
1 thoroughly enjoyed my popularity. The
applause was music in my ears ; it was
gorgeous to walk to the footlights and
receive the flowers and things sent up by
my admirers.
Well, as I say, I enjoyed all the fuss
my public made of me, but I knew it
couldn’t last for long, while I had every
intention of Tasting quite a considerable
time.
It was on my twenty-ninth birthday
that I sat down and took stock of myself.
Here was I, Flossie Fookes, officially
twenty-four years of age, not bad-look-
ing, and with enough “It” to get me—
what?
My early ambition to be a headliner
on the programmes had been realised,
and I now looked for fresh worlds to
conquer.
I had enjoyed my fun, and now I
wanted to settle down, which in my case
meant Matrimony with a capital M.
Of course, any girl with ordinary tech-
nique can get a husband, but I didn’t
want the sort of man any girl could land.
I had set my heart on class. I practised
for hours in front of a mirror to get the
bored expression which some lucky girls
achieve by the accident of birth.
I wanted to forget my humble breeding
and to become a disciple of Culture.
No longer would I be satisfied with gay
parties of Bohemian friends: nothing
but Society would satisfy my ambition.
I would marry a scion of a noble house,
forget the stage and settle down to be
a lady.
As soon as I had made my decision I
set about arranging my plans.
To attract the sort of man I wanted it
was necessary that I should become a
model of decorum.
The first requirement was to achieve
the right setting, so I disposed of all the
colorful junk I had collected, and re-
decorated the flat in a simple style which
suggested good taste.
Next, I looked around for a stately
lady to instal in the flat as my
mother . . . “The beautiful young musical-
comedy star, living quietly with her
mother in their charming home! She
adores children, likes simple amusements
and is never happier than when she is
busy in her spotless kitchen preparing
the dainty dishes for which she is
famous!” .. . That was the sort of stunt
I wanted to work.
The press-agents lapped it up like
hungry cats with bowls of cream, and I
quickly gained the reputation I desired,
MY new mother was all that could be
desired from the publicity point of
view. Dressed in soft, clinging, black
robes, With her white waved hair and
creamy hands, she
was a model of
dignity. She looked
as helpless as a
Dresden china orna-
ment, but, believe
me, she was the only
person that I’ve ever
been afraid of.
A blustering stage
manager never raised
the slightest goose
flesh on me, but my
official mother had
only to elevate her
eyebrows and I’d
want to sink into
the ground. She
was Class, all right.
“My dear, it
simply isn’t done,”
she’d say, and I’d
feel like a worm that
couldn’t find a hole to crawl into.
“Mrs. Fookes” to my friends, she was
“Mother” or “Dearest” to me. She
twisted her face as if she had sudden
toothache when I once called her “Ma,”
and I never attempted the familiarity
again. She let me understand from the
first that her private affairs had nothing
to do with me, and I knew nothing of
her except that she was undoubtedly a
lady, and that she was selling her services
to me so that she should not be a burden
to her family.
She was certainly all that I could wish.
The people I brought home were charmed
with my cultured mother, and spoke
enthusiastically of the simple dignity of
my home life in contrast with the brilli-
ance and splendor of my public appear-
ances.
I began to think I was becoming a
lady myself, though, let me tell you, it
was harder work than rising to be a
musical-comedy star.
Mother was a real stickler for the pro-
prieties. She got her toothache expres-
sion when I appeared for lunch in my
kimono, and I soon knew that it “simply
wasn’t done.” I murmured a gentle
apology and hurriedly dressed before
beginning the meal.
I must say that Mother Fookes was
very sincere in her desire to do well by
me. She would close her eyes as if at -a
painful sight and sigh like Patience on
a monument when I appeared in what
I thought was a fetching outfit.
“My dear,” she would say. “Your
ensemble is too, too striking. A lady is
never conspicuous in her dress.”
I really think she liked showing me my
faults. It sort of compensated her for
the feeling of inferiority she had when
taking my money.
But I didn’t mind the discipline,
though, believe me, Mother Fookes was
a sergeant-major in petticoats—of course,
without the language. Though she looked
as frail as a lily, she had such dignity
that she could, 1 believe, have faced a
burglar with her false teeth out and
her face smeared with cream, I could
imagine her fixing the scoundrel with
her eye, telling him he could not possibly
call on two unprotected females, as it
simply wasn’t done.
IT really was a joy for me to grant inter-
* views for society papers, with my
mother making a perfect background of
cultured simplicity. I would allow the
journalist to become saturated with the
dignified atmosphere of the home be-
fore I made my appearance, dressed in a
big check apron.
Mother would always raise her eye-
brows.
“Your apron, dear!” re-
prove.
And I would pretend to be embar-
rassed, would retire to pull off the offend-
ing garment and would return to find
mother apologising for my carelessness.
“So sorry,” I’d say. “I get so inter-
ested in my cooking that I quite forget
where I am.”
The interviewer would be charmed
with the domestic atmosphere, and his
pencil would fly over his paper. One
fool was so touched that he wanted to
see the cooking, but mother came to the
rescue.
“Oh, no! ” she said. “One never
. obtrudes one’s domestic affairs upon a
visitor. It simply isn’t done.”
For once I was thankful for mother’s
pet phrase. After her gentle rebuke
there was nothing more to be said, and
the talk went along sedately, with mother
directing the conversation in the right
channels.
Between press-agents, reporters and
my official mother, my personality was
moulded so that anyone knowing me as
a chorus girl would never have recog-
nised the Flossie Fookes in search of the
Right Man.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:-
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The 'JW.aclcod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALAN ARTSTS
Admission Free
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has.proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Kenresentative: K. D. Fisher, Newspaper Home, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydnev ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
y
L.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PL.CSI RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
J 7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
nse, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
Yes, I kept my goal strictly before me.
1 wanted a man of the right class so
that I could appear before all the world
as a lady.
IHAD just got into my stride, after six
months of rigid training, when he
appeared on the horizon.
1 knew him the moment I saw him.
As soon as I clapped eyes on him I
said to myself: “There’s your man.”
Tall, dark and clear-eyed, with an air
of authority, he was obviously the per-
fect gentleman.
His name was Gordon wSmith. Of
course, he couldn’t help the Smith part
of it, and: he certainly looked a Vere dc
Vere. I thought maybe there was a
hyphen in the background but, anyhow,
his manner would carry him through. I
could see that even Mother Fookes
would not be able to put him in his
place.
I soon realised that with such a man
the courting would be different from any-
thing I had ever experienced, and I began
to alter my technique to suit the condi-
tions.
Gordon was a friend of the stage
manager, and had come behind the
scenes to study the theatre at first-hand.
Little shivers went up and down my
spine when we were introduced, and I
knew that I had found the man I was
seeking.
“How do you do. Miss Fookes?” he
said. “May 1 congratulate you upon your
performance? It was a delightful por-
trayal.”
His words were like candy to a kid,
and I knew that even Mother Fookes
could not have done better.
I copied her manner in my best style.
“Thank you so much, Mr. Smith. I
like to give pleasure to my audience.”
We talked away in copy-book manner
for a few moments while Gordon’s eyes
said a lot of things that weren’t in the
copy-book.
The stage manager, being one of those
get-together johnnies, rubbed his hands
and smiled like a car salesman who has
just made a deal.
“What about a little supper?” he sug-
gested. “Just the three of us?”
I would have been thrilled to the back
teeth to accept, though 1 wasn’t exactly
pining for the stage manager’s company.
But I never forgot my technique.
“That would be awfully nice,” I mur-
mured as sweet as Little Bo Peep. “I’d
love to come, but I promised mother I’d
be home early.”
The stage manager, who’d known me
in my chorus-girl days, gaped like a fish
out of water, but Gordon swallowed it
all, hook, line and sinker.
“Perhaps we could arrange for to-
morrow night. Could we, Miss Fookes?”
“I think we might,” I said, and gave
him my hand for a second. “Good night,
Mr. Smith. So pleased to have met
you.”
That was all, but I knew it was quite
enough.
THE next night we had the little
* supper, with the stage manager beam-
ing like a Cupid who’s done a good job.
The following night there was another
supper, but Cupid knew nothing about it.
“You know,” Gordon said, “I ad-
mired you awfully the moment you
tripped on to the stage. I said to myself
i must meet that girl,’ and I looked up
my old friend, who was stage-managing
the show.”
1 beamed across the table. Gordon
was really a dear and so ultra-classy, if
you know what I mean.
“Did you really?” I murmured. “How
very nice of you.”
We went on with some more polite
copy-book talk, which I knew was the
right stuff for a boy like Gordon. I
wasn’t going to lose my fish by pulling
in the line too fast.
“Well,” 1 said with a sigh. “I mustn’t
be too late or mother will be anxious.”
I could have laughed at my demure
manner, but there was no doubt that it
was the sort of thing that appealed to
my nice boy friend, and it wasn’t any
harder than playing a part on the stage.
Gordon saw me home, but I did not
invite him in. I explained that I would
have been pleased to offer him hospitality,
but it was so late that mother might not
approve. Gordon quite understood, and
was awfully sweet about it. He thanked
me for a pleasant evening, shook hands
and watched me safely inside. He really
was an awfully nice kid, and I felt that
my discipline was worth while.
Our little romance was progressing
slowly and steadily, but I had no wish to
rush the climax.
Mother Fookes, who took her duties
very seriously, began to think I was late
in coming home from the theatre, and, of
coarse, I knew she had the right to keep
me in the path of decorum. That was
what she was paid for. So I explained
that I had been having supper with a
gentleman friend who brought me home
after the show.
“Well,” she said, “I think it would be
correct for me to meet him.”
I’d been thinking the same thing
myself, but it was good to know that my
official mother felt as I did. Evidently
I was becoming versed in the behavior
of a lady.
That night', after the show, I spoke to
Gordon about it.
“My mother wishes to meet you. She’s
very particular about me, you know, and
likes to know who are my friends, and
where wc go, and so on. She’s rather a
dear, but very proper.”
“That’s all right,” said Gordon, “I’ll
be very pleased to meet her. She’s quite
right to guard such a precious jewel as
her daughter.”
Gordon could say the sweetest things.
“You see,” 1 explained, “mother
doesn’t want me to get fast just because
I’m on the stage.”
Gordon laughed.
“As if you could! Why, you’re so
sweet and guileless that you’ll always be
a child.”
I hadn’t blushed for years, but 1 did
then, believe me.
The next day being Sunday, wc thought
it a good opportunity for Gordon to call.
EVERYTHING was arranged at the
flat. Subdued lighting made a homely
atmosphere, and the flowers Gordon had
sent me made the room sweet with their
perfume.
Mother Fookes was her usual charming
self, a mother any girl would be proud
of. I wore a simple little gown which
made me look even less than my official
age.
The bell rang, and my heart began to
beat like the big drum at the circus.
Sedately I admitted the boy friend and
led him to the lounge, where the sweet,
dignified lady in black stood ready to
receive him.
“Mr, Smith, my mother,” I said.
Gordon’s jaw dropped, and he looked
like a boy who sees the whiskers fall off
Father Christmas.
“No, mine !” he said.
Anyhow, it might have been a strain
for me to be always a lady.
COSMOPOLITAN
BY GEEL.
IT was a warm little cafe off Bourke-
street. Intimate and cosy, but spuri-
ously Continental. Sauerkraut and
Lieberwiirst. Tamales, if you care for
the Mexicans. Hot frijoles. Truffles.
You may meander gastronomically
through creation, for Hans is obliging.
He will delude the unknowing, but the
wise guy is an open book to him. His
“Sorry, zair, we are ri’ out of ‘rahgoot
Hongroise’ ” is a masterpiece of sym-
pathy with an appetite that seeks appease-
ment legitimately, but if you are faking
a bizarre need he’ll know. You’ll gel
“rahgoot Hongroise” whether it’s on or
not.
Before me, across table, sat a huge
man whose champing jaws were eloquent
testimony to Hans’s art.
“I haven’t tasted finer cabbage Russe
outside Petrograd,” he said.
“Petrograd?” This sounded interest-
ing.
“Yeah. I was there in 1916. Army
job.”
“Were you there at the time Russia
blew up?”
“Yeah. It’s a great place. Know
how to feed you. Only people in the
world who can brew tea. Same as
Americans are only ones who can
make a real doughnut. And porterhouse
steak! I remember havin’ a porterhouse
in Dayton about two hours before the
second flood hit the joint. Gee! that
was a steak”
“But the revolution”
“Aw, that. A lotta noise. Say, have
you ever tasted a real Berliner kraut? 1
remember a chef at the police barracks
fixing me up in 1933, when”
“Good Lord! Were you there then?
When Hitler”
“Yeah. I was travelling with a circus.
Now this kraut is made properly by
taking”
“Two upheavals—you’ve seen history
in the making. What did”
“There’s nothin’ to it. I saw that
cavalry shine-up at Tia Juana —almost
makes it three revolutions. Tia Juana —
now there’s a place. Just the right mix-
ture of American and Mexican cooking.
C Continued on next page.)


“THEAGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns tor the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest-possible-
survey of the world’s happenings,' and-upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price Ijd- per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/-. per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually,
Advertising rates on application to the principal.
Advertising Service Agents in all States, or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
National t
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
CM mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
'advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest 1 -sense;' not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office; F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Biensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. 'Phone: F 3345.
THE
The Supreme
Advertising
Medium
for Western
Australia
Rate Cards and Full Particulars from
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place,
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
A
a»
FOR 93 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is still the Family Newspaper.
FUEE INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. B. BOLPH & SONS
PT¥., LTI>.,
71-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
M. S. ALLAN,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
W. G. DOUGAN,
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
U'> ... i
Best by
est
Read what one of New
Zealand’s leading advertising
agencies has to say.
“We have recently completed an
analysis of the relative pulling
power of a group, of New Zea-
land Newspapers. Of the many
interesting -facts' which have
emerged from the analysis, the
following is outstanding:
“ THE DOMINION’ not only
PULLED BETTER than any
other daily newspaper, but it
pulled TWICE AS MANY RE-
PLIES as any other newspaper
WITH AN EQUAL CIRCU-
LATION.”
Make certain to include in
your campaign.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Buildings,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
An
ENORMOUS
Field...
Western Australia offers tremendous
possibilities with its rural markets
of over two hundred - and thirty
thousand people. 6AM caters for
these people, and is the only medium
which serves them with regularity.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Tamales—wow! And waffles a “I’Ameri-
caine! A man could eat widely there.”
“But what of”
“Gimme the French for laying out
their food properly, though. There was
a little joint in the Rue d’Anvers where
I used to go until it got smashed up in
the May Day riots. 1 never got over
that.”
I reached up and lifted my hat off its
peg. I glared at that orgiastic eater
whose appetite had dragged him around
a world choked with exotic food. I
wished him international indigestion with
all the heat I could translate into words.
I called him, I remember, a blind belly
—with liberal dressing. I thought of all
that he might have said had his eyes not
been plastered with salted anchovies,
chili con came, poulet vinaigre and other
heathenish material.
“Say,” he called as I stormed out of
his company. “You ain’t ate nothin’.”
“No,” I answered. “And it’s the first
time in my life I have ever felt that
cannibalism provided the only correct
diet. Or that hitting below the belt
—particularly your belt—would be an
exquisitely delightful breach of the rules.
When you go travelling again, take care
you don’t drop your passport in your
soup”
“He ain’t no cosmopolitan,” I heard
his voice, thick with kraut and weiners,
say to Hans, as I left. “He don’t deserve
good foo4”
Fragment.
The russet, bees flew .out and in,
A drowsy murmur on the air,
A questing song, a humming din —
The autumn day was very fair.
A drowsy murmur on the air,
The wattle spilling faerie gold ;■
The autumn day was very fair —-
One did not think of growing old.
The wattle spilling faerie gold
Across the grass beneath the tree —•
One did not think of growing old
When life was beautiful and free.
Across the grass beneath the tree
The busy bees were so intense.
When life was beautiful and free
They stole the sweets ere flying
hence —
The busy bees were so intense
With droning, buzzing, humming lay —•
They stole the sweets ere flying hence
Until the daylight passed away.
" With droning, buzzing, humming lay
The russet bees flew out and in
Until the daylight passed away —•
A questing song, a humming din.
QUEENSLAND.
FLORENCE CARSON.
Would YOU Have Fallen for This?:—
WAEELS FOR
THE MILLION
By MAX BEAUMONT.
u T OE,” I says, uncouplin’ me foot
I from the brass rail, “what you
*/ need is somethin’ to eat. Come
on.” Persuasive, see? Spoken like the
crack salesman I-am. Besides, I wanted
somethin’ to eat meself.
, Well, 1 steers Joe out o’ the pub, an’
wo ducks around the corner an’ into the
first' hash-house we sec.
There’s a cove at our table wearin’ a
serious look, red hair an’ a bow tic. 1
never took much notice of him at first.
But after Joe’s made a sensation by
baptisin’ himself with a bowl o’ soup we
gets chatty, an’ by the time the steak an’
double arrives ■ Redhead’s startin’ to un-
button his soul to me, see?
“Yes,” he says, speakin’ in a hot-
potato accent, “ideas are the only things
that count in this world,” an’ he looks at
me very intense. He’s got a pair o’
mantelshelf eyebrows, an’ his crop o’
hair shines out like a neon sign in the
dark hash-house.
“At this very moment,” he says, “I
have an idea, a scheme, that’ll make me
richer then those Fiji mining blokes an’
more famous than the Prince o’ Wales
inside six months.”
“Go on,” I puts in, polite-like,
thinkin’ to meself, “I’m not so shickered
but what I know a nut with a screw
loose when I hear it creakin’.”
“Absolutely. Now, of course, as a busi-
nessman you must know the tremendous
power publicity has.”
I nods an’ gets back to me steak. I can
see T won’t have to do no talkin’ for a
long time.
“You realise how publicity can make,
not only isolated groups, but everybody
think and behave as you wish them to
think and behave.”
“True enough,” I thinks, an’ decides
I may as well listen-in after all. Leery
looks or not, this bloke’s got a pretty
spiel, an’ as a salesman I’m always, open
to pick up points, that way.
“Publicity,” he goes on, “is the first
factor in ray scheme. Now what would
you say. is the most valuable possession
people have and which they waste most?
Time,” he says without giving me a
chance to guess. “Wc all have time.
We are all compelled to waste lime,
although if is so valuable. If I,save a
man’s time, I save him money. I actually
make him < wealthier. Well, ’ now, in
exactly.what way dp people waste time?”
“Slecpin’?” I tries.
, “No. The greatest’single time-wasting
factor in modern life is—walking.”
I LIFTS an eyebrow. •
“Undoubtedly. Now take your own
case. Probably you walk from your
home to the railway station. It takes
you as long to travel that distance on fool
as it takes the train to carry you into
the city. When you reach the city, you
walk to your office. That takes you as
long again. Of your total travelling time,
two-thirds is spent in walking, and in that
time you cover far less ground than in
the other one-third. Why? , Simply be-
cause at present you cannot, on yoftr
own legs, travel faster than a speed of
four miles an hour. Not only is this slow
speed a waste of time ; it is also a colossal
waste of potential wealth. Do I make
myself clear?”
I assures him, “You’re perfectly poten-
tial to me.”
“Now to save this time we must some-
how increase our speed as pedestrians.
That is precisely what I have succeeded
in doing.” An’ he sits there starin’ at
me an’ wavin’ in the air a spud spiked on
his fork. He’s started to eat it five
minutes before, but he’s got so worked up
over his scheme he’s clean forgot about
it.
“I must again remind you,” he says,
“of the importance of publicity. Without
educative publicity my scheme cannot
succeed”
“That’s right,” I breaks in, “As a
salesman I’m just the one to know the
value of ads.” I’m gettin’ all interested,
see? Joe wants to. tell me afterwards it
must’ve been the beer ;, but, as 1 says to
him, “Drunk or sober,” I says, “I’ll
always give a man a bearin’ if he interests
me,” I says.
“Furthermore,” continues Redhead,
“you will recall that all discoveries which
have permanently benefited society have
usually begun by exciting popular ridi-
cule, Take the motor-car. Take the
locomotive”
“0.K.,” I says. “We'll take ’em as
taken. But what’s your lurk?”
“—yet in spite of the initial dis-
approval of the masses there have always
been a select few, far-sighted and enter-
prising men, men of initiative and imagi-
nation,. like yourself, who, with their
experience and breadth of vision, have
foreseen and appreciated the tremendous
potentialities of such schemes,” he says,
wavin’ the potato at me. “Believe me,
it takes-a man of insight and understand-
ing commensurate only with the magni-
tude of my scheme to evaluate fully its
epormous, possibilities.”
My, what a spiel! What a line that
cove had!
• “Briefly, then, my scheme (and I know
I can rely on you to treat this little chat
as confidential), my scheme is, firstly, to
float a corporation to prepare, the minds
of the people by appropriate publicity to
buy the output of a second, a manufac-
turing 4 , corporation which will aim at pro-
viding every man, woman and child in
this country with’a pair of roller-skates.”
“Roller-skates!” I coughs, chokin’ into
me cup o’ tea.
“Precisely. The time is at hand when
the present slow-moving throngs of
pedestrians along the city pavements will
be replaced by happy roller-skaters flash-
ing swiftly along—saving time, saving
money. ‘Skate to Save’ is the slogan. The
businessman will skate to his office in
a* fraction of the time : it now takes him
to walk.; ; The pretty typists will swing
daintily but speedily along. The once-
tired housewife will find her shopping
time cut down by half. For the first
time in history we shall have the marvel-
lous spectacle of a city’s millions released
from the toil of walking, and, while we’re
on the subject”
Redhead produces a green card-
board box from under the table. “To
a few specially-selected gentlemen like
yourself I’m passing out a pair of ball-
bearing, chromium-plated roller-skates,
guaranteed for three long years, all at
the purely nominal price of twenty-seven
and sixpence the pair.”
’ My! What a spiel!


! m
m
v ■:
■
\ n
r ■ ®
, , ..:
f ;. .
-s?.
5-S
•. "f.-.M V *2ay
' »; « m fcu. • t l #)
JSSS 'i
r
>4l
.
PILLS
They Make You Fee/ Brighter
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. That feeling of “No energy”
and “Not too well” are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When the Liver Is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use of treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach —thus bracing
up the system generally.
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to
be in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is
that the child is apt to start in its sleep,
its repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain <md distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. * The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, ,in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
4o c
COM
2/-
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms,
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Svdney. Price 2/- per packet (six packets
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
m
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
*
lO^
X KO
e
<t>°
P ** tft
5*
<v
’ %
.
o
0°
6)
6
o0&
s °r
A^ 0<
#•
A**
v«^c,s^v6-
o’
1' *v
,w


SECURITY
% ' ‘, ' ' /'ft-
is the watchword of the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Limited.
I't.
K r
i|"'l •* jl"Si
|Kf* HI
§m
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society’s New Building, in
course of erection.
For years and years the
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
has paid LARGER BONUSES to its Policy-holders
than any other Life Assurance Institution in Australia.
The City Mutual Life is the only Old-established
Mutual Millionaire Society which confines its business
ENTIRELY TO AUSTRALIA,
and its funds are invested in unquestionably sound
Australian securities.
A CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY STANDS FOR
GREATER SECURITY AND BIGGER RETURNS.
GEO. E. BRYANT,
Chairman of Director*.
W. BENNETT,
Managing Director.
