

T H E
ISD 0 M
0 F
aio^T*
AKI N 0
5U H E
' )
r V
q
£
f / <
i
/
\VV
x-
[ih
KNOWLEDGE THAT ENSURES
SECURITY • • •
dfs
The ceaseless collection of vital
data, careful, painstaking calcu-
lation and the skilful summar-
isation of resultant information
—truly the captain plotting his
course is a classic example of
a knowledge that ensures security.
Just as surely, Security is the foundation
of the Hamilton policy of investment.
In Hamilton’s principle of offering share-
holdings in ESTABLISHED Companies
only, the investing public find Security.
ED
Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited, further-
more, will always subscribe to the policy
which guarantees that balance sheets and
full information about investments be
available at all times to the investor.
A Free service covering such information,
together with vital data and statistics
concerning stocks and shares, is
available to you free.
The monthly circular published by
Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited,
will be sent post free on request.
Hamilton* < Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS. AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £250,000
Head Office: Kembla Building, Margaret St., Sydney. ’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. Branch Offices: Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Auckland (N.Z.).
The Bulletin
Giving Tax-money Away
Vol. 56.—N0. 2907.
Wednesday, October 30, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for f 935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to;
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
twwsssi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Mr Name
My Address
S.B. 435
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished,. either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision!
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
WRITING
BY CAR
Ther e is a
present vogue for
literature of the
kind that is
made by going
and doing a place
deliberately to write a book about it.
The intention is no longer disguised, as
it used to be. There is no pretence of
dawdling along, becoming one with
nature, watching through the whispering
panoply of leaves such stars as limbs,
bears, possums and passing clouds have
failed to obscure, and in general absorb-
ing that sometime heady and intoxicating
beverage the spirit of place. Now you
simply speed and look, and do a book.
Sometimes, too, it makes quite a
fascinating book. For this reason, that
there are men who could travel at 308
miles an hour round a salt lake and
write a fascinating book. It would not,
of course, be all about the whirl. There
would be recourse to encyclopaedias and
other works of the retrospective imagina-
tion, with consequent dissertation upon
such recondite matters as the funda-
mental meaning of lakes and the signifi-
cance of salt. And there would be the
author’s frame of mind, upon which, in
all literature, everything depends.
This recipe for making travel-books is
well-known and very trusty. There arc
others, too, all right up to date and run-
ning on motor oil. There is, for instance,
the method followed in these parts with
considerable ingenuity by Mr. Frank
Clune. This enterprising gentleman goes
about the country fixing up people's
income tax papers for them, and this
occupation’s natural corollary fs that Mr.
Clune can look upon nothing whatever
as sacred. He even finds Australian
history laughable, and blends it into his
works as fit subject for fun, along with
bad roads, goats, empty rivers, goannas.
tombstones and Mr. Clune. He takes, in
fact, a large, generous and tolerant view
of the Australian scene. “What a place
this is!” he roars. “It’ll do me!” Thus
Clune.
Not so Frank Dalby Davison and
Brooke Nicholls, authors of Blue Coast
Caravan. This record of a trip, mostly
by car, from Sydney up the coast to
Cairns is undertaken with the firm seri-
ousness of a crusade.
So, as the caravan rolls on, they think
earnest missionary thoughts. In this
spirit they would sub-edit the place,
even the landscape: “Of landscapes
that do not inspire in the beholder
a desire to make at least some small
rearrangement there are few.” As
if we had always felt, indeed, that
South America was done to a darned
bad pattern, and, as for the Rocky
Mountains, whoever saw such a hopeless
bit of designing! Here, then, is how we
would have the Manning River valley:
We imagined that fertile land set about
with trees. Figs, jacarandas, poinsettias,
coral-trees —if a few tufts of paspalum
could be spared to find them room!
Nevertheless, further north, with none
of these trees in the landscape, we can
see beauty:
....we found ourselves looking across
a Gruner landscape. (His “Valley of the
Tweed” may be recalled.) Those who have
known only the western country, or the
more sombre hues of the Australian bush,
may have found difficulty in accepting his
greens, golden-greens and misty blues.
They are all true; we saw every one of
them.
Incredible, surely, that they were also
in that valley that we wished to
improve with coral-trees!
Do we see beauty best when an
artist’s eyes have seen it before, and for
us? The post-Gruner outlook. Our own
feeling for landscape—is this it?:
From there, for several miles, the road
was ditched on both sides and lined with
a double row of sapling she-oaks. In
themselves they were not of any particular
interest; but, at least, they prevented the
surrounding country from calling attention
to itself, and for that we were duly grateful.
The writers—they say so more than
once —ate determined to be candidly
truthful about what they see. That is
fair and reasonable. Their book is in-
comparably better than one made up of
gush would be. Their purpose is sincere,
and it would doubtless be to the good if
their pertinent advice to these coastal
town-dwellers to do something to bring
beauty to their towns could be taken as
seriously as it is offered. And when they
have got over this first hasty bit of travel,
and are in Queensland, with apparently
more leisure, the whole mood of the
book changes, becomes warm and
tolerant.
This is the best of the book, along
these jungle roads and about the Barrier
Reef, and a very good best it is. Hitherto,
though there had been appreciative com-
ment on bits of the scene, it had seemed
grudging. Now the heart warms, and the
writing with it.
The observation throughout the book,
considering the speed they evidently
travelled at, is close and surprisingly fine
in its detail. Some of the remarks on
towns go near to patrbnisingly superior
sneering, but the intention is good. The
authors have aesthetic ideas, and would
like to see the country conform to them.
A disadvantage in this, as far as their
book is concerned, is that their com-
plaints, being better expressed than
their appreciations, give a tone of grouch.
Leacock
on Humor
Maybe it is not
any ingredient
used in the mak-
ing of Blue Coast
Caravan which is
responsible for
that slightly uncomfortable flavor of
the first part of it. The fault may lie
rather in omission—the absence of a dash
of humor. Not a funny book; just
enough of that saving grace to take the
frown oft the face of .Solemnity.
In his new book called Humor
Stephen Leacock defines admirably that
particular quality and service of the
happy sense when he says that humor
in its highest meaning “finds its basis in
the incongruity of life itself, the contrast
between the fretting cares and the petty
sorrows of the day and the long mystery
of the to-morrow. Here laughter and
tears become one, and humor becomes
the contemplation and interpretation of
our life.”
Hence it would prevent us, when our
aesthetic sense is affronted by a roadside
farmhouse painted in red oxide, from
fuming out the thought of Mr. Davison
and Mr. Nicholls that the place “would
have made an excellent target—prefer-
ably for a 15-inch gun,” which is the
very voice of missionary Solemnity, as is
also our thinking aloud that to have
taken levers and levered a couple of
shelters off a headland into the sea would
have been “an act of righteousness.”
Leacock is interpreter and antidote
alike for all such solemnity. His book,
an analysis of humor, is an enjoyable
confutation of the common fallacy that
the saving grace is somehow incompat-
ible with serious intentions. For instance,
Leacock puts forward the serious, and
to many, perhaps, heretical, contention
that it was only in modern times, pre-
eminently in the nineteenth century, that
humor received its highest development.
He is quite as downright as Mr. Davison
and Mr. Nicholls when they are saying
of a small town and its inhabitants:
It is the sort of place that a traveller
approaches without elation, observes with-
out interest and leaves without regret
No doubt such a place meets all the re-
quirements of its inhabitants —an observa-
tion into which may be read any mean-
ing that is seen fit.
It requires a great sense of gravity to
dismiss the entire inhabitants of any
town in that fashion. Now Leacock—
every bit as sweeping and downright: —
Let scholars dispute if they like as to
whether Greek drama is higher than the
drama of to-day. But about humor there
is no doubt. The classical humor is poor
stuff: the mediawal scholars’ humor is
simply silly: the mediaeval people’s humor
is primitive. Only with the modern world
and only in proportion as it loses its
primitive credulity and the intense earnest-
ness of its beliefs and superstitions does
humor enter largely into literature. Humor
in a world of waning beliefs remains like
Hope still left at the bottom of Pan-
dora’s box when all the evils of the gods
flew out from: it upon the world.
No “scholar” would, admit the truth of
this. Scholars tell us that Aristophanes
was probably the wittiest man that ever
lived: so witty that it takes half a page
of notes to explain one of his jokes.
Scholars also claim that the humor of
Shakspeare is deeper than any other: so
deep that you often see no bottom to it.
And then there were also Dante and Milton
and John Bunyan and a lot of other fun-
makers who keep their readers in a roar.
Dante, Milton, Bunyan—that’s how it
works. Solemnity tears off and sits
brooding on a far mountain at the mere
thought of her most upright disciples
being used in that way. But the serious
strength of what had been said remains.
So it is throughout this joyous analysis
of the technique of the happy quality.
It is at once a serious technical book to
be put beside the author’s works on
economics and one of the lightest in his
shelf of humor.
Red Page.
f Blue Coast Caravan, by Frank Dalby
Davison and Brooke Nicholls (Angus and
Robertson; 6s.); Humor, by Stephen Lea-
cock (Bodley Head; from Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.).]
English
Letters and
Maoriland
Everyone is
familiar with two
of the names
which link Maori-
land with English
literature Kath-
erine Mansfield
and the idealistic Alfred Domett, who was
“as a public man, although a poet, greatly
distinguished,” as William Gisborne re-
marked. Domett was, in my boyhood,
the link with English letters to which
everyone referred with pride ; everyone
knew of Browning’s verses “What’s Be-
come of Waring?” and everyone could
explain to the puzzled visitor that
Waring, far from vanishing into the
outer nothingness of mediocrity, as
Browning imagined, had had a distin-
guished career.
Latterly Katherine Mansfield has be-
gun to eclipse the glory of Domett. She
has the advantages of being nearer our
own lime and eminently readable, especi-
ally if you are able to recognise some
of the Wellingtonians whom she ruth-
lessly showed in their weaknesses. Miss
Ruth Mantz, the biographer of Katherine
Mansfield, accounted for the extraordi-
nary shortage of first editions of her
Bliss by the story that some interested
parties bought up the whole shipment
and had it dumped into Cook Strait. It
may not be true, but, if some of them
had any inkling of the recognisable traits
which were set forth in the book, it
would have been the truth right enough.
There are, however, a number of con-
nections with England which have re-
ceived small attention. Hector Bolitho
devoted some time years ago to the
study of Charles Brown, the friend o
Keats and the man who tramped over th
North of England with the poet in the
summer of 1818 in that exhausting tou
which proved to be Keats’s undoing
Brown was a man of character, cheerful
determined, the very companion fo
Keats in all but physique. His failure to
appreciate the frailty of the 22-year-ok
boy cost Keats some years of life. Brown
settled in Taranaki; a later Charle
Brown, who was superintendent of the
province and who revealed rare insigh
in dealing with the Maoris, was prob
ably a descendant. This Brown offered
among other things, to raise a regimen
of Maoris for service in India at the
time of the Mutiny. His pro-native
policy and general attitude over the land
wars have been fully justified by the
revelations of later years.
Three prominent Englishmen have sent
their sons here. The first was the famous
Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, who had himself
taken up land in the Dominion but was
unable to come out to settle upon it. His
son stayed some years, and then con-
tinued his voyage round the world, to
end his life living with Cardinal Newman.
A second famous figure was Thomas De
Quincey, the essayist, whose own adven-
turous youth furnishes a possible ex-
planation for the fact that his son de-
cided to emigrate. He became Sergeant-
at-Arms of the M.L. Parliament from
1889 to 1894. The third prominent Eng-
lishman was Sir James Stephen, of the
Colonial Office. One son of Sir James,
who was Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, became an English Judge, and
was knighted on his retirement in 1891 ;
a second was tutor of the Duke of Clar-
ence ; a third came here, and was ulti-
mately appointed a Judge of the Supreme
Court at Dunedin at a salary of £BOO a
year. The Scots were highly incensed, as
there were no cases for him to try for
a long period, and the salary paid him
was regarded as money wasted.
Latterly, as one would expect, the con-
nections between the two countries have
grown more numerous and varied. But
one old link of importance which re-
mains to be mentioned is, of course,
Samuel Butler’s sojourn in Canterbury.
Many a Maorilander reading Erewhon
has been puzzled to find that the spot
where all machinery was judged and con-
demned was the mining districts of the
West Coast. In Wellington, as a shop-
keeper, there lived for many years a
friend of Charlotte Bronte. Her corre-
spondence, with initials only, has been
printed in Mrs. Gaskell’s “Life.” She
appears to have been a very interesting
woman, but little is known of her. Again,
the Earl of Balfour’s family still holds
land at Pahiatua,
Famous visitors in later years have
been numerous, and some of them have
not been impressed. The country remains
obstinately unaware of the fact that the
famous French economist Andr£ Sieg-
fried visited it during the “great period”
to see what all this legislative pother was
about, and went away convinced that
he had made contact with a nation of
shrewd individualists. He came again
with General Pau and the French Mis-
sion in 1918. Siegfried’s book on
M.L., with an introduction by Downie
Stewart, remains the most shrewd study
of the people, and is unread. Most other
visitors have been more kindly. Maurice
Baring let us off lightly ; Shaw found
reports of our devotion to Rugby foot-
ball exaggerated (he had not noticed, it
seems, that he came here in the summer),
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—our policy which knows no deviation. "THE SENIOR STORE”—While I Live I’ll Grow.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
THIRD GREAT
BUILDING
ALTERATION
!£*
r
FURNITURE
BARGAINS !
3-PIECE LOUNGE SUITE
Distinctively designed Lounge Suite, most suit-
able for the flat or small room. Covered durable
Tapestry. The backs are well padded and seats
strongly sprung. Oak Bentwood arms finished
brown colour. Price, Suite £9/7/6
Sale Price £7/10/-
Chairs, separately, price, each 35/-
Sale Price, each
7io-
nm
H
i.ara
“PALACE” BEDROOM SUITE
The Palace Four-piece Bedroom Suite,
in beautiful polished Walnut, comprises:
5 ft. Wardrobe, two-third hanging space,
one-third fitted with three sliding trays
and two roomy shelves. Dressing Table,
4ft. wide, has shaped rimless mirror,
34in. x 32in., two cupboards, three slid-
ing trays in each. The Lowboy, 3ft.
1 Oin. x 3ft., is conveniently fitted. 4ft. 6in. Bedstead.
>r ‘i ce £39/10/-. Sale Price, suite
£35/15/-
o<e 394©^
35i&
“MODERNS” BRIDGE CHAIR
Secure Bridge Chairs dur-
ing the Sale and benefit by
the genuine reduction.
The “Moderne” Bridge
Chair is strongly made,
the back being covered in
good quality Fabrikoid
and well sprung seat in various colourings
of Velvet and Tapestry. Price, each, 25/-.
Sale Price, each 19/11
■2£-
1911
snag
8-PIECE BLEACHED WALNUT DINING
ROOM SUITE
Sterling quality at a genuine saving is represented
in this Eight-piece Modern Dining-room Suite.
The 5 ft. Sideboard is fitted with two roomy cup-
boards, three centre drawers, top one divided and
lined for cutlery. Six Dining Chairs have figured
Walnut bowed backs, well sprung seats, covered Tapestry. Refectory Table,
sft. x 2ft. I Oin. Price, suite, £29/10/-. Sale Price £26/10/-
«£z^ho-
‘26io-
LONGFELLOW TALLBOY
(Not illustrated.)
A compact and
conveniently fitted
Tallboy available
in either polished
Maple or Oak.
Size: 5 ft. 10in.
s(£)
high, 4ft. wide, 19£in, deep. Full
hanging space on left, three trays and
hat shelf on right. Price, £B/17/6.
Alteration Sale Price, ea., £6/15/-.
%
SERVICE WAGGON
Above.—A well-constructed Service
Waggon, beautifully finished in
Walnut shade. Size of tray, 29in.
x 16in. Price 17/9
Sale Price, each 14/3
# Furniture —Third Floor. Free de-
livery City and Suburbs only.
POLISHED MAPLE
LOWBOY
(Above.)
Full-polished Low-
boy with figured
Maple doors. Size:
5 ft. high, 4ft. wide,
deep. Fitted
with roomy shelf, three trays and
trouser rack. Price £6/7/6
Sale Price, each £5/7/6
Supplied also in Oak with waxed
finish. Price £5/8/6
Sale Price £4/10/-
576
£


70 WESTERN AUSTRALIA
(VIA ADELAIDE)
BY SEA
An Ideal Summer Trip occupying 20 Days from Sydney and 14 Days from Melbourne.
By the Luxurious Interstate Liners—
M.V. "MANOORA” M.V. "WESTRAUA” M.V. "DIINTROON”
T.S.S. “KAROOIA” T.S.S. “KATOOMBA”
Sailings Every Saturday from Sydney and Every Tuesday from Melbourne.
For Full Particulars, etc., apply— ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
HUDDART, PARKER, LTD.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN, LTD.
MELBOURNE STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
ATAIL
PORTS
Hugh Walpole, who was born in Auck-
land, resented it so little that he once
announced his intention of coming back
again ; Darwin and Huxley both seem
to have liked the place ; so, in a later
generation, did Robert Keable, whom I
hunted all over the capital city and dis-
covered in the Y.M.C.A.
In later days, of course, the commerce
has no longer been one-sided ; we have
been exporting writers.. With varying
degrees of success they strive in the cities
of the world, and it is only when the
larger countries place their seal upon
these pioneers that they are accepted in
their homeland. Often publication is
held to be equivalent to merit, and the
published author is esteemed by M.L.
editors as a proved authority. But the
connections of the past are highly re-
garded, and it affords the Maorilander
great satisfaction to know that Henry
Lawson tramped the country while scrib-
bling notes of his stories, and that the
third act of “Maritana” was written in
a Wellington hotel.
Adrift from tradition, eagerly reach-
ing out to the stability of an older cul-
ture, the Maorilander has, little of the
aggressive nationality of some other
dominions. The ideal literary garden is
for him the English garden. He would
sooner establish relationship with it, if
only as a humble visitor, than cultivate
the wild and mysterious tangles of his
own land.
QUENTIN POPE.
The Old
Bohemia
Death has
stalked through
the Bohemia of
my more youth-
ful days: “Steele
Ru d d,” J. B.
Dailey, D. H. Souler, Fred Brown, and
also men like Packham, figuring slightly
in literary effort but very much in
Bohemia, have gone. Of these, Dailey
and Souter were of Bohemia as en-
couragers of the strugglers, rather than
dyed-in-the-wine members ; but all were
part of the scene, and none more im-
portant than such as they.
There are still plentiful survivors,
among them Fred Broomfield, who, tired
of listening, rose one day in the gallery
of Parliament and in a terrible voice
roared, “I move that this House do now
adjourn for a hundred years!” Rod
Quinn lives quietly at Bondi with “Gil-
rooney.” James Francis Dwyer, whose
tricks to live in Australia were curious,
is in America, rich by literary success,
although he still says the stories written
in Australia, upon which he could not
exist, were the best part of his literary
production. It used to cost Dwyer
threepence to get lunch for two in his
days in Sydney. Either he or his cobber
would buy the mug of beer then ob-
tainable at that price, and sip slowly
whilst he hungrily attacked the counter-
lunch ; when hunger was satisfied and
the beer half-finished, the other would
be beckoned up to take over.
Albert Dorrington, who mainly dodged
Bohemia to get to his outer suburban
home and work, saving, desperately for
his venture in England, has since done
well there. Hughie Maclean sells
an occasional drawing now; living by
one of the north-of-Manly beaches he
only occasionally tries. He was a con-
siderable figure in Bohemia when, as
well as being a constantly accepted
artist, he was a boxing authority, well-
paid, according to the standards of the
time, for his articles. Hughie was a
winner of amateur championships him-
self in his young days. Mick Paul, an
ultra-Bohemian of former times, mildly
appears now and then at the present fes-
tivities that give themselves the Bohemian
label. There are scores of others.
The passing of “Steele Rudd” recalls
carnival times of that old Bohemia.
When at the Theatre Royal “While the
Billy Boils,” an adaptation of Henry
Lawson’s stories, was staged, and when
“On Our Selection” and “The Senti-
mental Bloke” went on at the Palace, it
appeared to Bohemia that Australian
literature, in this theatrical recognition,
was coming into its own. Bohemia made
carnival accordingly.
The staging of "On Our Selection”
was made an Occasion. “Steele Rudd,”
coming south from Brisbane and almost
a stranger, except in name, was feted.
Jack Dorahy, the "literary publican,”
provided the dinner in his Castlereagh-
street hotel, doing the thing in style, with
a man at the top of the stairs to take
the hats and coats of the arriving
Bohemians.
Dorahy is the only publican I have
known with a library to be proud of. It
was good in general, and complete as far
as Australian literature was concerned ;
and he was very proud of it. Besides
his literary tastes, he was—and is—a fine
elocutionist; Phil Newberry, at whose
Town Hall “Pops” he appeared, included
him among the five finest he had met
anywhere in the world. He was a very
essential part of the Old Bohemia when
he kept a pub.
Jules Grant, partner of Bert Bailey
in the “On Our Selection” venture, must
have been astonished at the quantity of
liquor regarded as necessary for office
use on the opening night of the produc-
tion—and thereafter. As has been said,
it was regarded as Bohemia’s carnival;
and Bohemia demanded refreshment.
The liquor of that occasion, however,
was a mere circumstance to the out-
pouring when Dennis’s “The Sentimental
Bloke” was staged. There was an upper
room at the Palace Theatre most nobly
stocked, and a constant procession fell up
and down the breakneck stairs every
evening.
It was a very hopeful Bohemia those
days ; all its dreams were coming true.
And the Bohemia of to-day is hopeful,
too ; hope is always one of Bohemia’s
assets—even when it has no other.
HAROLD MERCER.
£25
for Good
Humor
For The Bul-
letin’s second
Humorous Story
Competition one
departure has
been made from
the rules govern-
ing the previous one —writers may use
3000 words in spreading their laughs
round, instead of the 2500 to which they
were restricted last year. The reason is
that several good things, including a
probable prize-winner, had to be ex-
cluded owing to their exceeding the
length limit.
That does not mean, of course, that
length is going to be regarded as a
special virtue. The prizes will go to the
stories considered the most humorous,
quite irrespective of length. One of
1000 words will have as much chance as
one of 3000.
The rules otherwise remain unaltered.
The word “stories” is used only for
convenience—entries may be stories,
essays or narrative sketches. The main
thing is that they be humorous. There
is no limit to the number of entries any
competitor may submit. Acceptable
entries will be paid for and published as
they come to hand, and these, together
with all others, will be considered in the
judging for the prizes ? which will take
place immediately after the competition
closes on January 31, 1936. Entries
should be addressed: “Humorous Story
Competition,” c/o Bulletin, Box
252188, G.P.0.. Sydney. All rejected
entries to which stamps are attached
will be returned to competitors as soon
after the judging as possible. ,
A Satchel of Books
A Victorian Bacchante, by Mrs. Fred
Reynolds (Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.). One
of the dozen or so excellently-written
novels of no significance whatever which
appear every month. If you want a
pleasant yarn, cleverly told, to fill in a
couple of hours, it can’t be faulted, but
if you enjoy your meat better salted you
must look elsewhere. This one is about
a girl who was left as an infant in an
English village church some time during
Victoria’s reign. A young couple (the
husband made his living painting land-
scapes in pairs, one for each side of the
mantelpiece) brought her up as their
daughter, and from the time she was five
she was the acknowledged belle of the
countryside. Then at 20 her father sent
to claim her. The book ends here, but
the lady will probably be heard of again.
Snow Leopard, by W. H. Hall (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.). British Secret Ser-
vice stuff: hero, a public-school man
and straight as a cricket bat; villains,
foreigners and crafty; heroine, a nice
girl not overburdened with brains. The
Himalayas are the background for most
of it, and an attempt to unite the border
provinces in a revolt against British
rule the trouble. Entertaining reading for
those who like its kind, though Captain
Viney (that’s the hero) does have extra-
ordinary luck.
The Box of Delights, by John Mase-
field (Heineman ; 7s. 6d.), An interesting
attempt to bring the magic story up to
date by infusing elements of crime fic-
tion. So the small hero is given a magic
box by pressing which he can go small
or go fast, and the efforts of a bunch
of unearthly gangsters to secure the box
lead to happenings that belong to all the
best thriller novels—kidnappings, includ-
ing the whole of a church organisation
from bishop to choir, and suchlike de-
lights of the young. It seems to fall
between being too adult in outlook for
child-reading and too childish for adults.
Its weakest point is its end—that be-
whiskered legpull, and-then-I-woke-up.
The Luck Shop, by Evelyn Winch
(Collins; 7s. 6d.). Light romance with
a dash of black magic, the whole
flavored by the übiquitous mystery
murder, and turned out in London’s
West End. It should cause no sort of
indigestion. Careful workmanship in
the character drawing, the romance
charming, and as a thriller f.a.q.
Was Europe a Success? by Joseph
Wood Krutch (Methuen ; 3s. 6d. net). A
striking little collection of well-argued
articles, wherein the author contends that
in regard to all the finer things of life
Europe was very much a success. If
other places wanted to achieve this suc-
cess they would have to pay the price
Europe paid. America with its machine
and Russia with its Communism are
equally instances of countries that, are
not prepared to do so. He regards much
of the fruits of that success as well worth
man’s retaining, but sees no hope for
such retention in any of the theoretical
Utopias. In short, if we must jettison
the European civilisation for Com-
munism or any other ism, we must at
the same time say good-bye to all the
best things we had hitherto felt civilisa-
tion provided.
The Wish Child, by Ina Seidel (Bodley
Head ; 10s. 6d.). Possibly the authoress
is an admirer of Thomas Mann, but
where he manages to convey a certain
feeling of sombre reality she is only
long-winded and tedious. Cornelia,
widow of Hans Adam von Mespelsbrun,
the main figure, a worthy, unimaginative
female who is converted to Roman
Catholicism, fails to attract sympathy or
achieve a semblance of life. The prac-
tised reader can immediately guess at the
probable outcome of the story when Cor-
nelia decides to bring up the motherless
Daphne, daughter of her gay, irrespon-
sible half-French stepsister, with her own
child, the “wish” child, the strong, hand-
some, upright Christopher. In spite of
painstaking effort, Christopher’s death,
Daphne’s elopement and Cornelia’s
sorrow fail to strike sympathy. The
translation is prosaic and uninspired.
The Frozen Heart, by Mrs. St. Loe
Strachey (Dent; 7s. 6d.). The widow
of the “Spectator’s” erstwhile editor here
makes a fictional incursion into a field
her late husband ploughed with a bio-
graphical furrow. Most of the action
takes place in London and in Paris in
the ’forties and ’fifties. Heroine Mar-
garet, daughter of a scholarly squire and
a mamma who holds the purse-strings,
is saved by her father from a marriage
with an elderly titled roud, only to go
to France during the Revolution of 1848
and fall platonically in love with M.
Lamartine, married, and old enough to
be her father. That affair ends, and the
heroine, after marrying a man of her
own age and bearing twins, acquires
affection for her very likeable husband.
Style is clear, and period details have
been verified to the last' pennyweight,
but it is impossible to sympathise very
deeply with Margaret—she was, all
things considered, a very fortunate lady.
“Eric the Red”: Dead in Moscow at
62, Henri Barbusse, French writer and
philosopher, who came into world notice
through his books revealing the horror
and filth of the war, in which he himself
took part. Soon after the war Barbusse,
Romain Rolland and Anatole France
got together a French group of intellec-
tual pacifists, but Barbusse left 12 years
ago to join the French Communist party.
His last work was a Life of Stalin,
and at the time of his illness he was in
Russia collecting material for one of
Lenin.
Children’s Books. As a Christmas gift
book for boys, Call to Adventure, edited
by R. S. Benjamin (Harrap; from
Dymock’s), should fill the bill. In it
about 20 adventurers tell of their most
thrilling individual experiences. Zane
Grey among the big sea fish, Tasmanian
Alan Villiers making a film at sea.
Lowell Thomas flying over Europe, and
so forth. Good sound stuff. For smaller
folk Angus and Robertson have so far
issued at 4s. 6d. each three whimsically
illustrated and charmingly written books
by well-tried women makers of these
annual joy-givers— Brownie, the Story of
a Naughty Little Rabbit, by Dorothy
Wall; Pearl Pinkie and Sea Greenie, the
Story of Two Little Rock Sprites, by
Pixie O’Harris ; and Sixpence to Spend.
by Ida Rentoul Outhwaite, which is all
about native bears and suchlike for very
tiny tots, for whom also is Wise Owl’s
Story, by Alison Uttley, with pictures by
Margaret Tempest (Collins).


PAGES FROM THEIR REPORT BOOKS!
THE
V MILEAGE INSPECTORS
/t
1*
-CASE
No
,150
I Loc<rt' on
sss&V-
Hb.
'L /|
\tyt«
Sit*
#o’
7.0
No.
-4ffi
ft;
Location
CASE No. n*
Tyro Six* 5* SO “l^
Serial No.
Mileage 12., 12. O
Driving Conditions
COUkXivj —
6aiC«% £Nt>* J>curf<iockS
C A-
Tyre Condition to**
a«4
a
C 4s*
MT/4.
0
**
Vo
Inspector No. 2v
FA,
Ve
*•/
*
<>
S?.
ft
»&
v | ,
I
Icr^
■wJWr
Aj*s
[\
SW*
.^5:
i
Sv
Vo V
•<Rc
-a&l
Reproduced here are facsimiles of typical
reports obtained by "GO” Mileage Inspec-
tors from every type of driver. They show
each driver’s own account of the kind of
roads he travels, his usual speed, braking,
and mileage.
They show the true condition of the tyres
examined, for these tyres were actually
“treadprinted” for first-hand evidence of
non-skid tread remaining after many
thousands of miles.
So a hugs pile of facts and data was
amassed by this enquiry.
And the result? Overwhelming evidence
proving over and over again that "G-3V
are giving more, far more, than the 43%
extra non-skid mileage promised by
Goodyear when the new "GO” was an-
nounced a year ago. "G-3" is definitely
established as the tourhest, strongest,
longest wearing tyre ever built by Goodyear.
dfg
Above—Samples of ~G Mileage
inspectors Notes, and a few of
many hundreds of treadprints. The
analysis of this data proved be-
yond question that ~G -3, are giv-
ing far more than the 43% extra
non-skid mileage promised.
G 3
HERE'S WHAT YOU GET IN
You get the broader
road contact of a
flatter, wider, All-
Weather Tread.
you get quicker-stopping and the
greater road grip of more non-skid
blocks in the centre.
Vou get the easy steering and
smooth travel of wider riding-ribs.
Vou get the slow, even wear of closer-
nested non-skid blocks and ribs.
You get more rubber in the tread—
pounds more per tyre.
—all of which adds up to
43*
LONGER NON-SKID MILEAGE
at no extra cost
i (and more)
S-CIS-35
I
I
K
ry
MADE
AUSTRALIA


GIFT
CASES
■ '
.
i
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over Million Canons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne,
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2907.
October 30, 1935.
IN THE RIGHT SHOP.
“Blime, Bill, if it ain’t the Dove of Peace.”
“Well, does anyone know of a better place she could lob on?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GIVING TAX-MONEY AWAY.
A significant thing happened in the House of Repre-
sentatives on a recent Friday. Mr. Casey, now one
of the 10 salaried Ministers (20 years ago, even
when the greatest of wars was raging, there were
seven), introduced a bill increasing the special grants
to the three dissatisfied States from £2,400,000
(£1,400,000 to S.A., £600,000 to W.A. and £400,000
to Tasmania) to £2,750,000 (£1,500,000, £BOO,OOO and
£450,000). Though it was four o’clock in the after-
noon, there were so few members present that before
the Treasurer had been speaking for five minutes a
quorum had to be formed. He detained his audience
for another couple of minutes only ; then, as it appears
in the chronicle, “Mr. Curtin secured the adjourn-
ment of the debate,” and the House rose for the week.
Friday is the day on which members of the
national Parliament swarm down to the railway station
to catch the train for Sydney, and on this particular
Saturday there was racing at Randwick —the last day
of the spring meeting. Mr. Casey lives at Canberra,
so it was perhaps unreasonable of him to bring on
his bill at four o’clock on Friday. Any other time
would have done. Besides, the particular grants for
which legislative sanction was sought had been recom-
mended by a commission appointed and paid for the
purpose.
Industrial commissions (even individual arbi-
tration Judges) have long since been empowered to
decide what the rank and file of “Crown employees
shall receive. Transport commissions running insol-
vent Government concerns raise salaries at their own
sweet will. Why shouldn’t grants commissions also give
away money taken from the taxpayers’ pockets? There
are now 75 Ministers and 541 other politicians in
Australia, all contained in seven Parliaments, seven
Cabinets and a Loan Council. It is asking too much
of representatives who have virtually abandoned con-
trol of the public purse to expect them to attend to
their duties at four o’clock in the afternoon when there
is a commission to relieve them of responsibility. What
are commissions for?
Having recruited their flagging powers, members
returned to Canberra on Wednesday, and the measure
—three measures in one really—was debated in a
desultory fashion. Mr. Curtin enlarged eloquently
on the grievances of the States which are to divide the
£2,750,000. No one interrupted him by mentioning
that the other three States were finding most of the
money, and might have a grievance on that account.
There are 28 members from N. S. Wales, and over
£1,000,000 of the £2,750,000 will have been raised
in N. S. Wales, which gets no annual grants and
has thumping annual deficits (last year’s would have
been £3,085,900 but for a “non-recurring” allowance
of £786,000 from the Commonwealth), but no protest-
ing roar came from the 28. Neither did it occur
to anyone to mention that in one way and another
the Commonwealth has for years been giving one of
the dissatisfied States more than it has raised in local
taxes, and spending more within the borders of all
three than it has collected from them. Yet
these facts are made plain in the very report of the
commission that recommended the huge grants. Here
are the figures for 1933-34:
Commonwealth collections and spendings in or in
respect of—
S.A. W.A. Tas.
Spendings .. £6,597,000 £5,276,000 £2,666,000
Collections .. 4,786,000 3,610,000 1,835,000
Excess of spendings 1,811,000 1,666,000 831,000
That same year the Westralian Government raised
£1,835,839 in State taxes and received from the Com-
monwealth £2,290,000—£600,000 as a special grant,
£474,000 for interest, £137,000 towards sinking fund,
£424,000 for Federal-aid roads, £640,000 for wheat-
growers’ relief, £ll,OOO for fruitgrowers and £4OOO
for other purposes.
Last year £133,000 was added as a gift from the
Commonwealth surplus; this year £35,000 goes into
the State till from the same source, and though the State
Government budgeted for a special grant of £600,000
it is to get £BOO,OOO. The irony of it is that, as the
Commonwealth Statistician has just shown, Westralia
leads all the States in value of production per head.
The average for the Commonwealth in 1933-34 was
£44 17s. lOd.; the Westralian figure was £5l 7s. 5d.,
Queensland coming next with £46 11s. 4d., N. S. Wales
third with £45 12s. 10d., and Victoria fourth with
£44 9s. Bd. These three States were skinned for most of
the £2.290,000 of Commonwealth money scattered in
or paid on behalf of Westralia that year, though the
Grants Commission is itself a witness that Westralia s
local taxes have been lower than theirs —‘The lowest
in Australia in some years.”
Short of rank corruption, which doesn't come into
this picture, there can be nothing worse in the way
of Government finance than bleeding one set of
taxpayers for vast sums and handing them oyer to
the representatives of another set for unconditional
expenditure. The thing is wickedly unjust to the
victims and demoralising to the beneficiaries, whom
it encourages to become extravagant as well as depen-
dent (incidentally, some of the easy money is being
voted by politicians in two States to themselves).
Alleged to promote harmony, it engenders far more
bad feeling than it allays.
Already editors of Great Dailies call the clients of
the Grants Commission “mendicant States.” They are
not that yet, but they may drift into mendicancy, and
it has become a matter of the first importance to
save them from it—to put them in the way of making
ends meet, of standing on their own feet. Alike in
their interests and in those of the States that are
becoming dissatisfied, the situation calls for a bold
and large-minded redistribution of functions and
taxes, beginning with the taking over of education
and income tax by the -Commonwealth. But the
Prime Minister says only that there will be another
Premiers’ Conference before long, and that he will
there be willing to consider “practical proposals” if
anyone has any to submit.
That’s our Mr. Lyons; amiable and ineffectual ;
a merchant of palliatives and excuses. The nation
gels no leadership from him, nor even the pale shadow
of a constructive idea.
GOLD IN AUSTRALIA.
Dr. Rivett, head of the C.5.1.R., pointed out last
year that, with gold at £6 sterling per fine ounce,
Australia could have paid its 1932 London interest
bill of £26,301,000 with 134 tons and redeemed its
overseas debt —£554,000,000 —with 2830 tons ; and he
suggested that the discovery and recovery of that
amount of gold is a feasible proposition. We are
now better placed, since, measured in sterling, gold
is £7 Is. 7d. per fine ounce, the overseas
debt is £546,000,000 and the interest bill £19,000,000.
But there is still a big gap between gold-production
and interest payments. Australia produces only a
mite of the world’s total. Even in Russia the 1933
output increased by an amount equal to the whole
of Australia’s yield, which in 1934 expanded to
887,000 ounces.
However, the Minister for Development is
hopeful. He expects £1,000,000 more to be added
from gold to the national income this year, in spite
of shortage in January and February, caused by the
Westralian strike. He is happy in the thought that
£300,000 was set aside in the last Budget to encourage
goldmining, and says the Commonwealth scheme,
which involves the spending of half the appropriation
on an aerial geological survey, has been “an unqualified
success.” Other people do not agree with the Minister.
According to Dr. Jensen, the survey parties are
at work in places where “the topography and geology
are well known.”
At least 95 p.c. of additional production has
come from previously-known fields where low-grade
ores have become workable through increased prices
and improved methods of treatment. To these Yellow-
dine may prove a welcome addition —at least, it has
something to show. There have been other ventures
which belong to the romance of mining—1 per cent,
mining and 99 per cent, romance.
Taking the world as a whole, the amount of
precious metal mined grows annually. A record was
established in 1931, another in 1932 and another in
1933, when 25,259,000 ounces was produced. Even
Europe unearthed 164,000 ounces more that year than
in 1932. Siberia turned out an added 825,000 ounces ;
Africa, outside the Rand, increased output by 261,000
ounces ; U.S.A., Canada and S. America all showed
greater yields. Australia did, too ; but, considering
how little prospecting has been done in this last-
settled continent, and how great production was in
the ’fifties and ’sixties and ’nineties and nineteen-
hundreds, it could do far more if it would only tackle
its problem in the modern way—industrialise mining
and go in for a huge turnover of low-grade ore.
The U.S.A. is ripping out 2,500,000 ounces a
year, which is above the average for the 25 years
after ’forty-nine, when it was working rich and newly-
discovered fields. It is getting most of it from deeps
below levels worked in Australia (except in rare
instances in Victoria and on Charters Towers and in
Westralia). But the Transvaal is the world’s greatest
source of gold supply, and will be for generations.
To a large extent it is mining low-grade ore at great
depths. In June, 1934, 11 of the larger Rand mines
were working 4dwt. stuff; one, less than 3dwt. Sir
Robert Kotze estimated in 1930 that a 45.-per-ton
reduction in treatment and mining costs would add
1,760,000,000 tons to payable ore reserves. Recent
explorations have shown that reefs go down to 10,000
feet. Australian costs are necessarily higher than
those of the Rand; nevertheless, plenty of sdwt. ore
is being worked at a profit.
Heavy as it is on industries that have nothing
like the premium on gold (which exceeds the Mint
value in Australia), taxation is light on goldmining
compared with what the Rand companies have to
pay; and management and labor are efficient. The
small miner must not be neglected —there are hundreds
of little reefs which deserve the attention of manu-
facturers of mining machinery ; in the U.S.A. one-man
transportable batteries have a great vogue. But the
future of the industry lies rather in the development
of fields on which the ore-bodies are big, through the
cheapening of working charges. Wiluna points the
way to what can be done. The lesson of Wiluna is
that goldmining in the Commonwealth can be made
a stable and enduring business. But, while it is neces-
sary to encourage Wilunas, it is equally neces-
sary to prevent swindling, and to punish it where
prevention has failed; and on these points Aus-
tralian company laws are sinfully ineffective. To
check the rascality of some promoters and the rapa-
city of others, and to get some permanent considera-
tion for the people, to which they are fairly entitled,
it ought to be a condition of all future flotations that
10 p.c. of issued capital in fully-paid shares shall be
reserved, gratis, for the State (or the Common-
wealth if the show is in Federal territory), all pro-
ceeds to go into the national sinking fund.
THE GREAT PEACE EXPERIMENT.
Amid the shouting of Covenant, League Council,
Sanctions and the rest of the noisy monkey-cbatter
of the moment, one simple fact about the League of
Nations is lost sight of—that it is an experiment.
With a courage to face realities, that fact would
come to mind whenever the word League was used.
Instead, we speak and act as if the League were
an established institution, fixed in its position, insepar-
able from our lives and worthy to be sacrosanct in
our thoughts. It is the one thing in the name of which
we feel we could go decently and honorably to war.
In this it takes precedence over even the ideas of
nationhood and Empire, for we say we could fight for
neither of these as agreeably and with the same full
conscience of right as we could fight for the League.
It represents one of the most comprehensive
conversions in history. Not in any way a bad
manifestation. There could not be a stronger con-
tradiction of the theory of man as essentially wicked
and sinful, a better illustration of his goodness and
credulity. We have in us so much of both these
qualities of all good men, and all simpletons, that,
not for the first time, we eagerly accept a mere
experiment towards ensuring a better-conducted world
as an infallible means of doing so.
This is so earnestly accepted that to cast doubts
upon the infallibility of this particular piece of
political machinery amounts to a heresy. It has its
chapels everywhere, filled with sincere, honest servi-
tors. Many of them are eager to take up arms and
fight for it. In the last resort, when somebody
turns downright nasty and directs attention to its
pitiful record of failure, the answer is that it is worth
upholding and defending—even with arms, even with
a European war —because it is a symbol. It never
has been inconsistent to fight for symbols. The great
majority of wars have been fought for them. True,
when those wars had all fallen into perspective, the
symbols often took on the appearance of shibboleths.
But that is called history; and our ability to profit
by history never equals our desire to make it.
Hence this present eagerness to make any sacrifice
for what is called the principle of the League. There
is nothing that cannot be assumed in our need to
make that paramount. We assume, for one thing,
that the world is ready to uphold such an institution
—this, in spite of Manchukuo, and now in spite of
one of our own members shamelessly flouting us.
We assume that our League is representative—this,
though it is obviously controlled by England and
France, to the extent that the defection of either
would bring an end to it; in spite also of the laci
that two-thirds of the members are insignificant little
tribes, in it obviously for protection, and that three
of the greatest nations, greater than the combination
of the League —America, Japan, Germany —stay out
of it, clinging hardily to what is said to be both
wicked and dangerous in ourselves, the policy of
separate, unentangled Empire and nationhood.
“The worst thing that could befall the Empire ’
—Professor Anderson speaking—“would be for it
to be become a league against the rest of the world
and to be regarded as a colossal bully bestriding the
Seven Seas.” That is the alternative we have insen-
sibly come to adopt. It is a colossal misrepresentation,
but that does not matter. We must blandly overlook
that, instead of being regarded in any degree as a
bully, the United States, standing firmly out of the
League, becomes a land of high ideals and noble
principles—a repute we once accepted as our almost
exclusive property. We can have that reputation now
only by upholding the League. Otherwise we become
a bully. That is the alternative in this insistent
misrepresentation.
Much other nonsense is spouted in the same vein.
No assumption or presumption is too impertinent so
long as through it and by it the League stands. It
is to these monstrous proportions that our faith in
an experiment has grown. If it turns out to be a
gold brick, either through representative international-
ism proving a fallacy or this particular bit of political
machinery unworkable, it will be one of the largest
confidence tricks ever worked on humanity. It was
not so much sold to us as left on the doorstep by
a tall, dark, plausible stranger from overseas whose
own country declined it. We adopted it, lauded it,
petted it, until it has taken such complete charge of
us that we talk war in its name with the utmost
complacency. We are asked to believe that it is final
and trustworthy, on the one hand, and, on the other,
an entirely new and modern triumph of reason over
barbarity. Yet the grouping of people's represen-
tatives having this same object, the prevention of war,
is a common spectacle in the progress of civilisation,
back to and beyond the Council of Charroux, by
proclamation of which fighting was prohibited as
from sunset on Wednesday till dawn each Monday,
an arrangement which satisfied our rude forebears
for two centuries. .
All these groupings failed and vanished. I his
is not to say that the League of Nations must neces-
sarily do likewise, but only that, like them, it is a
political experiment, and should be so regarded.
There can be no question that it is a noble concep-
tion. That it is a conception that we must com-
placently accept as worth fighting for, the only thing
worth fighting for, seems much less certain.
C. M.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Very Much Easier.
A sigh of relief went up from all the King’s subjects
who hate war in all its forms when they read the
report of the speech in which the Foreign Secretary
traced the course of British policy at Geneva. He
said that his Government had made “incessant repre-
sentations” to the Italian Government and exhausted
every method of persuasion before it had been driven
to strive for peace along other lines. Then a collec-
tive agreement had been reached; “first, on the
merits of the case ; second, on an arms embargo, the
withdrawal of credit, and, subject to the considered
views of Governments” (this must have made Can-
berra ponder), “certain measures of economic
pressure.”
But “so-called military sanctions” had “not been
considered.” For military sanctions there would have
to be another kind of collective agreement, and that
“pre-condition” had “never existed.” Britain would
not act alone —“we are prepared to take only our
share in collective action.” An interruption came
from a bellicose pacifist on the Labor benches: “Close
the Suez Canal!” Sir Samuel Hoare turned on him:
As there will be no agreement for collective action
of this kind, it is only dangerous and provocative
to talk about it.
Returning to the subject of economic pressure,
the Minister said: “There is still a breathing-space
before it can be applied.”
Cannot this eleventh-hour chance be so used as to
make it unnecessary to proceed further along this
unattractive road of economic action against a fellow-
member, an old friend and a former ally?
The speech has made a profoutid impression in all
quarters. The withdrawal of one of the three Italian
divisions concentrated on the Egyptian frontier began
immediately, and it was unconditional. Peace terms
are again being discussed. Addis Ababa, it seems, is
disappointed—it wants military sanctions. But in
the search for an honorable and enduring settlement
no consideration need be given to the illegitimate
desires of savages who are also slaveowners.
♦
First Aid to Corruption.
Addressing the conference of the N. S. Wales
Country Press Association, Premier Stevens again
promised the introduction of a law to prevent the
use of stop-writs. The reform will be welcome,
though belated.
The stop-writ is a means whereby a spanner is
thrown into the works of a machine which is moving
towards exposing some public scandal. Suppose a
newspaper gets wind of a mining swindle. An article
is published, generally a guarded article, indicating
that something is amiss. A second article is less
guarded. A third refers to a certain person as con-
nected with the business. That person goes to his
lawyer, and, professing to have been libelled, issues
a writ claiming huge damages. A fourth article would
perhaps place readers in possession of the full facts
of the swindle ; it is not published. If the newspaper
decided to go ahead it would have to face a charge
of contempt of Court and risk being heavily fined.
There the whole thing ends. The gentleman who
claims that he has been so grossly libelled never brings
his case into court. He has applied a censorship to
news that is of public benefit, and that is all he wants.
The swindle goes on.
The astounding thing is that such a gross inter-
ference with natural justice should have been so long
permitted to be part of the legal system. The stop-
writ has been a weapon handed out on a silver salver
to criminals by the law which is established to stamp
them out.
The whole law relating to contempt of Court
needs to be thoroughly overhauled,
♦
Why Not Our Own?
A Parkes (N.S.W.) garage man has built his own
aeroplane. It took him a couple of years, but he
completed the job, which cost him only £65. Petrol
consumption is H gallons an hour —say, 60 miles to
the gallon. The ’plane has received a Civil Aviation
certificate, and has made 18 successful flights.
This, of course, is not the first time an Australian
has designed a flying-machine or built one. Edgar
Percival to-day is one of the leading designers of
the Empire. Hawker’s name will live when those of
most flying pioneers are forgotten. The difference
between these great ones and Mr. Mott, of Parkes,
is that the latter is likely to remain in Australia, while
they, through sheer lack of scope, were driven out
of it.
Even if it means forbidding Government Rail-
way Commissioners like Mr. Hartigan to raise the
pay of their headquarters staffs and charge it up to tax-
revenue, Australians should be encouraged to build
aeroplanes of their own design, particularly machines
embodying new ideas. No country needs light, cheap
runabouts more. The Munitions Branch or some
private firm could help with a couple of standard types
of locally-built ultra-light engines. And competition
and a bit of prize-money for machines specially suit-
able for our country conditions —stress being laid on
safety and reliability—would give a fillip to ingenuity.
The Commonwealth might easily devote the
money prizes it reserves for inventors of scenarios
and talkies to subsidise this more useful work. Obvi-
ously, the day of the very light aeroplane, which is
easier to build than a motor-boat, and, judging by
the paucity of accidents overseas, safer than a baby
car on a crowded road, will be here within a decade.
4
Sand and Ruin.
Sand keeps drifting over what were once prosperous
pastoral districts of Queensland, N.S.W., S.A. and the
N.T., but the only preventive measures which seem
to be taken are repeated warnings, the last of which
has been issued by Mr. Bulcock, the Queensland
Agricultural Minister. He says there is no doubt
the coating of pulver is spreading eastward in his
State, “rendering arid large tracts once considered
fertile.” In some places, fences are completely buried.
It is a first-class problem for scientists, and “there
is no saying where it will stop unless it can be
arrested.”
In the N.T., country north of the Alberga was
50 years ago rushed by squatters. Ten years ago their
descendants began to stampede coastward. The line
of railway stations north of Hawker, on the Centralian
railway, which look so prosperous on the map, are
largely sheds half-filled with red sand. Sometimes
gangs of fettlers have to shovel for dear life to keep
the line open. And what was flat plain country in
parts of far-western Queensland is now rolling sand-
hill.
In N. S. Wales the trend is apparent. Outside
the coastal belt the lands which were devoted to sheep
in 1891 have not given way to other stock. The
western division, which carried 130.6 sheep to the
square mile in that year, in 1934 carried 54 sheep to the
square mile. Dairy cattle out there have fallen from
7000 to 2000 ; other cattle, from 94,000 to 64,000.
Horses, which have increased in number over the
rest of the State, have decreased from 44,000 to
25,000.
The battle line is now 1000 miles long, and the
sand is winning. The pioneers who are in retreat
cannot be blamed. Many of them were new hands
at the pastoral game when they started, and all were
newchums at dealing with Centralia, which nobody
had ever dealt with under stock.
But it is no trouble for anybody who has seen
south-western Asia and Northern Africa—once sup-
porting big populations but now denuded of timber,
and, in many places, of inhabitants —to estimate what
may happen in a couple of centuries. Given a fair
start, the sand may overwhelm a great part of eastern
Australia inside the 200-mile coastal belt. City-
dwellers on the coast may find this hard to credit,
but an Innamincka sandstorm would cure them of
scepticism.
The sand problem must be tackled. Timber
breaks, replacement of grasses and vegetation eaten
by stock are urgently needed. The thing is beyond
individuals —it is a national matter.
*
The City of Dreadful Din.
Sydney, most tolerant, most long-suffering, most
equable-tempered of cities, shows at last some symp-
toms of rebelling against the horrible din that fills
its main thoroughfares from dawn to dark, from
road-bed to welkin.
A Noise Abatement Society has been formed
with the objects of studying ways to mitigate street
uproars and of bringing remedies under the attention
of Slate and civic authorities. The society should
win many recruits, for in any shop or office fronting
the busier city thoroughfares conversation is becom-
ing increasingly difficult during business hours ; hearing
is strained to its utmost; misunderstandings occur ;
nerves are worn ragged.
In the streets matters are worse. An endless
procession of tramcars in George, Pitt, Castlereagh
and King streets, each sounding as if it were being
brutally hammered by the forces that propel it, have
their 100 phons (or decibels) of cacophony reinforced
by riveting machines on rising buildings ; pneumatic
drills on roadways; loudspeakers or gramophones
blasting vociferously from a hundred shops that
purvey radio sets or jazz music. Blending in the
chorus are the cries of newspaper vendors and
trammies, stridently cleaving all other sounds, and an
undercurrent of din provided by the general public
shouting that it’s a fine day or that Dogsbody is
a moral for the Suburban.
The trouble about cities such as Sydney has
become is that they seem to diffuse and dilute the
civic pride of their inhabitants in direct ratio to their
population and their sprawl. When a citizen buys a
car he doesn’t grumble, even if he knows it, because
about 10 h.p. of the 40 he has under the bonnet
is absorbed in the muffle, to make the vehicle run
quietly. It’s a matter of comfort and courtesy. But
when the city buys tramcars or the State buys electric
railway cars for city traffic, comfort and courtesy are
so far down in the list of important things to be
considered that they aren’t considered at all.
There may be a few people who have spent 20
working years in Pitt-street or George-street who
are not yet deaf, but there can’t be many of them.
Deafness is, as a rule, the first disability of age to
affect the Sydney citizen. City ordinances prohibiting
avoidable noises could do something to stem the
trouble; intelligent consideration of the causes of
traffic din by transport authorities could do a lot
more. Such efforts should pay for themselves in
nerve-relief to city workers of all sorts and their
greater efficiency.
«
An Inquiry and a Protest.
From C. A. Butler, of the Butler Air Transport Co.:
The use of the word “Dragon” in B. 9/10/’35 is
unfair to all operators of “Dragon” D.H.84 machines.
Since its inauguration the Butler Air Transport
Company has used “Dragon” aircraft on the Coota-
mundra-Charleville section of the England-Australia
mail service, and these machines have maintained their
reputation of being the safest aircraft in the world.
The misuse of the word “Dragon” in your article is
likely to be detrimental to the service operated by my
company and to other owners of “Dragon” machines;
I would therefore appreciate a statement exonerating
“Dragon” D.H.84 aircraft from any slur resulting
from the Bulletin article.
The Bulletin’s comments were restricted throughout
to the D.H.86 type of ’plane, and were not a “slur”
even on these, but a demand for a searching inquiry
into the suitability or otherwise of these specific
machines for Australian conditions. Authority evi-
dently held similar views, for, though the committee of
inquiry was unable, as The Bulletin anticipated, to
blame structural or suchlike defects for the second
Bass Strait disaster, tests of the type of ’plane
involved were ordered. Instead of putting any “slur”
upon the ’planes used by Mr. Butler, The Bulletin
embraced these and others in the highest praise it
could think of, that “the general performance of
the passenger services has been second to none in the
world, save, perhaps, the American.”
4
Juvenile-instruction Centres.
The N. S. Wales Education Department proposes to
begin experimental work at Enmore in “a special
school, which will provide opportunities for boys
over 12 years of age whose ability, knowledge and
aptitudes indicate that they will be likely to benefit
by a special post-primary course.” There is ample
room for it.
This experiment goes a step further than one,
introduced more than two years ago, which resulted
in children of special ability being selected, by means
of psychological and scholastic tests, and grouped in
classes where every opportunity was given them to
progress at a rate in accordance with their natural
ability.
But if the Stevens Government does not give the
Enmore experiment any more support than Victorian
Governments have given to their Education Depart-
ment’s vocational-guidance scheme, the school at
Enmore might just as well not be opened. In Victoria
the Director of Education on one occasion paid out of
his own pocket a bill for the printing of forms sent
to parents by the vocational-guidance officer.
Each year, for the next five years at least, the
number of young people between the ages of 14 and
18 who will leave school to compete for employment
will be larger than it is to-day, “Raise the school
age to 16,” mumble alleged reformers on Parlia-
mentary benches. This would mean, for one thing,
vast expenditure on the erection of buildings to house
the extra pupils. But it is a mathematical certainty
that after 1940 enrolments will be smaller as a result
of a decline in the birth-rate following the high post-
war cycle. Then there would be buildings to knock
down.
There is a strong case, however, for juvenile-
instruction centres. it has been demonstrated in
Britain and in America that they are an effective
means of rescuing large numbers of boys and girls
from the demoralisation inherent in prolonged unem-
ployment. Existing systems of technical education
are narrow in their scope of appeal because of the
outdated conditions governing them. Recast, made
to apply to the present and to provide for the future
needs of jobless youth, these schools could at once
furnish workshops for unemployed young men and
women.
♦
Taxing Lord Howe Island.
“Kentia” objects:
Lord Howe Island is a picturesque collection of palm-
trees and other vegetarian delicacies growing upon a small
rock in the Pacific at the idyllic distance of 430 miles north-
east from the nearest tax-office. >
The inhabitants live on palm-seeds, if not in a gastro-
nomic, at any rate in an economic, sense. They gather
these seeds by swarming up the trees in bare feet, an occupa-
pation which they study from childhood, and at which they
become so proficient that, without the aid of ropes, ladders,
airships or other conveniences of effete civilisation, they can
get up a tree in no time. The seeds were taken to most
parts of the world by means of ships, and, planted in soil,
grew into trees so strongly resembling the parent bushes as
to be highly prized by all right-thinking people.
That was the position until about half a dozen years ago,
when the depression began to get the world properly in its
freezing grip, with the result that people everywhere found
it too cold sitting about in the shade, and the popularity of
palm-trees slumped. Consequently, orders for the delivery of
large bags of palm-seeds fell off alarmingly, and the inhabi-
tants of Lord Howe were reduced to climbing their beloved
trees only for practice, or to have a look at the view, which
consists entirely of water.
Recently, two or three of the population, which numbers
in all about 140, have taken advantage, as the doubtful phrase
has it, of the steady summer tourist traffic, and make some
money out of boarding-houses. In addition to this revolu-
tionary enterprise, the island calm has been disturbed by the
visit of a N.S.W. Governor, one or two members of Parlia-
ment and a cricket team.
Nevertheless, the general inhabitants remain much as
they were 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago, and even before
that. Their wants are few and are largely satisfied with
fish. They manage to do without roads, preferring a
primitive horse-drawn sleigh to a Rolls Royce, and their
legs to either. They break no laws because they have none
to break, if we except those regulating the exact state of
decomposition at which fish ceases to be fish and becomes
bait. They are so healthy, both bodily and mentally, that
they do without a doctor; so temperate that they do without
a pub; and altogether so quiet, orderly and decent that their
police live 430 miles away, near the tax-office.
Such, then, had been Lord Howe Island until the other
day.
At this stage of the story something dreadful happens,
the precise cause of which may never be known.
Whatever the cause, the N.S.W. Taxation Department
awoke from a five years’ trance and spoke. In a voice that
might have shaken birds off the North Pole, it made the
staggering announcement that for that whole five years inhabi-
tants of this island, whom we had thought so morally and
geographically removed from any such charge, had not paid
unemployment-relief tax.
Thus is our faith in human nature incontinently shat-
tered. Think of it! Here are all these people, not dodging
the tax, because they had probably never heard of it —never
having employment or unemployment in their midst, and
no thought nearer to either than scampering occasionally up
a palm-tree and plucking its seeds —here, then, are these
people, with, as the department has pointed out in reply
to their protests, “the benefit of the laws and administration of
N.5.W.,” and paying nary a bob of a just and popular tax.
Fully 40 people are implicated, and the total sum involved
must be nearly £5O.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: The burial of the stranded
school of whales at Stanley (Tas.) sets
me peering into the future. Generations
of Stanley-ites will come and go, cen-
turies will pass and the strange visitation
will be forgotten. At last some distant
descendant of the present-day grave-
diggers will chance upon this huge cache
of whale skeletons. All sorts of theories
will be propounded to explain how they
got there, and probably the learned men
of some distant future will decide, fol-
lowing the elephant burial-ground myth,
that in ancient times (i.e., now) the
whales chose Stanley beach as their
cemetery and invariably went there to
die when they felt old age creeping on.
I find myself hoping that no tombstones
with a record of the true story will be
placed over the grave. After all, why
should we rob posterity of its illusions?
No one comes back from the past to rob
us of ours.
* * i=
“Como”: The slump in the noble sport
of barrow-pushing has led the thoughts
of middle-aged men to turn lightly to
other pastimes. Stacey,, M.H.R., has
wagered £5 with Mcßride, M.H.R., that
he can plant 15,000 onions in an eight-
hour day. The only blunder seems to
be that the event is booked to take place
in Mr. Stacey’s kitchen garden. An excit-
ing test like that would have justified the
hiring of the Adelaide Oval, filled with
its 20,000 barrackers, and given the s.-p.
books a chance of doing a roaring trade
in every right-of-way and licensed shop.
* $ 'p s|;
“Pont Noyelles”: “El V.” (B.
16/10/’35 would hardly ridicule aerial
bombing attack in massed formation if
he had seen Fritz’s morning call on the
“Pacific” ammunition dump near Vlam-
entinghe in September, 1917. I hap-
pened to be handy, and my eyes took in
what resembled a flight of pigeons, so
close was the formation. In reality it
was a flight of 45 Fritz ’planes—2s
Gothas and 20 fighters. In less than
three minutes the bombers had laid their
eggs and were scampering off, all at
about 1000 feet. During this time the
“Archies” and the Lewis guns shot tons
of metal into the air. When I recovered
from the shock I counted 45 ’planes
hurrying home.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: In a recent art show—
that of Douglas Pratt—a pencil draw-
ing, “Old Cottage, Phillip Street,” got a
deal of notice; it was mentioned in
several critiques and at least three
journals gave reproductions of it.
Curiously enough, not a line was printed
about the literary associations of the
sketch. The cottage was the one in
which the Lawsons lived. Here it was
that Louisa Lawson published "Dawn.”
Australia’s first feminist paper ; Henry,
her son, worked the old hand-press to
get it out. He was a youth then ; but
in this cottage he wrote, among other
of his early pieces, “Faces in the Street,”
which he furtively took to The Bulletin
office and dropped on the counter before
making a hurried getaway.
“G. Trotter”: Melbourne shopkeepers,
shortsightedly opposing the project to
plant trees along the Collins-street
“Block” to conform to the avenue
along the eastern end of the thorough-
fare, assert that the foliage will be “bad
for trade.” How any attempt to beautify
surroundings should prevent people
from buying is difficult to imagine. The
volume of trade is not limited by trees
or beautification ; it is limited only by
the pockets of the people. Some years
back there was an agitation in several
Western District (Vic.) country towns to
have the three-chain main streets cut
down to fifty feet “to improve trade.”
The agitators were quite unable to sec
that the purchasing power of the district
“ Know any croonin' pieces, Richard?"
“Only ‘Croon Un Lord of All.' ”
could not be improved one ha’porth,
even if the streets were reduced to five
feet. The Government wisely refused to
countenance the suggestion, and to-day
those towns are a model to many others
by reason of the garden strips which
have been completed down the centres of
the thoroughfares.
❖ * * *
“Grasspan”: Watching an Ernest
Rolls show the other night, it struck me
how superior were the legs of the modern
chorus girl to those of her predecessor of
the past generation. For one thing,
tights were worn in those dark days, and
producers, utterly ignorant of anatomy,
forced girls with perfect legs to pad
themselves out of all shape to conform
to a stage tradition that no light must
be seen between the two legs of a woman
standing up straight. To-day legs are
bare ; they have to be good legs in the
first place, and there is no person with a
perverted sense of beauty to distort them
afterwards. Bare legs are far more
beautiful than legs in tights ; their only
drawback is that the silken covering gave
a spice of naughtiness to the revelation
which is missing now.
“Two-for-his-heels”: The unique posi-
tion in which the hansom cabby was
placed for taking an active interest
in the doings of his fares is undeniable.
But his stickybeaking, as it might be
called nowadays, wasn’t always employed
for invidious purposes (B. 23/10/’35) ;
sometimes it was helpful. James Payn,
an English novelist of last century, re-
lated in his reminiscences how once he,
with another young undergraduate, char-
tered a London gondola to take them to
Epsom. To while away the time they
had provided themselves with a pack
of cards and a cribbage board, and they
were soon deep in the intricacies of the
then popular game. It was when one
of the players was marking his latest
tally that a hoarse and slightly reproach-
ful voice descended from the peephole,
evidence that the Jehu had been follow-
ing the game with the keen interest of
an expert. ‘‘And one for his nob, mister
—and one for his nob!”
"Hamer”: Bathetic patriotic verses? I
treasure the memory of this, published
in the “Australian Star” at the time of
Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee cele-
brations:—
The lion cubs their dam did whelp
Now spread their pinions far.
In Empire’s cause they gladly help:
They love their Great Mamma.
The same paper at the same period com-
mented approvingly on Queen Victoria
having been “wife as well as mother.”
“Rookie”: I am interested to read
about the Gofas, the latest Abyssinian
warrior tribe to catch the limelight in
the tabloids, that their favorite shooting
position is sitting down, holding the rifle
with the right hand and the first two
toes of the right foot. So far they do
not seem to differ much from the
average civilian rifle-shots who have
been doing their contortion acts at the
Anzac (N.S.W.) range. But (he
chronicler's next statement takes away
my breath. In the position just de-
scribed, it seems, they arc “capable of
advancing on the left leg and hand for
miles.” I would give a lot to-day to see
some of my old musketry instructors —
all short and corpulent men —demon-
strating that method of advancing to a
batch of new recruits.
* * ❖ ❖
“Kellick”: Ships alongside a jetty
always put conical-shaped ratguards on
their hawsers. Most people think that
these guards are placed to prevent rats
from entering a ship ; actually, it is the
other way round. The custom dates
back to the plague scares of 30-odd years
ago, when stringent precautions were
taken with vessels which had visited in-
fected ports. I heard an old bos’n
emphasising the correct method of
placing these guards with the following;
“Apex to the shore. To stop our rats
deserting.”
% % *
“El V.”: The habit of ladies going to
war (B. 23/10/’35) lasted right up to
the days of the Peninsula. It was no-
thing in Tippoo’s wars for an officer to
take a Dulcinea with him —she was
just a part of his camp equipment, and
was scarcely noticed among the 40 bul-
locks, massaljies, cloak-bearers and dhu-
bashes whom he brought along with his
claret and madeira. Wellington curbed
the practice, not so much because he
objected to the ladies as because they
occupied useful transport animals ; but
even he could not keep them out of
Spain. The Irish brigades, in particular,
were famous for their hordes of wives,
who did the army's cooking and sewing
when in the field. In the letters of a hero
of Badajoz there is a priceless picture
of a lieutenant on the march, a parasol
held over his head to keep the Spanish
sun off him, while his spouse trails
meekly behind on a donkey, nursing her
latest, and directing the cavalcade with
the family furniture. Some officers mar-
ried distressed natives ; Sir Harry Smith's
“Juanita” followed him through the
war and afterwards gave her name to a
S’African town which many an Aus-
tralian learnt to know a century later —
Ladysmith. But Wellington’s lady fol-
lowers were mostly married, which was
more than could be said for Napoleon’s.
“Ah, monsieur,” exclaimed a captured
general to the peer, “no wonder you beat
us at Vittoria! You have an army. We
have only a travelling bagnio.”
“Kenmore” : “Diggaire's” (B. 9/10/’35)
mention of the birch-wine he sampled in
the Scottish Highlands reminds me that
Norwegian birch-beer was regularly on
tap at a quiet Melbourne pub (close to
Flinders-sfreet station) a generation ago.
The tavern was a favorite rendezvous of
Scandinavian skippers, who brought out
supplies of their native brew in their
ships. Birchen-bran is still popular in
parts of Germany.
:|{ :J: >]t >J:
“Oran”: I strolled into our Mutual
Improvement Society’s meeting the other
night just as the lecturer on dietetics was
expounding the edible virtues of fish.
“It’s a brain food,” he impressed on his
audience. “The man who likes fish is
the man whose brain is capable of big
things.” The lady next to me sniffed
audibly. “Too right,” she said. “If
there’s anything bigger than the lies my
old man tells when he comes home from
the launch on Sundays I’d like to hear
’em.”
>[{ »:? ’ *
“Tabua”; Fiji is in a ferment over a
horrid tangle in the currency. The Gov-
ernment began by withdrawing the right
of the banks to issue notes, and substi-
tuted its own shinplasters. Then it
banned Australian and M.L. silver, and
finally shut down on British silver coins.
It wound up by issuing a nickel and
silver coinage of its own; acceptance
of this is compulsory. It seems to have
quite overlooked the large Hindu popu-
lation of the Fijis and the Hindu’s in-
eradicable habit of hoarding coinage in-
stead of banking it. It is estimated that
there are some hundreds of thousands
of pounds in British and Australasian
silver hidden in Hindu huts and humpies
and rendered at least temporarily useless
to the disconsolate owners.
* * -1=
“D.E.”: An hour is allowed to the
Senator speaking on the second reading
of a bill; when the hour is up the Presi-
dent interposes. He did this most appro-
priately when Gordon Brown, from
Queensland, was giving it lip on the
Crimes Bill. Looking at his watch.
Brown must have decided that he would
be within his limit if he wound up with
a quotation from Shelley ; and this is
the hash he made of it:
Rise like lions from yOur slumbers,
Rise in unvanquishable numbers.
Here the patriarchal Lynch intervened
with “The honor-rable Senator-r has ex-
hausted his toime.”
* * * *
“Vasse”: Mrs. Drake-Brockman,
widow of a Westralian Surveyor-General,
who died at 71 the other day, came of
pioneering stock. Her own bravery as a
girl when, with a farmhand, she rode her
horse into an angry sea and rescued
several of the crew of the little steamer
Georgette, wrecked on the coast a few
miles from her father’s home, has often
been told in print. The history of the
family is related in the late Edward
Shann’s book Cattle Chosen, one of
the rare occasions on which the
professor turned aside from economics
to write a simple life-story, grounded
on family records. The Bussell brothers
—John was the eldest, and is the
outstapding figure of the book ; Grace s
father, Alfred, was the youngest—came
from England to the infant Swan River
Settlement over a century ago and fought
successfully to establish themselves in
what was then an isolated part of the
colony, though only 150 miles south of
Perth. The bush was heavily timbered,
the natives were a constant menace, the
bare necessities of life were often hard
to come by and their own resources were
of the scantiest, but pluck and pertinacity
carried them through. The clan left
their name on the port of Busselton.
One of the deceased lady’s sons is a
Judge of the Federal Arbitration Court,
another was a Rhodes scholar and a
Puisne Judge in New Guinea; the
Moulden lady, of Adelaide, is a daughter.
BAD PAYS.
“The most terrifying of all the Abyssinian troops,
according to the ‘Times’ correspondent, are the men
from Gofa, fantastically arrayed in bright pink
ochre. They care for neither God nor man and
refuse to pay their bills.”
In quivering flesh and bloody fray they revel,
The savage warriors who in Gofa dwell;
They’ve no belief in deity or devil,
No hope of heaven and no dread of hell.
Deep pity for these poor, benighted creatures
Good Christian souls like yours and mine
must fill.
And here’s another of their dreadful features:
They never pay a bill.
Accounts with brusque requests for “prompt
attention,”
As being obviously overdue,
Provoke in them none of the apprehension
They might occasion chaps like me and you.
They fear no foe, and let no grisly spectres
Of duns or deficits disturb their rest;
The very hardiest of debt-collectors
Would give these tribesmen best.
In this enlightened age they rank as rum ’tins.
They leap to battle when the war-drum’s hit;
But, strange to say, it leaves them cold, a
summons,
And absolutely unperturbed, a writ.
They’re fond of fighting and they’re slick at
slaying;
They’ve positively no religious views,
And, worst of all, they never think of paying
A creditor his dues.
It can’t be snips or butcher-men who vainly
Essay to part these Ethiops from their oof,
Seeing they go attired in ochre, mainly.
And carve their steak from beef upon the
hoof.
They have no pubs where beer in pots is
guzzled,
No genial Bungs their names on slates to
stick,
So, by and large, it leaves one slightly puzzled
What they should want with tick.
But there it is. They’re just a holy terror,
A devastating scourge, these Gofa clans.
“Kirke’s Lambs” had nothing on them, make
no error.
And Morgan’s buccaneers were “also-rans.”
As hard as nails and flexible as willows
They ramp and rage around their rugged
hills,
And, deadliest of all their peccadilloes,
They never pay their bills!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Double Disc”: I wonder how many
young breadwinners are rendered work-
less, week after week, by the policy of
sacking hands, male or female, just
before they turn 21. A glance through
the “Positions Vacant” column in any
Australian newspaper will show hun-
dreds of jobs waiting for girls and youths
of from 16 to 19. Positions for those
over 21 are discouragingly rare. Two
years ago a youngster got a job with a
wine and spirit firm. He was taught
blending, and became practically the
right-hand man of the head blender.
To-day, with his twenty-first birthday just
three weeks ahead, he is under a fort-
night’s notice, “owing to the present
serious trouble in Europe and Abyssinia”!
* * * *
“Lor”: My firm was instructed by
two Roma (Q.) storekeepers to demand
payment of accounts due by an indivi-
dual in the district. We wrote, and a
daughter replied:
Dear Sir, —I am writing on behalf of
my father to your letter received this
morning re payment on two acc’s. I just
want you to know that as dad is at
present doing time for maintenance there
is no money coming in, so both parties
will just have to do their damnedest.
* * * *
“W.M.C.”; The description of the
travelling boxing show in Tihuron is re-
markably true to life. I have seen that
party in the flesh ; so real that when the
spruiker said “Put your hands together,
gentlemen,” I found myself looking round'
to see if any of the Whites were there.
Another thing in regard to Tiburon. In
a recent issue a par. appeared about the
crosscut saw in the drawing at the head
of the early instalments, fault being found
with the teeth of the implement. Yet
obviously the saw is a pit-saw, as used
by old-time sawyers. They make very
good crosscuts ; a friend of mine has one,
and swears by it. I take it that the artist
realised that anything the Whites had
would be very ancient; hence the old
pit-saw.
Warwick”; Somebody has discovered
that the name of the Sydney suburb of
Randwick is habitually mispronounced
by its inhabitants and everyone else. One
of our dailies quotes Dr. Wall, M.L.C., as
|| s authority for the statement that the
original Randwick is a town outside
Gloucester, and is always called ‘Ran-
nick.’ I can only say that I lived close
to the place for years—incidentally, it is
not a town outside Gloucester hut a vil-
lage outside Stroud —and never heard it
called anything but Randwick, though,
of course, it can be easily slurred into
Rannick. In most English place -names
ending in "wick” the tendency is to
eliminate the “w” ; the exception is when
the preceding syllable is sharply accented.
Apropos, 1 was once sharply corrected by
a citizen of Creswick (Vic.) for alluding
to his burg as “Cressick.” I suppose 1
had Cheswick (Chissick) in mind. 1
don t know if there is a Creswick in
Britain, but. if so, 1 suspect it became
"Cressick” long ago.
* * ? *
"Oily Gammon”; In the N.S.W.
Assembly last week a member suggested
that legislation was urgently needed to
P r °J ect confiding persons from the un-
skilled treatment they frequently received
in beauty parlors. “One woman who
submitted to having her hair dyed dis-
covered later that it had turned green.”
It just goes to show how history repeats
itself. In Samuel Warren’s Ten Thou-
sand a Year, published in 1841, Tittle-
bat Titmouse, after testing some highly
recommended hair-dye, makes precisely
the same alarming discovery on viewing
himself in the looking-glass next morn-
ing. A few days later, after trying some
specifics guaranteed to repair the dam-
age, he awakes to find “a purple crown
of folly on his head.” One trusts that
the Sydney victim of the hairdresser’s
wiles was spared the second excruciating
experience.
* * * *
“Wagga”: It’s a mere detail, perhaps,
but the writings which Handel used as the
source of “Judas Maccabaeus” (B.
9/10/’35) do not come from the Old
Testament. They will be found in the
Apocrypha, the 14 books which in the
complete English Bible are placed
between the Old Testament and the New.
The two “Books of the Maccabees” con-
tain some wonderfully thrilling stories of
adventure, and of the part played by
Judas Maccabieus in the great Jewish
revolt against Antiochus of Syria. “Judas
the Hammerer,” as he was known, was a
military commander of such distinction
that Napoleon himself is said to have
been indebted to him for hints in the art
of strategy.
* * * •*
“Abou Hassan”: O. Henry once wrote
a story about a New York husband who,
suspecting his wife because of her extra-
vagance, got a policeman to raid a build-
ing she frequented. The officer dis-
covered nothing but an elaborate
s.-p. shop, but, while he was lecturing
the informer on the unjustness of his sus-
picions, it was discovered that the insti-
CAD!
tution was merely a blind for a den in
which a scoundrel was selling ice-cream,
which was prohibited in the precinct’. This
has generally been taken for a cheerful
piece of imaginative satire, but it will
have to join the tales of reality now that
the N.S.W. police have taken action
against “spot” dancing in Lang’s suburb
of Auburn. There it has been the
weekly habit of Town Hall dance-
promoters to give away jazz caps and
trumpets to people caught by a spot-
light as the music ceases. Commissioner
Mackay’s police have informed an in-
dignant Mayor that this is a breach
of the Lotteries Act. So it has
been stopped, and “attendances at
the dances have fallen to nothing.” Pre-
sumably the depraved habitues are saving
their entrance fees to “invest” in forms
of gambling which the State does ap-
prove, such as the one which is managed
by a State Treasury official and the name
of which cannot be printed here because
it is illegal to mention it in States out-
side N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Hotham’: The drab routine of Mel-
bourne police courts was brightened up
the other day by a young gentleman of
11 who was chief witness against a man.
By way of a start, the youth took a tennis
ball from his pocket and “buzzed” it at
the defendant. Then he rushed for a
paperweight on the beak’s desk, but was
foiled. After vainly asking the sergeant
for a knife, the boy shot out into the
street, to return with a large piece of blue-
metal. His aim at the defendant was
faulty, and a constable took the missile
behind the ear, being removed as a
casualty. Everyone was now thoroughly
interested, and the series of incidents
terminated only when the child was
removed as he was trying to take olf his
boots to get further missiles.
* * * *
“Certifiable”; The latest authority to
ride on the wireless and direct the storm
ot static in my direction has acquired a
phraseology new to me. He calls the
“haypenny” a “hahpenny.” Another who
gives me my Stock Exchange news at
midday has taken to referring to “Mt.
Eesa.” Does anyone else call it that,
and what cure short of murder at Broad-
casting House caft be suggested?
* * * *
“Como”: Melbourne policemen are
kicking against the order to wear white
helmets, to be paid for by themselves,
during the summer months. Which recalls
that lor 30 years they have been protest-
ing vainly against the shiny helmets
worn in winter. These are utterly un-
suitable. The glazed surface of the head-
gear, by throwing out reflections visible
hundreds of yards away, notifies criminals
of the approach of the Law. Again, in
a street fight the helmet is apt to tumble
over the cop’s eyes and he doesn’t see
who hits him. America abandoned the
helmet many years ago. Sydney fol-
lowed suit, and nowadays even conser-
vative London provides its constables
with caps for night duty. The helmet
makes the policeman look tall and digni-
fied and impressive, but apart from that
it is an abomination.
* * * *
“Bo”: Ralph Lynn, in a broadcast,
promises us “really bonzer British films.”
The adjective, coming from an actor whom
Australian audiences invariably associate
with Mayfair and monocles, seems about
as incongruous as “top-hole” would be
from a Surry Hills bottle-oh. Such stuff
always gives the impression that the
speaker has been “drummed-up” for
the occasion. It reminds me of the
wife of a visiting English politician
who, to air her knowledge of Austra-
lianese, told an interviewing pressman
that she considered our shops “quite
dinkum good.”
* * if it
“Double Express”; Once more we
hear the old war-time cry that the other
fellow is using “explosive bullets.” It
was said of the Boers and the Germans,
and now the gentle Ethiopians are accus-
ing the Italians. There are no such
things as explosive bullets, though many
years ago some of the makers of big-
game rifles experimented with “shells”
which were supposed to burst after pene-
trating the target. In practice they ex-
ploded on contact, often outside the skin
of a lion or tiger even, and there were
more fatalities among the folk using
them than among the game. A modern
high-velocity bullet passing near the
object after being fired at close range
makes a crack like a stockwhip, and this
has probably originated the old tale. On
the other hand, it is a safe conjecture
that among the heterogeneous Abyssinian
ammunition there is plenty to give the
Italians ground for complaint. The
tribesmen are in possession of many old-
fashioned sporting rifles, perhaps pinched
from big-game shooters in Somaliland,
Kenya or the Sudan. The bullets fired
from these are soft lead or soft-nosed,
and if used with the old express charges
designed for the rifles would make a
shocking mess of any live thing that they
hit.
* * * *
“Equus”: Curious how horses even in
mass formation can avoid injuring a
man dropped beneath their hooves. Eng-
lish jockey Richards recently fell in
front of the field, and the lot went over
him without material damage being done.
In the days of the old elaborate cavalry
drills, it was no uncommon thing for a
squadron or troop leader to go down in
front of a charging column and come
out unscathed if he lay quiet; if there
was a smash it was generally due to his
horse struggling to rise. The classic in-
stance is supplied by a story of Bliicher.
At Ligny he and his staff were ridden
over by French cavalry. These passed
on unconscious of what they had missed,
and the Prussian leader escaped without
any injury worth speaking of beyond
that sustained by having been rolled
about in a field of garlic. It is recorded
that Wellington, who had already heard
something about his ally’s mishap,
sniffed the air for some moments before
the shades of evening descended on
Waterloo, and then said with conviction
“Thank God! Here come night and
Bliicher.”
* * !,'! *
“Teviotdale”; I don’t know about the
capacity of the Danes as trenchermen
(B. 23/10/’35), but they are among the
heaviest spirit drinkers in Europe, and
have always been noted for their holding
capacity. When Anne of Denmark came
over to marry James I. and Saxth, in her
train was a giant Dane acclaimed the
champion drinker of Europe. The
proudest soakers in Braid Scotland went
down before him until he struck a fore-
bear of my own, a border laird who
challenged him to liquid combat. The
terms were that each should sit on oppo-
site sides of a table with a silver whistle
on the board between them. When one
stoup of wine was finished the contes-
tants took if in turn to blow the whistle
for another; the first who failed was
counted out. There is a family tradition
that my forebear won, but 1 regret to
say the whistle was not preserved as an
heirloom. 1 have always suspected that
he pawned it on one of his visits to
Edinburgh, being that sort of person.
* * *
“Grasspan”: A quaint survival of
mid-Victorian snobbishness is reported
from a hospital in a large Victorian in-
land town. The matron instructed the
nurses not to be seen outside with mem-
bers of the domestic staff, as they were
“a bit above them.” One nurse is .
wondering whether she will be risking
dismissal if she recognises her sister in
the street. Her sister is a wardmaid.
“Boorara”: “X.T.” tells us that “Law-
rence and his oonts were waiting in
Damascus to greet Chauvel and Allenby”
(B. 16/10/’35). They certainly weren’t
there first. It was the High Command’s
desire, for political reasons, to permit
Lawrence and his Arabs to capture the
choicest prize of Syria in a blaze of
theatrical display, but the plan went
wrong. By the evening of September 30,
1918, Damascus was at the mercy of the
Light Horsemen, and the next morning
the Tenth (Westralian) Light Horse, under
Lieut.-Col. Tom Todd, captured the city.
Majors Temperley and Olden, with their
squadrons, rode unresisted through the
motley crowd of Turks, Arabs and
Syrians thronging the streets. The Turkish
commandant had fled the night before,
and the remnants of the Turkish army
were in retreat. At the Serai (Town Hall)
the Australians received from the civic
authorities a written assurance that the
Allied forces would not be molested. It
was not till after Wilson’s brigade had
left the city in pursuit of the Turks that
Lawrence entered with a few Arabs, on
the heels of Barrow’s Indians. These
Arabs who accompanied Lawrence, with
the exception of a small detachment of
regular Camel Corps troops under
Colonel Joyce, were mostly local tribes-
men from the country adjacent to Deraa,
and their “oonts” had done no work to
be compared with that of the horses of
the British and Australian regiments,
which had served continuously from the
Canal.
MORE RADIO BRIGHTNESS.
“Announcers from national stations are to become
a little brighter and more friendly without being
objectionably intimate. The Commission considers
a cultured voice and perfect diction the main attri-
butes of an announcer.”
The edict is proclaimed! An intimation
That voices in the dismal monotone
Which moves the hearers to exasperation
Shall henceforth on the ether be unknown.
They’re viewed with definite disapprobation;
The aim’s to brighten up the microphone.
But—here announcers must be on their guard—
Objectionable intimacy’s barred.
Precisely what the meaning of the phrase is
Has not been covered in official hints;
Perhaps it’s shouting “Well, folks, how the
blazes”
Or ending up “Good night, you blokes and
bints.”
That friendliness inevitably pays is
A truth as solid as the Septuagints,
But well-bred friendliness should never be
Confused with coarse familiarity.
They need the cultured voice, the perfect
diction,
1 win attributes that make a vocal treat
(And mustn’t be confused with that affliction
Unkindly stigmatised the “Oxford bleat”).
Henceforward, whether chaps are reading
fiction,
Truck bookings or the market price of meat,
Ihe accent will denote the voice is trained,
One that is unmistakably “refaned.”
I find the scheme sufficiently appealing
So far as it’s designed to guarantee
(I here’s lots of room for it) a belter feeling
Between the list’ner and the A.B.C.
I will obviate a fair amount of squealing.
But those who ante up the license fee
Would welcome, more than any vocal gloss,
Improvement in the stuff that’s put across.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


CRAVENA
CELLOPHANE/
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE’* keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under all
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
H183741/A
9 d
10/
or
- C
1/6
20/
or
3/9
50/
or
i
mm .
o
m
TO
OPEN
just a touch
with the
right thumb
breaks the
Freshness
seek
POLITICAL POINTS
The Adelaide men who started the
revolt against government by regulation
(more power to their elbows!) have
communicated their zeal to politicians.
At the instance of Duncan-Hughes, the
Senate disallowed a statutory rule
“amending” the dried-fruits export-
control regulations on the ground that
it would admit of retrospective pay-
ments, going back nearly 10 years, being
made to officials. Members of all the
parties were with the S.A. Senator (though
Pearce, objecting to the procedure,
found Codings on his side), and the
motion was carried against the Govern-
ment by 18 to 10.
S.A. companies have been paying their
State 3s. in the £ on their profits. Butler
is reducing the tax to 2s. It will still be
higher than the average for the States,
and manufacturers competing with manu-
facturers in other States are heavily han-
dicapped as regards coal. Nevertheless,
S.A. companies are not objecting to the
cut nor carping at Butler’s self-praise.
Lord Snowden, from the safety of a
plush seat, is firing bolt after bolt at
those Conservatives who lifted him into
it. He won’t be allowed to forget that
or* May 29, T 7, he signed a letter
calling on “dear comrades” to attend a
convention that will “begin to do for this
country what the Russian revolution has
accomplished in Russia.” Some things
politicians do are never forgotten.
Italian cane-cutters at Mourilyan (Q.)
say they support the enforcement of
“sanctions” against Italy, and have for-
warded a protest to their Consul in
Sydney demanding that the invasion of
Abyssinia shall cease. Nobody will
admire them for it. There’s little differ-
ence between our feeling for cricket or
war ; in both we like the stranger within
the gates to barrack for his own country-
men or shut up.
The services of professors are in great
demand for non-professorial work. Lyons
and Casey have put Professor Giblin on
the Commonwealth Bank Board (they
already had him on their Grants Com-
mission) and Professor Mills on their
Banking Commission. And so many pro-
fessors are writing for newspapers on all
sorts of subjects that trained pressmen
are beginning to wonder whether Great
Dailies will have any use for them
presently.
Hawking was the foundation of the
late Sidney Myer’s vast business, but the
N.S.W. Transport Department, which
governs the N.S.W. Government, is not
going to let Sidney Myers grow in its
dominions. It had a man fined £5O the
other day for “carrying fruit and veget-
ables by motor-lorry from the Queens-
land border to Glen Innes.” “An officer”
sent up from Sydney regardless of ex-
pense had established the fact that the
miscreant bought the produce “in the
Brisbane market.” Road carriage of goods
to remote consumers used to be regarded
as rather meritorious enterprise. Now it
is an offence. Before long it may be a
misdemeanor.
Sad will be the fate of Mackenzie
King, who is back in Ottawa as head of
a Government, if it is true that the Prime
Ministership is as much as any man can
handle. Our Mr. Lyons makes this asser-
tion, and Mr. Lyons is P.M. of a country
with 6,700,000 people, seven Govern-
ments, a Loan Council and scores of
boards and commissions. Neverthe-
less, Mackenzie King, with nearly
11,000,000 people to look after and, be-
cause of the division of functions, a more
onerous job than any Australian P.M,
has, insists on being P.M., President of
the Privy Council and Secretary of State
for External Affairs.
The reason Billy didn’t speak during
the Italo-Abyssinian debates is out of
the bag. He was sick and tired of the
question, as anybody would be who had
already spouted 50,000 words on it. They
will be on sale any day now at five bob
the lot, the book carrying the title
Australia and War To-day. It is a
characteristic Hughesian outburst, strong
for defence, questioning the League of
Nations in regard to our particular wel-
fare, insisting that security is the con-
dition precedent to peace, and generally
proving that there’s lots of fight in the
little man still.
Hamilton, chairman of Sydney’s Milk
Board, asserts that there is universal
satisfaction with the work of his concern ;
he even attributes “the greatest friendli-
ness and co-operation” to consumers. If
Hamilton didn’t dream it he ought to
get a doctor for his “consumers.” Any-
one who delights in paying sevenpence a
quart for an article which Perth, with
comparatively scanty supplies, gets for
sixpence is in obvious need of medical
attention.
Vic. Premier Dunstan must be taking
a correspondence course in one of those
“In one week M. Laval, the French Prime Minister, gave satisfactory assurances to Britain,
persuaded Italy to withdraw a division from Libya, was re-elected to the Senate for two
seats) and extorted a glowing tribute from Hitler.”
“Brava !... Isn’t he a marvel?.. . HEIL!”
schools which teach will-power. Every
week brings evidence that he has deter-
mined to go down to history as a Strong
Man. Flying in the face of all opinion,
expert and commonsense, Mr. Dunstan
refuses to have an airport at Fisherman’s
Bend. He gives no reasons —reasons are
a sign of weakness in a Strong Man. The
same with the Melbourne Hospital site ;
Mr. Dunstan said it would be sold, and
it’s going to be sold. No arguments.
Protests against the sales tax keep
pouring in (the manufacturers sent a hot
one from their Federal conference at
Brisbane); and Mr. Casey can’t under-
stand it. He points out that he is remit-
ting a whole £200,000, the equivalent of
the additional grant to Westralia this
year, and plaintively asks what more can
be expected of a Government which has
“so many commitments.” Meanwhile
his old-age pensions expenditure goes on
soaring, and may reach £13,000,000. To
others it is clear that sales tax is helping
to make it soar; but Mr. Casey can’t
understand that either.
Butler, congratulating himself on his
surplus of £36,000 which came about
because the Commonwealth gave him
£1,400,000 in special grants alone, said
he had “lived for the day when the
Budget would be balanced.” In his
exultation he is “amending” an incon-
venient measure which said that the
State member’s salary should be £360
p.a. till December 31, 1936; it is to be
£4OO from July, 1936. Now members
may go on living for the day.
Westralian wheatgrowers are not
sharing in the luck that attends their
Government, which, with an election
coming on in March, is getting £200,000
more from the Commonwealth (£BOO,OOO
in one special grant) than it budgeted
for). The price of wheat has gone up to
3s, 3d. a bushel at siding, but most of
their last season’s grain was sold when it
was 2s. 6d. or thereabouts. Rabbits have
been bad, and, in outlying parts, emus
have been worse. The promised home-
consumption price will benefit the West-
ralians less than growers in other States,
since a great part of their wheat is ex-
ported. Worst of all, the spring rains
came too late, so the harvest in thou-
sands of cases won’t even be middling.
The indications are that the electors of
Gordon (N.S.W.) will allow a few persons
in the U.A.P. organisation to choose their
member for them. If they made it
plain that they would permit no such
impertinence they would be participants
in as exciting a contest as Brighton had
when the Vic. Nationalists agreed, for
once, to let the people decide. Then
the result was in doubt for days ; the
final ballot saw Macfarlan, who was
to become Attorney-General, defeat
Mrs. Glencross. In effect the constitu-
ency got an election reminiscent of old
times and a member who soon made his
mark, and if Gordon stuck out for its
rights it might be equally fortunate. This
pre-selection business has taken a lot
of healthy excitement out of politics.
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R., is indulg-
ing in the luxury—still dangerous, though
not so much as it used to be —of differ-
ing from his leader. “Sanctions” started
the dispute, and Maurice sailed into his
skipper in this fashion:
Mr. Curtin says our business is to keep
Australia aloof from the wars of the
world; but we can’t keep Australia aloof
from the causes of the world’s wars.
That is true enough ; but the gentleman
went on to say that, “in the event of
war between Imperialist nations, Aus-
tralia should resolutely refuse goods to
any belligerent.” Supipose a belligerent
or a group of belligerents chose to
regard that as a cause of war. Presum-
ably Maurice and Jack would repel them
by passing resolutions.
Development of Welshpool (Vic.) as a
port, urged in Bulletin articles, was
favorably mentioned by Melbourne
Superintendent-of-markets Minns, giving
evidence before Vic. Public Works Com-
mittee. Mr. Minns pointed out that, with
the construction of a jetty, trawling would
replace the present primitive means of
fishing, and probably result in the city
getting a full and regular fish supply. It
consumes less fish now than 30 years
ago, the falling-off being due to lowered
demand by reason of irregularity.
Stevens and Bruxner claim to be en-
thusiasts for decentralisation. They dis-
semble their love remarkably. They
have allowed the Police Commissioner to
close country stations and bring the con-
stables to Sydney, and the Railways Com-
missioner to give similar marching orders
to hundreds of railwaymen who had
homes in places like Goulburn and
Bathurst; the reply to protests is “We
can’t interfere with the Commissioner.”
Now their Government has brought in a
Maritime Services Bill which will bring
all the outports under Sydney control.
Unification may yet come about because
people in remote parts are increasingly
regarding it as the only means of escape
from over-taxation and big-city domi-
nation.
One O’Hara has had his pilot’s license
suspended, and is threatened with a pro-
secution, for having flown from N.S.W.
to M.L, without an airworthiness certi-
ficate. When the threat of prosecution
was mentioned, young Clark, M.H.R.,
asked whether the Government would
review the “airworthiness” requirements,
in view of the fact that ’planes to which
certificates had been issued had come
down while others to which certificates
had been refused stayed up. Parkhill
spluttered that the question was “unintel-
ligible.”
Note from a student:
I’m tired of hearing politicians and pundits
declare that “economic nationalism” will lead
to war. Economic nationalism means a with-
drawing behind national boundaries for de-
velopment of national resources for national
needs rather than for foreign exchange. True,
a nation may embrace economic nationalism
and predatory nationalism, but economic
nationalism alone can’t lead to war. The
Americans have practised it for generations.
From E. L. Kiernan, M.L.C.;
A par. in Political Points (B. 16/10/’35)
said “The Bulletin can’t remember getting
help from Kiernan when it was contending
against the borrowing craze.” Can 1 be
blamed if The Bulletin did not hear of
me during the time I was wearing a bib? At
any rate, during my Parliamentary career I
have always supported The Bulletin’s policy
against the borrowing craze. A quotation from
“Hansard” as far back as 1927 (p. 4197, vol.
175): “We borrow for anything. We borrow
for school buildings, and now we propose to
borrow for fire engines. Parliament will have
to make a stand. This policy can lead only
to financial chaos for the State and the Com-
monwealth.”
The Bulletin apologises to Mr. Kier-
nan.


, /
IVE COME OVER “TO ToSS
P°R PIRST BROADSIDE >'
" ? "
Theres kio room por privates in this armv,
The rule savs a team shall consist op
ELSVEN MEM , vv
fi ( T »
SouMD COOUrHOUSE, BOV , ITS TIVAE
PORTME LUMCWEOVJ yLDJOURMMEMT,^
" Vs/oULCD Vou LIKE ME
To RUM AS A SUBSTITUTE
f=Oß VOU, SIR, ■? NV
Mo th^mk.s ; I'll qo mv oWm
F?UKiKnNi<3 1 '; v
Le^g,ue
Ol=
NfcTioMS .
" ,
THIKJVC we SHOULD SEWD THEM £s STROHoW-WoenED CA.BLE
VJELL StvWS: DOLIT O&E THE WO«D , UM3PO'2TSVAi.>s!-
U K=
ACCORDING TO THE RULES.
"If the team of understood the rules of cricket, the world would not be faced with the difficulties which confront it to-day."
-Our Mr. White, Minister for Customs.


50
s>£
o\v
m
\
for
dam
0%
reco
5
■
■
SI
st/
the
-
.
■
••• ••••5
/5
SV.il
. . ■
BS85!
IV.*!
... *.*...••
m
■
-A
.
ftp!
y
.
*AO
1934 and 1935
MODELS
mm
1.0.38-A
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some November birthdays:
Bishop Frewer (W.A.), 52, Bishop McCarthy
(Sandhurst), 77, Prof. Skeats (Melb.), 60, and
sculptor Paul Montford, 67, on Ist; Justice
Douglas (Q.), 58, and Senator McLachlan
(P.M.G.), 63, on 2nd; Prof. Bailey (Melb.), 37,
on 3rd; T. A. White (Diggers Abroad), 49,
on 4th; J. Maitland Paxton (Syd.), 82, on sth;
ex-N.S.W.-Senator Massy Greene, 61, and knight
Walter Leitch (Vic.), 68, on 6th; Prof. Wood-
house (Syd.), 69, on 7th; J. A. Beasley, M.H.R.,
40, on 9th ; knight James Elder (Melb.), 66, and
Rev. J. W. Grove (Methodist Ladies’ Coll.,
Melb.), 67, on 10th; Prof. Cotton (Syd.), 52, ex-
N.S.W.-Senator Dooley, 52, Major-Gen. Dodds,
62, Vic. Govt. Statist A. M. Laughton, 67,
and knight Hugh Denison (Syd.), 70, on 11th;
W.A. Senator Collett, 58, on 12th; knight
Mark Sheldon (Syd.), 64, on 13th; Dr. Battye
(Perth Public Library), 64, on 14th; Dr. Cata-
lan (Abbot of New Norcia), 57, on 16th; Jus-
tice Long limes (N.S.W.), 66, knight Arthur
Rickard (Syd.), 67, and W. G. Hay (St. Peter’s
Coll., Adel.), 60, on 17th; war historian
C. E. W. Bean, 56, pastoralist-knight Norman
Kater (N.S.W.), 61, Bishop Crick (Ballarat), 53,
and Justice Davidson (N.S.W.), 57, on 18th;
knight Donald Cameron, M.H.R. (Lilley), 56,
janes Mcßae (Director of Educ., Vic.), 64,
ana Prof. Sadler (Syd.), 53, on 19th; Major-
Gen. G. W. Barber, 66, and Fed. Minister for
the Interior Thos. Paterson, 53, on 20th; Prin-
cipal Griffith (Congregational Coll, of Vic.),
60, and J. M. Baddclcy, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 54,
on 21st; ex-Justice Campbell (N.S.W.), 77, on
22nd; Willie Watt (formerly Federal Treasurer),
64, on 23rd; Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 69,
Principal Callaghan (Roseworthy Agric. Coll.,
S.A.), 32, and author Con Drew, 60, on 24th;
C. J. Cerutty (Federal Auditor-Gen.), 65, Col.
H. E. Cohen (Vic.), 54, Capt. A. S. Blackburn,
V.C., 43, and N.S.W. Min. for Health H. P.
Fitzsimons, 37, on 25th; poet Rod Quinn, 66,
Bishop Cranswick (Gippsland), 53, and A. C.
Hollingworth (A.M.P. Soc.), 69, on 26th;
astronomer Walter Gale (N.S.W.), 70, and Prof.
Windeyer (Syd.), 60, on 27th; Kenneth Binns
(Federal Parliamentary Librarian), 53, and
R. P. Franklin (Melb. C.E.G.S.), 51, on 28th;
Justice Henchman (Q.), 61, H. E. Guy
(C’wealth Tariff Board), 52, Federal Speaker
G. J. Bell, 63, and Prof. Giblin (C’wealth Bank
Board), 63, on 29th; N.S.W. Speaker Dan
Levy, 62, poet Sydney Jephcott, 71, and former
Federal Minister Guy, 45, on 30th.
Arthur Gough, now in Australia,
learnt his trade of selling Dominion
goods to the British with the huge Co-
operative Wholesale Society, which
spreads its net over the whole of the
British Isles, In 1920, when the Over-
A commercial ambassador.
seas Co-operative Federation was
formed, he was chosen as manager, and
ever since he has been disposing of Aus-
tralian, S’African and M.L. farm pro-
duce, over £40,000,000 worth of which
has passed through his hands. Nobody
would pick Gough for what he is. He is a
quiet, unassuming person with a ready
smile, never in a hurry, the antithesis of
the popular conception of a salesman.
William Dudley, head of the C.W.S.,
summed him up to an Australian some
years ago: “Gough could never market
anything—but somehow when things pass
through his hands they market them-
selves. He has the faculty of turning a
buyer into a salesman for the things
he buys.”
Edward Hirst, head of the British
General Electric Co. in Australasia, who
arrives from England this week, is a
keen lover of animals, like his near
relative, Lord Hirst of Witton, who
visited Australia a few years ago as one
of the “Big Four.” On his farm at
Ingleburn, 28 miles from Sydney, there
are usually a racehorse or two and a
population of high-grade Jerseys, dogs
and birds which are his perpetual de-
light. He has been a mainstay of Jersey
cattle and horse associations, and his
Welsh ponies, which have won many
championships, are known throughout
the Commonwealth.
Arthur Mc-
Elhone, who takes
the late Alfred
Parker’s place as
Lord Mayor of
Sydney, is a
bright-eyed little
merchant and the
father of the
council, in which he
has sat since 1899.
Usually he is not
overpopular with
hi s fellow-alder-
men, as he has an
impish habit of
throwing spanners
into the best-made
party plans, but
this did not pre-
vent all parties
combining to elect
him. He is the
most caricaturable
Lord Mayor the
city has had in a
generation.
Died in Mel-
bourne, Harry Wil-
son, the father of
Strella Wilson, the
singer. Wilson was
chief engineer of
the B.H.P. mine at
the time of the 1892 strike and for many
years after. He left to manage the Aus-
tral Otis Engineering Co., but came back
to the old co. eventually, and continued
in its service till his death. He was
always a very likeable man.
Harvey Johnston gets the latest Verco
medal from the Royal Society of S.A.
Howchin and Mawson are among
previous recipients. Since H.J. dealt with
prickly pear for the C.S.I.R. —he initiated
the Cactoblastis technique—he has been
professor of zoology at Adelaide, but
has made time for two Antarctic and
several Centralian expeditions. He holds
a Syme medal from Melbourne Uni-
versity.
Frederick Bevan has retired from the
Elder (University) Conservatorium staff
in Adelaide. He will be 80 next year,
and has been on the job as Professor of
Singing since 1899. Composer and choir-
master too, he was connected in London
with St. Paul’s, the Abbey, and the
Chapel Royal; and he brought out with
him popular favorites such as “The
Admiral’s Broom” and “The Flight of
Ages.”
Sydney’s new Lord Mayor.
Celebrated his eighty-first birthday last
week, Robert Kearns, of Melbourne,
known to everybody a generation back
as Chief Gunner Kearns. A broad,
black-bearded, genial officer, Kearns was
the kingpin of the old Victorian Navy,
and passed over to the Commonwealth
Navy on its formation. At sea since he
was nine, Kearns commanded his own
vessel when he was 17, later joining the
R.N. In his prime he resembled some-
thing out of the spacious days of good
Queen Bess —it would have been easy to
imagine him discussing ways and means
with Drake.
With the retirement of W. G. Daniel
from the secretaryship of the Gladstone
branch, the Queensland Ambulance
Brigade loses one of its original pioneers.
He had been 43 years on the job.
“Athanasius”: Who can challenge the
record of Robert Parker, C.M.G., who,
at 88, has begun his fifty-eighth year of
continuous service as organist and choir-
master of St. Paul’s Pro-Cathedral in
Wellington (M.L.)? Born in London,
he was trained in music by W. S.
Hoyte, Scotson Clarke and Dr. W.
H. Monk. He arrived in Wellington in
1878, and has been part of the city’s
musical history ever since.
James Coates, the G.O.M. of the
National Bank of M.L., is dead in his
native Auckland, at 84. Son of a private
secretary to Cap-
tain Hobson, the
first Governor,
young Coates left
college to join the
Bank of N.S.W.,
and while working
at the Thames dig-
gings he changed
to the National, of
which he became
director at the head
office in London.
Many a Govern-
ment sought his ad-
vice, and in ’93,
when disaster
struck Australian
banks, it was partly
upon his counsel
that the Seddon
A d m i n i s t ration
saved the Shivery
Isles by the passing
of a vital Act over-
night. J.C. was in
London during the
Great War years.
When the King
and Queen, then
Duke and Duchess
of Cornwall, toured
M.L. in 1901 he
took a hand in the
arrangements, but his knighthood came
as late as 1922.
The Russell Grimwade Forestry
Scholarship at Oxford (third award) goes
to F. M. Bailey, B.Sc. (Adelaide), who
will have leave from the N.S.W. Forestry
Department to undertake the course.
Bailey’s grandfather was Queensland
Government Botanist and his father
director of the Brisbane Botanic Gardens.
The pioneering spirit of the Afflecks,
who have helped to open a good deal
of the North and other parts of Aus-
tralia, evidently has not died. Young
Harold, noted in the R.A.A.F. for his
cheerfulness as well as his carefulness —
he is now a civil flyer—found himself
stricken with appendicitis the other day
on his way from Broome to Derby to pick
up a sick stock inspector. He turned
back, but, being told that the stock in-
spector’s illness called for urgent treat-
ment, went up again and brought the
sick man in after 200 miles’ flying. By
that time, he himself was an extreme
case, and two patients instead of one
were hastily operated on.
Frank Beaurepaire was once world’s
champion swimmer—he held eight abso j
lute records for various distances. The
motor-tyre rims to his glasses were in-
spired, not by the improvised lifebuoys
which thousands of youngsters use on
Australian beaches, but by his connec-
tion with the motor industry. He is
managing director of the Olympic Tyre
Melbourne Council’s water-baby.
and Rubber Co., and is a councillor of
Melbourne City. He founded the Mel-
bourne “Herald’s” learn-to-swim cam-
paign, which arranges instruction for
10,000 Victorians every summer.
Tale of a politician:
Westralian Senator Bertie Johnston, who
has formed a new party in the non-party
Senate, has been everything by turns. Labor
in 1911, he left the party in 1916 (thereby
assisting to turn his first leader, Scaddan, out
of office), and was labelled Independent for
a time. Then a “National” Government threw
Johnston the Speakership. Within two nights
the Chair had been made too hot to hold
him. His old Labor associates “set” him, and,
after a series of disorderly scenes which he
found himself powerless to quell, he resigned.
Reflection convinced him that he had misjudged
the Cockies, whom he had called “the Bulgarians
of politics”; and at the next election he was
fighting under the Bui —no, the bucolic banner.
And under it he remained, as M.L.A. and
Senator, until he decided to throw off allegi-
ance to Earle Page and initiate a Westralian
Cocky party of his own. There is only one
unsampled role left for Bertie —he might be-
come a Douglas Crediter.
On a list of prospective Labor candi-
dates for the Commons at the “expedited”
election, a Sydney paper mentions
“Leonard Matters, a former M.P. and
Sydney solicitor, and R. W. G. Mackay.”
It is Mackay who was the Sydney
solicitor —he was a partner in Sly
and Russell and a W.E.A. lecturer at
the Sydney University. Matters —Labor
M.P. for Kennington from ’29 to ’31 —is
a journalist. Trained at Adelaide, he
edited Perth “Daily News” for the late
Lovekin, resigned after an unsuccessful
libel action and went to Buenos Aires,
where he ran a daily. He has written in-
teresting books, one on the “Jack the
Ripper” case and another describing an
adventurous tour of North Russia.
From “College Green”:
Lord Carson, dead at 81, had a countenance
that was startling. Looking at it sideways, it
reminded you of a cliff —a dead, grim cliff.
But when he turned his head you found your-
self looking at an entirely different man. The
side of his face never smiled, but the front did;
his eyes could be disarming and his voice,
usually harsh, could be pleasantly Irish. All
the same, he was a dour, tenacious man who,
with his tremendous ability, might have been
Prime Minister or Lord Chancellor if he had
known how to compromise. He fought Home
Rule as relentlessly as he fought hostile wit-
nesses, and, though he went to Parliament
with an immense legal reputation, he rose
no higher than the junior non-Cabinet offices
of Solicitor-General and Attorney-General until
somebody during the war decided that a little
more purposefulness would be useful at the
Admiralty. A year there showed that he was
no steerer of policies, and he receded to a War
Cabinet job without portfolio, which he relin-
quished as soon as Germany was beaten. His
last eight public years were lived under the
wig of an ordinary Lord of Appeal.


HE smith, a mighty man is he.’’
This blacksmith, like Long-
fellow’s village smithy, has become
a famous figure.
His might symbolises the body-
building properties of good beer;
and glorifies strength and manhood.
And regarding his robust remark—
“ Here’s Too’ee.’’ Even the eminent
Mark Twain said that this slogan
was the most wonderfully apt in
advertising. It is at once a slogan,
a toast, and a happy tie-up with
the firm name —Tooheys, Ltd.
But, most of all, it represents fine
Australian products—
Tooheys
Pilsener ..
Tooheys
Oatmeal Stout.
+-lER.E’
TO’-E -E
' • V ,H
im
■
TOOHEYS LIMITED. STANDARD BREWERY.SYDNEY.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1925 . . 521,590 50 p.c. = 400,000 1,277,934
1926 .. 512,249 65 „ „ 520,000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5,, „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 .. 316,930 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 . . 152,803 10 ~ ~ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 .. 276,199 15 „ ~ 120,000 1,834,601
1934 . . 260,884 25 ~ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 ~ „ 240,000 2,010,787
When the books closed the co. had
29,895 tons of lead on hand as against
38,409 tons a year earlier. Sales thus
exceeded production by 8514 tons, which
had been taken into the books at £l2 10s.
a ton in local currency. It was this reduc-
tion of stocks, an increase of 21,782 tons
in the production of crudes (366,960
tons) and the rise in the price of silver
that were mainly responsible for the
spring of £94,418 in net earnings.
Chief adverse factors were a small rise
in mining costs and a decrease in revenue
from zinc concentrates (they are sold
under contract to Electrolytic Zinc and
Imperial Smelting Corp.), due to the
drop in the price of spelter. The year’s
average spot prices in London were lead
£ll 6s. per ton (down 10s. 7d.), silver
2s. 3.8 d. per ounce (up 7.3 d.) and spelter
£l2 16s. 7d. a ton (down £2 15s. 5d.).
After paying all exes., providing for
taxation and royalty and setting aside
£20,000 for depreciation, the board
figured the net return from the two
sections of the business £122,296 better
at £342,510:
Net profit— 1932. 1934. 1935.
Mining .. .. £10,370 £139,543 £255,869
Investments .. .. 100,855 80,671 86,641
£117,225 £220,214 £342,510
The difference between the profits
announced and those shown in the intro-
ductory table represents net unexplained
additions to reserves. Incidentally, the
25 p.c. exchange premium on London
accounted for about £170,000 of the
mining profit. The £342,510 was equal
to Bs. 6.7 d. a share (6s. 4.7 d. mining and
2s. 2d. investments) as against ss. 6d. for
the previous term. The div. was lifted
from ss. to 6s. per share.
Of Jhe 366,960 tons of crudes raised,
67 p.c, came from between the 1070 ft.
and 1370 ft. levels. Extraction costs in-
creased by 7.6 d. per ton:
1929. 1934. 1935.
Crudes raised. .319,323 tons 345,178 tons 366,960 tons
Extraction .. 245. 2.8 d. 16s. 10.3 d. 17s. 5.9 d.
Development.. 2s. 9.8 d. Is. 5.8 d. Is. 7.5 d.
Treatment . . 10s. 6.6 d. 6s. 1.6 d. ss. 11.Od.
Cost per ton. . 375. 7.2 d. 245. 5.2 d. 255. l.Od.
The net reduction of 12s. 6.2 d. per ton
in all-in costs since 1929 largely reflects
the introduction of new flotation and
other plant and the new shaft.
The metal content of the lead and
zinc concentrates and the recoverable
proportion compare as follows:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
5 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
130 I 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
1 qa, J 47,928 tons. 1,875,4960 z. 9,598 tons.
t 94.3 p.c. 90.9 p.c. 83.8 p.c.
ioqo J 46,635 tons. 1,904,0320 z. 34,689 tons
ly6Z ‘ I 95.1 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 84.4 p.c.
, Q oo 1 51,568 tons. 2,221,2230 z. 39,286 tons.
xy6A \ 95.1 p.c. 89.7 p.c. 86.1 p.c.
, Q „. ( 52,048 tons. 2,101,2650 z. 37,948 tons.
iyd4 ( 95.6 p.c. 91.4 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
IQq , j 53,465 tons. 2,297,9690 z. 41,840 tons.
lydt) ( 95.4 p.c. 90.6 p.c. 87.7 p.c.
It is all a fine testimony to the efforts of
the staff to lower costs and help earn-
ings.
Ore reserves are unchanged at
3,500,000 tons, and there is a lot of pay-
able stuff, already proved by the drill,
outside the measured area.
After touching £l9 early in the month,
the London price of lead was steady at
£l7 11s. last week-end. On the basis of
last year’s figures every rise of £1 in the
price realised for the metal would add
over £51,000 p.a. to revenue. On the
other hand the miners are asking for a
lift in the minimum wage from £4 4s. to
£5 a week, for a reduction in hours
worked from 44 to 40 on the surface
and from 35 to 30 underground, and for
an increase from 6d. to Is. a shift in the
bonus payable for every pound by which
the price of lead exceeds £l3 a ton.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
declared a quarterly div. at the rate of
50 p.c. p.a. On this basis the pound
shares at 995. give an immediate return
of 10 p.c.
When the books closed assets other
than the mine and plant exceeded out-
side liabilities by £1,564,166, equal to
395. Id. per share. Holdings in other
cos., chiefly in allied industries, figured
at £803,235.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. servos.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 206,597 13.9p.c.=107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1920.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111,761 120,269 1,432,713
1927.. 237,035 15 „ ..116.060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 .. 1,353,688
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.C.=124,657 89,676 1,443.364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543.942
Written off premises, £20,000 ~ .. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932. . 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 ) fiQ , , RRQ r -n
Written off premises, £40,000 \ 16 ’ 891 1,689,b ° 7
1933. . 191,304 13.3 p.c.—13*,552 1 , 703 409
Written off premises, £40,000 ( 13,7j2 1,703,409
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263,681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
193 a. . 261,538 13.3 p.c.—137,552 Ino qqg 9 17ft 439
Written off premises. £30,000 j 93,986 3,178,433
By 1914 this now 63-year-old Auckland-
controlled fire and marine office, with
world-wide connections, had worked it-
self into a strong position. Then the
war and the success of the British Navy
in dealing with the submarine menace
enabled some fat profits to be won from
marine risks; and this and other cos.
blessed with managements either very
far-seeing or very fortunate were able to
entrench their capital behind a high wall
of protective reserves invested in sound
securities. Shareholders have enjoyed
the sweets ; no less than £907,910 of the
£1,031,640 of capital has been transferred
from reserves since 1912, and the pantry
is becoming very full again.
During the last term an extra £82,225
of net premiums was gathered, thanks
to the improvement in conditions
generally:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Hate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 ~ 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 61.8,, 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 ~
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 64.8,, 34.6 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 818,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2,, 30.6 „
1031.. 847,718 566,942 281,387 66.8 „ 33.2 „
1932.. 804,634 470,290 274,089 58.4,, 34.0 „
1983.. 791,538 431,505 295,571 54.5,, 37.3 „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,168 51.9,, 33.8 „
1935.. 895,607 482,941 277,974 53.9 ~ 31.0 „
Though claims made off with £59,972
of the increase, the larger business was
written at only £2Bll more expense.
The underwriting surplus was thus
£19,442 better at £134,782, or 13 p.c, on
capital; and investments turned in an-
other 12.2 p.c. (£126,756, up £2066),
making the net return from all sources
25.2 p.c. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained addition of £14,878
to the investment fluctuation reserve
(£278,701). The div. was kept at 13.3 p.c.,
£30,000 was written off premises, and
£93,868 was put on the shelf, visibly
heaping reserves more than twice as high
as paid capital.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
market thinks that further benefits may
be near at hand. After touching 955.,
buyers offered 88s. 6d. and sellers asked
925. last week-end. At 90s. the return
would be 2.4 p.c. on a 13.3 p.c. div.
basis. A one-for-one bonus distribution
and a 10 p.c. div. (which would call for
£206,328) would lift the return to 4.4 p.c.
Policy-holders are well protected, as
they always have been. When the books
closed, they could see net tangibles with
a book value more than twice the
amount usually considered adequate;
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Premises .. .. £461,906 13.9 £433,112 12.6
Mortgages .. •. 69,686 2.1 86,227 2.5
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 480,487 14.5 572,836 10.7
Stocks, debentures, etc. 582,502 17.5 659,851 19.2
Municipal debentures, etc. 379,041 11.4 403,448 11.8
Government securities. 1,268,658 38.2 1,203,177 35.1
Book debts .. .. 79,213 2.4 71,260 2.1
Government securities (down £65,481)
are still the largest item in the sheet;
but more attention is now being given
to ordinary stocks and shares and muni-
cipal debentures.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
Pref. Ord.f To
July, Profit. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926*.. 436.099 290,715 145,384 104,616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 174 p.c. Reserves.
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 124 p.c.
1929 . . 265,535 236,159 29,376 58.960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9 p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,550 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1982 .. 206,275 167,069 39.206 " 247,035
1933 .. 217,724 167,705 50,019 297,054
1934 .. 226,460 168,083 ) ,o 077 30Q 481
Tax reserve. £46,000 { ’’ ' J
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
9 p.c. 74 p.c.
1935 . . 261,402 194,237 67,165 392,847
*lB months. tlncluding employees’ shares.
The quick development of the organisa-
tion, the change in trading conditions and
the death of the founder of the business
(Sidney Myer) and his chief lieutenant
(Lee Neil) within the last 13 months raise
the question whether the policy pursued
in the past is likely to be continued in
the future. Appearances are that there
is not much, if anything, to fear on this
score. The whole organisation has been
planned on a system of decentralised
but co-operative responsibility, with
specially selected and trained under-
studies for every important executive, the
idea being to ensure continued smooth
working of the undertaking whenever
those in various positions of control
should drop out.
The foundations were laid by Sydney
Myer when he took over Wright and
Neil’s business in Bourke-street 25
years ago ; the woollen mills at Ballarat
were bought in 1918. During the four
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
no less than £777,360 of fresh capital,
which brought with it £181,250 of share
premiums, was gathered. Over the same
period £469,530 net was added to the
book value of freeholds, £300,000 was
paid for all the ord. shares (200,000) in
James Marshall and Co., Adelaide —
now Myer Emporium' (S.A.), Ltd. —
£117,400 was added to stocks, £47,901
to book debts, and the amount coming
to outsiders was reduced by £83,974.
The building programme was con-
tinued during the slump, £312,098 net
being added to freeholds since 1930.
Over the same period £110,947 was added
to the debt and £25,235 to capital ; earn-
ings provided the balance:
1926. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £1,676,978 £2,476,034 £2,479,573
Mortgages.. .. 531,014 439,650 , 470,650
Sundry creditors.. 588,451 631,358 675,788
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 1,266,586 1,969,718 2,048,164
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 217,011 243,182
Shares in other cos. 180,997 453,620 449,120
Stocks . . . . 962,486 958,515 942,507
Debtors .. .. 233,105 378,518 453,864
Cash, etc 8,094 19,158 84,480
Last year's addition of £78,446 to free-
holds, etc., reflects the purchase of two
Lonsdale-street buildings, previously
rented, and the excavation of a base-
ment. Plant was up £26,171, and
debtors’ balances increased by £75,346,
due partly to growth of the new art
furnishing section. Stocks were down
£16,008; a healthy sign in the face of
growing turnover. To meet the year’s
outlay £31,000 was added to mortgages,
£10,965 to deposits (£499,363) and
£33,465 to the amount coming to the
bank and other creditors (£176,425).
There was little change in the more or
less liquid surplus (£284,413).
There was a steady increase in sales,
the output of the woollen mills con-
tinued to expand and so did the earnings
of the Adelaide business. Net earnings
sprang £34,942, reaching £261,402, or
enough to pay the pref. and staff partner-
ship divs. (together £64,861) and show
11.3 p.c. on the £1,725,000 of ord. capital
as against 9.3, 8.9, 8.2, 5.1, 10.9, 14.6 and
15.5 p.c. back to 1928. The div. was
kept at 6 p.c., and a \\ p.c. bonus was
added, making 1\ p.c. for the year.
At 295. (335. 3d. a year ago) the ords.
return 5.1 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div, basis,
with prospects. The 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
at 325. 6d. yield 5.5 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £4 7s. 7d. prefs. and 245. 6d.
ords.
United Provisions, Ltd.
, Dividends Re-
Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928. .123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 100,854 22,612 623
1929. .112,094 8 „ 8 „ „ 112,000 94 722
1930. .102,964 8 „ 7 ~ „ 102,500 464 1186
1931.. 36,205 8 „ Nil = 36,000 205 1391
1932.. 35,611 8 „ Nil = 36,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil = 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 „ Nil = 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve. £830.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. = 68,5'00 386
*Excluding 3 p.c. arrears.
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones, the
ham, bacon and food-canning people,
who own nine factories in Australia and
a subsidiary in Maoriland, decided to go
on the market together in 1927, and the
present holding co. was formed for the
purpose.
The board’s proposal (put forward dur-
ing the last term) for reduction of the
pref. div. from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and for
the surrender and transfer of 10 p.c. of
the ord. scrip to those on the pref. regis-
ter, fell through for want of adequate
support. So there are still 450,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. to feed, in addition to 950,000
ords. At Sept. 30 the lot, together with
a handful of reserves, was represented by
shares in the two operating cos.,
£1,355,008 (cost) and £103,813 of ad-
vances, etc. The scrip in the two operat-
ing cos. combined has a face value of
£716,700. The price paid by the holding
co. included £638,308 for reserves, of
which £463,000 was inner reserves, dis-
closed by a revaluation of the assets at
the time of the merger.
At the start it looked as if it might
become a steady 8 p.c. proposition. But
slump and competition reduced earnings,
and it has lately been a struggle to give
the prefs. their £36,000 p.a. During the
last term, the co. was able to clean the
prefs.’ slate and hand the ords. 2 p.c.,
their first taste since 1930. The operating
cos., however, have been sending along
more than they earned, so the holding
co.’s figures are not a true guide to
actual earnings.
Here is a comparison of the p. and 1.
figures of the two operating cos., whose
combined net earnings averaged £131,043
p.a. for the three years before the
merger:
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Grass profit.. £465,342 £233,721 £201,693 £228,778
Exes. .. 326,957 204,674 181,183 173,232
Net profit ..£138,385 £29,047 £20,510 £55,546
Divs 127,335 36,000 36,000 69,500
Over the last four years the aggregate
amount paid in divs. has exceeded aggre-
gate net earnings by £31,302. During the
last term there was an encouraging spring
of £27,085 in gross earnings, while exes,
were reduced by £7951. The net result
(up £35,036) was 7.7 p.c. on the com-
bined capitals (£716,700) as against 2.8,
3,4, 3.4, 15.7, 16.5 and 19.2 p.c. back to
1928. To enable the United Co. to pay
its own pref. div. and 3 p.c. on its ord.
capital it would need to show £64,500 net,
or £8954 more than the combined profit
of the operating cos. for last year.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
Operating Cos/ Combined Figures.
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £716,700 £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft .. 98,239 19,703
Creditors .. 171,705 141,086 135,352 117,196
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 514,996 623,240 593,451 596,793
Stock . . 344,954 233,948 227,412 193,893
Debtors .. 306,310 237,592 160,097 149,149
Shares other cos.,
etc. . . 94,500 89,629 203,183 202,728
Cash, etc. .. 4,986 50,642 21,050 82,908
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £18,156, add £3342 to the
book value of fixed assets and strengthen
cash, etc., by £61,858, stocks were re-
duced by £33,519 and book debts by
£10,974. Including stocks but not shares,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£308,754) was £34,947.
At 255. the United Co.’s prefs. return
6.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
ords. at 1 Is. 2d. would return 5.2 p.c.
on a 3 pc. distribution. On the basis of
the subsidiaries’ free reserves, the net tan-
gible cover is approximately 38s. 7d.
prefs. and Bs. lOd. ords. In addition
there is provision for depreciation
(£147,815, up £16,398) and for taxation
and contingencies (£41,589, up £2921).
Colonial Gas Association
Net , Dividends v To Re. Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 36,438 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 33,289 3149 43,005
1927.. 52,871 8 „ 9 „ „ 47,654 5217 48,222
Share premiums, £14,875 . . .. 63,097
1928.. 62,300 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 55,806 6494 69,591
1929.. 74,537 8 „ 9 „ „ 73,501 ( _ 63 433
Written off, £7194 .. .. )
1930.. 77,264 8 p.c. Bip.c.= 72,269 ( r,o «20
Written off, £BBOB.. .. \ ~ 59,b “ U
1931.. 67,588 8 p.c. 6ip.c.= 64,254 t go 499
Written off, £2455 .. ..) 8 ' '
1932.. 62,373 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,134 1239 61,738
Unexplained additions, £9102 .. 70,840
To exchange suspense account, £6020.. 64,820
1933.. 68,082 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,154 6928 71,748
Unexplained additions, £8646 .. 80,394
1934.. 64,121 8 p.c. 6 |p.c. = 61,154 2967 83,361
Unexplained reductions, £3927 .. 79,434
1935.. 66,470 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,154 5316 84,750
Unexplained additions, £ 685 .. 85,435
This co. and its subsidiaries own a string
of some 30 gasworks, stretching round
the Australian coast from Albany in the
west to Townsville in the north, and
the manufacture of by-products, includ-
ing ammonia, bitumen, disinfectants, dry-
ice, etc., helps earnings. After a run
of 9 p.c. divs., beginning in 1922, slump
brought the rate down to 6 p.c. in 1932,
and it has remained steady since. The
£296,144 of pref. money enjoys priority
as to capital, and carries a non-cumula-
tive 8 p.c., which has been regularly paid,
and from which no deduction is made on
account of the super-tax on divs. received
from subsidiaries. Holders of the £419,300
(down £20,200 last year) of debentures
continue to receive their full contract
rates (6 p.c. to 1\ p.c.), notwithstanding
the co.’s right to make a 22\ p.c. cut
under financial-emergency legislation.
Owing to liberal discounting of antici-
pated benefits, followed by the easing
of security prices generally, the prefs.
have dropped from 375. 6d. to 345. 6d.
in the market, and the ords. from 31s.
to 275. over the last three months. At
the lower figure the prefs. return 4.7 p.c.
and the ords. 4.5 p.c. on the basis of last
year’s distributions.
Despite a 5.3 p.c. increase in consump-
tion, gas sales (£208,320) were down
£7129, due partly to a reduction of about
per 1000 c.f. in the price charged
to consumers and partly to the transfer
of works at Sandgate (Q.) to a subsidi-
ary. Residuals and other income turned
in £66,870, up £2328. Exes. (£208,720)
were £7150 lighter, due mainly to a drop
of £6902 in the cost of coal and purify-
ing (£55,147). The net result (up £2349)
was enough to pay the pref. div. (£23,692)
and show 6.8 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 6.4, 7.1, 6.1 and 7 p.c. back to
1931. The div. was kept at 6 p.c., which
(Continued on page 18.)


Weftless cord TYRES
BY
DUNLOP
WILL GIVE
GREATER NON-SKID
MILEAGE
LONGER CASING LIFE
MAXIMUM "BLOW-OUT"
PROTECTION
AND WILL
DEFINITELY OUTLAST ANY
OTHER TYRE
Dunlop and Perdriau are the' only tyres in Australia that
possess these outstanding qualities-because no other
tyres in Australia are made with WefTless Cord, the
greatest advance in tyre construction since the intro-
duction of the first cord tyre.
x
A
PRODUCTS OF DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED, AUSTRALIA


m
Young Man ! See how
THEY CROW
YOUNG man, the best time to become
a member of the A.M.P. is when you
are young. Any time is a good time,
but the earlier the better. At an early age,
the annual premium to be invested to ob-
tain any given amount of assurance is
smaller than at a later age, and A.M.P.
policies taken out early in life have a way
of growing that is positively astonishing.
In 1873 a young man decided to invest £3/2/6 a
year (in half-yearly instalments) in an A.M.P.
policy for £250. At the end of last year the amount
had grown, with bonuses, to £789/2/- Think of it!
More than three times the amount of the policy!
Why, the bonus additions alone are £234 in excess
of all the premiums paid!
Thus does A.M.P. membership prosper the man who
invests in it. Over a million A.M.P. policies are held
by members of the Society. Shouldn t you become a
member? Better talk it over with one of the Society s
experienced advisers. One will gladly call on you if you
say the word; or, if you prefer it, or live far from an
A.M.P. office, we shall send you a copy of “Investing
in Happiness*' and of other booklets that should help you
make the most of life. Write to-day.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE
fegsßSgM
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table, also Mcßichpals Go -
and Tin-saving Machine. Call for a demonstration. _ Can also quote toi a
classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables,
classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock: ana a
other explosives and accessories. Electric motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
is generally looked upon as a fair thing
from a public utility these days.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows: —
1926. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. . . £497,025 £920,531 £920,531
Debentures .. . . 138,600 439,500 419,300
Sundry creditors . . 73,072 35,616 79,802
Land plant, etc. .. 693,563 978,639 946,924
Shares other cos. .. •—• 358,389 408,389
Advances other cos. . . 126,873 134,549
Stocks 30,697 24,788 29,045
Book debts .. .. 46,751 38,907 51,798
Cash, investments, etc. 33,825 26,953 26,118
The growth of £50,000 in shareholdings
and the contraction of £31,715 net in
land, plant, etc., reflect the transfer of
works already referred to. To repay
£20,200 of debentures, carry an extra
£12,891 of book debts, add £4257 to
stocks and £7676 to advances to subsidi-
aries, the co. leant upon sundry creditors
for an extra £44,186.
To provide for further expansion of
the business, shareholders (prefs. and
ords.) are offered one new ord. at par in
sterling (= 255. Australian) for every
eight shares held. Exercise of the rights
will make only a slight difference in the
net price of the scrip and the yield
therefrom.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
This co., formed in 1927, bought virgin
forest lands in the Johnstone River dis-
trict (N.Q.). It sold the rights to the net
proceeds from the forest products to the
public at the rate of £3O per acre, at the
same time contracting to pay £lOO in
respect of each £5 bond, but without any
time limit. The co. retained the free-
hold, together with the right to 5 p.c.
of the gross proceeds from marketing,
etc.
A trust fund (335. 4d. of each £5
bond) was established, one half of which
was to be made available to the co. for
maintenance, etc., in equal instalments
from the fifth to the twentieth year ; the
other half was payable on or after June
I, 1936, for milling, marketing, etc. At
June 30, 1933, this fund figured in the
co.’s sheet at £28,051. The trustees were
Australasian Trustees and Executors, one
of the Moulton group, and the Union
Trustee Co.
With the arrival of slump, the sale of
bonds, on which the co.’s earnings de-
pended, practically ceased. *So bond-
holders were asked for an extra £2 per
bond in respect of an “early marketing
contract.” The scheme fell through be-
cause, among other things, the co. made
no offer to repay the £2, notwithstanding
that the money was wanted for a pur-
pose for which bondholders had already
subscribed, namely, milling and market-
ing. Later £30,000 of 8 p.c. debentures,
redeemable July 1, 1939, were offered
for the same purpose.
Now bondholders are asked to ex-
change each £5 bond for seven fully-
paid £1 ordinary shares, at the same
time making themselves liable to take up
and pay for three additional ordinary
shares at par. The additional capital
(about £100,000) is wanted for the
erection of plywood, veneer and
specialty wood units. The conversion of
bonds into shares is a sound move ; but
the attempt to make bondholders who so
convert automatically liable to take up
a further three £1 shares for cash is cer-
tainly not; indeed, some bondholders
are not in a position to do this. Any
additional capital required should be
raised in the ordinary way from share-
holders and/or the market, not from
bondholders.
Present subscribed capital is £240,000,
in 33,750 6 p.c. prefs., participating with
the ords. up to 8 p.c., and 206,250 ords.
The holders of these shares (prefs. and
ords.) have the option of subscribing for
new shares if they so desire, but they
are not compelled to do so. In effect,
there is a sting in the tail of the conver-
sion offer to bondholders.
The board talks of being able to pay
8 p.c. on the whole of the co.’s recon-
structed capital. The proposed conver-
sion would involve the issue of approxi-
mately an additional 420,000 ord. shares.
Lenses and leaders of pyritic quartz
occur in minor fissures on the Broad
Sound Peninsula, and about 40 miles
by road from Kunwarara railway siding
(Q.). There is about 150 tons of 2oz.
stuff in sight, but the nature of the
formations suggest that the shoots are
likely to pinch at shallow depth ; also, the
whole of the gold is not recoverable by
amalgamation. Still, erection of a small
Government treatment plant is needed.
* * * *
At Mt, Cassidy (Q.) the siliceous sul-
phide shoots, which carry up to 2oz. of
gold per ton, are of limited extent; and
it remains to be proved whether the asso-
ciated pyritic rock can be profitably
treated. Sampling suggests a rapid de-
crease in values at shallow depth.
* * * *
To clear up the very odd position that
has arisen in connection with surface
samples from its property on the Raki
Raki field, Fiji, Nasivi Gold Syndicate,
a Melbourne-controlled concern, has
asked the Fijian Government to investi-
gate. G. M. Hume, one of the directors,
has also asked the Vic. Attorney-General
to use the probe, and the board concurs.
* _ * * *
Wiluna is rejoicing over exposure at
1400 ft. of a gold-carrier assaying Bdwt.
over a width of 50-odd feet. This is the
deepest level yet opened up in the mine.
Despite extraction of gold worth over
£3,500,000 (Aust.), visible resources
are greater than ever. Additions are
being made to plant in order to
treat ore and smelt concentrates from
the adjoining Moonlight group, which is
being opened up by Gold Fields Aust.
Development. The intention is to ulti-
mately handle about 10,000 tons of
Moonlight ore monthly.
* ' * * *
At Rothsay (W.A.) the mine is open-
ing up nicely, but the -plant—a 10-head
battery was erected in February, and
there are 12 cyanide vats, each of 28
tons capacity—has failed to do the work
expected of it, both in respect of ton-
nage treated and gold extraction. Tests
recently made by the Kalgoorlie School
of Mines show that the oxidised ore con-
tained 9.Bdwt. gold, 0.73 p.c. copper, 0.4
p.c. sulphur and 2.05 p.c. iron. The
sulphides returned 10.2dwt. gold, 0.55
p.c. copper, 0.36 p.c. sulphur and 1.72 p.c.
iron. If the ore is to be successfully
treated, it looks like a change from
cyanide to flotation ; an expert is to be
called in to make large-scale tests. Ore
reserves are estimated at 57,500 tons,
averaging Bdwt.
* * * *
Paringa, one of the north-end Golden
Milers, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), hopes to
reach the continuous-production stage
soon. During the last year or two it
has done a lot of boring, and recently it
has been treating test parcels of ore at a
local mill. The co. has made an offer
for the adjoining Kalgurli Central.
* * * *
The price of Ora Banda Amalga-
mated’s shares responded to develop-
ments in the west drive on the No. 3
level of Nicholson’s lease, Ora Banda
(W.A.). The drive was extended from
19ft. to 26ft. in values varying from loz.
to 2soz. over a width of 2|ft. to 4ft.
Ounce values have also been secured on
parts of Hall’s lease.
* * * *
Great Boulder is now spoken of as a
much-improved goldmine with a much-
improved treatment plant. Certainly
production is increasing, the work-
ings, especially in the north end, where
a big tonnage of payable ore has been
developed, are looking well, and further
expansion of output is expected. Among
others, Protheroe Jones is mentioned as
a likely successor to the late John Wad-
dington on the board. Alfred Collier,
Cordner James, Claude de Bernales and
Newton Moore are the others who sit
at the table.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) has liqui-
dated, and the 350,000 Gt. Boulder Min-
ing and Finance shares received in ex-
change for its assets will be distributed
among shareholders at an early date.
The co. was promoted in 1899 by the
original Associated Gold Mines of West-
ralia, whose shareholders received a
bonus of one Associated Northern for
every two Associateds. The Northern
did well out of its original holding, the
Iron Duke, Kalgoorlie, but not so well
out of the Victorious, Ora Banda, which
it later acquired. It burnt its fingers in
a Mexican silver venture.
* * * *
Pomme D’Or (W.A.), whose share-
holders were promised early divs., reports
a loss of £990 for its first troubled year
of existence. Surplus of liquid assets at
the close of the period was officially put
at £143. The directors claim that there
is a large quantity of payable ore in
sight, and that there is nothing to cause
shareholders the slightest concern. The
market thinks otherwise.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Cc. (Melb.). — Advt.
* ¥ ♦
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
3{t # + 4 s
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlanda and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Mellxiurne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.


/
ft
zi
(r. > *
//"I
She said to me : The favourite got home in a canter .. /
1 said to her : Tvegotthe favourite at home in a DEcanter .. /
Tired after a day on the course, it’s good to relax over a glass
of Johnnie Walker. In this rare old whisky there’s a kindly
comfort which comes from its age and long keeping. As
soon as you lift the glass to your lips, the bouquet makes its
fragrance known. And when you taste this traditional spirit
of the Highlands, you realise that you are drinking
whisky of unusual merit.
Johnnie
By Appointment to
JOHN WALKER * SONS, LIMITED,
Walker
His Majesty the King
LONDON, KILMARNOCK. SYDNEY.
6L


ABORIGINALITIES
“Babiaan”: An Addis Ababa war cor-
respondent has cabled his Sydney tabloid
that the Abyssinian baboons are imitat-
ing the drilling of soldiers, carrying sticks
for rifles and obeying barked words of
command. Old S’Africans will agree
that the brutes are remarkably intelli-
gent. When I was with Plumer rooting
about the Magaliesburg mountains in
1901 it was diverting to see the way the
absurd creatures imitated our manner
of marching, even to the different for-
mations. They accompanied us through
the hills all day, and seemed to follow a
regular routine. They even had a C.O,
and staff complete. Owing to the absence
of clothing the stall’ couldn’t wear the
magical red tabs in the usual places,
but Nature had kindly placed them in a
far more conspicuous position where
they were distinguishable at long dis-
tances.
* **• * *
“Murray Rat”: Can’t make out what
sort of catfish “W.G.G.” and “Fish-O”
(B. 16/10/’35) have been catching in
fresh water. I’ve fished the Murray and
its tributaries for years, ’ and every cat-
fish I ever saw in those waters had a
continuous eel-like tail. 1 never heard
of pne with a forked tail. Still, as these
Siluridce run to more than 1000 species,
I may not have seen ’em all.
* * * -1=
“Mat’s Male”; Mat was stiff in Gipps-
land (Vic.), and took a job with a cow
cocky at 255. a week, any hours. He
stuck it four weeks, and then an-
nounced his intention of pulling out.
The cocky complained. “They talk
erbout giving Australians jobs before
anyone else! I can’t get an Aussie to
stay on more’n a few weeks. I’ll have
t’ get a pommy.” Mat picked up his
knot, collected his cash and made for
the door. “What you want is a mopoke,”
he suggested as he vanished.
5p * jfc
“Jungor”: The correct name for the
giant lizard of the Westralian hinterland
—first cousin, I suppose, of the East-
ralian goanna, but a cleaner and much
more engaging reptile—is not “bunga” or
“bungarrer” (B. 23/10/’35) but “bun-
garra.” As evidence I offer a verse from
a forgotten Westralian poet, put into the
mouth of a hardshell Groper grumbling
at the incursion of ’tothersiders in the
early ’nineties, as many of them did.
After some disparaging remarks on The
Age of Gold, the poem continued
Ah me! It irks me sore
To hear the batteries roar
Where only roamed of yore
The mild bungarra.
This rush for gold and gain
Brings naught but grief and pain.
Give me, ye gods, again
The Age of Jarrah.
In the early goldfields days I often heard
a native-born Westralian referred to as
“a bungarra,” a variant from the over-
worked “Groper.”
❖❖* % ,
“’Speckshioner”; Those hundreds of
small whales that piled themselves up
on a beach near Stanley (Tas.) (B.
23 /10/’35) are known in the trade
as “blackfish,” and run up to 30ft. long.
They are quite useless commercially, but
are famous for this strange habit of
rushing ashore in shoals for no discover-
able reason. Australia had one visita-
tion of the kind down on the South
Coast of N.S.W. some years ago, but
they occur periodically all over the w'orld.
“Pi”: The harbors and beaches of nor’-
west Tasmania are deathtraps to whales,
porpoises and the “flats” —stingrays and
boat-rays. The beaches shelve so gradu-
ally and tides fall so rapidly that the big
fellows have no time to realise their
danger. A sudden squall will strew the
beaches for a hundred miles with thou-
sands of rays measuring up to two yards
across. They must be prolific beasties.
Thirty-nine sperm whales stranded in the
estuary of the Duck River at Smithton
in 1911 was the Speck’s previous best
total for mammals.
* * * *
“Swansea”: I smiled politely when I
read in a story that a pair of oarsmen,
rowing to pick up a drowning man, could
not catch him because the current was
too fast. Reminds me of a mate’s experi-
ence. Lost in a fog on Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.) he saw what he took to be a
dark shape rushing towards him. Not
until he had smashed an oar in self-de-
fence did he realise that he had entered
the channel, and was himself rushing
down upon the beacon.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Unk White's picture of
the boys juggling cases of dynamite (B.
16/10/’35) after “a coupla beers” could
have been founded on fact. At Terowic
(S.A.) years ago a mob of us were em-
ployed transhipping stuff from one rail
“ Don't be frightened , lady—all I want's your money."
“ Heavens , cant you fellows think of anything but money?"
gauge to the other. One hot night there
was a three-hour interval between trains,
and the mob adjourned to Moore’s pub.
Coming on the job about midnight, we
found what, in the dim light and our un-
certain condition, looked like a truck of
butter. Merrily we formed a chain
across the ramp and chucked those
boxes from hand to hand, dumping them
breezily in the other truck. The work
sobered Charlie up after a while, and he
became curious as to why the truck had
been shoved away up to the end of the
ramp away from the lights. When he
announced the reason in a hushed voice
the mob went cold sober, and the re-
mainder of that explosive was handled
as gently as if it had been Sevres china.
* * * *
“Psitta”: At a sports meeting at Wil-
lenbrina (Vic.) the field in the horse-
race had got well away to a flying start
when it pulled up and walked back.
Asked to explain, the jockeys said they
had taken a series of earsplitting whistles
for a recall signal. The villain of the
piece was a white cockatoo occupying a
front seat on a waggon which served as
grandstand on the flat.
* * * *
“Cactus”: The destruction of pear
by Cactoblastis has proved awkward
for Queensland’s death-adder popu-
lation. The spiky vegetable sheltered
numerous small birds which formed
the greater part of the adder’s food,
and the clearances have resulted in
the fowls departing with the pear.
Left shelterless and hard put to it
to eat, the poor old adder is having a
bad time. The sluggish beast, never
moving if he can help it, looks about
the last thing in the world as a bird-
catching expert. He has been watched at
work, and there is no doubt about it.
Curled in his favorite horseshoe pose on
the ground, he wiggles the end of his
tail, specially thinned off for the purpose,
when a small fowl heaves in sight.
Robin redbreast hops in for the early
worm, and that’s that.
* ♦ * *
“Balaam”: The camel is not the only
ship of the desert. There are other cratt,
and I beg to nominate the common or
garden ass as one of the best of the minor
shallops. A caravan of 40 arrived at
Tennant’s Creek (Cent.) recently; they are
to haul water into town from the wells,
which are some distance out. While the
water is being attended to, something
else to mix with the rum is also arriving
on the hoof, so to speak, in the shape ot
milk conveyed by a mob of 500 goats
from Mount Isa, 510 miles away. I hese
have been on the road lor five months,
and are reported to be in the pink.
* * * *
“Taalpa”: Rabbiting in Westralia, a
youth shot at a bunny with a .22 rifle.
The bullet jambed in the barrel. He
fired three shots to dislodge it, to no
avail. He then put the barrel in a fire
to melt the lead out, but the expansion
caused by the heat discharged the pellets,
which went through his right hand (held
over the barrel-mouth) and finished in
his shoulder.
jfc * ♦ *
“Barangkali”: Don’t agree with
“Walkabout” (B. 18/9/’35) that Binglu
doesn't lean towards seamanship. In
Darwin most of Skipper Edwards’s pearl-
ing luggers had abo. crews ; they were
second only to the Malays as seamen.
Another lugger made three trips a year
down to the Ocnpelli, landing on the
East Alligator River with stores and
provisions for the buffalo-shooters.
Skipper was a full-blooded abo., and his
crew were all members of his tribe. It’s a
500-mile journey, practically all in open
sea, yet the lugger always arrived on
time. Bathurst Islanders are also fine
seamen, and were frequent visitors to
Darwin for a week or so with the Larra-
keahs.
**• * *
“Vamac”: Do birds go dippy?
There’s a peewee here (Longreach, Q.)
that prompts me to ask. Every morn-
ing while we breakfast he flies
from a house-tank to the window-
shade —about Bft. Turning, he slithers
down the arched dome and flics
back to the tank. He repeats this over
and over again until he is fongueing.
If another fowl of any kind is watching
he does his stunt at the double until
quite exhausted. He has been giving
this performance daily for 18 months.
Has he escaped from some ornithologi-
cal asylum, or has he just lived too long
out west, like me?
“G.L.A.”: A city chap got the con-
tract for a large building in our district.
Wishing to satisfy himself as to the cap-
ability of a local lad as “pass boy” in a
riveting squad—it entailed climbing about
the huge skeleton of steelwork—he put
the usual question, applied with satisfac-
tory results in the city: “Do you ever go
birdnesting?” For a moment the boy
looked crestfallen. “No,” he admitted
at length. “But” —with newborn hope—
“l c’n shoot kangaroos ’n’ trap foxes ’n’
poison rabbits.”
* * * ❖
“H.H.”: Being under the impression
that the hibiscus was found in tropical
coastal regions only, I was surprised to
find a native hibiscus growing m our
gorges (Kirby Ranges, Kynuna, n.-w. QX
We are in the dry inland belt, about
600 miles west of the Pacific, and about
300 miles s.-e. of the Gulf. Flowers
were about half the size of the coastal
blooms, but identical in every other
way. They were lavender in color, with
the deep-red throat of the hibiscus
family.
:J: * * *
“Whacko”: We have a couple of
hawks that always put up for the night
on the tower of a windmill (B. 9/10/’35)
in preference to near-by gum-trees, while
the swallows come back every year to
nest under the tankstand. That isn t all.
We extracted a five-foot green snake
from the windwheel one day. His dizzy
spin in mid-air had put him beyond
human aid when we found him. How
he climbed the 30ft. steel tower is some-
thing we don’t know. Another “greenie
climbed the ladder and flopped into the
tank. We pumped it full and whisked
him out with a stick.
# ♦ * *
“Groper”: Pearl divers can suffer a
form of paralysis other than that asso-
ciated with rising too rapidly whilst in
diving-dress. Have often watched abos.
skin-diving—they still practise it in such
places as the Exmouth Gulf, W.A.—
and have noticed that the energetic ones
arc continually tempted to go a little
deeper. So long as they can retain their
breath this is all right, for their inflated
lungs bring them rapidly to the surface
once they start to ascend—their average
time down is about a minute. But
should one overestimate his staying-
power and be obliged to let go his wind
even when only a couple of feet below,
a sort of paralysis will immediately seize
him, and he’ll sink like a stone. Such
paralysed ones seldom drown, though,
since the old buck in charge of the boat
always keeps an eye open for the tell-
tale plume of bubbles, and instantly
orders a fresh man overboard to the
rescue.
* * * *
“Tiercel”: The black swan is far from
being the only bird monogamist, as
“Coolibab” asserts
(B. 16/10/ ’35). The
swans, the eagles,
many of the large
falcons like the pere-
grine, our Austra-
lian maggie and
many others are
accused of the same
eccentricity. Indeed,
among the birds the
ladies are more
often charged with
wantonness. The
lady quail has a
Shakspearean repu-
tation in this respect,
and our own Mrs.
Emu does not bear
a spotless name by any means.
The butting goat is “a silly
myth,” eh? “W.” (B. 16/10/’35) hasn't
lived in far-western N.S.W. and W.A.
goldfields towns or he’d know better. In
Nannine, Boulder, Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie notices were placed in conspicuous
positions warning foot passengers to be
wary when crossing certain sections. Not
only the male, but also the female, par-
ticularly when with young, will attack
strangers. The domesticated goat be-
comes attached to its familiars, but as a
rule a billy will attack any newcomer.
Alphonse Daudet, in his Algerian stories,
tells of a great battle with a black billy-
goat that fought three soldiers in suc-
cession.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy” (B. 28 / 8 / ’35)
notes that the color of floodwater in the
Georgina River (W.Q.) changes with the
source of the flow. There’s an explana-
tion. It depends on the nature of the soil
and underlying rock formations. The
red waters of the Wills River are de-
rived from the red and often sandy soils
of the very old copper-bearing schists
of the Trekelano-Dajarra area. North
from Herbert Downs to the Barkly
Tableland, the Georgina flows over
limestone plains that are covered with
a grey soil; hence the greenish-grey flood-
waters. The muddy-brown waters of the
Burke are caused by an admixture of
the two sorts already mentioned, for the
Burke flows along the junction line of
these schists and limestones. The Hamil-
ton River, with its grey-and-brown water,
drains mainly downs country, further
east, with its beds of the artesian basin.
Any well-sinker will testify to the bluish-
grey color of the sediments of this
basin. “8.8.,” no doubt, has also noticed
a difference in the color and consistency
of the silt after the floodwaters recede,
the red waters of the Wills giving the
most sandy silt of the Jot.
THE OLD DIRT ROADS.
“Y’ reckon we got bonzer roads,” said Old-
Man Richards, glaring hard;
“An* that’s, o’ course, because you find ’em
smooth as glass an’ just bin tarred.
To some they might be jake—to blokes ’oo
get about in cars they would —
But, stone the crows! for ’orse an’ trap the
blasted roads ain’t no dam’ good.
“The age of speed, y’rc tellin’ me? I’ll say it
is, when fellers spend
Their lives in rushin’ ’ere an’ there —and gettin’
nowhere in the end.
They’re ripped up all our districk roads that
gave a norsc a decent grip.
An’ shoved down ones like billiard slate that
give a pore ole neddy gyp.
“These blasted roads arc right enough in
cities —that’s their proper place—
Where there’s a ’undred cars to cv’ry nag an’
very little space;
But for the country give me roads like them
I’ve known since I was born —
Them ole dirt roads that’s got two ruts that
years an’ years o’ tralhck’s worn.
“ ’Strulh! they’d do me. A cove could go an’
sink ’is whack, or more, of beer,
An’ if he got a trifle shot an’ ’ow to get ’omc
wasn’t clear,
His mates could shove ’im in the trap an’
flick the cuddy in (he Hank,
An’ with the wheels between the ruts ’c’d be as
safe as any bank.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“V.A.M.”: A few scattered storms
were about, but not enough rain in
them to prevent my neighbor going to
town to attend a face-club committee
meeting. His road led through one of
my paddocks, and when he got home
about 2 a.m. he rang me up. “By jove,
ol’ man, you’re lucky! Two, prapsh
three, inches rain your boundary pad-
dock. Mud an’ water on road for three
milsh. Nearly got bogged shix timesh.”
1 was delighted—thought there was
sure to be some truth in his report.
There was. He’d certainly had a very
strenuous time wallowing doggedly
through several miles of mud and water
—with two wheels in a shallow bore-
drain running parallel to the road.
“Albarmount”: I agree with “Blue-
gum” (B. 16/10/’35) that the bushman
develops a strong sense of direction. My
younger days were spent in rough coun-
try, and scores of times in pitch dark-
ness I returned home unlighted from
different directions without once veering
from the narrow track. It’s only the
inexperienced and panic-stricken who get
bushed ; never a true bushie.
* * * *
“Murf.”: “Tom Willie” is wrong in
claiming that goannas can’t see in the
dark (B. 4/9/’35). In the Torres Strait
islands gos. raid fowl-roosts, and only
those momentarily blinded by the glare
of a benzine lantern can be bludgeoned.
* * * *
“Worro”: A farmer in the s.-e. corner
of S.A., whilst skinning a fox he had
shot, noticed that the skin broke all
round the neck as though cut with a
knife. A copper-wire noose was round
the animal’s neck ; it had cut the skin
through and was into the flesh. A neigh-
bor remembered losing, two years pre-
viously, a similar snare that he had set
for a fox near his poultry yard.
* * * *
“Kellick”: An incident the other day
brought an old argument to mind: Do
sharks see or smell? The monster I saw
just off the pier at Darwin must
have been void of both of these
senses. Serenely cruising around, he
didn’t see, hear or smell a 35ft. motor-
boat which crashed into him fair amid-
ships. Apparently he suffered no damage,
as he was quickly on his course again.
* * * *
“M.R.P.”: Don’t agree with “Thirsty
Is.” (B. 9/10/’35) that the abo, acquired
the match-carrying habit while diving.
I have seen abos. as far south as Laver-
ton (W.A.) with waxies in their hair,
and the only chance these got of seeing
the sea was if sent down to the cooler at
Rottnest. Though there is something in
the matches being kept dry in the greasy
hair, I rather think Binghi goes in for
wax hairpins because it’s the only way
he can keep his firelighters secure ; his
pockets are very sketchy affairs.
“Quareef”: “Yarri” (B. 9/10/’35) says
“people in the north-west corner of N.
S. Wales saw ice the other day for the
first time.” During winter frozen water-
troughs are common up there, and
the spectacle of sunrise presenting
frost-covered sand-dunes as miniature
snow-clad peaks is not infrequent.
Though last winter was comparatively
mild, it was occasionally necessary
to break ice on troughs for thirsty
stock. Seldom a year passes with-
out some hail. The worst storm to
my knowledge, occurred two years ago on
Yalcowinna, a Station adjoining Corona,
referred to by “Yarri.” My brother'
with his wife and family, happened
to be crossing the run in a car at the
time. Jagged chunks of ice riddled the
hood. The family finally took refuge
under the car, but not without an assort-
ment of lacerated cheeks, black eyes,
swollen noses, bruised heads and bodies.
The windscreen was broken, and dents
were made in the bonnet and mudguards
of the car. Yalcowinna lost many sheep,
and next day
the manager
filled his ice-
chest with ice
still wedged
among the
debris in the
creeks.
“ Hey, that's no regulation costume!"
"I've got it on back to front, inspector. If you
and some of the boys'll gather round me. I'll
change it."
“Pagewood”: Whoever said Binghi
had uniformly good teeth must have
been judging from a few individuals.
Some coastal tribes may have been so
blessed, but inland —no. Too much
sand with their tucker; it wore teeth to
the gums. Food was invariably baked in
hot sand, and often dinner was no more
than sand flavored with meat juice.
* * * *
“B’kali”: Ten tons of Australian soil
is to be shipped to Willis Island, the
meteorological station off the Queens-
land coast, for making gardens. I don’t
know the composition of the isle, but
if it’s coral formation I can see trouble
ahead for the wireless men. One item
always appearing on the bill-of-lading
for each Cocos Island trip is 20 tons of
garden soil, usually f.o.b. Christmas
Island. This is used during the dry
season, and in that period we always
"I Wouldn't sit there, Jim — you're sure to get lumbago .”
had a good supply of fresh vegetables.
With the first of the heavy tropical down-
pours the soil began to disappear into
the coral, and after a week’s heavy rain
all that remained of a luxurious vege-
table patch would be a few withered
plants lying on a snow-white bed of
coral.
“Pack-bag”: It isn’t only in s.-w.
Queensland that Chinese ringbarkers
were found (B. 25/9/’35). They rang
most of the box flats along the Murray
(N.S.W.). A. J. Kilpatrick, later of
Euston station fame, rang and fenced
most of Tammit’s 32,000 acres with a
gang of Chows. As late as 1914 Old
Kil, then on Euston, was about to send
a gang outback on the Arumpo boun-
dary. With the drought the water gave
out there, so he had them burning the
redgum logs and trees at Tongar, on
the Murray—a colossal job, the cost of
which worked out at ss. per acre.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: I can understand and
sympathise with the magpie that
attempted to bite a
man’s ear off in
defence of its nest
(B. 9/10/’35). What
bothers me is why
magpies pick on
my missus. In
using the path
which passed by a
breeding maggie’s
nest the children
and 1 went un-
molested. Every
lime the missus
used that track
they chased her,
clicking viciously
above her head
until she was well
away from the
vicinity. After giv-
ing the matter deep
cons ideration, I
concluded that the
green - and - grey-
striped blazer she
affects must have
given her the ap-
pearance, from the air, of a new sort
of goanna.
* * * *
“Babblin’ Brook”; Evidently “Double
Disc” (B. 28/8/’35) is not aware that the
muddy flavor he alludes to is often
present in fresh trout and other fresh-
water fishes. If, after preparing the fish
for cooking, it is soaked for a short
time in vinegar and water the taint dis-
appears. Mud isn’t the cause of the
trouble ; it is due to the fish including
certain fresh-water algte in their diet.
* * * *
“Bribie”: Old Government House,
Brisbane, once harbored a carpet-snake
whose 15ft. of mottled coil struck awe
into the hearts of visitors and overseas
tourists. The wriggler was entirely in-
offensive, and mainly hung among the
branches of a huge Moreton Bay fig on
the lawn. One morning he decided to
take a stroll along the road, and met an
enthusiast who, under the impression that
he was doing a public service, battered
in the vice-regal reptile’s head. He
seemed peeved when nobody com-
mended his prompt dispatch of a first-
grade tourist attraction.
“Beach Rod”: The jewfish (B.
25/9/’35) certainly has jewels, which are
situated in cavities on each side of the
head, above and just behind the eyes.
These “pearls” (they should be removed
as soon as the fish is dead or they lose
their lustre) are somewhat like a pear in
shape, really resembling moonstones.
Though valueless, they make pretty
dress ornaments or pins when mounted,
and improve with wearing.
*.* * *
“Jayaren”; “Stone Plover” invites de-
rision (B. 25/9/’35) when he says curlew
is dry, tasteless and not worth cooking.
It is one of the tastiest birds we have.
I’ve shot dozens, and have yet to find
one that wasn’t plump and tender! Give
me a curlew stuffed and roasted, and
“S.P.” can have his black duck. What
fowl it was that he gnawed and found
so stringy and tasteless is a mystery to
me, unless it was a crow or a mopoke,
about the only two I haven’t tackled.
“Umpoor”: Feathered game? I have
never lasted any to equal the pigmy
goose of the N.T. coastal region ; duck
and teal can’t compare with ifi The little
fowl never seems to be in poor condi-
tion, but the sportsman who bags one
invariably earns his prize ; they are most
difficult to stalk, and when shot often
disappear under the water. Plumage is
a mixture of green and black on the
back and wings, with white breast.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Kellick”: Have seen fishermen using
a line with three hooks get three snapper
in one cast. Was told that, when the
first one gets hooked, the others, notic-
ing a comrade leave them, follow it up,
and it is on the upward journey that
the second and third are hooked. I’m
not a fisherman—did they know if?
* * * *
“Rindy”; Our near-Alsatian’s stock-
in-trade was his size and ferocious man-
ners, and our old black cat was generally
doing a frightened streak for safety. Last
week, when out for a run, our dog met
another black cat; this time it was the
tyke that did the streaking. Even at
home he’s now a punctured Mussolini.
For our cat has sized up the situation.
* * * *
“Birwurli”: “Williami” (B. 9/10/’35)
says crows won’t eat pork. Wrong.
When shooting the wily buffalo on the
Adelaide River plains we often bagged
wild pigs. A fat sow was shot, gutted
and hung to a tree. When the baconer
was cut down to take home, crows had
to be driven off it. Next day some roast
pork was still uneaten, and was left on
the bush table. When the lubras came
back from collecting firewood they found
that it had been torn to pieces by the
black fowls.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: Country folks’ idiosyn-
crasies? Lake Macquarie net fishermen
hate you to wish them luck, and no
Maitland miner would willingly offend a
black cat near cavelling day. On sink-
ing jobs a hat falling down a shaft is
held to presage an accident. The pet
superstition among farmers is, I think,
an aversion to crowing hens. Among
women, in one locality where I lived,
the planting of parsley simply wasn’t
done. If it flourished, the lady who
planted it was sure of a visit from the
stork within the year.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”; A kookaburra is boarding
with us, and has made himself decidedly
unpopular with the kiddies. He’s no
trouble to feed, as he prefers to catch
his own worms. But he’s a selfish fowl,
having chosen for his roost the seat
of the kiddies’ swing; and he sways
there happily most of the day. Any
child rashly attempting to move him gets
severely pecked for its pains. Only solu-
tion seems to be the building of a second
swing in the garden for children only.
“Plankton”: “Bonne Bouche” (B.
28/8/’35) doesn't mention that it is only
when full of eggs that the sea-urchin is
any good; then it is worthy of the
epicure. Small octopus, too, is excel-
lent. It surprises me that so few of the
many edible molluscs common in Aus-
tralian seas are used as food. Clam-
chowder I have eaten (and appreciated)
at a hotel in Hobart, but nowhere else
in Australia. Razor-fish are good ; so are
pipi (well knov/n in M.L.) and scallops.
Most bivalves are excellent eating, par-
ticularly those residing on a clean, sandy
bottom. Single-valved species (gastro-
pods) include edible varieties, but some
are inclined to toughness.
LOOKING FOR THUNDERSTORMS.
We ride where things in the heat and haze
Take on fantastic forms,
Over the plains where the sheep may graze,
“Looking for thunderstorms.”
The course is narrow across the run
Where promising storms have passed,
And ctaypans screened from the northern sun
May water a strip that’s grassed.
But finding the track is no pleasure ride,
’Mid the glint of the stones and rocks.
For the pans are scarce and the run is wide;
The mirage misleads and mocks.
We see a silvery gleam ahead
That looks like a limpid pool,
And, clumped hard by with their boughs out-
spread.
The white-boled gums look cool
Tis the phantom water that lures men on,
A will-o’-the-wisp that plays
From dip to dip till the quest anon
The sturdiest soul dismays.
Out there where rovers are plagued with doubt
Concerning all things and forms,
It’s a quaint adventure to roam about
“Looking for thunderstorms.”
N.S.W.
E.S SORENSON.


sea
1
Pi
%
Rano'3
“The R-an-D“ Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
ADEEAIDE : Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Etd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Etd.
AUCKLAND, X.Z.: Mac Ewan's
Machinery, Etd.
Or from the Manufacturers,
MADE I N QUBE/JSLA NO BV
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLE V- BRISBANE •
B.V.D
UNDERWEAR
Heat tb- yyufAetft-
sMt by.d u3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
Sheet
- metal
I STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O 71® 6
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne. Adelaide.. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. __.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Press Supervision.
“Fergus”: It is refreshing to note that
“Bungaree” (B. 9/10/’35) thinks the
woolpresser needs instruction. There are
pressers who would resent this. Pressers
have full control of the press. Classers
have full control of the woolroom. But
once or twice I have seen the presser
controlling the classer also. It didn't
improve the clip.
The woolroom is a place where a
great deal of damage can be done at the
press to a clip that has been properly
handled at the tables and thoughtfully
graded. But a presser who values his
run needs no cautioning about the sweep-
ing of bins and round the press. If he
does, it is more often the classer’s fault
for having sought to impart “instruction, ’
by innuendo, in sweeping up himself.
The presser who allows him to continue
is very human.
And, as he has learnt to conserve his
energy, he rarely needs to be told to clean,
oil and tighten the press, any more than
to bring his own bale pins. Station pins
arc sometimes useless.
With some types of packs it is still
necessary to cut the sides down a little
to make the pack sit well in the bottom
box. This should never be done near
the press, or the strings cut and removed
which connect packs in bundles of five.
Some classers bother about this, but as
twine mixed with wool interferes with
combing and dyeing it is important.
Pasture-improvement Results.
“Lion”: On our N.S.W. farm we im-
proved a 100-acre paddock overrun by
sorrel and with bare patches, the cause
of which we never discovered. Its carry-
ing capacity was then approximately
half a sheep per acre.
In March it was sown with l£lb. sub.
clover, £lb. early-strain s.c. and 51b,
Wimmera-rye grass, with 1201 b. super,
per acre.
During April and May it had little
beneficial rain. June was far below aver-
age, July giving it a first start. Then
came some exceptionally severe frosts
which don’t hurt s.c. but retard growth.
August and September were kind
in rain and moderately warm weather.
To-day the paddock couldn’t be recog-
nised. It has every inch covered with
feed a foot high in which natural clovers
and trefoils are in abundance. The sown
seed is doing splendidly.
Many wonder why clovers grow after
top-dressing. The reason is that minute
plants are there all the time, often micro-
scopically small, but soil poverty pre-
vents their growth.
In one paddock the super, started the
clover growth as well as the sown seeds.
The Leguminosoe., including all clovers,
are renowned for their soil fertility build-
ing, and, once established, continue to
build. The L. family act as hosts to a
species of bacteria which extract the free
nitrogen from the air and convert it into
plant food, besides turning nitrites into
nitrates, which the plant can absorb.
A further top-dressing next year will
permanently reclaim this area.
The work was done with a disc drill.
The paddock was not eaten bare, as
some advocate. Leaving any rough
cover greatly assists the germination and
protection of young plants. Disc-drill-
ing lets the seeds in a little, even in hard
ground, and prevents heavy rain washing
them away.
This is the third year in which we have
had striking proof of the value of our
system, even under adverse conditions.
Crutching for Fly.
“Ghanam”: Sheep-expert A. E. Elliott,
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, advocates a highly sensible
system of prevention of fly-strike —one
crutching at shearing time and two or
three more, instead of the one which
many think sufficient, during the wool-
growing period. This should be done
through the shed with the machines.
It means that wool can be dried
out without carrying a large amount of
extraneous matter which detracts from
its value. Also, the scheme catches the
fly at the beginning of trouble. Done
systematically in small to medium flocks,
it makes less work than chasing the in-
fected and burning the dead. And if the
cleaning-up is supplemented with the
C.S.I.R. dressings recently evolved, the
chances are in favor of reasonably clean
flocks. Crutching alone will, of course,
not completely prevent strike, but it
will bring spread down to its lowest
point and make treatment easier because
the wool is short.
It is important that the job should be
done thoroughly. The technique with
ewes recommended in N.S.W. is as
follows: First, clean inside the legs with
the sheep sitting on its haunches. Make
several short blows behind the udder
and a couple inside each leg. Then,
with the animal on its side, push the
machine into the fleece just below the
tail, but outside the leg on one side.
Repeat the job on the other side —clean-
ing from hock upwards. Give a single
blow above the tail. Make sloping
edges to each cut. Sheer edges are likely
to lop over and provide fly shelters.
With rams, it does no harm to shear
behind the horns before the mating
season and apply a little dressing to the
heads. Wounds from fighting are meat
for the fly, and it is as well to be
prepared.
Control of Contagious Abortion.
“Silky Bag”: When indirect losses —
slipped calves, miserable lactation periods
and sterility—are added up, this disease
takes the heaviest toll of dairy cattle.
The fact is apt to be discounted because
C.A. itself does not actually kill the cow.
Many men become panicky when a
bout of slipped calves occurs, and try to
sell the stock. Luckily, a form of herd
immunity usually follows a bad year of
the disease, as cows do not often abort
more than twice running. This immunity
applies to some extent to all the future
stock born on the property.
In spite of this, it is far better to
control further spread of the disease and
slowly breed clean stock to replace in-
fected animals.
The first step directly an abortion
occurs is to blood-test the whole herd.
(Some States do this free.) As at least
90 p.c. of slipped calves arc due to C.A.,
the need for immediate testing is obvious.
Cows reacting to the test must be
always watched against further abortion.
Before this, or any of their normal
calvings, which are just as infective, they
should be removed to a good pasture lot,
kept solely for infected animals. A
month or five weeks’ isolation after calv-
ing suffices to make them non-infective.
All afterbirth should be buried with lime
at once. Flies are notorious carriers of 1
the disease. '
The calves from infected cows also
carry the germ for a fortnight at least.
Because of this, clean cows should never
graze the calf-paddock. If these young-
sters are to be kept free of C.A., milk
from non-reacting cows only must be
fed, as the germs are even carried in skim-
milk.
This form of control is not dear. Tve
seen herds replaced by clean home-bred
animals in five years without dead losses
where proper hygiene was employed.
Even without complete replacement,
control cuts further wastage, so it’s worth
the trouble.
Care of Cream.
“Bill R.”; Warm cream should never
be mixed with cream that has been
cooled. If immediate mingling is needed
first immerse the freshly separated can
in water —preferably from a well.
Cream cans that stand in an exposed
place should be safeguarded from sun.
Set them into wet bags, with the lugs
of the sacks tucked under the lid handles.
Fill the hollows on top of the lids
with water and let the sack lugs dip in.
Acting like a lamp wick, the bag draws
the water, and draughts will keep all
beautifully cool and fresh. Have a
shade provided for cans that have to
await the cream-delivery van by the
roadside. Boughs make a serviceable
one.
Tending the Bull.
“Bluegum”: The bull is an all-im-
portant factor in the herd, yet on many
farms his care and comfort are among
the last things considered.
All too often he is confined for long
periods to some yard or paddock with-
out protection from the weather, and fed
or watered casually and sparingly. Under
such conditions, a bull cannot beget the
type of female progeny that will mature
into strong, roomy, high-producing cows.
A bull demands proper attention right
from infancy if he is to prove profitable.
Good grazing is half the battle. In
addition, hay or other roughage should
be provided regularly. An occasional
feed of pulped roots —mangolds, swedes
or potatoes —makes a palatable and bene-
ficial change.
Lime is essential to the development of
bone and tissue. If not present in the
pasturage, it may be supplied in special
rations. A good lick, based on sterilised
bonemeal and salt, will aid the digestion,
and is the best possible guard against
soil-eating, etc., which many bulls resort
to through being starved of minerals.
When a young bull is put into service
he should be worked sparingly, and his
ordinary diet should be supplemented by a
ration of grain. Crushed oats, bran and
a little linseed is a good mixture. Many
a bull is condemned for faults actually
due to overwork and underfeeding in
his first couple of seasons.
If it is not desirable to let a bull run
loose in the paddocks, tethering is the
best method of control. Fitted with a
nose-ring and decent gear, practically any
bull may be handled with comparative
safety. If the beast be dehorned, so
much the better. A comfortable headstall
of solid leather, with rein of about 20ft.
of strong, light chain, and a good staff
are necessary.
Thus equipped, the bull can be moved
easily from place to place, his diet super-
vised and the whole task of tending him
simplified. Tethering by the horns, neck,
or nose-ring never works. Sooner or
later it will lead to bad temper or acci-
dent.
In the “Big Scrub.”
N” • A. H. Bryant, who won the
A , stoiwille section 0 f the N.S.W. North
~, . o
Coast Agncu P
championship, lives at Wodongbar, on
a farm on which he was born and bred,
It is in the red soil ol the big scruo
where, till half a century ago, a tangle
of big timber and vine shut out the light
from its 180 acres. In its pioneer days it
was ] a i d down in paspalum, which used
{0 grow back-high. Naturally, it
was soon overstocked, as were most of
t be f arm s in the district,
Mr Bryant changed all that. All but
fivc acres bis whole area has been
p i oug hed—over 100 acres in the past five
years _ ant i f or a quarter of a century its
owner has been working towards a satis-
factory formula of permanent pasture
conservation. Since the war, the paddocks
have been regularly fertilised. Maize
and saccaline are generally sown for two
or . three seasons, wastage being ploughed
in h na |i y an d perennial and Italian rye
| ait | ( | o wn with clovers,
Needless to say, it takes a lot more
work than siuing on a fence and wondcr-
in why thc paspalum is going off or
turning sour, but it pays.
Trees in the Right Place,
“Ghanam”: Thousands of people
su (j er f rom (he complex mentioned by
‘.. Girder » (B 23/10/’35). They cannot
in the paddock without put-
jnlo it , , know Queensland
ung a iimUtuhi™
properties denuded of good timber whicn
now pay freight on fencing posts for new
paddocks and replacements from hun-
dreds of miles away. I know one farm
j n particular where unneeded clearing has
cost acres ol land through erosion. Bui
some people never seem to learn then
lessons.
Sometimes I admit that the timber is
useless except for firewood. But even
where it does good to cut out rubbish
the incubus can generally be replaced
with good sticks which m a lew yeais
will prove either a fencing and building
asset or a source ol drought fodder,
It seems to me that Governments arc
to blame in some degree for the present
position. They lease lands which are
public property with no real provision
f° r progressive improvement or mam-
tenance of productiveness. Thioughou
western Queensland and othci cisncs
where tree fodder is an invaluable asse
there should be some definite system ol
reafforestation and replacement of spoiled
. b And • agricultural districts
bc £ ht the value of
windbreaks of comme ? cia , , imb er and
clumps as water . an d stock-savers
p of future revenue,
A Sea of Weeds.
“Thistle”: It seems to me that if
SO mebody does not wake up a lot of
Australia will soon consist of seas of
wee( j s and burrs
Ragwort in Victoria, skeleton weed
j N b s Wa| Noogoora in wes , e rn
Queensland . and now b the Balhurs , pp.
Board, controlling the oldest settled dis-
west of the Blue Mountains, has
been told by a shire council—Blaxland —
(bat it “is impossible to destroy stink-
wor( j n (be district, since many square
m iles G f unproductive country are in-
c]uded from which only nominal rates
are collected.” And the N.S.W. Agri-
cu|(urai Minister has informed the
Eastern Riverina Council that most of
its proposals for dealing with St. John’s
wort are impracticable under existing
legislation.
Weeds are becoming a national matter,
and ca |) f or treatment just as drastic and
universal as that which was accorded
prickly-pear.


A New
Small Graziers' Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
SUPERFINE
LEATHER
Only the finest of four types of
leather is used for the handsome,
glossy uppers of these Abbey Shoes.
Pliant, easy-fitting, with the
toughest soles obtainable, they last
longer and look belter.
ORDER BY POST.
Every half-size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf. . . . 50/-
Glace Kid 45/-
Black Box Calf . . 47/6
Patent Leather . . . . 52/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL ICI
°/c
39
m
less
Ocea
1
m
by
Empress" or "Duchess'
STEAMERS
Spaciousness . . . comfort . . . sport
• • • glamour . . . personal service—
you find them all aboard these
floating palaces.
From Montreal or Old Quebec take
a luxurious “Empress” or “Duchess”
Steamer down the sheltered
St. Lawrence seaway.
Picturesque French-Canadian shore
lines . . . peaceful waters . . . two
days less open Atlantic. A regal
trip at moderate rales.
Any Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
217 George Street, Sydney,
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
l4/3S
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
STOPS TRAVEL NAUSEA
ON YOUR VACATION TRIPS
£cyAt
ayftrl M/untq
Its body strongly made all in one v_-
piece, reinforced with niclcelled
corner guards, Globite Travel
Case No. 1858 is smooth-finished
like glossy leather, but lighter in
weight and lower-priced.
gfd
®!jSUJ e
r
i,
"To tn
“The scenic route”
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
24? George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
Native or Artificial Pastures.
“Corriedale”: Woolgrowers are well
advised to be wary before rushing into
sowing new-type pastures. In belts with
23in. rainfall and over, there is sound
reason for improving existing pastures,
but on drier areas the native varieties
have their merits.
Introduced grasses and clovers are
mostly annuals that grow well in good
moist periods, but shrivel up quickly at
the approach of drought. Danthonias
and trefoils keep going, and, as the
former are rooted, spring with any rain.
These native plants never grow very
bulky, but are richer pound for pound
than some introduced one.
More important, dry grass from them
retains its food value better and pro-
vides a more lasting substance.
These native grasses are also specially
adapted to do with less phosphoric acid.
The old native grasses built up the
wool industry. On saving them, the con-
tinuance of woolgrowing in some in-
terior districts seems to depend.
Choosing Seed Potatoes.
“Hortus”: The method of selecting
seed followed by the largest growers in
England is the most sensible.
Pick your seed as you go along. It
stands to reason that the best will come
Irom plants that have shown the best
results. Therefore, when a good plant
is turned over, select good seed from it.
II a man chooses from a heap promiscu-
ously he is likely to strike trouble. There
is great divergence of opinion about size.
1 had many years of experience in
potato-growing in England, obtaining
first-class results from the crop each
year.
We always used whole seed, ranging
from 2oz. to 240 z. This, itj my opinion,
is the most satisfactory. There is too
much risk attached to cut seed. If the
latter is planted in a dry seedbed a poor
germination and a patchy crop result.
If, however, the soil has been thoroughly
exposed to sun, air and frost for three
or four months, and then cultivated
occasionally to conserve moisture, there
will be ample water in the soil, and cut
seed may be planted without risk. If
cut seed is dipped in a 1-40 formalin
solution and planted in a dry seedbed
or in a bed not thoroughly prepared, the
risk is greater.
Recent research suggests that whole-
seed planting is dangerous. Plants
affected with the virus diseases—mosaic,
crinkle and leaf-roll —invariably pro-
duce smallish round seed which is
brighter and more attractive than the
tubers from healthy plants. This seed
would be naturally selected, authorities
of the new school say, when whole
tubers are planted. Far better to use
large tubers, which, from their size, can-
not possibly have come from badly-in-
fected plants, and to cut them into sets
of 3oz.
Setting this argument aside, the ideal
seed is obtained from a late-planted crop
that has been frosted when the tubers
are immature. If you do not know the
source of supply, choose large seed.
Rabbits in England.
“El V.”: The English who used to
chuckle over Australia’s trouble with
bunny have the laugh on themselves this
year. Rabbits have appeared from every-
where. Hedges are alive with them ;
fields, particularly in the west, are being
eaten out.
The main difference between our situa-
tion and theirs lies in the ways the
problem is tackled. England rings with
the word “rabbit.” Nets and yelping
dogs are everywhere. Money is being
spent like water. But the final touch is
the propaganda. Cinemas and posters
advertise methods of eradication and the
consequences to the country of neglect.
And housewives, from one end of the
U.K. to the other, are being adjured by
half a dozen methods to “help the farmer
and England” by eating more rabbits
and “only English rabbits.”
It is in such crises that it becomes easy
to understand why Britain suffers so
little from pests.
Using Sodium Chlorate.
‘‘Laban”: Authorities who recommend
sodium chlorate as a weed-killer should
remember that Maoriland experience
has shown the risks run by users. There
have been two deaths and several serious
accidents there through saturated clothing
of ragwort eradicators bursting into
flame. The M.L. Government now has
issued a special pamphlet which points
out that inflammable substances satu-
rated with the chemical will flare up or
detonate, not only from a spark, but
sometimes from a blow.
The rules for handling should be strict :
AH clothing worn by s.-chl. workers
should be waterproofed, and they should
wear gumboots. After work, these
should be washed clear of the chemical.
Wooden handles, etc., likely to absorb
should be kept carefully painted and be
cleaned daily.
Sodium chlorate should never be kept
in anything except the original iron con-
tainer, and heat and fire of any descrip-
tion should not be allowed to be used
in fields where it is sprayed.
II clothing does become saturated,
ordinary washing will not cleanse it. but
may distribute the danger. Several rins-
ings in running water are needed.
Even when neat and in containers
there is danger. To bump a tin of the
stuff on a concrete floor is to risk ex-
plosion and injury. It is highly risky
to carry it about in bags and boxes.
Nobody who proposes to use s.-chl.
on any scale should do so unless its quali-
ties are thoroughly understood. The
M.L. Agricultural Department declares
that “a person whose clothing is con-
taminated resembles a human match,
with the chlorated spot as the match-
head.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Crutchem”; Try this for shearers’
cramp. Before the evening meal squeeze
the juice of a lemon into a glass, add
two to three fluid ounces of warmed
castor oil and pour a little warm rum on
top. If drunk quickly the oil cannot be
tasted. Follow this with two cups of
hot tea or lemon water. Within four
hours relief will have come from cramp,
and the next day it will have disappeared.
Repeat the dose on first returning twinge
of cramp.
“Wrash”; Ridge capping on the house,
shed or barn, to satisfy the eye, must be
regularly horizontal. String lines below
the ridge-plate at a depth that the cap-
ping edge will reach. Tap nails into the
rafters along the lines. With the capping
sheets resting on the nails, screw down,
and they must come straight.
“Tryit”: Breeders should shear their
fat lambs before the wool gets seedy.
Use blades only. The lambs get less of
a setback, and fatten much quicker than
machine-shorn ones. The advantage of
blade shearing was proved recently in
two mobs which were the same age and
approx, fatness. The blade-shorn beat
the others into a cocked hat, and are
already sold for 15s. net in the paddock.
The others are not yet worth within 2s.
per head of them.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
May 1 keep bees in frame hives on pro-
perty adjoining Victorian State school grounds ?
All the hives are at least two chains from my
boundary fences. —8818.
The Bees Act of Victoria prescribes that
bees may be kept only in frame hives. A
keeper of two or more hives must apply to the
Agricultural Department, Melbourne, for regis-
tration. For more than five hives a ss. fee
p.a. must be paid. There are no regulations
determining the location of hives, though there
may be municipal laws in each district.
* * * *
If my (7V.5.1F.) fences are in moderately good
condition and a neighbor’s horse or cow, get-
ting over or through a fence into my growing
crop, does damage, can I shoot it? There is
no pound within 20 miles. What action can
I take ? —8966.
Y° u r P ust not s hoot the trespassing animals,
nhere there is no pound convenient you may
impound them on your own premises for not
m .°[® than four days, giving notice to the owner
within _4 hours. You may make a charge for
feeding the animals and claim compensation
tor any damage done. In default, you may
sue in the Small Debts Court for the damage.


n
P
c
*
\^yyet . . •
WITH AUSTRALIA’S FINEST
BROADCAST RECEIVER
a
m
3
v 5
■
mm
: iifm
m
RA
j/te F
U
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIA) LTD.
New Radiolas at prices repre-
senting value as outstanding as
Radiola quality, I appearance
and performance .\ . .
and Battery operated types . ...
Unexcelled efficiency with new
circuits . . . Overseas reception
I
guaranteed
panel .
dial for greater convenience in
tuning . I. . Beautiful cabinets
in matched walnutl veneeVs and
finished/in a high\ gloss lustre
"/World Range" models^
Fully Inclined
and Rotovisor
priced /from 25 gVii
meas
A.W.A. High Standard of\qual-
Ity is also available iin receivers
for Australian Reception from
l\ lie • '
/ 15 guineas.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
•‘rt ■
p, f M
XT’
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—-two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and \ Vireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“The stockings went into ladders after
wearing them only once.” —Report of inquiry.
That's what they call “Getting a run
for your money.”
4 4' 4* 4
“Men arc lined for failing to eradicate the
weeds, but political influence secures remission
ol the fines. While there arc politicians the
Slate will never be free of pests.”— "Sun.”
Exactly!
4 4 4 4
Unbearable.
“It is known that bears, when badly
wounded, will commit suicide rather than fall
into the hands of man.” — "Sun.”
Confirmation of this remarkable belief
has just been received from Sweden,
where Col. Trevor Fitzßeauneddc is
gathering material for his book on big-
game hunting. The colonel, returning
to his camp one night, surprised a bear
going through his tent, evidently in
search of food. He fired, and retreated
to a friendly tree. The wounded beat-
made off with something in its paws.
When the animal had disappeared the
colonel found that his typewritten MS.
was gone. Next day he followed the
bear’s tracks, and found the grizzly under
a tree about a mile away, stone-dead.
Its paws were still on the open pages at
ihe chapter on “Bears I Have Shot.”
There seems no doubt that the
wounded bear had taken the MS. with
the deliberate intention of boring itself
to death.
Bokio.
4 4 4 4
Keeping Them Guessing.
“At a smoke social of the North Motion
Football Club a guessing competition was held
on the financial position of the club.”
• —Burnie ‘‘Advocate.”
The idea may be a new one at North
Motion, but I tried it out years ago on
my old team, the Bowden Bushwhackers.
I was unable to attend the meeting my-
self, but 1 took good care that nothing
should go wrong with the arrangements.
The competition consisted of three
separate problems. Firstly the contest-
ants had to guess the financial position
of the club. There was considerable
variety in the answers, and feeling ran
high. Finally, it was agreed that Jacob
Nitwit and Nicholas Hollowdome had
tied, their answers being “Bankrupt”
and “Rotten” respectively.
The second problem involved guessing
the whereabouts of the club's bank bal-
ance. Everyone got this right. It was
with the treasurer, of course.
Then came the knottiest problem of
the lot; they had to guess the where-
abouts of the treasurer.
No one got within a thousand miles
of it. It’s a pity I wasn’t there or I’d
have won the prize myself. You see, 1
was the treasurer.
Uco.
4 4 4 4
“Will grey clothes-pipe, 62, meet 58, new
stand, Foy’s, Friday, 4.30-4.45?” — “Age.”
If we know our clothes-pipes, prob-
ably no.
4 4 4 4
Why Not?
A suggestion made recently that the
gall-bladder should be removed from
infants to lessen the risk of cancer makes
one think that it would be a good idea
if legislation were brought in making it
compulsory for every baby to have its
■’innards” removed immediately after
birth. This would reduce the sufferers
from cancer, rheumatism, eczema, lum-
bago, paralysis, toothache, blackheads,
corns, baldness, housemaid's knee and
boozer’s elbow.
Yeno Ham.
“Thirteen passengers can ride in a two-and-
a-half-ton soaring 'plane now under construc-
tion in Russia.” —News item.
We presume it will carry more still
when the building of it is finished.
*!• *l* *■* v
An Exciting Moment.
“Hurricane: Sailors in Peril: Goods Train
Blown Off Line.”-—“S. M. Herald” headings.
The goods train struggled on. Lashed
by the storm, swept by the huge waves,
it seemed that nothing could save it from
being dashed upon the rocks that lay
athwart the line. Shouting “Belay there,
my hearties,” the watchful engine-driver
ported his helm ; the train plunged off
the rails, avoiding the obstruction, and by
skilful steering came back on the rails on
the other side. There was a moment of
panic, but the brave sailors danced a
hornpipe through the cars, and con-
fidence was restored.
It is stated that the Admiral of the
Fleet will give special recognition to the
devotion to duty of the gallant jack-tars.
H. M.
*b *b *b *b
“The clock seemed to have gone mad.”
—"S. M. Herald ."
A cuckoo clock.
*b *b *b *b
“Most pathetic of all is the scene where
Charlie tries to borrow money.”
— “S. M. Herald."
In short, a touching scene.
•b *b *b *b
“They complained that it was too much to
expect them to carry the rubbish to the ends
of the street.” — "Sun.”
Carrying it to extremes.
•b * * *
Not So Bad.
Fifteen ferocious lion-men stood growl-
ing before him, while dozens of vulture-
men constantly picked at his bare legs
and feet. The leader of the tortoise-
men poured molten metal all over him,
and the mad scientist, Dr. Shingleoff,
directed an invisible heliotrope death-ray
at him. He quivered in his shoes. Mil-
lions of electric death germs poured from
the skies. He awoke.
All a dream, df course. That came
of reading the Sunday supplement.
It was Monday. In another hour or
two he would have to face the landlord.
He rolled over and tried to sleep again.
He would sooner face the lion-men every
time.
D. S.
Making Our Railways Pay.
V. — The Refreshment Service.
This is a branch of the railways that
I have always admired. It is efficient (in
its peculiar way) and profitable. Of
course., it will need a new comptroller.
My wife’s sister Dora is a safe bet
for the job. For the past 15 years she’s
been buttering the sandwiches for the
Sunday-school picnic, and right from the
start she’s been able to make one pound
of butter go where two went before.
There are, of course, even in the
Refreshment Department, a few things
that need straightening up. For instance,
take pies. I find that at present pie
stocks are renewed once a fortnight.
This is a scandalous waste. Dora will
alter it to once a month.
Then, again, trains stop too long at
refreshment stations.
You know the procedure.
Porters cry “Riverat! Refreshments!
Twenty minutes’ stop!”
There is a wild rush, and a struggling
mass of hungry humanity besieges the
restaurant. You are on the outskirts.
After about 17 minutes your turn comes.
You've made up your mind to have an
omelette. You order it. More minutes
pass. The omelette arrives. You pay
for it. A bell rings. You ask for a
knife and fork. Another bell rings. You
realise you are the only passenger left
in the dining-room. The knife and fork
arrive. “All aboard!” shouts a voice.
You hesitate. “Right away!” comes an-
other call. You drop the knife and fork,
rush out and clamber on the moving
train. Someone remarks, “Cut it pretty
fine that time.” Another voice inquires
whether you enjoyed your breakfast.
Breakfast! The omelette was un-
touched. By this time it has been
returned to the pantry to await the next-
comer. I know of one omelette at a
S.A. station that has been in the service
for over 20 years. I’ve been within strik-
ing distance of it half a dozen times
myself.
But the point is that, despite your own
bad fortune, many of the passengers
have been able to secure a meal—the
feed is to the swift. They’ve probably
done so at the cost of a bad attack of
indigestion, but, nevertheless, they have
eaten.
Dora will reduce the stopping time to
five minutes, and then no one will have
a chance to eat.
Fair to all, and profitable to the de-
partment! What more could you want?
Jasbv.
*•*
A Crying Shame.
“Wanted, kapok teasing machine, with
blower.”
It's bad enough that anyone should be
so inhuman as to tease the kapok at all,
but to consider doing so with a machine
and a blower seems the height of cruelty.
The kapok is the gentlest of animals,
and, provided you pull out its pinion
feathers, very faithful. We had one once,
and it used to eat out of our hand, except
on Wednesdays, but someone left the lid
off the cake-tin and we never saw it again.
But this teasing business is surely a
case for the S.P.C.A.! Becks.
Association.
Whene’er 1 see the stars above,
They wake in me anew
The mem’ries of a night of love
In early spring with you.
No wonder such a night is sure
By stars to he revived —
I saw so many after your
Infernal spouse arrived!
NAT.
Cause for Cachinnation.
“When bitten I immediately pour chloroform
through my clothes to the spot where I feel the
bite; this antesthetises the flea, which can then
be easily caught.” —Extract from doctor’s letter
in “British Medical Journal.’’
I had been discussing this method
with a dentist friend, Basil Boredrill.
Basil has a tender skin, and, being a
regular picture fan, suffers considerably
from attacks by the parasitic hopper.
A week later I visited him at his sur-
gery. A strange sight met my gaze. Basil
was in his underpants holding on to the
chair and shrieking in fits of uncontrol-
lable laughter.
“What the” I began.
He burst into another paroxysm and
pointed to the desk.
Looking closely, I saw a flea on the
writing-pad. It was holding its sides. I
looked at Basil.
“What're you doing getting round like
that?” I said. “Someone might come
in and”
At that he went into more roars of
laughter.
1 pushed him into the chair.
“Any sweets , sir?”
“ Well, if y're a good girl , I'll bring y' back a box."
“Come on, now,” 1 said. “You'd better
get your strides on again before someone
comes in—and what’s it all about, any-
way?”
Basil gave me a dopey look and tried
to talk.
“ 'Member that doc. caught flea flora
. . . chlo’form, ha, ha . . . Well, I
had one bite, an’ ash I ’ad no chlo’form
I tried laughin’ gash . . . spilt it over
meshelf . . . ha, ha!”
This time it looked as if he'd laugh
himself into an apoplectic fit.
There is only one antidote to laughter
of that kind. I pulled out the income-
tax assessment 1 had received that morn-
ing and pushed it under his nose. One
glance at the color of the paper was
enough.
Almost instantly he had resumed his
normally lugubrious expression.
QUATEAU.
The Catch.
I’m fickle in my wooing.
So my companions say;
But it was my undoing
That I was born that way :
That every new attraction
Should set my heart aflame.
And drive me to distraction
Until the next one came.
But now I’ve got it badly,
So beautiful is she;
She swears she loves me madly,
And it’s the same with me.
I can’t imagine better
1 long to wed until
It strikes me if / get her
Til meet one better still.
A.G.B.


USEFUL DATA ON HUDSON EIGHT.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 8 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 3 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. 9in.
Maximum speed, 91.37 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.3 m.p.g.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
IQk*3 A (SECOND
Ji EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, V/« FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Use The New SIMONIZ KIEEKER to
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
A
pH
r c
A
pp
ttoat
Ul ls (l
out lack came* to
., . hie* testj^itl
so lie looks at
SYDNEY iPettu 1 * £ J~lctel
Tariff; Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
P^COMPAPAB^
7,
Stromberg
■Carlson
Chromo- phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
The Steeting Column.
HUDSON EIGHT MAKES RECORDS ON
TEST COURSE.
ACCELERATION AND TOP-GEAR ACHIEVEMENTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
I lUDSON-BUILT motors are famous for performance.
Hudson-engined cars last year claimed almost every
“unblown” stock-car record worth while collecting in the U.S.A.
Further improvements have been made in the 1935 models in
refinements in design and engine power. The safety factor in
construction and roadworthiness has also been increased.
The power-weight ratio of the Hudson
group is extremely high. So is the safety
factor. The net result is that owners
secure impressive performance without a
loss of reliability or incurring heavy
maintenance charges.
High performance must not be con-
fused with high maximum speeds. It
means that from a crawl in top gear to
50 m.p.h., or whatever the cruising speed
may be, Hudson drivers “get there”
without risk or effort.
Using the 7-to-l compression Power
dome aluminium cylinder head, the
Hudson Eight motor develops 124
b.h.p. at 4000 r.p.m., although its R.A.C.
rating is but 28.8 h.p. With bore of Sin.
and stroke of 4jin., the swept volume is
254 cub. inches.
Cylinder block and upper half of
crankcase are cast en bloc, whilst the
lower half is heavily ribbed internally,
the ribs supporting the main bearings, so
preserving alignment of the crankshaft
and preventing “whip” at high speeds.
The material used in the block is a high
chrome alloy, providing a hard, wear-
resisting cylinder bore and durable valve
seatings.
Cross-section of Hudson engine, showing
how oil is circulated to camshaft and
plates in the Duo-flo system.
Pistons are T-slot aluminium alloy,
cam ground, with four rings—two com-
pression and one oil retainer above the
gudgeon pin and one oil ring at bottom
of “skirt.” All rings are pinned in posi-
tion to ensure maximum compression.
Crankshaft, on five bearings, is balanced
statically and,dynamically, and fitted with
forged compensating balance weights.
Connecting rods are I-beam section
with spun babbitt metal bearings,
diamond-bored for accuracy and finish.
The camshaft, of specially hardened
steel, runs on babbitt bearings, and is
Effectively streamlined and with a phenomenal wad performance, the
Hudson Eight sedan.
driven by helical gears from the crank-
shaft. Side-by-side valves are used of
high lift and large diameter, while the
tappet gear is roller-cam type, to reduce
friction and permit cams maintaining
contact at high speed. Valve bounce at
peak revs, is avoided by fitting metal
cups over lower coils, so maintaining per-
feet alignment and permitting perfect
action of the springs, regardless of engine
speed
. , ,
Fuel is held m a 14gal. tank at rear,
and drawn to the engine by a mechanical
pump driven by skew gear from the cam-
_
Carburettor, equipped with large air
cleaner and silencer, is a triple venturi,
down-draught delayed-deceleration type,
Thermostatic heat control and automatic
choke are fitted, exhaust gases from rear
four cylinders preheating the fuel before
entry into intake manifold, which is of
radial design, allowing a straight path
for entry of mixture into the cylinders.
Lubrication is by Hudson Duo-flo
system, a double oil pump drawing oil
through a pipe extending into the sump
TL Joi-T,.,* ,- f K
and then delivering . through two pipes,
one to front and one to rear of the motor
The front pipe feeds front-end gears and
bearing. Surplus oil flows by gravity to
the bottom of the motor and into the
first trough, and then successively into
each trough until reaching the middle of
the motor, when it falls into the sump
and is recirculated. The rear pipe line
feeds the rear of the motor on similar
lines. Each con.-rod big-end bearing is
fitted with a metal
scoop for purposes of
picking up oil from
the troughs. Cylinder
walls are lubricated
by splash from the
con. - rod big - ends.
When the hot oil re-
turns to the pan, it
flows through a filter-
ing screen and baffles,
and as the sump pro-
jects below the tray
the cooling effect of
air passing beneath
the car causes a tern-
perature drop of approximately 45
degrees.
Water is circulated through the cool-
ing system by vane-type pump, and a
four-bladed fan draws air through the
honeycomb radiator. Temperature is
controlled by thermostat, and a water-
level indicator is fitted to the dashboard
of the conventional temperature
in J ca or ; , . , . . ,
S.x-volt electrical equipment is fitted,
< he generator being heavy-duty type
capable of continuous opera ion a -
amps. Starter motor is silent Bendix
type, starter button on dash, with
aux ijj ar y starter button on motor for use
when bonne| js |if , ed jn making adjust ,
ments _ Clutch pedal must be de p ie ssed
before starting gear can be used, so
preventing accidental starting in gear,
ignition advance is full automatic. Power
unit is mounted in the chassis at three
points on live rubber supports,
Transmission is through single-plate
clutch, with cork inserts running in oil to
a synchro-shift three-speed-and-reverse
gearbox with silent second gear. Low
and reverse gears are automatically de-
meshed when second or top is in use.
A vacuum-powered gear-shifting unit is
electrically actuated, gears being pre-
selected with the electric hand con-
lro, , ocated be|ow the steeri wheel
xhe control is fitted with a iniature
g a t e an( j lever, gear positions being
plainly marked on the gate,
Fingertip pressure will move the lever
to any desired position while the car is
in motion, and on lifting the foot from
the accelerator momentarily the desired
change of ratio is effected automatically.
The vacuum-operated unit also serves as
an automatic clutch; releasing the
accelerator causes the clutch to be with-
drawn. The unit can be locked “in” or
“out” by a dashboard control. Con-
ventional gear-shift lever can be fitted it
desired, so returning to manual control of
the gearbox. The “electric hand unit is
an optional fitting at slightly extra cost.
Final drive is Hotchkiss type through
open propeller shaft with needle-roller
universal joints front and rear. Rear axles,
semi-floating type, and diff. assembly
are housed m
pressed-steel banjo-
type casing. Crown
wheel and pinion
are spiral bevel,
with reduction
gearing of 4.11 to J.
Semi - elliptic
springs are fitted
front and rear, U-
type threaded self-
adjusting shackles
being used. Four
shock - absorbers
are special “direct
action” telescopic
type. Tension can
be varied by inserting one of five dif-
ferent valves to control oil movement
from upper to lower chamber.
Independent front-wheel suspension is
secured by using an articulated front
axle, the Hudson Axleflex design being
robust in construction and highly efficient
Control unit of the “electric hand” pre-
selector gear-change mechanism.
in practice. The system can be fitted to
older models without structural altera-
tion.
A stabiliser is incorporated in the
“front end” assembly to reduce swaying
{Continued on page 28.)


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Company
118111111111
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


n
FENCING WIIU
111 FENCE STANDARDS
SmWSwiRE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
J
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES UMITEPjw
BUILDING LINES,
WIRE,
GROCERIES.
Three big Q.P.S. Lines on which
you must save Money—
COMPARE THE FOLLOWING
GALV. CORR. IRON Another 100 tons landed of the New Iron, B Grade—
6ft. 2/-, and Bft. 2/6 per sheet.
BEST BRITISH CROWN, 26g.. £24 per ton. or by the sheet—
-sft. 2/2, 6ft. 2/6, 7ft. 3/-. Bft. 3/5, 9ft. 3/11, 10ft. 4/6.
JOINERY —We manufacture our own Joinery and give you direct factory
prices. Best Queensland Pine Doors, 6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. x I Jin.,
M. and T. Moulded, 17/6 each. Standard Sashes or Windows,
3ft. I Oin. x 2ft. 4in. x 1 Jin., 12/- per pair.
FENCING WIRE —Bg. Galv. Wire, 16/6 cwt. 12g. Hibiscus Barb Wire, made
in Queensland, 24/6 cwt. 12g., any Southern make, 23/- cwt. 1 2 Jg.
from 17/6 coil of 440 yards. OUR CATALOGUE GIVES FULL
DETAILS.
K. WIRE— From 13/4 per roll of 50 yards. Also Sole Agents WELDMESH
Fencing, ready to erect, for sheep, cattle and pigs. The Pig Fencing
costs 45/- per roll of 110 yards 5 chains.
GROCERIES We supply anyone direct at Wholesale Rates. Write for full
Grocery List and see the saving.
FARM GATES —3ft., 18/-. SHEEP TROUGHING, 36/- per 6ft. length.
GALV. ROLL-TOP BATHS, 32/6. ENAMEL BATHS, £6/15/-.
LAVATORY BASINS, Enamelled, 22in., 35/-. BUSH SHOWER, 11/6.
DOVER STOVES —No. 7, 60/-. No. 8, 70/-. Piping free.
NEVER SAG GATE HINGES—I2in., 3/9; 1 6in., 5/- per pair.
THREEPLY LINING BOARDS —6ft. x 3ft., 2/6 per sheet; also Bft. x 3ft. and
4ft. x 5/32, 13/- per 100 square feet.
MILL WHITE —For Dairies and House Painting, 20/- per 281 b. tin; and
Calzic White, 16/6 per 4-gal. tin of 561 b.
RUS-D-FY —The Great Rust Killer, 11/- per gallon, or 3/- per quart tin.
PENETRINE, for removing rusty bolts, etc., from 1/9 per tin.
AUTOGRAPH, for adding efficiency to your Motor Oil, 3/- per tin.
HIBISCUS VENTILATED COLD SAFES from 42/6. RAPCO FORGES, I8in„
67/6. POST DRILLS, 30/-. CATTLE DIP, Hibiscus Double Strength—
-1 in 300—45/- per drum of 5 gallons.
CAMP STOVES—Two Burner Primus, 40/-; Primus Stove No. I, 11/6.
PLOW CHAINS, all weights, Bd. per pound. PLOW SETS—The Hibiscus
Plow Set, 57/6 complete. Cheaper line, 50/- per set. Horse Collars, 22/3
each. Plows from 70/-. Cultivators from 65/-. GARDEN HOSE, Jin.
Standard, sd. per foot.
NORTHERN CLIENTS —On Wire and Netting and Most Groceries we sell at
Brisbane prices, and pay freight free of charge to Main Qld. Ports by boat.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN STREET (Off Ann Street), BRISBANE.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
S 3
m.
I
tf»V
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
when cornering at speed. Chassis is deep
box-girder type, with X member in
centre and K member at front. Rear
structure is further stiffened by heavy
pressed-steel cross member, which serves
as floor for body.
Wheelbase is 117 inches. Road clear-
ance under diff. housing, 8 Jin.
Four-wheel brakes are mechanically
operated Bendix type, service- and hand-
brake actuating all four through inde-
pendent linkage. Hand-brake lever is
“inverted” type, providing additional leg
room in the driver’s compartment.
A rotary equaliser is incorporated to
provide equal pressure on all shoes, and
to give any desired leverage and pedal
pressure.
Steering is worm-and-sector type, with
piovision lor adjustment for wear,
whilst the steering column can be raised
or lowered to any of five positions to
secure the most restful driving angle,
Down-draught carburettor and air-cleaner
assembly, showing (A) automatic choke
control, (F) automatic heat control to
manifold.
Turning circle is 47f1. 6in. on right lock
and 46ft. 6in. on left.
Bodywork is constructed with all-
steel sections and posts banded by all-
steel floor to chassis; no-draught venti-
lation on front and rear quarter
windows; fully adjustable front seat,
twin horns and dual windscreen wipers,
The car tested was a 117 in. wheelbase
four-door sedan, with 7-to-l compression
head driven by B. L. Tyson, of Dalgetys,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors. Speedometer
reading was 6088, and with full fuel
tank, driver and observer weighed
33icwt. Gear-shift lever was manually
operated.
First impression
in driving through
busy city traffic
was the remark-
able acceleration
in top gear, the
slightest throttle
opening causing
the speedometer
needle to move
rapidly round the
dial. On half-
throttle the motor
runs silently and
smoothly, giving
approximately 70
m.p.h.
Slowing to 15 m.p.h. approaching Pitt
Town with gear lever in neutral, the car
coasted 720 yards before coming to rest.
On the measured mile with flying start,
the Hudson gave the first real indication
of its road performance, clocking the dis-
tance in 39 2-ssec. and averaging 91.37
m.p.h., the highest in this series of tests.
Owing, however, to the comparatively
short approach, maximum speed was not
attained until well on the timed section,
and under more favorable conditions a
slightly higher maximum would be
shown.
Nearing Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong Mountain the unmade dirt
road through Grose Vale was taken, and
over this section riding qualities, road-
holding and steering were shown to be
excellent.
The final section of 2 1-5 miles was
climbed from a standing start in 2min.
56 2-ssec.—another record for this series,
—and despite the high speed the car held
the road, taking the difficult corners
safely without undue rolling or swaying.
Second gear was used on the lower
portion of the hill and through the hair-
pin bends, but the final section, including
the extremely steep and rough finish,
was negotiated in top.
Down the mountain, the cross-country
route from Richmond to Penrith via
Castlereagh was taken, and here the
Hudson set some further remarkable
performance figures. In a test of top-gear
flexibility 350 yards was covered as
slowly as possible, followed immediately
by 350 yards on full throttle. Time for
slow-running section was 3min. 20sec.,
averaging 3.6 m.p.h., while the accel-
erated section was clocked in 15sec.,
crossing the finishing line with speedo.
showing between 65 and 70, averaging
48 m.p.h.
Top and side views of Axleflex front axle, showing
principle of operation.
From a steady 10 to 30 m.p.h. in lop
and second occupied 6sec. and 3 4-ssec.
respectively, whilst 0 to 50 m.p.h., using
first and second gears, was timed in 8
l-ssec., a certain indication of the extra-
ordinary traffic qualities of the Hudson
Eight.
Brake equipment was tested from 25
m.p.h., pulling up in 20ft. 9in. Return-
ing via the Western Highway to head-
quarters, fuel used for lest of 122.5 miles
was 6gal. 60z., an average of 20.3 m.p.g.
(33.7 ton miles), while the average speed,
inclusive of all tests, was 36.7 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.F.H. (Five Dock, N.S.W.). —I propose
giving my ’34 car a lop overhaul after
80(H) miles’ running. (1) Will metal polish
do to grind in valves, and can they be done
by hand? (2) Are there any points to be
watched in removing head with regard to the
cooling apparatus for the exhaust valves ? (3)
Would any advantage be gained by having
head sprayed or polished (approximate cost) ?
(4) I used colloidal graphite in the engine oil
for first 2000 miles. Any advantage in con-
tinuing ? (5) What is best procedure to give
headlight reflectors a periodical polish ? (6)
There seems to be some leakage of lubricant
from gearbox to diff. Cause and cure ?
(1) Better use coarse and fine grinding paste
and do job thoroughly. A light coil spring
under valve head will help in the “hand”
process, (2) Yes; cylinder-head gasket can be
replaced in two positions. Take care in
removing, and mark it so as to refit correctly.
(3) Yes; slight improvement by spraying.
Cost, 10s. (4) Yes; continue for at least
5000 miles. (5) Use soft cloth and hot, soapy
water; never apply abrasives. (6) Possibly
gearbox has been filled above the correct level,
and oil has passed the thrower at rear of
gearbox. To make doubly sure, drill a fin.
hole through top stud in diff. housing to allow
diff. assembly to “breathe” when driven at
speed.
* * * *
P.O’M. (Wagga, N.S.W.). —7 have been
offered an English sports car, apparently in
good mechanical order, but as it has been
driven hard for five years over country roads
am afraid steel in the axles might be crystal-
lised and soon break. Is there any testing or
treating method ?
Fatigue cannot be detected by superficial ex-
amination, and heat treatment without know-
ing the exact formula of the steel, and the
work done by experts is too risky to experiment
with.
* * * *
H.J.F. (Cairns, Q.). —Have recently pur-
chased a second-hand Continental car fitted
with spring gaiters. Nipples are fitted for
lubricating. Should I use grease or oil ?
First dismantle and inspect leaves for frac-
tures. Then lubricate with light grease or
heavy oil containing graphite. Once every
three months should suffice.
* * * *
L.E.S. (Mackay, Q.). — I desire more speed
and power than at present from my IA-h.p.
six-cylinder car. Larger jets have been placed
in the carburettor, but result only in increased
petrol consumption without compensating
benefits. What’s wrong ?
Beyond a certain petrol-air ratio fed to
cylinders power output will fall away and the
motor and combustion chamber foul with
carbon. Only other methods in seeking addi-
tional power are to raise compression pressure
and/or fit a supercharger.
* * * *
W.McN. (Sydney).— Have recently taken de-
livery of a fast eight-cylinder roadster, and
when on long runs at high speed there appears
a definite period of vibration apparently emanat-
ing from the back axle. Trouble gets worse
as speed increases. Diff. and wheel bearings
have been examined and found O.K. Any sug-
gestions ?
If bearings O.K. and alignment and adjust-
ment of diff. and axles correct, trouble must
be due to some unbalanced reciprocating unit.
Jack up rear end and drive transmission in
top, and check up rear wheels for balance.
% % %: #
Grange Creek (Hamilton, Vic.). — Which
of the cars named is the more suitable for
about-town running, with occasional long trips ?
Both have been reviewed in Bulletin* tests.
Little to choose, but No. 2 has slightly better
performance.
A.G.L. (Blayney, N.S.W.). — My 1-h.p. car
Ixts recently had clutch relined, but still per-
sists in “shuddering” when starting up. Trouble
is worse if started in second gear. What s
wrong ?
Almost certainly due to worn universal joints.
Cheapest and most effective remedy is to fit
new units, as repairs are only at best a tem-
porary expedient. Inspect also U bolts holding
rear axle to springs. These may be loose.
* * * *
J.NJ. (Stanmore, N.S.W.). — My ! 28 mode!
six-cylinder car (28,000 miles) ran out of water
recently and stopped. Since then the engine
occasionally peters out and won’t start again
until cooled off. Ignition and carburettor are
O.K. Cause and cure ?
Overheating may have caused either valves
or cylinder block to warp, allowing hot gases
to blow by sealings. Test compression, and,
if poor, have the motor dismantled before
further damage is done. If compression is
good, look for a vapor lock in fuel line.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
"Dome”: Originally owned by an
Adelaide vigneron who used the engine
to work a pump, the chassis as a horse-
drawn dray for carting grapes and the
body as a verandah seat, a single-cylinder
Darracq has been driven from Adel-
aide to Melbourne in 3| days. The 31-
year-old miracle is now for sale “in
good going order.” Don’t they ever die?
♦ * * *
“Count K.”: While travelling between
Launceston and Perth (Tas.) with a cargo
of 20 dozen gramophone records, cor-
nering about 50 m.p.h., a tourer left
the road, somersaulted down a steep
bank, crashed through a post-and-rail
fence and landed on its wheels at the
bottom. Only the hood was slightly
damaged. The records, loose in the
back, were intact.
* * *
“Samarai”: Lindsay Johnston, driver
in Doug House’s service, running
between Bendigo and Sea Lake (Vic.)
six days a week, covers 85,800 miles
annually. In four years he has covered
343,200 miles. He has often done emer-
gency “hops” which carry the total to
well over 360,000 miles. He has never
had an accident. Cars on the route are
Studebakers: one six-cylinder was turned
in after it had done 297,000 miles ; an
eight-cylinder, still running, has clocked
330,000 miles.
* * * *
“Desmond D.”: Flywheels are not
the only things which can burst
with danger to near-by persons (B.
25/9/’35). Was standing watching a
mechanic making adjustments to car-
burettor involving an occasional racing
up of the engine when there was a ter-
rific crash, and mechanic and I were
drenched in hot water. One of the
stamped metal blades of the cooling fan
had torn from its boss, ripping through
the 12-gauge bottom of the radiator-tank
like a piece of h.e. shell. The metal of
fan-blade showed the original flaw to
have been a tiny crack hidden by enamel.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms- with Bathrooms, or Suites available."
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
FIV£ PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
ur.cb from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.43 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK* LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiRECTons —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. _ AH you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ...
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, uni. graduate, desires position, in
bookshop or library. —8957.
Eightecn-year-old Tasmanian, strong, healthy,
seeks position in country, sheep station pre-
ferred. —8968.
Station overseer, 10 years’ exp. with stud
and general flocks, Q’land and N.S.W., five
years in present position, desires change, any
State. Refs.—8982.
Whereabouts of Dr. C. Robinson, formerly
of Percival-road, Stanmore, N.S.W. —8991.
To sell complete file of Bulletin from 1903
to 1919, clean and unfaded. —8938.
To buy Secrets of Paris. —8977.
To buy The Parallel New Testament (Greek
and English), edited by F. H. A. Scrivener,
Cambridge Press, Bicknell’s The Thirty-nine
Articles and A. R. Whitham’s History of the
Christian Church. —8959.
Information Sought.
hi what year was the world's bantamweight
championship first contested, and did an
American or English boxer win it? Who is the
present champion ? —8681.
In 1855, when Simon Finightly (England)
met Charlie Lynch (America); Finightly won
in 95 rounds. A second match resulted in a
43-round win for Lynch. At present the cham-
pionship is in dispute. Claimants are A1
Brown, Sixto Escobar, A1 Sanchilla and Lou
Salica.
* * * *
(1) For what term of office are Legislative
Councillors of N.S.W. elected ? (2) Does one-
quarter of the Council’s members retire every
three years ? (3) When was the Council
elected ? (4) How many bills has it vetoed
since its election ? (5) Do unnaturalised immi-
grants get a vole ? Do aboriginals ? —8790.
(1) and (3) On Nov. 2, 1933, 15 members
were elected for 12 years; on Nov. 16, 1933,
15 members were elected for nine years; on
Nov. 30, 1933, 15 members were elected for six
years; and on Dec. 16, 1933, 15 members were
elected for three years. After these terms
expire all members are to be elected for 12
years. (2) Yes. (4) None. (5) No in both
cases. Only State members.
* * * *
Who was Roger Ascharn ? —8401.
An English classical scholar (1515-1568), born
Kirby Wiske, Yorkshire, and educated St.
John’s College, Cambridge, where in 1534 he
obtained a fellowship. In 1538 he was ap-
pointed Greek reader at St. John’s, and in
1545 he published Toxophilus, a treatise on
archery, which he dedicated to Henry VIII.,
and was rewarded with a pension of
£10 per annum. He was tutor to the youthful
Princess (afterwards Queen) Elizabeth at Ches-
hunt from 1548 to 1550 ; spent some time at
Augsburg as secretary to Sir Richard Morysin,
ambassador to Charles V.; and in 1553
published a diary he had kept during this
period, under the title of A Report of the
Affaires and State of Germany. His remaining
years were passed as Latin secretary and tutor
to Queen Mary, and later to Queen Elizabeth.
Died Dec. 30, 1568, his widow in 1570 bring-
ing out his posthumous work, The Schole-
master, a treatise on classical education, in
which he pleads for a more intelligent teaching
of languages.
* * * *
(1) Total debt due by the Commonwealth
to the British Government (including accrued
interest ) ? (2) Amount of combined principal
and interest repayable yearly on that debt ?
(3) What portion . of total Australian borrow-
ings was for war purposes, and what for public
utilities ? (4) Value of imports by the Com-
monwealth from Britain during 1934-35 ?
(5) Value of exports from Commonwealth to
Britain during same period ? —8770.
(1) Total debt June 30, 1934, £79,724,220.
There is no accrued interest due. (2)
£5,548,810. Interest payments for 1931-32
were suspended under the Hoover Moratorium.
Sinking-fund payments for that year and inter-
est and sinking-fund payments for 1932-33 to
1934-35 were suspended by arrangement with
the British Government. (3) Debt for Com-
monwealth purposes, June 30, 1935: War
debt, £278,460,000; works and other pur-
poses, £115,690,000; debt on account of the
States, £847,964,000. (4) £30,790,421 (British),
£39.875,790 (Australian). (5) £61,623,543 (Aus-
tralian).
* * * *
What were the circumstances of Melba’s first
appearance in Sydney 7 Did she ever appear
in popular concerts at the Protestant Hall,
Pitt-street ? —8659.
In December, 1885, Melba sang for the first
time in Sydney with the Liedertafel and the
Philharmonic Society at the Masonic Hall and
(on Christmas Day) at the Exhibition Building,
the latter occasion being a performance of
“The Messiah,” under the conductorship of
M. Henri Kowalski. She was billed as “the
Australian prima donna.”. Early in January
she gave a farewell performance at the
Masonic Hall, when the Hon. Daniel
O’Connor presented her with a gold badge
on behalf of her admirers. These were her
only public appearances in Sydney prior to
her departure for London.
What was the origin of the brass foot-rail
that used to front hotel-bars and now is usually
replaced by a kerb or step ? —9OlB.
Nothing definite has been established as to
origin. One school of thought holds that the
rail was installed to preserve nicely varnished
panels from the hooves of customers; another
maintains that a comfortable stance for the
patron was aimed at, and yet a third inclines
to the belief that it is a relic of the days
when people got so intoxicated that they could
not even lie on the floor without something to
hang on to.
# * * *
Who was F. Kies, one of whose compositions
was played in Sydney by young George Farrell
on his debut in the Town Hall. My Grove
(1900) doesn’t mention him. Was he a cele-
brated violinist? —9020.
Ferdinand Rics, born Bonn, 1784. died at
Frankfort-on-Main in 1838. His father taught
him pianoforte and violin. The lad also had
’cello lessons. At 17 Ferdinand went to Vienna,
where he met Beethoven, a fellow-townsman,
who thought enough of the talents ol the
penniless lad to give him instruction m the
higher branches of pianoforte technique and
to recommend him as a pianist to wealthy
noblemen, but gave him no encouragement as
a composer. Ries got his grounding in har-
mony and counterpoint elsewhere. Some of
his pianoforte sonatas and other compositions
for that instrument are listed by Leipzig pub-
lishers. Though not in the very front rank,
they are nowadays considered superior to any-
thing that Hummel ,or Moschcles wrote.
Reis’s violin and ’cello compositions are also
gaining tardy recognition. As an executant,
he prefered the pianoforte, and had no great
fame as a violinist,
* * * *
Is it true that side-saddles were invented in
Queen Elizabeth’s reign, being made that way
because she had a crooked hip and could
not ride astride ? —8862.
No. The use of the side-saddle dates from
the end of the twelfth century.
* * * *
As there is a limit to the number of notes
in the musical scale, would not the number of
compositions be limited ? If so, what is the
number ? —8936.
The number of notes is limited, but the
permutations, even in melody-writing, are infi-
nite. In a single bar in common time 16
melody notes may be scored. If for piano-
forte, any one of 88 notes may fill any of
those 16 divisions. The permutations possible
may be roughly computed to number 2,860,000
billion billion billion billion. That’s for one
bar of melody, without taking harmonisation
into account.
* * + *
A traveller for a business firm obtained an
order. He asked the purchaser to make the
cheque out to the firm or bearer and not to
cross it, as he desired to cash it in order to
deduct his commission. Next day the drawer,
in consequence of a police warning, stopped
payment. A few days later a hotelkeeper slated
that he had cashed the cheque in good faith,
and asked for payment. The drawer obtained
legal advice, which was that he waa liable to
the hotelkeeper. Was that advice good law ?
—BB9O.
Yes, the advice was sound. Where the
drawer of an open cheque has stopped pay-
ment by an order to his banker, that releases
the bank from liability to any person present-
ing it, but does not release the drawer from
liability to anyone who innocently acquired the
cheque for value.
* * * *
Where was Charles Harpur, the Australian
poet, born, and where did he die? What occu-
pation did he follow ? —8789.
He was born at Windsor (N.S.W.) on Janu-
ary 23, 1813, and spent most of his early years
in the bush. He was for a while accountant in
the Sydney Post Office, and thus had an oppor-
tunity of meeting the few literary men of those
days. In 1843 he took up farming on the
Hunter River, and from 1850 onwards owned
a sheep station; by 1858 he was Gold Commis-
sioner at Araluen. Concurrently with this
work he farmed land at Eurobodalla, but
unsuccessfully. In 1866 his commissionership
was abolished; in 1867 he lost his second son
by a gun accident, and during the winter of
that year his farm was almost destroyed by
floods. He died on June 10, 1868.
* * * *
Brief account of the life and works of D. H.
Lawrence ? —BB3O.
David Herbert Lawrence was born Septem-
ber 11, 1885, in the village of Eastwood,
Notts; the son of a coalminer. He was edu-
cated at Nottingham High School, later be-
coming, in turn, manufacturer’s clerk, pupil
teacher and assistant master at an elementary
school. Ford Madox Hueffer, editor of the
“English Review,” published some of his early
verses, got into touch with the author, and was
instrumental in finding a publisher for his first
novel, The White Peacock. In 1922 he visited
Australia, Kangaroo and The Boy in the Bush
(in collaboration with M. L. Skinner) being the
result. With his wife, Lawrence then lived for
some time in New Mexico, returning to Eng-
land in 1925; thereafter, for health reasons,
he lived chiefly in Florence and Austria. In
1929 he exhibited paintings in London, but
the gallery was raided, several of the pictures
being confiscated. His health had been gradu-
ally failing, and he died March 2, 1930, at
Vence, near Nice. He published in all over
a dozen novels, as well as numerous volumes
of verse, essays (including travel sketches),
short stories and plays, and considered Lady
Chatterley’s Lover his best book.
* * He *
I am a heavy cigarette smoker, and wish to
give up the habit. Are patent cures any good ?
—8903.
Before resorting to drug treatment, a pro-
gressive curtailment of the allowance is ad-
vised ; will and determination are essentials that
cannot be dispensed with. Medicinal tonic
bitters are prescribed with some success; also
mouth rinses that give temporary distaste for
the weed. When craving is pronounced, chew
a bitter herb, as gentian or calumba root. A
gradual process of elimination is best.
* * * *
For five years I have been suffering from a
skin irritation, starting from the head, with vari-
ations to the chest and shoulders and back.
/ have tried every remedy suggested to me,
but without relief. What can be done ? —8898.
In the absence of papules and bleb lesions
(urticaria, hives, etc.), a localised eczema must
be anticipated; the blood condition demands
attention in any case. Dab affected parts daily
with equal parts liquid witch-hazel and cala-
mine lotion. As an antacid, take aperient milk
of magnesia each morning.
* * * afc
What is the cause and treatment (diet, etc.)
of rheumatic gout? —8961.
•A cold, flatulent diet, immoderate indul-
gence in acid liquors and sudden exposure to
variable temperatures are contributing factors.
Inheritance counts for much —the uric-acid sub-
ject must diet carefully with the first indica-
tion of trouble. Add an aperient such as sul-
phate of soda to morning glass of hot water;
avoid extremes in the daily routine. For re-
lief, bathe the feet in a tepid soda bath at
night, massage upwards with equal parts olive
oil and methylated sprits after drying, and dust
boracic powder into the footwear daily. Avoid
red meat, condiments and heating foods in
the diet.
* * # *
What is fish-skin disease ? Is it curable ?
What is the treatment ?'■ —8969.
Medically known as ichthyosis, it is a rare
and incurable abnormality of the skin. The
cause is unknown; it is congenital and appa-
rently hereditary. In the various forms of the
disease all gradations occur from a fine to
coarse scaliness of the skin. There is an extreme
thickening of the horny layer of the epidermis,
in which the natural lines arc exaggerated, so
that the plate-like scales resemble those of a
fish or reptilian skin. The color is either
greyish-white or, as most frequently occurs,
greyish-black. There is no exact treatment. The
local application of unguents, olive oil and the
like is palliative.
sje * sf«
Recipe for an embrocation for aching legs ?
—8912.
Oil of turpentine 8oz., acetic acid l|oz., oil
of lemon 2 drachms, yolk and white of egg
2 fid. oz., water to 1 pint. Emulsify the turpen-
tine and oil of lemon with the egg; gradually
add portion of the water, and finally the acetic
acid, diluted with the balance of water. Mas-
sage the leg muscles lightly upwards at night.
* * * *
(1) How is limewater prepared — dose, etc. ?
(2) In what strength is hydrogen peroxide and
ammonia used as a bleach for superfluous
hair ? —8962.
(1) To prepare limewater for internal use,
add loz. washed slaked lime to five pints
water; shake well and set aside until clear,
when the solution may be poured or siphoned
off. It will keeb indefinitely if corked in green
glass bottles tree from air. The original
residue may be used again, but occasional re-
newal of the lime is necessary. Adult dosage
is one or two tablespoons in milk twice or
thrice daily. (2) Solution of hydrogen peroxide,
with the addition of 2 p.c. approx, liquid
ammonia, is used as a bleach for superfluous
hair. Bathe the part with tepid water, then
dry and dab on the liquid (freshly mixed).
This both bleaches and splits the hair shaft.
* * *
(1) When and by whom was the pianoforte
invented ? (2) How does the piano differ from
earlier instruments, such as the harpsichord ?
—8883.
(1) The hammer action dates back to Cristo-
fori, 1690. (2) The harpsichord was in
mechanism somewhat like a grand piano, but
the strings were plucked with quills, and there
were devices for altering the notes by stopping.
In 1700 an instrument with full-tempered key-
board and independent strings for each note
was evolved. Bach wrote his 48 Preludes and
Fugues for this instrument. The essential
feature of a piano action is that the depression
of the key should cause the hammer to strike
the strings with a blow the force of which
is proportional to that exerted by the player’s
finger. The hammer rebounds, thus leaving
the strings free to vibrate, and is caught to
prevent it striking the string a second time.
* * * *
Origin of the line
.... slow door
That, opening, letting in, lets out no more,
quoted in one of Walter Murdoch’s essays ? —
8290.
A poem called “Echo,” by Christina Ros-
setti, the second stanza of which runs:—
O dream how sweet, too sweet, too bitter sweet,
Whose w'akening should have been in Paradise,
Where souls brimful of love abide and meet;
Where thirsting, longing eyes
Watch the slow door
That, opening, letting in, lets out no more.
* * * *
(1) Value of the blue triangular fourpence
Cape of Good Hope postage stamp ? (2) Who
was the designer ? (3) Who were the printers ?
(4) When was it first issued ? (5) What does the
watermark represent ? —8240.
(1) Depends largely upon the condition of
the stamp and the width of the margins. It is
catalogued by Gibbons at from 15s. to 80s.
according to the paper and shade. Good
copies may be bought for about 6s. (2) Charles
Bell. (3) First, Perkins, Bacon and Co. and, in
1863, De La Rue and Co., London. (4) Sep-
tember 1, 1853. (5) An anchor.
Brief Answers.
C.T.: In Vic. probation officers to super-
vise first offenders released by the Courts are
appointed by the Government on the recom-
mendation of the Indeterminate Sentences
Board. The position is honorary... .P.S.: In
1927. The Sydney Cup resulted as follows:
First, Piastoon, 7st. 121b.; second, Limerick,
8st. 41b; third, Tibbie, 7st. 61b.; time,
The Metropolitan result was: First, Murillo,
8st.; second, Limerick, 9st. 51b.; third,
Horton Gag, 7st. 121b.; time,
K.M.B.: See article “The Early Life of Henry
Lawson,” by T. D. Mutch, in the “Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society Journal and Pro-
ceedings,” vol. 18, part 6 T.M.: Douglas
Jerrold said it: “If an earthquake were to
engulf England to-morrow, the English would
manage to meet and dine somewhere among the
rubbish, just to celebrate the event”... .J.T.:
Admiral Sir Harry Rawson was Governor of
N. S. Wales from February 12, 1902, to
March 24, 1909... .W.M.B.: Write Gibbs,
Bright and Co., 37 Pitt-street, Sydney... .R.D.:
See Tillyard’s Insects of Australia and New
Zealand.... A.B.: In the case of a male aged
45 last birthday, £7000 would purchase an
immediate annuity of £383 16s. 8d. per annum,
payable by quarterly instalments, commencing
approximately three months from the com-
pletion of the business, and continuing until
the quarter preceding the death of the annui-
tant W.E.F.: Not in stock in Sydney yet.
Any bookseller could import a copy for you;
approximate cost, 22s. 6d E.G.: Yes, both
Mussolini and Hitler saw active service during
the Great War... .B.B.: Free passes to children
travelling by rail to N.S.W. schools other than
those conducted by the Department of Educa-
tion were first authorised by the State Cabinet
in 1915, of which Arthur Griffith was Minister
for Education... .F.P.: A. G. Stephens died
at Darlinghurst, Sydney, on April 15, 1933....
K.F.: Mahatma Gandhi, by Romain Rolland.
F.L.: Make your question plainer.
M.H.: Many owners encourage such
growths. Others again rake out growth and
dry to burn... .H.O.C.L.: (1) £17 5s. 3d. (2)
No. (3) Approx. 46 hours. (4) £18 12s. 6d.
(two-berth deck cabin) B.L.: (1) 1.75 part
resin (melted), 48 parts fish oil, 1.5 part
sulphur. When the mixture is thoroughly
combined and liquid, add ochre rubbed up with
linseed oil to give the desired shade of color.
(2) Apply the mass while still warm in as thin
a coat as possible, and in a few days, when
the first coat is dry, repeat the operation
H.M.Q.: Get in touch with the Department
of Commerce, 419 Collins-street, Melbourne.
. ...G.E.F.: Write Jones and Joseph, 235
Clarence-street, Sydney... .L.W.M.: Write
Under-Secretary, Department of Defence, Mel-
bourne, Vic A.H.B.: In N.S.W. where rates
to the amount of £10 or more are in arrears, the
council may make the defaulter the subject of
a suit in Equity, and where an order is made
by the Court the land can be sold and the pro-
ceeds taken to pay costs and rates. Any
balance left goes to the defaulting tenant.
Alternatively the council could sue for the
rates and, if judgment were given against
the defaulter and he failed to meet it, could
put a bailiff in and sell the ratepayer’s house-
hold goods... .R.E.J.: Assuming the usual
covenants to have been entered into, tenant, in
the event of the building being burnt down,
would have to pay rent for rest of term. If
landlord rebuilds on the site of the destroyed
shop tenant would be entitled to occupation
under the terms of the lease —unless otherwise
provided for. The landlord could not in-
crease the rent R.H.D.: (1), (2) and (4)
The fact that the property is advertised in the
names of husband and wife suggests joint
ownership; also, the fact that you agreed to
stay your hand when paid the £50 puts you
in a weak position to take further proceedings.
(3) The N.S.W. Moratorium Act provides that,
when a Court makes an order for the payment
of any money, it may, both when making such
order and afterwards on application, direct
payment to be deferred on the ground that
immediate payment would inflict great hard-
ship... .N.C.K.: No truth in the rumor
T.A.: Try Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., 92
Pitt-street; Hardie and Gorman Pty., Ltd., 36
Martin-place; or Raine and Horne, Ltd., 70
Pitt-street —all Sydney R.M.: The N.S.W.
law relating to the licensing of electrical con-
tractors and electricians was amended by
recent legislation, and is now embodied in the
Local Government Act. Communicate with
the Local Government Department, giving age
and details of training and experience in
the trade, with copies of testimonials.
F.J.M.: He is not a very eminent scientist;
consult The Problems of Atlantis, by Lewis
Spence H.P.McI.: Candidates for the Royal
Military College must be over 16 and under
19 on March 1 of the year in which they
enter, except that members of the forces
(other than the senior cadets) who are over
19 may be admitted to the college on passing
a competitive examination. No fees are
charged for the course. Pamphlets posted
C.H.: Bairnsfather’s Fragments from France
is out of print B.Y.T.: Writing for the
Films, 4s. 6d., postage 4d., from Dymock’s,
424 George-street, Sydney J.R.M.: The
British sailing ship Jumna, London register
No. 56,838, 1048 tons, W. Hughes master,
sailed from London on 10/11/1897, and
arrived at Brisbane 9/3/1898 G.R.: Write
Director-General of Public Health, 93 Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney V.A.M.: Letter for-
warded to Dorothy Cottrell, the Jolly House,
Lake Elsinore, Elsinore, California H.V.:
In N.S.W. there is now no unconditional issue
of Crown grants. Lands Departments, Sydney
and Brisbane, will supply information regard-
ing land settlement S.W.: A strong Dandy
brush used morning and evening will remove
dandruff from the horse’s coat. Washing with
soapy water tends to make the coat rough and
split the tips of the hairs S.C.W.: Corre-
spondence addressed to Wirth’s Circus, Wirth
Park, Melbourne, will reach the circus wher-
ever it may happen to be A.C.: “Meet-
ing with Saila” appeared W.M. 15/10/’35. The
other has not yet been allotted a date
L.E.J.: No ships are listed as having arrived
at Adelaide from Hull during November, 1885.
(Many others mailed.)


The S.H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Noth. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
hear no relation to any living
person .|
Chapter XL —( Continued .)
UT T was a good thing,” thought Mr. Harper in his
I secret, narrow heart, as much clustered with mis-
cellaneous knowledge as his shop was cluttered
with goods—“it was a good thing to know so much.”
Maybe if some power could one day lift the roofs
off Tiburon it might see as much as Mr. Harper ; but,
then, could it sort out its knowledge and arrive at
such astounding conclusions? Mr. Harper knew that
the new policeman had been hit on the head in a riot
in Sydney ; and he knew before Dr. Westly proposed
that he would marry Mrs. Claufield’s daughter Olga.
He also knew why Ella accepted Sam Jordan. He
had expressed the opinion for years that the reason
why old Mother Malloy encouraged those travellers
in a way she had no right to was that her old man
had once been one of the scum. Mr. Harper knew
every time the septic tank at the Royal Hotel was
out of order, and he enjoyed every row that Mrs.
O’Brien had with her aged sewerage carter,
Mr. Harper knew long before the trouble started
that there would be trouble about harvest-time, and
that there was a dangerous element hanging about
Tiburon ready to stir up discontent. If only every-
body knew what he knew, how surprised they would
be for sure! There were people passing his shop with
satisfied looks on their faces that would be changed
to rage if he just whispered what someone else had
said about them. He felt that all the cords that
bound Tiburon into a unity passed through the warp
of his little shop, passed in dull or shiny threads
through his fingers.
“I know this town,” he was accustomed to boast.
“I understand it. Yes, I think I can say I know
Tiburon better than anybody.”
Tiburon was his town. He had been born in
it, had lived in it all his life, and hoped to have a
real long funeral when he passed to the weedy grave-
yard a mile outside it. He loved Tiburon with the
Narcissism of one who sees his face reflected in a pool.
He could look from his doorway and see him-
self reflected in Tiburon, not only in the faces of his
many first and second cousins, who all dealt
in his little shop, as he in theirs, but in a hundred
different places—from the war memorial, for which
he had voted, a lump of granite on which was mounted
a machine-gun without its entrails, to the curve of
the street about which the urban council had fought
for years. That curve represented a triumph for con-
servatism, since it followed the original bullock track
in all its windings, from the ford across the river to
the hill where the first gold had been found. There
had been a revolutionary element which wanted to
straighten the road out, but the older group held that
it had always been crooked. Jeffery Harper liked it
crooked. It was essentially Tiburon that the road
should be like that, and he had fought to keep it so.
He had leagued the opinion of the old-timers against
a change so well that the council gave up in the face
of popular disapproval. So the main street writhed
like a wounded snake, and strangers went round and
round Tiburon wondering where they were ; and the
mind of Jeffery Harper followed its own devious
course right into the marrow of things, right into
the core of Tiburon.
“Yes,” he would say, with a modest shake of the
head, “I guess I can claim to know Tiburon, And
I understand the people of Tiburon, too,”
If only Mrs. Blakely or the Reverend William
Sorrell could have seen Tiburon a little as Mr. Harper
did they might have been much happier.
111.
Dennis Kelly,
C/o Post Office, Tiburon.
Dear Denny,—While I don't want for a minute to dis-
courage you, 1 must say that you seem not quite to have
got a grip of the situation. The White aspect is not the
one you should be stressing at all. Stick to the grievances
of the local workers, particularly the single men who are
being put off the dole. Try to form a committee of local
workers to take up this last by means of deputations, letters
to the local member and publicity in the town. Call a mass-
meeting of all unemployed as soon as possible, and find definite
grievances on which you can rally them. You tell me these
Whites arc not liked, and it doesn't seem to me worth wasting
any time on them. Of course, you can mention them at a
meeting to show how the workers are being forced on to the
track by the police tools all the time. Anyway, the Whites
are in the wrong, and have been in the wrong from
the start. Your miner’s license wasn't much of an idea,
either. Give them every assistance, but I don’t think, unless
you can rally the local workers, you have much chance.
We are putting on a State drive to localise all travellers
who want to be localised. See what you can do in this
way. 1 am sending you some papers by this mail wrapped in
a copy of the “Church Standard.” Let me know if they
get through.
You ask me for an analysis of the country situation.
I don’t quite know what you mean, but 1 gather that you
want to explain to the locals exactly where they stand in the
social and economic scale. Put it to them simply like this.
Tnerc arc four classes of the rural population. The
first class comprises the large landholders, whose property inter-
ests make them not only conservative but opposed to the
middlemen in the city who dispose of their products for retail
or export. They arc supporters of the most conservative party,
employers of agricultural labor and investors of capital.
Their place is being taken to some extent by the city firms
who buy up big properties, put in a manager on a. salary,
and run them as investments.
The second class in the country is made up of small
and middle-sized landholders. Usually these are dependent
upon the banks and the credit allowed by the storekeepers.
Some are in a better position than others, but, owing to the
fact that they usually keep their sons at home to help with
the farm and hire as little labor as possible, they try to
beat down wage rates when they are forced to engage men,
alleging that they cannot afford to pay a living wage, which
is very often true. Your argument is that if they can’t afford
to pay a man a living wage they can’t afford to employ him
at all.
To the third class belong those workers who have been
living in the town long enough to establish themselves as
residents. They live in rented cottages, and, as they never
raise anything more on their patch of ground than a few
vegetables, they are bereft of any means of production. They
arc married and intermarried with the middle and small
cockies, and get the pick of the work through their friends
and relations. They are narrow, backward, ill-paid and an
easy prey for exploitation, while most of them look with awe
and admiration on the man who has more money than they
have. They have no traditions of unionism, no ideals and
no future, other than increasing unemployment as they grow
older, and finally an old-age pension or an existence on the
charity of their sons and daughters. They look down on the
travelling unemployed and count themselves in with their
“betters.” This third class are landless men, but they are
not nomads, unless driven out of their home town by stress of
unemployment.
The fourth class, of course, is the travelling unemployed.
They occasionally settle in a town, but are usually kept on the
move in a wide area in search of work where there is no
work. They live on track rations, charity or relief work,
according to the type of town they find themselves in. But
keeping them in circulation helps to beat down the wages of
the local workers, who have not learnt to combine their
interests with those of the travellers. The travellers are more
militant than the local workers, but they are anti-social and
almost impossible to organise, as they not only have class
antagonisms with the local workers, but they have so many
divisions and snobberies among themselves that it makes them
as bad as a girls’ school. The children of the travellers,
reared in vans and camps, will constitute a big social problem
twenty years hence.
I have forgotten the grocers, bakers, storekeepers, Doartf-
mghouse- and hotelkeepers, garage-owners and so on who
make up the country towns. They are only parasitic on the
four classes I have already mentioned. You will find in most
country towns a freezing works and perhaps a timberyard
or a flourmill giving employment, but the shops are too many
and too high-priced in proportion to the local industries.
The townspeople who live on the farmers include bank
clerks, school-teachers, postal clerks, commercial travellers and
agents. These last are only a drifting population, and need
not be included.
You must concentrate on classes two and three, proving
to the small farmer that his interests are identical with those
of the rural worker, and vice versa. Leave the unorganisable
first and fourth alone. Get your mass-meeting, see if you can
get out some leaflets, pass the word around and get the com-
mittee functioning as soon as possible. Don’t waste so much
lime on the travellers and the Whites, and let me know
of any likely local contacts. — Will.
P.S. —We had a meeting out here last night, and I got
hit on the head with a brick. Again, good luck.
“Justice, not Charity,” is a good slogan. We’ll use it
here.
Denny sat and sucked his teeth for a while after
finishing this epistle from Henderson, his brother in
the Faith.
“That’s all very well,” he said at last, “but when
am 1 supposed to get a bit of time to do some
shearin’?”
Chapter XII.
I.
CONSIDERING the way everybody knew every-
thing about everybody else in Tiburon, it should
not have come as a surprise when the relief-
workers struck and declared the police station “black.”
They had been grumbling about conditions for a
long time ; but no one really knew the strike was on
until the citizens awoke on Sunday morning to find
that Bill White was languishing in the local lock-
up for “insulting words, resisting arrest and damag-
ing a police uniform,” all the result of the meeting
on Saturday night.
The strike wasn’t really Scorby’s fault, though
if Sergeant Moore had not been ill with influenza it
would never have happened. The sergeant would
have drawn Joe Willis and Bill Keyne and Andy
Forbes to one side and listened to their grouches
and advised them in his slow way what was best to
do. Scorby, with Moore sick, had the whole situa-
tion to handle by himself; and by the time the
sergeant crawled out of bed the strikers were demand-
ing interviews with the Shire Council, circularising
the townspeople for support and receiving messages of
encouragement from the coalfields and subset iplions
from millhands hundreds of miles away. They had
two soup-kitchens running—one at Warning Hill and
one in the yard of the Manchester Unity building
and there was no doing anything with them.
The local member was in touch with the Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, and the Department of
Labor and Industry was in touch with the Chiet
Secretary's Department, and the Chief Secretary s
Department was feeling’very annoyed with Sergeant
Moore and Scorby. Scorby had a rooted conviction
that it was Denny’s work ; but Denny would have
put it down to the fact that the unemployed had
found that they could get almost as much out of
rabbit-trapping as they could from relief work ; so
that it didn't matter whether they struck or not. And
then, of course, there was the excuse of farmer
Hanlon.
Farmer Hanlon had approached Joe Willis to
lake a job on his dairy farm, live miles out.
“Y’ can bring y’r wife an’ kids,” he said mag-
nanimously, “and I’ll only charge y’ a shilling rent,
which will be deducted from th wages. O course,
y’ll have t’ buy y’r own tucker an’ fend f’r y’rselves,
but 1 don’t mind if y’ use any wood y’ find lying
about.”
On inquiry, the wages turned out to be a pound
a week, and Joe declared that he was doing better
on the relief work. Had Hanlon any sense he would
have tried a traveller, a single man or someone less
highly respected by his mates than Joe Willis ; but
he knew that single men never stayed long, while a
married man was timorous of shifting once he had
a job. Hanlon made the proposition successively to
Andy Forbes and Bill Keyne, who turned it down
flatter than ducks’ feet. He then went to Scorby and
reported that he had offered a job to three relief-
workers and. that they had all refused it.
“We’ll see about it,” said Scorby grimly ; and on
the following Thursday Willis, Forbes and Keyne
found that their names were not called. When they
inquired the reason, Scorby told them that if they
could afford to turn down jobs they could afford to
stay off the relief.
It was Blue who had arranged the meeting of
relief-workers on the Saturday night, although the
honor and glory went to Joe Willis and Andy Forbes.
Blue had no real right to be doing relief work at
all ; but, having finished his little jobs for Mrs.
Blakely, he thought he might as well get all he could
out of Tiburon while he was there. Under Denny’s
instructions he hired the hall and then talked the
men into coming to the meeting. They had meant to
hold the meeting on Saturday afternoon, when the
rural workers were in from the farms, but there was
no hope of charming the male population away from
the front of the pubs on a Saturday afternoon. They
were waiting for “shouts,” and nothing would make
them miss the chance of one.
On Saturday night, however, there were fully
three-quarters of the local relief-workers at the meet-
ing in the Manchester Unity Hall. It started with
about half a dozen, the others drifting in later. By
ten o’clock the men who had met to pass a resolu-
tion protesting against the “sacking” of Joe Willis,
Andy Forbes and Bill Keyne found they had voted
themselves into a strike which was to continue until
“the Government” allowed them the option of turn-
ing down a job which would not give them as much
to live on as the relief work. They had called upon
the local Labor branch to support them, sent protests
to several dignitaries, subscribed the beginnings of a
strike fund, elected an executive (Dennis Kelly, Blue
Saunders, Joe Willis, Andy Forbes, Bill Keyne, Ted
Blake and old Riley) ; and the Rural Workers’ Indus-
trial Committee (“Justice, not Charity”) was booming.
Now, the door of the Manchester Unity Hall was
left open, because not even relief-workers can live
without air, and Scorby, passing on his rounds, had
merely glanced through. He had rightly summed
up the majority of those present as men who would
rather lean against a hotel post and starve than walk
a hundred yards to get a square meal, Scorby was
not worrying. He went his rounds up and down the
busy main street and round the back of the hotels.
On his third round he paused to glance in at the open
door, and his amiability disappeared immediately, his
eyes narrowed and he looked very businesslike and
unpleasant. In those rows and rows of men —gnarled
old ones, holding their hats awkwardly in their hands ;
young ones, swaggering a little, frightened at their
own bravery; middle-aged men, talking together in
low voices and emphasising their words with the
beating of heavy fists in the palms of their hands,
or simply listening silently behind their reeking pipes
—amid all those men Scorby’s eyes lit on Okker
Slade, who was speaking at the moment.
There was something familiar about Okker, even
with different-colored hair and glasses. Scorby edged
closer into the doorway, and the group of men there,
rolling cigarettes and murmuring together, drew away
from him as he did so.
“In proposin’ that we stand firm on the perlice
bein’ removed from administerin’ relief,” Okker was
saying, “we must remember that in Sydney an’ the
big places they creates more employment by givin’
special relief-labor bureaus the work of dolin’ out
the dole. This leaves the Johns free to arrest drunks
an’ direc’ traffic an’ walk about deliverin’ summonses,
which is what we pay ’em for. Now, we ’ates t
see the perlice overworkin’ ” —laughter—“so I propose
that we asks the Depar’ment of Labor an’ Industry
t’ set up special bureaus where the relief will be guv
out, an’ 1 propose that we call upon all other unem-
ployed organisations t’ back us up in
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Wonting Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family —Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tiburon s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives.
Dave’s beer-drinking cronies include Orry
Smith and Sam Jordan, a sometime horse-
dealer. Sam is about to marry Ella White.
Blue, Okker Slade and Denny the
Mac.sman are “travellers,” camped at the un-
employed shelter.
Bill Sorrell is the Anglican parson, and
“one of the best.”
Jeffery Harper keeps the grocery store
and “knows everything about everyone.”
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tiburon of its undesirables.
Sergeant Moore supports the movement
half-heartedly, but Constable Scorby is all
for it.


“Hey, you can’t put two motions at the one
time,” Denny protested from the chair. “We’ll take
the first motion first. Will someone second the motion
that we petition to ’ave the administration of relief
taken out of the ’ands of the p’lice?”
At that moment Okker caught sight of Scorby in
the doorway, and, with a mutter to Denny, edged
towards the door behind the chairman’s table.
Scorby, forgetting prudence, walked into the hall.
Half the meeting was on its feet immediately.
“I wish t’ call for a motion courteously requestin’
the perlice t’ leave the meetin’,” said Denny, remem-
bering previous experiences. “Will someone move
in that direction?”
“I will,” growled Joe Willis.
Scorby took no notice. His eyes were fixed
steadily on Okker, who was concealing his nervous-
ness admirably and cursing himself for being such a
fool as to come. Scorby had no intention of leav-
ing. He stood firm while the motion was passed ;
and then he heard the voice of Bill White behind him
softly passing reflections upon Scorby’s parentage.
Had Brian Scorby been wise, he would have concen-
trated on Okker Slade and let Bill get away with it;
but he was not quite sure of Okker, and he was sure
of Bill. He turned on Bill so suddenly that that young
man had no opportunity to display his boxing skill.
Before Bill knew it, Scorby had a painful arm-lock
on him and was marching him up Atkinson-streel in
front of a thrilled audience just out of (he picture-
show. There were plenty of witnesses to the
“insulting words.” Naturally, none of (he strikers
did anything to help or hinder. They muttered
excitedly, but that was all.
“Order, please, order!” Denny called; and
reassembled the meeting to pass a vote of censure
on the police. Okker had vanished during the scrim-
mage, and when Scorby returned, as cool as a cat
looking for a second mouse, he found that most of
the meeting had gone out to mingle with the crowd
from the picture-show and explain how Scorby had
entered the hall and hit poor Bill White, that martyr
ol Labor, over the head with his baton. Several present
had seen him do it, and the utterly unprovoked nature
of the attack certainly aroused the better feelings of
all who heard it. Scorby was not liked, and he was
far 100 dignified to explain things to anyone. He was
much more intent on finding Okker, whom his soul
hated ; but he knew that in the present state of
public I eel ing he would get more curses than informa-
tion. So he strolled back to the police barracks, where
the,voice of Bill was as music in his ears.
11.
Jhe arrest of Bill was rather a bad move. Nobody
seemed to consider that it was rather audacious for a
single policeman to go into a meeting of discontented
men, grab one of the audience, drag him out and lock
him up. Public feeling was insulted, and even the
two Js.P., old Elliot and Darch, who considered that
Scorby was too big for his boots, let Bill off with a
pound fine, which was promptly subscribed; and
Elliot merely snorted through his grey moustache when
Scorby blandly brought up the tearing of his uniform.
By Monday night Tiburon was divided into two
camps, pro- and anti-unemployed. The anti-unem-
ployed were largely farmers; but the shop-owners
were rather pro. Anyway, it paid to be pro until
you saw which way things were going. They brought
out their donations when requested, expressed their
sympathy, and some of them even read the over-
heated and very badly produced circulars which the
executive had spent the week-end composing. Paul
White had been able to persuade Nancy Coombes, the
solicitor’s typist, to type the stencil and have them
roneo’d.
The great problem was the travellers. The locals
could get credit from the stores, and, since all the
council except Councillor Mac Leary had expressed
sympathy, credit was good. But the travellers had
no credit, and were not likely to get any, so that
a second meeting was called for the purpose of setting
up a soup-kitchen to feed them.
If there is anything Tiburon likes, it is to see
itself in the city newspapers, and, although Scorby tried
his utmost to keep the thing quiet, you can’t slop
a press correspondent who is paid for what he sends.
There was a delightful innocence in the way sober
men who had never done anything lawless in their
lives would point out to each other the little
paragraph:—
Tiburon, Monday.—Following (he police refusal to
grant the dole to certain relief-workers who rejected
work offered by a local farmer, a meeting of relief-
workers on Saturday night rcclared the police station
“black.” Friction at the meeting with the police
resulted in one arrest. A committee has been formed to
watch the interests of the strikers.
Many of the farmers who could afford to pay
Jiving wages sided with the strikers, and some even
stood them drinks, until Scorby, with the help of the
constable who had been sent while Moore was ill,
raided Mrs. O’Brien’s Hotel, chased a number of
strikers over the back fence, arrested Dave White, who
was too fat to run, but had been one of the most out-
standing anti-strikers, Orry Smith and one or two
other of Dave’s cronies.
This was another bad move on Scorby’s part,
because it brought down on his head the curses of
Mrs. O'Brien, and that influential old lady immediately
subscribed largely to the soup-kitchen fund. And,
after all, it was a poor haul. The strikers felt that,
what with the heavy donations rolling in from every-
one, from Mrs. Malloy to the wife of the garbage
contractor, things were going all their own way ; but
the tide was bound to turn, and Denny knew it.
“I don’t like things bein’ so cheerful an’ going
so well,” he remarked to Blue. “ Tain’t natural. Some-
thin’s goin’ t’ ’appen soon.”
He was right, but poor Denny did not know how
soon his fears were to be confirmed.
' 111.
“Why, yes,” said the Reverend William Sorrell.
“Yes, of course.”
His mild eyes rather lit up at the prospect of the
soup-kitchen occupying the little hall which had
formerly been used for church services at Warning
Hill. The MacLearys and the other farmers for whom
the little church had been built now preferred to come
in their big .cars to the service in Tiburon; and the
Warning Hill church had not been used for many
years. “After all,” thought the rector, “it will give me
an excuse to call in and see how the soup-kitchen is
going, an excuse to talk to the men and, perhaps,
help them.”
“Certainly you may have the use of the hall,” he
told Denny and Blue.
“There, what’d I tell y’?” Denny beamed at Blue.
“I was wondering,” the rector added tentatively,
“if you could spare it so that I might hold a service
in it, perhaps Sunday night.”
Denny felt rather as though the rector was playing
them a dirty trick ; but they agreed there would be no
trouble about the service.
“But don’t you see,” Blue said when they got
outside, “that him bein’ decent about the church'll
mean that we’ll ’ave to go t’ the service? ’E's reckon-
in’ on that.”
“I thought of that,” said Denny, “but 1 s’pose I
could go, seein’ it was special ; an’, after all, y’ needn't
listen.”
Blue was not paying very much attention. During
the strike he had developed a great deal of what
Denny called “class-consciousness” but others might
regard as a natural flair for organising.
“The committee’s not as strong as it should be,”
he said. “ ’Ow about rakin’ in that school-teacher out
there?”
Denny sniffed. “I asks ’er, an’ she turns it down
—that’s (he sort she is—very sweet-like, and said of
course she'd do what she could outside, but she
didn’t quite like the idea of bein' on the committee. In
other words, of associatin’ with low people like us.”
Blue grunted, and in that grunt dismissed Miss
Jessica Daunt from serious consideration for ever.
“It’s a pity, though,” Denny reflected ; “there's
good stuff in 'er if she ’adn’t been brought up all
Had a painful armlock on him.
wrong. I was hopin’ she could get some stuff on the
strike in the bourgeois papers, but she didn’t seem too
keen on tryin’. Oh, well!”
He also dismissed Miss Daunt.
Jessica explained her side of the question to Paul.
“It’s not that I wouldn't help,” she said, “but 1 feel
that my job is to educate these people’s children, not
to get mixed up in their labor disputes. Anyway,
what is it all about?”
Paul explained that the relief-workers were sup-
posed to take any job offered, no matter what the pay.
and (hat if they didn't the police had the right to put
them off the relief, and that meant the unemployed
were striking for the right not to work when the
pay wasn't good enough. He got it a little mixed, but
he knew what he meant.
“I should think they would be glad of any work
at all,” Jessica said, slightly puzzled, but quite sincere.
She did not know how much she was losing of that
reverence which Paul had, up to that time, paid to
her tremendous intelligence and learning. It was
slowly dawning on him that a girl might know a
great deal about the way the ancient Romans spent
their lime, a great deal about the Ego and the Super-
Ego, yet very little about the thoughts and feelings
of a crowd of common or garden people.
He regarded her narrowly as she stood there,
frowning slightly, and it seemed to him that he had
never really seen her before. They were out on top
of Warning Hill together, for, with the boredom of
the week-end upon her, she had fallen into the habit,
first of sitting on the fence rail of the paddock talking
to him, and then of going for walks. The children
after the first few afternoons had discovered that the
subject was always books and, growing tired, had
returned to their own games. Even Bessie, the maid at
Dwyers’, had grown used to seeing Paul and Jessica
about together, and made hardly any comment when
Paul offered to take Miss Daunt up to the rocks where
the wallabies could be seen.
The children had been often before, and would
not go because they would have to walk. This reluc-
tance to walk was one of the things which astonished
Jessica, who had never lived through a country
summer. Paul was the only person, she found, who
would really walk with her. At first, she had treated
him rather aloofly, but her natural friendliness made
this attitude hard to sustain; and later she found
herself almost treating him as an equal. She rather
suspected that her protege was maintaining a reserve
of his own. Paul told her stories of the district, of (he
bushrangers who once rode there, and of “Irish”
Dwyer.
One day Jessica discovered that Paul wrote verse.
At least, he did not write it; he sang it. They were
sitting on the side of Warning Hill after a stiff climb.
Jessica on one of the grey granite rocks, warmed by
the afternoon sun, and Paul among the short grass
under the black cypress pines in the shade. The pine
boughs smelt sweet, and Jessica crumpled a few of the
tough, silky sprigs in her hand as she watched the
shadow of the clouds going over the colored fields.
Suddenly she realised that Paul was humming under
his breath.
“What’s that you’re singing?” she asked idly.
He did not reply. The singing stopped. “Go
on,” she said lazily, and turned to see that he was
rather red. “Why, Paul,” she said, half laughing,
“you aren’t shy of me, are you? What was it?”
“Just a song,” he said.
“Sing it again,” she commanded. For a moment
he hesitated; then he began crooning to himself, his
eyes fixed on the distant grey roofs of the town.
“ ‘Where are you now, lad? Where would you he?’
‘'l’m riding in the west with my sweetheart, Bill?
‘Where, oh, where, would you rather rest you?’
‘Under Warning Hill? ”
“Rather like an old ballad,” said Miss Daunt
appreciatively. “It has the ballad lilt.”
Paul was encouraged :
“ ‘ln the dark of a stranger’s stable,
Sweetheart, sweetheart, my hand upon the door;
In the dark of the night a-ridin’,
A n we’ll never come home no more? ”
He paused and then sang on very softly;
“ ‘The. wild rose climbs by the green field’s side,
The wild white rose where, the travellers rest;
When the. white clouds climb down Warning Hill,
We’ll come hack from the West? ”
“That was rather beautiful,” Jessica said. “Yo.u
made it up, didn’t you?”
Paul nodded.
“What does it mean?”
“Oh, it’s jus’ about a horse,” he said carelessly,
“a horse an’ —an’ me brother Larry.”
“Oh!” said Jessica, and was silent.
After that she used to coax Paul to sing her songs,
and he sang her some he had made up and some he
had learnt.
“They’re great ones for songs at our place,” he
said. “You ought to ’ave heard the singing there was
when me sister got married. We used often to ’ave
a party at our place, and we'd sing all night.”
Jessica’s imagination was rather stirred by this
picture of these people singing their ballads in the
firelight of the peasey hut.
“I wish you’d let me come and hear you one
night,” she suggested. “I’d love it.”
“All right,” he agreed, resolving that he never
would take her. What if the old man got boozed?
And what would Jessica think if she saw them drink-
ing pinkie out of cracked cups?
“I have some friends in Sydney,” Jessica said,
“who would be interested in those songs of yours.
Have you ever tried sending them to magazines?”
“What’d be the good of that?” he said. “They’re
not good enough for print. I onct asked Pew, who
runs the ‘Tiburon Advertiser,’ an’ he said I ought t’
write an Ode to Anzac like Mrs. Blakely an’ he'd see
about that.”
When Jessica asked that he write some out for
her, Paul had been evasive. He’d let her write them
out some other time. Those little scraps of tunes
that he hummed as he worked were too much part
of himself to let them go. Jessica realised this at
last, and ceased persuading him. Paul’s family didn’t
think much of his own songs. They laughed at him
for being like Willie, who was always crooning to
himself. But to Jessica, rather lonely and a little
sorry for herself, with her university lectures on
Chatterton still fresh in her memory, the idea of foster-
ing an undiscovered genius produced in her almost a
maternal attitude. Paul’s songs put him on a different
level from that of a mere farmboy anxious to better
himself by contact with greater minds. And Paul had
been content to let Jessica pat him on the head. All
the women he had ever known had mothered him.
But on that day during the relief-workers’ strike,
when Jessica, standing on the top of Warning Hill,
had said, “I should think they would be glad of any
work at all,” he had slopped to look at her more
narrowly. He realised the immense gulf between his
people and hers.
She stood quite close to him in her neat brown
coat and skirt, with the orange-and-brown scarf knotted
fashionably about her throat; and Paul had under-
stood that it was not only in speech and dress that
she was different, but in her whole outlook. There
were things he could teach her about people he knew —
all sorts of things that she didn’t know. Paul’s eyes
half-shut as he lowered her into the ranks as just
another woman, with, perhaps, a bit more book-learn-
ing than the others. She was no longer the divinely
omniscient Miss Daunt. She was just Jessica, a girl,
and a rather ignorant girl.
“Yes, and there’s other things I could teach
you,” Paul thought silently ; and for the first time he
began to wonder whether he should try.
IV.
The fun the women got out of that soup-kitchen
at Warning Hill made it doubtful if they would ever
willingly let the strike come to an end. For Mrs. Mulver,
Mary White, Mrs. Willoughby and the rest, it was
a Heaven-sent break in the boredom of their days.
Under the superintendence of Jim they bustled about
the improvised kitchen, setting tables, sweeping the
floor, arranging benches, cutting bread, carrying plates
of stew and vegetables and meat. They had never
had such a good time before in their lives. It was a
real change, a holiday.
(Continued on page 50.)


THIS
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Milliard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLARD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch”
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function
Milliard
MASTER
IMPS©.
U M I ir-HOUII
35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
IJS
uji
B Wm
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing 3d. in.staini>s) lor tlio 30 x 20
iiichT■Jgtvisbly Illustrated Constructional .Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
RADIO NEWS
A SCREENED AERIAL COUPLER FOR SHORT WAVES.
DON B. KNOCK.
Much of the background noise present with average short-wave reception
is introduced through capacitative coupling between the aerial, the
receiver and the earth. If unwanted capacity effects are rejected and pure
inductive coupling provided for one of the popular doublet aerial systems
a remarkable improvement in signal over remaining receiver noise can be
obtained. This simple unit employs the Faraday screen principle, and for
successful operation must be used with a perfectly-screened receiver.
Noise of an extraneous nature has
always been a primary trouble in short-
wave reception, to say nothing of normal
broadcast wave-lengths. With the latter
such trouble is confined mostly to
electrical interference of an acute nature,
and is particularly aggressive in cases
where a non-fil-
ttered supply is
used to an all-
electric receiver.
Even so, the
signal voltage of
broadcast stations
available at the
receiver input is
considerably
more than in the
case of signals at
higher frequen-
cies, and the
strongest locals
are affected by
radio - inductive
interference only in extreme cases,
A dual or all-wave receiver, under
such conditions, can be little short of
hopeless on the short-wave side with-
Fig. 1. —The aerial unit, using a coil screen for the coupling box.
Fig. 2. —Circuit of the tuned aerial
coupling system.
out rigid precautions. The surest
way is to kill the interference at
the source, but this is not always possible.
If the interference cannot be suppressed
at the start it is necessary to take such
steps as complete receiver sci'eening, line
filtering, and noise-reducing aerials in
order to be able to use the receiver in
even a moderately sensitive state, and
for good short-wave reception a receiver
must be highly sensitive. The listener
accustomed to short-wave reception
under favorable conditions away from
noise sources knows just how full a
measure of enjoyment can be obtained.
He switches on his receiver, tunes in
station after station with little effort, and
probably takes it for granted that little,
if any, improvement can be effected. He
reckons without the fact that atmospheric
noise level may, with the combination of
inherent valve noise, be responsible for
a distinct loss in his reception gain, and
that, no matter how sensitive the receiver
may be, it will not bring in the desired
signal properly if the signal is sunk in
noise present in the R.F. input circuits.
Simplifying a Problem.
It is well understood that if nothing
can be detected in radio reception it
cannot be amplified, and thus the logical
step to the elimination of interfer-
ence via an aerial system is to see that
such interference is rejected as much as
possible in favor of the wanted signal
at the receiver input. The advantages of
the transposed feeder doublets and other
noise-reducing aerials are well known,
but these advantages can be further en-
hanced by dealing properly with the con-
duction of the signal from such a system
to the receiver itself. The solution lies
mainly with a tuned coupling system for
the aerial, with the feeders resonant at
the required frequency. The diagrams
show the method of doing this, and the
illustrations show how such a unit is
easily constructed. The signal is inter-
cepted in the usual manner by two sides
of a doublet aerial and brought down the
Fig. 4. —Showing the Faraday screen and coil mounted inside the coupling-box lid.
feeder lines, which are tuned to the
desired frequency by the two series con-
densers, Cl and C 2. C 3 tunes the tapped
coil LI, this being the primary of the
coupling transformer; the secondary
is the untuned coil L 2. There is no-
thing unusual about this procedure, but
the important point is in the electro-
static screening between LI and L 2.
Pure inductive coupling results in this
method of limiting coupling between the
coils. The screening around L 2 is com-
plete except for a hole about twice the
diameter of the coil, and this hole is
covered by a Faraday screen. This type
of screen introduces no electromagnetic
losses between LI and L 2.
The screen may be made by winding
36 enamelled copper wire around a stiff
piece of cardboard, spacing the turns
with string. The cardboard must be
large enough in size to cover the hole in
the metal box. After winding, the turns
are cemented in position with clear
duco. When dry, the turns are slit at
one end with a sharp knife, the insulation
is then scraped off at the other end and
a common lead is soldered along here.
The string may also be removed. This
lead may be simply a piece of tinned
copper wire. This connects to earth
(the metal box). An easier way to make
the Faraday screen is by using one of
the old Sin. diameter celluloid-wound
broadcast coils of early days. This can
be readily cut up with a pair of scissors
to the required size, and one end of the
flattened out wires soldered together.
This is the type of screen used in the
unit illustrated in Figs. 3 and 4. The
Faraday screen is mounted over the hole,
and can be fixed in position by cement-
ing with clear duco. Care must be taken
to observe that the top ends of the wires
do not accidentally “earth.”
Coupling between LI and L 2 should
be variable, and a simple mounting may
be made for a valve-base coil and socket
as illustrated. LI should be tapped if
is is desired to work on several bands,
or may be plug-in, as shown. For a
tapped coil, 16 turns of 22 D.S.C., close
wound, with four tappings, will be suit-
able. The coil inside the box should
match in inductive value the aerial
coupling coil in the receiver, but for
average purposes five turns on Hm.
diameter will do. Even better results
can be obtained if the coils are made
in spider-web form, such coils, owing to
Fi g 3.—Showing the application of the
Faraday screen.
their flat nature, appearing to give even
better energy transfer through the Fara-
day screen. Finally, the leads from L2 to
the receiver are carefully screened, and
this can be done in copper braid.
This tuned coupling idea was intro-
duced a year or so ago by the technical
staff of “Radio” (U.S.A.). It can be
easily applied to all amateur receivers
and to dual and all-wave receivers haying
doublet input terminals on the chassis.
D.B.K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have again been good, and
a great variety of stations has been on
the air from early evening until 8 a.m.
After that hour there has not been much
in the daytime, beyond FYA.
On 9/10/’35 DJB was heard in the
letter-reply session. Reports were from
all over the world, but not many were
from Australia.
PHI seems to have returned to the
25m. band permanently, and is at excel-
lent strength right through. DJA and
DJN, in the 31m. band, have varied
widely, but have been always good near
midnight, with DJA considerably the
stronger. Static has been present in the
31m. band, but not bad enough to spoil
any strong station.
D.E.I. stations have been heard in this
band quite as strong as DJA, but these
stations seem to change wave-length at
frequent intervals, and one never knows
where to expect them.
What is taken to be the Belgian station
on 29m. has settled to a regular short
session from 6.30 to 7 a.m., but no
English announcement has been heard
to decide this station definitely.
FYA has been giving an English news
session at 9 p.m. in the 19m. band especi-
ally for Australia, and reports have been
requested. Strength has not been equal
to that of the same station in a later
session.
GSG has been heard at fair strength
as early as 9 p.m., but has not been
nearly as good as GSF in the 19m. band.
The latter has been at fine strength right
through the transmission, and also in the
No. 3 transmission.
2RO has been quite the best station
until 7.30 a.m., and good at night after
11 p.m. Much more use has been made
of English for announcements, thus
giving listeners a chance to ascertain
future features.
Hong Kong has been good, but is in
the middle of strong C.W. stations and
suffers from interference. Of the Japanese
stations, the one on 27m. has been the
most consistent, but JVM on 21m. at
3 p.m. has been easily strongest with a
lengthy English session, conducted by an
American with a Bowery accent.
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C.
has been excellent, but has dropped con-
siderably in strenth after 6.30 p.m.
Noise-level on GSB has been high, but
GSD has been good. The Americans in
the 31m. band were going strong on
baseball on 13/10/’35, W2XAF being at
fair strength, and the others hard to
copy.
Nightowl.
“P.R.W.” writes;
The Belgian short-wave station noted by
“Nightowl” is ORK Ruysselede. 1 have heard
it every morning since October 1 in attractive
musical programmes. The announcements arc
in French, and it closes down at 7 a.m.
(not 6.30 a.m., as “Nightowl” states) with
the playing of “La Braban?onne.” It is a
little lower in the dial than DIQ. It is not
always easy to distinguish the latter station
from PMN, unless the callsigns are heard,
but, generally speaking, the Javanese station
(which, by the way, 1 have not heard during
the last week or so) comes through more
strongly and at an earlier hour in the even-
ing. Another Javanese station is seriously inter-
ing with the Germans DJA and DJN, as well
as with our own 3LR. I have also occasion-
ally heard a Japanese station between DJN
and GSB, and another on the same wave-
length as DIQ.
Why No Iron Cores?
This page has been emphasising for
over a year the necessity for those re-
sponsible for the progress of radio design
in this country doing something about
the iron-core R.F. coil question. It is
a matter which cannot be shelved for
ever. Sufficient reason why such R.F.
inductances should be available has been
forthcoming in the wave-length change-
over on the broadcast band, when it was
found that important stations over-
shadowed each other, but not on certain
imported sets. Nine-kilocycle selectivity is
claimed by some overseas manufacturers,
and this is no idle claim. The attitude of
men in the trade when approached on
the iron-core question was: “When
America takes them up, we will consider
it.” The answer to this comes in the
latest U.S.A. publications. Superhets.
with iron-core LF. transformers are being
provided for both amateur and profes-
sional. When a radio engineer of the
calibre of McMurdo Silver turns out his
latest equipped with iron-core I.F.Ts. it
is high time to sit up and take notice. If
local industry cannot undertake the
manufacture of the iron-dust-core induc-
tance in toto, surely arrangements can be
made at least to import the core material
and get on with the job from there. The
radio trade is not exactly booming in
Australia at present, and a develop-
mental market lies absolutely uninvesti-
gated.
D.B.K.


25 Years ’ Experience I
Behind the manufacture of “CALSTAN” meters and Slade Test Equipment stands all the skill and experience of a
fully qualified engineer who has had twenty-five years' experience in Australia and overseas in all branches of
electrical engineering and its applications, including radio. This, coupled with the fact that Mr. C. W. Slade, chief
engineer, is at present on a world tour making investigations into the latest practice overseas, means that “CALSTAN
has an unrivalled fund of experience on which to draw when designing equipment.
The “CALSTAN” is a high-grade
meter of exceptional sensitivity:
dead-beat movement of knife-
edged pointer: Magnetic Shunt.
Complete range of D.C. meters
now available. Equal to the
world's best, and made in Aus-
tralia, the only exceptions being
the jewels and springs.
All “CALSTAN” meters are now
wound to give a drop of 50 milli-
volts across the terminals, and are
obtainable in all ranges from 100
Microamps. 500 Milliamps.,
without external shunt.
mt. ;%»£*€s g* j J
' **l/
If
Available in the following ranges:
Voltmeters (sensitivity 2000-1000-
200 ohms per volt)—0-10: 0-25;
0-50; 0-100; 0-250; 0-500 volts.
Ammeters and Miiliammetcrs.—
0-2.5; 0-5 amperes. 0-500; 0-250;
0-100; 0-25; 0-10: 0-5; 0-1.
Microamps. 0-500.; 0-250; 0-100.
Galvanometers —Scale, 15-0-15.
30 microamps.
Ohmmeters calibrated to order.
Standard —0-100,000 ohms.
Prices on application.
‘‘Calstan” Metal Scales, 2/6 ea.
ANY VOLTAGE RANGE SUPPLIED TO ORDER. WRITE FOR PRICES.
SLADE'S RADIO Precision Test Equipment Manufacturers ,
Lang Street, Croydon, N.S.W. ’Phones; UJ5381 and UJ5382.
Obtainable in Sydney at —
Martin He Lauim.v, Ltd. Murdoch's, lid, Itloch & Gerber, Ltd.
Interstate Agents —
Melbourne: Australian General Electric, Ltd. Hrisbane; Chandler & Co. Perth; Carlyle & Co. Adelaide: 1). Harris & Co.
Latest Design in U.S.A.
Not only is this 10-valve superhet a
radically different production with new
features, but it is marketed in kit form
for constructors. The main point is that
it uses iron-core I.F. transformers. Its
specifications include the following:
Two tuned R.F. stages on all four bands.
Four low-C tuning bands, 1500 to 33,000
kc. (9 to 200 metres).
Ample and accurately relogging bandspread
tuning anywhere in its range.
Crystal filter for single signal that doesn’t cut
down volume.
All A.C. operated—one unit —without hum.
Fight-inch concert speaker—and headphone
jack.
Polished chromium-welded chassis.
Air-tuned polyiron 1.F.—3 pi coils and big,
no-loss copper shields.
Separate R.F. coils positively switched for
each band—all Hammarlund air-trimmed,
not unstable compression mica.
Sensitivity, 1 microvolt absolute and better.
Selectivity, just what you want —variable 50
cycle to IGkc.
Amplified automatic volume control.
No inherent circuit or tube noise—lets you
copy signals now lost in the noise of the
best competitive sets.
Wired with made-up colored coded cable—
requires no circuit tracing, or even a dia-
gram.
I bis creation is the work of McMurdo
Silver, (he American radio engineer.
All Round the Dial.
“M.G.”; Senator Jack Leckie (Vic.)
chided the national stations in the Senate
the other night for devoting too much of
their programmes to classical music, thus
driving lowbrow listeners to the B classes.
But both classes are to blame, not for
the excess of Bach and Beethoven, but
for the bad arrangement of the pro-
grammes, which results in all the classi-
cal music being on at one time and all
the jazz at another. Classical votaries
suffer just as much as the lowbrows, for
there are many occasions when they
chase right round the dial, only to find
Bing Crosby and Irving Berlin monopo-
lising the entire welkin. A sane schedule
would cater for both classes of listeners
at all hours.
* * sit ,
“A. Major”; The A.B.C. is drawing
on Australasian talent for its coming
opera season, a matter for cheers.
Florence Austral and Maorilander
Gladys Lorimer will share soprano roles
with Signora Marc4ta (whose husband
will share basso part's with Sydney’s Ray-
mond Beatty) and Thea Philips, an Eng-
lish girl. Only contralto' yet officially
mentioned is Evelyn Hall, an Australian.
Lionello Cecil, whose Italianate cog-
nomen camouflages a good Australian
tenor, will have as side-kicker Welshman
Ben Williams. In the baritone division
Dutchman Sydney Dc Vries is paired
with Englishman Frederick Collier.
Colin Chapman, a Sydney Eisteddfod
winner, is to be given roles in “Boris
Godounov” and “Meistersinger,” and
Joseph Post, Australian, will do some of
the baton-waving, relieving Maurice de
Abra venal.
* * * *
“Enno”: Practically since broadcast-
ing commenced in Australia, the name of
Colville has been associated with those
out-of-the-ordinary kind of experimental
receivers which manufacturers don’t
make, but specialists delight in. Syd
Colville, of Colville Wireless Equipment
Co., Rowe-street, Sydney, is a pioneer
Australian radio engineer, and was one
of the first to operate an experimental
station in Queensland. After his estab-
lishment in business in Sydney, where
the needs of the home-constructor have
been for at least 12 years the primary
consideration, his activity embraced
short-wave transmitter design. What Col-
ville doesn’t know about this isn’t worth
knowing. One of his first commercial
orders came from a Siamese prince
visiting Sydney in 1927, and to fit up
a Moth or even an airliner with radio
at short notice is all in the day’s work
to Colville. Recently his co. has been
inundated with work on broadcast
stations for private enterprise, and
the newly-installed 4IP Ipswich look
shape in the Sydney workshop. A
special and comprehensive installation
is at present under way for a Portuguese
concession north of Australia, and the
transmitter is a fine example of ingenious
design, covering several short and
medium wave-bands by switching. Col-
ville transmitting equipment is made
under license and in collaboration with
Philips Lamps (A/sia), Ltd.
Casual Comment.
“V.E.”: Continued complaints re key-
clicks came from a BCL with a new set
and a penchant for “reporting.” The ham
victim threatened to instal a violet-ray
and conduct a search for a series fan
that would produce a flame ring on his
commutator. Then the red van arrived.
The O.W. gladly pro-
duced the station’s
visiting-book, but the
call was not social.
Clipping his aerial
on to the detector
valve of the 27-45
P.P. combination the
ham demonstrated
that his 7mc. set
caused himself no
interference, and
that his old and
trusty reed-charger
was likewise tamed.
Somebody asked why
the two R.F. valves
were not in socket.
As they started to work (after a hurried
search had found them in the spares
box), the fun started. “But you want
to hear it without the noise-suppressor
aerials on,” declared the ham, making
the necessary changes. The visitors de-
parted, to report to complainant. Now
the air is quieter, the growler has had a
costly illustration of the aural difference
between key-clicks and racket, and the
'phones may be pressed on to the ear to
copy the etheric gleanings of the ham’s
Wide-World Two.
“Querex”: It may not be widely
known that where an audio transformer
is used the parallel-feed method of coup-
ling permits variation of the ratio. Nor-
mally the two windings, primary and
secondary, are arranged so that coupling
takes place between them. The secondary
has a greater number of turns than the
primary, and this ratio is, or should
be, marked on the transformer. If, when
parallel-fed, the two windings are joined
in series, but with the connections ar-
ranged so that they are still inductively
coupled, the ratio will be increased by
one. If the connections are made so that
the windings are still in scries, but in
opposition, the ratio decreases by one.
An ordinary transformer may thus be
used for three different ratios.
Short-wave Shocks for Soviet
Officials.
Commissars and officials of importance
in Soviet Russia have been recoiling from
loudspeakers in horror, according to
“Popular Wireless.” England, for some
offender with obviously royalist leanings
has used the air to pin-prick Red senti-
ment. The first sign of such outlawry
occurred when an unknown short-wave
station was heard playing the old Russian
National Anthem. Not content with this,
the pirate at the microphone wound up
with “God Save the Czar.” One
instance wouldn’t have aroused in-
terest, but the unknown station, which
appears around the 54m. mark, con-
tinues to repeat the business, and then
packs up and beats a retreat to another
location. Apparently the offender is go-
ing to be difficult to locate, for not only
does he change location, but wave-length
also. Meanwhile the Kremlin fumes and
the marauder enjoys his fun.
The Trend of Development.
Among the developments announced
at the recent convention of the Institute
of Radio Engineers (U.S.A.) are the
following:
A water-cooled negative-resistance magne-
tron capable of delivering 100 watts output
at 600 megacycles.
Circuits for obtaining automatic-frequency
control in superheterodynes.
A gaseous amplifier tube capable of deliver-
ing one watt of output power with 32 volts
on the plate.
Miniature cathode-ray lubes.
A new frequency-converter valve for "outer-
grid” modulation.
Ultra-short-wave equipment applied to tele-
phone services.
Circuits for automatic control of selectivity
in radio receivers.
Information on the source of interstellar
interference with radio reception.
Latest in the Trade.
The latest of A.W.A.’s attractive
publications is “Australian Wireless
Achievements.” This tells an interesting
story of the co.’s many overseas wireless
communication services and of the
services carried on throughout Australia.
Papua, New Guinea, Fiji and on ships at
sea. The modern transmitting and receiv-
ing centres at Fiskville, Rockbank, Bray-
brook, Melbourne and Sydney are fully
described. The booklet gives a good idea
of the extensive and important work this
national wireless organisation is conduct-
ing in advancing every phase of wireless
in Australia. Copies may be obtained
gratis on reqqest at the head offices, 47
York-street, Sydney, or 167-9 Queen-
street, Melbourne.
❖ * * *
One of the best-known names in the
electrical and radio world is that of
Siemens, associated with high-grade
switchboard gear and measuring instru-
ments. Under the latter heading come
the requirements for radio laboratory
work, and the Siemens Co. now provides
an extensive range of meters for every
purpose. One of these is illustrated. This
is a bakelite case D.C. voltmeter from
0 to 100 volts, of the moving-coil type.
The coil is wound on a seamless alu-
minium former, and is controlled by non-
magnetic springs. Polished and tempered
steel pivots provide the movement seat-
ing, and these work in selected sapphire
jewels. Friction is thus a negligible fac-
tor. Every meter is individually cali-
brated against a master standard. A
unique feature of this particular meter
is the mirror reflector, permitting easy
reading of the scale when viewed from
an angle where the meter must be
mounted in a position normally incon-
venient for viewing directly from the
front. Siemens meters are of British
make, and are obtainable in all types for
every purpose from Siemens Elliott, 257
Clarence-street, Sydney. ’Phone M4I6L
U.S.W. Propagation Over Land.
“Electronics” (U.S.A.) reports the
result of experiments by engineers of the
Bell Telephone Laboratories giving the
latest advances in the theory of ultra-
short-wave propagation, based on the
theory of physical optics. This theory
proceeds from the assumption that the
energy of ultra-short-wave (from 30 to
200 megacycles) can be reflected from
(he surface of the earth, and that in
general the wave received at an antenna
consists of a direct component and a
reflected component whose vectorial
sum determines the strength of the excita-
tion of the receiving antenna. Thus, as
the receiving antenna height is increased
the signal decreases and then increases
to a maximum, finally falling off to a
second minimum. The maximum corre-
sponds to the point at which the reflected
and the direct waves arise in phase, the
minima to those heights at which they
arrive out of phase.
In checking this theory, measurements
were made in specially chosen localities
over the most level ground which could
be found. The observed variations in
signal strength with changes in height of
the receiving antenna approximated
very closely the predicted theoretical
variation. The portable equipment used
in these tests is capable of being set up
in an hour’s time.
The experimental results indicated that
the received signal strength can be repre-
sented by an equation of the form
E = kh
h is the height of the antenna, k is a
constant and E is the received field
strength.
(Continued on next page.)


•flWfc
&
m
V 4'
'J’he champion shorthorn
sire is no more aristocratic
in his pedigree than EVER-
READY batteries which
daily render unfailing service
to Royalty and Commoner
alike.
i • • o
For your Radio, install an
EVER-READY
Superdyne and place
EVER-READY refills in
your torch.
tR Ready
Kd!
i
|Fve r Ready
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
E.P.5
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY AND LONDON
Microphone Improvements.
The 56mc. band, owing to the enor-
mous frequency range, readily admits of
duplex; portability, too. Secure one
Stromberg “handcom.” Strip the ’phone
winding (60 ohms) and rewire for the
bias requirement of your triode, pentode
or as the case may be. Take the “cup”
off the transmitter, use its base as a
template, and make up a flat disc of
16-gauge metal. Bore this full of holes
(l-16in.). The diaphragm proper is held
in position by a spring ring which lifts
out easily with the aid of a pair of side
cutters. Renew the old carbon, in its
kapok or felt seats, with new sharp
carbon which has been washed clean in
benzine or ether. Replace the carbon
diaphragm, over it a piece of very thin
mica, lunch-wrapper paper or what have
you of about this thickness. Replace the
ring and screw down the new flat plate.
Use a 19-type speaker-transformer as
microphone-transformer, and there you
are. The microphone (before these sug-
gested surgical attentions) is super-sensi-
tive, picks up sidetones and is a shade
too responsive on the higher register.
The damping proposed gives an increased
inertia, stops the tendency to ring, and,
judged by observations made amongst
the U.H.F. men, ,akes some of the
natural and anticipated stringiness out
of speech where pentodes are modu-
lators. Used with two volts or so direct
on to a pentode, the handcom becomes
an excellent transmitter, and the roomy
earpiece a telephone and bias resistor,
while the arrangement permits of com-
fortable duplexing. Of course, W.E. inter-
phones or neophones may be used. The
interphone has the advantage of having a
preselective switch on its handle. It is a
simple matter to remove this from the
speaking circuit and to make it work a
small send-listen relay, thus saving on
batteries and leaving one hand free.
V.E.
Tuned R.F. Performance.
“F.E.E.” (Christchurch, M.L.) writes
about the tuned R.F. receiver described
B. 3/10/’35. “This set gives me entire
satisfaction in tone and noise-free back-
ground,” he says. “Its pulling power
leaves little to be desired, giving me, on
a poor aerial, all-Australian reception,
including W.A. Numerous Japanese,
American and Mexican stations have
been logged. The combination of this
receiver with the short-wave converter
(B. l/8/’34) should be excellent for all-
wave coverage.”
The Q. and A. Column.
How can feedback from speaker to micro-
phone be prevented in public-address ampli-
fiers ? —326. - ■
In the first place the input to the ampli-
fier system from the microphone must be well
screened and earthed. Braided cable will take
care of this. The amplifier itself must be
completely screened. The placement of the
microphone in relation to the speaker or
speakers is important, and the two should be
as far apart as possible. A situation below
and behind or to
one side of the
speakers is the best
place for the micro-
phone.
* *
I wish to use a
buzzer instead of a
separate valve to
modulate an oscil-
lator for receiver
test purposes, and
am at a loss to
know how best to
connect the buzzer
circuit to the oscil-
lator. Please give a
diagram illustrating
a method. —324.
The diagram
shows the essentials.
This way is prob-
ably the most con-
venient, and in
order that the
modulation depth
may be regulated a
potentiometer is in-
cluded. This may
have a resistance of 15,000 ohms, and the
condenser can be .OOlmfd.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C:E.N.‘: Racing yarn breaks no new ground.
W.N.W.Write about places you know.
C.H.S.: Too thin R.E.A.: Same old
trivial love yarn written around a misunder-
standing E.M.N.: A drab piece of
morbidity J.S.E.: The unemployed fiddler
will earn you no cheques.. . .H.E.P.: A fairly
good idea feebly treated Z.V.W.: Needs to
be strengthened G.W.M.: Humor forced.
... .R.C.: —
Roger made love to a lady
Who behind a counter stood
Till he had wheedled her out of her stately
Into a more genial human mood.
Roger was better at love-making than you are
at lyre-smiting... .R.G.L.: It’s not only un-
suitable, it’s hopeless. Spend a shilling on a
pocket rhyming dictionary before you spoil
any more good paper... .M.K.B.: It points
an admirable moral, but not quite trippingly
enough to adorn a tale... .E.P.: It makes
stodgy reading. Incidentally, did you ever hear
a farmer refer to his vocation as “the life
agrestic”? A.S.: Neither suitable
T.C.H.: A string of wisecracks doesn’t make
a satisfying story... .H.S.: “Brown Man” a
blackout N.D.McF.: Diamond yarn lacks
sparkle L.B.: “The Amateur Inventor”
wanted imagination... .W.K.G.: Only a par.
at best... .L.R.H.: Bright style; try wedding
it to a meaty plot M.B.: “Iron Boomerang”
missed objective; now on return flight....
E.J.B.: Funny in spots,but fails to convince
R.R.: Get Watson to invent you a plot
R. Don’t stock those goods on our shelves.
Try elsewhere M.C.H.: Easy on the old-
English-halls setting; move a few thousand
miles south T.B.: Doncgan yarn came close;
give it a fly elsewhere R.D.B.: Not enough
laughs in it....C. de B.: Didn’t miss by
much M.A.N.: Recite it to the mountain
and see how it sounds.... Don Q.: When you
bid the waves “sing to me” or “tell me a tale”
you are taking a risk, but you’re on safer
ground when you tell them to “Roll, restless
roll”... .K.B.: Another of the “Roll! roll!”
school L.C.L.H.: —
....then a Btir in the air,
Like the throb of a sob surging upward.
A little soda bicarb, seems indicated F.K.:
More suitable for a women’s paper N.R.:
Rather too melodramatic L.O’N.T.: You
didn’t “head ’em”... .B.J.: Too much like
plain narration of facts... .D.S.: Not convinc-
ing enough Jandy: Neither came very
close... .H.B.: Not suitable I.G.S.: Appa-
rently your facts are authentic, but that isn t
enough to make an entertaining
E.W.C.: No lustre in your “Queen of Gems.”
V.M.D.: Poetry which exhorts one to
smile happily when receiving a sock in the
back of the neck from Fate is usually depres-
sing. Yours is no exception B.H.: If
Phar Lap had been as halting as your verses
in praise of him, he would never have been
heard of Allegro: “Any merit?” None.
... .R.C.A.: “One Way.” No, two—-here
and back... .J.W.C.: Strives after an effect,
but falls far short of it C.McE.: Uncon-
vincing... .E.O.S.: We are not amused....
S. : “The Black Cat” had some merit, but
the other yarn can be described only as tripe.
D.H.: Sheep-killer story not quite good
enough S.D.: Not in our line. And isn t
Princep still alive—and unrepentant?....
A.C.H.: An echo of O. Henry, but not loud
enough.... D.H.M.: Not up to your standard.
L.R.: A miracle perhaps, but one that has
been remarked upon so often... .Ennis: lop
bumpy M.S.: “Summer Shower’ too arti-
ficial F.J.J.: It is straining things a bit to
say of the abo. “This dark-faced urchins
fathers were the kings of all the earth • • • •
E.W.K.: They seem to lack genuine feeling.
.... Bleasdale: You’ve taken a Junkers plane
as your Pegasus, but it doesn’t soar high
enough N.L.D.: After saying “There are
no words for Beauty,” you try to find some.
Cassandra: It probably means something
to you, but very little to the reader.. . .G.M.:
There is a pleasing lilt about some of the lines.
. ...I.M.: Your verses run smoothly, but the
best are merely echoes David: No weekly
"treatise” on that subject, thanks Nomad:
No, there’s no need to stick altogether to
gardening, but it would be unwise to give it
up yet.... W.L.: Gaol yarn not up....F.K.:
Sentimental thug donged with the office paste-
pot....T.G.: Inferiority complex must have
made Charlie carry the £10 in a suitcase instead
of in his inside vest pocket S.H.C.: ine
Watch” ticked off.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
GAR: We want jokes, not short stories,
under our joke-blocks. The scene isjair but
the figures are poor... .G.H.R.. lrie jesi lb
leeble and the drawing is out of proportion.
The patient’s right arm is as long as his body,
but perhaps you meant to convey that he had
been flattened by a steam-roller... .J.R.McC..
When reduced, your gentleman in the evening
Oxfords would bear a close resemblance to a
lady of the Edwardian period....D.A.. .Wtiat
roust I do to become an artist. Well,
years’ training would be a good idea for a
start F.C.B.: Your “original gags at any
rate show you to be a diligent reader ot this
naoer ..D.L.N.: An excellent sketch, but
absolutely devoid of humor... .C.A.M.: Was
it or was it not, drawn with a ouija,. boar t H„
’ p R J • Can’t quite decide whether the
central figure is a submarine disguised as a
whale or vice versa L.S.. All too smaii.
Draw them about four times that size
GH.EV: If the wobbly line is a sign of age,
all well and good; if not, drop it... .T.R.P. •
There’s quite a lot of promise in them. Now
find a good teacher and do as he tells you....
TLB' One mother-in-law joke, one plumber
ioke and two drunk jokes. You certainly can t
be accused of being futuristic.


FOR FLEMINGTON.
Melbourne Stakes: Peter Pan ;
next, Hall Mark.
Maribyrnong Plate: Gilded
Youth ; next, Martinborough.
Victoria Derby: Palfresco, 1 ;
Garrio, 2 ; Feldspar, 3.
Cantala Stakes: King’s Head ;
next, Charles Fox.
Hotham Handicap: High Cross ;
next, Sarcherie.
Melbourne Cup: High Cross, 1 ;
the Derby winner, 2 ; Peter Pan, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
• *
Welter: Rembrandt; next, Merrie
Miller.
Moorefield Handicap: Mystic
Spell; next, Volwood.
Hurstville Mile: Ranchero ; next,
Buonarroti.
Spotting
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee
Valley public form was knocked topsy-
turvy once more. Because of the
presence of so many Melbourne Cup and
Victoria Qerby candidates in the field,
this event transcended the Moonee
Valley Gold Cup in importance. There
were no fewer than 14 runners ; last year
Chatham had only five rivals when he
won from Hall Mark and Rogilla.
History repeated itself in that Hall
Mark again had to be content with
second place. He went out a 2-to-l
favorite, Young Idea (5 to 1) being next
in demand. The race was run over the
special nine and a half furlongs track,
which traverses the centre of the course
and ends over what is known as the
“long straight.” Harold Skidmore rode
Hall Mark fairly hard for the initial
furlong fin order to take up a handy
position and avoid being chopped off at
the first turn. Horses had to face a
strong wind for part of the journey, and
this, combined with being compelled to
carry his weight all the way, contributed
to the downfall of Hall Mark.
Neville Percival, on Gay Sheik, a 100-
to-1 chance, made the early pace a
cracker; but his mount faded out at the
half-mile, where Valiant Chief forged to
Gert Dyou kwow /xsiyTHiMa
ABOUT HORSES, &EgT. ?
Bert.' ''Quits a. lot~
GcRT.’ I mem Why dout you B/xck.
THEM ?*
Bert "see ivWSWER TO FIRST I
the front with a brilliant burst of speed.
Lacking stamina, Valiant Chief soon
shot his bolt, leaving Garrio to lead into
the straight from Sylvandale and Hall
Mark. The tactics of Skidmore in reserv-
ing Hall Mark for a last-moment effort
would have succeeded in nine cases out
of ten. The liver-colored chestnut gave
a noble response to the calls of his rider,
but Garrio defied capture and scored by
a length. Feldspar, a stable-companion
of the winner, travelled faster than any
rival at the finish, and was a length and
half behind Hall Mark, with Sylvandale
fourth.
Not only people on the flat but
patrons of the grandstand reserve, in-
cluding members, hooted angrily when
Garrio returned to scale. However, there
were counter-cheers, and these afforded
Keith Voitre justification for raising his
cap in acknowledgment. Garrio had
gone close to annexing the Caulfield
Guineas, but on Caulfield Cup day he
missed a place in the Windsor Handi-
cap, of six furlongs, after starting a hot
favorite. Punters may have themselves
to blame for allowing the Chivalrous colt
to go out at 14 to 1 for the Cox Plate.
Robertson trains three fine types of
three-year-olds for A. T. Creswick,
namely. Feldspar, Garrio and Sithon.
When two of them start in the same race
it is puzzling which to regard as the
stable fancy. Garrio was allotted 71b. more
than Feldspar in the Melbourne Cup ;
yet the latter was selected to represent
Creswick in the A.J.C. Derby. He
earned high credit by winning the Caul-
field Stakes at weight-for-age, whereas
Garrio was vanquished by Young Idea
in the Guineas. Naturally Feldspar
figured at shorter odds than his mate in
the Cox Plate,
Sylvandale must have pleased Fred
Williams by his Cox Plate display. The
son of Silvius seems to be recovering
his best form, which certainly was not
revealed towards the close of the spring
round in Sydney, On the other hand,
Dan Lewis has reason for disappoint-
ment over the manner in which Contact
shaped in the Moonee Valley Gold Cup.
Passing the stand for the first time there
were only three horses (in a field of 19)
behind Contact. He made up a little
ground near the five furlongs, but could
not sustain the effort, and was only
twelfth to reach the judge.
Art, who had raced successively
in Sydney (where he originally was
trained by King), Westralia and South
Australia before visiting Melbourne, was
made favorite (at 7 to 1) for the Valley
Cup because of his easy victory in the
Werribee Cup three days before. He
led practically all the way, but had to
be punched right out to stall off a 15-to-I
chance, Dick Devon, a stable-companion
of Hot Shot. The time, 2min. 36isec.,
was a course record, and 6£sec. faster
than Nightly recorded in the Valley Cup
last year. Villius was a poor third.
* * * ♦
The Bulletin never thought much of
the 1934-35 three-year-olds, but it has a
high opinion of the 1935-36 lot, and
has more than once expressed the opinion
that they would win heaps of races this
season —and in other seasons. Those
in the Victoria Derby remain much
above the average, though Homer, who
dead-heated with Allunga in the A.J.C.
Derby, is dead and The Chanter—some-
what battered after his experiences in
Sydney—has been retired, perhaps for
autumn racing. Asa result of mishaps
his sire, Windbag, did not make good
until the autumn of 1925, and perhaps
the son will make 1936 a year memor-
able to his owners. If he is not a good
horse his looks and style of galloping
are utterly deceiving.
Victorians may expect to see a won-
derfully interesting Derby race. Nothing
stands out, and it is still doubtful which
is the best colt of the year at the
distance.
In spite of his failure at Moonee
Valley, Young Idea will have plenty of
supporters, but he is unlikely now to be
favorite. That distinction will probably
fall to Palfresco, who cut |sec. off
the Australasian record in the Caulfield
Cup—almost the achievement of a
champion. But he will have to carry
231 b. more at Flemington on Saturday,
and he is only a little fellow. Allunga
has claims, for he can go fast and
stay, and he is one that weight will
not trouble. Queensland’s hope, Buz-
zard King, was a fast-finishing third in
the A.J.C. Derby, and no candidate is
more attractively bred. He is by The
Buzzard, son of an Epsom Derby.win-
ner (Spion Kop), out of Molly’s Robe,
winner of the Newmarket and dam of
Mollison. South Australia has also sent
an interesting one over in Beamish Boy,
by Windbag—Roseglow, who impressed
shrewd judges during his one visit to
Sydney (though, as it transpires, the
train journey upset him) and has carried
all before him at Adelaide this season.
In the local Guineas and the Derby
nothing could make him gallop. But in
the latter race he got down on his heels,
and there are doubts about his condi-
tion.
Then there are Garrio, Feldspar and
Sithon (outside the Robertson stable no-
body knows which is best); Gay Lover,
a good fourth in the A.J.C. Derby and
not disgraced in the Caulfield Cup,
though he was turned round when the
barrier rose ; Valiant Chief, Carnarvon
and Bimilla. Non-stayers, perhaps, these
last three, but classy.
Peter Pan, trying to win his third Mel-
bourne Cup with lOst. 61b., will have to
meet most of these three-year-olds on
very unfavorable terms. His trainer has all
along been a bit afraid of the three-year-
old division, and by Saturday night one
or more will have loomed up as threaten-
ing formidable opposition to Peter.
This Page is of the opinion that the
champion can concede 141 b. tp Hall
Mark, 161 b. to Sylvandale, 281 b. to
Journal and 311 b. to Panto whatever the
going—he prefers a track with the sting
out of it. Contact (7st. 131 b.), Sar-
cherie (7st. 121 b.), Marabou (7st. 111 b.)
and High Cross (7st. 81 b.) look more
difficult, and Hot Shot, though Sydney-
siders were not prepared for his
vast improvement, is, judged on the
Caulfield Cup running, well in with 7st.
71b.
Within the last two months High Cross
has won two good races and been
first in the Metropolitan, though the race
was taken away from him. He would
get at least Bst. if he had to be rehandi-
capped ; he is as honest as the day, thor-
oughly seasoned and a proved stayer. So
High Cross will be this Page’s choice,
though the possibility is admitted that
it may be a three-year-olds’ Cup race, as
were those of 1919, 1915 and 1906, when
three-year-olds (Artilleryman and Rich-
mond Main, Patrobas and Westcourt,
Poseidon and Antonious) ran first and
second.
Sydney will be strongly represented in
the Cantala Stakes by King’s Head
(Bsf.). Charles Fox (7st. 41b.) will have
to improve on his Caulfield Cup per-
formance, but he is attractively handi-
capped.
* * * *
A good many punters who went to
Warwick Farm—and a great many did—
had a fair day. But it was a day of
mourning in this office, for a thing called
Bulletin won his first race —a division" of
the Maiden Handicap—and none of the
staff was on it. Owned and trained by
Walker, Bulletin is a big three-year-old
by Bullhead —Lady Rossendale, and a
bold galloper.
Former pony trainer Bill Pratt has
done well with Jaccuse. Starting at 7
to 4, after 5 to 2 had been bet, the
Promised Land gelding won the Varro-
ville Handicap with ease from King
Moab (14 to 1) and Grand Mogul (3 to
1). Pike’s riding of Grand Mogul was
questioned ; on Monday his explanation
was accepted, Jaccuse ran two seconds at
Randwick. Gold Digger, last early, came
fast in the straight and finished fourth-
in the circumstances a rather good effort.
First Balloon (5 to 2) made hacks of
her opponents in the Homebush Handi-
cap. Thomas dashed her away at bar-
rier-rise, slowed them down for several
furlongs and left them turning for home.
The Air Balloon mare won by a length
and a half from Limbohm (7 to 2), with
Body Guard (9 to 2) a poor third, and
Turbulent fourth. Blixten’s appearance
caused somebody to back him from tens
to fives. The Rosehill Guineas winner
dug his toes in the ground when the pres-
sure was applied at the turn and dropped
back, beating only Barrios home. Along
with the rest of the “Smithden” horses,
he is to be sold.
The bookies could not complain about
the wagering on the Macquarie Grove
Handicap: King Gee, Sally, Irish Bard,
Leone, Mafoota and Buonarroti were all
backed, King Gee winding up favorite
at fours. He overtook and comfortably
accounted for Irish Bard, who had
streaked away at the Leger, Buonarroti
came home well to get third. Sally’s
pilot found her too much to handle, and
she lost ground at the turns through Jug-
ging badly.
Shakespeare, a fine type of Tippler
colt, bred by Hunter White and raced
by Dr. Nigel Smith, won the Juvenile,
at fives. He cleared away from the
others in the straight. Palady (7 to 1)
made equally short work of the opposi-
tion in the Farm Stakes.
“T.”; The late H. A. Knight, who
owned Limerick and Ballymeno, left
£160,000, of which £IOOO goes to his
trainer Jones. Limerick, now fat and
sleek on Canterbury Plains grass, has
been consigned to the care of a daugh-
ter, who is bidden to erect a memorial
stone when he dies. The bequest to
Jones recalls one of the worst mistakes
ever made by stipendiary stewards. On
one of his trips to Australia with
Limerick, Jones brought another of
Knight’s neddies. This nag was no
good, as was abundantly proved after-
wards, but the stewards must have
thought he was, for after he had run on
a suburban course they disqualified
horse, trainer and jockey (McCarten).
Possibly they would have included
Knight in the ban also, but fortunately
he happened to be on the other side of
the Tasman. The chairman of stewards
at that time was Jack Higgins, a man of
wide knowledge and strong opinions but
no more infallible than any man in any
other walk of life. Even then 99 p.c.
of racing men were of opinion that he
and his fellow-stipes had made a dread-
ful mistake; but the disqualification
stood. Pity it wasn’t expunged from the
records before Knight, a fine old sports-
man, died.
“Shell”: British professional sculling
is a fading ember these days. The cham-
pionship of England, once a matter of
world interest, was won on the Thames
by Ted Phelps, holder of the title, by 20
lengths from young Barry. Up to 1876
only Britons were interested. Then one
Edward Trickett came from Australia and
beat the holder, Sadler. Trickett returned
to Australia and defeated Rush for the
title. He then went back to England, to
be downed in his turn by a little Canadian
marvel named Hanlan. That was in 1880,
and Hanlan defeated all-comers until he
came to Australia and met Bill Beach.
Beach held the title seven times running ;
he rowed in Australia, Canada and Eng-
land, the world’s championship, as it had
become, resolving itself into an Aus-
tralian monopoly. An Australian, Pearce,
holds it to-day, though he lives in
Canada.
o Continued on next page.)


mm
■
-
■
m*
m
m
Delhi—Jumma Masjid (back view).
It is well worth breaking your journey when
travelling to England or returning to Australia
and seeing India, its cities, its monuments,
its people.
Full information and inclusive rates may be
obtained from:—
Messrs. THOS. COOK & SON LTD
Berkeley Street, Piccadilly, London, W.l, England.
Challis House, Martin Place, 269 Collins Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Melbourne, Victoria.
OR FROM
THE CENTRAL PUBLICITY OFFICER,
Indian State Railways, Old Secretariat, Delhi.
THE MANAGER, INDIAN RAILWAYS BUREAU,
57 Haymarket, 38 East 57th Street,
London, S.W.I, England. New York, U.S.A.
The Prontac
C Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
M.Q. (and Raiferty) Rules
Merv Blandon and Billy Carr were de-
clared to have fought a draw at Leich-
hardt on Wednesday. The decision met
with a mixed reception ; Carr was clearly
the better boxer, but Blandon battled
like a bulldog throughout, and that was
probably why referee Haines refused to
separate them. Though outboxed in the
first four rounds, Blandon attacked con-
tinuously. Carr cracked him on the chin
with a right cross in .the seventh, but
Blandon soon recovered, though Carr
again went close to gaining a knockdown.
He crashed home a couple of rib-bend-
ing rights in the fifteenth, and it was only
Blandon’s grit and toughness that enabled
him to survive the storm.
* -t * *
“Right Cross”: As I have grown older,
I have lost much of the enthusiasm I felt
for boxing in my youth. Not because
I have joined the ranks of the wowsers,
but because of my experience with sun-
dry pugs of my acquaintance. Some I
knew as young fellows of alert intelli-
gence became stupid as owls in middle
life, I attribute this, not to the punish-
ment they received during the actual
fights, but to the intense training which
modern boxing entails on those who
would be champions. They engage spar-
ring partners in what are really fights.
Even though they are better men than the
partners, they stop sufficient blows to
give their brains a nasty jolt. In the
course of years these jolts have their
effect. As further proof of my theory
consider sparring partners. They take
five punches for every one they land
on the principal, and unless they get
out of the game in time they don’t have
to be middle-aged before they reveal the
result.
Ins and Outs
Tarrant’s cricketers showed up finely
in the first match of their tour against
Ceylon at Colombo. The locals had first
use of the wicket, and before lunch
Oxenham had taken three for six, but
the score had got to 81. Afterwards the
Bananalander bagged a hat-trick and
three other wickets; nine (seven bowled)
for 18. Ironmonger got the other wicket,
and Ceylon was all out for 96.
Bill and Macartney knocked the bowling
all over the shop, making 100 in 75
minutes; Bill 101, Macartney 53. Ryder
followed with 67, and the total went to
334. Ceylon did little better in its
second try.
* * * *
Mr. Storey, the delegate for Northern
Districts, laid about him with a
metaphorical shillelagh at a N.S.W.C.A.
meeting. Among other grievances was
the injustice done to Chilvers and
Kippax when permission was refused
them to travel with Tarrant; Mr. Storey
surmised that this robbed them of £3OO
while damaging their morale, and called
on the Board of Control to pay com-
pensation. The meeting, after listening
patiently, carried on with the usual busi-
ness, so, apparently, Kippax and Chilvers
will have to go without redress.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Pressure is being
brought to bear on Alan Kippax to make
him change his expressed determination
not to play Sheffield cricket in other
States this season. One argument used
is that he has scored more runs in Shef-
field games than any player save Clem
Hill, and should go on to make anew
record. The South Australian has run
up 6274 in 126 innings, with an average
of 52. Kippax has scored 6096 runs in
95 innings, with an average of 70.88, and
if he plays in all this season’s games
should easily top Clem’s record.
* * *i: *
“Tenth Slip”: Though the Board of
Control and the Sheffield States rejected
the new l.b.w. law, as far as this season’s
cricket is concerned, and would not
agree to our team playing under it in
South Africa, the Marylebone club
cabled asking that it be allowed to apply
in the five matches to be played by its
team in Australia on the way to Maori-
land. A postal vote was taken, and the
new rule is now to apply to these five
matches. Bradman is one of those who
are for general application.
“Whitecoat”: The Australians in India
will play many of their matches under the
new l.b.w. rule. No doubt the Indians
are keen to pick up some experience of
it before their next trip to Britain.
The cable states that big games
will be exempted “owing to the possi-
bility of early completion of the im-
portant matches, which will affect the
gates.” Evidently our Aryan brother has
not much to learn about the economics
of modern first-class cricket.
Hs * * *
“Albert”: Secretary Heydon, of the
Ma State cricket association, is one of
those who claim that the new batting
rules for grade cricket have quickened
the games as was intended. Taking the
first three Saturdays of this season, club
scores of all grade teams averaged 235,
“I’m all set , George—now hand over my mashie ."
276 and 254 respectively. Last year
averages of the clubs for the same three
days were 201, 209 and 225.
« * *
“Leg Slip”; The N.S.W.C.A. has been
making final arrangements for the Shef-
field tours. In spite of protests from one
delegate it was agreed that the N.S.W.
team should play at Wangaratta during
its tour of Victoria, probably on
December 14, Victorians in their turn
playing in a N.S.W. country centre later.
On its way back from Brisbane the
N.S.W. team will tackle Armidale on
November 14 and Newcastle two days
later.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The Hutt”: The M.L. golf champion-
ships closed with amateur and pro.
foursome at Shirley. Murdoch and
Mclntosh got away with the professional
event, while Black, well-known in Aus-
tralia, partnered Mortland in winning the
amateur title. Prior to the two double
events Murray, an Auckland profes-
sional, had won the open championship
from the veteran Shaw, holder of the title
and winner of the event on several
occasions. Shaw, who is professional at
Wellington club, was four strokes in
hand beginning the last round, but
finished' six down to the winner—a
proper collapse.
The amateur golf championship was
won by J. P. Hornabrook, of Masterton,
who beat the holder, Brian Silk, of Wel-
lington, 5 and 4, recording par figures.
Both players are under the quarter-cen-
tury, and are well known in this country.
* * *
“Sandringham”: It is probable that a
lot of the Abyssinian front is safer than
Melbourne’s Albert Park when golfers
are afield. Some time ago a girl riding
on the tan track was blinded by a golf
ball. Now another has been knocked
off her horse at the same spot. The
annual toll of golf injuries is mounting
steadily. The remedy would be to make
golf illegal anywhere, save in the Barkly
Tableland. I am told there are any
amount of spaces there for courses, and
in these days of aerial transport golfers
could be whisked to and from their
obsession. Thus would two pressing
problems be settled at once.
% % * *
“Hamilton”: There has been a mild
buzz in Brisbane golf circles because Von
Nida, open champion of the State, was
unable to play in the Dunlop Cup
tourney for professionals. The Dunlop
people put the management of this com-
petition in the hands of the professional
golfers’ association in each State. Von
Nida is not a member of the Queensland
body. After his caddie days he attained
fame as an amateur, and when he turned
to the paid ranks was too old to undergo
the two years’ apprenticeship to a club
professional that the association de-
mands.
“Hoylake”: The Abyssinian question
has been dowsed in f rnrn t h<*
moment by an, announcement from the
Wildernesse golt , treated
golfer who holes in one
to a luncheon and wined at the club’s
expense. If the player is a visitor, green
fees will be returned. For the benefit of
Australian golfers who may take a trip
to Britain in the near future the club’s
address is “Kent.” The idea is such a
wonderful advance on previous practice
that one cannot help wondering where
the catch lies.
* * * *
“Sandringham”; With characteristic
thoroughness, Victoria has collected the
£5OO necessary to send Naismith away to
America with the Australian professional
golfers, though the movement started
long after the agitation in N.S.W. There
is some hope of Fergus McMahon being
good. The team has to sail early in
December.
* * ♦ *
“Woogaroo”: The Dunlop Cup for
professionals—played for this year on the
Brisbane municipal links for the first
time—was won for the third time in suc-
cession by Walker, who had a neck-and-
neck go all the way with a 19-year-old
assistant professional, Anderson. Ander-
son is regarded as a coming champion.
Beginning as a caddie at Sandgate, he
won the “Courier-Mail” cup for caddies
before going as assistant to Gazzard at
Victoria Park. He was prominent in the
State open and close championships;
putting is his trouble at present.
# sj? jJ: :je
“Findy”: Despite the prowess nowa-
days of youthful golfers there is one field
of records in which the oldsters have it
all over them. I refer to the stroke-for-
age stakes. A. M. Pettinger, of Royal
Adelaide, put up an astounding perform-
ance in this section at Seaton, when he
went round in one less than his age—
his birthday-book and score-card showed
76 and 75 respectively. Not so aston-
ishing perhaps when it is recalled
that in his prime he represented South
Oss. in four branches of sport —cricket,
football, baseball and bowls.
* * * *
“Shirley”; Christchurch (M.L.) has
been the scene of a long-drawn-out golf


dfg
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
1G Page Buying and
Selling L.lst Free.
Established 49 years
BnnVora- H'hr. »*"' •>
BRANDAIJER-S
. • cSfea" r v
%
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BRA.NDA.TJEE & CO, Lid, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
✓
§
i
■IN
ft;
%
oU'
>■-<■
oi‘o
I U r
o'*’
JOW
ite
in«
nc«
r di« lly
»n°
Hon
perf° r
inp
We
om
«q
oi’O
rw
1,-wt
ler
«ny
den
led
a i* l
ICS*
n lerc s
Us*
oxen
deal*”
ot>
are
the
)()l l
oten
(fox
on
onr
ox<r
an
ent
«c>
on
vie
req
a«t
tree
of 1
n"
»i cC
oH r
s cr
flu 8
(f
I,Tl>
pTV
lion
od s
bUo a
sT bA>
r<>
th<»
aN'
oM p
Ijo"
o» D
Ford dealers are so proud of the Ford V-8 Truck ... so confident
of its speed, economy and pulling power . . . that they are
placing V-8 Trucks at the disposal of responsible users and
inviting them to make their own tests. And so brilliantly
do they perform, so apparent is their economy, that men in
all lines of business are changing over to Ford V-8 Trucks
and finding the answer to their demands for lower operating
costs. Accept your Ford Dealer’s invitation —test a V-8 Truck
“ on-the-job ” and you will agree that Ford has produced
Australia’s greatest truck value.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY —Despite ever-increasing sales,
immediate delivery of Ford V-8 Trucks can be arranged.
Easy purchase terms are available.
A PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD
F23.30.C
DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
■
BEDS
-• • . • \
Accept this Invitation
V-8 TRUCK FEATURES:
Full-Floating Rear Axle-
The most dependable and accessible
type of truck axle construction. Axle
shafts have only one function which
is to turn the wheels—load is carried
directly on the heavy axle housing.
Straddle - Mounted Pinion.
The driving pinion is straddle-mounted
between heavy-duty roller bearings,
and the ring gear is backed by a
bronze thrust-plate. This exclusive
design ensures constant ring gear and
pinion alignment under all conditions.
New Truck-Type Clutch.—
The new clutch which utilises centri-
fugal force added to a fixed spring
pressure makes disengagement easier
at idling speeds, and provides increase
in pressure as the engine speed
increases. This design ensures maxi-
mum resistance to clutch slippage.
Handsome Coupe-Type Cab.
New Front-End Assembly.
Improved Cooling System.
New Quick-Stopping Brakes.
Crank-Case Ventilation.
EQUIPMENT INCLUDES
Safety Glass Windscreen.
Oil-Bath Air Cleaner.
Front Bumper
Without Extra Cost.
battle; McFadden and Kay, two players
in a cup tie on the Harewood course,
went to 80 holes before the match was
decided. Starting on Saturday they
played until dark, finishing square over
18 holes and two lots of nine. They
were off again on Sunday—Christchurch
must have gone gay nowadays to permit
Sunday golf—and teatime saw them still
pegging level after 27 holes. In despair
they started another 18 ; this time Mc-
Fadden won at the 17th, 3 and 1. The
Australian record is 100 holes: this was
when Victorian amateurs Headlam and
Schlapp played off for a qualifying
place in the State amateur champion-
ship some years ago.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: One of the most
humorous interviews on record was
given by Perry before leaving Holly-
wood, the atmosphere of which he seems
to have speedily imbibed. Fred says
that from now on tennis will be “just a
hobby” with him ; he is going into busi-
ness, and, of course, “You can’t make
tennis your business!” Comment would
be incarnadining the waratah.
**>)<*
“Senex”: Borotra continues to defy the
years. Though he has practically retired
from first-class tennis in the open he still
reigns supreme on covered courts.
In the British covered courts champion-
ship he beat the English crack, Nigel
Sharpe, in three straight sets, dropping
only two games. This is the Basque’s
eighth win in this event, and tops the
record of the late E. W. Lewis.
* * ♦ ♦
“Milton”: Though prospects looked
blue for a bit, the Queensland champion-
ships, which open the Australian season
on November 25, should be a success.
Crawford will not be playing, but N.S.W.
is sending up McGrath, Bromwich and
Huxley ; Quist is also included. Then,
of course, there is the magnificent Perry,
who starts his tour of Australia at the
meeting. Last time the Englishman was
in Brisbane he took a father of a wallop-
ing from McGrath, and should be keen
to reverse the verdict.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Cochet will not have to
rely exclusively on N. S. Wales for
“gates.” R. O. Cummings is turning
“pro.,” and another Queenslander may
follow suit. In N.S.W. Aubrey and Jim
Willard, Anderson and one or two others
will form decent opposition. Thus far
Victoria has taken up a frigidaire atti-
tude toward the scheme, which means
the Frenchman will have to play on
courts outside the State association’s con-
trol if he visits the Cabbage Garden.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: Fired with their victory in
the Boone Cup, the N.S.W. Police eight-
oar crew is out to represent Australia at
the Olympiad. The crew, big and clever
withal, is just the type to succeed at
Berlin, though the opposition will be very
formidable, some of the European
nations now bulking big in the amateur
rowing world that was once Britain’s
private demesne. A good club crew
would have a far better chance than any
composite eight picked from six States
each rowing a different style. Australia’s
last representation in this line was when
the Murray Bridge (S.A.) eight rowed at
the Paris Olympiad, but failed to bring
home the laurel wreath. The Murray
Bridgets were a bit too old.
* * * *
“G.M.”: There will probably be
sudden deaths if the contests projected
under the Dewar Cup on the Yarra are
permitted to remain unaltered. It is
proposed to award the Cup to the
winners of old-time rowing men and .
restrict competitors to men over 40.
The man who has kept up his athletics
all through is often just as fit to row
a race as he was 20 years previously ;
but those who gave up the game at 25,
when they weighed 12st., will face a
different task at 45, when they weigh
16st. The athlete is probably the most
confident of all men that he hasn’t
grown old; at 60, he imagines that he
can perform the same feats that he did
when he was a boy; and it is often sad
to witness the shocking disillusionment
of many who start to repeat the prowess
of their youth. And there is a tragic
side. The strain of racing fat, un-
trained men of middle age over a rowing
course is liable to lead to hardened
arteries getting in their fine work.
* * * #
“G.M.”: Geelong district football is
in a quandary. Troughton, of Geelong
North, was awarded the honor of being
the best and fairest player of the season.
But in the final match there was a mix-
up among the players, and Troughton
was found guilty of punching two adver-
saries, and disqualified for the first six
matches of next season. The local
governing body is now puzzled whether
it can logically hand over the trophy for
fairplay to a man who had recently
participated in a box-on. The matter is
to go to the Vic. Football League as the
High Court of football.
* * >;■ *
“Outside Right”: British Soccer players
are talking of applying sanctions of their
own. this time to Nazi Germany. A
deputation from British Jewish Soccer
clubs, anti-Nazi associations and kindred
bodies asked the British Football Associ-
ation to cancel a game with Germany in
December. It was asserted that in a
match between Poland and Germany
Nazi barrackers had killed one of the
Polish players on suspicion of being a
Jew. It was felt that this was a bit over
the odds.
$ ❖ * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman and his
cycling mates, Milliken and Stuart, had
a great send-off at Birmingham after a
successful road season in which they put
up 10 new records for British cycling.
Opperman himself was handed the Bid-
lake memorial grand prize, which com-
memorates a once-famous English road
rider and cycling official; the trophy was
inaugurated last year, when it was also
awarded to “Oppy.” Opperman is com-
ing back by America, and may have a
shy at the transcontinental record from
New York to San Francisco.
* >:« * *
“Spike”: All going well, we may have
a team of American University athletes
over here next year. The Australian
Universities Sports Union is handling the
scheme, and a team of eight, which will
include sprint, middle and distance run-
ners, hurdlers and field games experts, is
planned for. The American end has been
asked if the visitors would be able to
contribute towards the cost of the jour-
ney to and from Australia. In addition
to paying a share of (hat, the local folk
would see to housing and inter-State
travelling. As nearly all the American
athletic cracks are university men, the
visitors might be practically an Olympic
side.
$ * * *
“Isis”: The new crop of Australian
Rhodes scholars is showing up in the
Oxford athletic field. Stumm (Queens-
land) and Portus (Adelaide) have been
picked for the freshmen’s Rugby trials.
The selection of Portus is particularly
interesting, since he must be the first
home-trained Rugby player from S.A. to
reach Oxford.
* * tf *
“Spike”: On November 4 the venue
of the next Empire Games will be de-
cided by the Games Committee in
London. Middleton, the Australian
representative, a noted oarsman and
Rugby player in days gone by, wires
that he is “reasonably confident” the
Games will be allotted to Australia,
though Canada is making a strong bid.
Middleton says South Africa, M.L. and
India are behind Australia.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Horace Lindrum beat
Tommy Newman in the opening match
of his British tour. The Australian, re-
ceiving 2000, won by 8348 to 7883. He
probably had trouble in finding touch
under the new atmospheric conditions;
still, he will have to improve a lot on
this form if he is to do any harm to
Davis, either at billiards or snooker.


fo t saf.
<1
mmM-
e
6
a
FEW of us regret the fact that Christmas comes but
once a year, when we are haunted by the grim
spectre of gift-selecting. How desperately we read and
re-read our list of ‘probables.’ How soon they begin to
look like ‘doubtful starters.’ Why not put your money
on a certainty a ‘Valet’ safety razor? For you are
certain that a man must shave. And you can be equally
certain that the famous ‘6O second’ shave the ‘Valet’
gives, will be a daily boon and blessing to the lucky
man who gets one this Christmas.
THE SET illustrated is the
No. 99 Utility Set. Contains
the essentials of a perfect
“Valet” Shave, self-stropping
Model C Razor, three
blades in plated sheath,
and a leather strap in
container. The whole in
serviceable black leather-
ette case .. .. 4/6
Other sets from 9/- to
65/- of all dealers.
mm
4f
r
1%
VALET
*
Safety Razor
lVeoere i>js<i Belvedere r>xo Belvedere ps<» Belvedere 020 Belveoeri
i>zo Belvedere Belvedere
r
m
The Ideal
of all
Well-
Dressed
Men
m
s
m
■
53=
%
-
35
■K
ii
a
P C
ML f
Suitings and Coatings
MADE BY
MARTIN SONS AND CO. LTD.,
OF
HUDDERSFIELD
s*“
m
Is
p
H
g
as
Se
Who were the Founders of the Worsted
Industry, and arc equipped with the greatest
number of Pattern Looms known to the
trade. Thus
BELVEDERE
RANGES CONTAIN ONLY THE NEWEST
AND FINEST CREATIONS IN CLOTH
DESIGN.
THERE IS QUALITY
AND CHARACTER IN
EVERY YARD
OF
BELVEDERE
sax
LOOK FOR THE NAME IN THE SELVEDGE 9
SUITING
Wardrop “Mp Tailor ” Stocks Belvedere
m
JOHN DALLEY, SOLDIER.
[A tribute from his old commander,
Colonel Harold Cohen, C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (and M.L.C., Vic.).]
John Bede Dailey, of The Bulletin,
who—as there is now every reason to
fear —was drowned near Sydney on
September 7, was not only a man of
letters. He was also a very gallant
gentleman: an Australian, proud of his
country and jealous to enhance its good
reputation in the world.
I met him first in September, 1915.
The troopship Persic then carried to the
war, among other units, the sth and
6th Australian Artillery Brigades. I was
in command of the 6th Brigade and also
of all the troops on board her. Dailey
was a subaltern in the sth Brigade.
He came under my notice early. He
had then a considerable literary reputa-
tion, and was accounted also a fearless
horseman. The combination intrigued
me, an amateur in minor composition
and a citizen mounted soldier with con-
siderable service; and I watched him
closely.
He was older than his fellow-subal-
terns. He had a mature mind and an inde-
pendence of spirit which did not easily
accommodate themselves to military sur-
roundings and routine. But it was obvi-
ous that he had character, and could
practise self-discipline. And I marked
him down as likely to be useful above
the ordinary, within the limits of his
ph y sical disabilities, which included one
considerable handicap in a gunner officer
—deafness.
Later on Dailey came to serve under
‘ he . 6lh and during the
heavy service ot the latter part of the
war jn France , had ampk opportunity
observe him and to assess his value.
j came to have a great affection for him
and for his courage, his wit and also his
kindness to any of the rank and file who
was in trouble.
Anyone who had to face his command-
‘>ig officer for any of the things which
high-spirited youth lound so easy to be
wrong about seemed to turn naturally
"> P l ' understand the why
and so well explain the wherefore to
_ T T , • . . ,
me. 1 carried out my duty, as 1 had to do,
. . , • - , e . . ’
but sensed m the prisoner s friend some-
— .. . . T * ,
thing more than an advocate. I found
a rea i Australian, with all the dislike of
mere dec ked-out authority and sympathy
for the
man caught up in the web of
m i s f or tune—two of the strongest char-
acteristics of our people,
Dalley | oved beau ty. How often has
he recounled to mc the charms of the
beautiful land of Picardy! How frequently
when we were fighting on the Aisne did
he bewail the loss of pictures and Sevres
ornaments and old furniture in the ruined
chateaux!
Early in 1918 we were in action near
Ribemont, in front of Amiens. The
German advance had been stayed,
though the enemy was still pressing us.
We had been there in easier times in
1916. Dailey came to my headquarters
and asked me if he might go up to the
immediate front-line area. “Why?” I
asked him. “They are shelling the
church in Ribemont,” he said, “and
there are the most lovely lace altar-cloths
and vestments there. They will be de-
stroyed.” Of course, I should have said
no. His job was to bring up ammuni-
lion to the guns. I let him go. He
saved them all, and they were returned
to the French authorities, who were pro-
fuse in their thanks.
Dailey had great courage. I could
use him only in the Ammunition Column
because his deafness was 100 great a
handicap in commanding guns in action,
it i , ~ o . u -
He was always chafing that he was not
a c apex ol all the usks, and ire
quently importuning me for some more
adventurous opportunity.
In November, 1917, our brigade was
serving in the Passchendaele area with
the 3rd British Division. The country
was a morass of mud and constantly
under shellfire. A battery of British 18-
pounder guns had been so bogged in a
forward area that it was abandoned
there, but was formally placed under my
charge, although I was told I need not
try to extricate it.
Early one morning I was trying to
get some sleep I had been up all night
—when Dailey came to me to report his
ammunition delivery completed. He
asked: “Isn’t there anything else I can
do?” Said I, a little peevishly, Here,
take this map. there are six guns there,
Have a look at them and see if they
could be got out. ’ He went away, and
I said to the adjutant, Perhaps that will
keep him amused lor a bit so that he
won’t be worrying us.
Two days later Dailey returned. “Those
six guns are at the waggon lines, sir, he
said. 1 didn t believe it, but it was true,
We had done the appaiently impossi e
with some volunteers trom h.s unit As
I write there lies before me a note dated
November 13> 1917 , from Brigadier-
Q enera ] Hussey, who then commanded
{he artillery of that British division
which had been one 0 f the Old Con-
temptibles: “The successful way the
bogged guns were taken back reflects the
greatest credit on the brigade.”
The old comrades of John Dailey
remember him with pride and affection,
May his memory remain as a record for
us all!


A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
* W&&
fftontAU
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue, on Sale Next Saturday, discusses—
THE OUTLCX)K IN SECURITY AND OTHER MARKETS.
TRADE DEVELOPMENTS.
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION.
BASE-METAL PRICES.
THE MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal vested direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Patents.
METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR
TREATING LIQUIDS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
22983/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN STRUCTURE AND
MEANS AND METHOD FOR FORMING
THE SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4458/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Beneficiary.
GEORGE ALBERT CONWAY, late of Bluff,
New Zealand, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Invercargill,
New Zealand.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Co-operation in Trade
Gold has remained very steady in
sterling currency for the last few months,
fluctuating neither much above nor
much below £7 per fine ounce in
London. During this period of stability
investments have slumped and partially
recovered, sensitive to developments in
London, Geneva, Rome and Abyssinia ;
base metals have skyrocketed and faded,
while wheat showed a spectacular rise in
overseas markets, and has just about
held its new price.
The steadiness in gold indicates un-
ruffled confidence in sterling during the
tension of the past few months. No doubt
the Exchange Equalisation Fund has
played some part in the maintenance of
this even monetary keel; in any case, it
has been one of the outstanding features
of current financial history, though there
has been little or no comment about it.
Gold has long been recognised as good
war material. It can generally be con-
verted readily into any kind of imple-
ment or accessory of warfare. Britain’s
stock of monetary gold is small, when
compared with France and the U.S.A., at
something less than £200,000,000 sterling.
But it is no mean sum by British stan-
dards, and it is supported by a trade
and budgetary position comparing favor-
ably with that of any other country in
the world.
Whatever those who would make
sweeping changes in the world’s mone-
tary systems have to say about it, gold,
in the final reckoning, is still the com-
modity which nations pursue in the con-
duct of their trade. But just as a man
may waste his life amassing money for
money’s sake, so, in trade, the pursuit of
gold, primitively and in disregard of
trade relations and conditions, very often
brings embarrassment in its train. Gold
is merely a handmaiden to trade, and
on trade the world depends to a tremen-
dous extent for the well-being of its
peoples.
Employment methods and the means
of existence have changed vastly in the
last century. The congestion of popu-
lation in small industrial areas, each
worker in many cases helping to produce
a single article in great quantities—an
article, perhaps, which he himself never
uses—makes for greater dependence, on
the part of the individual, on general
trade conditions. It would be safe to
say that more than half the population
of N. S. Wales does not grow its own
vegetables, let alone provide its own
clothing materials, milk, butter, etc. In
older countries, of course, the position
is accentuated. Large-scale production
and specialisation in trade have created
increasing susceptibility to the freedom
or otherwise of the interchange of goods
and services.
So long as finance functions to plan,
employment and industrial well-being are
likely to give little worry. But, unless
the trade policy of world countries is in-
telligent and co-operative, disastrous dis-
organisation of markets frequently
occurs. All the talk in the world, all
the diplomacy, speeches, propaganda
and financial nostrums, will not put
conditions right when the basis of trade
is unsound.
France, possessed of more gold than
any other country except U.S.A., is show-
ing slow recovery from the depression.
The United States has been making heavy
weather in its job of re-employment.
S’Africa, as the world’s chief producer
of the yellow metal which these days
buys so much in goods and services, is
having a run of comparative prosperity.
Britain, despite the exhortations of Mr.
Lloyd George, has refrained from
attempting to borrow its way back to
prosperity. It has steered clear of credit
schemes and socialisation. It endeavors
to buy from those to whom it sells.
Britain was one of the first world coun-
tries to adopt a gold standard, and the
last of those closely involved in the
World War to abandon it. But at the
present time it is getting on very well,
its currency is stable, and its export trade
is expanding, not just because the
sovereign no longer circulates at par
with the £1 note, but largely because
of intelligent co-operation in trade both
at home and abroad.
Lasseter’s “lost reef” has been vari-
ously reported as to location, size and
richness. Lassetcr (an ex-seaman) per-
ished in 1931, after claiming to have re-
located the “reef,” reputed about that
time to be 12 miles long, 1 Oft. wide and
3oz. rich. Search for this alleged El
Dorado has been followed by more than
one disaster, with expense to Govern-
“ Mushn't lock up yet, matesh—misshus ishn't home”
ments in bringing searchers back ; but it
goes on. Latest announcement of a dis-
covery in the area (if Lasseter’s “find”
belonged to an “area”) comes from S. R.
Hummerston, who has reported to Border
Gold Reefs, Ltd., Sydney, that after
walking six miles along a reef he found
outcroppings of an average width of
3ft. Specimens sent to Sydney are re-
puted to show “rich gold in white
quartz.” A “new and better-equipped
expedition, led by Mr. Hummerston, is
to investigate.”
* * * •
Lake View and Star cut the 7\ p.c.
bonus out of its distribution for the year
to June 30 last, the total handout being
50 p.c., compared with p.c. in 1933-
34. For this the miners’ strike early in
1935 can be principally blamed. A 124
p.c. interim having been declared in re-
spect of the current year, the market
seems more pleased than otherwise; the
4s. shares saw 31s. for the first time in
some months last' Friday. So far the
treatment of the Associated tailings
dumps has had little appreciable effect
on earnings, returns being offset to some
extent by lower-grade ore treated. Dur-
ing the first quarter of the current year
(to Sept. 30) 145,954 tons of ore was
milled and 115,463 tons of tailings
treated for a working profit of £133,595
(Aust.), slightly lower than the 1933-34
rate of earnings. The average grade of
ore treated is around 7dwt., but there is
a lot of it.
* * * *
At Sept. 30 private banks were hold-
ing £27,000,000 of Government and
municipal securities and £22,615,713 of
Treasury bills. The latter item is a
legacy of depression-time public finance ;
the other holding has also expanded
greatly in the last six years. Meanwhile
the money is not available for private
enterprise.
* >!< * *
Advances by trading banks throughout
the Commonwealth at the end of Sep-
tember were much higher than in 1928,
and only a couple of millions short of
the peak year 1929. During the last 12
months, while advances have expanded
16 millions (to 258 millions), deposits
have dropped six millions (to 283 mil-
lions). The ratio of advances to deposits
has crept up from 83.5 p.c. in Sept.,
1934, to 90.5 p.c. at Sept. 30 last. Six
years ago the ratio was 90 p.c. Not for
four years have banks been able to find
such wide outlets for the funds under
their control. The question of higher in-
terest rates becomes increasingly pressing,
mainly from the point of view of en-
couraging deposits, though such action
would automatically retard borrowing.
* * * *
During September, rather a dark
month for investors, N. S. Wales real-
estate transactions were higher than for
August, and well above the monthly aver-
age for 1934. Mortgage registrations
were the highest of any month (except
May) for some years, and 53 p.c. of the
business was still being done at 4\ p.c.
or under. Building activity in Sydney’s
suburbs, however, was the lowest since
February, though much above the 1934
average.
* * * *
Things are happening quickly in the
metal markets. On August 11 the tin-
production quota was raised 15 p.c. to
65 p.c, of standard (1929) tonnages, the
lift being retrospective to July 1. On
October 6 the Tin Committee raised the
quota a further 5 p.c., also as from July
1. Last week a further lift of 10 p.c.
(to 80 p.c., as from Oct. 1) was recom-
mended. The remarkable shortage of
the metal in London probably forced the
present increase. As a result of the previ-
ous increase in the quota the Alluvial
Tin and Anglo-Oriental group has in-
creased its production programme from
47 p.c. to 54 p.c. of 1929 volume. More
economical production should result.
* * * *
Creditors of the Primary Producers’
Bank (in liq.) have authorised the liquida-
tors to sell the book debts and other
assets at a price that will return to them
a final payment bringing total distribu-
tions up to 19s. 9d. in the £l. This is
the outcome of an offer of £200,000 for
the residuary assets made by Cranwells
(Australasia), Ltd. Provided the sanction
of the Supreme Court is obtained, and
the liquidators indemnify shareholders
against the contingency of calls on unpaid
capital, any surplus above 19s. 9d. in the
£1 to creditors and liquidation expenses
may be retained by the liquidators for
their own use.
*** * •
Information for the tourist: N. S.
Wales still has the highest trade-
union unemployment (22.7 p.c. for the
June quarter) in the Commonwealth, as
well as the largest deficit’, the highest
taxation (except Queensland), and more
miles of non-paying railways than any
other State. It grows the most wool and
wheat, and periodically tops the list
with butter production. Despite the
disadvantages in its taxation and unem-
ployment situation, the Ma State’s value
of total manufacturing production is
greater than that of Victoria, though not
on a per capita basis. It has more civil
servants per head even
than Queensland, and
has the highest cost
(per head) of govern-
ment of the three
Eastern States. It also
boasts the largest
bridge, the best harbor,
the greatest coalfields,
the most sheep, rabbits
and Government
boards and commis-
sions. It also has a
Transport Strangulation Act and a State
lottery.
H« H 1 ❖
Melbourne building activity for the
year to September 30 was 78.7 p.c. of
1929 activity, and over a million up on
the preceding year. Total value of per-
mits for the 12 months was £5,918,645,
of which £583,177 was for September.
During August the value of permits
granted in Sydney and suburbs totalled
£788,943, about £300,000 less than the
remarkably high figure for July.
* * * *
“S.N.”: The Printing Industry Crafts-
men’s Exhibition at Sydney exhibits a
great advance, especially in color work,
since the 1927 show, and an immense
one since the war, when Australia was
still importing posters and carton deco-
rations. Australian magazine and com-
mercial printing and poster design have
reached an exceptionally high standard.
It is evident that Australian craftsmen
are developing a native school of print-
ing in which Australian symbols appear
more and more frequently.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Crusades”
Crowds and noise, both in ample
Cecil B. de Mille proportions, dominate
this historical scrap, at Sydney Prince
Edward, swung round the love of
Richard, England’s lion-hearted king
(Yankee-voiced Henry Wilcoxon), for
Berengaria (dewy-eyed Loretta Young).
They’re colorful, stirring crowds, and
it’s a grand din—the sort that’ll send
small boys into some home-made fort
with a petrol-tin for a war-drum and
dad’s old felt for a helmet. It takes the
best part of two hours for capable
American players to convince the audi-
ence that Richard was such a dumb lion
that he had to fall in love to find it out.
They do it well. At the end of it he
lies down (figuratively speaking) tired of
roaring and pawing, and Berengaria clips
his claws while he purrs about it. Photo-
graphy is excellent, the storming of the
walls of Acre by Crusaders a memorable
piece of work, action 100 per cent, and
correctness of detail notable.
“A Girl of the Limberlost”
Psychologically this romance by Gene
Stratton Porter is impossible ; it is filled
with incredible characters with incredible
motives who say things no normal
human being would think of saying. But
its moral tone is indefatigably healthy,
and close on two million copies have
been sold. The screen version is a bit less
realistic than the book. Even tiny tots,
when a plain statement is made to them,
register intense surprise and say “You
mean” But, despite all this, two
middle-aged mummers, Louise Dresser
and Ralph Morgan, by the magic of the
sort of character-acting that is built on
acute observation, give the pleasant
fiction a flavor of plausibility. Marian
Marsh, a poor little girl in a strait-laced
Indiana village, whose widowed mother
hates her and stints her, manages to wear,
even in the ’eighties, an enamelled com-
plexion, plucked eyebrows, a heavily lip-
sticked mouth and shoes and stockings
of the latest and most stylish design.
Her registration of girlish innocence
loses, therefore, some of its effect. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Eight Bells”
A rollicking tale of the sea in which
Ralph Bellamy the hard-bitten bucko mate
of the freighter Combermere, puts it all
over the la-di-da captain (John Buckler)
and wins the love of the owner’s daughter
(Ann Sothern), who stowed away (with
chaperon) to be near her fiance, the
captain. A piston-rod breaks, the gallant
ship is at the mercy of the typhoon
(though in most of the sequences it
remains as steady as a rock), and the
cowardly master proposes to escape in
(he only serviceable lifeboat. The crew,
very understandably, becomes mutinous ;
the goil (whose make-up of acetone and
celluloid withstands the heaviest seas)
sides with the heroic first mate, and
eventually the freighter is brought safely
into port. Fade-out on Mr. Bellamy and
Miss Sothern wrapped in fond embrace.
Engine-room scenes are realistically
done, but it isn’t explained why the first
mate is allowed to take command in that
department. Also at Sydney Capitol.
“Redheads on Parade”
A motion-picture backstager worked
out on short-story lines. A co. filming
a musicomedy fantasia full of legs and
love, inhabited mostly by carrot-, auburn-
or Titian-topped goils, is backed by the
proprietor of a preparation, Titianola,
which will turn any blonde into a red-
head in half an hour. Villains of the
piece are the proprietors of Platinola,
which bleaches the blackest hair in thirty
minutes. Foiled in attempts to get
financial control and switch the picture
to a Jean Harlowish angle the villains
steal the whole pile of film-cans on the
night of the Hollywood premiere. But
just previously the villains have been
endeavoring to get John Boles and Dixie
Lee into trouble with the hair-dye person
who is financing their show by photo-
graphing a little unofficial petting. While
developing the plate the principal villain
makes the astonishing discovery that
Platinola, plus a little pyro, turns any
hair scarlet in thirty seconds. The stolen
cans are recovered by the heroine, and
all ends happily for everyone save the
proprietor of Titianola. Singing of John
Boles, plenty of amusing patter and some
very pretty ballets help keep the affair
interesting.
“In Town To-night”
A successful attempt to cincmatise
vaudeville in its post-war condition. Title
comes from an orchestral piece by Eric
“THE CRUSADES,” AT SYDNEY PRINCE EDWARD.
Jan Keith as Saladin, Henry Wilcoxon as Richard Lionheart. In background,
C. Aubrey Smith as Peter the Hermit.
Coates, first heard in Australia when the
Guards’ Band played it, and the principal
phrase occurs frequently in the incidental
music. Entertainment is mostly on cabaret
lines with a strong American flavor. One
of the most effective items is an imitation
of Schnozzle Durante; the connecting
thread is a Hawaiian guitar orchestra,
and crooners, both male and female,
figure in the fare. Best features are
Stanley Holloway, who recites “Albert
and the Lion” and sings “The Bloody
Tower” (both classics of Lancashire
comedy), and the dancing of Melissa
Mason, who has humor in her legs, which
seem to revolve on axles at the hip. The
many items of the show, which includes
a remarkably bright ballot by “Sixteen
Tiller Girls,” are cleverly linked together,
and dull moments are scarce. Excellent
acoustic properties of Mayfair (Sydney)
Theatre help to make the olio palatable
entertainment.
“Ten-minute Alibi”
Also at the Mayfair. Phillips Holmes
is the murderer, Theo Shall the victim.
The dramatic elements of the play are
intensified in this screen transcription,
and the casting is well-nigh perfect. The
detectives —one a shrewd old Cockney
who can cross-examine like a K.C.,
despite his deficiencies in the matter of
aspirates; the other a young detective
sergeant of the new well-educated sort
trained under the Trenchard regime—
are correct to a hair, and a pompous and
amiable old lawyer is equally well
drawn. Holmes and Shall are as eloquent
in their silences as in their speeches, and
Aileen Marson couldn’t be bettered as
the foolish young woman who caused
all the trouble. The piece was well done
on the stage in Australia, but the screen
version gains in conciseness.
“The Divine Spark”
Similar in style to the multifarious
Schubert screen fantasias inspired by
“Lilac Time.” Hero this time is Vin-
cenzo Bellini (this is his centenary year),
represented by Phillips Holmes, who
looks a lot more like Chopin than a
swarthy Sicilian. Action opens at the
“Royal College of Music” (hitherto be-
lieved to be a London institution) in
Rome. Bellini got his instruction at
Naples Conservatorio, but little details
like that don’t matter. The young com-
poser loves the daughter of a rich non-
musical banker, the beauteous and
golden-voiced Marta Eggerth ; his rival
is the director of the R.C.M., the sinister
Donald Calthrop, musically an igno-
ramus. Choruses of students, serenades,
etc., with a few Bellini airs sprinkled
through, help to make the affair passable
musical comedy, but that sort of thing is
much better done on the stage. At
Sydney Embassy.
“Steamboat Round the Bend”
A romance of the Mississippi in the
’sixties. Will Rogers has an old stern-
wheeler in which he houses a waxworks
museum and sells patent medicines.
Berton Churchill is an itinerant evangelist
got up as “The Second Moses. Irvin
S. Cobb, whose fame rests on achieve-
ments in another field, is captain of a
crack passenger steamboat. Ann Shirley
is the heroine. It’s a well-picked team,
and for a climax there’s a race of steam-
boats in which humor and thrills are
effectively mingled. This period loca-
tional stuff of their own land is some-
thing that Americans do really well.
“Chinatown Squad”
Principal defect of this ’Frisco China-
town thriller, first seen at Sydney
Capitol, is that the Chinatown part
of the business is palpably synthetic.
Lyle Talbot, Valerie Hobson and Hugh
O'Connell work hard to create and main-
tain an air of mystery and intrigue, but
the plot is as tangled as it is tenuous,
and the denouement does little to explain
the extraordinary behavior of the prin-
cipals.
“Little Big Shot”
At Sydney State. Beginning with
amusing business by E. E. Horton and
Robert Armstrong, this film promises
well, but the early appearance of six-
year-old Sybil Jason dispels all hopes.
Sybil is the latest attempt to cash in on
the Shirley Temple wave, and she does
all the things that all other child stars
do—even to imitations of Garbo and
Mac West. Probably she was a nice
enough child before Hollywood got hold
of her.
Some First Nights
The Firm’s latest Gilsullivan co.,
which seemed all at sixes and sevens on
its first night in Sydney in “The Gondo-
liers,” has in the interim become a team
again, and it gave a very enjoyable per-
formance of “The Pirates” at the Royai
on Saturday night. Ivan Menzies, as
General Stanley, was at his best; West-
ralian singer Helen Langton equipped
Mabel with a pretty face, a neat figure
and a first-class voice ; Bernard Manning
was the ideal Pirate King. Choruses
were thoroughly alive, and Andrew Mac-
Cunn and his orchestra were as thirty
souls with but a single thought. Minnie
Everett’s production left nothing undone
that should be done. All of which is as
it should be. It wouldn’t surprise this
commentator to learn that there have
been twice as many Gilsullivan perform-
ances in L C. Williamson theatres as
there ever were in London Savoy.
-I- -I- -I- -I-
Leo Cherniavsky has been so well
known to Australasian audiences for so
many years that he and his fiddle stand
in no need of recommendation. At Syd-
ney Town Hall on Saturday night, backed
by the Orpheum Society’s orchestra,
he did justice to Mendelssohn’s E Minor
Concerto, and further demonstrated his
virtuosity in the “Hebrew Melody” of
Achron, and pieces by Sarasate, Dinicu
and Vieuxtemps. Sydney pianist Beatrice
Tange played Chopin in her crisp,
dynamic fashion, and basso Stanley
Clarkson boomed notes of velvet black-
ness scored by Handel and Korbay.
Accompanist Maynard Wilkinson de-
serves a cheer, too. The Far West Chil-
dren’s Health Scheme gets the profits.
•b -I* -I- -I*
When Emlyn Williams made an
adaptation of Rene Fauchois’s “Prenez
Garde a la Peinture,” he certainly made
a good job of it. Most plays suffer
when adapted from a foreign language,
but “The Late Christopher Bean” does
not. It runs as smoothly as in its original
French. The Independent Theatre
group, in its production of it on Satur-
day night, gave an amusing performance.
Patricia Klem and Maxwell Osbiston
made a good-looking charming pair
of lovers, Gladys Lorimer was the faith-
ful Gwenny of the piece, and John Alden
the Dr. Haggett. The production was by
Doris Fitton.
-I- -1- -I- v
“Angel Merling,” a four-act Petit-
Sims-Raleigh piece re-edited by Cod-
rington Ball, having its first Antipodean
airing at Sydney Kursaal, is an in-
genious work, a cocktail of romance.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. ~ .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ~ £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in- South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
# ANNOUNCING—
the New Power in
Motion Pictures
*
Herbert Wilcox £BO,OO
production. I
anT intriguing musica |U|
romance* I
ANNA
'■%oT
* ~
NtAfilt
m m
Ai
»
m
es
4 T •
839
Zfs
•iSiksi
V» :
oininii to onicrtaln
. dU) Australia /
JT/eato
Watch for these record-breaking screen achievements
from ASSOCIATED DISTRIBUTORS.
LESLIE HOWARD
in a stirring picturisation of
“Bonnie Prince Charlie.”
ff
“WHOM THE GODS LOVE
by “Escape Me Never” Author. Directed by Basil Dean—
Music by Sir Thomas Beecham and London Philharmonic
Orchestra.
“MIDSHIPMAN EASY”
From Capt. Marryatt’s immortal story.
To be produced on a tremendous scale.
CLIVE BROOK in
“London Symphony.”
Written by Sir Philip and Anthony Gibbs.
MAURICE CHEVALIER
In a spectacular production that recaptures the
gay Continental spirit of Chevalier’s best —
“The Beloved Vagabond.”
11l 5
(
<
intrigue, mystery and horror. Bessie
Swan, a charming Miss Spitfire, and
Beverley Myles and Arch Hull, comic
rustics, scored heavily. Treasure Richard-
son, Pauline Markby, Harry Mac-
Donald and Charles Chaplin were also
helpful. Scott Alexander was producer,
and the settings were well done.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Man with a Load of Mischief,”
at Melb. Little Theatre, is one of those
plays that don’t live up to their titles.
Title is derived from an inn. Ashely
Dukes, the author, has turned out a
bright comedy, with plenty of snappy
lines, disfigured only by a couple of long
soliloquies which sound unreal. One
of the many mistresses of the Regent
decides to clear out with her maid. She
is followed by a blackguardly nobleman
who aims to restore the lady to the
Regent and thus to curry favor at Court.
A coach accident gives him the chance
to make the acquaintance of mistress and
maid; but, failing to fascinate the
fugitive himself, he hands over the job
to his valet, a young radical of strong
personality, who succeeds so well that the
nobleman has to content himself with the
maid. Jack Wiltshire as the valet, Brett
Randall as the nobleman and Enid
Hollins as the eloping lady scored honors
in a well-cast production.
*l* *J* 4* 4*
“The Stranger Walked In,” by John
Cazabon, a Sydney playwright, at
Bryants’ Playhouse, is embroidered with
so many little intrigues that one is
apt to lose the general thread of the plot.
Dialogue is amusing, but the play would
be improved if the line between comedy
and farce were drawn one side or the
other. The most creditable performance
was given by the author as a lounge
lizard. Other important parts were taken
by Norah Cazabon and Allan Toohey.
Production was by Beryl Bryant.
“Queenscliff Boats,” water-color by Harold Herbert,
at Melb. Fine Arts Gallery.
Current Artbursts
Herbert Gallop, who has a show at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney, has
been working away tremendously hard
with oil paint, water-color and graver’s
needle. He fills the walls of a very
large showroom with his paintings and
etchings. He has been experimenting,
applying a good sense of color to various
problems. In several instances he pro-
duces a picture which, as an essay in
color and form, is remarkably effective.
But his choice of frames and mounts is
open to question. To stick a moonlight
scene in a realistically low key on a
white card is unpardonable, particularly
when the subject is as unromantic an
old farm building as could be found be-
tween Sydney and Bourke. But as a
colorist Gallop has moments that live
up to his name, as witness “Harbor
Shores, Middle Head,” “Lake Mac-
quarie,” “Gum-trees at Tuggerah,”
“Sunlight and Trees,” “Parramatta
River,” “Lane Cove River” and “Old
Stables, Hellenie.” A weakness in
middle distances requires attention. Most
satisfactory pictures in the show from
the point of view of present commen-
tator, who is getting extremely tired of
the conventional Australian country
scene —gum-trees with or without farm —
are “George-street North” (where The
Bulletin lives) and a just-after-sunset
view of Sydney’s tall buildings with their
lights a-twinkling.
*** *2*
Howard Barron, an Englishman who
owes his early training to Waterlow R.A.,
has been in Australia for something over
a dozen years. He’s the only landscape
painter who seems to have made a
thorough analysis of the qualities of the
light on the Tasman side of the con-
tinent. First impression of his show at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney, is
that his coloring is contrarily bleak. It
isn’t. N. S. Wales sunlight is more often
than not very nearly white, in actinic
value very much less than sunlight in
Southern England and the Mediterranean
countries or in Maoriland. The con-
ventions of other climates don’t apply.
Barron paints the scene as he sees it, and
in consequence gets an effect of veracity
that is lacking in the works of less obser-
vant painters, “Kangaroo Valley,” a big
panoramic canvas, is the work that hits
the eye first, being the largest, but
“Summer Morning” and “Wattle, Kan-
karoo Valley,” in both of which water
is beautifully treated, and “The Red
Gum,” most effectively composed, are
further evidences that Barron paints with
intelligence and honesty.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Streetonesque impressionism is the
motive which animates Alfred Coleman,
whose 56 pictures are exhibited at Melb.
Athemeum. “River Bank” is a splendid
bit of well-handled color. It shows a
pool over which
hang browning
gum-trees. Many
of Coleman’s pic-
tures are painted
around the coast
near Mentone —
cliff scenes full of
light and color,
with yellows and
reds blazing glori-
ously. Others are
panoramic, “Near
Neerim” being an
excellent piece of
composition in this
style. Even with
such a trite sub-
ject as “The Sea’
—a simple view
looking outward
from the beach—
Coleman succeeds
in infusing interest
and beauty, to-
gether with a touch
of originality. Several of the smaller
canvases of corners about the beaches
and scraps of country landscape are less
successful. The artist is at his best when
he is inspired by something that suggests
breadth and openness.
4* 4* *i*
Sheila McCubbin, member of a family
whose name has been connected with art
in Victoria for more than half a century,
comes forward with interesting contribu-
tions to an exhibition at Margaret
McLean’s gallery, Melbourne. Miss
McCubbin shows a number of flower
pieces full of color and painted in the
semi-modernistic manner, the most deco-
rative being a bunch of reddening
autumn leaves. Two large panels are
also exquisite fantastic harmonies in
green and blue. But it is the work of
James Flett which dominates the exhibi-
tion. The outstanding virtue of this
artist is his individuality. “Pirate Land-
ing” and “Ruins by Moonlight” are re-
markably bold, imaginative water-colors,
and he contributes a dozen smaller pic-
tures, all good. Abandoning some of his
mannerisms for the time, he also gives a
large “Family Portrait” of some digni-
fied old gentleman who flourished in the
’sixties. William Hunter is represented
by a number of etchings, among which
“The Warrior” and a charming unfin-
ished etching of the “Burning Ghat at
Benares” are notable. Murray Griffin
shows some of his delightful prints and
Jessie McGregor a couple of linocuts.
Queensland Royal Art Society’s 47th
annual exhibition was an advance in
many ways upon earlier shows. W.
Bustard, Vida Lahey, Roy Parkinson and
a few others with familiar names ran
true to form, and P. Stanhope Hobday
contributed well-balanced landscapes
colored in his decorative way. Melville
Haysom, who won the Godfrey Rivers
prize, was a conspicuous exhibitor. He
shows judgment in approaching his sub-
ject, and is sure of his effects. Some cf
the youngsters showed promise.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
is
m
33
nv
S 3
I**l f! U (
it
3 3
II 1
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
123-133 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfas*' from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
COME ID THE
LEIPZIG
TBADE FAIfl
Make 1936 a record year by purchasing your trading
requirements at the Leipzig Fair, in the heart of
beautiful Germany.
This historical World Market offers unexcelled oppor-
tunities for profitable buying.
Commences March 1, 1936.
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment. Furniture, Sports Goods, Engineer-
ing and Building, and Photographic Fairs.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
LABS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Leipzig Trade Fair, Challis House, Martin Place;
G.P.O Box No. 3127 P, SYDNEY. Phone; 84006.
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh St., SYDNEY.
O. N. Keppel C/o Marcard & Co, 360 Post Office
Place; G.P.O. Box 1658, MELBOURNE.
H C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W. AUSTRALIA.
kOMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN,
16-20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn __it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
VVADE & DUERDINS. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
E
ftP
5
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
501-0 EVERYWHERE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The hand weaves and the hand-blocked
and -patterned fabrics at this year’s Arts
and Crafts show have a colorful appeal.
Then, too, the woman who decides to
have her curtains or summer frocks of
these blocked linens or silks knows that
she will be spared seeing her chosen
pattern repeated on friends’ figures
and windows. Behind the female facade
there is molten revolt against the mass
production of women’s clothes and
beauty products, against the standardisa-
tion of face and figure ; so perhaps the
hour has struck for the individual dress-
length craftswoman.
The show fills the Education Galleries
with the blaze of copper and bronze, the
cold light of steel and glass. Two small
tables in these materials look very smart
and send out a coo-ee to the modern
hostess. On one of them stands a pewter
box. beaten into shape by Mrs. Scoll-
Fletcher. It has a curved lid which
abounds in apocalyptic bird and beast,
and has for heart a green stone with opal
fires. Near by are woven scarves and
bags by Joan Mackenzie, glad with color,
the delicate work of Jessica Booth. Then,
like a burst of sky, the pottery of Vi
Eyre. Here, against the blue of a tall
vase, the white wings of terns for ever
plane. Primrose yellow and orange
brown, the first clay from Mt. Tam-
bourine, in Queensland, the other from
.South Africa, blend in another bowl. A
christening robe fit for a baby king or
queen comes from some cobweb weaver
in a country town’; the committee-
women say it is one of the finest pieces
of white work the society has exhibited.
Brisbane and Sydney students fill two
long tables with competitive wine jars
and bowls. One has a wicked, scaly
dragon’s head ready to dip into the pot
his long, lithe body is squeezing.
At the entrance to the Royal dress-
circle on Saturday night Vinia de Loitte
was busy selling and autographing the
last of the thirteenth edition of her stories
of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly rustled in, very pink moire
and satin ; Spencer Brunton was there,
but not Mrs., for she has been on the
sick list. Betty Minnett’s greens and
golds, the beflowered chiffons of Mrs.
C. L. Jones, the oval face and long ear-
rings of Beryl Ross, the music-loving
Lashmars and the Harald Bowdens were
glimpsed. Then up went the curtain, and
a packed house laughed yet again with
the fun made by the slighted but
sprightly bride and her lissome ’maids
in “Trial by Jury” and the beauteous
wards of Chancery in “The Pirates of
Penzance.”
A few hundred gallons of rain did
not deter the Victoria Leaguers from
making the long trek to Elizabeth Bay
House on the day of their party in honor
of Philip Street’s lady. The guest of
honor was all right. She just lives round
the corner; so does Sydney’s new
Mayoress McElhone. This was Mrs.
McElhone’s first appearance in her
official capacity, and in contrast to
her dark suit and hat there was
all spring in the posy of lilac pre-
sented to her. With her was daughter
Mabel. Hugh Denison’s lady, as usual
one of the best dressed, had her shoulders
handsomely furred. A guest who has
gathered up shells from many seashores
was Miss Gibson Craig. Her know-
ledge of conchology is wide and deep.
There was quite a group of overseas
and inter-State visitors, among them
Lucy Wilkinson, Jessie Grey, from Dur-
ban, Mrs. Heath, of Adelaide, Mrs. A.
Burns, of Wellington, Maoriland, and
Mrs. Mills and Miss N. Veitch, of Mel-
bourne. The last-named was with the
good-looking wife of Colonel Smith.
Mrs. Roystone Davey (well enough after
her long illness to take her place once
more) and Mrs. Walter Swinson added
their smiles to the committee. The flowers
were magnificent. The gold of broom,
the pink of gladioli, the blue of delphi-
nium wove their pattern into the day.
The food was rich and profuse and
spread on long buffet tables. Bowls of
red roses were spaced between the oyster
patties and the sausage rolls.
This Letter has met the perfect sales-
woman. Turning into a tiny slice of a
shop the other day, attracted by its bar-
gains, she was met by a blonde with
a queenly air. Presently, almost sur-
prised, she was trying on frocks that
ranged from 9s. lljd. to 255. One of
the garments elicited from the buyer
the comment that it was rather big
across the shoulders. “Oh, but madame
will find that so comfortable for motor-
ing,” was the murmured reassurance.
Almost convinced that her Rolls was
waiting around the corner, the writer
walked off with the frock.
The new civic hostess needs no intro-
duction to Town Hall frequenters or to
Sydney workers for the welfare of
women and children. For 35 years Mrs.
McElhone has attended official functions
at the Town Hall, for husband Arthur
has given 35 years or more to the city’s
service. During that time they have
enjoyed the thrill of several royal
visits. The Woolloomooloo Day Nur-
sery, the Rachel Forster hospital, the Free
Kindergartens and the Benevolent
Society are causes for which Mrs. Mc-
Elhone is a consistent worker. The
garden is her relaxation.
With Mrs. Carroll, Mrs. Mattel and
Mrs. Goodisson making speeches more
like laughing commentaries, and Muriel
Wilson, the guest of honor, very hand-
some and tailored and wearing pink
carnations, the Westralian lunch last
week was a happy, unconventional
affair. Muriel goes to her own West
at an early date, for the first time for
nine years. When she left. Perth to trip
Europewards she had no idea she would
return a prima donna. A job of nursing
at the Kalgoorlie hospital had taken up
a few months of her young life, and
Europe was regarded as a playground.
Studies in London, Vienna and Milan
have turned her into the suave singer, the
finished artist and frocker that Sydney
knew during Philip Hargrave’s season.
The appreciation of the Budapest
Quartet grows with every recital. Dur-
ing the last series of concerts the Con-
servatorium has developed the atmo-
sphere of a sprightly and friendly club.
Everybody, knows everybody else, and
in the intervals the corridors are filled
with cigarette smoke and music criticism,
highbrow, lowbrow and just knowledg-
able. The French recital found the
habitues in their accustomed places, the
D’Abravanels early arrivals. Dr. Bain-
ton and his flaxen-haired Helen turned a
rapt ear to Ravel; so did Mrs. John
Moore, her long Spanish earrings tremu-
lous. The Breithaupts, from U.S.A., sat
with his teacher. Neville Smith; Lute
Drummond introduced a daffodil satin
evening-coat and hobnobbed with violin-
ist Nora Williamson. Concert manager
Jack Griffiths brought a party, but it was
the debutante Clara Butter who drew all
eyes. Her wrap of creamy fur might
have been envied by a film star. In depth
it was almost to the knees, and it seemed
yards long. Clara, a pianist of concert
pitch herself, went away to Europe last
year for further study, but got homesick
and returned. She is now specialising in
Bach.
Hilda Marks, one time this city’s
Mayoress, writes of long, lazy days in
Normandy and Brittany. Rouen, so full
of mementos of Joan of Arc; the
churches of St. Maclou and St. Owen,
their exteriors a mass of stone-carving
delicate as lace work ; the Norman Abbey
of Jumieges, where are the tombs of
the sons of Clovis and of Agnes Sorel,
favorite of King Charles HI., captivated
her, Caudebec and Honfleur, the back-
ground of much of A, E. W. Mason’s
They Wouldn’t Be Chessmen, were
also found interesting. From the beach
of St. Malo the observant lady records
a tip for the municipal baths. In each
dressing cubicle the bather is provided
with a small tin about a foot
square, over which arc taps of hot and
cold water for washing the sand off the
feet. The Baycux tapestries and a
sycamore-tree 600 years old in the Abbey
garden were vivid impressions that
stayed in spite of a rough air passage to
London.
Treania Smith’s love for the pencil
was inherited, for father was Govern-
ment architect in New South Wales.
Treania could draw almost as soon as
she could write. Studies with Max Mcl-
drum and at the Edinburgh Royal
Academy have turned her into the artist
whose show at the Macquarie Galleries
has been marked by much interest and
quick sales. She is off with her paint-
box to Hobart, quite undimmed by two
recent operations and an accident.
The P.E.N. Club snared Humfrey
Jordan, the novelist, for almost half of
one of the two nights he spent in Sydney.
Humfrey, a nice-looking, clear-skinned
man whose county is Somerset, con-
fessed that he goes to London only when
necessary. He’s Cambridge, and served
with the Devon regiment during the war.
In the sitting-room of the Metropole
Elliott Napier made a jolly chairman at
one table, and Municipal Librarian
Bertie presided over the other. Jeanie
Ranken, balancing a large black shiny
straw hat on her smooth head, the guest
and Mr. Preece, of “Desiderata” renown,
were decanted at the Metropole from
the one taxi. They had come on from a
sherry party given in Mr. Jordan’s honor
by the Alan Clunies Ross couple.
Leo Cherniavsky’s concert in aid of
the Far West Children’s Health Scheme
made the Town Hall the fashionable
playground on Saturday night. Lady
Hore-Ruthven and the Lieutenant-
Governor Streets were accompanied by
a group that was indeed the glass of
fashion. The Governor’s lady supplied
oyster satin and pearls; Philip Street’s
wife mixed ermine and deeply-blue
chilfons. And the violinist’s wife attracted
every eye. The tunic of her sand-
colored frock was thickly beaded ; her
pink-and-silver coat was collared in
sable. In the audience were Dr. Maria
Klaphak and her husband, Dr. Wolf
Klaphak, newly arrived from Germany ;
the Kelso King lady, Mrs. Moncrieft
Barron, and padre and Mrs. Drummond.
Pianist Beatrice Tange, in white and
green, made a pretty picture.
The all-Australian night at the Josef
Kretschmann Club brought more than
half the members to headquarters. Presi-
dent Dolly Hollander Moore hostessed in
a chiffon frock flowered like a spring
garden, and shirred in a fascinating way
about the neck and the waistline. Esther
Kahn, the Krclschmann’s former presi-
dent, and a composer of overseas as well
as local recognition, played some of her
own works, and accompanied singers
who sang her songs and Dorothy
Hopkins, who played two of her violin
numbers. Dorothy’s blue taffetas had
unusual fan frills turned back sharply
on each shoulder. Alfred Hill’s “Waiafa
Poi” was another of the home-grown
plums. A one-acter, “Crisis,” by T. S.
Gurr, made a grim but interesting end-
ing to the programme.
Sydney is to have a “Drama Week.”
This will introduce our Shakspeares and
Sheridans to the Australian stage during
the first week of December. There will
be evening and daytime performances,
and the whole will end with a masque
of drama, the prologue to which has
been written by Jeanie Ranken. This
will be presented by sunlight in the
gardens of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s home.
The Junior Theatre League is launching
the venture.
An exquisite rose point lace, lent by
Joan McDermott, by whom it had been
made, and a frock silver as moon-
light were the outstanding points of Lela
Forsayth’s wedding array. Lovely Lela
also carried white water-lilies that
sprayed down almost to the tips of her
shoes. The four ’maids wore Empire
frocks of pale-green chiffons, the skirts
of which, falling open from the high
waists, showed panels of flounced green
moire. Their heads were wreathed with
lily-of-the-valley, and their bunches of
white lilac were tied with green ribands.
In the procession were a small page
in white satin and a little flower-girl in
picturesque green chiffons, and the guests
who filled the Church of St. Michael
at Vaucluse decided that the wedding
was one of the prettiest they had ever
seen. A party afterwards at Vaucluse
Hall, the Forsayth home, brought to-
gether many from Victoria, as well as
N.S.W., for Lela’s bridegroom is Franc
Sadleir Falkiner, a son of the R. Falk-
iners, of Melbourne. Tooma, Upper
Murray, is the address of the new home.
Arline Waddy, chieftainess of the Syd-
ney Overseas Club, has left Australia
once more. Once again she travelled by
the Port Hardy, with London her objec-
tive, though this time she will take in
Hamburg, Copenhagen and such ports
before settling down in England. Keith
Smith passed over on behalf of the club
a dazzling silver cigarette case, and a
table in the corner of the clubrooms be-
came during the afternoon piled high
with gifts of flowers and perfume. Arline
hands over to Miss Gaden.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. *
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1161 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE MAY DONNELLY Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS RUPERT DONNELLY
Respondent.
TO THOMAS RUPERT DONNELLY for-
merly of 38 Silver Street Marrickvillc and
Despointes Street Marrickvillc in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE MAY
DONNELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
lor a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse wil-
lully deserted the Petitioner and without.any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Fifteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-six and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of October,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOSEPH 11. McDOUGALL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1545 of 1935.
BETWEEN ISABELLA PARKER (formerly
Isabella Pettit) Petitioner.
And ERNEST EDWARD PARKER Re-
spondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD PARKER late of
Victoria Street -St. Mary’s.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ISABELLA
PARKER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
desertion without reasonable cause by reason
of your failure to comply with the Decree for
restitution of conjugal rights in a suit Number
1641 of 1934 made against you by this Honor-
able Court on the Thirtieth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five AND
TAKE NOTICE that you arc required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the 23rd day of January One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of October,
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
JESSIE MAUD BEATTY (or ELIZABETH
McCOOK) Deceased.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 27th day of
September, 1935, and made in a Suit Number
938 of 1935, intituled “IN the Matter of the
Estate of Jessie Maud Beatty, formerly of
Smedmore, near Newcastle, in the State of
New South Wales, Spinster, Deceased, Intes-
tate,” between the Public Trustee in and for
the State of New South Wales, Plaintiff, and
Sophia Mary McCook, Defendant, WHEREBY
the following enquiry was directed, namely:
Who were the persons entitled as next-of-kin
according to the Statutes of Distributions to
the Estate of the abovenamed Jessie Maud
Beatty, deceased, living at the time of her
death, and whether any of them arc since
dead, and, if so, who arc their respective legal
representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are to send by post prepaid to the
Public Trustee, Public Trust Office, 109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, so as to reach him on or
before the 31st day of January, 1936, their full
names, addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims, and in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said Order unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. CLAIMANTS are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, on Thursday, the 13th day of
February, 1936, at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon, being the time appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claims the
name and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the Claimant can be
sent.
DATED this 22nd day of October, 1935
EDWARD R. M. NEWTON & SON,'
Solicitors for the Public Trustee,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
irv
JutkkS
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
, . .Necessities to users in
your district. Full tune returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHX GILMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Mooney Valley Cup and the
premiere of “Sixteen” were given a spot
of summer weather. Light-weight dress-
ing in the afternoon and an absence of
furs in the evening were a welcome
change for women punters and theatre-
goers. At the Comedy, Mrs. lan Hender-
son was attractive in white satin, with a
camellia in her hair and scarlet finger-
nails as a sole dash of color. Mrs. Harry
Johnson wore misty-blue, and daughter
Peggy had a long cardinal-red cloak to
her ankles. Mrs. Arthur Burnett was
elegant in a sea of white ospreys and a
black satin gown, with a white sash
knotted at the back.
Clad in kilts for the first' time at an
annual officers’ mess dance, the Victorian
Scottish Regiment made merry one night
last week. The ball was opened with the
pipers and drummers playing “Cock o’
the North.” Scottish reels, foursomes
and eightsomes were performed with
vigor, and a Petronella was even more
fiery. Regimental headquarters were
hung with bunting and the flags of all
nations, and supper was served in the
decorated sergeants’ mess. Guests were
received by the C. 0., Lieut.-Col. W. H.
Mathieson, and the mess president. Major
T. P. Cook, both with the assistance of
their wives. Mrs. Mathieson wore violets
at the throat of her cape, part of her
dove-grey ensemble. Pink roses and
green leaves were scattered over the blue
background of Mrs. Cook’s ninon gown.
At the Grange on Friday night dancers
had their feet firmly planted in pre-war
days with,their bustles, curls and whiskers,
and every second dance on the pro-
gramme was a polka. Trails of roses lay
across the oak tables, and baskets of
flowers were placed on the tops of tall
pillars. Forget-me-not queen Freda
Connolly, in whose cause the party was
held, wore taffeta of that shade of blue.
Hec Green was an impressive and aggres-
sive queen. Capt. David Morrison, on
leave from his Indian regiment, led com-
munity singing of old songs with a nice
mixture of gusto and sentiment. Hylda
McCardel wore black taffeta, red pop-
pies and a fetching feather boa. Bar-
bara Bayles tied a green sash round a
white organdie frock and fixed rosebuds
in her hair. Bill Purves wore the high
collar and awkward moustache of 40
years ago, and our youngest politician,
Harold Holt, dressed himself up in the
sideboards and dove-colored waistcoat of
the ’sixties. Helen Benjamin’s curls were
piled high, and her demure fichu was
fastened with a cameo brooch. A couple
of frivolous can-can girls, Yvonne
Atkinson and Moira Madden, wore little
laced-up corsages of black velvet,
diamond garters and white organdie pet-
ticoats edged with black braid. A few
people started off by wearing hats, bell-
toppers or loaded-with-feathers, but such
lids were removed early in the proceed-
ings.
The West Brighton Club deviated
from its custom of dinners for men
and spread itself for a dance. It was
not Youth’s night out; the West Brighton
members have sparse patches on the tops
of their heads or else a plentiful sprink-
ling of grey above their ears, but they
believe that palmy days go with good
health, and a joke a day does even a
better job than an apple. The two card
rooms were reserved for bridge and
poker, and there was dancing in the
lounge, where even a frisky Jolly Miller
figured on the programme. Supper was
spread under a marquee, so that it didn’t
matter a scrap if lobster claws (so diffi-
cult to balance among the decorations
of narrow tables) slid on tOxthe green
sward. President St. John Hughes
received 120 guests, with the assistance of
his daughter Mrs. Sam Bagley, who was
clad in dubonnet-red georgette. Dr. and
Mrs. Sam Marron were there, she in
sapphire-blue, and the Hugh Hamiltons,
Mrs. Hamilton in tomato-tinted ninon.
Mick Canny’s wife wore black with
metallic-glinting lapels. Dr. O’Grady
was still attached to the grin he developed
on Caulfield Cup Day, when he
flourished the winning ticket in the club
sweep. Mrs. M. L. Shepherd was in
primrose satin and a velvet wrap of a
glowing honey shade. Mrs. George
Gahan’s parchment velvet robe was
swept by a tawny gold coat. After
supper most of the bridge and poker
people said good night, and went home
to bed ; the others clustered round the
piano for an hour of song.
At the Navy League Ball the correct
kind of deepsea atmosphere was pro-
vided by guns, binnacles, steering-wheels
and groups of cadets enjoying things
enormously while forming guards of
honor on the steps and at the foot of
the stairs leading up to the ballroom.
While not obeying commands of “Eyes
right” or “Eyes left,” it was eyes on the
supper-tables, a natural impulse for
young, healthy lads. Thirteen sailor-
boys skipped on to the dance floor to
“John Peel” (of all tunes), folded their
arms and performed a hornpipe in front
of the v.r. enclosure.
The Government House people were
welcomed by several members of the
committee. Lord Huntingfield, walking
beside Mrs. Esmond Phillips, brought up
the rear of the procession down the
middle of the ballroom. Mrs. Phillips
wore a lovely gown of phantom-pink
mesh, upon which gold threads were
mingled, and a cascade of frills rippled
down the back. The elaborations of
Mrs. George Paxton’s gown were also at
the back; a chou bow was the climax
of each tier, and there were flounces
round the feet. It was a lovely dress, a
perfect complement for a beautiful
feather fan. A blonde young thing, lately
arrived from England, was Barbara
El l ord, who wore lime-green organdie
and frilly shoulders. Joyce Robinson’s
oleander-pink dress was an incentive to
its wearer to dance all night without a
break ; to sit in it was to defy the fan-
like plealings of stiffened moire which
waved across the shoulders and around
the hips and spiral-staircased down the
back of the skirt. Geelong Grammar’s
head brought Mrs. Darling, tall and slim
in ice-blue, with feathers swaying across
her shoulders. Valerie Downes was in
white chiffon, very fluffy round the
ankles. Barbara Campbell’s Abyssinian-
brown lace frock solidified at the neck
into duck-egg-green satin. Betty Adams
wore pink and silver, Joan Bostock ink-
blue a-glitter with sequins, and Mrs.
George Marlin an ermine capelet over
iris-blue ninorl. Doris Foster was in
mushroom-pink lace, and Ann William-
son’s green satin burst into scarlet at
the neckline. Mrs. Geof Branson rustled
taffetas in a chessboard pattern of red
and black.
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Mr.
and Mrs. Frederick Spry’s elder daughter
Heather, who on November 2 will be-
come the bride of Dr. Bowen Allen. The
marriage will take place at All Saints’,
St, Kilda, followed by a reception at No.
9. There will be eight ’maids and one
small trainbearer, Barbara, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Stephens, of Wau,
New Guinea. Miss Spry has recently
had a trip abroad with her parents. She
is musical, has not neglected her talent
for the piano, and seldom misses a Mel-
bourne concert of note.
The Journalists’ Ball, held this year
at Earl’s Court, was the usual rollicking
affair. No one bothered much about
keeping dates, for there were no anchor-
ages like cabaret tables or programmes,,
and the bar, though not neglected, wasn’t
the main attraction. Decorating the walls
were posters of the sort that incline
Mother Grundy to pick up her skirts and
do a sprint for more genteel sur-
roundings.
A remarkable thing was that there
were no pierrots, only two Abyssinians
and only two pirates. Cameron and
Magnus Cormack, down from their
station home, went as farmhands.
Gordon Scott and Rene Murphy came
on from the Edwardians’ Ball; Gordon
in the wicked red wig and pink robe of
Lady Belinda Rumble, Rene, wearing
brogues (she’d forgotten about buckled
shoes), a very petite Disraeli. Nancy
Grant wore the pearls and trousers of a
lady of the seraglio. Freda Irving was
the village idiot with a dreadful white
face, grass in her mouth, one leg of her
trousers short and the other long.
For weeks there has been excitement
about the “Kind of a Drinking Party”
to which Ken and Gwen Moore and Roy
Johnston invited 300 people on Saturday.
It surpassed expectations. Towards the
end of the evening Mrs. Moore wore
a huge blue bow at her neck, tied there
by someone who recognised a champion
party-giver. To guard against accidents
on the way down to Mornington Ken
and Roy had gone out with a spade and
a hammer and plastered the road from
the Frankston turn-off with all sorts of
instructions. “Keep Right On” and
“Mind the Bump” appeared often, and
a bottle dangling from a gum-tree had
underneath it “Don’t Stop ; It’s Empty.”
Sandwiches, lobster and all sorts of buffet
food were on in the cowshed. (White-
wash brushes and feverish scrubbing
since milking-time had made a miracu-
lous transformation ; there was a faint
aroma, either disinfectant or cow, but
no one minds such trifles at a woolshed
party.) The woolshed was decorated with
bales and fleeces. Above Roy’s bar was
a notice, “No credit given,” and above
Ken’s “The more the merrier.”
Two lads insisted on singing, duetto,
more or less libellous verses about the
guests. The band played with gusto, and
everybody shuffled happily over the hills
and dales of the greasy floor. Late in
the evening a possum came to the party.
He couldn’t see enough from the rafters,
so he climbed down on to a keg of beer
to watch things in comfort. Summonses
were issued to all the people who hadn’t
answered their invitations politely. The
replies, nailed up round the wall, were
interesting as exercises in Brightyoung-
thingery.
Words must come before music. The
poet creates verses and hands them to
the musician, who illustrates the theme
with tune and rhythm. Mrs. George Cas-
sidy, better known professionally as
Estelle Sheehan, is a composer and
pianist. She has written verse, but so far
feels much happier among sounds than
words. She won an exhibition scholar-
ship which entitled her to a full Conser-
vatorium course, and it was during her
student days that she started composing
and working out musical arrangements.
Latterly her metier has been songs.
George Cassidy is not a musician, but
in the words of his wife he “makes a
good listener.” Mrs. Cassidy’s portrait
is by Maxwell Porteus.
Women golfers, as well as men, are
good sports in rising to the occasion in
aid of pros. In Westralia, for instance,
there is an annual caddies’ competition
in which lads never lack feminine carriers
for their bags; the women also lend
clubs for the day. Last week at Wood-
lands, associates raised over £lOO
towards expenses for sending a profes-
sional golfer to compete in America next
season. The foursomes proved so
popular that the entry list had to be
closed. Owing to the gale, hair and com-
plexions looked their very worst, and
players arrived back at the 19th feeling
as if they had just made a stormy sea
passage. In spite of the elements
Eastern’s champion, Miss E. M. Hutton,
and Royal Melbourne’s Miss M. Bell
brought home a card marked nine up.
The successful pair for the best nine in
were Mona MacLeod and Mrs. F.
Strachan, but the best nine out gave the
committee a problem; the scores of two
couples tallied in every detail. Counts
back, percentages, etc., were of no avail,
and finally the dozen golf balls were
split up between Mrs. Sloan Morpeth
and Shirley Tolhurst, Mrs. H. E. E.
Phillips and Mrs. T. A. Scheps.
The claim of a 34-year-old woman to
be the youngest grandmother in Aus-
tralia did not remain long unchallenged.
A West Melbourne women of 33 de-
clares herself to be the youngest grand-
mother in the British Empire—rather a
sweeping statement, though possibly she
excludes the colored population.


THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Frocking at the races was rather dis-
appointing. There were a few spring
silks with floppy hats, some tweed cos-
tumes or greatcoats, but black or navy
suits for the most part. One eye-catcher
was Madame Lauri Alwyn’s trained
georgette, with its crystal beads and
swathing of moley fox furs. Mrs. Sydney
Bell topped a skunk-collared black coat
with a shiny saucer hat, Mrs. Tom Leake’s
fawn linen tweed was spruce with knobby
wooden buttons, Violet Holmes stuck
king blue quills in her navy hat to match
her two-tone suit, Mrs. Fred Heron
perched a halo hat over her caped navy
ensemble, and black accessories were
worn with Mrs. Jock Morrison’s white-
and-blue-figured crepes.
Spotlights ranged in the four corners of
the Naval Depot Hall shone on a colored
medley of bunting, streamers, uniforms
and gowns at the R.A.N.R. Ball. Rear-
Admiral W. T. R. Ford and officers from
the Canberra, Stuart, Voyager and Ven-
detta, with Fremantle’s Mayor Gibson
and his lady, were received by Lieut.-
Commandcr Anderson and his wife, she
in shell-pink velvet. Mrs. Griffiths-
Bowen’s collar of silver lace and dia-
mente was draped over black velvet, bur-
nished copper satin was wrapped cape-
wise around Mrs. A. M. Martyn, Mrs.
Keen wafted pink tulle over filmy black
lace and Helen Johnston’s pristine crepes
ran to a satin stripe.
Brigadier-General and Mrs. Bessell-
Browne’s second daughter Joan went into
partnership with John Sewell at St.
Matthew’s Church, Guildford. Snowy
windswept satin undulated from the cowl
neckline to the hem of the long, sweep-
ing train, all cloudy with the mist of a
tulle veil caught by a coronet of orange-
blossom. Tory Sewell, May Bessell-
Browne and Joan Pailthorpe followed,
their pink taffeta and organdies billow-
ing over shimmering satin; the silver
leaves encircling their heads held clusters
of pink rosebuds over the ears.
Parkerville Home collected the worth-
while proceeds from the 200 Club’s
dance at the Embassy. Don Dilley
presided, and Joy Dickens, fluffy with
black tulle and georgette, was hon. sec.
Pat Flower had appliqued pink blooms
on her bouffant black taffetas, and
Nancy Dyson ran a gold stripe down her
crimson matelasse.
The Kylie Club’s afternoon of Eliza-
bethan music drew a warm response
from an audience that clamored for
encores. The madrigal singers, Mrs. Vin-
cent, Mrs. A. J. Baird, Zoe Lenegan, Bob
Buchanan and “Taffy” Miller, sat at a
table to sing their ditties, and held aloft
jugs of pseudo-beer. There were solos by
two members of the quintet, and Jean
Wilson combined with Kit Sherlock in
two-piano numbers.
Trophies won by the 28th Battalion
made a brave show in front of the dais
of the Karrakatta Club ballroom at the
officers’ dance. C.O. Major H. Wilson,
with his lady’s trained rosy satins at
elbow, murmured welcomes at the portals
next mess-president Capt. Lyneham and
his lady’s rich creamy laces.
Kay Grieve, Freda Gates and Joyce
Rossiter are doing the rounds of bride-
elect parties ; Nan Clarke, of Bunbury,
has announced her engagement to Bob
Lefroy, of Moora, and “Gint” Cusack
has been promised the heart and hand of
Beryl Pryce, of West Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Minda Home benefited materially by
a bridge party held in the Orungal at
Port Adelaide. Fifty tables were filled.
The company gave the afternoon-tea,
which was served in the dining saloon.
Two prizes were given by the com-
mander (Captain S. Gilling), a ships
bell in miniature, engraved “b.S.
Orungal,” with a kookaburra handle,
won by Mrs. S. Neil, and a silver clock,
won by Mrs. M. I. Chapman.
When Betty, third daughter of Wallace
Bruce and his lady, exchanged vows with
Robert, the son of Mrs. Robert Fowler
and the late Mr. Fowler, of Sydney, at
St. Cuthbert’s, Prospect, the church was
massed with arum-lilies. The bride was
gowned in white satin, high-waisted, the
square neck edged with pearls. The
bridal veil of tulle was caught with
orange-blossom at each side, and she
carried a sheaf of arum-lilies. Her
’maids, Helen Bruce (sister), Joan Reid,
Pat Stoddart, Ruth Winterbottom and
Connie Scott, wore white novelty crepe,
hair-striped in silver, the train a separate
panel from the waistline, with large silver
tissue roses along the hem. They wore
haloes of silver leaves, and walked up
the aisle linked together by a thick fes-
toon of white flowers, each bridesmaid
holding a loop. There was a reception
afterwards at the residence of the bride’s
parents, Medindie.
At Scots Church, North Terrace, Adel-
aide, the marriage was celebrated of
Norman T. Todd (secretary of Adelaide
Stock Exchange) to Lilian, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Mc-
Taggart, of Mambray, Fifth-avenue, St.
Peters. The church was decorated with
crimson and pink roses. The bride wore
ivory satin with tucked bodice, the long,
full sleeves tucked to the elbow. The
tulle bridal veil was held in place by
a halo of tulle and a narrow wreath of
orange-blossom. Anne and Gwen Mc-
Sheath-fit... lace contrast... brassiere top... split skirt... are new features
of this Prestige Slip. It is taken from the range of hand-cut Prestige
lingerie for Spring, and you can buy it in five sizes and two lengths!
Taggart (bride’s sisters) and Maisie Todd
(bridegroom’s sister) attended, frocked
alike in deep delphinium georgette, with
matching wide-brimmed crin. straw hats
having crimson velvet ribbon bands and
long ends at the back. They carried
sheaves of crimson roses.
Mrs. Reginald Walker, of Kensington
Gardens, gave a welcome-home party for
Maude Harris at Birk’s Piccadilly. Mrs.
Walker was frocked in a black-and-
white-check marocain, and wore a wide-
brimmed black ballibuntal straw hat.
This State is well to the fore in the
matter of women flyers. Marion, daugh-
ter of the W. B. Lunns, of Norwood, is
the S.A. representative of the Women’s
International Association of Aeronautics,
and will shortly receive a ring, an official
emblem of the association, which has the
initials W.I.A.A. in blue enamel in-
scribed on silver. Mrs. H. B. Bonney.
of Queensland, Australian governor of
the association, is the only other Aus-
tralian woman who possesses such a
ring. She was recently appointed a vice-
president of the whole organisation by
headquarters at Los Angeles.
TASMANIA.
There wasn’t room to swing any sort
of cat in Hadley’s Hotel on the night of
the party to house-warm the alterations
and improvements. Over 40 dinner-and-
dance parties, with guests running from
10 in number upwards, took up every
inch. The old hostelry looks well in its
new clothes. The dark, narrow hallway
has been expanded to a spacious lounge,
sporting a great open fireplace with
chimneypiece of the Speck s latest asset,
Cole’s Bay granite. The staircase is
handsome and modern, and there s a new
smoking-room for men only, with Con-
tinental bar and every comfort. Solt
carpets in tasteful colors are among the
recently-added features.
The Old Hobart and Tas. A. A. Asso-
ciations joined forces in organising a
dance at the Continental to raise funds
for the athletic championship meeting to
be held in the Speck in January. Lady
Clark danced in blue chiffon. The
Mayoress wore black lace with a velvet
coat.
His Ex. held an investiture at Govern-
ment House before leaving for Ceylon,
at which Mrs. Edith Waterworth, Alfred
George Brammall, and Anthony M. Orp-
wood received the O.B.E. Lady Clarke
entertained the recipients and a few of
their friends at morning-tea afterwards.
The Northern Tas. Alpine Club held
its annual dinner at the Cornwall Hotel,
president C. F. and Mrs. Monds receiv-
ing. Club trophies won during the season
were presented, and the evening was a
jolly one.
Longford Show, held in fine weather
and boasting record entries, was attended
by his Ex. and Lady Clark.
Passed away at his home, Windermere
Park, Claremont, J. C. E. Knight, a well-
known figure in motoring and aviation
circles in the Speck, despite advanced
age. He was a member of the first aero-
plane organisation here, and was a
pioneer motorist.
The Chief Justice (knight Herbert
Nicholls) is to act as Governor while his
Ex. is away on his health trip.
“Oakagee”: Australia never had a
worse advertisement than the few scores
of starved-looking, ragged, anaemic and
frequently infirm and decrepit abos. who
parade their degradation (and their need
of tobacco and small coins) at the in-
frequent railway stations on the West-
ralian side of the Trans, line. One can’t
blame the poor devils, but one can blame
the Government which permits them to
whine and cadge along the only high-
way between east and west. Magistrate
Moseley, the Royal Commissioner who
travelled all over Westralia last year to
investigate the treatment of Black
Brother, suggests that the natives in this
belt ot country should be relegated to
a reserve and not allowed near the line.
It is high time it was done. Many visi-
tors who land at Fremantle and dash
across Australia by train can’t help see-
ing these hapless specimens of a vanish-
ing race, and, since they never see any
others, are likely to conclude that they
are fair samples. Yet, even before the
baneful effects of civilisation began
to tell on them, it is doubtful if there
was a more debased type of native in
Australia than those for whom Mrs.
Daisy Bates has done such noble work-
The hungriness of the region about which
they wandered may well have set its
mark on them centuries before the white
man came.


m
Plpll
• The Hotel Mansions
Situated in the highest and most convenient posi-
tion in Sydney, this well-established Hotel gives
you every luxury and service.
We are noted for our splendid cuisine and
competent staff.
Reservations day and night—ever at your service!
SYDNEY’S SOCIAL CENTRE
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
DEAF
and isolated from friends and most of life’s
pleasures; but with the “Ardente” the Joys of
Rood hearing have been restored in thousands of
eases.. The “ARDEXTE” products include every
modern type of instrument or device for assisting
the hearing, both electrical and non-electrical.
“BONADENTES” for hearing without using the ears. “VAEVADENTES”—with tiny
amplifying valves, giving control of both volume and tone.. We test the hearing
with an Al DIOMKTKR which enables us to obtain a correct record of the hearing
capacity and to make a suitable correction for any defect.
Demonstrations and all information gladly given here or at your own home.
Write or telephone 8W66J4.
DEAF AIDS, LTD., Watson House, 9-13 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Agents—Melbourne: Mr, I'. E. Baker, 71 Collins Street. Brisbane: Mr. Claude Phillips,
;10 Queen Street. Perth: Mr. Percy Cannot, 18 Temple Court Buildings.
Wellington, New Zealand; Hearing Aids, Etd., 16 The Terrace.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Old-timer”: The “Courier-Mail’s”
new office building in Queen-street, Bris-
bane, will stand on the site of the old
"Daily Mail” office and adjacent prop-
erties and have a frontage to Queen-
street and Isles-lane. The building will
be six storeys, on a red granite base, the
upper sections being stone-colored con-
crete. It will be 112 ff. high, with twin
towers and radio equipment on top, and
the architecture may be described as neo-
picture show with straight, undecorated
lines and smoothed-off corners—somewhat
like the ultra-modern “Daily Express”
office in London. However, it is a cen-
tury better than the two offices which are
its parents. The “D.M.” building, in its
prime, used to shake to the throb of the
presses like an elephant with ague, and
the “Courier” office was a dismal pile—
once the biggest building in the State-
on the corner of two busy and noisy
streets. The transfer will release a valu-
able block for general commercial pur-
poses. The new edifice will house the
largest press in Australia, capable of
120,000 twenty-four-page papers per
hour.
♦ >( { sje »J<
"Alroy”: The scheme of P. S.
Paprell, an engineer, to build navigable
canals across the Barkly Tableland to
the region of Tennant’s Creek is not so
impracticable as it seems at first glance.
His idea is to divert the catchment areas
of rivers which run over the Barkly
"jumpdown” to Carpentaria Gulf and
brigade them with those of the Lake
Silvester and De Burgh, which lie south
of the centre of the tableland. Con-
siderable damming and locking would
be needed, and cost would lie largely in
transport, for there is no native material
handy for big concrete or stone works,
except at the Gulf end. On the north-
western side of the tableland the possi-
bilities of some such plan might well be
explored. The Victoria River is navi-
gable for 100 miles from its mouth, and
the spread of its waters would help a
lot of country if it could be accom-
plished.
* * * *
“Kiama”: D. L. Dymock, who may
justly claim to be the pioneer of modern
Australian dairying, lives quietly in Too-
woomba (Q.) after 90 years in Australia.
He is six years older than that, and surely
the longest dairyman ever built. Nearly
half a century ago he brought the first
separator from England to Jamberoo
(N.S.W.), which has exported so many
good cattle and cattlemen to Queensland,
and he was a prime mover in the build-
ing of the lonely little iron shed which
stands between Kiama (N.S.W.) and Jam-
beroo and which few people recognise
these days as Australia’s first butter fac-
tory. Dymock was always an ingenious
man, I attended the Nowra centenary
celebrations with him a decade ago, and
everything in Nowra was lovely except
(he mosquitoes, which were ardent cele-
brants, and the beds, which in our case
consisted of a couple of diminutive
stretchers on the verandah. Mine was a
foot short, and my old friend's two
feet, but he soon solved the problem by
putting the two couches bottom to
bottom. Then he climbed in at one
end of the combination and I at the
other, and although we overlapped con-
siderably where we joined we had the
only night’s sleep on that overcrowded
balcony that night.
* * * *
“Zedo”: A young man bound over at
a Brisbane court last week wins the belt
for the most original defence in a charge
of being on enclosed premises without
lawful excuse. A constable swore that
when discovered he said he was “search-
ing for a needle to mend a tear in his
trousers” —and produced the tear. It
reminds me of a gentleman I once found
in a camp at Dulacca. He arrived at
midnight carefully walking on the ends
of his toes and the tips of his fingers.
Visions of a raid on the family diamonds,
which I always kept in the water-bag,
were dispelled by his lucid and profane
explanation. He was camped a hundred
yards away, and, having risen from his
slumbers to get a drink, had walked into
a bunch of prickly-pear, which had so
impregnated his soles that he felt a new
method of locomotion was called for. All
he wanted from me was the loan of an
electric-torch and human company to
which he might unburden himself on the
pear menace.
* * * *
“Vic”: The North’s campaign of
gentle sarcasm over the Commonwealth's
£150,000 aerial geological survey reached
its climax with (he tour of Herbert Gepp
and Jimmy Stopford through the N.T. in
a large and luxurious aeroplane, while
the more permanent scientific surveyors
“ You seem to have a couple more piccaninnies every time you come here."
“No more this pfeller , boss. Mary bin hab 'em.”
tramped gloomily round established min-
ing camps, such as the Tennant and
Pine Creek, where the general forma-
tions have been known for decades.
Stopford—he used to be the union
secretary at Mt. Morgan—has been
expatiating on the hardships of the
Tennant and Arltunga, “where the
flies rise before sun-up and refuse to go
to bed early, and drinks cost eighteen
pence.” Gepp advised the miners of the
O.T. line to buy penny notebooks and
allow their observations to be copied by
the experts so that “they might correlate
the story.” “Where’s your notebook?”
is already established as a catch phrase
which it will take Canberra a long time
to live down.
* * * *
“Enrico”: Having devoted 36 years of
his life to the work of the Anglican
Church in the tropics, the Bishop of
New Guinea, Dr. Henry Newton, will
retire early next year. Dr. Newton went
to New Guinea as a mission priest in
1899, and, apart from six years as Bishop
of Carpentaria, he has spent the whole
intervening period in Papua. His one
brief holiday was in 1913, when he went
to England to attend the Lambeth Con-
ference. Born in Victoria in 1866, the
bishop had a brilliant career at the
Sydney University and at Oxford. He
entered the ministry in 1891, and went to
Queensland two years later. He was
stationed at Esk for a time, and went
to Maoriland before the tropics claimed
him. Three years ago the bishop made
a gesture typical of him when he pre-
sented his episcopal ring and pastoral
staff for sale to reduce the debt of the
mission. He has baptised 11,000 natives.
* * * *
“Reefer”: The Japanese who died of
sea-snake bite at Darwin had hard luck.
He was on a shell bed when the reptile
fastened itself on his wrist. It probably
is the only case of its kind on record,
though there are plenty of water-snakes
in the tropics. New Guinea waters are
full of them and electric eels, but it is
rarely that anyone is harmed.
‘‘Australia Jane’s” Budget
Delegates to the Manufacturers’ Con-
ference had a pretty good lime in be-
tween speeches. Sir Leslie, very bronzed
after a holiday at Magnetic Island, set
the ball of eloquence rolling, and Mayor
Jones gave a civic reception. Mayoress
Jones was hostess at a tea-drinking, and
Mrs. Forgan Smith and the wives of
Cabinet Ministers motored the visitors to
Mt. Coot-tha, and poured morning-tea
for them. Motor trips included a score of
local beauty-spots.
Mrs. James McGann, president of the
ladies’ entertainment committee, and
Mrs. A, A. Fullarton, in her usual sccre-
tarial job, had much to do with the
smooth and complete arrangements of
the week’s parties. Mrs. McCann enter-
tained the delegates’ wives at a picture
party, followed by supper, on the same
night that the men had a stag party.
Mrs. Forgan Smith, a good friend to
the Creche and Kindergarten, did all the
arranging of the Hallowe’en dance and
card party at the Belle Vue. She was
president, treasurer, secretary and com-
mittee all in one. Over 30 bridge tables
and a crowded ballroom promised heavy
clinking into the coffers of the institu-
tion. Hallowe’en trimmings, including
witches astride broomsticks, black cats,
bats and other mystic symbols, decked the
ballroom.
Warwick hostesses have been entertain-
ing Marjorie Connolly at a round of
pre-wedding teas. She’s the youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Dan Con-
nolly, who for 10 years were Warwick’s
Mayor and Mayoress. Early in Novem-
ber Marjorie is to become Mrs. C.
Geddes, of Rockhampton.
Mrs. M. Anthony, who has lived for
eight years in Rabaul, passed through
Brisbane en route to Maoriland, where
she will spend some months. Two sturdy
youngsters, both born at Rabaul, were
with her.
Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter looked in
on Brisbane for a few days on their way
back from Terrica, where they had been
staying with the Scott McLeods. Our
jacarandas delighted the lady, and she
spent a good deal of her time in Brisbane
in visiting spots where the best specimens
of these acclimatised aliens flourish. The
Poynters motored back to Sydney.
Lorna Compagnoni, who has been
studying the violin for the last three years
in London, has returned. She has a lot
of successful public appearances to her
credit, and one of her compositions,
“Legend,” was published in London.
She scored her L.A.B. at 15, together with
a prize for the highest marks in Queens-
land.
Hugo Brassey, of Dunk, seems to be
making a corner in islands; he has
bought Richards Island, in which Ivan
Menzies was at one time interested. Many
English visitors are on Dunk Island at
present, including Mrs. Hugh O’Brien
(Moira Brassey that was), her cousins,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Pollok, and E. O’Brien,
a brother-in-law.
Herries Forth must have a double
crown, if there is any truth in the old
wives’ talc that this attribute ensures the
owner of the head that carries it plenty
of travelling. Not long back from Asia,
she and her father arc motoring down
for the Cup, and then going on to Tas-
mania for some weeks.
In pouring rain 45 ex-residents of the
hamlet turned up for the meeting at
which a Mackay association was formed.
Mrs. Forgan Smith is the patroness, and
Mrs. P. H. Staines president. As there
are about 600 former residents of Mac-
kay in Brisbane, the association should
not lack members.
The forgotten miscreant who brought
the water-hyacinth to Brisbane was re-
membered recently with curses. So much
of the stuff was brought down by the
rainwaters that the Indooroopilly ferry
was held up, and a bridge at Ipswich
was in danger of being carried away.
Owners of small craft in the river had a
good deal of trouble. The plant, lovely
in flower, smells like 40 sewers when it
commences to wither.
Some time next February Mrs. Hinkler,
mother of Queensland’s greatest airman,
leaves for Italy to see her son’s grave. A
return-ticket on the Australia-Italia line
has been given to her.
The Lurline is carrying the E. M.
Tooths back from their round-the-world
honeymoon trip. The first week in
November will see them home again,
settled in the historic home on Toorak
Hill that was one of Eddie’s presents to
his bride.
Large contingents of westerners arrived
for the wedding of Everil Trude and
George Capper. The Ned Cappers got
here well beforehand, so that they could
put in a few days at Southport with Mr.
and Mrs. T. R. Hall (Mrs. Ned’s parents)
and allow small son to go through his
paces.
D. L. Dymock, the first man to use a
separator on his Downs dairy farm, has
just celebrated the ninetieth anniversary
of his landing in Australia. He lives
with Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Cunningham, of
Toowoomba, his son-in-law and daugh-
ter. Same week Mrs. E. C. Schmidt, who
spent her ninetieth birthday in Brisbane,
although she lives in Toowoomba, had
a party. In 1845 she was born at Kidder-
minster, but came to Queensland at the
age of 19. She has seen “The Swamp”
develop into the Queen City of the Downs.
Mrs. Roy Bell, of Eskdale, and her
daughter Phyllis, who are off to .Mel-
bourne for the Cup, will stay with the
Huntingfields at Government House.
Eve Armstrong, Lord Huntingfield’s
aunt, will go south a little later, and will
eat her Christmas dinner at Melbourne
Government House.


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days* trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
43 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
<s>
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
‘ C. Darvall, General Manager.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
When Keyed-up Nerves Reach Breaking-point
WIND
BY
E. DITHMACK.
THE wind, battering at the treetops
and roaring down the gorge, had
frayed at Walter’s nerves all day
long. For nearly a week now it had been
blowing, wild and baffling, while he and
Marshall felled the pine trees and loaded
them on the timber truck for the saw-
mill twelve miles away.
Intermittently during the day the
strident blasts came and departed, leaving
a keening in the trees like the wailing
of a grieving multitude.
Something in the tempestuousness of
the elements, in the abandonment to fury,
had reacted upon the boy, so that the
same wild passion took possession of his
own heart and mind and soul.
After sunset, when the wind had died
down to a dead calm, he would regain
something of his mind quiet, but before
the birds were fully awake the first
rustle of the wind would come again—
the slow-rising tempo, the impatient
tossing of branches, then the roar and
passion of a gale, with the trees writhing
backwards and forwards, trunks groan-
ing, the mad leaves whirling. Walter
would be conscious of nothing but the
fury of an unseen force, the desire within
himself to destroy as the wind destroyed ;
to batter and break and rout, oblivious
of all destruction.
After the prolonged gust had passed,
silence for a while would follow, with
the torn limbs lying like dead soldiers
in battle, the quivering trunks regaining
placidity before the next menacing gust
began.
It was three days now since Marshall
had gone off, flinging back word that he
would return when it suited him. Walter
had endured the loneliness and ruined
desolation, swinging his axe to drown
the wind’s turmoil, and when the two
selectors had ridden past had jumped at
the chance of loading the truck and
taking it into town.
Along the flats the wind abated. There
was a majestic calm about the white-
holed gums as he passed through them,
the placidity almost of cathedral pillars.
The sun, glinting through the green
foliage, brought peace to the young
mind.
If only, he thought, Marshall would
keep out of his way until the wind
cleared up! If only he could be sure of
getting away from the mill before he
came across the moody partner who had
goaded and tormented him for the past
six weeks!
Marshall had the strength of an ox
with the mentality of a devil. His big
body, reeking of sweat and sap from the
trees, seemed these days to be empty of
all emotion save a desire to torment his
victim. In the town fifteen miles away
he was a different person. His big form
and swaggering walk, his cold, blue eyes
and boastful tongue attracted many in
the community, particularly the girls.
And that was the trouble.
Ir had begun at the dance-hall the night
Marshall watched Walter swinging
round the floor with Elbe’s elhn bouy
held masterfully. A sleeping demon had
awakened in the man looking on at the
door. Queer conflicting thoughts had
chased through his mind —envy, desire,
the wish to show himself master of this
youthful Romeo.
He had laughed to himself, his hard,
bold eyes on the young couple. That
cub! Treating the world as his own
because a girl clung to him; dancing
with the easy grace of a brolga because
Love piped the tune!
Well Their eyes met across the
space of the room, his and young Walter
Dine’s. Marshall’s smouldering whim
was alive now —dominant. He’d show
this five-foot-five of conceit that where
a woman was concerned there was only
one man to be reckoned with.
He straightened and walked across the
room. Effie, mothlike, fluttering round
the flame of admiration, was flattered
by his attention, gratified at the looks of
envy following her*
“I’m taking you home to-night,” he
stated, looking down into the young
uplifted face. “See you keep the last
dance for me.”
“But I promised Walter,” she de-
murred. “A long time ago.”
“Are you his —for keeps?”
“Mo —not altogether, but he never
looks at anyone else.”
"He wouldn’t need to—with a girl like
you about.”
She laughed softly, the laugh woman
has given since Adam flattered Eve.
“From to-night there’ll be me to
reckon with,” Marshall told her, his hard
eyes roving round the room until they
met the resentful ones on watch at the
door. “You’ll see me now and again,
won’t you?”
“Perhaps,” She looked at ffim
teasingly. “If Walter doesn’t mind.”
From then on Marshall had tortured
and tormented the boy, sowing the seed
of distrust in his mind, bandying the
girl’s name about, till the light of mad-
ness rocked in Walter’s eyes.
“Why do you let him tell you such
things?” Effie soothed when, beside
himself, he had denounced her. “I
haven’t seen him for ages, I tell you.”
He would leave her, reassured, until
those half-veiled taunts began again on
the mountainside. The sneers and
insinuations as they loaded the logs or
sat at a lonely meal, with the wind rising
in the trees as rage rose in his heart.
There was nothing to take his mind away
from it. Only a bird-note obtruded on
their lonely companionship and a man’s
evil will played on a boy’s clean mind
so that it seethed and boiled in a desire
for revenge.
“He’s only teasing you,” Effie reiter-
ated ; “he knows I’d never look at anyone
but you. That’s what makes him mad!”
“Effie! Truly?”
“Of course. I’m sick of him.”
His head lay in her lap ; his turbulent
heart regained quiet in her presence.
NOW this wind had come, rocking at
his reason as it rocked the giant trees.
For three days he hadn’t seen the girl—
the three days in which Marshall had
been absent from the dump. There was
something portentous in this absence. It
was part of the older man’s devilishness
to go away and leave him there alone,
with only the roar of the wind lor
company, its echoes dying down the
gorge.
Perhaps Marshall had gone off with
Effie —perhaps even now she was in his
arms, for all her denying. But why
should he think such things? Hadn’t
Effie asserted over and over again that
she was his? Hadn’t she denied any
interest in Marshall save those first few
fits of infatuation?
It was afternoon when Walter reached
the timber-mill. Away from the rush
and roar of the wind his mind regained
sanity. Marshall, who heard he was in,
was ready to go back with him, his
bloated face and red eyes telling of the
three days’ activities.
Walter had time to slip into the office
and ring Effie while the logs were being
unloaded ; then they were away again,
rattling over the loose-planked bridge,
roaring along the main road and leaving
a cloud of dust behind.
It was dusk when they began the
mountain ascent, with the air a dead
calm and storm clouds banking up in
the west. Far mutters of thunders came
through the silence; odd flickering
flashes of lightning.
On each side of the track trees fell
away, their leafy heads level with the far
hills. There was no sound in all the
isolation, save the roaring of the truck
as it toiled up the rise.
Marshall sat silent and moody beside
the driver. The venom of frustration
worked in him, the desire to taunt and
goad the victor.
Clouds moved rapidly across the dark-
ening sky. A tentative breeze, edged with
cold, began to whisper through the listen-
ing trees.
“Oh, God!” thought Walter, “surely it
isn’t going to blow again!
He felt panicky at the thought, grip-
ping the wheel as though to keep hold
on his own thoughts.
Night descended like a pall. The
strong headlights swept the track ahead
as the truck crawled slowly up the in-
cline. Frightened bush creatures scuttled
across the path, running zigzag in the
glare of the lights.
Marshall struck a match and lit a
cigarette behind the shelter of his hat.
The flare from the light revealed his
sullen face and' bloodshot eyes.
“How many loads did you do while I
was away?” he asked at last.
“How many d’you think?” Walter
retorted hotly. “You know I can’t load
on my own. Only that Wills and Abie
Fisher came along I wouldn’t have been
down to-day.”
“I’ll expect to see a damned lot ready
for loading,” Marshall growled. “Three
days to fall”
Walter kept his mouth tight. He could
have retorted —God! how he could have
retorted, with that sodden lump beside
him. It was men like Marshall that
cumbered the earth, polluted it—men like
him that should be pushed off into no-
thingness The boy pulled himself
up on the edge of turbulent thoughts.
It must be the wind, he told himself,
making him think things like that!
The truck toiled up, with the engine
roaring and protesting. The wind was
steadily rising now, the storm coming
across hurriedly. The trees swayed and
bent in an agony of submission as the
wind increased. It rose to a crescendo
as they reached the summit of the range,
howling, lashing, to roar away down the
ravines, leaving a menacing silence
behind.
A WHITE tent showed up in the strong
lights. The two men dismounted
from the truck as it drew up at the dump,
and Marshall kicked together the
smouldering embers of the campfire.
Without waiting he covered the few
yards to the creek and brought the
blackened billy back.
Walter lit the hurricane lamp and
spread a paper on the table. He brought
various parcels from the truck, while
the storm pressed down. The clouds were
piling up in a blue-black mass, moving
angrily. Gusts of wind still came, flaying
at the tent flap, sending tins and cooking
utensils hurtling along the ground out-
side.
Marshall’s ill-temper increased as the
flames leapt out uncontrollably. He was
fretful and raw-nerved from his bender,
and the camp’s loneliness increased his
ire.
Walter was rattling the bread tin, put-
ting out the cups and plates.
“We’d better hurry up and get tea
over,” he called out. “There’s a ding-
dong storm coming.”
Marshall came in with the billy of
boiling tea, his inflamed eyes smarting
from the whirls of smoke.
“Where’s the beef?” he asked belliger-
ently, running his eyes over the table.
Walter looked up. “Beef?” he echoed ;
then, remembering, “I forgot it. Youll
have to do with what’s here.”


The Filter Tip protects jour throat
i
•/•A
i.i v
' (
du Maurier
FILTER
TIP
Cigarettes
The Filter Tip prevents harmful tobacco tar reaching your
throat. It safeguards your health and allows you to smoke as
many du Mauriers as you wish. No harmful effects. High-grade
Virginians. A quality cigarette with a filter tip— du Mauriers!
Remember, at Christmas all smokers like du Mauriers!
20 for 2/-; 50 for 5/-; 100 for 10/-
POST FREE FROM
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
umrner
•JtATIME
■
i (T
y^
* : a\\&
K^-iy
I
't'/jJ
/
J -<>
TS2H.
“Tea steadies
and invigorates”
says Mr. Stan McCabe
“EVERYONE who plays cricket or
■“any other sport knows the strain
of playing and remaining alert and
watchful for critical moments. You for-
get all about it in the excitement of the
game, but when the interval comes,
one is always ready for a good cup of
tea. It bucks you up and renews your
energy.
"Some people, I know, prefer Iced Tea
when they need a thirst quencher, and
this should become a very popular
drink this Summer."
Interesting ways of making Iced
Tea will be found in a new
FREE RECIPE BOOK
Write to the Tea Market Expansion
Bureau, Kyle House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney, enclosing one penny
stamp to cover postage.
«lot op
v lce«f
gooct
ns
gdf
“Forgot it!” Marshall was glad of
a pretext for an outburst. “You loafing
young wretch! You stand there and
tell me you forgot it! You wasted your
time ringing up that flash Jane of yours
—that’s what you did.”
The blood drummed in Walter’s ears.
There was the wind again—rising, lash-
ing to fury the harrowed trees!
Now the night was black with forebod-
ing storm. Over the valley a tower of
cloud moved, driven by the wind to pile
itself up into a solid mass. The newly-
risen moon was hidden behind the black-
ness, as though afraid of what the night
would bring.
Walter stared at the menacing face
across the small table. Something seethed
in his brain. Thunder rumbled from
the ravines, echoing round the hilltops.
“If I told you,” Marshall sneered,
“where she’s been for the last three
days”
Suddenly everything was a hideous
blinding light. The sound of crashing
crockery was mingled with the crackling
storm ; scalding tea flew as the table went
over, and Marshall was reeling back
through the tent opening, blood gushing
down his face.
THE night was wild with tempest and
* man’s rage. Over the tossing trees the
lightning flickered, revealing hidden
places; thunder crashed, then died
away, to leave behind a silence pregnant
with threat.
With that fire still in his brain, Waller
dragged the lantern from its hook and
stared at the blood-drenched face. He
had done it at last—what he had so often
dreamed of doing—what the wind had
for days been urging him to do.
Marshall lay still. Against the half-
burnt log the newly-made fire leapt and
flickered in the wind. Night was a tur-
moil of thunder and wind and intermit-
tently flashing skies. The elements
seemed to press down on the boy, ram-
ming at his brain.
He dragged the cumbersome body over
to the fire, his breath coming in quick
gasps. The days of hate and smoulder-
ing resentment had culminated in that
smashing blow. There’d be no more
taunts, no more veiled hints to smirch
a woman’s honor.
He threw more wood on the fire and
dragged the limp body closer. His one
thought now was not so much to erase
all trace of his crime as to free the earth
from that tainting presence. He forgot
the hours of friendship there had been
between them before Marshall’s whim to
torment him ; forgot the good he had
seen in the days when they had started
the truck together.
He hoisted the body on to the piled
wood and heaped up the fire.
With a rattle as of all the ghostly
guns of Flanders crackling and crashing
at once, the storm broke, and with it, in
a swishing, beating flood, the rain.
Half-blinded by the flash of lightning
and appalled at the thunder, Walter
raised his face in sheer incredulous fear.
He almost expected to see an avenging
Justice came hurtling from the sky. The
driving raindrops were slapping at the
fire, extinguishing it in incessantly hissing
drops.
A roaring wall of rain thundered up
through the night, the flickering lightning
showing the pelting sheets passing to the
mainland like a vast retreating army.
Sudden realisation came to Walter that
the wind had dropped. It was silent up
there now, save for the hissing rain and
the passing rumble of thunder.
He lifted his face to the cooling drops.
Sanity came to his chaotic mind. His
horror-widened eyes rested on the pyre.
He swung the lantern to the ridge-pole
and dragged Marshall back to the tent.
Without waiting for hat or coat;
hungry, wet and distraught, he plunged
down the muddy track, making for the
town.
AFTER a while the rain lifted, dwindled
to a steady drizzle. Little rivulets
trickled down the mountainsides;
desolate dripping sounds came from the
trees and bushes edging the road. The
moon came out again, lighting the sodden
path ; clouds rolled back to show a star-
lit sky,
Walter tramped on. He’d give himself
up—tell how it all had happened, even
to his attempt to burn the body. His
mind was clear now—peaceful after the
battering wind. If only this calm had
seized on him then, before the blow was
struck!
For mile after mile he plodded down
the mountain path, until at last he came
to the main road. Occasional cars
hurried past as he slunk beside the
fence.
It was past midnight when he reached
the town. His hand was a throbbing
pain where he had smashed into
Marshall. He’d go to the ambulance
first, then to the police station and give
himself up.
The streets were deserted, only a few
hungry dogs prowling about the gutters.
How often he and Marshall had seen
the place like this when they’d rattled in
with a load of logs!
Even now he far away, the
rumble of a timber truck coming in to
the mill. His heart grew sick. In all the
years to come, while life slowly ate itself
away behind blank walls, he would hear
the trucks, day and night, come rattling
in fropi the hills. He would feel again
the soft wind among the pines, hear the
mating call of birds and the rustle of
wild things in the bracken. He would
vision the stately trees crashing down
when the saw had ripped through the
wood, imagine pride as he measured the
mighty girths. Through all the years
there would be no freedom—no Effie —
nothing but emptiness. And all because
—because the wind had driven him to
madness.
He hesitated between giving himself
up and flight. It might be days, a week,
before Marshall was found. All that
time to make a start.
He crossed over to the ambulance
building. No good. They’d get a fellow
in the end —they always did. Better to
make a clean breast of everything and
get it* over.
He waited at the gate as the timber
truck came up the rise. The headlights
played over the draggled figure, wavered,
then slopped.
“My God! Walter!”
MARSHALL sprang from the driver’s
seat. The blood was caked on his
face, his clothes dishevelled.
“I thought you’d been killed in that
storm,” he said. “I called and called,
and looked for you everywhere. What
the hell made you clear out like that?”
Walter’s mind was a haze. He was
weak with hunger, exertion and. the
emotions of the day.
“Effie!” he said. “Where’s Effie?”
“How the devil should I know?”
Marshall retorted. “I haven’t seen her
for weeks.” There was a new respect in
his coward’s voice as he dismounted
from the truck. “You’d better wait till
I get this cut fixed up,” he said, “and
then come on home. We’re 100 busy
just now to hold up the job any
longer.”
Night in the Hut.
Dusk hangs mute in a steel-dark sky,
Low o’er this hold of the outlaw hills,
And things of the shadow go softly by,
Or softly nuzzle the shuttered sills,
A lost wind whimpers among the pines
And a strange star burns in the thatching
vines.
I watch alone —and the shining flame
Laughs and leaps with a golden grace,
Carving a city without a name
For a heart that had never a resting
place.
Spanish castles ? —but these remain
In a star-white land that was never Spain.
I dream alone —and the last flame dies,
And the shadows creep, and the
shadows creep.
Is it only the wind in the dark that cries ?
Only the echoes that weep and weep ?
Only a star in the gloom that glows.
Like dawn in the heart of a dew-wet
rose ?
Out of the darkness, the wind and the
rain.
Heart of my heart! are you calling•
yet ?
Or is love but a lyric, a lost refrain,
That I remember and you forget ?
Is it but the wind in the weeping pine ?
But a steadfast star in the shrouding
vine ?
QUEENSILAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


BACKACHE
Makes you Look and Feel so Old
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE
But act quickly. Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills from your chemist, and take them as directed. This
is the right thing to do, for De Witt’s Pills contain ingredients
which enable your kidneys to extract the harmful uric acid from
your system —just as Nature intended they should —and when
you get rid of this harmful uric acid, your back will cease aching.
Nothing else will do. You cannot obtain the same results
by any other means. Rubbing with embrocations or liniments
would probably aggravate the trouble, and add to your suffering.
But relief quickly follows the use of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and you know the pain is not likely to return,
because, by taking De Witt’s Pills, you have got rid of the cause.
ACT QUICKLY
Don’t wait, or the pain will get worse. Don’t experiment with
things you think may do you good. Get the remedy that has
been used with success all over the world for nearly fifty years.
m
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
•m
: vk’.
URIC, ACID
y.'r
Heed the good advice of those who have already
used the remedy.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs,
swollen feet or ankles, foul breath,
scalding pains, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede attacks of
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Lum-
bago or serious Kidney Trouble, and
much suffering and expense may be
saved by quickly getting a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, price
3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6
from your chemist to-day.
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of De Witt’s Pills to-night, and
in the morning you will see, feel and know
for certain that they are doing you good.
De Witt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Incident in the Napier Earthquake:-
THE STORY
OF MR JONES
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
MR. TOBIAS JONES, who had never
been called Toby, had that
bleached, undernourished look
that is the heritage of those of the
world’s workers who have their being
in dank, dark offices. Very long
and thin, he drooped a little, rather than
stooped, and peered, blinking, as though
he missed the glasses he did not wear.
He was bald only in effect, for his thin,
lank hair was bleached too —yellowy-
white, like the shoot of an onion that has
sprouted in a cellar.
But in his journeyings to and from
the office, Mr. Jones, though moving in
common with the herd, yet walked with
heroes and ancient gods. Though his
feet spurned city pavements, with them
he conquered new worlds, explored
sti'ange lands, sailed uncharted seas.
His limp grey hands that daily drove
a pen knew well the cold touch of gun-
stock and pistol-butt, of steering-wheel
and helm ; and these, unlike the pen that
was for ever eluding his clammy, bone-
less fingers, were firm to his grasp.
Returning nightly to his dingy little
suburban home and nagging, empty-
headed wife, Mr. Tobias Jones laid the
world away, and, with his feet in list
slippers and his tail-piece at ease in a
cushioned chair, went out adventuring.
There were no lands of the earth, past
or present, with which Mr. Jones was
not intimately acquainted.
For Mr. Jones was an omnivorous
reader of all that class of literature, both
fact and fiction, which deals with the far
places of the earth.
When Mr. Jones grew out of pot-
hooks he read all the books beloved of
masculine youth from time immemorial.
But though in time other youths put
these aside for tales of love or treatises
on high finance, Mr. Tobias Jones clung
through adolescence and young man-
hood to his first love. Passed through
his prime to a middle-age that was
slightly bleared of eye and slightly “fey,”
as though his soul had its being some-
where outside his mortal body; as
indeed it did.
For in the waking dream in which he
had his being Mr. Jones was identified
with heroes.
As in his boyhood he had haunted
coral islands, tropic lands and the Span-
ish Main, in one guise or another, so
now, nightly, he changed identity with
soldiers, sailors and explorers, the men
of action who went out with their lives
in their hands and did great deeds.
“Nobility,” Mr. Jones told himself
vaguely, “endurance, sacrifice for an
ideal; these things are infinitely more
than the mere fact of living.”
Late middle-age crept out of eternity
and laid its cold hands on Mr. Tobias
Jones. It shortened his breath and
thinned his hair, making him realise that
time indeed was flying ; that, unless he
hurried, life itself would be quenched,
and his a nameless grave.
IT was at about this period that, in-
credibly, a young man came into the
noisome office that Mr. Jones shared
with three contemporaries in a basement
in old High-street in the city of Auck-
land.
He came briskly, with laughter, bring-
ing a sense of unrest into its decorous
routine.
He had red hair and large hands and
a voice that resented the confines of the
tomb-like cell that had effectually sapped
the vitality of Mr, Jones and his col-
leagues.
His first words were “What a
morgue!” and his last —at the end of a
week —“The depresh drove me in here,
but I'd rather herd with cows than with
death! I'm going home!”
But during his brief span he fired Mr.
Tobias Jones with ambition.
For the red-haired young man was an
ardent St. John’s Ambulance man, and
appeared on his one Saturday morning
marvellously arrayed in the neat uniform
of the Ambulance Corps. And he talked
of the things he had seen and done, and
of how, “in the next war,” he would be
able, thanks to his expert knowledge,
to get away at once. See things. Do
things . . . But he did not mention
death . . .
So Mr. Jones bought a first-aid book,
and studied it with the eyes of adven-
ture.
Tiger-shooting, hurricanes, Arctic ice-
bergs and the discovery of new con-
tinents had gone beyond him ; but there
were other things a man might do.
The medical profession had its heroes.
Mr. Tobias Jones, as much to his own
astonishment as to that of the members
of the Ambulance Corps, joined up.
Owing to his age and his air of general
decrepitude, he had some difficulty in
the beginning, but, once admitted,
his earnest pursuit of knowledge and his
rather surprising aptitude earned him the
tolerance if not the respect of his
fellows.
That was in January of 1930.
By the close of the year, so diligent
was Mr. Jones in the pursuit of know-
ledge that he had become a full-blown
active member.
His satisfaction in himself and his uni-
form was pathetic, but there was nothing
pathetic in his execution of his duties.
He was as smart as his figure permitted.
He was punctual, civil and expert in the
art of bandaging and first-aid generally.
None of his patients on football and
hockey field ever realised, as his deft
fingers assuaged their hurts, that the
little man knelt, not on the play-
ing field or in the dressing-room, but on
a trackless desert among fallen* com-
rades, or in some rough shelter on the
outposts of the Empire where the King’s
troops were repulsing the invading
enemy.
ON the morning of February 3, 1931, a
little sickening tremor shook the con-
fines of Mr. Jones’s basement office.
He and his colleagues looked at each
other over their ledgers, each hoping he
did not look as green as his neighbor.
“Earthquake,” said Mr. Tobias Jones
in a voice that squeaked.
Mr. Smith nodded, and dropped his
pen.
Mr. Johnson took off his glasses to
wipe them, and his hands were not quite
steady.
“An earthquake —in Auckland —would
be a ghastly thing,” he remarked quaver-
ingly.
Mr. Tobias Jones agreed, and was re-
lieved to find that his voice was normal.
“It would be worse in Wellington;
but we are not on the earthquake belt.”
Mr. Johnson’s hands stopped shaking.
“Is that a fact?” said Mr. Smith. He
retrieved his pen, and they fell to the
discussion of the probable location of
the “fault” that made certain parts of
the island liable to the disturbing
phenomenon of earthquakes.
By twelve o’clock it was common
property that Napier, away down in
Hawke’s Bay, was in ruins, but it was not
until the following day that the general
public had any idea of the extent of the
disaster that had overtaken the sunny
little city.
“I thought,” said Mr. Johnson to Mr.
Tobias Jones, “that Napier was not on
the fault?”
There was silence in the basement
office.
Above them towered an ancient three-
storey brick building. In old High-
strfeet, two cars could just pass.
Someone trod heavily down the three
worn steps that led into the office ; the
young man with red hair who had pre-
ferred cows to death.
He was clad in the blue uniform that
had so appealed to Mr. Jones’s sense of
adventure, and he was agog with ex-
citement,
“They’ve called for volunteers to go
through with an ambulance,” he in-
formed them. “All members are asked
to report.”
Mr. Jones rose stiffly.
“Volunteers, eh? I’ll come along.”
Walking beside the red-haired young
giant, he knew a cold sensation at the
pit of his stomach.
Adventure was knocking at his door;
holding out her exacting hand.
The senior officer was very tactful.
He patted Mr. Jones on the back, say-
ing:
“Good for you, Toby! But this is a
young man’s picnic! ”


%
•••
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
pass-book disposes of all the money
worries that usually trouble the
traveller.
Whether the journey be undertaken
for business or pleasure purposes,
and so long as it is confined to
Australia and the Mandated Terri-
tories, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Service will operate through-
out. Money can be transferred to
any point, and withdrawn or
deposited at any one of the Bank’s
4,000 Branches and Agencies
without cost.
Ensure the utmost convenience and
safety by travelling, not with a
dangerously large amount of money
in your pocket, but with just your
pass-book to see you through.
commonweal™
SAVINGS -BANK
;V
WE’LL LOOK AFTER YOU ON THE
P&O
AGENTS
MACDONALD HAMILTON &C°
f)
Joint Passenger Booking Aqents-TouRiST Class
GILCHRIST WATT*.SANDERSON P
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
In Mr. Jones, who had never before
been called Toby, something new awoke,
some slumbering gallantry of spirit that
was made of the stuff of reality, and he
stood up, trembling a little ; but his voice
was steady as he refuted the platitude.
“Why should the young men always
do the dying? I may not be as strong
a* they are, to lift and dig, but I can
help the injured! You must let me go!
It is my right to go!” . His voice was
cracked again, as it had cracked with
the passing of the tremor. “It is my
right!” he said. “These young men
have all life, all adventure before them;
but for me, if this opportunity is taken
from me, what have I to live for,
except death?”
In the big white room was a little
silence ; and then the senior officer said:
“Very well, old man.”
Mr. Tobias Jones went out into the
street to fetch his uniform, and already
he walked with heroes.
IN the summery dusk the white ambu-
* lance rolled out of Auckland. The
men were almost gay. like boys on the
threshold of adventure. Realisation
came to them slowly with the dawn.
First there were scattered houses with
the chimneys down, and then there were
little shattered townships, where no one
had been hurt, but where the men from
Auckland discovered what it feels like
when the earth quivers and heaves
beneath the feet.
Along the roads, too, the refugees
came, while-faced, stricken folk, with
unnamed horror in dazed eyes.
And presently they came to Hastings,
where death was, and the nameless terror
of the stricken towns.
But Napier was their destination, and
they went on, no longer gay, but silent
and a little afraid, for the man who says
he has no fear when the earth trembles
and breaks in huge rifts, that man lies.
Huddled in the middle of the front
seat, Mr. Tobias Jones sat waiting for
death.
When they passed a yawning crack in
the road he stared at it with shuddering
fascination. The young men smoked
and chaffed spasmodically, but behind
their seeming lightness they, too, waited.
Sometimes the ground shook so that
even in the moving vehicle they felt it,
and the hills leaped up and tossed frag-
ments from their sides down into the
valleys.
Presently they ran along the Marine-
parade, through the smoking debris of
ihe town.
On their right the sea smiled in the
sunlight. On their left lay the ruins that
were like a livid scar.
Mr. Jones said in a small, cracked
voice:
“I can’t believe it!” Muttered in
frightened protest, “Can you believe it?”
None of the young men answered him.
Over his head they exchanged significant
glances. Themselves, they felt physically
a little sick. The people they passed
on the road seemed dazed, dehumanised,
aimless and utterly lost, as though all
meaning had gone from life.
Shattered homes and smouldering
ruins where once a town was, gone in
a night. Telegraph poles and electric-
light standards heaved up out of the
ground, leaning drunkenly in a tangle of
wires. Charred walls standing starkly,
crashing headlong as though hurled by
some unseen hand. The standing houses
with the ruins of the chimneys scattered
in the gardens, where, incredibly, flowers
still bloomed ; and over all a strange,
uncanny silence.
And then that ghastly shuddering and
the sudden crashings—the appalling
silence that was broken only by the
sound of masonry falling.
Mr, Jones said again;
“I can’t believe it! I can’t believe it!”
The red-haired boy answered him
grimly:
“This was a city yesterday.”
A middle-aged man spoke then for
the first time for hours.
“I saw towns in Flanders . . . but
they were not wholly blasted like
this.”
At headquarters on the parade every-
thing was quiet and orderly. They gave
Mr. Jones a nip of whisky and sent him
out in charge of a marine—a large, im-
perturbable man who smoked and swore
and spoke only once as they passed a
rescue party engaged in extricating a
tiny, gay-frocked body.
“It’s the kids,” he said. “Them
kids”
Mr. Jones stared, fascinated. Stared
at the toiling men, at the women who
went aimlessly, seeking with dazed eyes.
And always the earth rocked, and
always there were the crashings that
heralded death.
The marine left Mr. Jones in a little
street with a gang who toiled above what
had been a brick factory,
“There’s several alive under that,” he
announced. “Sometimes they yell”
But there was nothing callous in his
voice.
MR. JONES put his first-aid kit at his
feet and stood watching, moved un-
certainly towards the toiling men, but
they waved him back.
“Can’t afford to have you damaged,”
they told him. Under his feet the earth
shook.
Round a corner a man came.
His face was streaked with grime, and
there was blood on his hands.
He beckoned Mr. Jones.
Mr. Jones went round the corner and
down the steps into a splintered base-
ment.
The man he had to tend had only one
foot.
“You’d better bandage him before we
move him,” they told him. Biting his
lips, Mr, Jones stooped to his gruesome
task.
The earth shook.
Mr. Jones cried out incoherently, like
a beast, dropped his bandage and bolted
up the steps.
When he gained sufficient courage to
return, they were bringing the man up.
Tacitly they ignored him.
Shaken with fear and self-loathing, he
crept down the steps to retrieve his
outfit.
Round the corner by the ruined factory
two bodies lay. A girl in her teens and
a boy with yellow hair. Mr. Jones began
to cry, sobbing hysterically ; but when
after an interminable time they dragged
another boy from a living grave he ban-
daged the crushed hand deftly, though the
bandages were damp with the tears that
would flow. The boy looked at him
apathetically, at the burnt and shattered
town, at the far, fair sky. But his eyes
saw nothing. One of the men said:
“Twenty-four hours —expecting every
minute to be your last.”
“Expecting?” said Mr. Jones unex-
pectedly. “He doesn’t expect anything.
He’s numb ... I wish 1 was numb . . .
Oh, God, I’m afraid!”
Someone laughed grimly.
“Ain't we all?” he said, and went
climbing over the scorching brick, un-
conscious of his blistered hands and feet.
Mr. Jones sat down in the roadway,
staring dumbly at nothing. His heart
was water and his hands were ice, and
under him the ground quivered like a
sentient thing.
He got up again quickly, and wished
that he was dead.
Adventure had called, and he had
answered ; and now there was nothing
in the world, or out of it, but fear . . .
fear , . .
Mr. Jones forgot his first-aid box and
began to walk away without object or
sense of direction, like a blind sheep.
Fear and self-loathing possessed him
utterly, fobbing, he began to run.
UT of nowhere a figure materialised,
the figure of a young girl with tear-
stained face and wild, disordered hair.
She passed Mr. Jones without seeing
him, walking blindly towards a blackened
wall. Mr. Jones stopped and stared after
her stupidly, thinking “It will Tall and
she will be killed.” Instinctively he tried
to call after her, but his voice would not
come.
The tottering wall shivered. At its
foot the girl crouched, huddling her-
self against it, like a beast seeking shelter.
Mr. Jones began to run again. Not
fear, but fear of fear goaded him for-
ward. Once he stumbled and fell and
came to his feet again, whimpering like
a child and shocked out of his sense of
direction ; but in that shattering second
he remembered his gods, and pulled him-
self together sufficiently to get his bear-
ings. Sobbing and shuddering he went
on again, up to the crouching figure.
Babbling, he caught her shoulder and
attempted to drag her away, but she
clutched at the quivering wall and would
not move.
Mr. Jones wrung his hands, whimper-
ing over and over “Oh, God! Oh.
God!” Stooping, he managed somehow
to lift her, to stagger a few steps from |
the blackened towering menace.
Under his feet the earth quivered,
shook in convulsive heavings.
Mr. Jones dropped his burden and
looked back, screamed once in mortal
terror, and tried to run, nor ever knew'
that he had died.
When they found him his body was |
across the girl’s, his arms outflung.


THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
•T 1 i' Age” is a household publication whoso
sub'» ■ ibers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its in tvs columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world's happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find ‘ ''lie Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or-^-
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
■Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative. '
The Mail
is in 61,940
South Australian
Homes every
Week-End
these people
with money to spend
your advertising brings
big results. South Aus-
tralia is always ready to
buy.
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill E.C.4
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed cacti
week m wages trom tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newsjraper House, Melbourne: Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Advertising Efficacy for Nearly a Century !!
“The Examiner”
is the oldest and
most efficient
advertising
medium in
Tasmania.
For 93 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the
only one published in Launceston, has
been THE Advertising Medium for
Northern Tasmania. It is a record of
Advertising efficacy, based on known
results, and establishes its claim of being
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Jim was, as Denny suspected, the possessor of an
organising brain. He found two travellers who
managed all the cooking in four kerosene-tins over a
lire at the back of the church. He organised other
travellers into washing-up squads, and saw that the
plates and mugs they handed in were all duly marked
and apportioned to their correct owners. He super-
intended the unloading of the donations of meat and
vegetables and milk, and took care that Mrs. Mulver
and Ella did not steal too many of the cakes and
little dainties which kind-hearted ladies like Mrs.
Blakely secretly sent for the children.
In spite of the miserly way he was always com-
plaining about the amount everybody ate, the travellers
never fed better in their lives. They passed the good
news on, and there was an ever-increasing flood of
newcomers who had heard of the Tiburon soup-
kitchens. Tiburon explained that the soup-kitchen in
the Manchester Unity Hall was for locals only, and
that travellers went to Warning Hill. The food in
Tiburon was a lot worse than the food at Warning
Hill; but, as only the single men ate there, they took
what they were given without complaint, under the
impression that this was the fortune of war. Anyway,
they felt that the drinks were more frequent than in
the old days. The “shouters” were still to be found
during the week, as well as on Saturday ; and there
was no one really unhappy except old Dave White.
The night after Scorby’s raid Dave had got drunk
again, and had fallen off the sulky going home and
broken his leg. He had lain in the hospital until his
anxiety to return to his family and “his little comforts”
had convinced the not-unwilling hospital authorities
that he would be better at home. There he lay
confined to his bed and unable to cash in on the
general goodwill and sympathy. Dave had never
missed such a good chance in his life befe r e, and it
nearly broke his heart.
Sam was not very good company either, for he
was constantly brooding aloud over the way Ella
had thrown a bucket of icy-cold water over him on
their wedding night, and had gone to sleep with her
sisters. Ella had since constantly refused to share
the beautiful second-hand double-bed Sam had
bought; and altogether Sam had many painful things
to say to his father-in-law about the way he had
brought up his daughters. Sam also repudiated any
suggestion that he was going to give Dave any money.
His savings stayed in the bank right where they were.
Dave didn’t dare throw him out or hit him, because
of those savings. He might persuade Sam to change
or Ella to make the best of the marriage ; and in
the meantime it was wise to keep in with Sam.
The family had not forgiven Dave for selling
Larry’s horse, and Dave felt that he needed someone
on his side. He was not altogether sure that matters
had been in any way improved by his concession to
Sam that the marriage take place in the Church of
England.
V.
It was with a happy heart that Bill Sorrell packed
a little harmonium on to the back of his old car,
removed the two candlesticks from his own altar,
placed them with the hymnbooks beside him on the
front seat and set out for Warning Hill. At last he
felt he was obeying his Master’s bidding.
“Other sheep I have,” he repeated, “which are not
of this fold ; them also I must bring.”
Strange, shaggy, wild sheep ; sheep unused to any
law but that enforced by the policeman. Surely, he
thought, one may tell them of the law of love?
They all came. Denny had been stern about it.
“The parson’s been a good sport,” he proclaimed,
“an’ it’s up to us to give ’im a go. Of course, y’
needn’t listen, if it’s against y’r convictions, but it’s up
to you to come.”
The sermon which the Reverend Bill had prepared
was, he prided himself, rather a good one, even if a
little spoilt by the Mulvers’ Claudie, who howled
loudly at the candles and the tall man in the white
nightdress.
Bill Sorrell gave out his text:
“And there were also two others, malefactors,
led with Him to be put to death.”
He paused as though to prepare himself for the
plunge, and then unhurriedly pursued his way.
“You must remember,” he said simply, “that Jesus
Christ was not ‘respectable.’ He lived among poor
people and He died between two thieves. He tramped
A bucket of icy -cold water.
the roads about Jerusalem, going from town to town
with His friends and teaching the people by the road-
side and in the market-places and church doorways.
He was a carpenter’s son, you see, and probably some
of the Pharisees thought it was rather an insult that
a man who had poor parents should be so much wiser
than they were. Besides they felt that He was a rebel
against the State and the set order of things. He
terrorised the snobs and hypocrites, the good church-
men and good citizens ; He shocked the moral, right-
thinking people, and it was the good citizens, the
substantial men of property, who killed Him, although"
—he look around sadly as though he were explaining
the death of a dear friend—“it was people like you
and I, who really did not know the facts of the case,
who howled for His blood.”
He paused for a moment, and then went on to
speak of the two thieves, explaining that, since there
was so much poverty and so much theft in Jerusalem
and the Old World generally, people thought that, the
i severer measures you took against theft, the fewer
thieves there would be.
“But they were wrong,” said the rector, “because
cruelty will never stop people stealing when they are
hungry. Only removing the cause of their hunger
Vt ' ll He 1 we lit on to trace the lives of the two male-
who had give life t 0 the dead and
fed the hungry, hung between the man who had taken
life and the man who had starved. And vvasn t that
a strange thing?” He stopped to ponder °ver it with
his Chili in his hands. “And the man who hadn t had
a chance himself, but who could see the injustice or
Jesus being hung there, said: -Lord, remember me
when Thou comest into Thy kingdom.
“And He did, you know, he said gently. I
He paused again, and looked along the rows of
faces— brutish, stupid faces some of them, faces with
the look of kicked dogs.
“You don’t want to think of heaven only
something that may happen to you after you die
he said. “It’s something we are trying to build here
on earth—at least we ought to be doing so. You
must remember,” he concluded, ‘that it _was to
the poor men He knew, to the dust-stained travellers
and rough men of the roads, that Jesus said: To-day
thou shall be with Me in Paradise.
They were listening, and Bill Sorrell felt the
thrill of their listening as he had never done with
any congregation in Tiburon. When the service
was ended, they wanted to talk with him ; they
were touched, not only by his wanting to know
them, but by the knowledge that he was alienat-
ing his worthy parishioners to do it.
The rector went home and prayed very
thankfully for the benefits he had received. He
paid a visit during the week to the soup-kitchen
and was welcomed happily. _
“You ought to ’ave seen ’im, Ella reported,
“siltin’ on a butter-box helpin’ to peel the pota-
toes, Gee! It was a sight;’’
Dave expressed the opinion that it was
the most ungodly thing he had ever heard of.
On the following Sunday the rector
packed his little harmonium on the back of
the car again and made for Warning Hill.
He found Paul waiting for him with Blue,
Denny and one or two travellers.
“Where are the others?” he said to
Paul as he put on his cassock and surplice.
“There’s a picnic an’ sports meeting out at
Mudger’s Flat,” Paul answered. “An’ they’ve all
gone out to : it on a couple of lorries. They get a
free ride an’ tucker, so I don’t know when they’ll
be back.”
The rector preached to an almost empty
church, and it was not until he, rose from the final
Amen that he heard in the distance a far sound of
singing. It was the Warning Hill soup-kitchen clients
returning from the picnic. As they came they sang
lustily and with great cheerfulness:
“Show me the way f go ’ome.
I’m tired an’ I wanter go f bed.
I 'ad a little drink about an hour ago,
An’ it’s gone right to my head.”
The rector stopped his car half-way home and
sat fof a long time in the dark. And at last he laughed
rather queerly.
“Blessed is he that expecteth nothing,” said the
rector, “for he shall not be disappointed.”
Later on, of course, he prayed that he might be
forgiven the lapse, but it was the way he felt at the
moment.
(:To be continued next week.)


Don't let the priceless
years slip by!
'Vv ...
m
kM
mmm
j mamm
mm
a
DYORRHEA can add more years to your face than birthdays. It
attacks the gums even when the teeth are sound and gleaming. It
works at the roots of healthy teeth—it may cause them to loosen years
before your face should lose its youthful contour.
i hat s why you should brush your teeth with Forhan’s, the
dentist’s dentifrice. It cleans the teeth beautifully, safely and at the
same time it firms the gums, tones them up. Used with massage at
the time of brushing it helps to give them the coral glow of health. Full
directions with every tube.
Don t wait for middle-age—adopt Forhan’s as your Dentifrice
to-day.
Price 2 / -; extra large tube 3 ( -.
Australasian Agents:
The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 131 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Forhan’s
for the gums
More than a Toothpaste— it Prevents Pyorrhea
Any mouth may have
Pyorrhea, and at forty
the odds are
4 out of 5.
11l
cr
fwV"*
«*0 WOW -v H p
e ? ii^ w v
r. 4?
?A\
V\KH Co
CT
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ro “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o°V^
,o»"' ’ b
.el’
°Te* V< V* ■•••"
»»P * ..•- ..•••
*
A^iV
0^
' c^^>o^ e^°


*•
V
o
or
K
WHETTER
¥T|T
JL JCTR tuU
.
<-■ ■; ■;•
»**» «W» MtawJ
simm
„-^z
B9K
k
Si
i
i*
91
is
n
. :
>
111
II
m
m
m
Hi
■
*
m
: - ■
nd
IS
SB® ;
I ’ J
ss
__
Christmas Time is Gift Time
ecus razor
The World’s Best Safety
rserted by THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Padfic,
rsertea oy ga Casdereagh Street( Sydney, N.S.W.
I ” tmlate RepreMntativea: jgj *"* *****
STERN AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarie and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Stree ,
