

iuh jk-
t*P3L •
,>■&£* !•■(,■
.1- — m.
BS#
KT.i
-
fer— '., ’ Ts=-'
.7TT-
i3?juuu>
.fei
fe”
k-S l *' J
~K
V
PROTECTION
Through more than twenty centuries the
Great Wall has stretched its protecting arm
across Northern China. Policed by the
soldiers of the Empire newly unified by
Shi Hwang Ti, “First Universal Emperor,”
it was the main bulwark against the
Hunnish races. For hundreds of years
after 210 b.c. it herded the Huns westward.
And to-day it stands, 2000 years old and
more —the symbol of Protection,
Protection —the main bulwark in the
Cranwell policy of sound investment. In
Cranwells’ principle of offering share-
holdings in ESTABLISHED companies
only is Protection for the investing public.
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., believes,
further, that balance sheets and full infor-
mation about an investment should always
be available to the investor, and so offers
its free service to clients covering such
information. This policy has earned for
Cranwells its outstanding reputation for
stability, integrity and probity.
Inquiries are invited to
CRANWELLS (Australasia) LTD.
Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers.
’Phones: 87888. 87889.
Head Office;
Barrack House,
Barrack Street,
Sydney,
Branch Offices at
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,
Auckland, N.Z.
X
ET.i
--
w
The Bulletin
Where Union Is Strength
Vol. 56. —No. 2887.
ew
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Share in
Western Australians
Prosperity by Advertising
in the
Perth* s leading weekly,
the paper with the
Home Circulation .
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place,
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block," 424*426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
study Motor
tnqmccrmo
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of pour
Home-Study Course in MOTOR E N GIN ERRING
as advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My ■ Name
My Address ~
s.B.im ....
“The SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS”
The only
Evening Paper
in the North
of Tasmania.
(EST. 1924).
The S.E. Express gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Mid-
lands, and the North-West Coast of
Tasmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, it
is the Sunday Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN THE S.E. EXPRESS FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “The Examiner’’ (daily) and “Weekly Courier”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougun, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Well ington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Red Page
SOME
UNUSUAL
FICTION
Called in to
blow the trumpet
introductory to
Mulk Raj An-
and’s Untouch-
able, E. M. For-
ster manages a
most preposterous blast even for that
versatile instrument: “This remarkable
novel describes a day in the life of a
sweeper in an Indian city with every real-
istic circumstance. Is it a clean book
or a dirty one? Some readers, especi-
ally those who consider themselves all-
white, will go purple in the face with
rage before they have finished a dozen
pages, and will exclaim that they cannot
trust themselves to speak.”
Thus Mr. Forster; after which the
reader can plunge into the book, fear-
ing, or hoping, for the worst, and cer-
tain to be disappointed in either event.
Really, Mr. Forster does Mr. Anand,
and this present day as well, a rather
large injustice, for it is one of the
author’s achievements that he handles the
coarse aspects of his subject with skill;
and as for the present day, if there is
one hypocrisy with which it cannot be
charged it is surely that of mock-modesty.
Why, even Poetry, that chaste and some-
time lovely lady, will nowadays dilate
upon her bodily functions, and yours
and mine too, with unexampled thor-
oughness and unblushing relish.
The book is simply a presentation of
the vicious snob-consciousness which sets
apart a great mass of India’s millions,
street-sweepers and the
like, as “untouchable.” It is hardly to be
judged as fiction at all. Its value is in
its information; in the clearness with
wh'ich, using a sensitive young member
of the outcast as symbol, and describing
all the offensive things that might happen
to him in a day, it explains the complete
meaning of the word used for its title.
The position is not merely social ostra-
cism of a low menial class, to observe
which it is hardly necessary to go to
India ; it is a segregation enforced with
malignant rigidity, creating a caste of
pariahs beside whom slaves would be
defined as people in a condition of free-
dom. The book demonstrates by a host
of examples how wholly these outcasts
are regarded as being polluted and pol-
luting, tainting any and all they touch.
Anyone unacquainted with the question
of “untouchability” will read it with sur-
prise, reaching on to understanding of
one of the most monstrous and vicious
unwritten laws by which mankind has
ever degraded itself.
As fiction, since it insists in a subtitle
on being called a novel, it begins admir-
ably, on a plane of clear and high de-
tachment, and a sensation of pity, fiction-
ally evoked, lingers throughout for the
dby Bakha, aping the “fashun” of the
English, playing a good stick at boys’
hockey, and realising as his day proceeds
how thoroughly he is despised. Some
of the incidental scenes, at the boys’
hockey field, at a well, in a street and
at a meeting addressed by Gandhi, have
a vivid and telling simplicity, and the
characters of Bakha- and his sister give
the work at least two sound fictional
constructions. The author’s interest in
his subject, however, proves too much for
his powers of detachment, and he shortly
abandons hope in art, in indirect repre-
sentation, for the more feasibly effective
instrument of the tract. As such it is
a pretty cutting statement.
A Communist
in Mexico
It is another of
Mr, Forster’s find-
ings that Mr,
Anand’s novel has
“form”; a find-
ing apparently
based on the facts that the story
has a moral and that its action
is packed into the lime-space of
one day. If that constitutes form, the
best place to observe this phenomenon,
begging the moral, is in a tin of sar-
dines. Crowded, in fact, is the right
word, and “Little man, you’ve had a very
busy day!” is the natural and hardly
flattering reaction to it —that is, regard-
ing it as a work of fictional art.
Even in that sense form is conspicu-
ously absent from another unusual cur-
rent novel, The Carreta, latest of the
works of that curious genius B. Traven
to be translated into English. The
Carreta is so completely lacking in any-
thing that resembles form that, like Un-
touchable, though for a different reason,
it almost escapes from the embracing
term fiction altogether. Really, it is a
travel and propaganda book with fic-
tional clothes on. The place is the more
outlandish parts of Mexico, where the
carrying of goods and merchandise from
place to place is done with the carretas,
the rakish, hooded two-ox carts that have
prevailed there for generations. The wild
scene is observed through the eyes of the
carreteros, the drivers, one of them in
particular, a peon escaped from Mexico’s
special brand of slavery, that which
keeps thousands enslaved through petty
debts and other dependence upon their
masters.
Compared with the lot of the “un-
touchables,” the peon’s is paradise, but
it is slavery nevertheless ; and Traven,
who makes a business of nosing out the
underdog in odd parts of the world and'
standing champion for him, makes the
most of the case. He does this, as he
does most of his special pleading, smil-
ingly. There is in all his work a quality
of humor that cannot be prized out for
exhibition. It belongs to the texture ;
a cheerful buoyancy of style which rarely
deserts him. When it does—and it does
chiefly when you mention Church to
him—he can look as savage as a dancing
dervish. He dislikes Church intensely ;
and it is through this that his purpose
comes most clearly into the open.
He is, quite evidently, a Communist,
which may explain why one of his books,
The Death-Ship, the best of them that
I have so far read, has sold more than
1,650,000 copies in its Russian transla-
tion. It may explain also why, after
haying sold upwards of 300,000 in the
original German, it has been banned in
Germany by what passes for Govern-
ment in that free country. It does not
explain, however, the translation of the
book into 14 other languages. That is
a result of only one thing, its quality;
and The Garret a would have been an
infinitely better thing than it is if here,
as in The Death-Ship and also in The
Treasure of the Sierra Mad re, the artist
had kept his mission subjective to his
art. In other respects, too. The Carreta
does not compare with those forerunners.
It is so clumsily constructed that it is
hard to believe it follows them in the
author’s development. Its “form” is to
begin well and wander indulgently to
nowhere. But the Traven touch is in
its people ; the young peon is as memor-
able as the young “untouchable” ; and,
there is no mistake about it, what Traven
looks at the reader will see also.
Faulkner’s
Novel of
Air-racing
In its different
way an even
more unusual
novel than either
of the foregoing,
William Faulk-
ner’s Pylon can
be called fiction without any enlarging of
the term. It is impossible to call it any-
thing else. It is fiction purely and in
the fullest sense, and it might even be
great fiction.
What may seem to stand between it
and that final compliment is in the nature
of nearly all Faulkner’s work —a certain
eccentricity of narrative design which
tends to make his characters appear
grotesque, or somewhat eccentric, abstrac-
tions. To which criticism the reply falls
neatly enough that one of Faulkner’s
literary great-great-great ancestors on
the paternal side, M. Rabelais, secured
a certain degree of immortality by the
very means we are sniffing at.
With Faulkner, more than with any
other current writer that I know of, the
full enjoyment of the work is retrospec-
tive. It is as if he himself wrote his
books backwards, as he possibly may
do. At any rate, the full enjoyment of
Pylon seems to come from standing at
the end of it and watching it unfold,
not from, but towards, the beginning.
Faulkner is peculiarly a master of sus-
pense. His curious method in this
respect might be crystallised by instanc-
ing one telephone conversation from
Pylon, in which the reporter—-a master-
piece of eccentricity if ever one was
created!—rings up his editor and pro-
ceeds on an astounding monologue, the
climax to which is a request for a loan,
and the anti-climax the editor at last
breaking in to tell him he is fired. The
reader may laugh at any point or
throughout this bewildering rigmarole,
but only because of its apparent utter
absurdity. He will not know what it
is really all about nor sense the full
flavor of its comedy until afterwards.
Certainly a curious experience—like en-
joying a joke through a funnel. That is
how Faulkner manages suspense. The
suspense is there, in the baffling fact that
it is impossible to forecast his intention
from one sentence to another. Very
thoroughly indeed he breaks that rule
for fiction writing which advises letting
the reader know in advance exactly what
is going to happen, and never disappoint-
ing him. He has never done that more
thoroughly than he does it here. From
sentence to sentence he is continuously
surprising, yet, looking back from, the
end, it is all simple, orderly and inevit-
able.
The people, or people very like them,
and their occupation as well, have been
met before, in the gloriously comedic
short story “Death Drag,’ in Doctor
Martino. They are the great adventurers
of this age, the fliers, seen here, in an
air-race meeting for the dedication of
an American commercial airport. Faulk-
ner gets past the fripperies of romance
and emotionalisms of Babbittry to the
inner core of them. The airport, the
people, a newspaper office, the reporter s
“home,” the racing—all of it, looking 1
back, is marvellously real, it is even
possible that Faulkner has done nothing
better, though that is a suggestion to be
advanced gingerly of any book just read.
CECIL MANN.
[ Untouchable, by Mulk Raj Anand (Wishart;
7s. 6d.); The Carreta, by B. -Travel! (Chatto
and Windus; 7s. 6d.}; Pylon, by William
Faulkner (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.). Copies
frpm Angus and Robertson.]
Our Friendly
Critic
J. H. Curie’s
Travels and Men
(Methuen; 6s.
net), like his
previous books,
is mixed geo-
graphy and experience, salted with
philosophic pessimism. You drift round
the world with “LH,” at a walking pace,
and every now and then he stops to
pick up a twig and chew a few ideas
out of it.
He begins with the World War, and
he does not like either wars or the way
they are conducted. On August 4, 1914,
he was in Georgetown, British Guiana,
about to leave for the interior. Instead,
he rushed to Liverpool, imagining that
a mining engineer with world know-
ledge gained in 16 years’ continuous in-
spection of the earth’s mineral resources
might be some use to a sane War Office.
In the end, he enlisted as a private
under the command of a theatrical
bankrupt and a beardless platoon com-
mander who spoke to his charges “long
and earnestly about the deportment of
private soldiers, with special reference
to sexual matters.” These simple fellows
were in the habit of dining at Simpsons
in a group and booking the village inn
parlor for Saturday champagne suppers.
He spent much of his time carrying
drums of “what, for the sake of
euphemism, I will call slops” with a
companion who, when the day was bleak
and the war news bad and the drums
washing over against their frozen legs as
they plodded through the mud and icy
rain, found no worse outlet for his
misery than a mild:
By Jove! old man, don’t you think the
slops are an unusually deep, rich color
this morning?
Through such training he became a
second-lieutenant (with a sword), and at
length blossomed into a lecturer on war
economy. Then, having been run over
by a bus and had concussion, he was
deemed worthy to tour the Empire to
talk about war savings.
With a bound, he is in Africa crossing
from Cape to Cairo, It is at this sort
of thing he shines. He has the faculty
of crystallising description. You know
more about African geography after
reading one of his chapters than after
reading all the Geographies. Australia
does not come out of his inspection
so well. He has known us for 50 years.
{Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the conscience oj business.
ANTHONY
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND
“THE SENIOR STORE .
HORDERNS'
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
m
fU
o
u
<d
>
o
c
o
c
CD
3
m
>
"D
C
ro
JD
to
Smart D.B. Tweeds
fr°m 4%
This Overcoat has style! It is tailored to meet
the exacting demands of the well-dressed young
man. Double-breasted waisted style in All-Wool
Australian Tweeds. Light Grey tonings.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 49/6
Better quality • 59/6
New Season’s Raglans
Do you want a smart, good-looking Overcoat
that will give plenty of service? Then this
style should appeal. A Raglan tailored of best
English Coatings. Greys in Herringbone
effects. Rich Art. Satin linings.
Anthony Horderns’ Price ........... . 857-
Better qualities .
95/-, ! 05/-
D.B. Polo Overcoat
fr° m 39k
Apart from the appearance, the quality is a
feature of this inexpensive Overcoat. It is a
Double-breasted Polo style with all-round belt.
Made of All-Wool Tweeds in Herringbones and
Overchecks. Grey or Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 39/6
Better qualities .... 49/6, 59/6, 69/6, 79/6
Quality is the Key-Note at Anthony Horderns'
30/- “Tree” Brand Shoes “Hordura” Hats
m
M
The new “T re e” A|g j
Brand Super Hand- I *
craft Winter Shoes are
made in high-grade Tan Willow
and Black Box Calf on the Ace last
in the Bespoke model. Also
Brogues. Stout genuine welted
soles. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 30/-
Special Price, pair 25/-
The finish of “Hor- «g pm i
dura” Pure Fur Felt
hats is above re- '
proach, the leathers are grease-
proof and the bands are silk. Light
Greys, Zinc, Steel, Slate, Fawns,
Seal and Browns. “Hordura”
quality hats are obtainable only
at Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each .., 15/-
H Men’s Wear —Ground Floor. George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
- , . . ■
■ i
L
gg
ft
&
■W- "**l 'f)
'C>' <


I WANT YOU NEXT!
è
New —Sensational —Extra-
ordinary ! The greatest
demonstration of muscle-
building known to the
world of physical culture.
YOU can be next. Almost
overnight I’ll transform
you into a marvel of
muscular power—give you
astounding new health,
strength and vitality.
Read how!
AIiFREI) ,T. BRITON, Australasia’s Beading-
Physical Director. Founder of “Health and
Physical Culture” Magazine,
I’LL MAKE YOU FEEL ALIVE!
I'll give yon a new and wonderful THRILL. I’ll
put glorious new LIFE into every cell, nerve and
organ of your body. Man. things happen when I
start working on that body of yours. And they
happen FAST. Floods of vitality surge through
you, your vital organs tune up, and start hitting
on all six; your muscles begin to GROW. In 30
days you’re a changed man. You feel better and
look better than you ever did in your life. Your
body has been . completely rebuilt—you’ll wonder
where those big, beautifully proportioned muscles
came- from. .
Another MIRACLE IN MUSCLE. Yes, and this
time it’s YOU. Just give me a few minutes a day
in your own home —and Watch yourself.
I DON’T PROMISE ANYTHING
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid muscle
on your arms, to increase your chest five inches,
to develop your neck to a size larger collar, to add
three inches of powerful development to your thighs,
two inches to your calves; to give you a firm,
slim waist-line that will make you take in a notch
or two in your belt. And I don’t ask you to take
my word for it—l don’t promise anything—l back
every statement with an iron-clad GUARANTEE.
I’ve done all this for others; I can do it for you.
Get the PRO O'-’—send for my amazing new book—'
how, it’s FREE.
MIRACLES IN MUSCLE.
You hear everybody talking about them. Physical
culture authorities are amazed. Think of it. Men
transformed —almost overnight. Puny, sickly weak-
lings transformed into superb specimens of MAN-
HOOD. Strong mien made STRONGER. This
astounding new method works its wonders for ALL
—young or old, sick or well. Incredible? Yes;
but this is an age of marvels.
We speed across continents by aeroplane, where
once we plodded by stage coach. We talk through
the air by radio, where once we depended upon slow-
footed couriers. Anid now BRITON brings to
physical culture the greatest advance of the century.
BRITON, the pioneer—the first in the field —
to-day, as always, is years ahead of his time.
Briton training-—the original, the genuine, the
system that has built the world’s great strong men—
still sets the pace—startling new developments
make it the most modern system of body-building
in the world.
Ordinary systems become as old-fashioned as the
one-horse shay in comparison. Briton training
accomplishes almost overnight what other systems
can never accomplish in months and years.
80,000 PEOPLE HAVE READ
THIS AMAZING BOOK!
GET YOURS FREE!
I don’t ask vou one penny for this great book, the book that has changed the lives of hundreds
of fellows It’s the finest piece of reading you ever set eyes on. I swear you’ll never blink an eyelash
until you turn the last page. It’s crammed full of pictures of athletes who have taken the course,
pictures of rnvself; it’ll put that much kick into you you’ll feel like a mule —if it doesn’t, you’d
better roll over—you’re dead. Come on, then, take out the old pen or pencil and sign your name and
address on the coupon. But get to it. Do it NOW. To-morrow you may forget. Remember, its
something for nothing, and no strings attached, no obligation. Grab it!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW
ALVRED J. BRITON. Dept. L. 107 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—Please send me, absolutely FREE, a copy of your
latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—And How to
Acquire it.”
NAME
FUEL ADDRESS.,
; B. 12/6/?.30
w
Sydney was his first landfall when he
began wandering in 1885 —and his latest,
since he is here now. He was on Cool-
gardie and Kalgoorlie in the rush days,
and drove out bne morning with a
reserved young man named Hoover
who had just bought the Sons of Gwalia
for his company. He mourns for the
destruction of Australian and aboriginal
indigenous life, and pleads for reserves
for it. Of Australian resources he
has a high opinion. Our broad eastern
coastal agricultural belt he thinks “the
finest for its size in the world”;
Australia proper, more than any of the
Biblical regions, is the land flowing with
milk and honey. There is abundant food
supply, and that of the very best. The
meat'is prime; the butter, cream and dairy
products are renowned; the fruit like-
wise renowned; while the wines keep im-
proving every year. Only a stranger
coming among them can realise how good
a table is kept, even by Australia’s
humbler classes, and how they take it all
for granted. .. .no fear of aggression, com-
plete political freedom. No other race in
the world has been so favored.
But he says that too much ease has
made us sluggish about serious things—
“pleasure-loving, heedless of drift.” He
thinks that the well-to-do classes have
almost lost Australia to the working
classes, which have the country by the
throat. He quotes the results of our
indifference —the transcontinental line,
which should have cost £3,000,000, and
cost £6,000,000; the Harbor Bridge,
which, because of its extravagant cost,
is “always an eyesore to me.” Still, he
finds the Australian worker decent;
Over and over again I have noticed that
labor troubles and the rise of class hatred
have copie from non-Australians —from
British, Irish, Russians, Italians and the
like. The Australian make-up is good-
natured for choice....
If this once virile people, with their fine
pedigree, have not the guts and the gump-
tion to cast off their sloth, lay about
them with clubs, and bring the country
back where it was when I knew it first,
they must stew in their own juice, but I
am sorry about Australia.
He calls for a continuance of the White
Australia policy and a more national
outlook in place of that of the masses of
Sydney and Melbourne —“two great
parochial pushes,” tens of thousands of
whom, “have never seen a parrot in
flight nor a wild kangaroo,” and “never
want to.”
There is a great deal in what he says
—The Bulletin has been saying much
of it for years—-and his manner is
friendly and self-interested.
His book is an easy book to read, one
for thoughtful readers who like ripe
wisdom well digested and presented with
the detachment of an observer from
another planet.
EL V.
Notes on
Modern
Poetry—III
No comment
upon modern
poetry - however
curtailed —can be
complete without
the names of
James Joyce,
Ezra Pound and Gertrude Stein. The
chief value of Miss Stein is that she is a
literary curiosity. It is said, with what
truth 1 do not know, that her “work”
of turning the English language into a
rather dull jigsaw puzzle began as a joke.
It remains one.
Ezra Pound, eschewing fullstops and
commas —most instruments of punctua-
tion, in fact—runs wildly through the
poetic world carrying a torch. Its sparks
have ignited other poets, but he seems
more of a fanatical farceur than a poet,
and he has not as yet said, and it is
hardly likely that he ever will say. any-
thing that has not been much better
said before.
Joyce is a different matter. If, apart
from his older countrymen, W. B. Yeats
and “A.E.,” there is a giant in these days,
it is he. It is as a prose writer that he
has most influenced his age, but he has
also written poems in his own new lan-
guage that is culled from every tongue
under the sun and from curious altera-
tions and transpositions of English syl-
lables. His “Anna Livia Plurabelle” is
a mighty achievement —and the achieve-
ment of the reader who ploughs through
it to the bitter end is also praiseworthy!
It is curious that the greatest revolu-
tionary of literature and literary methods,
Joyce, and the two best of the younger
generation of poets should hail, not from
England, but from Gaelic countries.
Joyce is an Irishman, the poet F. R.
Higgins also an Irishman and the poet
who writes under the name of Hugh
Mac Diarmid is a Scot.
These two, more than any others, are
carrying on the true, eternal stream of
poetry in the English tongue. Higgins
has already published several books of
verse, notably Island Blood, The Dark
Breed and his latest volume, just out,
Arable Land. He is a modern poet in
the best sense of the word, for, being in
the full stream of poetry, he dares to
look back to the past and forward to the
future and to count himself and the
universe compact of both. Never was
there a lovelier poem than “Father and
Son.” One verse will give a hint of its
flavor: —
Yes, happy in Meath with me for a day
He walked, taking stock of herds hid in
their own breathing;
And naming colts, gusty as wind, once
steered by his hand
Lightnings winked in the eyes that were
half shy in greeting
Old friends —the wild blades, when he
gallivanted the land.
Mac Diarmid, at his best in lyrics, can-
not outdo Higgins in exquisite lyricism,
and Higgins is Mac Diarmid’s master in
assonance. But the Scotsman has the
greater range. There is no aspect of life
that is not meat for his great appetite.
He follows many paths, as such a various
intellect must; is didactic, angry, out-
rageous, quarrelsome in his poetry, but
his core, from which his best poems
come, is deep and sound as for long no
poet’s .has been. The fact that he writes
most of his poems in a sort of synthetic
Scots prevents his being known to those
who have no stomach for dialect. But
for the others who have courage in their
reading there will be splendid rewards.
Cwa’ een like milk-wort and bog-cotton
hair!
1 love you, earth, in this mood best o’ a
When the shy spirit like a lakh wind
moves
And frae the lift nae shadow can fa’
Since there’s nocht left to thraw a shadow
there
Owre een like milk-wort and milk-white
cotton hair.
Wad that nae leaf upon anither wheeled
A shadow either and nae root need dern
In sacrifice to let sic beauty be’
But deep surroondin darkness I discern
Is aye the price o’ licht. Wad licht
revealed
Naething but you and night nocht else
concealed.
It is in poems such as these I have
quoted that the hope for English poetry
resides.
LONDON.
PAMELA TRAVERS.
S. H. Prior
Memorial
Prize
The first year’s
competition for
the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize,
to be awarded
annually for Aus-
tralian works of
literature, closed on Thursday, June 6,
the date of the death, two years ago,
of The Bulletin editor whose services
to Australian literature the Prize com-
memorates.
Since the object of the trustees was
to recognise that service by continuing
a similar and perpetual encouragement
of Australian literature, this first year’s
competition has been eminently success-
ful. Upwards of 200 manuscripts have
been submitted, and, whatever the quality
of the work they contain, it is obvious
that a great deal of literary effort, at least,
has been stimulated directly by the Prize.
When S. H. Prior himself launched
The Bulletin Novel Competitions of
1928 and 1929 such works as A House
Is Built, Coonardoo and The Passage,
among the best novels that had been
written in Australia for more than 20
years, were a direct outcome, besides a
whole string of other novels that subse-
quently found publishers in Australia
and overseas. It is expected that, with
this annual literary competition, definite
encouragement of writers and writing in
Australia, Maoriland and hereabouts will
be successfully continued indefinitely.
The judges are now being appointed,
and their names will be published on the
Red Page next week, when full details
of the forthcoming year’s competition
will also be given. For the present, it
can be said, briefly, that the trustees
have decided to make this second year’s
competition for the Memorial Prize open
to all works of prose, with minor reser-
vations that will be stated in the com-
plete conditions. Thus, fiction, biog-
raphy, plays, works of travel and adven-
ture, and, in short, any prose work that
could be published as a book will be
eligible.
Censorship,
or Political
Fancy?
There is one
aspect of the
censorship which
should be empha-
sised —if is essen-
tially capricious.
Any come -by -
chance Minister for Customs is ipso
facto the Australian censor. He could
admit the books which appeal to his
personal taste, and ban those which do
not suit his particular brand of men-
tality.
At present Tom White is Minister for
Customs. He does not approve of Karl
Marx, Shakspeare’s narrative poems,
Boccaccio, Rabelais and other classics. A
turn of the political wheel might give the
Customs portfolio to Joe Gander, with
the result that all books would be banned
save Karl Marx and Edgar Wallace. Or
Jock Garden might become the adven-
titious censor, excluding everything
except Why I Fight and the monthly
minutes of Red Internationale meetings.
Another possibility is a crank who
abhors the paganism of Keats, has a
horror of Byron’s liaison with his half-
sister, and dislikes Shelley’s radical poli-
tical views. In fact, the possibilities are
endless. Each Federal election may be
followed by revision of the Index Ex-
purgatorius on strict party lines, supple-
mented by the literary idiosyncrasies of
the responsible Minister.
A material point is this: If it is harm-
ful for me to read the banned books, it
must be equally harmful for the censor
to read them. Why should he suffer
mental and moral injury to protect me ?
The sacrifice is too great!
At present the censorship stops at
books and moving pictures. But the
lesson of history teaches that powers
vested in Governments tend to be en-
larged. To-morrow it may extend to
sculpture and art, with all works banned
which do not comply with Mr. Spooner s
bathing regulation. Later we may get the
censor who considers that our bodies
need protecting as well as our minds.
Then will come the ban on alcoholic
drinks; or on corned beef, which is
notoriously bad for the digestion; or on
ginger beer, which is said to affect the
kidneys.
The censorship really needed is one
that will ban Parliaments. If this coun-
try had 20 years’ respite from meddle-
some Governments, industry would re-
cover, capital would flow into produc-
tive channels, and we would get out of
sight of that infernal “corner” which
we’ve already turned so often that we’re
growing dizzy!
LEUROOMBA.
A Satchel of Books
We, the Accused, by Ernest Raymond
(Cassell; Angus and Robertson ; I Os. 6d.).
Study of an ordinary commonplace man
who happens to poison his wife, and how
he can be made to appear a veritable
monster by prevailing police and press
methods. The little man, teacher in a
private “college,” is carrying on an
Indian summer liaison with a woman
teacher there when the light words of
another teacher fill his head with the
idea of administering the arsenic. The
author spreads acres of words over the
subsequent man-hunt, but goes on to a
fairly satisfying climax. Still, it is no
more than a short-story plot beaten out
over 629 large pages, though the author’s
pleasant conversational style makes it pass-
able reading for those with lots of time.
The Scandal of Father Brown, by
G. K.. Chesterton (Cassell; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d). More stories of the priest-
detective whose method is to pul prob-
lems of the greatest toughness into the
crucible of commonsense and produce
the solution at the end of 3000 or so
words. Pleasant, light reading, even
though every story does read like an
elaboration of a paradox invented by
Chesterton 30 years ago.
We Have Been Warned, by Naomi
Mitchison (Constable ; Angus and Rob-
ertson ; Bs. 6d.). Story of the post-war
Labor movement in England, with a
little private bomb-throwing, a little frec-
love, a little electioneering and a visit
to Russia as the principal incidents.
Characters excellently done, the story
convincing enough, and the sensuous
quality of the author’s style compensat-
ing for a general flatness.
Sketches in Criticism, by Van Wyck
Brooks (Dent; 10s. 6d. net). Miscel-
laneous essays on American letters by
one of the Old Contemptibles of criti-
cism, fighting a hard rearguard action
for traditional literature. He has few
illusions about the comparative size of
America’s literary effort in general, with-
out being iconoclastic. The game of
many boosted contemporaries he regards
as learned spoofing. “The great ideas
that animated literature 20 years ago are
too strong for the enfeebled stomachs
of to-day.” He attempts •to lead the
American colts back to that font, in the
hope that they will drink at it and per-
form better than they promise. The
essays are plainly written, pleasurable to
read after the pseudo-scientific jargon
which passes for the language of literary
criticism in much contemporary work.


NOW OPEN
£12.500,000
Under the authority of the Australian Loan Council
INVEST
* PROMPTLY
For the Acting Treasurer reserves the right to close at any time
and to make partial allotment if necessary.
£lO OR £lOOO, A SAFE AND PROFITABLE SECURITY
IS HERE OFFERED TO INVESTORS.
BONDS MAY READILY BE CONVERTED
INTO CASH AT ANY TIME.
Interest Rates
030/
Equivalent to
Annual Yield of
£3/8/5 %
Issue Price
£99/10/-
A Successful Loan will promote
Employment —Employment
will promote Business
Commonwealth Treasury,
CANBERRA, F.C.T
R. G. CASEY,
Acting Treasurer


_ JBI
1
mg,
■i
* *
mm
' f i
i»
M
u
IMA
m
m
ms& - f ' -
Ppf? *
«ii:.
Ilf
*
M
: .:
p
I p*.
m
.
■ :: H
f
;
X £:
I
■
:: ..
1, ■
■MBii VI
» £ >
a Jsf'
mlt
iii
iiiiiil
I ;: ii
X
. -a, »,;
m
Dhe Secret ofakealt/ii/a/c/ar/ef


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2887.
June 12, 1935.
WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS OVERBLOWN.
“With the Birthday additions, there are 173 Australian knights, of whom 26 are living abroad."
King Arthur: “You’ll have to put leaves in the Round Table, steward, and hire a couple of bargeloads of stout chairs. We’re going to have


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B/971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and Inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route.” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WHERE UNION IS STRENGTH.
May 31 was the twenty-fifth birthday of the South
African Union. The world sent congratulations, and
they have been fairly earned, for the Union is some-
thing more than a successful experiment in govern-
ment on British lines, though it is all that. There was
some warrant for the cry of the British Labor
member, uttered during the debate on the Govern-
ment’s air-defence measures, that “if their con-
querors had treated the Germans as you treated the
Boers, these preparations would not be necessary.”
After the war of 1899-1902 Cape Colony and
Natal, of course, retained their institutions. In
1906-07 grants of self-government were made to the
people of the defeated republics, but even before
the elections were held the leaders of both races
in the four divisions of the country were working
for a partnership. Advantage was taken of an inter-
colonial conference summoned for May, 1908, to
consider tariffs and railway rates to resolve “that the
best interests and the permanent prosperity of South
Africa can only be secured by an early union.” Fol-
lowed a national convention at Durban in October of
that year. The president was Sir Henry de Villiers,
Chief Justice at the Cape ; among the Boer delegates
were ex-President Steyn, Botha, De Wet, Delarey,
Smuts and Schalk Burger ; among the British were
Dr. Jameson, J. X. Merriman, F. R. Moor, Sir George
Farrar and Sir Percy Fitzpatrick.
The convention wasted no time. Apart from the
proceedings at Westminster, it took 10 years of con-
ferences, committee meetings, Parliamentary discus-
sions and referendums (10) to establish this Common-
wealth. Within four months, having in the meantime
repaired to Cape Town, the Afrikander Constitution-
makers had their draft ready ; by May 11, 1909, it had
been accepted, with alterations, by the four Legislatures
and ratified, as amended, by the convention, meet-
ing at Bloemfontein. Only in Natal was there a
referendum ; taken in June, 1909, it resulted in a
3-to-l majority for union. Eleven months after the
first sitting of the convention the South Africa Act
had been passed in the British Parliament and had
received the royal assent.
Before determining the form of government
to be adopted, the conventionists reviewed the work-
ing of the, U.S.A. and Australian Constitutions, and
were not impressed. They wanted a national Parlia-
ment with supreme and unchallengeable powers, and
decided that they would have nothing else. So, as a
writer of condensed history puts it:
The advocates of unification gained a complete
victory, and a form of government was agreed to which
made the Union of South Africa as close as that of
the United Kingdom.
Therein the delegates were very wise. Had four
States, a Commonwealth and a Supreme Court been
set up, under a Constitution like the Americans’ or
ours, it is highly improbable that the Federation
would have lasted beyond 1914, when a rising headed
by De Wet was put down by commandos led by
Botha and Britt. During the Great War Afrikanders
of both races who had been fighting one another
13 or 14 years before fought side by side in East
Africa and France, and Delville Wood is a glorious
name to all.
In the intervening years the Union has justified
its name. Old Boer War memories still linger, and
the bitterness bred of that conflict will not die out
until the last back-veld Dopper has been gathered to
his fathers ; but the Republican agitation is no longer
formidable: the party led by the former Republican
leader, now Prime Minister, stands for Dominion
status. The franchise has been broadened, except in
the case of the blacks (though the blacks in Cape
Colony retain the vote they had acquired before the
Union), and women were admitted to it in 1930. And,
unlike Australia, the country doesn’t swarm with
politicians, nor is it scourged with taxes.
The Union has 40 Senators and 150 Assembly-
men, together with a Governor-General who, on the
advice of his Ministers, appoints the four provincial
Administrators. These Administrators have a five
years’ tenure, and preside at meetings of the provincial
councils, members of which are elected on the Par-
liamentary franchise and sit for three years—there are
61 at the Cape, 57 in the Transvaal and 25 each in
Natal and the Orange Free State. The provincial
councils deal with provincial finance, primary educa-
tion. charity, municipal institutions, local works, roads
and bridges, markets, fish and game, and such other
matters as may be delegated to them. They have no
concurrent powers, and there is no Loan Council, so
no African Dwyer-Gray can threaten that his province
will secede unless the Union soothes it with loans at
the rate of £lO per head per annum. The debts and
finances of the provinces are controlled by the Union,
which in 1932-33 provided £2,631,500 of provincial
revenues amounting to £4.6l9,6oo—provincial expen-
diture amounted to £4,550,100. The provincial
councils don’t even look after railways, ports and
harbors, which are managed by a board with a Union
Minister for chairman. And all their ordinances are
“subject to the veto of the Governor-General-in-
Council.”
Unlike our Federation in ajl these respects, the
Union also takes a different view of defence. It
possesses an Active Citizen Force in which all citizens
of European descent in the 17-25 age group are liable
to peace training for four consecutive years. Those
not entered for peace training are compelled to put
in their four years in a rifle association, “thus ensur-
ing that, in course of time, all citizens will at least
know how to handle and use a rifle,”
One of the advantages of the South African form
of government is that it gives no quasi-legal character
to robbery or rebellion. Neither, of course, does it
admit of questionable constitutional interpretations
stifling the measures of Governments in national
emergencies, as has happened in the U.S.A. Rather
does it make for swift and united action when trouble
comes. In South Africa (as in Britain) they have
a national Government, which commands the sup-
port of 140 of the 150 Assemblymen.
In one other respect the Afrikanders have been
very fortunate. The possession of great goldmines
at a time when so many countries have gone off gold
has enabled them to balance their Budgets, keep
unprospcrous industries going and pay off a substan-
tial portion of their overseas debt. But a world
to which they have given so fine an example of
political sagacity and racial reconciliation will not
begrudge them this stroke of luck. Australians admire
their achievement and envy them the possession of
a Constitution that works.
“A THOUSAND PILOTS.”
In a country which inaugurated the first Dominion
commercial air service nearly 15 years ago, it is
startling to find that it has been necessary to form
an Australian Air League to promote the ideal of
“a thousand first-class pilots within the next two or
three years.” The number should be five thousand,
plus aircraftsmen. And with the League every muni-
cipality should work to see that in 10 years no youth
is graduated from a high school without knowledge
of the rudiments of flying.
In these days, to learn to fly an average machine
is easier than to learn to drive a car. Over 70 p.c.
of accidents —they are relatively few —are attribut-
able to carelessness, flying in risky weather or
over country without landing-grounds, or using
machines which are new and experimental or
due for the scrapheap. It is rarely that the well-tried
machine likely to fall into the hands of the ordinary
flier fails in itself if it is properly checked up before
taking the air. Most of the accidents, as among
motorists, arise through some driver doing what he
should not be doing.
Up till a year ago 1524 pilots’ licenses had been
granted in Australia. (Only 37 applicants had failed
to pass their tests.) But 866 of these had lapsed or
been cancelled, and only 433 private and 225 com-
mercial remained in force. Since then the numbers
have probably increased somewhat—ls 6 candidates
have gained “A” licenses through instruction at the
15 clubs and company schools which train pupils.
Most of them are voluntary affairs. To clubs the
Government grants a small establishment bonus —
£3OO on the completion of 600 flying hours during
the year, plus a pilot bonus of £2O for every new
“A”-class pilot, plus a bonus for every pilot who
renews his license, according to the number of air-
craft carried. Two aircraft maintained by the club
carry a £2O-per-pilot training bonus and a £lO-per-
pilot bonus for renewals. Clubs with up to eight
aircraft are recognised. Private concerns training
pilots may get a special grant.
Last year six clubs qualified for grants and
bonuses. Queensland topped the score by turning
out 30 new “A”-license pilots, with a total of 2864
flying hours. N. S. Wales, where the terminus of
the overseas commercial airline is in a remote country
town, so that British passengers have to filter through
by a local line from Brisbane, turned out only 14
fledglings, though it has nearly three times Queens-
land’s population.
Government assistance helps, but it is not all
that it should be. In U.S.A., another country of long
distances, every opportunity is given to youngsters to
become fliers, no matter how remote they may be.
Correspondence schools teach the rudiments. Univer-
sities and technical schools have special departments
—half a dozen of them cater for women as well as
men —training-ground engineers and technicians.
The airliners generally carry women attendants.
Most of these have technical training ; and training
has got beyond the subsidy stage. There is enough
commercial business to justify any youngster looking
to the air for a career.
More is involved than the mere subsidising of
pilots learning the business. Uncle Sam, like British
and European Governments, wastes no landing-ground.
Along the mail routes there is a landing area of some
sort every 20 miles or so where the country allows.
It may be a properly-graded area, with a cement
runway. It may be a farmer’s field, with a landing
light provided by the Government and a wind
balloon, the owner being paid to keep the area
free of obstruction and to have somebody available
to light the ground or guide a ’plane landing in
emergency at any hour of the day or night.
Australia, on the other hand, literally has
thousands of miles of air route over which it is peril-
ous to fly. The private flier risks his life every time
he crosses the Barkly Tableland, where there is not
a trustworthy landmark in hundreds of miles of
Mitchell-grass plain. There are other regions in which
a landing means death. Many towns have neither aero-
dromes nor beacons nor fuel facilities. In the whole
country, there is no modern beam “road” along which
aeroplanes may steer through the skyways in safety
Flying entered a new sphere early this year. Two
aeroplanes have risen perpendicularly from the ground
—one a new type of autogiro, a machine which
already has been trained to hover at down to eight
miles an hour and to land in a few yards. It is now
certain that within a decade there will be a type of
’plane in general use which it will be possible to
dump down and garage on city buildings, and which
any woman may be able to take up into the air and
bring down.
Nevertheless, Australia lags behind. Australia,
whose Hargrave made modern flying possible, whose
Wragge’s slotted wing made it almost safe for the
novice, whose Dallas, Hawker, Brearley, Ross Smith,
Kingsford Smith, Taylor and Pentland helped to demon-
strate flying possibilities in war and the aeroplane’s
adaptability to long-distance flying—in commercial and
military aviation alike, Australia, as it were, is “not
in the race” ; and only because its rulers lack vision.
If the Government paid for the training of every
pilot in 1000, £60,000 should cover the bill. But the
country needs more than pilots. It should be spending
money on landing-grounds and lighting, and it should
provide bonuses for aerial invention—a fair thing
when big prizes are given for second-rate talkies —and
special tax concessions for firms prepared to manu-
facture and market cheap aircraft. And, in conjunc-
tion with Maoriland, it should establish a mail and
passenger service over the Tasman, forming a com-
pany on the model of A.W.A., that splendid example
of Australian enterprise in another field which serves
both Dominions and enjoys the confidence of both.
THE AMERICANISATION OF AUSTRALIA.
The movement has been going on ever since we
borrowed our ill-starred Constitution from the
U.S.A. ; the movies greatly accelerated it, and, for
geographical reasons, it has always been most marked
in N. S. Wales. If we followed America in one or
two of the many directions in which it shines —in
the splendid public spirit, for example, which impels
the rich to endow' art galleries, orchestras, opera-
houses, universities, colleges, libraries, hospitals—
there might be excuses. But imitators have an uncanny
flair for the worst.
A Sydney organisation, the Cultural Defence Com-
mittee, has drawn attention in a recent pamphlet to
some of the literary and journalistic atrocities we are
buying at cut rates from Uncle Sam. Dozens of
moron adventure magazines with names like “Ace
High” and “Dime Western.” Dozens of horror
novelettes —“Dime Detective,” “Dime Mystery,”
“Spider Terror.” Dozens of movie magazines. Idiotic
air romances (“Flying Ace,” “Daredevil Ace,” “Battle
Birds,” “Air Birds”). Romances about great Ameri-
can gangsters, amorists, divorcees, bank-robbers,
kidnappers and murderers.
A Sydney weekly is running an imported color
feature dealing with the adventures of a practically
naked American man and girl, and a daily specialises
in the activities of some incredible American youths
under a “captain” in a preposterous jungle. A
woman’s paper “devotes a full page each week to
drawings which depict the exploits of a sorcerer, in
the guise of an American vaudeville conjuror, with
an American negro henchman.” Every week-day and
-night Hollywood talkies are unwound which present
the lives of crook lawyers, gangsters, great American
lovers, kidnappers, air adventurers and murderers, and
listeners-in get similar stuff from American records.
It is only a little over five years since the bom-
bardment of Australia with Bowery wise- and love-
cracks became intensive, yet in that time our speech
has been revolutionised on its colloquial side. All over
Australia, and particularly in N. S. Wales, boys and
girls are using the jargon and, so far as they can
manage it, the intonations of American thugs who are
“brought to them for their entertainment.”
The assumption of military titles by commercial
men which Bulletin contributors have been com-
plaining about comes from America. Mark Twain
once wrote that, feeling lonely on a Mississippi
steamer, he said “Good-bye, General” to the crowd
on a receding wharf. All the males answered “Good-
bye.” That couldn’t happen in England, which is a
true democracy in the sense that most of the inhabi-
tants obey the rules. Something like it might happen
in N. S. Wales at a function where a number of
retired militiamen and ex-t.os. were present.
Since our young men picked up the conventions
of a land where even policemen wear Sam Browne
belts and are “captains,” and where able-bodied males
are proud to stand in front of movie palaces in
imitation military or naval uniforms, the ranker’s
uniform of which the Diggers were so proud has gone
out of fashion. At latest advices the A.M.F. had 2407
officers and 25,181 men. Nothing like it has been
seen in an English-speaking community since pre-
war days, when some of America’s State militias had
an officer to five men.
In “Ruggles of Red Gap” Charles Laughton
appears as a valet who, on arriving in America, is
addressed as “colonel.” It might get laughs in England ;
Sydney audiences are not amused. Their papers are
full of similar references to civilians.
One of the Briton’s most valuable qualities is his
capacity for laughing pretentious frauds out of court.
It has enabled the nation to keep its head in the
presence of the innumerable “new” movements~in
art, religion, morality, finance, economics—which are
among the symptoms of the world’s post-war malaise.
Australians had this quality, and should recover it.
10-2-4.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A New British Cabinet.
Ramsay MacDonald is no longer Prime Minister,
though still in the Cabinet. He is a phenomenon that
only Britain could produce: a Board-school boy who
triumphed over poverty ; a champion of and a sufferer
in unpopular causes—socialism and Labor-m-politics
who saw them become fashicnabte. During the
war he was branded as a pacifist, and British seamen
refused to carry him to Sweden to a conference which
Bolshevists proposed to attend. In 1918 he lost the
seat he had held for 18 years. Six years later he was
leader of the first British Labor Administration.
His minority Government fell, but 1929 saw
him heading another. When he could no longer
handle followers who refused to admit that
depression had arrived and disaster -was near, he
formed a national Government with Conservatives
and Liberals. At a general election he and his new
backers swept the country, with results which have
endured. But he has been ill, his sight is failing, and
of his National Laborites there are only 13 in a House
of 615, while the Conservatives number 472. So he
steps down gracefully. The history of his Govern-
ment shows how readily Britons compromise and how
little party counts with them in crises.
Stanley Baldwin succeeds, A short, sturdy,
reddish man, with a very large head and a counten-
ance which was made for cartoonists, he comes of
engineering stock with a dash of imaginative blood —
Kipling is a cousin. Lloyd George discovered him
during the war, when he had been in Parliament 11
years without having achieved office. A product of
Harrow and Trinity College, Cambridge, Baldwin
is a fine classical scholar, an able speaker, a humanist
and an Empire man in the best sense.
At the sacrifice of office Baldwin carried the first
instalment of preference to Dominion produce. He
told a Parliamentary conference in 1926 that he fore-
saw the day when the centre of Empire might shift
to one of the Dominions —probably to the Antipodes.
During the war he presented a large part of his
private fortune to the nation.
MacDonald is nearly 69, Baldwin nearly 68. Too
old at 60? Britain does not believe it, nor did the
Allies nor yet the Central Powers during the darkest
times of the war. *
♦ —r
Speed and Ships.
The new French liner Normandie, 79,000 tons, has
cut the Atlantic record from Bishop’s Rock to
Ambrose Light off New York, 2940 miles, to four
days three hours five minutes. The Queen Mary,
since she will have at least 20,000 h.p. more in her,
has a smaller displacement and greater propellers, is
expected to beat this time. After the war the best
average speed for an Atlantic crossing was the Italian
liner Rex’s 28.9 knots. The Normandie registered
29.6 knots.
It is enough to make Australian mouths water.
Half our isolation comes from the slowness of ships.
Fourteen years ago there was only one vessel trading
in or to Australian waters among the 80 fastest ships
in the world—the Loongana ; to-day the position has
not improved. It still takes a month to get sea mails
from London, even with the aid of train dashes across
Europe and Australia. By sea all the way, mail
steamers take 35 to 37 days to reach London from
.Sydney —about 12,500 miles. Small cargo boats
running wool to Dunkirk beat the liners by three
to five days—they do not go to Colombo. If they
carried Sydney mail from Fremantle and landed
it at an Italian port it would arrive nearly a week
earlier.
In the Pacific, British mail services take 22 days
to get letters from Sydney to Vancouver or San
Francisco. American ships do it in 18 days. The
distance is about 7000 miles. Taking train across
America, the passenger can compass the remaining
6000 miles to London in eight to ten days.
Our connections with Asia, becoming vitally
important to us in trade, are so slow that it is a
major undertaking to get there and back. The round
trip, Sydney-Japan-Sydney, 6000 miles each way, calls
for a 10 weeks’ absence. Twenty-knot vessels could
do the round journey comfortably inside a month,
and Hong Kong would be 9\ days’ actual steaming
from Sydney.
To cut down the American journey by one-third
would make a vast difference ; but it would mean a
great deal more to be able to reach London in three
weeks. It could be done by combining 23-knqt boats
with the existing train services, even allowing for
present stops. To business people, even a consider-
able increase in fares would make it worth while, but
difficulties stand in the way while liners, subsidised
to carry mail and catering on a palatial scale for large
numbers of passengers, also serve as cargo boats.
Speed means engine power, which, in turn, calls for
additional space in proportion to hull content and
sacrifice of earning capacity. At the same time, there
is nothing like trying.
Atlantic speeds have been built under strong com-
petition among four countries. In the later stages
Governments have entered the field. The Queen
Mary, for instance, was subsidised by the British
Treasury largely as an unemployment measure. There
is serious competition on the Australian routes only
across the Pacific, where subsidy enables the U.S.A.
line to lick us hollow and eat up trade which should
be going into Australian pockets. It may be reserved
for an Australian corporation with a Government
shareholding to set new speed standards for overseas
travel.
♦
The Magic of a Gold Pass.
Two or three weeks ago a businessman was travelling
by rail from Adelaide to Sydney. On changing trains
at Albury he went along to claim his sleeping berth
(booked and paid for in Adelaide three days pre-
viously, and checked by the Melbourne booking-clerk
at three o’clock that day), only to be informed that
no berth was booked for him.
He protested, and produced his reservation ticket.
“Must be a mistake. That berth’s occupied,” he was
told.
More protests and a demand to see the berthing
list. Reference to the list showed that the passenger s
name had been crossed out in pencil and that of an
M. inserted above it.
The stationmaster was then appealed to, and it
was revealed that the alteration had been made in
accordance with instructions wired from Melbourne
at 4.30 p.m.
Further protests proved futile, and the passenger
was eventually “accommodated” in a berth in the
Canberra car. As this car is detached, from the main
express at Goulburn, he had to leave his bed in the
small hours of the morning, dress and change into
another compartment, where he sat up for the rest
of the night reflecting on the magical properties of a
gold pass which could secure for its holder something
for which another man had paid.
The incident is not recorded as a reflection upon
the State member, who was probably unaware that
he had been the cause of any inconvenience, but it
shows the peculiar workings of the official mind,
which mistakes the servants of the people for their
masters.
It also explains in part the increasing number of
persons who travel inter-State by sea, where they can
find comfort and courtesy unknown on Government
railways.
♦
Tunnels for Traffic.
For some strange reason, Melbourne has never
attempted to ease its congestion of pedestrian traffic
by constructing subways. Whenever the obvious solu-
tion has been suggested, the City Council has dis-
missed it with the airy statement that subways are
little used in other cities where they have been tried.
But Melbourne is peculiarly situated. At peak
hours the congestion is greater than that in any part,
at any hour, of London, Paris or New York, owing
to the Victorian capital having been so shortsighted
as to make the whole of its suburban railway system
finish at the same spot. Moreover, Melbourne trains
do not discharge their passengers at the street level.
Passengers would not have to make a descent
and then an ascent if subways were provided. They
would have 15ft. to rise just as they have now, and
the construction of subways beneath Flinders-
street would enable the vast mass of train travellers
to be distributed over various points. But there is a
further alternative. The Railway Department could
cut the existing trouble in half by continuing the
existing platforms under Swanston-street to discharge
their passengers on the east side of that thoroughfare.
During the past few years, the eastern part of the
city has developed tremendously. Every man and
woman working in the offices and factories on that
side would certainly rather cross the road sub-
terraneously than be subjected to the long waits
they endure to-day. With this reform on the part of
the railways and the piercing of two or three tunnels
beneath Flinders-street, Melbourne’s congestion
around Young and Jackson’s corner, crowded and
dangerous at certain times, would be a thing of the
past.
Police Chief Blarney has been moved to talk
on the subject, and has strongly advocated con-
struction of subways. General Blarney is a man
whose word carries weight, and, now that one in a
leading position and one who takes peculiar interest
in traffic problems has spoken out, there is a possi-
bility that the wiseacres of the City Council may
spare a few minutes from their study of Mayoral
chains and aldermanic costumes to carry out a reform
which commonsense has demanded for Melbourne
for the past 10 years.
«
Unemployment Insurance.
N. S. Wales is the latest State to consider a scheme
of unemployment insurance. Britain has one;
Queensland has operated a plan for 12 years.
In Britain, finance comes in three weekly contri-
butions —lOd. each from the Exchequer, the employer
and the employee for adult males; 9d. for females ;
half rates for juveniles. The insured are entitled
to benefits while out of work for a maximum of 156
days. Males get 15s. 3d., females 13s. 6d., adolescents
down to 4s. 6d. per week. To this is added Bs. for each
adult dependant and 2s. for each child supported.
Though the fund produces £59,500,000 a year, it could
not stand the strain of the depression. It has an accu-
mulated debt of about £120,000,000, an interest bill
which eats up 10 p.c. of contributions, and the Govern-
ment has had to specially subsidise it to the extent of
over £50,000,000 in some years to keep it going.
The Queensland scheme is financed by equal
threepenny contributions from State, employer and
employee. The balance every year is on the right
side of the ledger—even in 1932-33 there was
£BO,OOO in credit. But this did not do away with the
need for an unemployment tax, which runs from 3d.
to Is. in the £. From the unemployed-relief fund
£5,500,000 was spent in the four years ended in June,
1934.
However, without the insurance plan the
Government would have been much worse off, and
Mr. Forgan Smith would have had to plead a lot
harder at Canberra. There are now about 151,000
contributors to the fund.
Unemployment insurance should really be turned
over to the Commonwealth. A larger bulk of con-
tributors would allow of a lower rate of contribution
or a heavier cover than could be given by any single
State. Moreover, the institution of a national scheme
based on a reasonable unemployment percentage
should end for the future the uneven and iniquitous
unemployment taxes which State Governments are
keeping in operation all too long, to the detriment
and discouragement of industrial expansion.
The Power of the License.
“At the recent Police Conference in Sydney,” said
the manager of the R.A.C. road-service department
last week, “there were suggestions that dangerous
driving should be brought under the Crimes Act. 1
favor the idea.” It’s an absurd idea all the same.
Illegal practices which thousands insist on regarding
as free from moral guilt can’t be stopped by bringing
them under any Act.
Captain Bonham-Carter, of H.M.S. Sussex, told
the Ex-Naval Men’s Association a few nights ago
that he once made a bet with a fellow-officer that
he would get a drink after hours in Melbourne. He
“tried about 20 different hotels without any luck,
and eventually the taxi-man confided that the only
place left was ‘Squizzy’ Taylor’s.” He got what he
wanted, and “spent a very good two hours with
‘Squizzy’ and his party.”
Illegal betting, car-parking, speeding and many
more come within the category of offences which
can’t be stopped by punishments that are accepted
as just and reasonable in the case of real crimes.
How could it be otherwise when gambling, which
is a sport of vice-regalities on licensed racecourses,
is illegal in two-up schools and s.p. shops (though
not in bridge clubs); when members of certain social
and other clubs can get alcohol after hours, while
those who don’t belong to clubs can’t; when car-
owners at expensive functions are allowed to obstruct
the traffic day and night, while other car-owners are
repeatedly fined for the same offence.
Though it is demonstrably impossible to stop, or
even greatly diminish, such practices by inflicting
punishments, they could be stopped by removing
privileges. It is significant that Captain Bonham-
Carter couldn’t get a drink after hours in any of the
hotels he called at; the proprietors had too much
respect for their licenses. Similarly, if motorists
knew that, after a given number of convictions for
any serious traffic breach, they would be liable to
lose their licenses, and if they also knew that the
department would administer the law without respect
of persons, lawbreaking would become as rare with
them as it is with hotelkeepers.
——-♦
Preference to Diggers.
Dear Bulletin, —1 yield to no one in my sympathy
for Diggers, but I can see few merits in the
N. S. Wales Returned Soldiers’ Preference Act, which
has been causing trouble ever since it came into
operation on April 11.
The material clause says that “notwithstanding
anything contained in the Industrial Arbitration Act
(1912) every employer shall give preference in any
profession, business or industry to a returned soldier
or sailor who is capable of effectively performing the
duties.” Under this law a Newcastle native, six of
whose relations served in the A.I.F. and who was
only four years old when the war began, was barred
from a job on his city’s council staff.
An outstanding objection is that the very Govern-
ment that passed the amended Act has consistently
ignored the preference principle. Mr. Stevens didn’t
consider war service when he chose his Ministers
and his Railway Commissioner. One of the best
and bravest generals in the A.I.F. has failed more
than once to get pre-selected as an Assembly can-
didate, and the Government didn’t support him for
the Council.
It is the same in other walks of life. Nobody
gives preference to doctors or dentists, solicitors or
accountants who were ex-soldiers, and no legislation
will change the situation.
Some undesirable effects of making preference a
class affair (as under the Act it inevitably is) are
to set young workers against their elders ; to set some
employers against some workers who have been forced
on them by the Act; and to set thousands of
mothers and fathers of lads belonging to the rising
generation against Diggers in the mass. And there is
little or no need for the creation of all this ill-feeling.
Already every Australian employer who is worth his
salt goes out of his way to employ ex-soldiers who
are worth theirs. —Yours etc., Second Divvy.
• ♦
Their Poor Feet!
From ex-Minister Arthur Griffith, who never shirked
a fight;
The cowardice of members of the A.L.P. in the Federal
Parliament in not daring to take a hand to help defend the
last citadel of the party in N. S. Wales has no equal in the
history of Australian politics.
Apparently their blood was turned to water by the threat
that, “if one of the Federal members dared to show his
nose in Newcastle, he would be attacked by Lang at the next
election.” „ , ..
One cannot imagine leaders ol the Movement in the old
days being afraid to put up a fight to protect one of its
At the final rally Beasley triumphantly informed the
electors that Scullin had never spoken a word in favor ol
the Federal candidate, nor even sent a message to indicate
that he supported him, and that not one member of his
parly in the Federal Parliament had come to the electorate.
A Labor party that daren’t fight must perish.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INDS"
“Bufo”: It has come at last —a Bun-
daberg (Q.) man has supplied a genuine
news item by biting a dog. The animal
had thrust his unwanted and flea-infested
company upon certain citizens as they
slaked the climatic thirst in a bar. Re-
pelled, but still sociably inclined, it
leaped upon the counter, upsetting
glasses and otherwise making itself ob-
jectionable. One outraged individual,
grabbing the mannerless intruder, set his
teeth into its ear. The dog fled in panic,
while the victor received the congratu-
lations and thanks of the company, to-
gether with a bottle of rum from the
publican. He modestly disclaimed credit
for the job, but) world fame is his while
the memory of Northcliffe lives.
H® si® *l® H®
“Shin Plaster”: I knew a trusting
country storekeeper who let a carrier get
into his debt for £3OO. When the team-
ster drifted into difficulties the creditor
had to take what was left of the team in
settlement. Another defaulting debtor
had no assets but a broken-down race-
horse ; the storekeeper closed on that.
With his faith in human nature not yet
broken, though a bit bent, he let another
fellow go for £24. When the acid was
put on him the third person frankly ad-
mitted that he had no prospect of dis-
charging his liability, either in cash or
kind. “Anyway,” he added soothingly,
“come and have a drink.” The other
curtly refused. “I’ve got the remains
of a team that cost me £300,” he said,
“and a broken-down crock that repre-
sents £l5O, but I’m damned if I’m going
to have a £24 drink with you.”
$ 3®
“Adelaide”: S.A. has had the unusual
experience of a court-martial, demanded
by a lieutenant on his commission being
cancelled without the option of resigna-
tion. His alleged “conduct to the preju-
dice of military discipline” was slow-
ness in paying out moneys entrusted to
him ; but he had an explanation in all
three cases, and was found not guilty
on all. There was plenty of legal talent
about the Court. Arnold Moulden pre-
sided, Stanley Skipper directed the
charges, and Eric Millhouse defended—
all officers, and all lawyers.
* * * *
“Jbn el Issar”: Among the injured at
Quetta was a former chief of the Baluchi-
stan police, credited with being “the origi-
nal of Kipling’s ‘detective’ Strickland.”
The veteran must be about the 500th per-
son for whom that honor has been claimed.
The real Strickland was the late War-
burton Sahib, a Durani of high degree,
whose mother was abducted with her
infant son from Kabul by an English
artillery subaltern, George Warburton.
The lady’s husband, a leading figure at
the Amir’s Court, finally divorced his
erring spouse, and Warburton married
her. The young Afghan was adopted by
his stepfather and later entered the Indian
police service, to become feared by the
natives as a sort of combination of the
Devil and Sherlock Holmes. A half-
brother also rose to high rank as a N.W.
Frontier “political.”
* * *• *
“Como”: Why is it that, while Aus-
tralians all talk alike, from the Leeuwin
to the Line, Maoriland has many dialects?
The only explanation occurring to me is
that the batches of immigrants settled in
one spot and did not intermix, as in Aus-
tralia. Even in our mining centres where
the Cornish element was strongest, there
were sufficient English, Irish, Scotch and
Welsh to prevent the Cornish or any
other tongue affecting the native-born.
Only in the German settlements of S.A.
and Queensland do the Australian kiddies
give any indication of their origin. Yet
in M.L. variants of speech are remark-
able. The Aucklander talks like an Aus-
tralian ; the Dunedinite has a distinct
Scottish burr, and in the wholly-English
settlements the speech is more English
“There s been a mistake, sir. You can't have this table.”
“Well, take it away and bring me another !”
than Cockney itself. During a year
I spent in England I never once heard
such an .exaggerated English accent as a
recent woman visitor from M.L. brought
to Melbourne. There was no affectation
about her, yet “Rahnd the tahn the brate
lates were shaning" was no exaggeratiqn.
* * * *
“Yo Ho”; Memories of the dear old
da Ys of windjammers, about which half-
baked scribes write so enthusiastically,
ate revived by the discovery in New-
castle (N.S.W.) of two casks of salt pork
intended for some sailing-ship’s crew.
The stuff, it seems, had been lying for-
gotten in a store for 30 years ; even so, it
was found “in perfect condition,” though
whether that means tor fo’c’sle use or
ordinary purposes is not mentioned—
there is a difference. In the old days
of the sailing navy and mercantile
marine, sailors added to their wretched
pay by “scrimshanking”—working up
knick-knacks for sale ashore out of any
odd materials available. When things
like sharks’ backbones and tortoiseshell
were not handy it was the custom to fall
back on the salt-junk ration issue. Out
of this such articles as snuffboxes, paper-
weights and other oddments were carved,
the effect being often artistic and
pleasing.
* * * *
“H.A.L.” : The head traveller for an
Adelaide timber firm was making a tour
of the towns on the West Coast of
S.A. ; near Lake Wangary his car cracked
a spark plug. Opening his toolbox he
found that his spare plug was also out
of action. Just then he heard a couple
of cars approaching, and held up a hand
in confident expectation of assistance,
but the leading car merely slowed down
while the chauffeur said “We cannot
stop ; this is a Ministerial party.” The
timber traveller struggled on to Lake
Wangary on three cylinders, obtained a
new plug there, and a few miles farther
on came up to the Government cars,
halted by the roadside. The chauffeur
held up a hand, but the timber traveller
only slowed down sufficiently to say
“This car belongs to Blank’s timber
mills; it can’t stop.” There was no
telephone within 10 miles of where the
Government party was held up, either.
H* ❖ : 'i' ; i ;
“Binduli”: Touching the late W. J.
Ferguson and one Parliamentary chance
that he missed (B. 5/6/’35), Kirwan,
first Federal member for Kalgoorlie and
now President of the Westralian Leg.
Council, used to tell an informative story.
When Federation came along, he and
the late Hugh Mahon, both Kalgoorlie
editors, got in early with their candi-
datures for the two goldfields divisions.
They were good friends, though their
newspapers seldom saw eye to eye about
anything, and there was a tacit agree-
ment between them that neither would
sign the Labor pledge, although the
union secretaries were very soon busy on
both of them. Electioneering was already
in full swing when Mahon came on
Kirwan in Hannan-street. “You’d better
look out, old man,” he warned him ; “the
Trades Hall is trying to get Ferguson
over from the east to run him as a
direct Labor candidate if it can’t put
the acid on you.” “Well, how about
you?” asked the Kalgoorlie “Miner”
man. “Ofi,” said Mahon casually, “I
signed the Labor pledge yesterday.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Why will novelists
make their heroes of the great open
spaces “sweep the horizon in one swift,
unwavering glance”? It can’t be done.
Deep in the semicircular canals of the
inner ear are a few drops of salt water
and some grains of sand, survivals from
the fish stage of our ancestry. Swirl
them suddenly, horizontally, and they set
up an unconscious brain action which
delays the eyes in the direction in which
they were looking when the swirl started.
It is exactly what a fish or a higher type
needs in escaping a sudden onslaught and
estimating the enemy's next move. They
have much to do with the sense of
balance and direction. What boxing folk
know as a k. 0., the effect of a sharp jolt
on the chin with the mouth slightly
open, is due to the jar shaking up the
water and sand when it is transmitted
through the jawbone to the skull-base,
thereby disorganising for a brief period
all sense of relation to the environment.
* H= * *
“Brix”: Picking up an American
magazine I was immediately fascinated
by a description of a magnificent lily the
writer had succeeded in growing. He
described its color, the “pure ivory of
an angel’s wing,” its texture, “the velvet
of a bridal gown,” the golden spire that
sprang from its emerald throat, the
deep green of the large, upright leaves.
A photograph of the wonder, it was
added, might be seen on page 36. Prop-
erly thrilled, I turned the leaves, and
found myself blinking incredulously at
an ancient enemy of mine, the arum,
which entirely ruined the low-lying por-
tion of our garden in my childhood home
in M.L. To be sent to root out arum-
lilies was a stock family punishment,
and the matted roots provided me with
many a hard half-hour and fierce back-
ache. It was added insult to read that
the Yank had sold his blooms for
fabulous sums.
* * * *
“Buy British”: I was interested to note
that the propellers for the much-boomed
French liner Normandie were cast at
Deptford, on the Thames, where Peter
the Great studied the art and mystery of
shipbuilding. The same factory has made
screws for crack German liners. Com-
ing back from the war in a formei
“Black German” tramp I found that
not only the compasses—including the
Kelvin “standard” —were English-made,
but also the chronometers, which were
from the inevitable Smiths, of London.
* * * *
“Ex-Hop”: 1 fancy that the publican’s
practice of leaving out a bottle for the
bobby (B. 5/6/’35) still flourishes, let the
Westralian Foorce rage ever so furiously
at the insinuation. A policeman friend
had much the same experience as the
Westralian John cited by “Mudurup.”
One thoughtful Bung had been accus-
tomed to put out a bottle of beer nightly
in a cunning nook beside his back door.
Some miscreant found the hiding place,
and for several nights afterwards the cup-
board was bare when investigated. Not
till it was changed did my friend again
begin to reap the reward of his nightly
labors.
“Snora”: Some of these J. Hops take
too much for granted. In a country
pub where 1 dispensed beer and
charm for a few months, the local ser-
geant ran up a bill well over double
figures with never the blink of an eye.
The boss called him the “blanky limit,”
and muttered bad words every time he
saw the serg. making for the bar, but
he never pressed for payment. I suspect
there is a certain unwritten etiquette in
these matters.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: 1 feel a certain sympathy for
that censor who (B. 22/3/’35) had
“Bloody Tower” altered to “blooming.”
Of course, there is a tower of that name ;
but, equally of course, the song-writer had
dragged it in just for the sake of the
schoolboy enjoyment in a naughty word.
In the same spirit, Mark Twain, in an
age more easily shocked, paraded
“damit” in one of his books, explaining
later that it is just the German for
“therewith.” The fourteenth-century
Italians were the champions at that kind
of thing. The joke was to ask, in mixed
company, a riddle with an obvious and
appalling answer; then to supply an
answer far-fetched but innocent, and add:
“What nasty minds you must have to
imagine anything else!” Lauri brought
here long ago a cheeky but harmless imi-
tation ; a song in which each verse played
about with the risky, but always sheered
off at the last moment —and then a re-
proving “What did you think?” It is
a cheap form of humor.
=1: =!= * *
“Oxmead”: Ex-Governor Game has
been appointed Commissioner of the
Metropolitan Police (salary £3000), one
of his qualifications, according to one
newspaper, being that “his passages in
N.S.W. with Mr. Lang revealed him as
a man, of courage and resource in hand-
ling a difficult situation.” Curiously
enough, there was another London Police
Commissioner, many years ago, whose
disciplinary qualities in Australia led to
his being selected for the job. This was
Colonel (afterwards Sir Edward) Hen-
derson, who had been the head of the
convict establishment in Westralia until
transportation was abolished in 1868.
Henderson had a long spin in, his
London billet —from 1869 to 1886 —but
the Trafalgar-square riots in the latter
year brought him down with a crash.
Police ineptitude and unprepared ness
were largely blamed for the mob getting
the upper hand for a couple of hours in
Pall Mall and Oxford-street, and several
scapegoats had to be found. Henderson
resigned within a fortnight.
HER CROWNING GLORY.
“Long’ hail’ will never return to fashion. Anyway,
short hair is prettier, as well as more hygienic.”
— Beauty-parlor dictum.
O rippling locks acclaimed in song and story
Foremost of all allurements feminine,
Specific guaranteed from ages hoary
To witch men’s senses and their hearts to
win,
O woman’s immemorial crowning glory.
Has your vogue vanished ? Is your alley in ?
Will none encounter you in years to be
Except in painting or in poesy?
For countless years uncounted artists limned
you,
Raven or gold, in pigments rich and rare:
For centuries enraptured bards have hymned
you,
Toying with “tangles of Neasra’s hair.”
No Helens bobbed, no Cleopatras trimmed you
To brevity, as far as I’m aware.
And are you now to vanish off the scene
In humble deference to hygiene?
When Arthur’s knights at Camelot commingled,
And jousts for ladies’ favors were begun.
Think you their gallant hearts with ardor
tingled
For dames with ringlets, or for those with
none?
And (say) suppose Codiva had been shingled.
What in the deuce would Coventry have
done?
Her town from taxes she could hardly save
Attired in nothing but a water-wave.
They’ll ne’er return, we’re told, the streaming
tresses,
On which (’twas whispered) lucky girls could
sit,
The pride of peasant maidens and princesses,
The spell that never failed to haunt and hit.
But then —they said the same of flowing
dresses,
Which makes a fellow sceptical, a bit,
At least as often as his thought reverts
To these perceptibly descending skirts.
O glowing cataract, O gleaming splendor,
O neatly-coiled or deftly-coiffured mane,
Emblem alike of grace and mark of gender,
’Tis but an interregnum in your reign,
You’re something far too precious to surrender;
As surely as you’re cut you’ll come again.
Woman will never permanently leave
A lure she’s banked on since the days of Eve.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Oxmead”: H. K. Watson, the Wes-
tralian secesh delegate who darkly hinted
that his State would resort to force to
secure what couldn’t be obtained by argu-
ment, has one unique distinction. Before
the deputation left these shores the Wes-
tralian Government solemnly appointed
Watson a King’s Messenger for the pur-
pose of conveying the separatist address
to George V., and, though the petition
never got that far, a K.M. he presumably
remains. It would be interesting to know
how long ago the last appointment of
such an officer was registered in this
country. There are a dozen or more of
regular King’s Messengers on the staff
of the Foreign Office in England, but
theirs is a steady and well-paid job, and
whether they took any official notice of
Watson has not transpired. The only
other King’s Messengers I recall having
read about are the pair who appear in
Alice in Wonderland.
* * * *
“Morbus”: The reason why “Shep”
and his friends didn’t get a cholera injec-
tion (B. 5/6/’35) was probably that they
were far from a cholera area. Troops in
Sinai-Palestine and Mespot. got the stuff
good and plenty. Cholera, endemic in
Asia, played havoc in the latter country.
In their retreat after Romani, the Turks
had the decency to mark burial areas
with the warning word “cholera.”
“Pseudo-Cop” : Borrowing a leaf from
the debt-collectors who send out dunning
letters on blue paper to give them a menac-
ingly legal flavor, a Sydney suburban
council attired its park ranger in a police
uniform and cap, practically indistin-
guishable from the genuine article. The
experiment, according to one councillor,
“helped greatly in the suppression of
hooliganism,” disorderly youths being
steadied by a glimpse of the cap and
buttons, but the council struck trouble
when the local sergeant pointed out that
the wearing of a nolice uniform or even
a colorable imitation of one by any un-
authorised person is an offence punish-
“ They're strictly business, uncle—believe in putting all their goods on the counter."
“Yes, m'lad, and I certainly like the Way they Wrap ’em up!"
“He's gone up the drain, sergeant."
“Well, what are y ’ hangin back for? Follow him!"
able by a fine of £lO a day. The only
exceptions, it seems, are in the case of
stage or circus performances. The aider-
men, at latest accounts, were engaged in
designing a new uniform for their ranger
which shall be imposing without being
illegal. Something in the nature of an
English gamekeeper’s velveteens might
have points to recommend it.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: I’ve struck
people who thought the oil-painting in
the drawing-room was the work of an
Old Master (B. 29/5/’35); but bargains
are still picked up. I know a dealer
who bought a landscape for five shillings,
discovered that it was by Warren Clark,
R.A., and sold it for £25. The present
owner paid £7O for it. A publican of my
acquaintance had a print of Napoleon
hanging in his parlor. One day a visitor,
after closely examining it, asked with
keen interest “Where on earth did you
get this?” “It was here when I bought
the pub,” was the reply. The inquirer
took the print out of the frame, referred
to a catalogue that he extracted from his
pocket and asked : “Will you let me post
this to London to have it valued if I
undertake to buy it at the valuer’s
price?” Bung readily assented; six
months later he received a draft for £25
and showed me the bank receipt. “And
I’d have given him the blanky thing if
he’d asked for it,” he told me with a
grin.
“Bondi-ite”: A bid for Victoria to
adopt the Spooner bathing-costume next
summer was made to the Shire Confer-
ence by one Jenkins, who reported that
a committee had advocated a similar
ordinance to that in N.S.W. The trouble
about all these restrictive regulations is
that they are seldom obeyed. Ever since
surf-bathing began in N.S.W. officialdom
has sought to standardise costumes with
very little success. Not so many years
ago the beachside municipalities around
my city solemnly decided that everybody,
man and woman, should wear a skirt.
Nobody ever wore one, and nothing ever
happened. Public opinion was too
strong. v *
-East Riding”: “Aust-Ang.” mentions
that in his Oxford days there no
bathroom in his college (B. 5/6/’35),
but he might have added that every bed-
room was a makeshift bathroom. It
contained a circular tub which was
filled with cold water by the scout
every morning. Even when bathrooms
with h. and c. had been installed in the
more modern houses of the big towns,
this tub lingered on in country houses,
of which writer had some experience as
a boy. Some of the effete older genera-
tion had hot water brought up from the
kitchen, but my portion, with that ol
others of my own age, was liquid ice
which had stood all night in the can
beside the waiting tub. After the re-
frigeration process a sharp run out of
doors was the correct and, indeed, im-
perative procedure. England’s greatness
was supposed to be largely based on this
Spartan practice.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Melburnians are arguing as
to the initial performance of Gilbert and
Sullivan in Australia, and the decision
seems to lie with the production of “Pina-
fore” at the old Melbourne Academy of
Music—later the Bijou—with Horace
Lingard as Sir Joseph Porter and his wife
as Josephine. But in those days copyright
did not run, and there was a rival “Pina-
fore” —it was performed either simul-
taneously or shortly afterwards in another
theatre. It was not long, either, before
a juvenile “Pinafore” was produced with
Flora Graupner, then a child actress, as
Josephine and Tilly Salenger in one of
the other principal parts.
“Lard”: “Bert the Car-
penter” (B. 29/ 5/ ’35), who was
mystified as to how the rats in
a factory were decoyed to an
old rat-catcher’s feet, can
take it as the most likely ex-
planation that the man’s boots
were well smeared with lard.
Rats would follow a trail of
lard to the very gates of hell,
let alone a mere heating fur-
nace.
“Fiona”: Some Christian names had
to misunderstandings. A party of
flappers at a M.L. holiday resort
became interested in a
looking individual whose two companions
addressed him as “Major.” They
summed him up as an English officer, his
manners, his clothes and his general air
all helping their decision. Invitations to
go aboard the launch he shared were
eagerly accepted, and the favored ones
were loud in praises of their military
acquaintance. Came a day when an agi-
tated damsel rushed into the hall and
said furiously, “How dare he go round
like this pretending to be somebody
when he’s nobody at all? He’s a shop-
walker at Ragg and Co.'s in Wellington.
Mrs. Smith has just recognised him.”
Her friends and other guests said bitter
things about the “impostor’s” military
title. He had a perfectly satisfactory ex-
planation. “Major” was his baptismal
name.
“Findy”: Add yet another profession
to the list of those seeking “refainement”
in nomenclature. The proprietress of
a Sydney “salon,” wherein old faces
are altered to look like new and dried-
up skin made to blossom like the rose,
styles herself a “beautician.”
“Scribe”: Newspaper offices attract
all the strangest elements in a big city-
most of them harmless cranks but many
of considerable interest. One day dur-
ing the war 1 was told that Prince
Dmitri Popemoff wished to see me. A
tall, shabby man in a cloth cap walked
in. “Are you Prince Popemoff?” 1 asked.
“Sure, bo,” he replied in the pure Rus-
sian of Broadway. He sat down, and we
had a yarn about the war and about
Russia. “Say,” he interposed with a
smile, “I guess you’re wondering about
this prince business? Well, I’m a Cos-
sack of the Don ; left Russia when I
was 12, and I’ve been working in the
States ever since. The Cossack region
was a hell of a trouble to Russia
for about 500 years. After that they
made friendly overtures. We’d some
bright bargainers among our leaders, and
they held up Russia for all the traffic’d
bear. A clause of the Treaty said every
Cossack over the rank of what you call a
J.P. here in Australia was to be made
a prince. And that’s how 1 happen to
be one.”
* * . * *
“Circenses”: A new burden, and a
heavy one, has been added to the royal
family’s duties in England by the
tyranny of sport. Not only at inter-
national Tests but at fixtures like the
Association Cup the presence of royalty
in some form has come to be expected as
almost part of the show, and an intelli-
gent interest must be taken (or simulated)
in the finer points of the games that
have the greatest hold of the proletariat.
Yet few realise that the new order of
things only began with the present reign.
Queen Victoria, of course, couldn’t have
been expected to patronise cricket and
football matches, and though her son,
both as Prince of Wales and Edward
VIE, might occasionally have looked in
at a cricket Test, it would probably have
been difficult to drag him to a profes-
sional football final. But George V. has
shouldered the burden manfully, and the
royal Princes must rapidly be getting
used to it.
OVERCOATS.
The overcoats I always hold
The best to keep my cheery self
Content and snug in winter's cold
Are ranged in bottles on a shell.
Regardless of the tempest's din,
Or how the winds may rage without,
I take a nip of whisky in
To keep the nip of winter out.
An old push habit is a grand
Defence when weathers grow too rough:
I take a bottle in my hand
And deal out stoush —the dinkum stuff!
The glass may fall, but still 1 win :
My glass goes up—the colds 1 rout;
1 take a nip of whisky in
To keep the nip of winter out.
No overcoat of cloth or tweed
I crave; I like to travel light.
An inner coat will meet my need,
Assuming that the spirit’s right.
1 seek no liquids mean and thin.
The thought of even beer I scout,
And take a nip of whisky in
To keep the nip of winter out.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


10 for 9 d *
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
CRAVENA
Made specially to prevent sore throats-
‘Craven“A” have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result. Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
V S
Biiim
mm
POLITICAL POINTS
Lots of Newcastle (N.S.W.) people
would like to be present when their new
member attends his first Caucus. The
faces of the bosses of his alleged party
should present a fine study in conflicting
emotions. Though a returned soldier,
and the son of the old member, who was
loyal to them in evil days, and though
a swarm of Langsters was ridiculing and
slangwhanging their “party,” not one of
these bosses wrote a line or uttered a
sentence on his behalf. The sooner
Forgan Smith takes command of this
sorry crew the better.
Watkins beat the Langster by just on
4000. Although there was no U.A.P.
man, the Douglas Credit candidate lost
his deposit. This experience will prob-
ably convince the Douglasites that they
had better play for safety, like the Major.
Lang’s newspaper is demanding the
reappointment of Isaacs, G.-G., who
is rising 80. This supports the impression
that the Boss is abandoning the Youth
Movement and will foxtrot no more.
A vacancy on A.B.C. has been filled by
a retiring Post Office man. Perhaps the
idea is that if programmes don’t come
up to snuff he will be able to repudiate
responsibility, as the Post Office did after
its jubilee air-mail stunt.
W4h Dwyer-Gray barracking for
Lang, and Ogilvie threatening to tell “the
truth about Ireland” (straight from De
Valera’s mouth), and both talking seces-
sion, Tasmanians must be wondering
what kind of Government they have
struck. It is assuredly not the kind they
bargained for when they put the Ogilvies
in. Yet, thanks to proportional repre-
sensation, these extraordinary persons
may be able to hang on for another
couple of years.
Just to remind Ogilvie and Dwyer-
Gray—the Tasmanians’ votes on closer
union with their mainland brethren
were 11,797 for and 2716 against in
1898, and 13,437 for and 791 against in
1899. Ogilvie was in pinafores then, and
the other gentleman had not conferred
his presence on Australia. At the Finan-
cial Agreement referendum Tasmanians
were 62,722 for and 31,044 against.
The Bulletin’s idea that control of
education should be transferred to the
Commonwealth is receiving support.
Dr. Tillyard, of Canberra, has advocated
it in a newspaper article, and Prof.
Browne, of Melbourne University, in a
speech. The prof, slates the N.S.W.
craze for exams., and praises the Scot-
tish system of national education. The
Scots have had it for centuries, and no
people their size have better-trained
hands or better-furnished brains.
In another rhapsody in Red on the
imported mouth-organ he values most.
Albert, of the Sydney music shop, de-
clared that he had found the Russians
“hale and hearty and jolly” and their
factories marvels of efficiency.
Work is done on the mass-production
system, and is so systematically arranged
that the workers can do as much there
in 64 hours as is done here in two days.
Albert was born among these supermen.
The wonder is he condescends to live
among us poor damned Australians.
Wiluna, the second-biggest Westralian
goldmine, continues to make a monthly
profit of £45,000 to £50,000 Australian,
and has declared a 10 p.c. interim divi-
dend amounting to £155,891 English.
These results were made possible by a
big State Government loan guaranteed
by the Commonwealth Government, but
they don’t share in the divs. W. M.
Hughes was shrewder when he ran the
show.
Twelve more knights, and only one
active politician among them! It seems
an inversion of the usual order, but the
Premiers who recommend knighthoods
(Laborites, of course, don’t) have grown
cunning in these matters. While not ob-
jecting to an occasional title for a lieu-
tenant somewhat stricken in years, like
Ritchie (S.A.), they won’t take the things
themselves unless they are thinking of
retiring. In the last four State elections
lost by non-Labor Governments three
were headed by knights—Mitchell (West-
ralia), Lee (Tasmania) and Argyle (Vic-
toria).
One of the humors of the decision
that the Westralian secession petition
was not receivable is that, before sending
home its delegates, the Dominion
League had reinforced itself with
the “opinion of six eminent Westralian
K.Cs. that constitutionally the British
Parliament was bound to accept the peti-
tion.” Heading these six eminent legal
gentlemen was ex-Premier Walter James,
one of the founders of the Common-
wealth Constitution.
Asked in the Dail whether he meant
to proclaim his country a republic, De
Valera said it wasn’t a “simple ques-
“For part of last week France was without a Prime Minister. In six years it has had
sixteen.”
“Ticket to Paris”
“Make it two.”
lion.” Even while he was evading it
the Privy Council came out with a judg-
ment declaring that the Dail may now
pass Jaws repugnant to Imperial legisla-
tion, the Statute of Westminster having
made waste paper of the Colonial Laws
Validity Act. So the Free State is a
republic in everything but name.
A Barrier proposal that metalliferous
miners in Queensland, Westralia, S.A.
and the N.T. should be invited to join
the Miners’ Federation has been adopted
by the inter-State Council of that body.
It means a first-class union row, for
these miners belong to the A.W.U., which
virtually controls the Queensland Gov-
ernment and is powerful in the councils
of the Government at Perth. One pos-
sible outcome is that the Westralian
goldminers will form an organisation of
their own, independent of the M.F. and
the A.W.U. They had one before the
war.
Melbourne “Age” is angry with its
Vic. Labor proteges for suggesting that
the £1,500,000 of loan money which
Dunstan failed to arrange for at Can-
berra should be made up by taxation ;
but that is only one of its annoyances.
Its editorial thunderer attributed the de-
feat of the Country Nats, in Queensland
to their “negative resistance policy of
stale, flat and selfish conservatism.”
Now some fellow in the office has let
its Queensland contributor say this:
The Country Nat. party took a great
risk with its child-endowment scheme, and
there was, largely on account of it, a crash;
but there was at least the courage of
conviction. Labor put up nothing that
would be likely to offend any section.
In a word, “negative resistance” won.
N.S.W. Railway Department, whose
boss, Hartigan, is abroad studying
streamlined trains, thermo-welded rails,
cannon-ball services and other modern
inventions, is to have £6,000,000 free of
interest —borrowed through the Com-
monwealth, of course —for additions and
improvements.
The £6,000,000 will not be added to the
railway debt, but will be repaid to the
Treasury within 15 years, as a result of
economies in running costs.
This is rich, considering that admitted
railway losses for 10 years amounted to
£26,062,200. Possibly Stevens expects
Hartigan to return from Wimbledon with
a method of extracting gold from
clinker.
A large meeting of cow-farmers has
asked the N.S.W. Stevens Government to
rid them of the Lang-appointed Milk
Board and let them send raw milk to the
city, pleading that they would get more
for it than under the control system, and
that the consumer would get it for less.
Apropos, the board has a “publicity
officer,” who burbles that “the main
reason why people don’t use more milk
is that they don’t know about it.” The
truth is that they know too much about
it —know they’re paying 7d. a quart for
what they ought to be getting for five-
pence, and reduce their consumption
accordingly.
It seems probable that S.A. will lose
most of the motor-body-building indus-
try that enterprising South Australians
have built up. They complain of State
income tax, which is 3s. m the £ o
company income in excess of £sooo > P ll * s
a 10 p.c. super-tax, and from led. tc
ss. 3d. in the £ on personal earnings.
Victorian and N. S. Wales taxes, though
high enough, are not nearly so stiff, and
in either State the body-building concerns
would be nearer sources of raw materials
and superior markets. Still, the projected
move is rough on S. Aus., in which
drought preceded the depression, and
which has accordingly suffered more
than the other small States, although it
has complained less.
With about £4,000,000 of loans anc
Commonwealth grants guaranteed, the
S.A. Government will be able to carry
on for another year, and it talks proudly
of producing a surplus at the end ol
the month. Even so, South Australians,
loyal as they are to their State, are be-
ginning to wonder how much longer it will
be able to support a Government House,
two Parliamentary Chambers and other
appurtenances of Statehood. There were
bitter protests when the Butlers proposed
to “complete” Parliament House. A
newspaper that conducted a campaign
against it confessed itself astonished at
the denunciations that came from country
people, mingled with downright expres-
sions of opinion that State Parliaments
were luxuries with which S. Aus. and
other parts of the Commonwealth would
have to dispense.
Roosevelt has characterised the judg-
ment that riddled his N.I.R.A. as “the
most important that has been delivered
by the Supreme Court since the Dred
Scott case, which precipitated the Civil
War.” Dred Scott was a slave, and the
Supreme Court in 1856 ruled that a slave
or the descendant of slaves could not
be a citizen of the U.S.A. or have any
standing in Federal courts. Taney, the
C.J., actually declared that Congress had
no power to abolish slavery in any ter-
ritory acquired after the formation of
the national Government —that is, in the
greater part of the U.S.A. as we know it.
The U.S. President may now try to
get constitutional sanction for his New
Deal, but constitutional reform in the
U.S.A. is a slow and doubtful process.
This is the procedure as laid down in
Article 5:
Congress, whenever two-thirds of both
Houses shall deem it necessary, shall pro-
pose amendments to this Constitution,
or, on the application of the Legislatures
of two-thirds of the States, shall call a
convention for proposing amendments,
which shall be valid when ratified by
the Legislatures of three-fourths of the
States.
When this rigmarole was adopted there
were 13 State Legislatures. There are 48
now.
On a maximum income tax of 4s. 6d.
in the £, beginning at 7d. on £3OO, Maori-
land announces a surplus of £1,626,000.
There is a super-tax of 4d. in the £ on
assessable income exceeding £5OO ; on the
other hand, “all income derived from
farming land in cases where the unim-
proved value of such land is less than
£3000” is exempt. London “Financial
Times,” commenting appreciatively on
the surplus, says the Dominion beyond
the Tasman has “always striven to
comply with the strict tenets of sound
finance.” Not always; there have been
years when Maoriland Governments
were bitten hard by the borrowing bug.
But they seem to have reformed.
N. S. Wales people who aspire to be-
come home-owners are encouraged and
discouraged. Encouraged by State Rural
Bank and Government advances of up
to 85 p.c. of bank valuations, which
may be risky if the valuer is an optimist;
discouraged by all manner of charges.
Authorised solicitors’ fees, stamp duties
and the like are such that it is nothing
out of the way for a man who puts down
a deposit of £lOO or £2OO on a cottage
to be billed for £5O or £6O. And house-
insurance premiums are taxed as much
as 40 p.c. There is no corresponding
impost in Victoria or Queensland.


ft. , / 7 ''
o Who s that f _ NX
' TotTIE LHSHTFOOT ID KNOW THaTT H/CT MVWH£I?b
GOO'NtCqHT OU MflkM r BETTER PUT Y QASH'MASH OtJ
"ShPITV OIDMT 'ajs/E. me shraphel
v ELV\ET V S-VJEU_ "
/a TUe one om the ehd winked atne."
'/
Working Back at the
Oppice ARE VOU f
SEE THAT You KEEP THIS o sl V '
M? LuRICM AMCI PEHCWE.PP IHTfgOOOCe SOME kJEW holds
0
\ 'TVWK HE.S THE INNATE
OP HIS. OAO^
IT'LL BE RATHER ANNK.WARO ACT Fut=MIKJ<S, T /
But the fences Kost be Rum.
GETTING USED TO IT.
"The Minister of Defence is considering a scheme for the protection of the people against gas attacks."


rr\
1
sr *?'
sdL^l
\n
e
r
Even on the bitterest morning your
engine leaps~to~life at the first whirr of
the starter if you’re using Super Shell.
The whole aspect of winter starting is
changed by Super Shell’s super volatility.
And Super Shell gives super pick-up . . .
super power . . . super mileage, too. You
SAVE by using Super Shell.
For wonderful winter motoring, fill the
tank with Super Shell
525. C.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Raphael Ciiento, Q. Director-General
of Public Health, was born in S. Aus.
41 years ago. Prince Alfred, Adelaide
Uni. and London School of Tropical
Medicine helped to qualify him for the
successive jobs of director of Aus. In-
stitute of Tropical Medicine (Towns-
ville) and health officer in New- Guinea.
An authority on the tropics.
The League of Nations commissioned
him to examine health conditions in all
territories from Fiji to Papua, while for
the Commonwealth Government Ciiento
made a health survey of the Darwin-
Brisbane air-mail route. A corporal in
the A.1.F., he rose to be a captain in
the M.E.F. A knighthood has come
his way, but as evidence that he is a
distinguished Australian it was not re-
quired.
Two of M.L.’s new Supreme Court
Judges are comparatively young and
saw service with the Enzeds. E. H.
Northcroft is a native of Hokitika, aged
51, and was Lieut.-Col. in the 3rd Bat-
tery Field Artillery. J. B. Callan, is a
native of Dunedin, aged 53, and was
captain in the M.L. Rifle Brigade. The
latter was prominent as a Soldiers’
Friend before courts-martial; Canadians
as well as Diggers sought his services.
Thousands of Diggers will learn with
interest that Major-General Butler takes
over the Oxford Command this month.
He was “Birdie’s” G. 5.0.2 on Anzac,
went to France with him and was his
Asst.-Military Secretary when he became
G.O.C. Northern Command in India. A
member of the Winchester XL and
almost a first-class cricketer later, Butler
had a particularly soft spot in his heart
for Diggers who could play the great
game.
“Sydneyite” reminisces:
Sir Thomas Dunhill, who has operated on the
Princess Royal for exophthalmic goitre, created
a sensation in Australia a quarter of a century
ago when he came over from Melbourne (he
was house surgeon of Melbourne Hospital" and
an honorary of St. Vincent’s at the time) and
performed the same operation on the late
Mrs. Philip Morton, a society beauty of the
day. The operation, which consists in the re-
moval of part of the thyroid gland, is a lengthy
affair, and as a general anaesthetic isn’t practic-
able the patient knows what is happening
all the time. Mrs. Morton showed heroic
composure, and recovered. Shortly afterwards
the late B. R. Wise, K.C., was attacked by
the same mysterious complaint. 1 happened
to meet him in London on the day he got
the verdict of a Harley-street specialist—that
he would have to be operated on and forego
certain luxuries, notably champagne. He took
me to the Garrick Club, of which he was a
popular member, ordered a bottle of cham-
pagne, and said he had no intention of being
operated on. Nor was he.
During his lifetime, Fred J. Cato, the
Melbourne grocery magnate, who died
last week, distributed in charity and
church benefactions over £200,000. Cato
was not only a great organiser and a
good man in every sense of the word,
but a master at handling meetings.
About 20 years ago he visited Sydney to
preside at a Methodist mission meeting.
He controlled the vast gathering to such
purpose that he had everybody fairly
battling to cast cash into the plate, and
there were almost hysterical promises of
more to come.
Lord Byng, of Vimy, who has died at
73, was strangely unconventional for a
regular of ancient lineage ; he was a son
of the Earl of Strafford. When he was
made'a peer he refused to pay the exor-
bitant “fees of honor”—relics of the pre-
Tudor days when peerages were bought
outright from the Crown. He was given
command of the Canadians in T 6 largely
owing to his democratic ways, and he
was made G.-G. of Canada after the war
because of the glittering reputation he
earned among the Canadian rank and
file at Vimy Ridge and elsewhere. But
he was ever a fighter, and he soon had
the Canadian Parliament by the ears.
There were also violent rows before and
after his assumption of the Scotland
Yard Commissionership. He was badly
wounded more than once —he had been
in or near front lines from 1884, when
he fought in the Sudan, till the Armis-
tice—and it was amazing that he should
have lived as long as he did. He was
made a field-marshal three years ago.
“Thesp”: “Young” George Grossmith,
as he was known at the beginning of the
century to distinguish him
from his father, the drawing-
room entertainer, belonged to
a family of comedians, Wee-
don Grossmith, “old” George’s
brother, was an absurd-look-
ing little man who specialised
in farcical characters in the
late ’nineties, and Laurence,
the handsomest male of the
family (he visited Australia),
was an accomplished light
comedian. “Young” George’s
forte was musical comedy. He
was the Jack Buchanan of pre-
war days—an accomplished
dancer and a sartorial model
for dressy young Londoners.
I saw him in uniform (he was
a lieut.-commander of sorts) in
Piccadilly in T 7, and a more
glorious spectacle, from the
standpoint of the “Tailor and
Cutter,” it would be hard to
imagine. He was a good busi-
nessman (he began his career
by fixing a high minimum for
his services, stuck to it in
adversity and soon got his
price), and he knew his job
from the ground up. He was
61 when he died last week.
From “R.A.N.,” who served under
him:—-
The late Sir Charles Madden was one of
those whom Fisher trained for the war which
he said would come “when the Germans
finished the Kiel Canal in ’14.” Some, such
as Sturdee, Beatty and Jellicoe (who, like
Madden, married a daughter of the shipping
magnate Cayzer), got chances to distinguish
themselves sensationally. Madden didn't.
Though Admiralty critics classed him among
“Fisher's favorites,” and said he had been
“picked out of the Fish-pond” when he was
given the Third and Second Cruiser Squadrons
in the Home Fleet in 1912-14, nobody ques-
tioned his complete efficiency. All Fisher's
men knew their jobs to the last detail. Madden
was a small, dapper man, and very like the
King, whose personal friend and principal
naval A.D.C. he was. He had nearly all the
best war decorations, British and Allied, and
he got an O.M. four years ago.
The Kinevox system, used to harness
descriptive comment to Commonwealth
Government motion pictures, is the in-
vention of St. Kilda-bom George E.
Gamon. An electrical engineer, Gamon
specialised in physics and acoustics at
Melbourne Uni. As a Digger he had
much experience with wireless, and was
the youngest w.o. in Mespot. His Kine-
vox is wholly Australian.
At 80 Harry M. Peck is Victoria’s
oldest active architect (he started prac-
tice in Melbourne over 57 years ago),
its oldest active yachtsman (a life mem-
ber of the Royal Yacht Club, which he
joined in ’B2, he races his own yacht
Maysie), and one of his State’s oldest
motorists.
From “Second Divvy”:
The trial of the Rev. Herbert Hayes pro-
vided another example of Australia’s muddled
attitude towards military titles. A Melbourne
barrister, E. F. Herring, appeared for Arch-
bishop Head, and the “Age” and “Argus” de-
scribed him correctly. The “S. M. Herald”
called him Lieutenant-Colonel Herring—as who
should say Lieut.-Commander T. R. Bavin or
Major John Simon. (The first was an R.A.N.,
the second an R.A.F. t. 0.) Mr. Herring was a
t.o. in the R.F.A., and he is a militia colonel,
but he isn’t a professional or an ex-professional
soldier, and he would be the last to masquerade
as such. The use of military titles by civilians is
on all fours with the use of medals with mufti.
Mr. Herring, for example, is entitled to wear a
D.S.O. and M.C. and the three World War
medals, with or without his uniform, at certain
military and vice-regal functions. How comic
they would look with a wig and gown!
W. F. J. McCann, who has got an
0.8. E. to add to his D.S.O. and M.C.
with bar, rose from private in the 10th
to be its C.O. He is an Adelaide
lawyer in partnership with Blackburn,
V.C., and a great battler for returned
soldiers.
James Walter Kitto, the new Broad-
casting Commission member, was
Deputy-Director of Postal Services in
"For your entertainment.”
N. S. Wales. A native of Ballarat and
a Maryborough (Vic.) Grammar School
pupil he was in the Vic. Lands and
Postal Department before joining the
Commonwealth public service in 1904.
E. E. Longfield Lloyd, here depicted
by Lahm, leaves the Sydney office of
the investigation branch of the Federal
Attorney-General’s Department, where
He is going to Tokio.
he was in charge, to look after our com-
mercial interests in Japan. Born in
1890, and a Commonwealth public ser-
vant since 1925, he has for years made
a close study of Japanese affairs and
can speak the language fluently. Last
year he went with the Australian dele-
gation to Japan under the leadership of
Latham. As a subaltern in the Ist Bath,
A.1.F., he got an M.C. for “exception-
ally gallant conduct” at Gallipoli.
Probably the congratulation on his
G.C.M.G. that pleased J. G. Latham
most was a letter from his old school-
mates of George-street, Fitzroy (Vic.),
State school. Latham won at that school
the scholarship which carried him to
Scotch, thence to the University and
thence to the Bar and Cabinet.
Lavington Bonython’s knighthood is
the first S.A, instance of a father and
son holding one at the same time. Lang-
don Bonython, at 86, still helps to run
the “Advertiser.” Lavington is a “ Tiser”
director, but has a host of interests out-
side. He went into the City Council at
25, and set a fashion which has been
followed by the rich ever since. At 27
he was Mayor.
TV H. Nesbitt, of Sydney (“Tommy”
to thousands), who has died at 82, was
one of those “characters” whom Eng-
land produces so freely. Originally a
solicitor’s clerk in Cumberland, where he
was born, he became Town Clerk of
Douglas (Isle of Man) over half a cen-
tury ago. He went from there to Lon-
don (he was made a Freeman in 1900) ;
in 1901 he became Town Clerk of Syd-
ney, and in 1924 he retired, having won
golden opinions from all who met him.
Dignified, precise, somewhat pompous,
he had a fine command of Johnsonese
phrases, and he was the complete Mason.
He was a Past Grand Master of the
Grand United Lodge of N. S. Wales.
He had an autograph-book containing
the names of 6000 celebrities.


\
She said to me : ‘My Old Dutch ’ was the most popular song of its day
1 said to her :My old Scotch is just as popular—it's Johnnie IValker. ■. .
What drink can compare with a fine old
mellowed Scotch whisky? Ask for it always
by its name —Johnnie Walker —in all Hotels,
Bottle Departments . .
>
Johnnie
Born 1820 . . . .
Vv^
S 3
ifyl
everywhere!
Walker
. . . still going strong.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
JW. 24 F.P


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends A
Pref. To lie- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary, serves. serves.
& it £ £ £
192u-122,395 16,374 1C p.c. = 67,500 38,521 317,887
1926- 16,374 3 5 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927- 16,374 15 ~ ~ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928- 16.374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288,525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 . . . . 281,025
1930- 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,600.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931- 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,500 . . . . 218,830
1932.. 37,652 Nil Nil 181.178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 . . 197,978
1933- 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 . . 189,455
1931.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2,885 . . 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1,792 . . 177,388
Profit. 51 p.c.
1935- 2>*42 15,123 Nil 164,907
The drift appears to have been, arrested.
The board was reconstructed in Septem-
ber, when the two directors residing in
London (W. T. Brown and T. O’Connor)
retired, and W. J. Cleary, who did good
work at Tooths, and D. H. Bourke were
appointed. Also, Herbert Priestley, who
was given a seat at the table a couple
of years ago, took the chair. The other-
directors are H. M. Macken (managing),
H. V. Foy, J. V. Macken and A. A.
Sparks. A radical reorganisation has
been made in the method of conducting
the business, and, although the work is
not yet complete, splendid progress has
been made, the report says.
The chairman sums up the position
in this way:
Stocks were brought forward last year
[1934] at a figure which subsequent events
have not justified. The present board has
therefore been faced with the task of drasti-
cally writing down previous values. With-
out this burden the profits of the year
under review would have been considerably
higher. During the current year there will
be no leeway to make up, as we com-
menced the term with all assets conserva-
tively written down.
Ihe spring in the year’s turnover was
£BO,OOO, of which £65,000 was in respect
of the second half of the term. After pro-
viding for depreciation, etc., gross earn-
ings (£232,279) were £16,238 better. Exes.
(£229,637) took £6206 of the increase,
leaving a profit of £2642, an improve-
ment of £10,032 on the previous year’s
result and the first thing of its kind since
1930. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained reduction of £2885 in
the capital assets reserve (now £24,738).
The board’s action in transferring
£20,000 from the General to Dividend
Equalisation reserve, “to counteract the
unfair disadvantage appertaining to the
accompanying accounts,” may be in-
tended as an indication of the net result
of the year s trading had stock values,
etc., been on a proper basis. Of the
£20,000, £12,481, together with the £2642
of profit claimed, was used to pay a
year’s pref. div. to Oct. 1, 1931, leaving
£52,875 ( 3s. lOd. per share) to come
at next balance. Shareholders have the
chairman s assurance that, in the absence
ol unforeseen circumstances, resumption
of regular payments to the prefs. and
the settlement of ail dividend arrears
within a reasonable time may be con-
fidently anticipated.
Over the twelvemonth the prefs. ad-
vanced from 19s. 3d. to 225. 6d. in the
market. Allowing for the statutory cut,
which reduces the div. to 5 p.c., the
return at the higher figure is 4.4 p.c.’ plus
arrears. At 16s. 3d. the ords. would
return 4.9 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, but
they may have to wait for a year or two
before they gel into the picture again.
Che net tangible cover is 68s. 9d. prefs.
and 265. 7d. ords.
Visibly the year’s net reduction in the
book value of stocks was £5076:
1920. 1932. 1934. 1935
Taut capital. . £722,902 £772,902 £772,902 £772,902
Liabilities . . 27,181 39(j/054 336,502 331,277
Property .. 306,00 V! 731,386 718,710 721,632
1 lain, etc. .. 20,805 163,320 149,380 143,710
Stocks . . 494,611 399,943 356,474 351,398
Bock debts .. 17,114 36,716 56.964 57 718
( ash. etc. . . 92,818 12,769 9,940 9,749
The outside debt consists of a mort-
gage (unchanged at £7000), trade credi-
tors (£33,992, up £3063) and overdraft
(£290,286, down £8287) —the co. went to
its bankers to finance reconstruction of
the main premises about eight years ago.
I here was little change in the more or
less liquid surplus (£87,588). The posi-
tion will look a lot more encouraging
when the overdraft can be substantially
reduced. The current and subsequent
year s results will depend largely upon
good buying.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. senses.
L. £ £> £.
10 P- c - = 53 ' 513 18,000 24,437
1927 " on’r?? ” ” 57 ' 937 26 >1 50 29,876
’ 90 ’ 515 1° „ 61,375 27,700 31.316
1928 . 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
(7 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
infn ' io?’fc? 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38.843
mo, (8 p.c.)
1931 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000)
Provident fund, £lOOO .. f 41,667
Ail reserves written off assets, £41,667
(10 p.c.)
19.,. .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
1933 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 ) „ s
Provident fund, £lOOO .. J 778
1934 . 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 ) „ 0 „
Provident fund, £lOOO . . ( 72 °
1935 .. 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
There is £937,500 of capital to feed in
166,667 7 p.c. cum. prefs. paid to 17s. 6d.
each, and 833,333 ords., of which one-
tenth is paid only to 10s. each. The co.
is not subject to the provisions of the
N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity Act
which fix divs. at 54- p.c. on pref. and
6 p.c. on ord. capital, restrict allowances
for depreciation and other reserves and
provide for the issue of new shares by
auction. Still, for a co. enjoying a
monoply of a public utility to pay more
than 8 p.c. these days might prove to be
an indiscretion.
The lully-paid pound ords. are steady
m the market at 355. ; at this figure the
return is 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
At 18s. the 10s. paids return 4.4 p.c. on
the same basis. Over the twelvemonth
the prefs. have dropped from 255. 6d.
to 235. 6d., due to a slight rise in the return
now expected from fixed-interest-bearing
securities. The return at 235. 6d. is 5.2
p.c. The net tangible cover per pound of
paid capital is £6 7s. Id. prefs. and 20s
ords., practically all in fixed assets.
Consumption of electricity reached its
lowest point in 1931, when a couple of
points were knocked off the ord. div..
i educing it to 8 p.c. At the same time
all visible reserves, including the allow-
™Ce,nf^depreciation ( £ 310,242 at April
3U, 1931), were used to write down book
values, mainly of fixed assets. In the
following year a smaller-than-usual
allowance for depreciation (shown as
written off in the table) enabled the rate
to be lifted to 10 p.c. again; but it
dropped back to 8 p.c. in ’33, owing to
reductions in the price charged to con-
sumers, and has remained steady since.
Last year’s revenue shot up £17,752,
or over three times the improvement in
the previous term:
~ Working
mm Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
" i’!22 £20,564 £9,463
1920 .. / ,596 80,496 31 456
iolo •• 19 ’ 310 187,719 83^693
1929 .. 24,928 243,373 117 553
1930 .. 26,239 270,005 126,420
1931 .. 26,889 259,309 110 821
looQ " 2 1’! 76 241,169 104,040
1933 .. 28,244 248,673 106 421
I 9 • • 29,661 253,894 107,543
1930 . . 31,186 271,046 119.388
Of the growth of £11,845 in exes., £7585
was on account of repairs, renewals and
maintenance (£31,358). The net result was
£4907 better; but an extra £5754 was
openly written off for depreciation, leav-
ing only £9B to visibly put on the shelf.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
n . „ 1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Capital . .'£875,000 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors .. 126,096 83,913 70,347 72,881
Fixed assets 1,312,605 1,017,339 998,058 984,101
Stocks etc. .. 21,072 13,357 12,403 12 583
Book debts .. 11,289 9,192 8 181 9 765
Cash, etc. . . 6,182 31,961 . 42-,367 52*80$
The year’s capital expenditure was
£46,956, leaving the net reduction in the
book value of fixed assets at £13,957.
Cash, etc., benefited by £10,441. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £2275, an improvement of
£9671 over the twelvemonth.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
r Dividends-
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mai., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1926.. 544 10 p.c. = 3,761 8(R!6 14^660
Written off buildings, £2OOO 12 660
Share premiums, £3425 .. .. moss
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. - 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23 833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28’768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .24*297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 24,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. ~ 30 370
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52*446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. .. 66 479
1930 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16,754 13,846 80*325
Share premiums, £7199 .. ~ 87 524
1931.. 47,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,569 90*083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92 317
1932. .1.9,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95*,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. 101 439
1933. . 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2.? ii 104143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ ~ 19,465 331 10M74
1935. . 21,807 8 „ 10 ~ „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
This 13-year-old manufacturer of
hosiery, etc., is a noteworthy example of
the proper use of the tariff in fostering
the growth of Australian industry. While
the quality of the co.’s products has been
improved, the enterprising management’s
incessant war against costs has enabled
selling prices to be reduced, to the benefit
of turnover. Paid capital advanced from
£33,181 in 1925 to £215,259 at the close
of accounts in 1933. The div., which
had reached 20 p.c. in 1929, dropped to
15 p.c. in 1930, followed by a steady 10
p.c. for the last five years, despite slump,
the hand-to-mouth policy of retailers and
price-cutting, due to a scramble for ready
cash in the trade. Meanwhile, the busi-
ness has been extended to Maoriland,
where an interest in one of the leading
mills was bought a couple of years ago ;
also, manufacture of high-grade lingerie
has been undertaken.
i Although establishment of a uniform
48-hour week throughout the Australian
hosiery industry extinguished the advan-
tage in costs formerly enjoyed by Vic-
torian manufacturers, this co.’s gross
earnings (£129,373) sprang £9626 last
year. The net result, which benefited by
£2Oll of the increase, nearly 2\ times
covered the pref. div., after allowing for
which there was enough to show 12 p c
on the £112,209 of ord. capital as against
10.2, 12.4, 13, 12.3 and 37.7 p.c. back to
1930. Share premiums, however, make
the 10 p.c. div. worth no more than 6.6
p.c. on all capital gathered since 1925,
while the jettisoning of half the amount
paid up during the early post-war slump
reduces the return on old holdings to
half the declared rate.
Finances are comfortable enough, as
the following table, which further reflects
the expansion of the business, shows:
„ ~ , 192 u. 1933. 1934. 1935.
1 aid capital. . 1133,181 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Debentures . . 9,563
Overdraft .. 7,460 2,709 25,672 33,189
Sundry creditors 3,948 69,152 41,599 26,637
Freehold . . 15,126 75,815 78,223 79,494
Plant, etc. .. 15,059 115,870 119,712 101 757
Shares in other cos. 52,546 52,546 72 546
Stocks , . 16,646 125,043 105,259 120 232
Book debts, etc. 9,669 24,875 52,782 25 006
Cash, etc. .. 6,679 14,573 1,019 '903
Last year £17,955 (= 15 p.c.) more was
written off than was spent on plant. The
growth of £20,000 in shareholdings and
reduction of £27,776 in debtors’ balances
are interrelated. Stocks were up £14,973,
and the outside debt down £7445 net!
Excluding shares in other cos., the con-
traction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£86,315) was £5474.
At 17s. the fully-paid 10s. ords. return
5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 31s. (28s. 9d. a year ago)
yield 5.2 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£3 2s. 6d. prefs. and 19s. 7d. ords.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and
r~ Dividend Tax — To
Pref. -R e .. jj e . ...
Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ & £ £ £
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 20,617 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 606,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 17,375 523,496
Sept.,’2B,. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 19,466 542,962
Mar., ’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 19,846 562 808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ ~ 42,545 4,716 567,524
Mar., 30.. 67,910 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 23,865 591 389
Sept., 30.. 50,277 1500 16 ~ „ 34,036 14,741 606,130
Mar., 31.. 40,580 1500 16 „ ~34,036 5,044 013 374
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 2,322 613,496
Mar., ’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 10,356 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 87,557 15'00 12 „ „ 25,527 10,530 634,382
Mar.,’33.. 50,301 1500 16 „ ~ 34,036 14,765 649,347
Sept.,’33.. 39,344 1500 12 „ „ 26,527 12,317 661,464
Mar., ’34.. 62,023 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 17,978 679,442
Sept.,’34.. 43,192 3 500 16 „ „ 34,036 7,656 687,098
Mar., ’35.. 52,224 1500 2‘o „ „ 42,545 8,179 695,277
The £695,277 of visible reserves, like
the £475,454 of share capital, belongs
to shareholders, who are entitled to a
fair return on the two combined. To
transfer some of the lay-by to the share
register would, therefore, make both net
earnings and dividends in relation to
share capital look more like what the
position really is, and thus avoid much
popular misconcepton in this connec-
tion. The board considered the question
six months ago, but decided not to take
any action until pending litigation con-
cerning premiums on shares was out of
the way, and there the matter stands for
the present.
Of the £475,454 of capital, £50,000
carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. If the
ord. capital was doubled by the issue of
bonus scrip, raising it to £850,908, 10
p.c. thereon, plus the pref. div., would
call for £88,090, or £7326 less than was
netted last year, and £269,823 would still
remain on the reserve shelf. On this
basis, the 255. paid ords. at £5 16s. would
return 4.3 p.c. At 275. the well pro-
tected pound prefs. return 4.4 p.c.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts gross earnings (£264,597) sprang
£23,536. Exes. (£168,440) took £15,646
of the increase. After allowing for
reserve adjustments, the net result
(£95,416) was down £5950. Still, it was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£3000) and
then show 21.7 p.c. on ord. capital as it
now stands, or 8.2 p.c. on ord. capital
and reserves combined. Shareholders
received 18 p.c. for the twelvemonth as
against 16 p.c. and 14 p.c. for the two
preceding years.
The 8.2 p.c. suggests that assets are
conservatively valued in the books.
Here is as much as the published figures
tell:
March, March, March, March,
1926. 1933. 1934. 1935.
I’aid capital.. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages . . 51,672 17,123
Other liabilities: 90,151 122,796 116,417 150,308
Freehold and
plant . . 654,179 955,838 980,945 952,191
Mortgages . . 58,588 39,121 35,759 50,573
Stock. . . . 54,759 40,663 43,540 44,982
Shares in other
cos. . . 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts . . 81,973 81,206 103,908 95,722
Cash, etc. .. 3,353 71,504 39,483 109,893
, t Includes goodwills accruing.
Brewery properties, which cost £245,813,
are in at £117,380, and plant, which cost
£446,715, figures at £137,423. Excluding
shares in other cos., but including mort-
gages and stock, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£150,863) was £44,589.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To He- lie-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924 .. 31,240 8 p.c. = 21,200 10,040 97,720
i92u .. 28,793 S „ ~ 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 .. 30,484 8 „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 .. 61,698 10 ~ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 . . 39.225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 .. 39,142 8 ~ ~ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 .. 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 .. 48,469 S „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 .. 30,344 8 ~ ~ 21,200 9,144 246.420
1933 .. 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 . . 35,921 10 „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Although the total quantity of raws
purchased by the Sugar Board for the
1934 season was 25,000 tons lighter at
642,000 tons, 51 p.c. of the lot was ex-
ported as against 48 p.c. in 1933. More-
over, the exports averaged only £7 11s.
3d. (down 9s. 3d.) a ton. The figure
would have been lower still only for
British preferences and the exchange
position. The home price is fixed at
approximately £24 a ton until 1941 to
cover losses on export. The average
price for the whole 642,000 tons was 13s.
4d. lower at £l6 10s. lid.
This co., which operates in the Bun-
daberg district, does not broadcast its
outturn of raws. But the board put last
year s net earnings at £29,706 as against-
£3l,74s for the previous term. That was
after adding £6215 (£14,062 in 1933) to
the replacement reserve, raising it to
£186,192, which appears to be largely
provision in excess of current require-
ments for depreciation, etc. The addi-
tions to this reserve are included with
profits in the table. Declared net earn-
ings were 11.2 p.c. on capital as against
11.9, 6.1, 10.7, 10.2, 9.9 and 10.2 p.c.
back to 1928. The div. was kept at
10 p.c.
Since the co. took over the sugar in-
terests of A. H. and E. Young 24 years
ago, it has been mostly an 8 p.c. proposi-
tion. Still, subject to seasonal condi-
tions, prospects of the 10 p.c. div. being
maintained, at least until the present
home-price agreement runs out in 1941,
are encouraging. Another good harvest
is in sight for the current season, and
overseas prices, which reached their
lowest point about six months ago, have
strengthened.
Also, new plant has been installed, to
the benefit of costs. The year’s addition
to the book value of factories and plant
was £39,099;
1923. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities .. 58,798 28,640 49,718 62,149
Estates .. 176,063 226,908 231,122 230,051
Factories, etc. 112,585 162,111 164,476 196,239
Railways, etc. 41,084 54,993 54,827 54,096
Plant.. .. 40,627 43,355 59,845 67,181
Stores .. 5,643 17,815 24,495 23,363
Sugar stocks,
book debts,'etc. 46,070 19,666 72,179 57,867
To finance the outlay stocks, book debts
and cash were reduced by £14,312 and
£12,431 was added to the debt, which
includes provision for taxation.
At 395. the pound shares return 5.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The book
value of the cover is 40s. 9d. in net tan-
gibles, mainly fixed assets.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
’ —Dividends ~ Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves.serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8,, 20.000 15,422 145 643
Mar.,.’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155 223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 19,169 187 534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 20o’ci9
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 13,775 248 316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8„ „ 20,000 9,020 257 336
Mar.,’3l.. 28,109 4000 8 „„ 20,000 4,109 26L445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8,, „ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259’,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. . . 263 123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20.000 261’465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8.. 20,000 260.’923
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 1,678 262 601
5ept.,’33..31,280 4000 8 „„ 20,000 7,280 2691881
■Mar., ’34.130.867 4000 10 .. 25,000 1,867 271.
Sept.,’34. .32,989 4000 10 „,, 25,000 3*989 275 737
Mar.,’3s. .31,660 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 2,660 275’397
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074.
This well-handled organisation is in the
wholesale book, newsagency and paper
trade, and the business is scattered
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. When slump, exchange and
primage reduced turnover and bumped
up the cost of imported literature
the div. dropped from 10 p.c. (it
was sweetened with a 2 p.c. bonus


@
vD
C
The Latest Development in Mining, the McRICHPALS GOLD and TIN
SAVING MACHINE, for Alluvial, Beach and River Sands. Also Sole
Manufacturers and Patentees of the “Curvilinear” Patent Concentrating Table.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS (hand and power operated).
6UTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult -
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * 4= *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, S'erap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.
sj. * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331—333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
* * # *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
S'teel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.e. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO.. LTIL,
Catheart House, Sydney.
Not conducted for profil
the greatest service
■
m
mm
yy/.y.
mm
m
Is YOUR baby worth
ASSURING?
LOVE and affection are the very basis of life
assurance. The desire of men and women to
ensure happiness to their loved ones is the reason
for the existence of the A.M.P. Society with its vast
membership and its £279,000,000 of assurance.
For instance, it is a common practice among parents to
assure their children with the A.M.P. Some choose one
kind of policy, some another. There are policies to suit
the needs and ideas of all. The sum assured can be
small or large.
One man will want to ensure that £ 1 00 a year for three or five
years shall be available to his son should he choose to go to
the University. Another man will want to provide a lump
sum of, say, £5OO or £l,OOO for his boy when he reaches the
age of 25. A third may prefer to take out a policy under
Table ZN, because it will early give his boy the habit of thrift.
Under Table ZN a parent, aged 30 next birthday, may assure
the life of his child, aged 3 years next birthday, for £l,OOO,
payable at death of the child if occurring on or after his 2 1 1st
birthday, on payment of an annual premium of £B/9/2.
Should the child die before his 21st birthday, all the premiums paid will
be returned with interest added. If the parent die before the child’s
21st birthday, no premiums will need to be paid until the child reaches
21. Then the premiums become the young mans, or the young
woman’s, responsibility, and he or she is assured for £l,OOO, with
future bonuses, at about half the rate of premium that would be
required if the policy had not been taken out at so young an age.
To any parent living within a reasonable distance of any A.M.P. office
the Society will be glad to send an experienced counsellor to give full
details of the many ways in which children may be assured. A request
for a counsellor to be sent will entail no obligation whatsoever. To
those living far from an A.M.P. office, a copy of ’’lnvesting in
Happiness” and other booklets will gladly be sent.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.T.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.T.A.,
Actuary. General Manager,
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office; Customhouse Quay, WELLINGTON.
for 18 months to the end of Sep-
tember, 1929) to 8 p.c. But stocks
and debtors’ balances were worked down
without mishap, the outside debt was
reduced, and investments and cash were
strengthened. The co. was thus able to
take immediate advantage of the turn
in the tide ; the Government gave a little
assistance by reducing primage, etc. The
figures responded, and the div. has been
at 10 p.c. again for the last 18 months ;
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that it is likely to be interfered
with.
Taking the figures for the 12 months
to the end of March, gross earnings fell
from £162,104 (their highest point) in
1929 to £89,100 in 1932; they were
£120,215 (up £6865) for 1935. Exes.
(£55,527) took £4286 of the last year’s
increase. Allowing for minor reserve
adjustments, and after paying the pref.
div., enough remained to show 11.3 p.c.
on the half million of ord. capital as
against 10.8, 8.2, 7.6, 8.8, 13.3 and 18.9
p.c. back to 1929.
On the market, the pound ords., which
had fallen to 16s. 6d. in 1931, advanced
from 41s. to 475. 6d. (they were never
higher) over the last 12 months. At
475. 6d. the return is 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs.—there are 100,000
of them —are entitled to a fixed cumula-
tive 8 p.c., and enjoy priority as to divi-
dend only. At 355. (375. six months ago)
they return 4.5 p.c. The cover for all
shares is 255. 4d. in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet movements are healthy:
Maf.,’27. Mar.,’34. Mar.,’3s.
Paid capital .. £OOO,OOO £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . .. 69,000
Sundry creditors .. 127,050 102,065 125,421
Bank overdraft .. 79,880 •
Total liabilities.. £275,930 £102,065 £125,421
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £214,832 £213,309
Leaseholds . . . . 25,515 19,299 18,719
Plant, fixtures, etc. 46,595 34,167 81,782
Stock . . .. 332,896 209,782 186,621
Book debts. . . . 353,249 239,842 235,485
Other assets .. 18,560 188,681 250.691
Tangible assets ... £966,045 £906,603 £1,060,101
Since 1927 stocks have been reduced by
£146,275 and book debts by £117,764,
while other assets, chiefly investments
and cash, have been strengthened by
£232,131 and the outside debt has been
reduced by £150,509 net. Last year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£547,376) was £11,136.
Alluvial Gold
Owing to increased activities, Alluvial
Gold, a prospecting co. headed by H. G.
Pratten, is offering shareholders 60,000
new £1 shares at par, three for one. On
the market buyers offered £l3, with
sellers standing off at £2O, for the old
shares last week-end. At the middle
price the rights to the new issue are
worth approximately £7 155., without
allowing for brokerage, etc. At the
moment the attractiveness of the scrip
lies chiefly in the prospective value of
shares, which will be offered to those on
Alluvial’s register, in any operating cos.
to be formed to work areas taken up.
The co., which launched what looks
like a very promising Maoriland venture,
Barrytown Gold Dredging, in September
last, has now bought another dredging
area at Kanieri, Westmoreland (M.L.).
After 12 months’ prospecting, it has been
figured the new ground contains
54,000,000 c.y. of 9.3 d. dirt, with gold
at £6 (M.L.) per ounce. A co. is to be
formecl to work the property, and Allu-
vial shareholders will be asked to put
up most of the capital required. The
amount will be announced when the cost
of equipping the venture has been deter-
mined —plans for the dredge, etc., are
being prepared.
Encouraging results have also been
obtained from two other areas in the
same locality, and it is anticipated that
at least another property of similar value
will be acquired. Further boring, ex-
pected to be completed by the end of
July, is necessary before a definite state-
ment of yardage and values can be made.
Other properties are being examined by
the co. in Australia, Maoriland and else-
where.
Euratha (N.S.W.)
Immediate abandonment of work at
Euratha, Weethalle (N.S.W.), has been
recommended by mining engineer G. T.
N. McMahon, after a thorough overhaul
of the show. The fly in the ointment is
the narrowness of the pay shoot, which
would limit production to 600 tons a
month. On this basis an average ot
12dwt. would be necessary to cover
costs plus a return of 20 p.c. p.a. on
capital, Mr. McMahon says. Actually
the assay value of 142 samples taken
over a normal stoping width of 30 inches
averaged about 6dwt, which is only four
grains less than the average head value
of all ore milled to date. There is
nothing to suggest that either values or
the width of the reef will improve at
depth, and the chances of discovering
new payable reefs are small.
On the basis of a 90 p.c. recovery, and
with gold at £8 10s. an ounce (Australian
currency), 12dwt. stone would be worth
£3 16s. 6d. A 20 p.c. div. on capital as
it now stands would call for £lO,OOO.
Appearances are, therefore, that costs are
around 48s. a ton. Thus 6dwt. stone
would be unpayable with gold at £8 10s.
A committee of shareholders is inves-
tigating the position. The co. has about
£5OO in hand. The plant is reckoned to
be worth £5OOO ; what it would actually
fetch is another question.
Gt. Boulder will hold its annual roll-
up in London this month. The mine is
just about as valuable to-day as it was
12 months ago. But the treatment plant
is still off color, though, while passing
through Kalgoorlie, Herbert Gepp re-
cently gave the co. the benefit of his
metallurgical experience. Flotation.»as
in operation on the Boulder and other
goldmines in the West, has not been the
huge success its admirers reckoned it
would be. Boulder’s position could be
more easily sized up if the part the co.
intends to play in the creation of Boulder
Finance Corp. were known. Flotation
of the Finance Co, is expected in London
any day now to acquire from Claude de
Bernales several hitherto unmarketed
Westralian shows. One yarn is that
Boulder, besides sponsoring this venture,
may swap its 10 p.c. interest in Yellow-
dine for a wad of Boulder Finance
shares.
* * * *
Swan Bitter’s board (W.A.) is bitter
against those “circulating many mali-
cious and unfounded rumors concerning
the mine.” The directors are “unanimous
in the opinion that there is two years’
ore, worth approximately lOdwt. a ton, in
sight without further development, and
that it seems reasonable that the property
will be a payable proposition in the near
future.” The other story is that values
have diminished at shallow depth. Many
shareholders would welcome the opinion
of an independent engineer as to what
the possibilities of the venture are.
* * * «
On behalf of Princess Royal, Bewick,
Moreing and Co. has taken' an option
from United Westralian Gold over the
Kiora and Gouldbourn leases, near
Kunanalling (W.A.). The purchase price
is £16,200 cash plus £3OOO in shares, pay-
able £2OO at the end of a month’s free
sampling option, £6OOO July 10, and the
balance when and if the option is exer-
cised. In April the United Co.’s mine
super, figured that there was 12,000 tons
of 7idwt, stuff between the surface and
the 100 ft. level in the Kiora lode, and
that for each 100 ft. of lift 12,000 more
tons should be developed. From the
Gouldbourn 48 tons of development
stone recently averaged 174dwt. Every-
thing depends upon how the lodes behave
at depth, and upon the possibility of
finding new makes of pay ore.
* * * *
At the end of May North Kalgurli
figured ore reserves at 487,000 tons, aver-
aging Bdwt. The previous estimate, at
the end of 1933, was 222,000 tons,
9dwt.; 25,000 tons, Bdwt.; 118,000 tons,
7.sdwt, The co., which has recently
been treating about 6000 tons monthly at
the Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.’s plant,
expects to soon lift the figure to 7000
tons.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.J.R.: Finances are comfortable, and the
work is being carried out at low cost. It is
too early yet to form any reliable opinion as
to market prospects 5.0.8.: (1) As for the
bonds, yes. (2) Morris Hedstrom appears to
offer better prospects F.R.V.: Yes
E.J.K.: H. Lord and Son, Broken Hill, are
the patentees of the machine mentioned. Chas.
Ruwolt Pty., Richmond, Vic., are Australian
agents for other machines... .R.M.C.: Ques-
tions too wide and embracing to answer briefly.
Any textbook on assaying, such as Manual
of Practical Assaying, by Furman and Pundoc,
or A Textbook of Assaying, by C. and J.
Beringer, will give the required information.
. ...W.N.H.: If safety of capital is important,
look elsewhere.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Mystery of Edwin Drood”
Dickens so successfully avoided giving
conclusive clues to the mystery surround-
ing the disappearance of young Edwin
Drood that Quiller Couch, who wrote the
finish of the story, included in most Eng-
lish editions, admitted that he had re-
sorted to only one of several possible
solutions. The talkie version owes only
a few outlines of character to Dickens,
and it fastens the crime on to John
Jasper (Claude Rains) so unmistakably
that Jasper’s very artistic pretence of
ignorance and indignation is wasted.
Douglass Montgomery, as the quick-tem-
pered Neville Landless (from Ceylon),
and Walter Kingsford, as Grewgious,
contribute more or less effective charac-
ter studies. Period settings (time is the
sixties) are elaborate but unconvincing,
the costuming being in some cases 1860,
in others 1800. The solution of the mys-
tery advanced is that Jasper murdered
Drood, then took his body to the cathe-
dral crypt and buried it in quicklime (a
tub of which was conveniently among
the crypt furnishings). To pave the way
for this he drugged the verger and took
wax imprints of his keys. His guilt was
dragged to light by Opium Maggie, a
Cloisterham dope addict,
who revealed all to the dis-
guised Landless. Dickens
thought Jasper would have
to go to London for his jag,
but Hollywood knows Eng-
lish cathedral towns better
than that. At Sydney Capi-
tol.
“I’ll Love You Always”
Starts with the wedding
bells. Young graduate in
engineering (George
Murphy) and repertory
actorine (Nancy Carroll)
marry and go to New York.
He, having exalted ideas of
his importance, refuses a
bottom-rung job and joins
the unemployed. His wife
gets an engagement with a
touring theatrical co., and
he steals to provide her
with clothes. Sent to
prison, he is enabled by a
kind-hearted detective
(Arthur Hohl) and the engi-
neering magnate he stole
from (Paul Harvey) to pre-
tend that he has gone to
Russia on business. He in-
tends to fade out of his
wife’s life, but a little
stranger arrives, and the
end is signalled half-way
through. Stereotyped stuff,
but smoothly acted. Also
at the Capitol.
“Ladies Love Danger”
A back-stage thriller. A millionaire,
his actress fiancee and a theatrical
manager bite the dust before playwright-
amateur detective Gilbert Ronald, imper-
turbable and debonair, aided by news-
paper sleuth Mona Barrie, hands the
slayer over to the cops. Miss Barrie has
humor, and she spices the proceedings
with it so skilfully that there are few
dull moments.
“The Night Is Young”
Another one about the romance of a
Hapsburg (Ramon Novarro) and a
chorine (Evelyn Laye). E. Everett
Horton is the comic courtier ; Charles
Butterworth and Una Merkel are the
heroine’s humble friends, and Henry
Stephenson would be a photographically
correct Franz Joseph ff he doddered a
little more. There isn’t a new thought or
situation in it, and the melodies are
obvious, so it’s bound to be popular.
At the St. James, Sydney
“Naughty Marietta”
Unlike most musical presentations,
«x T u* ** ■ A
Naughty Marietta, at Melb. Metro.,
has a coherent and vigorous story,
Marietta is a princess of France marked
to become mistress of Louis XV. after
marriage to an elderly Spaniard. She
impersonates one of the girls who were
sent in shiploads to Louisiana to be-
come the wives of the colonists, is cap-
tured by pirates, rescued by a detach-
ment of British mercenaries and ren-
dered indignant by the confident com-
pliments of the devil-may-care captain,
Of course, she grows to love him and,
of course, he has to rescue her again,
this time from her lawful guardians. Old
Paris, the immigrant ship. Old New
Orleans and the jungles are excellent,
Jeannette MacDonald looks and sings
well. Nelson Eddy’s officer smacks of
the wise guy of to-day ; still the Yank
of 1735 may have been like that. Frank
Morgan as the nervous, amorous Gov-
ernor of Louisiana and Elsa Lanchester
as his jealous, vinegary wife are funny ;
and Douglas Dumbrillc is capital as
"RUGGLES OF RED GAP,” AT SYDNEY PRINCE EDWARD.
On ground level: Zasu Pitts, Charles Laughton, Mary Boland, Charles Raggies, Roland Young.
Propelled by Laughton’s toe, Lucien Littlefield.
a contemporary King’s man, so loyal that
he deems his niece quite legitimate prey
for his royal master.
“Cocoanut Grove”
An example of what can be done
nowadays in color photography. The
pictures show some Hollywood resorts
and introduce Mary Pickford, Bing
Crosby and others, all of whom do a
little at the mike. There are dances
and a pageant of national costuming,
Leo Carrillo recites a verse about Holly-
wood —“Junk, bunk and genius stu-
pendously mingled”—which is above the
average.
“Travelling Saleslady”
Featuring Joan Blondell and the sex
war. Her fawther, a toothpaste emperor,
refuses to employ her in his plant. A
dunderheaded male, he thinks girls lack
business brains. He is taught a bitter
lesson, and so is his star traveller, when
the maiden takes the road in the in-
terests of an opposition firm and wins
all along the line. At the Regent on
Saturday night shrieks of girlish laugh-
ter were heard as the heroine made an
infuriated ass of the hero in one contest
of wits after another. A first-class farce,
despite the feminist propaganda. At
Sydney Regent.
“The Painted Veil”
The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic
wrote of this version of Somerset
Maugham’s novel, which arrived at Syd-
ney St. James last week:
Garbo does great work—almost as good
as that wonderful cameo she presented in
“Anna Christie.” As the joyous, laughing
flapper, as the passionate Messalina, as
the devoted and repentant wife, she scores
every time. Yet it is not her acting that
carries the play. It is Herbert Marshall as
the man whose job is greater to him than
his life or his happiness. Marshall makes
the audience think it is looking on the
actual man. Broken by his wife’s infidelity,
he has before him the task of saving a
Chinese community from cholera, and he
depicts just the way such a man would
face such a position.
The rest of the acting is good, too (par-
ticularly that of Forester Harvey, a
cheery, disreputable-looking Cockney
whose face fairly exudes booze), and the
coolies are painfully like the real thing.
“Roberta”
Screen version of the songandance
show that has been filling the stage of
Sydney Theatre Royal with color and
romance. Though the monochrome set-
tings are beautifully designed and photo-
graphed, they seem insipid in compari-
son. Fred Astaire’s dancing is the big
feature. Partnered by Ginger Rogers, he
occupies the screen most of the time.
Irene Dunne is the princess who became
a dressmaker and who sang in public on
every possible occasion. Her voice, or
the voice that was grafted on her moving
photograph, is not particularly pleasing.
At Sydney Regent, - -
Some First Nights
The Firm’s Gilsullivan co. opened
with “The Gondoliers” at Melb. His
Majesty’s on Saturday, and had an en-
thusiastic reception, encores being so
frequent that the continuity of the play
was seriously interrupted. Honors of
an excellent presentation go to Minnie
Everett, producer, and William Quintrell,
conductor. Next comes Ivan Menzies as
the Duke of Plaza Toro. Eileen Kelly’s
Tessa was a bright natural performance,
sung well, and Gregory Stroud made a
good deal of Marco. The singing of
Winifred Lawson as Casilda was striking.
* * •¥
The Yehudivinity of Menuhin con-
tinues to be worshipped at divers times
and in sundry parts of Melbourne. Last
week the pursuing hordes followed the
young man from the Town Hall to His
Majesty’s ; one day this week they will
be obliged to seek his shrine at the King’s
Theatre. The Franck Sonata in A Major
was one of the latest of his items to
leave an audience breathless. He has
done nothing better. On Thursday after-
noon his violin introduced to Melbourne
the long-awaited sonata by his own
master and mentor, Georges Enesco,
which has not yet been performed in
London or Paris. It was intricate and
changeable, and appeared to share some
of the characteristics of modern paint-
ing. Menuhin and his pianist Gazelle
conspired to make the occasion a worthy
one.
Dante the Magician has returned to
Sydney, and fills the second half of the
bill at the New Tiv. He occupies the
stage for well over an hour, and pro-
ceeds from simple sleight-of-hand tricks
to elaborate feats of illusion. Ducks,
pigeons, pigs, umbrellas and flappers
appear from all sorts of unlikely recep-
tacles in the earlier turns. The most
popular item was the drawing of beer
from a seemingly empty barrel. The first
half is given over to vaudeville, with Joey
Porter, Alec Pleon, Alan Priora, Lily
Coburn, the Harris Sisters and the Five
Florays well to the fore.
*. v- *
At Sydney Civic Joe Lawman has
given way to a company headed by Mo.
and houses have improved,
though in comparison the
show is dull. Mo must
have the centre of the
stage, and some of the
others have to ease up to
give it him ; still, the audi-
ence enjoys it. The ballet
remains the same, and does
the same good work; it’s
a happy change to find a
few frills in place of the
usual tinselled tights. Ivy
J veil twists herself into
all sorts of knots quite
cleverly, and looks pretty
all the time, and Phyllis
Jamison tumbles about in
time with the music. Of
the others, Cora Whitwell,
singing, smiling and danc-
ing. and Mike Connors are
the best.
Y- -Y-
At Sydney Cri. “Mush-
rooms,” a one-act comedy,
has been introduced as a
curtain-raiser to “Queer
Cargo.” It deals with the
reactions of a number of
guests at a dinner when
they are informed that the
mushrooms which they had
eaten were probably toad-
stools. The death of a dog
who had consumed the
same fare increases appre-
hension. A stomach-pump
is called for, aqd the guests experi-
ence an uncomfortable time. All comes
right in the end. The players include
Gabriel Toyne, Sybil Davidson, Betty
Bowden and Leslie Gordon, all of whom
enter into their parts with zest.
-Y -Y- Y -
At Sydney Savoy last week the Phillip
Lewis co. followed up its success in
“The Green Bay Tree” with a fine per-
formance of Keith Winter’s “The Shining
Hour,” principal ingredients of which are
a triangle and a suicide. Harvey Adams,
Elaine Hamill and Winifred Green gave
good character studies, and Sybil David-
son, Leslie Victor and Phillip Lewis filled
minor roles satisfactorily. George D.
Parker was the producer.
(Continued on page 27.)


:©
*
m.
1
m
m
m
m
Prestige ltd.
T INTRODUCE
A NEW STANDARD OF VALUES
ff
SMOOTH AND DULL
FINE and definitely
. . BEAUTIFULLY
LADDERPROOF
This new range supplements the well-known beautiful Prestige range and
is cut and fitted with the same infinite care. It gives that unobtrusive
moulded daintiness so essential with modern frocking.
And “PARAMOUNT” underwear is not expensive, beautiful Nicks
at 4/11, 5/11, 6/11 ; Vests from 5/ll and Princess Slips from 10/6.
NOW SHOWING AT YOUR FAVOURITE STORE


ABORIGINALITIES
Alpha”: Uncle could never be in-
duced to part with his pipe. But he
accompanied a party of us on a snapper-
fishing expedition, and as we settled down
tor the day a few miles out at sea he
knocked the dottle from hia pipe on the
gunwale, and the bowl went overboard.
Cursing with the fury of an inveterate
smoker looking forward to eight hours
of misery, he threw the stem after it. We
fished. We caught nothing. Uncle went
on fuming, gradually dying down to a
whimper. A wave lapped against the side
of the boat, and up floated the bowl of
uncle’s pipe. His renewed remarks rose
to a crescendo and stayed there.
* * * *
“G.J.8.”: We were picnicking in the
Adelaide hills when another party fright-
ened a hare out of some bushes. It
made straight for us, and seemed as
though it would run on to the wife’s lap.
I intercepted it with my foot, and the
force of the impact threw the racer on
its back. It lay stunned for a few
seconds, and then made off in another
direction. Hares can’t see directly in
front of them.
* * * *
“Wayward”: A queer customer is the
fresh-water crayfish of Mt. Spurgeon
(Q.). Out of water he’ll stand facing you
with his two large claws opened out at
right-angles to his body. A stick brought
into contact with his claw leaves him
unmoved ; but should you poke at his
head, its two claws immediately wrap
themselves around the stick.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”; At Catherine Hill Bay
(N.S.W.) a miner’s daughter was doing the
ironing. Lacking an ironstand, she used
a full tin of dad’s detonators (kept on the
kitchen mantel for safety) instead, plac-
ing it on the corner of the table as the
most convenient spot. The subsequent
explosion drove the table leg through the
floor, the iron through the ceiling, and
broke things up generally ; but, though
three small children were in the room in
addition to the ironer, no one was hurt.
* ❖ 'l' *
“Teopina”; In a village on the Bou-
gainville (N.G.) coast the natives have
discovered a new way of hobbling their
pigs. Passing through recently, I noticed
that about a dozen grown grunters each
had a front leg freshly cut off at the
second joint. When I threatened to re-
port them to the kiap for cruelty the
natives pleaded, “We only do it to stop
them jumping the fence into our gar-
dens.”
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: If the owner of that
goldfish pond wants to get rid of the
piratical shags (B. 15/5/’35), here’s the
way. Make up a large drum-net of coarse-
raesh wire-netting and sink it in the
centre of the pond. Next day the shags
will be found inside it, dead as mutton.
Another way is to impale a fish on a
snook or barracouta hook and toss the
line well out. You’ll have the shag
hooked within an hour. With the net
method the mesh is large enough to let
the fish get through, but it blocks shags
and turtles.
* * * *
“Flash Tack”: A kookaburra fre-
quenting my neighborhood is sadder
and wiser than he was a few days ago. I
dwell in a cottage with a long, open
verandah closed in at each end with
sliding glass windows. The laughing
cavalier had got into the habit of hang-
ing round the verandah at afternoon-tea
time and making play with scraps of
cake, etc., thrown to him by admiring
females. He had also acquired a habit
of flitting suddenly down the length of
the verandah and leaving by one of the
sliding windows. Someone closed the
slide, and when Jacko did his bit he hit
the glass good and hard, the impact send-
ing him to the floor. Curiously enough,
the bang didn’t even star the glass. First-
aid was rendered, and after an interval
Jack winged a wobbly flight to a near-
by tree. Not all the spices of Arabia
can lure him near the verandah now.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Frogs after rain in pre-
viously dried-up dams? Digging around
the arid Westralian goldfields I have
come upon grown croakers full of water,
but with every orifice, including the
eyes, sealed up. They were nowhere
near any waterhole, dry or otherwise ;
but, needing water in which to spawn
and rear the subsequent tadpoles, they,
I guess, when a heavy enough rain awoke
them, had the instinct to hop until
they found the suitable waterhole, where
their love-songs made people wonder just
how full-grown “bullies” came to be
where drought had reigned.
* * * *
“Slab”: Tell “Macropus” (B. 15/5/’35)
that old-man Too is not so hard to finish
off with two sticks, and the risks are not
great. Push one stick towards him, and
he’ll grab at it. Hit with the other stick
behind the ear. It is astonishing what
little force is necessary to kill in this way.
* * * *
“J.D.S.”: Weighing a quarter of a ton,
a giant sunfish was landed at Gosford
(N.S.W.) recently after a terrific struggle
during which it snapped a half-inch rope.
The catch was made by two men in a
small boat, Believing it to be a huge
shark, fishermen had watched it cruising
in the vicinity of a wharf for several
All you've got to do to influence the jury is to look innocent .”
days before any attempt was made to
catch it. Sunfish are deep-water inhabi-
tants ; this one travelled 12 miles from
the open sea up an inlet studded with mud-
flats and sandbanks. Generally the fish
require at least an Bft. depth of water
in which to swim.
* * * *
“Glenmore”: “Canvas’s” yarn re the
late Ted Hines’s patent waterbag (B.
15/5/ ’35) is more of an invention even
than the waterbag. The hut at Saville
(Q.) outstation being some 50 feet dis-
tant from the borehead and situated on
a gravelly ridge, the liquid would have
required to travel along the wire at a
steep angle. Ted’s method was to place
a four-gallon tin a few feet from the
bore-head and attach a piece of wire
from there to the tin ; the water travelled
along the wire, thus keeping the tin full,
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: There’s an interesting freak
of nature at Cromwell, Otago (M.L.).
Where two rivers meet, the Molyneux
is blue and clear, but the Kawarau is
always dirty and discolored. At the junc-
tion one is treated to the spectacle of two
distinctly different-colored streams flow-
ing side by side in one bed for some
distance before the waters mingle. Both
streams come down with tremendous
speed, but the Kawarau has a slightly
greater force, and so seems to keep the
Molyneux waters in check awhile before
acknowledging their presence.
* * * *
“M. de T.”: “G.T.” (B. 10/4/’35)
should consult the headmen of the
Mabuiag Islanders, Torres Strait. Skirt-
ing the island charted as Jervis is Ormon
Reef, thick with dugong, which provide
the staple food for Mabuiag. The
islanders are adept spearsmen of tho sea
bovine. One glance at a Mabuiagite,
with his huge bulk, his pig eyes peeping
out of his sleek chops, and a neck over-
hung with rolls of oily fat, will bear testi-
mony to the nourishing properties of the
meat —for meat it is, and not fish. Inci-
dentally, medical opinion is beginning to
compare dugong oil with cod-liver oil.
# * * *
“Friday Is.”: Tell “Carrick. A. 8.”
(B. 3/4/’35) that Japanese aren't the only
seafarers who appreciate good drinking
water. Many ships (R.A.N. included) im-
prove their* visit to Cairns (Q.) by filling
their watertanks from the wharf mains.
I was always solemnly informed by the
skippers that “Cairns water is the purest
and pleasantest in the world.”
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: “Geoloin’s” German
selectors (B. 8/5/’35) who built a four-
roomed house at the junction of four
selections were lucky. We tried the
same dodge in Westralia, but the Gov-
ernment beat us on the right-of-way
question.
❖ ❖
“Hillsider”: Never attempt to shoot
an old horse with a .22 calibre rifle, even
when extra-long cartridges are used (B.
8/5/’35). The skull of an aged prad is
hard and thick, and a small leaden
bullet merely flattens on it. Have known
29 .22 calibre bullets to be fired into an
old horse’s forehead at the point of the
muzzle, and not so much as stun the
poor brute. If a 25-20 or larger calibre
rifle is not available use a shotgun—at
short range. With light or heavy shot
that weapon makes a thorough job always
if the charge is not allowed to spread.
And, as “Bogaduck” has said, be careful
to aim high—well above the level of the
eyes, and never between the eyes. This
advice also holds good in the case of a
bullock or a pig. ’
* * * *
The 0.D.”: How fast can galahs
fly ? Seven flew parallel with our car
for half a mile between Narrabri and
Wee Waa (N.S.W.), and the needle of
our speedo. was flickering round the 45
m.p.h. mark. The cockies appeared to
be taking it easy, and neither gained nor
lost until they swerved into the bush.
* *’ * , *
Giopei . A Fremantle youth re-
cen y that sharks, like the
oikshneman of vulgar tradition, bite
dead or alive. Shark-fishing being now
an established industry at the western
port (skins are made into leather,
bones and flesh into fertiliser, livers into
oil, while fins and tails go to Hong Kong
tor soup), a recent lifting of one net
brought in a 15ft. specimen of a rare
species the whale-shark, so-called from
the structure of its tail, which resembles
that of a whale. While the lad was clean-
ing the monster’s several sets of teeth
with a view to its being placed on exhibi-
tion, the stick he had propping the jaws
open slipped. It required nine stitches
to repair the damage to his arm. Just
how that shark might have bitten when
alive can be left to the imagination.
* 5 * _ * *
“Western ’: Shifting sandbars are the
curse of most Westralian rivers. This
year Peel Inlet, which forms the estuary
for the Murray, the Serpentine and the
Harvey rivers, has closed right up across
the narrow mouth which other times
gives access to the sea. The result has
been the trapping of myriads of king-
prawns averaging 6in. in length. With
regulation nets of not more than a 9ft.
spread, hauls of over 100 gallons have
been taken by a couple of men in one
evening. Very profitable ; though what
will be the effect on next year’s prawns
is a matter causing the Fisheries Depart-
ment some concern.
* * Hs *
“G.X.1.”: Mick and Willie Pender
were the lads who had that 200-gallon
tank filled with rum (B. 15/5/’35 and
5/6/’35). Lake Pure was the station.
The incident took place in 1878 or
late in 1877, and unfortunately termi-
nated in a tragedy. At the end
of the Journey the bullock-driver
went after the bullocks; his wife,
who had a little child with her,
wandered away and perished. The
child’s body was never recovered. About
the time it happened I was travelling
from Melbourne with horses, starting
right from Kirk’s Bazaar, and we heard
the news at Wilcannia. I inspected Lake
Pure, which is the other side of Durham
Downs and adjoining the S.A. border,
some 25 years ago ; it had evidently
been unoccupied for a number of years,
and afforded a home for numbers ot
wild horses and the biggest dingoes I
had ever seen —probably a cross with
kangaroo dogs.
“Walkabout”: Coongy was the name
of that station to which came 200 gallons
of rum. The owner-brothers were Hector
and Norman Wilson. Any horse in those
days bearing the diamond and tail of
Coongy was a guarantee of a good prad ;
the station never bred a bad ’un. Inci-
dentally, that rum must have had a long-
distance kick if, as “G.S.L.” says, “there
was liquor enough to give everyone in
W.Q. a headache.” Coongy is in South
Australia, a fair step across the Queens-
land border. But possibly some of the
rum travelled.
“Walkabout”: Lack of green grass-
even dry stuff —and succulent roots has
caused marsupials in
drought - stricken
western Queensland
to* invade boggy and
drying-up dams and
water-troughs. With
seasonal conditions
normal, kangaroos
invariably drink
during the mid-
summer months
only ; wallaroos and
whiptails rarely at
all. The present out-
cry against the
quantities of water
being consumed
nightly by thousands
of semi - starving
Toos brings to mind
a selector, baling
water from a mick-
er y in the ’2B
drought for his few
head of cattle.
Small flocks of wax-
bills and budgeri-
gars flew to the
trough for their
daily drink.
“Gripes!” fumed the
cow-cocky, shooing
the fowls away, “I’ll have to get rid of
my cattle ; them birds drink too darn
much.”
* * * *
The small painted finches of
n.-w. Queensland are known and sought
after by bird-fanciers. Drought has
driven some from their haunts among the
gorges and hills right up to our Kynuna
homestead. I’ve noticed two varieties
sitting on the fence: the blood-finches,
with their lovely scarlet breasts, and the
red-beaks —scarlet legs and beaks, cream
and grey feathers, with a broad, black
band across the back where the cream
merges into the grey. The finches are
among the loveliest of our very small
birds.
* * * *
“S.N.E.”: “Daydreamer” (B. 8/ 5 / ’35),
if observant in future, will notice that
fish double back when disturbed. This
is what his fish did, and the tern fol-
lowed. “D.” was most likely looking
ahead, whilst the tern was laughing be-
hind his back chewing the catch.
* >l= * *
“The 0.D.”: My snake dog (B.
22/5/’35) was a short-sighted old kelpie,
which often supplied the boys with a
circus when a cast snakeskin, hooked to
a log or stump, began jerking about in
the wind. Old Jack would advance care-
fully, circle, bark, make a quick snap
and away. After some time he would
become puzzled by the refusal of the
“snake” to turn so that he could get a
snap at its back; he would retire some
distance, sit down and wait for one of
us to kill it. He was too near-sighted to
see a real snake before it got away.
THE EXPERT.
A flamin' expert!" Ernie said. “See this old
nmgme ’ere?
It s drove the big plant at the shed for close
on fifteen year.
It always went all right for me. But then he
has his say;
1 think she’s missin’ one in three —I’ll grind
her valves to-day.’
He started off; I stood aside to let him
work his brain;
An now, although he’s tried an’ tried, she
jist won’t go again.
These experts thinks they knows a lot —a
great deal more than me.
Experience is all I’ve got; he’s taken a degree.
I knoo this hingine inside out; an’ if she list
went well
I never worried much about her valves. But
he could tell.
She wanted something fixed, an’ so he filed her
hot an’ strong.”
Old Ernie spat. “He knoo, y’ know—but
cnpes, he knoo all wrong!”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


“Call your dog off!"
“ Why , 'e ain't on y' yet."
“E.F.G.”: Giuseppe had taken up a
selection, and had engaged two men to
cut fence-posts for him. After they had
been working a fortnight, the posts cost-
ing Giuseppe £3 a hundred at day-labor
rates, I strongly advised him to put the
men on contract at 255. to 30s. a
hundred. Meeting him a week later I
asked how the work was proceeding.
“Fine! ” Giuseppe replied ; “now the saw
he go ‘bythecontract, bythecontract, by-
thecontract’ ; before he go ‘b-y t-h-e
w-e-e-k ... by t-h-e w-e-e-k.’ ”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: If a bushman strikes
out through new country he generally
notes certain landmarks on the trip, and
will make his return, as far as possible,
over the outward track. It puts them
away in the city. One came out our
way, taking a circuitous route by train,
tram and ’bus. Told that he could cut
the time and the cost down by returning
on a straighter route, he said “Nuh! I’ll
go back the way I come. No chance of
getting slewed then!”
;J: ;J: ;J:
“2L.X.”: Old George Bran, a noted
character of western Queensland, had a
wife, equally famous in her time, and
one of her happiest boasts was that no
man ever left her camp hungry. She
had a tongue and a fist, and, in her
younger days, due to her slender figure
and her use of that weapon, she had
been known as The Long-handled Shovel.
Archie Douglas and I went there one
day. Mrs. B. had a ram to be shorn
and a goat due for another operation.
The ram, in her opinion, was worth any-
thing up to a couple of hundred quid ;
the goat was to be a prize-winner for her
granddaughter. Archie, as the better
shearer, took the ram ; I got the goal;
Mrs. B. busied herself with the teapot.
The ram, fat fool that he was, suffocated
and died in Archie’s arms. The goat
likewise turned up his toes. I think that
broke Mrs. B.’s proud record. It wasn't
that she wouldn’t have fed us: neither
Archie nor I was game to go and get
what was coming to us.
* * *
“Rus”: Can any Aboliar enlighten me
as to the identity of a small denizen of
W.Q. bore-drains? Somewhat like a
miniature stingray in appearance, he has
a semi-shell-like back about an inch long,
and from it protrudes a tiny whiplike
tail. A sluggish fellow, he seems to occur
only in artesian water, near-by tanks
being free from his presence. He and the
fish (about 2in. long) which come up the
casing with the water almost boiling
have always puzzled me.
i\i s|c ;{: jJs
“Kwa”: That bulldog-ant incident (B.
20/2/’35) brings back memories of the
Vic. Mallee. The newchum was getting
very uppish about his axemanship.
Strolling over one day the boss informed
him that I had struck an extra hard tree
and was in difficulties. “Choom” swal-
lowed the bait, and raced to the rescue.
It took only half a dozen cuts to enlarge
my scarf and the pipe that “Choom”
hadn’t noticed, and out poured a couple
of thousand bulldog-ants thirsting for
blood. With both boots full, and
another hundred or so ants exploring the
wrong side of his nether garments,
“Choom” gave us a pretty fair imitation
of a quick-change artist chased by a bull.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A common error made by
novelists and short-story writers, particu-
larly those who specialise in outback
yarns, is to describe a horse bucking for
anything up to half an hour in an en-
deavor to unseat the rider. Actually,
the longest buck lasts less than two
minutes, while in most cases it is merely
a matter of seconds, and either the horse
wins or he chucks the sponge.
“Old - timer”: The
jackeroo had been sent
from Whymoul up to
some swamp country
on the Wakool, about
30 miles away, to col-
lect about 200 sheep,
stragglers from the
shearing muster. When
he failed to appear
within three days a
search party set out.
At Neimur bridge the
river was seen to be in
flood, and fears were
aroused, for four creeks
intersected the small
paddock he had been
sent to. The rescuers
reached the first creek
in time to see a wor-
ried, wet and hungry
jackeroo forcing the
ewes and lambs over a
rough bridge of logs
and saplings he had
made himself. He had
arrived to find the
creeks overflowing,
and, without a thought
of doing other than
what he had been sent
to do, had struggled and toiled for two
days getting the stragglers over the half-
mile of ankle-deep swamps and swollen
creeks to high land. His dog had knocked
up, his horse was a muddy apology, and
he himself had slept the previous night in
a lignum bush. The boss gave him the
sack for not having sense enough to
come back and get help.
“Bitey”: The distinguishing
feature of the termite (B.
29/5/’35) is that he is always
confounding the scientific blokes
who have for years been trying
to catalogue his eccentricities.
It has recently been discovered
that many of the older houses
in New York which have wood-
framing as part of their make-
up are riddled with white-ants,
and the same is true of many
buildings in other parts of N.Y.
and other eastern American
States. One could understand
the termite flourishing in the
sub-tropical south, but that he
can brave the terrible East
Coast winters is something new.
New Yorkers recently were re-
joicing over a joke which the
creature put over on one of the
city’s biggest technical libraries.
By request this institution laid
in a copy of a monumental
work on the destruction of ter-
mites. It was not in much
demand, and when it was exam-
ined recently it was found that
white-ants had eaten every part
of it except the outside covers.
“Kaa-pai” (Kavieng, N.G.): While in
Sydney recently I saw a man buy a
cocoanut for his child at Manly, near the
beach. Having nothing better to do, 1
strolled after the pair, who sat down
with a small party. The man broke the
cocoanut by beating it against a stone,
and it took him over 20 minutes to get
the meat out with a table knife. Yet a
native’s daily task on a plantation is
breaking and extracting the meat from
an average of 720 cocoanuts all the year
round, and using nothing but a small
knife like a table knife. Thousands of
“boys” do it.
“R.S.”: Round about Charleville (Q.)
several couples have had to postpone
their wedding-day—till it rains. Men
are working long hours trying to
save sheep, and to halt this whirl
of activity for a marriage would be out
of the question. They are still saving
up for a rainy day.
sj: * $
“G.J.8.”: On Yorke Peninsula (S.A.)
two chaps were out after hares, when the
dogs put up a fairly large goanna. In
its fright the lizard made straight fox-
one of the men, ran up his body and
sought refuge on top of his head. His
companion yelled to him to lie down
and not to attempt to shift the reptile.
As soon as it was brought near the
ground the go. made off without doing
any damage. It’s a good trick to remem-
ber with either ’possums or gos.
* * * *
“Durah”: That suggestion that sheep
should be bred with button-on fleeces
(B. 29/5/’35) reminds me. According to
a relative I always found reliable, there
was an eccentric squatter on the eastern
edge of the Darling Downs many years
“Whistle ‘Pretty Joey ’ to ME, will y'?'
ago who experimented somewhat on
those lines. Sheep were then washed,
English fashion, before shearing, and as
his shed was, perforce, some miles from
the washpool, they collected dust in plenty
rw
method, but old Nawi, on Moa Island,
with his arm neatly severed at the elbow,
bears witness to the time when he held
a speared cray in his hand long enough
to attract a shark.
MILKING TIME.
Listen to the cowbells ringing
Out of scrub that is pansy-dark;
Ting-a-ling!—and the cowboy singing
High and shrill like a little lark!
Skirting snakebush and wild holly,
Down the slope the herd comes roaming;
Honeysuckle, Daisy, Molly,
Leisurely through the opal gloaming.
Call them up, the docile, dreaming,
Brindle-hide and tawny-hair;
Mothers sleek and slow and gleaming,
With no young ones in their care;
Mothers old, resigned and mellow,
Pangs forgotten, grief allayed;
Mothers young, who yearn for yellow
Darlings that have somehow strayed!
Still they seek them through each evening,
Calling them with mournful cry,
Molly, Honeysuckle, Daisy,
Listening for the faint reply!
Moon is up, and dew is falling,
Silently and sweet and cold
(Honeysuckle! cease your calling
For a baby ten days old!)
Through the rails, along the valley
Till the shadow turns to light,
And there looms, as through an alley,
Glistening paddock, wet and white!
Then the bells once more go ringing
In the scrubland, pansy-dark!
With the cowboy softly singing
Like a sleepy little lark!
Up the slope and into cover,
Honey-colored, brindle, small;
Till the keening of a plover
Drowns the last bell-note of all!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Sheet
metal
m STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O UP
£- Son Ltd.
AAcPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide, PertW j
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
r
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams; “Grancentral. -
SYDNEY.
Ran
r Give:.' t,
wnole dau
£tcr SMevc
running
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MAOF. J/J Q'JEE Sl A ,Nj o BY
RAPSONdDUTTON PTY LTD
• VALLL. V- BRlSB^ r '
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGIŢS LINSÈD MEAL.
Safe Lamb-breeding.
“Upilio”: My experience early showed
me the mistake of mating impure rams
to produce fat-sucker, early-maturing
lambs.
I was mating Dorset Horns with
merinos, and not having enough pedigree
rams used grades. Pure and impure
cross mobs were kept separate, and the
drop was marked on May 1. The whole
drop from the pedigree Dorsets was
marketed by the end of September, but
those of grade Dorsets were not ready
till mid-November. Although the market
was firm, they netted me 4s. 6d. per
head less.
In further trials I killed two fat lambs
for rations per week. The progeny of
pedigree Dorset on a first crossbred ewe
averaged 371 b., dressed weight, at 14
weeks old ; the pedigree Dorset on plain-
bodied merino ewes, 371 b. at 19 weeks ;
and a grade Dorset on a plain-bodied
merino ewe, 371 b. at 26 weeks—when a
lamb is no longer a sucker. For export
conformation the first lot was 100 p.c.
suitable, the second 80 p.c. and the third
25 p.c.
In using merino ewes as mothers for
fat lambs I found that the large, plain-
bodied ewe threw a better-quality lamb
than a smaller and wrinkly dam.
Export-lamb Weights.
“Jumbuck”: “Lion” (B. 15/5/’35) is
right about shows in which lambs over
the export average of 281b.-331b. “are
placed anywhere but first.” Judges often
seem to miss the most important issue—
the ultimate return to the grower. The
cry from Smithfield that “quality and
bloom” carcasses, not more than 331 b.,
bring top market prices doesn’t always
square with results. They do usually
per pound, but the extra per-pound price
doesn’t always compensate for extra
pounds of flesh.
Sheep Prices.
“Spring”: With the wool market aver-
aging between lljd.-12d. per pound
only, why go mad over sheep-buying?
There is nothing to warrant the prices
being paid in N. S. Wales to-day, when
the season is indifferent in “safe” dis-
tricts, and bad to droughty in others.
Recently six-tooth—eight-tooth wethers-
sold to 235. 6d., September shorn ; five-
year-old ewes in lamb to 16s. 3d. ; young
ewes to £l. I was asked to inspect a
mob of six-tooth ewes in lamb at 15s. 6d.
The majority were old sheep, all were
small, and nothing showing well in lamb.
Wool was short and “doggy.” There
were 100 different types and counts.
They wouldn’t have averaged 81b. at
shearing-time. I turned them down, but
they were soon sold.
The wethers at 235. 6d. would average
approx. 121 b. ,to 131 b. at shearing. On
present prices, the most to be realised
for their wool would be 135., less keep
and expenses. Surely a pretty dear
wether off shears and a year older?
At a sale of 25,000 sheep prices fell
2s. per head on the average. Yet the
season is unaltered and wool is still firm.
This fall is due either to dealers slack-
ening off or to a section of stockowners
regaining their sanity. Beware of
dealers bumping up the market!
Meatmeal in Drought-time.
“Back Swallow”: One advantage of
meatmeal as a supplementary food for
sheep when pastures become deficient in
protein through drought or rankness
appears to lie in its unpalatability. They
won’t gorge on it, but take only sufficient
lo satisfy their body requirements.
Therefore it can be put out in troughs,
like salt lick.
This method lacks objectionable
features of hand-feeding ; sheep are not
knocked about mustering to the feeding-
ground each day, and the fleece does not
become saturated with dust. Moreover,
sheep that have sufficient nourishment
are able to maintain their natural resist-
ance to internal parasites, so that there
is a gain both ways. Most sheep are
reduced to drought conditions prema-
turely through the attacks of worms.
Should the feeding of meatmeal be-
come at all general, it is likely to be of
additional benefit to graziers by provid-
ing an outlet for worn-out sheep and
cattle.
Rotational Sheep-grazing.
“Corriedale”: Inertia is often the
only reason why sheepmen on moderate-
sized holdings do not practise rotation.
Sheep are drafted into culls, ages, wean-
ers, etc., and put away in a paddock,
where they remain for months at a time.
Except when mating or weaning, there
is no need for these separate mobs. The
advantages are all in favor of making
them as few as possible, and changing
their paddocks regularly and often for
rest and grazing.
To the sheep, greater zest in existence
is given, with corresponding better
health and wool clip. The feed is better-
class, and the eternal fence-breaking
habit is cured.
The grass is treated as a crop. Much
more feed is available this way. The
better and finer grasses get a chance to
compete with the more unpalatable ones.
A certain percentage of feed is trodden
underfoot and returns as humus to the
soil. More sheep can be carried.
Sheep-dipping.
“Albarmount”: By “W.D.McC.’s”
method (B. 29/5/’35) it would take 10
hours to give 200 sheep a three-minute
bath.
In my dip, which he contends to be
inadequate, four sheep swim in the basin
and six in the channel at once. With
three-minute immersions it would take
three hours to put through 600. As I
occupy five hours, this bowls out
“W.D.McC.’s” suggestion that I slum the
job.
There is no need for small flock-
owners to build £lOO dips. Small baths
will do the work provided the jumbucks
are not allowed to race through. About
£3O will pay for this type if the owner
does the spade work.
“W.D.McC.” has given us nothing to
show that forcing races are easier than
lifting in. Once “had,” sheep don’t
enter dips without protest. I merely lift
them a few inches in a quarter of the
time it would take to push them through
a forcing race. An untrained youth of
16, fresh from the city, tipped in our
hoggets one year without undue effort.
Mouthing Sheep.
“F.L.8.”: When buying or selling
sheep mouth them carefully—especially
when selling sound-mouth ewes. A
broken-mouth ewe left in by mistake
might queer your sale, as might an eight-
tooth in a six-tooth mob.
One will often notice that a four-tooth
sheep has its six teeth showing through
the gum, whereas a proper four-tooth
should show its lamb’s teeth here only.
Unless these lamb’s teeth show, the sheep
is within, at most, three months of being
a year older, and worth less.
After full mouth, look for undue
length, teeth parting or loose or unduly
worn and short. A true five-year-old
should have its teeth fairly long, close to-
gether and not showing too much wear
at the edge. As the sheep ages the teeth
wear down again and show it on the
“flattened edges.” Then they loosen,
sometimes at six years, and start to come
out. Only practice and observation will
permit of accurate judgment.
Another point to note is that sheep
running on rough country, especially fal-
low, may wear their teeth unduly fast.
Thus it is advisable to find out where
sheep have been grazing before buying.
Molasses and Cottonseed.
“32 x 40”: My apologies to “Spring”
(B. 15/5/’35), but scores of Queensland
graziers have found it dangerous to feed
molasses mixed with salt to flock sheep.
The Queensland Meat Board and the
Stock Department have both issued a
warning against the practice.
Molasses is highly palatable, but de-
ficient in protein. It may be used up to
10 p.c. as a binder for friable material
(such as sterilised bonemeal), but even
then should be well diluted with water.
Prolonged in Queensland
have proved that, where heavy freight
charges have to be met, cotfonseed-meal
(5 p.c. fat and 35 p.c. protein) is more
economical stock feed than molasses.
For cheapness, maize takes first place,
but when fed with maize only poorly
constitutioned sheep develop digestive
troubles.
Fodders and Pastures.
“Hortus”: Sow oats every year on
established lucerne to make mixed silage
or mixed hay of a balanced nutritive
ratio. Do this during the second work-
ing of the lucerne in winter—one bushel
to the acre, plus super. The lucerne is
first cut for silage, then two hay cuts
are taken off.
In making pit silage, place wire-net-
ting over the material before throwing
on the soil, so that the top-covering can
be peeled off preparatory to emptying.
When unloading into the pits, have a
rope under the loads on the cart. The
silage then is pulled into the pits three
times as quickly as the fodder could be
pitched off. The best way is to build
the load on lorries light in front and
allow it gradually to spread in the pits
by paying-out the guiding-rope as the
silage sinks downward.
When building stacks, use waste straw
as a foundation to stop the rise of mois-
ture to the hay and prevent the entrance
of rabbits and mice. The best mouse
protection for stacks is a galvanised-iron
barrier—three 6ft. sheets riveted together
and the lengths then bolted.
The most efficient haysheds have low
cement walls let into the ground and
surrounded by sheets of corrugated iron
placed lengthwise. This barrier wall is
capped at joints by an overlapping small
sheet of iron to prevent mice from gain-
ing access by means of the joints.
In S. Australia turnips are advocated
for feeding sheep in winter. They should
be allowed access to a turnip area to
forage for themselves. Broadcast seed
lylb. to the acre.
Rye may prove superior to oats. It
does very well under cold conditions, no
matter how poor the soil. It makes
good growth and recovers well after
several grazings, producing a good yield
of grain.
Shelters for Cream-cans.
“Boka” ; Although most dairy-farmers
realise that cream deteriorates with ex-
posure to the sun, it is amazing how
many leave their cream-cans standing in
the sun waiting for the factory lorry.
A small shelter-shed beside the road
will repay its cost many times. It
can be built from odd pieces of timber
and iron. The most important part is
the floor. It should be made of slats,
about lin. apart, and set about 2ft. above
the ground, to allow a good circulation
of air around the cans. Anything that
will keep the rain out will make a roof,
which should be brought well down on
the sides to protect the cans from slant-
ing and have sufficient cant to run the
rain off.
Rib-branding.
“Beefo”; “Win” (B. 22/5/’35) main-
tains that, properly done, it will not
damage the hide. A fire brand must
burn into the hide. Scorching the hair
only is waste of time ; it acts only tem-
porarily and leaves no proof of identifi-
cation should an argument arise later
when the hair has grown again. And
any fire brand leaving its imprint on
the hide, whether on ribs, loin or rump,
must show up in the tanned leather.
It’s rib-branding that tanners object
to mostly, for, where three-piece brands
are used, the brand is apt to start about
the shoulder and finish anywhere about
the tail. I am yet to hear of any con-
vincing argument against branding on
the neck, low down on the shoulder or
the thigh, the lesser valuable portions of
the hide. Until such becomes universal
tanners will pass on to ultimate pur-
chasers leather value lost through stupid
branding methods.
Grass Tetany.
“SeenitaH”: This disease may attack
all cattle, especially dairy herds grazing
on young green crops.
Affected cattle quickly develop violent
and sudden spasms. The animal becomes
stiff all over and falls down. After this
stage the legs are rigid and the head bent
back stiffly, as in strychnine poisoning.
Give lib. Epsom salts, |lb. treacle or
molasses dissolved in a quart of warm
water. Melt the salts first, and add the
rest after warming. Dose whilst warm.
Remove all cattle from the infected
paddock, and treat any beast showing
the slightest symptoms.
Too Many Horses.
“Mac”; One of the sights of many a
station is mustering the horses. In they
come, short-winded, grass-fed, soft and
with overgrown hooves. A week’s solid
work amongst cattle sees the lot saddle-
sore, limping and suffering from over-
strain, the result of going into full swing
at once, instead of by stages.
On our place each man had one horse,
shod where necessary, fed on solids,
generally looked after, and regularly
exercised. There was a spare or so for
emergencies. With one animal, a rider
looks after it. When horsemen become
horsemasters, saddle-sores don’t occur.
Moreover, useless brumbies or loafers
round the place eat more grass than an
army of rabbits.
Tree-planting.
“Hortus”; As the tree-planting season
falls between the end of June and the
end of August, careful cultivation of the
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


Sunshine
Fallowing Implements
Give Best Results Wherever Used
SUNDUKE
Bridle-draught Stump-jump Scarifier.
Light, but very strong, durable, and with extraordinary clearance. Praised
by users for its outstanding work in cutting out all weeds and leaving a
perfect seed bed and mulch. Patented Overhead Release Gear—an out-
standing feature found only on the Sunduke applies the di aught release so
that numerous tynes may be hung up on stumps before the release to the
remainder is exhausted. Stump-jump control is entirely at the top, so does
not obstruct clearance of the tynes. Ask for the Sunduke folder, which
describes it fully.
14-tyne, 7ft. cut, for team £56/1/-
18-tyne, 9ft cut, for team £65/6/6
Also supplied fully equipped for tractor working, at small extra cost.
Made in Australia
for Australian Conditions.
They work well and last long.
The new illustrated catalogue—free on request
—gives a full description of all disc, tyne, and
mouldboard fallowing implements, and the
complete line for farms, pastures, orchards and
vineyards. Ask the local agent for a copy, or
write to one of the addresses below.
SUNDERCUT
Stump-jump Disc Cultivating Plough.
Cultivates more soil per horsepower than any other implement—•
in plain or stump-jump country—and leaves the right tilth for
moisture conservation. For lightness of draught, all-the-year-
round usefulness, for work in virgin soils, in hard-set fallow, in
fallow covered with stinkwort, paddymelon, heavy weed growth
—in all kinds of country —it is unexcelled. Success won by
winners of fallow competitions is attributed mainly to the excel-
lent work of their Sundercuts. Constructional features are fully
described in the Sundercut folder—mailed free on request.
10-disc, cuts sft., team steering gear £47/15/6
14-disc, cuts 7ft., team steering gear £5B/10/-
Also supplied with hand-steering gear, and tractor levers in lieu
of team levers, at small extra charge.
■ Prices quoted are net cash for delivery, f.o.r. Sunshine.
Extended terms can be quoted at small extra cost. For
■ delivery at any Australian capital or Tasmanian port,
prices are a little higher. to our nearest address
■ for descriptive catalogue and complete price list free
and post free.
SUNRISE
Stump-jump Mouldboard Plough.
Unequalled for fallowing in all conditions of soil, and especially among stumps
and stones. Roughly cleared land can be tilled by it years before any ordinary
set plough could work it. Great strength, light draught, few wearing parts,
smooth, easy roller jump, and excellent work done are salient features praised
by thousands of users. Ask for the Sunrise folder—free on request—for full
details.
3- with short boards £34/2/6
4- with short boards £42/18/*
5- with short boards £4B/15/-
6- with short boards £56/11/*
Fitted with Short Skeleton Boards at the same prices. Also supplied with Long
Boards, Long Skeleton Boards, Tractor Levers, Lever and Rack Steerage for
front wheels, Hillside or Sidling Lever, at small extra charge.
Special Automatic Lift Equipment, £lO extra.
15
SUNVERTICAL
Stump-jump Disc Plough.
An outstanding type of stump-jump disc plough noted for lightness of
draught, adjustability and ease of control. Numerous excellent features in-
clude vertical release springs—adjustable for more or less tension a jump of
over 8 inches with spring pressure eased at the top of the jump and at its
maximum as the discs re-enter the ground, extraordinary clearance between
discs, and 4-wheel construction, which enables the plough to follow the line
of draught despite side-thrust of the discs. A leaflet free on request
describes it fully.
3- with 23in. discs £46/16/-
4- with 23in. discs £5l/13/6
5- with 23in. discs £6O/18/6
6- with 23in. discs £67/15/6
26in. discs in lieu of 23in., and Tractor Levers, at small extra cost.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine, Victoria.
654-664 Bourke St. West, Melbourne. 27-39 Broadway (George St. West), Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide! Corner Murray and King Sts., 1 ertli.
Queensland Distributors.
H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Queensland) Pty., Ltd., Stanley St., South Brisbane.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
- THINK OF
SCHUTE
IBEIL1UO;
r
sc
51
m
ir
$
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
w
What is this?
Here is a patent tool for branding stock, which is also adaptable
for many other purposes on farm and station.
One man can affix more brands with this tool than three men could
in a day by old methods.
Operating on the blow-lamp principle, and using petrol, it main-
tains the brand at a constant temperature until the fuel is exhausted.
Starr’s Patent Combination Branding Tool.
• Ready for use in seven minutes.
9 For branding Horses, Cattle, Pigs, etc.
• Special Ram’s Horn Brands.
9 Year numbers can be attached to the brands.
9 Adaptable for branding barrels, casks, boxes,
fruit-cases, etc.
9 Removes paint and rusted machinery bolts.
Efficient and Inexpensive.
Price, complete with Blow-lamp, only £5/15/-.
Sole Distributors:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
TTuT&ttlldz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Ca>
mi
&%p>
Wk
mm
w
m
m
■
Flawless fit and finish
The ease of this Abbey Shoe . . . its
clean-cut, smart design ... its long-
wearing quality ... all combine to
make it an ever-popular model. With
carefully-shaped upper that eliminates
discomfort, it is made in varying
widths as well as lengths. The foot
is fitted perfectly. Only the toughest
leather is used for the sole.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full and
half size . . . narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide. When ordering,
state which you need, and ask also
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 441.
BRANDAUER’-S
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box-
C. BRAND AUER & CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
soil should now be made. Most failures
in “strike” are due either to faulty or
too hurried preparation.
The earlier the soil can be worked
and aerated, the longer will be the time
left for it to become well consolidated.
Six weeks are needed.
Don’t just trench a few square feet
round the holes. This often causes pot-
holes, which tend to produce stag-
nated trees with poor leaf-growth. Cul-
• tivate to an even depth for quite a fair
distance round to allow freedom for root
growth, especially if the top soil is
shallow. Don’t interfere with the sub-
soil. The average depth of top soil in
most parts of Australia is nine inches.
There is plenty of room in this depth.
If sub-soil is turned up and top soil
is turned under, “pockets” are formed.
After rain, these “pockets” tend to hold
excess moisture too long, and young
plants get “wet feet.”
There are two schools of theorists
about root-trimming. One says: Remove
some of the fibrous and broken roots and
sever larger roots by an under slanting
cut. Then spread the root-system evenly
in the direction from which they came
from the trunk.
The other maintains that the young
trees make equally good growth if left
alone so long as soil is rammed hard
into position.
In some cases it has been demonstrated
that young trees with broken roots and
roots that had been deliberately injured
made far better headway than trimmed
ones. 1 think it best to leave the roots
intact.
Make a little mound at the bottom
of the hole, and spread roots evenly and
naturally. If soil is light, shake hand-
fuls in slowly, so that it fills between all
the rootlets. Water lightly, and trample
soil evenly round. Put more soil in, and
repeat the operation.
Trampling or ramming is essential, for
the only way quick root-growth can be
obtained is by compacting soil round
root fibres.
Training a Kelpie.
“32 x 40”: To bring the kelpie puppy
under command, take him out on the
end of a strong fishing-line. Command
him to come to you, and if he does not
respond give a quick jerk on the line.
Continue until he will run to you when
called, being careful to pat him when
he arrives.
Wait until he is at least six months
old before he starts work, so that he
will have sufficient pace to cast properly
and head his sheep. Otherwise he will
soon learn to cut off corners. Do not
try to teach him at the beginning. Leave
him alone as much as possible, and
allow his intelligence, coupled with in-
herited instinct, full play. Do not beat
him if he does wrong—just scold him.
Carry a few pebbles in your pocket,
and should he run in between you and
the sheep throw one at him, being care-
ful not to let him see you do it—he will
soon learn not to go in there.
Do not work him with another dog,
because, instead of watching the sheep
and working out his own problems, he
will concentrate his attention on the
other dog, arftl will soon copy faults in
working.
Allow him to develop his own style.
(Bantry Girl, an Australian champion,
would not work by direction.) Do not
work a young dog when tired or sore-
footed, and keep him well away froni
goats, fowls and pet lambs. They will
soon spoil him for class work, as they
teach him to retreat.
It is better to have quiet sheep on
which to start the young dog, as, if they
are touchy and gallop about, he may
develop an excitable temperament.
If you are working in poison country,
watch him carefully, and if he picks up
a bone scold him severely. He will
soon learn only to eat what you give
him. Remember that working sheep is
the joy of his life, and do not forget to
tie him up at night, or he may put in
overtime on your stud ewes and lambs.
The Value of Straw.
“Grasshopper”: Good breakwinds in
farm paddocks are stacks of straw. They
can be put together during a slack
period after harvest, and during the
winter are appreciated by all kinds of
livestock. Put rails round your stack
to prevent undermining by cattle and
horses ; if sheep have access to it, add
a couple of wires.
Stacks in exposed pig paddocks will
add to the well-being of the animals.
Where pigs are confined in sties, straw is
an ideal bedding. In spite of popular
ideas, pigs do not enjoy living under
foul conditions, and little pigs especially
often succumb. Even if kept on clean
board or concrete floors pigs in cold
weather will respond remarkably to a
bedding of clean straw.
The used-up straw can be stacked,
and when well rotted will form a useful
manure. Straw is not very nutritive, but,
oaten especially, may be a useful fodder
in times of drought. Palatability of a
stack for this purpose will be increased
by the addition of salt.
Hints for the Farm.
“7 ryit”: When old ewes won’t do any
good, look at their teeth, give them a
drench for worms and put them on some
good feed, if possible. The difference
in a month will astound you. I have fat-
tened poor-conditioned ewes in eight to
eleven weeks by this method, and shown
a handsome profit.
“Winfield”: If the windmill is slug-
gish, a little grease round the inside walls
of the water-pump will make the plunger
slip more easily and put new life in the
mill.
Whalebone : After putting netting
on an ordinary wire fence, pull out and
coil up all unnecessary wires. They’re
handy for repairs or for building sub-
divisions ; left in, they facilitate the entry
of rabbits.
“Juggler”: To bend a bit of pipe and
to make it keep its shape while bent,
fill it with dry sand and plug both ends.’
If the sand is not perfectly dry, leave a
vent at either end for the steam to
escape. Heat it where the bend is to
be. When red-hot, or hot enough to
bend, put it in the vyce or the fork of
a tree and bend it to the shape desired.
When it is cool enough to handle, pour
out the sand and the job is complete.
“W.P.T.”: A good household adhesive
can be made by boiling some wattle-
gum in just enough water to stop it
burning,
“Horsey”; Chaffbags make good
saddlecloths, but wash first to soften,
and cut the sewn edges off to prevent
galling. When sweat-hardened, wash
again.
“Plough Oil”: If slabs or palings are
scarce a substantial cornbin can be made
with cornstalks. Erect the posts and rails
in the usual way, and run a wire round
just below the rails. Stand a good thick
layer of stalks between wire and rail,
and put the corn in. To make the wall
higher drive stakes at intervals between
the wall and the corn, and lay more
stalks across, horizontally this time.
Push some cobs against these, as you
put them in, to hold them. This type of
bin is cheap, and will support a big
weight of corn.
“J.D.H.”; There should be a profit
for farmers in the supply of potatoes
in small bags for consumers. In U.S.A.
it is being tried with success. White
calico bags like 251 b. flour-bags are used
there.
A Fremantle poultry-farmer has
opened up a bit of a market for capons
(Light Sussex) at Singapore and
Colombo. He caponises the birds at six
or seven weeks, and kills and prepares
them at nine months. Prices so far are
very satisfactory.
“Valerin”: The problem of weed sup-
pression is becoming a vital matter.
Recognising this, and with a practical
knowledge of the difficulties, the Wagga
(N.S.W.) Skeleton-weed Committee is
pressing for a survey of infested areas
and the appointment of local special
honorary boards. Many districts and
individuals will bitterly resent inter-
ference and compulsion, but the good
of the community cannot be subordinated
to selfish interests.


HOTEL
Bent Phillip
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney
Era
S®SBs®si
aws
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Stranger Than Fiction.
Once upon a time there were two
people, a man and a woman, marooned
on a lonely desert island. He was neither
bronzed, handsome nor virile, and she
was just a plain, ordinary type of female
with freckles and a snub nose. They
lived together for several years amid
this veritable Paradise, yet no throbbing
romance or glorious passion ever sprang
up between them.
You see, they had been married to
each other for 20 years before they were
wrecked.
G. J. H.
*!< -I* *1- *l-
- New Deal—ldeal or Mis-
deal?
•I- *!* -I- *l*
The Masterpiece.
The art editor deposited another lump
of hair in the waste-paper basket.
“Dammit, Paintz,” he howled, “here’s
three more letters. One says the golf
ball in your last drawing was mistaken
for a mushroom. This one says a ter-
rier’s tail is an inch shorter than you’ve
drawn it. And this—-from His Majesty’s
Inspector of Prisons ;
“ ... the solidity of the cell walls, as
drawn, is beyond question. But the con-
vict is much too thin and would find little
difficulty in squeezing through the
bars’....
“It won’t do, Paintz. I want to be
able to lose myself in your next drawing.
Realism, my lad! Accuracy!”
Paintz tottered away—to draw the pic-
ture of his life. Every line was inspired.
He submitted it. After lunch he went
in fear and trembling to the editor’s
sanctum. Before the door was the office
staff inspecting a notice : “Keep Out —
This Means You!” From within came
sounds of ribald laughter and snatches of
song.
Suddenly the door opened and the chief
appeared waving a sheet of paper. With
tears of emotion in his eyes, he stag-
gered towards Paintz, and shook him
warmly by the hand.
“They shay you can’t draw an axsh
or a shaddle, Paintz,” he added, “but, by
Jove, you c’n draw a barrel o’ beer!”
C.E. D.
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“A seven-months baby swallowed a white
metal safety-pin over an inch in length, and
open. The bay clutched the pin and placed
it in its mouth.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Hope it didn’t hurt the little cove.
Carrying On.
The prudent action of a Victorian foot-
ball team in shaking hands with the Gov-
ernor before putting resin on their hands
recalls an unfortunate experience I had
half a century ago playing Rugby.
My team was visiting Squealer’s Flat.
Heavy rain had fallen, and I had been
perhaps overliberal with the resin, the
“ Cripes, Bill, you'd make a bonzer lover!”
better to handle the greasy ball. Prior
to the kick-off the Mayor shook hands
with us. As he held out his hand to
me recognition was mutual — : we had
been pastrycooks’ strikers together in a
big city dough foundry years before. At
the end of a few minutes’ vigorous hand-
pumping we were as inseparable as
Siamese twins ; nothing less than a sur-
gical operation could have got us apart.
Being the key man of the team,
it was imperative that I take the field,
so the Mayor simply had to come with
me. The opposing captain, with a glance
at my burden’s civic embonpoint, as-
sented to what amounted to playing
an extra man. As I needed my left arm
free to handle the ball, I was compelled
to drag the Mayor backwards; but this
proved so detrimental to my speed that
I decided to carry him. After 63 scrums
the Mayor had lost eight front teeth and
171 b.
With only a minute to go the score
was 6 to 5 against us. Though slightly
fatigued, I decided on a final desperate
effort. I secured the ball, went clean
through the scrum with the Mayor slung
across my shoulders, and, weaving and
side-stepping, made a paralysing burst
down the field. Summoning a tremen-
dous effort, I hurdled straight over the
fullback’s head. A momentary stumble,
and I tore like mad for those last few
yards; but just as I was crossing the line
a flying tackle brought me —or us —low.
I was over the line, however, and
grounded for what looked a certain try.
The referee, who I suspected had
backed the local team, disallowed
it, contending that I had not grounded
the ball, but had put it down on
the Mayor’s face. Certainly his face
looked like the ground, but to sup-
pose that I couldn’t tell the difference
between the soft ground and the Mayor’s
hard face was ridiculous.
The loss of the match through; such a
trifling technicality so disgusted me that
I gave up the game.
S. W. K.
An Infallible Test.
The explorers plodded on through the
burning sands, their swollen tongues
cleaving to bone-dry palates, while their
ribs rattled in the fiery breeze. Arms
and accoutrements had long been dis-
carded in the race for life, and even the
flies on their festered skins were a burden
to carry. A blot appeared on the hori-
zon. Scarcely daring to hope, the little
party hurried on. The object became
clearer. The leader finally recognised it.
A gibbet with a mouldering corpse twist-
ing beneath its arms was before them.
“Saved, friends,” he croaked. “Civil-
isation at last!”
C. M.
This Foolishness.
“It is foolish for a man to go through
the winter, risking colds, without an overcoat,
umbrella and goloshes, especially when they
can be obtained so inexpensively.”
That’s precisely the way I looked at it.
The coat, of course, was the main
difficulty. I got it on the lay-by system ;
that is, I saw the man who entered tiie
restaurant lay it by on a peg a long
way from the only vacant seat, and then
sit with his back to it. When I rose, I
ostentatiously in-
spected my change,
as if looking for a
suitable tip for the
waiter, and said to
him as he ap-
proached obsequi-
ously, “I should
like you to get my
coat for me,”
pointing it out.
He met me at the
cash desk with it.
When 1 got
safely home I dyed
the coat.
The umbrella
was simplicity
itself. Blobb put
it down carelessly,
and I took it up.
When he saw it
crooked over my
arm, Blobb was
reminded.
“By Jove,” he
remarked, “I’ve got
an umbrella exact-
ly like that one.”
“Y e s,” I re-
turned easily,
“there are hun-
dreds like this.
Every detective has
one, so that law-
breakers will know
them. What I like about this sort is
that they are so inexpensive, and they
answer all the necessary purposes.”
“I must have left mine at the office,”
said Blobb, looking puzzled.
The goloshes were easier still. I simply
asked Blank to lend me a pair when,
during a visit to him, it began to pour.
When summer comes again I must re-
member to return them.
Most certainly these articles are inex-
pensive ; and I regard Blobb, Blank and
the man in the restaurant as very foolish
to face the winter without them.
H. M.
>!• •!• -I- *l*
Lost.
Breathlessly he stood watching the
moving drama before him. Suddenly he
espied amidst the whirling maelstrom a
dark shape which was being whirled
irresistibly onwards towards the brink.
‘‘Could he reach it in time?” he won-
dered, but even as the thought occurred
to him he knew it was too late.
With a loud gurgling noise another
piece of soap disappeared down the plug-
hole.
Chag.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XV. — Persia De-Rubaiyat-ised.
Persia was a big disappointment to me.
1 expected the streets of the towns to
be covered with Persian carpets and rugs,
with sleek Persian cats sunning them-
selves in the doorways. I thought to see
fields of roses and hyacinths; nightin-
gales singing in the branches; philoso-
phers, complete with loaf, poetry-book
and beer-mug, reclining beneath boughs;
dnd here, there and everywhere happy
guests star-scattered on the grass. I
pictured myself strolling among them
turning down empty glasses for old
Omar’s sake (of course, I’d have to
empty them myself, but I wasn’t going
to mind that).
It was nothing like that.
Things started off all right. As the
first rays of the morning sun caught a
turret (presumably the Sultan’s) in a
noose of light, the cocks began to crow
and the crowds outside the taverns clam-
ored for admission. In fact, lots of them
had been clamoring all night. They
were admitted. So was I.
Assuming that they would have “but
little time to stay, and, once departed,”
would “return no more,” I commenced
standing drinks for all hands. Contrary
to expectations, they seemed prepared to
stay all day and to come back to the bar
as often as I cared to pay. So very soon 1
“came out by the same door as in I went.”
I then set out to discover what it was
the Vintners used to buy “one half so
precious as the goods they sell.” No one
could tell me. Then it occurred to me
to take a sip of the stuff they sold. It
looked very like ink, but didn’t taste as
nice. I abandoned the quest. I decided
that they couldn’t very well buy any-
thing that wasn’t considerably more
precious than the stuff they sold. Boot-
leg coach varnish was nectar to it!
“So much for Omar,” I thought.
But not wishing to condemn him for
one slip, I wandered around the market-
place towards dusk and watched a Potter
moulding his clay. He was pummelling,
punching, thumping and pinching it, yet
not a word did it utter. According to
Omar it should have said, “Gently,
brother, gently, pray.”
Still, giving him the benefit of the doubt,
I came back later in the evening, when
the Potter had gone to bed and his wares
stood around in rows. I listened care-
“He needs a complete change of air, Mrs. Jones.”
“ Right-oh, doctor — I'll put 'im in the other room.”
fully. Not a sound came from them.
Not one inquired “Who is the Potter,
pray, and who the Pot?” I heard no
mention of “a surly tapster,” and I
appeared to be the only one desirous of
being filled “with the old familiar juice.”
Sad at heart, I went into a garden.
Here was peace. Suddenly in the moon-
light I espied a beautiful girl standing
meditating beside a rdsebush. Ah! This
surely was the real thing. I drew near,
coughed politely, and began:
“One moment in Annihilation’s Waste,
One Moment of the Well of Life to
taste —The Stars are setting and the Cara-
van Starts for the Dawn of Nothing—
Oh, make haste!”
“Be your age,” she retorted scorn-
fully. “One of those poet guys, are y’?
Dawn of Nothing! Show me a caravan
that’s starting for Basra and linking up
with a non-stop steamer for Noo York,
and I’ll say y’re talking. But this Anni-
hilation business is the bunk.”
With a flick of her yasmak she walked
away. I sneaked off too, and “crept
silently to rest.”
Next day I pushed on to Turkestan.
Jasby.
Figuratively Speaking.
“Sweetheart, I feel," she murmured
when
Upon our try sting bench we sat,
“An inclination now and then
To see things such as this and that.
“/ yearn to ramble here and there,
Or far and wide, like So-and-so ” —
To indicate precisely where
She waved her gloved hands to and
fro.
“I hope you’ll take me by-and-bye,”
She sighed without a moment’s pause.
And when I gravely pleaded “Why?”
She softly answered, “Oh. be-
cause” ....
P. O. M. C.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast,'Table d’Hote, or a la. Carte.
Single and Double Rooms,' Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Liunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m, (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may' bo reserved by'Phono. M 4001..
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
P. E. Jjoxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart lor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Name of author who wrote:
And o’er the world there (nils the hush of sleep.
—6735.
Words of verse containing the lines:
Who hears the song, who answers the song,
Must light for his faith afar.
—6495.
Words of verse beginning:
No, never shall my soul forgot
The friends 1 found so cordial-hearted.
—6550.
Will “Dilettante” please send his address to
J.O’D..?
To buy The Dark Invader, by Captain Von
Rintelen, Lawrence in Arabia, by Lowell
Thomas, and The Hound of the Baskervilles,
by Conan D0y1e.—7049.
To buy, second-hand, Inman’s or Nome’s
Nautical Tables. —7121.
Position as governess or companion by
matriculated Melbourne Protestant, with several
years’ teaching exp. in all school subjects,
including Latin and elementary French. Near
Brisbane or Central Queensland preferred. —
7131.
Amateur cinematographer requires theme for
moving picture with Sydney Harbor as back-
ground ; published story would do. —7137.
Information Sought.
Best method of “rubbing down” a footballer,
and treatment for prevention of cramp ? —6895.
In massage the pivot of movement must be
towards the heart—downwards from face and
neck, and upwards from lower trunk and
limbs. To stimulate circulation, follow the
direction of the bloodstream. Before massag-
ing, rub the body with an oil embrocation to
soften the muscles. Stroking is commenced
usually upon painful (injured) and tender parts,
the force being gradually increased as pain
diminishes. In cases where extreme pain is felt
by the patient, gentle stroking with the palms
and fingers only is permissible. If a large
limb (thigh, say) is to be dealt with, the palm
of one hand should be placed beneath it and
the other on top. Stroking is then commenced.
Begin the movement with one hand as the
other finishes, and repeat until the muscle
becomes pliable. Kneading tends to soften
and manipulate congested tissues. The process
of rolling is employed for the larger muscles —
a favorite method of treatment for the calf
muscles and cramp is to grasp the calf between
tlje thumbs and fingers, the former in front
and the latter behind, and with one hand above
the other alternately squeeze and roll the tissue
until it loosens. Another method is to grasp
the limb, and roll it briskly between the two
hands until relieved. Friction is most useful
for sprains and ricks. It is performed with
the fingertips over the affected limb. In tap-
ping and vibration a considerable knowledge
of anatomy is required to pick out nerves and
muscles involved.
* *
I have been advised to take up fencing. (1)
What are its advantages ? (2) Is it dangerous ?
(3) Where can lessons be obtained in Sydney ?
(4) Cost of lessons and equipment ? —7072.
(1) It is a healthy sport, developing physical
fitness, agility, suppleness, poise and mental
alertness, and its practice results in improved
co-ordination of mind and body. In fencing,
agility and skill are of more importance than
great physical strength; all ages and both sexes
can therefore meet on an equal footing. (2)
Not more so than tennis or golf. In practising,
the hand, head and body are protected by
glove, mask and leather tunic. (3) United Ser-
vices Amateur Fencing Club (for members of
naval and military forces only); Swords Club,
279 George-street; Amateur School of Arms,
25 Rowe-street; International Fencing
Academy, 192 Castlereagh-street; Bjelke Peter-
sen School, Market-street; Langridge’s, 278
George-street; or Frank Stuart, 279 George-
street (all Sydney). (4) Lessons may be re-
ceived in classes or by individual tuition. Fees
range from one guinea for 10 lessons. Equip-
ment (jacket, mask, glove and one weapon)
costs about £5.
* * * *
I understand that fog sirens around Sydney
Harbor are worked automatically. . If tins is
so, what is the principle of operation ?—6843.
They are operated electrically—started and
stopped by a patrolman or other attendant in
the vicinity.
* * * :J;
Dimensions of St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney ?
—6927.
Length, 360 ft., plus approach, 78ft.; width
across transepts, 144 ft.; width between aisle
walls, 73ft.; width of main span, 32ft.; height
of nave to roof ridge, 100 ft.; height of pro-
posed spires, 160 ft. above towers, which are
120 ft. above the promenade.
* * * *
Any information regarding the Scottish regi-
ment being formed in N.S.W. ? (I) Will it be
recruited in the country as well as .in Sydney? ,
(2) Qualifications for enrolment ? (3) Period
of enlistment ? (4) Uniforms ? —7139.
It is a volunteer militia regiment which will
be raised from, and will take the place of, the
30th Battalion A.M.F. It is affiliated with" the
42nd Highlanders (the Black Watch), and will
officially come into being on July 1, 1935. (1)
For the present, in Sydney only. (2) Members
must be of Scottish birth or parentage and
possess A.I.F. standard physical requirements.
Minimum height, sft. Sin.; minimum chest
measurement, 36in. (3) Three years.
Applicants must undergo a three months’
recruit course. If approved, they will then be
posted to companies. Apply to Adjutant,
Drill Hall, Miller’s Point. (4) Black Watch
kilt, sporran and hose tops, Glengarry cap,
Scottish pattern tunic with white metal buttons
and distinctive badges. Members are required
to deposit £2 towards cost of uniform.
* *
Can you tell me something about (1) the
N.S.W. Rural Bank’s Advances for Homes
Fund, and (2) the home-building scheme intro-
duced by the Stevens Government ? —7075.
In the ordinary course of the N.S.W. Rural
Bank’s business advances are granted from the
funds of the Advances for Homes Department
to enable persons who are not possessed of any
house property to obtain their own homes.
Loans are made up to 75 p.c. of the bank’s
valuation of the security, and are repayable
by monthly instalments, comprising principal
and interest, over periods up to 30 years.
The present rate of interest is 4+ p.c. The
home-building scheme referred to is adminis-
tered by the bank, and has been in operation
since February, 1934. Under this scheme the
Government supplements advances granted by
the bank by an additional 10 p.c. of the bank’s
valuation of the security. These advances are
also repayable by equal monthly instalments,
comprising principal and interest, but the
period of the additional loan is limited to
10 years. It works so that, if the bank places
a valuation of £lOOO on an applicant’s security,
£B5O is available by way, of loan—£7so from
bank funds, £lOO from Government funds.
* * * . *
Area, population and ’ percentage _ of unem-
ployed trade-unionists in each of the Aus-
tralian States, excepting Westralia ? —6969.
N.S.W., area 309,432 sq. miles, population
2,636,460, percentage unemployed amongst
trade-unionists 23.5; 87,884 sq. miles
and 1,837,589 pop., 15.3 unemployed trade-
unionists ; ' Q’land, 670,500 sq. miles and
959,752 pop., 9.1 unemployed trade-unionists;
South Aus., 380,070 sq. miles and 584,332 pop.,
23.0 unemployed trade-unionists: Tas., 26,215
sq. miles, and 231,453 pop., 17.0 unemployed
trade-unionists.
•** * *
(.1) Comparative cost of-living, under main
headings of rent, food and clothing, in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Wellington (M.L.) ?
(2) What unemployment-tax deductions are
made from wages in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane ? —6982.
(1) Following are relative costs of food and
rent (only items for which comparative prices
are available) during February, 1935: Food,
Sydney 100, Melb. 94, Brisbane 90,/Wellington
91 ; rent, Sydney 100, Melb. 99, Brisbane 82,
Wellington 129; food and rent, - Sydney 100,
Melb. 96, Brisbane 87, Wellington ,105. (2)
Sydney, 9d. on wages 40s. to 505.,
Is. 3d. on 51s. to 605., Is. 9d. on 61s. to 705.,
etc.; Melbourne, 1.2 d. in £ on incomes £52
to £lO3 per annum, 3.24 d. from £lO4 to £207,
4.05 d. from £2OB to £312, and so on up to a
maximum of 14.2 d. on £3OOl and over;
Brisbane, 3d. in £ up to £lO4 per annum, 6d.
on £lO5 to £2OB, 9d. on £209 to £499, Is. on
£5OO and over. ,
i H*
I have a section of land in N.S.W. held
under old style title; this section has just been
surveyed. (1) What further steps must be
taken to place the land under Tof tens title ?
(2 y Cost ? (3) Advantages of Torrens title as
against old style ? —7041. • ;
(1) It would be necessary to' establish the
title. The onus of doing so,rests on the owner,
and involves a search through a mass of docu-
ments back to the original Crown grant.
It is essential to employ a solicitor. (2)
Would depend on the difficulties presented by
the, search in the first instance; on top of this
would come the charges or duty imposed by
the Crowp on all such applications. Apart
from . costs iof search, etc.', an application in-
volving, say, £lOOO would cost about £6.
(3) Simplification of title. All the mass of
documentary evidence is consolidated in a
single certificate. A small charge Qd. in
the £) is levied, going to an insurance fund to
cover possible errors in conversion.
* * * :Jt
(1) What progress has Antarctic exploration
made during the last 10 years? (2) What
advantage: is, likely to result from Antarctic
exploration ? (3) Is there any possibility of
settlement- and development in Antarctica ?
6285.
Douglas Mawson, to whom the queries were
referred,; courteously* replies: (1) Rapid progress
has been made in Antarctic exploration during
the last' 10 years. The bounds of the,Antarctic
continent are now fairly well defined. Charting
of: new coastline achieved during? this ' period
has almost doubled the, length; of the known
boundaries of'the continent. , (2). One of the
world’s' important 'industries—Antarctic whal-
ing—is the direct outcome of Antarctic ex-
ploration.. This industry receives from five to
nine millions sterling worth of products each
year. Other economic developments are ex-
pected to • follow. • Also the ■ data secured by
scientific expeditions .are of very great value to
science. (3) Reference has been made as to the
possibility of settlement and further economic
developments in an address by myself delivered
before the Australian and New Zealand Science
Association at the meeting in Melbourne in
January last. The address is now being
printed, and will be available for reference
shortly.
* * * He
In honor of which member of the Strad-
hroke family was Stradbroke Island named,
and in what circumstances ? —7120.
It was so named as a compliment to Henry
John Rous, second son of the Earl of Strad-
broke, who, as a naval officer, was stationed
in Australia during the early part of last
century, in 1827 he visited Port Jackson in
the frigate Rainbow, and in June of that year
took Darling to Moreton Bay, when the name
Stradbroke was officially bestowed on the island.
Rous later discovered the estuaries of the
Clarence and Richmond rivers. He also organ-
ised the first regatta held in Port Jackson.
Died June 19, 1877.
(1) Is faro the same as banker ? (2) If
not, how is it played ? (3) Is fan-tan a card
game ? (4) How is it played ? —7097.
(1) and (2) Principle is somewhat similar. In
faro one card is dealt to each player. The
dealer then shows in succession, from the top
of the pack, discarding the first card, two
cards. The first is for himself. He takes all
chips staked on any card that pairs with it.
The second is for the players. Dealer pays
out on all cards that pair with it. (3) and (4)
There are two fan-tans —the Chinese game and
the card game known of old as “play or pay,”
later as fan-tan, and modernly, in Australia,
as “sevens.” Pack is dealt round to all players
till exhausted. Player on left of dealer must
pul a seven on the table or forfeit a chip.
Next player can put down another seven, or a
six or an eight of the suit first laid down.
The suits are built up on the table in this way,
every player unable to “go” forfeiting a chip.
The player who first gets rid of all his cards
wins the pool and one chip from each player
for every card that player holds.
i\s jJs
Virtues and constituents of the banana ? Is
it of value in cases of obesity ? —6926.
The banana is an example of a natural food
fruit containing all substances of which the
average meal is composed, namely, protein, fat,
carbohydrates, salts and water. Taken in suffi-
cient quantity this fruit alone would serve to
provide an adequate but overbulky diet—
approximately, eight bananas are required to
meet the daily energy' requirements, and twice
that number to provide the daily ration of
protein. Chemically, the banana closely
resembles the potato, its average percentage
composition being: Water, 70.8; protein, 1.2;
fat, 0.1; carbohydrates, 22.9; mineral matter,
0.8; fibre, 2.2. Although not possessing the
special virtues, vitamins, etc., of other edible
fruits, the banana must be regarded as a food
substance well able to provide energy to the
individual. It is best avoided in obesity.
>1: ■ * * *
(1) Remedy for baldness ? (2) Remedy for
falling hafr ? —6936.
(1) There is no exact treatment. In parly
maturity much can be done to stimulate growth
from the hair root or cell. Health debility,
nerve disorders and glandular malnutrition are
possible contributing factors, and these demand
attention as diagnosed. (2) Where the tendency
persists, small repeated doses of X-rays (under
medical supervision), combined with massage
of the scalp, may be resorted to with benefit;
much depends upon the individual case. Mean-
while, use a bay rum lotion daily, adding a
trace of castor oil if the scalp is dry. An
occasional singe corrects splitting of the hair
shaft.
* * * *
My cocker spaniel has ear trouble, pre-
sumably canker. Treatment ? —6684.
Spaniels are subject to canker of the ear, and
also to a condition known as fuematoma or
blood blister of the earflap. The latter often
follows the former owing to the continual irri-
tation caused by canker. For canker, first
syringe out the ear with hydrogen peroxide, 10
p.c., in warm water, or a teaspoon of lysol to
the pint of warm water. After the syringing
the ear should be filled with dry boracic acid
powder, with a little iodoform added. After a
few days vary this by using sulphur ointment
for a day or two. Dress daily for at least a
week, and thereafter every third day till a cure
is established.
* * * *
(1) Correct formalin solution to preserve
prawns and sand worms for bait ? (2) Would
it be improved by the addition of oil of ani-
seed? (3) Is there any better method of pre-
servation ? —6923.
(1) Boz. of formalin to 1 gallon of water.
Remove the heads of the prawns before pre-
serving. (2) and (3) No.
# * * H*
I should like to do some printing on fabric,
but so far have been unable to prepare either
the block or dyes so that the color will take
satisfactorily. Can you tell me how the block
is made to hold enough dye to give a clean,
solid impression, and how to mix the dye and
apply it to the block ? —7089.
Make an ordinary wood block of the required
size by sandwiching a piece of 2in. plank
wood between two pieces of nine-ply. Glue
these together, and also glue a thickness of
plain linoleum to one of the outer nine-ply sur-
faces. Cut the required design into the lino-
leum, give the lino, surface a coating of
flocking mordaunt, and on this set a quarter-
inch coating of flocking (powdered felt). Use
basic dyes, mix with glycerine, gumwater and
acetic acid, and boil in an enamel saucepan
for five minutes, then place the saucepan in
a bowl of water to cool. Dissolve tannic
acid in acetic acid and tartaric acid in water.
To the cool dye mixture add the tartaric acid,
and then the tannic-acetic acid solution, and a
creamy mixture will result which will adhere
to the block and dye the fabric without spread-
ing. ,
Does Anybody Know?
What is the story of Peter Botle? —6409.
Bref Answers.
ý


/t/ovC
/tea/ty
/tense ifcnc yie&
"fated a isucz
fiejHOtnna tcnytn paste?
IF you really want whiter, more attractive-
looking teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth. It
catches bits of food. Harbors stains from smok-
ing. Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. And worse still, film is
laden with millions of tiny germs that are
often the forerunner of tooth decay. Film
unremoved invites dental disorders. Thus film
must be removed—kept off teeth.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satisfac-
torily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders may
be ineffective in removing film. There is now
a dentifrice you can depend on regularly—a
dentifrice thousands of dentists use in their
own homes and millions of people have used
successfully. This dentifrice is Pepsodent—the
special film-removing tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
No other equally safe way removes film as
thoroughly as Pepsodent. Pepsodent is different
in formula, hence different in the way it
works. It contains no grit, pumice, or soap.
The basis of this definitely modern tooth paste
is a new and revolutionary cleansing and
polishing material —recently developed. This
cleansing agent is far softer than the polishing
material used in other leading tooth pastes or
tooth powders. Yet it removes film and polishes
teeth to new gleaming lustre as more abrasive
kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain” denti-
frices or questionable ways? Remember that
this unique film-removing agent is contained
in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus no other tooth
paste can assure you of true Pepsodent results.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—-«ee your dentist
at least twice a year.
FREE—IO-Day Tube
To the Pcpsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept. 5.8.),
Box 48 BG, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodcnt.
Name
Address
k2053m/a Only one tube to a family.
<
y
m
m
§
m
Mi
OTHING
TO EQUAL IT.
ITS DIFFERENT
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED . . All States
STOCKED BV ALL GARAGES THROUGHOUT AUST.
iui
Shades of twelfth-century France de-
scended on the Emerson Hall, Sydney,
when the Studio Theatre Club essayed
„tt„ • „ U
Heloise, a romance by author-pro-
ducer Max Eyb based on the love affair
of Heloise and Abelard. The opening
was promising, but the rest of the play
contained too much talk and too little
action. Chloe Gibson’s Heloise seemed
to have absorbed the bleakness of the
cloisters Frazer Harvey played’ Abelard
with dignity and pathos. James Scullin,
Hereward Russell, G. Gordon Forsythe,
Kevin Lynch and Gordon Anderson were
lesser lights
* * *
The ghost of the Greek playwright
who wrote in a cave at Salamis 2400 odd
years ago must surely have been grab-
tied at the sight, in this age and clime,
of an alfresco audience gathered to
enjoy his “Iphigenia in Tauris,” as trans-
lated by Gilbert Murray. And highly
interesting and picturesque the presenta-
imwtiumg .mu H c • k
non by the Anthroposophic Society
ptoved, albeit the acoustic properties ot
this open-air theatre (Scenic Haven,
Castlecrag, Sydney) are not perfect; the
spectacle of goldenly-gleaming Greek
armor and shields amid the picturesque
greenery while a girl’s voice tells of
Helen’s vanished loveliness could not
fail to be impressive. Some fine effects
were secured by means of grouping and
lighting, notably in the final scene where
Athena appears and exonerates the
priestess. Members of the cast remain
modestly anonymous.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory scored well with
, • . , ,
Maugham s curiously unmoral Sacred
Flame,” with the dear old mother,
anxious only for everyone’s happiness,
giving her crippled aviator son a pain-
less finish so that (1) he shall be spared
knowing that his wife is unfaithful, and
(2) her other son shall be happy with the
widow. Florence Brown, the wife,
Phyllis Simpson, the devoted and fierce
nurse, and Edna Heysen, the gentle mur-
deress, each dominated the scene in turn ;
so did Jack Ham as the doctor and
Arthur Fay as the unofficial magistrate,
And the odd thing is that each of them
has been better known as a comedian,
Steve Church in his brief scenes as the j
* nvalid proved a find lor the Rep. Fred i
James was producer.
* v
, TT t . ' • r.- a
. L ' onel Halas Mocking Bird spread
> ts ™f at Br r ants r Sydney,
Lilted from its familiar Dartmoor setting
b > ; the colorful personality of George,
alias Washington, into a realm of fantas-
he revelation, this play cleverly balances
tense drama with humor. John Watson,
as the superlatively intelligent lunatic
who dominates the position throughout,
Save a forceful and understanding inter-
pretation, particularly in those scenes
f orßl assor ted family skeletons. Patricia
Nall, as Mary Garth, the girl whose
native sanity (so naively recognised by
the strange visitor) triumphs over her
craving for the outre acted with spirit
and naturalness, and Mickey Walker gave
a restrained and charming portrait of
Aunt Dora, who is even more likeable
af(e| . expos ’ re John Hughes was well in
character as Uncle Paul, while Hector
Corrigan (Jimmy) and Jim Toohey, as the
formidable Sir Victor Champion, were at
ease j n their parts ; Marjorie Stevens and
David Hughes occasionally lapsed into
mere onlookers.
* * *
Ernest Rolls is to be congratulated .on
having turned out in “Vogues of 1935,”
at Melb. Apollo, a revue which would
not bring a blush to the cheek of a
Minister of Customs, There are dances,
playlets, songs and operatic interpolations
that tumble over one another at 60 m.p.h.
- so many different items that the audi-
ence leaves the theatre contused, but
admiring Best 0 f all are the spectacular
sce nes and ballets, with backgrounds of
lovely girls. Eve Alwyn, fan dancer of
the former revue, appeared in a tragedy
dance, “The Harem,” at once attractive
and horrible. Pat Nelson, a brown-
skinned girl with platinum hair, was all
too brief in her “Spanish Episode.” The
company has been strengthened by
the inclusion of Jennie Benson and Gus
Bluett, but Bluett’s lines are few and un-
worthy of his ability, and the same may
be said of the songs allotted to Miss
Benson.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice. (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ; and no MS \yill be returned unless stamps accompany.
Observer: Your description of the local
kirk’s sale of goods is as interesting as such
functions usually are....0.L.: Off the track
again G.J.H.: We are overwhelmed with
drought stories. It may be doubted whether
other authors would find yours any more read-
able than you would theirs D.H.: Very little
in it except the finish... .J.A.8.: Batman and
Fawkner have surely earned a rest... .W.0.D.:
Gives the impression of aping O. Henry
S.L.R.; Merely an anecdote... .1.M.M.;
Doesn’t quite get there... .Atlantis : The “Out-
ward Bound” theme is still a regular caller....
D.M.A.: What possessed you to try to rhyme
“bush ways,” “best lays” and “rest days”?
. ...H.G.: You say little or nothing that
hasn’t been said by Kipling or Masefield,
although you say it metrically enough... .K.M.:
Seems to be some confusion in your mind be-
tween swagmen and bagmen... .L.H.: Yours
is a thin and reedy pipe... .R.T.A.: You
might apostrophise a craggy hill, but we don't
see how you could “accost” 0ne....R.W.:
Tame as a fireside tabby... .E.W.S.: Thumb-
nail jingle... .G.T.: About as musical as an
auction ad C.H.G.: Spare us these parish-
pump futilities... .E.L.: It doesn’t rise above
nursery level... J.0’8.: Quite scholarly, but
there’s no Attic salt in it... .A.S.: An old, old
theme, with nothing new in the handling....
J.S.T.: There’s promise in it, but your type-
writer isn’t the only thing that needs tuning.
P.J.I.: They don’t get past Ringer;
What a rosy ambition! :
Some day when my rovin’s clone,
When the eve of life grows nigh,
I’ll settle down ’neath the blistering sun,
With many a grateful sigh.
. ...8.E.8.: Intentions seem good, but you
don’t realise them... .S.R.: Doggie piece the
best, because it has some feeling, but all a
fair way off A.A.R.: Look out, “The Pen-
dulum” is coming back! D.R.0.: Lilts
along, but it’s deuced old country.. . .N.S.:
Dunno what Laura would think of the last
line of your search for beauty:
And then, Sweet Love, ’twas plain.
. ...J.R.: Dennis holds the patent for that
brand of slang.... The Minstrel Boy: Thought
you were dead. Still think so Dids : Several
reek of old age, and thus cause us to suspect
the others... .J.O’J.: Not an atom of feeling
or imagination in it Lollius; A trifle off
our beat... .A.L.S.: What afe these “demons
of the subconscious” that are to be “un-
leashed”? G.A.L.: Not sufficiently well
done to carry off the slender idea A.S.
(M.L.).: Not enough humor A.G.: Ven-
geance story fell short, and would have done
so even wihout the reference to the “masses
of pinkly-white diaphanous clouds” A.D.:
You could have said it all in one paragraph.
G.H.S.: Not suitable.... J.L.E.: Came
fairly close. Subject not a good one D.D.:
Unconvincing... .K.D.M.: Merely a para-
phrase of chapter one of almost any text-
book on money... .J.M.: Forced; even to
the names DJ.O.: Has its bright spots,
but they are few... .W.R.F.: Overdrawn
characters and melodramatic style... .J.1.M.:
The idea has been used before D.S.H.: No;
it still misses. Better try another theme....
C. : The water trick is a bit thin. Apart
from that it’s fairly readable... .T.P.D.: Not
the type of yarn we want, and far too long in
any case....L.A.S. (U.S.A.): Can’t see on
what grounds Tom was sentenced, nor the
reason for his “faint smile”... .F.C.M.: The
trick of dying just before the avenger arrives
is an old one Baraboo: Artificial. Men
don’t part with money as easily as that....
A.T.P.: There’s plenty of beer in “Beer
Picnic,” but that doesn’t make it funny....
L.G.C.: No better and no worse than most
of its type F.C.H.: Dreary.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.A.: Gag came out with the First Fleet;
drawing is hopeless E.L.K.; Those blobs
of black merely disfigure an otherwise toler-
able drawing R.M.D.; Better keep off car-
toons until you have a firmer grip of local
politics... .E.R.; Content to leave that class
of humor to others... .L.A.J.: The fiddler
needs a lot of repairing before he would pass
muster... .8.5.: Scratchier than the last batch,
though the jokes are a little brighter... .G.W.:
What’s the use of sending in Easter-egg jokes
in June? T.M.: We have met that fire-
extinguisher salesman and pawnbroker before.
. ...A.L.: But why should Dad be bogged
almost to his knees while Dave is six inches
off the ground? ... .C.W.; Ice-skating sketch
neatly drawn, but lacks point... .P.T.R.: Spend
the next five years studying... .J.L.: Sharper
tones called for in your washwork M.F.:
Cultivate an easier-flowing line N.K.S.:
Pay more attention to the poses and get
your perspective correct... .H.H.: Like most
“first efforts” it was a complete failure....
D. : You are much better at animals;
concentrate on them for a while... .T.H.V. :
A comic picture needs to be alive; yours is
dead... .M.G.: We counted out the under-
sized boxer.


“SILVER
EDGE"
iJ&uAebtfas
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with 4 the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.PmO. Box 71, Melbourne, l//c*
ADD TO
your car's speed
. .by replacing worn plugs Jpt^
with CHAMPIONS
?r. s °A SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
•
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
The Steering Column.
1935 TERRAPLANE PUT THROUGH
ITS PACES.
NEW TRANSMISSION SYSTEM DESCRIBED.
BY FRED BERRY.
I AST year stock products of the Hudson Motor Co.
4 established more than 60 official records in the U.S.A.
and created at the same time a distinctly favorable impression
among Australian sporting and competition motorists. In the
1935 series the designers have continued with their aim to
produce an automobile sturdy in construction and simple to
operate, and so successfully that the new Hudsons are unques-
tionably head of the stock-car class so far as performance is
concerned.
One of the group, the 1935 Terraplane
Six, was tested recently over the Bulle-
tin course. It is an outstanding example
of the modern high-performance car,
acceleration, speed and roadworthiness
being outstanding features.
Other things being equal, the power-
weight ratio of a car determines its road
THE DE LUXE MODEL TERRAPLANE SEDAN, TESTED OVER
THE “ BULLETIN ” COURSE.
performance so far as speed and accel-
eration are concerned. A few minutes at
the wheel of the Terraplane provide
convincing evidence of the possibilities
in this direction. While no sane driver
would dream of using the Terraplane’s
top speed under hazardous conditions,
it is there to be used on the open road
when warrantable, and the capacity for
rapid and positive acceleration from low
initial speeds is of great value when
cruising in congested traffic. As every
experienced driver knows, the chap who
has something “up his sleeve” —in terms
of acceleration and power—finds driving
safer under all conditions than is the
case when the car has to be pushed to
its limit.
Mechanically the power plant of the
Terraplane is remarkably efficient, faith-
fully constructed and readily accessible
for essential ser-
vices. The six-cyl.
motor, mounted on
flexible rubber sup-
ports to eliminate
power shock and
vibration, has a bore
of 3in. and stroke of
sin., giving a piston
displacement of 212
cub. in. R.A.C. rat-
ing is 21.6 h.p., but
the standard motor,
with a compression
ratio of 6 to 1, de-
velops a maximum output of 88 b.h.p.
at 3800 r.p.m. Motorists desiring
especially high performance are given
the option of a special aluminium
power-dome type of cylinder head,
in which the compression ratio is in-
creased to 7 to ! and maximum b.h.p.
to 100 at 3800 r.p.m. This is standard
equipment on De Luxe and Customs
models.
The cylinder block, of high chrome
alloy, is cast integral with the upper half
of the crankcase, the lower half of which
is heavily ribbed internally, the cross
ribs serving to support the main bear-
ings. This bridge-truss construction pro-
vides an unusually rigid crankshaft
Power unit of the 1935 Terraplane, showing vacuum-operated
gearshift mechanism,, neat and efficient design of induction
system, dual crankcase ventilation system, and ready accessi-
bility of every important unit.
assembly, preserving alignment and mak-
ing the engine run smooth! v and free
from torsional vibration. *
Cylinder bores are power-honed to a
mirror finish before assembly, thus re-
ducing the “running-in” period.
Valves are side-by-side type, and, by
reason of the hardness of material used
in casting cylinder blocks, valve seats are
cut directly in the metal.
Special Hudson crankshaft is fitted,
balanced statically and dynamically, in
order to further eliminate whip and dis-
tortion, a rubber insulated vibration
damper is fitted to the forward end of
the crankshaft. Main bearings are of
generous dimensions, bronze-backed and
babbit-lined.
Silicon aluminium alloy pistons of the
T-slot, cam-ground type are used, each
being fitted with four rings. Three rings
(two compression and one oil) are
mounted above the gudgeon-pin, and an
oil-scraper ring is used at the bottom of
the piston skirt. This new ring assembly,
it is claimed, considerably reduces oil
consumption, and minimises the possi-
bility of blow-by with attendant crank-
case dilution.
A specially-hardened camshaft is
driven through a train of gears from the
crankshaft, a steel gear being fitted to
the crankshaft and a bakelite gear on the
camshaft. These pinions are provided
with helical-cut teeth, are quiet and do
not require adjusting. Tappet-actuating
gear between camshaft and valves is the
roller-cam type. Intake valves are nickel
chrome steel; exhaust valves are silicon
chrome alloy.
Fuel is drawn from a 14gal. tank,
housed between the rear dumb-irons, by
a pump driven by an eccentric from the
camshaft, and is then fed through filters
to a triple venturi-type down-draught
carburettor fitted with automatic choke
control, air-cleaner, silencer and flame-
arrester.
The induction system design is of par-
ticular interest, a radial manifold being
used which permits a direct passage from
the carburettor mixing chamber to the
cylinders. Conventional-type hot-spot is
incorporated in the induction manifold.
Ignition is by coil and battery ; the
heavy-duty air-cooled generator, driven
by a V belt from crankshaft pulley,
reaches its maximum output at 28 m.p.h.
in top gear. The starter motor is actu-
ated by fingertip control through a sole-
noid. Ignition range is fully automatic,
providing maximum efficiency at all
engine speeds. In order to prevent the
possibility of starting in gear, the starter
motor will not function until the clutch
pedal is fully depressed.
Lubrication is on the Hudson Duo-Flo
principle, with positive oilfeed at all tem-
peratures. Oil scoops are fitted to the
lower ends of the connecting-rod bear-
ings in order to ensure maximum lubrica-
tion of cylinder walls and gudgeon-pins
under all running conditions.
Particular attention is given to cool-
ing the lubricating oil. When it returns
to the sump after passing through the
motor it flows through a series of baffles
and a filtering screen, from which it is
again drawn up by two geared pumps.
Engine cooling is designed along con-
ventional lines, but instead of a water-
temperature indicator being fitted to the
instrument panel a water-level indicator
is substituted.
Transmission is novel in design, simple
to operate and robust in construction. A
single-plate, cork-inset, oil-cushioned
clutch transmits power to a three-speed-
and-reverse gearbox provided with heli-
cal-cut, synchro-shift silent gears on top
and middle ratios. Low and reverse are
automatically thrown out of mesh when
top or second are engaged, or when the
transmission is in neutral.
The conventional gear lever is re-
placed by a vacuum-operated gear-
shifting installation, electrically actu-
The tip of the finger is all that is l neces-
sary to shift gears in the new Terraplane
series. Equipped with the electric hand,
the driver need never remove his hand
from the wheel.
ated, termed the “electric hand” pre-
selector. Here an arm extends out
from the steering column immediately
under the normal position of the driver’s
right hand on the steering wheel. Ex-
tending up from the end of this arm is
a small lever or trigger easily reached by
the fingers. While running in any gear
the driver can * move the lever through
an H (similar to that of the conventional
gearshift) to pre-select the next gear he
desires to use. When the driver is ready
to make the change he takes his foot
momentarily from the accelerator, and
the gear change is accomplished auto-
matically.
In practice this miniature gear lever is
extremely easy to manipulate, and with
the automatic clutch disengaged a
Synchro-speed transmission, with alloy
steel gears. Note the vacuum shifting
device which is incorporated with the
“electric-hand” change-speed mechanism.
“double-shuffle” by fingertip control
makes a perfect change. The conven-
tional gear lever is, under normal condi-
tions, left in the tool kit, but in emer-
gency it can be placed in the central


USEFUL DATA ON 1935 TERRAPLANE.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 3-3
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. Gin.
Maximum speed, 75 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22.5 m.p.g.
SWfS?
mm
i
m
Mmsm
I mm
WM*
il*ii
gag
"The
Battery is flat-
you should fit
a Willard!”
5*
Sound advice! He knows that
are uniformly dependable—that fitting
a Willard means months and miles of
uninterrupted satisfaction!
Outside, Willard looks like any other
battery —it’s very different inside!
Willard quality is hidden in the case
—in plates, oxides, separators, there’s
flawless material and workmanship.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
n
44
'i/rit&i
CAR
YOUR
m
&
<2
m
a*:**
1
m
~!lW
Jor EASY STARTING and
PROTECTION/zw//WINTER WEAR
For Summer-time performance, even in
coldest weather. For a quick get-away. For
FULL POWER. Fora battery unweakened
by the drain of hard starting. For full pro-
tection of all wearing parts—have your car
wintcrproofed in the
MOBILOIL 4-POINT WAY
1. In YOUR ENGINE, use the correct
Winter grade of Mobiloil.
2. If YOUR GEARS are stiff, use the winter
Mobiloil gear oil-
3. Have YOUR CHASSIS Mobilubricated
regularly with the correct grades of
Mobilgrease and Mobilubricanr.
4. Use the split-second starting MOTOR
SPIRIT—Super Plume Ethyl.
•Consult the Mobiloil Directory at your
Service Station.
fi> fhe
mwm
(jrade
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA!
control position and hand-changing re-
sorted to.
Final drive is through tubular pro-
peller shaft fitted with needle-bearing
universal joints to a semi-floating-lype
gear axle equipped with spiral bevel
drive, the final reduction being 4.1 to I.
The chassis is extremely rigid, of the KX
box-girder type, the entire rear assembly
being further stiffened by a heavy plate
cross-member forming the floor of the
body.
Springs are semi-elliptic front and
rear, equipped with self-adjusting spring
shackles and improved adjustable shock
absorbers.
Front-wheel suspension is either con-
ventional type or Axleflex, an articulated
axle providing independent springing.
A rear stabiliser-bar is incorporated to
avoid rolling when driving at speed or
on corners.
Bendix rotary-equalised brakes are
fitted as service equipment, cable-oper-
ated. Baffles are fitted to the brake-
drums to shield them from water or
abrasive materials.
The emergency-braking system is effec-
tive in application and novel in design.
The brake lever, instead of being located
centrally, thereby restricting passengers’
comfort, is housed beneath the cowling
in an inverted position. The emergency
equipment actuates, through central indi -
vidual control, all four sets of brakes,
Cross section showing how the oil is
circulated to camshaft, pistons and
cylinder walls in the Hudson Duo-Flo
lubricating system.
and is of similar value, so far as decelera-
tion is concerned, to the service equip-
ment.
Steering gear is worm-and-sector type,
with simple means of adjustment for
wear.
The bodywork is neatly designed,
roomy and streamlined, and interior fit-
tings are in keeping with modern require-
ments. Provision is made in closed types
for adequate ventilation, the used air
being removed without promoting eddy
currents or draughts. Front seats are
adjustable, and adequate provision is
made for the accommodation of luggage.
The car tested over the Bulletin course
was a De Luxe model four-door sedan
fitted with a 7-to-l ratio cylinder head
and driven by B. L. Tyson, of Dalgety’s,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors. Speedometer
reading stood at 1852.8 miles at the com-
mencement of the test, and with driver
and passenger the outfit weighed 30cwt.
Leaving headquarters at an early hour,
the run to Parramatta was accomplished
in smart time, and on the open road
through Baulkham Hills a steady cruis-
ing speed of 50 m.p.h. was maintained
with ease. Approaching Windsor the
rolling test was conducted. Starting in
neutral from a steady 15 m.p.h., the
Terraplane coasted 665 yards before
coming to a standstill. At this stage it
was apparent that far better performance
would be shown with further running in.
On the measured mile approaching Rich-
mond, in clocking maximum speed this
“stiffness” militated against a normal per-
formance, for after entering the
measured section the speedometer read-
ing steadily receded until on crossing
the finishing line road speed, due to a
tight engine, had dropped almost 10
m.p.h. Consequently the time recorded,
48sec., averaging 75 m.p.h., could be im-
proved upon when the engine has been
thoroughly run in.
Through Richmond and Windsor the
turn-off through Grose
Vale was taken in
order to check the
road worthiness of the
Terraplane when
driven over unmade
roads. Over this dif-
ficult section the car
held the road splen-
didly, and negotiated
the numerous difficult
corners in convincing
style.
Approaching Kur-
rajong Mountain the
standing-start timed
climb of 2 1-5 miles was made. Over
this difficult course the Terraplane held
the road in a thoroughly safe manner,
absence of rolling and swaying on hair-
pin bends at speed being particularly
noticeable. Due, however, to the tight
engine, maximum speed could not be re-
corded on the easy sections of the climb,
and as a consequence the time registered,
3min. 23sec., whilst above the average,
would be improved by several seconds
with a free engine.
Returning down the mountain, a test
of emergency-braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results.
Approaching Richmond the cross-
country route via Castlereagh to Penrith
was taken, where further performance
tests were conducted. The first, that of
determining the inherent top-gear flexi-
bility of the motor, involved running
(Continued on page 30.)


mm.
WM
m
tL**-
OF CAR RUNS
ißttWl. Cm-
VALVOLINE
"S., -j
om.
m
»
* O l ■
Well, frankly, Valvoline is a better oil!
Tests, both practical and theoretical,
prove this.
Secondly, Valvoline is not handled
like other oil-it is Refinery sealed.
It comes to you in “tamper-proof” tins
and is sealed as a protection against
substitution, adulteration, dirt and
short measure.
Ask your garagemanl
y
oil
Jf ADD If AN • SYDNEY ' MELBOURNE
A V AIvMIIA W « anl GyrTunonxi^jCu'.t/i
HAWKINS V 7.
“A Good Double”
BILLABONG
.. and COO-EE
Auto Oiled
Enclosed Gear Windmills
Write immediately for our new
Billahong and Coo-ee Windmill Catalogue
Billabong Troughing
for
danks
Cattle
Pie
DANKs
Sheep
6 :
Cattle, Horses, Pigs and Sheep.
Strongly constructed to with-
stand rough usage,
MADE IN OUR OWN FACTORY.
We are also makers of the
famous Billabong Centrifugal
and Double-acting Piston Pumps.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
fIDANKSfa
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt St. ...... Sydney
WHOLESALE MOTOR ACCESSSORIES.
Our new Catalogue No. 92 (June, 1935, issue) will
be ready for distribution in a few days. We spent
six months preparing this publication at a cost of
many hundreds of pounds; 64 pages, 500 illustra-
tions ; full of interesting information. Posted free.
As this Catalogue is STRICTLY WHOLESALE,
please enclose your business card when writing for it.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LIMITED, Motor Accessories
Department, 53 North George Street, Sydney; and
at Chicago and San Francisco, U.S.A. Est. in 1906.
u
Dust and Rain Dull any Car....
Wiping a SIIONIZED car quickly restores its lustre
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
l-sth mile as slowly as possible, followed
immediately by a similar distance on full
throttle —still in top gear. Over the slow-
running section the automatic clutch, as
standard equipment, was used, and the
time recorded, 3min. 48sec., averaging
3.1 m.p.h., provided the initial indication
of the traffic possibilities of the Terra-
plane. Over the accelerated section,
clocked in 16 3-ssec., averaging 43 m.p.h.
and attaining 65 m.p.h. at the finishing
line, some indication of the acceleration
of this remarkable car could be obtained.
Further traffic tests were then made
in accelerating in top and second gear
from a steady 10 m.p.h. to 30, and here
the times recorded, 7sec. and 4 3-ssec.,
were very good indeed.
From a standing start to 50 m.p.h. was
next clocked in 12sec. —a remarkably
good performance. A test of the self-
energising braking equipment was equally
successful, the car coming to a stand-
still, without swerving, from a steady
speed of 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. 6in.
The time taken for the 122-mile jour-
ney, inclusive of all tests, was 3hr.
20min., an average of 36.6 m.p.h. Petrol
consumed, 43* pints, gave an average
consumption of 22.5 m.p.g. (33.75 ton-
miles per gallon).
Road clearance at lowest point below
the differential housing is Sin. Steering
circle was measured at 40ft. on left lock
and 43ft. right lock.
The Trouble Lamp.
B. (Wagga, N.5.W.).-*— The speedometer
of my car has given accurate readings for
almost 15,000 miles, but recently new tyres
have been fitted, and trip mileage is now always
short of exact distances, whilst the car appears
to be travelling a good deal faster than the
dial shows. What’s wrong ?
A speedometer depends upon definite gear
ratios for accurate results. Changing tyres for
larger casings, which no doubt you have done,
will result in slow speedometer readings in
terms of miles per hour and short measure in
trip mileages. Should you desire to retain
oversize tyres a new speedometer drive gearing
must be fitted to accommodate the variation
in gearing, but the simplest method would be
to work out a correction chart for use until
the new set wears out, and then fit tyres
identical to original equipment.
* x- * *
C. (Bathurst, N.S.W.).—/ am unable
to obtain the compression ratio of my sports
car, and desire information as to how I can
determine this figure without dismantling the
engine and having measurements taken.
In assessing the, compression ratio swept
volume of the cylinder (the number of c.cs.
displaced by the piston between bottom and
;op of stroke, plus combustion-chamber
volume) should be divided by combustion-
chamber volume. As an example, assuming
the swept volume of the piston in the cylinder
is 500 c.c. and the combustion-chamber volume
100 c.c., a total of 600 c.c., the compression
ratio is six to one. The business can be done
in a few minutes if measuring cylinders cali-
brated in cubic centimetres are available.
$ * * *
G.L.H. (Waddamana, Tas.). — Recently I
fitted new rings to my Ford A at 20,000
miles. One oil ring of different type was much
thinner and had 1-32/n. vertical play in the
slot. Should I dismantle the motor and fit a
ring of correct size, even though no oiling-up
has been experienced ?
Each ring should be accurately fitted to
piston slots, and, while oil may not pass with
one of three rings a poor fit, there is a serious
risk of mechanical damage should the ring
fracture and turn in its housing. Safest plan
would be to dismantle the motor at first oppor-
tunity, turn out grooves and, if necessary, fit
a set of standard oversize rings.
$ t- * *
J.E. (Cardwell, N.Q.). —/ drive a 1927
Whippet, the cylinders of which are now show-
ing much wear, with consequent oil-pumping.
Would the fitting of special piston rings (types
indicated) effect a worth-while repair ?
In a car of this age new rings of whatever
type are merely wasting money. Only certain
remedy is reboring or refining cylinders.
* * * *
G.F.P. (Adelaide, S.A.). — I am having
cylinders of my 1930 Morris Cowley rebored.
Do you advise the use of colloidal graphite in
sump oil and petrol immediately the engine is
assembled ?
By all means. A rebore is identical, so far
as friction surfaces are concerned, with a new
cylinder. Colloidal graphite used correctly will
reduce the running-in period considerably, and
will prevent possibility of seizure.
* * * *
F.S.S. (Smithtown, Tas.). — Within the last
six months the windscreen of my 1928 Pontiac
Six has cracked twice vertically and once hori-
zontally. The roads are bad, but there must
be some further explanation, as all fittings
seem tight.
Apparently the trouble lies in movement of
the windscreen pillars. Body bolts should be
inspected and tightened if necessary, and a
further search should be made for dry rot in
the coach work.
* * # *
E.A.M,. (Bathurst, N.S.W'.). — My 1934
Chrysler at 10,000 miles began to pop in the
carburettor when driven fast up steep hills or
at high speed on main roads. The defect is
invariably remedied if the car is stopped or
average speed reduced. In every other respect
the car performs in a normal fashion. What’s
wrong?
The mechanical fuel pump may be worn
and unable to feed sufficient petrol for full
power. If this is checked and found to be in
order, inspect fuel lines and filters, as rubber
from bowser hoses could partly block the
fuel line and give similar symptoms.
:j: * ;|i ❖
J.W. (Turramurra, N.S.W.). — I was con-
sidering purchasing a 1935 light six car de-
scribed in The Bulletin recently, the petrol
consumption being given at 31 m.p.g. I have
been advised that heavier cars would be more
suitable because they would cost less to main-
tain. Is this so ?
Not necessarily. The car you mention, pro-
vided it is not overladen or overdriven, should
give trouble-free service for some considerable
time. The other light cars you mention would
not be less expensive to maintain.
Motor Oddities.
“Kotuku”: While transporting a
P.W.D. hut on a motor-truck in Maori-
land we had to pass across a bridge
with overhead beams. As the hut was
a few inches too high to pass, we were
stumped, until someone suggested let-
ting down the tyres. The dodge gave us
the couple of inches of head-room we
needed.
* * * *
“Jay”: To qualify for a lo,w car
registration number in the F.C.T. one
must be a Commonwealth Department
head or a Federal Minister. Plates 1
to 20 have been reserved for these
potentates, and. all save Nos. 2 and
7 have been issued. No. 1 is held
by C. S. Daley (Assistant-Secretary,
Interior Department), who gained it
when he succeeded John Butters, and
retained it despite the Government’s
wish that it should be surrendered to
Prime Minister Lyons. The latter’s car
now bears a No. 1 plate, but it has a
star added, and is of a different color.
* *
7 “Alpha”: Seventeen cars were bogged
on one half-mile stretch between Parkes
and Dubbo in the wet winter of ’32. The
tally went up to 18 when a garageman
became stuck trying to pull them out. A
few got clear, but the bulk of the
machines spent a week there. The
others were bogged again a mile
further on. Why didn’t they use bul-
locks? Only three teams in the district,
and they were bogged 20 miles back.
$ $ * *
“Greenhide”; Next time you’re at a
used-car sale, where the mileage is in
doubt have a look at the front bumper-
bars. If the nickelling is scraped off
vertically in patches, don’t buy ; it’s a
traveller’s car, with more than week-end
usage against its speedometer. The
bumper-bars collect the scratches from
nosing open gates in low gear while their
owners sit at the wheel.


r
Are you aware of this?
Influenza and ordinary colds disturb your digestion.
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
not only destroy all affections of the throat, chest and
lungs, but they correct digestive trouble, and afford
rapid relief from this distressing ailment, which, unless
checked, may rapidly develop into something serious.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are a carefully and scien-
tifically prepared medicinal preparation. Their use will
render your throat, chest and lungs immune from germ
infection, and their action as a digestive agent you will
find extremely beneficial.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
A. —Ths Larynx or Organ of Vole*.
B. The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of •
dissected Lung.
D. —The lobe of one of the Lunga.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
16 tin
BUY BOTH SIZES —USE LARGE TIN AS REFILL FOR SMALL ONE 10
5
200,000
TRADE BUYERS
Records prove that 200,000 business
men and women from all parts of
the world visited the Leipzig Trade
Fair last March to purchase for profit-
able reselling-
Can YOU afford to overlook this
great Trading Centre when planning
for future business? It is well worth
an investigation.
COMMENCES AUGUST 25th.
COMPRISING GENERAL SAMPLES, BUILDING, HOUSEHOLD AND
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FAIR.
Information gladly supplied by Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in Australia or
the Leipzig Trade Fair, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, phone
Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney; C. N. Keppel
Melbourne; H. G. Tttershagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
B 4006; L. Messey,
Box 1658, G.P.0..
RADIO NEWS.
The Radio
That
Raspberried
Our radio set
belongs to the
bad lot. There
are many of the
same kidney. A
radio salesman
once pointed out
to me a set which he said had had to be
repossessed 14 times, although the last
purchasers were people recommended by
four clergymen and a J.P. who is the
most respected citizen in his district,
being the leading s.-p. man. The sales-
man reckons that set will never be paid
for; there is something about it that
turns people who take it into bad marks.
At least three of its temporary owners
have been fined for not having licenses.
Our radio is merely mischievous. It
can be a very good radio when it likes,
but it is young and full of beans. It
hates serious lectures, especially from
overseas, and when they start it punctu-
ates the address with a raspberry or so and
then, if the dial is not turned to another
station, it goes off in a long-continued
burst or salvo of raspberries. In the
description of races it takes what may be
called an intelligent interest; but when
the broadcasters cease being reporters
and become tipsters it becomes derisive.
“After the way Alsoran won the Tincana
Handicap on Wednesday it should be
near the front in this event,” says the
broadcaster. “Bang-blomp-brrr! ” puts
in the radio. No doubt that is deserved.
As the 12 months’ service guarantee
is running out we are anxious to get
the machine well trained before taking
full responsibility, so when the set be-
comes unruly we make a demand for ser-
vice ; but when the radio man arrives
the thing is on its best behavior. It
looks and acts as if it didn’t even
know what a raspberry is. It will
endure a long diatribe from Jack
Lang without even a sizzle. The radio
people declared time after time that it
was the most perfect set they had ever
tested, and grew annoyed at being called
so often.
Not until we locked a radio man in
the bathroom, to his surprise and annoy-
ance, did he discover that we were not
merely calling him down to give our
money’s worth of trouble. Thinking the
expert had gone, the set immediately
worked off an hour’s repressed rasp-
berries and other queer noises.
The radio man saw why he had been
locked in, and the way he dealt with that
machine made me pity it.
Bowled out, the set showed its annoy-
ance. The radio man had tuned it up so
drastically that our call numbers got
mixed, and we were liable to wake up
an outburst of admiration about some-
body’s insect powder when we were
groping for grand opera. When we
showed signs of overcoming that diffi-
culty the set put its dial light out, so
that we had to grope in real earnest. As
we did that, we would occasionally get
bursts of insulting noises that sounded
like derision.
The radio man put another lamp
behind the dial and corrected the station
locations to some extent, but before he
had finished he was almost as exasperated
as we are. The radio came to the con-
clusion that it would have to go straight,
and thenceforward indulged only on rare
occasions its moods of vulgarity. Yet I
have a horrible feeling that it is only
biding its time, waiting for the day when
our free service period will come to an
end.
On the other hand the set may merely
be mischievous. They say that the ex-
posure of the young too early to the
wicked world has a warping effect.
Probably this is true. There are signs of
warping on the cabinet of our set which
seem to show tha* something about it
was too young.
Still the set will probably do us for
another month or so unless, before that,
the moneylender who backed the pur-
chase does not get shirty about the
£l7 10s. still owing out of the £2O which
was the original price. But even if he
does, deposits are smaller now than they
were last year.
H. M.
Broadcasting
Good Drama
The broadcast-
ing of fine drama
might be de-
veloped by the
A.B.C. with profit
to its clients. Our
dramatic literature is such a mine of
payable ore that it is hard to find excuses
for the cartloads of dross which have
been shovelled during past years into the
ears of the listening public.
By way of a change, the A.B.C. pre-
sented Galsworthy’s “The Mob” a week
or so ago. The thing was admirably
done, with Mayne Lynton, Vivian
Edwards, Lou Vernon and Leo Stack as
“Where's your ear, Richard? Don't 'ee know tha's one of the best pieces
of music in the Hinglish language ?”
members of the cast. And Galsworthy’s
work is very fitted for wireless perform-
ance ; with good reason.
The broadcast performance moves,
so to speak, in one dimension; it
can appeal to imagination only through
the ear; scenery, by-play, pretty lights
must be taken for granted, and the
whole odor of the theatre is absent.
It boils down to a matter of dia-
logue. There it is that Galsworthy
cuts a brave figure. He has a hatred of
windy speeches and long words ; he hacks
away all useless fat and digs his teeth
into muscle and bone. And yet, for the
most part, his plays are static. There
are no rushings here and there, no
reliance on hidden trapdoors. It is Gals-
worthy’s way to state some enormous
problem (whether it concerns street-
walkers, the upper bourgeoisie or a Jew
struggling against racial rancor in a white
fury of injured pride) and to leave the
problem in the air at the end of Act 111.
He wonders, as the audience does, what
the answer is—if there is any answer at
all.
That is why his works, so compact of
beautiful, simple speech, come so well
through the microphone. They could be
performed, most of them, at the cart-
tail, so little do they rely on paste-
board and posturing. And the whole
effect of “The Mob” was enhanced, as
by a lovely undercurrent, with the music
of Delius.
Can we have more of this —more
Galsworthy, some of Shaw’s earlier plays,
something from the books of “Famous
Plays” which reach us year by year?
“Autumn Crocus,” “The Improper
Duchess,” “London Wall,” “Journey’s
End” would keep us delighted and breath-
less by our wireless sets. The wireless
play must rely on talk —and there is
plenty of good talk about.
F. J. BRIDGES.
Canned
Television?
Television will
come to us
canned in ninety-
nine cases out of
a hundred. Just
as the King’s
jubilee speeches were recorded for broad-
casting to Dominions whose day is
Europe’s night, so every important tele-
vised subject must be recorded by the
camera not only to synchronise it with
the world’s waking hours, but to pre-
serve it for exhibition to everyone who
has had his eye otherwise engaged when
the original action was televised.
The things most worth televising will
be big things, many of which will occur
simultaneously in different parts of the
world. The visual recorder of them must
still be the cinema camera. Big business
will buy television rights as well as
camera rights for recorded television. In
fact, existing cinema interests are likely
to make an attempt to become the dis-
tributors and controllers of all saleable
televised action, suppressing this and re-
leasing that on a time schedule, and
maybe retaining much for first use or ex-
clusive use in cinema theatres.
Nobody can say at the moment how
this great world service may be de-
veloped, for it must not be forgotten
that Russian, Japanese and all the other
foreign broadcasting stations are soon
going to speak in a universal language of
the mind, translated through the eye.
TOUCHSTONE.
All Round
the Dial
“T.R.”: When
the 8.8. C. makes
money it doesn’t
pass into general
revenue and the
first thought isn’t
reducing listening fees —the cash is used
in trying to make the radio services
better. Last 8.8. C. financial year ended
with a surplus of £220,000, and it will
be used (1.) for building a powerful
short-wave station; (2) for enlarging the
London broadcasting house, and (3) for
the erection of new broadcasting stations
in North Wales as well as in the west,
south and east of England. Total in-
come amounted to £2,058,983, or
£206,808 more than in the previous
year ; £915,025 was spent for programme
purposes. The operation of the trans-
mitters cost £334,958.
“Noreen”: “Stroller’s” reference (B.
15/5/’35) to youthful John Pickard, of
2SM, reminds that Rockhampton’s 4RK
announcer is only 24. He is George
Gardiner, a capital all-round broadcaster
with the handy asset of a really good
voice.
“Tiny”: An announcer at a Victorian
hotel gives listeners more shocks than
most of the fraternity. A motorist, whilst
quaffing the flowing bowl, is suddenly
startled to hear that his car (correct
number given) has been stolen and is on
fire miles away, or that he is missing, and
a most unflattering description is given
of him. On hearing that the licensee has
given a very local broadcast through his
own mike recovery is generally speedy,
and the victim is immediately made a
member of the Radio Club, the member-
ship ticket being free and entitling him
to 15 p.c. reduction on somebody’s hats
in Melbourne.
“Simber”: Those who go along to the
Vacuum Oil Company’s annual
ball at Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney this week-end will get
some idea of the versatility re-
quired of a radio performer.
As a side attraction to the ball,
which is run for the Legacy
Club and Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, there will
be a performance of “Gate
Crashers,” in which George
Edwards will interpret fifteen
different characters,
“M.G.”: Announcers who
stress the unimportant words
(B. 29/5/’35), making the thes
and ofs the major part of
each sentence, resemble the Americans of
Charles Dickens’s day, for in Martin
Chuzzlewit he mentions this as a pecu-
liarity of the Yanks, observing that they
took infinite care of the little words,
evidently under the belief that the long
ones were big enough to look after them-
selves.
“L.”: With radio to assist there may
be money to be made out of song-writing
here. Jack Lumsdaine, of 2GB, made
£BOO with an Australian song in less than
six months. The song was Wodonga.
Now he has written “Where the Shannon
Flows Down to the Sea,” which promises
to be another gold-pocket, since Gladys
Moncrieff and the Fox Movietone people
are supporting it. The Moncrieff
is featuring it on her coming tom
of Australia and Maoriland, and is
also making a record of it. Fox
Movietone is making a talkie shoit
showing the history of the song,
from the time Jack Lumsdaine “now
takes up his pen to write” through all
the various processes of composition,
copying, printing, publishing and record-
ing. Gladys Moncrieff will be heard
singing the refrain.


THE PATON ANALYSER-OSCILLATOR COMBINATION
• ,
The range of the Analyser-Oscillator Combination fully covers the field of Radio servicing, and comprises two self-
contained precision instruments in a compact and portable form. The specifications of same are as follows;
THE ANALYSER.
The Analyser is equipped with an exceptionally
high-grade Meter of the d’Arsonval type, with a
sensitivity of 1000 Ohms per Volt.
The universal Dial caters for all ranges of A. 0.,
D.O. and Ohms. An accuracy well below the
standard 2 per cent, is guaranteed.
Voltage, Current and Resistance measurements can
be taken at all points of a Radio Valve or Circuit
without the necessity of removing the chassis from
the cabinet.
American- and English-type Valves are catered for,
while a spare socket is provided for future releases.
The ranges are as follows:
D.O;, A.O. and Output Volts; 10-50-250-1000.
D.O. Milliamps.: 1-10-100-500.
A.O. Milliamps.: 0-100.
Ohms (in four ranges, without external batteries) :
0-I.2meg.
Inductance: 0-100 henries.
Capacity: 0-1 mfd.
Victorian Distributors ;
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Tty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE,
rr
THE PATON ELECTRICAL
INSTRUMENT GO.
90 Victoria Street, ASHFIELD,
N.S.W. Telephone: UA1960.
THE R.F.-A.F. OSCILLATOR.
The Oscillator employs a single battery-operated
dual-purpose Valve, which generates independent
•U.P. and A.P. Signals, and combines the two
within itself, electronically.
The resulting modulated R.F., in conjunction with
electron-coupled variable output, assures the highest
degree of stability, accuracy and sharpness, with
perfect attenuation.
Specifications : Covers the Intermediate and Broad-
cast Band! on Fundamentals, and develops strong
Harmonics to serve the S.W. area. Can be used
as an Audio Oscillator (with separate output con-
trol). Ts thoroughly shielded. Is supplied com-
plete with batteries. Has small battery drain.
Analyser-Oscillator Combination .... £l9/17/6
Note: The above are Trade Trices and subject to Tax.
Meters, Meter Repairs. 1 per cent. Bobbin
Resistors and all Test Equipment Accessories.
Write for free booklet.
“Twelve Uses for an R.E. Oscillator.”
Analyser (separate) . .
Oscillator (separate)
Neonised Valv e Tester
£l3/10/-
£7/17/6
£ll/5/-
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
DON. B. KNOCK'S
ACCUMULATOR MAINTENANCE.
Probably the weakest point in the
country user’s battery receiver is the
filament or A supply. If dry cells are
used, the cells serve their purpose and
then, when discharged, are replaced by
new ones. There is no question of
necessary care other than that of making
the right connections. With the re-
chargeable accumulator it is a dif-
ferent story. It is not sufficient to
merely discharge and recharge it; it
must be treated correctly into the bar-
gain. An accumulator is a faithful ser-
vant, but is likely to receive poor treat-
ment from two sources —the man who
uses it and the man who recharges it.
All too often the accumulator is
neglected, and in many cases it is ex-
pected to stand up continuously to a
higher rate of discharge than the rate
for which it was designed. Yet the
modern accumulator of good quality is
capable of standing a remarkably high
rate of discharge without much injury,
provided that the period is relatively
short. A golden rule for the man de-
pending upon his accumulator for radio
reception is never to let the normal dis-
charge rate exceed about a fiftieth of the
total capacity.
The accumulator with massed plates
is not intended to be subjected to con-
tinuous heavy loads. The illustration
shows what is likely to happen where ill-
use, neglect and overcharging have pre-
vailed. Overdischarging or overcharging
will cause disintegration of the plates,
with the formation therefrom of sediment
at the bottom of the container. If such
is the case, and the user is confident that
such treatment does not lie at home, in-
quiries should be made at the charging
station.
Heavy discharges, such as would be
caused by a sudden short-circuiting of
the accumulator, are generally respon-
sible for buckled plates. The careless
dropping of a metal screwdriver or a
length of bare heavy wire across the ter-
minals is a frequent cause of this trouble.
If the level of the acid is allowed to go
so low that the tops of the plates are
exposed, sulphation will start in the form
of a hard, white deposit on the exposed
portions. It is possible to cure sulpha-
tion to some extent by giving the accu-
mulator a lengthy but slow charge, but
if the stage of sulphation is too far gone
new plates are the only recourse. In no
circumstances should a discharged accu-
mulator be allowed to stand for long
without a recharge. When each ceil
shows under a voltage test that it regis-
ters below two volts it is time to act.
If one cell is reading low and others nor-
mal the low-reading cell is most likely
faulty and in need of attention.
It i§ a good rule, even if an accumu-
lator is standing unused, to put it on
charge at intervals of not more than
three months. Terminals should be kept
clean and well greased with vaseline, and
moisture or dust should not be allowed
to collect between the cell tops. In prac-
tice, the only really effective way of keep-
ing a check on an accumulator is to use
a hydrometer frequently for measure-
ment of the specific gravity. This may
vary for different makes, but the figure
is always stated, either on the case or
with printed instructions. After re-
charging make certain that the cells regis-
ter the correct figure, and recharge as
soon as the specific gravity reads in the
region of 1170.
TUNED R.F. AND SUPERHETS.
“J.A.,” of Eaton, Q., is another reader
interested in certain applications of
the tuned R.F. receiver in preference to
the superhet. He writes:
“I have built and assisted to build
many superhefs from four to eight valves
—autodynes, pentagrids and separate os-
cillator types —and find that with a good
well-matched coil kit the pentagrid type
is a fine set capable of good reproduc-
tion and distance-getting. In these two
points it compares here (near Mackay)
fairly well with a good T.R.F. set. Of
course, it is slightly more noisy in itself
when tuned ‘flat out.’ My own set is
a T.R.F. with three 34 valves, R.F. stages,
PMIHL detector (leaky-grid type), 30
driver and PM2B output.
“For sensitivity it is (with reaction)
about equal to a superhet of the penta-
grid six type (2 34’s, 1 C 6, PMIHL, 30
and 19), but the latter seems to give
more volume on loud stations (this is
not a drawback though).
“Selectivity with the superhet is, of
course, greater than on the T.R.F., and
reliability and freedom from ‘finickiness’
make the T.R.F. a better set, especially
in the hands of the man in the country
who knows nothing of the inside of his
machine.
“Iron-cored coils seem to be a great
necessity in this country, and I wish you
success in your determined attempt to
bring them into use in Australia. I am
' looking forward with something more
than ordinary interest to the publication
of details of a receiver incorporating
these coils.”
[lt is regretted that no progress can
be reported in regard to the introduction
of iron-cored coils. Manufacturers with
whom the subject has been under dis-
cussion do not appear to be more than
mildly interested. There arc a few Eng-
lish-type iron-cored coil kits available in
Sydney, but these are not suitable for the
purpose.— Radio Ed.]
THESE ULTRA-SHORT WAVES.
Much is being written in radio publi-
cations throughout the world on the sub-
ject of ultra-short waves. The reason
for this increased attention to regions as
yet beyond the reach of the majority of
radio listeners is the application of the
ultra-short bands to television. For
technical reasons television services must
be established on wave-lengths below
10m. By so doing the image detail is
materially improved, but the distance
over which the radiations extend usefully
is limited. An explanation of why this
is so will help to initiate the reader into
the behavior of waves of approximately
7m. This wave-length region has been
chosen both in England and Germany
for television programmes, and it natur-
ally follows that television transmission
on similar wave-lengths will eventually
be undertaken in Australia, experiment-
ally and otherwise. The leader accus-
tomed to short-wave reception of such
overseas stations as London and Paris
usually associates all short waves with
very large ranges. Transmission below
the 10m. mark is just the reverse, and
the useful range ordinarily becomes about
10 miles. By using special aerials at the
transmitting end this range can be ex-
tended in two or more directions to at
least 50 miles. Excluding this treatment,
however, the reason for the normally
Fig. 1. —Reducing the wave-length re-
sults in the Heaviside layer being unable
to bend the wave sufficiently to reflect
it to earth.
limited range of ultra-short waves is
readily explained. The belt of electrified
atmosphere surrounding the earth, and
known as the Heaviside layer, supplies
an answer. This upper reflecting medium
makes short-wave long-distance broad-
casting possible. The waves, arriving at
this intensely-electrified belt, are caused
to bend and return to earth again. In
fact, the Heaviside layer may be visualised
as a large curved mirror, reflecting the
waves as light would be re ec e .
F,g > /' lus,r^ ‘h of he
wave-length is reduced the bending or me
be * omes less and less At 30m .,
for example, the reflection is fairly sharp,
but jt j§ much less at 15m . Somewhere
around 10m the reflection ceases
a p o g edier or j s ver y spasmodic. After
tb j s decrease j n wave-length the bending
of the wave is insufficie nt for reflection
Fig. 2. —Position B. out of sight of A
owing to the curvature of the earth, will
not receive any signals from A if there
is no reflection of the wave.
to earth, and the signals are lost entirely.
Fig. 2 illustrates the point of “optical
range.” The waves, leaving point A,
radiate in straight lines from the trans-
mitting aerial, both in the upper atmo-
sphere and along the ground. If there
is no reflection from the upper atmo-
sphere, position B will hear nothing from
A. Because of the earth’s curvature, the
transmission from A has left the earth
altogether. To hear the signal B would
need to be comparatively close to A ;
otherwise, in optical range. As previ-
ously mentioned, special aerial systems
can be used to cause concentration in
required directions, with an apparent
bending of the wave to the curvature of
the earth up to certain distances and
under certain conditions. Country regions
hundreds of miles from cities will
not, therefore, receive the city television
programmes unless some special relay
scheme is established. The localised
nature of 7m. television provides a ser-
vice which is free from interference with
other stations on the same wave-length
beyond the range. It is, therefore, pos-
sible to have a number of transmitters
all working on the same wave-length in
different locations without interference
with each other.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Typical winter conditions now prevail,
and all the bands below 49m. are very
quiet, with almost complete silence at
night. Shortly after the turn of the season
the 25m. band should be lively again very
late at night.
On 49m. the Java stations are heard at
fair strength here after 10 p.m., but the
Russian on 70m. has only been fair, even
though noise level has been low. It is
surprising that this station does not occa-
sionally use English, considering that
the U.S.S.R. uses the lower bands for
broadcasting to English-speaking people.
On 26/5/’35 there was a special broad-
cast from Spain on 30m. The earlier
session about 6 a.m. was quite good,
but the later one at 10 a.m. was only just
audible in this part of Australia.
During a recent week-end attention
was given to the bands from 31m. down,
and from daylight until after 5 p.m.
some stations were coming in well.
RNE was easily best on 25m. at 8 a.m.,
and from then until the No. 1 transmis-
sion of the 8.8. C. FYA excelled ; but
the German was fair all morning and
again in the 19m. band at 3.30 p.m.
There was a rebroadcast from Canada
of an Empire Day celebration from the
8.8. C. on 25/5/’35. Both stations
were full volume shortly after opening,
but before 4.30 the noise level on GSD
in the 25m. band was much less than on
GSB in the 31m. band.
American amateurs in the 20m. band
had a good day with the Australians,
and many were good speaker strength
about 3 p.m. The 80m. band was also
full of life, but suffering from fading.
So far this season the 80m. band has
not been comparable with the winte£ of
1934.
Nothing was heard of WBXK in the
25m. band on the afternoon of 26/5/’35,
and the short-wave session at 2.15 p.m.
which was enjoyed last winter is
missed. The sessions have apparently
been changed, as not even a carrier has
been audible for some time at that hour.
The Americans in the 31m. band are
weak and are not worth listening to,
but from other listeners north of Sydney
good reports are recorded. GSL, at the
bottom of the 49m. band, a new station
since last winter, has been fair about
6.30 a.m. and closes at 7 a.m. This
station is not equal in strength to GSA,
and is probably using an aerial less
directional to Australia than GSA.
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave News.
By courtesy of Philips Radio advance
programmes of the Dutch PHI station
are made available. Although these pro-
grammes are broadcast from Holland,
the announcer, Edward Starz, uses seven
different languages, including English.
Australian listeners find no difficulty in
following the announcements.
Phohi Station, call letters PHI, built
and operated by Philips Radio, Eind-
hoven, Holland ; wave-length 16.88 m. ;
17,775kc./sec. ; the specification of hours
is expressed in E.S.T.
June 13: 10.30 p.m., Dutch National
Anthem and opening announcement ;
10.40 p.m., opera and operetta pro-
gramme, featuring station orchestra, to-
gether with Grethe Hogenbirk, soprano,
{Continued on page 34.)


I N T R\o D
BAUD
U
*
*
T K E
JMSTER
S E HIES
A RADI CALLY
£ I M/AH*.
nets- range o
RADIO ? RECEIVERS
/y'
5 5
HE pioneers of every notable advance in the science
* of radio reception for the home announce the
outstanding result of concentrated research by their
engineers . . . the A.G.E. “Bandmaster.”
The “Bandmaster” series of receivers is not merely a
range of new models depending on superficial changes
for their appeal. A.G.E. introduces —not “new models”
of orthodox receivers—but an entirely new form of
radio —radio made micro-sensitive; radio under perfect
control; radio with high fidelity qualities raised to the
last degree—AMAZING radio! The “Bandmaster”
series naturally features cabinets of remarkable beauty
and artistry—the finest cabinets that Australia can
produce. When you examine these cabinets, look at
the dial. It is correct for present wave-lengths, yet
on September Ist a few moments’ work removes it,
revealing a dial, permanently and accurately in place,
showing the new station positions.
HEAR ONE OF THESE REMARKABLE INSTRUMENTS
AT YOUR NEAREST A.G.E. DEALER.
5
r
c
n
[i
id_id
u
&
//A
ij
r
c
I
33
43


c§ee-
tfviS
ON THE
iENDS
OF THE
BATTERY
YOU BUY
i
f'llUlu)
WLDDIB DIAMON D DRY
CELLS PTY., LTD.,
119 Hawke Street, West
Melbourne, C. 3. F 1175.
Cr. Dalgcty Hoad and Towns
Place, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
N.S.W.
What The P 5 Is
1 The P 5 has the great ability to deliver
efficient current down to the lowest voltage
stage.
2 # There is no overnight collapse with Ps—
will continue to “carry on” after others
have stopped.
2 # The very gradual decline of Po will give
ample warning before new Ps’s are
required.
4 Thus P 5 guarantees increased service, abso-
lute dependability, and unvarying con-
sistency
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
— — S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: B2Z6J
Stromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Cl
and the chorus of La Scala, Milan;
11.30 p.m., latest news from Holland;
11.45 p.m., second part of the opera pro-
gramme ; 12.30 a.m., closing down —
Dutch National Anthem.
June 14: 10.30 p.m,, opening; 10.40
p.m., records; 11.30 p.m., latest news
from Holland; 12.15 a.m., dance
records ; 12.30 a.m., close.
June 15; 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40
p.m., station orchestra ; 11.30 p.m., latest
news from Holland ; 12.30 a.m., station
orchestra ; 1.25 a.m., close.
June 16: 10.30 p.m., opening; 11.20
p.m., microphone debutants; 11.30 p.m..
latest news from Holland; 12.10 a.m.,
broadcast by Roman Catholic Broad-
casting Association; 1.10 a.m., dance
records; 1.30 a.m., close.
June 17: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40
p.m., electrical transcriptions; 10.55
p.m., meeting of the Phohi Club, an-
nouncer answers listeners’ reports ; 11.30
p.m., latest news from Holland ; 12.10
a.m., dance records ; 12.30 a.m., close.
June 20: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40
p.m., concert by the residential orchestra
of The Hague; 11.25 p.m., records;
11.30 p.m., latest news from Holland;
11.45 p.m., the residential orchestra of
The Hague ; 12.35 a.m., close.
June 21: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40
p.m., “Short Waves —Long Distances,”
talk by W. F. L. Spruit; 11.30 p.m.,
latest news from Holland.
June 22: 10.30 p.m., opening and
special broadcast for listeners interested
in tin-, gold- and coalmining; 11 p.m.,
broadcast from the international TT
races at Essen; 11.30 p.m., latest news
from Holland ; 12.20 p.m., records ; 12.45
a.m., broadcast from the TT races at
Essen; 1.20 a.m., records; 1.30 a.m.,
close.
Latest in the Trade.
In battery-receiver design particularly,
the Class-B audio system, with its
material advantages, has come into ex-
tensive use in Australia. The quiescent-
p u s h-p u 11 or
QPP method
has received little
or no attention. In
action the two
methods are some-
what similar, but
with QPP the
driver valve is dis-
pensed with. A s
with Class B,
special valves have
been developed for
QPP, one type
of which is illus-
trated. This is an
English Osram
QP2I 2-volt twin
pentode, taking .4
amperes on the
filament and a
maximum plate
voltage of 150. Unlike the Class-B twin
triode, the QP2I requires a grid bias of
4j volts negative for correct operation.
This maintains the quiescent plate current
at a small value, and the working plate
current is proportional to the “grid
swing.” The Osram QP2I is fitted with
a special 7-pin base, and both valves and
sockets are stocked by the British General
Electric Co., Ltd., Magnet House,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
$ H: $ $
Philips Radioplayers series for 1935, be-
sides being marketed under the appro-
priate name of Superoctodynes, because
of the use of the octode frequency
changer, have something most attractive
in the form of a special micro-index dial.
This dial is exclusive to Philips re-
ceivers. The callsigns are calibrated
directly on to the dial, and by an in-
genious arrangement the card carrying
the station callsigns is removable in-
stantly. A new card can be inserted
with equal facility, and the consequence
is that, although changes in station posi-
tions with regard to frequency, distribu-
tion are inevitable, the micro-index dial
can never become obsolete. In the event
of any drastic alterations to station posi-
tions. Philips Radio will supply new
station calibration cards at no charge to
the purchaser of a 1935 Radioplayer until
December, 1936.
Casual Comment.
“Norwood”: Now the 8.8. C. has de-
cided to use high frequencies for tele-
vision, with a network of closely-spaced
stations, one of the most expensive items
at the receiving end is dispensed with. To
synchronise the motor of the receiver
with the motor of the scanner in the
studio expensive components have been
necessary. If receiver and transmitter are
both on the same power system the
motors can be worked in cycles from the
mains in the same way as an electric
clock, giving accurate synchronism of the
drums. On the other hand, relaying the
programme over landlines from the cen-
tral studio to the various transmitters
promises to be a costly job, as the over-
tones tend to leak away when high fre-
quences are relayed on wire. Still, the
initial, cost in transmission would be
negligible compared with the thousands
of motors required by receivers through-
out the country if one central broadcast-
ing and televising station were to serve
the lot.
“C. MacP.”: Radio raises an interfer-
ence problem for the freelance who is
trying to earn a crust in a block of flats.
Personally, I don’t mind anything that
has a spice of music in it or’ that runs
below the noise level of a portable type-
writer. For the archfiend who causes his
racing results to blare forth in working
hours there is a speedy, certain cure in a
rickety socket attached to, the power-
point. A gentle rocking quietens the
offender for hours. I pass the tip along
with a strong plea not to use it indis-
criminately. Even the foulest fiend has
a right to make night hideous if he is
not interfering with anybody’s living.
H* ~ ;{c . - jJ:
“Alpha”: An angle of . radio that is
being overlooked by : the prophets (B
15/5/’35) is the .influence . of the infra-
red ray. Televisionhas already demon-
strated in Baird’s studios . that photo-
graphy- can take •place in'complete dark-
ness. Scouting work from ’planes will
probably take place at night, as staffs
rely more on photographs than the
observer’s eye. The counter to this will
be infra-red observation for hostile
’planes. On land attacks concealed by
smoke bombs will be a thing of the past,
whilst artillery observers will be able to
concentrate on their targets, irrespective
of meteorological conditions or shell-
bursts. At sea the technique of laying
a smoke-screen has developed just in
time to become obsolete before it has
been perfected. A bugbear of staff work
will be overcome when a televised im-
pression of any given sector is available
instantaneously, without risk of the wires
being cut. In the last war news was
often four and five hours behindhand.
Tunnellers will be able to proceed with-
out artificial light, while “blacking-out’
a town will not conceal it from hostile
aircraft. On the credit side of the ledger
there will probably emerge complete im-
munity from traffic accidents in fog, both
by land and sea.
* =i= * *
“Spotlight”: An English manufacturer
has produced some interesting midget
valves in 2-volt triode' and S.G. types.
These valves, Hivac, open up excellent
possibilities for the design of midget and
portable sets. They are so small that
a number of them can easily be accom-
modated in the average pocket cigarette-
case. In appearance they are strongly
reminiscent of the old W.E., “peanut"
valves. The rating is 2 volts at .06 am-
pere, with 100 volts maximum for the
triodes on the plate and 120 volts for
the S.Gs.
What’s What in Radio.
Passengers to Singapore by the B.P.
motor-ship Merkur will have the benefit
of a modern loudspeaker system which
enables music to be heard throughout
the ship. This equipment is now being
fitted by A.W.A., together with standard
wireless-telegraph transmitting and re-
ceiving apparatus, an automatic alarm-
signal receiver and direction-finding gear.
Listening to overseas short-wave broad-
casting stations is becoming increasingly
popular in Australia. A.W.A. continues
to receive letters from many parts of the
Commonwealth, indicating that users of
the new all-wave Radiola receivers find
additional fields of entertainment. A
listener at Cardwell (Q.) reports hearing
KSL, Salt Lake City. He was surprised
to find that the station was rnaking an-
nouncements not only in English, but in
Hawaiian, Filipino, Samoan and Japanese.
' ’ * *
The Vic. Government is equipping the
two Port Philip pilot steamers Victoria
and Akuna with radio. The contract
goes to A.W.A., and each vessel is being
fitted with a 250 w. transmitter suitable
for communicating by speech and tele-
graphy. These pilot steamers remain a
few miles out at sea for a month at a
time, meeting incoming and outgoing
vessels off the heads. Radio will enable
the pilots to receive requests for services
from vessels at sea long before arrival,
and will be helpful in picking up signals
from ships in distress.
* - >;= - * *
The - impossibility of producing per-
fect silence has been demonstrated re-
cently by efforts of the engineers of
General' Electric Co. (U.S.A.) to con-
struct a room'into which no sound at
all could penetrate. They built a small
box-like room inside one of the labofa-
tory rooms, like one box fitted into an-
other. The floor, ceiling and walls of
the inner room were suspended on
springs. This .room was . then padded
inside and out with sound-absorbing
materials. When the room was com-
pleted a sensitive noise meter placed
inside it detected sounds averaging about
14 decibels.
s|s * * *
With the development of commercial
air routes for Australia, the application
of radio on lines similar to airways over-
seas, particularly in U.S.A., is a foregone
conclusion. The P.M.G.’s Department
is sending a senior engineer to England
and the U.S.A. to study the equipment
used, and the proposed radio-aviation
service for Australia will include weather-
report stations and directional systems
for navigational purposes.
The Q. and A. Column.
The Electronic Four (B. 15/5/’35) looks
good enough to start some of us building again.
I note that in this and the Wide-World Four
it is stated that 200 to 500 metres can be
covered by a coil of 155 turns with a condenser
of .00015 mfd. I have never yet succeeded in
doing this. Is this correct, or would two sets
of coils be necessary to cover 200 to 500
metres ? —-274.
The coverage is not quite complete with
the usual Hin. diameter coil, and usually starts
about 2SM and finishes a little over 2FC.
This is considered suitable for a receiver of
this nature, where the broadcast side is in-
cluded as an alternative. The receiver is de-
signed primarily for short waves. By using
very fine wire on the coils it should be pos-
sible to take in the whole range, but it is not
easy to wind hairlike wire on ribbed formers
by hand. Two sets of coils would naturally be
an advantage. One could start well below the
broadcast band and the other finish well over,
with overlapping between the two.
I have a two-volt battery pentode, and
would like to use this in a modulated oscillator
for radio service work. Please give details and
diagram of a suitable arrangement. —276.
In the circuit illustrated the oscillator
is self-modulating at a suitable audio frequency
by the charging and discharging of the grid
condenser. It is similar to the triode
“squegger” oscillator, but much more stable.
For general use the coil LI and condenser Cl
will cover the broadcast band, but other ranges
can be included by using a plug-in coil or
switching system. All necessary values are
indicated in the diagram.
* * * *
I have built the Wide-World Two receiver,
and find it to be all that is claimed for it.
but am having trouble in coupling it to our
broadcast receiver (24 detector choke coupled
to a 45). Using transformer coupling with a
Philips 3-1 audio type, the signals can easily
overload the speaker, but the quality is poor
and very high-pitched. Coupling the grid with
any capacity between .003 and .5 mfd. gives
excellent quality, but the volume drops too
much to be of any use. Could you advise any
better method of coupling ? —272.
The idea is apparently to use the short-wave
receiver as an adaptor. In this case only the
audio amplifier of the b.c. receiver should be
used, otherwise the overall amplification will
cause instability. Connect the transformer
secondary to the grid of the 45 instead of
the 24.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to use any device to reduce
further the current consumption of a class-B
battery audio amplifier ? (2) Please give a
circuit showing, if this is possible, how it may
be done. —273.
(1) Yes. One scheme uses a metal rectifier to
vary the bias on the driver valve. (2) A simple
but effective arrangement is illustrated here.
The potentiometer is connected across the
secondary of the transformer ahead of the
driver valve.
* * *
I have been getting very good results with
the Wide-World Two, and would like to try
a doublet aerial. (1) Please explain how to
make a coupling device to connect the doublet
to the receiver ? (2) Have you published
a circuit diagram of this receiver with an R.F.
stage ? —271.
(1) This is done by substituting a small coil,
inductively coupled to the grid coil, in place
of the small series aerial condenser. The coil
can be constructed on a former of large enough
diameter surrounding the grid coil, and
mounted on a bracket so that the grid coil
plugs in through this coil. Five turns of 26
D.S.C. should suffice, but it would be a useful
plan to have a series of coils, one for each
band, and each with approximately one-third
the number of turns of the respective grid
coil. No earth connection is used, the two
feeders from the doublet being connected to
the coil. A more elaborate arrangement is a
link coupling with the aerial coupling coil
tuned, and inductively coupled to a small coil,
linked coupled to the detector coupling coil.
See B. 17/10/’34 for this scheme. (2) The
Martin A.C. Three (B. 27/ 3 /’35) is a similar
receiver, with a tuned R.F. stage preceding
an electron-coupled detector.


FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Kaylah ; next,
Povertdale.
Canterbury Handicap: Confab or
Turbulent; next, Wallace Mimi.
Ashbury Handicap: After Money ;
next, Earlminster.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Randwick racing for the 1934-35
season closed badly for backers, every
favorite going down. The weather was
excellent, but the going was on the slow
side as a result of rain. This was partly
responsible for some of the failures of
well-backed candidates, but it did not
prevent gallant old Greensea (10 to 1)
humping 13 s. 81b. to victory in the
Hurdle Race ; conceding 551 b., he out-
jumped Bowthorne at the last obstacle
and then beat him for pace.
Hoots and groans came from Flat and
Leger when Cid returned to the weighing
yard after spreadeagling a good field in
the Botany Handicap. He started at 20
to 1, and was piloted by Frank McGrath’s
apprentice, Richards—his first success.
Cid got through on the rails at the turn,
and streaked away in the straight. Capris
(7 to 1) was second, two or three lengths
away ; Dame Moab, second-last at the
half-mile, was third, just ahead of Povert-
dale. Dermid, a strong street-corner tip,
was badly interfered with at barrier-rise,
but came home well.
Oro looked the class horse of the field
in the Winter Plate, and was always
favorite, but it was one of his off days.
After chasing First Balloon, who started
at 14 to 1, he threw up his head at the
turn and refused to do his best when it
'/ •
Gert: Theres Somethiklq soulful m
Biwo CROSBYS CRoovl'Hc, "
Bert ’ ' D'vou thimk So ■? ”
QeRT -M.WXVS GET A LUMP INI THE
THRoat When he a singing^"
//
Bert I Ves, He me /v
IM THE HECI<, also ",
came to racing. Braeburn and Scratch-
mere Scar made efforts to run down
First Balloon in the straight, but the mare
was going away at the judge’s box, scor-
ing by three lengths from Braeburn. Her
apprentice rider, Murphy, really stole the
race a mile from home, where he set
up a break of eight lengths. Even at
the five furlongs the other riders were
sitting still. Tremayne, well backed, was
never a possibility, and is not of much
account; but it was poor form alto-
gether. Sydney is short of stayers.
Cid had been nominated for the Exeter
Handicap, and would doubtless have
won if started. As it was, the Wagga
Cup winner Tapestry (8 to 1), who is
trained at Canterbury by trotting-driver
A. H. Shea, led all the way. After
Money and Gothlin earned place-money
for their owners, but it was a soft thing
for Tapestry. The favorite, Headgale,
ran fourth, and a mile is perhaps not far
enough for her; Earlminster lost his
chance at the barrier, where he swung
aW j Y A tO os . e Lightning March
and Ramrod, both sporting silk after a
holiday, shaped well while their con-
dition lasted.
,’* * .
When Rembrandt ran second to Wise
Boy in the Breeders Plate he gave the
impression that he would develop into a
topnotch youngster. However, he failed
i epeatedly afterwards, and cost his party
and public q lot of money. Those who
stuck to him got it back in the Second
Nursery; starting at tens, the son of
High Art Kapuya gave Sailor Prince a
big start in the last furlong and beat
him pointless, with Osculum a moderate
third. The favorite, Rubens, moved up
at the half-mile, but was behind Rem-
brandt at the Leger and dropped out to
seventh place. Calesco, a stable-mate of
Rogilla, showed pace, while Aerial Post
finished on to run fourth.
New Tip (4 to 1), trained at Moore-
field, took the first heat of the Novice
from Irish Morn and Tredonner. A
smart-looking Tippler mare, she looked
the winner throughout, and she should
score again if nicely “placed.” The
favorite, Snow Glare, was never in it.
The second division went to Linstitch
(10 to 1), owned by Young pastoralist
A. W. Scott. He was lucky to beat Ned
Moss’s Two No Trumps, who was hope-
lessly out of the race at the turn. Silver
Song, the favorite, finished third.
♦ * * *
Narahquong, a horse from the ’Bidgee
River in N.S.W., won the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle of 1918 after scoring
over the battens at Moonee Valley. Will
history repeat itself in the case of Choul-
try, who won the Trial Hurdle at the
Valley? Choultry is from Balranald,
where the owner of Narahquong (who
died several years ago) had pastoral
property. Narahquong was handicapped
at the minimum weight in the National;
Choultry has 9st. 21b. It would occasion
surprise if Choultry led home the
National field; yet odds of 100 to 1
could be obtained about Narahquong on
the eve of the race. Dr. A. E. Syme,
part-proprietor of the Melbourne “Age,”
who races as “S. A. R.awdon,” bred both
Choultry and Grey Lash, first and
second horses in Saturday’s race. They
are - by Lanius, a great sire of jumpers.
At a recent Ascot meeting Choultry
failed badly in a hurdle race. T. J.
Hayes, the lessee, put his own boy (J. P.
Meagher) up on Saturday, and, ridden
with more dash, Choultry took charge
nearly five furlongs from home. He
tired when challenged by Grey Lash, and
gained the judge’s verdict by a mere
head. Grey Lash, a diminutive gelding,
suffers from a troublesome hock and is
difficult to train. The Echuca station-
owner R. J. Watson ran third with
Coolana, who paid nearly 8 to 1 for a
place on the tote. Watson also was
represented by Seven Hills, a brother
to Laniroi, winner of the Australian
Hurdle of 1934. Seven Hills skidded and
fell after clearing a hurdle in front of
the stand. Watson will run both Seven
Hills and Coolana in the National. The
latter gave an encouraging first-up dis-
play ; he is by Costello from a mare by
Loch Amos (son of Wallace).
Philax knocked up so signally in the
Boiardo Steeplechase, of something over
two miles and a furlong, that he can
have no chance of seeing out three miles
and a furlong in the cross-country
classic at Flemington. The Polytheist
gelding was prevented from establishing
his usual. break on the field ; Ardoch
outpaced and outstayed him. Ardoch
(who was not nominated for the
National) looked a certain winner when
his only serious rival, Riawena, blun-
dered at the last fence; but the mare is
full of grit, and, responding splendidly
to the calls of Sweetnam, she registered
a half-head victory. With 9st. 131 b.,
Riawena' will have to be reckoned with
in the National. Last winter she ran third
in the Australian Hurdle and third (to
Redditch) in the Australian Steeplechase.
Exciting finishes were The order of the
day at Moonee Valley, four events being
won by a head or less. Preference,
trained by James Scobie for E, E. D.
Clarke, was pipped on the post by
Speckled Panne in the first division of the
St. Mongo Handicap, for juveniles. The
winner, who was bred by H. A. Currie,
of the V.R.C. committee, takes her grey
color from Pantolette, a mare imported
from England. Second division went to
the consistent Sunbather, who led all the
way. Sunbather was bred in N. S. Wales,
and is by Sun Cure from Grace Dighton,
by Sir Dighton from a Cooltnm mare.
He is held on lease by F. B. Rout from
F. C. Emsiedel, who owned the 1934
Futurity Stakes winner. Waltzing Lily,
No man buys yearlings more extensively
than Einsiedel, but he races none of
them, preferring the role of lessor, which
has proved profitable in his case.
. , u , . ,
Takakua. who appeared almost un-
beatable for several weeks m Melbourne,
had to be content with third in the
.. tt j- . ~,, , T .
pensation Handicap at the Valley. It
was a race for apprentice riders, and
only six horses started. The Maonlander
tried to lead all the way; but Right-
spear (Spearhead-Righteous) collared
him at the straight-entrance, and Green-
horn, wifh a ong-sustamed run, beat him
foi second place.
The ring took heavy toll of punters
at the close of the afternoon. Prince
Conceit (14 to 1) easily disposed of the
sprinters in the Phoenix Handicap. The
Northwood Welter went to The
Monarch, who started at 33 to 1 and
paid over 42 to 1 on the tote. R. Bailey
completed a winning double with The
Monarch. Mounts of the star jockey,
Keith Voitre, did not even gain a
situation
*'* * *
The Aga Khan has won another
Derby, this time with a colt of his own
breeding—the unbeaten Bahram, by
Blandford—Friar’s Daughter. Five to
four in a field of 16, Bahram, ridden by
the veteran Fox, won like a champion
from Sir Abe Bailey’s Robin Goodfellow
(50 to 1) and Lord Astor’s Field Trial
(9 to 1). It was his seventh victory, and
he is the late Blandford’s fourth Derby
winner.
* * * *
“Lizard”: A turf prophet who in his
time has sold tips to tens of thousands
of trusting punters has fallen on evil
days and been “certified.” His clients are
still at large.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Carlton, one of Victoria’s most for-
midable teams, went to Footscray on
Saturday satisfied that a win was an easy
proposition. The match finished in a
draw. ’Scray led by three goals at the
end of the first quarter, and, despite
having to face the wind, half-time saw
it still three ahead. At threequarter-time
it had 10 to Carlton’s 5, but Carlton,
through faulty kicking, had accumulated
18 behinds. The final score was Foots-
cray 12-7 to Carlton’s 9-25, making the
points equal—about the most awful
example of inaccurate shooting that a
first-class team has ever perpetrated.
Collingwood defeated St. Kilda by 19-16
to 16-15. St. Kilda made a wonderful re-
covery, seeing that the ’Woods kicked
8 to lin the first quarter. Hawthorn
surprised the wise ones by putting up
13-8 against Fitzroy’s 14-12. South
Melbourne kicked 15-15 to Richmond’s
7-17, and Melbourne won over North by
18-11 to 8-11. Essendon journeyed to
defeat at Geelong, the scores being 16-14
to 4-12.
% ❖ JJC i'fi
“Free Kick”: Disputed goals have
been causing a lot of arguments in Adel-
aide, During the North-Port match on
May 25 a goal was kicked by a North
player after he had carried the ball out
of bounds. The boundary umpire had
waved his flag, but “central” gave the
all-clear signal. The winning margin in
favor of North was only two points,
Port protested, but the rule that “the
umpire’s decision is final” prevailed. On
the following Saturday, when North met
West, another dispute arose. Score-board
and goal umpires’ cards gave the final
scores as West 16-22, North 14-14 ;
officials of both clubs and newspaper-
men agreed that a goal credited to West
was rightly North’s,
* * * *
Having beaten the lads from north of
the border 18-14 on King’s Birthday—a
much more convincing win than the
fig Ures indicate—N.S.W. Rugby Leaguers
completed the hat trick with a thorough
walloping, 51-8, at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday. Unless it keeps
a better lot at home, which seems un-
likely even as an accident, Queensland
looks certain to be trounced in the whole
fl matches of the seri £or this
XTCW . _ wr u„ n( ,
f„ lg ,L
a bit of ginger in the forwards, is one
of the be » t | e here has p ; oduced .
Th . . beailtv Thicknesse
- s nythi bl * thic Y k J a taHishl
trick half y ab] | fo stand ’ a r 0 f
kn J ki about Ridley looks P a bette r
wi f n eye match / Beaton is not
far % ehind hi y m . and at the centre
position he shone on Saturday. Hines,
fjom Newcastle is a new winger who is
bg* ll but looks hard as rock: he scored
four solidly-run tries, one of them with
so little of his trousers left that he had
to display more than confidence to get
b. But the star of the team is the
skipper. Brown. He is fast, can catch
the ball with his teeth and can mix it
Wlt h the toughest. Against this array
the northerners went to pieces. With
the exception of Mick Madsen, who s
too old for this sort of thing, and a for-
ward named Collins, who played a
rattling game in all the three matches,
the team was a sorry-looking lot before
the one-sided offensive was over.
Manly is again at the bottom of the
Rugby Union table ; Northern Suburbs
beat it 19-6. Forwards were mainly re-
sponsible, though the Northern backs,
less stylish than the Manly lot, got better
results. O’Brien, a new winger, made
plenty of ground, and Gibbons, though
he kicked as much as ever, seems able
to fool the opposition. It was five tries,
two of them converted, to two tries. Uni-
versity, unbeaten the first six matches,
went down to Parramatta 14-21 —its third
loss running.' Parramatta, a new team
last season, was the better both forward
and back, and made more of its oppor-
tunities. A bye in the King’s Birthday
round, when all the stars were in
Queensland, put Randwick on top, and
it should stay there. On Saturday it
accounted for East 22-9, scoring six tries
to two. Barnes’s kicking still wins
matches for West, which played St.
George. Both teams crossed twice:
Barnes converted both West’s tries and
notched a penalty goal; St. George got
the extras once.
(Continued on page 18.)
The inter-State university rowing
championship on the Power Yarra re-
solved itself into a fight between Sydney
and Melbourne, with Sydney victorious
by two-thirds of a length. Queensland
was first away, but when half the dis-
tance had been covered if was apparent
that only two crews were in it. The
battle continued to the gun—a very close
race. Sydney and Melbourne have now
won 17 races each.
* * * Hs
Australia broke even with France in
the first singles of their Davis Cup tie.
Crawford always had the edge on Merlin,
and finished it in four sets, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3,
6-3; but against Boussus McGrath
couldn’t get going except in the second
set. Boussus took the fourth easily, 6-4,
2-6, 8-6, 6-1. The doubles were close.
Bernard partnered Borotra and Crawford
and Quist again represented Australia.
The latter pair won 6-3, 4-6, 10-8, 6-4.


e
saia
Model 67, ,22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle, 27in. Round
Tapered Barrel and Improved Safety Catch, Elevat- AC J m
in,a; Roar Sight. Approx, freight in N.S.W., 2/3 /
r
4
m
Approx, freight in
N.S.W.. 2/3.
Model 2X, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action,
Self-cocking Safety Rifle.
24i». round tapered barrel with partridge-type sights, screw-
adjustable rear sight, military-style walnut stock with full
pistol grip, hand checkered and with finger grooves, formed
steel butt plate, ehramiuni.-plated holt unit and trigger,
chambered for the .22 regular and high-velocity long 32/6
rifle rimflre cartridges. Weight about 4Jib. ...... !
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER-SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
Speed— Power Longer Range
4
re
4è
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
XLEANBORE HI-SPEED .22’ s
é
ê
ë
25% Higher Velocity - - 50% More Power
Such impact, such shattering smashing energy
is almost unbelievable from so small a cartridge.
Such direct, unswerving accuracy—only the won-
derful KLEANBORE formula has ever attained.
Ask Your Dealer for Them
Wholesale Distributing Agents for N.S.W.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., 82-84 Sussex Street, Sydney
ROSS for HEIGHT/
Hient, age 19 J, gains 5 ins. in (i weeks. I No Appliances
21
30,
40,
in 5 inthe.
in 10 days,
in 4 weeks,
in 0
No Drags.
No Dieting.
.. U .. in 0 BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from ail over the world.
Fee *2 2s.
► if Convincing; Testimony
Malcolm Ross stamp.
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Cox 15.)
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn.
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
_orn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Under the Whip
“Wodgil”: Hopes were entertained at
the A.J.C. office that Peter Pan would
be an Epsom runner this year, but he has
been nominated for the Melbourne Cup
only. What weight will he get? Carbine
was given lOst. 121 b. in 1891 and Phar
Lap lOst. 101 b. in 1931. Between those
years the highest burden fixed was
lOst. 51b. —it was allotted to San Fran
and Wakeful in 1902 and Eurythmic in
1921. Peter Pan will assuredly get more
than that, though not so much as Car-
bine didn’t carry.
* * * *
“Tuart”: The machine has thrown
another deserving band of toilers on the
labor market. A ss. doubles tote intro-
duced by the Q.T.C. for the Brisbane Cup
meeting paid £5 16s. on Petrol Lager
(2 to 1) in the Stradbroke Handicap and
Nicopolis (3 to 1) in the First Welter —a
shade over 22 to 1. The big-hearted
merchants of little doubles would have
offered perhaps 12 to 1, and little of that.
But far worse came on the second day,
when a Toowoomba girl who had her
ss. ticket on Rivalli for the Cup (12 to
1) and Highsar for the Novice Handicap
(8 to 1) received £775 12s. There were
90 Rivalli tickets with various combina-
tions, but only the Toowoomba lass
chose Highsar. After this there will be
nothing for the boys but relief work or
“bingo.”
* * *
“S.G.”: Racing is in a bad way in
Perth, where it was once so flourishing,
though the electric-light trots, which can
be reached by tram, are doing pretty
well. Broadcasting and starting-price bet-
ting have had their ill-effects in Perth
as in other cities, and even dead-game
sports who continue to go to the gal-
lopers complain of the charges they have
to pay. It costs 16s. 3d. to get into the
paddock on the W.A.T.C. course: 3s. 3d.
return fare on the railway, first class,
12s. for admission and Is. for a book.
Twelve bob doesn’t seem excessive
judged by standards in other cities, but
3s. 3d. for a short suburban ride is out-
rageous—the regular tariff is Is., and
Bd. second class. It is not only in
Perth that Government Railway Depart-
ments bleed punters, and if they don’t
modify their exactions they will lose
this trade, as they lost horse-carriage to
the motor-float people.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Though Pietro Georgi hasn’t won a
fight in Australia, he always makes it
willing. Against Jack Rainsford at
Leichhardt he overdid it, and was dis-
qualified after throwing Rainsford in the
seventh round. Early in the piece the
Aussie collected a left hook that made
him retreat and grab his man ; and he
went on grabbing. Once he brought the
Italian down with a perfect Rugby tackle.
Pietro retaliated by roughing Jack down
and ramming a knee in his stomach.
“Shake hands,” commanded the referee,
and they shook. Trying to free himself
from a hug, Pietro roughed his foe to the
floor again. This time he refused to
“shake,” and Rainsford was declared the
winner. He scarcely deserved to be.
Footbrawl
“Little Marks”: Melbourne barrackers
are demanding that football matches
should start earlier owing to the lack of
visibility in some recent contests. Cer-
tainly during June and July it is often
difficult' for spectators to distinguish the
opposing teams when full- time is ap-
proaching. Matches now begin at 2.45,
but in the old days before Eastern time
was adopted the ball was bounced at
3 p.m. Even though the light lasted
longer then, the goal umpire in one his-
toric match signalled success not by rais-
ing two flags but by lighting two matches.
That was on the North Melb. ground,
known as the Gluepot before its surface
was drained and re-formed.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: Football "shorts” for
charities have been advocated in Mel-
bourne by Jack Baggott, half-back for
Richmond. Baggott suggests a series of
knock-out matches of 24 minutes each
among the 12 League clubs. He names
King’s Birthday, 1936, as a suitable date.
* * * *
“Cash Buyer”: Last week Nepia, the
fullback of the 1924 All-Blacks, an-
nounced that' he had been “worded” by
a Rugby League man laden down with
brass, but had rebuffed him. Nepia is
again a candidate for the M.L. side for
England. The emissary might have held
off if he had heard the yarn about the
fullback when approached by an Eng-
lish League scout in 1924. Nepia didn’t
bite, and, at last, when his persecutor
begged him to fix a price on himself,
said, “Oh, apout twenty t’ousan’ poun’.”
The Yorkshireman
who had tried to
corner him was
taken away on a
stretcher, and no
more attempts were
made to nobble
the Maori crack.
=f- =!=
“Bowen Bridge”:
Cyril Towers, the
N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian centre three-
quarter, has
equalled the ap-
pearance record of
half - back Fred
Woods by turning
out in the second
Brisbane match v.
Queensland, hi s
38th game for the
State. Woods's
record has stood
since 1914. As
Towers has re-
gained much of his
old form and the
Maori matches are
yet to come, he is
pretty certain to
top the famous
half’s figures.
“Hooker”: On King’s Birthday Rugby
Union fixtures were staged in all the
States. At Perth University tackled a
goldfields team ; in Adelaide University
fifteens played an exhibition match ; in
Tasmania Melbourne Uni. tackled the
local Union ; in Melbourne South Aus-
tralia and Victoria clashed. Victoria was
beaten by a Ma State country side in
Sydney, and up in Brisbane Queensland
was victorious over N. S. Wales.
* , * * *
“Inside Right”: Soccer is to be on the
programme of the Olympic Games again.
It was. banned in 1932 owing to the lib-
eral idea's of some of the entrants on the
differences between amateurism and pro-
fessionalism. The rule this time will
have its repercussions. Players must
satisfy the Olympic authorities that they
have never been professionals or played
against or with professionals. This last
ruling will cut out such world-famous
British teams as the Corinthians and the
Old Carthusians, which, though purely
amateur, frequently take on the profes-
sional clubs and are usually competitors
for the B.A. Coop.
* * * *
“Everton”: The hope of sending an
Australian Soccer team to England is
growing feeble. The Ma Staters cabled
the British Association some time ago
asking if a tour could be squeezed into
the English season, which nowadays lasts
from September to March. With all the
goodwill in the world, the Englishmen
would be hard put to find room for
a long tour. League and Cup games
could not be interfered with, and they
take up all the time of the first-class
teams. Something might be done with
some of the minor or amateur associa-
tions, but here again it would be a case
of congestion.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland made a bold
bid this year to establish its claim that
some of the Brisbane courses should be
included in the roster for Australian golf
championships. At present only Adel-
aide, Melbourne and Sydney enjoy that
“Doncher know any other ruddy chune than ‘The
Blind Ploughman?”
honor, and the Bananalanders want to
know why. As an inducement to get a
good southern entry which might take a
look-see for itself, the Brisbaneites hung
up special prizes, including £2OO in
purses for the professionals. Though this
is the largest amount put up for similar
events in Australia, with the exception
of the Melbourne centenary prizes, the
response has been feeble. Two or three
leading professionals from N.S.W. and
as many amateurs have been tempted.
Ivo Whitton was the only Victorian, and
he is an old customer in the north, where
he has won both open and amateur titles.
“Woogaroo”; Queensland’s golf cham-
pionship meeting at Yeerongpilly will
carry on for 10 days to June 22. A
special feature of the meeting will be
the number of purses provided for pro-
fessionals, six of the Brisbane clubs hav-
ing come along, each with its own bag
o’ brass.
♦ * * *
“Divot Digger”: The visit of the
American golfers did wonders for Jim
Perrier’s game. Most of them took a
keen interest in his play, and Sarazen in
particular gave him numerous tips. As a
result he changed his style, with the very
unusual result that he is playing much
better golf than before the change. Last
week Manly (N.S.W.) club altered Per-
rier’s handicap, and he now has to give
par a stroke. And par is supposed to be
perfect golf for the particular course
involved.
“Hoylake”: The handicapping of
Perrier at a stroke behind par figures is
raising furious argument. If correct on
form, it would make Perrier the best
player in the world, since the brightest
of stars elsewhere are content to start
off scratch. The truth is that the par
value of the average Sydney course has
been absurdly assessed and calls for
rigid revision. Overseas players are con-
stantly telling us that our courses are
easy in all respects compared with those
in other countries.
* * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian women
golfers have the pluck to run a com-
petition annually at which girls in other
States seem to shy, and Victorian players
have the nerve to enter for it in numbers
which suggest that woman’s dislike of
acknowledging the passing of the years
is a myth. It is the Veterans’ Competi-
tion. This year’s winner was Miss
Moore, of Kew, who finished one up on
Mrs. Thompson in a game at Victoria
which went to the 19th. Miss Moore
scored in 1933 also.
* * * *
“Westward Ho”: Those British girls
played for the golf championship of the
U.K. (B. 5/6/’35) at Newcastle (Ireland),
and not the least interesting part of the
show were the trousers worn by the
runner-up, garments which shattered all
feminine golfing traditions as far as
such semi-sacred events are concerned.
The lady had hard luck, as she was upset
considerably by a sympathy strike of
caddies in the last round because she
had changed her club-huinper. A gang
of them followed the final pair round,
hooting Miss Barton’s caddie and ap-
plauding everything Miss Morgan did.
This incident, following on the disgrace-
ful scenes when Wallace defeated Mc-
Lean in the Scottish championships last
year, suggests that those in control of
big golf events in Britain have a lot to
learn from Australia, where such a hap-
pening would be scotched at the outset.
* * -!' *
“Double”: Mitchell-Innes, who scored
a fine century for Oxford against the
South Africans, plays an uncommonly
good game of golf as well; he was No.
3 on the Dark Blue list against Cambridge,
when he downed his opponent by 12 and
10 over 36 holes. Golf and cricket blues
are not often held together, though we
have an Australian instance in R. H.
Bettington, of N.S.W., who won both
distinctions when at Oxford.
Racquet and Bawl
“Stade”: In the intervals of keeping
an eye on our Davis Cuppers, Norman
Brookes is trying to sign up an Ameri-
can or German team for Australia next
season. Perry is said to be eager to


ē
e4
Yes, sixty seconds is all it takes to
shave with the Valet because there’s
nothing to unscrew, nothing to take
apart, nothing to adjust—the simp-
lest self-stropping razor in the world.
And those few seconds on the strop
keep the Valet blade in perfect con-
dition and ensure a keen, clean shave
each time and every time. The
Valet was the original self-stropping
razor and it’s still the simplest and
the best.
Complete razor sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
5
ft
Aulo'Stw>p
VALET*:,
Safety Razor
BRITTS H M AI) F.
55
5
No. 12—LATEST MODEL WIN-
CHESTER SINGLE SHOT RIELE,
MODEL 68, for 22 Short, Long or Long-
rifle Rimfire Cartridges; 27in. round
steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip stock,
latest Mauser type safety bolt action,
hooded front sight, adjustable aperture
rear sight. Weight, about CC/
441 b iJ*J /m
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 12A —WINCHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT RIELE, MODEL 67, for 22 Short,
Long or Long-rifle Rimfire Cartridges;
27in. round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol-grip stock, bolt action, ladder
rear and metal bead front AC /
sight. Weight, about 441 b. .. "
Postage, 2/3; Other Stales, 4/-.
No. 15—WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIELE, MODEL 02. 22-cal., 20-shot.
23in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action: magazine handles 20
Short, 16 Long or 14 Long-rifle Cart-
ridges. Weight, I Q/
about sflb.
Carriage Paul.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIELE, MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight. Af\/
Weight, about 4|lb. *t\J / -
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 41 SAVAGE BOLT-
ACTION REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 4, 22-cal., 5-shot, 24iu.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight: takes
22 Short, Long or Long-rifle Cart-
ridges. Weight. 541 b
77/6
e
come, but things are so uncertain as
regards the impulsive young gentleman’s
future that he is not a safe bet at present.
Brookes is also to try for an American
women’s team including the two Helens,
Wills-Moody and Jacobs. The Germans
should be a strong draw, especially Von
Cramm, who, though he is said to be a
hardcourts man in the main, has proved
himself a champion on grass in the best
of company.
=i= * * *
“Top Spin”: Though McGrath and his
partner finished only runners-up in the
French championship doubles, the Syd-
ney youth can now claim the unique dis-
tinction of having figured in the last
round for three successive years. In
1933 his partner was Quist; in 1934,
Crawford ; this time the other chap was
Turnbull. The victory of Crawford and
Quist should effectually silence the
N.S.W. yelpers who questioned Mc-
Grath’s replacement by Quist. The canny
Brookes has found his selection amply
justified, Quist’s volleying powers hav-
ing proved invaluable.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Austin is one of the
early objectors to the proposed tennis
rule to limit the size of the service
courts, the limitation being intended to
cut the combs of the cannon-ball servers.
Austin makes a good point when he
shows that the c.b. server went out with
Tilden and Vines, and that there are now
no first-class players relying solely on
an untakable service. Also, as he truly
says, the vast mass of tennis-players find
the game quite hard enough without
messing up the rules because of one or
two champions. Andrews and Spence,
who gave the new idea a public trial, are
a]so far from enthusiastic, and the pro-
posed rule will probably die early.
-i- * * *
“Fitzcray”; The Victorian L.T.A. has
got itself badly tangled up over the good
old amateur status. Recently, after much
debate, it decided that a paid footballer
could play amateur tennis, but a paid
pedestrian could not. Of course, the de-
cision has raised a rare old wrangle,
more especially as it means that the un-
fortunate peds. are barred from play-
ing competitive tennis of any kind except
among themselves. Attempts are being
made to get the Australian L.T.A. to lay
down the law on the subject.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: There has been a storm
in an eggcup because young Bromwich
used two open orders won at the Vic-
torian tennis championships to buy an
armchair. 17 was pointed out that an
armchair could hardly be regarded as a
trophy for the sideboard and that the
purchase was dangerously near an act
of professionalism. However, it was
explained that the youth had bought the
thing as a present for mother, and senti-
ment won the day. The open-order
racket has always been the outstanding
joke in amateur sport. Not one in 20
goes for cups or clocks, as intended ;
“useful articles,” ranging from a pair of
trousers to a case of whisky, are pre-
ferred.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The report of the Ma State
Olympic Council shows that it is pro-
posed to send 12 athletes to Berlin. The
cost is estimated to be £2OO per member,
and this is to be added to by the inclu-
sion of a manager, a chaperon and a
coach-masseur, the total coming to £3OOO.
The manager is necessary, but the chap-
eron is an excrescence. If women are
to be sent, they should be able to get
about without chaperons. It is safe bet-
ting that not one of the selected girls
would dream of placing herself under
the care of a chaperon on any of her
Australian occasions. The coach-masseur
business is also a washout nowadays.
Such an authority as Tolan scoffs at the
rubbing-down fraternity.
$ s|i ;J: :Jc
“Shell”: Bob Pearce, it seems, is
anxious to return to Australia and settle
in his homeland. It is stated that efforts
will be made to meet his wishes. If his
friends can arrange for payment of the
£2OO forfeited by Robert to the Olympic
Council when he broke his contract not
to turn professional, he would be wel-
comed back, and Australia would have a
chance of seeing the world’s professional
sculling championship again being rowed
for in the country which monopolised it
for so many years.
* * * *
“Isthmian”: Australian athletic heads
continue to toy with the idea of holding
the Empire Games for 1938 in Sydney.
The locals will have to give some sort
of financial guarantee before going to
the Empire Games committee in London,
and there seems to be no doubt on this
side that the estimated cost of organisa-
tion —£10,000 or so—-can be raised with-
out much trouble. The idea is to syn-
chronise the Games with the 150th anni-
versary spree, and this prospect is ex-
pected to drag the subscriptions out of
the pockets of Sydney business folk, who
would stand to benefit by the invasion of
visitors.
* * * *
“Outlander”: Note from “Wisden’s”
in an obituary notice on Alexander Ker-
mode, the former N.S.W. cricketer whom
A. C. MacLaren induced to migrate to
England in 1901;
The importation of Kermode to qualify
for Lancashire received severe criticism in
many quarters. The case of Albert Trott —
one of the best all-round cricketers ever
produced by Australia or England—coming
to Middlesex was cited as a precedent,
but the example of Yorkshire and Notts
relying entirely on native talent was urged
as desirable to be copied by all counties.
And Lancashire is still a worse offender
than all the other counties combined.
Kermode died in Sydney last vear, aged
58.
❖ * * *
“Hotham”: Horace Lindrum goes to
England in August to show under the
banner of Melbourne Inman. Horace
will play Willie Smith, Newman, Inman
and Reece. Joe Davis, who beat him in
their snooker match in Melbourne last
year, has agreed to give Horace another
chance, and the lad is also, to take on
Con Stanbury, the Canuck snooker
king.
* * * *
“Wick”; Stirred by the visit of a team
of Australian curlers to the Dominion
last winter, M.L. has dispatched a side to
exploit the roaring game in this country.
The team will play all its matches
in Melbourne, where Scots are Scots and
maintain the traditions of their forebears
—whisky, corned beef and greens in-
cluded. Sydney Scots, beyond turning
out in force at Highland gatherings wear-
ing costumes 75 p.c. of them are not
emitted to don, don’t know stane from
besom.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1641 of 1934.
BETWEEN ISABELLA PARKER Petitioner
And ERNEST EDWARD PARKER Re-
spondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD PARKER.
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitu-
tion of conjugal rights dated the Thirtieth day
of May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five has been made against you in a suit
wherein ISABELLA PARKER was the Peti-
tioner and you the said ERNEST EDWARD
PARKER were Respondent requiring you
within twenty-one days after the Nineteenth
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five to return home to the Petitioner
and render to her conjugal rights and further
requiring you within four days after the expira-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
Registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an order
made on the Thirtieth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five it was ordered
that substituted service of the said decree be
made by advertising a notice twice in a weekly
newspaper circulating in the State of New
South Wales the first of such notices to be
advertised within fourteen days from the Sixth
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and the second notice seven
days thereafter AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that the home to which you are to
return and render to your wife Isabella Parker
conjugal rights is your former residence at Vic-
toria Street St. Mary’s in the State aforesaid
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
consequence of your non-compliance with the
decree is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
judicial separation or dissolution of your mar-
riage AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
service is to be taken as complete on the nine-
teenth day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-five from which day the twenty-
one days in which you are to return home to
the Petitioner will commence to • run. A
copy of the decree and notice herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of June, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
m
n
< ~^Jlte family is tit
tag elite t . . . d~re lot L
f I • / A
site. rat sac tat
r* 7
ctstttess.
canvetuettce
tit
at
eii stay at
SYDNEY
&J~loteL
Tariff; Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
Tenders.
IN THE MATTER OF
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
(In Voluntary Liquidation under the Supervision of the
Supreme Court of Queensland).
Tenders are hereby invited for the purchase of the residue of the Assets of the Bank,
more fully described hereunder.
The Assets offered for purchase consist of “Book Debts” due by customers for advances still
outstanding. Against the major portion of these debts some security is held in the nature ot
mortgages or personal guarantees.
The assignment of the debts to the successful tenderer will be accompanied by the transfer of
the securities held against same. The costs of such assignment and transfer are to be paid
by the successful tenderer.
The amounts due by debtors as at March 28, 1935, are reflected in the books of the Bank
£548,035 19 1
Tenders for the purchase of the debts may be lodged for the above in separate Lots or for the
complete total, and should be expressed in terms of a percentage ratio of the amount expressed
above. More favourable consideration will be given to an offer to purchase the complete
total than to separate tenders for individual Lots. As the collection from debtors is
continuously proceeding, the amount collected by the Liquidators subsequent to March 28
last will be deducted from the amount of the accepted tender, subject to a charge of 5 p.c.
for the collection.
Particulars of the debts, and the relative securities held against them, are available to parties
who contemplate tendering for. their purchase. Application for the lists and information and
forms of Tender, with conditions applicable thereto, must be made to the Liquidators at
their offices as follows:
Brisbane ----- 270 Queen Street.
Sydney 105 Pitt Street,
Melbourne Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen Street,
As an earnest of their bona fides applicants will be required to lodge a deposit of £lOO to
he held in escrow, and sign the required form of covenant of secrecy relative to the information
made available;
All Tenders must be lodged, accompanied by the stipulated deposit of £lOOO, with the
undersigned not later than noon, Saturday, July 20, 1935. The highest or any Tender will not
necessarily be accepted.
R. H. GUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A., F.F.1.A.,
R. B. FORD, A.C.I.S. (Eng.), F. 1.1.5.,
270 Queen Street, BRISBANE, Liquidators.
June 4, 1935,
“1.C.1.” and “1.C.1. Express” ,22’s have
captured the Australian market because their
sureness and swiftness place them foremost
of all in accuracy and dependability of
performance.
Smokeless powder, in conjunc-
tion with a new and powerful
non-corrosive priming mixture,
assures speedy ignition, the
cartridge residues protecting
the rifle barrel from rust, so
making cleaning unnecessary.
“1.C.1. Express give
higher velocities with
low pressures.
Products of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
(Ammunition Section ),
SBO Collins St., Melbourne
277 CUcrencu St., Sydney
919
&
and" HOLLOW POINT
an
after
5
5
What you need
is a cup of
good j j 4
T-Ha3-3,5 ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
How the Gang Voted
There are 50 relief workers on my job,
and a careful study prior to the State
election disclosed an interesting position.
They divided into two small groups of
rabid Lang or Stevens supporters and
into one large group who said very little
for or against either party. A little sift-
ing disclosed that the Lang men were,
almost without exception, ex-employees
of a Government department or some-
thing closely allied, such as municipal
councils. The chaps who stood aloof
were ex-employees of private industry.
They voted solidly against Lang. In
effect, support for the U.A.P. came from
men whose only hope is a revival of
private industry ; support for “Lang and
high wages” from men who have always
gained a living in avenues where their
wages were derived from taxes or rates.
—Kendall (N.S.W.).
Promotion—and Grievances
As there are no vacancies in the higher
ranks of the A.M.F. military officers who
have rendered distinguished services are
about to be promoted to brevet rank as
an alternative to substantive rank. As
promotion to brevet rank usually means
that the holder will continue to do the
job that he has been doing, the effect is
to give him higher pay and a solid grouse.
A brevet lieut.-col. commanding a battery
naturally feels that he ought to have a
brigade.
Mr. Parkhill, the civilian Minister of
Defence, says that “owing to limited
establishments, promotion has necessarily
been slow.” To clutter up the higher
ranks still further is no remedy. Really
there will have to be a just age-rank limit
with a fair retiring rank-service allow-
ance. — Pips (Vic.).
Australian Wine
If wine is to become the popular bev-
erage in Australia, well-flavored, mature
wine, with minimum alcohol content
(1 don’t mean the unfermented tack), will
need to be procurable in all licensed
places. The “Malagas,” forbidden to
the troops in the war years, were not
more potent than stuff sold for wine
in some shops and pubs: too strongly
fortified, too new or too much like vine-
gar.
Of all alcoholic beverages, good light
wine is the only one which may be
guaranteed to taste actually nice to an
inexperienced palate. Australians guzzle
it as they guzzle beer.
New fortified wines deserve all the
things the prohibitionists say about them.
Give us wine which is palatable, and
which is not strongly fortified, and the
industry will flourish. —BOP. (Q.).


5
JUNE 30 IS CLOSE
TO enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press is
publishing an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook—
INCOME TAX RETURNS’
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This will be the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price will be only
1 FIVE SHILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation —businessman,
farmer or salary-earner —who handles his own affairs can afford to
be without this book. He will find Income Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
To be published next week by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND <
GOOD LIVING,
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
.i-r&f#
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Borrowing and Business
One hears so much conflicting evidence
about “prosperity” lately that it is diffi-
cult to get at the truth. In Australia,
though recovery in private enterprise
has been particularly encouraging—
manufacturing industries generally are
having a run of almost unparalleled
activity—there has been such substantial
borrowing for “works,” etc., thus lighten-
ing the charges for unemployment-relief
on consolidated revenue (and, inciden-
tally, freeing some of the unemployment-
relief money, collected by tax, for other
purposes), that the man in the street is
justified in being a little sceptical about
our progress towards balanced Budgets.
When Budgets were heavily off
balance the accumulated Australian
deficits to June, 1934, aggregated
£66,000,000 —the money to finance the
shortcomings of revenue had to be got
from somewhere. The provided
most of it, and the borrowing was un-
obtrusive. Deficits this year look like
being less than £5,000,000, but the Loan
Council is going into the market for
£30,000,000 in 1935-36, £25,000,000 being
for “works.” It is not a strikingly
healthy sign.
Industrial recovery, depending admit-
tedly to some extent upon public spend-
ing, is nevertheless a much brighter spot
in the picture than Government financial
affairs. Many companies unable to bor-
row during the depression have, by hard
work and economy—in which their staffs
have been a big factor —rehabilitated
themselves to such an extent that they
are now paying dividends and find little
or no necessity for bank help.
This sort of recovery represents real
progress. Private enterprise as an em-
ployer acts like a snowball; public
“works” have time and again been shown
up as only of transitory benefit in the
employment problem, and, in the long
run, through interest costs and overhead
(passed on in taxation), are a hindrance
to industrial welfare.
In Britain, Budget expenditure has
fallen from £881,000,000 sterling in 1930-
31 to £706,000,000 in 1934-35. But over
the 12 months to March last there had
been a rise of 12 p.c. in industrial acti-
vity, an increase of 5 p.c. in the retail
trade, and an improvement of £30,000,000
sterling in exports. The cost-of-living
index between 1931 and 1934 dropped
from to 141, while the index of
industrial production, excluding mines,
rose from 93.7 (1924=100) to 117.4.
Prices are lower than in 1931, and in
value the figures might not look so good.
It is all the more encouraging to see
industry expanding in spite of the handi-
cap of fallen prices ; the British Empire’s
share of world trade has been estimated
at 26.7 p.c. in 1931, 27.5 p.c. in 1932,
28 p.c. in 1933 and 30 p.c. in 1934.
Inter-Empire trade, thanks to Ottawa,
would account for some of the improve-
ment.
Average employment in Britain during
1934 was 740,000 higher than two years
earlier. The Chancellor of the Exchequer
considers that the country “has recovered
80 p.c. of its prosperity ; the task that
remains is to win back the remaining
20 p.c. without jeopardising the con-
fidence already established.” Confidence
can be retained by a Government in
times of financial stress only so long as
industrial affairs are in a healthy condi-
tion. France’s export trade has gone to
pieces, there is great industrial hardship,
and the Republic bias had three Premiers
within a week.
Public finance more than ever before
becomes an increasingly vital subject so
far as business conditions are concerned.
Australia depends a great deal on its
Commonwealth Bank and the measures
it has available to control the borrowing
and spending activities of our politi-
cian-financiers.
Extraction difficulties have depressed
the market prices for several Westralia n
gold stocks. Lancefield, Ora Banda Amal-
gamated and some other shows which
recently commenced crushing are promi-
nent ; the nature of the ore varies in
most cases, and a certain amount of in-
vestigation and experiment must be in-
evitable in nearly every instance if re-
coveries are to be satisfactory. Lance-
field at least should do better in the near
future, and “gold absorbed in the plant”
become a less disturbing item to scrip-
holders. Recoveries recently have been
less than 40s. a ton ; the prospectus spoke
of ore worth over 70s. The market seems
disappointed. It all goes to show how
little punters of a few months back
really understood the possible difficulties
“ Anyhow, when I'm married I'll have a home to call my own."
“ So'll we!"
even where gold had been proved to
exist. There is still a section of the
market which thinks that the stuff is dug
out in lumps.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank has been
criticised recently for not coming into
the market and buying Consols prior to
the issue of the latest loan, so as to push
up the price of and reduce the yield on
existing issues and make the cost of
borrowing more favorable to the Gov-
ernment, “Fixing” the market to give
an interest level not in keeping with the
normal trend would be unsound in any
case. If the practice were carried out
extensively by the Commonwealth Bank
it would ultimately lead to an expansion
of credit by that institution, unless the
securities were tipped on to the market
again as soon as the new float had passed
off. If that second course were followed
the natural trend of interest rates would
be interrupted only temporarily, and a
disgusted market which had bought at
artificial prices could be expected to
remember it when the next loan was
offered.
* # >!= *
The two Commonwealth loans prior
to the latest flotation were raised largely
in Victoria (42} p.c.) and N. S. Wales
(37 p.c.). Queensland took 12 p.c.,
S.A. 6 p.c. and Westralia and the Speck
2} p.c. between them. In the allocation
of the money raised oppressed W.A. got
nearly seven times its subscription, Tas-
mania nearly twice as much and N. S.
Wales and Queensland more than they
put up. Victoria and S.A, provided the
excesses.
* * * *
The Ford Co. is to spend 1,000,000
dollars on a new Sydney assembling fac-
tory and extensions to the Geelong body
works. The Sydney factory, expected to
be opened in January next, should
employ 300 men.
* * * *
A decision important to preference
shareholders —one that will come as a
surprise to many —was given by Martin,
J„ in the Vic. Practice Court the other
day. Hackett Bros., Ltd., tanners, of
Richmond, went into voluntary liquida-
tion in November, 1934. In June of
that year the holders of 60,000 8 p.c. pref.
shares agreed to a reduction of 2 p.c.
in their div. rate, and said good-bye to
£lO,BOO of £40.800 pref. div. arrears.
accumulated to June 30, 1933. The
£30,000 was paid by the transfer of ord.
shares. Arrears of pref. dividends since
June, 1933, were the basis of the ques-
tion the liquidators asked the Court to
decide. None had been declared, and
the doubt was whether the arrears repre-
sented a liability on the co., as no profits
had been earned during the period. The
Judge held that dividends could be paid
only out of profits, and could not be
paid in any case if not declared, unless
the contract with the co. made specific
provision. Ord. shareholders were, there-
fore, entitled to the surplus remaining
after payment of creditors and repay-
ment of pref. capital.
* * * *
Fiji is benefiting from its gold boom
in several ways. The influx of mining
engineers, prospectors, businessmen and
tourists is noticeable in the trade of the
islands. Business activity has doubled
in the past six months, according to
one authority. Hotel accommodation has
recently been overtaxed, and with the
outlook for copra brighter Australian
investors in Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., and
other South Sea traders should benefit.
* * * *
F. J. Smith, chairman of West’s, Ltd.,
said the other day that writing-up the
capital of the Union Theatres group fiom
£400,000 to £1,518,000 had bec-« deferred
“owing to legal and accountancy difficul-
ties.” Mr. Stuart DLyle informed West’s
shareholders that the overdraft of Greater
Union Theatres had been reduced by
approximately £BO,OOO, and that since ,
January 1 the estimated profit, without
providing for taxation, “appeared to be
in the vicinity” of £27,000. “It might be
safe to assume that if the rate of profit
was maintained, within a reasonable
period the overdraft position might
permit resumption of dividends from
time to time.”
* * *
The cash-order business is flourishing
again. Cash Orders (Amalgamated)
recently made a new share issue, and
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd., reports a
record volume of business. Buyers offer
535. 6d. for R. H. Gordon’s £1 ords.
without attracting sellers. Last year
Direct Cash Orders, backed by sonie of
the principal Sydney retailers, made an
issue of 7 p.c. preL shares, now at 235.
6d. on the market.
❖ * * *
Commodity prices in Britain, though
the indexes compiled by various authori-
ties are not always in harmony, appear
to have risen consistently since March,
the average now being higher than for
some years. Principal increase is in min-
erals, due to the better market for silver,
lead, zinc and tin. Cereals, meats and
textiles also show the best prices for a
long while. And recent
increases have been
achieved in spite of a
strengthening in ster-
ling.
* * *
The revival in gold-
mining has caught the
world, especially Aus-
tralia, lacking in tech-
nologists. Australian
mining, except in base
metals, had been a
dead-letter for some
years prior to the
al most-universal depar-
ture from the gold
standard and the resul-
tant favorable price of
the metal. Hence a
difficulty in filling the
demand for mine-man-
agers and metallurgists.
It is no doubt gratify-
ing to those who were
brave enough to study mining and metals
during the dull years. There should be
a future in the industry for some time
to come —if labor gives it a chance and
finance is handled temperately.
World supplies of tin during May were
984 tons heavier at 7685 tons; consump-
tion was 337 tons lighter. Nevertheless
visible world stocks, according to latest
statistics, were 456 tons lower than in
April at 15,831 tons. The Straits carry-
over (1276 tons) was down nearly 1000
tons. The market is comparatively high at*
£226 a ton, though the forward price
(three months) is nearly £6 lighter.
Lead and spelter steadied in London
last week after a sudden fall; silver has
weakened to 2s. 9d., after mounting to
over 3s. an ounce. Gold has been up
and down as the changing political situa-
tion in France prompted speculators to
change from francs to sterling, and vice
versa.


wonderful new
STANDARD
CARS TOR 1935
Each of these new model Standards is the leader in its
class. Each has the very latest mechanical refinements;
Silent Synchro-mesh gears; Free Wheeling; X-braced
Chassis Frame: Buoyant Power Engine Mounting: Auto-
matic Spark Control: Powerful Brakes: and luxurious
equipment in every detail. See these fine English cars.
Ask for a trial drive in the model that suits your needs.
Each of these modern 1935. Standards represents the
greatest value the motoring world has ever known.
The NINE Saloon:
Luxury and economy, sparklinjr
performance and reliability,
.smart appearance and ample
accommodation, combine to make
this “IVine” Saloon a oar of out-
standing merit. Upholstery is
Chrome leather and excellent
equipment is provided.
8m
i
■ 49 R
vm
*****
The TEN Saloon:
Tills well-proportioned ear will
carry tour large people In com-
fort. Deeply upholstered In best
quality Chrome leather, its in-
terior is designed to give dur-
ability, smartness and comfort.
The outward appearance is one
of flowing grace and beauty of
line seldom attained in light
cars.
The TWENTY Saloon:
This really handsome six-cylinder
saloon Is the largest and most
luxurious in the Standard range.
Smoothness and silence for gliding
through city streets and plenty of
power to take oxer any hill, make
the “Twenty” a pleasure to handle
In traffic or on country roads. De-
signed with a beauty of body-style
that lifts it into a class of much
more costly cars.
The TWELVE-FORTY Saloon:
An amazingly powerful yet economical
engine gives really lively acceleration
with extreme smoothness of running, and
a performance that is truly phenomenal.
Particularly on hills does this model re-
veal its ability to perform without fuss
and bother, without
etiort or strain. In-
terior extremely
roomy and comlort-
ubie for 5 adults,
m
All Tested , Tried
and Proved
Models
Distributors;
BUCKLE & HARDEN LIMITED,
I 19-129 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone : PL 2688
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD.
131 Collins Street, HOBART, Tas,
Telephones: 3061, 3002
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE,
58-60 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Distributors;
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
81 Franklin St., ADELAIDE, S-A.
Telephone: C 2136
Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, PERTH, VV.A.
Telephone: 85174 (4 lines )
TALBOT & STANDARD MOTORS
PTY. LTD.,
568-574 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone : F 2154 (3 lines)
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD., COVENTRY,
ENGLAND
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isl(s must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Empire in These Days
An Interpretation by R.
COUPLAND. C.1.E., M.A. 7/6.
Dealing with the three main divi-
sions of the British Empire the
Commonwealth of Nations, India,
and the Tropical Colonies (exem-
plified by British Tropical Africa)
the book describes the changes
that have occurred in each field
since the War, and attempts to
interpret the meaning and purpose
of the Empire as it is to-day.
MACMILLAN'S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
LATEST TITLES:
Mundos
An unfinished novel, by STELLA
BENSON: 340 pages.
Young Renny
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
A story dealing with an earlier
period of the Whiteoak family.
Our Young Barbarians
or Letters from Oxford.
By BARBARA SILVER.
“I read every word with a great deal of
pleasure and amusement.” —This Observer.
The Pinnacle of Glory
By WILSON WRIGHT.
A novel of Napoleon at St. Helena
based on full historical knowledge
and written with insight and
restraint.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 Q 4 *A. (SECOND
X EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George Street. Sydney. 3d. extra.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —rby Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Nordic”: The official bulletin of the
Berlin Olympiad says that 46 countries
will take part in the Games. As to
teams, Japan is sending 400 athletes and
attendants, while America can be counted
on for an outsize mob. A quaint entry is
that of little Iceland, which comes back
to the fold for the first time since the
Stockholm show of 1912.
* * * *
“Ichabod”: It seems awful to think
of, but Lord’s may yet be converted into
a hardcourt tennis arena. A couple of
years ago a grass-eating grub set up
business underground, and in spite of
the expenditure of cash and perspiration
soon had the ground showing bald
patches everywhere. This year the pest
is going stronger than ever.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Writing to
Australian newspapers, Harry Hopman
has disclosed that Menzel has been noted
for years on the Continent for such out-
bursts as froze the blood of the Brisbane
barrackers. Last year in Rome he
walked off in disdain because a woman
was applauding an opponent’s shot too
enthusiastically. At Genoa a peal of
church bells began as he was serving,
and the Czech told the world that either
he or the church would have to shut up.
Menzel confided to Hopman that the
Italians are the worst barrackers in the
world —“worse even than in Brisbane”—
so we have evidently slipped a notch in
his ranking list.
* =l= *
“M.”: Merton Hodge, the M.L.
medico who scored a dramatic success
with “The Wind and the Rain,” is learn-
ing something about currency troubles.
His play is booming in Berlin, but Hitler
won’t let the royalties go out of the
country. Hodge’s only method of ob-
laining value for his profits is to go to
Germany and have a high old time there
until the cash is exhausted. You can’t
apply the barter system to the drama.
Fritz Hart, who has returned
from Honolulu, says the Hawaiians
didn't invent the ukulele and steel guitar.
The uke was wished on the Hawaiians
by a New York Jew named Lipstein, who
hailed originally from Germany. Visit-
ing Hawaii, he noted their primitive
musical instruments and, remembering
the guitars and mandolins of Europe,
evolved an instrument which looked
like a fiddle, was played like a guitar
and sounded like nothing on earth. The
success of the uke led him to invent
the steel guitar, and now tourists make
big purchases of both in Baratania-street,
Honolulu, exhausting the stocks, which
are promptly replenished from Lipstein’s
mass-production factory in N. York.
* * * *
“Inner Temp.”: The London corre-
spondent of the “S. M. Herald” suffers
from an odd trouble considering the
almost holy nature of his job—bobbyitis.
One of the most recent decrees compels
some hundreds of policemen to go to
school— not, however, to the luxurious
Police College. Just a plain motor school
for the ordinary bobby.
He thinks it isn’t necessary to teach
policemen to drive. This though London
policemen—with ambulance drivers,
members of the royal family, and a few
more —are above its traffic laws. The
royalties are fairly careful drivers in the
nature of their jobs ; the policemen can’t
be in the nature of their jobs. The alter-
native is to make them as like Malcolm
Campbell as it’s possible for policemen
to be. Apropos, I would like to see a
driving school with a severe leaving
certificate for Sydney policemen. The
only time I have been hit behind hard
in city traffic was by a P.D. car, and
the nearest I have been to a bad acci-
dent was when another P.D. car rushed
out of a North Sydney street on my
left.


VALUABLE INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS
The Budgetary Problems and Loan Requirements of the Various
Governments. The Position in Connection with Treasury Bills. Market
for Industrials. Wool and the Investor. Price of Gold. Small Investors
and Industry. Federal Subsidy to States. Australia’s Wine Industry.
COMPANY NOTES AND REVIEWS.
MINING FROM ALL FIELDS.
NOW-ON SALE THE JUNE ISSUE OF
%L
m
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
A. RISK.
Too Grave to T ahof
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you—or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director t Chairman of Director!:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TBETHOWAN, M.L.C
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kwakprak”: With only one recorded
case since September, and the first three
months of the actual danger season
(March-August) past, prospects for effec-
tive control of Weil’s disease in N.Q.
seem hopeful. Weil’s disease, known in
the war as trench jaundice, is, like
plague, a gift of the rat. The actual in-
fective agent is a spirochrete; it does
the rat no harm, but, transferred to man,
causes an acute fever, with jaundice after
about the third day of illness, and quite
frequently death. The disease is com-
monest in Japan (a Japanese scientist
discovered the spirochaete) and Egypt,
but exists in many other countries. Wet
working conditions seem to have a lot
to do with its spread, provided infected
rats are present. The only real methods
of prevention or control —those adopted
in Queensland —are the ones directed to
destruction of rats.
❖ * * *
“M. Turlutu”: For years past the city
rat-gang has been the pride of Brisbane’s
council. At regular intervals the tale
of its prowess has been published in
terms of slain rats. Yet such is the
malignant cunning of its sworn foes
that at one stroke the gang’s reputation
and good name have been blasted. Oppo-
site the very door of the million-pound
City Hall a citizen has been attacked
and wounded by a rat. It ran up his
trouser leg, bit holes in his trousers and
his finger and escaped unscathed. Despite
all effort, it is still at large. Brisbane is
upset about it. A desperate creature like
that Bolshevik rat would think nothing
of biting an alderman —even the Lord
Mayor himself. If “Bert the Carpenter’s”
rat-wizard (B. 29/5/’35) is real and avail-
able, now is the time for him to earn
the thanks of a sorely distressed city.
“Bray Rock”: I performed (under
penalty) my civic duty of voting at the
elections which returned Queensland
Labor to power. The poll-clerk duly
checked my name in the electoral roll,
picked up a ballot-paper, copied the
number printed in its corner against my
name on the roll, pasted down the corner
to hide the number, handed it to me and
directed me to the cubby-hole where I
was to perform my “secret” ballot stunt
with a special pencil. The official ex-
planation is that if the papers were not
numbered “the way would be open to
all sorts of frauds.” As things are, the
way is open to unpleasant results to
persons whose ballot-papers do not
happen to agree with the party ticket
when checked against the poll-clerk’s roll.
i\i % ❖
“Malo”: Brisbane is changing so fast
that its own mother will not know it
soon. It has trebled in population in a
generation, is governed by something
very like a local Parliament, with salaries
and all complete, and every new Admin-
istration tears down a few old landmarks
and sticks up a few new ones. How-
ever, most of its improvements tend to
give more air-space in the centre of the
city instead of less, as in the case in
Sydney. The Central-square which is
being advocated will make a fine
open space, breaking the long lines
of Queen, Adelaide and Ann streets.
There is talk of extending Adelaide-
street to the North Quay through
the site occupied by the old Lands
Office, now used for court work,
and also of removing the 60-year-old
Supreme Court next door, replacing it
with a park and art gallery. The Gov-
ernment plans to remove the courts to
a quieter spot near Parliament House.
The C. 1.8. headquarters —once a build-
ing connected with old St. John s
Cathedral —will come down when funds
are available, and the Executive Garden
thus be enlarged. But more Government
buildings are to go up —a local Scotland
Yard and new railway offices.
# ❖ *
“G.H.M.”: The day 1 visited Bris-
bane’s Home for Crippled Children the
youngsters were going for an outing to
Bishop Island. I remarked to one boy
how lucky he was to be going, and added
that 1 wished I could have gone, too. The
little fellow looked at me. “You’d better
let an iron fall on your foot, then. ’ he
said seriously.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Old Q.”: Protest by the local pro-
gress association against the crowding ot
'Your horse seems scared of cars, Jacky ."
"No fear, boss—him scared o’ road-hogs.”
one side of Queen-street, Brisbane’s prin-
cipal thoroughfare, by betting-shops re-
calls that there has always been a marked
social difference between the two sides
of the thoroughfare. The left-hand side,
from the bridge to Petrie’s Bight, was for
many years known as the half-crown
side. There on Saturday mornings the
youth and beauty of Brisbane used to
parade in their gladdest rags, while on the
other, the eighteenpenny, side the bour-
joice and the proletariat rubbed shoulders.
Perhaps it was because the pubs were
more plentiful on the eighteenpenny side,
while the fashionable shops and tearooms
were thick on the other, with only one
hotel in the long stretch between George
and Wharf streets, which formed the ter-
mini of the weekly processionists. In
any case, it is interesting to note that
something of the distinction of 50 years
ago still persists.
“Giligilli” (Papua): “El V.” (B.
27 /3 / ’35) is wrong when he corrects
“Mulga Mick” re The Bulletin being
valued by the native of these parts for
cigarette-papers. It is too glossy and not
soft enough for him. Many times when
soft paper such as “S. M. Herald” fur-
nishes has run out 1 have offered him
Bully. He just wrinkles his nose and
walks off.
* * * *
“O. Kay”; More than 30 years ago
old Syd Cook engaged a small boy to
assist him with a peripatetic biograph
outfit. At 17 this lad was managing
21 movies theatres in Q. for Cook. To-
day he is joint managing director of
General Theatres, with a big say in the
direction and ownership of 160 theatres.
His name is C. E. Munro.
* * * *
“Vic”: The press is glowing over a
Northern Territory priest who has re-
ceived the 0.8. E. for his services to the
aborigine.
He literally buys girl children with about
£2 worth of trade calico, flour, tobacco
and shining billycans. To date he has pur-
chased 125 children in this manner. Many
have married native boys on the mission,
and 70 girls are still in the Bathurst
Island Convent.
The objective is to save them from forced
marriages with old men. There is no
doubt about the good work Father Gsell
does after his own lights, but a plain
man might be moved to ask why, when
there are a Protector of Aborigines (also
decorated this year for good works),
an Administrator and a whole Territory
full of sombreroed police, this sort of
barter should be necessary.
“Kaa-pai”: The great Ripley says the
natives of Savaii (Samoa) walk over a
moving lava-bed. I walked all over the
lava-beds on Savaii in 1924. One is 44
miles long, the other 3f miles ; both are
as dead as the dodo. One Williams (Vili-
amu), who died recently in Maoriland,
built a resthouse close up to the crater
in 1916. The big eruption was in 1913,
and up to 1924 there was not a blade of
vegetation over the large area covered by
the lava-fields.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
When Meta Dunn, a Toowoomba girl,
had the only ticket on the “daily
double” at Ascot she picked ’em by the
simple and womanly method of choos-
ing seven as her lucky number. Her ss.
returned her £775 12s. Afterwards,
she had so many appeals to “go shares”
in a Casket ticket or an Irish sweep
ticket, or merely lend a fiver, that she
had to flee from her sister’s home into
temporary hiding.
Mesdames F. M. Lorenzo and I. G.
Fullarton, whose husbands have been
transferred to the south, were farewelled
by officers’ wives at a tennis afternoon
at Victoria Barracks. Mrs. Whitfield, of
Melbourne, and Miss Russell, of Sydney,
were among the guests.
Brigadier-General E. M. Ralph’s suc-
cessor in Queensland, Colonel J. L.
Whitham, and his wife have arrived from
Hobart with daughter Peggy.
Muriel Brunskill has lots of kind things
to say about Far Northerners and their
country. She will give one more concert
in Brisbane before going south.
Peggy Menzies lived in a whirl for a
few days before her wedding. After the
races Alice Thomson entertained about
50 guests at a cocktail party. Most of
the party danced afterwards at Lennon’s.
Then Jean Douglas, Kath St. John, Del
Harris, Vivienne Ruddle and Phyllis
Billington were hostesses at a sherry-
party at the Gresham.
Peggy looked like a picture from a by-
gone day when she walked down the
aisle at St. John’s. The neckline of her
costume, softly cowled, was high in front
and very decollete at the back. The
sleeves, very full, were caught at the
wrists in a tight band, and the moulded
lines of the frock itself billowed to full-
ness at the foot. A veil of cut tulle,
with a tiara of orange-blossoms and a
mass of eucharist-lilies, formed into a
floral rope, completed the toilette. Very
old-world, too, were the bridesmaids’
frocks. They were of cocktail-red velvet,
full-skirted, and with a quaint boat-
shaped neckline. Crowns of stiffened
tulle matched the frocks, and there were
sheaves of crimson and white gladioli.
The ’maids were Jean Menzies (sister),
Betty Dight (the bridegroom’s
sister) and Alice Thomson.
Keith Black, of Moree, Cliff
Squires (Tam worth) and Doug-
las Shadforth supported the
’groom, Colin Dight, of Yet-
man. A mail train carried the
newly-weds to Sydney, en route
for Maoriland. The bride
travelled in an ensemble of blue
which matched her eyes, and a
velour hat of a deeper shade.
Congratulations from all over the
world —including one over the radio
’phone from their daughter, Mrs. Cyril
Mayne, who lives at Plymouth (Eng.)—
poured in on Mr. and Mrs. James Allan,
who have been married 50 years. Pro-
fessor R. M. Allan, the eldest son, came
from Melbourne for the occasion, and
Tom Allan left his property at Palm-
woods to attend the family reunion at
Wairuna, South Brisbane. Mrs. Eric
Boden and her two children, John and
Mary, also were there.
The Robert Archibalds have bought
the old Luya home, Goonoona, and Mrs.
Harry Luya has taken a flat at New
Farm. The Archibalds and the Luyas
have been connected in business for
years, so that the old house has not
fallen into strange hands.
Colleen and Goldie Gray (grand-
daughters of the late J. G. Appel, once
Home Secretary) have returned from the
south. They intend wintering here, and
at present are at Sea Glint, Southport,
their grandmother’s seaside home.
E, H. Hunter, formerly Commissioner
of Customs at Tsing Tai, China, with his
wife, has arrived in Brisbane, where they
intend to live.
Colonel Whitfield, who is Director of
Remounts, Melbourne, and his wife are
in Queensland. They have been among
the guests at several military “dos”
arranged in honor of the departing
Lorenzos and Brig.-Gen. E. M. Ralph.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades, Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and’ cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tarill - from .... 18/- per day
l.uncli and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Girl in the Flat Opposite found
Randwick dull on Saturday owing to the
haute noblesse having rushed up to Cob-
bitty to cheer the season’s first polo bail.
Still there were a few dress flutters that
call forth cheers or condemnation. In
the first class were the silver fox collars
—high, rich things, shaped and reach-
ing plumply up to the curl zone of the
wearer’s head. Not so admirable were
the pastel-toned suits —pale pinks and
pale apricots. These made slim women
big and large women larger. Definitely
they are for the knitting-needle figure.
One fashionable young man wore brown
suede shoes, another black, and perhaps
there was a pair of pearl-grey in the
offing ; but the scarlet flower borders to
the green lawns were a better diet for
the eyes.
Mimi Healey was willowy grace in
grass-green, a color also chosen by a
McPhillamy girl, who added black velvet
pockets. Beatrice Meeks was submerged
in silver fox ; Mrs. Bakin’s suit wore a
flower cascade in its lapel. The Ernest
Watts, Theo Marks and Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar were glimpsed among the
comings and goings ; so were the Barra-
clough lady, Mrs. Tom Rolin and Mrs.
Coen. But the lamb of the lot was the
old man who stepped out from an angle
of one of the buildings: “Will you stand
where you are for a minute, miss?” Miss
complied. Hidden from the passers-by
the old fellow loosened his belt, tucked
in some notes, drew the belt tight and
said with a seraphic smile, “Thank you,
miss. That’s got the pickpockets beat!”
The amount of the treasure was £3.
This year Music Week and the eistedd-
fod decided to part company. There is
no hard feeling, and the matter is not
so much one of divorce as of judicial
separation, owing to the eisteddfod
events and contests having grown out
of bounds. Last Friday Music Week was
opened by a concert to which all the
public who could squeeze into the Town
Hall came. There was nothing to pay,
and the sight of its vast audience must
have been as heady to the Con. Students’
Orchestra and the Fort-street Girls’ High
.School Choir as its first taste of catnip
is to a Persian kitten.
On Sunday St. Andrew’s Cathedral
rang with the chants of combined
choirs. Every piano, organ and stringed
instrument in the city is already work-
ing overtime, and already about half of
the 63 schools on the list have been bom-
barded with concert parties. The A.8.C.,
aided by that delightful fellow Pro-
fessor Heinze, is spreading itself in
children’s concerts. Every woman’s club
is drawing the bow, long or musical,
and, as usual, the final fireworks will be
a revel. The capable and musicianly
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore is organiser of
the whole week.
How decorative the birds of the air
and the beasts of the bush can be is
shown by Murray Griffin, a young Mel-
bourne artist who has filled the Gros-
venor Galleries with paintings and lino-
cuts. These display cockatoos with out-
spread wings, bandicoots that look like
wise hares, penguins (two of them
rather like staid citizens coming home
after a night out and determined to
look sober) and one of those long
slim-legged birds you see on Chinese
vases. Their air of inexpressible time-
lessness makes the Ming cfynasty seem
terribly plebeian.
The death of Mrs. Dick Dangar, of
Turee, Coolah, came as a great shock
to a wide circle of friends, who little
more than a year ago sympathised with
her over the death of her only daughter
Molly (Mrs. Denis Allen). Before her
marriage Mrs. Dangar was a Dow-
ling of Mudgee (Frank and Willoughby
Dowling are brothers, Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax is a sister). She was an ardent
member of the C.W.A., being president
of the Coolah branch since its beginning
in 1927. Her only son is Harry Dangar,
well known as an artist.
The women as well as the men of the
family gathered, grieving for her sudden
passing, and the ceremony at the Crema-
torium was a very touching one. Padre
Hugh Gordon (he’s married to a Dangar)
read the service. The flowers were mag-
nificent.
Midway through last week death ended
a partnership as famous in its way as
that of Laurel and Hardy or Stiffy and
Mo. Freddie, the monkey at the Zoo,
ceased to be, and now Freda is without
a companion. But Freddie was even
cleverer than we knew, and no doubt
put many a laugh into the daily tea-party
by whispering “If they only guessed!”
For Freddie was not of the sterner sex.
She was the Vesta Tilley, the Ella Shields
of orang-outangs—a star male imper-
sonator. Meanwhile Freda frets, and the
Zoo authorities are cabling for another
pair of orang-outangs. Freddie and
Freda came from Borneo, and have
proved their worth as a box-office draw.
Once the pair even went to Government
House. That was on the occasion of the
last public garden party, and the two
were motored there and back, like real
gentry.
Dorothy Dingle, one of Sydney’s
attractive sports girls, had this picture of
herself taken by Falk. Dorothy’s game
is tennis, as all fans of the White City
courts know. Lately she captained
the N.S.W.L.T.A. forces against the
Combined Universities.
France and Germany, Sweden and
Holland, Belgium and Spain and Eng-
land —Russia, too, perhaps—have gone
ecstatic over hand-printed linens for in-
terior decoration. A Sydney girl, Margot
Lewers, just returned from study at the
Slade and observations taken over half
of Europe, has stepped into the proces-
sion as a designer and printer of the
much-demanded fabric. In her Sussex-
street studio she designs and makes lino-
cuts, and prints these on the linens.
This is a ticklish job, for, no matter how
futuristic and seemingly wavery, the
lino-cut has to be applied very accu-
rately—it cannot be even a quarter of
an inch awry.
One length of the linens, on view from
this afternoon at the Argosy Gallery in
King-street, is printed with chocolate-
brown pigs on a natural ground. The
pigs aren’t just ordinary pigs—they might
have been imagined by John Skeaping.
Another fascination is a design showing
outlines of Indian faces, tilted back so
that long, wavy headdresses in three
tones of blue trail across a palely saf-
fron surface. Well, that’s what it looks
like, and Fenimore Cooper agrees.
The expanse of polished floor between
the two sides of the Empress ballroom
might have been a wave of the Red Sea,
for it completely cut off the Jews on
the right bank from the revellers lining
the left. In short the Jewish Help in
Need Mission had engaged the one side,
the Commercial Travellers the other. The
sight raised a workable theory that
Moses and his followers were tormented
out of Egypt by the persistent desire of
its natives to sell them something. If
you don’t believe that, put your nose
into Port Said ©r Cairo. It would be a
quite reasonable bet that the last cry the
Jewish housewife heard echoing from
the pursuing hosts, across the tumbling
waters, was, “You buy nice mop, lady.
You buy feather-duster, you buy vacuum
—desert dusty place, lady!”
However, jazz being a mixer rather
than a divider, when the band started the
dancers slid about regardless of frontiers.
Everybody pursued gaiety, and seemed
to capture it. The presidents and secre-
taries on both banks are to be con-
gratulated.
Esmey Burfitt, just home after 18
months’ travel, was welcomed by father
and mother (the Walters of the clan)
with song and dance, and a flowering
of Chinese lanterns among the old trees
on the Elizabeth Bay lawns. The party
was over a hundred gay, and Esmey
looked more than ever like a Christmas-
tree doll in her petunia taffeta frock of
the spreading Vionnet period vintage.
Mrs. Burfitt, who went to Asia to
meet her daughter, wore satins gay with
flower posies. Esmey, who has a good
uni. record, has added to her store of
knowledge by journeys in Spain, Ger-
many, Norway and Sweden.
Susie Williams, retiring president of
the Women’s College within the Uni.,
had still another party proffered her.
This time the council of the college
was the host, and Miss Fairfax lent
Ginaghulla, her nice old Bellevue Hill
home, for the setting. It was one of
those cosy parties with fires on the
hearth and flame of poinsettia and chry-
santhemum on table and mantel. The
guest, very smart in a caped frock of
grey, sported a flame-colored feather in
her steel-grey hat. Camilla Wedgwood,
new principal of the college, was among
the tea-drinkers; so were the Mungo
MacCallums, flocks of professors and
their wives—in short, the city’s com-
plete academic outfit.
Rabbi E. M. Levy, successor to Syd-
ney’s veteran Rabbi Cohen, who died last
year, arrived in Sydney by the Otranto
with his wife and three children. The
family comes from Durban, but recently
spent some time in Palestine. The new
minister of the Great Synagogue was
given a civic welcome, in the course of
which Mayor Parker breathed a few
heartening words as to the regard in
which Sydney held its Jewish citizens.
This latest photograph of Lady Carew
comes to The Bulletin. Till eight years
ago she was Phyllis Mayman, of Sydney ;
then she married Thomas Palk Carew,
of Haccombe, Devon, now the tenth
baronet. The family is of great an-
tiquity. Phyllis was presented by the
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Tennyson, daughter of
Lord Strathallan, and sister of the 14th
Earl of Perth, at their Majesties’ first
Court of the season. And if any woman
present made a graceful curtsy it would
be the Sydney girl, who acted in her
teen days with Lady Forbes-Robertson’s
company during its Australian tour. The
daughter of the family, named Oenone,
is rising six, and has just started school.
Sydney in the past few weeks has let
itself go a bit over pianist Eunice
Gardiner. Only 16, already a polished
technician, Eunice goes off to London
to avail herself of a Royal Academy
scholarship, and there has been a suc-
cession of club recitals with a view to
building up a testimonial fund. When
the night of the concert which was the
climax of the effort arrived, music enthu-
siasts felt that Eunice was an old friend.
A crowded Town Hall burst into rounds
of applause on the appearance of the
slim, white-clad girl with the sleek, dark
head. Her frock was long, had puffed
sleeves and was of moire. Her mother,
four aunts and a medical-student
brother were in the audience. The
orchestra was made up of girls from
the Holy Cross College, and programmes
were sold by schoolmates. Melba at
her greatest could scarcely have received
more flowers.
What does the underworld do when
the detectives go off for a night’s danc-
ing? Do the members pass around the
word noblesse oblige and, like per-
fect ladies and gentlemen, refrain from
crime till after the ball? About 1000
danced at the C. 1.8. jollo in the Empress
rooms, and probably 40 p.c. were sleuths,
but the brows beneath the jazz caps were
smooth and unruffled. Commissioner
Mackay and Mrs. Mackay were impor
tants of the night; the lady’s frock of
deep blue patterned in silver thread was
one of the admired among the party en-
tertained by the Det.-Superintendent
Prior couple (he was president of the
ball committee). Mrs. Prior’s frock was
of black lace, her wrap of velvet of the
same sable hue; and the table she
hostessed bloomed with poinsettia and
red roses.
In Phillip Lewis’s audience for the
first night’s presentation of “The Shining
Hour” were many who had seen the
play in London with Gladys Cooper
playing lead. These watched Elaine
Hamill, who acted the same part in last
week’s show, and even with the elegant
Gladys fresh in their minds found no
fault with the girl from Maoriland.
Elaine is a pretty and graceful creature
with a soft but distinct speaking voice.
She’s a hospital nurse, too, and was
attached to the Napier public hospital
for almost two years. She was in “Blue
Mountain Melody,” has had a Cine-
sound contract, and is to be heard broad-
casting from national stations.
When dancing women really begin to
see themselves as others see them, they’ll
cut off their tails with the carving knife
or the boy friend’s razor, whichever hap-
pens to be handiest. When a woman
whose dress has one of those “graceful
and gracious” addenda steps out to
jazz, her hand makes one clutch at it to
lift it out of danger. If it is chiffon or
lace, before she is half-way around the
room she\ looks as though she is dancing
in her silk slip. If the frock is of moire
or the stiffer materials, the wearer prob-
ably loops it by a ribbon to her wrist.
Then what happens is nobody’s business.
But this Letter could tell two well-known
society matrons the color of the knickers
they wore at a dance early in the season.
If the right leg was the same as the left,
one wore shell-pink, the other caramel-
brown.
A card game for parties that comes as
a relief from the deadly seriousness of
contract bridge and that offers a lot of
scope for commercial talents is going the
rounds. It is called auction, but is no
relative of bridge. Each player, includ-
ing dealer, is dealt three cards, to be
religiously kept face down till the time
comes to lift them. Dealer turns up one
of his cards first. It constitutes trumps.
Dealer may sell it at auction before
it is turned up or at any stage after-
wards. If it is an ace, it wins the pool.
Generally, of course, it isn’t. Each
player in turn turns up one card. Cards
higher than the dealer’s and in the same
suit become valuable. The holder has
the option of selling by auction before
turning up or at any time thereafter. The
largest trump card to turn up scoops
the pool, and, of course, the ace of
trumps ends the hand at any stage. The
game isn’t as simple as it looks. The
purchaser of a jack of trumps, say, if
he be wise, will buy at small cost all
other cards before they are turned up,
to be sure of reaping queen, king or ace.
No player is under obligation to sell,
but timid folk are usually content to
save their stake or some portion of it
by selling whenever opportunity offers.
Every seat in the Mayfair was taken
for Don Finley’s testimonial. Sydney
just falls upon and devours anything in
the nature of a Sunday-night entertain-
ment. Ethelwyn Kirk, who organised
the success, wore trailing apple-green
satins in contrast to her blonde head
of crisp curls, and was a very attractive
piece of decoration to the front of the
house. Doris Fitton waited near by with
a bunch of languishing roses for the
arrival of Mrs. D. Cohen. Jeanie
Ranken, who had arranged a group of
primitive Madonnas, sat in the circle and
watched them gleam rose and gold and
blue from a triptych setting on the stage.
Ramsay Pennycuick’s Gauguin ballet
music was languorous, and dancers in
violent reds, blues and greens lived
sharp drama against a backcloth as
Tahitian as the cover design of any ship-
ping-agent’s travel circular.


’•’he Richardson Chain Hotel
m
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
1 HE HO 1 EL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE; ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
Londok Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Melbourne
Chatter
After simmering at various tempera-
tures since November, Victoria’s centen-
ary celebrations boiled over on Satur-
day, and a Monster Birthday Party in
the Town Hall put the lid on. Social
butterflies were overlooked. Invitations
were scattered among the citizens who
are always up and doing.
Curator Smith had robbed a con-
servatory to turn the stage into a tropic
garden with scarlet poinsettia, but cap-
tured a more spectacular effect by set-
ting a fountain spouting green water in
the centre of the hall. The guests just
meandered and chatted until it was time
to sup. Although it was like looking for
a needle in a haystack, Dewar, the Lud
Mayor’s faithful henchman, ran author
Ralph Connor to earth and piloted the
writer to the dais, which he had passed
so unobtrusively during the reception
that nobody had recognised him. One
lost count of the women wearing decora-
tions, but none outshone Matron Con-
yers, with C.8.E., Royal Red Cross and
bar, service medals and the Florence
Nightingale decoration, a white-and-red-
ribbon bow so tiny that it was almost
lost amid the black lace. Madam-presi-
dent Moss, of the Women’s Centenary
Council, was an impressive figure in the
v.r. procession with blue ribbon, the
shade of the Order of the Garter, out-
lining a corsage on which dangled a
C.8.E., a jubilee medal and the gold
medal of N.C.W. Edith Onians was
chided by a distinguished soldier for not
having her decorations placed in correct
position. Considering the busy life she
leads, it is surprising that Edith found
time to even pin them on.
By paying half a guinea a jubilee
medallist can obtain a miniature, but at
the reception most women were still
hanging on to the original medals. Artist
Louis McCubbin, who designed the his-
toric tableaux for the pageant floats
which had paraded the city in the after-
noon, was bidden to the vice-regal foot-
stool to receive congratulations.
Schiaparelli’s latest, the sari headdress,
made its Melbourne debut at a reception
in the Town Hall on Saturday night
Mrs. E. C. Boccard caused a bit of a
stir in the foyer with fair hair hooded
in a scarf drapery attached to her cerise
velvet cape, just like the veil the women
of India use as a headdress. Taking a
good eyeful, a lively lady well on in
years spotted an old friend in the new
top-piece. “Good gracious! I used to
wear one of those when I was a girl. We
called them” —she couldn’t think of the
word for a second, and then out it came
—“fascinators.” Beneath this sari cape
of vivid cerise showed an orchid-colored
frock of velvet so fine in texture that
sieved would have been a good name
for it. A new note was the boldly re-
vealed bust and the full skirt caught into
the normal waistline with many rows of
fine gathering. Schiaparelli, a born busi-
ness-woman, staged a ‘special fashion
show for Australians in London last
month. A Melbourne woman took a
fancy to a fur-trimmed coat, but had to
be brought round with sal volatile when
the price was given—129 guineas.
Players from the amateur stage did
some effective posing for the tableaux
drawn on motor-lorries through the city
as one of Saturday’s centenary doings.
Loveday Hills, who will appear as the
Duchess of Devonshire at the Garrick
on Saturday night, in company with
Gladys Silbereisen, decorated the corners
of a lorry carrying a model of Prince’s
Bridge and St. Paul’s Cathedral in the
’fifties. They wore the quaint costume
of the day. People marvelled how they
held the pose. They were well rehearsed.
The Cairns Memorial Dramatic Co. pro-
yided these figures and also the group
in crinolines and feather bonnets carry-
ing long-handled parasols on the Pioneer
float, whose figures included Constance
•Jorgensen, Iris Jones and Nell Buhner.
Wilbur Reed, who posed for Fawkner,
was recruited from the ranks of the
Little Theatre.
Busy women downed tools or left the
midday cooking on a lowered gas on
Saturday and rushed off to the King’s
Domain to see the Garden of Memory
get its official polishing off —the unveil-
ing of the Dedication Tablet. At the
moment this sunken garden, a tribute of
the women of to-day to their sisters of
yesterday, bears the forlorn appearance
of all flower-plots in the swaddling
clothes, and a high wall of rough boul-
ders inset with a blue-tiled-bathroom-
looking grotto accentuates the barren-
ness. In spite of three none-of-your-
nonsense tugs by Lady Huntingfield, the
first of the veiling flags stuck half-way in
the hoisting, jibbing right on the line,
“This tablet is dedicated to Sir Stanley
Argyle”! Alderman Stapley held the
unruly flag in correct position with his
walking-stick. Lady Huntingfield fal-
tered on the last line, saying “Oh, I’m
not going to read that.” It was the bit
of the inscription giving her credit for
the unveiling. Silver-tongued Mrs. I. H.
Moss, as the chief instigator, hoisted the
flag screening the tablet setting out that
this was the Women’s Centenary Council’s
contribution to Victoria’s 100th birthday.
Tumbling mentally with the agility of
an acrobat, Mrs. Claude Couchman took
a change of instruction in the act of
speaking, and moved a vote of thanks to
Alderman Stapley instead of passing on
the word of gratitude to the vice-regal
visitor as she had been told to do at the
outset. Alderman Stapley murmured
something into his overcoat.
Even the wharf was put into party
dress for the dance given on board the
Manoora on Thursday night in the in-
terests of the Royal Melbourne Hospital.
Matting, gaily striped, ran out almost as
far as the muddy roadway, and a mam-
moth canvas canopy, spread out like
an umbrella, took the chill off the foggy
Yarra. It was a very warm and friendly
interior. There were none of those flap-
ping canvases and draughty corners that
make dances on board ship such depress-
ing affairs on a wintry night. All was
under cover here. Curls, waves and
fringes “stayed put,” for a deck walled
with glass shut out the river breezes.
Petite figures were like daisies in a field
overrun with high-stemmed poppies.
There was a procession of tall figures
up the gangway. These included Mrs.
C. R. Duncan, Mrs. Staniforth Ricket-
son and a daughter robed in myo-
sotis blue ; Mrs. W. W. S. Johnston, with
gilded stems and ivy leaves running riot
about her waistline; Mrs. Tristan Buesst,
who came on board muffled to the ears
in ebony velvet, and Mrs. Rupert Fan-
ning, trailing black draperies and caped
with coque feathers in light and dark
blue. Tall and slender Molly Neil was
moulded into nacre satin. She sported a
velvet wrap like a splash of bougain-
villaea. A very full outspreading frill of
rose-pink tulle tumbling off a dropped
shoulder-line gave Mrs. Hugh Murray
the air of a coquettish pierrette. Betty
Stephens, Theo Syme and Jean Reid were
moored to the entrance the whole even-
ing, keeping a sharp lookout for gang-
way crashers. The number of empty
florists’ boxes in the rear indicated that
lots of presentation posies had been
handed out. Marjorie Clarke, in mist-
blue powdered with sparklets, was en-
trusted with the camellias that had to
be passed on to Lady Huntingfield. Mrs.
Russell Clarke, with fluffy feathers along
her ficelle-covered elbow line, and Mrs.
Roy Chambers helped their hardest to
make the dance gee, for the very best
of reasons —their welfare schemes, the
Toorak and South Yarra auxiliaries,
arranged this dance so that the Royal
Melbourne might reap the profits.
Stanley Hedger, who has done so
much toward lighting the darkness of the
sightless, has put “talking books” into
the Institute for the Blind, St. Kilda-road,
before St. Dunstan’s and the National
Institute for the Blind, London, have
passed the stage of giving the machine
consideration. On Friday morning 12
blind people of the Institute listened to
a reading of Masefield’s “Bird of Dawn-
ing” from the first machine to be im-
ported into the Southern Hemisphere.
Superintendent Hedger lodged the order.
As soon as the device had got through
the experimental stage to the satisfac-
tion of the American Foundation for the
Blind he was out after one for Australia.
There are many Shakspearean records
in the institute’s collection, but the literary
fare is nicely varied. The sightless can
draw a cosy chair up to the fire, relax
and listen to a Guy Maupassant story,
“The Necklace,” or short sketches by
O. Henrv. all read by the perfect voice.
By turning a couple of gadgets—the dial
controls are indicated in Braille—the
reading machine can be turned off and
the wireless switched on. Closed, the
device looks like a week-end suitcase.
Meet Mrs. Claude Couchman, the only
woman member of A.B.C. This matron’s
advice was so helpful that when her first
term expired this week she was imme-
diately snapped up for another three
years of service. Into an already crowded
life Mrs. Claude can always cram just
a little bit more. No eight hours a day
for her! She works from morn till mid-
night. In addition to her broadcasting
job she attends innumerable meetings,
writes a bit, makes many fine speeches
and answers letters by the score. Poli-
tics have always intrigued her. She took
a course of political science long before
she drifted into the A.W.N.L., of which
she has reigned as president for nearly
eight years.
Mrs. Claude is well versed in British
politics, and when she visited England
last year a fellow-Australian was amazed
to hear her 'challenging a statement on
the situation in India made by one of
England’s intellectual leaders at a social
gathering. Reference proved her right.
This was one of the times when she
reaped a reward from reading far into
the night to keep abreast of world affairs.
Australian women had the luck to have
this able leader and fine platform speaker
representing them at the Geneva Con-
ference last-year. She also led the Aus-
tralian delegation at the International
Council of Women Congress in Paris.
Country-bred, Mrs. Couchman has no
affectations, and the spirit to frivol sim-
mers beneath the reserve and poise that
she puts on like armor for her public
life. She started her career as a teacher
with a B.A. degree from Perth Uni.
Dickinspn-Monteath made the portrait.
Mrs. Fred Brockhoff, chatelaine of
one of the fine old mansions that
fringe the Albert Park lake —monu-
ments of Melbourne’s early social
grandeur—will be extending the glad
hand of welcome to sisters Ethel Barnes
and Queenie Sleight much sooner than
she expected. After an American trip
they had intended to call on rela-
tives in China, but changed their minds
when they found out that the weather
was hot and the exchange hotter. Since
leaving Melbourne Mrs. Barnes has seen
her daughter Peggy married to Henri
Malval, to whom she had been engaged
for a year. Peggy wore an ensemble
for the ceremony, which was celebrated
in the picturesque old church of St.
Gabriel, outside Los Angeles. She put
on a white robe woven with silver and
wreathed her head with silver leaves for
the dinner party held that evening at a
friend’s apartment. Henri’s business, im-
porting French goods, will keep him in
New York for a while, but before the
year is out he hopes to take Peggy to
Paris. She will be quite at home among
her French in-laws, having spent two
years in Paris studying commercial art
in special relation to dress and fashion.
The Latham lady—a handle came to
husband on King’s Birthday—has been
a great source of strength to the one-
time in his public
career. Her natural urge is for the quiet
peace of home life, but she has never
shirked the duties that fall to the lot of
a woman whose husband rises to leader-
ship in politics. While her John was
Acting-Priminister he had to live in Can-
berra, but his wife remained in Mel-
bourne keeping the flag flying on his be-
half. There were times when she had
as many as 34 official engagements loom-
ing. She was always coming and going
—the penalty of being popular.
The Lathams live in a lovely old bun-
galow with old-fashioned French doors
opening on to a landscape garden. It is
one of those houses that tempt hostesses
to make a habit of dispensing lavish hos-
pitality. Much entertaining was done at
Flete when Melba lived there, and a
great deal more has been done since the
Latham pair have been in residence.
There are enough art treasures about the
place to stock a museum, but the couple
hold nothing in greater regard than the
gifts bestowed upon them during their
visit to Japan with the Australian Good-
will Delegation. Mrs. Latham is iden-
tified with a number of charity move-
ments, but she is most attached to the
Children’s Hospital, of which she is pre-
sident. Luckily for public service, her
family of three does not claim her close
attention now. Dick, the eldest boy, a
Rhodes scholar, is at Oxford. Daughter
Freda is studying at Melbourne Uni., and
young Peter has been placed at school.
Probably Dame Jean Connor, one of
the figures in the Birthday list, is the
youngest of all Dame Commanders. Dis-
tinction has come to this vital little person
early in life. While a med. student at
the Children’s Hospital she saw the havoc
wrought by infantile paralysis, and made
up her mind to specialise in its treatment.
Now she is recognised as a leading
authority on this disease. As Jean-Mc-
Namara, she won a Rockefeller Research
scholarship that enabled her to widen
her experience of the complaint in the
U.S.A. She has won laurels for her
serum treatment in America, England
and Australia. When she reached the
top romance crept into her young life.
Her marriage with Dr. Ivan Connor,
formerly of Coleraine, was celebrated in
November. By a coincidence they have
made their home in a house formerly
occupied by one of Victoria’s pioneer
medical women, the late Dr. Lilian Alex-
ander. Ivan Connor is a handy man to
have about the place. He made most
of the household furniture. Dame Jean
is not finding the new honor any weight
to carry. A few hours after the list was
out she arrived at the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute with a couple of sick fowls
to be put under observation. She had
picked them up while on duty as field
officer of the institute.
At the Menuhin concerts you sec
some queer face-growths, beards hav-
ing taken the place of the long hair that
formerly marked the eccentric artist. At
one a robust figure showed off one of
those long coats with impressive fur
lapels that were worn when impresarios
dashed about in hansom cabs. Among
the decorative figures was a dazzlingly
pretty woman, the Ranee of Tikari, with
gauntlet gloves, posy and balloon sleeves
all in almond green lighting up a black
frock.
On its last outward voyage the Orsova
dropped anchor at the Port of Ville,
France, and passengers were able to run
up to Nice and Monte Carlo. A young
matron and her daughter who left Mel-
bourne very high-hatted had not been in
Nice 10 minutes before they had retired
to a dressing-room with a packet of pins
to flatten their hat crowns. It appears
that the high hat crashed because the
leaders of fashion found it “so ageing.”
Another fashion change that Nice
brought to light was the bobbed sash.
There were back bows in plenty, but
none of them had trailers. The ends
were as short as those of an obi bow.
An Australian who has forged ahead
in London along an unusual route is
Mrs. Arthur Bailey, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Alfred Upton Alcock, whose
name spells billiard-tables to Australia.
Dorothy has made a success of running
a library for the intelligentsia at Wey-
bridge, Surrey, where the habit of turn-
ing picturesque old houses into shops is
growing. The Australian has put up
her bookshelves in the hospitable en-
vironment of one of these places, and
this year she has more than cleared her
rent by being able to hand out Russian
literature for the London Uni. Extension
Lectures and cater for the Weybridge
crowd who are all eagerness to support
the League of Nations. The man who
supplies Dorothy with butter and eggs is
a Cambridge graduate!


53
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM MATTHEW JONES, formerly of
Hertfordshire, last heard of Pine Creek, N.T.,
1911, benefits in estate, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, communicate GREEN,
DOBSON & MIDDLETON, Solicitors, 60
Market Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME, COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 815 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE VERONICA MEDWOOD
Petitioner
And JOHN MICHAEL MEDWOOD Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN MICHAEL MEDWOOD late ol
Albury.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE
VERONICA MEDWOOD has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirtieth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of June, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) A. B. H. HARNES,
Clerk in Divorce.
ERNEST A. CLEARY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
AttfACcol*** Call
0%/TAMM IffKMTS
wrmrmmw J4«
as
Wfl
■
*
/ i
Famous visitors from all parts cf the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
The Proven
STOMACH
REMEDY
for Bad Cases
For over 20 years ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia
has been banishing stomach disorders.
These authentic cases are typical of the
countless former sufferers who now enjoy
the blessing of good digestion, thanks to
thepfficacy of * Bisurated ’ Magnesia.
SUFFERED GASTRITIS&ULGERS
m
—NO PAINS NOW.
Mrs. Jones of Worcester
writes:—“l have been ill for
seven years with gastritis
which turned to ulcers—the
pain almost drove me mad-
I was not able to take food
of any kind. A month ago
whilst in dreadful pain a
friend told me to try
‘Bisurated ’ Magnesia which
I did, and I have had no pains
since—the first month with-
out pain for seven years,
i Can now eat any kind of
from a recent photo f 00( j w jth comfort.”
of Mrs . Jones.
A remarkable recovery effected by * Bisurated *
Magnesia after other means had failed.
“MARVELLOUS FOR
STOMACH TROUBLES”
says Mr. Dyson of Birming-
ham, who writes: “I have
suffered with my stomach
for the last five years without
relief. It was like being in
hell. I saw your advertise,
ment and sent for a bottle of
‘ Bisurated’ Magnesia. It
seemed to drown the p.ain.
It is marvellous for stomach
troubles. I am a dead man
come back to life as the
hardest work does not hurt*
0m
IB
A
me now, thanks to ‘Bisurated’ from a recent photo
Magnesia. of Mr. J. Dyson.
After 5 years’ torture ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
brought him complete and lasting relief !
Its Action Explained—
Simply take a teaspoonful of the powder or
two to four tablets in a little water. The
moment this soothing draught reaches the
tortured stomach it begins to sweeten the sour,
fermenting, undigested food. The contents of
the stomach become as bland and soothing as
milk to the sensitive stomach lining. The pain
quickly lessens and presently disappears. By
following up the treatment after each meal,
your harassed stomach will lose its tenderness
and grow strong, until you can eat whatever
you like and enjoy every meal, without fear
of wind and pain to follow. - Get a bottle of
* Bisurated Magnesia; powder or tablets, from
the nearest chemist to-day and try it—the relief
will be a revelation to you.
‘OISURATEO'
K MAGNESIA
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package bears the
oval ‘Bistnag’ Trade Mark ->
WmaSSSSStSSSSSM
Vot. 11.-No. 30. TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1935.
Pr*ee. 3<J
Young and Old Enjoy
Reading this 64-page
Quality Magazine.
ON SALE FRIDAY.
Marvellous
Value for 3d.
FIFTEEN PATTERNS
FREE!
This unique offer closes this
week, and the range ol' pat-
terns in this issue will
make an appeal to the
over-fifty woman.
*'
I . !
Copies Sold Every Week
Over 108.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A weird collection of costumes adorned
dancers at the Repertory Club Ball,
which attracted a full house to the Em-
bassy. The v.-r. party arrived early on
the scene and stayed the distance till long
after carrying out the official duty of
handing over prizes. Vice-pres. H. S.
Bickford, with his other-half’s burgundy
laces alongside, and chairman R. G.
Miller and his black-lace-dad lady were
in the official loge. Edna Smily collected
a prize as Topsy, her abbreviated red-
check skirt revealing lacy knickers;
Henry Cuthbertson’s face gleamed green
above the flowing draperies of his Witch
regalia; Bea Hassen and Nancy Lee
capered about as Mickey and Minnie
Mouse.
The Historical Society celebrated
Foundation Day with an old-time gather-
ing at the Karrakatta Club Hall. Hostess
for the evening was Mrs. Mary Farrelly,
who topped her century-old apple-green
brocaded satins with a cream lace cap
and led off the quadrille, which was
danced by wearers of 1830 costumes.
Mrs. Henry Greig arranged the musical
programme, and Kath Shelton staged
a tableau to accompany a ditty sung by
Dorothy Porter. A gavotte was stepped
by Myra Rose in a picturesque frock of
white taffeta over palest-pink satin.
Some 300 guests made a journey to
Bridgetown for Viotti Wheatley’s mar-
riage to Dr. Hector Stewart. The pink
and white blooms flanking the aisle of
St. Paul’s led the way to the altar, where
a large wedding-bell hung suspended
from an archway of flowers. ’Neath this
the lovely Ho niton-1 ace veil cascaded
over pearly bridal satin, which undulated
from draped sleeves and swathings at the
waist to the snowy curve of the train,
lone Wheatley, Molly Taylor and Minna
Mitchell were verdant hills of green soult
de soir, with serrated shoulder treatment
continuing to the waist of their backless
bodices ; miniature wreaths of brown and
silver leaves were twined in their hair,
and garlands of bronze and pink roses
fell from their posies.
Perth’s youthful Lady Mayoress, Mabel
Leather, shook hands 500 times at her
initial at-home in the Town Hall. Easy-
chairs, carpets, palms, flags and flowers
lent warmth and color to the main hall
and to the dais in front of the stage
where the hostess parked her bouquet of
deep-red roses. A silver-fox stole lay
over her trim navy wool de Chines, and
a bright quill was perched on her navy
velour mountaineer hat. Eileen Hart and
Ernest Darwell lifted their voices in song.
Pixie Pretty danced her way into
citizenship at a coming-of-age dance
given by her parents at the Stirling Insti-
tute. Mrs. Gerald Pretty’s becoming
black laces were finished with a silver-
flecked fichu, and Pixie slipped her arm-
through the cunningly placed slit in her
long trained reseda-green cotelle and
used it as a cloak. Her sisters Peggy and
Barbara, girt respectively with gold-
girdled brown matt crepes and tunic
frock of black satin and velvet, assisted
in entertaining.
Jean Henn fluffed guest-of-honor
feathers at a bride-elect party given by
Pixie Pretty. The profession of the
’groom in the offing, Lieut. R. J. V.
Hodge, R.N., was made patent by the
gift ship S. S. Happiness, which was
sailed into the room bearing a cargo of
presents for the young couple.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At the dance given by the Sporting
Car Club a free bar was going until 11
p.ra. Members of the Gilsullivan co.,
who had been invited, 25 in all, to drop
in after the show, found the fountain had
run dry. The motor-car race round the
ballroom had to be scrapped, as it was
found impossible to get the cars into the
hall. Decorations were in gold and
brown, and the orchestra wore white
overalls and motor helmets. Many re-
cent debs, were present, wearing their
pretty white frocks.
The same night the Hackney Free Kin-
dergarten held a dance at which there
was a good muster. Lud Mayor Cain
and the acting-Mayoress, Mrs. H. Dun-
stan, clad in scarlet chiffon, were received
by the president, Mrs. H. J. Lipman, who
presented Mrs. Dunstan with a posy of
pink roses. Mrs. Lipman chose Wedg-
wood-blue ninon with a sprinkling of
silver on the corsage. Some seals from
the Zoo dropped in during the evening
and gave a turn.
Over 1000 attended the Legacy Club’s
Fairyland Bridge Festival at Myer’s
Apollo restaurant. About 250 tables
were occupied, and there was a waiting
list of 100. The floral and lighting effects
were a special feature. Balloons with
electric lights inside were suspended from
the ceiling, and the huge pillars, deco-
rated with autumn flowers, were floodlit.
Window-boxes were massed with brown
and yellow chrysanthemums. Lud Mayor
Cain was received by the president of
the club, Alan Colvin, and his wife. On
arrival each lady was presented with a
shoulder spray of flowers.
The Catholic Ball brought out 41 debs.,
who were presented to Archbishop Kil-
lian. Catholic charities benefited largely.
At the conclusion of the monthly
C.W.A. broadcast a presentation was
made in the studio to the secretary, Mrs.
F. W. Ryraill, who will leave next month
for England. The occasion was chosen
so that countrywomen listening-in could
hear the speeches. Mrs. H. S. Hudd
(metropolitan president) presented Mrs.
Rymill, on behalf of C.W.A. members,
with a travelling rug and cushion to
match.
Adelaide is having a feast of drama-
p/iw-music. Joan and Betty Rayner are
back from Europe with a greatly ex-
tended stock of story-plays, plus a sense
of humor which can make a stool, do
duty for mainmast, castle or tree. Percy
Grainger gave a fascinating historical
recital, examples ranging from Holland
to Madagascar, from Debussy to Zulu ;
Arved Kurtz assisted. Gilbert and Sulli-
van steadily improved (at the Royal)
to a triumphant “Yeoman” close; Ivan
Menzies is quite uncomfortably pathetic
as Jack Point. The Music Salon had
such a good first year that now a Corin-
thian Club (with heavy social patronage
and John Dempster as. convener) is to
bring in all the Bright Young Amateurs.
TASMANIA.
The Midland Hunt Club had a great
day at Beaufront, Ross, for its first meet
of the season. The Von Bibras fed the
field at Beaufront House after the run.
Crowds followed the chase on the roads,
in cars and on horseback,
Jean Wishart-Smith’s pre-wedding
parties have been filling the last few
weeks. Among the hostesses have been
Peggy Golman, Joyce Okines and Mrs.
David Harvey; and the staff of H. Jones
and Co. engineered a gift evening.
Mrs. M. Mclntyre, widow of the
Judge, was feted by her family at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Fred Grant,
Sandy Bay, on her 89th birthday. She
cut (and enjoyed) an enormous birthday
cake.
St. John’s, New Town, celebrated its
centenary with concert, tea-fight and
services. One of the most prominent
figures in the celebrations was that of
Margaret Fletcher, aged 80, who has
been a member of the choir since she
was five, and still sings in it. She cut
the centenary cake.
Charles Benson’s first London recital
seems to have been a successful affair.
The Dowager Lady Swaythling, who was i
out here recently, got home in time to
lend the light of her countenance to it,
and stirred up many friends to do like-
wise, so that the audience was well-
sprinkled with the peerage.
Launceston Operatic Society furbished
up “The Geisha,” and sent it out as good
as new at the National Theatre. H. E.
Doolan was responsible for the produc-
tion.
State Commandant Col. J. L. Whitham
leaves the Speck to take up duties in
Queensland, and he and Mrs. Whitham
will be missed. Major M. D. Williams
steps up, and, as he has been at Anglesea
Barracks for some time, he should know
the ropes. Both he and Mrs. Williams
are now recovered from their terrible
motor smash of some months ago.
Scientific and anthropological work in
our island has suffered by the death of
J. S. Falkinder at Dover recently. He
was a contributor to many scientific
magazines, and his valuable collections
of native implements have been lent to
the Melbourne and Sydney museums.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Seeing a
Big Show
Wedged in a
row of cars, five
abreast, between
admirals . . . and
generals . . . and
Lord-Lieutenants,
we ride slowly along. Next to me is a
Judge in a full-bottomed wig who has
beside him a lady drinking brandy from
a flask. (Enough to make Edward Lear
turn a limerick in his grave.) Further
away a city alderman, in his chapeau a
trois comes, red gown and gold chains,
throws a splash of color amongst Jews
in top-hats; and all the time Rolls-
Royces, swathed in silk Union Jacks,
keep forging importantly ahead.
King’s Jubilee Day.
It is a day of eyes, spectacles,
monocles, lorgnettes, cameras —even of
periscopes. Everybody joins in the
staring-match, except a blind beggar—
like a discarded broom—propped against
the wall. In a car, quite alone, sits a
bored aristocrat dressed as a general,
with a newspaper on his lap: he is doing
a crossword puzzle. Sometimes a car
has the back part of its roof folded
down so that the tagrag-and-bobtai! may
see the latest in hats. One in front of
me is of shining-blue
straw—like a shovel-
ful of roses.
Mounted police,
on chestnut horses
with silver chains at
their martingales,
work the people to-
wards the pavement,
securing enough
room for the cars to
pass ; and (although
there is no trouble
here), at Piccadilly,
further on, men sud-
denly stream across
the route, and we
are brought to a
halt. To amuse our-
selves we watch a
girl on a rail, high
over the mob,
powdering her nose
for the Queen!
Then, after the
troopers have
cleared the way, we
continue towards
Hyde Park, where
sunlight, falling
through grey and
damask clouds,
creates a pretty
shimmer among the
trees. To the left a
mother has placed
her little boy in a
window above her
head ; and now she
is combing his hair
Piccadilly: a mul-
titude of poles, trel-
lised with yellow
and blue ribbons
A Guards’ band
playing “Tipperary”
Guard, with
bayonet.
. . . the conductor in scarlet and gold
over white tights buttoned down the sides
of the legs. The crowd kept back by
policemen linking arms with one an-
other. Then, again, in between police-
men and procession, Guards, with fixed
bayonets, their faces red as apples
streaked by juice running down from
under the bearskins; for these are the
dog-days, reminiscent of summer in
Sydney.
Now the cars are only two deep, and
we are in Pall Mall, with increased speed
limit. On the empty side of the road
come the street-sweepers: three or four
of them, each in a loose black smock
with a white stripe back and front, also
Enough to make Edward Lear turn a
limerick in his grave.
on both sleeves. They wheel a barrow
full of brooms.
After the street-sweepers, Indian
rajahs! Turbans of green, turbans of
rose . . . Like a flight of parakeets, they
are gone in a second.
Highlanders passing . . . bagpipes . . .
the cry of the rajah-parakeets, unable
to catch up!
A car marked by the Royal Standard
carries little princesses off to St. James’s.
We begin to travel rapidly; and now,
instead of soldiers, sailors hold the line:
sailors, in their turn, yielding to the Air
Force, fine-looking boys in pigeon-grey
tunics, with breeches and black boots.
Over there, to the right, is a whole stand
of Chelsea Hospital veterans, their uni-
forms bright as holly berries freshly
picked.
And here, just before coming to St.
Paul’s, we draw into line with Mr.
Speaker’s coach, pulled by four dappled
draught horses . . . and see the crown
of the mace.
On our way to the north door, at the
back of the cathedral, we have a view
of the main entrance, with beefeaters
manning the steps ; also grandees, wait-
ing to go in: but the traffic carries us
along, and presently we find ourselves
on a raised stand in the north transept,
where we occupy front seats bordering
the aisle towards the door. Immediately
below us are ranged three picked men
belonging to the Honorable Corps of
Gentlemen-at-Arms, one of whom has a
flag, which he will lift each time the
King passes. At the middle of the
church are assembled Judges in scarlet
gowns whose full-bottomed wigs, when
they lean forward, give them the appear-
ance of sacrificial rams. Across the aisle,
to the right of us, some patriarchal men,
wrapped in purple cloaks, occupy a
space ; closer, a venerable sheik with long
beard and hair flattened beneath a silver-
and-white headdress.
While we watch him the noise of cheer-
ing comes from outside; at first faintly,
but soon sounding like waves of the sea.
We hear the cry “God Save the King!”
and at that precise moment the Arch-
bishop and the canons move down the
church to meet the two sovereigns ; then,
having made their obeisance, lead them
to scarlet thrones before the pulpit. The
royal couple seat themselves, and the
National Anthem is played.
The service is short and simple, and,
being over, we are asked to remain in
our places until instructed to go: a piece
of good fortune for us, because, from
our position near the doorway, we are
able to study the people on their way
out.
First of all, Lloyd George, not only the
greatest Welshman, but one of the great-
est of all Englishmen, to-day. His
cheeks white, his eyes black and glitter-
ing: the facial expression of a Druid
who has the welfare of his people at
heart. Sir John Simon, tall, debonair and
handsome, with more the appearance of
a courtier than of a lawyer. Stanley
Baldwin, a sturdy, undistinguished
farmer, with yellow eyebrows. Winston
ChurchiV, chubby and smiling, sur-
rounded by a floating corolla of women.
There being many other ways of exit,
we can’t see everybody; but here comes
our own Bob Menzies, solemn and self-
conscious in his Cabinet Minister’s uni-
form, and behind him Sir Henry Gullett,
beaming for the benefit of his Australian
friends. Last, but not least, Mr. Bruce,
serious and impressive.
I can’t help noticing the Judges’ noses,
professionally big and beaky; and the
men themselves, well-built, as they have
need to be, bearing their enormous wigs
and gowns.
Outside, on the steps, we are penned in
by a semicircular, iron-spiked railing,
with double gates open at the middle,
though at present blocked with people.
Old chaps stamp impatiently; and two
very cunning clergymen have escaped
through a little door into the church
garden between here and the street. We
seek the little door, but the escapees
have locked it behind them.
Back again in the crowd, we say “How
do you do?” to Sir Hal Colebatch ; and
recognise in front of us Sir Dudley de
Chair, looking sprightly in his admiral’s
uniform. To match his color scheme
Lady de Chair wears a blue picture hat
with flowers at one side ; her dress is
of black taffeta inlet with gold and silver
lace.
Gradually people slip into their cars;
and dukes and generals whoop with glee
as they ride off: “and so do their cousins
and their uncles and their aunts.” The
police call Admiral “Bangboo,” and
such an “Aye!” comes in response as
would split the stoutest heart of oak.
Judges who had been talking antici-
patorily of sherry and biscuits hear their
car numbers given, and take up their
robes and walk; but, alas! their ears
have deceived them, and they settle them-
selves once more in a little lane opposite.
A shrimp of a man in velvet Court
dress pipes out “You beauty!” when his
Powdering her nose for the Queen!
Daimler heaves in sight, and the poor
marooned ones give him a send-off. But
the loveliest sight of all is a collection
of ancient generals and admirals in uni-
form, higgledy-piggledy, against the fence
while they watch for their cars. I join
them, and for ray sins have my beautiful
gloves ruined by London soot.
At last, after two and a half hours, we
get out of the gates and make our way
to the end of the street. Here a white
ambulance is drawn up, and one of the
generals is being lifted in, quite limp
under the gold braid and without his
cocked hat.
Our car miraculously appears, so we
hop in. As we drive along people by
the roadside sing out “Hooray!” No
wonder they do it so nicely, after all the
practice they have had.
London.
HUNTLEY MCCRAE.
Parrots.
Parrots are flying and crying in the
hush :
Their colors and their shrillness sweep
veering through the gum-trees.
Green leaves and green birds,
Golden leaves and golden birds,
Crimson leaves and crimson birds;
And there are between fights, mixed,
elusive coloring.
There are clear shrills and vortices of
chorusing,
A screaming of notes and a streaming of
hues.
7 he parrots go crying and flying through
the gums ;
Their colors and shrillness sweep veering
away.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.
A Painter
of Romance
Close on 40
years ago a lad
toiled up the
stairs of the old
Bulletin office
with a pen-draw-
ing. Archibald, in one of his kindliest
moods, did his best to see something
good in it, but without success. “Come
back in two or three years, my boy,” he
said at last, “and then —and then I may
be able to offer you some —some en-
couragement.” The youngster didn’t
realise till years after how small a spot
of commendation he had won, and he
went on working. It was 1906 before
he offered a picture for sale again—an
oil painting. Norman Lindsay, a good
picker of winners, bought it.
John Banks, the subject of these
reminiscences, became a very successful
painter. Nowadays he is in commerce,
but keeps on painting, because he
likes it. For the last five years he
has been hard at work on a collec-
tion of works in color-symphonic form.
Each picture is mainly keyed in a defi-
nite color-range, the gamut sweep-
ing from the quiet and restful to the stir-
ring and passionate. Twenty-one oils
and one water-color, they fill the Rubery
Bennett galleries (Sydney) with romance.
They are impressionist in the way Corot
was impressionist. The basis is correct
enough draughtsmanship, but dutlines
disappear. Color and mass are every-
thing, and the color, however massively
and darkly laid on, remains faintly
luminous. Among the most gorgeous
and striking of these compositions are
“Oriental Phantasy,” “Antiquity” (a
becalmed galleon) and “Manly Sym-
phony.” “Eventide,” the lone water-
color, glows magnificently. Banks is a
painter who preaches beauty in a dis-
tinctive manner.
A. D. W.
Current
Artbursts
Melbourne is
now the venue of
the Loan Collec-
tion of Contem-
porary British
Art, and the pic-
lures are housed in the Latrobe Gal-
lery. Possibly the most striking work
of art of the lot is that achieved
by acting-director Wheeler, who has
contrived to hang the exhibits in such
a way that nothing clashes, nothing
is blanketed, nothing is rendered muddy
by the proximity of brilliant color, no-
thing brilliantly colored is vulgarised by
the proximity of low-toned composi-
tions. The modernists have a corner to
themselves —the Chamber of Horrors, it
is called by the orthodox —but otherwise
there is no further attempt at classifica-
tion than the separation of oil-paintings
from water-colors and the grouping of
etchings and drawings on frames in the
centre of the hall.
Undoubtedly it is an education for
Australians to see the work of the New
Masters —men like Whistler and Orpen
aud Augustus John—and the work of
others whose names are less known here,
and it is a matter for regret that the
representation of such men as Frank
Brangwyn and Russell Flint has been
limited almost to extermination. In
portraiture especially, British art seems
to have attained a remarkable level.
Apart from the pictures by John
and Orpen, Ambrose McEvoy is repre-
sented by several remarkable works, and
A. D. Rutherston by a self-portrait, in
which justice rather than mercy has
been the animating sentiment. Whistler’s
delightful nocturne reveals the value of
simplicity and balance, and William
Nicholson’s “St. John’s College” shows
how a simple piece of architecture can
be made a dream of tone and color
handled by the right man. Charles
Ricketts’s “Crucifixion” strikes a new
note in its handling of the masses and
shadows. Laura Knight’s “Cheyne
Walk” is a dexterous exposition of light
on snow. R. O. Dunlop shows some
clever portrait work with the palette
knife. G. L. Brockhurst’s “Black Shawl”
is an example of careful draftsmanship
and color balance. H. S. Hopwood’s-
“White Bam” is an excellent study in
reflections, and possibly the most arrest-
ing water-color in the show is Sargent’s
“Shipping at Venice.” The exhibition
comprises so little bad art that it is
hardly worth mentioning, though how
the water-colors of W. G. de Glehn
came to be regarded as representative of
British art is one of those things that
no fellow can understand.
S. Aus. Society of Arts awarded the
prize for still-life at its spring show to
Florence Britten, who has since held an
exhibition of her own ; second award to
Bone. The painting-on-china decision
was for a less well-known name —Gwen
Habner.


ft
SSH*
YY -
mm
I
!t!
1
* .
77ie scenic route”
AHJa
UNION
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
217 George St, Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne,
ROYAL MAIL LINES
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
For SPORTING NOTES
TIPS . . .RESULTS
and Turf Gossip from all States
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
23
Gay Burlesque of a Dear Young Thing’s Success:—
CONFESSIONS OF A
FARM GIRL
BY Z.V. WEBB
Drawings
by ARIA.
I DON’T understand how a big, strong
man can’t make a success of farm-
ing. Here am I, Phyllis Foster, a
mere girl, with no experience, and ray
farm is the show place of the district,
while men born and bred on the land
do nothing but moan about their poverty.
It really is a romance. The way 1
came to be a girl-farmer, I mean.
You see, I’d always loved the dear
little fluffy chickens and the woolly lambs
and all that sort of thing. I’d never
done telling how I would just adore to
have a sweet little farm where I could
grow the dear chickens and sweet little
lambs. Everyone said how silly I was
to have such ideas when I had a perfectly
good job selling ribbons in the city.
But what are rolls of pink and blue
and yellow silk and satin when a girl
is pining for the Great Outdoors? I’d
seen on the pictures the perfectly splen-
did countrywomen, riding their horses
and milking satin-coated cows, and so
I decided that I would work my fingers
to the bone to get a farm of my own.
After I’d sacrificed myself for five
whole months, giving up movies and
dancing and even doing without a perm.,
so that my hair was almost as bad as
the girl’s next door —after all that self-
denial I’d only saved two pounds ten.
and, of course, that wouldn’t buy a farm.
1 was almost in despair, but I per-
severed, and in another three months
my wish was realised. I had a farm.
Uncle George Albert died and left it
to me.
Wasn’t that simply gorgeous? Not
about Uncle George Albert dying, poor
dear. But about that lovely farm being
left to me!
I WENT there as soon as things were
fixed up, and everything was just as
I’d wanted. There was a ducky little
house, with nice old-fashioned furniture,
an orchard with lots of apple-trees, some
funny, long-legged calves and six per-
Selling ribbons in the city.
fectly wonderful cows, with such pretty
coats and big velvety eyes like that stun-
ning Spanish actor on the movies.
Of course, I didn’t know how to milk
fhe cows, being just a poor city girl.
Fortunately, however, the young fellow
on the next block —a handsome boy
named Herbert —was only too pleased to
show me. I’m afraid I’m awfully stupid,
but after eighteen months here I still
don’t know how to milk the cows. Her-
bert is very clever, though, and says he
really doesn’t mind, so it’s perfectly all
right, isn’t it?
The orchard was a bit of a problem
at first. Claude, whose farm is on the
other side, told me all about spraying
the trees, but I simply couldn't grasp it.
So Claude came over and did the trees
while I looked on and told him how
clever he was.
Then, before I knew where I was, the
trees were just laden with apples. They
looked so pretty that I just didn't have
the heart to pick them, but Claude said
he'd take them into market with his,
and he told me I was a dear, sentimental
girl, and he’d pick them himself rather
than see them go bad on the trees.
Wasn’t it sweet of him? I couldn’t bear
to see the beautiful trees stripped of their
pretty fruit—it seemed too cruel —so I
just stayed inside and played the piano
while Claude took the fruit,
YES, I’ve got a piano. It’s a dear, old-
fashioned one that belonged to
Uncle George Albert’s mother, and I
often have a bit of a party and invite
the folks over. The dear old ladies are
perfectly sweet, and bring the most
gorgeous cakes for the supper. They’re
awfully proud of their cooking, and, of
course, I’m a terrible duffer for making
cakes, never having had a chance to do
it in the city. They quite understand,
and don’t really mind bringing the
supper, as they like to show off their
baking.
So we have quite a happy evening,
which gives me a chance to repay the
boys for their kindness. I’m afraid I’m
rather lazy the morning after a party,
but, then. I’ve never been used to early
rising, and Herbert doesn’t mind if I’m
not there when he’s milking the cows.
I suppose it would be rather a bother
to get the milk to the station, only it
happens that Roy—a perfect Adonis of
a boy, and I’m sure his hair is naturally
curly, for it’s not a bit like a perm.—
well, as I was saying, Roy takes his milk
to the station, and, as he says, it would
be foolish for me to go to all that trouble
when he’s passing my door with a half-
empty waggon.
Anyhow, I’d never be able to lift those
great, heavy milkcans, so it fits in beau-
tifully for Roy to take in the milk on
his waggon.
The people here are really most awfully
kind. I’m not much use at chopping
wood, and soon after. I came I was trying
to split a log just as the grocer’s delivery
man came to the gate.
I’m afraid I was making an awful
mess of the job, for he just took the axe
out of my hands.
“You’ll be hurting yourself trying to
chop wood like that,” he said. “Let me
show you.”
But I just couldn’t seem to learn. I’m
afraid city life has spoilt me for ener-
getic jobs like cutting wood.
The grocer was very good, though.
He said he’d always be pleased to chop
me a few logs when he called, so that s
a big help to me.
I HAD great fun with my ploughing.
1 I ordered a cute outfit from a city
store, and I must say I looked qui e
smart in my linen blouse, co .^ ur °y
knickers and leather leggings, witft me
jauntiest felt hat turned up at one side
like a Digger’s. . ,
Uncle George Albert had quite a gooc
lot of implements, and I soon picked out
the plough. I found a picture on a bag
of fertiliser, and it gave me a good idea
of how to harness the horse.
A cute outfit.
Well, we got into the paddock, after
ploughing our way from the shed where
i’d had to harness old Dick. It was
rather a pity to make a furrow through
the vegetable garden, but, as I said to
Claude when he happened along later, it
just couldn’t be helped.
I’m afraid Dick didn’t have a very
straight eye, for the first furrow was as
crooked as a sea-serpent. Then I got
a brainwave, and I fixed my eye on a
tall tree in the bush and drove straight
towards it.
We would have managed beautifully,
Dick and I, if only that horrid stump
hadn’t got in the way.
“Let me show you


3 5
3 e
CRUISE to RABAUL
by ORONSAY
IN AUGUST
SAILINGS. FROM:—Fremantle, July 23; Adelaide,
July 27; Melbourne, July 29; Sydney, August 1;
Brisbane, August 4.
Live for a while in the lap of luxury . . . nothing
serious to do . . . everything done for you . . . .
great decks dappled by tropic sunshine and
deep shade . . . one and a half days at Rabau!
. . . Here's rest for you and health!
FARES I From Fremantle, from 40 gns.;
Adelaide, from 35 gns.; Melbourne, from 30 gns.;
Sydney, from 17 gns.; Brisbane, from 19
gns.
Opjint line
CKU I SI NG-
It was then that Claude happened
along. Of course. I’d seen him coming,
but 1 hadn’t let on I’d noticed him, for
I thought I was making such a good im-
pression in my businesslike outfit.
I felt an awful goat to be caught fall-
ing over the plough like that.
“What are you doing, Phyllis?” asked
Claude. That’s the worst of these coun-
try boys. They do ask such foolish
questions. . „
“I’m just practising some gymnastics,
I said. “See if you can do it.”
He laughed, and he really has the most
marvellous teeth, so I forgave him, and
explained my idea of ploughing the field
for a crop of potatoes. It’s such a thrill,
you know, to turn over the spade and
unearth a whole bucketful of potatoes,
just like finding a buried treasure.
Claude thought so, too ; but he was
afraid I hadn’t got quite the right method
of ploughing.
However, he said he wasn’t extra busy
the next day, so he’d be pleased to do
my bit of ploughing.
I thought it was awfully decent of
him, especially as he offered to put in
the manure as well.
He had some left over
from his own potatoes,
so I couldn’t refuse his
kind offer.
I think Herbert was
a bit jealous because
Claude had done so
much, for he insisted
on putting in the pota-
Animal.
toes for me. So I had my crop in with
very little bother. It amuses me the fuss
some people make about setting a simple
crop when it’s such an easy matter.
I FELT quite bucked when I saw the
green shoots coming up, and in no
time there was a field of lovely potato
plants, with dear little white-and-mauve
flowers that looked perfectly sweet. I
was really sorry when the plants began
to wither and only the brown stalks
remained.
Claude and Herbert laughed St me
when I told them it was a shame that
the plants died.
“Where would you get your crop .f
the flowers stayed?” they said.
But men are so horribly mercenary
that it was no use explaining. They
wouldn’t have understood. However,
they were quite decent about the pota-
toes. It appeared that they helped each
other with the digging. First Herbert
helped Claude, then the two dug Her-
bert’s crop. So they said that, while they
were in their stride, they’d both come
over and help me dig mine.
We made a picnic of it. While they
were working I went up to the house,
made a billy of tea, cut some sandwiches
and took the provisions down to a shady
spot under a tree. It was very hot by
the time we’d finished eating, so the boys
said I could rest in the shade while they
dug the remaining crop. I thought it was
awfully nice of them, and, of course,
the sun was very trying, and a girl must
study her complexion.
I did quite well with that crop of pota-
toes. The market just happened to be
right when I sent them away. Roy took
the bags on his milk-waggon, and got
them away without any trouble. 1 was
quite thrilled when the cheque came.
Growing potatoes was so easy that I
wished I’d put in a bigger crop. Claude
and Herbert had been too slow in
getting theirs away, and the price had
fallen when their potatoes reached the
market. I was really sorry for them,
but I thought they were foolish not to
hurry theirs to market as I did. But,
then, you can’t teach these country
people anything. They haven’t the busi-
ness mind of us who were reared in the
city.
I’D been so busy that I’d not had the
time to rear the dear little chickens
that I’d set my heart on, but I’d never
forgotten my ambition, and when I said
I wanted to get some chicks old Mrs.
Barnes from the farm down the road
said she’d lend me a broody hen. I
thought it was awfully good of her. Then
old Mr. Simpson from the farm on the
hill gave me a setting of eggs.
Claude showed me how to make a nest
with a box and some straw he gave me,
and we settled the hen on the eggs, put
a tin of water beside her and left her.
I kept all the tastiest morsels from the
table for the hen, and three weeks later
I was the owner of eight dear wee
chickens. I don’t know who was the
prouder, me or the hen. It seemed too
cruel to take the chickens from the only
mother they knew, but as soon as they
could scratch for themselves I took the
hen back to Mrs. Barnes.
Then I felt that the chickens really be-
longed to me. It was thrilling. Here
were eight young lives in my care. Only
for me those dear wee chicks would
have been eggs on somebody’s breakfast-
table. I wondered how anyone could
be so cruel as to deprive those sweet,
fluffy birds of life. It was enough to
make me swear off eggs for ever.
J watched the chickens grow, and cal-
culated how my birds would accumu-
late. In six months’ time, Claude said,
a hen should lay. If I set the eggs, I’d
have another eight batches of chickens.
If I got eight out of each’ clutch,
I’d have sixty-four new chickens. In
another six months, when they laid, I’d
have eight times sixty-four chicks.
I saw myself the proud owner of more
chicks than I’d ever seen before in my
life.
It was Herbert who disillusioned me,
and he did it with tears in his eyes.
“Phyllis,” said he, “I hate to tell you,
but your chicks are all roosters.”
I bore up bravely under the blow, but
I offered no objection when he suggested
sending the young roosters off to market.
I could not bear to see them go, so
Herbert nailed them up in a box, drove
them in to the saleyard and disposed
of them. I fear they came to a sticky
end. The thought made me sad, but I
was somewhat cheered when a cheque
came from the auctioneer.
It seemed an easy way of making
money, and I was almost tempted to try
again, but Mrs. Barnes did not have an-
other broody hen to spare. I suspect
that she had heard of my success and
was trying my plan herself. Sometimes
these country people can be quite cun-
ning. Still, she had been generous in
lending me the hen, so I really did not
mind her picking my brains.
AT times I can hardly believe that I’m
the same girl who was selling rib-
bons in the city so short a time ago. On
several occasions I have invited my girl
friends from the store to pay me a visit.
Of course, they understand what a busy
woman 1 am, but I can spare an occa-
sional week-end from my labors so that
I am free to entertain them.
They think the farm is perfectly won-
derful, and they can’t conceive how L
have accomplished such heavy work as
farming; but I tell them that my busi-
ness training has enabled me to use the
best methods of running a farm.
It certainly gives me great satisfaction
to realise that after only eighteen months
of running the farm I am in a better posi-
tion than any of my neighbors.
My house is newly-painted, and is the
brightest in the district. It cost very
little for paint, and the boys around here
held a working-bee to help me paint it.
Such fun we had! Of course, I wouldn't
keep all the amusement to myself, so 1
let any of the ladies who liked join in.
The womenfolk didn’t do any of the
painting, of course, but they provided
refreshments for the workers. I was so
busy arranging the provisions they
brought and putting them on my pretty
china to serve the workers that I didn’t
have time to do any painting myself.
But, as everyone said, nobody can be in
two places at once.
Then as to my land, it’s lying idle at
present awaiting the young lambs that
Claude is going to choose for me to eat
up the young grass that is growing where
the potatoes were dug. I’ve always
longed to own some dear little woolly
lambs, and soon my ambition will be
realised.
Claude thinks he can get some cheap
young lambs, and I’ll just have to sit
back and watch them grow into sheep.
I suppose I’ll get so attached to the dear
things that I’ll hate to part with them.
Still, one must make a profit, and, any-
how, sheep look so much alike that one
can’t grow too fond of any particular
animal.
And see what fun I’ll have gathering
mushrooms in the autumn! Mushrooms
always grow where sheep have been, they
say.
Then the cows are still milking and
the calves are growing so fast that I
hardly know mothers from daughters.
Quite the modern trencj, even in the
animal kingdom.
I haven’t bothered much with the
vegetable garden, for I use so little that
I’m well supplied with what the neigh-
bors give me. It really wasn’t worth my
while to grow any for myself. And,
anyhow, digging in the garden is much
“Your chicks are all roosters.”
100 hard for a girl who did nothing in
the city but sell ribbons.
SO, on the whole, I think I’ve done
very well on the farm.
I’ve had to work, of course, but I've
used my brains in running the place in
a methodical manner.
I have the best little property in the
district, added to which 1 have eight
hundred pounds in the bank.
So no wonder I can afford to smile
at the country-born farmers who com-
plain that they can’t make a living on
the land. They should take me as an
example of what can be done when
brains are allied to industry.
Of course, 1 don’t take all the credit
to myself. I’d never be in my fortunate
position if Uncle George Albert hadn’t
left me the farm —that and the sum of
a thousand pounds in the bank.
Still, I’ve proved what a girl can do
when she sets her mind upon it.


ri
BACKACHE
WHY ENDURE THIS AGONY WHEN A SURE,
SIMPLE AND SAFE REMEDY IS AT HAND
When yon reach the stage where pain compels
you to say “ I must get rid of this backache I ”
you will commence taking De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and then, in a yery short time, your
pain will disappear.
Naturally it would be better if you took De Witt’s
Pills as soon as
THE FIRST STAB OF PAIN
came to warn you, but many people make the same
mistake. They do not realise the serious nature of
Backache and so they wait, hoping the pain will
go away, or try various methods of treatment
which may give temporary relief. This cannot go
on for long. Soon the time comes when backache
compels you to neglect or give up your work. Life
is a mockery when you are always in pain, but
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will drive the
pain away and they will also protect you against
future attacks.
Read how successful De Witt’s Pills proved in
Mrs. Edmiston’s case and perhaps her experience
will persuade you to give them a trial.
Writing from “Gwen Villa,” William Street,
South Brisbane, Mrs. A. Edmiston says
“ I used to suffer terribly with backache and,
although I tried one thing after another, I
could not get lasting relief. The pain got
worse and worse until a friend induced me to
try De IVitfs Kidney and Bladder Pills. These
gave me ease at once. A nyone who has suffered
as I have will understand how grateful lam.”
A point you will appreciate about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills is the fact that they give
almost instant relief. You may have endured agony
all day and you feel that unless you get rid of the
pain you will not be able to endure another day.
Put your faith in De Witt’s Pills, They will not
fail you. Get a box from the chemists to-day, price
3/6 and 6/6. Sold only in the white, blue and gold
boxes. Take two just before you go to bed and in
the morning your pain will be gone.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills discolouration of the urine will prove
that they have commenced their good work. You
will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients of De Witt’s Pills
have passed through your kidneys and your bladder.
No other medicine furnishes proof like this, and
once you have tried them your one regret will be
that you did not do so before. Take De Witt’s
Pills for Scalding Pains, Gravel, Stone , Painful
Joints, Stiffness, Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica. Give them to children subject
to Bed-wetting, and to aged persons afflicted by
Urinary Disorders, and in every case they will
give prompt relief. Many thousands of suffering
men, women and children m all parts
of the world have already proved
this, but the best proof of all can
can be obtained by a
personal trial in your
own case.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
to
RIC.ACID
Light, but Cutting Character Sketching:-
A FRIEND
OF THE FAMILY
BY HERVYN SKIPPER.
A PARTY on a moonlit evening on
a rocky coast.
Arthur, a boy of eight, chubby,
with a bullet head and thin legs, has been
told to go away, not to make a nuisance
of himself
He walks towards the water, and is
told to come away, not to go too near.
He comes back, stands thinking for a
moment, and then goes off towards the
right, creeping carefully round the rocks,
for the shadows are sharp and black,
and there are pools behind the rocks
which look like shadows too.
He is told to come back, not to go
too far. He returns, and, lost in thought,
squats on his heels beside the granite
boulder at the base of which the party
slts
The party consists of his father and
his mother, his brother and his two
sisters, and their friends, Mr. and Mrs.
Tidier and the Fidlers’ two grown-up
sons. The two families have rented
adjacent cottages for the Christmas holi-
days, and have come down to spend the
first evening looking at the waves.
Arthur’s father and Mr. Tidier are talk-
ing about buying blocks of land. His
mother and Mrs. Tidier are talking about
clothes. His brother, his two sisters and
the Tidier young men are talking about
books. None of these subjects interests
Arthur at all.
He soon gets tired of sitting still, and,
trying not to make a noise, cautiously
proceeds to climb a path which leads to
the summit of the rock. At length he
reaches the top, and, going to the middle
of the boulder, stands with his legs wide
apart, as if he were on the deck of a
tossing ship, and stares at the sea. The
air is perfectly still; there is no wind at
all ; yet out of the bluey-blackness in
front of him enormous waves come
hurrying incessantly. To Arthur they
seem to be swinging carelessly along, as
if didn’t mind where they went or
what happened to them on the way; and
he feels powerful, as if he, too, were
swinging carelessly along, not caring
w h^ re he was going to.
Each wave first shows itself as a faint
ghmmer of light high above where you
e *P® ct to he. It rises rises,
and the light becomes brighter; and then
suddenly the wave itself can be per-
ceived. It grows and grows, curves and
begins to break; and then it comes
tumbling and roaring down in foam It
suddenly disappears, as it something has
wiped it out. But a tew seconds latei
there is a loud explosion which shakes
f be boulder under Arthurs feet, and a
fountain ° sp u r - a Y sb oots into the an.
The rock on which the wave has crashed
* s instantly covered with swiftly-flying
bn S ers °.t foam, and fingers of loam rush
U P crevices everywhere, Then the sea
sucks its wave back and another lakes
lts P* ace -
It is as if the sea were humping its
back and pushing against the land lor
fun, and both land and sea seem to en-
joy the joke, for all the time, besides
the explosions, there are comic little
plops that are not at all dignified, and
a sizzling, as of fat boiling on a fire.
A RTHUR tries to count the waves. His
*»- father has told him that the sixth
wave is always the biggest, but he keeps
getting confused and losing count, and
when he thinks he has counted six he is
disappointed because the wave seems, not
bigger, but smaller, than the rest; and
he starts counting again in order to prove
his father right.
He grows tired of this, and starts try-
ing to measure the height of the foam-
bursts with his eye, keeping his gaze
fixed on the point which the last one
reached. Then he thinks of ships being
wrecked and of sailors and passengers
trying to swim ashore, and, folding his
arms across his chest, he fancies himself
with a rope round his waist, plunging
into the waves and fetching the women
and children to land, and being thanked
by someone for his heroism.
Of this, too, he grows tired, and,
gathering a handful of pebbles, he com-
mences throwing them down smartly one
by one on the rock at his feet, so that
they bounce off into space, and he listens
for the plop of the pebbles falling into
the water ; but there is too much other
noise. At last, tiring of this game, he
throws down a pebble, saying to himself
that this will be the last.
Tor some reason or other, instead of
bouncing like the rest, it shoots forward
a few feet and then rolls slowly over the
surface of the boulder. Arthur watches
it roll on, hesitate and finally, as it
reaches the sloping edge, quicken its pace
and disappear. The next moment he
hears a shrill scream and the voice of
Mrs. Tidier cry:
“I’m killed! I’m killed!”
He hears his father say: “Oh. Mrs.
Tidier, I hope not,” and his mother says:
“Oh, dear, how dreadful!” and then Mr.
Fidler’s voice chips in asking Mrs. Tidier
where it hurts the most; and then he
hears his elder sister say; “It’s that boy
again; he’s on top of the rock.” Then
he hears his brother say: “Wait a bit.
I’ll fetch him!”
BLIND panic seizes Arthur. He turns
and flees as if ten thousand devils
were after him. He climbs over a ledge
and falls into a prickly bush. He picks
himself up and, seeing a path, starts
scrambling up. and soon emerges on the
top of the cliff.
Stumbling and falling, he runs away
to the left, but the flat surface of the
cliff is covered with stiff tufts of grass,
and he keeps turning round and round
in his flight. Something jumps up from
under his feet and runs off with a
frightened squawk, but whether it is a
bird or an animal he does not know,
Once more he finds himself at the edge
of the cliff. He doubles back, scaring
away more sleeping birds or animals,
and comes upon a fence. He crawls
through the fence and sees the road. He
starts to run along it, taking his breaths
in gulps and hearing his heart beating
against his ribs. The road mounts
steeply to the top of a hill and turns to
the right, and he comes suddenly upon
the house. He runs in through the gate,
goes to his room, takes off his clothes,
puts on his pyjamas, gets into bed and
buries his burning face in the pillow.-
. , , , , . f •.
T'EN minutes later he hears his a y
* return. His mother comes in, t
herself on his bed and bursts m o eais.
He has never heard his mother c y
before. The sound terrifies him. e
knows now he has done something tea y
terrible, but he is afraid to ask wna i
is- He turns on his side away from his
mother and stares at the window, won-
dering if it would be better if he crie
to °- He hears his father come into the
room. ,
His father goes over, pats his mothei s
shoulder and says in a mild voice:
“Don’t worry, little woman, i don
believe it hurt her a bit. She is just
making a song and dance for the love
°f it, a nd 1 don’t think for a moment
she’ll go home it’s just her bluff,
But his mother refuses to be com-
forted.
“It’s not that,” she sobs. “We were
getting on so well. She was the best
friend I’ve ever had. Now she wont
speak to me again for another six
months.” ,
“Rubbish! ’ says his father, still in
the same cajoling voice. Shell get
over it as she did before, don t you tret,
I m going fishing with Tidier to-morrow,
and she’ll be round for morning-tea as
sure as a die.”
His father goes away and his brother
comes into the room,
“Mater,” he says, “don’t be an ass.
The woman isn’t dead. I don’t believe
the thing even touched her skull. It
probably stuck in her hair. She’s just
hysterical, that’s all. Come and have
a cup of tea.”
Then he looks at the back of Arthur’s
head and says in a stern voice:
“I’ve always told you the young idiot
wants more discipline.”
Arthur’s mother dries her tears, gets
up and looks at her son timidly as if
she wanted to say something, then sighs
and leaves the room,
A RTHUR lies thinking of Mrs. Tidier,
She is tall and fat, and has a nose
like a cockatoo’s and a domineering


*ATooitoie
of Im|Portiftimce
those
from ojehinq
(utieura
OINTMENT
hot, tired, aching, burn-
ing feet, a light application of
Cntlcnra Ointment, gen-
tly rubbed in, after bathing
the feet in a suds of warm
water andCntlcnra Soap,
relieves the tired muscles,
soothes the skin and gives
comfort and rest. Cntfcnra
Talcum, dusted on the feet
[or in the shoes, is cooling
and refreshing.
Xi' OWUICL
To€ f £«f £CT
STOCK W+n-P-
-il
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
There are no better Whips than these;
the /.air core gives them that “wonder-
ful feel” and the inner plaited all-
kangaroo belly gives long life.
No. 10 K’BURKA WHIP with 10 plait
handle and Bft., 12-plait thong, 41/6.
Postage N.S.W., 1/-.
Prices of our full range of Stockwhips
ranging from 8/- are in our Catalogue
No. 8338, as well as 70 Saddles to choose
from.
AND CASES
HOUND OB OVAL,. Quart size 9/9 and
FLAT BACK 10/6, with case.
Postage 1/- N.S.W.
No. 15 SADDLE POUCH, 6/9; Large, 7/9.
Postage 1/-.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
wp^i
H
" 0 Her
%
m
m
HJHCfIT
IT is a far cry from the days when James Ruse
“ sowed the first graines ” on his little grant at
Rose Hill (Parramatta). To-day more than four
million acres in New South Wales are under wheat,
and a rise or fall of only a penny a bushel in the value
of the harvest makes a difference of a quarter of a
million pounds to the State’s income. Wheat farming
demands experience, forethought'and tenacity. The
land must be cleared, ploughed, cultivated and sown.
Several months must elapse before the verdant carpet
of young shoots grows to acres of gently-waving
wheat—before the active, noisy harvester succeeds
the steady plough. And varying periods elapse before
the golden grain leaves the silos for the markets of
the World.
Meantime, the farmer needs financing . . .
He needs assistance such as that provided by the Rural
Bank which depends on its own resources, accepts
Fixed Deposits, opens current accounts for all reputable
persons, companies, or firms . . . and affords most
sympathetic treatment to all its borrowers.
Crural bank
r\
tmt
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH ; 3SO GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C R. McKERIHAN (President). H ROGERS. P. KEARNS
This is the second of six advertisements on Primary
Industries in N.S.W. illustrated by Quinton IJatts
voice. He wonders, since she is his
mother’s friend, why his mother is so
frightened of her, why embody j
(lightened of er,
who is over six feet tall has a moustache
and is a leading footballer, and w one
night when they were at the Fidlers lot
tea, was ordered on to bed by Mrs.
Fidler and went like a child, without
saying a word. _
“One has to be firm with children,
Mrs. Fidler said.
Even Arthur’s father, who lectures in
great halls to hundreds of people at a
time and never hesitates for a second,
and even when people shout out ques-
lions answers them back as quick as a
flash and with a contemptuous smile on
his face—even his father doesn’t attempt
to argue with Mrs. Fidler. He simply
laughs and says: “You’re always right,
Mrs. Fidler; you’re always right!”
He remembers that his mother once
told him that Mrs. Fidler was very deli-
cate and had fits, and that he must be
careful to behave himself and not to
annoy her when she was in the house,
So he would try to be as quiet as a
mouse. But it was very hard not to
annoy Mrs. Fidler. Everything in their
house seemed to upset her, even the fur-
niture and the knick-knacks in the
drawing-room. “One never sees pink
nowadays,” she would say, wrinkling her
nose at the curtains ; and in a few days
the pink curtains would disappear. She
didn’t like the way his mother always
had to go round cleaning up after his
father, who left cigar ash about. She
thought his sisters were idle, and didn’t
help their mother enough and gadded
about with young men too much. She
thought that his brother was too fond
of going out at night, and said that if
One had a son like Arthur One would
bring him up quite differently. So when
Mrs. Fidler was in the house nothing
that Arthur did seemed to please his
mother, and she would speak to him in
a cold, complaining voice, a voice which
she never used when Mrs. Fidler wasn’t
there.
He remembers the last time Mrs. Fidler
was offended, when his father didn’t send
her free tickets for his lecture, but gave
them to someone else. She hadn’t
spoken to his mother for six months
after that, and it was very painful for
his mother, because they were always
meeting in other people’s drawing-rooms,
and Mrs. Fidler would speak to her
hostess as if his mother didn’t exist.
He remembers how the breach had been
healed by the lady next door, who
arranged that they should meet in her
house, and how Mrs. Fidler, after she:
had told his mother that One does not
expect One’s friends to insult One, had
forgiven his mother, and how pleased
his mother was, as if she had won a
great victory.
ARTHUR hears supper being prepared,:
and soon he hears the family going
to bed. The fact that he is not going to
have any supper makes him realise the
extent of the injury that has been done
to Mrs. Fidler.
He is wondering what sort of injury
it can be, since, apparently, she hasn’t
been hurt, when his elder sister comes
in in her nightdress and lies down on his
bed. She strokes his hair and tells him
not to worry, he didn’t know any better
and she is sure he didn’t mean to do it;
and then she tells him one of the long
fairy stories she is so good at inventing
out of her head.
Arthur would like to ask his sister why
they are all so terrified of Mrs. Fidler,
and who One is, and why One doesn’t
like pink curtains. He would like to ask :
her how he ought to behave so that One
will be pleased with him ; but, not know-
ing how to put these questions into;
words, he begins listening to the fairy
story.
His sister is describing the fairy palace !
in which the fairy princess has been)
waiting for the fairy prince to wake
her for seven years, when Arthur falls
asleep, and dreams that One has buried
him in the earth up to his waist, and that
Mrs. Fidler is trying to roll the fair}
palace on top of him.
A Yarn of the Sailing-ship Men
"CABLE THE OWNERS."
BY CAPTAIN JACK HAMILTON.
FRENCHY was the only member of
the crew with any claim to foreign
extraction when the barque Cedar-
brae tied up at Newcastle Dyke after
making her record passage from Peru.
Had big John Branch, the mate, had his
way the wizened wizard of the palm and
needle, dexterous and diligent as he was,
would not have dared set foot on the
vessel, let alone taken charge of her sail-
locker.
The mate was famed as a stickler for
men of his own race as shipmates. When
they happened to be unavailable he in-
variably sought out Dutchmen —that
sweeping colloquialism of the wide waters
embracing most of the Nordic race and
bringing them under the category of
Squareheads, whether they were Norse,
Dutch, Swedish, German or Danish. On
the walls of his cabin two elaborate
slogans, carved and embellished by his
own hands, stood out prominently. One
declared: “The Nordic race' shall one
day rule the world.” The other, in
bolder lettering, advised anyone entering
the cabin to “Fear God and Hate All
Frenchmen Like the Devil!” This was
reputed to be a family motto handed
down from forebears who fell fighting
against Napoleon ; a home truth or legend
which served as sufficient explanation for
his preference, on one occasion when
square-rigged sailors were scarce, for a
Greek, an Italian and a nigger over a
mature matelot hailing from Marseilles.
If any Frenchman required further
evidence of the reception he would be
accorded on applying for a berth in the
forecastle of the Cedarbrae, he could
have learned it without difficulty along
the waterfronts of Sydney, Newcastle,
London and the nitrate ports of the West
Coast of South America, which consti-
tuted the long triangle, usually traversed
by the vessel throughout her career.
There, in the vernacular of the waterside,
any impossibility or apparently hopeless
situation was apt to be compared with
a “Froggie’s chance of getting signed on
by Johnny Branch.”
Naturally Frenchy had not been the
mate’s choice.
IHHEN Captain Julian Betts-Edgar had
” taken over the Cedarbrae early in
the year, the sailmaksr had come along
with him. The advent of both had re-
volted Branch. With 10 years’ service as
mate without a blemish to his credit he
felt hard done by to be superseded for
the captaincy when the vacancy occurred,
to say nothing of the unsolicited viola-
tion of his exclusive right of crew selec-
tion, a prerogative previously undisputed
or unquestioned since he joined the ship.
Unfortunately for himself, John
Branch, in the eyes of the owners, was a
good mate but a bad skipper. Why the
bad skipper in his case was difficult to
define, since he had never had a com-
mand to prove his worth or otherwise.
But there the stigma was, harsh, heart-
breaking and apparently immovable.
Officially, of course, he had not been
informed of this bigoted bias of the
owners, though hints often had been
dropped accidentally, and twice at least
he had been provided with substantial
evidence of it. Once, four years back,
when they placed a skipper from a rival
company with less seagoing experience
over his head; and, again, when they
rubbed salt into the wound of that insult
by sending Captain Julian Betts-Edgar
aboard to patrol the poop of the well-
cared-for Cedarbrae, direct, except for
a long idle spell on dry land, from the
bridge of a palatial passenger liner.
When this last bitter indignity was
inflicted he packed his bag and sea-
chest in high dudgeon, wrote out a
laborious effusion by way of a resigna-
tion and was preparing to go ashore to
post it when the steward announced that
the captain would like to see him when
he was free.
The temptation to enter the saloon
and punch the new skipper into incapa-
bility of any command fired his fevered
brain. He moved a step. The flunkey
fled through the doorway at the break
of the poop, helter-skelter along the
deck as far as he could go, to cower
shivering under the dark depths of the
forecastle-head.
Branch pondered over the vanished
figure. Why had he made off like that,
the runt?
He gazed around his apartment. It
wasn’t much in area or affluence. Only
a bunk, a settee, a chest of drawers and
a single diminutive porthole. With pic
tures and decorations down and the
{Continued on next page.)


“THEAGE'
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which) day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street;
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
* through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address; “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
, Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office; Newspaper House. Collins
Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com*
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly, study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE;
"The Dominion" Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative;
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 84038.
FORTy-ffX
A xovtt ■
PRICE 67-
Plus 3d. Postage.
A MODERN NOVEL OF AUSTRALIAN CITY LIFE
FORTY-SIX
By STEWART HOWARD.
All Booksellers, or from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Iliis very modern novel of city life is set in Sydney at
the present it states the problem of a normal, active,
virile man whose amatory excursions catch him enmeshed
in a closing net of feminine possessiveness. Three women
his wife, his mistress and a new flame—have. their
hands to the net; the problem of Dick Westring is how
he might cut the painter and escape.
The author is a young writer who has seen this aspect, oi
modern Sydney life. Its hectic atmosphere, cocktail
parties, promiscuous amorousness, are as actual and true
to life as that sunlit scene of its near coast which trhakes
a moderating splash of. beauty . in the novel’s texture.
eŕ
bookcase empty it looked singularly for-
lorn. Its bareness struck him ; smote him
hard somewhere beneath the belt, deep
down under the skin. His little cabin . . .
no, it wasn’t much. But for ten years he
had called it home.
From his pocket he took the letter
over which he had spent hours of indig-
nant endeavor and tore it into fragments.
He gave the dock porter waiting on his
luggage a florin and told him to make
himself scarce. Then, perfectly steady,
he entered the saloon.
JOHN BRANCH had confronted his
new master soon after seven o’clock.
Midnight eight bells were struck by the
sleepy watchmen before their conference
closed, when the mate returned to his
room pleased but utterly bewildered as a
result of the interview.
Captain Julian Betts-Edgar had placed
all his cards on the table. And what
astonishing cards they were!
As the mate lay in his bunk snatches
of their strange conversation kept re-
curring.
“Only a tinpot bit of a place ... had
to stop there because the river was
blocked with ice. Nothing there but a
mill, a few Frenchies and Maideau—the
loveliest creature into whom God ever
put breath”....
Captain Betts-Edgar was on his maiden
voyage as a liner commander then. She
was the only -child of a widower ex-
sailor millhand born in the place and
poor as a church mouse. He couldn’t
speak a word of her language, nor she
his ; but that did not prevent them from
falling in love at sight or reaching a
serious understanding before the liner
left.
At the mail boat’s terminal port Cap-
tain Betts-Edgar had received two letters
apart from business communications. The
first, in Maideau’s writing, he subse-
quently translated through a dictionary.
She spoke of her affection for him in
those glowing terms of endearment which
seem to slip so naturally from the Gallic
tongue, and wound up the long epistle
with a reminder of their agreement to
look after her father . . . all she had,
except him.
The second letter had stunned him.
It was written less than a week later by
her father, who had picked up English
of a sort as a seafarer; a pathetic docu-
ment portraying in broken sentences the
picture of his daughter losing her life
when rescuing him from the burnt-out
mill.
Betts-Edgar had gone berserk then.
Drink undermined a constitution never
too robust. His post was only held
through the influence of relatives of sub-
stance. They had large vested interests
in shipping—still had, in point of fact.
Still, even they could merely postpone
his dismissal when whispers reached the
insurers, who were not long in demand-
ing it. They were opposed to his appoint-
ment to the Cedarbrae, too, but agreed
to accept the risk at a higher premium
on being informed by the management
that the ship possessed as good a mate
as could be found in harness on the high
seas. A mate who was down on booze,
who kept his ship spick and span, who
inspired the respect of his crew with or
without the aid of force as occasion de-
manded, one not calculated to bear re-
sentment against a strange master —in
short, a man whose only fault was a
lack of that little indefinable something
that made him, in their eyes, a good mate
but a bad skipper.
“Aye, Branch, they told me of your
qualities. You were the one , man and
this was the one ship on which my moral
salvation could be worked out. Strange
job for a mate, eh, keeping your skipper
out of the gutter when you ought to be
commanding the ship yourself?”
Then the skipper again:
“I know of your aversion to the
French. Trade should follow the flag
and nationality the trade, I suppose,
Branch, but I must ask you for this one i
voyage at least to withhold your usual ,
veto and sign on the sailmaker I brought I
with me. Despite my limited square-
rigged knowledge I can vouch for him. j
He knows every trick of the trade.
Served in some of the finest ships afloat,
before I got him a berth.
“I knew you would not take kindly to |
him. The owners warned me. But—
well, he is Maideau’s father.”
RELATIVES of Captain Julian Betts-!
Edgar and the owners of the Cedar-!
brae soon prided themselves that; their'
humane conspiracy had borne even]
better results than could have j been
hoped for. The ship under his com-
mand was making passages she : had 1
never approached before. Her time outi
to Sydney—eighty days—would not have !
disgraced a crack clipper in her prime.
Across to the West Coast at several
stages she appeared to have a lien on the
record of twenty-nine days thirteen hours
accomplished by the Wendur in ’96, with i
the Loch Torridon only thirteen hours
behind her. As they went to Valparaiso,'
and the Cedarbrae muefi* further north
to Iquique, her passage of thirty-six
days lost little by comparison. Now she
was back in Newcastle, after discharging
her guano freight, with further laurels to
her honor, loading a coal cargo for 1
God-knows-where.
Her sailing orders had yet to be trans-
mitted across the world, as' her, destina-
tion had riot been decided upon by the
London syndicate operating the coal ex-
port drive from Australia.
Branch considered he had been well
rewarded. Whatever others might think
he knew now that the good-mate-and-
bad-skipper reputation which had been!
wished on him was a libel. And he had
achieved success in the other' important |
mission he had set himself—salvaging
what was left of the skipper s manhood.
Temporarily, at any rate.
He attributed the convert’s collapse at
the Piscardores Islands, when the ship
was loading guano, to injured pride.
“A hell of a flop, Branch, old man,
from a liner’s bridge to a limejuicer
carrying that muck,” he had remarked,
half jovially, half regretfully, shortly
before.
But another collapse a few days’ sail
from Newcastle opened his eyes to the
plain fact that Bates-Edgar was on the
down-grade to death.
The last time Branch saw him alive he
shook him by the hand and informed him
that he had written the owners explaining
in full all the mate had done for him and
them.
“You can take your ship now, Branch,
old man. You are her rightful skipper,
and may you have as much success with
your first official command as you did
on your unofficial ones. For confirma-
tion cable the owners” ——
Captain Betts-Edgar relapsed suddenly.
A few hours later he was dead.
ii GABLE the owners.” L
Branch muttered thee skipper’s
words on his way to the shipping office
to place his name on the Cedarbrae’s
register as master, pending orders'from
the owners about the'captaincy.
The transfer effected, Captain John
Branch rather surprised the agent with
his brusque reply! -- >' ■ • ’
“No, f you needn’t bother about com-
municating with London. I’ll do all
that’s necessary.” ‘ And, once ,the agent
was out of earshot:/ “Cable the owners,
be damned. I’ll write them. .Cheaper
for them and safer for me. They might
get another attack of their good-mate-
and-bad-skipper fetish. Familiarity breeds
contempt ; among shipowners; with ; a
vengeance, so I’m not giving them; the
chance of beating me out of my" com-
mand before this passage begins, what-
ever they, do at the end of it. The
skipper handed her over to me, so I’m
acting within my rights.” " J
Having quieted by this - soliloquy
whatever qualms of conscience were
pricking him, he sat down and penned a
guarded letter to London. By the time
he dispatched it the ship was loaded, and
ready for sea, but an unexpected delay
in the sailing orders from Britain held
her up. -
The detention irritated Captain Branch.
Every hour spent in port gave the owners
time to appoint a master over his head.'
When the overdue cable did arrive, how-
ever, instead of clearing the situation, it
clouded it. It was: c ’ '/
“Proceed direct to Matane for. orders!”
A simple enough instruction on appear-
ance. .The snag was that Captain Branch
had'not the remotest idea of the where-
abouts of Matane!
He scanned his navigation epitome
and chart index, but the nearest they
could give him to the prescribed destina-
tion was Manta in Ecuador, Mantua
in Italy, Maturin in Venezuela ana
Matapan in Greece, none of which hlled
the bill.
Ashore he applied for a repetition of
the message in case a word had been mis-
spelt. It came back unchanged. The
chart-sellers and the geographical
gazetteer in the public library failed to
enlighten him. So did the windjammer
and tramp-steamer skippers, probed dis-
creetly as a last resource at the ship-
chandler’s.
All the way back to the waterfront he
reviled his luck. As he passed the Short-
lands Hotel he noted that the wind was
blowing fresh off the land. A fair slant
to anywhere, and he could not take ad-
vantage of it! No, the cat would have
to come out of the bag now. Couldn’t
leave port all dressed up and nowhere
to go. There was no way out of cabling
the owners and asking them where in
the name of hell Matane was.
He could. visualise the face of the
cynical manager and in fancy overhear
his caustic comment when the cable
reached him:-
“A good mate, but too backward in
' geography. for a command. ’ ’
Anything to cruel him.
Such thoughts were running riot in his
mind when he boarded to prepare the
.damning cable ; for dispatch. In the cir-
cumstances the sailmaker could be ex-
cused for shuddering when the bulk of
;John Branch threw a sinister shadow
across • the canvas he was'sewing under
the break of the poop. It was the first
time in tfieir association that he had con-
descended to pause for reflection of him
or >his work, and in addition to the for-
bidding > attitude of the dour giant there
was hard, cold glint in his eyes calcu-
lated-to .strike terror into the heart of
'the most dauntless.
Frenchy-shivered on his bench. The
fingers-clutching palm and needle numbed
before that stare of steel, which seemed
to go clean through him. When at
length the man of few words spoke, can-
vas dropped from an inert hand and he
shuddered.
“Don’t sit shivering there,” Branch
shouted. “I wouldn’t lift my hand to
you foreign croaker.”
Frenchy found enough faint courage
■ to fie tort :
“I not foreigner, Mister Piloto-capitan.
I Breeteesh-from leedle place on ze Saint
Lawrence Reever, what you call French-
Canadien. Gomprez, sir?”
Branch smiled sardonically. The
anomaly aggravated rather than assuaged
his mood.:
“You British —bah!” he returned con-
temptuously. “Where the hell did they
breed a noble Britisher like you, you
dried-up Frog! Where, eh?”
Frenchy trembled it out: “In Matane,
sir.”


f
HhmmatUm
e
r
m
j
o
27 PILLS, 1/9.
60 PILLS, 2/9.
GIN PILLS
MAKE WEAK BACKS STRONG.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Ji
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS .
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/ r.)
V A o
O' n v e
■v \P
c°-
ja 7>; -
■?> 0 «»W
<&
X
0
%v
o
**%<«! °\~r./-&
rS>
s®:c*
:
«5
I'P
V*
*v
w 6
\s s
tT
v C W «f
A se^'^V,V
■ .‘S e ' N
.-*’ v° e
’<*


TAS
i, rim
W ' , ft
I ilPf
fell
P!fc»
#
’tAf*
■•f'- .\ ■■■.;;
1 A. |
' dpy£
f '<■ ■
01 A i
V®»*SWs«pf*S»iW
j.V ' >5, * <?„ I
&S- '.*,!£&
if: «;'
SL •
&E / k
IHB • if,
. ' '
WgmSmm
I
a spell, Not mere
|D EAUTy that calls a halt . . . bea
prettiness or superficial charrrif bA^fautwiich endures! Because
TASMA Receivers have brought ashew beau of tone to radio, It
is fitting that they should be Jtoused to fascffilte eye os well as ear.
To artists of faultless taste anl wide TASMA entrusted the
designing of cabinets for its new series of Reivers ... and to skilled
painstaking craftsmen was given the task of building these cabinets
from the most beautiful of selected timbers
m '&f'
:
% | ; a
: | sp&?*£s
A*'*. M,
LrA". ’ I $
r f
' i'
■‘K
VMiii
(Illustrated above.)
e
UaJma
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH . LTD., 5S
rices quoted are fdr N.S.W. only, and are
subject to slight variation in other States,
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
Dowlin* Street, East Sydney.
MODEL. 185.—A11-wave Superhetero-
dyne, Carlyle piano-finished Cabinet,
has 7 latest-type valves, and receives
overseas and local stations. With Auto-
matic Volume Control, which practically
eliminates fading. The outstanding All-
wave Set of the year ...,., . £36/19/6
In De Luxe Cabinet £39/17/6
N.S.W. COUNTRY
jdisthXb mans.
ERIC GUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative.
C. R, DONNELLY, 45 Cathcaxt Street,
Lismore.
NQftheim ftep'ves dilutive
QUEENSLAND:
O. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at Rockhampton, Cairns,
Maekay, Townsville.
ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD.,
Ruthven Street. Toowoomba.
INTEH ST A TE DISTRIBUTORS .
VICTORIA;
WARBURTON FRANKI (MELB.).
LTD,, 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 507 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
NOYES BROS. (MELBO PTY.,
LTD., 89 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MILLER ANDERSON, LTD..
Bindley Street, Adelaide.
CHARLES BIRRS CO., LTD.,
Bundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA;
UNjBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, W.A.,
LTD, 381 Alurray Street, Perth.
THOMSONS. LTD., 674 Hay Street,
Perth.
Also at Fremantle; Narrogin and
Bunbury.
