

¥a
m
m
%
'A/ V
m
K
a
w
i
a
b
r/i
f
i
A
i
V
*J
N
PROTECTION
Through centuries, with the inherent
instinct of his race, Man has kept
guard against marauding enemies.
With timber and stone, steel and
strong arms, he has sought to secure
his treasures from pillage and
plunder.
Security —protection —for these he has
labored through the ages, and these
are the pillars of Cranwells’ policy of
offering shares to the investing public
in established companies only.
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd.,
believes that balance sheets and full
information about an investment
should always be available to the
investor, and so offers its free service
to clients covering such information.
This policy has earned for Cranwells
its outstanding reputation for stability,
integrity and probity.
Inquiries are invited to
Cranwells (Australasia) Ltd.
Authorised Capital: £250,000
Sharebrokers and Financial Advisers.
’Phones: 87888, 87889.
Head Office;
Barrack House,
Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Branch Offices:
Melbourne,
Adelaide,
The Bulletin
A Trip for Mr, Hartigan
Vol. 56.—N0. 2873.
Wednesday, March 6, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
m \
v?
ri
LI ahead'
|»*he
\ v future
Cuiiciira
OIITNEMT
sidled by shampoos with Cntlcura
Soap, will keep the scalp healthy and
prevent dandruff and itching scalp
irritations which cause falling hair and
baldness. Use this combination regu-
larly and have a healthy scalp and good
hair both now and in later life.
Hundwritma
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Pte.Ose send, without obligation, your New Free
lopp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised tn the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name ~,
My Address
S.B. 435 .........
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
* 9 i 8 household publication whose
l?r welcome its receipt, depending upon
Co ? um j ls for the accurate information
py d «y covers the broadest possible
fJ‘ rv^„ of ,. t^ e worlds happenings, and upon
l*L.5? v * rt i¥ ne columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
pSarappe a a n i. atmoSPhere ° f individual and
within the Oommonwealth, po3t free
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes abo*t 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Your 1935 Queensland
Advertising Campaign!
Queensland is a vast State to cover, with many minor publications
dotted over its length and breadth; but there are two outstanding
advertising mediums upon which you can base your 1935
campaign with certainty of success.
THE COURIER-MAIL
62,617 Copies Daily
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months to Sept. 30, 1934.)
Queensland's outstanding daily newspaper with, by far, the largest
circulation of any newspaper published in the State.
THE SUNDAY MAIL
47,205 Copies Per Issue
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months ended Sept. 30, 1934.)
Companion Journal to the Courier-Mail, and showing a more pheno-
menal increase in circulation than any newspaper in Australia. A
comparison of the monthly net averages from April to September with
its previous A.B.C. Certificate of 40,343 copies per issue should prove
to national advertisers that it is worthy of inclusion in any campaign:
NET AVERAGE CIRCULATION PER ISSUE.
April . . .... 42,780 July 47,682
May 44,091 August 49,646
June .. .. .. 47,530 September 51,501
September’s figure of 51,501 is ,27 per cent, greater than the average
net circulation six months ago.
The combination of the circulations of the Courier-Mail and the Sunday
Mail offers the most comprehensive and economical cover that can be
bought in Queensland.
INQUIRE ABOUT TEE COMBINED ADVERTISING RATES.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: B. Jackson, 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne D. Pisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
The Red Page
The Week's Best
HOGARTH
UP-TO-DATE
In Aldous Hux-
ley’s Antic Hay
there is a pass-
The young man suddenly began to
boast. “I lost two hundred pounds yester-
day playing chemin de fer.” he said, and
looked round for applause. Coleman
patted his curly head. “Delicious child,”
he said, “you’re positively Hogarthian.”
That may have suggested to David
Low the idea of The Modern Rake’s
Progress. Two hundred years have
passed since Hogarth, stirred to the exer-
cise by the success of his Harlot’s Pro-
gress (in six plates), produced The Rake’s
Progress (in eight plates). The world has
had to wait that long for a compeer to
Hogarth’s pictorial commentary on the
manners of his time. Low’s work, in its
content, follows the “Marriage a la Mode”
series more closely than the other two
apd he gives us 12 plates—in color. Like
Hogarth, Low has well sampled his
London. There is a foreword in which
he declares that “the principal actor and
all those involved discreditably in his
progress are purely imaginary.” As for
toe rest: “One cannot depict Trafalgar
Square without showing the Nelson
Column.... sometimes I have taken a
handful of cele-
brit i e s, tele-
scoped them to-
gether, and used
them in lumps
for chia r o s-
curo.” “Chiar-
oscuro” is a fine
broad jest, for
some of the
plates might
serve as illustra-
tions for Who’s
Who if that
serious publica-
tion should take
to issuing pic-
torial sup ple-
ments. All the
figures are quite
obviously drawn
The present - day
Dave Low, per
Wyndham Lewis’s
pencil.
from life, for Low’s eyes and fingers have
been reporters ever since he first set foot
in a newspaper office.
Writer, who did work for both jour-
nals, remembers Low in the days when
he worked for the “Spectator” and “Can-
terbury Times” in Christchurch (M.L.) —
a very quiet, tremendously determined
youth with fighting ears and disquieting
eyes. In those days a paternal editor
told the young chap that if he studied
very hard he might some day get a job
in Australia at £4 a week. When Low
earned 30s. in seven days he counted him-
self fortunate. The Maoriland of that
generation was poor in money, hard as
the granite of Aberdeen, but rich in the
solid principles of honesty and indepen-
dence. When he went to Sydney,
and later to London, the young cartoon-
ist found that .young pups with rich
fathers considered themselves qualified
to patronise him.
The Modern Rake’s Progress seems to
be a long-meditated overboil of indigna-
tion against the floating scum of society.
Like Hogarth, Low regards his Rake as
a weak thing—a poor little chip tossed on
the wave-crests of prosperity. In Plate
I the Rake wakes up to find himself a
millionaire, his modest bedroom invaded
by the foremost journalistic gossip-
hounds of London. He’s a harmless little
chap, a clerk, addicted to dog-racing, the
cinema and the other more or less inno-
cuous joys of the lower middle-class. In
the next plate he is giving a cocktail
party to London’s foremost cocktailists
(at least 20 identifiable figures in this
chiaroscuro). His flat contains an Epstein
statue and a water-color by Ben Nichol-
son. The Rake is next seen in a movie
studio. He has become an angel of the
art in which he is most interested. Then
he is at the ringside, backer of a dud pug.
Scene shifts to a cabaret, where the Rake
is almost entirely surrounded by lovely
ladies. A disgraceful scene on the turf,
where the Rake has a disagreement with
his jockey, is followed by the great mar-
riage scene. An archbishop and three
other clergymen officiate. Interest of the
congregation is concentrated on an ex-
cited female who is being ejected by
frock-coated ushers. We next see the
Rake after a disastrous night at cards;
follow him to the divorce court (her was
the petitioner); attend at a painful meet-
ing of his creditors (the Rake blotto);
see him thrown out of a splendid hotel
(perfunctory interest taken in the cere-
mony by more affluent guests is well in-
dicated), and, finally, in Plate XII, the
poor little Rake is in the queue for a
night’s free doss.
There has been no satire on society ex-
hibiting so much humor and such scald-
ing contempt done in words or paint for
a very long while. Rebecca West essays
a sort of libretto to Low’s social sym-
phony, but it is redundant. She knows
the pseudo-Bohemia into which the Rake
was precipitated, and can speak its
jargon. She delights in nasty little epi-
grams and indecent bluntnesses, but pro-
vides no more than a cheap gilt frame
for Low’s pictures. There are half a
dozen contemporary male , writers in
London who cpuld have done the job
with taste and understanding, but it didn’t
need doing
anyhow. Low’s
plates will
hang on Eng-
lish billiard-
room and
smok e-room
walls long
after all the
feminine styl-
ists of the
post-war era
are forgotten.
The fierce
puritan moral-
ity of these
Low cartoons
Will endear
them to a
nation which
at heart was
Rebecca West, accord-
ing to the same satirist.
never so comfortable and contented as
in the sober days of Queen Victoria.
A. D. W.
[The Modern Rake s Progress, by Low and
Rebecca West (Hutchinson; Angus and Robert-
son; 13s.).]
Our Censors ,
Including
Mr. White
White, Minister
of Customs, is
also a writer. He
has written a war
book. It is a'
good war book,
as war books go. It gives a straight-
forward account of White’s captivity in
Turkey.
Having written a book, White, in the
eyes of Canberra, is apparently a judge
of literature. And apparently he has a
similar conceit about himself, because in
his frequent utterances on the subject of
censorship he does not confine himself
to the moral aspect but indulges in what
he presumably regards as artistic judg-
ments.
His latest action is to challenge certain
newspapers to print selected excerpts
from books which have been banned on
grounds of obscenity. This may seem
a telling argument. Actually, there is
scarcely a great work of literature from
which could not be extracted a passage
that would appear indecent if separated
from its context.
For instance, I once saw a Bible
printed by some unauthorised person in
which all the passages which, considered
separately, might be regarded as porno-
graphic had been carefully underlined. I
recommend White to obtain a copy of
this work, read the underlined passages
to one of his subordinate censors and
then ask him if the book was written by
prophets, saints and lawgivers or by
dirty-minded schoolboys.
®. ut not on ly to literature that
White s acid test might be applied with
results that would surprise him. Take
painting and sculpture. If sundry
selected portions of Velasquez’s famous
Rokeby “‘Venus,” Rembrandt’s equally
famous “Bethsheba,” Titian’s “Sacred
and Profane Love,” Rodin’s sculptural
representations of male and female
beauty in fact, any representation in
pigment or marble of the nude —were re-
moved from their surroundings and
framed or set up separately, the effect, in
relation to the originals, would unques-
tionably be pornographic. And natur-
ally. For that is all that pornography in
art means. It is the concentration of the
mind on one aspect of life for its own
sake and to the exclusion of all other
aspects. This concentration finds its
extreme expression in the sexual pervert
and sometimes ends in the lunatic
asylum, a prison or on the gallows.
White ought to be told once and for
all that artists have no concern with his
quaint notions of what the art of litera-
ture is dealing with except insofar as
his activities as censor interfere with
their free intercourse with the Muses.
There are plenty of people who share
his artistic attitude, and there are plenty
of libraries which cater for them. These
libraries keep copies of banned books
in private drawers and let them out to
customers at high prices. Most of their
customers are no more interested in
literature than they are in the party poli-
tics of 1 terra del Fuego. What they are
interested in are precisely those passages
in the works they borrow which White
challenges the newspapers to publish.
Not that they are to be blamed for that.
The responsibility for their state of mind
rests with the Puritans who supervised
their education.
M. G. S.
The Bloomers
of D. H.
Lawrence
D. H. Law-
rence and all his
works are hated
with peculiar in-
tensity by thou-
sands-of Britons.
Perhaps the best way to class his bitterest
critics is to say they are the kind of
people who read the London “Morning
Post” and “Field.” The scorn and loath-
ing which Lawrence inspires in the aris-
es impressed me first when the authori-
ties came down on his exhibition of pic-
tures in Bond-street; and I have often
puzzled about it since. He is not
o Continued on page 5.)


Dttftt
pui
USE
/
THE
D. P. S.
ẅ
I.—Morgan Patent
Spading Harrow
£l4/7/6
Anthony Horderns’ are the sole agents in
New South Wales for the Morgan Spading
Harrow, and experience gained in its sale
has only confirmed the opinion, formed
after special investigation and extended in-
quiry. that it is the best implement for
pulverising the soil, and that, as now per-
fected, it is unquestionably the best harrow
ever invented.
All these styles have the Cleaner attach-
ment, preventing loading or clogging when
ground is wet or trashy, and When har-
rowing in manure, straw or rubbish.
The frames of these harrows are made
of the best wrought iron and steel, and
are arched so that they will easily pass
over uneven ground and any ordinary
obstructions.
The blades are S-shaped, each being
made from one solid piece of spring steel.
They cut into and lift the soil to a depth
of four to six inches, turning and pulver-
ising the ground like a hand spade.
Sets of Size of
Spades. Spades. Weight. Price..
Style A—■
3ft., 1-horse 8 16in. 2901 b. £l4/7/6
Style C—
-sft., 2-horse 10 18in. 4001 b. £lB
Style C —
-6ft., standard 2-horse 12 18in. 4501 b. £2O
Style C —
-Bft. heavy, 2- or
3-horse 16 18in. 6001 b. £27
3ft. supplied with shafts. Other sizes with long
pole. If with 2-wheel forecarriage, as illus-
trated, 80/- ektra.
2. —J ohn Deere
Bantam Plough
£4/5/-
John Deere New Bantam
Plough. A strong light all-
steel one-horse Plough,
designed for use in mixed lands.
Size 7in., weight 641 b. Price, £4/5/-.
Size 9in., weight 841 b. Price, £5/15/-.
Coulter and Wheels extra as for “Red
Jacket” Ploughs.
3. —Steel Shares
John Deere Steel Plough Shares. F 6, X 9,
FIO, UI2, 037; 251, 278, 295, 302, 303.
Genuine Deere Shares are never stencilled.
The word "DEERE” is always stamped
in the steel on the under side. All sizes
stocked.
4. —John Deere Red
Jacket Plough
£B/7/6
John Deere “Red Jacket” Ploughs.
Cut .... 9in. 1 Oin. 12in.
Weight.. 891 b. 941 b. 1081 b.
Prices .. £B/7/6 £9 £lO/12/6
Single Standard land wheels, 12/6 extra.
Knife Coulter, 10/6; Disc Coulter, 36/-.
All Steel construction.
Beam of special steel, high curve, giving
good clearance. Mouldboard of genuine
hardened soft-centre steel. Shares of
crucible steel. Body, heavy one-piece steel
frame, steel handles.
5. —Single Wheel Hoe Plough for 52/6 each
The No. 1 7 Single Wheel Hoe is identical with the No. 16, except the equipment does not
include the rakes and leaf lifter. The Hoes, Cultivator Teeth and Plough are the finest of
their kind made and are constantly useful throughout the garden season.
The Hoes work both sides of the row at once, by mounting the wheel on the outside of the
wheel arm (necessary bolt and ferrules supplied as extras), when plants are small; and are
used between the rows when the plants are larger. The Cultivator teeth are adjustable in
pitch, and can be set to do deep or shallow cultivation; or can be used for marking out rows.
The Plough is of the latest design, with a landside, and will do good work in ploughing, hilling
plants, opening and closing furrows, etc. You can do more and better work in one day
with a Planet Junior Wheel Hoe than in four or five days with the old-fashioned hand hoe.
Price, each 52/6
6. —Planet Junior Wheel Hoe £4/5/- each
No. 1 1 Double and Single Wheel Hoe, for the home or market gardener. The 6in. and 4Jin.
hoes are the best weed killers known; the cultivator teeth give thorough cultivation; ploughs
are used for opening and closing furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the double wheel
hoe. the gardener can straddle the row until the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both sides
at the one time. Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of 4£in. hoes, four steel cultivator teeth,
pair of ploughs, two 3-tooth and two 5-tooth rakes, pair of leaf lifters. Price, each, £4/5/-.
7. —Horse Hoe and Cultivator at
The Planet Junior No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator combined is one of fa* I «■
the most valuable time and labour saving tools available for the use of j“ j I I Jl
the farmer. Has a steel wheel that does not clog; a frame that is longer / I
and higher than others; steel standards that are so attached as to both brace the cultivator
and withstand strain; levers that operate quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment
includes four 3xB inch cultivator steels, one 4xB inch cultivator steel, two 6 inch billers,
one 7 inch shovel, all especially hardened. Will give long service. Price, each, £5/12/6.
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as No. 8, but without depth gauge.
Price, each o - .... • £5/2/6
8. —Steel Scraper
69/6
Solid Steel Scrapers. Deeper
and longer than the usual
design, so that, while they
carry more earth, they run much <
and have a greater wearing surface.
No. 3, capacity 3 cubic feet; weighs
Price, 69/6.
No. 2. capacity 5 cubic feet; weighs
Price, 71/6.
No. 1. capacity 7 cubic feet; weighs
Price, 82/6.
No. 0, capacity 10 cubic feet; weighs 1351 b.
Price, £6/15/-.
801 b.
971 b.
1051 b.
9. —Seed Sower at
A splendid machine for the
broadcast sowing of Clover,
Sudan Grass. Millet. Lucerne
and Pasture Grass, or small areas of seed
grain. Breadth of cast varies according to
weight of seed or grain,, but usually it is
about as follows: Clover, Millet or Lucerne,
from 20 to 24 feet; Grasses, Bto 12 feet;
Wheat or Rye, 30 to 36 feet; Barley, 27 to
33 feet. Price, each 39/6
39/6
w
•Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


5.5. NANKIN
Sails May 15.
5.5. NELLORE
Sails June 12.
5.5. TAN DA
Sails July 13.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER
FARES. SYDNEY TO
YOKOHAMA
First £9O
Second £56/15
(HINA & JAPAN
for your
WINTER HOLIDAYS
What could be more attractive than to escape the winter months
in Australia and voyage through tropical seas visiting Sunny
Eastern lands?
The E. &. A. Route enables passengers to visit Queensland ports;
thence through the Great Barrier Reef islands to glimpse New
Guinea tropical life at Rabaul; then to Manila, capital of the
Philippine Islands; Hong Kong, with its magnificent harbour and
peak; Shanghai, Queen City of the East; and finally, the ancient
and beautiful Land of Japan.
The most economical trip. Fares are extremely low, and passengers
may live on board at all ports. The Australian £ is worth 25/- in
Japan.
The Ship is your Hotel throughout the Voyage
FARES ARE FREE
OF EXCHANGE
YOKOHAMA'K»gi@i
*lKoß£ufc|f NAGOYA ■v ‘
rJ&SFS OSAKA
MOJI
/SHANGHAI
ONG KONG
>£
MANILA
RABAUI
II
OWNSVILLE
BRISBANE
■, ’■ > V' - /
!!»• A
DNEY
ssg * i
MELBOURNE^
■* HOBART
k \ \
S' 1
T
pi
m*rn
iwwPMws
51
AUnP
NW
„ . B ® B *^
<xiwwAw^.v<.:v.v^.to
Joint Passenger Agents:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
\ Adelaide


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
A MODERN NOVEL OF AUSTRALIAN CITY LIFE
fORTY-ftX
A MOVtt
PRICE 6/-
Plus 3d. Postage.
FORTY - SIX
By STEWART HOWARD.
A modern novel of Australian city life, set in Sydney at the present day.
it states the problem of a normal, active, virile man whose amatory excursions
catch him enmeshed in a closing net of feminine possessiveness. Three women —
his wife, his mistress and a new flame —have their hands to the net; the problem
of Dick Westring is how he might cut the painter and escape.
The author is a young writer who has seen this aspect of modern Sydney life.
Its hectic atmosphere, cocktail parties, promiscuous amorousness, are as actual
and true to life as that sunlit scene of its near coast which makes a moderating
splash of beauty in the novel’s texture.
All Booksellers, or from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
objected to in this quarter as a porno-
graphist, needless to say; there has
always been a brisk market for naughti-
ness, whether in the form of plays, pic-
tures, novels or weeklies like the late
“Pink ’Un,” in fashionable England.
I re-read some of his stories the other
day in an omnibus published by Martin
Seeker, and they gave me a clue. He
pulls, as the Americans say, an amaz-
ing number of social and sporting
boners. So, it may be argued, do other
writers whom nobody hates. Dickens
didn’t know much about cricket (vide
“Pickwick”) or cards —in “Dombey and
Son” he makes Cleopatra, while playing
picquet with Bagstock, ask “Do you
propose?” though “proposing” is pecu-
liar to ecarte. In Hall Caine’s “The
Christian” a horse is led into the weigh-
ing-room after winning the Derby, and
Thackeray thought a nautical sheet was
a sail. But Lawrence’s bloomers are
different.
Take perhaps the most celebrated of
his tales—“ St. Mawr.”
Rico, the handsome husband, is “an
Australian, son of a Government official
in Melbourne who had been made a
baronet.” Lawrence meant a knight;
Australian Government officials are not
made baronets.
Rico is a highly improbable Melbourn-
ite. “He floated round Europe on a
very small allowance—his father wasn’t
rich in capital—and was being an artist.”
He had become a skilled horseman in
Melbourne, and when he decided to go
for a ride in England
He dressed himself most carefully in
white riding breeches and a shirt of purple
silk crepe, with a flowing black tie spotted
red like a ladybird, and black riding boots.
Then he took a chic little white hat with a
black band.
St. Mawr is “a thoroughbred hackney
stallion.” Rico rides this animal along
a road for seven miles at “a terrific
gallop.” St. Mawr “goes like the wind
with that luxurious heavy ripple of life
which is like nothing else on earth.”
If only he wouldn’t take the corner at a
gallop, nearly swerving Rico off! Luckily
the road was clear.
Thoroughbred hackneys don’t gallop ;
they are high-stepping carriage-horses
whose exaggerated knee and hock action
makes galloping virtually impossible.
Lawrence probably meant a hack. In
any case, nobody could gallop like the
wind for seven miles along an English
road, much less round corners ; and no
one with any knowledge of horses or
horsemastership would want to.
Rico succeeds to the baronetcy, and
his wife rides St. Mawr in the Row. A
paragraph “appeared in the society
columns next morning—Two new and
striking figures in the Row this morn-
ing were Lady Henry Carrington and her
mother.”
A society columnist would have known
that the title of Rico’s wife was Lady
Carrington ; that she would only be Lady
Henry if Rico was a younger son of a
marquis or duke.
About a hundred pages further on
Lady Carrington returns to her London
house from the country.
She felt like fastening little labels on
the furniture: Lady Louise Carrington,
Lounge Chair. Last used August, 1923.
She is no more Lady Louise than she
is Lady Henry ; Lady Louise Carring-
ton implies that her father was an earl,
a marquis or a duke.
Lawrence makes mistakes about horses
and heraldry in nearly all his society
stories. Anybody who puts himself for-
ward as an authority on a subject and
then proves his ignorance of it arouses
derision. Particularly in England, “the
home,” as a great Englishman has said,
“of despisers.” Pretentiousness of the
sort is the basis of half “Punch’s” class
jokes. Lawrence would be all the more
irritating to Britons who spotted his
errors because, in certain moods, he is
perhaps the most arrogant and cocksure
writer in the language.
Odd that one who knew so much about
so many interesting things as Lawrence
should have written so persistently on
two subjects about which he clearly knew
nothing.
J. D.
How Some
Papers Treat
the Freelance
Every free-
lance will sup-
port “A.E.” (R.P.
13/2/’35) in re-
gard to the treat-
ment' given them
w
w
ŵ
A. E. Y.
A Satchel of Books
ẃ


w
?/iectnd
tr t? y
k f
m I j
V* “
t/O
I
■I
Chateau lanuhm
PfRANDY^I
7
I ». SEPPEIT
‘ SKI
ONS LIMITS
SOUTH AUSTRALIA iff.
>
wM
Wmi/&CU£y
jkm/mcfa
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2873.
March 6, 1935.
THEY’RE ALL AT IT NOW.
“Premier Ogilvie threatens to challenge Commonwealth control of broadcasting, and when in England will bring the disabilities of Tasmania before the
Imperial authorities.”
“Hold on a minute, boys; I’m in this.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SWITZERLAND’S EXAMPLE.
Just as the depression was beginning a so-called
Australian Labor Government abandoned the military
training of youth which a real Labor Government
had introduced as an obligation of young manhood
and a preparation, for citizenship. The present Prime
Minister was a member of the so-called Labor
Government, and, although the international situation
has altered for the worse, the two Cabinets he has
led since he changed his party —U.A.P. for three years
and U.A.P.-U.C.P. since—have continued its fatuous
policy without having its feeble excuse—which was
that it had turned pacifist. Nearly all the members
of the allied parties believe in compulsory military
training, but they refrain from demanding its reintro-
duction (though no amendment of the Defence Act
would be required), perhaps because they are dis-
inclined to embarrass “Joe.”
The rulers of Switzerland are made of sterner
stuff. That sturdy little republic has for two genera-
tions had a national militia, service in which is
compulsory and universal. Exempted and rejected
men have to pay special taxes. When the Great War
broke out the entire citizen army was summoned to
the colors, 300,000 men being mobilised in three days ;
and for six years the Swiss guarded their mountains.
The cost was immense for a country with 3,000,000
fewer people than Australia has now ; it amounted to
nearly £50,000,000. But the expenditure was not
begrudged, for the Swiss were saved from the fate
of the Belgians.
Switzerland became the home of the League of
Nations, but the national defences remained and were
added to ; for example, the republic acquired an air
force of 10 squadrons with 125 aeroplanes (our air
force has three squadrons). Recruits were still called
up at 20 to serve for 12 years in the Auszug or Elite,
for eight years in the Landwehr and for another eight
years in the Landsturm. Auszug infantry and engi-
neers were trained in their first year for 65 days,
artillery and garrison troops for 75 days and cavalry
for 90 days; the cavalrymen were then called out
eight times for 11 days a year, the artillery and
garrison troops seven times for 14 days a year and the
others seven times for 11 days a year. For the
Landwehr there was one course of 11 days. The
military expenditure for 1933 was 94,600,000 francs,
almost exactly one-fourth of the national revenue in
that year, and the peace establishment was 46,200.
Germany went Nazi and left the League. Its
secession caused little concern in Australia, as did the
withdrawal of another great military Power about
the same time ; but the Swiss grew alarmed. It was
reported in Europe that the German General Staff
had drawn up a plan for an invasion of France
through Switzerland, in effect turning the French
right instead of the left, as in 1914. Patriots
felt that the Auszug would not be sufficiently
trained to meet such an invasion if it came.
Under the Constitution of 1874 the people have
to be consulted on military, as well as other, reforms,
and a proposal that first-year training should be ex-
tended from 65 days to 90 days was put to the vote.
The party corresponding to our Labor-socialists opposed
it, but extension was carried by a 75,000 majority,
the voting being 503,000 for and 428,000 against.
It is an inspiring example to Australia. There
is a tendency at Canberra to regard defence as an
unemployed-relief matter of small account; but
viewed even from that low plane it has greater possi-
bilities than sandshifting and the digging of swimming
pools. An adaptation of the Swiss plan to Australia
would provide occupation for thousands of unem-
ployed youths and Diggers, and give them the feeling
that the country has some use for them. Of course,
it is too big a thing for the politicians to undertake
on their own responsibility, but they might possibly
have sufficient moral courage to take a referendum
about it.
A TRIP FOR MR. HARTIGAN.
N. S. Wales Railways Commissioner Hartigan, that
favored child of Sydney politics —Mr. Lang promoted
him and he received his present appointment from
Mr. Stevens —has joined the record rush of politicians
to Britain, where he is to see how the trains run to
Wimbledon, or some such place. With him goes the
Assistant-Secretary for Railways. Their places have
been filled by other gentlemen at G.H.Q. —so readily
as to engender doubts whether the railways should
be carrying so many tall poppies.
Mr. Hartigan has been Commissioner for a little
over two years. At the end of his first twelvemonth
the Government raised his salary to £5OOO p.a., less
the financial-emergency cut; and in his second year
he raised the salaries of his headquarters staff, the
increases all coming out of the taxes. Before he
departed he declared at Junee that “the deficit on
the railways »was reduced last year to £2,300,000.”
This achievement was made possible by the Bruce
loan conversions and by the ruthless war on private
motor competition, neither of which was mentioned ;
even so, it is grossly exaggerated.
The annual loss on the railways has been reduced,
but not the deficit. That, as the Auditor-General
shows, has grown from £830,600 in 1926 to £26,095,100
in 1934 ; the increase for two years —Mr. Hartigan
being in charge for 18 months —was £7,548,600. Last
year’s loss, excluding £BOO,OOO of tax-money from
revenue, was £3,388,100, though interest and exchange
were down £512,400; and the Auditor-General’s
report suggests that it was underestimated, since
“the capital account and general balance sheet do
not present a full and accurate statement of the finan-
cial position.”
The records of land, buildings, plant and other
assets are incomplete, and the proper charge to be
made under the heading of depreciation and renewals
cannot be properly determined.
The interest and exchange charges appropriate to the
year exceed the charge made in the accounts by
£44,400.
No provision is made for bad debts or contingent
liabilities.
The balance of the fire-insurance fund at the end
of the year was £58,200. Contributions were: Railways,
£2000; refreshment-rooms, nil. The fund appears to
be inadequate.
“Inadequate” is a mild word, considering that
the concern owns £19,000,000 worth of station build-
ings and electrical equipment, £25,000,000 worth of
rolling-stock and £14,000,000 worth of other destruct-
ible assets —£58,000,000 in all. And profits on the
sale of property bought with loan money are called
revenue. One transaction of this kind yielded £13,580
last year, and figured as a revenue item under “Rents
and Miscellaneous.”
Mr. Hartigan has gone away at a bad time for
the Government. Farmers and their representatives
are protesting against outrageous freight charges ;
motor-owners are asking what return they get for
the £1,500.000 p.a. they pay in State registration and
license fees and taxes; members of the public are
demanding to know why they should be denied the
right to ride in motor-buses and service cars, and
commercial motor interests are up in arms against
the Transport Strangulation Act, with its legion of
“inspectors” and its multitude of penalties. A State-
wide revolt against a less drastic measure has brought
the Victorian Government to its knees; and the
Stevens-Bruxner Ministry will have to reckon with
an equally formidable campaign.
Meanwhile, let Mr. Hartigan have his holiday.
REFORM IN INDIA
The British have been in India since 1599. British
government was fairly established in 1773, when a
Governor-General and a Council were appointed.
Pitt’s India Act of 1784 founded a board of control in
England, and clipped the power of the East India
Company to make war. With each accession of
territory since have come changes.
Some of the shrewdest brains of the past century
and a half have concentrated on the problems of
India: Warren Hastings, Cornwallis, Wellington’s
brother Mornington, Macaulay, Ellenborough, Lans-
downe, Curzon and Reading. Macaulay it was
who secured the passing of the India Act of
1833 to “apply sound liberal principles to a
Government which hitherto has been jealous, close
and repressive.” To him were due the vindication
of the freedom of the press, which has filled India
with political sheets and the penal code, of which
Sir James Stephen said it “reproduced in concise and
even beautiful form the spirit of the law of England.”
John Company, forced to cease trading by
Macaulay’s Act, lost all its authority after the Mutiny.
India became an empire, save for the domain of the
native princes, who govern one-third of the area
and one-fifth of the population. Most of them were
educated in England, and their relations with the
Crown are close and friendly.
Reform became a live question during the war.
The Montagu-Chelmsford Commission reported in
1918; in 1919 two committees supplemented its
findings. An Act of the Imperial Parliament made
them law. They aimed at defining the powers of
the provinces and of the central Government and at
establishing a limited electorate ; in short, at intro-
ducing responsible government by stages.
There are provincial councils for which about
5,000,000 out of a population of 320,000,000 have
votes; there is a Legislative Assembly with 104
members based on class and religious belief. At
Assembly elections only the Mohammedans (who hold
30 seats) consistently cast a vote larger than 50 per
cent, of those enrolled. In Bombay at the last election
only 10 per cent, of qualified non-Mohammedans
voted. A 65 per cent, vote was cast in Delhi in
1926, a 22 per cent, vote last year.
Naturally a large section of the native population
dreams of independence, and a small section works
for it—some with revolvers and bombs, one man
with hunger-strikes and spinning wheels. But the
British cannot see themselves retiring without leaving
behind bloodshed, pillage and dissension about
religion which might plunge all Asia in war.
Dominion status is the limit which their Government
is willing to concede, and that step by step.
At a conference held at the end of 1932
Federation was agreed upon. In March last year
the Federal plan was defined in a Government White
Paper:—
(1) The Federation to consist of 11 autonomous
provinces and the native States. Princes of the latter
to surrender their sovereign rights to the Federation,
retaining internal autonomy, subject to the Crown’s
suzerainty and some reserve matters.
(2) Two Chambers: an Upper House of 260 mem-
bers (100 appointed by the princes, 150 elected by
provincial Legislatures and 10 nominated) and a Lower
House of 375 members (125 chosen by the princes, the
balance elected by the voters according to communities).
(3) A Council of Ministers to advise the Viceroy on
all matters except defence, .external affairs and religion.
(4) A reserve bank—to be established before the
scheme comes into being.
(5) Federal electors to number 2 p.c. to 3 p.c. of the
population; provincial electors 14 p.c.—say, 27 p.c.
of adults. Women are to be enfranchised and to have
special seats in all Legislatures reserved for them.
Since the issue of the White Paper a joint com-
mittee of the British Houses of Parliament has been
at work on details. Oceans of evidence have been
given—Samuel Hoare, the Secretary for India, was
in the box for a fortnight. Indian delegates unani-
mously demanded that the preamble to the Consti-
tution Act should specify that “the natural issue of
India’s constitutional progress is the attainment of
Dominion status,” that a definite date should be
fixed for the inauguration of Federation, and that
there should be greater control by the Legislature over
defence, finance and the public service. Now the
native princes are protesting that the Government
has gone back on its promises to them. All this,
together with the opposition of diehards, tends to
delay the grant of self-government on the Federal
plan, but Australian experience of Federation suggests
that the Indians should not be in too great a hurry
to get it.
THE TOURIST TRADE.
The promise of an air passenger service which will
enable residents of the U.K. to reach Australia
almost as quickly as late-Victorian Britons used to
reach St. Moritz has revived hopes for our tourist
trade. It is a matter for realistic thinking and
planning as against highfalutin talk about the match-
less beauties of the Commonwealth. At present
Maoriland is attracting a dozen wealthy tourists to
Australia’s one.
Many Continental resorts —Monte Carlo, Le
Touquet, Deauville —offer lures in the form of luxury
hotels and gaming tables which no Dominion can
hope to rival. But every year tens of thousands go
to Switzerland for the winter sports, to Norway for
salmon and sea-trout fishing, to California for big-
game fishing. We might get some of them. Ski-ing
is to be had on Buffalo Plateau, at Mount Donna
Buang (whose ski-runs are within 60 miles of Mel-
bourne) and elsewhere in Victoria, and at Kosciusko,
Kiandra and elsewhere in N. S. Wales ; there is fairly
good trout-fishing in Tasmania, Victoria and N. S.
Wales; fairly good big-game fishing off the coasts
of Queensland, N. S. Wales and Victoria. Unfortu-
nately for Australia, Maoriland does all these things
equally well, and some of them a great deal better.
The Commonwealth has no trout to compare with
those of Taupo and Rotorua, no deep-sea fishing to
touch that of, say, Mayor Island, where 200-pound
swordfish and 300-pound marlin are common.
Some of our racecourses are as good as any in
the world, but few travel for the express purpose of
racing; many of the beaches round Sydney can be
compared to Waikiki, but few tourists are interested
in surfing ; there is little hunting, and what there is
wouldn’t impress those who have followed hounds in
England or Ireland ; there is no shooting to be classed
with that of England or Scotland. On the other hand,
we have some unique advantages —desirable climates,
strange and beautiful scenery, birds and animals which
are to be seen nowhere else.
A newspaper correspondent, writing as one who
had “travelled with a number of round voyagers....
for the most part elderly travellers who stuck closely
to the ship,” urged that something should be done
to induce such people to view
the vineyards of Albury, the M.I.A. and our great wheat
areas, to be followed with a visit to the Federal Capital,
a journey over our glorious mountain country to Sydney
and by a continuation of the tour to the dairy districts
of the N.S.W. North Coast.
No power on earth would induce the average
tourist to undertake such a pilgrimage under present-
day conditions. Hotels outside the capitals are
uncomfortable, roads are appalling, and so is the
price of petrol. The exchange is favorable, but high
prices balance the advantage, and tax-vultures wait
to swoop on unwary foreigners in every State. It
is no good advertising Australia as a tourist resort
till we cope with these problems.
We may get the price of petrol down in time.
Roads may be greatly improved, not merely round
the cities, but outback. Some trains might be
installed of the calibre of the luxury trains that run
between Cairo and Luxor, Rome and Naples, London
and Edinburgh. The seven taxing authorities might
be made to realise that by tearing the last legal
shilling out of visitors they are doing Australia’s
finances more harm than good. But it will all be
useless if hotels and restaurants don’t do their share
and a bit over.
Overseas competition is tremendous in this
respect. An almost unattainable standard is set by
the Claridge-et-Astors of America and the Old World ;
but the standards of even the best British and
American country hotels are by no means unattain-
able. Good plain food, well cooked and civilly served
at any hour in reason, is the chief requirement. We
have the food ; it only remains to provide the cooking
and service. As soon as we do a type of traveller
who now rushes through Australian ports at top speed
en route to Maoriland will show a disposition to
linger; presently overseas tourists will begin to make
Australia their objective; we may even keep some of
our own rich citizens who now spend their holiday
money abroad.
H. SINGEMOINE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Victoria Rejects the New Laborism.
The U.A.P. lost seats at the Victorian election to
both the other parties, but not sufficient to matter ;
and the Argyle Government will remain in office.
All the party leaders profess to be satisfied. Dr.
Argyle says the vote is “a gratifying demonstration
of the people’s confidence” ; Mr. Lyons (out among
the flying-fishes) describes it as “a vindication of the
Premiers’ plan”; to Brigadier-General Bourchier it
is an expression of the increasing faith of the country
people in the Country party. And Mr. Tunnecliffe,
the Labor leader, declares that the figures “indicate
clearly that the Ministry has lost support in several
constituencies,” and that “there has been a consider-
able increase in the Labor vote everywhere.”
The strength of the parties is likely to be: U.A.P.,
25; C.P., 20 ; Labor, 17 ; Independents, 3. Labor’s
solitary gain was the Geelong seat, which Mr. Brown-
bill lost to Mr. E. A. Austin three years ago, and
has recaptured. Though the party had the support
of the organised civil servants, it signally failed in
electorates which it used to regard as safe —Essendon,
Oakleigh, Prahran, Ballarat, Bulla-Dalhousie and
Castlemaine-Kyneton. Before going on campaign it
had sided with the Langsters against the Federal Labor
faction in N.S.W. Its leader offered the electors
work for all the unemployed “at award rates,” restora-
tion of 1929 salaries in all the departments, reduction
of taxes (land and unemployment-relief) and freight-
rates, decreased interest on the overseas debt and
numerous other blessings. It says much for the
commonsense of the Victorians that they rejected
these Langist promises.
Civil-service opposition did not hurt Minister
Kent Hughes in Kew—he had a 2-to-l majority over
his Labor opponent. But Attorney-General Macfarlan
was hard pressed by his “unendorsed” U.A.P. opponent
in Brighton, and Minister Pennington may lose Kara
Kara-Borung to a Country-party man, Mr. F. A.
Cameron. On the whole, the U.C.P. has the most
reason to be pleased with the results. Helped by the
open go (it had four candidates in Rodney and four
in Mildura), it increased its poll almost everywhere,
suffered no losses, and will probably gain three seats.
It was the one party that came out strong against the
Transport Regulation Act, of which the Government
offered only a weak defence—Mr. Macfarlan indeed
pleaded that he was never in favor of it. The decided
condemnation of that measure and the inglorious l
failure of the Crown Employees’ Federation’s alli-
ance with the A.L.P. were the most striking features
of the election.
*
Four Days to London.
A delegation has arrived from Britain with a plan
for reorganising the Australia-England mail. It
proposes that after 1937 all first-class mail matter
should be diverted from the sea to the air and carried
at 4d. per ounce ; that there should be a seven-day
flying-boat service from London, and that the route
should be round our east coast instead of across the
continent.
The Commonwealth P.M.G. and the Minister of
Defence objected to the flying-boats, which would
have a cruising speed of only 130 m.p.h.—they may
agree to the use of flying-boats between Darwin
and Singapore. But the rest of the plan is
to be recommended to the Cabinet. It would
cost the Commonwealth an additional £200,000,
and it has patent defects. The Dutch contem-
plate introducing a four-day service to Java,
and developments are so rapid in flying that there
is no telling what the position will be in 1937. It
already is assured that by that time the average speed
of trans-American mail ’planes will be in the region
of 230 m.p.h. —it is now over 200 m.p.h. On the basis
of present U.S.A. speeds, London to Sydney should
be a 73-hour trip, with relays of machines and night
flying.
The British authorities are against high speeds
chiefly because of petrol costs. In U.S.A., they say,
petrol is 7d. per gallon ; on the London-Sydney run
it would average 2s. 6d. Exactly why petrol should
be 2s. 6d. a gallon on a route served by Anglo-Persian
and Shell, which have cheaper labor and other costs
than the Americans at the sources of supply, is difficult
to understand. It would be interesting to know what
the Dutch pay.
Whatever may come of the negotiations the over-
seas air mail will have to be modernised. It saves
the south of Australia only a week, and the cost is
exorbitant. And in the process of providing a miser-
ably inadequate, erratic and expensive connection,
northern local mails have been disorganised. Letters
for Daly Waters from Birdum are carried to Darwin
by rail, carried back by air mail over Birdum, and
(after a journey of nearly 700 miles) delivered 50 miles
from their destination. Other places, like Pine Creek,
over which the mail ’planes fly have not only had no
benefit from them, but have had their ordinary mail
arrangements upset.
♦
Regardless of Expense.
Last week J. M. Niall, chairman of directors of
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., returned to Melbourne
from London and criticised the extravagance of our
politicians.
Financial London is wondering when it is going
to end. Australia’s reputation has declined since I was
in England three years ago. The reason is that our
politicians are borrowing and spending when they
should be economising.
On the same day a cable arrived:
Elaborate suites are being arranged at the Savoy
Hotel for Mr. Lyons and the Australian delegation. All
the suites are together and in the best position, over-
looking the Embankment. They occupy nearly a whole
floor. Officials will stay at the Strand Palace Hotel
opposite, and offices will be arranged at Australia House
for Ministers and officials. It is expected that most of
the work will be done there.
The Savoy is one of the most expensive hotels
in the world—a home from home for British profiteers
and foreign millionaires. Not one Australian tourist
in 10,000 stays at such places; the Strand Palace,
Regent Palace and similar resorts are good enough
in the present state of the exchange. “Elaborate suites
in the best position” which “occupy nearly a whole
floor” of the Savoy are not even going to perform
the snobbish service of impressing the British.
They know, none better, that the politicians who
luxuriate in these unwonted surroundings will be
paying for them in borrowed money; “spending,”
to quote Mr. Niall, “when they should be econo-
mising.”
Nor is display of the kind fashionable. Members
of the royal family have set a commendable example
in this respect since the war. The Prince, instead
of reviving the out-of-date splendors of Marlborough
House, inhabits a corner of St. James’s Palace which
has been compared to a service flat; and dozens of
private houses in Mayfair, Belgravia and further west
are far bigger than the London home of the Duke
and Duchess of York.
The reaction of pre-slump Cockneys to the
spectacle of our Lyonses and Gulletts lording it in
plutocrats’ hotel-suites rather resembled that of a white
Australian to the spectacle of an abo. in a topper.
The Cockneys got the laughs, the politicians got the
luxury, and nobody complained. Present-day Lon-
doners have different values, economic as well as
social, and derision at vulgar extravagance is giving
way to indignation. It is to be hoped that future
political delegations will recognise the change and
decide to drop emulating the late Stavisky and
Lowenstein and live at least as unpretentiously on
their travels as English dukes.
• ♦
Langite Logic.
“With the humiliation of the Commonwealth Government
complete, Herr Egon Erwin Kisch has left Sydney for his
homeland.” — Mr. Lang’s paper.
It is all a matter of the point of view. If Herr Kisch
had been a N. S. Wales Laborite, and had stood up
to Mr. Lang as he did to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, he would have suffered the humiliation of being
pushed out of the movement, however good his case
happened to be. If he had opposed a Communist
Government he would have suffered the humiliation
of being exiled, like Trotsky, or shot like scores
of less important Communists who have criticised
the Stalin regime.
Kisch came here to forward the Communist
cause; to do what he could to substitute a Stalin
tyranny for government by democratic methods. He
was excluded from England as an undesirable, and
he would have been excluded from Australia if the
highest Court in the land, with sublime indifference
to everything but strict legality, hadn’t ruled that the
test put to him under our Immigration Restriction
Act was in an inadmissible language. Because in
democratic countries the Courts’ lightest words are
law, Kisch has been able since to attack the Govern-
ment at scores of Communist meetings in N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Queensland ; to figure in “a farewell
Melbourne meeting of 2000 Communist sympathisers”
at which the Government was denounced ; and to
have part of his costs paid by the Government. “The
costs are enormous and must run into thousands,”
Kisch boasted to a press interviewer.
Our visitor is one of those international Jews
who do their race the disservice of helping non-
Germans to understand Hitlerism. They make a
habit of stirring up class and political hatreds. But
their revolutionary principles don’t impel them to
take risks. Kisch was among the first to bolt from
the Nazi menace. His challenges to tyranny have
been delivered since from countries like our own,
where the political game is played according to rules.
If the Commonwealth Government had strained the
rules and booted him out as an alien pest whose
only purpose in coming here was to make trouble
safely, Mr. Lang’s paper would have been the first
to whine. Because the judicial umpire’s decision was
accepted the Government is said to have been
humiliated!
■ ♦
“Abnormal.”
Judge Foster, of Melbourne, had before him a
38-year-old man charged with attempts to procure
acts of indecency by children. A doctor said he was
“abnormal” and “showed signs of being incapable
of distinguishing right from wrong.” In reply to
questions from the Bench, the doctor mentioned that
treatment of such cases was possible, “in a very special
environment,” by psycho-therapy, adding that there
did not seem to be any psycho-therapy in gaols.
Counsel argued that gaol in these cases was “no
deterrent.” The Judge thought it was. He remarked,
however, that the medical profession seemed to agree
that there was “urgent necessity in the community for
a suitable institution to treat this increasing class
of offender.” If that were so, the medical profession
“had a social duty to perform.” He left it at that, and
the prisoner went to gaol for three months, thereafter
to be placed in a reformatory during the pleasure of
the Crown.
Many “abnormals” are the victims of disease.
Certain forms of cancer are predisposing causes, as
are glandular deficiencies. Gaol treatment tends
rather to accentuate the trouble than to cure it.
♦
Lang Goes Dancing.
“Each night this week,” runs a newspaper report, “Mr.
J. T. Lang has attended a social function and danced
every dance —each time with a different partner.”
The old order changeth, and baby-kissing has given
place to foxtrotting—just as effective probably as a
vote-catching device and more pleasing to the
candidate.
It is a stunt copied from Victoria’s Women’s
National League. The National League was formed
by a bunch of Conservative women who, largely, had
fought tooth and nail against the extension of the
franchise to their sex, fearing that the women’s vote
would be largely Labor. They builded better than
they knew ; performed the seeming miracle of turning
probable Labor women into actual Nationalists. A
branch would be formed in a mixed suburb—one of
those electorates which are in the balance between
Labor and Nationalism. Lady Bungo Smith would be
elected president, with a handful of social lights, whose
names were always “among those present,” as a
committee. An inaugural tea would be held and
invitations would be broadcast to local shopgirls and
factory girls, housemaids and charwomen. It worked.
Thousands of votes which formerly went to Labor
were swung over for the Nationalist cause.
There is no chance of the tables being turned in
N. S. Wales; it would not be possible to get Miss
Ermyntrude Jones-Cholmondeley to turn up at one
of J. T. Lang’s social hops. But in every big shop,
big office and big factory there are some girls who
take Labor politics seriously, and a host of waverers
who vote the way their associates do. These waverers
may be turned into good Langites by the graceful
saltatory movements of the Leader. A host of "reasons
might lead them to U.A.P.-ishness ; one languorous
waltz might make them safe in the Lang fold. “I
thought Mr. Lang was a dreadful person ; he’s such
a nice man! ” Thus the innocent propaganda will be
circulated, and, like the rolling snowball, it may
become an avalanche.
It is customary for opponents to laugh at the
Lang social scheme, but. it is good political tactics.
♦
Sydney to Newcastle.
“J.H.M.A.”: On a recent sunny morning the writer
went out to Mascot aerodrome and climbed aboard
one of the big three-engined ’planes belonging to New
England Airways, Ltd., with the hope of getting to
Newcastle in a hurry. The hope was realised, and
there was a further realisation of the fact that between
Port Jackson and Port Hunter lies a strip of scenic
beauty that can hardly be rivalled anywhere in the
world.
By rail or road or sea the tracts between the
capital of N. S. Wales and its second city are very
beautiful, but the air road, making each of them
visible, is the best of all. You can traverse it in 40
minutes of unmitigated delight and charm. There
is no excursion at present possible from Sydney that
has more of loveliness about it.
The coastline was the most fascinating feature
of that swift journey—the broken, beautiful stretch
of Australia’s eastern shore, beside which runs the
first of all the commercial highways of British settle-
ment in the South Seas. Many voyages along it in
the Hunter River Co.’s ships had made all its land-
marks familiar from sea level. North Head, Long
Reef, Barrenjoey, the trinity of headlands making up
Cape Three Points, Broken Head, the entrance to the
Tuggerah Lakes, Bungaree Norah (Norah Head),
Bird Island, Wabung Head, Red Head and finally
Nobby’s were as unmistakable when looked at from
over 2000 feet above them as they are from the
Tasman Sea.
But there is another aspect also of this brief
air voyage. It was eight when we left the earth at
Mascot—at 8.55 we were having breakfast in New-
castle. One of the feeders was an engineer who had
an important job to attend to ; he would be done
with it, he said, by 4 p.m. At 4.15 he would fly
from the Newcastle airport and be back in Sydney
at 5 o’clock. This is the sort of people to whom such
an air service is of real value, quite apart from all
the beauties of passage between the cities.
♦
The Tired Businessman’s Car.
Melbourne proposes to turn its old Western Market,
at the corner of Collins and Market streets, into a
tall building for the parking of motor-cars. The site
is on the side of a steep hill, so that on three floors
cars could enter on the level; there are to be spiral
ways for those above the third floor.
At the outset the scheme looks a good one, but
for the future of the city it would be preferable if
the council forgot the financial aspect and turned the
area into the long-promised park which would trans-
form this part of Melbourne. Further, although no
estimates have yet been given regarding the number of
cars to be accommodated, there could be no appreci-
able abatement of the kerbstone parking nuisance.
One of the troubles of civilisation, and especially
of prosperity, is that the increasing number of cars
creates a parking problem which no city in
the world has been able to solve. The whole diffi-
culty is caused, not by the man who motors for
pleasure or the man who uses his car commercially,
but by the tired businessman who is too tired to walk
to the tram or train and uses a car to carry him to
his office. Unless he is moved on, he leaves his car
all day at the vacant kerb nearest to his office, taking
up driving space and preventing any other motorist
from parking for a reasonable time.
A count made in New York some years ago
showed that nearly nine out of every ten cars which
entered the central city between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m.
contained only a driver —no passengers, though the
average car could have carried four. Thus the space
of five people was taken up by a vehicle used by one
person—a method of transport expensive for the
driver, but far more expensive for the city as a whole.
New York authorities then estimated that, if every car
carried its full complement, so few would be needed
that there would be no parking problem.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH Wimbles Inks"
“Morita”: I had to go to a suburban
police court the other day. It was a
blazing morning, and the ornate building
on the corner sorely tempted us, but we
were kept on tenterhooks for an hour
or more whilst they sorted out the evi-
dence in the case that was listed before
ours. It took so long and the arguing
was so vehement that we reckoned it
could only be robbery-under-arms or a
murderous assault. At last the parties
and their advocates filed out of the court,
looking as though they’d been stewing
in an oven, and excitedly an onlooker
told us “He beat them ; he got out of
it.” “Who was it he knocked?” I asked
him. “You’re getting cases mixed,” he
informed me ; “the bloke’s a baker who
was up before the beak for starting work
five minutes too early in the morning.”
* * * *
“O. I. Saye”: The public-house bars
of which “Jindivick” and “Jobber” tell
us (B. 20/2/’35) must have long coun-
ters. The Thames separates Buckingham-
shire from Berkshire, and Nairobi is miles
from the Equator.
* * * *
“J.G.”: No need to go to Europe for
instances of cathedrals that stand in the
heart of cities and traffic (B. 20/2/’35).
St. Paul’s, Melbourne, is just across the
street from one of the busiest railway
stations in the world ; it is also opposite
Princes Bridge station and big railway
yards, where electric and steam trains
are incessantly passing. Electric trams
run past the front door and the western
side. But no suggestion that the cathe-
dral should be shifted to a quieter spot
has ever found support from the church
authorities.
* * * *
“H.W.L.S.”: While agreeing with “G.
Trotter” (B. 20/2/’35) that more abo.
names might well have been used for
Melbourne suburbs, I remind him that
Prahran is no isolated case. What about
Moonee Ponds and Merri? The former
was the site of Johnny Fawkner’s little
market garden and mixed farm ; Merri
was the native name for the creek which
runs into the Yarra close to the present
suburb. A little further out native names
such as Mooroolbark and Moorabbin
have been preserved. Finally, there is
Toorak, the abo. name for a native camp,
surely the most noted of all the city’s
inner suburbs.
* * * *
“Tantia”: The alleged discovery of
a pygmy skeleton 15 inches high has set
a section of scientists affirming the former
existence of a race of tiny folk in Central
India. In support they quote the Greek
writer Ctesias, who described a race of
black pygmies existing in Central India
in the fifth century. These have been
long identified as the aboriginal Bhils, a
forest-dwelling race of small stature who,
unsurpassed trackers and shikaris, up to
recent years lived by hunting with the
bow, as Ctesias describes his pygmies.
I haven’t heard of these gentry of
late, but probably they have now
acquired all the vices of civilisation, in-
cluding the right to vote.
* * * *
“Tumbler”: This year marks the cen-
tenary of the patenting of that great
instrument of civilisation the Colt re-
volver. Colt is said to have got his idea
from a visit to the London Tower, where
he saw the revolving arquebus pre-
sented by a Spanish king to Henry VIII.
But it is more likely that he took a tip
from the revolving carbine marketed by
one Collier, an English gunsmith, in
1810. This had a flint-lock, percussion-
caps being still unknown. When caps
came in Colt saw the solution of the flint-
lock problem, and put his muzzle-loading
weapon on the market. Queerly enough,
it took him years to popularise his in-
vention, the first company he formed to
manufacture it going bung. The Yankee-
Mexican war came to the rescue, and
thereafter the Colt never looked back.
* * * *
“J”: H.M.S. Laburnum’s long, thin
paying-off pennant (B. 27/2/’35) mysti-
fied many people in Brisbane. “They
must be fishing for mackerel,” suggested
an old-timer beside me. I also heard
several arguments about how the pennant-
length is fixed. The ordinary rule is
that the length should equal the distance
from truck to keelson and back; that
is, from the mainmast’s top, under the
ship’s keel and back to the truck.
* * *
“Casca”: The first suggestion that
grand opera should be subsidised by Aus-
tralian Governments came, curiously
enough, from a Labor candidate some
25 years ago. His name was Dr. Leger
Erson, and he had returned to Melbourne
after some 10 years on the Westralian
goldfields and got a nomination for a
“Hey, George ! Have you got a comb?”
Leg. Council seat. Erson was a suave
and eminently sociable little medico,
in appearance remarkably like Caruso ;
he had a fine tenor voice and an
intense liking for the boards and the
footlights; his spirited representation
of Brutus in the quarrel scene in
“Julius Caesar” had swelled the tak-
ings of various amateur entertainments
at Kalgoorlie. But even his own sup-
porters looked dazedly at one another
when the man they had selected to cham-
pion Labor’s demands for higher wages
and shorter hours insisted on putting a
demand for a National Opera House in
the very forefront of his programme.
Unless my memory plays me false, he
lost his deposit.
“Der Jong”: “M.G.” (B. 20/2/’35)
seems to think that Brits’s message to
Botha in 1914 (“Mobilisation complete.
Whom do we fight—Germans or Eng-
lish?”) was sent in earnest, and contemp-
tuously stigmatises it as “the usual attitude
of the militarist.” I can vouch that my old
friend Brits would be dumbfounded if
he thought anyone was so destitute of
humor as to take his spoof seriously.
Even as a commando leader he had some
reputation as a wit, and British com-
manders chasing him always expected to
receive cheerful, if disrespectful, mes-
sages of the kind. In later days he was
a prime favorite with Botha ; hence the
flippancy.
* * * *
“Numismatician”: One reason why so
few are interested in numismatics (B.
27/2/’35) is that coins are not easily
portable. Stamp collectors can get to-
gether, more or less, with their albums,
but coin collectors can hardly carry their
stuff about with them. Again, the initial
impetus to stamp collecting is derived
from its encouragement in youth. It is
regarded as an educative pastime for
boys. But what boy was ever encour-
aged to collect coins—except those in
present currency.
* * * *
“M.G.”; One of the jurors at Melb.
Criminal Sessions last week provided the
very best possible excuse for absence from
service. When his name was called and
he did not appear, inquiries were made,
and he was located in the cells below
the court awaiting the verdict of the
jury on a charge of manslaughter. It was
not guilty, but by that time he had been
excused from service. The incident
recalls the fact that shortly after the
Gatton (Q.) murders a Victorian made
a detailed confession, was placed
under arrest and was about to be
extradited from Melbourne to Brisbane
when the Crown came forward with a
perfect alibi. The man had actually been
serving a sentence at the time the crimes
were committed, and he had confessed in
the hope of obtaining a free trip to Bris-
bane. The Crown signified its dis-
approval of his ingenuity by giving him
three months for making a false state-
ment.
:jc * *
“D.”: The proverbial asininity of the
law is interestingly exemplified in its atti-
tude towards parking in Sydney. If I
leave a car near my office in a remote
back lane, where there are no “No
Parking” notices and little or no traffic,
and wedge it against the near-side kerb
so that what traffic there is will not be
obstructed, I am likely to be summoned
and fined. Charge: “Leaving a car un-
attended and obstructing the traffic.” If
I left a car on the tram-line between the
Pacific Highway and the Spit nothing
would happen. Or so I conclude from
the fact that on any fine Saturday or
Sunday during the peak hours I am liable
to strike scores of unattended cars in this
area. In many places the tram-line is
so near a pavement that it is impossible
to get between the tram and the cars.
Some motorists play for safety ; some
try to beat the trams to the parked cars
on the near side; some tear past the
trams on the off side. As I look at it,
if one policeman is required to stop
motorists from parking in out-of-the-way
city lanes then 50 are required, in the
interests not merely of convenience but
of safety, to stop parking on certain
tram lines.
* * * *
“Runa”: I think “Oxmead” (B.
27/2/’35) should give the Duke of Edin-
burgh the benefit of the doubt regarding
his bestowal of two sovereigns on a
dusky chief. He probably did part with
the coins, but it is more than likely that
he debited the item to his hosts, the Vic-
torian Government. That at least was
M.L.’s experience of the economical
Duke. On leaving Auckland he graci-
ously presented the servants at Govern-
ment House with mementoes of his
visit, and the M.L. Government bucked
for weeks about the bills that were later
handed to it. It was the bright re-
mark of the day to say the Duke’s title
had been a verra conspeecuous choice.
* * * *
“Jungor”: Menzies (W.A.), a gold-
fields settlement that boomed in the
’nineties (it once had two daily news-
papers) and then lapsed into a condition
of bust for 30 years, is well on the map
again, thanks to the mining revival. I
shall always remember it for an utterly
incongruous reason ; it was the first place
in Australia where I ever saw a rabbit.
And that was in the bar of a pub. The
advance guard of the furry host had
only just reached the fringes of the
goldfields; someone had captured a
specimen, and, coming down from
outback for a spell, had handed it
to Bung as a present. The publican
risked a heavy fine for having a
live rabbit in his possession, but he
took the chance, installed the invader in
a cage and reaped a rich harvest from
people who came to have a look at the
strange beast. That was in 1901, when
many know-alls doubted whether bunny
would ever get into the Westralian agri-
cultural districts. A few years later costly
fences were being constructed to bar his
progress —all to no avail.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: A thriving demand in
England for 1922 pennies is reported.
The legend is that somehow or other a
small quantity of gold got into the copper
alloy when the pennies were being
minted, but in those days, though the
fact was well known, it was not worth
taking into consideration. With gold at
a record price everyone who can raise
a store of the coins is selling them for
melting down. It is claimed that prices
run as high as 7d. in some localities,
though the ruling price in Scotland is
said to be 3d. It recalls the true story
of Mt. Morgan copper matte. For
years this was sent to Germany for refin-
ing, and the co. was paid for the copper
content only. One day someone dis-
covered that the stuff carried a valuable
gold content and that the Germans had
been profiting for years by the fact.
From then on the Mount refined its own
matte.
* * *
“Whitehall”: If I were asked to say
where the typical Australian differs most
markedly from the typical Englishman I
would answer unhesitatingly: In his atti-
tude towards domestic animals. In
Sydney recently a beach inspector was
fined for revolting cruelty to a small dog
which he found guarding its master’s
towel, etc., on the beach. According to
the evidence the crowd (barring a couple
of elderly ladies, one of whom was
accused sternly in cross-examination of
being a dog-owner) watched the animal
being battered about the head till the
blood came —with indifference if not
approval. A day or so later a “Sun”
correspondent wrote sympathising with
the inspector, and pointing out that if he
“had killed the dog and demanded 2s. 6d.
for its tail from a Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions all would have been well.” On an
English beach the inspector would have
been lucky to escape with his life, and
the only letters on the subject to appear
in the popular press would have been
those which advocated gaol instead of
a fine. Present-day Australian children
appear to have much the same humani-
tarian standards as British children: I
understand that kindness to animals and
to the sick and the weak is inculcated in
the schools. The standards of a good
many adults are about the same as those
of the average Portuguese.
THE GIRL NEXT DOOR.
I’ve hunted for perfection,
My quest has been in vain;
I’ve flirted with a girl or two,
I’ve walked on air—and fallen through—
And then begun again.
But when each bout is over
It dawns on me once more
That, when it’s all been said and done,
There isn’t really anyone
Quite like the girl next door.
You’d scarcely call her pretty,
You couldn’t call her plain;
She’s got that sunny sort of smile
That makes you feel that life’s worth while
And cheers you up again.
She says she isn’t clever,
She’s modest to the core,
But still, in her own happy way,
She caps the brightest things you say,
This little girl next door.
She’s always pleased to see me,
And greets me with a smile;
But that’s no more than she would do
For any other fellow who
Had known her for a while.
And some day when I’m lonely,
And life has left me sore,
I’ll rid my mind of lurking doubt
And ask her what she thinks about
The gentleman next door.
victoria.
A. G. BURNET.


“Oast”: Britain, like some other coun-
tries, has gone a trifle ratty in the matter
of quotas. The hop industry is one to
which quotas have been allotted. Re-
cently, a man bought two hop kilns and
some hop land in Kent. He converted
the kilns into a house and started a
poultry farm. Soon he was offered £l5O
for his hop quota, the license allowing
him to sell a certain quantity of hops. He
didn’t reply, thinking it a joke, and got
another letter raising the bid to £3OO.
Finally, he got £BOO for his quota as a
reward for not growing hops. The
quota-hawking business has been
flourishing among tin-producing com-
panies in Malaya for some years. This
is the first time it has caught the lime-
light in Britain.
* * * *
“Western”: Courage, like virtue,
sometimes meets its own reward. Seeing
her husband, a house-painter, lying un-
conscious on a roof, his clothes alight
and his flesh sizzling through contact with
a wire carrying a high-tension current,
a young Perth woman scaled the ladder,
made her way along an almost precipi-
tous iron ridge and, despite the shouted
warnings of the crowd that had gathered,
grasped his hand and dragged him clear.
Her chance of escaping electrocution
was about one in a hundred, but she es-
caped by the fact of wearing sewn
leather slippers without nails, and also
by unconsciously refraining from touch-
ing the roof anywhere with her free hand
as she pulled.
“Come on, now, Where’s y’r license?”
“Haven’t got it yet. The wedding’s to-morrow.”
“Spare Adjutant”: Mention of that
Melbourne attempt to get a number of
schoolgirls to pass a message along the
line (B. 27/2/’35) reminds me that this
used to be an item in military training.
The soldiers were stationed at varying
distances apart, and the message—it had
to be of the briefest —was given to the
ear of the first man. He passed it on,
and it went down the line to where the
last recipient was asked by the instructor
to repeat it. In a long experience I have
never known a message delivered in any-
thing like its original form, while in the
majority of cases the thing, a written
copy of which was kept by the instructor
for reference, had become a meaning-
ess jargon by the time it had reached
the last man.
* - $ * *
“The 0.D.”: One can’t be sure of the
origin of terms, since Yankee and British
slang has crept into the Australian lan-
guage, so “0.8. J.” should have hesitated
to ascribe the origin of “jay-walking” to
the “Jubilee J.” (B. 27/2/’35). Although
comparatively new to Sydney’s traffic
panjandrums, the word was used in Mel-
bourne over 10 years ago with the same
meaning. Anyone who has been in the
bush, and watched the curious, sidelong
run of the white-winged chough or “jay,,
will readily understand that the old bush
phrase “running about like a jay in a
camp” could quite easily have led to
“jay-walker.”
♦ :J: #
“Marischal”: According to recent
advices my spiritual home, Aberdeen, is
meeting the depression stoutly. It is the
custom there for the Provost and the
bailies to issue a printed New Year
greeting to ratepayers. The latest is a
neat sheet of brown paper on which are
printed wishes for a happy New Year
for 1935 and 1936 ; a footnote adds
“Maybe ye’ll get anither in 1937.” Some
of the bailies urged it would be more
economical to have the inscription done
for nothing by some of the clerks, and
thus save the expense of printing. It was
pointed out, however, that the postage
was a ha’penny less for printing.
* * ‘ * *
“Shangani”: Instead of adding to the
crowd of mugs who, for half a cen-
tury at least, have been rooting up Cocos
for alleged treasure, why don’t some of
the lads with money to burn see if they
cannot light on the vast hoard in sov-
ereigns, gold bullion, ivory and diamonds
taken by Lobenguela when he bolted
from his kraal at Bulawayo before the
Chartered Co.? There are men living
who know of that hoard’s existence be-
yond all doubt, and one or two who
claim to have seen some of it. Baden-
Powell would be able to tell something
about it, and native evidence in favor of
its existence and removal is overwhelm-
ing. The stuff is known to have been
buried somewhere near the head of the
Kore River in what is now Rhodesia.
The work was done by a few trusted
indunas, most of whom died of hard-
ship, like Lo Ben during the flight, while
the survivors never gave the show away.
The trouble is that there are two Kore
Rivers, both heading in very rough coun-
try, and which is the right one no man
knoweth. Still, in these days of mapping
aeroplanes, the rough preliminary work
of locating the river-heads could be done
easily and cheaply. After that it would
only be a matter of locating the right
cave out of the thousands in that coun-
tryside.
* * * *
“Centurion”: It is not only the habit
of musical composition that the Prince
of Wales has inherited from his fore-
bears (B. 13/2/’35). I have just seen a
photograph of him reviewing an officers’
training corps, and, while troops are at
attention in rain as solid as wire cables,
H.H. is carrying an open umbrella. This
is an undoubted throw-back, as the
"Did you encourage John to kiss you last night?”
“Why, no! I only sat on his lap and put my arms round his neck.”
horsy men say, to the old Duke of Cam-
bridge who was C.-in-C. of the British
Army for ever so long. If there was any
wet or snow threatening the numerous
ceremonial parades in which the Duke
delighted he appeared equipped with an
immense gamp, which was hoisted as
soon as rain began to fall. He was, of
course, invariably on horseback, and the
effect of the get-up on such occasions as
the trooping of the color, for instance,
gave the caricaturists of his day chances
they made the most of.
H: jH % He
“Freezer”: Sydney Legacy Club is
starting a campaign to abolish the black
cloth evening coat in
favor of the short shell-
jacket of white duck.
This is the universal
evening-dress among
civilians and members
of the services in tropi-
cal countries outside
Australia, being worn
with a white waistcoat
or a cummerbund.
There is much to be said
for such a garment in
the hot weather, though
everyone has not the
figure for it. One draw-
back is that, in places
unaccustomed to the in-
novation, the wearer is
apt to be mistaken for
a waiter, though this
might be overcome by
equipping the waiters in
colored jackets. But
the chief obstacle is
human nature. I was
one of several mission-
aries who tried to in-
troduce the jacket to
N.Q. years ago. But
even in Townsville and
Cairns the herd remained true to black
broadcloth tails.
“Lex”: An Anglican parson in Vic-
toria claimed last week that “diocesan
officials were pressing Archbishop Head
to get rid of him.”
Archdeacon Hancock openly accused me
of writing an article in the “Labor Call”
which was immoral, heretical and blas-
phemous.
If he is dealt with under the Clergy
Offences Act the authorities will have
their work cut out to prove an offence.
Nobody has been inhibited yet in Aus-
tralia for expressing political opinions ;
and inhibition is only imposed in Eng-
land in the rare cases where a clergyman
has been first convicted by a civil Court.
The procedure then is under the Benefices
Act (1898), and the charge usually is that
respondent has broken his ordination
vows by omitting to “maintain and set
forward quietness, peace and love.” The
Act existed for nearly 20 years before it
was even invoked. The offending cleric
in the English case had not only habitu-
ally used bad language but had been
fined in a police court for assaulting a
parishioner. Even so, it took a K.B.D.
Judge, a bishop and the Archbishop of
Canterbury to push him out.
$ & * *
“Ex-Scot”: I endorse what “Ex-Eng-
lishman” says about the silliness of
the sunbathing craze in Australia (B.
13/2/’35). Medical authorities are waking
up to the fact that excessive exposure to
sunshine is more injurious to the human
constitution than having to live under
dull grey skies. Two instances have come
under my notice lately of a serious break-
down in health directly attributable to
sunbathing. Australians will get dark
quite soon enough without hastening the
process. In the course of a few more
generations our descendants will be do-
ing their best to keep the fair skin and
complexion of their ancestors.
v 'l'
“Vieux Marcheur”: As “0.8. J.” says
(B. 27/2/’35) few to-day can realise the
wave of loyalty which swept over Britain
at Queen Victoria’s first jubilee, loyalty
expressed in odes, sonnets and music-
hall ditties. Of the last, the one that
sticks in my memory was sung by Vesta
Tilley, not yet Lady de Frece. It had a
heart-gripping refrain that nightly moved
the front stalls and the Olympians in the
gallery to howls of patriot fervor. This
ran;
May Good Queen Victoria reign!
May she with us long remain!
Until ballet-girls’ clothes
Reach down to their toes,
May Good Queen Victoria reign!
* * *
“Taurus”: Casual transportation of
currency? In 1919 the tidy sum of
£21,000 in £1 notes was brought from the
Charters Towers branch of a bank to the
Townsville branch. The stuff travelled in
an ordinary suitcase thrown up on the hat-
rack of the railway carriage ; the neatly-
packed notes filled the case to the brim.
There was no escort; nobody was likely
to suspect the battered old suitcase of
holding a fortune. A year before I saw
the payroll being sent out to the C.S.R.
Co.’s sugar-mill at Hambledon, near
Cairns. The amount was only £4OO, but
the bag was firmly padlocked in the
motor-car in which were two C.S.R.
officers. A policeman with service rifle
rode at the side.
TED TO JACK.
“Mr. Lang doesn’t want me in his party. Well,
1 don’t want to be in his party.”— Mr. Theodore.
Time was we browsed contentedly together,
Twin snow-white lambkins in the Labor fold.
Mine was the silver tongue; the lungs of
leather
Were his, but both of us had hearts of gold,
So comrades said. We made the pace a
cracker,
We slated Capital with vicious vim;
And now than he to me there’s no one
blacker —
And so it is with him.
He wouldn’t trust “that Queensland chap,” it’s
stated,
In any boat of his an oar to pull—
A courteous sentiment, reciprocated
As far as it concerns me, to the full.
I am anathema to him, I gather,
And philosophically I agree.
But what’s the use of all this froth and
blather?
He’s just the same to me.
He doesn’t want me! All the fuss and flurry
About the fact seems needless, I’ll declare.
The simple reason that he needn’t worry
Lies in the simple fact: I won’t be there!
Now what’s the use of all these verbal shindies
By olive-showing blokes the board who bang?
F° r a H the wealth that lies in all the Indies
l’U never click with Lang!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 9 d *
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane"
which protects
and ensures fac-
tor/ freshness
always.
Craven “A’ ’ have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
cravens:
Made specially to prevent sore throats■
1 J
s
;^i
I .. I
3| •s*
; f J lT
mm^,
m : -wtm
. I
i I I
. A -M
\. <: <W VS W
vV
S 1
V. Wa
.
1
'
i wmmt
s
POLITICAL POINTS
Though his policy speech was anything
but inspiring, Argyle did some effective
campaigning for the Vic. U.A.P. Some
of the things said by Tunnecliffe and
young lions of the Crown Employees’
Federation stirred his Scotch blood, and
he hit back spiritedly. His party polled
better than most of its opponents ex-
pected, and he remains the only Pre-
mier who was in the AXF. But he has
turned 67, and his health bothered him
last year; so he is unlikely to retain the
distinction for long.
Harold Cohen, now M.L.A. for Caul-
field, looks to have the best chance of
succeeding Argyle as Premier. With the
Council of Churches and other influences
against him, be had a 2000 majority in
Caulfield, whereas Macfarian, who is
keen on stepping into Argyle’s shoes, was
hard put to it in Brighton. He had
asked for “a crushing victory,” and all
he got was a majority of 400 or so in a
poll of 24,000 or thereabouts. There
was no Labor candidate, and one of the
local Labor branches asked its members
to support the Attorney-General. That
helped him at the ballot-box, but it
won’t help him when the succession
has to be decided,
Scullin brightened an otherwise dull
election campaign by rushing about Vic-
toria predicting “a big swing to Labor.”
One of the places at which he did this
was Box Hill, where he introduced
Arthur Lewis as the future member for
Nuna wading, “and a member of whom
you may be proud.”
He was member for Corio during the
critical years 1929-30, and there was no
man among my colleagues for whom I
had a greater affection.
At the moment it is doubtful whether
Lewis or Greenwood, the cold-tea man,
will be third. There were three starters.
Stevens and co. are about to employ
another 17,000 men on relief works, and
are raising the pay a bit, while liberalis-
ing the conditions. It is doubtless kind
of them, but it leaves the cheerless im-
pression that relief work is now re-
garded as a permanency. Sweeping re-
duction of taxes, conditional on work
being given, ought to be tried before
Governments drift into that state of
mind.
In September, 1931, £l3O Australian
was worth 100 sovereigns. To-day £125
Australian is worth only 57 sovereigns ;
in other words, it would take £212 Aus-
tralian to buy 100 sovereigns at present.
Our currency has depreciated 53 per cent,
since 1929, And yet there are people
who advocate pushing it down further!
Back in Sydney from Fiji, where the
rich uncles come from, and looking
rather like a rich uncle himself, Theo-
dore opened fire at Lang.
I understand that Mr. Lang doesn’t
want me in his party. Well, I don’t
want to be in his party, so there need be
no disagreement on that point.
There was no retort from John Thomas.
He never stands up fo a man who faces
him fairly.
One of the things for which the N, S.
Wales Bavin Government is favorably
remembered is its Consorting Act. So
many criminals fled south to escape it
that Victoria passed a Consorting Act,
too. That sent them on their travels
again, and of late many of the naughty
boys and girls have been finding their
way to Tasmania. So the Speck is to
have a Consorting Act of its own.
Westralian Labor promises “legislation
to punish persons who furnish mislead-
ing reports on goldfields and mines.” As
the law stands, “anyone,” the Premier
says, “can call himself a mining engi-
neer and attach statements to prospec-
tuses which would mislead investors.”
Also anyone can put his name on the
prospectus of an undeveloped show. One
of Collier’s own colleagues did it in the
case of Yellowdine Gold Options; he
figured as the first of the four directors,
and was described as “The Hon. John C.
Willcock, M.L.A., Minister for Justice.”
Shouldn’t that kind of thing be for-
bidden, too?
Queensland’s State Service Union, to
which Government clerks must belong or
take the sack, sent delegates to the Labor
conference at Maryborough. ,In Victoria
about the same time the chiefs of the
organised public servants instructed their
members to “put Government candidates
last.” Said the president of the Crown
Employees’ Federation, “Public servants
have the right to use their power poli-
tically, just as have other sections of the
community.” Precisely, and the other
sections have likewise the right to pro-
te c t themselves
against abuses of
that power. They
might do it by
giving Government
employees separate
representation.
It transpires that
T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., is an un-
official member of
the huge party that
Lyons is taking to
London. A Gov-
ernment in which
Lang was Treasurer
put Murray into
the old Leg, Coun-
cil with instruc-
tions to vote for its
abolition. When
Lang and Loughlin
had their struggle
for supremacy,
T.G. sided with the
latter, and after
another palace re-
volution or two he
joined the U.A.P.,
becoming the first
member of the
elective Upper
House. His friends
assert that no man
did more to make
Lyons Prime Min-
ister. The claim is
disputed by friends
of another gentle-
man, who followed
Murray from the
old Chamber into
the new, and still
belongs to one of the Labor factions.
An R.C. bishop suggested the other
day that every candidate for the N. S.
Wales Assembly should be asked whether
he was for or against grants to church
schools. This question was not exactly
an issue at the Victorian election, but it
was mentioned by Archbishop Head as
if it were a matter concerning Catholic
schools alone. According to.the “Age,”
reporting him in the third person, he
said, “In England, where such grants
were made, the church schools were un-
able to provide education comparable
with that given in State schools.” It is
to be hoped that this statement won’t
disturb the good relations established
when the Archbishop hobnobbed with
Dr. Mannix at that Town Hall recep-
tion.
A question asked in the House of
Commons elicited the astonishing infor-
mation that £44,900,000 has been sub-
scribed to 13 Irish Free State sweeps. Aus-
tralia is being bombarded with literature
from the office in Dublin, particularly
South Aus., which has no sweeps of its
own. Butler is aggrieved about it, but
not so much as Stevens, who is to bring
the matter up at the next Premiers’ Con-
ference and demand better protection for
this country’s morals or lotteries or some-
thing.
The South African Government, which
takes half the gold premium for the ser-
vice of the country, reports another sub-
stantial surplus—£2,2so,ooo this time.
Part of it is to be devoted to reintroduc-
ing the old halfpenny charge on commer-
cial letters (penny postage exists already)
and part to wiping out the deficits of the
provinces. The Union is lucky to have
a Government that can do this. Perhaps
it is luckier still to have provinces, and
not States with huge debts and concur-
rent powers.
Freedom from Ministerial cares evi-
dently suits Stewart, M.H.R. He never
uttered a quotable sentence when in
office, but since he became a private
member with a consultative brief, as it
were, he has said pertinent things, es-
“Tie myself to your rope, eh? No, thanks, Mr. Tunnecliffe
I'll leave things as they are!”
pecially on the subject of persons in
comfortable circumstances who could
employ young men and don’t.
Two of the three Federal Arbitration
Judges now have their daughters as associ-
ates. Each gets £2500 p.a. and the associ-
ate (also paid out of public funds) slightly
over £3OO p.a. The latter position would
be a godsend to many a legal graduate
now disconsolately tramping the streets.
It had to be said, but no Minister would
have said it.
The lawless strike at Brisbane abattoirs
is imperilling the new chilled-beef indus-
try. Unless continuity of supplies can
be guaranteed there is small hope for
it; and one shipment has already been
cancelled because of the strike, while
others may have to be. Forgan Smith
chides the wreckers from time to time,
but does nothing more, though at Mary-
borough his party renewed its adhesion
to industrial arbitration.
Six months ago the name of Egon
Kisch was unknown in Australia. For
three months he has been a headliner
in every daily newspaper. In the history
of showmanship there are parallel cases ;
but in such cases press-agents are hired.
The Kisch boom was unwittingly created
by the Commonwealth Government,
applying an Immigration Restriction law
which failed to stand the acid test. A
young Minister, in office for a few days
only, started it, and three other Ministers
have been concerned in it. The last —
Senator Tom Brennan —has agreed to
withdraw all proceedings conditionally
on Kisch leaving this week, the Com-
monwealth to pay part of his costs.
Britain expelled Kisch without making
any fuss about it or allowing any to be
made. In Maoriland he would not have
lasted a day. Only in Australia could
he have entered and carried on his pro-
paganda in open contempt of the
national authority. Still, if the power to
shut out unwanted aliens is lacking it
can be got; the Constitution, defective
as it is, prescribes a way.
Roosevelt-worship is on the wane. It
was carried to such a pitch of frenzy that
even sober Republican periodicals sur-
rendered to it. In a “Saturday Evening
Post” rhapsody a gentleman who has
visited Australia described the President
as the greatest statesman and the clever-
est politician on airth; the first Roose-
velt was a fool to him. Now the second
Roosevelt is finding out how a god feels
when former idolaters jump on him.
One certain result of the Vic. election
will be the liberalising of the Transport
Regulation Act and other measures strik-
ing at commercial motor interests. They
were disowned by some of the Ministers
—Transport Regulation especially. Argyle
attempted a defence of it, but the best
he could find to say was that it was not
so drastic as corresponding measures in
force beyond the border.
In every other State all forms of com-
petitive road transport which duplicate
railway transport have, except in very
limited areas, been eradicated. This has
not been the policy in Victoria.
It is, of course, the policy in N. S.
Wales. And if Stevens and Bruxner
don’t alter it they will have to reckon
with an organised protest even more for-
midable than the one that shook the
Argyles.
George Serle, of Brunswick (Vic,),
threatens to go to gaol rather than pay
his fine for not voting at the Common-
wealth election. “Why,” he asks, “should
I be compelled to vote for one of two
men when I have no faith in either?”
He could have avoided all trouble by
placing a blank paper in the ballot-box;
but really the ballot-paper of the future
will have to contain a conscientious-
objector’s square.
Melbourne “Argus” is growing very
confused on the tariff issue. It stars an
article by Dr. Downey with headlines
criticising the Australian tariff. But when
the matter is read the following passage
stands out:
I believe that every country ought to safe-
guard its industries by imposing tariffs on
imported competitive goods, but imposing
tariffs simply as a means of raising revenue
is, to my mind, an unsound economic pro-
position.
The “Argus” has forgotten how it fought
tooth and nail for a revenue tariff. Dr,
Downey is only repeating what Austra-
lian Protectionists have been advocating
for two generations.
Prof. Ernest Scott scored neatly over
Customs Minister White’s offer to supply
so-called pornographic passages out of
censored books and challenge publica-
tion. Scott asked whether White would
apply the same test to the Bible, Shak-
speare and, as a former secretary of the
Repertory Society, to plays by Hardy and
Galsworthy.


In the north they dont use
SPEED-BOATS, THE TURTLES
ARE SO FAST. ''
Our Steam-rollers are a menace to the pedestrian
YOU SHOULD SEE THE SU RF-BATHERS MOVE WHEN
THE SHARK BELL SOUNDS.
lb SAVE TIME Some PEOPLE
SLEEP WITH THEIR BOOTS OM .
Runner Beans so suck they use
BOUNDARY RPERS.
Oue POUITIciW«jS MM<E PROMISES So PAST
THEY Don't HAVE. TIME TO KEEP THENA.
AS. FOJ? -THE . *
IT’S A FAST COUNTRY.
“Australia is a land of prodigies. Vitality is the keynote; nothing moves at a normal pace.”— Archbishop Downey, on his return to Liverpool.


«s
AFTER TEN
COMES
SHELL
By prolonged research on new lines, Shell has
achieved the ideal super spirit a crystal-clear,
straight petrol so high in anti-knock value that it
is even more modem than the most modern high-
compression engines on the road.
This new fuel development, years in advance of any
other first-grade spirit, is the finest way by far of
fuelling your car.
ANTI KNOCK. .CRYSTAL CLEAR..SUPER-CHARGED
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John James Virgo will be in Australia
next month on his tenth world’s tour
for the Y.M.C.A. The association
was a very small affair so far as Virgo’s
birthplace, S. Aus., was concerned when
he dedicated his life to it 48 years ago.
Since then he has risen to be its general
secretary in London. For 16 years he
has declined to draw a salary.
Fifty-one years at sea without experi-
encing a shipwreck, an accident or a
day’s illness is the record of Walter
Bennett, of the retiring T.S.S. Loongana.
He claims, at 71, to be the oldest chief
steward in the British Empire. Since he
entered the Bass Strait service in 1884,
aboard the Flinders, Bennett has travelled
a million nautical miles and has cared for
more than 500,000 passengers.
“Dante,” who is owed £2OOO by a
W.A. pastoralist in connection with an
assault case, and who moved to have
his assailant’s estate sequestrated last
week, is the only conjuror to have a
champion show jumper named after him.
The late Harry Morton—afterwards
Speaker of the N. S. Wales Assembly—
met Jansen when as “Dante” he was a
star turn at the old Tivoli. Morton was
an enthusiastic amateur conjuror as well
as a judge of horseflesh, and such was
his admiration for the illusionist’s art
that he named one of the best of his
string “Dante.” “Dante” won at the
R.A.S. and all over N. S. Wales, first as
Morton’s and then as Judd’s property, 30
years ago.
Prof. Woodruff (Vic.) has lectured on
his Russian experiences, and dealt with the
anti-religious propaganda of the U.S.S.R.
Government so dispassionately that many
listeners were inclined to think he was
an agnostic. In fact, he is a prominent
Victorian Methodist.
BERTRAND LATHAM, banker.
A study by Syd Miller of Bertrand
Latham, of the Commonwealth Bank,
who has gone to London “on official
business.” He joined the bank in Mel-
bourne 23 years ago, and came to Syd-
ney when the head office was opened in
Martin-place.
“Lex” on the High Court:
Duffy, C.J., has gone on six months’ leave,
and Rich, J., is Acting C.J. As the CJ. has
turned 83 and had six months off (Feb. to
August) in 1933 it looks as if this will be his
last leave. If Latham doesn’t succeed him
Rich may. It would be in accordance with
recent precedents: Isaacs, as senior Judge, suc-
ceeded Knox, and Duffy succeeded Isaacs.
By an inter-State shuffle in the Bank
of N.S.W., G. B. Sheridan, Adelaide
manager, comes to Sydney to relieve T.
B. Heffer as chief inspector. C. L. Hall
moves from Perth to Adelaide, and G.
A. Whitehouse from Hobart to Perth.
“M.P.”: The last survivor of the
pioneer telegraphists who, in 1858,
erected a line between Sydney and Liver-
pool is William Camper, J.P. He has
been living at Beecroft since 1908. Born
in London in 1845 he came to N. S.
Wales with his parents in the Isabella
Harcus in 1853, and entered the tele-
graph service as a cadet under Captain
Martindale, R.N., three years later. His
first appointment was to Redfern railway
station ; his next to Campbelltown, then
the southern railhead. In 1867 he opened
the Wentworth office as a border repeat-
ing station, and stayed on there for 23
years.
About a newspaper family;
Maoriland’s foremost afternoon newspaper,
Wellington “Evening Post,” has been celebrat-
ing its 70th birthday. It is a family property—
founded in 1865 by Henry Blundell, a John
Bull type, side-whiskers and all. He had been
manager for many years of the Dublin “Even-
ing Mail,” and got his colonial newspaper ex-
perience as manager first of the “Lyttelton
Times” and then of the “Otago Daily Times,”
the Dominion’s oldest morning journals. He
planted the “Post” in Wellington against strong
competition, and, with the assistance of sons
John, Henry and Louis (the old man was
manager and editor for years), made it a
power in the land. Louis Blundell, last sur-
vivor of the sons, died three months ago.
Four Blundells of a later generation carry
on the direction, and because they, like their
forebears, were suckled on printers’ ink, they
get on well with their employees. The “Post”
has always been independent in its political
policy. Its greatest editor was Gresley Lukin,
a democratic autocrat, who regarded his staff
as a family and whose sayings and doings are
part of the Maoriland journalistic tradition.
Joseph Parker is the present editor.
Brigadier-G e n e r a 1
Byron, who died in
Cape Town recently,
did a lot of soldiering
in his time. An Irish-
man, he was for some
years an officer in the
Queensland State artil-
lery. Then he served
as attache to the Yan-
kees in the Philippines.
A special-service officer
in the Boer War, he
accompanied Methuen
in the advance on Kim-
berley, and was wound-
ed at Magersfontein.
Later he was on
Roberts’s stalf, and, re-
turning to Australia,
was for a time A.A.G.
He served in German
South-west and in East
and Central Africa dur-
ing the big scrap, and
was wounded again.
After a spell in Flan-
ders he went to Persia
with the Dunsterforce
as second-in-command.
In addition to foreign
decorations he held the
D.S.O. and C.M.G.
From 1910-20 he was a
Senator of the South
African Union.
John Grice, commer-
cial magnate, sportsman
and celebrated Melb.
figure, is dead at 84. He did everything
well —took high degrees at Melbourne
University, passed well for the Vic. Bar,
rowed in the ’Varsity eight, made a
happy marriage and more money than
he could spend. But he lost two splen-
did sons —sportsmen like himself —one
in the S’African, the other in the World
War. He was knighted for his Red Cross
and other war services in 1917.
Believed to be Melbourne’s oldest liv-
ing Scotch Collegian, John McNaughton,
of Richmond, recently celebrated his
93rd. birthday. He was born under
canvas on the site now occupied by the
Sarah Sands Hotel in Sydney-road,
Brunswick, and first attended “Scotch” in
1856.
George Mc-
Arthur, manager
of Red Funnel
Trawlers, Ltd.,
was manager of
a coastal ship-
ping company till
three years ago.
He comes of sea-
faring stock. His
father was a
lieut. - commander
(R.N.R.), and his
grandfather, Com-
mander George
Rennie Mc-
Arthur, R.N.,
served under Nel-
son at Trafalgar.
One of the family
heirlooms is a
Nelson telescope.
Harold Cohen,
the new member
for Caulfield, is
the most interest-
ing of those who
were returned to
the Vic. Assem-
bly last week.
He is talked of as
the next Premier.
Still in the early
fifties, this small-
is h, darkish,
stoutish Jew is
as fit and ener-
getic physically
and mentally as
he was when he
left for Egypt in
command of an
A.F.A. brigade nearly 20 years ago.
He did great work in France (C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., etc.); is a solicitor, chair-
man of Carlton and United Brew-
eries, a prominent figure in the Boy
Scout movement and one of the richest
men in Australia, He was celebrated in
the A.I.F. for his sense of humor, demo-
cratic ways and appalling clothes. His
amiability didn’t prevent him from being
a rigid disciplinarian, and any of his
officers who had worn an old driver’s
overcoat, as he often did, wouldn’t have
renewed the experiment. He resigned
from the Vic. Upper House to contest
Harold Luxton’s vacated Assembly seat.
About a genuine worker:
A little Leeton (N.S.W.) woman, Mrs. Gwen
Green, has done wonderful work for the local
fruit-canning industry. In 1933 the stores held
20,000,000 unsold tins of fruit; and the can-
neries were refusing to take more than half the
fruit crops, Mrs. Green, as president of the
Leeton branch of the Country Women’s Associ-
ation, told a conference of her organisation that
children were being sweated since growers could
no longer pay for labor. She was made head
of a campaign committee which, through
women’s organisations, appealed to every house-
wife in Australia to add two extra tins of
fruit monthly to the housekeeping lists. The
old stocks melted; to-day growers are receiving
£ll to £l2 (as against £7 10s.) for all the fruit
they can supply, and are hungry for labor;
and the other industries concerned —the sugar
industry is one—-are benefiting. Mrs. Green
did the job for £lO0 —postages, printing and a
few fares; her own services and those of her
assistants were voluntary.
“Willie” George, as he was known in
the Melbourne rag trade, passed out at
80 last week. Governing director of
George’s Pty., Ltd., he was a schoolmate
of the late Lord Oxford, and renewed
acquaintance with the statesman just be-
fore the latter’s death. “Willie” refused to
build huge new premises like some other
drapers, believing that bricks and mortar
were frozen assets which shouldn’t
account for more than 25 p.c. of a firm’s
capital. Mr. George liked to recall the
fact that he commenced business in Paris
in 1870 the day after the Franco-Prussian
War began.
Thomas Armstrong, who beat Major-
General Rosenthal by 14 votes for the
N.S.W. Legislative Council vacancy
created by the transference of H. S.
Nicholas to the Supreme Court Bench,
GEORGE McARTHUR, fisherman.
comes from Newcastle. He has been
in the service of J. and A, Brown, col-
liery proprietors, all his working life;
and is now manager of the business.
Since John Brown’s death four years
ago, he has been deputy-chairman of
directors. Rotary and the Y.M.C.A. are
his other interests.
Amazing stories are told of Fred
Briggs, of Nymboida (N.S.W.), who
died last week aged just on 70. This
superlative tracker was a pure-blooded
abo. who had lived in the district
since birth. From boyhood he could
identify and explain marks which
were invisible to Caucasian eyes through
a microscope. No fugitive ever evaded
him when he was helping the police,
and he saved the lives of many bushed
settlers. As straight as a die, and the
possessor of a kindly nature and a robust
sense of humor, Briggs got his first job
from Edward Blaxland, of the famous
pioneering family.
“Oxon” discusses N.S.W. Rhodes
scholars:
Since Wilfred Barton (now at the London
Bar) won the first Rhodes scholarship in 1904
there have been 30 awards, none being made
in 1915 and 1917. Only 17 scholars have
returned to Australia. W. F. Crawford (1914)
is with the East African Civil Service, and R. L.
Raymond is attached to the Indian Air Force
Medical Service. Of the remaining 11, some
will return, but several appear definitely lost,
viz., H. K. Ward (1911), a British Government
bacteriologist; R. N. Kershaw (1918), economic
adviser to the Bank of England ; A. W.
Wheen (1919), the translator of “All Quiet
on the Western Front,” who is an English
librarian; and A. J. Foote (1924), who is in
the dental section of the British Army Medical
Service. N. K. Lamport (1930) resigned his
scholarship after a few years to take an English
engineering appointment.


a*
SB
X
X
m
m
I
SAFETY More
non-skid blocks.
SMOOTHNESS-
Wider riding ribs.
DURABILITY- —Supertwist Cord Carcass
(an exclusive Goodyear feature).
TRACTION
Flatter, wider,
thicker tread.
MILEAGE
Pounds more
rubber in the tread
THESE FEATURES FORM THE BASIS OF
GOODYEAR'S PROMISED 43% MORE
NON-SKID MILEAGE AT NO EXTRA COST
promise
bq Breaking
all Records for
Non-skid Mileage
IjtteDfeeß Tfere ;
x
B-C7-3S
"The public's judgment is generally right."
And now, after months of running on the
"G-3", come glowing reports from all over
Australia of amazing tread wear still left
after high mileages. The unprecedented
success of the "G-3" is due to the fact
that its claims of longer non-skid mileage
have been proved—indeed far beyond the
claims, as indicated by these extracts from
letters received:—
“The ‘G-3’ is giving me over three non-skid
miles for every two I had before. That’s a
lot more than 43 per cent’’
—A.W.R. (N.S.W.)
“The tread wear is hardly noticeable , . ,
and / consider I will get ‘another 60 per cent,
non-skid mileage from these ‘G-3’s’.”
—S.T. (Q.)
“Regarding the performance of the ‘G-3’, I
have found that the non-skid mileage has
been bettered by a good 50 per cent.”
—J.G. (N.S.W.)
ving done well over 20,000 miles, / say
claim of 43 per cent, more non-skid
very modest estimate for the
ige
i 9
is a


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Southern Cross Assurance
This co. was promoted by Thomas
Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500 in
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director: —•
Ordinary Branch.
Excess Out-
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92‘173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
Surplus
June, Income.
1924 f.. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 75,994
1925 .. 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 .. 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 .. 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 .. 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.’s business .bought.
Added funds, £27,003 .. .. .. 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 .. 221,349
Added establishment account, £lO .. 221,339
1932 ..195,736 61,389 91,499 42,848 264,187
Written off shares, etc. £11,517 .. 252,670
1933 . . 203,535 58,333 101,809 43,393 296,063
Written off shares, etc., £22,464 .. 273,599
1934 . . 195,719 61,518 91,424 42,777 316,376
Written off various assets, £15,498 . . 300,878
+lO months.
At the start the aim was to quickly
develop a large business. That and other
things made the fight expensive, while
low costs are one of the factors upon
which regular and satisfactory bonuses
to policy-holders and dividends to share-
holders depend. Still, after deducting
the Accident fund (£3191), and assuming
that the Life fund (£559,527, up £27,280)
exactly covers liabilities under policies,
and that tangible assets are all worth
their book value, none of the money be-
longing to policy-holders has yet been lost.
But £262,579 of the £300,000 of share
capital was unrepresented by tangibles in
the books at June 30 last.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
1931. 1933. 1934.
Freeholds, etc £ 199,823 £221,270 £232,597
Equipment . . ■ . 24,285 24,420 23,526
Govt, securities . . 138,090 129,368 129,368
Mortgages, etc. .. 76,174 47,419 63,321
Loans on policies . . 22,194 52,922 64,419
Shares other cos., etc. 13,885 25,919 24,965
Book debts . . . . 90,334 93,161 74,847
Cash 12,987 4,560 5,349
Tangible assets .. £577,772 £699,039 £618,392
Liabilities* .. .. 55,622 23,444 18,253
Net tangible assets .. £522,150 £575,695 £600,139
*Other than under policies.
Most of the year’s surplus takings
(£42,777) were invested in freeholds, etc.
(up £11,327), mortgages, etc. (up £15,902),
and loans on policies (up £11,497). The
figure at which freeholds, etc., appear
was written after deducting a reserve of
£19,222. The etcetera includes equities,
subdivisional land unsold and balances
owing by purchasers under contract of
sale. Government securities figure at
approximately £12,000 less than their
market value. But life offices usually
hold this class of paper till maturity ;
thus the difference, if any, between face
and book values -means most. The
growth in the book value of net tangibles
was only £24,544 —£2736 less than was
added to the Life fund. That was be-
cause £15,498 was written off and/or
reserved against the book value of vari-
ous assets, making the total sum used
in this way over the last four years
£60,617.
Recently the board decided to “restrict
’the costly writing of new business for
the next few years.” That it has a man’s-
size job ahead in this and other respects
is plain from the amount of share capi-
tal awaiting replacement by solid
revenue-producing assets.
During the year four of the eight
branches in S. Africa were closed. The
contraction in the amount of new busi-
ness written was £38,066, but the lot was
put on the books at less cost:
1930. 1933. 1934.
Proposals accepted 7,737 4,555 4,546
Total new policies £2,112,811 £1,263,425 £1,215,859
First premiums . . 68,954 41,320 35,908
Renewal premiums 147,537 143,298 139,412
Interest, rent, etc. 17,306 18,917 20,399
Total income . . 223,797 203,535 195,719
The average amount per policy (£267)
was £8 lighter, and the average premium
per cent. (£3 10s. Id.) slipped 3s. 9d.,
which suggests that more short-term
business was written. Surrenders and
lapses (£20,865, down £6505) were
largely responsible for the contrac-
tion in renewal premiums. Exclud-
ing interest payments (£795) and Gov-
ernment taxes (£3155, down £911),
exes, took 49.8 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, as against 52.6 p.c. for the
previous year. The mortality experience
was 63 p.c. of the actuarial expectation.
The office assumes that its investments
will net 4 p.c. on its Life fund. Last
year’s interest and rents (£20,399, up
£1482), less tax, were equal to £3 3s. 2d.
p.c. on the mean fund, an improvement
of 6s. 3d. p.c., due partly to reduction
in taxation. Further steady improvement
in this interest rate will be one of the
tests of the management’s success in its
new efforts.
The best assistance policy-holders can
give the management is to maintain their
payments.
Huddart, Parker. Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Deo., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£, £, £ £
1924. .142,315 30,000 121 p.c.=93,750 18,565 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 12*,, „ 93,750 9,255 618,034
.1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. 30,000 10 ~ ~ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 ~ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. 30,000 8 „ ~ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
The price of this co.’s scrip, like that
of others in the inter-State shipping
group, suffered little in the recent set-
back on the Stock Exchanges. Over the
last 12 months the pound ords. advanced
from 335. 9d. to 38s. 6d. —9d. of the
gain was lost and recovered during Feb-
ruary. Allowing for the final div., the
yield at 38s. 6d. is 3.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
distribution. The well-protected prefs.
(there are half a million of them, carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.) return
3.8 p.c. at 31s.
The spring in the figures was due to
marked improvement in both passenger
and cargo traffic on the inter-State and
trans-Tasman runs. The popularity of
tourist cruises, the Melbourne centenary
and the Eucharistic Congress there all
helped, while the sale of the Ulimaroa
(she was replaced by the Wanganella
early in 1933 to meet competition from
the Matson line) relieved the pressure
on outgoings. The co.’s coal interests,
which used to contribute largely to the
pool, are now poor earners, and seem
likely to remain so, for a while at any
rate. These include the Hebburn and
Metropolitan pits (the latter on the
southern N. S. Wales field) and a
holding in J. and A. Brown and
Abermain-Seaham collieries. The last-
named paid p.c. for the year to June
30 last; it since lost its contract with
Australian Gas for 350,000 tons or more
of coal annually, but picked up another
from the N.S.W. Government Railways
for 250,000 tons p.a.
The net result (up £12,662) was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 7.4 p.c,
on ord. capital as against 5.7, 5.5, 5.4,
11.5, 13.7, 17.4 and 18.6 p.c. back to
1927. The figures include net additions
to the insurance fund (£312,253, up
£1966 last year). A couple of points'
were added to the div., raising it to 7
p.c., making the average 9.7 p.c. since
1922, when £250,000 of bonus scrip, one
for two, lifted paid capital to its present
figure. In addition to the lay-by shown
in the table, there is the reserve for
“contingencies, taxation, repairs, etc.”
(unchanged at £424,691 since the end of
1931), some or all of which may be
true profit.
The sale already referred to is re-
flected in a net reduction of £158,213 in
the book value of ships, etc. The etcetera
includes freeholds and shares in other
cos.:
1924. 1933. 1934.
Ships, etc. .. £1,055,442 £1,525,128 £1,366,915
Cash . . . . 35,127 4,268 4,318
Book debts . . 159,817 93,534 94,153
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,204,307 1,287,874
Stores .. . . 54,441 35,471 38,882
Total assets . . £2,588,083 £2,862,708 £2,792,142
Less liabilities.. 311,052 386,415 301,358
Net assets . . £2,227,031 £2,476,293 £2,490,784
Outside liabilities were reduced by
£85,057, and £83,567 was added to in-
vestments, largely Government securities
and debentures. Appearances are that
the co. could return half its capital if it
wanted to, without hamstringing itself.
As for the current term, earnings will
be governed mainly by the volume of
tourist and cargo traffic.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends —-— % To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1928.. 21.324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles £32 .. .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. .. 9,114
1929.. 39.590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 .. .. 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added Intangibles, £9O .. .. 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil = 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added Intangibles, £8 .. .. 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil = 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added Intangibles, £64 .. .. 52,638
1933.. 24.578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. = 21,250 3,328 55,966
1934.. 82.331 7f „ 7£ „ „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
Pref. div. subject 22J p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
With the worst of the troubles arising
from slump and domestic differences out
of the way, and with discriminating State
industrial legislation replaced by a
Federal award, this 13-year-old has again
given a very good account of itself. Im-
proved production methods and savings
in administration and distribution charges
allowed it to lower selling prices, while
the opening of selling branches in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane helped to revive
turnover. As the pressure of stocks upon
the market eased, and conditions gener-
ally improved, net earnings responded,
and the prefs.’ slate was cleaned at the
end of 1933, when, after a three-year
wait, the ords. got back into the picture
with 5 p.c.
It is to increased efficiency rather than
lower wages that the Australian manu-
facturer has to look for a reduction in
costs that will enable him to win profits
in highly-competitive markets.
Last year the mill manager was sent
abroad to keep abreast of developments
in the industry, and installation of a new
boiler and coal-handling equipment re-
sulted in “marked savings in operating
costs” ; in the prevous year, some expen-
sive selling agreements were terminated.
Despite unfavorable seasonal conditions,
reflected in the growth in stocks, gross
earnings (£160,853) were £9903 better.
Exes. (£128,695, including provision for
taxation, etc.) took £2151 of the increase.
Allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
the net result sprang £7753, reaching
12.9 p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined), and an all-round p.c. was dis-
tributed. While the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act remains in force, the
prefs. are entitled to advance with the
ords. from 7| p.c. to 10 p.c.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:
1929. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Ord. capital \ 91Q 7 ,- Q ) 166,667 166,667 166,667
Pref. capital) 83,333 83,333 83,333
Overdraft . . 43,171 59,070 36,039 27,483
Creditors . . 94,940 28,095 33,318 40,163
Freeholds . . 40,472 41,600 43,330 45,626
Plant.. .. 135,934 140,530 141,187 142,732
Stocks . . 180,527 128,228 120,558 127,689
Debtors . . 85,239 95,371 101,318 97,770
Cash, etc. . . 1,352 1,691 3,808 2,722
The year’s growth of £2296 in the
book value of freeholds was due to the
purchase of an adjoining block, the idea
being to provide for future expansion of
the business. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£160,530, in-
cluding stocks) was £4203.
On the market the prefs. fetch 28s. 6d.
and the ords. 285., as against 28s. 3d.
and 245. 4d. respectively a year ago. At
the higher price the prefs. return 5.4
p.c. and the ords. 5.5 p.c. on a 7| p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
£3 16s. 6d. prefs. and 28s. 3d. ords.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Ke-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 15,252 10 p.c. = 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16,917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ ~ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191. . 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
The market expected better. The fully-
paid pound shares, which rose from 10s.
6d. a year ago to 15s. 6d. before publi-
cation of the accounts, now fetch 12s. Bd.
The return at that figure would be a
shade under 4 p.c. on the basis of a
p.c. div., which would call for £3250.
The high price of wool and the visit of
Prince Henry brought more people to
Sydney during the last term, and there
was continued growth in employment.
The co.’s gross earnings (£24,051) were
£661 better. Exes. (£23,111, including
£4227 struck off for depreciation of the
lease, etc.) were £92 lighter. The net
result was thus £753 better at £940. That
was after charging £2191 of the amount
spent on renovations and repairs to re-
serves.
So, for the fourth year in succession,
shareholders were passed by. Too much
notice need not be taken of the pre-
ceding run of 10 p.c. divs., made possible
by high prices and public loan money
from overseas. After a nine years’
struggle, including five without a license,
distributions began in 1921. Capital was
doubled by a gift issue in 1923, assets
being written up £65,000 for the purpose.
Then, about eight years ago, the prem-
ises were remodelled and extended, and
the board went to its bankers for the
money, lifting the overdraft to £50,954
at the end of 1927. It has since been re-
duced to £30,528, down £4390 during
the last term:
1925. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . 19,125 45,334 34,918 30,528
Creditors .. 6,474 4,858 3,347 4,869
Buildings . . 137,373 164,349 156,225 153,312
Furniture, etc. 25,276 26,288 17,523 16,209
Stocks . . 5,184 3,674 2,546 2,579
Book debts, etc. 3,559 3,329 2,160 2,104
During the year £4227 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets.
When the books closed, liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £30,704,
an improvement of £2855. The lease
runs out in 1960, and a sinking fund has
been created, but the board has not yet
been able to invest the money outside
the business.
The board reports a steady increase
in turnover since October last.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., ' Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 9,492 7 p.c. = 8400 1092 52,051
1925.. 9,623 7$ „ „ 9000 623 52,674
1926.. 9,864 8 ~ ~ 9600 264 52,938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8 ~ „ 9600 765 55,852
1929.. 7,181 6 ~ „ 7200 55,833
1930.. 5,276 3 „ ~ 3600 1676 57,509
1931.. 6,253 54 „ ~ 6600 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 ~ „ 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 ~ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559* 7 „ ~ 8400 159 58,532
The outlook for this concern (it used
to be the Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co.) was without
promise until it started to supply elec-
tric lifts in 1925. Just as it began to
look like an 8 p.c. proposition, slump
intervened; still, maintenance and re-
pair work kept the pot boiling, a firm
hold was maintained upon exes., and
divs. continued to flow. About two
years ago prospects were enhanced by
the revival in building and by purchase
of the goodwill of the lift business for-
merly carried on by Major, Stevens and
Coates. Thus the co., which had also
become sole agent in the Commonwealth
for the Express Lift Co., London, placed
itself in a position to supply all the
latest types of high-speed electric lifts
and moving stairways.
Last year’s gross earnings, which shot
up £9955, were the best since 1930:
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1920. . £36,441 £25,938 1930. . £47,875 £42,598
1924.. 41,158 31,666 1931.. 33,997 27,744
1926.. 47,279 37,415 1932.. 39,025 32,083
1928.. 61,995 51,629 1933.. 36,306 28,837
1929.. 57,962 50,781 1934.. 46,261 37,792
The net result benefited by £lO9O of the
increase, reaching 7.1 p.c. on capital as
against 6.2, 5.7, 5.2, 4.3, 5.9, 8.6 and
9.7 p.c. back to 1927. Another point
was added to the div., making it 7 p.c.,
which may not prove to be beyond reach
at the next balance, though the margin
is slender.
On the market the fully-paid pound
shares fetch 265. 3d. as against 21s. a
year ago and 12s. 12 months before that.
At 265. 3d. the return is 5.3 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is 295. 9d. per pound of paid capital.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1932. 1933. 1934.
Capital.. .. .. £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . . . 10,417 14,060 15,598
Mains and plant .. 135,703 135,703 136,838
Freeholds . . . . 35,197 35,231 35,231
Leaseholds . . . . 1,149 1,149 1,149
Stock 9,136 13,325 12,978
Debtors . . . . 8,678 9,134 11,204
Cash, investments, etc. 2,309 2,290 2,290
There was little change in the more or
less liquid surplus (£10,874, including
stock). Shareholders’ funds are still
mostly invested in hydraulic mains, etc.
Peeks, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Nomi-
( Dividends N To Re- nal Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £
1928.. 4,000 8 p.c. 8 p.o. = 2849 1151 1,951
1929.. 192 8 ~ Nil = 1591 552
1930.. 2,837 8 „ Nil = 2063 774 1,326
1931.. 1,774 4 „ Nil = 1141 633 1,959
Loss. Deficit
1932.. 14,071 Nil Nil 1 _ 1S o U
Written off, £6199 .. ..J ’
1933.. 1,589 Nil Nil 19,900
1934.. 1,741 Nil Nil 21,641
Short of a miracle, the present position
of the ords. in this little Adelaide tailor-
ing and mercery business is hopeless,
and it is difficult to catch a ray of bright-
ness in the outlook for the prefs.
Attracted by high values and rentals
toward the end of the boom, the co.
plunged into debt to finance a new build-
ing, with plenty of letting space, in North-
terrace. An issue of £32,500 of 7 p.c.
bonds was arranged, but failure of the
underwriters necessitated other arrange-
ments. Since the close of accounts in
1928, shareholders have put up £14,900-
odd of 8 p.c. pref. money (making paid
capital £51,591 in 28,941 prefs. and
22,650 ords.), £66,464 has been raised
on mortgage, and £4852 net added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors.
The £86,000-odd thus gathered went
mainly into premises and book debts:
1928. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. £36,645 £51,543 £51,591 £51,591
Mortgage * - —* 45,000 66,464 66,464
Sundry creditors. . 14,033 32,847 14,110 18,885
Freehold, plant, etc. 19,242 63,013 61,500 61,474
Shares in other cos. 25 11,111 ‘
Stocks • • • ■ 4,612 8,359 3,751 4,182
Book debts . . 27,549 42,166 46,786 49,381
Cash, etc. .. 24 2,499 378 513
Last year £4775 was added to the
amount coming to trade creditors,
and £2595 to debtors’ balances —in-
terest in suspense (£5142) increased by
£3856. Assuming that stocks and
debtors’ balances are worth their book


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SEND ENQUIRIES FOR
Garbage Destructors, Tilling-Stevens
Motor Lorries, “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrator, Mcßichpals Gold and
Tin Saving Machine, Everlasting
Steam Blow-off Valves, Water Filters
for all Purposes, Electric Motors,
Ellisons Oil Breakers, Explosives and
Accessories, Rendrock Explosive,
Stamp Batteries and Shoes and Dies,
Flotation Plants, Keystone Excavators,
All Classes of Mining Machinery.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Give yourself the
CHANCE
Peace o' mind can be yours
IOME ago a lad and a
lass married and went blithe-
ly on their way as young
couples should. The bride was a
laughing, carefree girl but she had a wise
head on her young shoulders, and she
persuaded her husband to become a mem-
ber of the A.M.P. just for their mutual
peace o’ mind, as she put it. He invested in a policy
for £3OO. It was their first sheet anchor and an
ever-present source of comfort and of pride in their
early struggles.
When the first baby—a boy—was born another
policy for £5OO was taken out, as, also, was a policy
for £2OO, payable to the boy when he was 21.
The young husband earned but a modest income, and
there was very little spare cash in those early years, but
the money for the A.M.P. policies was always available
on its due date, and the policies grew and grew in value.
This year the boy will be able to draw £285 from the
A.M.P., so greatly has his policy grown in value, and if
the husband were to die to-morrow, his widow would be
able to draw £1,610. But he does not look like dying!
Not he! Thanks to his A.M.P. policies, he has had peace
of mind during his married life, and so has his wife!
Give yourself a chance to have this sort of happiness and
satisfaction. There is peace of mind FOR YOU in
A.M.P. membership. When you become a member you
lift the anxiety and risk of death off your own shoulders,
and your wife’s, and place it on the Society’s. You make
provision for your loved ones without placing any undue
burden on yourself.
The Society issues many kinds of policies, singly and in groups,
to meet every need, in large and small amounts. If you live
within reasonable distance of any of its offices it will gladly send
a counsellor to discuss with you which policies are best suited
to your needs, or it will post to any address its book, “Investing
in Happiness,” and other booklets and pamphlets that tell in
detail the story of its usefulness to its members throughout this
country.
Write to-day. Don’t put off writing. Next week may be too
late; you never can tell.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN. Chairman.
C, A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay,
WELLINGTON.
value, more or less liquids exceeded the
floating debt by £35,191. To represent
the balance of the mortgage money
(£31,273), there were premises in at
£61,474, equal to 395. 3d. in the pound.
Since debenture-holders took posses-
sion in June, 1932, they have been un-
able to reduce the amount of principal
coming to them. Last year the loss on
account of the property was £1027, and
on trading £714.
When the books last closed, there was
£BlO4 (ss. 6d. per share) coming to the
prefs. on accrued divs. Allowing for
this, the whole of the ord. capital was
unrepresented by tangibles, and £30,201
of the co.’s equity in the book value of
the freehold remained to represent the
pref. capital plus arrears of divs. The
final position will depend chiefly upon
what the property fetches, when a buyer
can be found.
North Broken Hill, which has reduced
its mining and milling costs by over 13s.
a ton since 1930, paid Is. 6d. a share in
December, and another Is. 6d. is to go
out on March 29. The London price of
standard silver, which averaged Is. 6.4 d.
an ounce in 1933 and Is. 9.2 d. in 1934,
was 2s. 2d. last week-end. The spot
quote for lead was then £lO ss. per
ton as against an average of £lO Bs. 3d.
for 1934 and £lO 10s. 3d. for 1933. The
market prices the pound shares at 101 s.,
compared with 90s. a year ago and 745.
12 months before that.
* * » *
Raub, a Queensland co. which has been
operating the only important goldmine
in the F.M.S. for the last 43 years, has
run into trouble. The quantity of ore
blocked has never been much ahead of
plant capacity. The 53,950 tons meas-
ured up at Feb. 28, 1933, has since been
dealt with, and the stone now in the faces
is of lower grade, which means a cut in
the div., unless something unexpected
turns up. J. C. Coldham, who took
charge in September, has mapped out an
extensive programme of development,
and alterations and additions to the plant
are spoken of; the cost will be “very
considerable.” Two of the directors will
visit the mine this month. The ore-body
at Raub is three miles in length, and has
been tapped by four main and six inter-
mediate shafts. The co. also has a gold-
mining lease (it was worked about 20
years ago) in the Mukim of Ulu Jelai,
some 46 miles from Raub. The reduc-
tion equipment consists of 50 stamps,
two tube mills, two roasting furnaces
and a cyaniding plant. The suction
cutter dredge stopped work in July, 1931.
The power plant, which may have to be
duplicated, supplies energy to the mine
and the township of Raub.
* * * *
Golden Plateau, the star performer at
Cracow (Q.), will presently hand out
three new shares of 3s. 4d. each for each
old 10s. share. The new contribs. (630,000
of them) will be credited as paid to 2s. 6d.
each ; the other 210,000 new shares will
be issued as fully paid. The last div.
was 3s. per share, paid Feb. 21 ; the
board expects to continue distributions
at the rate of Is. per share quarterly.
The deposit consists of a number of len-
ticular enrichments in a wide mineralised
ore-channel in rhyolite. To date enough
ore has been proved about the tunnel
level to keep the mill employed for 10
years at the present rate of treatment,
about 2900 tons a month. The new
plant now being installed is designed to
handle 4000 tons a month. Develop-
ments at the Sunshine suggest the possi-
bility of new shoots of payable stuff
being opened up there, while a fresh
make of quartz, assaying 7dwt. over 7ft.,
has been exposed for 145 ft. in a cross-
cut at 200 ft. in the Plateau workings.
Costs should benefit by the widening of
the face (now 60ft.) in the opencut.
H* jji
Latest developments at the New
Gympie (Q.) include the cutting of a 6ft.
lode, carrying quartz veins with a plum-
bago break on the footwall. The shaft
is down 490 ft., and it is intended now
to explore this reef. Prospects have been
enhanced by the latest results, and share-
holders are anxious to see some attempt
at production—operations started in
1933. Since black slate and lode quartz
have been located, there should be stone
in the ore paddock in the next few
months, or Gympie will not run true to
form.
* * * *
At the Deaf Cat, Pratten, Warwick
goldfield (Q.), the value of crushings de-
creased to a few pennyweights last year.
Further sinking has located a new shoot,
averaging 6in, thick, and the last couple
of crushings are back to the 2oz. grade.
In the same district, the old Sunny South
has been taken up again, but the trial
crushing did not come up to expectations.
Roma North Oil has given up the hunt
for liquid fuel and joined in the search
for gold. It's leases —Golconda and Brad-
shaw’s Accumulation —adjoin Golden
Plateau’s at Cracow (Q.). To test the
formation a tunnel is to be driven, and
the first lode is expected to be cut at
400 ft. No estimate of the cost has been
given. Arrangements have been made
with the Plateau to crush stone at grass
on Bradshaw’s lease.
* s>: * *
The prevalence of boulders and lower
values than were anticipated knocked
back Crocodile Creek Dredging (C.Q.)
last year. The yield from 21,600 yards
averaged only 4.11 grains. The market
has gone right back, but better results
are expected to follow recent improve-
ments to the plant and the treatment of
new ground.
* * * *
Queensland’s gold yield for January
was 7017 fine ounces. Of this 65000 z.
came from four established mines, leav-
ing little for the string of old goldfields
to make up, though a lot of money is
being spent on them in the shape of sus-
tenance to a scattered army of pros-
pectors. With the stimulus of over a
100 p.c. premium on gold, plus the sus-
tenance just referred to, old fields like
Ravenswood, Gympie, Clermont and
Warwick have made no headway during
the last couple of years.
* * * *
For the last half of 1934, Day Dawn’s
two Empire mills in New Guinea
treated 7739 tons of stone for 36630 z.
of bullion, worth £13,500. The profit was
£3500. The new cyaniding plant, capacity
100 tons per 24 hours, has since begun
to treat the 36,000 tons of tailings, assay-
ing 4dwt. gold and Boz. silver per ton.
Installation of a hydro-electric plant is
under consideration.
H* »!*
Mt. Kasi, Fiji, has a paid capital of
£49,500 in 3s. shares, of which 30,000
were recently put out at 100 p.c. pre-
mium. Drives, put in at three levels,
show that values decrease as the walls
are approached and as the formation
goes down. It is estimated that 120,000
tons of lldwt. stone awaits treatment,
with prospects of a lot more payable
stuff being developed. The co. is still in
the prospecting stage.
* H= * *
Mt. Charlested Wolfram’s fully-paid
ss. ords., which fetched around 13s. 6d.
early in 1935, can now be had at 6s. Cer-
tainly the London spot price of the
metal, which was over 40s. per unit
before Christmas, is now around 375.,
with little interest in forward business.
Still, the co. claimed to be able to pro-
duce at a profit with wolfram at 14s.
Recently the co. reported an increase in
the width and assay value of its narrow
ore-bodies, and plant capacity was en-
larged. More recently some of the con-
tract miners pulled out, because they
couldn’t make enough money. The
market would welcome an announce-
ment from the board on latest develop-
ments.
* * * *
At Batlow (N.S.W.), where Mutooroo
Copper and other Adelaide concerns re-
cently pegged claims, the principal pros-
pect is known as Walsh’s “dyke.” It is
a pyritic impregnation in schistose and
gneissic rocks associated with a shear
zone in granite. It has a maximum
known width of 100 ft., and a proved
length of 300 ft. The extent to which
it lives down, the way in which values
behave and the cost of treating the stuff
have yet to be proved. Further, the
existence or otherwise of the “dyke” to
the north or south has not yet been es-
tablished, While the shear zone may
exist, it does not necessarily follow that
ore deposition will be regular and pay-
able throughout, as geologist E. J.
Kenney, of the N. S. Wales Mines De-
partment, points out. In the oxidised
zone, weathering action or decomposi-
tion of iron pyrites appears to have been
responsible for a certain amount of gold
concentration. In ordinary circum-
stances, that means lower values can be
looked for in the sulphides. Neverthe-
less, Walsh’s “dyke” and its extent are
well worth investigation.
* * * *
Blue Mount Alluvial, Newbury (Vic.),
is installing five-head of light, quick-
falling stamps, instead of a puddling
machine, to treat its auriferous deposit.
Chairman G. G. Dunstan, a member of
the National Bureau of Mining and
Metallurgy, says from 20 p.c. to 25 p.c.
of the gold content of alluvial deposits
is lost in puddling, because four-fifths of
the wash in the machine settled down
after the harrows passed, ferruginous
cements, present in nearly all alluvial,
were not disintegrated, and goldbearing
pebbles were not broken up. By crush-
ing, Mr. Dunstan claims that a 99.8 p.c.
recovery is possible. Victorian alluvial
clays contain about 60 p.c, solids; those
containing 40 p.c, solids are amenable
to crushing. The battery is expected to
deal with 180 tons of feed a week ; results
will be watched with interest.
Waihi (M.L.) and Tronoh Mines,
London —they are associated in a
Siamese tin venture —have together taken
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 38.)
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* « * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (.Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW HOWS.
“Evensong”
When Beverley Nichols wrote the
novel after which this film is called Melba
was just dead. His memories of one
who had taken a beautiful boy into her
service and had been horrid to him were
fresh, and he denied Irela any character-
istics which were not either ridiculous or
detestable. That kind of thing goes down
with novel-readers, but it is no good to
talkie audiences. The film-Irela, as
played by Evelyn Laye, is a convention-
ally pretty and insipid backstage heroine
till 1934, when she suddenly appears as
a hag ravaged by pathological hatred of
a new prima donna (Conchita Supervia).
There never was such a woman outside
grand opera ; in consequence, the con-
Morning. Evening.
Evelyn Laye as Irela in “Evensong”
at Sydney Embassy.
eluding sequences, which are meant to be
poignant, hover constantly on the edge of
low comedy. The finish, which shows
Irela turning on a gramophone and
falling dead with jealousy, is definitely
farcical.
Miss Laye’s voice is heard in the open-
ing sequences, which show her as an
Irish girl struggling for recognition.
Delysia, as another Marchesi, then per-
forms a miracle; the heroine’s musical-
comedy trill becomes a powerful colora-
tura soprano. Conchita Supervia appar-
ently doubles for Miss Laye in addition
to singing several operatic numbers as
herself. Browning Mummery scores as
a musical gondolier. The German star
Fritz Kortner contributes the gem of the
production; a supremely intelligent
portrait of Irela’s mentor. Unfortu-
nately, his masterly understatements show
up the theatricalities of the other leading
players.
“Lady in Danger”
Yvonne Arnaud is the lady—a queen
whose country is staging a revolution —•
and Tom Walls helps her to escape to
England. This being a synthetic French
farce, the queen lives unchaperoned in
Tom’s London house, his friends become
suspicious and his girl and her mother
furious, and the sanctimonious couple
who look after his place in the country
give notice. Inevitably, the queen and
her rescuer discover a mutual passion, but
you don’t blame them. Her husband is
one of those kings whose shoes are to
be seen in hotel passages side by side with
the footwear of strange females, and the
hero’s girl lacks the gift of complete
trust.
There are many spicy lines, and Tom
Walls drives them home with a wealth
of wicked eye-play, as usual. Saturday
night’s audience at Sydney Embassy was
convulsed—also as usual, Yvonne
Arnaud, in voice, manner and a certain
blowsiness of appearance, is more like
a concierge whom the writer used to
know than the only queens he has known
—namely, movie ones. But the thing
would be pointless if she were not cheer-
fully vulgar.
“The Last Gentleman”
It is time George Arliss played
a blackguard. What a blackmailer,
crook lawyer, confidence man he would
make! Meanwhile his benevolent stereo-
types are getting very boring.
At Sydney State he again oozes good-
ness as an octogenarian Massachusetts
aristo. whose descendants are a de-
generate and mercenary crew. A for-
tune-hungry son (Donald Meek) actually
tries to get the saintly oldster certified as
a lunatic. Before passing to his reward
Arliss is humorous in a senile manner
at the expense of various members of
his family and he indulges in his cus-
tomary pastime of making a match be-
tween two young lovers. His acting, as
usual, is flawless. You can’t help admir-
ing the polish with which he performs
his tricks, even as you bemoan the fact
that he never displays a new one.
“The Age of Innocence”
The purpose of this film is to reveal
to an undisciplined younger generation
how unselfishly their grandparents be-
haved when love conflicted with honor.
The preacher is John Boles, a bearded
ancient whose grandson is carrying on
with another man’s wife. Boles begins
his homily in a modern automobile, and
the scene switches back to the ’eighties,
when Boles was a claimant for the hand
of Julie Haydon. Enter Irene Dunne,
an unhappy grass-widow. Soon Boles is
sending flowers to her instead of Julie.
Irene wants to divorce her husband, and
Boles, her solicitor, influenced by his
family, advises her to drop the idea.
Then, bewitched, he changes his mind,
only to find that Irene no longer wants
to marry him. Boles is a wooden
moralist, and Miss Dunne is a listless
vampire without the courage of her con-
victions. Helen Westley, as an under-
standing old woman, Laura Hope Crewes
and Lionel Atwill do something to relieve
the gloom.
“Wednesday’s Child”
A rather clumsy paraphrase on the
theme of “Little Friend.” In this case it
is a boy of 11 who agonises because his
parents decide to part. The kid (Frankie
Thomas) gives testimony that enables
his father to get a divorce. Judge allows
mother custody for nine months of the
year. She marries again. Youngster
can’t stand it. Mother and foster-father
are kind; they are wealthy, they give
him everything a boy could ask for. He
hankers for his father. When he goes
to his dad, expecting to have dad’s whole
Fritz Kortner as Kober in “Evensong.”
affection, he finds there’s a prospective
stepmother infesting the premises. So
he packs his little suitcase and creeps
miserably away, only to crash, a crumpled,
pathetic little heap, in the hall. Hovers
between life and death in hospital, where
he is visited by both parents. On advice
of sympathetic doctor youngster is sent
to military school. Still pines away, so
dad gives up the idea of - a remarriage
and decides to devote the rest of his life
to making his son happy. Mamma fades
out of the picture, a pathetic figure who
has given up all that makes life noble.
Not a flicker of humor is allowed to in-
trude between the tines of the harrow.
Karen Morley plays the mother,
Edward Arnold the father and the
Chinese denizens of Campbell-street are
not more serious than these marionettes
who flicker across the wide screen of
Sydney’s Capitol Theatre.
“Hell in the Heavens”
A wash-up of the material left over
from war-in-the-air pictures, ■ with at
least one word salvaged from the titles.
Annoying to British audiences, who by
this time must know that America’s con-
tribution to the Allies’ war effort was no-
where less impressive than in this branch.
Given a chance the Yankee aviators
might have done wonders. The fact that
they are daring fliers is proved by half a
dozen effective scenes in this film —the
sort of stuff that can’t be faked. Drama
is provided by Warner Baxter, who car-
ries on a love affair with a French girl,
represented by Conchita Montenegro, and
encourages young Americans who grovel
in helpless fear at the prospect of losing
their lives while flying. Warner shoots
down “The Baron” in single combat,
and in his troubled dreams receives a
visit from his adversary the following
night. The German shows his wounds,
admits he fell in a sporting duel and
offers some observations on the need
for national amity. They sound all right
in 1935, but would have inspired howls
of derision when the sinking of the Lusi-
tania was a topic of conversation. Also
at Sydney Capitol.
“Mystery Woman”
A Max-Pembertonish fantasia about a
French captain who was sent to Devil’s
Island on a charge of espionage; his
devoted wife (Mona Barrie), who
travelled to New York to recover the
document that would prove his inno-
cence, and the gallant crook (Gilbert
Roland) who lost his life and £60,000
all for the love of the lady. Dialogue
is clever and amusing, with a lightness
of touch not often found in talkies of the
sort, Roland has manners and a manner,
and the lady plays up charmingly. Seen
at a preview at Fox theatrette, Sydney.
“Great Expectations”
This picturisation of Dickens’s novel
reproduces the atmosphere of early-
Victorian England very effectively. The
cast is mostly English, but the film
was made in Hollywood. The three
child actors can act, and each bears
a remarkable facial resemblance to the
corresponding adult in the later reels.
Henry Hull gives a fine study of a
criminal; Phillips Holmes as Pip and
Jane Wyatt as Estella do excellent work,
and Australia’s old friend Eily Malyon
presents a little cameo as a half-witted
servitor.
“Bella Donna”
Hichens wrote the novel of this name
quarter of a century ago ; it was a bad
novel and a best-seller. It was turned
into a bad play, which also succeeded.
The play has now been converted into
a bad talkie, and it will probably suc-
ceed at Melbourne Athenaeum, as it has
succeeded in other movie palaces.
The story of the adulteress and her
paramour who conspire to murder the
husband is as old as history and fiction
can make it. In this instance, it is prob-
ably carried by the acting of Mary Ellis
as the poisoner, Conrad Veidt as the
colored co-respondent, Cedric Hardwicke
as Dr. Isaacson and John Stuart as the
husband. The Egyptian scenes are beau-
tifully photographed, but the continuity,
as with so many British pictures, works
in jerks. They appear to run with too
thick a mixture in their carburettors.
“The Prince of Arcadia”
Here Carl Brisson is given plenty of
chances to display his beauty and his
dimples, but few to show the quality of
his more acceptable singing. It is one
of those satires on monarchy which are
popular in Europe nowadays.
“Brighteyes”
Another aeroplane picture. The hero
is an aviator, and so was the father of
Shirley Temple before he crashed. The
story is thin, but it gets across by good
acting, the support coming from James
Dunne, Judith Allen and Charles Sellon,
the character actor who can never be
remembered to have made a failure.
Dorothy Christie does capital work as
the nasty child-daughter of society
climbers who is pushed in as a foil for
the lovable Shirley.
Some First Nights
Just before the depression at least six
Sydney playhouses were devoted to
vaudeville. Nowadays a variety show is
a rare event, which partly explains the
enthusiastic reception accorded Frank
Emlyn Williams as Murray in
“Evensong.”
Neil’s revue “New Faces,” which has dis-
placed grand opera at the New Tiv. The
programme could be improved by re-
arrangement—dancing numbers should
not follow each other —and a lopping ofi
of some of the sentimental songs, but the
fare provided is bright. Joey Porter, a
comedian who hails from the London
Palladium, is the headliner. He excels
in pantomine and impromptu patter, and
his impersonation of an Indian “mental
marvel” kept the first-night audience guf-
fawing. Alec Halls, a solemn-faced clown
who dances, Nat Hope and Doreen Ray.
comedy duo, Cora Whittwell, soubrette.
and Nice, Florio and Lubow, acrobatic
dancers, are all very fair performers, and
the Maurice Diamond ballet is all that a
ballet should be. Particularly well done
is “The Rotogravure Section: Circular
Quay, 1860,” a tableau for the whole co,
“New Faces” is being played twice daily.
* * *
“Gigolo Husband,” presented by the
Sydney Studio Theatre group on Satur-
day, is a three-act play by Sydney
writer Lionel Shave. Hero starts as a
villain and ends as a hero. Atmosphere
switches from 'melodrama to comedy,
from comedy to farce and from farce
back to melodrama. Comedy dialogue
is smart, and Ted Druitt and Diana Deer-
ing found their parts congenial and their
audience appreciative.
* * *
Jim Gerald is off to England soon, and
Melb. Tiv. spread itself in its latest pro-
gramme to give him a big send-off. The
spread gave Jim more chances than usual
to exercise his gift of quaint, easy
humor. Australia may have seen cleverer
comedians than Gerald, but never one
who had a better command of the native
idiom or who exhibited so much resource
and versatility.


Strength, knit with that elasticity which is the secret of ease in
movement . . . flexible strength, ready to spring into action
smoothly, instantly ...
Just such latent action has been knitted into the top of the
newest stocking—-“LASTIGE.”
Row upon row of f-l-e-x-i-b-l-e “LASTEX" yarn has been
introduced to allow free and comfortable knee action. Suspender
strain is instantly transferred to these yielding rows of "Lastex"
yarn, and the fabric eases itself smoothly over the bend without
fear of laddering.
The first wearing of 'LASTIGE” stockings opens new vistas of
luxury . . . and from that moment they are a part of your
daily comfort.
Choose from the two "LASTIGE” styles—both fully fashioned
from the finest pure silk yarns . . .
LASTIGE
No 1600 CREPE GEORGETTE SHEER .
'LASTIGE''
No. 600 DULL SERVICE SHEER
. 10 7 6
...SHI


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mug’s Luck”: Anyone who has been
kept by a white cockatoo will admit the
bird’s extraordinary capacity for making
trouble and coming out of it with no
harm to himself. One such plunged a
Melbourne suburb in darkness for some
hours by dangling the chain attached to
his leg across two high-tension wires
carrying 7000 volts, and causing a short
circuit. There was a sound like the last
trump, and a flash that lit up the neigh-
borhood for miles. Excited citizens rush-
ing to the spot met Cocky legging it for
all he was worth along the street and
talking to himself in lurid Cockatese.
Save that his white coat was singed as
black as a crow’s he was unharmed.
* * * *
“Bullant”: Out near Kurnalpi (W.A.
goldfields) is a tame crow which acts as
horse-finder. When Bill, his owner, appears
with the bridle, Blackie zooms aloft, and
on discovering Dobbin he circles several
time%, comes straight back to camp,
circles there once or twice, and flaps
straight back to where the moke is hiding
in the mulga. Dobbin doesn’t mind —
he allows the blackguard to perch
between his ears on the ride back to
camp.
* * * *
“Vesta”: How about matches as
gambling currency (B. 30/1 /’35)? They
were, and still are, good poker bets in
the bush. Almost invariably the players
start off with a five limit. That soon
passes, and the sky’s the limit then. The
strange thing about that form of gam-
bling is the meanness of those who play.
I’ve repeatedly seen a man with a pile
of matches in front of him who will walk
50 yards to the fire to get a light for his
pipe sooner than strike one of his pre-
cious matches. At any other time to ask a
man for a light is to be handed a full box
and allowed to take a pick of any number
needed.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: If there is one thing more
than another that gets the Murrumbidgee
whaler’s back up it is the motor-boat
which rushes up and down the long
reaches, scouring the streams for cod and
Murray perch for city markets. Life
along the rivers isn’t what it used to be
for the whalers and pensioners who
make permanent camps on the banks,
and depend largely on fish for existence.
At one time the old chaps had
yards, built of stones or stakes in
shallow places, where they kept their sur-
plus cod for future use. Now they often
have a gnawing vacancy while waiting
for the dinner to bite. Big hauls of fair-
sized cod can be got high up in the
numerous feeders of the rivers, but the
old fellows get homesick when they
wander away from the familiar bends of
the ’Bidgee, the Darling and the Barwon.
* * * *
“Karaway”: Anything but a properly
rolled swag, carried in the approved
fashion of the veterans, used to be
laughed at on the track ; but nowadays
all manner of bundles, from kitbags to
picnic baskets in perambulators, are met
on the wallaby. Recently a family of
battlers —man, wife and two boys—were
tramping out beyond Oberon (N.S.W.) on
a job quest. All were carrying something
except dad, who was pulling a go-cart.
The burdens ranged from a half-filled
chaff bag to a camp oven. Dad couldn't
cook and mum couldn’t manage without
an oven ; so the boys were carrying the
awkward utensil between them on a stick.
They didn’t mind ; it held the bread and
brownie.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: “Miro’s” par. (B.
30/1/’35) about undiscovered botanic
treasures reminds me of a friend who dis-
covered a pure white Christmas bush. He
dragged me through a leech-infested
swamp and over snake-infested sand-
hills to gaze on —a clump of bright-red
bloom. He had discovered it several
days earlier, before it had ripened.
* H- * *
“Mountain Mutton”: It is not in
M.L. alone that the red deer have become
a curse to the farmer (B. 13/2/’35). Every
time a severe cold spell strikes the Scot-
tish Highlands—which is pretty well half
a dozen times each winter —the preserved
deer come down from the “forests” and
play the devil with stacks of hay
or corn and stocks of turnips and
other roots, invading the farmyards at
night. In addition, they cut down
the grazing lands, and as a result many
farmers this winter have had to re-
duce the number of sheep because
there was not enough feed for them.
Queensland faced a similar problem with
the red deer imported to the Darling
Downs years ago. Growers of crops near
“What's your new job, George?”
“Chucker-out at a milk bar.”
the hill country which the deer fre-
quented soon found them intolerably de-
structive, especially as no fencing, barbed
or otherwise, was unjumpable by the
brutes. Of late years one hasn’t heard
much of the trouble, closer settlement
being perhaps accountable.
“The Mock Turtle”: I fancy the
reason that kangaroo-tail soup has van-
ished from our exports (B. 20/2/’35) is
that the much-boomed potage was un-
eatable by anyone with pretensions to a
palate. I can recall a Queensland firm
which tinned it, and another which tried
the London market with the frozen nar-
ratives themselves, both ventures dying
a natural death. I have tried the soup
made by a good cook from the freshest
material, and in Brisbane, where some of
the hotels tried to popularise it—in vain.
The trouble may have been that the larg-
est tails from the old-men kangaroos
were those mostly marketed. A veteran
kangaroo has a hum beside which that
of the fox is eau-de-Cologne, and this
flavor permeates his meat. In flavor all
the kangaroo-tail soup I have sampled
resembles hare soup gone bad, and even
the English palate, which is alleged to
lovingly savor high grouse and venison,
would jib at that.
“Cam Cove”: Kangaroo-tail soup was
never a luxury. It wasn’t soup either ;
it was stew similar to ox-tail stew. It
was relished by the ignorant at one time
in Australia because of its passable
flavor, but it wasn’t long before the uni-
versal discovery was made that the flesh
was infested with worms. In any case,
it wasn’t the kangaroo-tail that was popu-
lar, but the wallaby-tail. It doesn’t
matter, however ; the worms are in the
flesh of all the tribe.
* * * *
“Avis”; “Tilcum” scoffs at the natural-
ists who say the curlew breeds in Siberia
(B. 20/2/’35), and maintains that he has
found their nests and eggs in South Aus-
tralia. The Siberian breeder is the true
curlew, a shore-haunting bird which is
distributed all over the world. Most
Australians frequenting quiet beaches are
familiar with these long-legged birds,
their curved beaks feeding on sand flats
left bare by the tide. Indeed, on clear
evenings, flocks of them can be seen and
heard flying over Sydney from one feed-
ing ground to another. “Tilcum’s” fowl
is the stone plover, known all over Aus-
tralia as the “curlew” from its nightly
call. It is a permanent resident of this
country.
“Piscator”: Recent Bulletin argu-
ments about English fishing competitions
move me to chronicle the annual fishing
beano of the Deal and Walmer Angling
Association. The prize-money amounted
to over £lOO, and 88 fishermen from all
over the South Coast gathered to the
fray on Deal pier. At the end of six
hours in a cold rain, the umpires blew
the whistle and inspected the catch. This
amounted to six fish totalling 41b. 2oz.
First prize went to a lad who lugged a
lib. 15oz. cod ashore, and second, third
and fourth to catchers of plaice weighing
10oz., B|oz. and 6ioz. respectively.
* * * *
“Q.E.D.”: On the Warrego (Q.) there
is a homestead near a long and fairly-
wide waterhole, and a mail contractor
twice a week delivers mail on the
opposite side. There is a small flat-
bottomed boat on the hole; the
owner of the property has succeeded in
training a kelpie dog to grab a rope
attached to it, jump in the water and
swim across, pulling the boat behind him.
He runs up the bank, seizes the mail
and has it in the boat before it has
time to drift or be blown much out of
its course; then gets hold of the
rope again and returns, pulling the
boat as before. On the other side
he takes the mail out and delivers it to
his master without a sign of wetness.
The dog’s other delight is to lead a pack-
horse by its halter all day if necessary.
* * * *
“Bottler”: It isn’t any mug who can
separate the white from the yolk of
turtles’ eggs (B. 12/12/’34). The white
has the consistency of a jellyfish ; the
outside skin has to be torn between the
finger and thumb before the yolk can
be drained from it. 1 add my advice
to “Jimmac’s” as to the necessity of
getting fresh eggs. You don’t need to
boil ’em to get the heat to generate young
turtles; I know of nothing laid which
incubates so quickly—or, rather, starts
the process. An egg laid to-night may
be all right to-morrow. The next day,
though, 36*hours ahead, an eye will have
begun to form and blood veins will be
stringing through it.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”; I don’t want to quarrel
with “B’kali” (B. 20/2/’35), but as a
matter of friendly curiosity I’d like him
to tell me whereabout in Fiji one might
find the freshwater lake full of sharks.
On second thoughts, the lake needn’t be
full of the man-eaters —just one alive and
kicking will do. I have swum in the
freshwater ends of most of the Fiji
rivers, and have never heard of the shark
even crossing the brackish strip. There
is, however, a large fish (I’d be glad to
be reminded of his name) that is liable
to bite lumps out of a man swimming
in fresh water. He is often mistaken for
the shark, but doesn’t resemble him in
any important features.
* * * *
“Carlton”; Melbourne Zoo authorities
have been perturbed over the gradual
disappearance of the inhabitants of the
open snake-pit, which usually houses
some 70 to 100 crawlers of
all types. Then someone
noticed that an outsize
goanna which had been
turned in with the snakes
was putting on weight, and
the gaff was blown. The go.
is now living with a selection
of mixed lizards, the Zoo
heads affirming that the
small ones are too lively for
him to catch and the big
ones, like old man stumpy
and the blue-tongue, with
their powerful jaws, too for-
midable for the go. to
tackle. I am of opinion that
the shrewdies are in for
further disillusionment. In a
section of western Queens-
land I once shared with goannas, wild
pigs and dingoes, I have often seen
the go. making off with the freshly-
killed corpse of a big stumpy, evidently
intended for the table.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Sheltering under a ledge of
rock during a heavy hailstorm on Mon-
aro (N.S.W.) I saw something fall out
of a tree a few yards away. A second
object fell, then a third. After the worst
of the hail had passed I went over to
investigate and found three stunned par-
rots. They recovered after a while and
flew away. At first I blamed lightning,
but several lumps of ice near where they
fell caused me to alter my view.
* ❖ ❖ %
“Williami”: The Bendigo fish with
feet (B. 20/2/’35) isn’t a circumstance
compared with the fish that spins a web.
I can’t swear to the pedigree of this
fellow, but locally—Bargo (N.S.W.) —he
is known as the spider-fish. He is striped
red, yellow and rufous, panelled in aqua-
tints and pastel shades of mauve. He is
shaped like a watermelon and swims side-
ways. The web he spins floats down-
stream with the current, gathering the
food as it goes. When the heap is large
enough for a meal the spider-fish con-
sumes the lot, web and all, and does not
spin the next web until he is hungry
again. I can’t swear that he inhabits
water only, but I do know that he doesn’t
live on dry land or climb trees.
“Amph”: That fish with feet is
probably one of the varieties of newts
found in Australian ponds and other
sluggish waters. The beast is scaleless,
as described, and the tail tapers to a
point like that of the blackfish. Newts
have a place to themselves in the ob-
scure lexicon of natural history, and a
pedigree which makes that of homo
sapiens a small-beer chronicle. They are
fitted both with gills and lungs of a sort,
and breathe air or water as circumstances
demand.
THE OLD PROSPECTORS.
Left when the wave receded and the mines
closed, one by one,
Fighting their losing battles in camps that
seemed dead and done,
Seeing the strife and turmoil in a lonely retro-
spect,
They are again in the forefront after a long
neglect.
They were not men who faltered when the first
mad wave was spent.
True to the faith within them they stayed when
the others went.
Long by the world forgotten, and left to their
small affairs,
Now they are back in the picture with the right
to give themselves airs.
Proud of their hard-won knowledge, and proud
of the stand they made,
They claim full recognition of the parts that
they have played.
They were not like the others, beaten before
they begin;
They stayed when the mob stampeded—no
wonder they rub it in!
And nobody can gainsay them when they tell
you with honest pride
Time has confirmed their judgment, their faith
has been justified.
It’s clear that they weren’t all “fairies,” the
tales that they used to pitch.
Here’s to the old prospectors—and I hope that
they all die rich!
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Dasyure”: Melbourne Zoo has been
specialising in what many Aboliars insist
on calling “tiger-cats,” and, though it has
several males, has long sighed for a lady
specimen. One was captured in Gipps-
land lately and sent in a strong box by
rail to the Zoo. When the parcels office
at the railway station was opened next
morning it was found that the malignant
little brute had chewed its way out of
the box and defied all comers. These
marsupials have the temper of a fiend
and the jaws of a hyena, though bodily
not larger than a good-sized domestic cat.
Recaptured after much trouble, the lady
was taken to the Zoo, where she is now
settled down. Nothing is known of the
family life of the beasts, so a marriage
is shortly to be arranged, as the society
columns say, with a view to finding out.
* * t- *
“Eureka”: On Southern Monaro
(N.S.W.) I passed a drover who spoke
to his dog in nautical terms. The dog
didn’t understand the usual language of
the usual drover, but readily responded
to his owner’s commands to go to star-
board, etc. The drover had been a sea-
faring man in his younger days, and
reckoned the use of the nautical terms
brought an imaginary sea breeze over
the scorched plains.
* * * *
“Tockilly”; “Exposure” (B. 6/2/’35)
can’t have had much experience as a
scrub-feller. I was in a gang of 12 on
the D’Aguilar Range (Q.). Four of us
“Can anyone tell me what happened to Sodom and Gomorrah?”
“Please, sir, the grasshoppers ate ’em.”
wore blucher boots all the time, two
having soft cedar springboards which
the hobnails gripped securely ; the other
two had old bags tacked firmly on their
boards. Bluchers protect the feet from
stakes and thorns if one has to jump
suddenly from a height.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: I used to belong to a
Northern Territory mustering camp that
included the heir to the throne of the
Wogya tribe. He was a little fat kid with
a wonderful propensity for going to sleep
in the saddle, and, although the other
boys of the camp freely acknowledged
his royal lineage and the fact that one
day he would be king, it never
cramped their style as to roaring
him up or accelerating his movements
with the toe of a boot. He was inclined
to be lazy, even for an abo., and stupider
than the average, so these instances
of lese-majeste were fairly frequent.
Whether he eventually succeeded to the
title I can’t say, but if the Debrett of the
Barkly Tableland still chronicles Laim-
bahn, alias Jacky, now aged about 35,
that’s the royalty I once had to discipline
with a boot and an occasional waddy.
* * * *
“Nikko”: We were leaving Goulburn
by car for Sydney when an outsize taran-
tula took up a position on the bonnet.
The man of the
party was urged to
kill the creature im-
mediately, but when
he arrived intent on
dispatch the spider
had disappeared. We
spent three days in
Sydney and were
back in Goulburn
about sunset. As we
waited for the garage
doors to be opened
the hairy spider
again emerged from
the nether regions of
the car. With the
air of one who is
glad to be back after
much adventuring
he looked round,
verified his suspicion
that he was home
and scuttled off to tell his people the
latest news of the city.
* * * *
“Yeno Ham”: Ever tried this? I had
a pair of rabbits trained to catch
fish in the Darling. The bunnies would
swim into the stream and waggle
their white fluffy tails. The fish snapped
at the baits, which choked them. By
means of a telescopic rod with a hook
on the end I hauled the fish out. My
best day’s haul was 49 big cod, 14 cat-
fish and 16 trout.
“Eureka”: “I’d like to change this hat
that I bought here this morning,” Dave
told the salesman —“it’s about three sizes
too big.” “But when you tried it on this
morning it fitted you perfectly,” the
salesman reminded him. “Yairs,” Dave
replied, “but I’ve just had me hair cut.
It’ll be another 12 months before that
hat fits me again.”
**. , ♦ *
“Gam”; A beauty spot in the Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) district is a country
school, whose spacious grounds are sur-
rounded by a large variety of flowering
gums and wattles. During flowering it is
a glorious sight; the example of Sutton-
town school committee might be followed
advantageously by other such bodies.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: In the case of the two
abos., Numberlin and Nangee, found
guilty at Alice Springs of killing a tribes-
man named Kai Umen, it was stated that
the reason for the killing was that Kai
Umen had shown his gin certain signs
of a bush corroboree. The corroboree
would be connected with the bora cere-
mony, for revealing the secrets of which
the penalty was death in all tribes. The last
abo. execution in N.S.W. that I know of
wag on the Manning River. The princi-
pals were Crammering Micky and his
gin. The lady had wheedled the secrets
of the bora from him, and then talked
about them to her sisters. When that
"Have you tried splashing water in its face, my good fellow?”
became known to the men, one of them
took her for a walk near Manning Brush,
and hours afterwards returned with her
skin, which was exhibited as a warning
to inquisitive wives. Meanwhile Micky
had gone hunting with another black-
fellow. The latter got a ’possum, and
Micky was asked to make a fire to
roast it. When he bent down to do so
the other split his head with a tomahawk.
* H: $ $
“Walkabout”: “32 x 40” (B. 6/2/’35)
tells of an accredited happening when he
records that half-bred dingoes pulled
down camels belonging to the late Fitz-
roy Trotman, one-time superintendent of
the North Gregory Rabbit Board (n.-w.
Q.). Trotman himself told me the yarn,
and added that “the dingoes would have
eaten down the tree I climbed only it was
ironwood.” One can’t get away from the
fact that the greatest destroyer among
the warrigals is the half-breed. Your
pure dingo invariably kills for a meal
only, but the half-breed, no matter what
his paternal or maternal ancestors may
have been other than the dingo, isn’t
satisfied with killing one sheep only.
He’ll kill and keep on killing until his
bloodlust is satisfied.
* * * #
“Scaly”: We were well-sinking, old
Bob Cook and I, when a snake wan-
dered through our camp. If
ever a fellow fell over himself in
his excitement Bob did the trick
three or four times. He shadow-
sparred and side-stepped; he
warned himself and me to be
careful; he was more afraid of
that serpent than was our
mother Eve in the original
garden. I killed the thing and
thought nothing of it. Next day
I was being lowered down the
well.. My yells, tappings and
screams made old Bob haul me
to the surface non-stop express.
There was a blasted snake in the
well, and I wouldn’t go down.
Old Bob did—he went down
casually, quietly and without
fuss, killed that wriggler and
brought it up with him. He ex-
plained to me that snakes in
wells are out of their element
and practically helpless. But his
logic, however sound, has never over-
come my dislike of meeting the blighters
in a confined space like the bottom of a
well.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: The whole of the
Murray Valley and the Mallee was at
one time under the sea. At depths
ranging from 40ft. to 300 ft. wells
and bores run into a stratum of the so-
called “Murray rock” which is a
mass of fossils —shells and fishbones,
crayfish and sea-eggs, perfectly preserved,
with now and then a shark tooth. One
grinder found in the Murray cliffs, and
now in the Adelaide Museum, is Sin. in
length by 4in. in width ; another, brought
up when sinking a well on the Murray
flats, was 6in. long and had the tip broken
off.
* * * *
“Airline”: “Isharagi’s” (B. 9/1/’35)
bottle-gathering canine reminds me of
my own buccaneering days. Masters of
the art, and knowing the currents to a
nicety, it was our practice during week-
ends to hie to a certain cliff in a remote
spot on the Maoriland coast, wait until
we spotted our game and send over a
pound or two of “jelly,” after which
we would repair to a shingle beach
near by and await results. We certainly
used to get them! Sharks of all sizes,
ling, groper, moki and cod galore. A
treacherous undertow made going in
after them impossible for us, but did not
deter Rover, our retriever. Perched on
the edge of the cliff, he’d watch until the
white bellies began to show up, then
race down to the beach. By the time the
fish had drifted that far some of them
would be recovering, and many a battle
royal was waged in the surf as the tyke,
seizing them by the slender tail-joint,
strove valiantly to land them. He was not
always the victor, either; we often
rescued him in a half-drowned state
after a losing struggle with some big ’un.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Dave had been showing the
new hand some tricks he had taught his
dog. “Do you think I could teach a dog
to do those tricks if I bought one?” the
new hand asked. “I don’t think so,”
Dave told him. “Yer see, yer must know
more than the dog.”
* * * *
“King Cyril”; No good talkum that
pfeller “Kwa” (B. 13/2/’35). Black-
pfeller other places not belonga Port
Essington no brandum feet of dead-
pfeller corpse. “Debbil-debbil” him
come up. S’pose you bury corpse in
ground—that pfeller get up walkabout,
makum “debbil-debbil.” S’pose you
puttum up big-pfeller tree, him no walk-
about ; him can’t climb down. My tribe
bin tieum dead corpse tight-pfeller in
bark and puttum in tree. No “debbil-
debbil” that way. You tellum “Kwa”
him tryum that way himself.
* * * *
“Erua”: Add the far north of Auck-
land Province to the places the early
arrivals considered unfit for habitation
by British migrants. Hailing from a
chilly clime they decided no good could
come out of Auckland’s warm and —to
them —enervating north. The Maori,
accustomed to hotter climes, preferred
the northerly spots, and never 1 increased
enthusiastically amid the frost and bitter
cold of the South Island.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: The farm bull has been re-
sponsible for yet another tragedy, this
time at Mt. Murray, near Robertson
(N.S.W.). The victim, who was left dead
in a paddock, was William Brown,
known on the South Coast as a pugilist.
Usually in cases of the kind the bull has
been considered quiet and trusty; the
brute that killed Brown was a notorious
savage. It is an old and wise saying:
Never pet a bull, and always beware of
the beast.
THE ANTHROPOLOGIST.
“These mydll blokes,” said Joe the cook, and
spat into the glowing flames,
“They’ve strong ideas about the things that
shouldn’t be disclosed to dames.
That plea ‘The Woman Tempted Me,’ which
Adam raised so long ago,
It cuts no ice at all with them, as far as I
can see,” said Joe.
“A woman’s place is in the home, too right it
is,” said Joe the cook.
“My missus knows there’s male affairs in which
she didn’t oughter look.
Years back I drummed that into her, despite
of all her ‘ha’ and ‘hem,’
But, still ’n’ all,” said Joe the cook, “I wouldn’t
go as far as them.
“It seems,” said Joe, “an abo. buck a bit too
near to Alice Springs
Opened his mouth a bit too wide about some
ceremonial things,
Some mystical occurrences that abo. ladies
shouldn’t know,
And pretty soon they ‘did him in’ with spear
and wommerah,” said Joe.
“Ten years apiece his killers copped, and she
awaits the tribal knock.
But what about the jane,” said Joe, “who hid
inside the eight-day clock
And heard Masonic secrets spilled and let them
out again—the cat!—
We never did a thing to her or her accomplices
like that!
“These myall blokes,” said Joe the cook,
“they’re evidently wise to what
A lubra oughter know and what she’d infinitely
better not.
A woman’s place is in the home. But still I
never go so crook
As them when things I’ve told to my old Dutch
leak out,” said Joe the cook.
n.s.w.
MIDFORD.


m
H
ju»'Sj(£
. MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
5 Y DMIEY
Id-irZQUlf*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.. A _Melboum*
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane-
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only. Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral, -
SYDNEY.
cdjf
A PENNY
ANHOUR
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included —is just Id.
an hour.”
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd,
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEY BRISBANE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
THE SUCCESS COMPETITION.
AFTER THE CACTOBLASTIS.
The third prize was won by
“Cactoblastis,” Bullamon Plains,
Thallon (Qwho out of modesty
adopted a pen-name, as the story is
recognisably his own. It was chosen
as an example of the ability of an
Australian to face discouragement
and seize an opportunity.
In 1902 Scott, aged 14, got a job
on a Queensland farm at Bs. per week.
After three years his wages stood at 10s.
Seeing no prospects of advancement-
ploughmen were earning 15s. —he sought
something better.
With two others he leased a small
dairy on shares, receiving one-sixth of
the net profits. Four years later, having
saved £7O, he selected raw scrub land
from the Crown, and was able six years
later to sell out, clearing £3600.
Now 27 years old, he married, and
with financial assistance bought 20,000
acres of unimproved cattle country. This
rash purchase of poor prickly-pear land,
remote from rail, scrubby and dingo-
infested, proved disastrous. The first
year a record drought wiped out the
entire herd. Money was borrowed to re-
stock. Good seasons in which a little
money was made were followed by
droughts which ate up the profits and
more borrowed capital.
The Crown, unable to see the hope-
lessness of the fight against the ever-
increasing prickly-pear, insisted upon its
eradication, although the cost exceeded
the value of the land when cleared.
After 14 years Scott, realising the
property was overcapitalised, threw in
the towel, but was put on as caretaker
by his backers until it could be sold. A
sale of a sort was soon made, his credi-
tors agreeing to give him a complete
discharge when, if ever, he was able to
pay the £2lOO still owing.
In 1928, with experience so slowly
and painfully acquired, a wife now deli-
cate from overwork and hardship, and
three young children, Scott was free to
make a fresh start.
He visited the insectary at Chinchilla,
where two years previously, in the dense
pear, the Government had liberated 2700
Cactoblastis eggs imported from S.
America.
At a glance he formed the opinion
that here was something good.
He paid the first £25 earned by manual
labor to the Crown as the first year’s rent
on a 20-year lease of rich soil heavily
infested with pear. Millions of eggs
were gathered and placed upon it. Other
blocks were acquired and infested simi-
larly. He induced others with small capi-
tal to come in on shares, until in 1929
he controlled almost a quarter of a mil-
lion acres of the richest pear land, close
to rail.
Realising that this huge unproductive
area was a liability only, he gradually
sold, at a nominal price, all but 70,000
acres of the choicest land. The small
capital thus obtained enabled him to live
and keep all rates and rents paid.
By 1930 the destruction of pear had
progressed sufficiently to justify stocking
portion of the land with sheep, but no
money was available to purchase them.
A man was found owning 2000 gravid
ewes, but no country, nor money to pay
for agistment. These sheep were taken
on, and half the lambs reared were given
to Scott as agistment. The owner of the
sheep shepherded them, while Scott
fenced in a paddock, ringbarking on
Sundays.
Scott’s lambs were shorn in 1931.
They cut nine bales, giving a net return
of £7B. On the strength of this clip,
£5OO was borrowed ; £2OO bought 800
cast-for-age shed ewes, and the balance
was used to make water facilities, yards
and shearing shed.
In 1932 a clip of 86 bales was shorn,
realising £l3OO, utilised to purchase more
sheep —3000 old ewes were bought for
£3O0 —and on reproductive improve-
ments. <
In 1933 the fast-increasing flock cut
217 bales, sold for £3200. Notwithstand-
ing a severe drought, depression and low
prices, which caused other pastoralists
to put off their tried hands, Scott em-
ployed more men, and was able to secure
the cream of the splendid talent available.
In 1934 the 257 bales shorn sold at
the greatly reduced prices ruling for
£3300. All creditors were then paid in
full.
The flock gradually acquired without
credit or capital had cost £l7OO, had
cut £7870 worth of wool, and had
increased to 13,000 in four years.
To-day Scott’s holding, abandoned,
worthless land in 1928, is a model sheep-
station, with a substantial modern home
and all plant for efficient working. The
value of the forthcoming clip will pay
off his overdraft. Fifteen men are em-
ployed permanently; at busy times up
to 40. Thirteen thousand sheep are
grazed, besides 400 cattle. In five years,
money being now available, the prop-
erty should be fully developed, carrying
50,000 sheep.
BREEDING FROM CULLS.
“Murrawong”: “Warramulla” (B.
20/ 2/ ’35) was unfortunate in losing his
aged ewes through drought, but that
does not prove that a beginner will get
better results by breeding from culls than
from cast-for-age ewes. The experience
of most sheepmen is to the contrary.
When a man buys a line of ewes cast
for age by a breeder with a known repu-
tation he is getting in on the ground
floor—starting off on the same level that
has taken the breeder years of experi-
menting, selection and rigorous culling to
attain.
Buy and breed from his culls and the
result will be a flock containing all the
weaknesses and faults that the experi-
enced breeder is trying to eliminate.
Furthermore, a merino flock whose foun-
dations are laid on faulty sheep will
never be anything but uneven in quality,
and those inherent weaknesses will prob-
ably result in losses from drought and
fly-strike as great as in a corresponding
number of old ewes.
It is admitted that it is dangerous to
generalise. Different flocks have differ-
ent standards, and one man’s culls may
be as good as his neighbor’s tops ; but
where it is a matter of buying culls or
aged ewes from the same owner the
latter are the better proposition.
It is this practice of breeding from
culls—and from culls of culls —that is
dragging down the standard of Austra-
lian wool and discounting the advances
made by careful and progressive breeders.
Breed fat lambs from them if you like,
but it is folly to use them to breed wool-
growers.
Some years ago I was fortunate in
securing the offer of all the cast-for-age
ewes of a well-known station. We used
them to restock a medium-sized property
in the same district, gradually replacing
a badly neglected flock. To-day that
clip is only beaten by the parent one —a
result which could not have been accom-
plished by stocking on other lines. On
the other hand, I know a grazier with
a good type of sheep who, to make up
for losses, bought 2000 young culls from
a neighbor, off shears. He joined the
rams with them, but when he saw them
and the fleeces they cut he put the entire
mob —lambs and all —back on the
market.
As a rule, a ram cast for age is a poor
proposition, and not to be recommended
for joining with aged ewes. The be-
ginner would be better off in every way
by investing in good young rams of suit-
able type.
WOOL FLUCTUATIONS.
“Upilio”: At the Dunedoo (N.S.W.)
sheep sales last week (8000 yarded) I
bought 500 one-mark two-, three- and
four-year-old merino ewes, Merriman
blood, shorn early Sept., in lamb to
Border Leicester rams, at 10s. per head ;
also, one-mark 14-month-old mixed
sexes, Aug. shorn, heavily-woolled
merino hoggets at 10s. Bd. ; eight-month-
old Corriedale wether lambs, Sept, shorn,
9s. ; four- and six-tooth merino ewes,
late-Sept. shorn, 11s. 4d. ; two-tooth
merino wethers, Sept, shorn, 10s. 6d.
A year ago (Feb., ’34) four- and six-
tooth ewes, early shorn, one mark,
fetched 255. per head ; young woolgrow-
ing wethers 225. 7s. Two years ago
(Feb., ’33) the prices were 10s. 6d. The
fluctuation of these prices mirrors the
ups-and-downs of wool values over the
same period because the seasons, under
review have been consistently good on
the Central Slopes.
Violent fluctuations of wool values
strike at the sheepman equally in wool-
store and paddock. During the Great
War prices of wool were stabilised to ad-
vantage all round. The ups-and-downs
seem avoidable to me. Surely with all
the organisations the world has and the
universal usage of wool there can
be some regularising of demand budgeted
for over a period.
DIPS AND FLY.
“Albarmount”: “W.D.McC.” (B.
20/2/’35) evidently thinks in terms of big
men, big mobs and big money when he
suggests “a properly-constructed dip
should contain 1900 gallons of water.”
Provided the length of swim and the
duration of immersion are sufficient, the
small-owner’s flock can be effectually
dipped in a 750-gallon bath—/.e., at
working height— at half the cost. And
I hope it never becomes necessary for
all dip yards to be paved, as he says
modern ones are. The expense is enough
to deter even an opulent owner from
installing a dip.
That the boys prefer lifting the sheep
in after 20 years of pushing them sup-
plies no reason for the inefficacy of dip
as a fly-preventive. Until I came to use
my present dip I, too, thought lifting-in
an onerous job, but found that the sheep
go in more willingly—no sitting back in
the breeching—and only need lifting a
few inches. If such is the hardest graft
“W.D.McC.” has done I envy him.
MORE DIPPING ARGUMENT.
“G.F.D.”; “Sheepo’s” advice to “give
the sheep a second dip 12 to 14 days
after the first” (B. 23/l/’35) may be all
right for Victoria, but it will fall on deaf
ears in Queensland and n.-w. N. S. Wales
—except, perhaps, where sheep have been
neglected for years and are badly in-
fected. Then it would only be necessary
for one year. Dipping—however much
care is taken—knocks the sheep about,
and graziers like to avoid handling.
A wool firm’s expert described one lot
of once-dipped wool which I handled
last year as “an attractive type of wool,
of very good color, well nourished and
in nice condition.” “Dip once and do
it properly” is the best slogan.
“Albarmount” (B. 23 /1 /’35) must like
hard work if he lifts his sheep over a
4in. concrete wall into the bath. Let
him build a 12ft. race at right-angles to
his dip, slanting upwards to a height of
2ft., and then a 4ft. slide of smoothed
hardwood into the dip, and he’ll find
his sheep— excepting, of course, cranky
old ewes—running in without much push-
ing. This does not knock the sheep
about. I’ve seen 4000 ewes one month
off lambing dipped thus without loss.
More injury is done to the sheep
through careless penning than when go-
ing through the dip. And don’t dip off
shears.
I’ve known 200 from a mob of 3000
hoggets, dipped off shears, to die from
blood-poisoning.
If left for six weeks or two months
the wool will retain particles of the dip
which are revived by rain and serve as
a preventive against fly attack.
Often, where sheep are lightly struck,
the maggots will be cleaned out by a
light shower of rain washing the dip
over the affected area.
ENTERO-TOX^MIA.
“Agamemnon”: Tell “F.L.8.” that
he has been lucky with his entero-
toxaemia vaccine. In districts where the
disease is bad stockowners would laugh
at his figures.
There are better methods of control
than inoculation. When young, un-
marked lambs are attacked the disease
may be checked by marking. If the
sufferers are from four to six months, it
is best to move them to harder and
coarser food.
Entero-toxaemia is caused by an in-
ternal poison set up by the sluggish move-
ment of extremely lush food in the
stomach. A change of feed is essen-
tial. Driving the lambs once or twice a
week may be beneficial. Many fat-lamb
raisers dislike knocking the bloom off
in this way, but they are better as live
stores than as dead lambs.
“F.L.B.’s” low mortality means little
owing to his failure to keep untreated
control sheep. Wherever this has been
done vaccine has been found of little
value. The disease appears and dis-
appears, and is not always correlated to
the lushness of the pasture.
MASTITIS CONTROL.
“Bahb Dwyer”: The U.S. Bureau of
Animal Industry has launched a com-
prehensive scheme which we might copy.
Inspection of herds determines advanced
cases, which are regarded as the chief
source of infection. All such cases are
destroyed, owners being compensated
out of a special fund according to the
value of the animal. The herd-owner
is then instructed to divide the remainder
of his cows into three groups—healthy,
suspects and slight cases.
Systematic washing, of udders and dis-
infection with a chlorine solution suffi-
ciently strong to kill mastitis germs are
then advised. If possible, healthy cows
are kept separate from the other two
groups, but where this is impracticable
it is not insisted upon.
The main essential is to milk the
slightly-infected cows after the healthy
and suspects have been dealt with.
Milkers must wash and disinfect hands
between each cow. Where machines are
used the teat-cups are similarly treated.
After milking, the quarters are dipped
in the chlorine solution.
{Continued on page 24.)


#
0^
<?
<<\ o
<
. «
#
t
1
*
m«i«-
✓
"...
gg?
S 3
m
m
m
m
m
vv
' ; x
•- s ■&
m
««
S--»>/t
$95
UP TO
20/more LIGHT
• • • AND NO INCREASE IN
CURRENT CONSUMPTION
pay no more for these new Coiled-Coil
lamps, nor do they use any more electricity
than the ordinary type, yet, owing to their
remarkably efficient filament, they give as much as
20% more light
Compared with so-called “cheap” lamps, this
FREE LIGHT is often as much as 50%.
Why not enjoy this extra light right away
by filling all your sockets with Australian Mazda
Coiled-Coil lamps? The FREE extra light makes
reading and working more pleasant, reduces eye-
strain —the source of many headaches —and
brings a new feeling of brightness and cheerful-
ness to your home.
NOTE.—In addition to the voltage and wattage,
every Mazda Gashlled Coiled-Coil lamp has its
light output in lumens indelibly branded on the
bulb. This means that the consumption and light
are GUARANTEED.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
for the British Thomson-Housion Co., Ltd ,
B
T-H
Coifi -Camp
Advertisement of ASSOCIATED GENERAL, ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES. LIMITED,
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide... .Hobart. W.A. AGENT: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
ML29.
Available in voltages from 200
to 250 and in 40-, 60-, 75- and
100-watt sizes. All lamps are
obtainable in clear or pearl
finish and in bayonet or screw
caps.


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
I?urs'al2e2z/it
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
f 7
■
AN ALL - PURPOSE
__ BOOT
r Of >
R 1 D I N C,
WORKING,
ROUGH COUNTRY
Wear and
H I K 1 NO
Extra-strong at all
points! The handsome
brown grained calf
upper, pliant and well
adapted for hard wear,
is reinforced with a
soft leather lining.
The stout ankle elastics
maintain smooth fit
and endow the boot
with that easy resilience which makes it
supremely comfortable for riding, working
or walking. Double thickness of sole
gives added strength and guarantees out-
standing service.
The Abbey Boot pulls on easily . . . there
are two tabs which tuck in at ankle. The
buckled ankle strap prevents bulging and
smartly finishes the upper.
ORDER BY POST
Full and half sizes are available, each in
medium and wide fittings. When writing,
specify width as well as . size, and order a
large tin of Dale’s English Dubbin, avail-
able in black and tan, at 2/6. This
softens the leather, makes it waterproof
and increases its wearing qualities.
Brown Grained Calf . . 42/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address : “ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
FPL 427.
Hospital Expenses
and
Disability
Benefits
are special features of "with profit
Whole Life, Probate, Family Income
and Endowment Assurance Policies
issued by the Company, in addition
to the usual benefits granted by
other offices.
All classes of insurances and assurances
transacted.
The Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Coy. Ltd.
Incorporating the businesses of The Equitable
Life Ass. Co. of A/sia, Ltd., and The
Queensland Probate Ins. Co., Ltd.
Equitable Lifeßuilding, Queen Street, Bris bane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
THE
Perth’s Leading Weekly,
with the HOME
Circulation, Carries More
NATIONAL and
LOCAL Advertising
than any other Weekly
Newspaper issued in
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Sydney Representative:
MR. H. J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street,
OYER A CENTURY OF BANKING SERVICE
In a spirit fully alive to the public interest, and anxious
to serve and promote the welfare of the country as a whole ,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited has
for over a century prudently transacted all classes of
banking business to the satisfaction of its customers. To-day
with all its great resources and facilities its policy remains
unaltered.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund •.
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,260,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
RHEUMATISM
Injures Heart, Cripples Body ,
Cuts Years Off Life
End those torturing back, limb, joint and
muscular pains to-day. No need to suffer
the crippling pain of rheumatism, lum-
bago, sciatica or backache when you can
get quick, harmless, effective relief from
Harrison’s Pills, the modern antiseptic
remedy of a London doctor. Harrison’s
Pills banish uric acid—the origin of what
is probably the most acute misery afflict-
ing men and women to-day. Don’t go
on, racked with pain and risking being
crippled by a trouble that can Injure
your heart, age you by twenty years and
make life generally unbearable. Relief
is to be had. Act at once. Harrison’s
Pills drive out the uric acid, soothe
away dread inflammation, end the dan-
ger, and restore the kidneys and bladder
to normal. Hundreds of one-time suffer-
ers have written their grateful thanks
after taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
will help you, too, or the trial will cost
you nothing. Get a package of Harrison’s
Pills from the nearest chemist or store:
three inexpensive sizes. Take as directed,
and if you don’t get the complete, worth-
while relief you seek—money back!
NINE MONTHS’ WOOL-GROWTH.
“Jumbuck”: I don’t agree with “Jay”
in his condemnation of nine months’
shearing (B. 2/1/’35), provided climatic
conditions allow. One test convinced me
that in parts of Queensland four shear-
ings in three years against three would
be beneficial..
Experts maintain that the growth of
wool is the same day by day throughout
the year. I have seen it proved that wool
under normal conditions grows twice as
much during the first six months after
shearing as it does during the second
six. Nature surely demands this.
Sacrificing length by shearing at nine
months will not always mean, as “Jay”
infers, lesser value. In the test referred
to, the nine months’ wool realised more
per lb. than did that of full 12 months’
growth.
Drought conditions compel owners at
times to shear sheep with anything over
seven months’ growth, and from what
I have observed there are many Queens-
land districts where it would be better
to shear always at nine months. I main-
tain that such a system would assist in
combating blowfly.
SKELETON-WEED SPREADS.
“Valerin”: “If this weed is not checked
in 10 years there will not be a bag of
wheat grown in Riverina.” Such was the
opinion of a grower addressing 500
farmers in Wagga (N.S.W.) to discuss
the skeleton-weed problem.
I have been through the badly-infested
areas, and the menace of this pest cannot
be stressed too much.
Thousands of acres of wheat lands
yielded practically nothing. Men who
a few years ago put their life savings
into land are penniless, and share-farmers
are being turned out to go on the dole.
Eighteen years ago Ernest Field, of
Marrar (N.S.W.), discovered the plant
on his farm and sent it to the late J. H.
Maiden, F.R.S., for identification. Mr.
Maiden could not place it, but Dr. B. L.
Robinson, of the Gray Herbarium of
Harvard University (U.S.A.), recognised
it as Chondrilla junceu, a Mediterranean
weed which had become established in
Maryland and Virginia. Mr. Maiden’s
comment was:
Avoid letting this plant seed. The only
way to deal with it is by the hoe or
mattock, and such a wiry-stemmed plant as
this would be worth taking some pains
with. I think, otherwise, it is going to
stay.
It has stayed. Efforts to get Govern-
ments to treat it as a dangerous weed
have proved futile. To-day it is com-
pletely out of control. Specimens have
been found as far apart as Albury and
Inverell. The seed is similar to thistle-
down and can be carried long distances
by the wind. Other conveyors are seed-
wheat, hay and chaff and stock from the
infested areas.
The plant has amazing vitality. Its
roots penetrate to a depth of from 4ft.
to 12ft. and will remain unimpaired in
the soil for several years. So far sprays,
etc., have proved ineffective. In any
case, heavily-infested land could not thus
be economically treated.
To my mind, control may be effected
along these lines:
(1) Biological investigation; a special
grant should be made to the C.S. and
I.R, to enable scientists to devote them-
selves entirely to the job.
(2) Sowing lucerne or other grasses to
compete with the weed. This is worth
exhaustive trials.
(3) Farmers should have the financial
co-operation of the Government, of land-
holders in wheat areas, banks, financial
institutions, mortgagees, super, and farm-
implement manufacturers and others
concerned in wheat production.
Something has got to be done quickly.
SOWING LUCERNE.
“Lion”: “Pick’s” remarks (B. 20/2/’35)
are inaccurate as far as the Riverina is
concerned, and particularly as regards
broadcasting. We broadcast 81b. of
lucerne per acre, and got a splendid cut-
ting stand which yielded over a ton per
acre per cut. The fiddle machine was
used. If good ground is properly pre-
pared and the job properly done with
good seed, nothing except unfavorable
seasonal conditions can prevent good
germination.
Sowing Hin. deep here would be
suicidal. After sowing hundreds of acres
I have found the best method as follows:
With a combine fixed as for top-dress-
ing and the seed mixed with the manure,
sow with the front tynes in about lin.
and the back row completely out. Drag
the usual light harrows behind as when
sowing grain, and be sure to have the
seed well mixed and kept so whilst
sowing.
Don’t put into the manure-box more
than enough for an acre at a time, and
never leave the seed and manure mixed
for more than two hours before using.
The seed can be sown in March, but
August or first week in, September,
according to the season, seems to suit
the Riverina best.
Never use a disc drill, as, it invariably
puts lucerne in too deep. Use only the best
seed, thoroughly cleaned. The poorer
the soil the less seed is used. For all
average purposes, where hay as well as
stock-feed is needed, sow from 81b. to
101 b. per acre on rich soil flats. Where
growing a thick thin-stemmed stand for
market, up to 201 b. per acre is suitable.
My experience has proved conclusively
that the golden rule is: Never sow the
seed more than yin. deep.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A.G.T.”; When the bottom of the
rainwater-tank springs a leak, and you
have to act quickly to save the water,
put some clean sand in a, bag and lower
down on to the leak. Give the bag a
few prods with a piece of wood to bed
the sand down.
“West”: If a pig goes round in circles,
holding its head to one side and falling
over, it probably has abscesses in the
middle ear, caused by suppurative otitis,
which is accompanied by a discharge
from eyes and nostrils in its advanced
stages. It is incurable, but can be pre-
vented by good sanitation and protecting
the pig from chills, scuffles and pneu-
monia.
“Thalassa”: Re “Mimosa” on worms
in horses (B, 13/2/’35), the dose of
tartar emetic for this purpose is one to
two drachms, an eighth of that advised
by “Mimosa.” Many vet. practitioners
will not prescribe this drug in even
drachm doses on account of its corrosive
action on the gastric and intestinal
membrane.
“Tockilly”: When burning an old
handle out of an axe always soak the
ground before burying the blade. This
prevents the blade from becoming too
hot and spoiling the temper.
“Broad-axe-man”: There are always
small bumps and shoulders on the flat
side of a new broad axe, and sometimes
the blade is not quite straight. To set
an axe and put it “on the wood” properly
use an ordinary square to find all the
bumps. Then either file or grind these
out. (The face of the grindstone should
be perfectly flat.) If the blade is not
straight rest it on two pieces of wood,
place a small chip on the top side and
tap sharply with a light sledge-hammer
until the kink is out.
“Sprouter”: I’ve seen “Pick’s” method
(B. 6/2/’35) of mortising posts in slabs
on rocky country that is too hard to
sink in. Here’s a better way: Get eye-
bolts with at least two eyes and about
6in. to Ift. long. When on rock, if a bar
won’t face it, drill a hole just deep enough
to leave the eyes of the bolts above the
surface. Put the bolt in that and
pour liquid cement in round it. That
will set. When it has set bolt the post
on to the eye-bolt, and the fence is there
for all time and much more stable than
one which has been mortised in.
“Clox”: Sand as a preservative (B.
13/2/’35) is hard to come by in many
country homesteads. Ashes are even
better. Citrus fruits, carrots, apples and
potatoes can be kept fresh by this method
of “clamping,” as they call it in England.
Clean root vegetables and dry thoroughly.
Make a good bed of ashes (if possible a
shallow pit), spread a little straw or
dry dead grass on the bottom, put in the
lemons, apples and vegs., and cover with
more straw and a good layer of ashes.
This is my unfailing recipe for un-
withered Grannie Smiths and stump-
rooted carrots.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
if
rlt
i
m
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)!
SMOKE-OH!
“What is it that makes some men suddenly
;ease their drinking?’ asks a reformer.”
We suggest lack of money and a hard-
hearted publican.
* *
“Man’s Services to Labor to Be Recognised.”
—News heading.
What about recognising Mr. Lang’s
services to the U.A.P.?
* *
“Tourist Trips Over the Mountains.”
— “Telegraph.”
How clumsy!
* *
“The second son, William, is a tram con-
ductor.” — “Sun.”
A Bill o’ fare.
“He will take the part of the paymaster in
his own play.”— “Herald.”
A pay role.
“My dear. Your legs!”
“Never mind them. The stockings are mother’s, but
the hat’s mine.”
“ Fate seems to be against Kisch; he will
have to go.”— “Labor Daily.”
Kischmet.
* *
“The modern girl refuses to be humble.”
— “Sun.”
Yet she is always prepared to go down
on his knees to the man she loves,
THE ALL-ROUNDER.
“Once he played cricket and football and
polo, too ; and he also took an oar in a first-
class rowing event. He played a good hand at
bridge also.”— “Telegraph.”
Leading a small heart to his partner’s
ace he took the pass, and coming down
the field at a stroke of 36 hit the next
ball of the over for four. From the
line-out his partner returned him a heart
to trump, and, increasing his stroke to
38, he put on a spurt and grounded the
ball between the posts. A little later he
was in difficulties in the rough water in
the opponent’s twenty-five ; but handling
his pony extremely well he managed to
secure command with the queen of clubs,
and four byes were scored.
There is no doubt that he was the hero
of the day, but the results were a bit
confusing. His side won the sculling
contest (by 4235 points, including six
rubbers), the football game (by 357 runs)
and the cricket match (by two tries and
a converted goal to nil). It also won
all four chukkas at bridge. But the polo
match was declared no race owing to the
fouling of an oar during a scrum in the
second innings.
H. M.
ẁ
drops being either natur-
ally perverse or else shock-
ingly bad choosers, mostly
go east, and are very sorry
for themselves before they
reach the sea.
By this time they are
almost unrecognisable and
have lost their Peruvian
nationality.
In • earlier times Peru
was governed by the Incas.
These were tall, handsome,
civilised barbarians. They
didn’t understand the value
of silver and gold, and
they spoke a strange
language called Chin-
chona, also known as the
Peruvian Bafk. They be-
lieved that everyone had a
right to live and work,
which was a very silly be-
lief even for those days.
They were modernised
by the Spaniards under
Pizarro (chosen because of
the “o”), a peace-loving
merchant, who killed the
chief Inca and several
thousands of the lesser
Incas, and made Peru safe
for democracy, thus con-
vincing the surviving Peru-
vians that the day of
liberation was at hand.
The most noticeable
feature of Peru is the
llama. Unlike the Tibetan creature of
the same name, the Peruvian llama
is a handsome beast, and in the day of
the Incas it was greatly venerated. A
gentle animal with llimpid blue eyes, it
supplied them with llacteal fluid and
alpaca coats, and was also used as a
means of transport. It was a common
sight before Pizarro’s time to see a string
of llamas travelling slowly along the
road which crossed the wide open liana
between Huancavelica and Goyllaris-
quisga, lloaded with gold, silver and
other common products of the Hand.
Owing to a supposed similarity in the
Ilanguages it has been suggested that the
Peruvians are of Welsh extraction, but a
select but indignant committee consist-
ing of Lloyd George, Billy Hughes and
Morgan the Pirate gave this claim a com-
plete denial. Its reasons were varied
and unintelligible, and had little bearing
on the case.
Peru is standing up to the blow as well
as can be expected.
Jasby.
“A box of cigars lasts a man longer in some
climates than in others.” — “Sun.”
Scotland is said to have the most suit-
able climate.
DOUBLE*D.
Darting suspicious glances to right and
left he crept from his hiding-place beside
the gleaming rails.
No one in sight! No
one to interfere with
his nefarious scheme!
He reached the track
and carefully placed
his burden on the
rails. Should he place
the head up or down?
No matter ; the result
would be the same.
The shrill whistle of
the approaching train
warned him to return
to his hiding-place . . .
When the rattle and
roar of the iron mon-
ster had died away in
the distance he once more approached
the spot.
“A real beaut.!” he exclaimed as he
picked up the flattened threepenny-
piece. “Anyone would take it for a six-
pence now!”
Wattie.
HIS TRIUMPH.
To the accompaniment of stirring mar-
tial music, he strode through the wildly
cheering multitude —a grim, purposeful
figure, clad in the now proverbial khaki
breeches and brown shirt.
With the thumb of one hand tucked
in his belt and the other arm charac-
teristically upraised, he saluted the
crowds of enthusiasts who strained to get
a glimpse of this famous little man with
the rebellious lock of black hair and the
insignificant Charlie Chaplin moustache.
As he mounted the platform which
had been specially prepared for him, the
waiting officials raised their hands for
silence. Then one of them stepped for-
ward and addressed the eagerly await-
ing crowd.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he announced
after a glance at his notes ; “it gives me
great pleasure to present the first prize
for the best-sustained character to
Mr. William Winterbottom —as Adolph
Hitler!”
Roland Butter.
* *
STREET BARROWMEN’S MATRICU-
LATION TEST.
(All questions to be answered, and no
back answers .)
(1) Your mate, whose job it is to stand
at the back of the barrow and fill the
bags with the smaller fruit you keep
there, has not turned up, and you are
compelled to do it all yourself. You can-
not get around to the back owing to your
being hemmed in by traffic. Asa last
resort, would you be prepared to estab-
lish a dangerous precedent by actually
giving customers some of the large and
unbruised fruit from the front?
(2) A woman whom you have just
served comes back and says you gave her
14 apples instead of 12, though you only
charged her for the dozen. ( Assume for
the purposes of this question your—and
her —temporary and inexplicable mental
aberration.) State whether you favor tak-
ing back (a) three or (b) four.
(3) You are thin and weedy. A heavy-
jowled, truculent-looking fourteen-stone
man wants some pears, 16 for a shilling.
You already have a dozen in the bag and
are about to add the last two, which are
squashed and half-rotten, when your
glance takes in his terrific mien and a
ripple of biceps under his coatsleeves.
Would you drop them into the bag, close
it by swinging it round defiantly a dozen
times, and pass them over, hand held out
for the money, and meeting scowl for
scowl? Or what?
(4) Discuss in full the word “scale,"
especially having regard to its two mean-
ings (one a noun and the other a col-
loquial verb) and their bearing on your
“How are you to-day, Paddy?”
“Welt, I can’t grumble — l’ve got a sore
throat.”
profession. You may ignore the word’s
relationship to music, fish and draughts-
manship.
S. W. K.
H- *
“A substantial portion of a British army
order for tinned meat is to be delivered in
India.” —News item.
Australia will meat Britain half-way
over this.
¥
THE SOLICITOR TURNS
RESTAURATEUR.
£ s. d.
To Loan of menu . . , , 2 0
Getting soup from kitchen 5 0
Placing same on table .. 10
Picking fly out . . . . 2 6
The plate of soup . . .. 6
Advising on relative merits
of entrees . . . . 10 6
Entree . . . . , . 16
Removing dishes .. . . 2 0
Serving joint .. .. 5 0
Mopping up tablecloth . . 10 6
Procuring clean knife .. 4 6
Joint 3 6
Warning not to have sweets 111 6
Instructing to pay at desk 10 6
Professional attendance . . 3 3 0
Picking up tip from table 4 0
Preparing this account ~ 10 6
£8 8 0
S. Esq.
* *
A TOUCH OF GENIUS.
“My boy,” said the manager, “I con-
gratulate you. You have shown initiative
and resource.
“Cup Day before last your grandmother
died. When the circus came to town your
grandfather passed away. You reminded
me, when on a later occasion you again
lost your grandmother, that you had
grandparents on the paternal and
maternal side. When your third grand-
mother died, you informed me that your
mother had married again. That left you
with one grandparent, whose demise co-
incided with the last pony meeting. Now
you say your mother is a film star. That
will maintain the supply of grandparents
indefinitely. My boy, I congratulate you.
You may attend the~er—funeral, and
upon your return you will be promoted
to the correspondence section to deal
exclusively with letters to our creditors.
“In future you need only indicate by
the tie you wear in the mornings whether
it is a marriage ceremony or a funeral
you wish to attend.”
Val.
WANDERLUST.
I can sing no praise of home.
For, a child of the open road.
It is ever my fate to roam
In search of a new abode.
So my life as the years go by
Is in many a dwelling spent —
For, being a poet, I
Am unable to pay my rent.
NAT.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Kooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Ccnch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busines-
Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
... Th £ right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“vVanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Station-hand (19), Vic., two years’ exp. with
sheep, thorough knowledge all station work,
wants job any State. Refs. —5758.
Jackeroo, bred in country, exp. sheep central-
west N.S.W., sheep and cattle north-west
N.S.W., fat lambs near Goulburn, wants job.-
Available middle of March.—s76B.
Youth, Tas., Dookie diploma, wants position
on Q’land cattle station. —5759.
Two brothers, N.S.W. (24 and 25), want
position together on station. Both over five
years on Buttabone stud station at Warren
(N.5.W.).—5713.
To buy “Oblation,” by A. G. Stephens.—
5703.
To buy book on the breaking-in of saddle-
horses. —5740.
To buy “Gasoline Automobiles,” by Heldt;
any v01ume.—5752.
Words of old English song “Villikins and
His Dinah.” —5764.
Information Sought.
Did Jackie Green, who was knocked out
by Criqui at Sydney Stadium, win more than
one Australian championship ? If so, from
whom and when ? Also, who defeated him
for them ? —5712.
Green was champion of Australia in three
different divisions. He became flyweight cham-
pion in 1916 by winning a tournament, and
beat Vince Blackburn for the bantam title early
in 1920. A few months later he defeated Sid
Godfrey, the featherweight title-holder. The late
George Mendies defeated Green for flyweight
honors in 1917, and Bert Spargo outpointed
him for the featherweight crown in 1921.
Green was never beaten for the bantam cham-
pionship, relinquishing the title early in 1921
when he could no longer make the weight.
(1) When did the first steam engine arrive
in Australia ? (2) Who brought it here ?
(3) Where was it erected ? —-5769.
(1) October 9, 1813. (2) John Dickson, an
English engineer. (3) On a grant of 15 acres
bounded by Hay, George, Goulburn, Liver-
pool streets and down to Darling Harbor. On
May 29, 1815, the engine was officially started
in the presence of Governor Macquarie.
(1) What is the equivalent of 16/- English
money in Australian currency ? .(2) How could
I remit the amount to England ? (3) Any duty
on, chessmen imported from England ? (4)
Where can I obtain the “Australian Chess
Magazine” ? —5546.
(1) £l. (2) By money order, obtainable any
post office. (3) Chessmen are classifiable
under Tariff Item 310 (A), 30 p.c. British
Preferential Tariff, plus a special impost of
50 p.c. of the duty; primage duty of 10 p.c.
on invoice value and 5 p.c. sales tax on sell-
ing price are also payable. (4) Presume you
mean the “Australasian Chess Review,” pub-
lished monthly by C. J. S. Purdy, Bellevue-
avenue, Maroubra, Sydney.
Is Jack Lindsay, author of “Rome for
Sale,” an Australian ? Please give a brief
account of his career and list of his published
works. —5737.
He is Norman Lindsay’s eldest son; born in
Melbourne in 1900 and educated at Brisbane
Uni. His publications are: “Fauns and Ladies”
(poems), “Marino Faliero” (verse-drama),
“Hereward” (verse-drama), “Helen Comes of
Age” (three verse-plays), “Passionate Neatherd”
(poems), “Creative Will and the Poetic Image”
“Dionysos,” “The Romans,” translations of
“Lysistrata” and “Women in Parliament”
(Aristophanes), complete works of Petronius,
“Love Poems of Propertius,” “A Homage to
Sappho,” “Theocritos,” “Herondas,” “Catul-
lus,” “Ansonius,” “Latin Medieval Poets,” “I
Am a Roman” and “Golden Ass.” He edited
“Metamorphosis of Ajax,’-’ “Loving Mad
Tom,” “Parlement of Pratlers” and “Blake’s
Poetical Sketches”; also wrote the novels
“Cressida’s First Lover,” “Rome For Sale” and
“Caesar Is Dead.”
When writing to a limited company do you
address it as Messrs. ? —5724.
Strictly, no. A limited company is a single
legal entity. But where the firm-name includes
that of persons, such as “Smith, Brown and
Co., Ltd.,” it is usual courtesy to use
“Messrs.”
Details concerning Thomas Woolner, the
sculptor who modelled the statue of Captain
Cook in Hyde Park, Sydney ? Is there a
biography of him ? —5750.
He was born at Hadleigh, Suffolk, in 1825,
and died in London in 1892. He came to
Australia to try his luck on the goldfields, and
lived here from October, 1852, to July, 1854.
During that period he modelled medallion
portraits of Melbourne and Sydney citizens, for
which he charged 25 guineas each. After
returning to London he modelled the statue
of Captain Cook. He was one of the original
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, and was elected
A.R.A. in 1871 and R.A. in 1874. He is
represented in the Melbourne and Sydney gal-
leries, the Mitchell Library, the Commonwealth
Collection, Canberra, and the Historical Col-
lection, Public Library, Melbourne. See
“Thomas Woolner, R.A., Sculptor and Poet,”
by Amy Woolner.
Particulars concerning the movement in Eng-
land to standardise c010r5? —5743.
Work in that direction has been carried out
by the British Color Council, which has issued
a dictionary of color standards, the first
volume of which shows 220 colors presented
on pure silk ribbon and named, numbered and
coded, and the other giving the history of each
color and the various names by which each
has previously been known. The dictionary
is primarily intended for industrial and com-
mercial reference. The colors, other than
spectrum colors, fall into three classes —those
which can be matched to definitely existing
standards, such as Wedgwood blue or Post
Office red; those which can be matched to the
average of a number of samples, whether animal,
vegetable or mineral, such as squirrel, carrot
and sapphire; and those of which the color
sensation attributed to a definite color name
shows a very wide divergence of opinion, such
as sky blue, saxe blue and old rose. The
variety of specimens received for each color
was surprising; there were, for instance, 80
different sky blues, 60 different whites, and
40 different blacks. The 220 colors contained
in the dictionary have been adopted by the
British Standards Institution and have been
put forward for acceptance to the standardising
bodies throughout the Empire.
(1) What are cosmic rays ? (2) Who dis-
covered them ? —5762.
(1) Little is yet known about them. It is
thought that they arise in space through the
building up of heavy atoms from lighter ones
in the hot centres of stars or nebulae. The
cosmic rays are distinguished from all others
by their extremely short wave-length and
exceedingly great power of penetration.
Apparently they are the result of tremendous
changes taking place somewhere out in space,
involving enormous amounts of energy. (2)
Dr. R. A. Millikan.
(1) How could I send a letter to the U.K.
per Dutch air lines ? (Necessary direction on
cover and stamp.) (2) Per San Francisco-New
York. Airway ? (Direction on cover and cost.)
—5521.
(1) The Dutch air-mgil lines to the East are
not available for carriage of mails to the U.K.
(2) The endorsement necessary is name of
vessel and “via U.S.A. air mail.” Air-mail fee
is 7d. per in addition to ordinary postage.
The transit time would be at least 25 days.
Transit time from Sydney to London by the
Australia-London air service is 13 days.
What sails did H.M.S. Sirius, the guardship
of the First Fleet, carry ? —5746.
Tier rig was three square sails on the fore-
mast, three on the mainmast and one square
topsail on the mizzenmast. She did not carry
royals, the long square pole at the head of
each mast being merely a flagpole, not strong
enough to carry a sail. She also carried one
jib, the usual staysails, and a mizzen or
driver or spanker.
(1) What is the law relating to trespass in
N.S.W. and Vic.? Can legal proceedings be taken
against a person for trespassing, or must it be
proved that damage has resulted from such
trespass, and proceedings for damages insti-
tuted ? (2) Have fishermen the right of access
to water whether a river frontage exists or not ?
(3) Do the same laws as apply to fishermen
apply to the shooting of game ? —5617.
(1) At Common Law any invasion of private
property, be it ever so minute, is a trespass.
This is applicable to all the States. A tres-
passer is liable to a civil action for damages,
but a mere entry without felonious intent does
not render him liable to prosecution. Entering
inclosed lands without lawful excuse or the
consent of the owner is an offence punishable
by a fine. This applies to both States. (2)
Each State has its own Act, but the general
principles are the same. Persons catching fish
for sale in tidal or inland waters require to be
licensed; the sizes of meshes in nets are pre-
scribed, etc. It is an offence for any person
to sell or have in his possession undersized fish.
For full details you should buy a copy of the
Act. There is no right of access. (3) In both
States legislation exists for the protection of
birds and animals. Close seasons are pro-
claimed and penalties for breach provided.
Open seasons also may be proclaimed during
which licenses to kill may be procured. For
full details see Act. The pursuit of game
does not excuse trespass.
Would rheumatism cause pain and swelling
in the great toe ? What can be done for re-
lief ? —5730.
Periodic toe pain and swelling is due to a
form of rheumatic gout. Although the con-
dition is to some extent inherited the initial
fault is in uric acid" accumulation in the blood.
Avoid acids and exposure to variable tempera-
tures ; extremes in any form are harmful to the
rheumatic subject. Add an aperient such as
sulphate of soda to a morning glass of hot
water; bathe the feet in a warm soda bath at
night, and massage upwards with an oil em-
brocation daily if circulation is sluggish. In
the matter of diet, vegetables that grow above
the ground (green-leaf, etc.) are preferable to
those of root or tuber type, but potatoes may
be eaten in moderation. A simple allowance
is best. See a doctor if swelling persists.
What is mountain sickness ? Symptoms and
treatment ? —5721.
The condition is experienced by those vriio,
accustomed to live at ordinary heights, have
reason to ascend high mountains in the course
of travel; it also occurs in balloon ascents and
high aeroplane flights. An early symptom is
the extreme fatigue that occurs with the slight-
est exertion. Associated with this is a profound
desire for sleep. Violent headache and vomit-
ing are not uncommon. There is no doubt
that the condition is caused by lack of oxygen;
the symptoms can be produced in the labora-
tory, and relieved by adding oxygen to the
air. The sickness usually begins at 7000 ft.
approx.
I have been told that there is a preparation
for rheumatism containing, among other things,
sulphur, Epsom salts and cream of tartar. Cab
you supply me with the complete prescription ?
—5664.
Epsom salts, sulphur and cream of tartar may
be combined as an aperient saline. Perhaps the
reference is to the sulphur and guaiacum con-
fection. Formula is; 2oz. sulphur, loz. cream
of tartar, 2 drachms powdered rhubarb, 1
drachm powdered gum guaiacum,
powdered nutmeg, 11b. honey. Mix the powders
well together, and gradually incorporate with
the honey. The adult dose is one or two tea-
spoons night and morning, followed with a
glass of warm water.
What medicinal properties are attributed to
lime-water ? What is the dose for an adult,
and how can it be prepared at home? —5715.
Taken internally, lime-water is mildly antacid,
When added to new milk it prevents the for-
mation of a thick curd in the stomach; the
milk can then be tolerated. When mixed with
equal parts olive oil or linseed oil, the creamy
emulsion (carron oil) acts as a soothing agent
for burns, scalds, eczema, etc. To prepare lime-
water, add loz. washed slaked lime to five pints
of water; shake well, and set aside to clear.
The solution may be poured or syphoned off
as required. It will keep indefinitely if corked
in green glass bottles, free from air. The
original residue may be used again, but occa-
sional renewal of the lime is advised. Dose
for an adult is two tablespoons twice or thrice
daily in a glass of milk or water.
Meaning of “keloid” ? —5716.
A medical term applied to scar tissue that
remains vascular and tends to extend; it per-
sists as a claw instead of contracting to normal
in the healing process. The trouble may follow
upon operation or abscess, and injury to the
dermis or secondary ■ skin is a frequent cause.
Keloid growths are apt to occur in subjects
of tubercular tendency, but such development
does not indicate presence of the disease. Opera-
tive scars may remain prominent for months
and then slowly contract as usual —much de-
pends upon age and individual health. The
operative treatment of keloid does not always
meet with success. Treatment with sunlight,
X-rays or radium may be tried.
A few hints on planting tulips in Vic. ?
5774.
Plant the bulbs during February, March
and April, about 4in. deep in heavy soil, and
from Sin. to 6in. deep in light sandy soil. To
secure the most brilliant effect plant in clusters
of not less than six bulbs. It is not necessary
to remove the brown skin from the bulbs, but
very often this is displaced before planting-
time. The bulbs, however, providing they are
carefully handled, are none the worse, but it
will frequently be noticed that when the outer
skin is gone the white interior is bruised and
often slightly mouldy. Unless the mould is
very bad, no notice need be taken, but to be
on the safe side it is advisable to give the
bulbs a dressing of finely powdered flowers of
sulphur. Be careful to plant bulbs of each
variety a uniform depth, and this is best done
by making a hole with a dibbler and dropping
the bulbs in, taking care to see that the. bulb
is not suspended by the walls but is right on
the earth at the bottom. Planting bulbs of
the same variety at a uniform depth will
ensure plants of one variety attaining about
the same height and flowering at the same
period. Plant Cottage and Darwin tulips about
6in. or 7in. apart; Parrot tulips can be placed
a little nearer, about Sin. being sufficient dis-
tance between the bulbs.
Soil requirements for growing antirrhinums ?
—5765.
The most suitable soil is a light garden loam,
well endowed with lime, thoroughly drained,
as antirrhinums will not stand excessive mois-
ture, and not too heavily manured. A poor-
to-medium-quality soil will give much better
results than very rich ground. Heavy manur-
ing causes rank growth and poor flowers, and
very often kills the plants outright just as they
are coming into bloom.
What N.S.W. Government department issues
first and second engineer’s certificates and cer-
tificates for boiler attendants and drivers of
stationary engines ? What departments issue
certificates for drivers of other classes of
engines ? —5270.
At present there is no provision in the
Statutes of N. S. Wales for a first or second
engineer’s certificate, nor for boiler attendants’
or stationary engine-drivers’ certificates. The
Department of Labor and Industry issues cer-
tificates in respect of crane- or hoist-driving
and similar appliances operated by steam, elec-
tricity or other power, and also, to lift attend-
ants for the driving of passenger lifts in build-
ings. The Mines Department issues certificates
in respect of winding and other engines, also
electric motors used in connection with mines.
For further information in regard to these
apply to the Under-Secretary, Department of
Mines, Bent-street, Sydney.
What is the derivation of the expression “at
loggerheads” ? —5815.
The loggerhead was an iron with a large oval
head, which was made red-hot and thrust into
beverages popular in former days. Tavern-
keepers found these loggerheads admirable
weapons when drunkards reached a quarrel-
some stage.
Who wrote the Tennysonian parody:
And I shall see Him face to face
As Gentleman to Gentleman.
—5725.
Raymond Asquith.
Who wrote:
How small, of all that human hearts endure.
That part tluit kings or laws can cause or cure.
—5720.
Samuel Johnson inserted these famous lines
into “The Traveller,” by Oliver Goldsmith.
Who wrote the lines:
No other voice nor sound is there
In the army of the grave;
No other challenge breaks the air
But the rushing of Life’s wave.
—5734.
Longfellow, in “The Beleaguered City.”
Brief Answers.
A.W.: Sheila Kaye-Smith is Mrs. T. P. Fry,
F. Tennyson Jesse is Mrs. H. M. Harwood,
Naomi Royde-Smith is Mrs. Ernest Milton, V.
Sackville West is Hon. Mrs. Harold Nicolson,
Stella Benson is Mrs. J. C. O’G. Anderson,
Mary Borden is Mrs. E. L. Speers and Susan
Ertz is Mrs. J. R. McCrindle P.P.; Son of
the late C. H. E. Chauvel, of Tabulam (N.S.W.);
born at Canning Downs South (Q.) on
April 16, 1865 H.C.P.; Write Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney, for leaflet “Fruit Flies”
(Insect Pests Leaflet, No. 11)... .P. 0.5.:
Appointments as stewardess to P. and O. liners
are made in London for the voyage to Aus-
tralia and return, but some overseas companies
occasionally engage stewardesses in Australia.
It might be worth applying to agents... .8.D.:
Write Will Andrade, Central Chambers, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney... .J.H.F.; “Chinese Repub-
lic News,” 78 Campbell-street; “Chinese Times,”
73 Ultimo-road; “Chinese World News,” 18
Mary-street, and “Tung Wall Times,” 52 Dixon-
street —all Sydney... J.P.K.: Bert Hinkler was
killed Jan. 8, 1933, in a crash in Grotta-
Magna Forest, Italy, during an attempted flight
from England to Australia... .D.K.M.: We
know of no private artist giving such instruc-
tion. There are several correspondence schools
in Sydney... .R.8.D.: (1) No scope in New
Guinea. (2) Write Argus South African News-
papers, 72-78 Fleet-street, London, E.C.4....
G. Anderson’s Industries, Albion-street,
City; J. Bardsley and Sons, Moore-street,
Leichhardt; Dozman Hat Mills, 10 Taylor-
street, Darlinghurst; Dunkerley Hat Mills,
Bourke-street, Waterloo; R. C. Henderson,
Randle-street, City, and Arthur P. Stewart, 129
York-street, City—all Sydney... .G.S.W.: (1)
No. (2) About 1923... .C.N.C.: Get into
direct communication with the Sydney timber
firms, whose addresses may be obtained from
the Associated Country Sawmillers of N.S.W.,
Union House, George-street, Sydney... .J.C.:
Write Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for leaflet
entitled “Grasshopper Control”.. .C. 8.: Syd-
ney agents are Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, l td.,
Kyle House, 27-31 Macquarie-place, from whom
information could be obtained... .C.W.P.R.:
The material is derris root, obtainable Sayers
Allport, Macquarie-street, and Houghton and
Byrne, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney. These firms
also supply particulars in regard to its use as
a tick repellent... .J.C.G.: Yes, N.S.W. Edu-
cation Dept, pays subsidies in aid of convey-
ance of children to school. Particulars on
application... .G.C. : The grant of £250,000
made by the Commonwealth under the Finan-
cial Relief Act, 1932 (Part VII, Relief to Primary
Producers other than Wheatgrowers), is being
distributed by the several State Governments.
Expenditure amounts to £246,847, and there are
still claims in course of investigation M.H.8.:
After debts and the cost of administration have
been met the remainder of the estate, should
her husband survive her, would go one-third
to him and the, remaining two-thirds to her
children, share and share alike. Should, how-
ever, her husband predecease her and children
only be left the estate would be distributable
among them equally... .H.A.: It is from
Cicero’s “Ad Herennium,” and translated
reads: “The swallows are at hand in summer-
time, but in cold weather they are driven away.
So false friends are at hand in life’s clear
weather; but as soon as they see the winter of
fortune they all fly away” D.D.: Arthur
Patchett Martin (1851-1902) was the son of
George Martin, an Australian pioneer colonist.
He edited “Melbourne Review” from 1876 to
1882, and spent his later life in England in
literary work. He was author of “Australia
and the Empire,” “True Stories from Austra-
lian History,” “The Life and Letters of Robert
Lowe, Viscount Sherbrooke,” “Tennyson and
the Isle of Wight,” “The Beginnings of Aus-
tralian Literature” and other works, including
verse K.D.: (1) Donald Calthrop, British
film actor, was born in London on April 11,
1888. (2) His mother was Eve Boucicault —he
is a nephew of Dion Boucicault. (3) Yes, he
appeared in “Blackmail” and “Rome Express.”
... .T.J.R.: The Trevessa, 3566 tons, from Aus-
tralia to England, sank in the Indian Ocean,
1200 miles from Western Australia, on June 4,
1923. The crew left in two lifeboats. On
June 27 one arrived at Rodriguez Island, and
on June 30 the other arrived at Mauritius; 33
lives out of 44 were saved, after sailing about
3000 miles A.H.M.N.: (1) Cannot supply
information without first knowing r.p.m. of
motor, number of poles and frequency of
supply. (2) “Armature Winding and Motor
Repair,” by B. H. Brayner, price 10s. 6d.
(second-hand) and 21s. (new), Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .H.K.: Trinitrin (nitro-
glycerin) is given medicinally in cardiac stasis
and circulatory faults —by dilating the blood-
vessels it lowers arterial pressure and quickens
the pulse. Its action is slower but more last-
ing than amyl nitrite, which latter is freely pre-
scribed. Trinitrin is of service in angina,
asthma, seasickness, etc., but either injection
(hypodermic) or oral dosage demands medical
supervision. It is not a habit-forming drug as
you suggest J.H.: (1) The operation may
be performed at any age from infancy to adult
maturity; for obvious reasons the period up
to five years is preferred. In normal health suc-
cess is practically assured. (2) A local anaes-
thetic is necessary; your doctor may advise four
or five days’ absolute rest. (3) The healing pro-
cess should be complete in from eight to ten
days. During this time heavy manual work
must be avoided F.S.: Addresses posted. It
is improbable that hypnotic treatment would
serve your purpose; self-suggestion is the real
essential. In all cases the state of hypnosis
is dominated by personal will to accept the
control, and on this circumstance success
depends. Although formerly much used in
treatment of functional nervous disease, hyp-
notism in any form is now superseded by
methods demanding little more than intelli-
gence and self-will on the part of the patient.
... .T. 8.: The Blue Mountain districts, Went-
worth Falls, Bathurst and Northern Tablelands
to New England route —thence Queensland.
Write secretary, N.R.M.A., 3 Spring-street,
Sydney, for particulars. Arrange permanent
residence in present location (Many others
mailed.)


15 MY MOUTH
SO UGLY ?
,s TO n
MIGHT /
JACK
1 COULD KIT HELP
-ANN
NOT AT AIL, ANN
BUT here's A HINT-
WHY don't YOU TRY A
SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE?
V
YOU HAVE THE MOST
SEE US
BEWITCHING MOUTH
IVE EVER. SEEN
MM
" '
M
■3 /A > ,
tap y
: zyr~
1 MEANT PEPSODENT, THE SPECIAL
FILM-REMOVING TOOTH - PASTE, ANN.
MV DENTIST SAYS YOUVE GOT TO
REMOVE PILM TO GET RID OF THE
FOOD AND SMOKING
STAINS ON YOUR /?■ ~
teeth, / -dBK
WHAT DID YOU
MEAN LAST NIGHT
BY " SPECIAL"
TOOTH PASTE ?
m
/n
1_
I USED TO THINK RETA
HAD A FASCINATING
SMILE BUT IT CAN'T
COMPARE TO YOURS. ANN
OH DARLING,THAT MAKES
ME SO GLORIOUSLY HAPPY
; s
ii
t;
M
S»
exclusively. That’s why it is termed
the "special film-removing” tooth paste.
Don't envy the dazzling
smiles of others
when film is removed your own teeth
will delight you with their brilliance
• 9 times out of 10 it’s not the teeth
themselves but a sticky, stubborn coating
that robs teeth of their beauty. When
once removed, teeth gleam again with
undimmed brilliance.
That coating on teeth is film. You can
feel it with your tongue. Film forms
constantly—rapidly.
In film are the acid-producing germs
that cause decay . . . glued by film to
teeth, where they attack enamel and destroy
the part beneath.
This film absorbs the stains from food
—the stains from smoking. That’s what
makes teeth look dingy and unattractive.
Thus removing film accomplishes two
things—keeps teeth gleaming bright and
helps prevent dreaded tooth decay.
The approved way to remove film is
with Pepsodent —urged by dentists and
used by four million people. Pepsodent
contains a special cleansing and polish-
ing material —more effective in removing
film—softer and therefore safer. This
discovery is contained in Pepsodent
F R E E—! 0-Day Tube
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. SB.)
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name -
Address -
Only one tube to a family.
332 Distributing Centres in Tasmania!
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
Tasmania.
“The Examiner’' (Established 1842),
the only daily newspaper now publish-
ed in Launceston, not only goes into
90% of the homes in Launceston, but
is distributed throughout Northern
Tasmania, in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St.. Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier’’ and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne,
W. G. Dougan, Kemibla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is un er acen
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompan
ẃ
does say 1itt1e....E.8.N.P.: “Spring,” Please!
A L : A Red Page bloke said it in prose
months ag0.... A.M.C.: Don’t fancy that one.
J.T.: So exactly between prose and verse
that you might have called it “Purgatory”....
EE.R.: You’ve done better F.F.; Sorry ,
too long for this column.. . .0.C.E.; ‘i W
myself this is rubbish.” Flatterer! M.R..
Think little of it, but it should 5e11.... R.C.H..
N0....D-S.: Poor —even as “fair average
poetry” g0e5....J.F.G.: Religious editions
tears washed out the “Drought”... .8.H.E.:
Nothing to say about that sort of verse except
that schoolgirls can do it by the
T.F.: Not very good as poetry, but the Argus
might take it as a leader E.Y.H.: Taken.
..W.C.; Bert and Bill employ too many
polysyllables for dinkum wharf-laborers
TJ F : A hackneyed “set-a-thief-to-catch-a-
thief” p10t... .N.H.: Jill might have stepped
from the pages of a penny novelette... .C.R.8.;
The runaway wife’s thoughts and actions are
stereotyped.... M.T.: Learn to spell and punc-
tuate... .WJ.F.; You’ve been seeing too many
gangster films... .A.S.: Mildred’s nagging of
her husband soon made us tired J. 8.: Too
many unimportant characters obtrude
K.D.: The type of yarn one forgets three
minutes after reading... .L.G.: Story about
pastor’s fight against a charge of heresy more
suited for a theological journal A.J.D.; It
printed it would make seafarers grin 1.P.:
Henry Lawson did it better... .F.JJ.: Past life
of the wine-bar enchantress makes dull reading.
R.H.L.: Nicely-typed story about a yellow
pencil is of no great moment 1.M.M.R.:
Thin as imitation beer... .J.R.H.: No depth
to “The Pool” N.T.D.: Put in some work
on them and try again... .P.A.N.: Grievously
overdone....R.B.: Would need a complete
issue to criticise the Humor Story entries.
Therefore, none is being answered here.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.: Crude pencil scribblings and mirthless
jests.... P.J.: Even at 17 one should be able
to do better E.C.: Lunatic-asylum jokes
are barred... .G.H.N.; What you heard at
the tennis match was not worth illustrating....
A.8.H.: The bathing beauty who made the re-
tort is not funny enough.. . .J.E.R. ; Suspect
that the liberal use of black is to hide artistic
sins E.G.M.: Flappers look as if they have
been made in a sawmill... .F. 8.; Conversation
between actor and landlady didn’t raise a
laugh T.T.: Where have you seen a skill
perched on the water in that fashion?....
C.E.T.; Slap-dash.... W.M.8.: A crooked
pair, and a gag that fell by the way-
side A.R.J.; For Sunday-school pupils only.
. ...A.L.T.: Lessons needed... .E.8.M.: Faint,
grey sketch wouldn’t stand up to reproduction.
R.K.: Study at a life-class would improve
your work... .R.J.H.; The office boy was
counting 10 over it when we saw it last
A.J.A.: Didn’t like the fellow with bolsters for
legs G.J.H.: Niggling, scratchy efforts and
commonplace wit... .R.W.8.: Wooden style.
M.R.C.: No corner for your mermaids in
our pages... .L.P.; Sketch and gag run a
dead-heat for awfulness... .8.A.: Fur-coat
wheeze is moth-eaten... .R.J.M.: An artistic
corpse.
A MIXED GRILL.
“W.H.D.”: A magpie and inner in one
shot (B. 13/2/’35)? The incident takes
me back to the Heliopolis (Egypt) rifle-
range, where a 12th L.H. marksman
scored seven bulls, two inners and an
outer in one shot. It was during a ten-
rounds-rapid test. The first nine were
good clean misses ; the tenth hit a heap
of gravel, and the above result was duly
recorded.
* * * *
In 1934 the world’s output of coal
recovered by about 100 million tons, and
Britain’s by 16 million tons, but it has
still a long way to go. In Australia the
recovery was less pronounced, despite
fierce price-cutting. It is significant that
of the world’s shipbuilding figures last
year 563,601 tons represented motor
vessels, as against steamers’ tonnage of
391,176.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Some years ago I was
in Rome. Wandering around the Forum
1 happened across a plinth from which
the statue had disappeared. On one
side of that plinth was sculptured a
ram —a replica of the one that takes
first and special prizes at Agricultural
Shows in my own land, a dinkum Mc-
Caughey ram. I pondered over the
miracle which had led an ancient Roman
ram, dead 2000 years, to be identical
with the evolved animal of latter-day
Riverina. For the original Macarthur
sheep from Spain, the ancestors of all
Australian merinos, were lanky beasts,
more like goats than sheep. Strange it
is that Australian breeders, seeking the
most productive wool-producer, should
have bred back absolutely to the type
which provided the fine wool for
Caesar’s best tunic. I have often won-
dered why no picture of that sculptured
ram has reached Australia.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: It is not fair to blame
Hitler for having introduced the heads-
man and the block. Decapitation has
long been the form of capital punishment
favored in Germany; it is only when
women face the axe that the world re-
coils in horror. The two women spies
beheaded the other day had the operation
conducted in private ; it used to be a
public performance. Before the war a girl
of 22, daughter of a burgomaster, met
her death at the block, and the gaol
square where the execution took place
was crowded with social leaders, men
and women, who turned up in their best
clothes to give one of the naicest a good
send-otf. ' The function was so large and
so well-advertised that it created disgust
all over the rest of the world, and led to
the Kaiser prohibiting the practice of
making executions social affairs there-
after.
* * * *
“Nautilus”: “S. M. Herald” (15/2/’35)
displays a large photograph entitled “The
destroyer Voyager crossing the bows of
H.M.A.S. Canberra.” Even if it were
true I still wouldn’t believe it. The
destroyer, according to the signal flying,
is chasing torpedoes, and is passing the
cruiser’s stern ; for a junior officer to
cross the bows of a senior officer is per-
mitted only in cases of emergency. A
flagship in which I served in the Atlantic
Fleet had her bows crossed by another
flagship in which the rear-admiral was
two days junior to our rear-admiral.
Although she passed us half a mile
ahead, an apology was demanded and
subsequently received.
* ❖ * *
Tall, sunbrowned Englishman William
Teeling, just now looking into labor con-
ditions in Australia and Maoriland, is a
young man with a purpose. Beneath his
well-cut vest burns the desire to bring
together the job and the unemployed.
When William returns from this tour he
is going to stand for Parliament. Last
year he led a pilgrimage of English un-
employed to Rome, where they had an
audience with the Pope. He has been to
Fiji, and visited the leper stations among
the Islands. Now he is at Alice Springs.
* # $ *
“Spike”: A Victorian syndicate is talk-
ing of sending a team of Australian
runners to the U.S.A. Robertson-,
Roberts and O’Neal are suggested as
sprinters, and a couple of middle-dis-
tancers may make up the caravan. It
would be wise to hearken to the warn-
ings of Mr. Tolan, himself an American.
There is no professional running in the
States, and the powerful American
A.A.A. squelches all attempts to start
anything of the sort. Altogether it looks
as if the proposed team should insist on
return passages unless its members are
prepared to swim home.
* * * *
“Finn”: Judges and the common
touch! In a Melbourne “Age” article
on Australian literature, Judge Beeby
said that he had not read “Such Is
Life” ; indeed, he had never heard of
Tom Collins. Yet “George Beeby” is
the author of numerous plays and a
novel realistic enough to feature as a
delegate to London a temperamental
Australian politician addicted to the ex-
pression “Blithering blazes!” Is Mr.
Beeby so contemptuous of newspaper
criticism that he never reads newspapers?
ft would be difficult for him to glance
over many without stumbling on a refer-
ence to “Such Is Life.” A few months
ago, a tablet to Joseph Furphy’s memory
was erected at Yarra Glen, and every
Melbourne paper reported the event.
* * * *
“Shellback”: “Como” (B. 6/2/’35) is
\yj-ong when, he states that he remembers
the Sobraon, now Tingara, as a steamer
] n Melbourne. The vessel he saw
was a stee l steamer built in 1889 at
Sunderland; the vessel that is now Tin-
gara was built by Hall and Co., Aberdeen,
as far back as 1866. She was a compo-
site ship, iron-framed and wood-planked,
The tonnage of both was about the same,
The Sobraon was never driven like the
clipper ships, but she was known to have
logged 16 knots on occasions, and
for one 24-hour run she made 353 miles,
She was well patronised by passengers
taking health trips, and her commander
sailed her easy to study them. Captain
Elmslie was in command from a year
after she was built till she was bought
by the N.S.W. Government for a re-
formatory ship to replace the Vernon.


“SILVER
EDGE••
%juAa>foi>
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours,
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling of
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RA YBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni*
form wear and safety.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England
Factory Rep,: John Arnold > G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
SMET GAUGE
Representative: John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
above all
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
r truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its _ unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet. Q /(* BRITISH
Price 0/0 MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
The Steering Column.
TEN YEARS OF PROGRESS IN
AUTOMOBILE DESIGN.
EVERY SECOND CAR IN AUSTRALIA NOW OBSOLETE
BY FRED BERRY.
O TUDENTS of motoring must realise after perusing registration
y figures at the end of 1934 that almost half the motorists in
this country have yet to experience the manifold advantages
of driving new-type cars.
Many motorists continue to drive the same old cars year
in and year out, in some cases keeping the same machine in
commission for 15 years or more, apparently being content to
jog along in a car thoroughly understood and liked. As a con-
sequence there still remain many thousands of Australian
motorists who have never yet driven or ridden in a really
modern car.
When they do they are due for a new
sensation and a realisation that there is
an extremely wide margin between the
cars of a few years back and the latest
products of leading manufacturers.
Last year some 28,000 new cars were
Cutaway section of air-cleaner and intake silencer, a device
which, by preventing foreign matter fromentering the com-
bustion chamber, prolongs life of valves, pistons, rings and
cylinders.
sold, but, with 453,800 motors registered
to December, 1934, only 232,600 new
cars have been sold during the last seven
years. It is obvious, therefore, that more
than 200,000 vehicles must still be
Section of oil purifier
which, by removing par-
ticles of carbon and
metal from lubricating
oil, increases bearing life.
in operation
that have been
in service for
seven years and
upwards ; and
each owner,
whether using
the car for
pleasure or for
business, must
at this moment
be facing the
question as to
whether it is
more expen-
sive . to keep
the old bus in
commission or
buy a new
one.
As a general
rule the in-
terests of the
owner would
be best served
if he disposed
of the old outfit at any reasonable figure.
New or Old.
Driving a car means so much per mile
in terms of maintenance and operation,
the rule applying equally well whether
one does 50 or 500 miles each week.
Those in possession of ancient machines,
particularly when they are of British or
Continental origin, usually wax indig-
nant when any suggestion is made of
costly operation. This despite the fact
that usually maintenance costs over the
last seven years have been twice the
initial capital outlay. A car seven or more
years old is so
hopelessly obsolete,
in terms of com-
fort, roadworthi-
ness, maintenance
and performance,
that it is almost
impossible to make
a satisfactory com-
parison, the differ-
ences in each de-
partment, except-
ing, perhaps, that
of fuel consump-
tion, being almost
ludicrous.
In order to assist
those 200,000 motorists who continue
driving their old-type cars a review of
progress made in design and efficiency
over the last decade is given.
In the first 25 years during which
motor-cars were sold, each succeeding
model, whilst incorporating certain re-
finements in design, trenched on no new
fundamental principle when viewed
from an engineering aspect. Open bodies
—now styled “roadsters” or “tourers” —
were generally fitted. To-day almost
90 p.c. of world production is equipped
with close-type bodies.
Value of Research.
With regard to mechanical perform-
ance and design authorities agree that
during the last ten years far greater pro-
gress has been made than during all the
rest of the motoring era. Mass produc-
tion, following upon research in all de-
Synchromesh gears, silent in operation, may be “changed”
at any speed without previous experience. Illustration shows
top, neutral and second-gear positions.
partments by experts, has in the main
been responsible for the high perform-
ance, reliable, foolproof and relatively
cheap car available to the public to-day.
In the early ’nineties the “horseless car-
riage,” as it was then termed, used as a
means of propulsion an internal-com-
bustion engine which in fundamental
principles was similar to that in use to-
day. But here the likeness ceased, for
bodywork, chassis construction, trans-
mission details and suspension have
undergone radical changes, and almost
without exception these changes have
been incorporated during the last decade.
Until 1924 the automobile was simply
a means of transport, without mechani-
cal refinements such as we are accus-
tomed to to-day, and as a con-
sequence a good deal of skill and
experience was required for success-
ful operation, while adjustment and ser-
vice demanded the attention of highly
skilled mechanics. Motorists of the older
school still retain painful recollections
of the labor and inconvenience involved
in repairing and changing high-pressure
tyres, but 10 years ago the balloon tyre
was fitted as standard equipment, and at
the same time paint and varnish finishes
were replaced by cellulose lacquer—com-
monly known as duco. Every modern
owner-driver has had occasion to be
thankful at one time or other for these
labor-saving and economical changes.
Elimination of Vibration.
Crankcase ventilation, chromium plat-
ing of radiator shells and exterior fittings,
and engines mounted in rubber were
collectively introduced in ’25 and ’26.
To-day all exterior hardware is either
chrome-plated or made from rustless
steel, whilst the practice of mounting the
engine on flexible supports has proved so
effective that vibra-
tion and noise
have been for all
practical purposes
eliminated, and the
principle is now
almost universally
adopted.
Following imme-
diately upon these
modifications ideas
in fuel systems
were completely
altered. Gr a v ity
tanks and pressure
feed systems had
for many years
been replaced by
the vacuum tank,
but with increased
speed in each new
model and a
general improve-
ment in highways motorists kept
the acceleration pedal on the floor for
longer periods, and as a consequence
vacuum tanks repeatedly failed to
feed the required amount of fuel to the
powerful motor.
Improved
Transmission.
So, in ’27, the
mechanical fuel
pump, operated by
an eccentric from
the camshaft, was
evolved, so 1 ving
the feed problem
at all speeds. To-
day it is fitted as
standard equip-
ment on every
motor. Even at
this late period transmission systems re-
mained identical in principle with
those used on early-type cars, gear-
boxes being of the “crash” type with
straight-cut pinions, but drastic changes
were shortly to be introduced. Synchro-
mesh gears and four-speed transmissions
with silent third or “traffic top” (as it
was then termed) were fitted to a number
of leading makes, and these bold experi-
Cutaway section of free-wheeling unit.
“Free-wheeling” redudes wear in engine,
gearbox and transmission, and improves
petrol consumption.
ments were destined to prove so com-
pletely successful in practice that almost
every modern car now incorporates the
refinement in one form or another.
Next deviation from accepted practice
was in carburettion, the familiar “up-
draught” fitting being replaced by “down-
draught” type. Years of experience have
proved the wisdom of this extremely radi-
cal alteration. It was not, however, until
four or five years ago that conventional
Shown in circles is the location of live rubber supports in
“floating-power” type of engine mounting. By this method
motor vibration is absorbed and prevented from reaching
body and chassis.
ideas both with regard to transmission
and engine mounting were cast aside and
free-wheeling units, automatic clutches
and floating-power engine mountings were
adopted. These ingenious devices have
been instrumental in providing comfort,
performance, economy and ease of opera-
tion hitherto thought beyond the bounds
of possibility.
Stronger, but Lighter.
During the last three years further pro-
gress in design has been made, particu-
larly in regard to chassis construction, the
X- or girder-type of frame, many times
stronger, yet lighter, than the conven-
tional cross-braced type, being almost
universally adopted, so permitting lighter
bodies to be used, and as a consequence
a much more favorable power-to-weight
ratio with any given motor.
Ignition systems have been redesigned,
automatic spark advance and retard re-
placing manual control from the steering-


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
o
R
N
PANEL
BE ATIN G
It is wonderful what a
modernly-equipped plant,
plus expert artisanship,
can make of your car.
Our plant and personnel
can transform even a veri-
table motoring “Scrap-
heap” into a car of sym-
metrical form and beauty.
Our Panel Beating and
Radiator Departments will
render you an unsurpassed
service.
Try us!
57" cAluUiA'Xtil
leltjdum L 3201 (3 LIW£S)
HAWKINS P. 4.
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Reports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures of
Rural Interest are given in
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Land.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
CM mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone; 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
LIFE OR DEATH IN OILCANS
MOTOR£iOIL
()NLY after the most searching
investigations as to the most
suitable oil, Admiral Byrd selected
Veedol Motor Oil for use in his
Monoplane, Biplane, Autogiro,
Snowmobile, and Tractor for his
two famous expeditions to the
South Polar regions. The success
of these expeditions was in no
small measure due to the unfailing
quality of Veedol—the finest oil
produced in the world. Veedol is
tested Heat-proof and Cold-proof,
and costs no more than other oils.
100 per cent. Pure Pennsylvania.
mmmmm
mzm
f 5 S
m
OL
Mo
r Qt)
Oil
wheel, while Startix self-starting systems
and accelerator-pedal engine starting are
fitted to many types. As balloon tyres had
replaced the old high-pressure tyre, so
low-pressure or super balloons are almost
without exception fitted to modern cars,
and owners who have used this new
equipment over the last year or two
realise its advantages both in regard to
economy and comfort.
Combustion Chamber Design.
It would, of course, be impossible to
enumerate in detail every essential altera-
tion effected over the past decade, but
some notice must be given to the steady
increase in power output of standard-
type engines. Briefly, this has been due
to research in turbulence of gases in the
combustion chamber, cylinder head de-
sign, and a general increase in compres-
sion pressures. For a number of years
high compression had been used in
“super sports” or racing cars, but in
every instance some special type of fuel
was required. To-day special “heads”
cast in aluminium alloy can be fitted to
almost every stock car; and, although
compression pressures of six to seven to
one are common, ordinary fuel can be
used without fear of pinking or detona-
tion. As a consequence a power output
equivalent to 30 h.p. per litre of displace-
ment is common practice, resulting in
extremely high road performance and
economy of operation.
Finally, with regard to suspension, in-
dependent front-wheel suspension has
been incorporated on a number of recent
cars, and indications point to a much
wider adoption, possibly in modified
forms, in the future.
The Trouble Lamp.
K.P.W. (Melbourne).— Speedo of my ’25
Hotchkiss is driven by worm gearing on the
gearbox shaft. This is so worn as to be
useless. To avoid replacements I have thought
of driving the speedo by means of a friction
wheel against the front fabric universal joint.
What sized wheel would he required, or is there
any other cheaper method than fitting new
gear ?
Size of friction wheel would be determined
by gear ratio of speedometer drive. If one to
one, wheel would require to be same size as
universal joint disc —not a practical arrange-
ment. Try mounting a small pulley on the
shaft and another jockey pulley driven by
belting to which the speedo cable could be
attached. This method is sometimes used in
driving revolution counters.
W.F.D. (Balfe Creek, Q.j. — l test plugs of
my car by holding the terminals and taking
the shock. I have been told that such a test
is risky. Is my method of holding the plug
terminals reliable, and is it dangerous ?
It isn’t likely to kill anybody, but it doesn’t
prove anything about the state of the plugs.
At best it can only demonstrate that there is
some juice passing to the terminals.
T.R. (Katoomba, N.S.W.). — My ’27 ear starts
readily and will continue to run until I put
it into gear and start off, when it takes 50 or
60 yards before the car appears to pull well.
Same thing happens when changing to top, but
after reaching 25 m.p.h. motor runs well.
What’s wrong ? It appears that something
revolving is not functioning, and I have been
advised to pull the engine to pieces to locate
the trouble. Will this be necessary ?
More detailed information should be supplied
in a case of this nature. Suggest carburettor
and induction system should be examined and
tuned to eliminate the “flat spot” at low
speeds.
E.M.A. (Rockhampton, Q.). — Magneto on my
twin motor-cycle gets fairly hot after a long
run. Is it likely to do any harm to the coil,
and how should the trouble be remedied ?
Any magneto on air-cooled motor should
reach approximately the same temperature as
crankcase after running for some little time,
and is built to withstand such heat. You might
have the armature trued and carbon brushes
reseated.
L. (Hawthorne, Vic.). —7 have difficulty
in starting up with engine hot after long run.
Does this indicate the pump requires inspec-
tion, as it would appear that the carburettor
has been drained ?
No. Symptoms are characteristic of most
down-draught-type carburettors and are due to
over-rich mixture and flooding of the mixing
chamber. Never pump the accelerator or pull
out choke in starting under these conditions,
but spin the motor a few times to restore
normal mixture strength.
G.B.T. (Yenda, N.S.W.). — The points in the
magneto of my tractor burn out every five or
six weeks. Plugs, leads, etc., all right. (1)
What is the cause ? (2) Could I exchange
faulty magneto with another from four-cylinder
truck engine ?
(1) Leads and plugs would not influence
burning of points. If make-and-break gap has
been set correctly trouble lies in condenser.
Advise sending to Sydney for overhaul. (2)
Magneto would be suitable provided arrange-
ment of mounting suited housing on tractor.
M. (Terang, Vic.). —(1) Clutch on my
12 -h.p. ’29 model slips badly, particularly when
changing down into second. Have dismantled
and packed up springs without effecting cure;
there is still plenty of material on friction faces.
Cause and cure ? (2) Magneto periodically
fails to give a spark when ignition is retarded.
Points, slip-ring and brushes have been checked.
Primary and secondary have both been tested.
(3) What heat should I use to bake out mois-
ture in an oven ? '
(1) Clutch faces have evidently worn glass-
hard and shiny, and increasing spring tension
will only partly remedy the trouble. Cheapest
and most effective plan would be to fix new
friction linings to plates rather than experiment
with roughing them or softening— at best a
temporary expedient. (2) Cutting out of spark
on full retard is due to an internal short in
the make-and-break housing. Many magnetos
are designed to switch off at full retard. (3)
Slow baking at about 220 degrees Fahr. will
drive off condensed moisture.
L.B.C. (Yass, N.S.W.). — Although I have
only done 12,000 miles in my 1927 tourer 1
have broken and replaced six make-and-break
springs. Genuine replacements were used each
time. Can you suggest a remedy ?
The breaker-arm has apparently been stiff
on its pivot since the car was new, so imposing
additional stress on breaker-spring. Test
breaker-arm pivot and free if necessary.
T.E. (Cootamundra, N.S.W.).— Is it harmful
to leave mud dry on new cars, or should it
be washed off while still wet ?
With cellulose lacquer
finish no immediate
damage will be done.
Mud washed off while
still soft, however, re-
duces labor in cleaning
and leaves the car
bright when next taken
out.
M.R.P. (Rye, Vic.).—
I am intending to buy
a new car. What is
your opinion of these
three ( named) ?
No. 2 and No. 3
equal and more adapt-
able for your use than
No. 1.
A.D. (Hamilton
North, N.S.W.). — Com-
bustion chamber of my
motor-cycle gets very hot.
There is no carbon, spark is well advanced, and
I have tried a larger jet. The motor pulls
well and is easy to start. Can you suggest a
remedy ?
If performance is satisfactory there is no
occasion to worry. Motor-cycle cylinders are
intended to run at high temperature.
R.R. (Cowra, N.S.W.). — Will it be necessary
to remove engine from my 1929 car in order
to re face clutch, and do you think the job
could be done in my home garage ?
Gearbox must be dismantled in order to
withdraw clutch. You can purchase a new
Thermostatic mixture control, governed by water temperature,
fitted to S.U. carburettor on Morris “16" and “20” for 1935.
centre plate complete with linings from agents,
but if you do the work at home make sure
you have lining of correct thickness and the
right kind of rivets.
M.M. (Rozelle, N.S.W.). — Wheel-wobble has
developed to an alarming extent in my 1-h.p.
Austin. Please advise simplest remedy ?
Trouble is probably due to incorrect castor
or camber of front wheels, due to a severe
bump. Sydney agents will set this right for a
few shillings.
Inconsiderate Motorists and Station
Property Gates.
Station-owners between Ceduna (S.A.)
and the Westralian border are curs-
ing the motorist who leaves all the
gates open as he travels. Bad at any
time, this lack of consideration is especi-
ally so on the Nullarbor track. All
station-managers along it make a prac-
tice of telephoning to each other ahead
of a traveller so that a search can be
made if the motorist fails to arrive at
the next station within reasonable time.
A breakdown -in that waterless country,
with no surety of help arriving within
a day or so, would be a very serious
thing. As things are now, the man who
strikes trouble is certain that someone
will be out to look for him within 24
hours, thanks to this voluntary tele-
phoning.
In the past many station-owners
simply asked for trouble in the matter
of gates being left open ; they had fenced
across main roads at ridiculously fre-
quent intervals, the worst example being
63 gates in 50 miles where the main road
between Adelaide and Melbourne ran
through the Coorong. Nowadays, how-
ever, most roads are fenced only at the
station boundaries.
The amount of work a gate being left
open for a day can give to a landowner
has to be experienced to be understood.
On the Murray in S.A. all the sheep on
two adjoining properties were “boxed”
through a motorist neglecting to close
the gates. They
were mustered and
d r a f fed three
days’ work for all
hand s —and the
following week
another pas sing
motorist mixed the
flocks up again.
Ramps solve the
problem in many
instances, but you
can’t have ramps
where the sand-
drifts are bad, as
duststorms fill
them up, and no
ramps have been
yet devised to
keep out foxes,
dogs or rabbits.
Leaving division-
fence gates open is
bad enough. The
man who leaves
a gate open in
a rabbit-proof boundary-fence or vermin
barrier is nothing short of a criminal.
I drove across a station in the south-
east of S.A. last autumn which had
(Continued on next page .)


ŵ
ẁ
IN POPULARITY
AMONGST MOTORISTS
Mobiloil is the largest-selling oil in Australia as
throughout the world to-day.
The reason for this fact is simple. Mobiloil is the
most highly-refined oil on the market; and,
equally important, there is a grade that fits
every make and model of car. YOUR car will
run at its best on Mobiloil.
ALWAYS INSIST ON
©
m
REGD,
FIRST FOR PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMY
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
COME to Sydney
<9
and STAY
at
\q
s
m
4P
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King** Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
- ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
The Proven
STOMACH
REMEDY
for Bad Cases
For over 20 years * Bisurated ’ Magnesia
has been banishing stomach disorders.
These authentic cases are typical of the
countless former sufferers who now enjoy
the blessing of good digestion, thanks to
the efficacy of ' Bisurated ’ Magnesia.
SUFFERED GASTRITIS&ULCERS
m
NO PAINS NOW!
Mrs. Jones of Worcester
writesl have been ill for
seven years with gastritis
which turned to ulcers—the
pain almost drove me mad.
I was not able to take food
of any kind. A month ago
whilst in dreadful pain a
friend told me to try
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia which
I did, and I have had no pains
since—the first month with*
out pain for seven years.
Can now eat any kind Of
from a recent photo food wifch comfort.’
of Mrs . Jones .
A remarkable recovery effected by * Bisurated *
Magnesia after other means had failed.
“MARVELLOUS FOR
STOMACH TROUBLES”
says Mr. Dyson of Birming-
ham, who writes: “ I have
suffered with my stomach
for the last five years without
relief. It was like being in
hell. I saw your advertise-
ment and sent for a bottle of
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia. It
seemed to drown the pain.
It is marvellous for stomach
troubles. I am a dead man
come back to life as the
hardest work does not hurt*
ẃ
raenow,thanksto‘Bisurated’ from a recent photo
Magnesia. of Mr. J. Dyson.
After 5 years’ torture ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
brought him complete and lasting relief !
Its Action Explained—
Simply take a teaspoonful of the powder or
two to four tablets in a little water. The
moment this soothing draught reaches the
tortured stomach it begins to sweeten the sour,
fermenting, undigested food. The contents of
the stomach become as bland and soothing as
milk to the sensitive stomach lining. The pain
quickly lessens and presently disappears. By
following up the treatment after each meal,
your harassed stomach will lose its tenderness
and grow strong, until you can eat whatever
you like and enjoy every meal, without fear
of wind and pain to follow. Get a bottle of
* Bisurated Magnesia; powder or tablets, from
the nearest chemist to-day and try it—the relief
will be a revelation to you.
pISURATEo'
** MAGNESIA v
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package hears the
oval * Bismag ’ Trade Mark-^-
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 (SECOND
I*7<3 Hr edition)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin,"
252 Oeorge Street Sydney. 3d. extra.
just conducted a rabbit-extermination
campaign. But it had all been ruined
by one motorist who left the boundary-
gate open. During the night rabbits in
thousands found the gap and poured on
to the station, reinfesting the property.
H. A. L.
The Problem of Side-road Traffic.
With motoring accidents showing a
marked increase during the last 12
months —most of them at intersections—
it becomes obvious that something drastic
will soon have to be done to prevent
drivers from barging carelessly out of
side streets into main thoroughfares.
At present the man on the right is
given right of way, and many drivers
blindly obey this ruling without regard
for the convenience of other road users
or, for that matter, for their own safety.
Overseas many schemes have been
introduced to combat side-road dangers,
“stop” lines and severe penalties in cases
of non-observance being common.
Another plan worth experiment would
be to lay a concrete strip, several inches
high, across the side road, about 100 feet
from its intersection with the main high-
way, so that the careless driver, blinding
up to a crossing at speed, would be
forcibly reminded of the need for caution
and given a strong hint to stop, look and
listen.
Compulsory Mechanical Inspection.
Australians dislike legislation savoring
of compulsion, but where risk of accident
is involved, as is the case of mechani-
cally defective cars, likes and dislikes
must be disregarded and adequate protec-
tion given to users of the highways. Par-
ticularly does this apply in cities and
congested areas.
In the U.S.A. seven States have annual
or bi-annual compulsory mechanical in-
spections of cars, and as a result some
interesting statistics have been issued re-
lating to mechanical faults. The official
inspections for 12 months covered
3,019,873 motor vehicles, and the figures
quoted may therefore be taken as a
reliable index of the troubles that effect
automobiles in general.
The chief fault was found to be ill-
focussed lamps, 541 p.c. of more than
3,000,000 cars and trucks requiring ad-
justment or replacement of the lighting
equipment.
Adjustments, repair or replacement of
brakes had to be effected in 34.9 p.c.
of the inspected vehicles. Approximately
67 p.c. of all the vehicles examined were
found deficient in some way, attention
to steering totalling 5.1 p.c., adjustment
to horns 3.9 p.c.
Defective windscreen wipers amounted
to 5.14 p.c., and broken or misplaced
mirrors 2.1 p.c.
In support of compulsory annual in-
spection of automobiles, American
authorities point out that, while it cannot
be contended that all of the 2,000,000
automobiles which showed mechanical
faults would have been accident-makers
if their deficiencies had not been revealed
and remedied, commonsense compels the
conclusion that among the faults detected
were many which might have caused
accidents or contributed to them. Thus
the protective activities associated with
compulsory inspection are deemed to
be justified.
Motor Oddities.
“F.A.4”: In 1911, when cars were rare
in western Queensland, Bob, a bushman
whose knowledge of motor mechanism!
could have been written on the back of
a postage stamp, put an “E.M.F.” on the
road for hire. He got a hurry-up call to
go down the Thompson and bring in
a sick squatter to Longreach to catch a
train. On the trip in, about 11 miles
from town, a fabric universal just in
front of the differential came unstuck,
breaking two of the bolts and bending
and injuring the thread on the remainder.
Bob cut a couple of discs out of his
passenger’s leather suitcase, and, using
valve Stems off spare tubes for bolts,
fitted his makeshift and caught the train.
That temporary job lasted for over 3000
miles.
* * * *
“A.G.”: City motorists don’t know
what tyre trouble really means, as the
assortment of mulga sticks shown in the
accompanying photograph should prove.
Had one puncture followed by two
others on a good road, and on investi-
gation found the polished mulga sticks
inside the tube, having pierced tube and
cover at various times and collected in-
side to give the final series of punctures.


CONVERT
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
ms
EASY installation,
EASY tuning,
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
DUI SHORT-WAVE
CONVERTER
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow's Nest
ELECTRIC HAND LAMP
Consists of the new Block Plateless
Accumulator fitted with a powerful
bull’s-eye attachment, in moulded
bakelite with chromium fittings.
No plates to buckle.
No sulphation.
No dissipation of charge.
A brilliant, powerful beam of light
when and where required.
Ideal for Campers, Fishermen,
Motorists; In fact, all outdoor re-
quirements.
PRICE 39/6
Advt. of
AMPLION (A/Sia) LTD.
70 Clarence Street, Sydney
RADIO NEWS.
PROGRESS ON ULTRA-SHORT WAVES IN
AUSTRALIA.
An outline of experimental work, including descriptions of typical apparatus,
with reference to possible applications in the future of radio communication.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
Many readers are, no doubt, interested
in a casual way in the reports and news
of experimental ultra-short-wave radio
work appearing on this page, but to the
man in the street the subject is rather be-
wildering. He asks himself what it is all
about, and how radio communication can
benefit by such investigation. Such a
question is natural, because a little peru-
Fig. 1. —The super-regenerative arrangement is yet the best on such
short wave-lengths as five metres. This circuit is of a three-valve
battery receiver. V1 is the detector, V2 the super-regenerative valve
and V3 the audio amplifier. The detector-grid coils are each of three
turns, one inch in diameter, of 12-gauge copper. The interruptor coils
are wound with 38 silk-enamelled copper wire in two slots, ¼in. wide
on a ¼in. diameter. The sides can be made of waxed cardboard.
Thirty-five turns of 30 D.S.C., space-wound on a ⅛in. diameter
dowel, will comprise the R.F. choke. Any two, four or six-volt
triodes can be used.
sal of available information reveals that
these waves, shorter than the shortest
waves which may be covered by the
average all-wave or short-wave receiver,
suffer from what appear to be serious
limitations. Chief among these apparent
handicaps are the facts that the distance
that can be covered is relatively small,
and that transmissions of these higher
frequencies cannot be heard with every-
day commercial apparatus.
The limitation of the useful distance
Fig. 2.—Panel view of a combined transmitter-receiver for five metres, as used by the
writer. The dial tunes the receiver on the left with midget dynamic speaker in the
centre and oscillator-plate milliameter on the right. The knob below is the microphone
gain control, and the knob on the left the receiver regeneration control.
covered by an ultra-short-wave signal,
whilst in past years considered a draw-
back, is now appearing to be an advan-
tage. The great problem facing radio
engineers of to-day is that of congestion
of frequencies, particularly in broadcast-
ing. Receivers are as selective as they
can be made without completely ruining
audio reproduction, yet all over the
world more and more stations are being
jambed into overcrowded frequency
channels. Recourse to the sharing of
frequencies by two or more stations, with
careful synchronisation, has been
adopted, but, should any defect develop
in the exact maintenance of the shared
frequencies, trouble
, is certain in the
way of distortion
and consequent
loss of fidelity. This
may occur between
two stations hun-
dreds of miles
apart.
Enormous fre-
quency ranges,
from 28mc, up (10
metres down), are
available, and in
these practically
unused ranges
thousands of sta-
tions could be
operated without
risk of interfer-
ence, and, above
all, with little or
no atmospheric dis-
turbance. The ob-
ject of an ordinary
regional broadcast-
ing station is not to
cover great dis-
tances, but to supply a non-fading uni-
formly strong radiation over a limited
“service area.” With the use of
long waves this area increases, but so
does static. Ultra-short waves follow
optical rules, and when used with a non-
directional aerial are limited to the line
of vision in all directions, the limit being
approximately the horizon. By placing
the radiating and receiving aerials at high
elevations, it follows that this range can
be increased.
'This is not always practicable, and so
something else is desirable. Recent work
with directive aerials, overseas and in
Australia, has shown that the ground-to-
ground range, well past the horizon
limits, is increased very considerably. In
America and England distances up to
200 miles are covered with reliability and
constancy. It has been found that a
strong signal may be maintained thus
over fair distances with a directive aerial
at the transmitting end only, and a
simple vertical wire at the receiving end.
In tests between Sydney and a location in
the Blue Mountains a signal quite equal
in strength to broadcasters on the 200- to
550-metre range is obtainable with a power
of a few watts as against several kilowatts.
It appears likely that in future radio en-
gineers will turn more attention to the
valuable properties of ultra-short waves,
and broadcasting services may someday
materialise at higher frequencies.
An ultra - short - wave broadcasting
station in Sydney, using two bi-direc-
tional aerials at right-angles, could put
over a 50-mile radius a strong signal
at 56mC. (five metres) with only a frac-
tion of the power used in the smallest of
the B stations. That signal would be un-
marred by thunderstorms and free from
most of the other noises familiar in the
200- to 550-metre broadcast receiver. It
is not difficult to visualise from such a
step a whole network of ultra-short-wave
broadcasting stations in the capital cities
and even country centres of Australia.
Fig. 3.—Rear view of the five-metre transmitter-receiver built on an aluminium
chassis, with bakelite control panel. The transmitter is a push-pull oscillator, using two
’45-type valves and 53 Class-B modulator. Three hundred volts at 90ma. Is used
on the oscillator.
prominent Eng-
1i s h television
worker, turned
to the ultra-
short waves with
conspicuous suc-
cess, and these
higher frequen-
ce ie s are the
basis for his
h i g h-definition
system. Tel e-
vision, whilst
yet an infant,
cannot fail to
grow lustily in
the end, and, as
radio is the
most convenient
medium for
television, ex-
tensive use of
ultra-short
Application to Television.
Close on the heels of such a possibility
is that of television. The transmission of
television by radio is exceptionally greedy
at the lower frequencies. The television
station needs more valuable frequency
territory than a broadly-modulated
broadcasting station, and even at ordi-
nary short waves is not, in present-day
practice, a workable proposition. Baird,
waves is a foregone conclusion.
These observations outline only two of
the uses for these higher frequencies, and
in their development, as in radio gener-
ally, the experimenter has been and is
playing a pioneering part. Other possible
commercial applications are too numer-
ous to refer to here.
Early Efforts.
The story of amateur radio is a long
and thrilling one. Sufficient to say here
that when the experimenter of earlier
days was forced to develop the short
waves owing to the rapid advent of
broadcasting, he did develop them and
in no small measure. The regions of
100, 80, 40 and 20 metres speedily be-
came an open book, and with whetted
interest in the subject the experimenters
delved into the mysteries of 10 and five
metres.
Ten metres seemed promising for long
distances, but experience showed the
band to be extremely erratic. Oceans
were spanned, and then signals disap-
peared, reappearing only at brief inter-
vals. Five metres was tried with hopes
of at least similar early results, but the
ranges covered were disappointing.
“QST” (U.S.A.) in July, 1926, recorded
that a French amateur (FBSM) had
covered 350 miles on five metres. In the
light of present-day knowledge this was
no mean achievement with methods and
apparatus now considered antiquated.
Gradually it was learnt that the ground-
wave only was useful, and that the re-
flected wave appeared to penetrate the
Heaviside layer.
The earliest work over other than
merely local territory in Australia was
done in August, 1927, by two Sydney
experimenters, Lindsay (now of A.W.A.
laboratory staff) and Gray. Camping at
Bowral, N.S.W., the signal from the home
station at Killara, Sydney, was heard
strongly and consistently throughout a
day and evening, while a 32-metre signal
from the same source became inaudible
after sundown.
The reason for this is now obvious.
The ultra-short wave covered the ground
route, and the lower frequency began to
“skip,” the ground-wave being lost. This
distance was approximately 60 miles.
Much investigation was done at this
period by Gibson, of Brisbane, and,
although he reported hearing live-metre
signals from a Sydney station, and vice
versa, these reports were not, to the
writer’s knowledge, verified. Until 1934,
although many experimenters were re-
ported to be conducting tests, little or
nothing was done.
With reinvestigation in America by a
Fig. 4.—Underneath the five-metre trans-
mitter-receiver, showing the arrangement
of filter circuits, microphone transformer,
Class-B output transformer and power supplies.
number of prominent experimenters an
entirely new impetus was given to five-
metre work by the application of an
almost-forgotten method of reception—
the super-regenerator. Here at hand was
the means of constructing a very sensi-
tive receiver, and one, moreover, which
tuned broadly at high frequencies. New
records were immediately established
with good reliability, and American and
English amateurs began to cover moun-
tain top distances on five-metre radio-
telephony.
C Continued on next page.)


Complete Instruction
in all branches of
Radio Engineering
THE MARCONI
SCHOOL
OF WIRELESS
(Established 21 years)
Australia’s Oldest and Best
Known Radio Training Institu-
tion conducts courses for
RADIO ENGINEERS
RADIO TECHNICIANS
RADIO OPERATORS
for Ships, Aircraft and Police
Patrols.
RADIO MECHANICS &
SERVICEMEN, also
TALKING PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Combined Home Study and
Practical Tuition or Home Study
Courses, only.
MODERN EQUIPMENT for
Practical Instruction.'
Engineering and Technician sections
are under the direct control of Dr.
W. G. Baker, B.Sc., 8.E., D.Sc.E.
Write, ’Phone BW 2211, or Call for
our 40-page illustrated Prospectus.
Marconi School of
Wireless
97 Clarence Street, Sydney
Conducted under the auspices of
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia) Ltd.,
Australia’s National Wireless
Organisation.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
tiadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade* Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
mm S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Eowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: B22SU
Fig. 5. —The circuit, with indicated values, of the five-metre transmitter. LI is four
turns 1in. diameter 12-gauge copper; L, each two turns similarly; C1, 35mmfd.
maximum per section; C, five-plate midget variable condenser; L2, seven turns 14-gauge
copper ½in. inside diameter, with turns spaced. (This coil depends upon the frequency
used, and must be cut or adjusted to suit.)
In Sydney, work was confined to cross-
city tests. A station was erected on the
roof of The Bulletin office and tested
with complete success by the writer with
a station operated by the Police Depart-
ment in various city locations. A con-
vincing demonstration was given by Col-
Fig . 6.—The five-metre receiver of the illustrated combination. C consists of two ½in.
square plates spaced about ½in. L, seven turns of 14 enamelled copper, with cathode tap
at the third turn from earth end. Three-plate midget is a Wetless new type short-wave
condenser. R.F.C.. 35 turns of 30 D.S.C. on ⅛in. dowel. LI, L2, similar to interruptor coils
in Fig. 1, or R.C.S. 56mc. interruptor coil unit. Regeneration is controlled by the 50,000-ohm
potentiometer. This is an advanced form of receiver, p. ticularly sensitive to weak signals.
ville at Mascot aerodrome, a five-metre-
equipped ’plane being in constant con-
tact with the ground station as far away
as Warwick Farm. A.W.A. had com-
menced a simultaneous seven-metre trans-
mission of VK2ME (reported recently
heard in Brisbane), and amateurs in Syd-
ney thus had a regular telephony signal
to observe in suburban locations.
Through 1934 three experimenters parti-
cularly, Chinner, Manley and Dukes,
continued their tests to the exclusion of
all other work, and maintained a regu-
lar duplex telephony service between
their stations. Experimenters in Vic-
toria and Queensland also went ahead
with similar work.
Recent Developments.
With the lead given by overseas experi-
menters, it was decided to try the effect
of directive aerials, and the results ob-
w
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Conditions have been very irregular
lately on all bands. The No. 1 transmis-
sion from the 8.8. C., which now starts at
5.15 p.m., has not been really good
strength until 6 p.m., after which both
GSD and GSB have been excellent. It
seems that GSD is now quite equal to
GSB in strength, probably due to experi-
ments with aerials since last autumn.
Experiments have been conducted on
GSE around midnight, but the strength
on all bands has been so great that it
was difficult to detect any difference.
Nineteen metres has been most erratic,
with all stations excellent one night at
9 p.m. and the next almost inaudible.
It has been frequently noted by the
writer that cold weather in the summer-
time means weak signals,
and the reverse applies
also. Close watch was kept
for the special transmissions
from the League of Nations
stations each of the last
three Mondays, but so far
none has been audible on
the three waVe-lengths tried.
Judging by the quality of
the rebroadcast from the
West, reception in West-
ralia must have been ex-
tremely good. The next
trial is to be on 31 metres,
and this station is very
good in the wintertime here
in the mornings, but has
not been heard in the even-
ings so far.
Rome (2RO) has been
much weaker at night, but
is excellent about 6 a.m. to
7 a.m. when on 30.7 metres,
being quite the best early station and a
treat for those who like to mingle good
music with earnest radio effort.
Both 2RO and PHI were broadcasting
some special event on a recent Sunday
with great applause and cheering ; also a
lot of speechifying.
Fig. 8. —A simple matched impedance doublet
aerial for five metres. The feeders can be
any convenient length, and the aerial should
be used vertically.
2RO has been on the 25-metre band
at midnight, an unusual hour, but no
English announcement was heard.
A talk was given from GSE by the
chief engineer of the 8.8. C. This was
most interesting, and made
one realise the remarkable
strides short-wave (and
other) broadcasting has
made in the last 15 years.
In 1921 they were allowed
(by very special permit) to
broadcast music and■
speech for only half an
hour a day! RNE con-
tinues only fair, and
strength not 50 p.c. of last
year.
PHI, though fair, has
lacked its January
strength, especially to-
wards closing-down time.
Sunday afternoon trans-
missions have been worth
attention. WBXK, in the
25-metre band, has been
rapidly improving; FYA
likewise.
NIROM has been quite
fair in the 49-metre band
at night, but the noise level is still too
high; and the mornings have been
weak from all stations.
Nightowl.
What’s What in Radio.
The Federal headquarters of the Wire-
less Institute of Australia for 1935 is
located in Sydney, having been trans-
ferred from Adelaide. The newly-elected
president is that popular personality and
first-rate experimental radio man W. M.
Moore, known over amateur airways as
VK2HZ. He starts his term of office
with a big job on hand in the shape of
tackling the problem presented by the
record manufacturers in their ultimatum
regarding the use of recorded items for
amateur transmission. This and the
many other questions affecting the status
and welfare of Australian experimenters
could not be in better hands than those
of “Bill” Moore.
* * * *
The new Droitwich giant broadcasting
station (England) is the
subject of criticism in the
radio press on the score
of fading. This is difficult
to understand even with
an inefficient aerial that has
150 kw. of R.F. energy cir-
culating therein. Fading
is reported at a distance of
100 miles, and the trouble
is attributed to the aerial
being wrongly designed in
some way. As they say
in Lancashire, th e r e’s
“summat up or summat”
Fig. 7. —An experimental five-metre portable transmitter-
receiver used by the writer during 1934.
in 8.8. C. engineering circles over this
deficiency.
Casual Comment.
“Tock-Tock”: To encourage passen-
gers, bus proprietors on Melb. suburban
routes are installing radios on their
vehicles. They adhere to “sponsored”
programmes, and if they are not getting
a subsidy from the B-grade stations they
ought to.
* * * *
A correspondent in an English radio
weekly, commenting on the “Empire
Exchange” programme on Christmas
Day, says: “The affair was staged with
such perfect precision and absence of
hitches that I suspected what now turns
out to be the truth, namely, that electri-
cal recording was resorted to in certain
instances. Its use, however, was con-
fined to background noises such as the
lowing of cattle on the Australian farm
and the sounds of the sea in Hobart,
Tasmania.” Our Australian clocks must
therefore have been crazy during the
epic 1 a.m. Bondi Beach sound scenes,
to say nothing of the N.Q. droving camp
teeming with whistles, shouts, whip-
cracks and galloping hooves at an hour
when all respectable cattlemen and their
charges are having their bit of shut-eye.
Fig. 9. —The directive aerial array used for tests in a westerly
direction from Waverley, N.S.W. This consists of four
"zepp”-fed vertical radiators with reflectors. The feeders are
tuned, and are a multiple of ½- wave-length long. Several
forms of reflector and director aerials can be used conveni-
ently on 56mc., and the type illustrated appears to be most
effective over long distances.
“Querex”: There is no end to material
for stunt broadcasts. A duel was
arranged recently between a French poli-
tician and an ex-soldier. The scrap
didn’t come off, but if it had French
broadcast listeners would have had un-
expected fare. On the duelling ground
were newspaper reporters, movie camera-
men and a radio reporter with micro-
phone and recording van.


Xeid kuMif kerne
to Geile t Radio
c
m
8
fWt
IV
x
V
Jis*
m
\
/
: ; V. ..
■.*>•• • •*
. .{. ■• .> '. v
..v ■> _-.\
/
r*.
;v» v\«a. ,
IfefißCtfV/
->ee the EV E R-READY
DISPLAY at Electrical and
Radio Exhibition, Sydney
Town Hall, March 22 to
April 6.
w
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BATTERIES
EVER-READY
VtRREADV
EAB
TORCHES REFILLS fr RADIO BATTE R| E S
A Sound-proof Window.
There has been a deal of discussion
recently on the subject of city noises.
J. S. Purdy, Sydney’s Medical Officer of
Health, considers avoidable noises “the
curse of modern life,” and it is gener-
ally admitted that they greatly limit
business efficiency. It is pleasing then
to have to record an important contri-
bution towards the elimination of street
noises from office buildings, the result of
some years of experimenting on the part
of E. T. Fisk, chairman of Amalgamated
Wireless, who lives in Sydney.
The invention —a sound-proof window
based on the principle that noises may
be reflected and absorbed if a material
suitable to the frequencies incurred is
applied to the surface on which the
sound waves strike —was effectively
demonstrated before a gathering of press
representatives in the board-room at the
company’s offices. The room has been
fitted with sound-proof windows after
the Fisk recipe, and it was shown by
means of a millivoltmeter (the dial cali-
brated in percentages) connected alter-
natively to microphones suspended inside
and outside the windows that the volume
of sound was reduced from 80 to 90
per cent. A motor-cycle in the street
outside specially “reyved-up” for the
occasion was scarcely audible inside the
room.
The window is of triple-sash construc-
tion, incorporating deflecting glass panes
and a new sound-absorbing material —.
acoustic tile—and allows for variations in
form to suit differing types of buildings.
Moreover, the vbntilation of the room is
increased because of the air passages set
up. The inventor claims that installation
costs are small.
Bombshell for Amateur
Broadcasters.
As thousands of broadcast listeners are
aware, many amateur transmitters in
Australia have, in the early morning and
late at night, been, by special permit,
operating on the broadcast range of
wave-lengths. Many listeners appreciate
such transmissions, as their letters
testify. In these transmissions imi-
tation of a regular broadcast service has
been the order of things. The P.M.G.’s
department, always sympathetic to the
amateur, has granted permission for such
transmissions, under certain conditions
which do not seem to have been disre-
garded. The transmissions have been
made up mainly of recorded items, but
without reference to record numbers and
makes or even the identity of the per-
former or performers. Certain gramo-
phone interests in Australia have decided
that amateurs using records for radio
transmission are to do so scot-free no
longer. On 13/2/’35 the following cir-
cular letter was mailed to dll experi-
menters by the P.M.G.’s department :
CIRCULAR LETTER TO LICENSED
EXPERIMENTERS.
Representations have been made to the de-
partment on behalf of Columbia Graphophone
jl’ Ttd., *he Gramophone Company, Ltd.,
and the Parlophone Company, Ltd., concerning
the transmission by experimental stations of
recorded music.
The companies state:
We are not speaking without knowledge
when we say that the experimental stations
to-day are definitely providing programmes
to which an increasing number of licensed
listeners tune in, because of the increasing
interest m short-wave transmission. They
are therefore ‘publicly performing our
records, and for various reasons we cannot
permit the use of our records for public
performance without our express permis-
sion, nor can we with equanimity look
upon the development of the experimental
stations to the position and number they
are to-day, so far as the use of our records
is concerned. The Postmaster-General’s,
department definitely licenses an experi-
mental station to operate, and the ex-
perimental station knows it cannot possibly
operate without it uses somebody else’s
property, which is our records, and in
ettect you give them that permission.”
** ( jL!! n f ll y P oint ed . out that the present
arrangement is not satisfactory to the com-
pames and the department is requested to make
L f qu ; ’ te . cIe ?L to these experimental stations
mat it is obligatory on them to make suit-
nronP?tr;rP!ni Cments with the companies whose
programmed Cy ™ ay USC for the P ur P° se of their
neSscJv'L K f - the u e representations, it is
ah Sr- 1 , bnng the matter to the notice of
of nters . concerned in the transmission
infnrmpH ded f I? asic - . Th e companies are being
informed of this action by the department.
-cprn P H C T rem ? ins for the experimenters con-
with 6 thi° make • any necessary arrangements
recordd COmpames for the right to use the
The gramophone companies cannot in
one sense be blamed for taking this
action. Licensed broadcasting stations
nave to pay for the right to put
an author’s musical works on the
air. Apart from the 200- to 600-metre
aspect of the case there is the fact
mat all-wave receivers are rapidly taking
me place of receivers confined to the
normal broadcast range, and the amateur
ands of 100, 80, 40 and 20 metres are
no longer the amateurs’ preserves. The
organisation of radio experimenters, the
Wireless Institute, representative of the
Australian amateur transmitter, is now
faced with the business of making ob-
viously essential arrangements with the
interests concerned before recorded items
can be used, even for test purposes. There
is a sentence in the record manufacturers’
statement to the P.M.G.’s department
which calls for comment. This says
.... the experimental station knows it
cannot possibly operate without it uses
somebody else’s property, which is our
records”.... This wording is both un-
fortunate and misleading, although the
implication is readily understandable.
Experimenters do not need to use
recorded items to conduct their experi-
ments, and this latest development
involves no restriction on genuine experi-
mental activities.
The Australian experimenter is for-
tunate in having the sympathetic and co-
operative support he has always enjoyed
from his controlling authorities. The
main point is that the amateur should
be worthy of his experimental license and
bend his energies as an experimenter.
If he lapses into a commercially com-
petitive status by mechanically grinding
out recorded items he must be prepared
to pay the piper. As an experimenter
(and surely there is much to be done in
justification of his license in this respect)
he is a good fellow and a potential asset
to the community. If he does no more
than give an imitation of a hmnrlrnstina
u *9 n 1 ? Droacl castmg
station he isn t worth much sympathy.
This communication from the record
people comes as a distinct shock to many
The imnorthnt thinn 1c tViot
ne important thing is that, whilst there
may be justifiable foundation for objec-
tion to indiscriminate broadcasting of
records in a nroeramme sense hv ama
tenrs everv f u
teurs, every encouragement should be
given to the genuine experimenter, and
he should be at least permitted to use
records for strictly testing purposes, par-
ticularly on the higher frequencies.
D. B. KNOCK (VK2NO).
The Q. and A. Column.
Is the Wide-World Four receiver, as de-
scribed in B. 18/7/’34 and 2/l/’35, on the
market ? —239.
Complete receivers can be obtained on order
from R. Chilton, Radio Laboratory, E., S.
and A. Bank Building, Broadway and City
roads; Murdoch’s, Ltd., Park-street; Colville
Wireless Equipment Co., Rowe-street; or J. B.
Martin, 180 William-street—all Sydney.
/ wish to construct an aerial tuner to use
with my new all-wave receiver. A doublet
aerial is used with transposed leads. I am told
you published an article dealing with a method
of tuning the doublet aerial. Would like de-
tails. —240.
The article was “Tuned Aerial Input for
Short Waves” (B. 17/10/’34). All details neces-
sary were given, !he system being merely a
series tuned circuit with link coupling to the
R.F. input of the receiver. A copy of the
issue can be obtained from this office.
I have built a short-wave converter similar to
one described (B. 1/8/’34) but using the Philips
AK\ octode and an EWI at 585 kc. It is doing
an excellent job, but I am troubled with har-
monics of some of the stations; e.g., GSE on
25.3 metres is nearly as strong on approxi-
mately 22 metres, and again on 19 metres, as at
the fundamental. Also, I can tune stations on
the 19-metre band again on the 20-metre band,
this being about 10 degrees higher up the dial.
(1) Is this a fault or is it normal ? (2) Is there
any advantage in changing the .00025 mfd. coup-
ling condenser to the B.C. receiver to .01 mfd.
or .02mfd. ?—238.
(1) Quite normal, owing to the superhet prin-
ciple employed. One signal should be much
stronger than the other. This double-spotting
could be eliminated by bandpass pre-tuner or a
tuned R.F. stage, but this introduces complica-
tions. (2) No, but a smaller capacity may be
an advantage. Try a 23-plate midget variable.
Noticing a reference on this page to a new
battery set which is being designed for the
winter season, I presume this is concerned with
iron-cored coils. (1) What type of set will it
@) Do you consider it would be worth
while experimenting with a receiver of the ultra-
short-wave type ? I understand I am too far
distant to hear anything. —23B.
(1) It is hoped to design a special type of
tuned R.F. receiver, but the coil problem is
acute. A special kit is expected from overseas,
and if the receiver is successful it is hoped to
stimulate manufacturers’ interest in such coils.
(2) Unless you can secure local co-operation
with a near-by transinitting experimenter, ultra-
short-wave reception will be of little use to you
at the present stage. The nearest ultra-short-
wave amateurs to your locality are in Brisbane.


ŵ
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,"
393 miles in 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
c
you
LI Hi
or 100 years, Petty's Hotel has given service
juests. Visitors to Sydney still -stay at Petty s
should stay at Petty's. Comfort; service; con-
venience. Tariff: Room and breakfast, 11/6,
Inclusive, 18/-.
f PETTYS
Hotel
York Street. Sydney * R. J. Langley. Manager
PI
BRANDALERrS
m
at*
&
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BKANDAUEE & CO., Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG-
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Color Them
Every week brings some casualty or
narrowly-averted casualty from contact
with live electric wires. What objection
Is there to making it compulsory for all
live wires to be colored some distinctive
tint? People climbing on roofs to cap-
ture cockatoos or men repairing broken
tiles would run no risks if every live wire
were a brilliant red or white. —G. M.
(Vic.). _
Not Too Many Lawyers
With all respect, I cannot agree with
Prof. Harrison Moore when he says that
too many lawyers had a hand in the mak-
ing of the Commonwealth Constitution
(B. 13/2/’35). True, a considerable pro-
portion of the framers were lawyers, but
they were also able and experienced
statesmen, not likely to be obsessed by
theory or legalities. The whole trouble
with Federation has been brought about
by departures from the principles laid
down and implied in the Constitution. 1
worked hard in Westralia for the adop-
tion by that State of the Federal compact,
but had I had the least idea that the
Commonwealth would have embarked on
a policy of enlarging its powers at the
expense of the States I would have
worked harder to keep Westralia out of
it. — J. M. Fowler. (Vic.).
Public Hospitals
“Arthritis” (B. 20/2/’35) says public
hospitals are places that patients dread
going to. I have just come out of a
country hospital, where I left my appen-
dix, and my impression is that the aver-
age patient in these institutions ought to
be in gaol for false pretences. The
majority think nothing of making full
use of hospital services, and give as much
trouble as they can —then they slink
away without paying a farthing. The
mug who has the decency to offer to pa.y
has to carry all these parasites on his
back.
It cost me nearly £22 for operation
and fees, while people who could
well afford to pay have the hide to de-
mand the same services for nothing. Is
it any wonder that the staff becomes a
bit fed up? Just look at the life of the
average country nurse. It is simply a
ceaseless round of activity on behalf of
people who haven’t even the common,
decency to say “thank you.”— Fleabitis
(N.S.W.).
The New Despots
The Bulletin’s comment upon my
contribution to the Healesville confer-
ence (B. 6/2/’35) is highly interesting
and would be quite pertinent given one
essential condition. I did not say any
of the things quoted in inverted commas.
For example, instead of the establish-
ment of a “special external commit-
tee for the prior discussion of legisla-
tive proposals,” I ufged that since “no
adequate provision is made for the
organised acquisition of facts and infor-
mation, and for the systematic applica-
tion of thought as preliminary to the
settlement of policy,” the Cabinet should
consider the desirability of constituting
an economic division in the Statistical
Bureau to do for politics what the C.S.
and I.R. is doing for industry. This is
exactly the opposite of an external com-
mittee, and is quite in line with what
you yourself recommended in your note
in the same issue on “Drifting Lands.”
Again, you entirely reverse my rhean-
ing when you refer to my “crowning
method of preventing the dictatorial exer-
cise of political patronage.” I wrote “Its
functions would be to prevent attempts
by political executives” and not “on
application by political executives.” I
said it was time we introduced the “rule
of law” into administration instead of
being satisfied with jungle law ; if there
were some supreme tribunal operating for
administrative matters in a manner analo-
gous to the Supreme Court in civil and
criminal causes, then we might substitute
the rule of law for the political vagaries
and caprice which now determine action.
Throughout I was urging the restoration
of Parliamentary control, not its super-
session.—F. A. Bland (N.S.W.).
“Trade. . . .Shall Be Free”
It isn’t only the commercial motor in-
terests that are hit by these transport
wrangles (B. 13/2/’35). One burden upon
another has been placed upon the man
who uses a truck in his business, with
added penalties for those wicked enough
to live near a State border.
In the past, S.A. beekeepers like myself
shifted our apiaries backward and forward
across the border, our movements being
governed by the way the trees were
flowering. We were allowed a 20-mile
margin. Under the latest regulations we
had to cart our bees to the border fence
and engage a Victorian carrier to take
“It’s all right, missus! We like y’r flat, but we thought wed see if the other
tenants were sports before we took it.”
them the rest of the distance —in some
cases only three or four miles. The alter-
native was paying a second lorry tax.
Tradesmen were in the same plight. A
plumber was not allowed to cart his tools
in his truck to a job across the border,
so he left the truck at the fence and
borrowed a horse-dray. And a farmer
who owns land on both sides of the
border was warned that he was breaking
the law every time he drove his truck
over to his second farm, though there is
nothing to prohibit him going with a
horse-team and waggon.
I have read somewhere that these regu-
lations have been withdrawn for the
present, but no doubt they will be im-
posed again.—H. A. L. (S.A.).
National Park Names
The N.S.W. National Park trustees
have issued a feature map to replace one
prepared by the Lands Department in
1914. Inspecting this, one wonders
whether it was published for the benefit
of visitors or as an excuse for plastering
the map with names. Not those of men
like James Hoskins, Minister for Lands
at the period of the dedication, and F. S.
Cox, of Fernhill, who in 1886 presented
the foundation stock of the red-deer deni-
zens of the park—much later worthies
are, immortalised.
A slight, gradual rise of 70 feet above
the Warrumbul-road has been dubbed
Mount Leighton-Bailey, after a trustee.
Bell’s Mountain, known for over 40 years
as Artillery Hill (less than 500 feet above
sea level), has, with its outliers of
Hawkesbury sandstone, been designated
the Buttenshaw Heights, after the Min-
ister. To gratify another politician, Mt.
Ball (475 ft.) now adorns the landscape.
The south branch of Wattamolla Creek
is now Coote Creek ; one of the feeders
of ; the headwaters of Kangaroo Creek
becomes Cridland; the old Black Gin
Lookout, known to the park authorities
since 1888 at least and to old identities
long before that, was rediscovered last
year and handed down to posterity as
Governor Game Lookout.
Where is this tomfoolery going to end?
—Gorra Worra (N.S.W.).
Aussies in Iran
As a member of “Dunsterforce” I can’t
imagine that we left such a legacy of hate
behind us in Persia (B. 20/2/’35). The
Aussies were only a minor portion of the
Force as regards quantity, possibly not so
minor from the standpoint of quality,
and their general attitude towards the
natives was one of good-humored indif-
ference. As one of the boys put it, “It
beats me how these warby cows ever
learned to make a Persian carpet!” The
Kurds were a different proposition; but
they are not interested in the issue of
aviation passports, and hate everybody
impartially.
The Force fed and employed thousands
of Persians, drilled hundreds, and put a
few score through the hoop for various
misdemeanors. Such punishment is, how-
ever, usually customary “east of Suez,”
and they expect it. None of our fellows
made a name in that direction —the two
“trimmers” I particularly remember were
regular-army officers. One had strong
views on the treatment of animals. I
remember seeing him stop the armed
escort of an important Persian official,
inspect every riding-animal, and end up
his inspection by soundly thrashing two
of the party whose mounts showed evi-
dent signs of maltreatment. Persia was
neutral, but that cut no ice with our
animal-lover.
Certainly the various anti-Ally Persian
officials may still harbor feelings of re-
sentment against the Force, It must have
been a bit of a jar to be suddenly con-
fronted by a rough-looking person in
foreign uniform and to be told that you
were under arrest, just when you were
busy sending an important message to
Turkish or German agents. Anyhow, it
wasn’t an Australian member of the
Force who, charged with the arrest and
deportation of an official proved to have
had dealings with our enemies, barged
right into his bedroom, pushed a service
Webley into his stomach and said “Beat
it, bo.” Kuchik Khan was no more
trouble to us after the “Old Man” put
him in his place at Menzil Bridge; as a
matter of fact, Kushy became quite an
admirer of our methods and of the Force
generally.
“Dunsterforce” did more good than
Darius. We left behind us roads where
we had found donkey-tracks, saved thou-
sands of women and kids from starva-
tion and disease, corrected a few local
abuses and spent quite a deal of good
British money. The Turks and Rus-
sians made a mess of the country for
three years, but it had certainly picked
up by the time we left. If the Iranis dis-
like the Aussies, it must be a post-war
affair. I reckon the A.I.F. did their job
there without making a fuss or leaving
a smell behind. —Yours, etc., Chuppati
(N.S.W.).
Tudor and Bonaparte
The marriage of Louis XII. (B.
20/2/’35) was not “dissolved.” It was de-
clared to have been null and void from
the beginning, on
the ground that
Louis was not a
free agent,
Napoleon never
applied for a
divorce. He forced
a decree of nullity
from a totally un-
authorised tribunal
of clerics. The
Pope was not even
approached in the
matter, and the
Church has never
rec o g n ised the
second union of
Napoleon.
Henry VIII. also
sought a decree of
nullity. There was
no question of a
divorce. He did
not get his freedom,
because his mar-
riage with Cath-
erine was valid.
The attitude of
the Catholic
Church in the
matter of divorce has at all times been
the same. It is based on the words
of Christ, “Every one that putteth away
his wife and marrieth another commit-
teth adultery,” and neither your corre-
spondent nor anyone else can ever show
the contrary. — Catholicus (N.S.W.).
Henry VIII. was 18 when he married
Catherine, and that meant manhood in
those days. Nor did the Church recog-
nise Catherine as his brother’s widow;
had she been that the Pope could not
have granted the original dispensation.
Granted that Arthur went through the
ceremony with Catherine, and that they
lived together at Ludlow Castle for five
months, all the available evidence went
to show that he was physically in-
capable of consummating any marriage
—he was dead at the end of the five
months. According to canon law a
marriage that has not been consummated
is no marriage at all. Henry still re-
mains blameworthy because he originally'
accepted the Pope’s dispensation; when
he found things were not working out
he started to question it. — Pardon Me
(N.S.W.).


ẁ
ẃ
SORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Like Top Gallant in 1926, Arachne
went out for the Newmarket Handicap
at cramped odds and failed to get a
place. The price would have been
shorter than 9 to 4 but for a last-minute
rush to back Winooka, whose Caulfield
form was considered too bad to be true
(Winooka closed at sto 1); then there
were rumors that Darby Munro had not
been enamored of the manner in which
Arachne galloped with him during the
week. Actually, the filly revealed quite
as brilliant speed as she had done in the
Oakleigh Plate. She held command on
the outer rails up to about a furlong
from home. Then she collapsed like a
pierced balloon, being only tenth to pass
the post.
No great surprise was occasioned by the
Newmarket success of Count Ito (10 to 1),
whose win in .the last, event on Futurity
Stakes day had brought him into solid
demand for the Flemington sprint. What
did cause amazement was the fight put
up by Melason, a 100 to 1-chance. Mela-
son was bred by and carries the colors
of E. Y. Sheil, who owned two Grand
National Steeplechase winners, Rakwool
and Precocious, the latter having been
raced by his daughter. The rapidity
with which Melason can accumulate
speed is well known, but, none antici-
Bert . '’’Steao'x there 1
GERT • / Whats the matter ? "
E>ERT ,; Voove UET fr Sack, om me "
Gertl "Au. RIG)HT, DON'T QO CROOK.-, x>
I CAM SHOVE HER FORWARD AQAIM'
pated that he could last out a gruelling
journey over the “straight six.” Melason
unintentionally acted as pacemaker for
Count Ito. The blood of Carbine
(through Spearhead) in the latter horse
enabled him to wear down Sheil’s repre-
sentative and score, all out, by half a
length, Winooka improved greatly on
his Caulfield display, and was. narrowly
beaten for third by the consistent Closing
Time. The time was Imin. 12isec. —
nothing special.
More than a week before the race
Count Ito was sold for £lOOO to T. D.
Gove for export to India. Delivery is
not to be taken until after the conclusion
of the V.R.C. autumn meeting. P. B.
Quinlan, former owner of the gelding,
was a noted footrunner and cyclist in
early life; he toured South Africa with
Jack Donaldson. The rise of Quinlan as
a trainer has been fairly rapid. In 1930
he won the A.J.C. Metropolitan for J. P.
Arthur with Cragford. The association
with Arthur has been unbroken, Quinlan
renting from that sportsman the stables
that belonged to the late C. L. Macdonald
in the days of Revenue, Wakeful and
Wandin.
The day’s racing was highly eventful.
The Australian Cup issue took on a most
open appearance in consequence of the
victories of Topical, Sylvandale and La
Trobe. Odds of 25 to 1 could be
obtained about Topical in the Essendon
Stakes, for which only five horses started.
The Windbag gelding had shaped poorly
in the V.T.C. Woodcliff Handicap on
February 23, and seemed out of place in
weight-for-age company, notwithstanding
that Rogilla and Hall Mark each had a
71b. penalty. Through being able to
claim 141 b. allowance, Vintage, the Wel-
lington Cup winner, headed the betting
quotes. It was his first Australian outing,
and he was further disadvantaged by
having had only one track gallop against
the watch in a fortnight. McCarten was
compelled to make the running with Vin-
tage, who never had filled the role of
pacemaker in M.L. races. Always handy,
Topical ran past the Maorilander after
entering the straight and scored with
ease by a length and a half.
Finishing gamely, Hall Mark got within
a neck of the tiring Vintage, Rogilla
being a poor fourth. Kellow had been
dissatisfied with the manner in which
Dempsey handled Hall Mark at Caul-
field, and Skidmore was substituted as
jockey. The 1933 Melbourne Cup
winner went no better for Skidmore than
he had done for Dempsey. It would
appear that he is not a weight-carrier.
Topical came right out of his shell on
this occasion, and has a second-to-none
chance of annexing the Australian Cup,
which he captured in 1933. However,
both Sylvandale and La Trobe must be
seriously reckoned with. The Silvius colt
(5 to 2) established his claim to be con-
sidered the best staying three-year-old of
the season by taking the V.R.C. St.
Leger, in which he led throughout, estab-
lishing 3min. Isec. Farndale (6 to 4) was
second, and Contact third. Theo ran
badly.
La Trobe (8 to 1) made a wonderful
effort in capturing the Brunswick Stakes.
He experienced a bad passage, and in
the last half-furlong had to shift from the
rails to the outside. Any chance of vic-
tory seemed hopeless, but the little black
horse would not be denied and van-
quished Nuit d’Or in the concluding
strides, with Whittingham a length
farther off.
A heap of Sydney money went on
Homer (11 to 2) in the Trial Stakes. He
was always in the picture, and was pro-
claimed the winner a furlong from home,
but failed when tackled by the favorite,
Young Idea (9 to 4), though only half a
length away. Palfresco (25 to 1) was
third, and might have beaten Young Idea
with a better run. Young Idea is a bay
colt by Constant Son—Persuasion, and
was ridden by Skidmore. McCarten was
on Homer, whose stable still considers
he will prove the best of the three-year-
olds next season.
Two Sydney jockeys have come under
the rod of stipendiary-steward punish-
ment in Melbourne. Davidson was sus-
pended after winning the Oakleigh Plate
on Arachne, while Darby Munro was
stood down for a month because of not
keeping a straight course on that filly in
the Newmarket. W. H. Johnstone, chair-
man of stewards, had warned jockeys
before the race that they would have to
keep their mounts on a straight course.
* * * *
Though none of the contingent that
visited Melbourne will be racing, the
Rosehill club looks like having a success-
ful meeting next week-end. Its decision
to pay all horse transport charges on
runners is appreciated by owners and
trainers, and big fields should be the
result. Gibson, who showed capital form
in December, has 9st. in the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap ; if fit, he will
make things interesting for the oppo-
sition. Silver Scorn, Jacko and Roman
Spear are in the sprint; this looks very
open. One who impresses on recent form
is Multigris, definitely on the improve,
who, in the Carlingford Handicap, may
prove the best bet of the afternoon.
* * * *
A shrewd move on the part of the
Tom Pinch party enabled it to get 5 to
1 about the big black gelding in the
Highweight at Canterbury Park. The
commission was lodged when people had
left the betting ring to listen to a broad-
cast of the Newmarket, and when the
big Victorian sprint was over 9 to 4
was the best price on offer. Tom duly
carried out his contract; he hopped out
briskly, and, despite his list. 51b., won,
easing up, by four lengths from Charalf
and Prince Yamba. Double Dutch, badly
away, was fourth.
The Heroic mare Fairoic runs her best
races at Canterbury. With an appren-
tice’s allowance, she had only 6st. 101 b.
to carry in the Canterbury Handicap,
and young Ward dashed her away half
a mile from home. She won comfort-
ably from First Balloon and the favorite,
Lavington. She had been backed from
tens to sixes. Sky Writer, an aged Wind-
bag gelding from Victoria, was supposed
to be a rod in pickle, but he missed a
place.
The bookies cheered when Dick Woot-
ton’s Dignity colt Stuffy (33 to 1) romped
home in the first heat of the Two-year-
old from White Lilac and Molyssa. The
favorite, Here’s Luck, was pushed off the
course at the turn when Ibn Saud lugged
out. The second division was a close
contest between Black Fern (5 to 2) and
Cognac after the pair had run about near
the judge. Bulletin, a Bullhead colt, at
any old price, finished like an old stager
to get third prize. Robin, after showing
pace, was anchored by her weight.
The three divisions of the Park Stakes
cost backers tidy sums. In the first
Voleti (6 to 4) failed to gain a place ;
Bouyeo (6 to 1) was back in the weigh-
ing enclosure when some of the runners
were passing the judge. Lord Dunnottar
(10 to 1), trained at Canterbury, took
the second division almost as easily.
Frieze (at evens) was never in the picture
in the third heat, Moonray, a brother
to Dark Sky, scoring at tens.
Carrying a penalty for winning at
Ascot, After Money (7 to 2) ran a capital
race in the Campsie Handicap, which
she captured from the pony Air Pageant
and Prate. The Maoriland horse is right
at the top of her form, and looks like
scoring again. Fame, the favorite, went
sourly ; after going a furlong her rider
had the whip on her, and half a mile
from home she had dropped back to last.
Parcourir was another failure,
* * * *
“Edwy”: Since the last Randwick
meeting “dashing” Sydney punters have
been noticed meekly putting on “twos”
and “threes” instead of the “ponies” and
“half-hundreds” of brighter days.
Among the fallen at Randwick was
Capris (2 to 1 on), subsequently to win
the fillies’ race at Caulfield with 9st. 81b.
up. By contrast Limyris, her conqueror
at Randwick, could only run second at
Warwick Farm with Bst. Happenings
such as these make it possible for bag-
men to buy £l6OO American cars, as
one did lately.
On December 15 the Q.T.C. informed
one Sydney Alexander Byers that he
might consider himself excluded from
future race meetings at Ascot “as a
spectator or otherwise.” Like Rufe
Naylor in Sydney, Byers moved for a
Supreme Court injunction, but the case
is not to go to the Privy Council, as the
Naylor affair may ; it has been settled
out of court on the basis of the with-
drawal of the ban on Byers. The party
he sued was C. A. Morris, “representing
the Q.T.C.” Another Morris, a book-
maker, sued him as a result of a dispute
touching the ownership of a horse called
Fernie Mount, winner of nine races in
Brisbane and thereabouts. On Thursday
night Morris arrived at the stables and
shot Fernie Mount and a two-year-old,
Fox Movietone, dead with a revolver.
Macrossan, J., has decided that Byers
was the owner, and that Morris’s destruc-
tion of the animal was “wilful and
malicious.”
Footbrawl
“Old Q.”; The annual meeting of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union threw out the
stupid suggestion to revert to the League
rule as to kicking into touch, and stood
by the old Union law, which is observed
by every other Rugby-playing country.
Success for the League rule would have
meant the end of international matches
and tours, including those with Maori-
land, which have done so much for the
game in this country. There is a curious
belief that the professional rule makes
the game faster. In fact, it is inclined to
slow up actual play, and how it lends
itself to illegal standing offside by the
forwards was very evident when the last
English professionals were in N. S.
Wales.
♦ * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Ma State
Rugby League is at its wjts’ end to find
players of class, the Rugby Union from
which it drew all its stars in the past
being now closed ground. How desper-
ate matters are can be seen in fruitless
offers to Hodgson and Kelaher, of the
Wallabies, to go over to the paid men.
The pair were actually offered a heavy
bonus to become professionals, in addi-
tion to a weekly screw and the usual
division of club profits at the end of the
season. The bonus offer is unprece-
dented since the days when the League
was founded by buying most of the first
Union Wallaby team on the hoof after
it had made an international reputation
in Britain. The weekly salary is also
something new.
*. * *
“Kiwi”: For years Australian Rugby
Leaguers have valiantly contended that
their game flourishes in Maoriland to
the dismay of the minions of the Union.
At a meeting of the N.S.W. body the
other night it was at last admitted that
the M.L. offspring was in a bad way.
One delegate proposed that a good
N.S.W. side be sent over accompanied
by a myrmidon armed with £5OO for the
purchase of “three star Union players”
for the M.L. League. Anyone who
imagines that £5OO would buy even one
good Union player with the All-Black
trip so close at hand is a super-optimist.
* # * *
“Gate”; Sydney Rugby League clubs
have suffered from the hard times, the
pick of their players in many instances
hiring themselves out to North of Eng-
land League clubs or to N.S.W. country
centres. Eastern Suburbs, one of the
oldest of the Sydney clubs, is to try a
scheme of its own in addition to the
League’s “retention fund,” which is sup-
posed to subsidise players desirous of
remaining in Sydney. The Easterners
have started a bonus fund like those of
the English professional Soccer clubs.
To benefit, the player must not leave the
club to join another, and the amount of
the bonus will depend on long service.
Also, the bonus will not be paid until
the end of “the player’s career,” a Kath-
leen Mavourneen proviso which has an
ominous sound.


/(
0
ICI
m
cm
102,29
VJJiJb •maKsA yyy SbW^uuujiy/
—these are the essentials
the keen duck shooter
looks for in his cartridges,
gets them when he uses
DUXBACVICIL SPECIAL
WATERPROOF CARTRIDGES
Loaded with “NEOFLAK” Powder, the lat-
est and most successful shot gun propellant.
A2l Load In a2¥ SheU
No Excessive Pressure or Recoil
Get YOUR
Supplies
NOW
Obtainable Everywhere
At Popular Prices
A Product of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd. (Ammunition Section),
3SO Collins Street, Melbourne.
2TI Clarence Street, Sydney.
In N.S. Wales
/
Season Already Open in Vic., S. Aust., W. Aust. and Tasmania.
Under the Whip
After his strenuous race in the Futurity
Stakes it would have been no surprise if
Heros had been withdrawn from the
Newmarket Trial at Mentone on Wed-
nesday. Scratchings reduced the field
to five, and Heros was one of them.
The price was 3 to 1 on, and little of that.
La Scala (5 to 1) made a race of it witli
the favorite, but was a length behind at
the finish of six furlongs, run in Imin.
12|sec. Epigram was another two or
three lengths away ; he had received a
little support at 8 to 1. Dempsey, who
has lost the riding of Hall Mark, Kellow
being displeased with him, was on Heros
again.
Phenomenon was expected to give
Heros the stiffest opposition. A decision
of the V.R.C. stipendiary stewards ren-
dered him incapable of starting; they
disqualified Smart, who owns and trains
him, until the end of the present racing
season for having been too merry at
Caulfield on Saturday. One would have
to go back many years to find a prece-
dent for this action. Trainers are very
abstemious, as a rule.
* * * *
The successes of Ethics in India, par-
ticularly in the Viceroy’s Cup, have led
to the horse-buyer from those parts
making a welcome reappearance. One
of his purchases is Count Ito, who, it
transpires, was bought before his Hawks-
burn Handicap victory at Caulfield. A
four-year-old gelding by Spearhead—
Sonora, Count Ito looks just the sort of
horse to do well in India. Breeders are
hoping that the return of the Indian
buyer will have a good effect on the
yearling sales, though, of course, he has
always had a preference for mature
horses.
“S.T.S.”: Onkaparinga (S.A.), which
races on Easter Monday only, announced
at its annual meeting that (1) it has now
£17,000 to credit; (2) its main job is to
get 40,000 people and 8000 cars on and
off the course, bitumen all the way from
the city having made transport easier but
also thicker ; (3) it aims at making the
steeplechase course the most up to date
in Australia. Water has now been laid
on all round if, and an extra stewards’
stand erected on the far side, “behind
the hill.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Pietro Georgi, who made his debut at
Leichhardt on Wednesday, opposed to
Ambrose Palmer, reminded old-timers of
Joe Grim. But he boxes rather better, and
after taking lots of punishment he out-
punched Palmer in the sixth and seventh.
In the eighth a right hit Georgi on the
left elbow, and the blow paralysed him,
as it were ; he stood still, “faking ’em,” for
almost half a minute. The electric lights
went out in the ninth, and the, respite
apparently refreshed Georgi, who attacked
throughout the tenth. Thenceforward
Palmer’s left hand played havoc with his
features, and, although the Victorian’s
own imperfectly-healed left eyebrow was
reopened in the fourteenth, he was an
unquestionable winner on points.
It was quite an interesting scrap, and
the hall was not big enough to accom-
modate the crowd. * Palmer came in at
12st. 61b., conceding the Californian
Italian a pound. He is a very fine boxer,
and easily the greatest draw in Australia ;
and it was very foolish of the other
Stadium to fall out with him.
Ins and Outs
“Kennington”: Jack Hobbs has retired
from big cricket. Since he began with
Surrey in 1905 he has made 61,221 runs
and 197 centuries in first-class cricket.
" ’Sense me, Dig—woodger rather ’ave uppercuts or undercuts?”
Even this will seem dust and ashes in his
mouth, since he retires without fulfilling
his ambition of 200 centuries. Hobbs
was the greatest English batsman since
W. G. Grace. Like W.G. he was able to
devote his life to the game, whereas men
like Steel and Ranji dropped out to attend
to their private affairs while practically
in their prime. Whether he or any other
modern batsman has had to face bowlers
of the quality which Grace and his con-
temporaries encountered is another
matter.
* ❖ # ❖
“Ibn el Issar”: Frank Tarrant has
arrived in Australia armed with an invita-
tion from the Maharajah of Patiala for a
team to tour India for four months, play-
ing one three-day match a week. The
Board of Control has refused permission.
This is a one-eyed stance, since, with one
or two exceptions, Tarrant has invited
men who will not be called on for South
Africa, including Macartney, Oxenham,
Ironmonger, Hornibrook, Ryder, Pons-
ford, Woodfull and Nitschke. Of the
South African possibles only O’Reilly,
Fingleton and Bradman have been asked.
The board’s dog-in-the-manger stand —it
runs no financial risks —is difficult to
comprehend. However, there is nothing
to prevent most of the men mentioned
telling the board to go to Eblis and fol-
lowing Tarrant to the coral strand.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The V.C.A. is fed up with
the trustees of the Melbourne Cricket
Ground, and is looking for new head-
quarters. Under, offer is 38 acres of
black alluvial on the banks of Merri
Creek, the land being at the bottom of
Albion-street in Brunswick. One reason
the association desires a change is the
insistence of the trustees on broadcasting
the big matches, which the association
is powerless to prevent, although it con-
siders it loses a lot of revenue from
dwindled attendances. Another reason
is the recent growth of television, which
promises to become an additional menace
to revenue on grounds the association
cannot control. The change will be a
facer for the M.C.C., which will then
have to rely on the footballers for its
income.
* * * *
“Jolimont”; Ponsford has again been
included among Wisden’s “Cricketers of
the Year”—a rare distinction. O’Reilly
and McCabe, Hollies (a Warwickshire
amateur) and Smith (the Middlesex fast
bowler) make up the five. In 43 Shef-
field matches Ponsford has topped the
1000 runs in a season twice with 1091
and 1217, the only batsman to turn the
trick.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Strazeele”: The fields for the N. S.
Wales A.I.F. Cup get bigger every year ;
461 players lined up on Wednesday, the
first pair hitting off at 5.30 a.m. The
Australian Club was the venue, and they
played against par. F. Wright, an Austra-
lian Club member, with a handicap of
11, was four up at the 15th ; then he col-
lapsed and finished one up. D. Barwell
(8), I. Chisholm (16), R. Frauenfelder
(18), A. W. Fairfax (11) and H. R. Mc-
Leod (10) were also one up, and the six
are to play it off next Sunday.
An odd feature of this competition is
that prominent ex-soldiers who are also
prominent golfers don’t continue com-
peting. Colonel Playfair, D. 5.0., Major
Wark, V.C., Dr. Clive Smith and many
more whose napies will occur to soldier-
golfers have dropped out; as against
which scores of unknowns have come
on. Another proof of the growth of the
game. The time is coming when the
competition will have to be confined to
players with handicaps of 12 and under.
* * * *
“Bright Idea”: These contests between
golfers and tennis-players, each going
round the links with their own tools of
trade, are getting monotonous. One
played at Jervis Bay recently provided
a surprise, the tennis-players—getting a
handicap of two on the short holes and
three on the long ones—doing so well
that after the fifth hole the handicaps
were dropped. At the end of nine holes
the tennis-players were winners. I sug-
gest as a variation that the tennis people
play with golf balls and the golfers with
the tennis pills, both sets of performers
to wear silencers.
**' * *
“Resurgam”: Walter Hagen’s hark-
from-the-tomb (B. 27/2/’35) was blown
on no mere penny-trumpet. A few days
ago Walter walked off with the Gaspa-
rilla —sounds like a new soft drink-
open championship with a score of 280
for the 72 holes. Among those he led
home were Laffoon and Revolta, both
regarded as Ryder Cup certainties. This
is Walter’s first win in a big event for
two years.
* * - * *
“Baffy”; The Ma State golf council
grows enterprising. It has consented to
back the P.G.A. in its scheme of raising
funds to send a team of professional
golfers overseas, and possibly a team of
lilywhites as well. It is hoped that the
professionals will catch the American
winter season, from November to April,
play then being in the extreme southern
States. That would cost about £450 per
head, and it is estimated that for an
additional century the lads could take
in the 1936 British open.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”; The Australian L.T.A.
has decided to support the proposal that
amateur tennis-players be allowed to take
money for showing tennis in films. N.
S. Wales and South Aus. opposed it,
Queensland endorsed it; the other three
States side-stepped the issue by leaving
the question to their delegates, who
reside in Melbourne. The influence of
Norman Brookes swung the council in
favor of the innovation. The matter will
be decided in Paris next month.
* * * *
“Roland Garros”; There doesn’t seem
much hope for the Davis Cup tourney
being held every two years instead of
annually. Voting on the question the
representatives of the nations concerned
plumped for the original scheme by
19-13. The margin is not as wide
as might have been expected, con-
sidering the solid European bloc,
to which annual matches offer no
inconvenience. America probably voted
against the change, since its players have
a comparatively short distance to travel
to Europe. Then there is the well-
known opposition of Dwight Davis, evi-
dently a vain old party. Australia, Japan,
South Africa and other outlying countries
would find the two-yearly tourney a lot
more convenient than the present method,
and the vocational needs of their young
"players should receive some considera-
tion, even from Mr. Dwight Davis.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: Borotra, who has
declared for years past that he has done
with competitive tennis, made another
comeback in the French covered-courts
championships, showing in all three
finals. He downed Prenn in the final of
the singles, but flopped in the mixed
doubles, in which he partnered Mdlle.
Rosambert. His old doubles pal Brugnon
being away, he hooked-up with Marcel
Bernard and carried off the men’s
doubles. Anyone laying odds that Jean
will not turn out again for France in
the Davis Cup doubles is taking a risk
* * * *
“Top Spin”: English player-writer
Olliffe has made an ambitious attempt
to pick the best player of all time in
each branch of tennis. Tilden is placed
first for singles and Williams and Rich-
ards for doubles. The Lenglen is the
singles star and, with Elizabeth Ryan,
the doubles queen also. Lycett and
Miss Ryan are down for the mixed
doubles. Norman Brookes is rated the
best all-round man, and Mrs. Miller, of
South Africa, the best all-round woman
* * * *
“Cosmop.”: It is expected that Sanae
Okada, who was engaged to the late
Jiro Satoh, will play this year at Wimble-
don. If she does she will be the first
Nipponese woman to figure on the
courts where girls from all the European
countries, from Spain to Austria, have
had their little hour, to say nothing of
the Yankettes and mere colonials from
Australia and even more astonishing
places. The lady, a good-looker in her
photograph, is one of the best Japanese
women players, and partnered Satoh in
many mixed doubles.


s=K
u
u
tka - -
New cnqliin.
Tractor
New Cooling, Lubrication and Ignition Systems... New
Air Cleaning System ... Heavy-Duty Transmission ...
“Hot-Spot” Vaporiser.. Governor Control.. Easy Steering
... Crankcase Ventilation... Optional Gears... Clutch Pulley
The new English Fordson is now available for immediate delivery. A special
Fordson Finance Plan provides easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria &. Tasmania :
MALCOLM MOORE Ltd.
Williamstown Road
Port Melbourne, Vic,
New South Wales;
MOTOR TRACTORS
LIMITED Corner Bridge
& Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENS.
LAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
South Australia:
ADEL AIDE CAR
&. TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Way mouth St., Adelaide
Western Australia;
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.
Hay Street,
Perth
EN GLAND
FORD
MOTOR
COMPANY
O F
AUSTRALIA
P T Y.
LTD.
E.T. 1
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: Andrew Charlton came back
by winning the N.S.W. half-mile cham-
pionship from Ryan at the Sydney
Domain baths, with Taris third. Ryan
left his finishing run until too late, and
was Ift. behind at the finish. The time,
lOmin. 37sec., was slow—lssec. worse
than Charlton’s old State and Australian
record. Taris finished down the course.
* * * ■ *
“Cage”: Australia won the triangular
croquet Test in Melbourne, but had to
battle hard with the Englanders to do it.
Our side dashed away with a win in the
first match with England—M.L. was well
out of the hunt from the start —but the
second and third were drawn. The
tourists go on to Maoriland. All are
loud in praise of the Australian turf,
thus echoing the opinions of visiting
cricket- and tennis-players. Gifts to
the groundsmen of some of the cro-
quet clubs by the English skipper were
a pleasant feature of the farewell. If
Jardine or any other English cricketer
ever presented the chap in charge of
Sydney C.G. with a gold or any other
medal for his superlative wickets, Bill
Stewart has kept it dark.
* . * * *
“Beat th’ Gun”; Some of the Sydney
experts are trying to compare Hampson’s
recent record of 10 3-ssec. for the 100
metres with Tolan’s 10 11-16 sec., and
make Hampson’s performance the better.
There is not much in it, though the differ-
ence between amateur and professional
starting methods give the pro. a tiny
advantage. He starts with his toes on
the mark and his fingers in front; the
amateur with his fingers on the line and
the feet in the holes behind it. Allowing
for individual idiosyncrasies, the amateur
stance adds an appreciable portion of a
yard to the distance to be run, and at
10 yards to the second that makes a
difference.
sj: - He * *
“Number Nine”: It looks a snip that
Japan will collar the 1940 Olympiad.
Tokio will stage the affair, and in addi-
tion to throwing in a million yen towards
the expenses of visiting athletes has un-
dertaken to spend 15 million more in
fixing up a suitable stadium and accom-
modation. Apart from this, it is ex-
pected the Government will weigh in
with a handsome subsidy. One point in
the Japanese favor is that Asia hasn’t
yet had a turn at the Games. What will
count even more is that America is back-
ing the Japanese claim.
* * ¥
“Ride Off”: Polo is to be included in
the Olympic Games —for the fourth time
since the gathering was revived. In 1920
the competitors were England, a team
from the U.S.A. army of occupation and
sides from Belgium and Spain. In 1924
five countries competed. Argentina won
all its matches, beating the U.S.A., Eng-
land, France and Spain. The side con-
tained three Englishmen. '
* * * *
“Chase”: Not often does a lawn
tennis-player come to excel at the older
version of the game, called “royal”
tennis. Gerald Patterson, who won the
silver racquet championship, postponed
from December, in Melbourne the other
day, provides one of the rare exceptions.
About the only Englishman who has
been conspicuous in both games was
Eustace Miles. He was not quite in the
first class at the modern game, of which
he wrote a great deal, but he won the
British amateur at real tennis against all-
comers nine times.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The success of the
breakaway 18-footers’ League in N.S.W.
is shown in the proposal to form a State
sailing association which wbuld control
all classes of open-boat sailing. At pres-
ent there are several bodies specialising
in various ratings, and all acting inde-
pendently. The association would take
charge of N.S.W. championship events
and see tcJ Ma’s representation in the
Australian championships, some of which
have been messed up under present
methods. Such an association would
give Sydney Flying Squadron a chance
to save its face.


%
£
■
For the sake of
your pocket as
well as your bus..
REMEMBER
to fill up with
r
tomdar
Plus
the guaranteed
Ist Grade Petrol
sold at the ord>
inary standard
grade price .
Plus [+] Power.. Minus H Knock
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government & flnglo-Perstan Oil Co., Ltd.)
MELBOURNE SYDNEY :: ADELAIDE :: BRISBANE C97/36/35
TAR TAR
Product of Horizontal Retorts.
Inquiries are invited for the pfur chase of
approximately
20,000 GALLONS OF CRUDE TAR,
horizontal retort product.
In purchasers’ own drums oh trucks Crystal
Street Station, Broken Hill; or arrangements
may be made for drums to be supplied by
.consignor.
The Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Company,
Limitod,
210 ARGENT STREET, BROKEN HILL.
P.O. Box 1458.
an option from New Pyrenees Alluvials
(Melbourne) over the latter’s deep-leads
area at Avoca (Vic.). The terms are
£lOO down, with the right to an exten-
sion from July 15 next to Jan. 15, 1936,
on payment of £4OOO. The purchase
price is £112,500 —£30,000 cash in Lon-
don and the balance in fully-paids.
Also, the Melbourne co.’s shareholders
are to have the right of subscrip-
tion at par over 25 p.c. of any contribs.
offered. Further, the vendor has the
right to nominate two local directors,
and, if formed, the working co. is to
have a Melbourne register.
* * * *
A good price for tin, high rate of
exchange and satisfactory royalties from
tributors enabled Mt. Bischoff (Tas.)
to pay a 20 p.c. div. last year, or
double the previous year’s distribution.
The plant crushed 19,651 tons of stone
and re-treated 9108 tons of slimes and
tailings for 338.25 tons of concentrates,
assaying 68.8 p.c. tin. The sluicing of
24,080 c.y. of alluvial produced a further
23.7 tons of concentrates. After provid-
ing for depreciation (£1993) and taxa-
tion (£1078), the year’s profit was £8332.
Surplus liquids amounted to £18,042.
Paid capital is £29,500. Owing to the
falling-off of values and low price of
the metal, the co. gave up operating on
its own account in 1929.
* * * *
The possibility of profitably turning
out bitumen (j:om the shale deposits at
Latrobe (Tas.) is to be tested by the State
Government with Federal assistance, and
an experimental plant is being erected at
Launceston for the purpose. About
29,000 tons of bitumen a year is re-
quired for the Speck’s roads.
* * * =H
Murchison Gold Development (W.A.),
floated in July last under the auspices of
Great Boulder Prop., is preparing to do
things. Early weakness of the scrip in
the market was due to sales by nervous
or impatient holders. Plant on one of
the co.’s two mines is now almost com-
pleted, and dewatering is about to com-
mence. Prospectus estimates put prob-
able ore above the old No. 3 level at
20.000 tons, averaging 15dwt. It was
suggested that profitable production
might be started in a small way early in
1935, while deeper development was pro-
ceeding. The co.’s other property, the
Emu, at Lawlers, is claimed to be a
potentially larger affair. In the old days
926.000 tons, averaging over Bdwt., were
raised and treated. The lode can be
traced on the surface for 3500 ft., and
experts who examined the show last year
say that, under modern working con-
ditions, it could be made into “an im-
portant and payable gold producer,”
even without the gold premium. Plans
for intensive development and necessary
plant are out.
Camp Bird, a London mining finance
concern with extensive interests in
America, S, Africa and elsewhere, re-
cently acquired the right to a 10 p.c.
slice of all new business accepted by
Gold Fields Australian Development, an-
other London-controlled mining finance
co., whose interests include leases at
Wiluna and Yellowdine (W.A.). Prepara-
tory to applying to the London Stock
Exchange for the listing of its scrip, the
Gold Fields Co. recently divided its exist-
ing £1 shares into units of ss, each.
* * * *
“O.B.”; The directors of Leonora Cen-
tral—it used to be the old Harbor Lights
(W.A.) —are so pleased with the show
that they have hopes of paying a div.
within 12 months. The average grade
of the liberally-estimated tonnage in sight
is officially stated to be only 3dwt. Some-
thing exceptional in the way of recoveries
and costs will be needed before the
board’s hopes are likely to be realised,
notwithstanding the recent sharp rise in
the sterling price of gold.
* * * ♦
R. Heppingstone, Perth, intends exer-
cising his options over 115 acres of auri-
ferous country at Argus brothers’ new
find, north of Ora Banda (W.A.). The
area was opened up a few months ago,
and has been developed only to shallow
depth. The reef is sft. wide, with an in-
definite footwall; samples averaged 2oz.
to the ton. Mr. Heppingstone is also in-
terested in the rich Yilgangie Queen, near
Edjudina (W.A.).
* * * *
Southern Cross Gold Development
(W.A.), one of the De Bernales group, is
diamond-drilling in hitherto unpros-
pected country at the southern end of
Fraser’s mines. The objective is the
continuation of the Dawn reef. If core
values match anticipations based on
results obtained in shallower ground
further south, the co.’s luck will be in.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie National, which has 200
acres north of the New Kalgurli and
Croesus Prop, mines on the Golden Mile
(W.A.), feels confident that the continua-
tion of the lode in the Croesus has been
encountered on the western boundary of
their property at a depth of 100 ft. This
portion of the Kalgoorlie belt has been
more or less neglected for 30 years.
£ # $ . 3*
A Kalgoorlie syndicate is considering
an alluvial proposition at Pilbara (W.A.).
The find, made in 1927 by one Harris,
is on Friendly Creek, 100 miles from
Roebourne, and some very high assays
were obtained. Two dredging claims, six
miles long by two chains wide, have
been applied for. The rivers on the
northern goldfields of Westralia are sub-
ject to sudden floods during the wet
season.
* * * *
First Hit’s board (W.A.) says satisfac-
tory results have accrued from the first
three months’ operations. This is a small
show which enriched two former owners,
and, after a small mill had crushed most
of the stuff in sight, was put on the
market. Development of more ore and
preparations for deepening the shaft are
,now in hand.
* * * *
Tributers on Kimberley Option’s
Patricia mine, near Edjudina (W.A.),
cleaned up 178 tons for 3170 z. 14dwt. of
gold. Many shareholders are wondering
why the co. cannot work this show itself.
* * * *
The Dundas Co. has abandoned its
working option over Egan’s lease, near
Yellowdine (W.A.). The co.’s mine at
Grant’s Patch is being worked by tri-
buters, who have taken out 261 tons of
ore, averaging 7dwt. llgr.
* * * *
Leonora Central (W.A.) claims to have
something good in the Leonora district.
Three mining engineers and the manager
estimate that the average grade of ore
(135,000 tons) in sight is “about 3dwt.”
* * * *
Ora Banda Consols has appointed
W. A. Alexander manager of its Mt.
Clifford group, Leonora (W.A.). A Hunt-
ingdon mill will shortly be forwarded to
the property from Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
No. 7 borehole core at the Paringa
mine, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), assayed 20dwt.
from 783 ft. to 786 ft., and 4dwt. lOgr.
from 786 ft. to 792 ft.


* p
cco
<t Ui
ZiD
<o
CSN
ZO
LU2
zQ
-DC
Q
< CC
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
Found ¥our F umity's
Waritinc I
STABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
never stints. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
Write now while you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Director!:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN. M.L.C,
Should the Exchange
Rate Be Lifted?
Are Trade Statistics
Reliable?
Influence of Credit Upon
Interest Rates.
Outlook for Share
Prices.
These and other problems vital to the
investor are discussed in the
MARCH issue of
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal.
Now on Sale.
BUSINESS. ROBBERY ETC.
Farmers and Farm Debts
South Aus. has been the first to con-
sider legislation for distributing the Com-
monwealth’s farm-relief grant. Over a
period of years £12,000,000 is to be
whacked up amongst the States, and
South Aus. is to get £1,800,000.
If the S.A. Parliamentary debates can
be taken as a guide to the general mode
of relief distribution, only farmers whose
unencumbered assets are less than their
unsecured liabilities—and they will be
mainly wheatgrowers—will receive assist-
ance, though they must have “reasonable
prospects of rehabilitation” with wheat at
3s. a bushel. The idea is that, with a
lump sum of ready cash as a bait, many
millions of unsecured private debts will
be wiped out by paying a composition
to creditors equivalent to the extent of the
farmer’s available assets (revalued), with
a maximum payment out of the fund of
ss. in the £l.
If the farmer’s unencumbered assets
amounted to, say, Bs. per £1 of
his unsecured liabilities, ss. would
be paid out of the grant, 3s. would re-
main as a debt upon the farmer, and
12s. would be definitely lost to the credi-
tor. It will require the assent of 50 p.c.
to 75 p.c. of a farmer’s creditors, accord-
ing to whether the payment is to be
above or below ss. in the £l, before such
a scheme can operate.
N. S. Wales, which has a Farmers’
Relief Act now over two years in opera-
tion, is also considering a bill for dis-
tributing the grant.
The original N. S. Wales Farmers’
Relief Act was passed in October, 1932.
It provided for a farmer or a creditor
applying for a stay-order, which stopped
proceedings taken by other creditors.
The order’s currency would normally be
for three years, and the farmer had to
come into the scheme voluntarily. There
was no writing-down of debts, but the
farmer was relieved of interest on any
portion of a “secured” debt not repre-
sented by security on revaluation of the
pledged asset, and other interest was cut
to 5 p.c. By revaluing the assets it was
hoped that a basis of compromise might
be arranged amongst all types of creditors.
To date 1830 N.S.W. stay-orders have
been issued, 184 have been removed, and
1646 are still in force.
The amending bill now before Parlia-
ment provides that any farmer subject
to a stay-order may apply for permis-
sion to effect a composition, and, if he
has a reasonable chance of carrying on,
the Relief Board may make an advance
out of the Commonwealth grant towards
effecting a scheme of arrangement.
The method of appointing receivers
under stay-orders in accordance with the
old Act has been the main source of
Opposition criticism so far. The farmer,
however, is at liberty to pick whomever he
chooses amongst the list of registered re-
ceivers, though the range of choice is
certainly not wide, and the receiver is
given control of all income and outgo,
including the farmer’s sustenance allow-
ance. Also, probably out of necessity,
professional and not practical men are
given the job of receivers.
The S.A. idea of unsecured creditors
taking a small cash composition in bad
but not entirely hopeless cases and kiss-
ing the rest good-bye is a good one.
Mortgagees should be ready to make
concessions, too, though Government
compulsion could not be tolerated.
The fact remains that a mortgagee who
lent money in 1929, if he were repaid
now, could buy at least 20 p.c. more
with the cash; the farmer, on the other
hand, is required to produce from 30 p.c.
to 50 p.c. more, with all the attendant
increased production costs, before he can
see a gross return equal to 1929 figures.
Farmers generally are overwhelmed
with debt. The reduced profits of trad-
ing banks are largely due to the crisis in
the agricultural and pastoral industries.
The top-heavy values inherited from the
artificially prosperous times of 1920-1929,
and the corresponding debt-burdens, are
reflected everywhere in crushing over-
head costs. Consequently many land-
men are sinking further into the mire,
and with plant wearing out are rapidly
approaching the stage where carrying on
will be an impossibility.
If the Commonwealth’s assistance
mainly goes to those who are virtually
insolvent through depreciation in pro-
duce and property values or other un-
controllable factors, it will deserve little
criticism. If such cases were put through
the Bankruptcy Court the effect on
farmers and farm properties generally
would be calamitous. But there is no
“There's two - and-eleven
outstanding, Jacky.”
“Orright, boss —/ take it
out in bacca.”
call to go on subsidising incompetency
where incompetency and extravagance
have existed in the past, nor where a
property is hopelessly uneconomic.
For the first time in history fine gold is
now over £9 an ounce in Australia, fol-
lowing the sharp rise to £7 6s. 10|d.
(sterling) in London at the week-end.
* * * *
Though gold continues to notch new
price records in London, non-ferrous
metals are shockingly low. Despite the
fact that it now takes 70 p.c. more ster-
ling currency to buy an ounce of gold
(a metal with a “fixed” price of 4\ sov-
ereigns an ounce) compared with 1931,
the price of lead in sterling is only £lO
6s. 3d. a ton compared with an average
of 23 golden sovereigns per ton over
1927-29; zinc is £ll 12s. ,4d. compared
with 26.2 sovereigns (1927-29); copper is
£27 6s. Id. compared with 65 sovereigns.
Tin has fared somewhat better; com-
pared with a price of 240 sovereigns a
ton over 1927-29, the price fell to 118
sovereigns in 1931. It rose to £231 in
February, but there has recently been
a sudden drop to £213. It is, of course,
only the monetary value of gold that
keeps the yellow metal so high, and its
present record sterling price is largely due
to the withdrawal of a good deal of short-
term Continental money from London
and the less favorable trade balance. In
short, to foreigners’ doubts about the
value of sterling.
* * * *
Though the value (Australian cur-
rency) of our gold production was 17
p.c. higher in 1934, actual output was
up only 6.3 p.c. Such is the assistance
the industry is receiving through the
exchange. Production amounted to
881,918 fine ounces, as against 830,332
ounces in 1933.
* * *
The Sydney wool-price index at Feb.
16 was 106, as against 113 a month
earlier. Wheat was up to 85 compared
with 79. Wool is now about half the
price of January, 1934 ; wheat is roughly
20 p.c. stronger.
* * * *
During 1934 real-estate mortgage regis-
trations in N. S. Wales were nearly 60
p.c. greater than in the previous year at
£15,495,000. Most of the business is
being done at 4\ to 5 p.c., though a great
deal carries less than 4\ p.c. The trend for
lower interest on mortgages continued in
January, even though reduced wool prices
and the approaching N. S. Wales elec-
tions had a weakening effect on Stock
Exchange securities. Here is an indi-
cation of the market’s lessened support
for Consols over a period of 44 months:
16/10/’34. 28/2/’35.
4 p.c., 1938 .... £lO7 5 0 £lO4 11 3
4 p.c., 1941 .... 108 5 0 105 11 3
4 p.c., 1944 .... 'lOB 5 0 106 12 6
4 p.c., 1947 .... 110 5 0 108 10 0
4 p.c.. 1950 .... 11l 10 0 107 12 6
4 p.c., 1951-53 ~ 112 5 0 107 15 0
4 p.c., 1951-55 .. 112 5 0 108 2 6
4 p.c., 1951-57 .. 112 8 9 108 2 6
4 p.c., 1951-59 .. 11l 5 0 108 3 9
4 p.c., 1951-61 .. 112 5 0 108 15 0
The trend of interest rates is definitely
for higher yields. At the moment it
would be impossible to float a long-
dated 3 p.c. loan at par. Though in
October last the return on the 1938 4 p.c.
issue was £2 12s. 2d. per cent, (including
redemption), and that on four loans
(1938-47) £2 19s. 2d. p.c,, the present
yield on the 1938’s is £3 p.c., and on
the 1938-47’s £3 3s. 7d. p.c. Six 4 p.c.
loans maturing 1950-61 yielded £3 ss. 9d.
p.c. in October; the return on February
14 was £3 9s. lOd. p.c.
♦ * * *
Australia’s overseas trade position has
shown little improvement during the past
month. The favorable commodity bal-
ance has increased from £1,164,000 (stg.)
to £1,852,000 ; including bullion the sur-
plus of exports has increased from
£4,780,000 to £6,097,000. During the
month of January imports were up
£1,120,000 compared with January, 1934,
and exports were down £1,690,000.
Comparing the two seven-monthly
periods, merchandise exports are down
£12,408,000, and imports are up
£9,414.000, all figures being sterling.
* * * *
So far as reciprocity in trade is con-
cerned, Australia treats the Old Country
better than some other Dominions,
notably Maoriland and Canada. But
S’Africa is the white-haired one ; next
to India, Afrikanders are the largest
buyers of British goods, while the
exports from the Cape to the Old
Country average less than half Brit-
ish imports to the Union. Maori-
land during the first nine months of
1934 sold nearly four times more to
Britain than it bought; Australia’s im-
ports from the same source were about
five-ninths its exports ; Canada’s ratio was
about two-fifths. Though the Empire
during the nine months absorbed 46.1 p.c.
of John Bull’s exports, imports from the
Dominions, excluding the Irish Free
State, increased by 34 million pounds,
while exports increased by only 11 mil-
lions. Foreigners bought seven million
pounds’ worth less from John and sold
him four millions’ worth more. The
U.S.A., though it is Britain’s largest
source of imports, ranks below Aus-
tralia, Canada, India and S’Africa in its
purchases from Bull. The Empire is a
great market for Uncle Sam, but it
doesn’t cut both ways.
♦ * » . *
Commonwealth imports from Japan
for the six months ended Dec. 31 were
£492,000 higher at £2,511,000. Wool
shipped to Japan (69 million pounds com-
pared with 101 million) was 32 p.c. lower
in quantity and down 51 p.c. in value.
Australia’s favorable trade balance with
Japan is much smaller.
# % He *
Broken Hill Prop.’s monthly output of
pig-iron to February 17 was up to the
record figure of 46,595 tons. A propor-
tion of this is for export, and is not
being turned into steel as with the metal
used in the Commonwealth. Now that
an export trade has been created B.H.P.’s
output figures are not such a trustworthy
guide to activity in the Australian con-
struction trades.
* $ $ $
The backblock Briton who feared to
eat Australian butter lest it should be
made from kangaroo milk will be safe
in future; the kangaroo brand is to be
scrapped and a map of Australia substi-
tuted. A better suggestion for a new
brand came from Cobden (Vic.) —the
name “Sunshine” with a rising-sun de-
vice, subtly emphasising the' proved
superiority of Australian butter over
Danish from the fact of the sunlight here
providing more vitamins than the housed
cows of Denmark.
H*
“Yusa”: Eggs for export are now
treated so that the yolks are “put to
sleep” for the duration of the voyage,
a “wakening-up” process being operated
after they are landed in England. The
method has taken some time to perfect,
experiments having been commenced
over 20 years ago.


A NEW LAMP IS BORN
m
li
i.j
my/
m
H
,x: a®
mam
■
: s ■ ■ . ■
■
4oW^®Sf eo 1
PHILIPS^^I
ms
M
:im
m
m
m
m
4(0 LUMENS «.
li
S 'N AUS^ V
A new lamp, which costs no more in price or as 50% more light than cheap imported lamps of
current consumption, is now introduced by Philips, inferior design.
pioneers of the lamp industry. Take advantage of this latest and greatest
The Philips Coiled Coil Lamp gives 20% more development in better lighting. Equip with
light than the best of ordinary lamps, and as much Philips Coiled Coil lamps TO-DAY.
Sold everywhere af the same price as ordinary lamps
s
LAMPS
SL-5
OVER 60 M I LLI ON PHILIPS LAMPS HAVE BEEN SOLD AUSTRALIA
Beware of so-called “cheap” imported lamps which may
cost a few pence less to buy, but which add shillings
to your lighting bill. Insist on Australian-made, and
look for the name “PHILIPS” on every lamp you buy.


Patents.
DIFFERENTIAL ORE FLOTATION
PROCESS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6541/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
AUTOMATIC INKING DEVICES FOR
RECORDING MACHINES.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
11852/28 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
CLERK EMBARKS ON WORLD TOUR
w
One of the many thousands of happy Travel-
lers journeying to England for the King’s
Jubilee celebrations is a Colonial Mutual Life
Policy holder, who, after the celebrations will
continue on a world tour.
Employed as a Clerk in a City Office, he had
taken out a policy providing for the payment
of £5OO at the age of 45, which enabled him
to make the trip.
Full information regarding such a policy may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
The Society that is wholly mutual.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE : MELBOURNE. BRANCHES IN : SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON
C. B. Hearn, A.C.I.S. Manager and Secretary 265
PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Each week, prizes of original
"Bulletin” black-and-white drawings
are offered, in addition to the ordi-
nary rates, for Society pars., Abo-
riginalities, Hints for the Farm and
gags for joke-blocks. For contribu-
tions to B. 2 7/2/’3 5
G. C. APPEL, 100 Guy-street, War-
wick, Queensland;
WALTER JAGO, Tahmoor, N.S.W.;
W. R. MARTIN, No. 2 Flat, 85
Glover-street, Mosman, N.S.W.;
and
MISS C. M. FOOTT, Lytton, Upper
Beaconsfield, Victoria,
share them.
NORTH OF
THENTY-EIGHT
A Chance for Prospectors
“Kaloa”: John Matheson, a well-
known mining-man who has been touring
the N.T., supports the policy of A. M.
Blain, M.H.R. (B. 13/2/’35). He says “it
makes a man’s heart bleed to see the
pioneers battling against flies, dust, lack
of water and heat under the broiling
sun.” After miners have discovered a
payable proposition they often have to
sacrifice it for a third of its value so that
they can get their ore treated and obtain
the capital necessary to carry on. They
are men “in most cases over 60 years
old who would scorn to take the dole.”
Bores are badly needed. At the Ten-
nant the main freshwater well is eight
miles from the town, and is leased by
an Asiatic who also owns the only
battery. Water costs 10s, per 45gal.
drum to land in town from this well, and
the owner reaps a good harvest from his
battery, which is kept going night and
day. Recently one party had 51 tons put
through for 117 oz.
Mr. Matheson declares that (he Com-
monwealth should take a lesson from
the Westralian Government in regard to
water provision, since the whole mining
industry of the interior is tied up through
the lack of it. Apart from that, diamond
drilling, Government batteries, mining
engineers and assayers are needed. The
Commonwealth might well use for such
purposes some of the subsidies which it
proposes giving to heavily-capitalised
companies with shares at a premium.
The old battlers deserve their chance.
It might take Fiji as a model. There
companies floated to develop gold de-
posits must be officially approved. No-
liability cos. are discouraged. “Orderly
commercial development of fields” is
the keynote of policy, and the Adminis-
tration “intends to prevent the get-rich-
quick type of speculation which seeks to
gain unearned wealth at the expense of
the community.”
Leases are not granted unless reason-
able evidence is produced that gold is
present in payable quantities, and that
the applicant has enough capital at call
to work his find. Prospecting licenses
are not saleable, except with Govern-
ment approval.
“Dungeness”; By cutting off Peter
Petersen, of Cairns, at 87, our deadly
tropic climate has robbed Northerners
of an old friend. Peter landed in Bowen
63 years ago with a young wife and Is.
6d. Five years later he was a teamster
taking machinery to Charters Towers and
Ravenswood. By 1883 he was combin-
ing mining with carrying. Ten years
after, with nine growing tropic-born sons,
he broke into sugar-growing near Ing-
ham and made a big success of it. Later
still he and two of the sons found and
developed the Mount Peter mine, and
dug a none-too-small fortune out of it.
For years Petersen was the unanimous
choice of the Ingham cane farmers to
represent them at conferences ; also, he
was the first farmer to sign an under-
taking to grow sugar by white labor.
“Help der vorker, guide der fool, fight
der rascal, play der game,” was Peter’s
philosophy. Naturally he didn’t shine
as a politician.
sfc Sfc 9k Hi
“Nagheer”: Strange and sometimes
ribald tales are told concerning the per-
formances of N.T. white-ants, but
their latest officially testified effort surely
constitutes a record. A fault in the
main telephone cable at Darwin was,
after much trouble, traced to their in-
genious activities. They had got through
an inch of earthenware cover-pipe, pene-
trated a thick layer of vaseline and
arsenic placed there with deliberate intent
to poison them, pierced a quarter-inch
thickness of lead cable cover and stripped
the insulating material off the enclosed
wires. To make a thorough job of it, they
had carried in wet earth and made a
perfect contact between the exposed
wires. The result was, of course, a uni-
versal short-circuiting in every line. A
skilled telephone engineer could not have
done the business more effectively or
ingeniously.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Queensland has its Helen
Keller in Mercy Griffin, a young Rock-
hampton girl just about to enter the
University after being recommended for
the Brunton Stephens prize for the best
English essay at the 1935 junior examina-
tion. The Musical, Literary and Blind
Aid Society is making up to £lOO p.a.
available for five years to pay her fees.
She is to have a reader to help her with
her textbooks and a Braille typewriter
for equipment.
“Coin’ I' Cunnamulla, boss?”
“Yes; I’ll give you a race.”
“F.A.4”: I don’t suppose Henry Ford
worries about what his products carry,
but he’d probably make a note of this
entry for the “Queer-load Stakes,” A V-8
utility bound south, in Central Queens-
land, pulled in for “juice” at Hughenden.
I noticed among the load a sewing-
machine, an upright cabinet gramophone,
five repacked petrol-cases, six suitcases, a
saddle, two swags, two rifles, a revolver,
a valise, a camera, a cane lounge-chair
with extension 'foot-rest, a tent fly, sa
child’s tricycle, two kittens, a cattle-dog,
an Airedale, umpteen cushions, several
spare hats from tiger-tamer to backyard
felt, a man, a woman and a child.
* * * *
“C.C.D.”: Marriage in Bougainville
is by purchase. I have only once seen
affection between a man and his Mary;
that was at Lamara, up in the mountains
which form the backbone of the island.
While we talked his proud missus watched
his every movement, and saw to it that
the piccaninny she was carrying also
watched him. But I remember another
islander named Anus who passed our
camp scolding and striking his woman ;
down the track they went, and for every-
thing she had an answer which seemed
to be pure venom. Later I asked, “What
for you fight Mary belong you?” “Mary
she no good, too much lazy, no work
along house. Kukerai [her father] along
village he gammon she gobdpfeller Mary ;
me pay him two pfeller stick [tobacco]
along one pfeller moon.” He went to
the village next day and called the deal
off; Kukerai, borrowing two sticks from
him, paid him back, and then they all
smoked the tobacco. A new purchase
was made, and this was working well
at the time I left.
* * * *
“Wurliewurlie”: Solomon, of the
Larrakeah tribe (N.T.), was a cunning
old fellow. Some whites wanted to
learn the laws of the blackfellow.
One day they approached Solomon
and asked to be initiated into the
tribal mysteries. His Majesty scratched
his head, looked wise and replied:
“Yes, me make you all-about all
same blackpfeller, but you have to pay
pull-up tucker and tobacco.” The
searchers for knowledge jumped at the
chance. For some weeks they had to
attend corroborees, during which Sol
whispered into their eager ears the tribal
“secrets.” For years afterwards these
men would boast that they had been
acclaimed as members of the tribe. Per-
haps it was just as well that they didn’t
hear a conversation between his Majesty
and my head boy, old Frank, who was
a native of Alice Springs. His Majesty
was scornful. “Me only tell those pfeller
rubbitch; no good me talk true; but
white pfeller gibbit baccy and me make
plenty gammon.” When Frank told me
I asked, “In your tribe [Arunta] you talk
straight longa whitepfeller?” Laughing,
the boy answered, “No more, boss ; me
all-about can’t talk straight; me pfather
tellem me ‘only gammon longa white
man, no good talk true.’ ”
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Cilento lady, who is the Mother-
craft Association delegate on the
National Council of Women, was chosen
to represent the N.C.W. at the meeting
of the Federal Health Council in Can-
berra on March 4. •
A tea in honor of folk packing their
suitcases was held at Rowe’s. The guests
of honor were Mrs, E. Barry, whose
home is at Cloncurry; Celia Bagley and
Elsie Rowe, bound for Japan, and
Eileen Crowe, off to England with her
mother.
The Windsor bowlers forsook their
velvet green lawns and the charms of
kitty when their president, Mr. Camp-
bell, arranged a card party to help the
club building fund. There were bridge
for the sober-minded, 500 for the more
hilarious and euchre for the frivolous.
A good sum was collected.
Mr. and Mrs. Sandy Raff (she was
one of the Munros, of Nessbank, Too-
woomba) are back from India on the
Narkunda, bringing small daughter Mary
Ann to school.
By the Ballarat sailed Edith and Poppy
Sutherland, London-bound to join sister
Mrs. R. M. Bell and her daughter.
Stagecraft seems to be born in this
family, for their mother was the daugh-
ter of a Welsh singer, Griffiths, who
took London by storm in an earlier day.
Jan McDowall, who has been wan-
dering round England and Europe for
the last year, shortly will be reunited
with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Val Me-
Dowall, who sailed in the Nieuw
Holland for Singapore. Then
there will be a family jaunt
round China and Japan before
returning to Brisbane.
One of the latest travellers is
Bishop Dixon, who was fare-
welled at St. Luke’s Hall, Arch-
bishop Wand presiding.
As this sees print, the Coun-
try Women’s Association con-
ference in Toowoomba will be
in full swing. There is a large
and ominous-looking agenda
paper—23. resolutions, many of
them dealing with educational
matters.
Anne Scott, fourth daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. 0. Scott, of Hornet Bank
station, was married in Brisbane at St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church to J.
Wilton, third son of Mr. and Mrs. J.
Wilton, of Easton Heights, Ipswich. Her
gown was of magnolia satin, but the cut
tulle veil was caught to a wreath of golden
foliage and orange-blossoms, and the
touch of gold was repeated in the frangi-
panni which formed the bouquet. Mrs.
G. W. Kilgour, of Toowoomba, was
matron of honor, and Mr. Frank Wilton
best man.
Alison Greene, principal of the More-
ton Bay High School for Girls, is just
back from a trip to India. She brought
back with her the loveliest little minia-
ture cooking utensils, and midget vil-
lages, etc., which show the strong con-
trast between housekeeping here and
there.
One Tasmanian who is not afraid of
the Queensland summer is Captain A. V.
Harrison, who is coming to stay with his
sister, Mrs. M. Stuart, mother of the
three “musical Stuarts.” Twenty years
in the China seas possibly inured the
Captain to heat.
Mrs. A. E. Moore, just back from the
country, where she helped A.E. to open
a country show, rushed off to the Chan-
cellor-Lahey wedding on February 25,
and then caught the train to Toowoomba
for the annual meeting of the southern
division of the QW.A. She also has a
good deal to do with the fete for the
Boy Scouts and Girl Guides, to be held
at Government House early in April.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
7”HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so saft
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
S&CUI&riS (.MEXICAN)
VkdnuJt Stouun,
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Uanaqer for full particulars.
ŵ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling I,lst Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
fUt
mm
mm
uloip.fi
Do not miss
the King’s
Silver
Jubilee
celebrations
1935.
HOWARD
| |/\TrI NORFOLK ST.
IIU ICL STRAND
LONDON
London’s luxury hotel, everything new and
up-to-date. Every room has either private
bathroom or running water, central heat-
ing and telephone. The restaurant is unsur-
passed, the bathrooms and suites are really
beautiful. Perfect environment for relax-
ation and pleasure. Close to all Theatres.
12/6, including breakfast. Early reserva-
tion advisable. Wire: Howdotel London.
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
Booklet from “Bulletin,” Sydney.
The Uichardson Chain Hotel
J%
m
j III!
'■* j;
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE'S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Journalists’ Institute gave new
Governor Hore-Ruthven a party the
other day and found he was a first-class
speaker—and journalists are not easy to
impress. His Ex. wore his Etonian tie
with a grey suit, and made pressmen
purr with his compliments. When he
'told his story of the Australian reporter
who smuggled himself on a train and
interviewed Kitchener (in defiance of
all refusals) when the Field-Marshal
was having his breakfast, one gaze of
surmise at least was directed at Johnnie
Sands. It was the sort of thing that
veteran might have done. Harry Budge
was there with his lady, the Mayoral
Parkers and president Elliott Napier’s
wife, in black and white.
The Governor held a levee and the
Legacy Club a ball, but what really put
L into the week were the levies with
which the Income Tax Department pep-
pered the city. The last are each man’s
private sorrow, and needn’t be dilated
upon. Of the vice-regal levee (a male
affair) one who goes everywhere com-
plained that those in high places seem
to wax more enthusiastic in greeting the
coming than in speeding the parting Ex.
He calculated that there were 500 or
more saying “How do?” to Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven, while not more than 250
lined up at Sir Philip Game’s farewell
levee.
All was bustle, hot sunshine and eager
crowds being kept back by the police
outside St. Mark’s last Thursday after-
noon. Irene Anderson, was marrying
her James Ashton, and everyone wanted
to look at the bride, one of Sydney’s nice-
looking girls, and the ’groom, one of
Australia’s best polo-players. At last the
bride flashed past, her white-and-silver
frock cut on classic lines. It fitted closely
below the knee, and thence the four
yards of train rippled out, a silver-crested
wave. The neckline was unusual, being
a low, small cowl with soft lapels held
in position with a diamond brooch, and
up the back of the bodice from waist to
neck twinkled little buttons. Twin sisters
of same made their merry way from
wrist to elbow of the long, tight sleeves.
From a coronet of orange-blossom
cascades of tulle fell, blowing like a fine
mist over the silver of the frock.
Within the church choristers sang, pink
belladonna-lilies bloomed decorously and
five petal-pink ’maids stepped after the
gleaming principal. Once more Anne
Gordon was seen in her popular part, and
looked very nice in it, too. Bride’s sister
Jean, Mary and Dinah Hordern and
Beatrice Meeks were the other pretty girls
in the procession. Pink chiffon over satin
formed the frocks, the pieced skirts of
which, petalled from below the knees,
billowed into trains. Pink stitched tulle
hats of Empress Josephine design and
slender sheaves of pink water-lilies were
other items of adornment. After Canon
Lea had rounded off his part of the con-
tract everybody rushed off to Overthorpe,
the Anderson home at Double Bay,
where the new Mrs. James Ashton cut
a wedding-cake that was set about with
miniature polo-ponies and such.
Why don’t we carry this idea further?
The bricklayer’s bride might have a cake
ornamented with trowels, the new Mrs.
Plumber might have a bath ornamenting
the almond icing. But that’s just an aside.
Mrs. Anderson looked radiant in black-
tulip matelasse and a black velvet hat;
Mrs. James Ashton, senior, pinned pink
tiger-lilies on marine-blue crepes. Bob
Ashton, who wasi best man, and a small
regiment of nice-looking ushers helped
the gaiety along. The Sam Horderns,
the Meeks couple, Fairfaxes, Baillieus,
Winter Irvings, Knoxes, Mrs. Sep Levy,
Nan Garvan —in short, the whole social
directory—were at the toast-drinking.
This is Betty Ward, daughter of the
fine old journalist who was always
spoken of affectionately, if irrever-
ently, by junior pressmen as “Whis-
kers” Ward —the celebrated beard at
one. period was almost waist-long.
Betty didn’t take to letters, but she
was making a London reputation as
a character actress when home ties
drew her back to Australia. Now,
after some years, Miss Ward is returning
to London to take up stage work again.
Her great friends there are Lilian
Braithwaite, Athene Seyler and play-
wright Gertrude Jennings, whose latest
hit, “Family Affairs,” has settled down
for a long run. Besides being an actress
Miss Ward is a clever producer, with
several Oxford successes to her credit.
She has produced only two works in
Sydney, both having poets for authors.
The first was a masque by Le Gay Brere-
ton and Chris Brennan; the second is
the Independents’ current vehicle, “The
Witch.” This is a translation by Mase-
field, and is thrilling packed houses every
Saturday night at the Savoy.
The Wards are a brainful family
Newly arrived in Sydney is a brother
who has been busy teaching and doing
research work at Harvard for some years.
He was a Rhodes scholar, and comes
back to his home town to take the Chair
of Bacteriology at Sydney University.
He married Constance Docker—a daugh-
ter of . the veteran Judge. They and their
two children arrived in the Mariposa
a few days ago, and are already com-
fortably settled in a house on Hunter’s
Hill.
The Legacy Club ball must have the
limelight switched on it for a brief
moment. To the delight of Selwyn King
and Legacy’s other founders, they were
able to produce a brand-new Governor
for the occasion. Sir Alexander looked
very handsome, too, as he was piped into
the Town Hall by a kilted Scot. Over
1400 came to the ball, for the club’s
legatees (the orphaned children of sol-
diers) are felt to be a,very special charge
indeed. Army, navy and air force uni-
forms and their decorations caught the
light. Flags added a spirited note, and
Legacy’s emblem —a lighted torch sur-
rounded by a laurel wreath —seemed a
very enduring vow of fidelity as it rose
high above the hundreds gathered to-
gether to uphold the club tradition.
There were 16 debs, presented by Mrs.
Keith Morris to his Ex. Mrs. Morris
trailed pink laces and carried pink tiger-
lilies and carnations in contrast to the
fledglings’ white frocks and white and
silver posies. The Premier and Mrs.
Stevens were on the dais. Daughter
Gwen was there, too, in the frock (or
a replica) she wore when she danced with
royal Gloucester. Helen Hughes, who
came with dad, favored blue of the
caped architecture she wore to the princely
dos. The Philip Streets were among
the official receivers, the little lady in
turquoise embossed velvet. Mayoress
Parker’s flowered pink chiffons and Mrs.
Toby Browne’s wine-red satins provided
colorful moments. Mrs. Randle Ford’s
white crepes were trained and caped in
frilled tulle. Dark Margaret Hamilton
Lewis wore white satin.
Arthur Crocker’s new novel, “Australia
Hops In,” was appropriately published
on the eve of Authors’ Week. From
April 7 to 13 home-grown writers
will, in pageant and exhibition, by
mouth and by microphone, announce
to this continent the existence of
their wares. The argosy of song and
story was launched by a capable com-
mittee last week. John Gould and Jeanie
Ranken are looking after the pageant
and Don Finley is stage-managing the
exhibition, so there is nothing for any-
body else to do but help rake in the gold.
This is done by inducing friends to make
up pageant parties, and buy tickets for
the ball, at which the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers hopes Australia will really
hop in. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is presi-
dent of the committee.
One of the star turns of the week
will be the publishing of a paper. Mrs.
Aronson and D. H. Souter will be re-
sponsible for this. Another will be an
exhibition of hand printing by the expert
Mr. Shea.
Jean Drummond, the gay and the
bright, slipped over the borderland last
week to join the choir invisible. The
illness to which she finally succumbed had
held her in thrall for two years or more,
but her death has shocked a wide circle
of friends in Sydney, and will cause
regret to many music-lovers in England,
Italy and America. Musical Sydney is
the poorer by Jean’s passing. Her know-
ledge of opera had been gained by years
of study in Italy and in Germany, and
she went to Bayreuth for her Wagnerian
training. She gave generously of her
store to eager students. One of her last
public appearances was made at a Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers’ party last
year.
Earle Page’s pretty Mary gazes from
this Monte Luke photograph. Mary is
to be one of this year’s brides-—-her be-
trothed is Wilfred D. Tart. Mary is
president of the young 'folk of the
Country party on the north side of the
harbor, and was for three years secretary
of the C.W.A. juniors at Wollstonecraft.
The grass up Camden way burned a
deeper green with excitement last Satur-
day, and the cows of the Camden dairy
looked as giddy in the hoof as that
ancestress who jumped over the moon.
(Perhaps they were having marigolds for
tea.) There was romance in the air.
Wedding bells clashed across the hot, still
afternoon ; parson Paul drew on his most
festal vestments, and the Macarthur-
Onslow tenantry gathered about the little
church at Menangle. Elizabeth Mac-
arthur-Onslow was being married to her
“Pat” Rothe. Up Camden way that’s
about the equivalent of a royal wedding.
Expensive cars rushed up from Sydney,
carrying super-taxed guests, but most of
these went direct to the reception at
Camden Park —only relations were
bidden to the church.
Major - General Macarthur - Onslow
armed his Betty to the altar ; here the
’groom waited, backed by best-man Laid-
ley Dowling, though the bride’s ivory
satins, Honiton lace and misty tulle had
no attendant sprite in train. The Mac-
arthur-Onslows are never showy. Nearly
300 guests sampled Camden Park hospi-
tality ; and in a marquee radiant with
pink blooms and garlanded with red ber-
ries and juicy green shoots the bride cut
the frosted cake, her diamond earrings
and brooch (wedding presents from
mother and father) sparkling like stars
above Everest. Mrs. Macarthur-Onslow’s
frock was long and black, and its wing
sleeves were patterned in gold. Royal-
blue was Miss Macarthur-Onslow from
hat to hem. Bridegroom’s mother, Mrs.
W. H. Rothe, was distinctive in black
and white. Little Bronwyn Poole added
green-sashed primrose organdie to the
picture. Maoriland for the honeymoon.
The bazaar to be held at Barker Col-
lege, Hornsby, on Saturday, March 16,
promises to be a great draw. There will
be dramatic entertainments, pony rides
for the children and a cat and dog show,
entries for which will be received on
the ground.
On the invitation the name it was given
was cocktail, but the Charlie Lloyd
Joneses’ party last week was really an
animal, mineral and vegetable one.
Gourds and egg-plants and squashes stood
about the tables, being decorative and
providing harborage for innumerable
little wooden darts surmounted by olives
and prunes and such. There were min-
eral waters, and the guests, as well as
providing the animal kingdom, in many
cases represented what a Lancashire lass
would call t’brass. The affair was to bid
farewell to Mrs. H. M. Farncomb and
Peggy Ross Nott, both of whom are
London-bound.
The next time you see the delightful
pink ballet in “Nice Goings On” at the
Royal give the dancers a special cheer.
Thursday is one of their free days, but
they spent the afternoon with the sick
soldiers at Graythwaite. Headliners Gus
Bluett and Charles Norman, too, went
out with their make-up boxes and gave
one of their best performances—cer-
tainly their gags and sketches have
never evoked such chuckles and guffaws.
Their songs and dances were marvelled
at; so were the items of the three danc-
ing boys of the show. Six other joy-
makers were Don Nicol, Iris Shand,
Edna Emmett, Beryl Howard, Eric Bush
and Lois Green. George Taylor supplied
the accompaniments. Bruce Hutton and
Dick Shortland were accessories before
the fact.
At half-past eleven this morning
Winifred Guy’s exhibition of posters
will be opened. Three hundred strik-
ing and colorful posters hang about
the Blaxland Galleries, and show
England by the sea, by fell and by
moor. The England of commerce and
history also is depicted glowingly. Miss
Guy takes posters round the world. Four
and a half times now she has circled the
globe with collections. She started her
hobby when she was on the staff of the
Brighton Grammar School, and has built
upon her original idea till her collection
now gives many interesting sidelights on
geography and history.


Legal Notice)
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 168 of 1935.
BETWEEN LEWIS LUDVICK CHARLES
SOLBERG Petitioner
And DORIS MARGARET SOLBERG Re-
spondent.
TO DORIS MARGARET SOLBERG.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LEWIS LUD-
VICK CHARLES SOLBERG has a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted him and without any such cause or
excuse left him continuously so deserted for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Seventeenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-first day of February,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROSCOE G. WOODBRIDGE, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, Baradine, by his agent, AARON
LEVINE, Solicitor, 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The newest luxury for the coming
winter is fur dyed in shades which no
animal in his native haunt would recog-
nise. To the Newmarket, the first
autumn meeting, which was held under
cool grey skies, there came quantities of
silver foxes, a dark marsh-green coat
trimmed with grey-green fur and Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson and Mrs. Alfred Fowler,
who were among the first people to
introduce the soft smoky-blue fox to
Flemington. Among those who watched
proceedings from behind the v.-r. brass
railing were Mrs. Alan Currie in a dark
blue sailor hat, its severity counter-
balanced with a stiffened veil; the Jim
Fairbairns, she in a plain black beret
stabbed with diamente; and Daphne
Alston, a visitor from England, whose
hat blew off at one stage to disclose her
lovely blonde head. Mrs. Gib Shaw
was all brown and beige, Betty Journeaux
wore an oatmeal coat and skirt and Mrs.
Jim Cook was in black. Dorothy Rogers
was tall, slim and tailored, and her little
brown beret was innocent of trimming.
Nancy Scarlett’s dark blackberry tweed
had a serrated hemline, and its cuffs and
collar were of lilac quilted satin. Phyllis
Mein wore an effective and useful travel
suit which by now is hanging in her cabin
wardrobe, bound for England. It is
of self-striped turquoise tweed, with four
short splits at the hem, and was worn
with a navy blouse and hat. Frances
Winter-Irving wore greeny-blue. Mrs.
M. L. Baillieu was in a pearl-grey suit,
a ciel-blue blouse and a gay splash of
fuchsias upon her lapel. Lola Sleight
got away with the extreme severity of a
black cape to her knees, trimmed with
a yoke and bands of Persian lamb, and
a little Cossack cap. Jacqueline Mac-
kinnon had a pleated basque upon her
black dress, and pinned a bunch of camel-
lias behind the ear of her silver fox.
Last week the Western District was
on tiptoes to entertain Lord and Lady
Huntingfield, but the Governor was a
prisoner on doctors’ orders at the T. C.
Manifolds’ home, Talindert, Camper-
down. Lady Huntingfield, knowing her
husband was in good hands, fulfilled as
many social engagements as she could
cope with. Escorted by Captain Bar-
bour, her host and hostess and their kins-
men the J. C. Manifolds, she gave her
vice-regal patronage, clad in raisin-
colored wrappings, to the Camperdown
Hospital Ball. Twenty-one debs, emerged
from their flight into grown-up social
activities. The Ronald Cummings were
present with Lorraine, whose bon-bon
frills at shoulder and hem demanded an
extra allotment of floor space. Mrs.
Roger Henderson wore a tubular weave
of white-and-silver. Mrs. Thornton
Grimwade was in flower-strewn chiffons.
Rhoda Law Smith wore white taffetas
frosted with silver moons. Lilian Greene
was in black cellophane crepe, and Rose-
mary Bell swathed a long-ended girdle
round her turquoise taffeta.
At the gathering of the Melbourne
writers to farewell Egon Kisch “Up-
surge” Harcourt, a sufferer from the
Commonwealth book ban, was chair-
man, and Vance Palmer, Furnley
Maurice and Louis Esson were among
the hundred-odd present. A fair sprink-
ling of the intelligentsia were women, one
making a striking picture in a Russian
get-up ; another was in plain black with
a flaming handkerchief tied round her
neck. But most of the women showed
the same taste in decorative adjuncts
as would be found at an opera first night
or a G.H. garden-party. Uni. degrees
were prevalent among both sexes, and
a number of the men could have sported
military decorations.
Touch a man on the subject of his
liberty and he’ll sit uncomplainingly
through the hottest evening with his
coat on. A sudden heat-wave made
no difference to the size of the audience
in the Town Hall for the debate on
“Should Political Censorship Be Abol-
ished?” Whether General Blarney sus-
pected dynamite or whether the police
force had an interest in the question is
unknown, but five arms-of-the-law in
full war-paint kept guard on the very
orderly audience. For the “Yes” team
Macmahon Ball displayed a wit even
more nimble than some of the barrister
debaters. His team mates were L. E. B.
Stretton and Eugene Gorman, K.C., and
on the opposing side were the Rev.
Hagenauer, Oliver Gillard and Norman
O’Brien. The most scintillating inter-
ludes were spells of questioning when
opposite pairs set traps for one another
and dodged each other’s heads as they
spoke into the one mike. One of the
“No” debaters, who had stressed the
point that there are so many good books
about that there’s no need to read rotten
ones, got a lightsome parable in about
the French queen who was discovered
in incriminating circumstances by her
king. “Madame,” said he, “have you
any explanation?” “Sire,” she replied,
“to the pure all things are pure.” “And
would that,” said eminent counsel,
“satisfy any married man in this audi-
ence?” The crowd applauded the win-
ning shots of both sides, but it was evi-
dent that Macmahon Ball, who found
himself for the first time in his life with
a K.C. as a junior, had a great number
of admirers. Judges Beeby and Foster
shared jokes with one another upon the
dais.
Lesley and Valmai Fleming-Dunstan
have caught some of their mother’s en-
thusiasm for languages, and are prepar-
ing themselves for their trip abroad by
taking regular French lessons, between
which they read French novels and do
quantities of “homework.” The girls
and their mother, who leave on the Es-
quilino at the end of March, have so
many friends in foreign countries that
the trip will not be merely a tourist
canter. They hope to be away long
enough to sample winter sports abroad,
for they are all very keen on skating,
and on their way home are planning to
spend a few weeks in the land of the
Pharaohs. Dr. Fleming-Dunstan and
Pamela, who is still a schoolgirl, are
remaining at home. Second daughter
Valmai is presented here by a Dickinson-
Monteath camera.
The politician who announced at a
Caulfield political meeting a few years
ago that he was glad his party had the
support of the “old women’s leagues”
would have been astonished at the rally
of 38 junior branches of the A.W.N.L.
just before the elections. Most of the
recruits have jobs to do, some have hus-
bands and young children, others are
students and many earn their livings in
city offices ; to all of them playtime is
very precious. One of the few good
results of hard times is that these voters
have become sufficiently interested in
the government of their country to nibble
at politics, dull fodder for the young.
Judging by the general rally junior meet-
ings are not an outlet for ego ; it was
only by a great effort that a few young
women overcame their nervousness
sufficiently to make brief speeches. Occa-
sionally enthusiasm breaks the ice, as at
a recent branch rally when a prospective
Nationalist candidate was airing his views
on “Should Women Enter Parliament?”
his theme being that politics are dirty
work and women are best out of them.
A young lass piped up that as far as she
could see a woman’s job is to clean up
dirt.
Betty Shackell has had so many fare-
well parties that dressmakers and pack-
ing have been slipped in between them
with the greatest of difficulty. Margaret
and Rosemary Wright made their fare-
well to the young traveller a late-after-
noon party at Coomaroo, their home in
Toorak. Owing to the heat, people were
satisfied to sit about and chat and admire
one another’s sun-tan. The guest of
honor wore a midnight-blue hat with her
bluey floral frock. Margaret Wright had
a scarlet quill pointing heavenwards
from her grey Tyrolean felt, and sister
Rosemary swathed a blue ribbon round
the crown of her white hat. Margaret
Campbell was in cedar-bark tonings,
Betsy MacKenzie wore leaf-brown and
Mollie Embling a field-flower dress and
deep cream millinery. D’Arcy Lawry
was in white, and Roma Hug had a cape
swaying between her navy hat and her
navy-and-white check frock.
Betty Fellows and John Cordner were
the most natural and unaffected pair at
their wedding. Walking down the aisle
of St. John’s they had smiles for every-
one. During the Rev. Law’s speech at
the sherry-party at No. 9 they stood
arm-in-arm looking much too happy
to be nervous, and during the bride-
groom’s speech the bride, when she
felt the cynosure too much for her,
hid behind her large white cart-
wheel hat. Her dress of delustred
white crepe, was ankle-length, with long
ruched sleeves and a round neck gathered
to a wreath of camellias. Instead of
flowers she carried a white prayer-book.
Her sisters Clare and Jean wore blossom-
pink with nut-brown sashes into which
they tucked sprays of pansies, and large
pink hats swathed with the same brown
velvet as their sashes. The honeymoon
sheds its silver pathway over the breakers
at Lome.
There was pathos about a little cere-
mony which took place at Mentone on
an afternoon last week. The Purple
Cross Society that cared for horses dur-
ing the war is defunct, but there was stil!
some money in its bank account. Its
disbanded members put their heads to-
gether and decided to use the money for
a memorial to Mr. and Mrs. W. Murrell.
Mrs. Murrell never regained conscious-
ness after trying unsuccessfully to save
Garyowen and other horses from a burn-
ing stable; her husband died of injuries
received in trying to save his wife. The
horse-trough established in their honor
is of pale-green cement. Mrs. Murrell’s
mother, Mrs. Farmer, was a plucky little
figure as she formally dedicated the
memorial by cutting a white ribbon with
silver scissors. Mr. Farmer led Brandy,
his daughter’s pet pony, to quaff the first
draught from the trough. Brandy is a
black stallion with an intelligent eye who
takes a mischievous delight in the tricks
taught him by his late mistress. “Blow
your nose. Brandy,” and he’ll snap the
handkerchief out of Mr. Farmer’s
pocket. “God save the King, Brandy,”
and he’ll lift in his teeth the hat from
Mr. Farmer’s head.
Here is Bae, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, who has chosen
March 11 for her wedding-day with
Curteis Crawford. The bride will be
attended by six ’maids, and her little
niece, the Aubrey Gibsons’ Patricia, will
steer the bridal train up the aisle. Riding
is one of Miss Kimpton’s favorite sports.
She has lately returned from Europe
with some beauteous additions to her
trousseau. Ronald Esler made the
portrait,
“Sorry You’ve Been Troubled” (it was
worth it) had a season at the Garrick,
sponsored by the Power-house Dramatic
Club. Enid Hollins and her switchboard
suggested an explanation as to why the
general public has such a grudge about
manual exchanges, for it must be shat-
tering to a romantic switchboard girl to
be dragged by crabby impatient voices
from her listening-in to a passionate
affaire-de-cosur. As Phoebe Selsey Miss
Hollins was a nicely-proportioned blend-
ing of coyness, gaucherie and temporary
flutters of intelligence in an otherwise
vacuous mind. Ken Tuckfield had the
assistance of a monocle in his portrayal
of Emsworth, the man who comes back
from blazing trails for civilisation to find
all his lady friends have slipped through
his fingers into the hands of husbands.
Betty Tait, as the fever-heated Lady
Sheridan, wore a lovely pale-blue
creation with flush-pink chiffon twisted
across the low-cut corsage into a true
lover’s knot and a split to the knee in
the front of the skirt. In the large cast
there were opportunities for interesting
dresses. Among them Mollie Hede’s
black organza was an effective mixture
of modesty and daring: it had long
sleeves fitted snugly to the throat with
a wreath of gardenias, and there were
no shoulder-straps beneath to break the
expanse of back to the waist. Producer
and stage manager made' a good effort
in the hotel lobby, where there are a
switchboard, a caf 6 table and chairs,
three telephone boxes with semi-trans-
parent doors and the “ghosts” of the
telephone tables in three bedrooms
upstairs.
Two snappy gadgets fitted into the
scenery of “Sweet Aloes.” One is a
smoker’s outfit which keeps its equilib-
rium while being pushed across the stage
on a large wooden ball; the other is an
osteopath’s table disguised as a suitcase,
inside of which is a rug, cushion and
bone-cracker’s overall. Luggage on
similar lines would be useful for holiday
camps. In the American apartment are
white-velvet-covered furniture, a black-
and-white staircase, a gold door leading
to the kitchen and lighting which, instead
of being snapped on with ordinary
switches, is gradually dimmed or bright-
ened with a sliding pointer not unlike
the scorer used for billiards. Betty Bow-
den floats about in an exquisite neglige
of lilac lace, and in an apple-green rest
robe takes her osteopathic treatment from
the hands of Sybil Davidson. In the last
act Miss Bowden wears a brazen-hussy
gown of slinky-blue satin with splits and
slashes in all sorts of odd places. With
her brown corduroy velvet suit Joyce
Turner, as the manicure girl, wears a
little “Bobby at Blackpool” hat to match
her orange blouse.
Electioneering candidates, now know-
ing their fate, have put away their throat
gargles and are sitting back viewing the
results with pleased or disappointed eyes.
It’s the same every election—tfre same
promises of halcyon days, the same gloss-
ing over of bad mistakes. There’s a simi-
larity about the grim buildings where
meetings take place. The candidate’s
photo, is plastered all over stuffy little
parish halls. On the top of the wheezy
piano on which “God Save” is banged by
some ardent committeewoman is a vase
of mournful flowers dying through lack
of water. In the evenings there are
usually professional funny men to
brighten things up by baiting the candi-
date, but in the afternoon a stolid lot of
faces look up at him.
During the last few years women
have been pushing their way into sports
which hitherto had been for men only.
Women play squash, they row, they
hike for a week or a month at a time,
sleeping under the stars, and on public
holidays they are seen practisjng baseball
and cricket on Government reserves. But
one of the sports Australian women have
not yet tackled is climbing. To quote a
famous English alpine climber, every
mountain peak is doomed to pass through
three stages —“an inaccessible peak, the
most difficult ascent in the Alps and an
easy day for a lady.” Another well-
known climber shook his head mourn-
fully and announced that the Grepon
had disappeared, for last year that grim
perpendicular peak was conquered by
two women, each carrying 150 feet of
rope and an ice-axe, who had waited
several weeks for the right kind of
weather. Pictures of the intrepid pair
hanging over a 3000-feet drop by what
looks like their eyelashes and a foot
wedged into a crack in the rock were
given in the “National Geographic.”
Many women possess the requisite nerve,
but few have the technique which is more
necessary than strength.
Mrs. V. P. H. Stantke returned home
well acquainted, with the outside at least,
of the home of the Princess Royal. She
stayed with her sister, Mrs. Well wood
Kerr, the windows of whose delightful
residence look straight across Grosvenor-
square on to the portals of the Princess’s
mansion.


ẁ
/IHDI3K SSO«
Client, age 191, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks. I No Appliances
, t „21 „ 5 „in 5 mths. I —No Drags.
20, „ in 16 days. INo Dieting.
„ „ 30, „ 2. „in 4 weeks.
„ „ 40, ~ 1* „in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3Sins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now:—
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
' SCAEBOEOUGH, ENG. (P.O. Box 15.)
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the com won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted teat “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Clx Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
<< Tlie Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
pt»«*
OP"'
V &
lU rn
\» V '
se«
C# S
IS
w
m
„ jn Se^ $
l|iii
./
O**?
V •'
' :••
to***
zx**
»s>
M D
V....45S
A BIG BUDGET OF WEEK-END READING IN
AUSTRALIA’S ONLY WEEK-END MAGAZINE.
ON SALE FRIDAY.
Scarf and
Accessories
in Batik
In this week’s “Woman’s
Mirror,” Theodora describes
a quick and simple way
to make this smart set.
The process is easy,
and, as even the
most nifty set can
have only a com-
paratively short life,
the cost can be kept
as low as possible. The
illustration shows the com-
pleted Batik-dyed Set.
Interesting Reading
For Young and Old,
FICTION—TRAVEL—HUMOR
REAL-LIFE SERIES.
O
O
o
Q
D
*
v
a
a.
-0
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A rapid fall of nearly 50 degrees in
temperature caused difficult moments for
many hostesses. While the mercury
soared around the century mark most
entertainments partook of the nature of
crabbing, prawning, swimming or yacht-
ing parties. The dive into the fifties pro-
duced loud wails for coats, rugs and fire-
sides.
Back in the West after an absence of
10 years is Mrs. Kingsley Fairbridge,
widow of the founder of the Fairbridge
Farm School at Pinjarra. Mrs. Fair-
bridge, who helped her husband to estab-
lish the school where so many orphaned
English children have been given a start
in life, is keenly interested in the pro-
jected founding of similar farms in
Canada, She will make but a short stay
in Perth, where she has brought her 18-
year-old daughter Elizabeth to study at
her home-town Uni.
Ice-blue lace, with its high neck and
long sleeves, clung to Elaine Lassock’s
lissome lines as she trekked up the aisle
of St. Mary’s, Colin-street, to keep her
tryst with Eric Worboys. A chip-straw
picture hat of the same tone shaded her
eyes, and a cluster of blush-pink roses
concealed her forearm. Sister Peggy
Lassock attended in soft-pink georgette
liberally pintucked and topped with har-
monising chip straw. Her bouquet of
deeper-pink roses was parked at the
Pleiades Club for the after-rejoicings.
Eznie Harris and Ainslie Thompson,
prizewinners at Melb. Uni. Con., im-
proved the shining hours of their vacation
by giving a recital at the Karrakatta Club
Hall. The programme opened and
closed with two-piano performances of
concertos, Miss Harris first piano in
Schumann’s A Minor and Miss Thomp-
son h> the fore in Rimsky-Korsakov’s C
Sharp Minor. George Halliday and
Alfred Randell assisted with violin and
piano, and Marian Mendelson’s mezzo-
soprano was heard,
Priminister Lyons’s better-half was
guest of honor at a luncheon given by the
Women’s Division of the National party
at the Women’s Service Guild head-
quarters. President Mrs. Snashall, with
black marocains hanging from her yoke
of honey lace, shared duties as hostess
with Mrs. P. Lynch, a smart figure in all-
black. Mrs. Lyons’s two-t One blue outfit
was the cynosure of all eyes.
Everyone seems to be going away,
whether for cruises or for more extensive
trips; consequently, most parties are
valedictory. Mrs. Cecil Treadgold, neat
and sweet in cool floral white crepes,
farewelled four guests at morning-tea at
the Repertory Club. Mrs. James Morgan
and Lorna Dickson, who are off to the
Cold Country, and Mrs. Arthur Selwyn
and Mrs, S. Wreford, with the Apple Isle
as their destination, made' cheerful
adieus.
Members of the Women Writers’ Club
put down their pens to sip a farewell cup
of tea with Noel White at the Karra-
katta Club. Miss D. Ferguson occupied
the presidential chair. Before going to
Europe the young journalist will attend
the International Alliance of Women for
Suffrage and Equal Citizenship Congress
to be held in Turkey, Delegates to the
same congress who were entertained by
the Women’s Service Guild at afternoon-
tea were Mrs Linda Littlejohn, of Syd-
ney, and Amy Kane, of M.L.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Our first big dance this year was that
in the Orontes, when over 500 guests
were entertained by the managers of the
Orient Line and Captain O’Sullivan.
Chinese lanterns made the decks roman-
tic, and there was bridge for non-dancers.
If the idea was to create a desire to travel
among the guests it certainly was success-
ful ; more than one husband is going to
have a bad time until he comes home
with the news that he has booked pas-
sages to England. Many of those who
will leave by the ship on her return trip,
among them the Frank Forwoods and
H. Gill Williams, were there ; and Mr.
and Mrs* H. C. Cave and their daugh-
ter Mary, Dr. Harry Nott and others,
who had returned to Australia in the
ship, came back for the dance.
Mrs. A. C. Rymill, back from a
honeymoon trip to Ceylon, wore a leaf-
green georgette. Mrs. Brian Swift chose
pale-pink romaine, with a pleated basque
at the back. Pretty Mrs. Walter Kidman
was in white ninon with draped effect.
Mrs. Kenneth Bakewell’s delphinium-
blue lace toilette had a cape of the same
material edged with fawn fox fur. The
Lionel Hills made their first appearance
in public since their return, Mrs. Hill in
a blue-and-white figured silk costume
and a coat of blue marocain to tone.
Their fair-haired daughter wore black
lace. Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson sported
shrimp-pink chiffon velvet, and her
daughter Yvonne chose ice-blue velvet
with a cape effect.
Naomi Hawker was hostess at a cock-
tail party at the South Australian in
honor of her since-married cousins Joan,
daughter of the Seymour Hawkers, of
Stirling, and John, son of the Walter
Hawkers. The guests were mostly young.
Naomi looked charming in white-
flowered silk and a large hat of fine
black straw. Her mother, Mrs. Richard
Hawker, chose black crepe de Chine pat-
terned in pale blue and primrose flowers
and a black picture hat. Mrs. Seymour
Hawker was gowned in navy-and-white
polka-dotted silk, and a small white straw
hat. Mrs. W. T. Mortlock’s black-
flowered chiffon toilette was worn with
a black hat. The guests were entertained
on the wide balcony, which was enclosed
with bunting.
A luncheon party, at which the Sow-
den lady was hostess, to welcome Wil-
liam Teeling, of the Overseas League,
was held at the South Australian. A
long table arranged with sunset cactus
dahlias was set in the ballroom. Wil-
liam Sowden accompanied his wife, who
looked well in a beige-wool georgette
ensemble with a long coat effect." Lud
Mayor Cain and his daughter, Mrs. H.
Dunstan, were there. Later there was
a civic morning- tea in Mr. Teeling’s
honor.
Mrs. George Braund gave a cocktail
party at her home, Prospect, to welcome
back her sister, Mrs. J. Sangster, who
returned last week from England, and to
farewell Mrs. Frank Forwood and Mrs.
C. L. Jessop, who will leave shortly for
abroad. The weather being warm, the
small tables were set on the lawn. About
100 guests were present.
At the pretty little Church of Epiphany
at Crafers, Dr. Douglas McKay, son of
the W. J. McKays, of North Adelaide,
exchanged vows with Victoria, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. A.
Edmunds, of Aldgate. The bride’s gown
was of cream satin cut on princess lines,
the crossover bodice forming a V-neck.
The long tulle veil was held in place by
a wreath of orange-blossom. The three
bridesmaids, Josephine Dawson, Kath-
leen McMichael and the bridegroom’s
sister Flora McKay, were frocked in ice-
blue ninon, with wide-brimmed hats of
the same shade.
TASMANIA.
One of the smartest parties in Laun-
ceston’s gay week was the bridge gather-
ing hostessed by Mrs. G. H. Hogg in
honor of Lady Clark at the Launceston
Club. Mrs. Hogg was in black lace with
a long train, and Lady Clark was also in
lace of a fuchsia tone. Pink phlox and
pink candles made the rooms cheery.
The Launceston Club at-home was a
memorable affair, well run in every re-
spect. Every room was utilised for
various phases of entertainment, and the
supper was an eye-opener. The Governor
and his wife were received by president
Col. C. Mills, vice-president Dr. J. Ram-
sey and Mrs. Ramsey. Lady Clark wore
striped silk net in a lovely shade of blue.
The Lewis lady chose mist-blue with
tiny dots of silver woven into the material.
The Dowager Lady Swaythling was in
black. Frocking was very smart. One
gown of bronze satin had a cape of
feathers and looked like a Parisian
fashion-plate.
T. C. Holmes Hunt (Mt. Lyell’s chair-
man), in the Speck on business, and Cap-
tain G. Williams, Superintendent of Navi-
gation, in Hobart on holiday, were en-
tertained by the Tom Murdochs at St.
Andrew’s, where a small but cheery
crowd spent a lively evening, part of
the entertainment being provided by
James Cameron, who, with his drawing-
room movie apparatus, showed scenes
from New Guinea goldfields.
Mr. Holmes Hunt was host at a cock-
tail party at Hadley’s, given for his
friends the C. W. Grants, of High Peak,
on the eve of Harry Grant’s marriage to
Gwen Smith.
Gwen Smith kept her tryst with Harry
Grant, son of Senator C. W. Grant, at
St. James’s. Her long, straight gown of
heavy ivory satin had sleeves reaching
over the hand and a cowl neckline, with
the back quite high. The voluminous
tulle veil fell from a coronet of orange-
blossom. Dora Grant and I. Boatwright
’maided in floral frocks of a rosy design,
and two wee trainbearers, Patricia Smith
and Patricia McDougall, looked dainty in
frilly old-style frocks of the same
material. Festivities followed at Hadley’s.
A northern wedding of note was that
of Edith, daughter of the C. A. Perrins,
of Launceston, and Victor Nilsen, of
Caulfield (Vic.). The bridal gown of
needlerun lace in a lovely ivory shade,
had a split train falling from under a
tunic cut in a point at the back. The
long veil of cut tulle fell from an orange-
blossom coronet, Norma Gawne (Vic.)
was the sole ’maid, in green crepe de
Chine with a halo of green-and-silver
leaves. There were toast-drinking and
dancing at the Metropole afterwards.
Rowland Turner entertained his pals
in his own home, Islington, Holebrook-
place, the other night. The house is one
of the historic homes of Hobart, full
of old cedar and with gables and long
windows opening out on to the loveliest
of gardens. The big sitting-room was
cleared for dancing, and supper was set
out in two smaller rooms. Decorations
were masterly—a different scheme of
color for each room.
An unexpected thrill was provided at
the Western Junction aerodrome during
the club’s at-home, when W. McCaus-
land crashed, escaping death by a miracle.
The machine was wrecked, but the pilot
is now convalescent.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
A Pioneer of
Color Music
Over 20 years
ago The Bulle-
tin and the
“Lone Ha nd”
gave space to the
experiments o f
A. B. Hector, of Sydney, who sought to
correlate color and musical sound.
Mr. Hector was then general manager
in Australia for one of the world’s larg-
est manufacturers of chemicals, and he
found it necessary to study not only
chemistry but the whole field of physi-
cal science. His observations led him to
form generalisations covering the various
sciences, and he worked out a logical
synthesis unifying all human knowledge
somewhat on the lines of Comteism. He
found the nexus between color and music
in the relationship of vibrations, and
linked the visible spectrum to the musi-
cal scale. Deep red is the lowest note ;
octave above, half the intensity of red,
double the intensity of light; octave
above that, a quarter the intensity of
color, four times the intensity of light;
and so on till at the highest treble note
the color is diluted to a sixty-fourth and
the light increased to sixty-four times.
The scale, from octave to, octave, runs
the spectrum gamut from deep red to
deep violet in 12 stages, corresponding
to the notes of the tempered scale.
There have been many researches along
this path, and some very beautiful results
have been obtained by methods less logi-
cal than those of Mr. Hector, who since
his retirement from business has pursued
his studies. Writer called on him at his
Greenwich home the other day and saw
a demonstration of the Hector principles
(they are patented, by the way) in their
latest application.
In what the movie people would call a
theatrette, completely dark, the audience
sits. There is a stage set with a wood-
lands scene. A pianist, whose instrument
is electrically connected with the stage
lighting, commences to play the Liszt
transcription of Schubert’s “Am Meer.”
The stage scene glows like a great opal;
every spectrum hue is here. As the har-
monies change, so do the combinations
and the interplay of colors. The music
changes to a melodious piece in more
regular form than the Schubert lied,
bringing into play a more rhythmic
rippling of color ; and finally Chopin’s
simplest, most melancholy prelude, with
its slow, sweet changes of harmony, is
likewise translated into color.
A. B. Hector, of Sydney, answering a
question about color-music that showed
the necessity of educating Frith in first
principles. Frith is now well-grounded
about the first and second spirals, hazy
about the third and excessively liberal
about all the rest.
To adequately describe the effects is
beyond present writer. It may be said,
however, that they upset all precon-
ceived notions on the subject of what
tone in color should look like. A great
many musical people have instinctive
notions regarding tone color, but these
are usually associated with keys, not with
individual notes. Almost all musicians
who are afflicted with this association —
Mr. Hector calls it “photoism” or some
such term —regard the key of A major
as bright scarlet, C major as azure, G
flat major as deep violet. Others again
have obsessions regarding the color of
certain triads. Such impressions are
irritational, and cannot be reconciled with
any sense of order. Perhaps Mr.
Hector is right to disregard them in
favor of a scientifically-based arrange-
ment. He argues
whole-heartedly that
art and science can be
correlated. He and his
household have doubt-
less become so used to
the Hector basis that
they regard it not only
as the natural, but the
only possible interpre-
tation. But one can-
not help asking oneself
whether the choice of
the lowest deep - red
note —presumably it is
the A to the extreme
left of the pianoforte
keyboard -—isn’t arbi-
trary. Mr. Hector
says: “Yes, it is; but
any correlation must be
arbitrary, and unless
you arbitrate on a
scientifically logical
basis you cannot make
a universal appeal.”
However, it’s an in-
teresting experiment,
and Mr. Hector’s work
on it is the fruit of 50
years of thought. To
seriously criticise the
results on ten minutes’
acquaintance would be
an impertinence. Art
grows ever more complex and more all-
embracing, and this strange study of
tones and colors may lead to tremendous
heights of artistic achievement.
A. D. W.
Task.
Praise has a task to serve:
he must start at her fingertips
and climb her arm’s warm curve
to her neck, her chin and her lips;
so Praise at last shall dare,
having journeyed long and long,
to match her eyes and her hair
with the black despair of a song.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Barney Hall
Di r e ctor of
Melbourne
National Gallery
for forty-three
years, Bernard Hall’s work will live after
him, but it is questionable whether that
is a compliment or not.
Hall was once described as “an Eng-
lishman in the worst sense of the word.”
He possessed to the «th degree all those
little irritating apparent superiorities
which make the Englishman hated by
the foreigner. He could say “Indeed”
so witheringly that the primitive Aus-
tralian could think of no repartee but an
appeal to the law of club and fang, which
is one of the things not done, even in
Australia.
Before Hall took charge of the night
teaching classes at the National Gallery,
Fred McCubbin placed the student and
himself on a democratic basis. While
he maintained perfect discipline, Mc-
Cubbin used to listen to their arguments
about tone and line, about color and
form, about the respective merits of
Angelo and Da Vinci and then sum up
like a Judge of the High Court. He
regarded those arguments as just as much
art education as standing in front of an
easel.
When Hall took charge, the place was
run like a military barracks. If students
hadn’t to click their heels and salute
when he came up, they had to keep their
place and accept without question or
reason the pontifical observations of
Hall as the last word in art.
A draftsman of a high order himself,
he was destitute of imagination. His
art ended at his elbow. He turned out
many pictures in his time, and there is
not one which can be properly termed
anything but a study. He signalised his
arrival in Melbourne by setting a sub-
ject for the first Travelling Scholarship
—won by Meldrum —and chose “Wel-
come News”—a subject so trite that it
had formed the lithographic supplement
to annuals innumerable.
Hall was also guilty of execrable
judgment in rejecting as students men
who have since made artistic reputations.
One, at least, is well known outside
Australia, and has sold his works for
high prices in Europe and America;
but when this man presented himself as
a student his drawing was faulty—all
that distinguished him was imagination,
and that counted for nothing.
Hall was also a class-conscious artist.
On one occasion he recommended that
the trustees should sell the water-colors
of S. T. Gill “as they were not works
of art.” Possibly they are not, but they
remain the only pictorial record of the
early goldfields of Ballarat and Bendigo ;
and if Hall’s suggestion had been acted
on they would have been scattered far
and wide, never to be concentrated
again. Another opinion he held was
that casts should have no place in a
National Gallery, a principle which
would result in the Melbourne public
never seeing the Venus of Milo or the
metopes of the Parthenon or any of the
ancient plastic masterpieces. Water-
colors generally, he looked askance at •
and even to-day art teaching provided
Pencil drawing by Geo. Johnston, from the McLeod Gallery, Sydney.
by the National Gallery is restricted to
charcoal drawing and oil painting.
To his memory be it said that he cer-
tainly never did bad drawing, and, if
some of his pupils did, it was not his
ffiult.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
Opera and
Politics
The N. S.
Wales Branch of
the Federal
Labor party ap-
proves subsidisa-
tion of grand
opera. The delegate who brought the
motion before conference inquired ora-
torically “What finer steadying effects on
the moral and cultural minds of the
people could there be than those educed
by grand opera?” The seconder based
his support on (1) general cultural bene-
fits to the community ; (2) revenue de-
rivable from taxation; (3) creation of
avenues of employment.
He added that it was a Labor Govern-
ment that established the N.S.W. State
Conservatorium of Music and that the
graduates of that institution had “little if
any outlet for their talents and ability.”
Music and politics are the east and
west of philosophy, and seldom do the
twain meet. Mussolini plays the fiddle ;
there was a Maoriland Cabinet Minister
who was a very fair organist, and W. A.
Holman, in whose regime the Sydney
Con. was established, was an all-round
musician. But as a rule it may be said
that the points of contact are few and
slender, and that when a politician talks
about music he usually talks tosh.
Morally grand opera is indefensible.
Let’s take a few of the most popular
operas and analyse their ethics. In
“Trovatore” a gipsy indulges in kidnap-
ping from motives of revenge and suc-
ceeds so very heartily that her enemy is
lured into slaughtering his own brother.
In “Rigoletto” an aristocratic rake goes
free while the innocent daughter of his
pander comes to a sticky end. “Faust”
outlines the gloriously good time experi-
enced by an old man who bought youth
from the devil. Feminine victim dies in
gaol, whither she was thrown on a charge
of child-murder, and is wafted to heaven.
Partner in dalliance goes down through
trap-door with devil, but devil is such a
merry fellow that it doesn’t seem like a
punishment. In “Butterfly” victim of
illicit love stabs herself; seducer goes
scot-free. In “Traviata” and “La
Boheme” ladies of easy virtue die of
consumption, but not before they have
beautifully romantic adventures. In
“Tosca” a courtesan commits murder;
“Don Giovanni” deals with the adven-
tures of a rake ; “Un Ballo in Maschera”
has marital infidelity as its theme. Wag-
ner presents the chief of the gods as a
low trickster. It is not too sweeping to
say that the only opera uniformly noble
in ethical tone is Beethoven’s “Fidelio”
—hardly ever performed, and never
nowadays on the commercial stage.
Asa moral force opera is a negative
quantity. There are higher and better
forms of music than opera considered as
cultural agencies, apart from ethical con-
siderations, and these are easily available,
in these days of gramophone records and
broadcasting, to all the people in any
civilised community.
That music of any sort should be made
a source of taxation is a horrible sugges-
tion. Owing to bad political management
ẅ
A. MAJOR.
Power of the
Film People
A well-known
Australian author,
asked to talk on
Victor Daley for
the schools
br o a dcasts by
the A.8.C., prepared his MS., submitted
it for the approval of the broadcasting
authorities and received a curt note re-
questing him to remove a reference to a
paper always associated with Daley’s
name — The Bulletin. “Definitely against
our policy to broadcast trade names in
any matter included in our programme,”
said the commissioner. So much for that.
Turning over a current issue of the school
magazine (published and sponsored by
the Government) I noticed an illustration
reproduced from the film “Little
Women.” Trivial? But officialdom
which demanded such exactitude on a
similarly trivial point and permitted a
little laxity on the other causes one to
wonder. The film is still current.
E. W.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
coundess delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa,
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
«v\\
/
A
i
in
#
K
9 i
fit
IliiWffl
ll.lfTvrr
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ŵ
THE CURRENT ACCOUNT
An initial deposit of a moderate amount will
make available the services of the National
Bank to. an individual, firm, corporation, or
society through a current account, which may
be opened at any branch of the Bank,
It is neither necessary nor safe to retain more
than small sums of money on hand. The
current account provides a safe depository for
funds, and the Bank’s patented pocket cheque
book provides an easy and convenient method
of making payments.
A pass book, which affords a valuable record
of receipts and payments, is supplied to each
customer.
Full facilities are available for all classes of local
and oversea banking business. Ask for the booklet,
“Services and Facilities.”
S%e
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Capital Paid Up, £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund (used in the business) £3,000,000.
HANNIGAN'S
ANDLE
By LANCE GAY.
Drawings by Frith.
AS I breasted the bar of the Iron
Ridge Hotel a sign above the
bottles caught my eye, and I
croaked a fervent “Amen!”
The sign read: “Thank God for Shade
and Hannigan’s.”
“That glass there says it’s a hundred
and foorteen degrees —in the bar, mind
ye!” roared Hannigan as he drew the
beer. “It’s a liar; it’s a hundred an’
twinty, if it’s a degree at all. And, mind
Hannigan.
ye, Hannigan’s bar would be the coolest
shpot in the town, if there was a town
instead of these few scattered shacks
along the road . . . Shoo, you darlints,
you!” This to the flies.
Under Hannigan’s guidance we
squatted in a draughty doorway.
“Well, now we’re all set, what about
a story?” I said.
“Shtories, is it?” said Hannigan.
“Yes ; I hear plenty av thim, if you
like to use a euphonium and call lies
stories. You should hear the shearers
and the fossickers whin their tongues are
washed and their brains loosed wid a few
av Hannigan’s handles. And, begob!
, thim very words remind me o’ what
moight be a story for ye.
«'THERE is a little ould claim on the
1 dry plains ’way back there called
Hannigan’s Handle. Jist a lot o’ holes
along the bed av a watercourse that niver
in the memory av white men has seen
even the shmell o’ the shteam o’ water —
or so you’d think, be the look av it.
“ ’Tis a God-forgotten place, wid
neither tree nor shrub, nor bird nor beast
to keep the scorch o’ the sun from the
yellow sile, nor to shtop the spoort av
the willy-willies as they career hither and
yon as far as the eye can see. And if
you shtand on the little dump by Han-
nigan’s Handle you can see from the
break av day to the trump av doom wid
nothing to break the yellow desolation
but the shimmer-shammer av a lost
mirage.
“Anyone could see wid half an eye, an’
that one near closed, that the whole place
was a delusion widdout the compinsa-
tion av a snare. For, bedad! what would
ye be snarin’ out there but the flies, and
p’raps the bildads that would soon beset
your mind if ye shtayed there alone. But,
shure, there must ’a’ been a snare there,
too; it caught young Logan, an’’near
settled him ... Ah, this heat do dry
the very vitals av a man! This one is
on the house.”
A SPRAWL again in the draughty pass-
age, Hannigan went on: “Whin a
day like this dries the
vitals av a man in a bar-
room, what d’ye think
’twould do to a man lost
on thim plains wid the
temperature five degrees
higher than it is now?
You dun no? Well,
Logan does; but it’s a
bit o’ knowledge he’d
gladly do widdout.
“Logan was a lone-
hand prospector who was
drawn about the coun-
thry by the evillest pair
o’ camels I ever see. He
shtruck this watercourse
where Hannigan’s
Handle is, an’ brought
up gold-bearing stone wid his first shovel-
ful. It was rich stone, too. He went
a hundred yards down the creek, and,
two feet below the surface, found stone
that was richer still. And he found one
av me pewter handles, wid me name on
it, near his first shtrike, so he called the
claim Hannigan’s Handle. How that
pewter got there puzzled me for many a
day.
“P’raps you’ve noticed the shtrange
fascination publicans’ glasses and other
prerequisites have for fellows who have
missed their proper stone-breakin’ voca-
tion. Why, 1 used to keep half the bush
round here in shtolen drinkin’ ware! I
had me name put plain on each ; but,
bless ye! that didn’t shtop thim. In
shpite o’ Shakspeare an’ all, they shtole
me good name, too. Well, it was one
av me handles Logan found: one of
those pewter darlints that finds sich a
hivenly tang to the soul av good
beer . . .
“And that reminds me. The same?”
HANNIGAN fetched two foaming
handies and set them on the floor
near our outstretched legs.
“ ’Tis far too hot, even to shmoke,”
he sighed ; “but maybe that is all to the
good, as far as me story-tellin’ proclivi-
bilities go. P’raps you’ve noticed that a
pipe and the thread av a tale don’t draw
vrell together, ’specially whin a pipe-
tooth is missin’.’ Besoides, the fizzlin’ in
the pipe sets up a slow comfort in the
brain that’s not conjucive to clear speak-
in’, though it is to clear flunkin'. A pipe
is a shure solace for a lonesome soul but
a poor comfort to a waggin’ jaw.”
“So you buried Logan?” I said inno-
cently.
Hannigan squinted at me. “Oi, lad,”
he grinned, “don’t be impatient. ’Tis
not aften I get a noice mahn like you
to listen to me philofosyin’. I like to go
browsin’ in the saltbush now and thin.
Well, thin. Logan pegged an’ registered
his claim, and thin got a camel teamster
to cart shtores an’ water to Hannigan’s
Handle. The same man brought Logan’s
camels back wid him, for a camel can’t
"live on shtones and the mirage av trees.
“By the evillest pair o’ camels."
“For months Logan went on diggin’.
up a little rich stone from the gravel of
the watercourse an’ a few shpecks from
his little shafts. The teamster went out
to Logan wid shtores and water every
month, an’ rayported each time that
Logan was well an’ shtill on gold.
<< r THIN, in the middle av a summer
* worse than this, the teamster went
out, but divil a thrace av Logan could
he find. There was plenty o’ tucker af
the Handle, but, shtrangely, no water.
“The bildads.”
“The driver searched for miles around,
but as that counthry could not be dinted
wid the boo't av a hobnailed elephant, let
alone the hoof av a man, he was most
av his time searchin’ blind. Before he
began the search, he put the beer he
had brought for Logan in his pack-
saddle, foi he had an idea that Logan
would be able to sink a pint or two whin
he was found. As ’twas, Logan would
have sunk the Indian Ocean if the driver
had had it wid him and had been in
a moind to let Logan commit suicide.
“The wise driver followed every little
gutter on that oven av a plain (for ’twas
only in the gutters there was shade),
spendin’ most av his time cursin’ the
curse o’ drought an’ the multiplarious-
ness av flies.' -
“Wheriver those divils come from, or
live on, in a place like that beats me!
You can thravel all night wid niver an
insect near ye, but whin the sun rises,
even if you are on a bare plain a hun-
dred miles across an’ from nowhere,
there will be the flies in swarms about
ye. Where they come from puzzles me
sore, even after all these years. Some-
times I think a man must breed thim
wid his breath. Or p’raps it is his cursin’
that does it. They are jist the sort av
varmin you’d expect to get if ye crossed


m
a
it
r
>
c
Vifl
I
• SA.
FORTNIGHTLY
SAILINGS ACROSS
THE PACIFIC
Full particulars from:
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William St., Melbourne
C-A AND UNION Rouol Mail Lines
Simoniz Your Car
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kleener makes SiMONiZiNG easier than ever.
Educational.
ANNESLEY, BOWRAL
Chairman of Council: Rev. L. B. Bennett,
M.A., B.D.
DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
FROM K.G. TO L.C.
A modern, well-equipped school in surround-
ings of exceptional healthfulness and charm,
2210 feet above sea level. Pees moderate.
Telephone: Prospectus from Headmistress,
Bowral 194. MISS A. WHEEN, M.A., Dip .Ed.
THE SOUTHPORT CHURCH
OF ENGLAND SCHOOLS.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL
(For Boys).
Headmaster: B. G. Lawrance, M.A.
(Cantab.).
ST. HILDA’S SCHOOL
(For Girls).
Headmistress: Winifred L. Fittock, B.A.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to
The Bursar, The Southport School, or the
Headmistress. St, Hilda’s School.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BRAND NEW GOODS ONLY. Every Garage
and Motor Engineering Shop should have our
new Wholesale Motor Accessories Catalogue No
88, 60 pages, over 300 illustrations, every’page
loaded with profits for you. Brand New Goods
Only; we handle no second-hand or reconditioned
material of any description. As this catalogue is
strictly wholesale, please enclose your business
card when writing for it.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.,
63 North George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 83366.
Telegrams: “VINCO,” Sydney.
WELLINGTON
the capital city of New Zealand,
offers a unique testing ground
for manufacturers and others
seeking fresh markets for
nationally advertised products,
and this rich territory can be
completely covered by one
medium—
“ The Evening Post’
The “Evening Post” circulates
throughout the southern ex-
tremity of the North Island and
the northern portion of the
South Island, and in the
Wellington city and urban area
provides a 95% coverage.
Guaranteed larger net paid cir-
culation than any other daily
paper published within a radius
of 400 miles of Wellington.
Advertising rates and all infor-
mation may be obtained from
F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
BLUNDELL BROS., LTD.,
Proprietors.
London Office:
N.Z. Assoc. Press, 85 Fleet Street.
EYE LOTIO
For in-flamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H. A. RO SE &■ Co. Ltd. King Si Sydney
Is there a BEST
REFRIGERATOR?
|7OR a really modern quality machine investigate the
* Healing. Built on latest American patents incor-
porating every 1935 improvement, offering a greater
capacity at the price, and fully guaranteed for three vpars
by A. G. Healing, Ltd., manufacturers with 30 years’
reputation—Healing is definitely a leader.
SOME OF THE
HEALING FAMOUS FEATURES
Automatic Control—Automatic Defrosting
—Automatic Lubrication—H y g i e n i c
Bounded Corners—B4 Ice Cube Capacity
—Twin Compressor, absolutely silent and
rubber mounted—All-steel Cabinet
“Healatex” 3in. Insulation—“Bonderized”
Bust-proof Process—Surprising Economy
—Larger Capacity at the price. A 3.7 ft.
storage space machine.
Refrigerator Showrooms;
Melbourne:
Healing’s Pty., Ltd.,
261-263 Swanston Street.
Sydney:
A. G. Healing, Ltd.,
162-170 Goulburn Street.
Brisbane:
Brisbane Electrical Supply Co.,
47 Elizabeth Street.
rH
w | :
ff
&
Adelaide:
A. G. Healing, Ltd.,
Cnr. Pirie & Pulteney Streets.
Perth:
Radio Supply Co.,
804 Hay Street.
. ... or yonr own loeal Hcalinsr dealer.
HEALING
£rL&<liA( c
REFRIGERATORS
ŕ
a full-mouthed ‘damn!’ wid all the other
swear words ye ever heard av —jist look
at thim! Look at thim round that meat-
safe! As if there’d be meat there a
day like this!”
“So you buried Logan?” I said again.
“Shure, an’ we did not!” grinned Han-
nigan. “The teamster found the poor
fellow lyin’ naked an’ senseless under
an overhangin’ bank in a creek ten miles
from his camp. It was the shade av that
bank that saved him ; for that summer
the sun would have scorched his naked
hide off if it got a shtraight go at him.
And in his hand was my shtolen pewter
handle, with which he’d been shcrapin’
in the sand for water. Water there?
He’d be as likely to find ice-cream on
the hobs av hell!
“The driver poured a drop o’ beer
between Logan’s shwollen lips, an’ thin
bathed him all over wid a wet towel.
No ; not wet wid beer! D’ye think the
driver would go searchin’ for a perishin’
thirsty man widdout water? No. Beer
is a good thing, but it has its lamenta-
tions. There’s two things you can’t do
wid it: you can’t make a good damper,
nor can ye make a drunk man sober. I
know. I’ve tried thim both.
“Well, the driver kept on bathin’ him
an’ givin’ him sips av beer until the man
had sinse enough to eat a drop av food.
An’ soon Logan began to take his beer
as a foine man should take it: full-
foamed from the shwate lips av one o’
Hannigan’s handles , . . An’ that reminds
me”
DEFRESHED, Hannigan went on:
“ “An’ that was the ind av Hannigan’s
Handle. Logan had not seen avin the
color av gold in his last month’s diggin’.
He came in here, bag an! baggage, wid
the camel waggon, which also brought in
his few bags av rich stone. An’ while
he was recupalatin’ here three men wid
loads av ore for the crusher at Tip-
another camped here for the night.
“They brought in some av their rich
shtone an’ compared it wid Logan’s.
Theirs was roughly broken, showin’
clean, sharp edges; an’ but for the dirt
on Logan’s shtone the specimens could
not have been told apart.
“Logan had finished for iver wid Han-
nigan’s Handle, so he ginerously told
thim where he’d got his shtone. The
three men examined Logan’s specimens
again, an’ thin looked at one another
wid a queer, half-closed squint to their
eyes.
“ T think I know where your claim is,’
said one, wid a bit av a grin. ‘We
crossed that creek about five years ago,
wid lightnin’ an’ thunder an’ hell behind
us. list got across to the high ground
before the clouds burst an’ brought that
creek down half a mile wide. We had
to make thim camels jump, I can tell
ye. The waggons lurched, an’ tilted an’
bucked so much at the pace we were
goin’ that they spilled a lot av our rich
shtone out over the tailboards as they
jolted up the steep bank. The flood did
the rest for ye. I suppose it shpread
our rich shtone well down the creek.
It was the father av all tearin’ floods,
that one. An’ whin we made camp I
found that one o’ me pewter handles
was missin’.’
“Did ye ever hear the like av his hide?
One av his pewter handles, indade!
“Well, to ind it all, they bought
Logan’s shtone at a fair price, which
wasn’t bad av thim considerin’ it wasn’t
Logan’s at all; an’ from that day to this
I’ve niver set eyes on any av thim . . .
“Let me fill that handle again for ye.
’Tis the very one Logan found at Han-
nigan’s Handle, an’ the tang av it is
shwate to the palate av a drink-eddicated
man.”
Comedy of Low-life Snobs:-
THE ARISTOCRACY
OF WARNING HILL
BY-KYLIE TENNANT.
“Them bagmen cornin’ here pokin’
and pryin ’ and bringin ’ a crowd of
lords in on me with the dresser only
half-painted. Not even time to run
inside and throw the dirty clothes
under the bed.”
She swept down upon the digni-
taries in a torrent of outraged
domesticity.
IT was not only the dead horse in the
lagoon that gave Warning Hill its
unhealthy reputation. It had been
the camping-place for all hawkers, vag-
rants and travelling unemployed ever
since the Tiburon Council turned them
off the showground.
Well-equipped “travellers” camped be-
side their sulkies on the slope of the hill,
where they could keep an eye on the
pessimistic horses pretending to graze be-
tween the sandpits and the piles of old
tins. The less fortunate bagmen had
their headquarters in Canberra House, at
the foot of the hill by the road to Toora-
mong. Canberra House was a leaky
corrugated-iron shelter erected by the
council in order that no one might have
any excuse for sleeping in lucerne sheds.
Until the Whitterleys came the only per-
manent residence was Mrs. Eden’s little
one-room hut.
The nomads of Warning Hill, though
properly overcome by the impressive
nature of the Whitterleys’ arrival, did
not realise at first that the newcomers
were to be a permanency. Instead of
the usual broken-down sulky, the Whit-
terleys drove up in a motor-truck. True,
the truck, last relic of a vanished pros-
perity, only managed to crawl as far as
Warning Hill before the engine died, but
even the two dogs on the running-board
barked in a patronising way at the camp
dogs. Mrs. Whitterley, screaming direc-
tions, leaped out with the baby in her
arms to superintend the unloading. From
the back poured Isobel, Clive, Wilfred,
Alfred, Millie and Bert. While the
elders busied themselves with the tent
Clive sallied out to cut down the only
tree on Warning Hill for firewood, Wil-
fred and Millie fought and the other
children began to drag out the tame
lamb, a parrot, a litter of puppies, a
kitten, chairs, tables and other minor
household conveniences.
“We heard about the Salvation Army
captain bein’ a cornet player,” Mrs.
Whitterley explained later to Mrs. Eden,
“so we came here for Clive’s sake.
We wanted him to have the best, and the
captain at Tooramong only played the
concertina, though he could preach
something wonderful. I said to George
that now Clive’s so much stronger we
ought to get ’im a career. He was that
delicate when he was born the nurse
never thought he’d live. It was feeding
him on soup and porridge that saved
him. George had thought of makin’ him
a school-teacher, seein’ they get such good
pay and don’t do any work, but I said
‘No, George, give ’im ’is chance,’ So
we’re goin’ to get ’im into a city band.
Wonderful the way they look after their
chaps when they’re out of work. Ah,
and their families, too.” Mrs. Whitterley
sighed contentedly.
WHEN the other residents went over to
make friends they met with a rather
cool reception. “Thank heavens we’ve
never been on the dole! ” was one of Mrs.
Whitterley’s oft-repeated consolations.
George Whitterley was not receiving
travellers’ rations or relief work. He was
an invalid pensioner who had followed
the trade of horse-breaking until a re-
fractory mount had walked on him and
left him with in injuries which made
it necessary for him joyfully to abandon
all forms of hard work for ever.
Not only did the Whitterleys arrive
in style. They built a house, a real two-
room house with a corrugated-iron roof
and walls of sacking. Mrs. Whitterley,
however, was worried by the dust which
sifted through the sacking on to the food.
“It’s not what I’ve been used to,
George, and you know it. Why, the
house you built in Tooramong the walls
was twice as thick. Real, good-quality
sacking, that; not like this thin stuff.”
George hastened to promise her a dresser
for the food as soon as he had begged
enough boxes.
“To think when I was married,” Mrs.
Whitterley complained to Mrs. Eden, “I’d
three drawers of linen, not counting what
Aunt Ada gave me, and .now when I get
the dresser I won’t even have a cover to
put on it.”
Mrs. Eden attempted consolation.
“That’s a beautiful quilt you’ve got on
the bed, though,” she ventured timidly.
Mrs. Whitterley cheered up a little. “It
('Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM
PAIN IN THE JOINTS
Decide that you must and you will get rid of
that pain in your joints and you have taken the
first big step along the road to recovery.
The remainder of the way is easy. No pur-
gative salts, no harmful drugs, no embrocations
or rubbing oils. Just an inexpensive box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from your
chemist. Two pills taken with a drink of water
at night, and then, freedom from pain.
When you think of all you have suffered you
may find it hard to believe that such a simple
method of treatment can accomplish so much in
such a short space of time. Here is the reason.
De Witt’s Pills Cleanse, Heal
and Strengthen your Kidneys
and thus rid your body of the harmful uric acid
that has been causing the pain in your joints.
You cannot obtain results like this by any other
means, and you cannot get rid of the pain in your
joints whilst that harmful uric acid remains.
That is why De Witt’s Pills
are recommended to you. I f you
will give them a fair trial pain
will quickly
disappear and
your health
will improve in
m; ways.
me most
convincing
proof of the
efficacy of De
Witt’s Pills is
that afforded
by the un-
solicited testi-
monials of men
and women
ir
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC, ACID
who have actually used the remedy and by so
doing have banished the joint pains which tor-
tured them.
You, too, can be freed from your pain. Your
nearest chemist sells and recommends De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and if only you will
take them as directed you will quickly get rid of
the swelling, the stiffness and the pains that
make walking difficult and torture you every
time you move. Your health will benefit in many
ways when you get rid of the uric acid from
your system.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills, discolouration of the urine will
prove that they have commenced their good work.
You will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients have passed
through your kidneys and bladder. No other
medicine furnishes proof like this, and when once
you have tried De Witt’s Pills, your one regret
will be that you did not do so before.
Take them for Scalding Pains, Gravel,
Stone, Painful Joints, Stiffness, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Give them
to children subject to Bed-wetting and to aged
persons afflicted by Urinary and in
every case they will give prompt relief and
lasting benefit.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold
by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger,
more economical size, 6/6. Sold only in the
blue, white and gold boxes.
Beware of imitations. Be sure you ask for,
and see you obtain, the genuine De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
w
Writing from C/o. Birchup P. 0.. Victoria.
Mrs. W. Sinclair says
“ Owing to a very bad attack of rheu-
matism I had to stay in bed for over three
months . During that time I completely
lost the use of my limbs, I tried all sorts
of remedies, without result , until I was
recommended to try De Wittls Pills,
Then to my surprise and joy 1 found I
could move my limbs after taking the
first bottle of pills. Continuing with the
treatment 1 completely regained my
health
De Witt’
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
was a good quilt,” she said, “before the
tassels got torn off. Would you believe
it, the lady that gave me that died of
Bright’s disease?”
Mrs. Eden shook her head in humble
astonishment. She appreciated the privi-
lege of calling on Mrs. Whitterley, and
often brought a gift from the tiny vege-
table garden which formed her main
source of income. Her son John played
in the Salvation Army band with Clive.
Her husband, a drunken half-caste, was,
luckily, away most of the time, leaving
Mrs. Eden to support her three children
as best she could. She would listen a
little wistfully to Mrs. Whitterley’s
accounts of energetic forays on the local
charities. She lacked not only Mrs.
Whitterley’s respectability, but also Mrs.
Whitterley’s eloquence on the subject,
both of which reaped a bountiful harvest,
although the travellers were accustomed
to complain that Tiburon was a hard
town.
“The Roman Catholic priest gave Wil-
fred the boots,” Mrs. Whitterley explained
proudly, “the Methodist minister got me
a set of baby’s clothes and the Country
Women gave me these woollens. Then
Mrs. Fletcher’s supplyin’ us bread free,
and Mrs. Harris skim milk, and some-
times the slaughter’ouse gives away dog’s-
meat that’s quite good enough to stew
for ourselves.”
THE young Whitterleys, particularly
Wilfred, took after their mother.
When the Murphys folded their tents and
departed before the police could verify
their suspicions young Wilfred col-
lected fourteen beer-bottles from behind
their camp and started a savings-bank
account with the proceeds. Mrs, Whit-
terley was really shocked by the Murphys’
extravagance.
“Never even took the bottles back,”
she told Mrs. Eden. “It’s people like that
with their wastefulness that’s ruinin’ the
country.”
“I don’t know what the world’s coming
to,” Mrs. Eden said cautiously.
“You’ll see,” Mrs. Whitterley declared,
“there’ll be a war, and then God’ll step
in. It’s high time something was done
when a woman who never had to do a
hand’s turn before her marriage has to
cart water half a mile from the river with
varicose veins, and I’m not sure it’s good
water even then. To think of me livin’
among these travellers!”
Mrs. Eden tried to feel as Mrs. Whit-
terley did about the travellers, who often
indulged in sounds of revelry by night
when the little campfires pricked Warn-
ing Hill with pinpoints of brightness.
“I s’pose it’s only natural,” she re-
marked to son John as she glanced pos-
sessively round her one-room bark hut,
“that them with a home of their own
should look down on a tent and them in
a good waggon with a watertight roof
despise the bagmen on foot. But I can’t
see it meself!”
She was perplexed by the hostility that
was growing up between Mrs. Whitterley
and the group of bagmen who were at
the time guests at Canberra House.
The feud had begun when the bagmen
sallied forth to “bite” the town for old
coats and found that Mrs. Whitterley had
accumulated the local supply. Compar-
ing notes they estimated that she must
have at least sixteen old coats, not to
mention nine pairs of boots, half a dozen
hats and several pairs of woollen under-
pants.
“An’ what she does with them Gawd
knows,” Toothy remarked to Big Slim.
“She’s a flamin’ connersoor, that’s what
she is.”
“What’s that?” Big Slim asked.
“A connersoor’s someone who nips in
first on somethin’ good an’ sees the
other chap gets left,”
“ ’Ow about bitin’ Whitterley for one
o’ them coats?”
“ ’lm? ’E’s scared of ’is old woman.
’Asn’t got enough grit to make a ring
round a bathtub!”
Matters were not improved when
young Clive applied for his usual due
of dog’s-meat from the slaughteryard
and was told that it had all been col-
lected by a delegate from Canberra
House. This put Mrs. Whitterley to the
trouble of driving into Tiburon just
when she wanted to get her washing
done, and producing a moving tale of
privation and misery that gained her the
Scrap Monopoly of Morrisey’s Hotel.
In this enterprise she was greatly assisted
by young Alfred, who developed Un
awe-inspiring death-rattle of a cough
that amounted to genius. Nor did Mrs.
Whitterley remain silent on the subject
of the Canberra House infamy.
“Got the meat for themselves, they
did! An’ me that’s been respectable all
me life strugglin’ to bring up six children,
an’ little Alfred just recoverin’ from the
whoopin’-cough. Cough for the gentle-
man, Alfred.”
“Whoop!” from Alfred.
“Listen to ’im, poor little lamb! An’
to think of them travellers lettin’ ’im
starve, the great hulks, while they eat
’is meat. Low metho.-drinkin’ lot, they
are, too, Mr. Morrisey.”
This was a final touch of artistry. Mr.
Morrisey didn’t like methylated-spirit
drinkers. They ruined the trade.
~, , , _
When the Whitterleys pet lambjnys-
tenously disappeared, things reached the
stage when every camp on Warning Hul
was either pro-Whitterley or pro-bag-
men. The bagmen protested that he
funny taste of the water was due to the
iost lamb On the other hand the Whit-
terleys had a certain amount of evidence
to support their view that the lamb had
formed the piece de resistance of a Can-
berra House dinner.
TIBURON was not usually the sort of
town a traveller could stay m long
enough to develop an appetite, much less
a feud ; but when the ram came it made
the roads almost impassable, and not
even the Tiburon police could move a
man on in the middle of a tempest. It
had been raining steadily and efficiently
for a week, and the guests at Canbeira
House grew more and more miserable,
until they were not certain whether the
steady flow of abuse from Mrs. Whit-
terley or. the leaks in the roof were most
damping their spirits. It still remains
doubtful whether the paint was blistered
off the shelter shed by the sun or by the
remarks the guests chalked on the walls,
for the council had made it big enough
to hold six men only, and the residents
now numbered fourteen.
“Ar,” said Toothy, glancing round dis-
gustedly, “a man might as well be a sar-
dine and be done with it.”
Toothy was innately aristocratic. He
had been known to break open a store
for the sake of a silk shirt that had taken
his fancy and walk out, leaving far more
valuable loot untouched. He surveyed
his companions disparagingly. They
were a representative gathering. The
two old-age pensioners in the corner
were drunk; the half-dozen who were
new to the game, working men with
broken boots and clumsy packs, sat silent
and depressed. Besides Toothy and Big
Slim there were three shearers and a city
lear in a gay football jersey. What with
smoke from the fire, sundry pipes and
the reek of spirits, the air was almost
solid.
Toothy rose to his feet. “Look here,
boys” he said, “it’s time we did some-
thing to help ourselves.”
Big Slim thought hard for a moment,
“We could pinch Ma Whitterley s wash-
big,” be suggested.
u . To ° th y sn t rled a ! i 7° u! * ™
J? '§ b lob. Y °u sit there knowm p t.
fectly well that the whole town is runmn
round like a nest of mad ants because
h Q , ; drivin , through lo.mor-
instead 0 f se i 2 i„- y’ chance an’
inte^iewin . >iin a „. p rotestin ' about the
trave || ers are tre a te d -ere-an’ Gawd,
k » th couldn . t be treated much
, J, there talkin . about stealin ,
washin ,f Have some brains! -
.. xh - re in . t 0 >ave some shivoo
to . mor / ow „ s one o£ the sbea rers put ini
.. Flowers speeches> an - a , ro op of
Light ’Orse to guard ’im. D’y’ ’ear that
row? That’s Ma Whitterley’s little Clive
practisin’ ’is cornet for the band. Catch
> er gettin ’ left out Q f anythin’! ”
« An ’ we a j n ’ t goin ’ to be i e f t out D f it
e j ther ” Toothy resumed. “Now’s our
cb ance, an’ we’re goin’ to take it. The
local un employed’ll come in with us.
Fhey’re a ll keen on seein’ the Guv’ner.”
“xhe Guv’ner! Gripes!” a little
m an in the corner exclaimed. “Every
time j come through this town they’ve
got something. Last time it was a
typhoid epidemic.”
“What’s he doing out this way?” asked
tbe j ear
“Oh, 'j ust on t he track like us. He’s
goin ’ to stay w [ th the McWhinnie gang
that own t he big holdin’ out past Mogong
Q- ee k”
“Fancy old man McWhinnie puttin’
U p a Guv.! ” the little man chuckled. “I
thought ’e was too damn mean. ’E says
to me once: ‘Dinty,’ ’e says, ‘before I
married I could live on the skin of a
bullock for a month, and now the whole
damn carcass won’t keep me wife for
a week.’ ”
“This is ’is son, the major! Major
McWhinnie!, The little fat so-an’-so!”
“Well, ’ow about this deputation?”
Toothy began again. One of the shearers
near the door looked out and remarked:
“It’s a good job it’s clearin’ up for to-
morrow. They’ll break their little ’earts
if it doesn’t.”
“There ought to be a deputation”
“Ar, what’s the good?” from the little
man. “All the nobs’ll get ’old of ’im, an’
you won’t stand a chance.”
The hut and the discussion grew hotter,
Toothy stood it for a while, and then


Era
jmt
iiniiiin 1
> i,.„j
)ii v ’
V W'T'.
Ohe Won
This "Garden oi the East”
has countless attractions
for the tourist. Beautiful
landscapes towering
mountains—ancient tem-
ples —bazaars—colourful
native life—palatial hotels.
Equipped with every
modem convenience the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" sails
regularly from Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane by
way of the Great Barrier
Reef, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Sama-
rang and Batavia, to Sing-
apore. Fares have been
greatly reduced and are
free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased
to forward folder No 25.
m
*
'/A
/
r
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
312 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE — 128 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE
c>
THE Rural Bank, established in
1899, is a national institution,
self-dependent, controlled by a per-
manent board of three Commis-
sioners.
•o -o o-
Its aim is to enable farms and homes
to be acquired on easy terms. It has
played an important part in consoli-
dating the position of our State and
Commonwealth. Although operat-
ing under a Government guarantee
it has at no time been a charge on
the State. On the contrary, it has
built up reserves (invested outside
the business) exceeding £1,250,000.
O O- o-
Branches are established at repre-
sentative centres, where Fixed De-
posits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of
the community.
The
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ŵ
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
6d.
EACIh
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
shouted them down until he got out his
bright idea. By posting sentinels on the
Tooramong-road it would be possible to
hold up the vice-regal car and inform
the occupants that “the deputation” was
waiting on the Warning Hill side of the
town and that, if they took the left-hand
turning, it would be a short cut.
THERE was much rejoicing in Tiburon
* next morning over the clearing of the
weather. Prompt to the hour there
assembled on the steps of the Council
Chambers the shire president, the bank
managers and their wives, the rabbit in-
spector, the rector, the Catholic priest,
the Methodist minister (the Salvation
Army captain was in the band three paces
below) and Major McWhinnie. Abbut
this nucleus there was a confused mur-
muring of Boy Scouts and .little girls
in Red Cross uniforms, a preliminary
tooting from the band and a flutter of
banners. The Light Horse, brave with
their plumes and transmogrified cart-
horses, galloped about with rumors that
ranged from his Excellency’s being
drowned in the creek to his chauffeur
being dead drunk in a hotel in Toora-
mong. The welcome committee, after
fidgeting for half an hour, began to be
alarmed. Then a whispering stirred
among the ranks, and, after a moment’s
confusion, the crowd hastily turned and
surged off towards Warning Hill.
“Good God!” gasped Major Mc-
Whinnie. “Look at that!”
Sure enough, the vice-regal car was up
to its axles in a boghole.
“That patch wasn’t there when 1 came
by this morning,” one of the farmers
declared.
“He’s got out,” someone shouted. “He’s
gone up to Canberra House.”
The s-hire president pushed forward de-
terminedly. “That place was always an
eyesore,” he muttered. “Should never
have been put up.”
He arrived at the shelter shed about
three minutes after the Governor, and
immediately took charge of the inspec-
tion, having ousted Toothy after three
glares and a whisper.
“Naturally under the abnormal condi-
tions now prevailing,” he explained,
“these poor fellows are suffering priva-
tions which the council has done its best
to mitigate.” He pointed out that the
shed had been erected for the travelling
unemployed.
“And the local unemployed?” inquired
his Excellency.
“He should see Mrs. Eden’s place,”
said a voice.
“There are very few,” interrupted the
shire president.
Then, seeing the vice-regal visitor was
making for Mrs. Eden’s hovel, he hastily
directed the party towards the Whitterley
residence. “This is perhaps a more typi-
cal example. Mrs. Whitterley is a very
respectable woman.”
MRS. WHITTERLEY was not at all |
pleased by the visit. She had stayed ,
away from the celebration because of her |
varicose veins, and was indignant that
Clive and the band had their day spoiled.
She expostulated with Mr. Whitterley.
“Them bagmen cornin’ here pokin’ and
pryin’ and bringin’ a crowd of lords in
on me with the dresser only half-painted.
Not even time to run inside and throw
the dirty clothes under the bed.”
She swept down upon the dignitaries
in a torrent of outraged domesticity,
“Not even if you goes back to a
palace, your Worship, you won’t find a
place more respectable than this, nor a
cleaner, in spite of the floor bein’ mud.” !
Asked if she had any complaints, Mrs.
Whitterley stiffened scornfully.
“Complaints! We ain’t whinin’, low-
down dirty bagmen that ought to be
blotted out like a city in the Bible, such
a disgrace as they are, loafin’ round all
day and drinkin’ metho. all night, an’
cornin’ pryin’ round a woman’s house
an’ getting it inspected just to pay her
out because she spoke to them as they i
ought to have been spoken to when they
were young enough to profit by it.”
Mrs. Whitterley could still be heard in
the distance embroidering her views on
Canberra House after the vice-regal party
had hastily declared that it had seen
enough and was beating a retreat in the
direction of the delayed welcome.
IT is doubtful whether even Mrs. Whit-
terley was more furious than the Tibu-
ron Council. At the next meeting it was
decided to move the unemployed camp a
mile farther out to Sandy Gully, where
it could not be seen from the road.
“And as for that shelter-shed business,” I
observed the president, “it must come |
down. The council can’t afford to erect
any more sheds. Next thing they’ll want
will be the water laid on and regular
meals.”
Mrs. Whitterley was greatly gratified
by this removal of objectionable persons
from the vicinity of her residence.
“I paid them out all right,” she de-
clared to Mrs. Eden. “Thought they
was playin’ a dirty trick on me, did
they! I showed ’em up! ”
Mrs. Eden sighed. “I’d ’a’ dearly liked
him to have come an’ visit me,” she said.
“But, there, I s’pose, it comes of me not
bein’ respectable.”
Mrs. Whitterley comforted her.
“Just you remember, Mrs. Eden, that
Providence is takin’ care of us every
minute of the day. There’s little Wilfred
now been given a job choppin’ wood.
An’ yet those bagmen go whining be-
cause they’re trampin’ from one town to
the next for two days’ work a fortnight.
There’s some people as won’t work, Mrs.
Eden. Not,” she added generously, “that
there aren’t genuine cases. But they’re
very few and very far between.”
My Political
Life
By W.A. HOLMAN
ORGANISING
THE
CONSTITUENCIES
Candidates and
policy chosen,
every factor
which could help
in the creation
of a favorable
public opinion was set going, and
never allowed to slacken off right
up to election day. We carried
out detailed work upon a large scale
with an efficiency never previously
attained by the Labor movement. A
definite canvass was made of the whole of
the 24 doubtful seats. Our slender fight-
ing resources were economically and effec-
tively used. We could get our literature
for the asking, or, at least, for the cost
of printing ; and we had, by the continu-
ous activities of three years, got the daily
press into the habit of expecting to fill
much of its space with a record of our
doings. Armed with all these resources
we went furiously ahead.
Parliament up, I spoke without inter-
mission every night up to the night before
polling day. My experience in the first
vote of censure in the session had not
been lost on me. I realised with a shock
that no one —not even our most faithful
and devoted supporters, not even those
who shared our nightly vigils on the floor
of Parliament —had any idea of what
our work had really been or what we
had so far done.
The facts, the facts; give them the
facts!—such was my insistent cry to all I
our speakers. Cut out the argument and
the eloquence—give them facts. The I
lands we have set free, the railways we
have built, our new school policy, the
labor measures and the valuable law re-
forms passed—all the creative effort
which 10 active minds had got together
during three hard-working years—these
were the weapons with which we con-
verted the electorates. I covered my own
electorate with a bevy of pressmen, at the 1
rate of three meetings a day, morning, :
afternoon and evening. One fortnight 1
permitted me to visit all its 40 centres.
After this I traversed all the doubtful
seats, not reducing speed or slackening
my effort for an hour up to the end.
The election gave us 49 pledged Labor
members. It gave us Fred Page as well,
who was as good asi a fiftieth. The even
balance of the last three years turned
definitely in our favor. We could con-
tinue in office now with an unquestion- i
able footing. On this day the efforts
of the Labor movement reached their
o Continued on next page.)


IP,:
THE GREAT
AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
LANDTAKERS
By
BRIAN PENTON
Third Edition Now in Print.
Brian Penton, one of Australia’s best known feature-writers and a journalist
of international repute, has written something entirely new in Australian
literature something different. In Landtakers the author achieves what
others have attempted but never attained —the tracing up from its roots of
that hitherto elusive thing, the Australian national character.
“Landtakers” grips the imagination from the very first page. Its literary
quality is maintained throughout—beautiful prose is characteristic of the
book, no matter what scene or mood is being portrayed. In fierce or
violent action and in gentle passages the language is always appropriate
and never ceases to reflect true literary craftsmanship.
This brilliant novel deals with the tyranny of the past and the hope of the
future. It takes a man whose character is sensitive to environment, an
Englishman who hates this new country, and who fights irritably against
its gradual possessing hold. Here is Australian tradition in the making,
graphic description of what the country had the power to do to those from
whom we have sprung. “Landtakers” is the outstanding Australian novel
it will be talked about, written about and argued about. Lodge your
order now with your nearest bookseller and enjoy this splendid book.
“Landtakers,” by Brian Penton. A novel of SOO pages, on sale at all
booksellers, or direct from the publishers, The Endeavour Press, 252 George
Street, Sydney, price 7/6 (postage, 6d. extra).
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son. H. K. *7 lor *
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together wi
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be publishe
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rig ts,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born m Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, or
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant an
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial orm.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name an
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed enve ope, w ic
will not be opened until the fudges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion o t e
judges, worthy of an award.
high-water mark in our State. To all
outward seeming its prosperity was per-
manently secure.
VICTORY
It is difficult
to reproduce in
these after years
of disillusionment • the piercing satisfac-
tion of these moments of victory.
In our earlier days we had grown
accustomed to feel power without being
in office. In the last three years we had
been in office without having power ; now
we were to have office and power to-
gether.
During the year the Fisher Gov-
ernment had gone down. In New
Zealand the Ward Government had
also fallen, and that progressive coun-
try, governed for nearly a quarter
of a century by the Ballance-Seddon-
Ward succession, found itself for the first
time in recent memory with a Ministry
committed to Conservatism. The corres-
ponding catastrophe which had seemed
inevitable with us had been staved off,
largely, I might fairly claim, through
my own efforts and strategy. Not only
was this so, but the Federal fantasy of
extended powers which had enmeshed
us in its follies all through our three
years of Ministerial life was apparently
at an end. All our difficulties seemed
to have been conquered at once.
RESIGNATION OF
McGOWEN AND
EDDEN
We turned
without delay to
the organising of
our new-won
power for the
tasks ahead.
McGowen and Edden were now defi-
nitely dropping out. Edden has figured
but little in this narrative. In earlier
days one of the most attractive figures
in our movement, with a quaint and
appealing personality, he had begun to
fail in health and energy a little before
we took office, and his career there, save
for a few entertaining episodes, had been
one of comparative blankness. Like our
leader, he was a representative of the
solid trade-unionism of an earlier gen-
eration, and like him, and to an
even greater degree, was gifted with a
natural eloquence of a most stirring kind.
Both had been educated largely on the
Bible, and had the spontaneous loftiness
of utterance which comes from the con-
stant study of that best of models, but
Edden had also the powers of laughter
and tears highly developed. His pre-
sence in our team had been a constant
guarantee against a certain type of
attack. No one dared to talk to Edden
about trade-union loyalties or of suffer-
ing endured for the cause. He had done
and suffered all that anybody else had,
and more, and his mordant north-country
wit made short work of any pretentious
sentimentalities. It was with profound
regret that we parted company with the
veteran, but in the new team we were
collecting it was essential that every man
should, as far as possible, pull his
weight.
At an early party meeting I announced
these resignations and also that I was
anxious to return to the full number of
our original team. The seven surviving
Ministers were all re-elected. The three
new men were Hoyle, Estell and Ash-
ford. Hoyle and Estell had been for
some time the secretary and whip of the
party, and their election on the first
vacancies had' long been looked on as
a certainty. Ashford’s success was a
surprise. He was a newcomer to Par-
liament in 1907, and, after being de-
feated at the 1910 election by Henry
Willis, had got in again for Liverpool
Plains at the Dunn and Horne by-
election of 1911 in place of Horne.
HOLMAN GOES
TO THE
TREASURY
I resolved to
take over the
Treasury myself.
I was by no
means attracted
by the nature of
the work, but I had come to the con-
clusion that no one but the Premier
could bring our disordered finances back
to a solid footing.
Our plans involved calling Parliament
together for an early date in the follow-
ing year. Supply, however, had almost
run out, and it was indispensable to get
Parliament together for a day before
Christmas to carry a temporary bill.
Meeting the House involved being ready
with a nomination for the Speakership.
I made some discreet soundings as to
the possibility of continuing Morton in
the office, but found it out of the ques-
tion. Personally, I would have main-
tained him there, but a large section,
containing many of our best men, had
determined on nominating McGowen.
The appointment would have been an
admirable one in many ways, but in this,
our first trial of strength within the new
party, we were destined to a disagreeable
surprise.
A malcontent group’s existence among
us had become manifest during the pre-
vious Parliament. Two of these in par-
ticular —Dooley (since Premier) and
Stuart Robertson (since Chairman of
Committees) —conceived themselves to
have larger claims to a portfolio than
their comrades were then prepared to
recognise.
These and others formed a group to
oppose McGowen’s nomination. They
got together a number of the newcomers.
All that could be done here, however,
would have been of very little effect if
they had not now been reinforced by
others, drawn from every section of our
party, who were personal admirers of
R. D. Meagher—men who felt that he
had by now suffered too much for a
fatal indiscretion committed many years
before, and that his brilliant talents were
in danger of being lost sight of altogether.
On a ballot being taken it was resolved,
by roughly 30 to 20, that Meagher and
not McGowen should be our candidate
for the Speakership! It was a rude dis-
turbance of our dream of a unanimous
striving for the ideal by a fraternal party.
Seen with the cold eye of reason it should
have amply foreshadowed all that was to
come. The ingratitude shown to the old
chief, the hostility to the present one,
the turbulent refusal to accept guidance
at a moment of supposed prosperity —
these things were indications of most
ominous conjuncture for the political
embryologist. But the glamor of the
victory was still upon us. A favorable
construction was put upon everything
and the episode dismissed from our
minds as a regrettable incident. In good
heart on the whole, in spite of slight
misgivings, we entered upon our first
brief session of the new Parliament.
THE PUBLIC
SERVICE
I had made
out a list of the
more important
hindrances
to good government. One of these was
the mechanism for keeping the public in-
formed of the doings of their representa-
tives. We were giving great railway con-
cessions to metropolitan newspapers, on
the ground that they performed an essen-
tial informative function, and they were
reporting neither the debates in Parlia-
ment nor the doings of the Courts, nor
—except in cases of scandal —the recom-
mendations of Royal Commissions and
other advisory bodies upon which the
action of Government and Parliament
would be based.
Was not this fundamental? Ought we
not, before we started out to reform
society, to devise some method by which
society should learn from hour to hour
of the various activities which were being
set on foot for its benefit?
A Government newspaper —a kind of
“Moniteur”—was seriously considered
for a time, as well as the idea of inviting
the proprietors of the “Sydney Morning
“Herald” to publish a condensed “Han-
sard” report of Parliament, say up to
midnight of each sitting day, at the Gov-
ernment’s expense. None of these ideas
was gone on with, but I am of opinion
that something on the lines of this last
project is an essential if democracy is
ever to succeed.
Representative government involves
some real knowledge of the doings of
their representatives by the people,
knowledge which shall enable them not
only to condemn where condemnation is
called for-—which is easy enough as things
stand —but shall also equip them for
applauding where applause is due. Democ-
racy admittedly involves playing to the
gallery to a certain extent, but, if this be
so, let it, in heaven’s name, be a gallery
filled with voting citizens, those for and
by whom democracy exists, and not with
bored and indifferent pressmen looking
each night only for the unsavory inci-
dent out of which they may fabricate
sensation.
DEATH OF
POLICE CHIEF
Our police
chief Day, who
had been an in-
valid during his
term of office, now died. The facts of
his physical condition had not been
known to us at the time of his appoint-
ment. He had been incapacitated a great
part of his time, and under his neces-
sarily relaxed supervision many abuses
had crept in.
I determined to break right away from
the ruling group and by the appointment
of James Mitchell, an officer of com-
paratively junior standing who had won
his way up by sheer merit, displayed
largely in the backblocks, to give the
force the benefit of fresh blood. ,
MITCHELL’S
APPOINTMENT
1 saw Mitchell
prior to his
appointment, ob-
tained his ideas,
gave him my own for what they were
worth, and asked him to go ahead fear-
lessly.
“Give us,” said I, “an honest and
efficient force, break up cliques, see that
promotion is worked on some reasonable
lines, and the Government will stand
solidly behind you against all attacks,
and will only let you fall when it falls
itself. If you do this you will no
doubt have an immense amount of poli-
tical influence stirred up against you by
disappointed or injured people who have
owed their promotion in the past to
their influence in political circles. Take
no notice of this. We can beat the poli-
tical influence if you will ferret out and
disperse the passive resistance which is
beginning to find a footing in the
service,”
This bargain was made.
Mitchell, an officer of the utmost force
of character and the most resolute
courage, as had been proved again and
again in his career, took up the post and
made with great judgment and no un-
necessary fuss a number of careful
changes in administration, altered the
organisation of the detective police, and
gave us a highly efficient and on the
whole contented force. There have been
police strikes both in London and Mel-
bourne, but there has been none in
Sydney,
HOLMAN’S FIRST
BUDGET SPEECH
I suppose no
Chancellor of the
Exchequer or
Treasurer in a
colonial Parliament, however hardened
a politician, ever made his first Budget
speech without trepidation.
A Budget speech is so unlike any other
speech that his experience is all at fault.
Figures are always dull, and if you are
not extraordinarily lucky as well as extra-
ordinarily lucid your audience will fail
to understand them. You might fail to
understand them yourself. This sounds
unlikely ; but nothing is easier than to
find yourself embarked on the reading of
a column of returns —say, comparisons
between this and last year’s results—the
precise bearing and purport of which
you comprehended perfectly the day be-
fore yesterday, when you were going over
it with the Comptroller, but have for
the moment entirely lost.
Also, no one has ever commenced a
Budget speech with the feeling that he
was quite ready. No matter how much
time you have given to preparation, or
how assiduously you attend to your
notes, you enter upon the task at last like
a criminal walking to the drop, certain
of only one thing—that the ceremony in
which you are about to figure so
prominently might be postponed with
advantage.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.]


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s
own enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy
so large and his handling of the practice
work sent in so competently confident
the interest of his pupils never flags,
Thnsc who have a real flair for writing
very soon make a good job of every
piece of work they send in. They are
helped the more inasmuch as they are
never kept waiting for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his—
and. frequently her —added experience
ar) d increased knowledge improve it to
publication standard, Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting ■to editors none but good
worjc. Not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but woric of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
“Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamph-
let, )“Writihg to Win.” Copies will be
sent post free to any reader of The
Bulletin who would like one. Those
specially interested in the criticism of
MSS. or in the writing of newspaper
articles and paragraphs are requested to
mention the fact.
Letters can be addressed to Mr. Ber-
nard Cronin, c jo E. H. Welford, 398
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
ẁ
ẃ
For more than 30 years the Pelman
Institute has taught its System of Mind
Training with benefits so direct, so un-
failing and so permanent as to leave
no loophole for doubt as to its practical
value.
Not only is the Pelman Institute
tmique in the full sense of the word- —
being the only Institute of its kind in
the whole world —but it must neces-
sarily remain so. Experience is an
essential factor in educational training
of this kind, and the Pelman Institute
possesses the accumulated experience
gained in dealing with 650,000 men and
women of all classes, occupations and
positions in life.
O ELMANISM is a transforming influence. It transforms by developing personal
* qualities and attributes that make the individual stand out in any com-
munity and in any circumstances. Amongst these attributes and qualities the
most important are ; . ,
Observation Decision Social Ease
Concentration Self-Confidence Promptness
Judgment Will-Power Courage
And a Reliable Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments,
arguments, prices, and useful data of every kind.
r 'f HESE qualities are the base on which steadiness, serenity, stability and energy
* rest. Pelmanism strengthens them by scientific methods based on natural
laws until they become habitual, and are exercised in all the affairs of life, in
ordinary everyday matters as well as in crises and on big occasions.
ẅ
Some of the Hundred
and more Prominent
Pelmanists
Members of Royal Families,
Lord Riddell, Lieut.-Gen. Lord
Baden-Powell, Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch, Sir Herbert Austin, Dr.
F. W. Norwood, D.D., the late
Mr. Edgar Wallace, Dame Sybil
Thorndike, Baroness Orczy, Sir
Herbert Barker, Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Lady Keeble, Mr. E. F. Benson,
Dr. Ethel Smyth, Mus. Dr., Capt.
Bruce Bairnsfather, “Sapper,”
Canon Hannay, Major-General
Sir F, Maurice.
650,000 people have enrolled
for the Pelman Course of Mind,
Memory and Personality Train-
ing. Of these 31,000 have en-
rolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
Lord Halifax defines the perfect
man:
“....that it is not enough to im-
part certain definite knowledge and
skill of hand, but that it is necessary
to train intelligence in order to make
full use of what has been learnt.
“And now we are learning that
knowledge and intelligence are not
enough without certain qualities of
mind and spirit—self-discipline, steadi-
ness, consideration —in short, a balance
and poise of mind that goes to make
up the perfect man.”
The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
(Corner Market Street).
Many prominent people have spoken highly of Pelmanism and more than 650,000 people
have gone through the Pelman Course. Below are opinions received recently from some
of the 31,000 who have enrolled with the Pelman Institute in Melbourne. We could
fill a whole “Bulletin’' with such letters.
PRINTER (29/6/’34) —I have attained a
standard of efficiency which has enabled me
to secure an executive position. The obscure
and complex are now clear and simple.
CLERK (14/10/’34)- —I have just received
my Diploma in Economics at the Sydney
University and I am grateful to the Insti-
tute for showing me how to use my mind...
Pelmanism is an enemy of fear and ignor-
ance; it is packed with commonseuse and
practical advice and with inspiration to
bigger living.
PLANTATION MANAGER (17/8/'34)
I am the youngest plantation manager in
the Solomons. I undoubtedly owe my
success to Pelmanism,
ENGINEERING DRAFTSMAN (8/6/’34)
The exercises set certainly made me think
for myself.
SHEEPFARMER (14/6/’34) —I have kept
an account of the time spent on the Course.
It amounted to a shade under three months
and the average time per day—4o minutes.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER (15/4/’34)
There are twenty-four Lessons, because on
each Work Sheet returned I have found as
much information and instruction as was
contained in the Lesson itself.
BANK CLERK (5/5/’32>— I now have
ideals, thoughts and an-outlook which enable
me to increase my efforts towards the goal
of honest, honourable and successful
endeavour.
ENOINEDRIVER (28/2/84) -It is with a
wonderful sense of ability and security that
I face the future.
ARTICLED CLERK (14/10/32)—1 have
enjoyed and appreciated the telman Course
as I have rarely enjoyed anything before.
BANK CLERK (6/3/33) —I was a bit
sceptical of all the claims you made for it
but I know now that they were not exag-
gerated one iota.
CONTRACTOR (23/1/34) Another dark
corner of the mind has been garnished and
made orderly.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind ,
Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (corner Market St.),
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephone: Central 11255.
The Pelman Institute is a world-
wide organisation of over 30 years’
standing. Its headquarters are in
London.
“The Efficient Mind” will be
sent free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne. All correspondence is re-
garded as confidential. We have
no outdoor representatives.
w
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŵ
TO ‘‘THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
iSubscribers living outside Australia ana New
Zealand should send 30/-).
oVV*
tie^ 0 *'" .••-■ .••••' .-’'\^&
v ** ..••• ..•••■ <S«vS>^
t*-**' , o'? *?
#•* ..•*** ...•••


WIRELESS PROGRESS
U: } '\
%<h.
m
Marine. immediately many com
19|4 Upon outbreak of war d men to erect^
1914 P plete wireless ™ lian Expeditionary Force,
operate them or receive d in Australia from
19,8
|92 ° <
1 Australian Coastal ver by A-W .a.
stations .mm
' m r ”* b sssrs.» *• *** ”• ““
aV-A. . . between England and
1924 Wireless Telephone Communication
»■>
,w “'ri-isi. »■>
A W-A-Transmitted nrsi * m me.
A first world-wide broadcast P * Nortb an d
> 928 Wireless Service <«£
■ of the A.W.A. Trans-Ocean Britain, the
1930 Opening n Australia and T c oll tb America.
1 Service between North and South*
Continent .1J Servic e between New
A W A. Wireless Tetepnoi y
an d Australia opene • Broadcasting
A «r \ experimental slio
*”tSl.**«* s >*£ e „, 4 .
, ,33 Establishment •< >*• -*
m:
)©• .
$
i.virx-
Jil .W
i* Vj?;
|
A. M A L
mTTtTa
G A M AT E D
UA’UL^
T I O N A L V/l
RE L E
S S O R
tiTil*
"if"'
